/ ^ ^ CHURCHILL'S SERIES OF MANUALS. " We here give Mr. Cliurchill public thanks for the positive benefit conferred on the Medical Profession, by the series of beautiful and cheap Manuals which bear his imprint." —British and Foreign Medical Review. AGGREGATE SALE, 135,500 COPIES. THE ANATOMIST'S VADE-MECUM. With numerous Engravings. By Eeasmfs Wilson, F.R.S. Eighth Edition. 12s. 6d. BOTANY. With numerous Engravings. By Robeet Bentley, F.L.S., Professor of Botany, King^s College. 12-5. 6d. CHEMISTRY. With numerous Engravings. By George Fownes, F.R.S. Edited by H. Bence Jones, M.D., F.R.S., and A. W. HOFMANN, F.R.S. Ninth Edition. 12s. 6d. DENTAL SURGERY. With numerous Engravings. By John Tomes, F.R.S. 12^. 6d. MATERIA MEDICA. With numerous Engravings. By J. Forbes RoYLE, M.D., F.R.S., and Frederick W. Headland, M.D., F.L.S. Fourth Edition. 12s. Qd. MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. By Alered Swaine Taylor, M.D., F.R.S. Sermth Edition. i2s. Qd. PRACTICE OF MEDICINE. By G. Hilaro Barlow, M.D. Second Edition. 12s. Qd. THE MICROSCOPE AND ITS REVELATIONS. With numerous En- gravings. By W. B. Carpenter, M.D., F.R.S. Third Edition. 12s. 6d. NATURAL PHILOSOPHY. With numerous Engravings. ByGoLDiNG Bird, F.R.S., and Charles Brooke, M.A., F.R.S. Fifth Edition. 12s. 6d. OBSTETRICS. With numerous Engravings. By W. Tyler Smith, M.D. 125. 6d. OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. With coloured En- gravings on Steel, and Illustrations on Wood. By T. Wharton Jones, F.R.C.S., F.R.S. Second Edition. 12s. 6d. PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. With numerous Engravings. By Dr. Handeield Jones and Dr. Sievekinq. 12*. 6d. PHYSIOLOGY. With numerous Engravings. By William B. Car- penter, M.D., F.R.S. Fourth Edition. 12s. 6d. POISONS. By Alered Swaine Taylor, M.D., F.R.S. Second Edition. 12s. 6d. PRACTICAL ANATOMY. With numerous Engravings. By Christo- pher Heath, F.R.C.S. 10*. 6d. PRACTICAL SURGERY. With numerous Engravings. By )g Fergusson, F.R.S. Fourth Edition. 12s. 6d.Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b2197925xTHE SUEGEON'S YADE MECTJM: A MANUAL MODERN SURGERY. -'' V * * .lit r*-^ BY O EOBEET DEUITT. MUCH IMPROVED, AND ILLUSTRATED BY THREE HUNDRED AND SIXTY HIGHLY-FINISHED WOOD ENGRAVINGS. LONDON: HENKY EENSHAW, 356 STEAND. JOHN CHUECHILL AND SONS, NEW BURLINGTON STREET. 1865.TO CHARLES MAYO, ESQ., SENIOR SURGEON TO THE HAMPSHIRE COUNTY HOSPITAL AT WINCHESTER, IN ADMIRATION OF HIS SOUND JUDGMENT AND SIULL IN SURGERY, AND IN GRATEFUL ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF EARLY KINDNESS, THIS WOEK IS DEDICATED BY HIS AFFECTIONATE NEPHEW AND OBEDIENT SERVANT, ROBERT DRUITT. tiERTFOKD Street, Mayfair, London, W. 11th March, 1865.PKEFACE. I AM extremely sorry that thLs Ninth Edition has been long delayed, to the great inconvenience of the Publishers, as well as of numerous professional friends and students in all parts of the world, who have frequently, and in vain, asked for it through their booksellers. All I can say in explanation is, that I never before was so painfully conscious both of the labour and of the responsibility incurred in editing such a book. It is not like any literary work, edition after edition of which, when once complete, merely requires common care in reprinting. On the contrary, in dealing with a constantly shifting and enlarging body of knowledge, such as any branch of medicine, there is not a single fact, or hypo- thesis, or mode of practice, that does not require to be re- peatedly weighed and examined and tested by the most modern researches. I would that it were possible to give here even a bird's-eye view of the changes which have come over our profession in its ideas, theories, phrases, and rules of practice during the five-and-twenty years which have passed since the first edi- tion of this book. How unfounded are the notions of those who believe that medicine is a conservative, a bigoted, or a stationary profession! I will attempt to point out a very few of them, although it would take a large volume to tell even of these fully. In doing so, I shall follow the order of my own book, and shall take the opportunity of mentioning some of the changes which have been made in this edition. Of the First Part, which treats very shortly of certain nervous affections accompanying local disease or injury, there is little to be said. The phenomena of " shock " appear nowPREFACE. vi to be recognized as belonging to the class of phenomena called " reflex paralysis," which are but beginning to be definitely studied. In the chapter on Delirium Traumaticum I ought to have laid more stress on the value of the most stimulating kinds of nourishment, such as are described in Formula 196 in the Appendix. Of Tetanus there is little new to be said, except the hope that persevering experiments, like those of Haughton, may in time point out a specific. In the Second Part, treating of the Elementary Processes of Disease and Repair, and of that which is often, though wrongly, considered the scientific basis of practical medicine and surgery, considerable changes have been wrought. During the years 1834-1840 in which I attended medical schools, the great modern microscopic researches into the structure and development and changes of tissues, whether in the embryo, or in growth, or in disease, were but begin- ning to be known to professors. At that time the pathological doctrines dominant amongst the great body of practitioners' who bad taken their tone from the teaching of an earlier generation, were dynamic; that is, they related to actions, forces, dispositions, and sympathies, supposed to exist in the animal body, with very little heed to quantities or to com- position. During those years the Scottish school, represented by Cullen and John Hunter, still held its pernicious sway over' medical teaching and practice. Because the guesses of the ancient humoral pathology were fanciful (how could they have been otherwise when chemistry was unknown ?), and because the chemistry of his time was too imperfect to show the changes of the blood in disease, Cullen contemptuously rejected all study of the composition of the animal body as worthless, and set to work to speculate on its actions. Hunter's system also was based on abstract ideas of action and power, irrespective of the quantity or composition of that which acted. Strangely blind to the fact that many actions must go on in the egg ere blood and blood-vessels are formed, physiologists of that day ignored the inherent forces of the tissues, and ascribed all secretion and growth, and all organic disease, to the '^action of the blood-vessels ;" whilst the absorbents " were supposed to be ever on the watch with open mouths to devour all that was waste or superfluous, and so were considered to give the body its just proportions in health, and to cause wasting and ulcera- tion in disease. Well do I remember the apologetic manner in which, in the first edition of this book, I ventured to say of pus,, not only that it was formed " by a real process of secre-PEEFACE. vii tion, being elaborated in the capillaries, and exuded from them (for all secretions were then supposed to be formed in and by the capillaries, and to issue somehow from invisible exhalant orifices), but likewise that it might be formed in tissues and exudations outside the blood-vessels. J use the word apologetic purposely, because an eminent teacher of surgery with whom I was then familiar reproached me almost as if it were a personal offence to suppose that any "actions" could be done except by the capillaries, just as he considered me also a blind heretic for doubting the doctrine of John Hunter, that ulcers were eaten out by the "mouths of the absorbents." At that day the microscopical observers of most authority described what they believed to be the conversion of blood globules into pus globules within the capillaries. They be- lieved that they saw them enlarging in size and losing their colour, and afterwards exuding as pus from the surface of a sore. At that day, too, the student would have been asked "How do cartilages ulcerate?" and he would have been re- quired to answer, " By the agency of the absorbents." And if asked presently, " How can we prove the existence of absorbents (lymphatics) in cartilage?" he would have been expected to reply, " Because they are liable to ulcera- tion." Does the student smile at this as a proof of the blindness of our fathers ? He may smile; but he had better learn humbly that this is but a specimen of the vices inherent in the human mind, from which neither ours nor any age can be free. Yice the first is false observation—observation made with imperfect instruments, or distorted by preconceived ideas in the observer's mind. Yice the second is that kind of argu- mentation, in which what ought to be proved is taken for granted. This is the same now as ever, and is only to be counteracted by a wholesome scepticism, which shall be per- petually probing and testing those doctrines and practices which are most firmly held and implicitly acted on. Another peculiarity of the pathology of that day illustrates a third vice of the human mind, which the student must be on his guard against now as ever. It is that of putting a moral colour on material facts, of allowing the " subjective " to intrude upon the ^' objective," and supposing the figures of our imagination to exist in reality. For example. The earliest microscopic observers, who set to work to explore the phenomena of inflammation in the transparent parts ofVlll PEEFACE. animals, naturally enough set themselves to see what was then considered the very arcaiium, the ne plus ultra of vital action, namely, the condition of the blood-vessels. Expecting to find these in a state of " increased action," and expecting that the increased action of a blood-vessel should be an increased current of blood, they were surprised to see in the focus of an inflamed part, vessels distended, and blood motionless. They might have accepted this fact simpUciter. They might have said, Here are blood-vessels distended, possibly as a consequence or accompaniment of some coexisting condition; just as a "block" of carriages in the street may arise from "too languid a circulation," as when some carriage can't go fast enough;— or from error loci, as when a man insists on breaking the line; —or from ''constriction," as when "a street is up;"~or from " increased attraction " of certain houses for carriages, as when a ball is given ;—or from universal ''plethora," as at a Lord Mayor's show. A stagnation of blood in the vessels of an inflamed part is no more a warrant for an absolute hypothesis as to its cause than a stoppage in the streets; yet our pre- decessors, the first microscopic pathologists, greedily seized this fact as a foundation for a theory that inflammation was a "debility" of the capillaries—a "debihty," they thought, that must be counteracted by stimulation ;" for " debility," a term expressing a conception of the human mind, and " stimulation," a mere metaphor, were taken as the names of absolute existences antagonistic to each other. To the error of assuming our mental conceptions to exist in external objects was superadded a fourth error, that of searching for " final causes." Any one who conceived any use to arise from any change in the animal economy, believed himself to have entered into the very counsels of the Deity, and to detect His purposes. The " symptomatic fever " which accompanies (and, as the ancients knew, precedes) many local inflammations was conceived to be a beneficent consequence. A fantastic goddess was set up called "Nature." She was supposed to live in and rule the animal body, to feel all its injuries and resent them. If a man shivered at the beginning of an illness, "Nature" felt an injury, and withdrew her forces from the extremities into the citadel of life. If he became feverish, if the whole heart and arteries throbbed tumul- tuously, it was Nature's mode of resisting an enemy; for it was really supposed that a " local debility " of the capillaries might excite the whole blood-vessels to furious " action " in order to overcome the obstruction ; just as if a man shouldix PREFACE. burn down his house because one of his attic chimneys smoked. Unhicldly for the " final cause," the preternatural action of the heart and arteries, instead of removing the difficulty it was supposed to be intended to remove, did but superadd a worse evil, and had to be repressed, in its turn, by antiphlogistics. To these four cardinal errors, viz. imperfect observation, wrong argumentation, abuse of the subjective, in the ascribing a moral purpose or "intention," or " disposition" to matter, and belief in final causes, we add a fifth, which was abundantly illustrated by the example of our fathers, It is Kationalis- ticism—the error of neglecting common-sense humble observa- tion, and of trusting to a-jpriori argument, in matters to which that line of argument is quite inapplicable. It differs from what is " rational," as a ghost differs from flesh and blood. It is a mere semblance of reasoning, grotesquely applied to a subject that does not admit of it. It is the same now, and ever will be, so long as we fondly believe that our pathological principles are established like mathematical truths, and that we are safe in deducing rules of practice from them, even though experience may go against us. This is well illustrated by the history ot that abuse of blood-letting, which, if I read our professional history aright, prevailed, not with the ancients, not with the Sydenhams, not with the great English physicians of the eighteenth century, but in the days from about 1790 to 1840, during which our fathers fondly persuaded themselves that they acted upon the " scientific principles " laid down by the immortal John Hunter. The hypothesis being that inflammation was an action" of the vessels (for they that believed in debility" of the in- flamed capillaries believed in " action " of the larger vessels), and the further hypothesis being accepted, that the action of the vessels was kept up by distension from within, it stood to reason that the way to diminish action was to empty the blood-vessels. Alas! that so many things which stand to reason (such as it is) should not stand to fact. But as it was a logical deduction from established " principles," that bleeding must diminish action, so practitioners went on bleeding in in- flammation, consoling themselves for the deaths of their patients by the reflection that ^they had done their duty. That blood-letting in certain cases of the early stage of in- flammation is of enormous service is an ancient and indispu- table fact. There are many theories on which its good effects can be explained, amongst which may be mentioned that of Dr. Markham, that it is beneficial chiefly in inflammationsPREFACE. X which affect the act of respiration, and acts by diminishing the quantity of blood that need circulate in the lungs. But there is a fact I mention in these pages, which has been little noticed, and which may account for the perseverance with which blood was drawn in maladies where blood should rather have been injected—this is, the delicious sense of lan- guor and ease which follows the abstraction of blood, as it does the Turkish bath. This delusive benefit was probably the real excuse for a custom which was kept up in compliance with the so-called " scientific principles " of that day, although if practitioners had calmly looked at results, they would have doubted their principles. Whoever will take the trouble to look at " Butter on Irritative Fever," will see the depleting practice of 1824 in its chmax. He will see the fallacy of the theory which ascribes the discontinuance of bleeding wholly to ^' change of type " of disease. For patients were then bled repeatedly for a disease of a low, gangrenous type, in which we now, like the great practitioners of an earlier generation, should give bark and wine. Bleeding was then done to excess because our fathers had let themselves - be led cap- tive by the plausible " scientific principles " of CuUen and Hunter; and bleeding is not carried to excess now, because homely observation has shown those principles to be but par- tially true. Whilst I thus unsparingly exhibit what I believe to be the errors of our fathers, I do so because they are in essence our own too. The vices of the human mind remain, tliough their manifestations may vary. The worst error of all is that of imagining that our predecessors were all wrong, and ourselves all right. If my reader will have the goodness to refer to what I say at p. 36, he will see grounds for humility. New medical theories ought to include the old, and not to upset them. Our fathers' theories (say that of " action of vessels were partial glimpses—or glimpses at one aspect of an enor- mous subject. Ours are glimpses at another, perhaps a more advanced prospect. But it does not follow that because their theories did not include so many phenomena as ours, that they were wholly wrong or useless, or that their practice was all bad. I have ventured to denounce Hunter's theories, but I have the profoundest veneration for him as an observer and a practitioner. In fact, I have the fullest faith in the Art of Healing as practised by men of sense and sagacity in all ages ;—men strong enough to act on their own instincts of what was right, spite of the theories of the day, which, likexi PREFACE. cobwebs, bind the weaker men only. And we may rely on it, that there will be as little finality and stability in our views as in those of any of our predecessors. The great thing to be desired is, that each generation should reverentially con- sider and adopt such of its predecessor's labours as stand the test of experience instead of sweeping them contemptu- ously away and endeavouring to substitute an opposite and antagonistic universal theory. We need not be mere cellular pathologists, any more than mere vasculomotor pathologists, or humoralists. Each of these doctrines has some foundation, but to apply any one of them universally, would be to bring back the darkest ages of physic. But to return. To the mere idea of action, as taught by Hunter, there succeeded a revival of the ancient humoral prin- ciples, to diffuse which the learned Dr. Copland's Dictionary, and Dr. Ferguson's Essay on Puerperal Fever, largely contri- buted. During twenty years, 1842-1862, this humoral pa- thology reigned. Action was shown to be largely dependent on the composition and quantity of the acting matter. This humoral pathology was accepted by all the great teachers, and shed a wholesome light over practice. Whoever used means to purify, to enrich, or to improve the blood, acted on principles acknowledged in the earliest days of physic, and destined to last as long as humanity itself, because founded on the experience of every-day life. The modern use of the microscope, and the knowledge of life in the tissues, as distinct from vascular action, was first made popular by a modest Eeport of Mr. Paget's in 1842. That Report indicates, in my mind, the beginning of modern medicine. What a gap separates it from J. F. Palmer's admirable edition of Hunter, published in 1835 ! Goodsir's Anatomical and Pathological Observations, Redfern on Ulceration of Cartilage, Hughes Bennett on Inflammation, Toynbee on Non-Vascular Tissues, and Lionel Beale's Re- searches on Nutrition, and on the " germinal" and "formed" elements of the Tissues are all, as it were, steps to a kind of knowledge sure to bear good fruit. If there were a fault, in modern humoralism, it was that perhaps too much was still assigned to the blood in the genesis of disease, and too little to the tissues. Exudations were supposed to be pre-existing in the blood, and to be poured out into the tissues, and there to generate within themselves the elements of new cell-growth. The more modern " cellular pathology " would show, on the contrary, that "exudations" are the work of the existing cell elements of the tissues, fed perhaps by impure blood, orXll PREFACE. irritated by some other cause of disease. My readers will find a short account of this doctrine, as also a glance at that other doctrine, which is slowly acquiring consistency, of the influence of the nerves in directing or diverting currents of blood from any given organ. Few parts of the " principles of medicine " show greater ad- vance than the doctrine of Tumours. Before the microscopic era these were a hopeless puzzle. And even when they were first explored with the aid of this instrument, very inadequate ideas prevailed of the nature of the cancerous group, because these were studied too much by themselves, and the elements found in them were assumed to be peculiar to cancers and distinctive of them, without sufficient study of their relations to the cell elements found in other tissues, healthy or diseased. At present, whilst I still maintain the necessity of a classifica- tion based on the anatomical elements of tumours, as revealed by the microscope, it seems impossible to deny, that the cancers form but one part of a series, of w^hich common in- flammatory exudation or cell-growth, chronic inflammation, thickening and induration (the ancient scirrhus), cachectic or ca- coplastic inflammation, as erysipelas and carbuncle, scrofulous exudation, the fibro-cellular, fibro-plastic, fibro-nucleated, and fibroid tumours, together with the "exudations " of rheumatism, gout, syphilis, and elephantiasis, are all closely-related members. As I have pointed out, there is no tumour whatever which may not have ten at least of the fifteen signs of malignancy.'* A real advance will be made when the childish words malignant" and " recurrent" shall be banished, and when all tumours of the kinds I have just enumerated shall be ac- knowledged to be individual members of one group. Then we shall take up again the classification which was found in all surgical books, from the time of Galen, that greatest of phy- sicians, to that of Hunter. All tumours, exudations, or cell- growths will be treated as members of one family ; and in- flammation (that is, the calor, rubor, tumor, and dolor) will be shown to be accidental characters of one kind of tumour. Scrofula has its place in the group of maladies with cell- growth or exudation; and here I believe 1 have done some service to the student by my exposition of the question. What is tubercle? I have shown that what is commonly known as yellow tubercle is merely an eflete and decayed residue of some pre-existing exudation. I need scarcely say that any attempt to deduce a system of therapeutics from aPREFACE, xiii consideration of the chemical characters of yellow tubercle is a preposterous piece of rationalisticism. In the Third Part, which treats of the effects of different kinds of injuries and causes of disease, ma}^ be recognized with pleasure the fruits of an increased knowledge of the vital properties of the tissues. More confidence is placed in the power of the tissues to recover if placed under the right conditions. The surgeon interferes less. This is evident in the Chapter on Gun-shot Wounds, where the experience of the American war is quoted, and shows a far greater propor- tion of recoveries from gun-shot fractures, with proper food and appliances, than was possible amongst the half-starved English soldiers in the Crimea. But in this Part it is the chapter on Syphilis which shows most alteration. I took particular pains in writing it. Making my mind, as far as possible, a tabula rasa, and endeavouring to forget all the doctrines which have succeeded one another during the last twenty-five years, I began at the beginning, and read Fracastorius, and Ambroise Pare, and Astruc, not omitting the chain of authors given by him, as well as the abstracts of old writers in Daniel Turner's Aphrodisiacus; then I carefully studied Benjamin Bell and John Hunter, Astley Cooper and Abernethy, Ricord and Acton, Diday, Hutchinson, Wilks, Henry Lee, Bumstead, and Marston, side by side with the cases presented to me in ordinary life. The result, im- perfect as it is, I hope will give my readers a clear and useful, as it is a thoroughly well-laboured and impartial account of the various questions afloat concerning this great pest of incontinence. Here is, I believe, a great and substan- tial progress in Surgery. The Fourth Part, which treats of injuries and diseases of the various tissues, organs, and regions, has been very much added to. New and simplified Fracture Apparatus is described. If British surgery thought it had attained finality anywhere, it was in the ligature for wounded arteries. Professor Simpson has given a lesson on this point, not unmixed with rebuke. The revival of the pre-Hunterian operation for aneurism, and the increasing application of that treatment of aneurism, ex- ternal and internal, by pressure, which we owe to Bellingham, Carte, Tufnell, and other members of the Dublin School, are shortly alluded to. Acupressure, the wire compress, flexion for aneurism, and the cure of aortic aneurism by pressure, (pp. 333, 770,) are marks of solid progress. New and safer methods of tying varicose veins are detailed. The chapter onPREFACE. xiv the Eye lias been revised by my accomplished friend, Mr. E. Taylor, who has added an account of the modern treatment of Glaucoma by Iridectomy. jS'o sign of improvement is more striking than the methods of exploring internal organs and cavities by eyesight, which have been applied to eye, ear, uterus, rectum, and larynx within this generation, and by which a precision of diagnosis as to material conditions is substituted for the con- ceptions of our predecessors. Truly, medicine is not only changing, but growing; and I look with satisfaction on its future. As civilization and wealth advance, the public will give increased employment to men of education and general professional acquirements, who devote their attention to the exploration of the physical condition of any important organ. How many a patient in the last generation would have been spared the leechings, blisterings, issues, salivation, alteratives, &c. &c., if the real physical condition of eye or larynx could have been accurately demonstrated. The chapter on the Ear owes much to the revision of my friend Mr. Hinton. Tooth- ache may seem a triviality to those who have never felt it; but in writing the account of it at p. 493, in which I described, as well as I could, what had been done to myself by my friend Mr. Tomes, I wish I could have adequately conveyed to my readers the grateful sense I entertain of the benefits derivable from modern dentistry in scientific hands. That common and dangerous infirmity, Hernia, has been more fully treated of, especially as regards the new and ingenioas measures for effecting a radical cure, which were introduced into England by Mr. Spencer Wells, and have been elaborated by Mr. Wood. The account of ovariotomy, and the statistics thereof, have been brought down to the present period. Here I fear that I must, amongst other vices of the human mind incident to professors of medicine, caution the student against that mental state, compounded of indolence, narrowness, and self-esteem which leads men whose minds refuse to receive new impres- sions, to feel irritated at the innovations of more active men. The laudatio tem;poris acti may be the infirmity of a generous mind: the desire to rest satisfied with one's own knowledge, and to repress all who would go further, is intolerable mean- ness and selfishness. We all must go on learning till we die. The sections devoted to the urinary organs, and especially to lithotrity, have been revised and enlarged, though I must confess that the last-named subject is still very meagrely treated. General principles are easily given, but it is impos-TREFACE. XV sible to decant into these pages all the working details that are familiar to Charles Hawkins or Henry Thompson. The chapter on the Surgery of the Female Generative Organs is also confessedly imperfect, and contains such points only as belong to ''General Surgery/' without making it distinctly obstetrical. It had been my intention to have written a complete chapter on the examination, diagnosis, and treatment of diseases of those organs; but after encountering the drudgery of the foregoing 650 pages, I shrank from the labour. Besides, the additions judged necessary to the other parts of the book rendered it difficult to add much to this. The chapters on Chloroform and on Operative Surgery have also been revised and much added to. I wish I could even barely count up the improvements in the operative parts of Surgery begun or perfected in the last twenty-five years :—such as the merciful sleep under chloro- form contrasted with the groans of yore: the more finished style of operating, which, though London never wanted good operators, was greatly promoted by Listen and W. Fergusson : the new mode of division by the ecraseur : lithotrity and ovariotomy, once sneered at, now perfected: the mechanical details worked out for the union of cleft palate and of vaginal fistulas: the bolder treatment of diseased joii:its by incision, with excision to fall back upon, instead of amputation : the more summary modes of dealing with stricture : the whole treatment of deformities worked into a scientific system : and withal the causes of death after operations better understood and guarded against. For many years past my practice has been confined to medicine and midwifery. I have therefore had the greatest part of this edition, as of former ones, and especially all parts that relate to pure or operative surgery, submitted to the revision of an accomplished hospital surgeon, so as to relieve myself from responsibility, and increase the confidence of my readers. The great kindness with which former editions have been received has made me the more anxious that this should not fall behind its predecessors; yet I am painfully conscious of its imperfections—even of those which arise from the narrow limits in which I am obliged to write. Surgery can now be condensed within no small space, and at best this work can but pretend to be a series of memoranda, sufiicient perhaps for most maladies which fallPREFACE. xvi to the lot of the practitioner, but not for those intricate sabjects which claim special treatises to themselves. I find that the collection of formulse at the end of the work has been received with great favour, and I have added to them considerably. Many of them are original prescrip- tions by masters of repute, and others are such as I use in my own practice. It were greatly to be wished that the search for specifics be continued with vigour. We want remedies which shall do for the exudations or cell-growths of cancer, fibro-plastic tumours, carbuncle, and the like, what mercury, iodide of potassium, and salts of ammonia do unquestionably in some cases of inflammatory, rheumatic, scrofulous, and syphilitic deposits. Such remedies can never be guessed at, or argued out a priori^ but can only be attained empirically ; that is, by observation and experiment; and I hope I need not repeat to ray readers that the true "science" of medicine is based, not on a priori argument, but on the results of practice. K. DRUITT. 37, Hertford Street, May fair, W. nth March, 1865.CONTENTS. PART I. ON SOME AFFECTIONS OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM WHICH MAY ACCOMPANY LOCAL DISEASE OR INJURY. CHAP. PAGE 1. Prostration or Collapse . . . . . . 1 II. Delirium Traumaticum ...... 3 III. Tetanus 4 Sect. 1. Introductory ..... 4 2. Acute Tetanus ..... 4 3. Chronic, and Infantile Tetanus . . .10 IV. Hysteria and Hypochondriasis . . . . .11 V. Convulsions . . , . , . . .14 PART II. THE ELEMENTARY PROCESS OF DISEASE AND REPAIR. I. Malformation, Hypertrophy, Atrophy, and Degeneration of Tissues . . . . . . . .15 II. Hyperemia ........ 18 III. Nervous Pain 20 lY. Exudation, Cell Growth, and Genesis of Disease . . 20 V. General Doctrine of Repair , . . . .23 D 6X CONTENTS. CHAP. PAGE VI, Inflammation ....... 26 Sect. 1. Introductory . . . . .26 2. Analysis of Local Symptoms ... 27 3. Analysis of Constitutional Symptoms—Trau- matic, or Symptomatic Fever, or Feverish- ness . . . . . .28 4. Minute Anatomy of an inflamed part . 31 5. Progress and Terminations . . .33 6. Causes and Varieties of Inflammation . 33 7. Theory of Inflammation ... 36 8. Acute Inflammation .... 37 9. Chronic Inflammation .... 42 10. Modified Inflammation .... 44 VII. Effusion of Serum and (Edema . . . . . 45 VIIT. Haemorrhage 47 IX, Exudation of Fibrine and Adhesion .... 48 X. Suppuration and Abscess ...... 50 Sect. 1. Suppuration and Analogous Processes . . 50 2. Acute Abscess ..... 53 3. Hectic or Suppurative Fever . . .56 4. Chronic Abscess and Typhoid Symptoms from Putrefaction of Pus . . . .57 XI. Erysipelas, Diffuse , Inflammation of the Cellular Tissue, and Pyap.mia ....... 60 Sect. 1. Pathology of Erysipelatous Inflammation . 60 2. The Cutaneous and Cellulo-Cutaneous Ery- sipelas , . . . . .61 3. Pyaemia, and the consequences of Septic Liquids introduced into the veins . . 64 4. Phlegmasia Alba Dolens . . . .67 XII. Ulceration . . . ^ . . . . . 68 Sect. 1. Pathology of Ulceration . ... 68 2, Varieties of Ulcers . . . .70 XIII. Mortification . .82 Sect. 1. Mortification in general . . . . 82 2. On some varieties of Mortification . . 87 XIV. Scrofula and Tuberculosis 90 Sect. 1. Scrofula and Tuberculosis in general . . 90 2. Particular Scrofulous Diseases ... 95CONTENTS. xi CHAP. PAGE XV. Morbid Growths and Tumours . . . . .98 Sect. 1. Tumours generally. .... 98 2. The Fatty Tumour . . . .100 3. The Fibrous, Painful Subcutaneous, Fibro- cellular, Fibro-plnstic, Fibroid, Fibrinous, Fibro-nucleated, and Colloid Tumours . 101 4. Cartilaginous and Osseous Tumours . . 105 5. Glandular and Vascular Tumours . . 107 6. Cystic Tumours . . . . .108 7. Epithelioma . . . . .110 8. Melanosis 113 9. Cancer 114 10. Elephantiasis Arabum . . . . 125 11. General Diagnosis of Tumours from Cancer . 126 PART III. DIFFERENT KINDS OF INJURIES. I. Bruises and Subcutaneous Injuries . ' . . .130 Sect. 1. Introduction . . . . .130 2. Bruises and Ecchymosis . . . .131 II. Wounds . , . ... . . .133 III. Gun-shot Wounds 138 Sect. 1. General Description . . . .138 2. Lodgment and Extraction of Balls . . 141 3. Collapse from Gun-shot Wounds , .144 4. Haemorrhage from Gun-shot Wounds. . 145 5. Gun-shot Injuries of the Head and Face . 147 6. Gun-shot Injuries of the Chest . . .150 7. Gun-shot Injuries of the Abdomen . . 153 8. Gun-shot Injuries of the Limbs—Amputation, Primary and Secondary . . .155 IV. Effects of Heat, Burns, and Scalds . . . .160 V. Effects of Cold ....... 165 VI. Effects of Mineral and Vegetable Irritants . . .167 VII. Effects of the Poison of Healthy Animals, and Treatment of Poisoned Wounds generally . . . .169 Sect. 1. Effects of Poisonous Insects and Sei*pents . 169 2. Treatment of Poisoned Wounds . . 171 3. Entozoa ...... 172 VIII. Poisons contained in Dead Human Bodies, and Dissection Wound3 174xii CONTENTS. CHAP. i'AGE IX. Effects of Poisons generated by Diseased Animals . .177 Sect. 1. Hydrophobia 177 2. The Glanders 184 X, On Venereal Diseases . . . . . .187 Sect. 1. General History and Pathology . .187 2. Gonorrhoea or Clap . . . .194 3. On the Soft, or Suppurating Venereal Sore, or Chancroid 201 4. Inflamed, Sloughing, Phagedsenic, and Ser- piginous Venereal Sores . . . 202 5. Chancre .203 6. Diagnosis of Chancre, and Affections that may be mistaken for it . . . . 205 7. Bubo 207 8. Constitutional Syphilis . . . .209 9. Treatment of Constitutional Syphilis, espe- cially bv Mercury . . . .214 10. Congenital'Syphilis . . . .220 11. Doubtful and Mixed Cases . . . 222- 12. Syphilization 224 PART IV. INJURIES AND SURGICAL DISEASES OF VARIOUS TISSUES, ORGANS, AND REGIONS. I. Diseases of the Areolar Tissue ..... 225 II. Surgical Diseases of the Skin . . . . . 225 III. Diseases and Injuries of Muscles, Tendons, and Bursas . 230 IV. Diseases and Injuries of the Lymphatics . . . 235 V, Diseases and Injuries of the Bones .... 236 Sect. 1. Diseases depending on Hypertrophy . . 236 2. Diseases depending on Atrophy and Degenera- tion 238 3. Neuralgia in Bone . . . . 241 4. Inflammation and Suppuration of Bone and Periosteum ..... 241 5. Necrosis and Exfoliation . . . . 245 6. Caries .247 7. Tumours in Bone ..... 248 8. Fracture generally ..... 250 9. Non-union and False Joint , . . 255 10. Compound Fracture . . . .257 11. Particular Fractures , » . .258CONTE^JTS. xiii CHAP. 1*AGE VI. Diseases and Injuries of the Joints .... 289 Sect. 1. The Synovial Membrane . . .289 2. The Ligaments . . . . . 296 3. The Cartilage . . . . . 297 4. Scrofulous Disease of Joints, White Swelling, and Articular Caries . . . .297 5. Anchylosis ...... 302 6. Disease of the Hip-Joint, or Morbus Coxse . 304 7. Neuralgia of Joints .... 308 8. Wounds of Joints .... 308 9. Dislocation or Luxation generally . . 309 10. Particular Dislocations . . . .310 VII. Injuries and Diseases of the Arteries .... 328 Sect. 1. Wounds of Arteries .... 328 2. Secondary Haemorrhage . . . . 336 3. Diifused and Traumatic Aneurysm, and Aneurysmal Varix , . . .337 4. The Hsemorrhagic Diathesis , . .339 5. Degeneration and Inflammation of Arteries . 340 6. Aneurysm .... . . 341 7. Vascular Tumours .... 350 VIII. Injuries and Diseases of Veins , . . . . 357 Sect. 1. Wounds of Veins ..... 357 2. Inflammation of Veins, or Phlebitis . .357 3. Varicose Veins and Phlebolites . .360 IX, Injuries and Diseases of the Nerves .... 363 X. Injuries of the Head ...... 367 Sect. 1. Wounds of the Scalp . . . .367 2. Concussion of the Brain . . . . 368 3. Compression from Extravasated Blood . 371 4. Fracture of the Skull . . . .373 5. Wounds of the Brain, and Hernia Cerebri . 376 6. Traumatic Inflammation of the Brain . 377 7. Trephining and Paracentesis . . .379 8. Tumours , . . . . .381 XI. Diseases and Injuries of the Spine . . . .381 Sect. 1. Diseases and Deformities . . .381 2. Injuries of the Spine .... 388 XH. Injuries and Diseases of the Eye . . . .391 Sect. 1. Inflammation of the Eye generally . .391 2. Injuries 393 3. Diseases of the Eyelids . . . .395 4. Diseases of the Lachrymal Apparatus . 400 5. Diseases of the Conjunctiva , . . 403xiv CONTENTS. CHAP. PAGE XII. Injuries and Diseases of the Eye—continued. Sect. 6. Diseases of the Cornea .... 409 7. Diseases of the Sclerotic .... 414 8. Affections of the Anterior Chamber . . 415 9. Diseases of the Iris . . . .415 10. Inflammation of the Capsule of the Crys- talline Lens . . . . .421 11. Cataract 421 12. Glaucoma 429 13. The Ophthalmoscope . . . .431 14. Diseases of the Choroid; Asthenopia, Syn- chysis, and Hydropthalmia . . . 438 15. Retinitis 440 16. Amaurosis . . . . . . 441 17. Short and Long Sight . . . .445 18. Squinting 447 19. Tumours in the Orbit; Cancer of the Eye; Extirpation of the Eye . . . 449 XIII. Diseases and Injuries of the Ear .... 453 Sect. 1. Examination of the Ear .... 453 2. Affections of the External Ear . . . 454 3. Affections of the Tympanum and Internal Ear 458 XIV. Diseases and Injuries of the Face and Nose , . .467 Sect. 1. Affections of the Outer Parts of the Face, Nose, and Lips .... 467 2. Affections of the Nasal Cavities. . . 475 3. Affections of the Antrum and Jaws . . 479 4. Affections of the Mouth and Tongue . . 489 5. Affections of the Teeth and Gums . .492 XV. Surgical Diseases and Injuries of the Neck . . .501 Sect. 1. Surgical Diseases of the Fauces, Tonsils, and Uvula . . . . .501 2. Surgical Affections of the Pharynx and ^Esophagus ..... 503 3. The Laryngoscope . . . . 507 4. Surgical Affections of the Larynx and Tra- chea (including Tracheotomy, and the various circumstances which require it) . 509 5. Surgical Affections of the External Parts of the Neck and Throat . . .520 XVI. Surgical Diseases and Injuries of the Chest . , . 527 XVII. Injuries of the Abdomen, and Surgical Operations . . 532CONTENTS. XV CHAP. PAGE XVllI. Hernia . . 551 Sect. I. Nature and Causes of Hernia generally . 551 2. Reducible Hernia . . . . .553 3. Irreducible Hernia ..... 556 4. Strangulated Hernia .... 557 5. Remarks upon the Diagnosis and Compli- cations of Hernia . . . , 564 6. Inguinal Hernia ..... 566 7. Femoral or Crural Hernia . . . 580 8. Umbilical, Ventral, and other remaining Species of Hernia .... 584 XIX. Surgical Diseases and Injuries of the Rectum and Anus . 588 XX. Diseases of the Urinary Organs .... 603 Sect. 1. Retention of Urine from Spasmodic Stric- ture 603 2. Permanent Stricture .... 608 3. Urinary Abscess, Extravasation of Urine, and Fistula in Perinaeo . . .619 4. Some other Affections of the Male Urethra . 621 5. Diseases of the Prostate . , . .625 6. Diseases of the Bladder .... 628 7. Diagnosis of Blood, Albumen, Pus, and Epithelium in the Urine; Disease of the Kidneys, Hsematuria, and Suppression of Urine 632 8. Urinary Deposits or Gravel . . . 638 9. The Various kinds of Stone . , . 642 10. Stone in the Kidney and Ureter . . 643 11. Stone in the Bladder .... 644 12. Litholysis, or Solution of Stone. . . 646 13. Lithotrity . . . . , 646 14. Lithotomy ...... 652 15. Stone in Women ..... 661 XXI. Diseases of the Male Genitals . Sect. 1. Diseases of the Penis 2. Diseases of the Testis 3. Diseases of the Scrotum . 4. Impotence and Syphilophobia XXII. Surgical Diseases of the Female Genitals . . . 676 . 662 . 665 . 673 . 674 XXIII. Diseases of the Breast .xvi CONTEXTS. CHAP. PAGE XXIV. Diseases of the Hands and Feet, Club Foot, and other Deformities of the Limbs , , . . . 691 PART Y. THE OPERATIOKS OF SURGELIY. I. Operations in general ...... 703 II. Means of Producing Insensibility to Pain . . , 705 III. Minor Operations . . . . . . 725 IV. Slings and Bandaging ...... 734 V. Operations for Tying Arteries . . . . 741 Sect. 1. The Carotids, Lingual and Facial . . 741 2. The Innominata, Subclavians, and Arteries of the Arm . . . . . 745 3. The Aorta, Iliacs, and their Branches . .756 4. The Femoral and its Branches , . .760 YI. Amputations .770 Sect. 1. Amputation of the Thigh . . .770 2. Amputation at the Hip-Joint . . . 777 3. Amputation at the Knee-Joint . . , 778 4. Amputation of the Leg .... 779 5. Amputation of the Arm .... 782 6. Amputation at the Shoulder . . .783 7. Amputation at the Elbow . . . 784 8. Amputation of the Fore-Arm . . .784 9. Amputation at the Wrist . . .785 10. Amputations of the Hand . . .786 11. Amputations of the Foot. . . . 789 12. Amputation at the Ankle-joint . . 793 13. Affections of Stumps , . . . 795 VII. Excision of Bones and Joints ..... 796 Appendix OF Formula .810 Index 851THE SURGEON'S VADE MECUM. PAET I. ON SOME AFFECTIONS OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM WHICH MAY ACCOMPANY LOCAL DISEASE OR INJURY. CHAPTER I. PROSTRATION, OR COLLAPSE. Certain affections of the nervous system may be caused by, or may accompany, or follow, or complicate, various diseases and injuries. But when we speak of affections of the nervous system, we do not speak of anything immaterial or psychical; for every pain, every dis- order of motion, or of thaught, depends, without doubt (so far as sur- gery is concerned), upon physical conditions, although we are not at present able to state what such conditions may be. Definition.—We shall begin by describing the state commonly known prostration, or collapse, or shock to the nervous system; by which terms we signify that interruption of the powers and actions of life, which immediately follows any severe injury. Symptoms.—The usual symptoms are, that the patient lies cold, and half unconscious ; with a feeble pulse and imperfect sighing respr- ration. If the symptoms are analysed, they will be found to be com- pounded, 1st. Of the effects of depression of the heart's action ; includ- ing the symptoms commonly known by the term syncope; and 2nd. Of the efiects of shock, or interruption to the functions of the brain and nervous system ; and it will be fbund that these sets of symptoms are unequally combined in various cases. Thus, sometimes depression of the vascular system predominates, and the patient lies in a state of per- fect syncope, with the pulse and respiration imperceptible. Sometimes the nervous system is chiefly affected, the patient being insensible, even though the heart's action is restored; or bewildered and incoherent, as though intoxicated; or even comatose, as though he had taken a nar- D B2 PKOSTEATION, OR COLLAPSE. cotic poison. Nausea and vomiting; hiccup ; suppression of urine ; and in children, convulsions, are also very frequent symptoms. The duration of these symptoms is also extremely various. Some- times they pass oflf very quickly ; but they may remain even for forty- eight hours before reaction is thoroughly established, for the process of recovery from collapse is commonly called reaction. A very familiar illustration of collapse is afforded locally by any severe blow. Suppos- ing, for instance, a sharp blow on the shin, the patient is unable to move his leg for some minutes. We do not know what the exact change is, but we cannot doubt that the blow produces some physical change in the nerves leading to the muscles. A blow on the head produces what is commonly called concussion or stunning; in which the func- tions of the brain are lost through physical injury, and those of the respiratory and cardiac nerves are also more or less affected. In like manner, after a fracture of the leg, a patient may be unable to make water. Women, too, after operations about the perina^um or anus are prone to abort if pregnant. Causes.—Collapse may be caused by every variety of injury to which mind or body is liable;—great and sudden extremes of grief, or joy, or fear, or cold ;—large doses of any corrosive or sedative poison, such as arsenic, or tobacco;—great loss of blood, and mechanical injuries. It is most important that the surgeon should know what injuries are most likely to be followed by fatal collapse, in order that he may have proper materials for giving his prognosis. They are:— Injuries of organs that are necessary to life, as the stomach and brain, or that are intimately connected with the visceral system of nerves, as the testicle and eye ; and it is well known that severe concussion of these organs may extinguish life instantaneously;—extensive injuries of any sort, especially of the skin and joints;—lacerated and gun-shot wounds; — extensive burns; — and injuries that cause very great pain. Severe pain, by itself, is capable of exhausting the vital powers. Lastly. Injuries occurring to the very aged ; or to persons that are enfeebled by excess and intemperance, or by long-standing bodily dis- ease, or mental depression; injuries, moreover, which produce a state of blood unfavourable for reparation, or which find the blood in that state. From this it will be learned that the slightest injury or surgical operation may prove fatal to persons who labour under chronic organic disease, especially of the kidneys ; or who have been harassed by con- tinued anxiety and despondency of mind ; so that in almost any case a firm persuasion that recovery is impossible is almost sufficient to render it so. Treatment.—Supposing a patient to have just received a severe injury, and that independently of haemorrhage, or of any local injury, he is in such a state of faintness and depression as to render his life pre- carious, the indication is, to excite the heart and brain to a moderate and healthy reaction. The remedies are, stimulants, of which hot brandy and water (or Formula 27) is the best;—nourishment, such as beef-tea;—and warmth by means of blankets, or of heated bricks, or* See Travels on Constitutional Irritation, and Hunter on the Blood, chap. ii. DELIRIUM TRAUMATICUM. 3 bottles of hot water put under the axillae and between the thighs. When warmth and circulation are restored, the surgeon will hold his hand, so that he may not run the risk of setting up fever, or of bring- ing on hsemorrhage from any internal organ that may have been injured. — Vomiting may be allayed by soda water with brandy, or by sucking ice; or an opiate enema (F. 101), or by a mustard poultice (F. 156) to the epigastrium.—Hiccup may be relieved by sp. gstheris comp.— Convulsions, delirium, and coma, are to be treated by ammonia, stimu- lants, and beef-tea, with application of cold to the head if hot and throb- bing. Finally, the old vulgar and mischievous habit of bleeding patients immediately after an injury, before they have recovered from a state of faintness and depression, needs only to be mentioned to be condemned.* CHAPTER II, DELIRIUM TRAUMATICUM. The writer has seen three kinds of delirium quickly follow injuries, in- dependently of the light-headedness which may occur during the feverish stage. (1.) One is of the nature of dehrium tremens, and usually affects persons of middle age and intemperate habits. The symptoms are those of delirium tremens. The tongue is moist and tremulous; there is a general tremor of the muscles; the skin is covered with perspiration ; the patient is totally sleepless, irritable in his temper, answers questions in a snappish, or peevish, or incoherent manner ; is often anxious to call himself perfectly well; and, as the malady increases, he becomes restless, impatient, and talkative; wishes perhaps to get out of bed,and attempts to injure his attendants, and soon becomes most furiously maniacal. In some cases, however, the delirium is of a milder cast; the patient is haunted with extravagant ideas and spectral illusions; or fancies himself busied in his ordinary avocations, and talks perpetually about them. The pulse is rapid, face flushed, breathing quick, and most signs of excitement without force. Treatment.—The treatment is that of delirium tremens, and con- sists chiefly of quietude and nourishment, and, if the patient be feeble and an old drunkard, it will be advisable to allow him to choose his favourite liquor, and not to stint him in it. " If in twelve hours, or earlier, after an injury," says Mr. Vincent, the pulse does not indicate increased action, if it becomes fluttering and unequal, when the surface does not seem to evolve heat; when the countenance is listless, and the patient reports himself better than it might be expected ; and particularly if he is not clear in his answer,Vincent, Observations on Surgical Practice, Lend. 1848, p. 105. 4 TETANUS. thea the best of all stimuli, brandy, should be thrown in, and if there be delirium, opium." The opium may be given either in one full dose (such as gr. ii.—iii. of solid opium, or rp, xl.—Ix. of Battley's solu- tion), or in repeated small doses (such as gr. ^—| every hour or two hours) ; the repeated small doses being, perhaps, best, if debility and restlessness are very great. Beef-tea and other nourishment should be given. Mental excitement is better allayed by one or two kind but firm attendants than by straps and strait-waistcoats. The head should be frequently bathed with tepid water, and the bowels be opened by mild aperients. If coma supervenes, counter-irritation by means of sinapisms or blisters to the scalp, feet, or calves of the legs, may be tried.* (2.) The second form is the ordinary mania, of a mild cast. There are some persons of advanced life predisposed to insanity in whom the pain and excitement of any operation or injury, or even of any painful disease, are quite sufficient to upset the mental balance. (3.) The third kind is the hysterical, of which more in Chapter IV. CHAPTER III. TETANUS. SECTION I.—INTRODUCTORY. Definition.—Tetanus is a disease manifested by tonic or continuous spasm and rigidity of the muscles of voluntary motion. Division.—(1.) It is divided into the ■idiopathic, or that which arises from some disorder of the blood or nervous system without wound, and the traumatic, or that which is caused by a wound. (2.) Jt may be acute or chronic. (3.) It may be general or partial; and when partial it is mostly confined to the neck and jaws, consti- tuting trismus, or locked jaw. (4.) It is called opisthotonos, when the body is curved backwards, as it most commonly is ; emprosthotonos, when it is curved forward; and pleurosthotonos, when it is drawn to one side, this being the most uncommon. (5.) The trismus infantum, or neonatorum, which attacks children soon after birth, is usually made a distinct species. (6.) Tetanus may in its type be intermittent, when it is caused by marsh miasmata, as it may be occasionally, like almost every other nervous atFection. (7.) Lastly, there is the hysterical tetanus, in which all the outward symptoms of tetanus aie produced, as a consequence of an hysterical state of the system. section II.—ACUTE TETANUS. Symptoms.—The patient first complains of stiffness and pain of the neck and jaws, as from a cold ; his voice is husky; it is difficult * Copland's Diet. Art. Delirium; Graves's Clinical Medicine, 1843, p, 452 ;ACUTE TETANUS. for him to put out his tongue, and his countenance has a pecuUar expression, resembling a painful smile, because the corners of the mouth and eyes are drawn outwards by incipient spasm of the facial muscles. In the next place, the muscles of mastication and deglu- tition become fixed and rigid with spasm, so that the mouth is per- manently closed, and there is great difficulty of swallowing, especially liquids. To these symptoms succeed a fixed pain at the pit of the stomach shooting to the back, and a convulsive difficulty of breath- ing, indicating that the diaphragm and muscles of the glottis are affected; and the spasm now extends to the muscles of the trunk and limbs, rendering them completely fixed and rigid. The abdomen feels remarkably hard; there is obstinate constipation, and frequently diffi- cult micturition from spasm of the perinaeal muscles ; the pupils are contracted ; and the saliva flows from the mouth, because the patient is unable to swallow it. This spasm never ceases entirely; but it occa- sionally has a lull, and then comes on again in fits of greater violence. Such fits are easily brought on by any disturbance, such as an attempt to swallow, or by any other bodily movement or mental excitement, and most remarkably by slight causes affecting the surface of the skin; such as currents of cold air. There are generally some snatches of relax- ation during sleep. Meanwhile the intellect is undisturbed, and the pulse may be natural, except during a severe paroxysm, which quickens it, and causes perspiration and thirst. Terminations.—(1.) If the case is about to end/afa%, the pa- roxysms become more frequent and violent, and the breathing more and more emban-assed by spasm of the diaphragm and of the muscles of the glottis; and at last the patient dies, either from exhaustion or from suffocation ;—either because the nervous system is worn out by the violence of the spasm; or because the respiration is suspended long enough to cut off the necessary supply of arterial blood from the brain, and so to induce insensibility. The most usual period of death is the third or fourth day ; sometimes it is postponed till the eighth or tenth, but rarely later. On the other hand, there is the case* recorded of a negro who injured his hand, and died of tetanus in a quarter of an hour ; and cases of death within twenty-four hours are by no means uncom- mon. (2.) When acute tetanus terminates favourably, still the patient's recovery may not be complete for weeks or months ;—partly because of the strainings and lacerations which the muscles have suffered,—partly because of the remaining tendency to spasm, which very slowly yields and is apt to be temporarily aggravated by very slight causes, especially cold and damp. But in some rare instances the disease has been re- moved almost instantaneously by the removal of its exciting cause. Prognosis.—The prognosis in acute tetanus is extremely unfavour- able, es])ecially if traumatic; it is more favourable in the idiopathic, and the chronic generally gets well of itself. Death very seldom occurs after the twelfth day. As a general rule, it may be said that the pro- gnosis is favourable if the complaint is partial;—if it does not affect the * Rees's EncyclopEedia, Art. Tetanus.6 ACUTE TETANUS. muscles of the glottis ;—if it has lasted some days without increasing materially in severity ;—if it is sensibly mitigated by the remedies em- ployed ;—if the pulse is not much accelerated ;—if the patient sleeps ; —'and if he has been subject to it before in an intermittent form. On the other hand, the prospect will be unfavourable, if the spasms con- tinually increase in severity, and especially if they affect the muscles of the glottis. Diagnosis.—Tetanus may be distinguished from hydrophobia by the spasms being continuous, and by the patient being in general sensible, and calm to the last;—whereas in hydrophobia, there are fits of gene- ral convulsions with perfect intermissions, and the patient is mostly delirious. Inflammation of the spinal cord, or of its membranes, may be distinguished by the pain in the back and fever, and by the para- plegia and coma which supervene in most cases. Morbid Anatomy.—The morbid appearances that have been found in different oases are as follow: —Increased vascularity of the mem- branes and substance of the spinal cord, with or without effusion of serum ;—more rarely the same appearances may be found in the cranium ;—flakes of cartilage and spicula of bone deposited in the mem- branes of the spinal cord;—vascularity of the nerves leading from the wounded part;—of the mucous membrane of the stomach ; and of the sympathetic ganglia;—and congestion of the lungs. But there is not one of these morbid changes that is constantly, and except the first, there is not one of them that is even frequently, found. The muscles are extremely rigid after death, and ecchymosed or ruptured in many parts ;—the blood is mostly uncoagulated. Causes.—Tetanus may be caused by wounds and external injuries of every description, but especially by lacerated and punctured wounds of the hands and feet, gun-shot wounds, compound fractures, com- pound dislocation of the thumb, and wounds irritated by foreign matters, or in which nerves are exposed. Mr. Morgan knew it even caused by a blow with a schoolmaster's ferule; but it is very rarely caused by clean simple incisions. The period at which it may come on after an injury is very uncertain. Sometimes it occurs very quickly, if the patient is predisposed to it. Sometimes it seems to be induced by the great pain and irritation of a wound during its inflammatory state: but the most common period is, when the wound is nearly healed. It seems probable that some concurrent or predisposing cause, in addition to an external injury, is required to produce tetanus. Of such causes, the best established are, 1st, an irritated state of the bowels, from retained faeces;* and, 2ndly, exposure to draughts of cold air, or * For cases arising from intestinal irritation, vide Med. Gaz. vol. i. p. 646; Med. Chir. Trans, vol. vii. p. 459; Ibid. vol. vii. p. 474, et seq.; Abernethy, Lectures on Surgery, London, 1835, p. 23; Travers, Further Inquiry concerning Constitutional Irritation, London, 1835, p. 397 ; Fournier-Pescay, Die. de Sc. Med. Paris, 1821, vol. Iv. p. 9; Wincelslai Trnka de Krzowitz, Commentarius de Tetano Vindobonice, 1777 ; Dictionnaire de Medecine et Chirurgie Pratiques, Paris, 1836, Art. Tetanos; B. Gooch. Chirurglcal Works, Lond. 1792, vol. ii.ACUTE TETAKUS. to cold damp night air during warm weather, or in a warm climate ; consequently, tetanus is much more prevalent and fatal in India and other warm than in cold or temperate climates. The same causes, cold and visceral irritation, namely, which pre- dispose to the traumatic, may of themselves produce the idiopathic tetanus. Thus the latter may be a consequence of various visceral irri- tations, especially of the womb. Whytt gives the case of a girl, aged twenty, who caught cold during the menstrual period, and died of tetanus in eighteen hours; and the author knows a case in which fatal ti'ismus followed abortion.* Tetanus may also be caused by certain poisons, especially the nux vomica. Pathology.—The spasms of tetanus affecting as they do all the voluntary muscles, must evidently depend on some morbid condition of that central organ, the spinal cord and medulla oblongata, from which all the voluntary muscles are supplied with nerves. What that con- dition is, is unknown. It is most probably dependent on a peculiar state of blood, inasmuch as we know that when blood containing strychnine circulates through the nervous centres, it causes tetanic symptoms. There is the further argument from analogy, that inas- much as chorea has a decided alliance with rheumatism, so may tetanus with some similar blood-disease. Or it may depend on some disturb- ance in nervous action, independently of the blood, of which we are profoundly ignorant. Such nervous disturbance may be centric, that is, may depend on causes affecting the spinal marrow itself; or excentric, that is to say, may depend on irritation of some other part of the body, which irritation is conveyed to the spinal cord by the sentient or afferent, or, in Dr. Hall's language, excito-motor nerves. It is quite certain that the morbid condition cannot be regarded as inflammatory in the ordinary sense of the word, because the spinal cord is often found after death without a trace of vascularity, and because tetanus may be established during a state of depression and collapse that would be quite incompatible with inflammation. Although, however, it is most certain that inflammation is not essential to the existence of tetanus,, still it is equally certain that there is one class of tetanic cases which presents a well-marked in- flammatory character. They commence with shivering and pain, ai-e attended with fever, and, if fiital, display on inspection, congestion, serous effusion, softening or purulent deposit, in some part of the brain or spinal cord.f But this class is a small one. Treatment.—The indications are, 1st, To remove, so far as we are able, all conditions, known or believed to have the power of creating the tetanic state; 2nd, To give the patient every chance of spontaneous recovery, by husbanding his strength till the disease shall cease of itself; 3rd, To use any special sedative or other treatment, which the surgeon * See Cooke's Morgagni, vol. i. p. 129 ; and the Lancet for June 2nd, 1838. f For cases of inflammatory tetanus, vide Med. Gaz. vol. i. p. 645; Foumier- Pescay, op. cit.; Burmester in Med. Chir. Trans, vol. ii.8 ACUTE TETANUS. would sincerely desire to have employed on himself if he were the patient. In the local treatment, the first points to be accomplished are, to remove all extraneous bodies from the wound, if there be one; to make incisions, if necessary, for the free dischai-ge of pus, or for the relief of inflammatory swelling and tension ; and if any isolated portion of nerve or tendon happens to be on the stretch, to divide it. Then the' part may be fomented with warm decoction of poppies ; after which, warm opiate or belladonna lotion may be applied on lint, and the whole part be enveloped in large hot poultices. Sundry other measures have been proposed in order more effiectually to remove local irritation; such as the division of the principal nerve leading from the wound ; or, as Mr. Liston proposed, the making a ^ incision above, so as to isolate it and cut off as much nervous communication as possible; or the destruction of a ragged, contused, ill-conditioned wound by actual cautery, as LaiTey and others have practised with great benefit; or the excision of the wound if cicatrized or nearly so. Sometimes, when the wound is nearly cicatrized, or has ceased to suppurate, the application of a blister or of strong stimulating ointments has appeared to be of service ; but, as Mr. Curling* observes, it happens, unfortunately, that the tetanic condition of the spinal cord, when fully established, is mostly independent of its local exciting cause, and does not cease on its removal. Hence amputation of the injured part has very rarely been successful, and has even aggravated the mischief; so that it ought not to be performed, unless desirable for some other reason besides the tetanus. Purgatives are indicated, if there is evidence that the liver and bowels are loaded, because a loaded state of bowels is known to be a cause of many morbid conditions of the nervous system, and because, possibly, they may eliminate some unnatural element in the blood. Thus, a powder of calomel and jalap mixed with butter may be put at the back of the tongue, for the patient to swallow, and may be followed in an hour with a large dose of castor oil; and enemata of turpentine may be administered until the desired effect is obtained, which is the ridding the bowels of black offensive matter. But it is not only useless, but mischievous, to irritate empty bowels, and bring away mere inodorous serum or mucus. The above are measures employed to remove causes, according to the first axiom in the treatment of all diseases. But after adopting such of these as shall be expedient, the next thing to be attended to, on which all authors agree, is the necessity of observing perfect quiet, and avoiding all irritation and disturbance. The room should be dark; the patient should neither speak, move, nor swallow oftener than he can help. The administration of remedies should be effected as gently as possible. Everything harsh and violent should be avoided. The cold affusion, and the extraction of a tooth in order to admit an oesophagus tube, have * A Treatise on Tetanus, being the Jacksonian Prize Essay for 1834, by T. Blizard Curling, London, 1836, p. 122.ACUTE TETANUS. 9 each been known to cause death suddenly. If nourishment cannot be swallowed, it should be given per rectum. (See Nutrient Enemata, Soups, ^c. in the Appendix.^ In all cases an abundant supply of nourishment should be given, with wine or brandy. In some cases recovery has followed the use of spirits in large quantities.* It may seem expedient to add quinine, or muri- ated tincture of iron, if the debility be very marked. When considering our third head of treatment, we must remember that it is not because a patient gets well after any given remedy that we are to pronounce him cured by it. " Tetanus," says Mr. Poland, " runs a certain course: it has its period of accession, its height and intense activity, and its gradual decline; it often kills before it reaches its active point, and often kills by exhaustion during its decline. No- thing seems to check its regular course. All we can do is to enable our patient to weather out the storm by giving him as much strength as possible."t Yet it cannot be wondered at that surgeons have again and again tried those sedatives which seem likely to be of service. Cold is said to have been of service to animals affected with tetanus ; and a soldier was once most unexpectedly cured after exposure all night in sevei-e weather. Cold was applied to the spine by Dr. Todd by means of bladders, or ox-gullets filled with ice. Ice to the spine is also proposed by Dr. Chapman; but further experience is wanted. Warm baths, or vapour baths, seem rational remedies, yet are not proved to have done any service. Opium has appeared of most undoubted efficacy in some instances, probably those attended with a painful wound, and weakness. When it produces good effects, they are soon manifest. It may be given in large doses, in the form of enema or suppository ; but it must be con- fessed that in most cases it is useless or inert. Chloroform.—This seems a promising i-emedy, and in several cases has been of real service; in others, on the contrary, either it has soon lost its power of mitigating the spasms, or else it has nauseated, or else, although the spasms have been subdued, the patient has died, from exhaustion, or from some inscrutable altei'ation in the nervous centres. J The dose should be small, and continuous. The Indian Hemp has been employed with very good effects, by Dr. O'Shaughnessy and others at Calcutta, and by several practitioners in this country (F. 29). The woorara or vcooraK poison, which paralyses the motor nerves, and acts as an antagonist to strychnia, was proposed many years ago by Mr. Waterton> the naturalist—a proposition supported by experiments * See some observations by Dr. Todd, quoted in Ranking, x. 33. f Alfred Poland, Report of seventy-two cases of tetanus, occurring in Guy's Hospital since 1«25, Guy's Hosp. Rep. vol. iii. 1857. X See two cases by Dr. Cotton of Lynn, Prov. Med. Jour. May 15, 1850; fatal, though sufferings relieved by ether and chloroform inhaled; case by Mr.Slonian of Farnham, quoted in Banking's Abstract, x. 36; chloroform soon lost influ- ence ; patient recovered under calomel and morphine. See Anstie on Stimu- lants, Lond. 1864.CHRONIC TETANUS. 10 on tetanic animals. It has been used of late years by Vella, Manec, Chassaignac, and Spencer Wells. The results are not satisfactory.* Tobacco is an old remedy, and one the action of which seems antago- nistic to tetanus. Bnt it was tried forty years ago with the usual result; that is, it seemed to do good in some cases ; in others, though it may have relieved the symptoms for a time, it failed to save life; and in others, it acted as a decided poison. Latterly it has been cai-e- fully investigated by the Hev. Professor Haughton,t who has shown that nicotine, its active principle, is really an antidote to stri/cJmia, in cold-blooded animals; and has again ui-ged its employment, and has employed it in tetanus. The results seem scarcely more satisfactory than of old ; but probably much is to be done yet in regulating the dose. The dose of nicotine should probably not be more than half a drop, at intervals of four hours. Certainly if any remedy be worth trying it is this. But the author declares that if he himself were patient, he should trust to nourishment, quiet, and wine, and desire to have no specirics tried. SECTION III.—CHRONIC AND INFANTILE TETANUS. Chronic Tetanus is very seldom fatal, although in some rare instances the patient has died completely exhausted by its long con- tinuance ; for it sometimes lasts several weeks. The principal reme- dies are aperients, tonics, chloroform, and the shower-bath. The bowels should be kept freely open, but not by too drastic medicines. Electricity, in the form of sparks, or weak shocks, or P^aradisation down the spine, would probably be of service. J Trismus Infantum is a form of tetanus which is almost unknown in England. It was formerly, however, exceedingly prevalent in Ire- land, and appears to be met with there occasionally, even at present. It carries oft" a vast number of children in the West India Islands; and we learn from Sir H. Holland, that in the desolate rocky Vestmann islands, on the south coast of Iceland, one hundred and eighty-six infants perished of it in twenty-five years, although the population does not exceed one hundred and fifty souls. The causes appear to be, want of ventilation, and filth; or the innutritions and unwholesome diet of the parents, such as the fish and sea-bii'd eggs that form the only suste- nance of the Vestmann islanders ; and the use of irritating applications to the wound left by the falling off of the navel-string. The time at which the disease appears is generally from the fifth to the tenth day after birth ; hence the popular Irish term, nine-day fits. * For an account of Woorali, see Watertoii's Wanderings in South America, 5th Ed. London, 1852. An ass poisoned with woorali, and kept alive by artificial respiration, survived for 25 years. Brodie's Papers in the Phil. Trans, for 181], p. 178, and 1»12, p. 205 ; Morgan's Lecture on Tetanus; Claude Bernard, Lec- tures in Med. Times and Gaz. 1859; Spencer Wells, Three Cases of Tetanus, Proceedings of Royal Med. Chir. Soc. t Medical Times and Gaz. Jan. 12, 1858; Oct. 25,1862; Jan. 31, 1863; J. W. Ogle, ib., Mar. 12, 1864. J Addison on Electricity in Convulsive Diseases, Guy's Hosp. Rep. vol. ii.n HYSTERIA AND HYPOCHONDRIASIS. on Yaws and Tetanus, Edin. 1839. The symptoms are, locked-jaw, spasmodic difficulty of breathing and swallowing, and general convulsions. They are almost invariably at- tended with diarrhoea, and preceded by fretfulness, startings during sleep, and unusual greediness for the breast. Treatment of any kind is seldom successful; but it may be presumed that the warm bath, four or five doses of calomel (gr. i.—ii.) at inter- vals of four or five hours, a teaspoonful or two of castor oil to clear the bowels, and minute doses of laudanum (one-eighth of a minim, cautiously increased) every two hours afterwards, or chloroform, are the measures most likely to be of service.* CHAPTER lY. HYSTERIA AND HYPOCHONDRIASIS. I. Hysteria is a profound disturbance of the nervous system, most usually alfecting women, but not unknown in men. Our limits prevent us from treating of it further than as it is an occasional complication of surgical disease; suffice it to say that it seems to consist in an ex- aggeration or disturbance of the emotions of the mind, and in the sen- sitive functions of the body; and that it may ensue upon disturb- ance of health of any kind, mental suffering, delay in the development of the generative organs, or some chronic form of mal-assimilation, such as a latent gouty or rheumatic taint. It is remarkable for the great diversity of symptoms it may cause, and of the diseases it may simulate. Mental disturbance of all kinds, from the most vivid delirium to the most profound torpor; muscular affections ranging be- tween utter palsy and frightful spasm ; disturbance of sensation, includ- ing the most violent pains and the most perfect numbness; irregularity of the circulation, of the digestion, and of every other function are among its effects. II. As an illustration we may refer to Hysterical Tetanus, A female may be seized with stiff'ness of the muscles of the face and jaws, which may extend to the neck, and gradually invade the trunk and limbs, so as completely to close the mouth, and render the whole body rigid and motionless. The chief points of diagnosis are, the hysterical state of the mind ; and the fact that the muscular contraction, however great, may almost always be overcome for the moment by forcing the patient to exert her volition. The best remedies are gentle aperients, valerian, and other antispasmodics, and henbane. HI. Hysterical Neuralgia.—Hysteria is apt to cause fits of pain, which simulate various acute or chronic diseases. Sometimes it is violent pain in the head, with stupor; sometimes pain in one side, in * See a Paper by Joseph Clarke, M.D., in Med. Facts and Obs. vol. iii. Lend . 1792; Sir H. Holland's Med. Notes and Keflections, 2nd Ed. p. 29; Maunsell and Evanson on Diseases of Children, 4th Ed. Dublin, 1842, p. 219; and Maxwell12 HYSTERIA AND HYPOCHONDRIASIS. the seat of pleurisy ; sometimes pain and tenderness of the abdomen. Now although the patient may describe the sensations of pleurisy or peritonitis, and A-ery likely may feel them, yet positive pliysical signs are absent, and many, symptoms may be elicited by art which are quite incompatible with the existence of serious organic disease. Thus the patient with hysterically simulated laryngitis, though breathing fast and noisily, if she speak, may speak without hoarseness, and will not dis- play in the face the signs of approaching asphyxia. A patient with hysterical pleurisy will expand the ribs freely; and in hysterical peri- tonitis, as in other hysterical diseases, the patient flinches from a slight touch, and yet, if her attention be engaged, will bear firm pressure without complaint. In the same manner, any one of the limbs or joints may be affected with pain, tenderness, and spasm, as if one of the joints were diseased ; or there may be pain in the spine, with great sensitiveness of some par- ticular vertebra, tympanites of the belly, and difficulty of making water, or irritation along the nerves corresponding to the vertebra affected ; a condition known as spinal irritation. As we are not writing a treatise on Hysteria, but merely giving some hints on the possible diliiculty of diagnosis arising from its presence, we will only remark, in addition to the exaggeration of the sensational symptoms, and the absence of physical signs, that the practitioner should notice the hysterical ])hysiognomy, and consider whether the duration of the symptoms accords with that of known diseases. There are two mental conditions generally found in hysteria, although they are not peculiar to it, but belong rather to invalidism in general. One is a tendency to imitation, in which the patient believes that he or she is afflicted with any disease whatever which may strike his imagina- tion, or which he chances to hear of, or which is the subject of general conversation. The other is a diseased egotism, which makes the patient delight in being ill, so as it secures the undivided attention and sym- pathy of those about her. This is at the bottom of those marvellous and otherwise unaccountable tricks which hysteric patients resort to in feigning disease. Treatment.—Our limits do not allow us to do more than glance at this part of a very large subject; but we may observe—■ 1st. That there are no drugs which are specifics for hysteria, but that every case must be treated on its own merits. The state of the digestive organs, of the colon, of the urine, and uterine function ; of the blood, whether impoverished or not; and of the mind, must all be re- garded. Aperients, good diet, and, above all, change of residence, and warm aromatic medicines, especially valerian, are the measures most likely to do good. 2ndly. That all heroic measures, leeches, blisters, issues, setons, examinations with the speculum, and other things justifiable in cases of true organic disease, do infinite harm in hysteria. 3rdly. That warm soothing liniments, as F. 148, &c., are the best local applications.HYSTERIA AND HYPOCHONDRIASIS. 13 We will conclude witli three rules, which we entreat the young prac- titioner to observe, assuring him, from ample experience, that they will save him much trouble. 1st. Be sure that you do not treat hysterical sensations as organic disease. If you do, you lead the patient into endless debility and trouble ; especially if it is the womb which is believed to be diseased. 2ndly. Never treat an organic disease as if merely hysteric. If so, you may lose your character and the patient's life or limb. 3rdly. Remember, that organic disease may exist, and hysteria too; and that the presence of hysteria is no proof that the whole case is hys- teric. Therefore, in any case of local pain, long continued, if the health and flesh fail, suspect that there may be some organic cause, though the bulk of the symptoms be hysteric. To order sea-bathing and horse- exercise for an hysterical girl with pain in the back, and to discover vetebral caries afterwards, is not good. Here is a practical rule. If a patient gets fat or keeps so, the diagnosis of hysteria is probably right: if she lose flesh, the search for organic disease should be renewed.* IV. Hypochondriasis is alow, desponding state of mind, generally accompanied by a vitiated state of blood and imperfect excretion, or by some cause of exhaustion. The patient is apt to imagine himself the prey of a variety of diseases. By way of example we may refer to Syphilophobia. A patient consults the surgeon, assuring him that he is labouring under a severe and confirmed secondary syphilis. On being questioned, it may be found that there is no satisfactory evidence that he has had primary syphilis; and he will point to a small pimple as his secondary symptoms. He ascribes every sensation, however innocent, to the working of the poison in his veins, and cannot be convinced to the con- trary. The three rules we have laid down regarding hysteria are here of immense utility. A patient may be fanciful, yet his maladies may not be all fanciful, and the surgeon who overlooks this possibility is guilty of carelessness and cruelty. One more rule we must lay down with respect to confirmed hypochondriacs—Never attempt to argue them out of their belief. If the diseased sensations could be argued away, the patient need not have come to you. Treat the case on the principle, that the patient's sensations and mental powers are disordered by sei'ious aberration in the bodily health, or by some mental trouble ; it may be grief, or low living, or exhausting fatigue, or a gouty taint. Do not ridicule or ignore the patient's statement. Many an inexplicable sensa- tion, put down to nervousness, has been the forerunner of oiganic disease. Therefore, examine the local symptoms carefully, and if you find no local disease, treat the general health on common principles. * See T. Holmes, Path. Trans. 1863, xiv. 12 ; case of hysteria with spasms and disordered sensation in legs; death ; post mortem tubercle, found in spinal cord.14 CONVULSIONS. CHAPTER V. CONVULSIONS. In order to complete the view of nervous disorders produced by local injury or disease, it is necessary briefly to allude to convulsions, occur- ring in epileptiform paroxysms. These are familiar in medical practice, when arising from irritation of the gums, of the stomach, of the uterus, &c.; they also occur occasionally from some of the local affections which custom has assigned to the surgeon. In particular, they may arise from spicula of bone growing from the inner surface of the skull ; or from slight injuries to the skull which have left the bone unsound ; and especially from irritation of the urinary organs; retention of urine, renal calculus, and the like. In children, convulsions are apt to be pro- duced by severe injuries or diseases of any kind, at the time when the nervous system is beginning to be exhausted. The symptoms it is not necessary to describe in this place. As to the treatment, the following are the main indications: 1. To search for, and remove, or soothe any external source of irritation. 2. To eva- cuate disordered seci-etions. 3. To lessen accumulation of blood in the central organs of the nervous system, if it exist, as indicated by tirm pulse, and turgid lips, eyes, and countenance. Ice to the head, and mustard to the feet, are almost equivalent to a cupping. 4. In the opposite class of cases, with feeble pulse, pale face, and dilated pupil, to give beef-tea and brandy. 5. In all cases to give sufficient nourishment.( 15 ) PAET II. ELEMENTARY PROCESSES OF DISEASE AND REPAIR. CHAPTER I. MALFORMATION, HYPERTEOPHY, ATROPHY, AND DEGENERATION OF TISSUES. I. Congenital Malformation.—In the present part of our work we propose to give a general view of the various changes of form or of structure which may be met with in any part of the body, from any cause interfering with the regular processes of nutrition and function. Amongst these, the earliest in point of time, are the various original malformations, which occur through defects in the germ out of which the foetus is developed. Of such malformations, some depend on an arrest of development, through which various organs, or parts of organs, are left, as it were, incomplete and unfinished. Such are the cases, which come under the surgeon's notice, of spi7ia bifida, or incomplete closure of the arches of the vertebrae ; such are hare-lip and cleft-palate, which arise from a similar condition of the bones and soft part of the face ;— such, too, are epispadias, and hypospadias, or incomplete closure of the receptacle and ducts provided for the urine. From a like want of deve- lopment, though the immediate effect is opposite, arise the conditions of imperforate anus, or vagina. Other cases of congenital deformity are caused by local excess of de- velopment ; such as, for instance, supernumerary toes and fingers. Others, again, arise from defects in the original constitution of the ova ; so that one foetus becomes adherent to another; or even becomes in- cluded within the body of another. Of the causes and prevention of congenital deformities, it is not worth while to speak. Of the treatment of such as are capable of relief by surgical means, mention will be made in Part IV., in the chapter devoted to the organ in which each variety may occur. II. Intra-uterine Disease.—Children are sometimes born with deformities which ought to be distinguished from those mentioned in the preceding paragraph, insomuch as they do not result from any defect in the germinal power of development, but from diseases occur-16 HYPERTROPHY. ring to the foetus, which produce within the womb the same effects that they would produce at any other period of life. Such ai-e the con- genital club-foot, and dislocation of the hip; and those very curious instances of spontaneous amputation, so called, in which one of the limbs of the foetus becomes tightly entangled in a loop of the navel-string, or in an accidental band of lymph, and is strangulated and cut off in consequence.* III. Hypertrophy.—This term signifies not merely an increase of bulk, or swelling of an organ, but an increase in size, depending on an increase in its healthy structure. Genuine hypertrophy, too, is usually attended with increased development; that is, with the unfolding of a higher order of structure, so that the liypei trophied organ acquires new and greater powers. It is often a healthy and conservative process, whereby the hypertrophied organ is enabled to do more than its or- dinary share of duty, and to compensate for some deficiency in some other part of the economy. " The causes are," as Mr. Paget observes, *' chiefly these three. 1. The increased exercise of a part in its natural functions ; 2. An in- creased supply of healthy blood; 3. An increased accumulation in the blood of the particular materials which any part appropriates in its nutrition, or in secretion."' (1.) Instances of hypertrophy from the first cause specified are aflbrded by tlie bladder, which, in cases of obstruction to the passage of urine, becomes greatly more capacious, with its mucous and muscular coats developed into a state of greater power, fitting them for the in- creased pressure they are obliged to bear and to exert;—by the cuticle, thickened by pressui-e and friction; and by the bursge developed, under like conditions, in the areolar tissue. (2.) Instances of hypei trophy from increased supply of healthy blood are aflbrded by the growths of hair which sometimes take place in the skin in the neighbourhood of ulcers; and by the elongation of one of the bones of a limb of a growing child, which sometimes occurs when a vascular ulcer of the skin, or disease of an adjoining portion of bone, has for a considerable time caused an unusually copious current of blood to circulate in the vicinity. (3.) Hypertrophy caused by a particular condition of the blood is exemplified in the increase of one kidney, which occurs when the other is incompetent, through disease or injury, to abstract its share of urinary matter from the blood. The ossifications which take place in the legs of certain breeds of horses are owing probably to the same cause, so perhaps is goitre ; the obesity of great eaters certainly is, (4.) Lastly, hypertrophy may arise from some disturbance of the forces of growth or development, whereby a portion of a bone, or of the fatty tissue, will grow disproportionately to the rest of the body. What the nature of the force is which presides over growth in * See case by the Author, Obstetrical Trans., vol. ii. p. 135, of obliteration of portions of the small intestine by bands of lymph, from peritoneal inflammation iu the foetal state.17 ATKOPHY—DEGENERATION. general, and gives it its limits, and insures harmony and proportion amongst the vaiious growing parts, is unknown. If we appeal to the organic nerves which regulate the diameter of the capillaries and the distribution of blood, we then require to ask what influences the nerves—what makes the mamma?, for example, grow at puberty and during pregnancy, and not at other times. One thing is certain, that hypertrophy, per se, is no sign of general excess of force, but may be of the contrary; for example, the large hands and feet and joints of ill- nourished childi'en, and the big brain and thyroid gland of the rickety and antemic. The treatment of hypertrophy must consist in removing the causes, if possible. IV. Atrophy is the reverse of hypertrophy ; it is the wasting of an organ in size. V. Degeneration.—This may be defined to be the loss of the proper structural characteristics of an organ; or the substitution of a lower for a higher form of tissue; so that degeneration differs from pure atrophy, although some amount of it is usually superadded. The chief forms of degeneration are—1st, The obese, in which there is a development of fatty tissue, occupying the place of muscle, or some other higher tissue. This is often seen in the heart. 2ndly. The fibrous, in which fibrous tissue, often imperfect or fibroid, is substituted. There is also a kind of degeneration called the waxy or lardaoeous, and another closely alh'ed, called the amyloid, in which an obscurely fibroid, or almost amorphous substance, resembling starch in some of its reactions with iodine, is infiltrated into or substituted for certain tissues, especially the liver and spleen. 3rdly. The fatty, or oily, which does not consist in development of fatty tissue ; but in decay or molecular death of the proper substance of an organ, and its conversion into a mass of granules, mixed with oil globules and crystals of cholesterine. 4thly. The earthy, or calcareous, common in the placenta; in which after decay and solution of a tissue, or more probably of some exudation which has infiltrated it, there remains a crystalline mass of carbonate and phosphate of lime, with traces of magnesia. This, although commonly called ossification, is not so really, as the earthy matter is amoi'phous or crystalline, and not disposed in the form of bone tissue. Yet there are instances in which true bone is developed in fibrinous exudations, as in the ear and eye. So the ossification of cartilage is a senile degeneration.* 5thly. The pigmentary, in which there is an accumulation of black matter. The fatty degeneration is liable to affect the muscles, and particularly the heart; it may occur in the cornea of the aged, the lungs of the em- physematous, the kidneys of those who die of Bright's disease, and in every variety of cell growth and tumour. It has no connexion with general obesity. * See Toynbee, Ossification of Ear, Path. Trans. 1860, vol. xi., p. 224; Obre', True Bone in Eye, ib. p. 225 ; also Ernest Hart, ib. vol. xiii. p. 212. D CHYPERiEMIA. 18 The causes of atrophy and degeneration ai-e—1st. Disuse, or want of exercise, which is sure to cause any organ to w^aste. 2ndly. Diminished supply of blood may in some cases cause atrophy, as in others it causes ulceration or gangrene ; but an organ whose vitality is active is almost sure to attract blood enough to itself, if there is no utter physical obstacle to the current. 3rdly. Deficiency in the blood of the materials necessary for healthy growth and nutrition of an organ is a third cause. This may be ex- emplified by tlie atrophy of bone and muscle when there is an insuffi- cient supply of food, or when the materials necessary for them are wasted by undue secretion. 4thly. Deficient vitality ; deficiency of that power by which every organ is enabled to maintain its growth, and to abstract from the blood the materials for its nutrition. This again may be caused by exhaus- tion ; by excessive fatigue ; by over use or abuse of a part; by disease, which has spoiled its tissue; and by injuries to the nervous centres or trunks supplying it. The treatment will be exemplified under the heads of atrophy of muscle and of bone. VI. Senile Decay.—As man is born for a limited term of life, so each separate part of his organism, when it has attained perfection and answered its appointed purposes, begins to show symptoms of decay;— thus giving us warning that death must occur sooner or later from mere inability of the organs any longer to carry on the processes of life, even if it be not hastened by violence or disease. Some of the changes which t;ike place in consequence of age, in the eye, the teeth, the pros- tate gland, and the bones, are subjects of surgical study, and will be detailed in the fourth part of this work. It must be added that when we speak of senile decay, we speak of a thing " not to be measuied by number of years," for some men at fifty aie in all respects older and worse in constitution than others who are thirty years their seniors. It must be added, likewise, that some instances of wearing out may occur at quite an early age, as, for ex- ample, the decay of the hair and teeth ; and that peculiar change in the veins which is known as varix, when they become distended and knotty from inability to support the column of blood contained in them.* CHAPTER II. HYPEREMIA. Hyperemia.—Although preternatural accumulation of blood plays a most important part in that series of phenomena known by the term inflammation, yet it does not by itself constitute inflammation; and we have devoted this short chapter to the subject per se, in order that * For fuller information on the subjects of this chapter, consult Mr. Paget's Lectures, and Andral's Pathological Anatomy, trans, by West and Townsend.HYPER.EMIA. 19 the student may be aware that a something above and beyond this is necessary to constitute inflammation, as will be shown hereafter. Local hyperjjemia may be of two kinds—1. Active or arterial ; 2. Passive or venous. To the first the name determination of blood, or active congestion ; to the second the name passive congestion is com- monly given. 1. Active determination of blood is a process wherein more blood is attracted to some particular organ, and circulated through it more rapidly than usual. It is necessary to many natural and beneficial actions: as the enlargement of the womb in pregnancy, and of the breasts after delivery. It is equally necessary to many morbid actions ; it forms one of the first and most palpable effects of inflammation; it is the cause of redness and throbbing ; it is witnessed in blushing ; in the condition of the blood-vessels of the intestines in malignant cholera ; in headaches from excitement; and in the afflux of blood to the uterus, from ovarian excitement. The usual consequence of active hypersemia in excess is haemorrhage ; as in sanguineous apoplexy, epistaxis, and hsemoptysis. 2. Passive congestion signifies a stagnation of blood in a part, espe- cially in its veins. It may be a consequence of mechanical obstacle to the return of blood; or of atony and want of vital contractility in the capillaries, especially if they have been previously subject to great disten- sion or excitement. It is evidenced by a sense of weight and aching pain, and is very liable to lead to serous efl'usion, or passive htemorrhage, and to ulceration or gangrene. There are two causes of peculiar force in producing local accumula- tions of blood. One is the condition of the nervous system, the other the composition of the blood. For exanaple, mental emotion will direct torrents of blood to the lachrymal glands in weeping, to the salivary glands in hunger, to the breasts, uterus, and other sexual organs. Some women flood if their tempers are disturbed. The fixing the attention strongly on any organ may suffice to derange its circulation. The admi- nistration of opium warms the feet and produces a genial circulation in the skin. It appears by the experience of Brown Sequard, and Claude Bernard,* corroborated by those of Dr. Chapman, that whatever para- lyses the sympathetic nerves, produces dilatation of the blood-vessels to which those nerves are distributed. Section of the sympathetic in the rabbit's neck, causes the arteries of the ear and side of the face to enlai'ge. The other cause is impurity of blood. Let the blood be impure from any cause whatever, from the presence of bile, urea, orlithic acid, or let it be deficient in its proper constituents, or let it be contaminated by poison, and local congestions are sure to occur. Every poison seems to have its own seat of election. The headaches that accompany biliary disorder, and the serous effusions which follow Bright's disease, the stomach irritation from arsenic and the paralysis from lead, are ex- amples. * See Claude Bernard's Lectures in the Medical Times and Gazette for 1860 and 1861.20 CHAPTER III. NERVOUS PAIN. As all hyper£cmia is not inflammation, so neither is all pain. Pain may arise from muscular spasms or cramp, or from some diseased condi- tion of the nerves, or of the nervous centres, without the existence of the least inflammation. Such pain, nervous pain, as it is commonly called, may often be known by its capriciousness; by its coming and going without apparent cause, or with no other cause than the patient's mind being directed to it. It is often intermitting. It is often re- lieved by measures that would aggravate inflammation, such as sti- mulants, pressure, and friction; and almost infallibly aggravated by leeches, blisters, and other remedies that would relieve inflammation if it existed. It is often intense in proportion to the anaemic and debili- tated condition of the patient. It is often intense out of all proportion to heat, swelling, and redness, even if they are present at all. In its character it is often violently plunging or shooting, and is compared by the patient to the running through of a red-hot wire, or the passage of an electric shock. It may last for weeks or months without being fol- lowed by any of the changes of structure which are commonly called inflammatory. Lastly, it may be felt in parts quite remote from any morbid action, or may be refierred to parts of the body destitute of sen- sation (thus after fracture of the spine severe pain has been felt in the legs, though quite insensible to the touch), or may be referred to parts that have no existence, of which the pain felt in limbs long since ampu- tated may be an example. The treatment of this condition will be found in Part IV., under the head of Neuralgia. CHAPTER IV. EXUDATION, CELL GROWTH, AND GENESIS OF DISEASE. There are few surgical diseases in which the part affected does not suffer enlargement or tumour. Some kinds of tumour are caused by mechanical conditions, as the enlargement of arteries io aneurism, that of veins in varix, that of hernia, or protrusion of the bowels, &c. Some other tumours may be caused by the intrusion of air, as in em- physema, or of blood, as in ecchymosis, or of serum which has oozed from distended veins, as in cedema. But there are other swellings, which seem to depend, not on mere misplacements or mechanical con- ditions, such as the foregoing, but on increase of the structural ele- ment of the part affected, or iipon the presence within it of structural elements in various states of development which often seem to be intruded into it. Of this kind of tumour are 1st, The hypertrophies,21 EXUDATION AND CELL GROWTH. which consist in an increase of a natural tissue or structure; 2ndly, The changes which follow injury, and lead to repair; 3rdly, Those called inflammatory; 4thly, Those called tubercular; 5thly, Those leading to tlie establishment of various tumours more or less resembling the areolar tissue, the glandular, the epithelial, and some of the embryonic forms of these tissues. Now in all these cases, except hypertrophy, if the part affected be examined at certain stages, it will seem to be infiltrated with a material which is undergoing development. In the case of repair, the material is converted into areolar or tendinous tissue, bone, &c. In the case of inflammation, it constitutes the well-known inflammatory effusions and adhesions, and often undergoes conversion into pus. In the case of tubercle, the new material soon undergoes fatty and calcareous degene- ration, and withers into a cheesy mass. In the case of tumours, it undergoes development into a great variety of forms which are enu- merated in their place. 1. Till of late, it was taken for granted that the new matter was strictly an " effusion," or " exudation " of coagulable lymph or plastic matter from the blood ; that the new material, for example, which unites the ends of a divided tendon or broken bone, or which fills up the hollow of an ulcer, was given out from the blood-vessels, and that the cell growths found in it were developed in it. It was held that self-generated molecules in the lymph aggregated themselves into nuclei, nuclei formed cells, and cells grew and developed themselves into tissue. All this was supposed to be accomplished in, and by the forces inherent in, that spontaneously coagulating part of the liquor sanguinis com- monly called fibrine, fibrino-plastic matter, plasma, blastema, &c. 2. On the other hand, a more modern school contends, that, although the blood certainly furnishes the passive substance out of which the increased bulk of the part is formed, yet that the working element, that which is the real agent, that which undergoes development, is not anything in the liquor sanguinis, but the living molecules of the affected tissue itself—that the nuclei and cells found in plastic ma- terial—say in granulations—are not developed in an exudation sim- pliciter, but are the fruits of the growth, multiplication, and proliferation of the pre-existing cells of the part in which they are found. " The connective tissue "says a most able expositor of this doctrine,* " is most extensively distributed through the body, so that an ever-present cell and nucleus containing texture is by it provided. Not only does it, in its various modifications, constitute many special structures, as tendons, ligaments, fasciae, the cornea, vitreous body, Whartonian jelly of the umbilical cord, &c., but it enters into the formation of the skin mucous serous and synovial membranes, of muscles blood and lymph vessels, of nerve centres, and of nerves. It is found also in the glands * Turner, W., M. B. Lond. The Present Aspect of the Doctrine of Cellular Pathology, Edinburgh, 1863. See Virchow's Cellular Pathology as based upon Physiological and Pathological Histology. Twenty Lectures, &c.. by Rudolph Virchow, translated by Frank Chance, M.B., Cantab. London, 1860.22 EXUDATION AND CELL GROWTH. in considerable quantity, and serves as a sort of fiamework, in which the vessels and tubes and follicles, with their epithelial contents, are imbedded." According to this school, the cell-structures which cha- racterize the so-called inflammatory exudations, the eil'usions in repair and in tumours, arise from the nuclei of the connective tissue and of other tissues, as tendon, cartilage, muscle, &c. 3. If the first set of doctrines may be called the " coagulable lymph pathology,"* and the second, the " cellular pathology," there is yet a third which may be called " germinal pathology." f This regai ds the mass of the animal body as composed of two sorts of substances—one the active living growing formative, or germinal material—the other, the formed matter, which has been elaborated by the vital agency of the first, and lasts a given time, forming the bulk of structures, and in the end decays, and is absorbed. The pulp of teeth, or rather the matter which fills the dentinal tubes, the nuclear matter in the lamina; of bone, and nuclei generally, ai-e examples of the germinal material ; the earthy matter of tooth and bone, the intercellular, or internuclear portions, are examples of the portions which are formed and have no inherent vital force. The germinal matter exists in masses corre- sponding usually with nuclei, but the existence of actual nuclei, or of cell forms, is not essential. Germinal matter can only be produced by geiTninal matter, and may exist in the blood and elsewhoe in a state of division so minute as to be invisible by the highest glasses; it is the living, moving, formative element, distinguished after death by the ease with wliich it takes coloration by carmine; it attracts material from the blood, and converts it into tissue. If, as the last doctrine assumes, " germinal material," living matter, may exist in the blood in a state of sub-division so minute as to be invisible to the highest microscopes, and to be able to transude the capillaries without rupture, there is little difference between the "lymph pathology" and the "germinal pathology" in accounting for the origin and nature of many diseases. For examjjle, we may speak a. Of local diseases—changes which originate in the minute living structures of some part, and are confined thereto, e.g. many tumours throughout their course; possibly some cancers in an early stage ; simple, slight injuries, and the operations for their repair. 6. Local disease with constitutional disturbance ;—extreme pain, produces great exhaustion, shivering, disturbance of the nervous system, and destruction of some part of the blood; moreover, fluids which have undergone change, and germinal or cell matter developed in a diseased part, may be received into the blood, and produce sym- pathetic fever. c. Disease occasioned by distant nervous disturbance; as, for example, * The doctrines of John Hunter, and the English school down to Paget; and of the Vienna and Edinburgh schools, Eokitansky, Hughes Bennett, Lebert. t Dr. Lionel S. Beale. See an abstract of his Lectures delivered at the Royal College of Physicians in 1861, Medical Times and Gazette, 1861, vol. 1. Also Beale's Archives, British Medical Journal, &c., passim.23 GENERAL DOCTRINE OF REPAIR. local hypersemia, or local deprivation of blood, occasioned by agents operating on the vaso-motor system of nerves. d. Disease occasioned by blood disorder, (a) Blood disorder arising from common causes, cold, unwholesome food, &c., or disorder producing some peculiar morbid poison, as the gouty or rheumatic; which poisons are attracted to, and deposited in, particular tissues or organs, and there vex the living tissues and excite them to abnormal action. (jS) Blood disorder arising from the presence of diseased germinal matter which has been absorbed from one part of the body, and may be exuded into another. Thus an unhealthy inflammation or a cancer may furnish germs which contaminate the blood, and constitute the material cause of secondary inflammation, deposits, or exudations. (7) Si- milarly, diseased germinal matter, introduced from without, whether through the air passages or through a wound, may develop itself in the blood, and may constitute material for exudation; as in small-pox, and other zymotic diseases. CHAPTER V. GENERAL DOCTRINE OF REPAIR. Repair not inflammation.—Since the animal body is liable to accidents, and the purposes of life could not be realised if every injury produced death or permanent disability, it is evident that a provision for repair, within certain limits, is as essential as that for daily nutri- tion. Within our own times, indeed, it has been customary to assume that all repair was an effect of inflammation. But a more precise pa- thology requires us to separate repair, a process beneficial, gentle, and painless, from inflammation, a process injurious, violent, and pain- ful. True it is, that both repair and inflammation have the one feature, exudation, or rather cell-growth and consequent infiltration, in common ; and that some cases of j epair are more or less complicated by inflammation ; and that in some others, as, for example, the case of hydrocele, or of a sinus, or of a non-united fracture, that an active inflammatory disturbance is set up, and that repair is effected by the cell-growth or exudations so induced. Yet it may be said of all repair that it is perfectly and rapidly executed in proportion as every symp- tom which can fairly be called inflammatory is absent.* What amount of repair is possible ?—This is a question, like many others, of which a broad view cannot be obtained by attention to human anatomy and pathology alone. In some of the lowest animals, as * On the subject of this chapter, the student should thoroughly master the chapters on Repair and Adhesion, iu Hunter on the Blood; Travers on Inflammation, a work iu which the venerable author treats of inflammation almost as the one disease, and as the agent of all repair; Macartney on Inflam- mation, which has laid the foundation for the modern reform of opinion; and the masterly summary of the whole subject in Paget's Lectures, 2nd edit, by Turner.GENERAL DOCTRINE OF REPAIR. 24 the polyp, repair seems to be almost unlimited, any portion of a severed animal being able to reproduce all the rest: whole limbs, too, are repro- duced in the lobster and the lizard. But in the higher animals it is only the commonest structures that can be restored : for example, to quote from Mr. Paget:— " 1. Those which are formed entirely by nutritive repetition, such as the blood and the epithelia. " 2. Those which are of lowest organization and of lowest chemical character; as the gelatinous tissues, the cellular and tendinous, and, the bones. "3. Those which are inserted in other tissues, not as essential to their structure, but as accessories, as connecting or incorporating them with the other structures of vegetative or animal life ; as nerve fibres, and blood-vessels. With these exceptions, injuries or losses in the human body are capable of no more than repair in its most linoited sense—i. e. in the place of what is lost some lowly-organized tissue is formed, which fills up the breach and suffices for the maintenance of a less perfect life." J^eeing, then, that the tissues capable of being reproduced, are the connective or areolar tissue, including tendon and ligament, bone and cartilage, blood-vessel and nerves, and epithelium, but not more com- plex structures, such as muscle, we may next observe that The most modern theory of the process is, that the germinal or living or nuclear elements in the injured tissue,—say bone or tendon—rapidly increase by imbibition of liquor sanguinis attracted from the blood, and by fissure and growth form a pale, fibrinous-looking mass; which, ex- amined under the microscope, seems to be studded with nuclei at regular intervals, and undergoes conversion into fibrous tissue, cartilage, or bone. On the theory that the i-eparative material is an exudation of lymph in which nuclei form bj inherent creative force, this ma- terial was called by Paget, nucleated blastema. This is the most perfect form of repair, and usually found in subcutaneous wounds. In other cases the reparative material will be found to consist of large nucleated cells; which subsequently enlarge, elongate, split into the shapes known as caudate, fusiform, &c. Such cells imbibe water, under the microscope, which shows them to be separable into cell wall and cell contents, and the addition of acetic acid renders every part * This cut represents, on the right of the page, fibro-plastic cells, of various sizes and degrees of development; on the left, cells which are developing into fibres; those at either end, marked X a, have been treated with acetic acid. Traced with the camera from actual specimens from granulations, healing wounds, and fibro plastic tumours, magnihed 200 diameters. The scale of '001 nch will give an idea of the real magnitudes.GENERAL DOCTRINE OF REPAIR. 25 transparent and almost invisible, except the nucleus. At first their dimension is about ^ggo ^^'^ inch. They are imbeded in more or less of a quasi fibrinous exudation, pellucid, or fibrillary. These cells wiJl often be spoken of in the following pages as fibro- plastic cells. They are formed in abundance, in all the less perfect examples of repair. They are found as some of the commonest results of inflammation. They constitute granulations. They also constitute the basis of many tumours and morbid growth as the fibroplastic. They are liable to degenerate into pus. And when diseased or perverted they may be supposed to constitute the material of cancerous tumours. But be it observed that although these cells are evolved under cer- tain conditions out of the exudation which takes place during inflam- mation, yet that the absence of inflammation is essentially necessary before they can assume their full degree of development into tissue. Blood organisable, yet not the ordinary material of repair.—In a less perfect state of knowledge it was supposed that the blood was the common medium of reparation. We now know that this is not the case; that effused blood is a hindrance rather than a help; that the clot which is effused from an injury is absorbed before the work of repair is perfect; and that if clots of blood be present in large quan- tity they are apt to decompose, and to cause suppuration. Yet it is quite true that thin clots of blood, under certain circumstances, are capable of undergoing a change into a fibrillated material similar to the nucleated blastema, and of receiving blood-vessels. Mr. Prescott Hewett showed, some time ago, that thin layers of blood effused into the cavity of the arachnoid nfiay become vascular: it was also proved by Hunter, Macartney, Kiernan, and Dalrymple, that clots are capable of receiving blood-vessels.* Mere fibrinous deposits seem to form almost structureless membrane, inert and not vascular. Formation of new vessels.—Twenty years ago, nothing was sup- posed to be organised which had not blood-vessels: and to become vas- cular, and organised, were used as convertible terms. Now, however, we know, as, in fact, what was known but not reflected on before, that blood-vesse's play a subordinate part; and that organisation proceeds to a certain point before they appear on the stage : yet that they are necessary at a certain epoch, in order that the material for fresh growth may be brought within reach. The readiest way for the student to watch the formation of new vessels, will be to examine the lympii found on the edge of a placenta. There he may see the results of the process described by Paget, the budding out of branches from the nearest capillaries, which branches enter the developing lymph, and inosculate with each other, so as to form loops: from which, again, fresh loops are directly given off in like manner. * Vide Palmer's ed. of Hunter, vol. iii.; Catalogue of the Hunterian Museum, vol. i.; Carswell, op. cit.; Macartney, op. cit. p. 51; Home, Phil. Trans. 1818 ; Wardrop on Aneurism, in the Cyclop. Pract. Surgery; Dalrymple, Med. Chir. Trans, vol. ix.; P. Hewett, ihid., vol. x.; see also Lancet for 1845, vol. i.p, 219; Paget's Lectures, vol. i.26 INFLAMMATION. The time within which repair is effected varies as greatly as the nature of injuries and of constitutions. But vascularity, or pro- pulsion of new blood-vessels into a new fibrinous exudation, may occur certainly in less than forty-eight hours, whilst in the progress of granulation, the growth of one day appears to become vascular by the next. Conditions favourable for repair, and the reverse.—1. In the first place, ca;teris paribus, the younger the system, the moi-e capable is it of repair. 2ndly. The state of the blood may be so poor as not to yield the necessary material; or it may be so overloaded with ill-assi- milated material, or so poisoned, that the new textures are ill capable of development, and run into degeneration. 3. Local conditions may be such as to afibi-d mechanical or chemical complications. The repa- rative material if disturbed may perish, or if exposed to air or to poisonous influences, may undergo degeneration into pus, or into sanies which may infect the whole blood. In general terms, what- ever favours inflammation is hostile to repair, and the converse. Injuries with wound of skin, and without.—If we divide cases into two great categories—those attended with wound of skin, and those without, we find that the former are infinitely the more dangerous and difficult of repair: as evidenced by compound fracture and dislocation, and by wounds of the great visceral cavities, compared with the severest bruises and simple fractures. The reason of the difference is the fact, that reparative material exposed to the air and contact of the outer world is more liable to perish, and, having perished, to run into unwholesome changes, which may spread over the whole surface injured or exposed. It is a principle derived from this fact, that wounds of the skin are to be avoided when possible, and, when unavoidable, are to be as limited as possible: and that the subcutaneous method origi- nally used for the division of tendons should be extended to every case admitthig of it.* CHAPTER VI. INFLAMMATION. SKCTION I.—INTRODUCTORY. Definition.—A perfect definition of inflammation is at present impossible, forasmuch as we are ignorant of many of its conditions, and are not even agreed upon the processes which shall be included under the term. Perhaps we may say that it is " a diseased process, in- cluding hypersemia, stagnation of blood, and exudation with disturb- ance of the minute structural or cell elements of the part affected." Symptoms.—The classical symptoms are four—pain, heat, redness, * Sketch of Subcutaneous Surgery, by W. Adams, F.R.C.S. 'Lend. 1857. Refer to Tenotomy, False Cartilage, Eursae, and Hernia.INFLAMMATIOX. 27 and swelling; to which ought to be added, impaired function of the part inflamed. Besides, there is feverishness with every true acute inflammation. SECTION II.—ANALYSIS OF LOCAL SYMPTOMS. 1. Pain or dis-en.se is sure to ensue when anything in the animal economy goes wrong, and the varieties it presents in inflammaUon require careful study. Thus (a) it may vary with the local cause which has produced it: thus patients talk of cutting, burning, stabbing pains. Every idiopathic inflammation also has its own kind of pain. Boil or carbuncle causes a ditfei-ent pain from that of phlegmon. 6. Then the pain will vary with the part inflamed; for each part has a set of sensations peculiar to itself; the bones and ligaments ache; the skin smarts or burns; an inflamed pleura, when stretched, feels as it' torn or stabbed ; the inflamed ear hears unnatural sounds. c. Inflammatory pain is aggravated by preternatural irritability, or receptivity of impressions; thus tenderness is created:—unusual reflex actions also are excited by impressions conveyed to the spine, and spasms are excited, which are so painful a feature in conjunctivitis, croup, and dysentery. d. The intensity of the hyperasmia causes the throbbing of the ves- sels to be painfully felt; particularly in inflammations of dense, un- yielding parts, or of parts confined by fascia. e. Distension by exudation causes intense pain in the like cases. /. Pain may be felt at a distance, along the course of nei-ves irritated. Thus the testicles ache in irritation of the bladder. Similarly, pain mav be felt along the course of lymphatic vessels and glands if they are impregnated by the inflammatory exudation. g. Lastly, pain may be absent in slight cases. Moreover, it must be remembered that pain is a subjective symptom, and exists in the consciousness of the patient; and though the conditions for it exist, it may not be felt if the nerves are severed, or the brain stupefied by disease, alcohol, or narcotics. 2. The heat of inflammation is partly a sensation, and chiefly felt iu inflammations of surfaces. Hunter believed that as an inflamed part receives more blood, so it is hotter than other parts; but yet not hotter than the mass of the blood. Thus supposing that the heat of the entire mass of blood be raised, the inflamed Y>^vt, if external, really be hotter than neighbouring parts, but not than the mass of the blood. On the other hand, Simon* has shown, by a delicate set of ex- periments, that the heat of venous blood proceeding from an inflamed part is greater than the heat of the arterial blood going to it: there- fore that there is a source of heat in the part itself. This is probable, d priori, from the active processes carried on in it. 3. The redness is a consequence of the hyperemia, and its appear- ance depends, in some degree, on the natural arrangement of the ves- * Holmes' Surgery, voL i.INFLAMMATION. 28 sels of the part; thus, inflammation of the conjunctiva differs in appearance from that of the sclerotic. But it is still more influenced by the cause of the inflammation: thus the vivid blush of phlegmon, gradually fading into the natural hue, differs materially from the abrupt red, dusky patch of erysipelas. Moreover, the colour is often modified by the blood or haematine exuded into the inflamed part, as in boil and erythema nodosum; or by a peculiar condition of surface, as in syphilitica lepi'a: so that almost every inflammation has its own colour; and one—the phlegmasia alba dolens—is remarkable for having no colour at all. 4. The swelling is caused first by the hyperaemia, then by cell growth and matters exuded into the inflamed tissue. It may be hard and brawny as in carbuncle, or soft, so as to allow the pressure of the finger to make a pit. 5. That inflammation must impair function is obvious. Motion is difficult or impossible; sensations exaggerated; secretion diminished, and secreted liquids mixed with blood or serum, or fibrinous flakes. SECTION III.—ANALYSIS OF CONSTITUTIONAL SYMPTOMS—TRAU- MATIC, OR SYMPTOMATIC FEVER, OR FEVERISHNESS. The word fever is now so wedded (although very improperly) to certain species, as typhoid and typhus, that perhaps it is better to use the word pyrexia, or feverishncs>i, to express the sum of the consti- tutional symptoms attending acute inflammation. The relation of the constitutional symptoms to the local may be one of these three: 1. The constitutional symptoms may precede and cause the local: as in common idiopathic inflammations, erysipelas, pleurisy, pneu- monia, &c. 2. The constitutional symptoms may follow and be caused by the local; when the blood circulating through an injured part becomes contaminated by decaying animal matter, or by the in itation of the nerves ; as in the case of acute inflammation following an ill-closed and irritating wound. 3. The constitutional having been caused by the local malady, may again be the cause of other local diseases elsewhere—as in pyaemia, and secondary suppurations. Feverishness consists, as may be proved by experiment and by reason, (1.) in a change of the blood; (2.) in a series of operations for puri- fying the blood so changed ;—by increased oxygenation—by increased seci-etion—and by exudation—or by all three. SyMPTOMS.—1. The first in order of time is shivering •—trembling of the muscles, sensation of cold, and, in severe cases, blueness, and shrinking of the features, and the other signs of abstraction of heat from the body. Its real nature is unknown : but the student will do well to regard shivering as a most important symptom at any stage of any disease, inasmuch as, to use Hunter's words, it surely indicates29 INFLAMMATION. " some new action set up in the blood." Vomiting is sometimes com- bined with it. Shivering is, as aforesaid, sometimes associated with actual intense coldness ; sometimes, though the patient feel chilly to himself, his skin may be hot and burning. It seems to indicate a de- composition of the blood, or an admixture with it of foreign matter. 2. The pulse is raised to 100, 120, or more. In some cases it is hard and wiry ; in others soft and jerking. 3. The respiration is also increased—to 25 or 30 in adults : in children to twice that number. 4. The heat is raised to 102—104 degrees; in some cases probably higher. 5. All the watery secretions—of skin, mouth, and urine—are sup- pressed. Food is loathed, but acids and water craved for. 6. Headache, wandering at night, and lassitude, testify to disorder of the nervous system. 7. The urine shows remarkable changes. Before an idiopathic inflam- mation it is often pale ;—during the height it is usually scanty and high-coloured;—at the close, it is copious, and turbid with sediments of lithates. There are some exceptions to this, inasmuch as the increased excretion of lithate may begin before the disease, and cease earlier. During the height of acute inflammation, it is often albuminous—it contains serum from congestion of the kidneys, and tubular casts. Speaking generally, the uric acid, extractive matters, and specific gra- vity of urine are greatly increased during acute inflammation. The sulphates are at or above the usual average: the chlorides greatly diminished. The diminution of the chlorides in the urine, which had long been known on the Continent, was made known in England, and the amount of facts greatly increased, by the researches of Dr. Lionel Beale, who has shown that every process of rapid development by cell growth in health or disease requires the presence of large amounts of chloride: (the ash of a fcetal thigh-bone, for example, contains much more per cent, than that of an adult); and that when any diseased process of ex- udation and cell growth is set up, the salt is withdrawn from the blood and urine, and is present in the infiltrated tissue.* 8. That the state of the blood is peculiar during acute inflammation is proved by tlie fact that when drawn its surface is almost immedi- ately covered with a bluish layer, like size : whence inflammatory blood was formerly called sizy. So soon as the blood has coagulated, this layer is visible as a yellowish-white stratum on the surface of the red clot; and as it generally contracts so as to make the upper surface of the clot concave, the technical terms buffed and cupped have been applied to this kind of blood. Various attempts have been made to explain these phenomena. For example: 1. Inflamed blood coagulates slowly; and it has been supposed that this accounts for the buffy coat, inasmuch as it gives * Franckel und Ravoth, Uroscopie, Berlin, 1850 ; Beale, Med. Chir. Trans. 1852; Simon, Animal Chemistry, vol, ii. p. 167.30 INFLAMMATION. tlie red particles time to sink and leave the tipper surftxce of the clot colourless. 2. There is an increased attraction of the red particles for each other, so that they form themselves into a network of rou- leaux, and sink with unusual rapidity: this is the view of Mr. Wharton Jones and Mr. Gulliver. 3. On Dr. Richardson's theory am- monia is the solvent of fibrine in blood, and the slow coagulation may depend on excess of the solvent, or on slow evolution thereof. 4. There is in inflammation an excess of fibrine in the blood ; a state to which the name hypermosis has been given. 5. The white particles of the blood sometimes constitute a great part of the buffy coat. The chemical composition of inflamed blood differs, according to Ancell, Simon, Becquerel, and Rodier, from that of healthy blood, in a diminution of the red particles and an increase of fibrine. Becquerel and Rodrer state that in tlie phlcgmasice the fibrine is increased invari- ably ; that the increase begins with the beginning and hists to the end, and is proportionate to the intensity of the inflammation; that it is present vvlietlier inllammation be the sole disease or be an acci- dental complication ; that blood-letting does not lessen its over-propoi - tion. It must be remarked that the buffy coat is especially found in acute rheumatism, pleurisy, bronchitis, and pneumonia, and that it is found in most inflammations. But it is also found in erysipelas, puer- peral phlebitis, phlegmasia dolens, tubercular phthisis, and in preg- nancy. It is the noinial condition in the horse. The proportion of fibrine may be increased from about 2 "5, the normal proportion, to 5, 7, or 10 grains per 1000. In typhus fiever, typhoid, and the ex- anthemata, an opposite state exists, called hypinosis. Agreeing that the buffy coat is present in inflammation, the next question is, what is the connection? Animal chemistry has endea- voured to supply the answer to this question. It has been supposed that fibrine is a deutoxide or tiitoxide of protein; that it is the pro- duct (as Becquerel and Kodier teach) of oxydation of albumen ; or (according to Simon) of the blood corpuscles. It has been proved that the fibrine and blood corpuscles are generally in the inverse ratio, one of another; and that this is due to the quickened circulation and re- spi)-ation, and increased oxidation and metamorphosis of the cor- puscles.* Vii chow, however, altogether denies the " orthodox" doctrine of hyperinosis. Instead of believing that the change in the blood is pri- maiy and intrinsic, he believes it to " depend upon the local inflam- mation. Certain oi gans and tissues have inherent in them in a higher degree the power of producing fibrine, and of favouring the occurrence of large quantities of fibrine in the blood." There must also be * See W. Hewson's Works, a medical classic that well deserves study; Sydenham Society, ed.; Wharton Jones, Guy's Hosp. Rep. vol. vii. N.S.; Richardson on Coagulation of Blood. Lond. 1858. Simon, op. cit.; Gulliver's Lectures on Blood, &c., Med. Times and Gaz, X863, vol. ii.; an admirable vindication of the English school.31 INFLAMMATION. means of introducing it into the blood. Thus the lungs and pleura, and other organs, largely supplied with lymphatics, introduce a large quantity of fibiine into the blood, when inflamed ; whereas the bi'ain, if inflamed, being poor in lymphatics, produces no hyperinosis. This state is usually attended with increase in the white corpuscles, which are products of the lymphatic glands and spleen. There are," says Vir- chow, " three different conditions bordering one upon the other—hype- rinosis, leucocytosis, and leuchsemia, between which and the lymphatic fluids there exists an intimate connection." Hyperinosis is to be re- ferred to the accidental condition of the organs from which the lymph- atic fluids are derived, whilst those states which depend on an increase in the cellular elements are rather regulated by the condition of the glands through which these fluids have flowed. Leucocytosis is an in- crease in the white cellular elements of the blood, depending on tempo- rary or transient conditions of certain organs: leuchsemia, a permanent increase depending on fixed conditions, usually fatal. Leucocytosis to a certain degree takes place after every meal, from the matters which pass through the mesenteric glands. In pregnancy there is constant leucocytosis and hyperinosis, and enlargement of lumbar glands;— hence the bulfy coat and the multitude of colourless cells in the blood, which have sometimes figured as evidence of puerperal pyaemia. In scrofulous enlargement of the lymphatic glands, the blood becomes loaded with white particles. So far Virchow. SECTION IV.—ANATOMY OF AN INFLAMED PART. An inflamed part has a large quantity of blood intruded into its vessels; and its tissues and their interstices are infiltrated with liquids which have exuded from, or have been attracted from those vessels. It is softer^ than a sound part, for the hardest tissues lose some of their cohesion. It is also redder, although mere redness, |;os^ mortem^ is no proof of inflammation, for it may be produced by congestion or by a straining of tissues with dissolved blood pigment which has oozed out of the vessels in incipient putrefaction. In its minutest analysis inflammation seems to begin with a kind of nutritive irritation,—an increased assumption of nutritive matter by the microscopic elements of the part, and a cloudy ^ appearance, owing partly to the imbibition of unusual ^ . nutriment, partly to the enlargement of the germinal matter contained. The next step consists in fissure, ^^^^ multiplication and division of the nuclear and cell ele- ments. Then comes hypersemia,—of the part if it have \ vessels ;—of the surrounding parts if it have none ; and ^^^^^ exudation, the appearance of liquor sanguinis, i.e. of serum and more or less fibrinous material, in the in- 1^^^^^^ terstices of the part if it have interstices, or else into the "^ #1^^^^^ neighbouring parts. Virchow divides inflammation ' -^il^^^^fl * Portion of muscle involved in inflammatory exudation; fatty degeneration of the muscle; and infiltration with fibro-plastic matter. From ^Tature.INFLAMMATION. 32 into two forms—the parenclymatous, when tlie process runs its course in the interior of a tissue without our being able to detect the pre- sence of any free fluid which has escaped from the blood ; and the exu- dative or secreting, where an increased escape of fluid takes place from the blood. This belongs especially to surfaces—as serous, and especially mucous membranes. ^Meanwhile, the newly-produced elements tend to degenerate into pus, whilst the proper elements of the tissue are starved and choked, and undergo fatty degeneration. In the last generation, peculiar interest was attached to the condition of the blood-vessels, which were believed to be the seat and factors of inflammation. Although we see (or think we see) more deeply, it is as well to l ecord the results of Paget and Wharton Jones's observations. 1. The primary effect of a slight stimulus applied to the blood- vessels, is a slight and temporary contraction, with a retardation of the current thiough them. If the point of a fine needle be drawn across a minute artery and vein three or four times, without injuring them or the membrane covering them, they will both presently gradu- ally contract and close. This contraction is no doubt analogous to the speedy closure of the innumerable small vessels divided in a wound, which are made to contract by the very stimulus of the instrument which has divided them. 2. During this contraction, the blood moves more slowly, or perhaps does not move at all. But when the vessels dilate again, they acquiie a larger size than they originally had, and the blood moves more freely and rapidly through them than it did before. And now the same stimulus that made them contract at fiist has no effect, or a very tran- sient one; a more powerful stimulus, however, may make them again contract and close. On applying a more powerful irritant, such as a drop of tincture of capsicum, the preliminary contraction, if it occur at all, is so transient as to be hardly perceptible, but the phenomena of active congestion or determination of blood become instantly developed. The blood-vessels become rapidly dilated, lengthened, and tortuous ; sometimes even they display varicose or aneurismal excrescences ; they are tensely filled with blood, containing a lai ge excess of red globules, which is circulated with far greater velocity than is natural. 3. But if the injury inflicted be of still greater severity, as a wound with a red-hot needle, then in addition to the preceding state of active congestion, there follows, in the very focus of the morbid changes, a retardation, and, at last, a complete stagnation of the blood in the densely-crowded capillaries. "All round this focus," says Paget, " the vessels are as full, or nearly as full, as they are in it; but the blood moves in them with a quicker stream, or may pulsate in the arteries, and oscillate in the veins; yet farther from this focus the blood moves rapidly through turgid but less full vessels." The dusky colour in the centre of a phlegmon ; the throbbing ; the red blush around ; the gush of blood on cutting into it, are thus fully explained.INFLAMMATION. 33 SECTION V.—PROGRESS AND TERMINATIONS. Inflammation, once established, may destroy life, either by impeding the functions of some organ necessary to life, as the heart, lungs, or brain ; or by quick exhaustion or syncope, as in inflammation of the abdominal organs ; or by slower exhaustion, from suppuration. Or it may end in complete subsidence {resolution, as it is technically called) and recovery, provided that the blood be purified, and that the changes which have been effected in the cell elements of a solid part, are confined to absorption or swelling, and have not gone on to the production of matters which must perish or suppurate; and that local irritation be done away with. Then sleep, appetite, and moisture of the skin return ; the pulse becomes natural and the urine deposits a copious brick-dust or lateritious sediment of lithate. Besides death, and recovery, it is customary to treat of certain palpable eftiscts, or as they used to be called, terminations of in- flammation. These are, 1st, Hxmorrhage, fiom the rupture of over- distended capillaries; 2nd, Serous exudation; 3rd, Fibrinous exudation, constituting the so-called adhesive inflammation; 4th, Suppuration ; 5th, The destruction of the affiscted tissues in detail or in mass ; yaiying from the softening and absorption of caries, or the fatty degeneration of white softening of the brain, or the slow erosion of an ulcer to the gangrene of an entire member. According to Hunter, these different effects were produced by differences in the intensity of inflammation, which were supposed to decrease as the distance from the centre increases. Thus at the outskirts of an inflamed part there will be a ring of serous effusion or oedema: within this a solid layer of fibrine, ^which forms a sac, within which is pus, formed by the softening of the central fibrine. If to the serous effusion, adhesion, and suppiwation, thus present, we add hxmorrhage, and gangrene or the death of some of the tissues involved, and idceration, or a process of disintegration by which pus is discharged, we have the six terminations of inflammation ; although, be it observed, every one of them singly may occur quite independently of inflammation. SECTION VI.—CAUSES AND VARIETIES OF INFLAMMATION. The cause of inflammation may be anything which disturbs the ordinary nutrition, function, or growth of a part. 1. Local causes.—The most effective \?, over-exertionthe compel 1 in2; a part to go through the processes of wear and tear, and demanding of it an amount of repair beyond its powers. Alternations of heat and cold, which disturb the chemical changes going on between the blood and the tissues; injuries of every sort, mechanical and chemical, especially such injuries as leave a part half-killed, or in which the processes of 9 pair are interfered with, so that the new cell-formations and exudations are killed, and left to decompose; poisons of all sorts, especially septic poisons, which communicate a state of decom- D ' D34 INFLAMMATION. position to the fluids of wounds ; zymotic poisons so-called, which re- produce in the Jiving body a fresh crop of living matter containing the same poisons; the transplantation of epithelial cells undergoing change, as in gonorrhoea, &c.; lastly, amongst local causes of inflam- mation may be mentioned original mal-development. Thus the ill- grown bi ains of rachitic children are liable to hydrocephalus, &c. 2. Altered innervation as a cause of inflammation. This is a very obscure subject, and not yet half worked out. It is commonly stated in books that division of nerves will in some instances produce inflam- mation, or some other destructive change in the part supplied by those nerves. But it is clear that division of spinal nerves, or paralysis of sense or motion per se, has no necessary effect in inducing inflam- mation. Wounds of paralyzed parts heal as other wounds do. Most inflammations of paialyzed parts are consequences of injuries, not of mere paralysis; for instance, a palsied eye is unconscious of the presence of foreign particles, and cannot cleanse itself. But (1.) division or paralysis of vaso-motor nerves causes relaxation of the capillaries and profuse circulation of arterial blood. Thus if the cervico-cephalic branch of the sympathetic have been divided, the ear and side of tlie face become hot, red, and vascular. Then, says Claude Bernard, if the animal be starved, inflammation is set up, the con- junctiva and pituitary membrane run into suppuration. The blood being defective, absorbs greedily from the organs it traverses. (2.) Some injuries produce reflex irritation of the nerves which ci eate afflux of blood. This has been given by Brown Sequard as the cause of that ulcei-ation of the duodenum which follows burns. (3.) Lastly, there are some nerves which if irritated contract the capillaries and cut ofl' the supply of blood, and thus may cause gangrene. 3. Constitutional causes.—The blood may be too abundant, per se, or overcharged with material prone to decomposition. Then if the action of the excreting glands be checked, the impurities of the blood seem to fly to some organ and excite inflammation. Or it may be deficient in quantity and quality. For one inflammation that arises from exuberance of blood, there are in the author's experience fifty which arise from poverty. It may be poisoned. Every poison that can be admitted into the blood seems to have some favourite organ which it vexes, and through which it is eliminated; mercury, the bowels and mouth ; aloes, the rectum ; savin, the womb; iodine, the air passages; turpentine, the kidneys, and so forth. As every blood-poison has its special seat for action, so more particularly have those of zymotic and organic origin, as the poisons of small-pox, scarlatina, syphilis, and the like. There are many blood-poisons which have never been isolated, but whose existence is inferred from the constancy of their effects, as the poisons of syphilis, &c. The most frequent class of blood-poisons are those which arise from imperfect assimilation, or from secondary changes in ill-assimilated blood, or fi-om defective excretion by a hidebound skin or diseased kidneys ; hence gout and its allied disorders ; hence the serous inflammations inINFLAMMATION. 35 Bright's disease. Cold is a frequent cause of inflammation. It checks the secretion of the sJvin and deranges the chemical actions going on in the blood. The organs which first receive the chilled blood, viz., the lungs, are the first to suffer, then the gelatinous tissues, bones, joints, &c., as in rheumatism. Grief and anxiety of mind impoverish the blood and poison it with effete matter. Lastly, embolism, the transplan- tation of venous clots, or of concretions from the heart. Clots from the veins, after parturition or severe injury, or clots which form in limbs (Edematous and motionless as in phthisis, may find their way to the heart, and if not large enough to block up the pulmonary artery will be carried into the lung and create disease. The fact that the lungs receive venous blood, which may be chilled or mixed with putrescent matters from a wound, renders it wonderful that they do not inflame oftener than they do. There is the term metastasis employed to signify, not the successive participation of several organs in one general inflammatory attack, as in rheumatism, but the cessation of inflammation in one part, and its transference to another; as, when in gout, pain in the heart or stomach ceases if the great toe become inflamed. SECTION VI.—CAUSES AND VARIETIES OF INFLAMMATION. The Varieties of inflammation depend on the cause, and on the kind of constitution conjointly. Thus we read of Sthenic, or active inflammation, which is the disease as it affects a vigorous person. Asthenic, or low, or weak, which is the disease of a weak, asthenic person: or which may be produced by certain causes of a lowering nature, as hospital air, and other poisons. It is more obstinate and less amenable to treatment than the active or sthenic. Common inflammation is that which may be produced by ordinary causes in most individuals. Specific inflammation requires a specific set of causes, chiefly animal poisons, or a peculiar state of blood, and cannot be produced at will. The chief specific inflammations are gout, rheumatism, syphilis, scrofula, diphtherite, erysipelas, phlegmasia dolens, glanders; boil and carbuncle; erythema nodosum, eczema, lepra, and most skin diseases. It must be laid down as an axiom that every different cause produces its own specific set of consequences. This point is very clearly stated by Dr. Budd.* Take inflammation of the knee-joint for an example. If caused by a penetrating wound, with admission of air, rapid suppura- tion and destruction of the joint usually follow. If caused by the pre- sence of pus or decaying fibrine in the blood, there will be little swelling, but suppuration so rapid as to encourage the belief that the pus, instead of being formed in the joint, is brought there. If caused by rheuma- tism, there is severe pain, and much effusion; but that effused fluid is never purulent, and is almost always absorbed as the patient recovers. If of gouty origin, there is more pain and considerable effusion, which * On Diseases of the Liver, 2nd ed. Ijond. 1852, p. 65.36 THEORY OF INFLAMMATION. is apt to leave particles of lithate of soda behind in the synovial mem- brane, and in the areolar tissue around. If a consequence of gonorrhoea, there is abundant effusion, and great swelling, very difficult to get rid of. Sthenic inflammation is generally cirmmscribcd, and most intense at one central point. Asthenic inflammation, especially from poisons, is often diffused, i. e. wide-spread, with no efficient boundary to the softened exudations. There are yet some other classifications of inflammation with which the student ought to be familiar ; for example : Acute inflammation is that which runs through its course quickly; subacute is a mitigated acute inflammation; chronic is less violent, and tends to last in- definitely. We read also of oedematous, adhesive, htemorrhagic, ulcerative, and gangrenous inflammation, according as the disease tends to produce either of those efiects respectively. Zastli/, in the pathology of thirty years ago, it was customary to suppose that the etiects of inflammation depend on the part affected; thus we heard of mucous, serous, and fibrous inflammation ; and much was made of an alleged final cause, in the fact that mucous membranes generally sup})!irate if inflamed, and that serous membranes generally adhere by lymph. This is true ; but it is not true that the exudation of lymph from mucous surfaces is impossible or rare, although the rapid production of fresh layers of epithelium or pus tends to cast it off and prevent it from becoming organised; and thus the obstruction of mucous canals is prevented. SECTION VII.—THEORY OF INFLAMMATION. I'hysicians have in all ages wished for such an intelligible conception of the process as would enable them to connect it with the other classes of facts of which they have scientific knowledge. But it is quite certain that we can have no clear conception of disease till we understand health ; and that all the theories of inflammation that have been framed are preconceptions in the mind of the theorizer, who merely applies to the phenomena such philosophy as he may chance to have. Whatever notions about science in general, or physiology in particular, occupy the mind at any given time, are sure to be applied to the explanation of inflammation. Thus in the time of the ancients, when the arteries were believed to hold air, it passed for a decent theory of inflammation to assume that blood had found its way into them, as Celsus narrates. In the earlier humoral pathology, ill- humours of various sorts were supposed to fall upon the organs affected. The words defluxion, gout, and catarrh, are relics of this theory. Mathematical physicians of the school of Mead supposed the vessels obstructed by aberrant particles whose size and shape would not allow them to pass. Hunter and his school spoke of inflammation as excited action of blood-vessels. The earliest microscopists of theACUTE INFLAMMATION. 37 present century, Wilson Philip and Hastings, saw in the dilated and gorged vessels nothing but relaxation, debility, and want of action. VVliilst the doctrine of action of blood-vessels was prevalent, Gendrin, Mayo, and others showed elaborately how the successive stages of inflammation were so many mechanical consequences of different degrees of obstruction or relaxation of blood-vessels. The school of Liebig saw in it increased oxydation. The explorer of the blood sees in it the results of hyperinosis, or other changes in that liquid. The modern microscopic physiologist sees abnormal conditions of nutrition and of attraction between the blood and tissues; the believer in cells, as the agents in health and disease, sees in inflammation a perverted growth and proliferation of cells. The most advanced physiologist^of the day, who has discarded a mere doctrine of cells, and sees in the living body the work of germinal material, refers the phenomena of inflammation to exaggerated growth of tliat material. Then it must be noticed, that the search for a theory has been like the search for the philosopher's stone, or for the Grand Arcanum ; when found it was to be a key to all difficulties, and to show, apriori, the right plan of treatment. He who believed increased vital action to be the essence of inflammation, of course drained the blood-vessels, starved the stomach, and used every poison capable of " lowering the heart's action." He who saw debility in the distended vessels proposed stimulants. He who sees oxygenation of the blood, proposes remedies calculated to diminish oxydation. One theoi ist proposes remedies that shall hold fibrine in solution; another those which shall check the growth of germinal material, and so on. But each of these suppositions may be true to a certain extent: there may be increased action of the arteries, debility of the capillaries, in- creased oxygenation of the blood, and perversion of nutrition ; but yet these are but accidents and accompaniments of a process whereof we are not able to grasp the essence. He only who knows and sees all tilings can frame a perfect theory. SECTION VIII.—ACUTE INFLAMMATION. Definition.—Acute inflammation is that which is sudden in its origin, violent in its action, and rapid in producing some one of the so-called effects of inflammation; and it is attended with fever. The surgeon should always estimate the natural tendencies of the particular kind of inflammation, the cause that it depends on, and the organ which it affects. Because there are many inflammations which run a certain course, and then get well of themselves ; others in which every effort must be made to relieve an organ whose integrity may be essential to life. Treatment.—Generally speaking we should say that the indi- cations are, 1. To remove the cause. 2. To purify the blood. 3. To soothe the disturbance of vitality and sensibility in the injured part.ACUTE INFLAMMATION. 38 4. To moderate the afflux of blood. 5. To hinder degeneration in the fluids exuded, and procure their absorption. We shall speak in this order of the means by which each indication may be fulfilled. 1. To remove causes.—The taking away of any irritating substances, such as thorns and splinters, and placing every injured part under such conditions that the reparative exudations shall not be disturbed, are so obviously necessary as to require no mention. 2. To purify the blood.—In most cases, and more especially if the complexion is muddy, the bowels confined, the tongue foul, the urine either loaded or preternaturally pale, a dose of from one to five grains of calomel may be given, and followed by black draught, castor oil, colocynth, or some other purgative, and repeated so long as the stools continue lumpy, dark, bilious, and offensive, or until they are inodo- rous. In gouty cases, the acetic extract of colchicum may be com- bined with the calomel. See F. 33, et seq. Both the kidneys and skin may most usefully be made to perform their functions by warm baths ; by cold drinks, saline, and alkaline draughts, F. 58, lemon-juice, seltzer-water; by small doses of antimony, or of colchicum, V. (J<s, GO, &c, 3. To (i/liti/ the irritation of the affected part.—This is a most important indication in the prevention and treatment of inflammation. All pain and sense of injury should be tranquillized if possible. For this purpose, in most cases, warm fomentations are advisable, particu- larly if medicated with decoction or extract of poppies, F. 121. Warm fomentations relax the skin, soothe pain, and promote per- spiration, and likewise hasten suppuration when that is inevitable. They are especially indicated in inflammations of dense tendinous parts. But in every case the patient's feeling should be consulted, and the application be warm or cold according to his choice. Injured or inflamed parts should be kept at rest, in an easy position, and should be elevated slightly, so that the return of blood may not be hindered. To fulfil this indication, opium and other anodynes are of the greatest value. They should be given after injuries and operations, in such quantities as to keep the mind tranquil, and prevent the patient fi'om concentrating his whole thoughts upon the part affected. They tend to diffuse the blood generally, to warm the skin, and to prevent local congestion, and they save the exhaustion of pain and spasm. In most cases of acute idiopathic inflammation it will be expedient, before ad- ministering opiates, to take care that the blood is well purified; and whenever bleeding is necessary, that also should be executed first of all. But in inflammation of the bowels, in which repose is essential, in low inflammation arising from morbid poisons, or in exceedingly debilitated or exhausted states, with a soft, rapid pulse, and when the patient is sleepless and harassed in mind it is of infinite service, and may be given at once. Henbane, hemlock, and the extracts of aconite and belladonna, are likewise of great use in many cases as anodynes.ACUTE INFLAMMATION. 39 and though they have not the soporific virtues of opium, yet neither do they lock up the bowels. Vide F. 30, 32. 4. To moderate the afflux of blood.—Since the determination of a large current of blood to the affected part, and its stagnation therein, are leading phenomena in acute inflammation, it cannot be wondered at that means for controlling this afflux are of the very highest conse- quence. First amongst these stands— Bloodletting.—A measure life-giving in its proper use, and deadly if abused. Its benefits may be explained on any theory. By diminish- ing the mass of blood, it lessens the labour of the heart and lungs, and allows the remaining blood to be oxygenated and purified by natural influences. It is most particularly indicated, as Dr. Markham has shown, in inflammations complicated with difficulty of breathing, such as pleurisy, fractured rib, &c. It diminishes the rush of blood to the inflamed part, and allows distended venous capillaries to empty themselves. It decreases the specific gravity and increases the absorptive power of the blood; it promotes the action of the skin and bowels; it imitates the spontaneous haemorrhage by which nature often gives great relief; and it produces a most delicious sense of languor and repose, like that of the Turkish bath. Manner of Bleeding.—General bleeding should be executed in such a way as to cause slight faintness as quickly as possible. For this pur- pose the blood should be drawn as quickly as possible, from a large orifice ; and, above all, the patient should sit or stand upright. For if the blood is drawn slowly, so that the vessels have time to adapt them- selves to their diminished contents, or if the patient is lying down, so as to assist the flow of blood to the brain, the bleeding may be con- tinued almost to death without the occurrence of faintness. Quantity to he taken.—As a general rule, the blood should be per- mitted to flow till paleness of the lips, lividity about the eyes, sighing, nausea, fluttering pulse, and relief of the pain, indicate the approach of faintness ; h\xt full faintness should always be avoided. The quantity required to produce this effect, on a healthy adult, was ascertained by Marshall Hall to be about 15 oz,; but in robust adults affected with acute inflammatory or congestive attacks of the head or viscera, a greater quantity may be taken. The class of patients whom it is allowable to bleed, as a general rule, are the robust with red lips, firm muscles, rustic open-air occu- pations, firm pulse, and rigid fibre. Pregnant women usually bear bleeding well. If the lips and conjunctiva are pale, showing defi- ciency of blood; if the patient is bulky, soft, and flabby; if there is any weakness or degeneration of heart; or if there is any continu- ous disease of assimilation—scrofula, Bright's disease, or the like— bleeding can scarcely be thought of. The class of inflammations in which bleeding is permissible are those of sthenic inflammation of vital organs, especially the chest. It is not allowable, as a rule, in the hypinotic class of maladies, nor in erysipelatous diseases; nor in the case of injuries requiring great40 ACUTE INFLAMMATION. constitutional efforts for their reparation, as compound fractures ; nor if the disease be advanced towards suppuration or gangrene; and very seldom indeed in tlie case of any zymotic disease, or inflammation having a natural tendency to recovery. Local Bloodletting.—Whilst it must be admitted that in a past generation general bloodletting was carried to an injurious excess, in the present day it is to be feared that local bloodletting is too much neglected. It is a most obvious, rational, and mild process; and it imitates and seconds the efforts of nature by removing some of that blood which may be assumed to be impure, and by talking it from the part where it is in excess. The local means of abstracting blood are leeches, cupping, and scari- fications. In order to apply leeches, the part should first be washed, and if they will not stick, a little milk or blood should be smeaied on it, or some small punctures should be made with the point of a lancet; and the leeches should be well dried in a cloth. The best plan of stopping hajmorrhage from leech-bites is to dip small pellets of lint in tinct. ferri sesquichloridi, or powdered alum, and press them on the holes for a few minutes. Otlier plans are to touch them with a red- hot knitting-needle, or to stitch them up with a very fine needle and silk, or to apply a small juece of matico leaf. But in order to pre- vent dangerous bleeding, directions should always be given that the leech-bites should be stopped before any patient is left for the night. Moreover, it will be prudent to apply them over some bone, so that pressure may be applied effectually. Again, leeches, if they stick too long, should be removed by touching them with salt, and should not be pulled off Ibrcibly ; nor should they be ai)plied to the eyelids or pre- puce, otherwise they will probably be followed by cedematous swell- ing. Cupping, when it am be adopted, is a more active measure, and relieves pain sooner than leeches. Punctures are of use in superficial inflammations of the skin; incisions are of use when inflamed parts are covered with a dense unyielding fascia, as in whitlow ; or when there is great tension, as in phlegmonous erysipelas; or when the in- flamed part is infiltrated with an irritating fluid, as in extravasation of urine, or with unhealthy matter, as in carbuncle. Cold is a valuable means of diminishing afflux of blood, and morbid heat. It may be applied by evaporation by means of a single piece of thin linen frequently changed and dipped into cold water or evajyorating lotion (F. 115); and care should be taken that the vapour may pass off freely, otherwise the cold lotion will soon be con- verted into a hot fomentation. Or dry cold may be applied by means of bladders filled with water, ice, or frigorific mixtures. It must be observed that dry cold applications are less irritating than wet; and india-rubber bags, or glass or metal bottles, less so than bladders. The surgeon must use his discretion as to the degree of cold. The possi- bility of causing sloughing must not be forgotten either.* Or by irrigation, as recommended by Dr. Macartney. The inflamed limb is * See Esmarch's Ess£iy on the Use of Cold in Surgery. Syden. See.ACUTE INFLAMMATION. 41 to be placed in a trough or piece of oilcloth, with a piece of lint on the inflamed part. A large vessel of cold water being then placed on a table by the bedside, one end of a broad strip of cloth should be dipped in the water, and the other end (which should be cut to a point) laid on the lint; and so the water will be carried in a constant gentle stream down to the inflamed part. Cold is well adapted to inflamma- tions of the head, and of the skin or external parts : but if it should not be agreeable to the patient, tepid or warm applications should be sub- stituted. 5. To control changes in the exuded fluids and new cell growth.— There are some remedies which are believed to have the power either of destroying or removing that element in the blood which is the cause of disease, or else of so acting upon the morbid effusions as to cause their dispersion and absorption. Mercury is the chief remedy of this class; and the popular doctrine is, that, in acute inflammation, espe- cially of serous or parenchymatous structures, mercury causes absorp- tion of lymph, or of the effused fluids; and that for this purpose it should be administered in repeated doses, with sufficient opium to pre- vent it from running off by the bowels, and that it should be continued till the mouth is affected. F. 62—67 will show the common mode of administration. This plan of giving mercury crept in at the beginning of the present century. One of the earliest notices of it is given by Sir J. M'Grigor, who considered it as much a cure for hepatitis as for syphilis. It was also largely used in tropical dysentery, and was given unsparingly till the patient was salivated.* Indian practitioners abused it largely. The author believes that the absorbefacient and antiphlogistic vir- tues of mercury have been grossly exaggerated, except in the case of syphilitic inflammation of the eyeball. All salivation is a cruelty and a mischief. The author has seen low pneumonia arise in a case where the system was thoroughly impregnated with mercury. Hence it is no antidote. The truth seems to be: 1st. That much of the benefit arising from " calomel and opium " is due to the opium. 2ndly. That the calomel does good to some extent, as an eliminative. 3rdly. That mercury possesses some absorbent or rectifying virtue, in lingering in- flammations ; but that very small doses suffice. F. 63. In the case of children, calomel should be given in continuous doses, till it causes green, chopped-spinach-like stools. Tartar emetic may be used either in nauseating doses, F. 68, to depress the heart's action and cause perspiration, or else in emetic doses, to purify the blood by vomit and stool and promote expectoration ; or it may be combined with purgatives, of which it greatly increases the action, F. 40, or with mercury, F. 62, or lastly, as a direct antiphlo- gistic, after the manner invented by Marryatt, and detailed under F. 68 in the Appendix. Antimony, like bleeding, is best adapted for the early stage of inflammation, before effusion has occurred. * Sir J. M'Grigor's Medical Slcetches, Lend. 1804, p. 174. Dr. Farre, Sen. Theory of the Action of Mercury, in Dr. Ferguson's Essay on Puerperal Fever.42 CHRONIC INFLAMMATION. The carbonate of ammonia is, in the writer's opinion, a specific in severe foi ins of low inflammation; as bronchitis and i heumatism, F. 58. Other remedies there are, as veratrum viride, aconite, &c., reputed to possess antiphlogistic virtues; but the writer has neither faith nor knowledge thereof. Counter-irritants.—Blisteis are the best form of counter-irritants in recent inflammation; but they should nev^er be applied too near the seat of an acute disease, and never till its activity has been subdued by previous antiphlogistic measures. Diet.—There is nothing in inflammation which betokens increase of vital power. Increase of action is one thing; but it no more implies increase of power than lavish expenditure of money implies increase of income. There is therefore no reason why a patient should be starved, merely because he may have an acute inflammation. Yet there are some cases in which low diet is essential; for instance, at the begin- ning of acute idiopathic inflammations of internal organs in young robust persons who have been over-indulging in meat and beer. It should comprise abundance of water, especially with lemon-juice, or alkali in elibrvescence, or Seltzer- or soda-water, or saline draughts, which need not taste of physic ;—besides tea, with milk, gruel, bread, &c. But in sthenic cases so soon as the tongue permits, and in most cases from the beginning, a middle diet may be allowed, comprising beef-tea, or other broth, light milky puddings, vegetables, &c. Whilst in cases of debility, from the first, good beef-tea and wine must be allowed freely, and in ;ill otliers if the pulse becomes soft and fast; and the cheeks, or hands, or feet chilly. Regimen.—There must be a total avoidance of everything that would irritate mind or body. Perfect rest in the recumbent posture, and in a position as easy as it can be made,—cool air,—a quiet and darkened chamber,—with mental consolation, to allay doubts and fears and in- spire resignation and cheerfulness, are most potent aids to medical treatment, which without them would often be utterly fruitless. SECTION IX.—CHRONIC INFLAMMATION. Definition.—Inflammation is said to be chronic when it is slow in its progress, and tends to last long, or even indefinitely. Pathology.—It consists in permanent local hypertemia, with exuda- tion into the interstices of the part affected, or from its surface ; if that be a mucous membrane, the secretion is probably purulent. Causes.—Its causes may be local or constitutional. Thus it may in the healthiest subjects be caused by any slight and continued irritant; —or it may be the sequel of acute inflammation. But more frequently it is the local manifestation of some constitutional disorder, such as general debility,—or over-stimulation and plethora,—or disorder of some important organ, as of the stomach, or liver, or kidney,—and consequent impurity of the blood. Treatment.—The indications are, to remove all constitutional dis-CHRONIC INFLAMMATION. 43 order, to allay local irritation, and to restore the tone of the distended vessels. Constitutional Treatment,—On this part of the subject, our space forbids us to do more than to make a few remarks on the most obvious forms of constitutional derangement which accompany chronic intlam- mation, and on the remedies that are known by experience to be most useful as alteratives. (1.) If the patient is bloated and plethoric, with red lips and con- junctiva, and a full hard pulse, and indulges freely in stimulating food and drink, and has active digestive organs, so that blood is con- stantly formed in too great abundance, the diet must be lowered and restricted chiefly to fish and vegetables ; free exercise should be taken in the air; the bowels should be actively purged with calomel and black draught; and then a course of alterative medicine should be commenced in order to increase the various eliminative secretions. Mercury, given in small doses at bed-time with saline aperients in the morning, deserves to be mentioned first: Plummer's pill, in doses of gr. V, every night, is an excellent form, or F. 63, 65; taking care, however, to use the mercury in obtaining increased elimination by the liver, and not to cause salivation. Next to mercury, tartar emetic, given in very small doses, F. 68, is deserving of notice ; it is highly advantageous to combine it with mercury, F. 67. Sahne and alterative medicines, F. 58, 61, will also be of great service. (2.) But if the chronic inflammation occur in an enfeebled and irritable or scrofulous constitution, a nutritious and liberal diet must be adopted, wine, cod-liver oil, and tonics (F. I, 2, 3, 9, &c.) should be administered in order to improve the digestion and vigour of the circu- lation ; irritation and pain must be allayed by sedatives and opiates ; and the secretions of the bowels be maintained by the gentlest laxatives. (3.) If the complexion and eye are sallow, a few doses of calomel or blue pill, at night, or F. 63, with morning aperients, and the nitro- muriatic acid, F, 22, or dandelion, and colchicum, are indicated. (4.) In all cases the condition of the urine should be inspected, to ascertain whether albumen or blood discs,—indications of congestion or degeneration of the kidneys,—are present. In such cases, and in all others in which the skin is dry and harsh, it should be stimulated by exercise, by warm clothing, especially flannel, by the flesh-brush or horse-hair gloves, and by a daily warm bath ; 96°—98° Fahr. Local Treatment.—This has for its objects, to remove exciting causes, to unload the distended vessels, and to make them contract to their natuial calibre, and to exercise the part in its proper functions, so that it may gradually resume the actions and sensations of health. Local bleeding may be employed at intervals to unload the ves- sels. The application of cold is often highly serviceable. These or any other measures will be known to do good if they make the part feel stronger and more comfortable, although their first application may have been painful; but if they render it hotter and pei-manently44 MODIFIED INFLAMMATION. painful, it is a sign that they stimulate too highly, and may thus bring- on an attack of acute inflammation. If it be a mucous membrane, stimulating and astringent remedies may be tried. Counter-irritants are more useful in chronic inflammation than in the acute, especially those which establish a permanent suppuratiA^e dischai-ge. SECTION X.—MODIFIED INFLAMMATION. I. In the two sections foregoing, we have described the treatment of inflammation in general. Many of the modifications have been enu- merated at p. 35, and will be found by refei'ence to the Index. Here we may allude shortly to II. Outward Causes of Modified Inflammation.—We also showed, at p. 33, that some of the causes of inflammation are outward, and that others reside in the patients themselves. Of the outward causes, those which interest the surgeon will be discussed in the next part of our vfovk ; in which there will be described the various modi- fications of inflammation ensuing on cuts, blows, gun-shot wounds, heat, cold, and poisons of vai'ious kinds. III. Inward Causes.—The inward causes consist in morbid states of the patient's blood. Under the head of scrofula and carbuncle will be noticed some of the modifications of inflammation arising in this way. It may not be out of place here to notice one or two others. 1. Gout.—It is out of our province to describe gout, yet, amongst the maladies commonly called surgical, are many distinctly gouty ; such as severe inflammations of the eye and of the testis, severe eruptions of the skin, and irritable states of the kidneys, bladder, and urethra. The ohief marks that any acute or chronic attack is of a gouty nature are, that it pi obably arises quite suddenly; yet that the patient, if cross- questioned, admits that he has not been quite well for some time; that possibly an aching in the great toe, or spot of psoriasis on the skin, or that some very anomalous symptom, cough, dyspepsia, or hypochon- driasis, has existed for some time, and has gone ofFjust before some more important part has sufFei'ed. The patient is probably either too florid, and has been living too well, thus producing what the writer calls high gout, or, on the contrary, has been exhausted by flitigue or anxiety, thus producing what we call low gout. The bowels are probably torpid ; the urine either very pale and copious, or scanty and full of lithates: gout probably also exists in the patient's family. The treatment of an acute attack will consist in active purgation, with calomel, colchicum, and alkaline aperients, F. 61, 71, with warm baths, low diet, and saline draughts. In a chronic attack, the more cautious use of the same means, followed by bitter infusions with alkalis, and alteratives, F. 72. Intense pain, and utter loss of function, followed by complete recovery, ai'e characteristics of gouty inflammation. 2. Rheumatic Inflammation. — This, if acute, may usually be known by the intense aching aggravated by warmth, the profuse per-45 EFFUSION OF SERUM AND CEUEMA. spiratious, and the tendency of the malady to shift from one tendinous or muscular part to another. If chronic, there is an obstinate aching:, sometimes worse at night, sometimes relieved by the warmth of bed. For the acute, moderate purgatives and alkalis, F. 65, 70 : for the chronic, vapour-baths, warm aperients and stimulants, F. 7, 38, are indicated; and, in most sub-acute afiections, the iodide of potassium, F. 94, 96. 3. There are many modified chi'onic inflammations, such as those which give rise to eczema, psoriasis, &c., difficult to describe or classify, yet easily recognised in practice, which evidently depend each on a particular blood-taint, and each of which is benefited by some special alterative. In all cases it is right to begin with general tre;iiment ; that is, to improve the health, to see that the bowels, kidneys, and skin do their duty, and that the diet is sufficient. Then, if general treat- ment does not avail, some specific remedy must be sought. First, we may mention, iodide of potassium, which has the power of dis- solving many old deposits in rheumatic, gouty, scrofulous, and syphilitic cases, and of improving many skin eruptions, F. 94. Se- condly, the liquor potassce,-F, 78, which, as Dr. Parkes has shown, undoubtedly causes oxidation of some blood elements. It is indicated when the urine is red, and contraindicated in most cases of mere debility. Besides these alteratives, we must mention sarsaparilla, small doses of corrosive sublimate in tincture of bark, F. 87, and arsenic, F. 97, which are also useful in certain chronic inflammations, especially of the skin. In many of these the real evil seems to be a want of vigour, through which the tissues in question seem unable to maintain their vitality. It is on this principle that minei'al tonics, as arsenic, zinc, copper, and the mineral acids seem to do good, by giving a better quality to the materials assimilated. CHAPTEE VII. EFFUSION OF SERUM AND OEDEMA. Effusion of Serum may be caused, 1st, by any circumstance which hinders the return of venous blood; this is called simple oedema. 2ndly. It may be caused by a depraved state of the blood, arising from disease of the kidneys,—renal dropsy. 3rdly. It may be an inflammatory exudation. In almost all cases of inflammation, effusion of serum is the earliest and most constant effect; the liquid being poured out equally into the areolar tissue—into the parenchyma of organs—from mucous and serous surfaces, and from the skin. If it is followed by any of the other effects of inflammation, it is always more widely extended than they are. But it may be the chief or only effect of inflammation, as in' oedemaEFFUSION OF SEKUM AND (EDEMA. 4G glottidis, and the so-called acute hydrocephalus; and some subacute inflammations of the serous membranes. In patients of a lax, flabby habit of body, and in parts of loose and cellular structure, as the pre- puce, eyelids, and scrotum, inflammation always produces more of this effect than in those of a flrmer texture. The serous liquid effused in consequence of inflammation is, as Mr. Paget observes, not the merely albuminous liquid which is commonly known by that name, and which is exuded in passive dropsy, but is in reality liquor sanguinis, and contains a variable quantity of fibrine; as may be readily proved by the spontaneous coagulation which takes place in the so-called serum exhaled from the skin under a blister of cantha- rides. It is difficult to explain why the effusion remains within the body, as it may for many days and even weeks, without the fibrine separating and becoming solid. The so-called inflammatory serous effusion may terminate in four ways:—1st, It usually becomes quickly absorbed; an event which is hastened by such purgatives and diuretics and tonics as tend to drain the blood of impure materials, and give vigour to the circulation, and by bandages and other means of local stimulation. 2ndly. In some cases it resists absorption for a long period, or altogether; of which hydrocele, some cases of hych othorax, hydrarthus, and hydrocephalus, afford ex- amples. 3rdly. The librine may slowly separate from the serum, and solidify, causing a dougliy indolent thiclvening of the cellular tissue, the treatment of which will be mentioned at the end of the ninth chaptei'. 4thly. The serum efl'nsed may distend the cellular tissue, so as to interfere with the nutrition of the skin ; which may be remedied by making punctures with a needle, and allowing it to ooze gradually out. Of the manner in which serous effusion may prove fatal to life, in the oedema glottidis and hydrocephalus, it is not our purport to speak at present. (Edema is the name given to the swelling caused by the presence of serum, whether inflammatory or dropsical, in the cellular tissue. It is a soft, inelastic, diffused swelling, wliich pits on pressure, that is, retains for a time the pit or mark made by the pressure of the finger. If (Edematous limbs become inflamed from any cause, the skin is exceed- ingly liable to ulcerate or slough. The causes of oedema, which most concern the surgeon, are the pressure of cancerous, aneurismal, and other tumours on the great veins of a limb, and obstruction of the veins by phlebitis. A raised position, moderate support by bandages, and punctures made with a common sewing-needle, to let the serum exude, are the most rational palliative measures.47 CHAPTER VIIT. HiEMORRHAGE. HEMORRHAGE, like serous effusion, may be a consequence, Istly, of inflammation or excitement; 2ndly, of obstruction to the leturn of venous blood; and 3rdly, of structural weakness of the blood-vessels and impurity of the blood, as in scurvy and putrid fevers. The first form is called active, the last two passive, (1.) Active hcemorrJiage consists in an escape of arterial blood from the capillaries, when I'uptured by distention caused by acute in- flammation or violent excitement; and more or less of it doubtless occurs in every case of violent inflammation. It occurs during the formation of abscess in the areolar tissue and in the liver. Haemorrhage is known to accompany certain violent forms of pleurisy and pericarditis. But its most frequent seat is mucous membrane. Menstruation is the type of an inflammatory hsemorrhage of mucous membrane. Exfoliation of mucous membrane, which accompanies the hsemorrhage so notably in dysmenorrhoea, occurs also in dysentery, in cystitis, and in nephritis. The surgeon is chiefly concerned with epistaxis or hcemorrhage from the nose ; htemorrhois or hsemorrhage from the rectum, and hsemorrhage from the urethra during gonorrhoea. Sometimes the blood issues, not from the surface of the inflamed membrane, but from portions of exudation, which have become vas- cular, and whose newly-formed capillaries haA^e been over-distended and ruptured. Granulating wounds bleed likewise. Diagnosis.—Inflammatory or active hsemorrhage is distinguished from that which is the result of congestion or debility, by the presence of pain, heat, and throbbing, and of a febrile state of the pulse and system generally. Treatment.— This form of hsemorrhage is to be treated by an anti- phlogistic and cooling regimen. (F. 34, 35, 75). Cold, if it can be applied, perfect rest, and an elevated position, are the local measui es. (2.) In passive Immorrhage the blood which escapes is venous. The principal instances of it are hsemorrhage from the nose in old subjects with diseased liver; meloena, or hsemorrhage from the liver, and passive menorrhagia. The chief remedies are, dilute sulphuric acid, sulphate of alumina, acetate of lead, catechu, gallic acid, and other vegetable astringents which increase the coagulability of the blood, and ergot of rye, which increases the contraction of the capillaries. F. 14, 186, 187, &c.48 CHAPTER IX. EXUDATION OF FIBRINE, AND ADHESION. One of the commonest effects of inflammation is fibrinous effusion, the process by which organised .idhesions or bands of false membranes are formed; cavities are filled up, membranes rendered thick, opaque, and rigid, and the substance of organs infiltrated with solid deposits. The material is, so far as we know, the same, whether effused fiom the vessels or generated by the * tissues, as that which has been de- scribed under the head of repair. It may very soon become permeated //y^^ ^.>^. / by blood-vessels, which no doubt are ./t^ -.-'.o^i^/ outgrowths from the nearest capillaries. ^/^^ /' ' ' y 0--) be developed into any of the tissues capable of renovation: i. e., fibrous tissue, bone, or epithelium, forming bands of adhesion, cicatrices, superficial deposits, and thickened © Q. z riiembranes. I % Q) (2.) It may undergo changes of a ^ beneficial sort, which cau.se it to be lapidly absorbed ; that is, if the morbid state of blood which caused the exuda- ^^^^^^ ^'^"^ relieved, the latter may un- ^ ^ " ''^^^ dergo fatty degeneration, and either be "^^ ^^bb, absorbed, or i-emaiu harmless in the ^ ^^^'^^ commonly known as yellow-cheesy ^ tubercular. (3.) From a continuance of local Irritation and afHux, the lymph may soften into pus. In some cases, as of phlegmonous erysipelas, diffuse inflammation, carbuncle, and the like, the exudation is so aplastic and cacoplastic from the firet as to be incapable of organisation, and so poisonous as to be unfit for absorption, and it softens only into an amorphous puriform fluid. Examples of adhesion.—1. After wounds, in which the efforts of nature at repair have been frustrated, a certain degi-ee of inflammation ensues, and so soon as the inflammation abates, the reparative ma- terial takes the form of granulations. These are composed of plastic cells, in every variety of size, shape, and development, mixed with filamentous intercellular matter. According to the older theory, the lymph effused develops itself into the cells: according to the newer, the cells on the surface increase and multiply, and form the granu- * 1, Lymph, with fibrils and corpuscles; 2. Pus; 2a, Pus acted on by acetic acid; 3, Blood; 4, Oil globules; 5, Granular masses; i.e. plastic and other cells filled with oily and granular matter.EXUDATION OF FIBRINE AND ADHESION. 49 lations. The deeper layers are, as to structure, converted into fila- mentous tissue, and as to chemical nature into gelatine, whilst the more superficial are still spherical and albuminous ; and whilst the very surface degenerates into the ci-eamy liquid called pus. This is the mode in which open wounds (or wounds which the skin will not cover) generally heal in the human subject; but it is an imperfect mode; because granulations are extremely liable to be diseased, because they entail a great waste of material which escapes in the form of pus, and because the scar is always larger than in the case of a wound healing by the primary reparative process. When two surfaces covered with granulations are made to unite, the union is said to be by secondary adhesion or by the second intention. 2. A second example is furnished by the acute inflammation of serous membranes; as pleurisy, which gives rise to the adhesions which so commonly bind the lungs to the inside of the ribs. Under rheumatic inflammation, the heart may be glued to the pericardium ; in syphilitic iritis the anterior chamber of the eye may be filled with lymph. After injuries, the adhesions produced by inflammation of the pleura and peritonaeum are of service in preventing the spread of exuda- tion or of extravasated matter. Mucous membranes, as we said at p. 36, are not commonly con- sidered liable to adhesive inflammation, because the lymph effused is generally cast off, and does not become adherent or organised. Yet fibrinous flakes are common on inflamed mucous membranes; and if two abraded and inflamed mucous surfaces are placed in apposition and left undisturbed, they may adhere ;—as sometimes happens in the vaginae of female children;—in the os uteri and Fallopian tubes of prostitutes, and in the ureters and biliary ducts when abraded by the passage of calculi; and Mr, Hancock has shown the existence of organised lymph in the canal of the urethra, in cases of stricture. 3. When a natural reparative process has failed, the surgeon often excites adhesive inflammation, as the basis for another effort at repair. (See False Joint.) 4. Separation of fibrine may take place within the heart or vessels. Granulations, if healthy, and proceeding towards a cure, are small, pointed, and florid ; they bleed if wiped, and are not very tender. But they are subject to many disorders; being sometimes pale, bloated,and oedematous ; sometimes degenerating into a pseudo-mucous membrane; sometimes breaking up suddenly, and being dissolv^ed into a sanious fluids When, however, the case proceeds favourably, the undermost are developed into fibro-cellular tissue, those on the sui face form them- selves into cuticle, and so the wound is healed. Cicatrization.—This process of healing, or cicatrization, is attended with an absorption of inflammatory effusion in the vicinity of the wound, and a contraction of its margin, so that the wound becomes much-smaller before any new cuticle is formed. Its edge then begins to look smooth and bluish, and a thin pellicle of new cuticle gradually spreads from the edge in a converging circle till the wound is closed. D E50 SUPPURATION AND ABSCESS. The material that closes up the gap is called a cicatrix: it is a band of tibrous tissue covered with cuticle. It has no thickness, for granulations do not really fill up gaps, as is sometimes said, and seldom form a layer more than one-third of an inch thick ; and in the case of an extensive gap the cicatrix is closely glued to the bone or fascia beneath. It afterwards shrinks, becoming paler and likewise looser, through atrophy of the deeper portions. The most favourable granulative cicatrization is attended with little, if any, waste of material in the shape of pus. Adhesions and Cicatrices are extremely liable to shrink, and be- come atrophied. Thus, the extensive cicatrices left after severe burns always contract greatly ; and adhesions between serous surfaces may, in the course of time, disappear entirely. After the liver or kidney has been infiltrated with fibrinous effusion the whole organ is liable to waste. During certain states of constitutional cachexy (as the scurvy), old fractures have become disunited, and old cicatrices have broken out afresh into wounds; showing that the new tissue has less vitality than that of original formation.* Treatment.— If it be wished to remove adhesions, or thickening, the results of previous acute or existing chronic inflammation, the general rules must be attended to which were laid down for the treatment of chronic inflammation. Mercury has a reputation for removing indura- tion : but, as we have before said, it should be used as an eliminative, and not to accumulate and cause ptyalism, F. 87. The local means that may be used to remove the thickening left by a quite subdued inflammation of any external part, are friction, stimulating liniments, F. 143, 150; gentle exercise; shampooing; pressure by bandages or otherwise; cold affusion ; electricity and galvanism ; discutient lotions, especially those of zinc, F. 117, or muriate of ammonia, F. 118; blisters, or other counter-irritants—always taking care not to produce active inflammation by too violent stimulation. CHAPTER X. SUPPURATION AND ABSCESS. SECTION 1.—SUPPURATION AND ANALOGOUS PROCESSES. , Suppuration.—According to the doctrines stated in the preced- ing chapter, when an inflammation continues to be excessively acute, or when there are certain defects in the composition of * In examining the body of a madman who had stabbed himself in the abdo- men fifteen different times during his life, the parts near the most recent wounds were found united by considerable false membranes;—at the situation of some that were older, there were only a few thin cellular adhesions; whilst at the oldest, there was no trace of adhesion or ialse membrane whatever. Andral, Anat. Path, vol. i. p. 486.SUPPURATION AND ABSCESS. 51 the blood, the fibrinous exudation becomes a creamy liquid called pus. 1st. In Abscesses.—When suppuration takes place in any cavity, or in the substance of the areolar tissue, or of any organ, an abscess is said to be formed. If the inflammation is of the variety called healthy or sthenic, or circumscribed, the centre only of the exudation will soften; the circumference will form a cyst, containing the liquid, and not allowing it to spread. If the inflammation is low, or unhealthy, as in erysipelas, the whole of the fibrine will probably soften into a puriform fluid, to be presently described, and the abscess will be diffused. 2nd. In open granulating wounds.—In the case of wounds and other injuries, in which a portion of the tissues is left uncovered by skin, or of wounds, which have not united by adhesion, the exposed surfaces, after bleeding has ceased, and a thin reddish serum has ceased to exude, become glazed over with a grayish or butfy coat composed of fibrine and the white coi-puscles of the blood. Two or three days pass, more or less; and the vicinity of the wound displays evidence of slight in- flammation. The ashy surface comes cfl"; under it is seen a granu- lating and suppurating surface. 3rd. On mucous membranes.—There can be but little doubt that the healthier a mucous membrane, the less mucus does it yield ; only enough to keep the surface moist and clean. Under irritation or debility, an increase of secretion ensues. Under acute inflammation, blood, or at least serum mixed with lymph, may be effused, part of the epithelial layer may be shed, and the epithelial cells multiply hastily, the pus which soon forms being composed of serum, and small ill- formed epithelial cells. Physiological relations of Suppuration.—1st. Suppuration is essen- tially a morbid process ; yet as it may accompany other processes which tend to a beneficial end (such as granulation), so it is customary to speak of it when accompanying such beneficial processes, as healthy, and to describe the product as healthy pus. Moreover, though suppuration be a morbid process, it often takes the place of other processes infinitely more morbid. Thus, after a very severe lacerated wound, when the patient has passed through several days of fearful constitutional ex- citement ; or after sloughing or rapid phagedsenic ulceration, nothing delights the surgeon more than the sight of healthy pus, because he knows that it announces at least an attempt at reparation, and the cessation of violent febrile excitement. 2ndly. The formation of ab- scesses often seems to serve as a means for eliminating some noxious matter from the blood. Srdly. Suppuration afiords a mechanical means of removing foreign substances impacted in the soft parts. Lastly, if too profuse, it may exhaust the vital powers; decaying pus may be absorbed and bring on hectic fever. Healthy Pus.-—Pus is a yellowish-white, opaque fluid, of the con- sistence of cream: free from smell, neither acid nor alkaline, said to have a sweetish, mawkish taste, insoluble in water, although freely miscible with it, and very slow to putrefy. It consists of a thin serum,52 SUPPURATION AND ABSCESS. holding a vast number of globules in suspension. Its usual specific gravity is 1"021—1*040; heat coagulates the albuminous elements of its serum; potass and ammonia convert it into a gelatinous mass. Chemical analyses* show that pus contains water (86*I per cent.), fat, extractive, and albumen. It also contains about 0*8 per cent, of salts; chiefly common salt, and muriate of ammonia. Fus Globules.—When these are examined under the microscope they are found to be opaque spheri- cal globules, apparently granulated like mulberries, but in reality smooth, as may be known by exa- mining their circumference. They measure from l-5000th to l-2000th of an inch in diameter ; some even are larger. They may be shown to consist of cell membrane, contain- ing nuclei, oil globules, and minute granules. If water be added, they imbibe some of it, and become larger, more transparent, and less granular. If acetic acid be added, it brings clearly into view two, three, or four nuclei; and renders the other parts transparent, or so invisible, that they seem to have dis- solved. Besides the globules, other smaller molecules are also found in pus in great abundance. Mucous Pus or Muco-punilent matter.—MviCws consists of a viscid matter coagulable by acetic acid and containing epithelium. Under inflammation, it may be mixed with serum, blood, fibrinous fiakes, epithelial casts, nuclei, and abortive cells and pus. + PURIFORM Fluid is a fluid formed ' by the softening down of a fibrinous ;.• exudation, without the development of real pus globules. It constitutes the . liquid yielded by carbuncles and un- •rz ^ healthy abscesses, by spreading ulcere, •■'V. -y "' find by the fibrinous exudations which occur in the lungs and elsewhere, when putrid fluids have found their way into the blood. It exhibits oil globules, shreds and fragments of tissue, granules, and possibly abor- * Vide Mayo, Med. Gaz., 19th Oct. 1839; Vogel, iiber Eiter und Eiterung, p. 35 ; Davy. op. cit. vol. ii., p. 468 ; Bonnet, Med. Gaz. vol. xxi.; Gueterbock, de Pure et Granulatione, Berol., 1837. f The uppermost group gives a pretty accurate idea of the appearance of pus globules magnified 400 diameters. The middle figures represent globules treated with acetic acid; the lowest represent the appearances when pus is partially decomposed or treated with liq. potassae. These figures were drawn from nature by Dr. Westmacott, under the superintendence of Dr. Johnson of King's College. X This cut represents puriform fluid from a softened lymphatic gland.ACUTE ABSCESS. 53 tive cell formations; smaller than pus globules, less regular, and not giving the characteilstic reaction with acetic acid. Softening is degeneration and liquefaction of the affected tissue, and of any fibrinous exudation with which it may have been infil- trated, although without the presence of true pus. It is a condition met with in the brain, either from disease of the arteries, or from a low degree of inflammation. Amongst the products of decayed exuda- tions are the bodies known as compound granular cells. They were formerly called exudation corpuscles, because they were found in inflammatory exudations; but * they are by no means peculiar ^ ^ m to these-; on the contrary, M w "^^4 (M' they seem to be formed by a ^^Mi #^1 #K if process of fatty degeneration of almost every primary cell, and thus may be found in any cell-growth, healthy or morbid. For instance, they may be found in the colostrum or milk first secreted after parturition; in the decidua; and in enchondromatous, fibro- plastic, cancerous, and almost every other morbid growth. They are unaltered by water and acetic acid; potass dissolves the cell-wall, and sets free the granules.f In some cases these bodies consist merely of an aggregation of fatty molecules. SECTION II.—ACUTE ABSCESS. Symptoms.—Acute abscess (which, when occurring in the subcuta- neous cellular tissue is called phlegmon,) commences with the ordinary signs of acute inflammation—namely, inflammatory fever; sevei'e throbbing pain; bright redness ; and much swelling ;—firm in the centre, and cedematous around. The occurrence of suppuration is in- dicated by an abatement of the fever, and a change in the pain,—which is less acute, and converted into a sense of weight and tension. Then the tumour becomes softer, and loses its bright arterial colour; and as the quantity of pus increases, its centre begins to point, that is, to project in a pyramidal form, and fluctuation can be felt by alternate pressure with the fingers. After this, the parts between the abscess and the surface become successively softened and disintegrated. The tumour becomes more and more prominent; the centre exhibits a dusky-red or bluish tint, the cutis ulcerates, the cuticle bursts, and the pus escapes. Deep Suppuration.—But where pus is formed under fasciae, or deep in the mamma, or pelvis, and cannot quickly make its way to the sur- face, the pain is not reliev^ed but often much aggravated by the increase * 1, shows a cell from a fibro-plastic tumour; 2, from cancer; 3, from an ovarian cyst, and from the decidua—all loaded with oil-globules: traced by the author from actual specimens, by the camera. t Hughes Bennett on Cancer, &;c., p. 153.ACUTE ABSCESS. 54 of distention, and the constitutional symptoms are much more severe. See Hectic. Although abscesses may burst into serous cavities, or mucous canals if they happen to be near, still their general course is that which is least prejudicial; namely, towards the skin. Causes.—Acute abscess in the areolar tissue is mostly idiopathic, that is, depends on a disordered condition of the blood, and is a frequent sequel of fevers;—it may, however, be caused by blows, ecchynioses, or by foreign bodies introduced into the skin or flesh. The commonest seats of abscess are the lymphatic glands and tissues around ; arising from the arrest of acrid matters brought by the lymphatic vessels. Treatment.—In a case of idiopathic inflammation, likely to lead to abscess, the indication always is to remove, if possible, tlie morbid state of constitution on which it depends, by purgatives, and to hasten the process of suppuration by warm poultices. In abscesses arising from local injuiy, all exciting causes, such as thorns, splinters, &c., should be removed. Ponltices relax the skin, promote perspiration, soothe pain, encourage the format ion of pus, and expedite its progress to the surface. They should be large, soft, and light, and may be made of bread and water, or linseed meal, or of amiomile flowers boiled till they are soft, or of bran sewed uj) in a flannel brig, whicli may be dipped into boiling water as often as it'becomes cold (F. 152), &c. The v:iiriii-w((ter dressing—that is, a piece of soft lint, or folded linen dipped in warm water and covered with oiled silk to prevent evaporation, and the spongio-piline—are good substitutes for poultices in many cases, especially for irritable sores; but when there is much pain, they are not so soothing as the large soft warm mass of a well- made poultice. Respecting the opening of abscesses, it may be laid down as a general rule, that if they point and become pyramidal, without enlarging in circumference, they ma^ybe left to burst of themselves ; but that if they enlarge in breadth and circumference, without tending to the surface, they should be opened. In the following six cases, however, the sur- geon's aid is imperatively demanded : 1, When matter forms beneath fasciae and other dense ligamentous textures, such as the sheaths of tendons. Because these parts are dense, and ulcerate with difficulty, the pus, instead of coming to the surface, will burrow amongst muscles and tendons, extending the abscess to great distances;—producing extreme pain and constitutional disturbance, by its tension of the fasci?e which cover it, and pressure on the parts beneath,—causing risk of extensive sloughing, and impairing the futm-e motions of the part. Hence, as a general rule, all abscesses beneath fasciae, or among tendons, or under the thick cuticle of the fingers, should be fieely opened, as soon as the existence of matter is suspected. 2. When abscess is caused by the extravasation of urine, or otherACUTE ABSCESS. 55 irritant fluids; or when it contains an unhealthy matter, which might diffuse itself and spread the disease : as in carbuncle. 3. When an abscess is formed in loose cellular tissue (as around the anus), which would readily admit of great distension and enlarge- ment of the sac, and more especially if the cellular tissue is partially covered with muscles (as in the axilla), under which the matter might burrow. 4. In suppuration near a joint; or in the parietes of the chest or abdomen ; or under the deep fascia of the neck ; lest the abscess burst into the serous cavities, or the trachea ; or cause compression of, or burst into, the trachea, oesophagus, or jugular veins. 5. In suppuration of very sensitive organs, as the testis. 6. When it is desirable to avoid the scar which always will ensue when an abscess ulcerates spontaneously. And in the first three of these cases it is much better to make an opening before matter has formed, than to delay it for one moment afterwards. Abscesses may be punctured with a large lancet, used as in vene- section, or with the sickle-shaped bistoury, commonly called Symes; or, if deep and extensive, by a straight-pointed, double-edged bistoury. Holding it like a pen, the surgeon should gently plunge it in at a right angle to the surface, till it has entered the cavity, which may be known by a diminution to the feeling of resistance, or by gently turning the instrument on its long axis, so that a drop of pus may well up by its side. Then the aperture may be enlarged sufficiently as the instru- ment is being withdrawn. The puncture should be made at the lowest part, so that the abscess may empty itself, or else where the matter points most decidedly and the skin is the thinnest; and a very fine strip of oiled lint (called a tent) may be gently introduced between the edges of the opening, and be allowed to lemain for the first forty- eight hours to prevent them from closing again. The matter should not be rudely squeezed out; but when the surgeon has given vent enough, he should let it gently flow out into a poultice or fomenta- tion. The poultice may be continued till all the pain has subsided, and not longer. And then the best plan is to apply a compress of linen or cotton- wool, and strips of plaster or a bandage, to bring the sides of the cavity together, and keep them so. If the cavity does not contract speedily, it must be treated as a fistula. If the suppuiation continues profuse, tonics, change of air, and a good diet are advisable, in order to prevent hectic, and enable the constitution to repair the local mischief. Mr. Hilton s Method for Deep Abscesses.—Supposing deep suppui a- tion in the axilla, there is this dilemma: if the surgeon " plunge in a bistoury," he runs great risk of wounding a large blood-vessel; if he wait till the abscess come to the surface, the patient may die of irrita- tion. In this case, says Mr. Hilton, " I cut with a lancet through the skin and cellular tissue and fascia of the axilla, about half or three- quarters of an inch behind the axillary edge of the great pectoral muscle.HECTIC OR SUPPURATIVE FEVER. 56 At this point, we can meet with no large blood-vessel. . . . Then I push a giooved probe, or grooved director upwards into the swelling in the axilla ; and if you watch the groove, a little opaque serum or pus will show itself. Take a blunt (not a sharp) instrument, such as a pair of dressing-forceps, and run the closed blades along the groove in the probe or director into the swelling. Now opening the handles, you at the same time open the blades situated within the abscess, and so tear open the abscess. Lastly, by keeping open the blades of the forceps during the withdrawal of the instrument, you leave a lacerated track or canal communicating with the collection of pus, which will not readily unite, and will permit the easy exit of matter," Mr. Hilton gives instances of the same method successfully employed in a deep abscess of the orbit, after fractured base of skull;—in deep cervical abscess ; post- pharyngeal abscess with disease of cervical vertebrje ; in abscess under the iliacus internus descending behind the femoral vessels into the thigh ; and in deep abscess under the glutei. He has done it over and over again in abscesses formed upon or under the periosteum in the thigh. He often sees, he says, after dividing the fascia lata, the healthy muscles stand up boldly and clearly in the wound; and, instead of cut- ting thronuh tlieni, he runs his director right through them into the collection of matter, and then dilates the wound with the dressing-for- ceps. He advises the same course also in abscess on the interosseous membrane of the forearm.* Absorption of Pris.—It occasionally happens that acute abscesses are cured bv the absoi ption of their pus. This is likely to happen when, after acute inflammation, the matter remains without tending to come to the surface, and without pain: the means best adapted to promote it are moderate pressure, purgatives, and tonics. Bv these means, in fortunate instances, the liquor puris may be ab- sorbed, the pus corpuscles undergo degeneration and disintegration, and after remaining for some time as a fatty or cheesy mass, may pass again, in a molecular form, into the blood-vessels. SECTION III.—HECTIC OR SUPPURATIVE FEVER. Definition,—Hectic (a Greek word signifying habitual) fever is a remittent fever, marked by daily paroxysms. It depends on a disordered state of the blood, whether from obstinate malassimilation, or from severe local disease with suppuration. Symptoms.—The patient generally displays great loss of flesh and strength, the skin is muddy, and the eyes hollow. Usually every afternoon or evening he has a tit of shivering, more or less severe, followed by heat and thirst, which render the early part of the night restless; then sleep and profuse sour perspiration come on. The tono-ue is red, and there is a marked tendency to diarrhoea. The pulse above 80 and soft. * On the Influence of Mechanical and Physiological Rest in the Treatment of Accidents and Diseases. By John Hilton, F.R.S., &c., p, 121. Lend. 1863.57 CHRONIC ABSCESS. If.the hectic arise from a local disease, it may cease instantly, on the removal of the disease, by operation or otherwise. But if the causes continue, and the malady increase, the diarrhoea and perspira- tions become more and moi'e profuse and exhausting, the throat becomes aphthous, and the patient sinks. Causes.—Hectic fever, more or less well marked, attends several of the great assimilative disorders of the blood, as diabetes. But that which interests the surgeon is its connection with suppuration; and there is no doubt that true severe hectic depends on the absorption of decomposing pus into the blood, and that the perspirations and diarrhoea are the means by which nature eliminates the poison. In the case of certain deep abscesses (the writer, from his midwifery practice, has seen it in the breasts more often than elsewhere) there may be a daily attack of cold shivers, succeeded by heat and profuse fetid perspiration, and attended by great debility, red tongue, and diarrhoea ; and these symptoms, after lasting for days, may be relieved at once by opening the abscess. It is often said that shivering is a sign of suppuration. This is not true absolutely, for pus may be formed without shivering. But shiver- ing is a sign that matter, if formed, is beginning to be absorbed in a condition that renders it poisonous; and the occurrence of it, espe- cially if attended with the other signs of hectic, renders it the surgeon's duty to look for local mischief. Treatment.—The first indication is to remove the local disease if it can be done. The second is to support the strength. The third to treat symptoms. The first may often be fulfilled by letting out pus, or cutting out a diseased part, or such other operation as may suit the individual case. The second, by abundance of food, especially animal food, and good beer or port wine. Preparations of isinglass, or other fish or animal jelly, seem also to supply waste; and there are some cases in which feverishness is so great that the patient can take only milk and fari- naceous food, as arrowroot, bread, &c. The best tonics are bark and steel, especially the decoction of bark with nitric acid, F. 1 ; and the Mixture of Moses Griffith, F. 19. Diarrhoea is best combated by pure meat diet and sulphuric acid, F. 24, 25; with small doses of opium. Sometimes the old-fashioned soothing medicines, chalk and bismuth mixtures, &c., are useful, and sometimes gallic acid. Perspirations are relieved, also, by sulphuric acid, and oxide of zinc. SECTION IV.—CHRONIC ABSCESS ; AND TYPHOID SYMPTOMS FROM PUTREFACTION OF PUS. General Description.—Chronic abscesses may be the result of an exudation produced by a low and unsuspected degree of inflammation, or of some non-inflammatory scrofulous deposit. They most frequently are the result of diseased bone. They are mostly lined with a thin,58 CHRONIC ABSCESS. reddish-gray, distinctly-organised cyst;—there is little or no vascu- larity in the parts adjoining;—and the pus usually is thin and flaky. Symptoms.—When first detected, a chronic abscess appears as an obscure tumour, with a fluctuation more or less distinct according to its distance from the surface. It is free from pain, tenderness, swelling, and redness, unless far advanced, or accidentally inflamed. Progress.—These abscesses may attain an enormous magnitude, before the coverings ulcerate. When, however, from the increasing distension, or from some accidental irritation, this does happen, the skin reddens, inHames, and uh^erates, and so the matter is discharged. Terminations.—(1.) In slight cases the interior of the sac granu- lates ;—the reddened skin around the orilice ulcerates;—and the sore so formed may heal. (2.) If the restorative powers are weak, or the abscess is caused by a piece of diseased bone or some other source of irritation whicli is not lemoved, one or more sinuses may remain, (/i.) If, on the other hand, the abscess is very laige, or if, after the admission of air, the pus have not a free exit, a most serious train of consequences will ensue. The pus, exposed to the atmosphere, putre- fies,—the hydrosulphate of ammonia (tlie product of putrefaction) is absorbed into the blood,*—and a train of typhoid sym[)toms comes on precisely like those which were produced by the air of a cesspool in Dr. T. H. Barker's experiments. There is hot and dry skin ; dry and glazed ton'j;ne ; p irclic l lips ; the formation of healthy pus ceases; the pulse is lapid aiiil j.'rluipj;; there is low muttering delirium, and picking of tJie bedclothes and jci king of the muscles of the arms and legs {subsulttis tendinmn); the bowels are ])aralysed and tympanitic, or else probably there is offensive diarrhcca, and the patient, if unrelieved, sinks coma- lose. Prognosis.—Hence, the danger of these abscesses will be great, if the sac has attained a large size, and has advanced so far towards ulceration that a spontaneous and permanent aperture is inevitable, more especially if it is connected with a carious bone which cannot be got at, and which will keep up the secretion of pus. Treatjii-:nt,—Thei'e are three indications: (1.) To amend the general health, and cure diseased bone, &c., or whatever may be the root of the evil. (2.) Absorption of the matter may sometimes be effected by stimu- lants, in cases not arising from diseased bone, aj)plied to the tumour; as the Emp. Ammoniaci cum Hydrarg. ; or F. 160. (3.) But if the tumour becomes large, it should be opened;— especially if there be much redness and thinning of the skin. And a dilfei-ent proceeding is requisite in different cases. If the abscess is superficial and small, a sufficient opening should * It may be detected in the blood and urine. The blood in these cases is black, and refuses to coagulate; which is precisely the effect produced by adding the hydrosulphate of ammonia to healthy blood. Vide M. Bonnet's J'apers in the Med. Gaz. vol. xxi.; Dr. T. H. Barker on Sewer Exhalations; and Richardson on the Blood, Appendix I., 1858.59 CHRONIC ABSCESS. be made to let out the raspberiy-cream-looking matter and the flakes floating in it; and some strips of adhesive plaster should be passed round the part, so as to keep the sides of the sac in apposition with a modei'ate degree of pressure. Thus a free and depending aperture being provided for the pus, the opposing surfaces of the cavity will often gi'anulate and adhere; then the external aperture heals, and the case is cured. If this adhesion does not take place, stimulating injec- tions may be used, such as F. 117 diluted ;—or the cavity may be slit up, and made to heal from the bottom. Large Chronic Abscesses.—If the abscess is very large, or if it is connected with disease of the spine (as in the case of psoas abscess), the surgeon must take care not to let air into the sac; nor to empty the sac suddenly, and leave its sides unsupported ; else when the fluid pressure within is removed, blood will very probably ooze from the delicate vessels, and putrefy. A small puncture should be made at the most depending part of the tumour. Mr. Vincent recommends a trocar. As much matter as flows spontaneously should be permitted to escape, the parietes of the abscess should be brought together by careful bandaging, and then the puncture should be cai-efully closed by collodion or plaster, and the patient be kept at rest till it is healed. During the flow of the matter, the greatest care ought to be taken to prevent the admission of air into the sac. At the expiration of ten days or a fortnight, when it is nearly refilled, a second puncture should be made (but not too near the former), and should be healed again in like manner. This operation should be repeated at proper intervals, taking care never to let the abscess become so distended as it was befoi'e the previous puncture,—and using moderate support by bandages in the intervals. Thus, in fortunate cases, these repeated partial evacuations, combined with proper constitutional measures, may cause the abscess gradually to contract;—so that it either becomes completely obliterated or degenerates into an insignificant fistula.* Perhaps a still safer method is to pass a long narrow knife through the skin, at a little distance from the abscess; then under the skin into the sac, so that the pus may pass through a subcutaneous canal, that shall be thoroughly valvular and exclude the air.f M. Chassaignac's Drainage.—Large chronic abscesses in which there may be risk from sudden emptying of the sac, are just the cases for which the drainage tubes of M. Chassaignac are adapted. These are india-rubber tubes, about ^th inch in diameter, and perforated with numerous holes. Let us suppose a large chronic abscess. M. Chas- saignac takes a long trocar, introduces it at the top of the abscess, and brings it out as near the bottom as may be. Through the canula a drainage tube is inserted ; the canula is withdrawn, leaving the tube, whose ends are tied together for security. Pus oozes out constantly drop by drop, through the tube ; thus the abscess is gradually emp- * William Fergusson's Practical Surgery, 3rd ed. p. 92; and Lancet, Nov. 6, 1841. t W, Adams, Subcutaneous Surgery, p. 48. Lond. 1857.ERYSIPELAS. 60 tied, and kept empty. Two or more tubes may be introduced if need be. But if air have once gained admission into the cavity of the abscess, and the pus have become putrid, and prosti-ation of strength and diy brown tongue show its inHuence on the system, then the indications plainly are, to make free openings and counter-openings, so as to pre- vent all lodgment of the putrid pus; and to wash out the sac occa- sionally with injections of warm water, containing a very little of the solution of iodine. At the same time the strength must be supported, and the evil influence on the blood neutralised by wine, soup, bark, and the nitro-muriatic or sulphuric acid, F. 1, 22, 25. CHAPTER XI. ERYSIPELAS, DIFFUSE INFLAMMATION OF THE CELLULAR TISSUE, AND PYiF.MIA. SECTION I.—PATHOLOGY OF ERYSIPELATOUS INFLAMMATION. Erysipelas is an unhealthy inflammation, which, wherever situ- ated, exhibits the following characters :—It has a disposition to spread widely along the surface of skin or membranes, or in the areolar tissue. The lymph which is formed has no disposition to form a sac, within which the pus shall be confined; on the contrary, it is liable to universal softening, and the exudations are diffused widely, and thus extend the disease into sound parts. Erysipelatous inflammation is liable to attack different parts, sometimes simultaneously, sometimes by metastasis; that is, leaving one part and flying to another, thus giving evidence of its origin in a vitiated state of the blood. The different varieties of erysipelatous disease prevail epidemically together. Thus -Dr. Ferguson tells us, that erysipelas and puerperal fever were generally coexistent in his lying-in hospital, the mothers perishing of one and the infants of the other. These diseases are capable of direct propagation by infection, i. e., through the medium of gaseous emanations, and by contagion. Instances are now common enough, showing that the con- tagion of erysipelas may cause puerperal fever, just as inoculation with the fluids of a female who has died of puerperal fever is a most fatal source of diffuse cellular inflammation to the dissector.* Since hospitals are frequently rather a curse than a blessing through the mortality arising from erysipelatous diseases contracted within their walls, or carried into the lying-in chamber, no pains should be * See Robert Ferguson on Puerperal Fever, p. 29 ; Storrs, of Doncaster, who first clearly proved the common origin of these and other septic diseases, in the Prov. Med. Jour., 23rd April, 1842 ; Nunnely on Erysipelas, Lond. 1841; Dr. G. Gregory on Ochlesis, Lancet for July 15, 1848; Routh on the Puerperal Fever of Vienna, Med. (Jhir. Trans, vol. xxxii.ERYSIPELAS. 61 spared to obviate the causes, and to prevent the \ extension of these diseases. Hospitals should have rooms in which the convalescents should be during the day. The floors should be dry-rubbed and polished, not washed. The walls and ceilings should be whitewashed at regular short intervals. Ventilation should be constantly watched ; a space of at least 1.500 cubic feet be allowed for each patient in a ward. The feather beds and mattresses should be baked, and the bedsteads be taken to pieces and exposed to the air at least once a year. No patient should be put into a bed just quitted by another. The patients should be obliged, when practicable, to use the warm bath and soap, and when not able to do so their feet should be washed often. On the outbreak of the disease, all the inmates who can be moved should be sent away, and the infected ward be shut up. It ought to be a capital oifence, to bring a patient labouring under erysipelas, pyaemia, sloughing sore, profuse and fetid suppuration, or the like, into any ward of a civil hospital amongst other patients. Such persons should be treated in out- buildings, or separate wards by themselves. Surgeons and pupils should not come to the bedside, especially to a midwifery case, immediately from the dead-house or dissecting-room, still less from a case of ery- sipelatous disease. The dressings and bandages used in any case should be destroyed, and tow, which may be destroyed when once used, should be substituted for sponge, which would be used again and again. Bags filled with charcoal should be placed so as to absorb all putrid vapoui's. Disinfectants should be used to all discharges, faeces, &c., and to all sinks, closets, and drains. Condy's, Burnett's, Macdougal's, or chloride of lime may be used, but cheap tincture of iodine is the best of any : this last may be put into plates under the beds to pui'ifv the air, F. 203. SECTION II.—THE CUTANEOUS AND CELLULO-CUTANEOUS ERYSIPELAS. Definition.—Diffused inflammation of the skin, or skin and cellular tissue, with a tendency to spread. Symptoms.—The cutaneous or smj9/e erysipelas is known by redness of the skin, which disappears momentarily on pressure;—considerable pufiy swelling from serous effusion into the cellular tissue ;—and severe stinging, burning, or smarting pain. The redness is generally of a vivid scarlet hue; but it will be faint and yellowish if the disease is attended with much debility, or if it affect the eyelids, scrotum, or other loose cellular parts, where it always produces a good deal of serous effusion. The nearest lymphatic glands are always swelled and tender. In the cellulo-cutaneous or phlegmonous erysipelas the redness is deeper, and sometimes dusky or purple, and it is scarcely, if at all, dis- pelled by pressure;—the swelling is much greater, and is hard, brawny, and tense ;—and the pain is not only burning, but throbbing. Constitutional symptoms.—Both varieties are ushered in with shiver-ERYSIPELAS. 62. ing, headache, pain in the back, nausea, and bilious vomiting; and both are attended with fever, which will vajy in its type according to circumstances. It may be of a sthenic inflammatory character, if the disease affect a young robust countryman : but it soon assumes a low typhoid character if the patient is old and weak ; or if the disease were contracted in some close, foul, ill-ventilated hospital, or if a large por- tion of cellular tissue has begun to slough. Terminations.—The cutaneous erysipelas may terminate, 1, in resolution, leaving nothing but desquamation of the cuticle with slight oedema ; 2, but more i'requently it produces lai-ge bullcB or vesicles from effusion of serum under the cuticle;—and these dry into scabs, which peel off, and leave the cutis either healed, or superficially ulcerated. 3. Sometimes, however, it is followed by small abscesses. The ordinaiy duration is from seven to fourteen days. Before its termination, however, this variety of erysipelas sometimes assumes a lingering erratic character, wandering progressively along the skin, and spreading m one direction as it fades in another. Some- times it disappears entirely from one part, and flies by metastasis to a distant one ; and sometimes it quits the skin suddenly, and some in- ternal oroan is affected with an inflammation having the same constitu- tional characters. Tlie p/i/cj/inonoiis or celhih-cidaneous erysipelas may terminate as favourably as the simple variety;—Init it moi'e geneially leads to un- healthy suppuration ami slon-Iiiiig of the cellular tissue;—in which case the swelliii;^^ bei onies llaccid and qnojigy;—patches of the skin become purple, and covered with livid vesications, and these patches slough, giving exit to a thin saiiious ))iis, and to fiakes of disorganised cellular tissue. And not only the sul)cutaneoiis, but the intermuscular tissue and fascial may slough, rendering the limb useless, even if the patient escape with his life. Moreover, after a very severe attack of erysipelas, the cellular tissue is apt to be left in a hardened, brawny state, through infiltration with lymph. Prognosis.—This must be guarded if the patient is old, enfeebled, and habitually intemperate ;—if the fever is of a low cast; if the malady is situated on the head or throat, and there is coma or great dyspnoea;—or if the erysipelas is of the phlegmonous variety, and a large portion of the cellular tissue and skin is on the point of slough- ing. The return of suppuration in ulcers, and the formation of abscesses, are most favourable signs. Local Varieties.—Erysipelas usually attacks any part of the body which is injured or wounded; and in new-born children the vicinity of the navel; but where there is no external injuiy it usually manifests itself on the forehead : whence it may spread to the scalp, throat, and trunk. Erysipelas of the scalp is apt to be complicated with headache and delirium in the eaily, and coma in the later stages ; and erysipelas of the throat with great dyspnoea. Treatment.—The indications for the constitutional treatment are, to purify the blood and to support Ihe strength;—and for the localERYSIPELAS. 63 treatment, to allay irritation—to arrest the extension of the disease — and to give free exit to sloughs and discharge. Emetics and Purgatives.—On the first occurrence of the symptonis an emetic should be given (F. 98), and be followed by five grains of calomel, and by purgative draughts, every six or eight hours, as long as they bring away hardened lumps, or dark offensive liquid motions. (F. 33, 34.) Antiphlogistic Measures.—Bleeding is said to be required if the patient is young and vigorous, the pulse full and strong, the face flushed, and delirium violent; and if the inflamed part is full, tense, and vividly red, and especially if seated on the head or throat; but in most cases, a small dose of mercury at night, F. 63 ; with very gentle aperients and carbonate or citi-ate of ammonia, K. 58, will suffice, after a good preliminary purging by calomel. The practice of bleeding in zymotic disease belongs to a past generation. Diet.—During the whole course of the disease, the patient should have a good quantity of nourishment; seldom low diet for more than one or two days; but beef-tea, soda-water and milk ; barley-water with lemon-juice, and, in the later stages, good claret or port, even brandy ad libitum, in proportion to the failure of pulse. Tonics.—Bark should be given in all cases as soon as the tongue becomes clean and the skin moist; but it should be resorted to without delay if the pulse is soft, tremulous, or very rapid, the heat modei'ate, and the delirium low and muttering, or if suppuration or sloughing have commenced, F. 1. Opium may be given in full doses at bed-time in the later stages, to allay restlessness, provided there is no cerebral congestion nor coma. If there is great irritation of the stomach, with sickness or diarrhoea, small repeated doses of hydr. c. creta et pulv. ipec. c. should be given with eftervescing draughts, F. 64, 58. Local Measures.—Leeches are useful when the pulse is good, and the redness vivid, and the part throbbing violently, and especially when the throat is inflamed. Minute punctures about one-fifth of an inch deep, made with the point of a lancet, often permit the discharge of considerable quantities of blood and serum; they are rather painful. Gold lotions may be used under similar circumstances. But warm or tepid poppy fomentations will genei'ally be found more soothing, and theoretically are safer than cold.—i^/owr, dusted on the inflamed part, or soft carded cotton wool, is often very soothing in simple eiysipelas. —Pressure by bandages is serviceable in the latter stages of most cases;—and from the very first, if the inflammation be atonic and oedematous.—Stimulants. Painting the surface with solution of nitrate of silver, or blisters, or lotion of chloride of iron, are of great use in creating a healthy exudation, and so putting a stop to tedious erratic cases of simple erysipelas. In similar cases, the extension of the disease may sometimes be arrested by applying the nitrate of silver so as completely to encircle the inflamed part. When there is a tendency to sinking, with diminution or disappearance of the external inflamma-64 PYAEMIA. tioa, warm cloths, moistened with turpentine or sp. camp, may.be applied externally, and bi-andy internally. Incisions are, to use a French expression, the heroic remedy in phleg- monous erysipelas. When the swelling is great, and increases rapidly ; —when it is hard, tense, and resisting, not soft and cedematous, as in simple erysipelas; —when the pain is severe and throbbing ;—when there is the least sensation of fluctuation or quagginess: or when the skin is becoming livid or dusky, or covered with livid vesicles, they are imperatively demanded. They are absolutely necessary for the dis- charge of pus and sloughs ;—for, as James observes, these matters are neither brought to the surface by pointing, nor walled in by adhesion. And they are not merely apertures for the discharge of matter, but a very effectual means of cutting short the inflammation, by l elieving the tension, and by emptying the distended blood-vessels. They are also requisite in erysipelas of the throat, when great swelling threatens suffocation by pressure on the trachea. They should be made of sufficient length—in as many places as required;—they should be carried quite deeply through the diseased tissues, and should be repeated as often as necessary. One, two, or three inches will be a sufficient length in most cases; but it can never be necessary to gash a limb from hip to ankle. They should not be peimitted to bleed long;—and ha'morrhage, if profuse, is best stopped by continued pressure with the fingers on the bleeding points. The subsequent measures are poultices, followed by nitric acid lotion; and bandages to prevent lodgment of matter and sinuses.* During any epidemic of erysipelas, the people within its range are liable to a kind of bilious fever;—i.e., to ail the constitutional symp- toms without the local. SECTION III.—PY.TlMIA, AND THE CONSEQUENCES OF SEPTIC LIQUIDS INTRODUCED INTO THE VEINS. Definition.—Pyaemia is a diseased state of the blood, caused by the introduction of decomposing animal matter; often producing numerous abscesses, or rapid efl"usions of puriform fluid into several organs. Symptoms.—The symptoms are those of puerperal fever, erysipelas, and dissection wounds. If a patient, after parturition, injury, or ope- ration, is seized with severe shiverings, pulse rapid, countenance anxious, weight about the heart, spirits low, healthy suppuration (if any) arrested, tongue dry, tight headache, sleeplessness, sallow skin, and nausea, this disease may be predicated. But there is an almost infinite variety in the further progress and specific symptoms in various cases, depending on varieties in the kind or mode of action of the blood- poison ; and these we proceed to enumerate. I. In some cases the patient sinks; life is extinguished by the * Vide James, op. cit.; Copland, Diet.; Higginbottom on Nitrate of Silver; Copland Hutchinson's Surgical Observations.65 PYEMIA. poisoned state of the blood, without the development of any local disease.> ,2. In a second set the poison expends its chief force on the liver, which exudes an immense quantity of dark bile, discharged by vomit- ing and purging. 3. The bowels may be the part to which the poison is determined ; then, there is great discharge of mucous, or serous, or bilious, or blood}'- liquids, of various colours and foetor, and after death the mucous mem- brane is found intensely congested. This too seems salutary in its in- tention. This second and third set of cases correspond to the bilious and dysenteric forms of puerperal fever. 4. Inflammation of the serous membranes may ensue ; rapid pleurisy, cough, dulness on percussion from effusion of bloody or turbid serum; or pericarditis; or effusion into the head, with delirium and coma; or peritonitis, tenderness and tightness of the abdomen, patient lying on his back, and not breathing with the diaphragm. 5. The skin may be, though less commonly, affected. There may be profuse offensive perspirations, or in some cases an attack of erysipelas, or an eruption of carbuncles, or of pustules like those of small-pox. 6. Lastly, the most characteristic symptom is that from which the name pycemia is derived; namely, the production of profuse suppura- tion. We cannot affirm that pyaemia is caused by absorption of pus,* as such; neither could it be proved if it were so, because it, like ery- sipelas, is attended with enormous production of the white corpuscles of the blood, which are virtually indistinguishable from pus. Yet we know that clots which form in the veins may break up and be disseminated ; and that pysemia most readily follows injuries or diseases of the bones which allow fetid discharges to pass into the veins. There can be no doubt that a portion of the blood, spoiled by this admixture, is de- posited in the form of unhealthy fibrine, which usually softens down into puriform fluid. Thus are formed the abscesses, which are some- times called secondary, or metastatic, or purulent depots,—names which are correct enough, in so far as they imply that the puriform fluid is deposited in, and not elaborated by, the suffering part. What that part shall be is determined by anatomical conditions. The lungs suffer from unhealthy blood brought from any part of the system; thus the low pneumonia following operations is explained. The liver will suffer if the seat of contamination be the abdominal system of veins. Portions of lung or liver may undergo gangrene through embolic obstruction of the artery or vena portae. Abscesses may form in the eye, or the joints, or the areolar tissue; and it is curious to notice how they often occur symmetrically ; in both elbows, or ankles, for instance. They may form with extreme rapidity. The patient, who may be lying in bed, with anxious, sallow countenance and rapid pulse, but no particular local symptoms, may all of a sudden complain of excruciating pain in the shoulder or calf, or some other part. This * See this well stated in Virchow, Cellular Pathology, by Chance, passim. D F66 PYEMIA. may pass off by degrees, with no great or mischievous effusion; or, on the other hand, in a few hours the part so complained of may be found a bag of pus. Diffuse Inflammation of the Cellular Tissue.—This is an important member of the pyaemic group. It appears to be the cellulo-cutaiieous erysipelas, without the affection of the skin. A rapidly-increasing swelling appears on one of the limbs, or on some part of the trunk. Its surface is tense, shining, and usually pale. When pressed upon, it feels in some cases hard and resisting, but more frequently it yields that peculiar, semi-elastic sensation described by the term boggy, or quaggy. There is always most excruciating pain,—which in some cases is burning and throbbing, in others heavy and tensive. The disease is invariably attended with fever of an asthenic character. Tiie pulse is always frequent; it may be sharp and jerking, but is without strength and steadiness. The countenance is anxious and haggard; the mind irritable and desponding, and delirious at intervals ; respiration quick and laborious. In unfavourable cases, low muttering deliriuim, copious offensive perspiration, and jaundiced skin, usher in the fatal termination.* This form of inflammation is produced by dissection wounds, glanders, and snake-bites. Prognosis.—This disease is always serious; often fatal. The pa- tient's chances of recovery may be measured by strength of pulse, clearness of intellect, sleep, or tlie leveise. Repeated shiveriugs are of the worst omen. The disease may prove f ital rapidly; or the patient may linger, and .slowly sink from abscesses or visceral disease; or, he may recover, if the amount of local miscliief is not great, and if the excretory organs are enabled to get rid of the poisonous material before the patient is quite exhausted. The author has been repeatedly struck with the immense quantities of black bile and of lithate excreted by women recovering from slight attacks of puerperal fever. Causes.—1st. The predisposing causes ai'e those that produce a low state of constitution, and render the blood incapable of forming a firm clot; such as profuse loss of blood; deprivation of food; anxiety of mind; organic disease ; impure states of the atmosphere; residence in the contaminated air of an hospital. The fact so well brought out by Mr. Charles Hawkins, that single women are ten times more prone to puerperal fever than married ones, shows the effect of misery and starvation in rendering them prone to pytemia. 2ndly. Disturbance of the coagulum in a wounded vein ; as by exei'cise of an arm after venesection, or imprudent movements soon after parturition; local circumstances interfering with the closure of veins, such as the patulous condition of the veins of bone, of the liver, and of the sinuses in the * See two papers in tlie Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal for 1825, vol. XXV.; Copland's Diet. Art. Cellular Tissue; James on Inflammation; Travers on Constitutional Irritation ; and Butler on Irritative Fever, Devon- port, 1825, which gives an account of an extraordinary visitation of this disease in Plymouth Dockyard in 1824.PHLEGMASIA DOLENS. 67 dura-mater, which allows of the ready passage of diseased fluids into them. A very large proportion of cases of pyaemia are found to follow injuries and operations of the bones. 3rdly. Infection or contagion from puerperal fever or erysipelas ; or inoculation with putrid fluids.* 4thly. It sometimes follows exanthemata or fevers; and sometimes seems to be induced by cold. Treatment.—The leading indications are, 1, to purify the blood; 2, to keep up the strength. For the first purpose it is well to give one ten-grain dose of calomel, and to follow it by purgatives; saline pur- gatives, F. 33, 34, 35, 42, if the bowels are torpid—milder ones, as rhubarb and castor-oil, if they are inclined to diarrhoea; endeavouring to bring away black or yellow fetid stools, not mere water or slime. An emetic may sometimes be of service. For the second purpose, good beef-tea and port wine are of most value; but it will be very desirable to consult the patient's taste. Some patients crave for bottled beer; others for soda water, with or without brandy ; or milk, or lemonade, or nitro-muriatic acid, F. 22, or simple effervescing draughts; and in almost all cases the dictates of appetite may be safely yielded to. Chlorate of potass has a repute; whether deserved or not is another question. Pain and restlessness may be allayed by regular doses of opium, administered in sufficient quantity to produce sleep at night and to tranquillise the nerves ; such as eight or ten grains of Dover's powder at bedtime, with a small dose of hyd. c. creta; and smaller doses of Dover's powder during the day. In other respects, the prac- titioner must treat symptoms : local pain and tenderness by a few leeches and fomentations ; infiammation of pleura, or peritonaeum, or joints, by leeches and bran or mustard-poultices, or blisters ; diarrhoea, if exhausting, must be moderated by chalk or bismuth mixture, and by isinglass; and in all respects the sti-ength should be husbanded, and the constitution assisted in its sti'uggles with this too-fatal disease. Mr, Paget's emphatic declaration at the London Meeting of the British Medical Association'^hould not be forgotten, that the few patients whom he had known to recover owed their lives to being kept in a current of fresh air. Whenever suppuration or puriform deposit takes place, incisions are necessary, on the same principle as in phlegmonous erysipelas. SECTION IV.—PHLEGMASIA ALBA DOLENS. This disease apparently depends on the reception of poisonous fluids into the veins, the coagulation of the blood in them, and the exudation of fibrinous matter into the tissues in which the affected veins and their branches are situated. The symptoms are peculiar, and well expi-essed by the threefold name. There is swelling, considerable, firm, and not (Edematous ; with * See Robert Ferguson on Puerperal Fever, Lend. 1839; Arnott, Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xv.; Henry Lee, Med. Gaz. vol. xxxviii.; London Jouinal of Medicine, March and July, 1850; also Med. Chir. Trans, lor 1852.ULCERATION, 68 the surface of the skin pale ; intense heat; very excruciating pain ; and loss of all power of using the muscles. The importance of this disease depends very much upon the circumstance whether it is purely local, or accompanied by general blood-infection. If local, the consequences are obUteration of venous trunks, obstinate swelling and a?dema of the parts below; perhaps abscesses around the affected veins. If accompanied with pyiemia, there will be some one or more of the consequences of that disease which we have just described. This, like all other diseases of its class, is most common in women after parturition, especially if they have lost much blood; and the open veins of the uterus, and the fetid dischai ges with which they are in contact, furnish a ready explana- tion of the cause. The part affected is generally the thigh. But it is not confined to women, as the following cases from the author's note- book will show. A very stout gentleman had for two years a small fistulous orifice in the ham, resulting from a boil. This became the seat of fresh inflammation, and was freely laid open with great relief. On the fifth day he was rather feverish; there was an ol^scure doughy swelling, not cedematous nor fluctuating, over the inner part of the thigh; there was no pain, but a sense of tightness. This increased during the next throe Jays, and became painful, till the whole thigh was greatly swelled and douoliy, the leg cedematous. A hospital- surgeon insisted that there must be deep-seated suppuration; and made H long and deep gash on the outside of the thigh. The parts cut seemed gelatinous, and exuded very little blood, no pus, and no serum. The pulse gradually rose ; headache, diarrhoea, and delirium came on. The thigh continuing in statu quo, the hospital-surgeon made deep punctures ia the upper part of the limb with a grooved needle : neither serum nor pus exuded. Death on the twentieth day. The writer has also seen it in a gentleman recovering fi-om a sloughing sore produced by scarlet fever. Treatment.—For the local symptoms, nothing answers so well in the case of women, as warm poppy fomentations, or bran poultices sprinkled with laudanum ; and, later in the case, gently sitiearing with opiate liniments, F. 147, and wrapping up in flannel bandages. ' The bowels should be gently relieved. Opium should be given to allay the pain., All lowering and violent; remedies are hurtful.* CHAPTER XII. ULCERATION. SECTION I.—THE PATHOLOGY OF ULCERATION. Definition.—Ulceration consists in the progressive softening and disintegi'ation of successive layers of the ulcerating tissue. Pathology.—One of the most vexed questions in pathology is, what is an ulcer ? And this is seen in the disputations about the so-called ulcers * See Mackenzie on Phlegmasia Dolens.ULCERATION. 69 of the cervix uteri. Some say that a given disease is ulcer, others that it is not. We shall endeavour to be precise, by separating excoriation or epithelial sore, or chafing of skin or mucous membrane, from ulcer. (1.) By excoriation, we mean a loss of epithelium, or change in the character of epithelium. Thus, if the skin in the chinks and creases of a fat child's thighs be kept moist and dirty, the dry cuticle is replaced by a secretion of purulent stuff. If the cuticle be stripped off the skin by violence, or if it be raised by scalding water or any other vesicant, the same happens. A mucous surface may have en- larged papillge and copious secretion of epithelium and pus, and look like an ulcer, but no loss of substance. Hence, in many so-called ulcers of skin and mucous membrane there is no chasm or loss of sub- stance, rather the reverse. Enlarged papillae and profuse secretion of epithelium of all grades between healthy epithelium and pus, constitute the patches known as intertrigo, raised ulcer, and mucous tubercle. There are many conditions of the skin, such as psoriasis, in which there is increased vascularity and copious growth of epithelium, which do not resemble ulcers, because the epithelium is dry; but if similar patches appear on the fauces, or any other moist surface, they look like raised ulcers. (2.) True ulcers generally begin as excoriations. Then the skin beneath begins to melt away, its surface being covered with a tenacious slimy matter. If this is wiped off, or separates, the surface underneath is seen to be red, and it easily bleeds. Supposing the case to pi'oceed, there is formed a chasm, eaten into irregular hollows with intervening red eminences, which easily bleed if touched; its edges are ragged or undermined; the surrounding skin red, hot, and swollen ; there is a thin serous or bloody discharge, and a severe gnawing pain. An ulcer having these characters is called inflamed, or irritable, and may always be considered as extending itself. Pathology.—The ulcerative process consists, as was shown bj Goodsir, of two apparently incompatible processes—one formative, one destructive. It usually happens that a part whose vitality is already impaired, such as the skin of the leg of a dirty old woman whose veins are varicose, becomes inflamed. It becomes somewhat infiltrated with lymph or cell growth ; this softens and perishes, and the infiltrated skin with it bit by bit. In some ulcers very little of the formative element is seen, healthy or morbid. Such ulcers are indol&nt. Such are the ulcers of the mucous membrane of the stomach, of the cornea, &c., which have sharp edges, looking as if punched out, but with no swelling, redness, or other sign of action. Others evidently depend for their spread on the increase of a morbid cell-growth with which they began ; such as the syphilitic, scrofu- lous, epithelioma, cancerous, typhoid and tubercular ulcers of the intestines, &c. The morbid cell-growth in the form of granulations often attains such dimensions as to be called fungous; and as it resembles fungi in cellular structure, so it does also in the rapidity with which it may perish and rot, or slough.70 VAEIETIES OF ULCERATION. Predisposing Causes.—^The Tissues most disposed to ulceration are the skin, and the mucous and synovial membianes. The areolar tissue ulcerates very easily, but muscles, blood-vessels, and nerves, very slowly ; so that they often appear to be as it were dissected out in spreading sores, by the destruction of the areolar tissue around them. Tendons and ligaments are also very slow to ulcerate owing to their physical qualities; but cartilage, bone, and the cornea are in certain constitutions extremely liable to it. The serous membranes very rarely ulcerate primarily.* The Constitutions most liable to ulceration are those which are weak. Anaemic maid-servants have ulcers of the stomach ; scrofulous children have ulcers of the skin, cornea, and synovial membrane; and feeble old persons give way in the legs. The parts most disposed to it are those whose circulation is most weak and languid ; such as the legs: and more especially if the veins be varicose. Tall persons are said to be more frequently affected with ulcers of the legs than the short. Defect of nervous influence predisposes parts to ulcerate or mortify. Ulcers of the cornea have followed injury to the fifth, and ulceration of the hand has followed injuries of the median nerve.f (See p. 34.) Exciting Causes.—In constitutions or parts predisposed to it, the slightest irritation may be sutHcientto excite ulceration. In the healthy it may be produced by the continuous application of some irritant, such as continued pressure, or contact with poisonous secretions. Ulcers piospiit manv varieties, which may be classed under three heads. 1. //rn/ini/.—Tliey may be in a state tending to reparation; as the healtiiy nicer. 2. Stationary,—Their surface may have an imperfect form of organisation, under which they may be incapable of healing, though they are not necessarily spreading ; the weak and in- dolent ulcers aie examples. 3. Spreadmg.—They may be under the influence of the destructive process which formed them originally, and which is still causing them to spread; as the phagcda;nic. SECTION II.—the varieties OF ULCERS. I. The Healths or Healing Ulcer is nothing more than a healthy granulating and cicatrizing surface. The granulations are small, numerous, florid, and pointed, and yield a moderate secretion of healthy pus. The edges are smooth and covered with a white or bluish semi-transparent pellicle, which is gradually lost on the margin of the granulations. In favourable cases such an ulcer may cease to granulate and suppurate, and may fill up with moist lymph, which rapidly cicatrizes. Treatment.—The only treatment required will be a little dry lint, * There is a specimen of ulceration of peritonseal coat of stomach. Organs of Digestion, 76, Mus^e Dupuytren, Paris. t See cases quoted by Paget. Med. Gaz. N.S. vol. iv. p. 1023. Paget's Lec- tures by Turner, 2nd ed. p. 32. Hilton, Lectures on Rest, p. 192. Brown Sequard. Lectures on Central Nervous System. Philadelphia, 1860.71 VARIETIES OF ULCERATION. if there be much discharge, or the water-dressing, or simple ointment, if there be not. If there be not much discharge, the dressings should not be changed more frequently than every second or third day. If the granulations are too luxuriant, they may be touched with lunar caustic, or washed with some astringent lotion (F. 117), and dressed with dry lint. If the granulating surface is very extensive, or if all applica- tions disagree with it, as sometimes happens, it will be expedient to form a scab on its surface ; by sprinkhng a little challc on the surface, or by passing a stick of lunar caustic over the surface of the sore, as recom- mended by Mr. Higginbottom. This salt instantly coagulates the fluids on the sore, and forms a white pellicle, which soon becomes dry and black, and is much less irritating than an ordinary scab. If the scab act favourably, suppuration ceases, and cicatrization will be found complete when it is detached. II. The Inflamed Ulcer, with which we may conjoin the Irri- table Ulcer, are hot, tender, and subject to gnawing pain. The surface is red and easily bleeds; the discharge is thin and ichorous. The usual situation is the leg; the class affected, the labouring population; the predisposing cause, an unhealthy state of skin from degeneration of the veins; the exciting cause, any injury whatever occurring at a time when the health is deranged, A thin, foul, copious discharge is gene- rally a true natural process of elimination, and requires purgatives. Treatment.—^The patient should be kept in bed with the limb raised on a pillow. The first point is to amend the general health. For this purpose, if the tongue is white, and the patient feverish, active purga- tives must be given (F. 33), with sahnes (F. 39). For the local treat- ment, in the first place soothing applications should be resorted to; and the author, from very extensive experience, most strongly recommends the poppy lotion (F. 121) applied warm, by means of pieces of lint covered with oiled silk, and changed three times daily. Washing should be eflected without touching the sore. Plain bread-and-water poultices (F. 153) and lead lotion sometimes answer well. If warm applications aggravate the pain, cold evaporating, or saturnine lotions (F. 115, &c.) should be used, the sore being protected by a piece of oiled silk or simple dressing. When feverishness has been relieved, and the bowels well opened, pain may be relieved by henbane, or hemlock, or F. 30; or, if very severe, and there is great mental anxiety, the patient should have such a dose of solid opium at night as will insure sleep, and such smaller doses during the day as may be requisite. Then if the soothing plan ceases to do good, very mild stimulants may lie tried, in the form of lotions, applied by means of small pieces of liut thoroughly soaked, laid gently on the sore, and not beyond the edges, and covered with oiled silk, or lint thickly spread with spermaceti ointment. The lotions of nitrate or acetate of lead, or of zinc (F. 116), and black wash, are the best. Should these not answer, and the pain of the ulcer depend evidently on irritable surface, and not on inflam- mation, the surface may be destroyed by lunar caustic, or by nitric acid.INDOLENT ULCER. 72 III. The Weak Ulcer has large, pale, flabby, and insensible gra- nulations rising above the margin of the skin, and showing no disposition to cicatrize. IV. The Indolent Ulcer has its surface smooth and glassy, and of a pale, ashy colour, like a mucous membrane. Sometimes, however, it displays a crop of weak fungous granulations. The edges are raised, thick, white, and insensible; the discharge scanty and thin. Such ulcers are often stationary for a great length of time; but from any slight cause of irritation, may enlarge rapidly by ulceration or slough- ing ; and even when they have made considerable progress in healing, the granulations and cicatrices that have been months in forming may perish in a few hours from some constitutional disturbance or local injury. Treatment.—The general rules are, to promote constitutional vigour by good diet and tonics, to excite the local action by various stimulants, and to support the venous circulation in the affected part. The following is perhaps the best plan of curing these ulcers. A number of pieces of lint, throroughly soaked in the nitric acid lotion, should be laid on the sore, and be covered with a warm soft poultice. These applications should be changed twice a day, and be continued till the discharge becomes healthy, and granulations begin to arise. During this time the patient should be confined to bed and be purged. Afterwards, when the surface is clean, the following mode of dressing may be adopted. First, some pieces of lint, saturated with the nitric acid lotion, or zinc lotion, or with some other stimulating substance, should be laid on the sore. Then strips of adhesive plaster, about 1^ inch wide, should be applied two-thirds round the limb, from an inch below the ulcer to an inch above it; and in applying each strip, the edges of the sore should be drawn together with a moderate degree of force. Next, a compress of soft linen should be placed over the plaster, and, finally, the limb should be well and evenly bandaged from the toes to the knee; observing that the bandage is to be applied most tightly below, and more loosely by degrees as it ascends.73 INDOLENT ULCER. The frequency with which the dressings should be changed must depend on the state of the discharge ; for if that be profuse they should be changed every day; otherwise from twice to four times a week will suffice. One thing scarcely noticed by writers, but perhaps of more con- sequence than most plasters, is the observance of perfect cleanliness. When it is considered how filthy the habits of many persons are, who often leave their legs and feet unwashed for weeks and months to- gether, it cannot be wondered that skin so neglected should, in the decline of life, possess a very imperfect vitality; and the author is convinced by experience, that daily washing the lower limbs with a piece of flannel and yellow soap and water, is one of the best means of reviving their decayed powers. During this plan of treatment, the patient may, after the first few days, walk about moderately; but he should not stand about, nor sit with the leg hanging down. If the common strapping irritate tlie skin, the empl. plumbi, spread upon cheap thin split leather, or the isinglass plaster, will answer better. But although the plastering and bandaging are adapted for most cases, the immediate application to the ulcer will require to be fre- quently varied. Sometimes the strapping may be applied without anything else ; or dry lint may be placed under it; or lint imbued with lotions of sulphate of copper, or alum ; or with lotions made by adding half an ounce of the tuicture of myrrh, or of benzoin (comp.), or aloes (comp.), to four ounces of water; or the balsams of copaiba or Peru; but metallic preparations agree better in general than the vegetable. The author fancies that resinous lotions and ointments are best when the skin is irritable and eczematous, or covered with scales of cuticle which readily peel off. In such cases plasters cannot be borne. The ung. hyd. nitric, oxid. is very useful;—and the ung. hydrarg. nitrat. dilut. is praised for its efficacy in reducing thick cal- lous edges. The green ointment is worth a trial. F. 171. Particular Plans of Treatment.—From the middle of the last cen- tury, when the surgeons of St. Thomas's Hospital were in treaty with an apothecary in Half Moon Street for the purchase of an infallible method of healing ulcers, or rather from time immemorial to the pre- sent, the multitude of plans recommended for the treatment of ulcers shows but too truly that they all often fail. Pressure forms the basis of many plans ; as Baynton's and Scott's, according to which the affected limb is enclosed in strips of plaster, regularly applied fi'om the foot upwards.* A well-applied calico bandage is always of service. A laced stocking, or elastic stocking, is still better. Pressure may be combined with exclusion of the atmo- * Baynton, T., Descriptive Account of a New Method of Treating Old Ulcers of the Legs, Bristol, 1797 ; Burnes, Lancet for 1847, vol. i.; Critchett, James Arnott, Chapman, and others in Lancet for 1848 and 1849 ; Burgess's Cazenave, p. 288 ; Gay, Lancet, 1853, vol. i, p. 566.74 INDOLENT ULCER. sphere; as in the plan of Mr. Stafford, who recommends old, deep, in- dolent ulcers to be treated by filling up their cavity with a mixture of one part of Venice turpentine, and four of bees'-wax, melted, and poured in warm. Mr. Syme covers an indolent ulcer with a blister. M. Malgaigne is said to use in some cases a warm ii'on held at a little distance from the ulcer, so as to dry its surface. Heated air, ov fiimigation with vapour of suiphuret of mercury, or of iodine with sulphur, has been used by Mr. G. A. Wallver and others. The affected limb is put into a tin case, or large jar, provided with a heated iron at tlie bottom, and with a grating above this, to prevent the patient from being burnt. On the heated iron there is to be sprinliled, just before the patient's limb is subjected to the treatment, a powder composed of thirty grains of sul- phur, six of cinnabar, and two of iodine ; and the top of the apparatus should be covered with a thick cloth, to prevent the vapour from escaping. The limb may be thus fumicrated for fifteen minutes every day, and the quantity of iodine gradually increased fourfold. Mr. Gay has called attention to the fact that cicatiization proceeds only from the cutis vera, and, consequently, from the edges of an ulcer ; that there appears to be great difficulty in cicatrizing a wide surface ; and that nature causes the skin to contract, so as to cover the vacancy, in preference to forming a large cicatrix ;—and that the healing of many ulcers is delayed because the surrounding skin cannot contract; either through adhesions which bind it down to the subjacent parts, or through extensive loss of skin, or from the fact that the sore is situated on a projecting part, as the ankle. Hence he proposes, in some cases, to liberate the edges of the sore by incisions parallel to, and at a little distance from them ; or to excise the edges and surface of the ulcer, when firmly bound down by hardened tissue. Should old ulcers be healed?—The propriety of healing old ulcers has ot'ten been made a question, inasmuch as certain diseases, and especially apoplexy, palsy, and mania have been said to come on after- wards. Sir E. Home specified the following cases in which a cure ought not to be attempted. 1. If the ulcer be "evidently affected with the gout, having regular attacks of pain, i-eturning at stated periods; and those attacks similar to what the patient has experienced from gout in other parts." 2. If an ulcer habitually occur whenever the constitution is disordered. 3. If the patient be very infirm and old ; for under these circumstances the removal of an habitual source of irritation, or the diversion of an habitual afflux of blood may prove fatal; more especially as very old ulcers have been known to heal spon- taneously a short time before death. To these cases must be added that of ulcers on the legs of stout women, about the critical time of life, and displaying a tendency to discharge copiously as the periodic uterine flux diminishes. On this point we may observe, 1, that in the case of every habitual ulcer, purgatives should be freely used during the cure, and for some time after it. 2. That if, spite of this, there be symptoms of conges- tion in the head, an issue or a seton in a convenient situation may75 VARICOSE ULCER. answer the purpose of an ulcer in an inconvenient one : and, therefore, that with these safeguards ulcers on the legs may always be healed,—• if possible. VI. Fistula, or Sinus, consists of a narrow channel lined by a pale pseudo-mucous membrane, which may or may not lead to a suppurat- ing cavity. In old cases the parietes of the tube are often dense and semi-cartilaginous. Causes.—Fistulas are produced when abscesses are not thoroughly healed from the bottom ; when there has been a defect in the bandag- ing or in providing proper outlets for the discharge ; or when thei'e is some standing cause of irritation, as a ligature, or a piece of dead bone, which keeps up a discharge of pus. Treatment.—The first indication is to remove any source of irritation that may happen to exist, and diseased bone should alwaj'^s be looked for. The second, to prevent the lodgment of matter; for which pur- pose it may perhaps be necessary to make another opening. The third indication is to pi'oduce, by stimulating injections, especially the strong caustic lotion, the destruction of the pseudo-mucous lining, and to cause the exudation of plastic matter, so as to fill np the fistula. At the same time the sides of it should be kept constantly pressed together with compress and bandage. If these means fail, the fistula should be slit up with a bistoury; and then a thin piece of lint be introduced in order to prevent premature union of the cut edges, and make it heal from the bottom. If there have been a succession of small unhealthy abscesses in a part, or if ulceration have spread irregularly in the cellular tissue, so as to leave the skin ragged and extensively undermined with tortuous sinuses, it may be advisable to destroy the whole of the parts so diseased by the potassa fusa; and this will stimulate the neighbouring sound parts, so that when the slough separates, a healthy surface will be left, which may be healed by the ordinary means.* VII. The Varicose Ulcer occurs in consequence of a varicose state of the veins of the lower extremity. This greatly impedes the return of blood, and, by producing habitual venous congestion, weakens the parts, and renders them prone to ulceration. The uU-.ers are usually three or four in number, situated above the ankle. They are oval in shape, indolent in their progress, and neither extensive nor deep ; but they are attended with considerable pain, which is of a deep-seated, aching character. The Treatment must be directed principally to the veins; and for this we must refer to the chapter on that subject. We will merely observe here, that the applications to the ulcers must be suited to their condition, whether irritable or indolent; and that great relief to the pain is sometimes obtained by opening one of the enlarged vessels, and abstracting a moderate quantity of blood. The advantages of proper support by bandages or laced stockings, or by encasing the limb in strapping from the foot upwards, need scarcely to be noticed. Some- * Listen, Elements of Surgery.76 PHAGEDENIC ULCER. times there is a constant desquamation of the cuticle, with serous dis- charge, for whicli the best remedies are equal parts of lime-water and! milk, or the ointment of chalk, F. 164, or oxide of zinc, or F. 131, or 188. VIII. The Sloughing Ulcer is formed whenever either of the other varieties of ulcer is attacked with sloughing,—which is particu- larly liable to occur to the indolent^ when subjected to undue irritation. Or, this name may be given to ulcers originally produced by a slough- ing of the skin,—as on the legs of the dropsical. Treatment.—The best applications are warm fomentations of poppy decoction, to which a little spirit has been added ; poultices of yeast or carrots; or the nitric acid or chloride of lime lotion on lint; or the creosote ointment, F. 163, which the author particularly recom- mends. IX. Phagedena is a peculiar variety of ulceration in which copious exudation, and infiltration of the affected part, go hand in hand with rapid decomposition. The surface of the sore is irregular, generally whitish or yellowish ; the discharge serous or bloody, and often extremely pro- fuse ; and the pain extreme. Some cases are attended with fever and acute inflammation, the margin of the sore being highly painful, swelled, and red,—others with atony and debility, the margin being pale, dusky, or livid. Causes.—This disease may be induced either by extraordinary local irritation, or by some peculiar constitutional disorder. It may attack primary or secondary venereal sores, in consequence of filth, intemper- ance, the abuse of mercury, or of a weakened and vitiated, or scrofulous habit, or of some peculiarity in the venereal virus. Sometimes it appears in the throat after scarlatina; it may attack a blistered surface when the constitution has greatly suffered from an acute and exhausting disease, as measles, &c. ; sometimes it affects the mouth or genitals of children, constituting cancrum oris, noma, &c. Treatment.—One of two courses may be taken. The soothing, con- sisting in the administration of opium with bark, wine, and good nourishment, and the local applications directed for irritable ulcers, especially a weak solution of tannin, F. 131. This will often be found successful; if not, recourse may be had to the destruction of the diseased surface by caustics, in the manner described in p. 78. X. Sloughing Phagedena, or Hospital Gangrene, is a state most closely allied to diphtherite, or to the dry rot in timbex-, in which there are rapid propagation and decay of some parasitic growth, and of the tissue which it infests. Its causes are, (1) great local irritation^ combined with a vitiated state of the constitution. (2) Contagion ; that is, the application of poisonous matter to a wound: and (3) infection ; that is, the reception of poisonous miasmata into the blood. We shall first treat of it as it occurs sporadically in civil practice, where it bears the name of sloughing phagedcena: and next, of those more serious visitations that decimate the patients in crowded naval or77 HOSPITAL GANGRENE. military hospitals, whence it derives its other name, hospital gan- grene.^ Thirty or forty years ago it was common in London hospitals, especially in the case of young prostitutes, who had been exposed to cold and wet, drink, starvation, venereal sores and discharges, and a wretched vagrant life ;—especially, too, if salivation were superadded. Now it is seen from time to time in the prostitutes who lie out in Hyde Park. It is especially liable to be induced by the too free administra- tion of mercury, or by intemperance and exposure to Avet during a mercurial course. The worst cases, however, appear to arise from, neglected local irritation without any specific virus; as frorn acrid discharges and defective cleanliness. Mr. Lawrence mentions the case of a young woman who had suffered from severe small-pox, and from diarrhoea after it. The continual moisture from the rectum, with a mucous discharge from the vagina, irritated and inflamed the skin of the nates, and caused a large sloughing phagedaenic excavation on both sides. Symptoms.—*' It usually commences as a highly-irritable and pain- ful boil, surrounded by a halo of dusky-red inflammation, and much elevated ; the patient also in general having mucous discharges from the vagina, and a diffused redness of integument in the vicinity of the pudenda." There are severe darting and stinging pains, which are at first intermittent, but gradually establish themselves as a constant symptom, with occasional exacerbations. When the pustule is ruptured, the exposed surface of the idcer displays a stratum of ad- herent straw-coloured flocculi, mottled with darker points of reddish- brown and gray. The sore thus formed soon enlarges in breadth and depth ; the edges become everted, and attended with a circumscribed thickening which is surrounded by dusky inflammation and diffused puffy swelling. The surface is composed of gray or ash-coloured sloughs, which may become brown, or resemble coagula of blood. The discharge is reddish-brown, and peculiarly foetid, and there is occa- sionally severe hgemorrhage. Meanwhile the agonising pain, the haemorrhage, and the absorption of putrid matters, soon induce severe irritative fever,—with loss of sleep, anxiety, restlessness, thirst, and exhausting diarrhoea;—which, if not relieved, may produce death in about three weeks; and, as delirium is rare, the patient retains a miserable consciousness of severe suflei-ing to the end.f Hospital Gangrene is the name given to this affection when occurring in military and naval practice. It is engendered by crowding together a number of sick and wounded men, and by inattention to * In civil hospitals any serious attack of hospital gangrene is almost unheard of. Yet it appeared in 1844 in University College Hospital. Liston, Lancet, 1845, vol. i. p. 57. In the Middlesex Hospital in 1835, South's Chelius, vol. i. p. 67. The disease appeared in St. Bartholomew's Hospital and in St. George's in 1847; C. Hawkins, Med. Gaz. iST.S., vol. iv. p. 1026. An account of its ravages in the British camp after the battle of Ferozepore, by Mr. Taylor, sur- geon to the 29th Regt., is quoted by Guthrie, Lancet, 1848, vol. ii. p. 714. t Welbank, Med. Chir. Trans vol. xi.; Lawrence, Med. Gaz. vol. v.78 HOSPITAL GANGRENE. cleanliness and ventilation. It frequently is a concomitant of dysentery or typhus, originating in the same sources. It may affect any kind of wound, or even a mere bruise. Symptoms.—According to Mr. Blackadder, it begins in the form of a livid vesicle at the edge of a wound or soi'e, accompanied with an occasional painful sensation like the sting of a gnat. Sometimes it first appears as a small livid spot on the sore, and near its circumference. In either case the disease soon spreads, and converts the whole surface of the ulcer into an ash-coloured or blackish slough. The discharge, if previously healthy, is at first diminished in quantity, and sanious 5 but soon becomes profuse, dirty yellowish, or brown, and ofiensive. Ac- cording to Mr. Blackadder, the hospital gangrene is at first a purely local affection, like the sloughing phagedgena; and he says that the constitutional symptoms do not make their appearance before the third or fourth, sometimes not till the twentieth day.* But the disease, as observed by Dr. Hennen, began with constitu- tional symptoms, lieadache, nausea, perhaps bilious vomiting, quick pulse, hot skin, and an inflamed, dry, glassy, and painful state of the wound ; to whicli succeedeil sloughing of the surface of the wound, great swelling of the edges, and the other local and constitutional symptoms of sloughing phageda'na.f It thus appeal's that tiie hospital gangrene may be either a local dis- ease, caused by the influence of poisonous matter on a wound, or that it may be constitutional from the first, and be caused by the absorption of a septic poison into the blood. Treatment.—The indications in the treatment of all the forms of sloughing phagedaena are, 1, to destroy the diseased surface and its ! secretions; and 2, to correct the disorder of the system. The first iuilication is to be carried into efliect by means of caustics. The concentratcfl niti ic acid may be used in the following mode, as directed by Mv. Welbank. In the first place the soie must be thoroughly cleansed, and all its moisture be absorbed by lint or tow. The surrounding parts must next be defended with a thick layer of ointment: then a thick pledget of lint, which may be conveniently fastened to the end of a stick, is to be imbued with the acid, and to be pressed steadily on every part of the diseased suiface till the latter is conveited into a dry, firm, and insensible mass. This application of course causes more or less pain for the moment; but, when that subsides, the patient expi-esses himself free from his previous severer sufferings. The part may then be covered with simple dressings and cloths wet with cold water. " It is always prudent, often necessary," says Mr. Welbank, "to remove the eschar at the end of sixteen or twenty hours, and then, if the patient be free from pain, and the ulcer healthy and florid, it is to be treated with common stimulating dressings, * Observations on Phagedasna Gangrenosa, by H. Home Blackadder, Edin- burgh, 1818; Guthrie, Commentaries on Military Surgery, 6th ed. t Principles of Military Surgery, by John Hennen, M.D., F.R.S.E., 3rd ed., London, 1829,pp. 217, .56(7. ,• Sir G. BallingaU's Military Surgery; Dr. Boggie on Hospital Gangrene, Edinburgh, 1848; Velpeau, Lancet, 1848, vol. ii. p. 172.GANGRENOUS INFLAMMATION. 79 such as cerat. calaminse, or solution of avgenti nitras, or a cerate of tur- pentine, which may be melted and poured in warm." If, however, there be any recurrence of pain, or the least reappearance of the disease, the acid is again and again to be applied till a healthy action is restored. Many other caustics and antiseptics have been used for the same purpose, as arsenic, creosote, iodine, &c. The French prefer the actual cautery. Some surgeons have been successful with much milder ap- plications; as solution of opium, and even saturated solution of sugar. But the Americans, from their large experience in their unhappy war, prefer bromine, applied so as to saturate the diseased surface,* As for the general treatment;—the patient sliould be narcotized by chloroform during the application of the caustic. Opium should be given in sufficient doses to procure sleep at night, and to relieve pain during the day. If the disease, as observed by Hennen, begin with shivering and fever, the treatment may be begun with purgatives, as directed for erysipelas, p. 63, to which this disease is most nearly allied. Bandages should be applied to a stump^ so as to check the tendency to exuda- tion. The same ruies are applicable also as regards diet, since it is on wine or brandy, beef-tea, and other forms of nourishment, and yellow bark with nitric acid, that the surgeon's chief dependence is to be placed. Change to a pure dry air, free ventilation, and destruction of all putrescent matters, need not be more than mentioned. XI. Gangrenous Inflammation of Muscle, as described by Dr. Lyons,! from his observations in the Crimea, generally affected soldiers who had received wounds, or suffered amputation in the thigh. With little or no swelling or pain, or change in the skin, the muscles gradually melted down into a soft, putrid, shreddy mass, and were dis- charged with immense quantities of fetid ichor. Indistinct febrile symptoms, with diarrhoea, accompanied the local disorder. The patients were generally exhausted by haemorrhage and discharge in the course of from two to six weeks. XII. Malignant Pustule (Charbon) is a contagious and very fatal disease, common in France, but almost unknown in England. It com- mences as a little dark-red spot, with a stinging or pricking pain, on which there soon appears a pustule or vesicle seated on a hard inflamed base. When this is opened, it is found to contain a slough, black as charcoal; and the sloughing rapidly spreads, involving skin and cellular tissue, and sometimes the muscles beneath. The account given of this malady by the continental writers is ex- ceedingly confused ; but it appears certain that it is caused by infection or contagion from horned cattle, which at certain seasons are affected with a precisely similar disease ; and it further appears that, like hos- pital gangrene, it may commence in two ways:—By general infection * Ample evidence of the superiority of bromine is given by Frank H. Hamilton, Am. Med. Times, Oct. 31, 1863, and by Drs. Moses and Thomson, Am. J. Med. Sc., April, 1864. ]t arrests the disease when nitric acid fails, and effects cures quickly. Dr. Hachenbach advises turpentine, Am. Med. Times, May 28, 1864. t Report on the Pathology of the Army in the East, Lond. 1856.80 LUPUS NON EXEDENS. of the system, from respiring air loaded with miasmata from diseased animals, or from eating their flesh ; or by local inoculation of the dis- eased fluids. Mr. Lawrence gives an account of a man in Leadenhall Market, who accidentally smeared his face with some stinking hides from South America. The part touched by the putrid matter very soon became red, and swelled, and mortified, and the mortification spread over half the cheek. He lias also met with two other cases alFecting persons in a horse-hair manufactory. It is believed that flies which have alighted on the ulcers of the diseased animals convey the virus, and infect other animals and human beings. The constitutional symptoms and morbid appearances are those of putrid typhus ; the treatment, both constitutional and local, is the same that we have directed for hospital gangrene.* XIII. The Ulcer of the Cellular Membrane, which burrows under the skin and destroys that tissue, must be treated as the fistulous or weak, according to circumstances. XIV. Menstrual Ulcer. This name is given to ulcers occurring in chlorotic young women, and exuding a sanguineous fluid at the time of their monthly discharge, if that be absent. Wounds made in ope- rating will frequently do the same. Treatment.—The chlorosis must be remedied by steel, aloes, &c., and the ulcer be treated on general principles. XV. Lupus non Exedens (Serpiginous Ulcer of the Face) is a most obstinate form of ulcer affecting the face, chiefly of young women of a delicate or scrofulous constitution. It begins either as a shining, soft, circumscribed swelling of the skin, usually on one ala of the nose, which ulcerates ; or else as a mere crack or small excoriation, covered with a thin scab, under which it slowly spreads. When the scab is removed, the discharge, which is scanty and viscid, soon dries and forms another larger one. The ulcer is constantly spreading in one direction, and healing in another; it may last for years, and wander over the whole face, completely destroying perhaps the alse of the nose or the eyelids, but in other parts not penetrating the entire thickness of the true skin. The cicatrix is excessively irregular and shining, and of a dense whiteness, causing perhaps eversion of the eyelids and distortion of the features ; in some parts it feels soft and pulpy. The cause and pathology of this affection are unknown. Ulcers of the same nature infest the lining membrane of the nose, the stomach, and intestines of scrofulous young women. The treatment consists in the use of soothing local applications, such as water-dressing, black wash, or very weak solution of nitrate of silver or of lead, and of a nutritious diet, cod-liver oil, sarsaparilla, bark, iodide of iron, and other tonics; in some cases of the chloride of arsenic in the dose of ten drops thrice daily at meal times, F. 97, from which the author has seen remarkable benefit in cases treated by Mr. Hunt. A mild purgative, F. 38, should * Lawrence, Med. Gaz. vol, v. p. 392; Diet, de M6d. AH. Charbon, PustuU maligne; Schwabe, Brit, and For. Eev. vol. vii. p. 550 ; Lend. Med. Gaz., 21st Oct. 1842; South's Chelius, vol. i. p. 65.81 LUPUS EXEDENS. be given just before the menstrual period. If the surface form a scab, the writer finds it best to use no application at all. XVI. Lupus Exedens ( Corroding ulcer of Clarke, ulcere Rongeante, Rodent ulcer of Paget; Cancroide of Lebert; Esthiomene of Huguier ; chancrous, or cancerous ulcer, and Noli me tangere of older writers*) is an ulcer characterised by slow but constant increase, rebellious to all mild measures of treatment, and ultimately leading to fatal consequences, if not checked. Examples of it are found in the corroding ulcer of the uterus ; and in the lupus, or so-called cancroid ulcer of the skin of the face. It may aftect pharynx, oesophagu;5, or rectum. The exact pathology and cause of the disease are unknown. It is not cancerous ; there is no infiltration of cancer cells nor yet of epithelium ; the part affected ulcerates cleanly away, as if cut out with a punch, but up to the edge of the ulcer the tissues seem healthy, or at least contain such elements as are found in the base of all ulcers ; and there is neither swelling nor hardness nor adhesion of the part, nor of the ad- joining lymphatics. The corroding ulcer of the uterus is most common in women past child-bearing ; lupus exedens of the face in persons above forty, especially women. The parts of the face most commonly affected are the nose and the cheek below the eye. The disease may begin as a small vascular wart, as a smooth red shining tubercular swelling of the cutis vera, as a little elevation like a mole covered with dried cuticle, or as a small chap, or fissure. In this condition it may last for an almost indefinite time, till at length it spreads, forming a foul excavated irregular ulcer, with glassy non-granulating surface, and scanty ichorous discharge, eating away all before it in breadth and depth, till not merely the nose, or cheek, or eyelid may have perished, but the entire face is converted into one horrid chasm, with the eyeball dropping into the mouth. Treatment.—Everything may be hoped from free and early caute- rization ; but recollecting the name noli me tangere, the surgeon must be careful to destroy thoroughly, and not irritate by inetiicient mea- sures. Of caustics, therefore, the most energetic should be chosen, such as acid nitrate of mercury, F. 195; the Vienna paste (or compound of caustic potass with quicklime); the chloride of zinc, or arsenic. Of these, the arsenic is that which from long experience is believed to be the most efficacious. The most convenient mode of applying it is in the form of Manec's paste; which is composed of 15 grains of white arsenic, 75 of cinnabar, and 35 of burnt sponge, made into a thick paste, with a few drops of water. This should be thinly spread on the whole surface (previously cleansed from discharge and scabs) of the ulcer, if small ; or on a small portion of its surface if large, and be coveied * TJre on Lupus and the Chloride of Zinc, Med. Gaz. vols. xvii. and xviii.; and Cyclop. Pract. Surg. Art. Cauterants ; Earle, Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xii.; Travers, ib. vol. XV.; Burgess's trans, of Cazenave, p. 250; Brodie, Surgical Lectures; Walshe, on Cancer, p. 548; Liston, Lectures in Lancet, 18-14, vol. i. p. 775 ; Lebert, Traite'Prat, des Maladies Cancere'uses, 1851, pp. 591 and 658 ; Pagel'.s Lectures on Surgical Pathology, vol. ii. p. 452. D G82 MORTIFICATION. with a piece of soft lint. The pain which follows is very severe, and the redness and swelling even alarming ; moreover there may be vomit- ing and purging, symptoms which must be met by the administiation of repeated doses of solid opium. At the expiration of a fortnight, if the whole surface were not cauterized at once, a second portion may be attacked in the same way. The eschars are some weeks in separating, and if the surface which remains is unhealthy, it must be destroyed again and again. The chloride of zinc is generally mixed with three or four parts of flour (as used originally by Canquoin), or with two parts of freshly- burned plaster of Paris (as recommended by Mr. Ui-e, who introduced it to the notice of English surgeons). Then it is made into a paste with a few drops of water, spread over the ulcer, and allowed to remain for four or five hours. It is nearly as painful 'as the arsenic. The con- centrated sulphuric acid is also a good caustic. The general health must be improved by the remedies directed for the lupus non exedens, including the cautious and long-continued ad- ministration of arsenic, F. 97. In cases in which cauterization cannot be performed effectually, the general and local palliative treatment are the same as of cancer. CHAPTER XII. MORTIFICATION. SECTION I.—MORTIFICATION IN GENERAL. Definition.—Mortification signifies the death of any part of the body in consequence of disease or injury. Varieties.—Some persons use the terms mortification, gangrene, and sphacelus, indiscriminately; but it is better to signify by sphacelus an utter and in ecoverable loss of life, and to restrict the term gangrene to the state which precedes, and commonly (but not inevitably) termi- nates in sphacelus; and in which perhaps the part may be supposed to be still capable of recovery. Another distinction is made between humid and dry gangrene. The humid is a consequence of inflammation, or of obstacle to the return of the venous blood; and the mortified part, being loaded with fluid effu- sions, soon undergoes decomposition; whilst the dry gangrene is gene- rally a consequence of deficient supply of blood, or of constitutional causes, and is either pieceded by no inflammation at all, or by one so rapid that there is no time for interstitial effusions to occur, so that the mortified part becomes dry and hard. In the humid it is called a slough, in the dry gangrene an eschar. Many kinds of humid gangrene ought rather to be classed under the head of ulcer: as the hospital gangrene, which is the chief example of it, the sloughing ulcer, &c.MORTIFICATION. 83 Another division is into constitutional and local. By constitutional mortification is meant that which primarily originates in constitutional disorder. By local mortification is understood that which has ori- ginated in local injury, and by which the system is not implicated, and with which it does not sympathise in a violent or dangerous degree.* Symptoms.—The symptoms of mortification in general are, that the part becomes dusky red, then livid or blue, or greenish ; it loses its sensibility, and no longer feels the point of a needle ; blisters form on the surface, containing bloody serum, which exudes as it does from a dead body. If the gangrene proceed to sphacelus, the part may become dirty brown or black ; if moist, it will decompose and stink; and will often swell largely, and crepitate on pressure from gases evolved by putrefaction in its interstices. Causes and chief forms.—We may begin with the traumatic, which include all the varieties of injury which either kill parts out- right, or injure them so that they cannot go through the processes of exudation necessary for their repaii", such as severe bruises, long- continued pressure, as of a child's head upon the bladder in hard labour, or^of a patient's motionless body upon a hard bed;—wounds especially torn and bruised, compound and complicated fractures, gunshot wounds, railway smashes, and others which cause great infiltration of blood into the tissues. Strangulations, as in incarcerated hernia, or when a portion of bowel is twisted on its axis, or embraced by another portion, or when a bandage or fracture apparatus is put on a limb too tightly. Strangulation may be complete and summary, or imperfect, and cause slow death by stagnation of venous blood. Irritants, i.e., all substances incompatible with the health and quiet of tissues; such as extreme heat, cold, dry or moist; all sorts of irritant poisons, and caustics, &c,; some septic or putrescent liquids, as those of charbon, and carbuncle, and some sorts of syphilitic poison. The injection of uritant liquids into the areolar tissue, as when a zinc lotion, intended for a hydrocele, is injected into the scrotum, or when urine escapes from the bladder. But of all traumatic causes of mortification, few exceed interference with the main artery and vein of a limb, especially of the artery; whether it be a wound that has severed it, or an operation in conse- quence of disease. If from punctured wound or rupture of an artery, there be much infiltration of blood, gangrene is the more likely to happen. Obstruction of a chief vein is not so dangerous. Division of sensitive nerves has some influence. Disease of ai'teries, atheroma, and bony deposit, and embolism, that is, obstruction by clots, are like- wise causes, especially of senile gangi;ene. Amongst constitutional causes, 'aie debility, privation, exposure, unwholesome food, scurvy, and other blood diseases. Sir B. Brodie knew a man whose feet mortified after he had been profusely bled. The * Thompson's Lectures on Inflammation ; Guthrie, G. J„ F.R.S., A Treatise on Gun-shot Wounds, p. IIB, 3id ed. Lend. 1»27; Case of Spontaneous Gan- grene, by Dr. Fuller, Med. Gaz. N.S. vol. v. p. 244.MORTIFICATION. 84 feet are most liable to mortify under such circumstances, next the finger- tips, nose, and ears. Of course constitutional debility predisposes to mortification from local causes that otherwise would be insufficient ; hence the gangrene of the feet of the poor soldiers after standing in wet and cold trenches before Sebastopol ;—hence the frequency of sloughing of the skin over the hips and trochanters after long illnesses ; and the danger lest blisters applied to children after measles and scar- latina should cause sloughing. The ergot of rye has the reputation of causing gangrene of the extre- mities by some specific action in closing the arteries. Perhaps the starvation, sure to be associated with a diet of spoiled corn, has more to do with it. Mortification is commonly said to be one of the terminations of in- flammation. This is true to a certain extent;—if the part inflamed be peculiarly situated; thus, for example, the cornea may slough in acute conjunctivitis ; the skin of the penis or even the glans in acute inflammation, with much swelling ; the ends of the fingers in whitlow; or if the part inflamed be already diseased and weakened;—as, for ex- ample, the skin of the legs of an old woman. There are some special blood-poisons which produce local inflammations that almost always have something gangrenous ;—as the small-pox pustule ; scarlatinous sore-throat, boil, carbuncle, and phlegmonous erysipelas. The tissues most disposed to mortification are the gelatinous; as areolar tissue, tendons, and ligaments, if the tissue surrounding them have been destroyed ; bone, if deprived of its periosteum ; next, the skin, especially if the subjacent tissue have mortified or have become in- llltiatod witli fluid. Muscles, blood-vessels, and nerves resist it most. Wiiilst caiigreue is spreading, the dark colour is diffused, and insen- sibly lost in the surrounding skin; but when its progress is arrested, a healthy circulation is re-established up to the very margin of the spha- celated portion, and a bright-red line of adhesive inflammation (called the line of demarcation) sej)arates the living parts from the dead. And the appearance of this line is most important as a means of prognosis, because it shows that the mischief has ceased, and that there is a dis- position to repair its ravages. Separation of the Mortified Part.—It is at this bright-red line of demarcation that the dead part is separated by ulceration. ' A narrow white line, consisting of a narrow circular vesicle, and formed by a sepai-ation of the cuticle, first appears on it; and when this is broken, a chain of minute ulcers is seen under it. These gradually unite and form a chink, which widens and deepens till it reaches the bone ; meanwhile the dead bone is cut off by a process to be hereafter de- scribed : thus the slough is entirely detached, and then a granulating and suppurating surface remains. In this manner the whole of a mor- tified limb may be spontaneously amputated ; the bone and tendons separating higher up, and being more slowly detached than the skin, muscles, and blood-vessels. When the adhesive inflammation has duly occurred, this process of separation is unattended with hsemor-85 MORTIFICATION. rhage, the vessels being obliterated by the effusion of lymph and coagu- lation of the blood within them. And this coagulation extends some distance from the mortified part, so that a limb has been amputated in the thigh for mortification of the leg without the loss of any blood from the femoral artery. Sometimes, however, as in hospital gangrene, these processes of adhesion ai-e deficient, and the blood is found fluid in the vessels, so that the separation of the slough is attended with severe hemorrhage. Constituiioml Symptoms.—The constitutional symptoms of mortifi- cation (that is to say, making a distinction between mortification and any disease v/hich may have gone before and led to it) are those of depression. If it be very extensive—if the adjacent parts be unhealthy, with no disposition to form the line of demarcation, but, on the con- trary, with a greater tendency to serous effusion, or diffuse inflamma- tion—or if the mortified part be of great importance, as intestine or lung, the constitutional symptoms will be of a low typhoid cast; there will be great anxiety, hiccough, a jaundiced skin, a soft, or i-apid thready, and jerking pulse, and frequently profuse perspiration of a cadaverous odour. This indicates the fact that mortification introduces a new element of danger :—to wit, the absorption of putrid liquids from the mortified part. Diagnosis.—It is important not to mistake the lividityand vesica- tions of bruises, especially when they accompany fractures, for gan- * From a cast in the King's College Museum. This patient was a destitute girl, and the gangrene arose from starvation.86 TREATMENT OF MORTIFICATION. grene. They may easily be distinguished by their sensibility and temperature, and by the fact that in gangrene the whole cuticle has lost its adhesion to the cutis, so that pressure will cause the vesicle to shift its place. General Treatment.—The indications are, 1st, To treat the original disease or injuiy which may have caused the gangrene, or may he causing it to spread ; 2ndly, To promote, if possible, the formation of a line of healthy inflammation whereby the progress may be arrested ; and to accelerate the ulcerative and suppurative process whereby the sioughs are cast off; 3rdly, To protect the patient's system from con- tamination by disinfectants ; 4thly, To maintain the strength, and treat the general health. I. For the first indication we must refer to the Sections on the dif- ferent Injuries, Fractures, Syphilis, &c. II. The second and third indications are fulfilled by applications which serve to mummify the dead parts, and to act as gentle stimu- lants on the living. Such are ointment of creosote, with a linseed poultice over. There are other so-called terebinthinate applications, as Peruvian balsam, Fi-iar's balsam, turpentine, &c., but creosote is the best; lotions of the chloride of zinc or iron, F. 117, 127. Poul- tices of carrot, beer grounds, and yeast have special virtues in some sloughing sores. The air of the apartment should be kept pure, and if need be should be impregnated with vapour of iodine, chlorine, vinegar, or pastilles. In the present state of chemistry, it is a disgrace to a surgeon if he cannot keep a wound from stinking. Cotton wool thoroughly dusted with bismutli, or liniment of bismuth and glycei-ine, F. 149, or charcoal poultice, have the double effect of soothing, and of absorbing ill odours. III. The strength must be maintained by food and wine; restless- ness be allayed by opium ; and much good will besides be obtained from bark. For food the best beef-tea thickened, F. 196 : with eggs, and such other nourishment as the stomach will bear. Such wine, brandy, or spirit, or good beer must be given as the patient likes, and as he is accustomed to. Opium is of prodigious utility from its power of allaying irrita- bility ; so that it renders the constitution insensible as it were to the local mischief—or, in Hunter's language, " It does good by not letting the disease do harm to the constitution." It may either be given in small doses frequently repeated, or, if there be at any time very great restlessness, especially towards night, it will be better to give a full dose at once; such as forty or fifty minims of the tincture, or two grains of the solid opium. The most efficacious preparations of bark are the decoction of yellow bark, and Battley's liquor cinchonse flavaj, the value of which, the author learned many years since from Dr. Farre. It may be given every six hours, combined with nitric acid. Sir B. Erodie and Mr. Vincent believe that ammonia, if too long per- severed in, depresses the vital energies. Their practical experience has confirmed the conclusions arrived at by those who have studied the87 TREATMENT OF MORTIFICATION. properties of the blood, down to Dr. Richardson.— Vide F. 1, 2, 3, 4, &c. Question of Amputation.—The rule formerly given was, to wait till the gangrene is arrested, and a line of demarcation is formed, other- wise the stump may become gangrenous. And this rule still holds good in mortifications arising from constitutional causes; in that caused, for instance, by loss of blood or fever. But even after the line of demarcation has formed, it is necessary to take care that the patient has vigour enough to bear the loss of blood which must in some degree necessarily ensue. Sir A. Cooper mentions a case in which a mortified leg was separating favourably by itself through the calf, when the projecting bones were sawn off, with a view of ex- pediting the process. A few granulations were accidentally wounded, and the trivial haemorrhage that ensued was fatal.* But it will be proper to amputate without waiting for the line of separation, if the mortification be local as to its cause ; as, for instance, in mortification of a limb fi-om severe compound fracture or from injury or aneurism of the large arterial trunks. This practice is sanctioned by Larrey, Guthrie, Brodie, S. Cooper, Lawrence, Velpeau, James, and Porter of Dublin. We may add, that amputation seems to be justi- fiable as a last resource whenever there appears little or no disposition to limit gangrene, and whenever it spreads rapidly. " Where gan- grene," says Mr. Guthrie, " is rapidly extending towards the trunk of the body, without any hope of its cessation, the operation is to be tried ; for it has certainly succeeded, where death would in a few hours have ensued." f SECTION II. ON SOME VARIETIES OF MORTIFICATION. I. Mortification from Obstacle to the return of Venous Blood.—This form of mortification mostly affects the lower extremi- ties of persons who labour under dropsy from diseased heart, and it is always preceded by great oedema. It may occur primarily, or may be a consequence of inflammation, which if it attacks (Edematous parts is always liable to terminate in gangrene. In the former case, the skin of the (edematous limb, having become pale, smooth, glossy, and tense, assumes a mottled aspect of a dull red or purple colour, from distension of the subcutaneous veins. " Then at some part where the congestion is greatest, or where the skin is less yielding, as over the tibia or above the malleoli, phlyctenge or large bullae are formed by the effusion of serosity, either alone or mixed with blood, under the cuticle. When these burst, the cutis beneath presents a dark-red or brown colour, and very soon is converted into a dirty-yellow or ash-grey slough. After the spread of the mortification to a given extent, inflammation * liectures by Tyrrel, vol. i. p. 237. t Op. cit. p. 132; Velpeau, Lecture in Lancet, 1848, vol. ii. p. 32. X Carswell, Illustrations of Elementary Forms of Disease, Lend. 1837.88 MORTIFICATION FROM PRESSURE. occurs; and the slough, which is mostly an oval patcli of skin and cel- lular tissue, separates. Treatment.—The part should be placed in an elevated position, and numerous punctures should be made with a needle, to let the serum exude. The mortified part, and the ulcer that results, are to be treated by warm poultices of yeast, with stimulating dressings, of which the nitric-acid lotion is the best. II. Mortification from Pressure, Bed Sores, &c.—When a patient is confined to bed with some very tedious and debilitating malady, as a fever—and especially if he has not strength to shift his posture occasionally—the skin covering various projecting bony parts (as the sacrum, brim of the ilium, or great trochanter) is apt to inflame and rapidly ulcerate or slough; and more particularly if irritated by neglect of cleanliness or by the contact of urine. The first thing often complained of by the patient is a sense of pricking, as though there were crumbs of salt in the bed. The part, if examined at first, looks red and rough; then becomes excoriated and ulcerates, or turns black and mortifies. This accident is particularly liable to happen if the spinal cord has been injured. It is well to remark that the nates sometimes slough, apparently from stagnation, at the fold of the skin which hangs down, and not where the bones press on the bed. Treatment.—When long confinement to bed is expected, it is a good plan to apply some stimulant to the skin of the back and hips, to cause it to secrete a thicker cuticle, and enable it to bear pressure better. Nothing can be better for this purpose than brandy or eau de Cologne. If the part seems likely to suffer, it may be covered with a broad piece of calico spread with soap plaster; and small pillows, or macintosh cushions, or ox-bladders half filled with water, or water-cushions of vulcanised india-rubber, should be arranged so as to take off the weight from the part affected; and the patient should be made to shift his position often, or occasionally lie on his face. The soft poultice (F. 153) will be found of great service. After sloughing has commenced, the ung. resinae or F. 163 is the best application. III. Senile Gangrene.—A form of dnj gangrene affecting the fingers or toes. Symptoms.—In one instance which came under the writer's observation, the patient, tet. 70, with di&eased heart, com- plained for some time of numbness and pricking at the tips of his fingers. Next they looked bluish, and the cuticle peeled ; then the sui-face of the skin black. But far more frequently it commences by a purple or black spot on one of the smaller toes; from which spot " the cuticle," says Pott, " is always found to be detached, and the skin under it to be of a dark-red colour." " In some few instances, there is little or no pain; but, in by far the majority, the patients feel great uneasiness through the whole foot or joint of the ankle, particularly in the night, even before these parts show any mark of distemper, or before there is any other than a small discoloured spot at the end of one of the little toes.' * Its progress in some cases is slow, in others rapid * Pott's Chirurgical Works, 8vo. Lend. 1771.89 SENILE MORTIFICATION. and horribly painful. After its first appearance, the actual gangi-ene will generally be preceded by a dark-red congestive inflammation. The dead parts become t^hrunk, dry, and hard ; and when the disease makes a temporaiy pause, which it frequently does, they slowly slough away, —and the wound may heal; but a fresh accession of gangrene mostly supervenes before any progress has been made towards cicatrization. In this way the patient may live several winters, but often sinks exhausted with the nocturnal pain before the whole of the foot is destroyed. Pathology.—This disease is supposed to be caused by degeneration and obstruction of the arteries. Hence the foot is imperfectly nourished ; it is weak and liable to pain and numbness if heated after being cold ; and a chilblain, or any other trivial source of inflammation, is sure to terminate in gangrene. A similar kind of gangrene sometimes attacks the skin of the leg. This affection mostly happens to old persons of the better class, espe- cially if they have been great eaters. They are generally found to have lost their hair and teeth, and their face and hands betray a languid circulation. It mostly attacks men. Mr. James,* however, has seen it in a woman of forty-two, who had disease of the heart; and Brodie in a man of thirty-six. Treatment.—It seems agreed now, that this disease should not be treated on a stimulating plan. If there should be any vivid inflamma- tion and a good pulse the patient should be kept in bed; the bowels should be opened; the diet be restricted to fish and broth; and Dover's powder be given at bed-time, to allay pain. But should the health be feeble the diet must be more generous. The foot may be wrapped in lint, and covered with oiled silk, Brodie recommends a piece of calamine dressing to be laid on the part, and the whole limb to be loosely wrapped in repeated folds of cotton wool, and afterwards sewed up in a silk handkerchief. If there is much discharge this may be changed every second day; if not it may remain for a week. Am- putation is inadmissible.f IV. White Gangrene of the Skin.—In this curious affection, a circular portion of the skin, generally of the arm, becomes p:-iinful, and suddenly mortifies; becoming hard, white, and dry, and showing the red streak of the vessels with the blood dried up in them. It some- times spreads by the gangrene of a circle of the surrounding skin. The cause is quite unknown, and the treatment must depend upon the cir- cumstances of the case. The possibility that the disease may be caused by the application of some strong acid, for purposes of imposture, should be borne in mind. * James on Inflammation, pp. 445 and 552. t Vide Sir B. Brodie's Lectures on Mortitication, Med. Gaz. vol. xxvii., and Mayo's Patliology, p. 231; Syme's Contributions to the Pathology and Practice of Surgery, Edin. 1848, p. 5.90 CHAPTER XIII. SECTION I.—SCROFULA AND TUBERCULOSIS IN GENERAL. Definition.—Scrofula, or Struma, is a state of constitutional de- bility, with atenden-i-y to indolent inflammatory and ulcerative diseases. Description.—There are two varieties of scrofulous habits, which, although they agree in the main essential of constitutional debility, are yet totally opposite in many respects. In the first (or sanguine variety), the skin is remarkably fair and thin, showing the blue veins through it, and presenting the most brilliant contrast of red and white ; the eyes are light blue; the hair light or reddish, the fore- head ample, and the intellect lively and precocious. Sometimes, how- ever, as Mayo observes, the skin is dark and transparent, and the eyes dark, although there is the same general characteristic of delicacy and vivacity.* In the second (or phlegmatic') variety, the whole aspect is dull and unpromising; the skin thick and muddy; the hair dark ar.d coarse; the eyes greenish or hazel, with dilated pupils; the belly tumid, and the disposition dull, heavy, and listless to outward appearance ; although persons of this conformation will often be found to possess a clear, vigorous intellect, and powers of application far above the average. The gre;it Dr. Johnson is an example. In both varieties the natural functions are liable to be performed ir- regularly. Digestion is weak, the tongue often furred, and red on its tip and edges ; the upper lip swelled, from a kind of turgescence of the mucous membrane, whenever the health is worse than usual; the appe- tite soncetimes deficient, but more usually excessive, and attended with a craving for indigestible substances ; the mucous membrane of the throat and tonsils flabby; the bowels toi'pid ; the blood thin and watery ;—its coagulum soft and small; the muscles pale and flabby ; and the heart and arteries, as well as the intestines, thin and weak; the teeth decay early. In the sanguine variety, the growth is generally rapid, and the bodily conformation good, as far as outward form is concerned—the limbs well made, the stature tall, and the chest broad. In the phlegmatic variety, on the other hand, the growth is often stunted, the chin short, joints large, feet large and flat, chest narrow, legs bent with rickets, and puberty retai'ded, especially in the females, who are liable to prolonged chlorosis. Causes.—Scrofula being thus defined to be a peculiar state of the * Vide Mayo's Philosophy of Living, 2nd ed. 1838; Carmidiael's Essay on Scrofula, Lend. 1810 ; B. Phillips on Scrofula, Lend. 1846; Ancell on Tubercu- losis, Lond. 1852; Latham's Lectures on Clin. Med.; Carswell, op. cit.; the works of Addison of Malvern; Wedl, op. cit.; Rokitansky, op cit; Hughes Bennett on Scrofula and Tuberculosis, ed. 1856; Lebert, Anatomie Pathologique, vol. i. 1857.SCROFULA AND TUBERCULOSIS. 91 constitution, it may be shown, first, that it may he congenital and hereditary; that is to say, that scrofulous parents may transmit their peculiar organisation, and predisposition to disease, to their chil- dren. It is believed that syphilis of parents occasions scrofula m children, and that gin-drinking has a still more decided effect. Secondly. The scrofulous habit, if not congenital, may probably be created by any circumstance capable, directly or indirectly, of lowering the vital energies ; by poverty and wretchedness ; meagre, watery, and insufficient food; neglect of exercise; insufficient clothing; neglect of cleanliness; habitual exposure to damp and cold, but most especially by that want of fresh air and sunlight, which is the curse of the crowded habitations of towns. Thirdly. The scrofulous habit may be so intense, that the patient is attacked with some of the diseases that we shall presently describe, in spite of all care. Or, on the other hand, actual scrofulous disease may not appear unless the health is first depressed by some ether disease, such as scaiiatina, measles, the small-pox, or some other acute malady. Moreover, eveiything that disorders the digestive organs may bring it into action. It rarely breaks out before two or after thirty years of age ; although it may be called into active operation at any age by circumstances which lower the health. The time of the second denti- tion and puberty are dangerous periods. It is doubtful whether the English climate has more influence in causing it than any other. It is true that the natives of warm climates, who are brought here, are apt to sutler; and so are the birds and ani- mals imported, and shut up in close dark cages: but these are special cases. One fact, however, is certain, that persons whose occupations cause them to be exposed to the weather at all hours and in all seasons, are not nearly so liable to scrofulous disease as others, whose occupa- tions are sedentary, and carried on in close, hot, ill-ventilated work- shops. Pure air and sunlight often make amends tor defects of food and clothing. Scrofulous Disease.—When the scrofulous constitution has been created, and circumstances have occurred to elicit an outbreak of actual disease, a vast number of morbid processes may be set on foot, all of which are included under the term of scrofulous disease. Their general characteristics are, that they are excessively insidious in their ap- proaches ; seldom attended with acute pain, or with symptoms of sthenic inflammation; excessively obstinate; diflicult to control by medicine ; tending to the destruction of tissues by slow ulceration ; and defective in the processes of repair. Such ai'e the diseases spoken of in the next Section; besides scrofulous otorrhcea and ophthalmia ; ophthalmia tarsi; ozfxna; disease of bones, joints, testicle, and mam- mary gland; and convulsions and acute hydrocephalus during infancy. Tubercle.—The common doctrine is, that the characteristic mani- festation of scrofula is tubercle; a substance which is liable to be de- posited in the lungs, lymphatic glands, areolar tissue, brain, bone, and glands of the intestines. Tubercular disease or tuberculosis is heldSCROFULA AND TUBERCULOSIS. 92 to be the sign of scrofula, ])ar excellence. The question then arises what is tubercle? 1. Yellow tubercle.—The question seems easy at first sight. When- ever a dull yellowish cheesy substance is found embedded in any tissue, it is usually called tubercle. But if examined under the microscope, this yellow matter is found to consist of amorphous granules, and fragments and oil globules—showing pretty clearly that it is a something in a state of decay and degeneration. Further research shows that any form of morbid growth may decay, and be converted into a yellow-tubercular-looking, or putty-like mass, in which the atrophied elements of the tumour are combined with oil- globules and cholesterine. It is necessary to go back, therefore, and to ask what are the sub- stances whose degradation gives rise to the cheesy stuff, commonly called tubercular? And the answer is, that any lymph exudation, or plastic rell growth, or low inflammatory product may undergo that change, and be the first stage of cheesy tubercle. 2. il/<7/((/•// tubercles in the luwjs.—Tlie lungs at their upper part may be studded with little grayish, semi-transparent, millet-seed-like bodies, from the size of a pin's head to that of a small pea. There seems no doubt that these consist of air cells, or clusters of them, blocked up by growth of epithelium ; and that as the disease incieases, these increase and ninltijily, occupy more tissue, and soften into the yellow cheesy state. o. Tiiberculdr in jilt ration.—The result of a Idw form of inflamma- tory action, in which the changes of the epithelium in the air cells, concur with cell changes and exudation into the intervening tissue, which also degenerates. Whoever would see this to perfection, should examine the lung of an ox which has passed into the second stage of pleuro-pneumonia. 4. 'Tuberculosis of lymphatic glands.—This may begin as inflamma- tion, acute or chronic, no matter by what cause provoked, or as mere chronic hyperti-ophy. In either case the abundant cell elements may undergo necrosis and cheesy transformation. 5. In the areolar tissue tubercular deposit so called, generally consists of a small lump of unhealthy lymph ; perhaps a small de- colourized clot of blood; perhaps it may be merely inspissated pus. So also in bone, in the dura mater, in the glands of the intestines, any sub-inflammatory cell-growth, or plastic exudation, or growth of epithelium, may be the starting-point, and may constitute the material which forms the yellow cheesy tubercle. From the foregoing, we may define tubei'cle to be an abortive quasi-inflammatory cell-growth, incapable of development—and soon de- generating ; and we may say that an accurate distinction between tubercle, and some forms of inflammatory cell-growth and pus, and some fibro-plastic growths in a state of degeneration, is impossible. It is easy to believe that a low state of general health is accom- panied with a tendency to active growth of some structures. This is seen in the acne which infests the skin of strumous young persons,SCROFULA AND TUBERCULOSIS. 93 and in the tarsal tumour. These, which are under our eyes, are types of what we believe to go on in tuberculosis of the lungs and glands of the intestines. Tubercle usually begins as a slow, painless, and unsuspected growth during some period of defective health, and may remain in this condi- tion for an indefinite time. In favourable cases it may remain quiescent, and wither, and be partly absorbed, partly degenerate into a harmless mass of granular, oily, and earthy matter, which may remain till the end of life {cretif cation). In unfavourable cases it softens, beginning at its centre ; an in- flammatory infiltration takes place at the circumference, and pus is formed which is discharged by ulceration along with the softened tubercle. This process is too often attended with an increase of low cell-growth or lymph exudation around the original focus, which rapidly undergoes the same destructive changes. Similar unhealthy changes take place in the lungs, or intestines, or brain, diarrhoea, and hectic come on, until the organs affected be destroyed, and with them the life of the individual. This \s phthisis. General Treatment.—The general indications are to pi'ocure and maintain a healthy condition of the blood, and to protect the patient from depressing influences. To describe at length the general treatment of scrofulous persons would be to write a treatise on general hygiene: we must content our- selves with hinting at the most important points. (1.) The diet should be nutritious, digestible, and abundant, con- sisting, as a general rule, of meat twice a day, good bread, green vege- tables, such as peas, mealy potatoes, cabbage, and the other cmcifero}, preparations of eggs and milk, and a sufflcient quantity of beer or wine to promote digestion, without creating drowsiness or feverishness.* (2.) The clothing should be warm, especially for the extremities, so as to keep up the cutaneous circulation, and prevent congestion in the chest and abdomen. Flannel should be worn next the skin, both in winter and summer: in the former for direct warmth ; in the latter to neutralise any accidental changes of temperature, (3.) Free exercise of the muscles and lungs in pure opeti air is in- di>pensable. All over-exertion of the brain should be avoided. The moral faculties may be trained; self-control inculcated, a thing very necessary to patients who are as passionate and excitable as they are weak; the faculty of observing the objects and operations of JS'ature should be cultivated ; the garden, the farm, and the hill-side should have as much attention as the schoolroom. (4.) The best residence for the scrofulous is one that is warm without being damp in the winter, cool and bracing in the summer, and in the autumn, the sea-side. That climate, coiteris paribus, will be the * The author begs to warn his junior readers against the old-womanish doc- trine, that children ought not to have animal food until they have cut a certain number of teeth. On the contrary, he would state it as a positive rule, that it the teeth are unusually slow in appearing, broth and meat ought on that very account to be given, in order to compensate for the want of nutritive force on which the delay in teething depends.94 SCROFULA AND TUBERCULOSIS. best, which admits of the greatest amount of exposure to the air. Hence, for the winter, the shores of the Mediterranean, Bournemouth, Torquay, Arcachon, Malaga, Egypt, or some other fiwoured place, should be sought, where the climate is dry enough, and mild enough to admit of open-air exercise; but it is far better not to send patients away from home and friends (as is too often the case) merely to die.* (5.) Abundance of smiUght should be sought, as well as purity of air, since it is indispensable for the production of healthy colour and composition of flesh and blood. (6.) Daily washing and friction of the skin are as beneficial to the scrofulous as they are to every one else; and if the patient be precluded from taking exercise, friction is indispensable. Cold sea-bathing is in general so advantageous, that it has been deemed a specific. The best season is from the middle of August to the middle of November.^ The object in using the cold bath is to produce a vigorous reaction; conse- quently, before taking it, the skin should be warm. At all events the person who bathes should not be exhausted by fatigue nor in a cooling condition from perspiration. If the bather be strong, he may plunge into the open sea early in the morning on an empty stomach, not only with imi)unity, but with advantage; but the forenoon is the best time for a weakly child, wiieu the air is become warm, and the svstera is invigoiated with a breakfast. Bathing will be injurious if a short immersion renders the surface cold, numb, and pinched. Warm salt baths are very useful. (7.) Tonics.—It follows from our definition of scrofula that the medicines most likely to be of service are those which tend to give a fii-mer, healthier composition to the flesh and blood. The first of these which deserves notice is the cod-liver oil, whose wonderful properties of checking emaciation are now happily well known. It may be given in any sci-ofulous disease, and in any case in which the patient is losing flesh, in as large quantities as the stomach can tolerate. The author recommends it to be given just as the patient is lying down in bed, as bv this means all chance of nausea is prevented. The best is a pale or light yellow sweet oil, prepared at home or imported from Newfound- laud. Ai>y other fish-oil that is not too rank ; good chocolate, calf's- foot jelly, blancmange, isinglass, good pea or lentil soup, the essence of meat, F. 196, or a little rum and milk taken quite early, may occa- sionally be tried as extra nutritives. Bark is of immense service when there is a great exhaustion from suppuration, or when ulcers spread rapidly. The decoction, or liq. cinchonse flavge (F. 1, 4), are the best forms. Iron is sure to agree with pale, flabby, clear-complexioned children, provided their liver and bowels are kept in proper action; not with the dark skinned. Bark should be given in large doses for a short time when the system seems exhausted ; iron in small doses for a very long time, with occasional intervals of a week. Every preparation of it has its value, from the mild citrate, or potassio-tartrate, or acetate, the * The best book on Change of Climate is by Dr. Thomas More Madden, London. 1«64.SCROFULA AND TUBERCULOSIS. 95 old-fashioned vinum ferri, and the aromatic mixture of the Dublin Pharmacopoeia—to the more astringent and stimulating chloride, F. 10, 20. The sulphate of zinc, the nitro-mui'iatic and sulphuric acids, and various bitter substances, are also useful. (8.) Anti-strumous remedies.—There are some medicines which have obtained repute from their supposed power of improving the condition of the blood: and possibly from their solvent power over morbid de- posits. Such are iodine and its compounds with potassium or with iron ; the liquor potassae; lime-water; the combination of corrosive sublimate with tincture of bark ; the chlorides of barium and of lime ; the extract or decoction of walnut leaves. Of these remedies, the pre- parations of iodine have the greatest repute, F. 88-95. The waters of Kreuznach are good during the winter. Alkalis are often of great service under certain conditions. They are especially indicated if the patient complains of heartburn or great thirst, or if the tongue is very red, or if there is a sinking and craving for food soon after meals, or acid eructations, or other dyspepsia, or red irritating urine. F. 77. Sarsaparilla, V. 84, 85, seems to improve the powers of nutrition generally, and may always be given in cachectic diseases for which there is no palpable cause. Sweetwort is as good. (9.) Purgatives are often necessary to sweep away the refuse left by an imperfect digestion ; and besides it is fair to believ^e that the tendency to local disease will be greatly lessened by a pure state of the blood. In some cases the gentlest alteratives, F. 65, in others, mere aperients are required; whilst in the case of active strumous disease of skin or mucous membrane, of a congestive or ulcerative sort, with foul tongue, big belly, and loaded urine, the greatest possible benefit is sometimes derivable from efficient doses of calomel with scammony ; or more especially of that admirable compound of rhubarb and polychrest salt which has obtained repute as a specific, F. 37, 38, 41. Of course we exclude cases in which a red tongue and relaxed state of bowels indicate a tendency to ulceration of the in- testines, and in which soothing absorbent remedies, F. 79, are indicated. (10.) Anodynes.—Pain, when violent, must be relieved by opium or other anodynes; and the extract of conium, in regular doses thrice a day, may be of service when there are intractable ulcers. SECTION II.—PARTICULAR SCROFULOUS DISEASES. I. The Skin is particularly liable to suffer from pustular and sup- purative maladies; especially behind the ears, on the scalp, and about the mouth, nose, and eyelids. These eruptions are generally contagious. Treatment.—The general health must be attended to, according to the foregoing rules, and the local disease be treated by the frequent use of soap and water, and the application of the ointment of oxide of zinc, or of white precipitate or nitrate of mercury, or the black wash.96 SCROFULOUS DISEASES. II. Scrofulous Abscesses (besides those which are caused by diseased glands or bone) may occur under three forms. 1st. They may commence imperceptibly in the cellular tissue, either under the skin, or between the skin and bone, or in the deep intermuscular tissue, or in the neighbourhood of a joint, beginning with fibroplastic tumour, which after a time softens down. 2ndly. A circular piece of skin, of the size of a shilling or half-crown, with the tissue immedi- ately beneath, may slowly inflame and swell, forming a hard, red tumour like a carbuncle, but painless. After a time it suppurates im- perfectly, and does not get well till the whole of the diseased part is desti'oyed by ulceration. 3rdly. A small hard tumour of unhealthy lymph may form in the cellular tissue, which after a time inflames, causes abscess, and then sloughs out. See Chap. xiv. Sect. 10. III. Disease of the Lymphatic Glands, especially in the neck, is the commonest of scrofulous or tubercular maladies. It may be primary, or may be created by some ii-ritation of adjoining skin or mucous membrane. It may begin with an acute attack of inflammation, or with an indolent and painless deposit. In the latter case the enlarged glands may remain for years stationary or slowly enlarging, till at length, from local irritation or disorder of the health, they inflame, and abscesses form between them and the skin. In some few cases, after the abscess is opened, it contracts and heals, the glands remaining nearly as before. But more generally all the skin covering the abscess be- comes infiltrated, just as the lung does outside a vomica, and adheres to the gland, and ulcerates, healing after a long time with an ugly puckered cicatrix, but not till the whole gland has wasted with sup- puration. These swellings have been known to destroy life by com- pressing the tracheal or cervical vessels, or by bursting into them. We would speak, did space permit, of the connection of chronic enlargement of lymphatic glands with that of the spleen. IV. Scrofulous Ulcers may be the result of the pustules and excoriations of the skin that have been spoken of; or they may be formed by the ulceration of glandular and other chronic abscesses; in which case they sometimes destroy extensive tracts of skin and cellular tissue, and may kill the patient by exhaustion, or render a limb rigid and useless if he l ecover. Or they may be attended with a hardened base, thick everted edges, a copious formation of pale granulations and deposit of unhealthy lymph in the adjoining cellular tissue, which, with the gi anulations, is liable to fits of sloughing, preceded by severe pain. Or they may take the character of lupus non exedens, a shallow ulcer, spreading in one direction and healing in another. Treatment.—The first and main point is to procure a radical im- provement of the general health by the means already spoken of. 2. Lotions of zinc or iodine, or chloride of ammonium, F. 118, poultices of the ficus tesiculosus, or mercurial plaster on leather, may be used to procure absorption. The objection to these remedies is, not that tliev are mischievous, but powerless. 3rdly. When suppuration occurs, the matter should be evacuated by a sufficiently large puncture or in-97 SCROFULOUS DISEASES. cision before the skin has become red and thin. 4thly. Indolent abscesses, some time after opening, may be treated with injections of iodine lotion, or of zinc or copper lotion. Ulcers may be treated locally on the principles laid down in the sections on weak and irri- table ulcers. Poultices and emollients are seldom of service. The thin red skin overlapping the edges of an ulcer or abscess, which is inclined to heal, may be removed by a touch with iodine paint. Such are the chief points worthy of notice in the local treatment of scrofulous abscesses and ulcers. V. Tabes Mesenterica, or Marasmus, consists in a tubercular disease of the mesenteric glands, and of the follicles of the intestines, precisely similar in its course and phenomena to the same disease in the cervical glands. The diseased intestines inflame, adhere together, and ulcerate, so that openings form between different convolutions; and on examination the peritonaeum is found as thick as leather, and the intes- tines resembling a collection of cells rather than a simple tube. Symptoms.—Emaciation and voracity, owing to the obstructed course of the chyle; the belly swelled and hard; the skin dry and harsh ; the eyes red ; the tongue strawberry-coloured ; the breath foul ; the stools clay-coloured and offensive, sometimes costive, sometimes extremely relaxed. The patient of course dies hectic, although he often lasts wonderfully long. Treatment.—Animal food and other nutriment given in small quan- tities at short intervals; mild mercurials to amend the intestinal secretions, especially the combination of corrosive sublimate with tinc- ture of bark, F. 87 ; tepid salt bathing; stimulating liniments to tlie abdomen ; change of air ; and the cautious administration of the anti- scrofulous remedies before mentioned, especially the cod-liver oil. * Represents enlargement of tlie mesenteric glands from a scrofulous patient. D H98 CHAPTER XIV. MORBID GROWTHS AND TUMOURS. SECTION 1.—OF TUMOURS GENERALLY. Definition.—The word tumour is used in pathological language to signify, not any kind of swelling or enlargement, but only such en- largements as are caused by morbid growths. By morbid growths are understood {;ertain masses of living tissue, growing independently,,ex- cessively, and abnormally. (See page 20.) Thus in the definition of tumours are included the ideas—1st. That they are composed of a living tissue, either natural or vinnatural, and if of natural tissue, yet developed in unnatural quantity or situation, 2ndly. That they grow independently, or, in Mr. Paget's words, " they grow with appeai'ance of inherent power, irrespective of the growing or maintenance of the rest of the body, discordant from its normal type, and with no seeming purpose." Again—" while forming part of the body, and bon-ovving from it the apparatus and matei-ials necessary to its life, the tumour grows, or maintains itself, or degenerates, according to peculiar laws."* Each sort of tumour depends, no doubt, on some specific constitu- tional vice. But tlie nature of that vice is quite unknown. The reme- dies arc equally unknown ; for there is scarcely any morbid growth that is infiuenced by any medicine yet discovered. Classification.—The true basis of the classification of morbid growths is their structure; and the structure being known, both in its naked-eye and microscopical characters, the origin, development, symp- toms, and subsequent history of each kind of growth must be atten- tively studied. A large group of tumom-s are composed of fibrinous, or fibro-plastic matter, in some stage of development between indistinct fibrillation, or rudimentary cell-growth, and perfectly fibrous or areolar tissue. This group includes the fibro-plastic, fibro-nucleated, and fibrinous and gelatinous tumours ; which ai e composed of masses of cell-growth ("see p. 24), which increase in bulk, without being developed into perfect tissue; and in which a great variety of abortive cell-forms is displayed. Many pathologists think that cancer and some forms of tubercle belong to this group. Besides these it includes the fibrous and fibro-cellulai', in which the structure of areolar tissue is fully developed. A second group consists of bony and cartilaginous tumom s. * Vide Carswell's Pathology; Miiller on Cancer and Morbid Growths, by C. West, Lond. 1840; Walshe on Cancer, Lond. 184 6; also on Adventitious Formations, in Todd's Cyclopaedia, parts 30 and 31; Hughes Bennett, on Can- cerous and Cancroid Growths, Edinburgh, 1849 ; Paget's Lectures, Lond. 1853; Lebert, Physiologic Pathologique, 1845; Traite Pratique des Maladies Canc^- reuses, Paris, 1851; and Anatomic Pathologique, Paris, 1857; Wedl, Patliolo- gical Histology ; Rokitansky, op. cit.99 TUMOUES. A third group is composed of new and independent development 0? gland tissue, more or less perfect. A fourth of blood-vessels. A fifth is distinguished by the presence of cysts; although cysts may be met with in most tumours. A sixth consists in the local overgrowth fat tissue. A seventh consists of enormous production of epithelium. An eighth, of black pigment. A ninth is distinguished by certain peculiarities in its cell elements ; and no less by its fatality. This is the group of cancer. Formerly all tumours which had the fatality of cancer were consi- dered to belong to a group apart, and were called malignant; whilst the remainder were called benign or innocent. 1. Of the benign, it is assumed that they originate in a sort of local error of formation. That they are homologous, or homaomorphous, or, in other words, identical with, some of the normal tissues of the body. That they may be continuous with normal tissues of the same soi't, but circumscribed, discontinuous, and not infiltrated amongst a variety of other tissues. That there may be many in one individual, but usually in the same tissue. That they are perfectly compatible with a high state of health. That they have an uncertain period of increase, after which they may remain stationary for an indefinite time, or may undergo a process of fatty or earthy degenei-ation. That they may, by their bulk and situation, cause oedema and paralysis, or obstruction to various canals; or may inflame and suppurate; or may undergo ulceration or sloughing, and so may seriously impair the health ; but that all these ill consequences are local and accidental, and cease if the tumour be re- moved ; and that if effectually removed, there is no return, either in the same, or in any other place. 2. Of the malignant, on the contrary, it is said that they possess the following marks : 1. They are of constitutional origin. 2. Their progress is generally rapid. 3. They increase constantly; 4, are at- tended with pain ; 5, return if cut out; 6, are liable to be diffused over the body from increase of the materies morbi; or 7, are liable to secondary deposits, from being absorbed from one part and deposited in another ; 8, they are attended with cachexia; 9, they resist all treat- ment; 10, they infiltrate every tissue in their vicinity; 11, soften inwardly; 12, ulcerate outwardly ; 13, invade the lymphatic glands ; 14, are hetei'ologous in structure, that is, resemble no tissue naturally found in the body ; and lastly, after a time prove fatal. The only tumour possessing all these marks is cancer.* 3. There is a third, intermediate class, of semi-malignant or cancroid growths, including those which have some, but not all of the vital cha- racteristics of cancerous growths ; as well as those which (like the fibro-plastic) resemble cancer in their coarse appearances, though not in their real structure. But in truth, there is no absolute line of demarcation between ma- * See a paper on Cancer, by R. Druitt, Association Journal, Jan. 1854.100 FATTY TUMOURS. lignant and non-maligiiant growths. All tumours are constitutional. All are liable to return after extirpation. Some varieties of fibrous and fibro-plastic and cartilaginous tumours may not only return, if removed, but may invade many internal organs. There is no tumour which in some individuals, or under some circumstances, may not dis- play at least ten out of the fifteen signs of malignancy. But for all this, it is absurd to erect the malignant into a separate class, from the innocent tumours of the same structure. It is like putting all the fatal cases of a disease into one class and the unfatal into another. The modern plan of putting recurrent tumours into a separate class is equally absurd. Any tumour, if extirpated, is liable to be followed by one of a worse sort. SECTION II.—THE FATTY TUMOUR. The Fatty Tumour {Lipoma^ is composed of genuine fat-tissue ; that is, of oil-cells, rounded or polygonal, packed in the meshes of a natural areolar tissue. Such tumours are contained in a fibrous cap- sule, in which their blood-vessels ramify, and which sends partitions throughout their substance, dividing them, more or less completely, into lobules. In o'ttwanl characters they are soft, painless, and lobulated ; feeling ju-st like fat. Their mo.^t usual sitmition is the subcutaneous cellular tissue of the trunk, especially about the back of the neck and shoulders, but they may extend between and under lasciaj, deep amongst the muscles of the neck, trunk, or limbs. They may even he found in parts where no fat exists natuiall\% as the scrotum or eyelid. In nuniher this tumour is generally single; its growth is slow; it may attain enormous bulk, even 70 lbs.; but causes no inconvenience, save what arises from its weight and situation; and is liable to no process of degeneration, except that it may possibly become inflamed and adherent, or hardened by the development of fibrous tissue, or even may ulcerate or slough out. We meet with the name recurrent fatty tumour in the Pathological Transactions,* and read of a fatty tumour whose fibrous stroma had all the encroaching characters of" malignancy." It n)ay by its softness be mistaken for chronic abscess or encysted tumour ; but the tactvs eruditus, or puncture with a grooved needle, will distinguish the difference. Treatment.—The liquor potassse has considerable influence in caus- ing the absorption of fat, when there is a universal tendency to obesity, or even when there is a partial overgrowth of fat in some part of the body ; where it is an exaggeration of the whole fatty tissue of some region and not a true circumscribed tumour. Sir B. Brodie has* seen * Dr. G. Harley, p. 224. Report on fatty tumour of sole of foot of an infant.101 FIBROUS TUMOURS. such local hypertrophies of fat in the neck more commonly than else- where, and gives the case of a servant, in whom such an oveigiowth was aggravated by iodine, and cured by liquor potassse. The dose is a fluid drachm, thrice daily in table-beer. But neither this nor any other medicine has any effect on the true fatty tumour. Sometimes a fatty tumour on the cheek has been caused to waste in suppuration by means of a seton passed through it; but, for most cases, extirpation by the knife, after the manner described in the last Part, Chap. II., is the only remedy, and an effectual one ; for this of all tumours is the least likely to return. SECTION III. THE FIBROUS, PAINFUL SUBCUTANEOUS, FIBRO- CELLULAR, FIBRO-PLASTIC, FIBROID, FIBRINOUS, FIBRO-NU- CLEATED, AND COLLOID TUMOURS. 1. The Fibrous Tumour {desmoid tumor) is composed of fibrous tissue, identical with that which forms the normal tendinous structures of the body, and which it perfectly resembles in naked-eye appearances. In many tumours the fibres are arranged in bands or loops, or perhaps in concentric circles lound numerous centres; in others tiiey are in- extricably matted together. Some are vascular and pinkish, but the majority almost destitute of blood-vessels. Microscopically they are seen to consist of fibrous tissue, which when rendered transparent by acetic acid, usually reveals numerous nuclei scattered amongst the fibres. The most frequent habitat of these tumours is usually said to be the womb. But the so-called fibi ous tumours of this part consist in reality of unstriped muscular fibre. Fibrous tumours are com- mon in connexion with the pe- riosteum, especially about the jaws, or may grow in the interior of bones; in the subcutaneous cellular tissue; in the breast, and particularly in the nerves, where they receive the name neuroma. On examination these tumours are usually firm, free from ten- derness, smooth, oval, or pyriform ; slightly lobulated ; of slow growth ; lasting any number of years, and attaining almost any size; gene- rally single as to number, or, if multiple, affecting but one and the same organ. Their origin is usually quite spontaneous, and cause unknown * Section of " fibrous tumour" from the uterus, treated with acetic acid.102 PAINFUL SUBCUTANEOUS TUMOUR. sometimes they follow an injury; but even then the reason why is quite unknown. Of the degenerations this tumour is subject to, the commonest is calcification, that is, infiltration with earthy salts, by which parts of it are converted into a stony mass. Cysts also, filled with se- rous fluid, may form in the interstices. Such a tumour may inflame, soften, suppurate, and slough out entirely or by degrees; or may adhere to the skin over it, and cause it to ulcerate by distension, and may slough, or may throw out livid bleeding fungous protrusions. Extirpation is the only treatment; after which the patient may be comforted with the probability that there will be no return of the dis- ease in the same place, or elsewhere. Yet, as we have before said, cases occasionally happen in which a fibrous tumour has returned again and again, after apparently thorough extirpation, and has been excised five or more times, till at last a per- manent cure has been obtained. In any such case of recuri-ence, early and free extirpation should be resorted to; and the iodide of potassium be administered. In other rare cases a fibrous tumour, after repeated extirpation, has been succeeded by a cancerous growth ; whilst in other still rarer cases, not only does the fibrous tumour return in situ, after excision, but invades the lungs or other internal organs, II. The Painful Subcutaneous Tumour, of Wood, is a small body, rarely larger than a pea or coffee-berry, composed of fibrous tis- sue, situated under the skin, generally single, generally affecting women, subject to fits of most excruciating neuralgic pain, and often the cause of hysteric and other spasmodic at?'ections. Hitherto, anatomists have failed to detect, on dissection, any connection between these tumours and the nerves; so that a distinction must be drawn be- tween them and the neuromatous tumoui-s, which are generally multiple, affect men rather than women, and consist of small fibrous tumours embedded in the sheaths of nerves. Extirpation is the remedy.* III. The FiBRO-CELLULAR TuMOUR is composed of the common areolar tissue of the body. On a section it displays bands of firm white fibrous tissue, intersecting a softer, yellow, gelatinous-looking sub- stance, infiltrated with serum. Microscopically, the characters are those of fibrous and filamentous tissue, in a more or less complete state of development. The most frequent seats of this tumour are those in which the fatty tissue is not found : as " the scrotum, or labium, or the tissues by the side of the vagina, the deep-seated intermuscular spaces in the thigh, and the scalp." But the same tissue likewise con- stitutes, says Mr. Paget: "1st. Nearly all the softer kinds of polypi, such as the mucous or gelatinous polypi of the nose; and the polypi of the external auditory meatus. 2nd. The various cutaneous out- growths, such as occur in the scrotum, labia, nymphse, clitoris, and more rarely in other parts; and, as hardly to be defined away fr-om * See the paper by Mr. Wood, who first accurately described and named this tumour, in Edinburgh Med. Chir. Trans, vol. iii.; Lond. Med. Gaz, vol. vi. p. 59; Paget's Lectures; Wedl. op. cit. p. 400.103 FIBRO-PLASTIC TUMOURS. these, the warty and condylomatous growths of skin; and 3rdly, the outgrowths of scars, the cheloid tumours as they are named." \Vhen occurring as distinct tumours, they are felt as soft, elastic, painless masses. Their growth is usually quick, thougli a sudden increase of size may be due to serous infiltration, rather than to increase of tissue. They may attain a very large size ; may accidentally slough or ulcerate, but can be radically cured by excision. IV'. The Fir.iiO-PLASTiC TuMOUR of Lebert (sarcoma) is composed apparently of plastic lymph permanently arrested in its development into areolar tissue. There are two varieties of naked-eye appearances which are often combined in the same specimen. J. The soft variety has a great resemblance to encephaloma, being quite as soft, though more elastic, and not so readily torn; yielding, when cut, a clear serous, and not milky juice; and having altogether the character of flabby granulations, such as are found surrounding carious bones. 2. The harder variety, or i-oal sarcoma, is of firm consistence, like that of muscle, or of carnefied lung, or rather of kidney; but not so firm as the fibrous tumour; on a section it appears homogenous, and finely grained ; its colour varies from reddish yellow to a deep fleshy red ; these tints alternate in patches, and are mixed with spots of ecchymosis ; it is often intermixed with fibrous bands, and contains many blood-vessels, t The microscopic elements of the fibro-plastic tumour are—1. Fibro- plastic cells, spherical or ovoid: with pale cell-wall, well-marked nucleus, and nucleolus in the form of a small dot. 2. Cells elongated into oat-shaped or pyriform bodies ; pointed, or branched, and losing their nuclei. 3. Free nuclei, some elongated ; and small globules. The^e elements are depicted at jiage 24. 4. Mother-cells ; large oval * ^Myeloid cells from a fibro-plastic tumour of the upper jaw, removed by Mr. W. Fergusson, 24th Nov. 1855. In colour and consistence it exactly resem- bled human kidney. t Imperfect areolar tissue, and large cells containing fat globules from a fibro- gelatinous tumour of the calf of the leg, drawn from nature. See a description of the same tumour, Pathological Trans,, vol. v. plate xvii.FIBRO-NUCLEATED TUMOUR. 104 bodies from "OOl to '003 inch, enclosing from two to ten or twelve fibro-plastic nuclei. These cells are called myeloid by Paget, from their resemblance to cells found in the marrow of foetal bones; and the tumours in which they are formed he also calls myeloid. 5. Fibrillary matter, more or less perfectly developed into tissue, inclosing the cellular elements ; sometimes very scanty, sometimes abundant, soft, and gelatinous [fibro-gelatinous, or fibro-colloid tumour). 6. Well- developed areolar tissue enveloping the tumour, and forming boundaries to its various lobules. In external characters, fibro-plastic tumours are usually smooth, lobulated, and globular. They may be situated in the skin ; in the subcutaneous, or submucous, areolar tissue ; deep amongst the muscles (especially of the thigh), in or upon bone, especially the maxillae ; or on the dura mater ; or in the mamma or other secreting glands, or in the lymphatic glands. They generally, but not always, grow slowly ; they may attain enormous size ; may undergo calcihcation; or may inflame and ulcerate, or slough, and so prove fatal. They usually are single ; may occur at any age ; they sometimes seem to arise fi om a syphilitic taint. As regards origin, some seem to follow an obscure inflammation, which has produced exudation into a lymphatic gland, or the testis. Others are of independent spontaneous or unknown origin. If extirpated they are exceedingly apt (much more so than the fibrous tumour) to return in the cicatrix, but very raiely in any other part; yet they may do so, or may be diffused over the system in the same manner that cancer is. The tumours most likely to become thus malignant are those of spontaneous origin, which yield most varieties of embryonic cell-forms. Fibro-plastic elements are also found in abundance in glandular, and most other rapidly-growing tumours. The treatment consists in extirpation, repeated if the disease returns; and the prolonged use of iodide of potassium. Some fibro-plastic tumours soften down and become converted into the thin purulent and flaky contents of scrofulous abscess ; a few disappear spontaneously. V. The FiBRO-NUCLEATED TUMOUR, of * Hughes Bennett, is a tumour composed of fila- ^^^^^^^gf' mentis infiltrated with abundance of naked nuclei. i^^^^^^^^^r In outward appearance it may resemble the ...z^^^^""^ fibrous, or fibro-plastic tumour, or cancer ; but micioscopically exa- mined the presence of nuclei, instead of cells or fibres, distinguishes it from the former two growths, and the absence of cancer cells from the last. Its clinical history is identical with that of the former tumours. VI. The Fibroid Tumour is one in which the cell elements have developed themselves into a coarse resemblance of fibres. VII. The Fibrinous Tumour is composed of almost structureless decolorised blood-clot, and is the result of extravasation of blood. It forms a soft tumour, and may generally be distinguished by its history and by its sudden origin. A tumour formed of extravasated blood * Fibre-nucleated turaour. From an ass.CARTILAGINOUS TUMOUR. 105 may be a complication of most tumours which have attained enor- mous size ; sometimes exists alone.* VIIL Colloid, or Gelatiniform Matter is a substance closely resembling glue, or jelly, of various degrees of firmness and trans- parency ; and is often found in cysts in the thyroid gland, and in the ovaries and prostate. The writer has several times found it in the substance of fibro-cellular tumoui's; and it may be found amidst the products of chronic inflammation of the pleura and peritonaium. Moreover, a glue-like matter is a characteristic of one form of cancer. (See Colloid Cancer.') IX. Recurrent Fibroid Tumours.—Any tumour may recur; and it is almost childish to give a name from their ])roperty. But it may be noticed, that those tumours are most likely to lecur which attain largest bulk with most imperfect development—that a tumour of untbi med nuclei is more likely to recur than one of true tibrous tissue ; and that tumours which have been cut out and removed five, six, or seven times, have in each reappearance presented a more immature and "malignant" state of their elements. SECTION IV.—cartilaginous AND OSSEOUS TUMOURS. I. The Enchondroma, or cartilaginous tumour, consists of round masses of cartilage, embedded in fibrous membrane. It may be of various degrees of firmness ; almost as soft as the vitreous humour, so soft as to be mistaken and punctured for ganglion, or as firm as ordi- nary cartilage. It consists microscopically of cartilage cells embedded in an intercellular hyaline sub- stance ; but there are very many varieties, not only in the quan- tity, consistence, and transpa- rency of the intercellular sub- stance, but also in the num- ber and arrangement and size of the cells, and of the nuclei. Generally speaking, the cells are numerous, and loosely con- nected to the hyaline substance. They are round or oval; from Too to -f3^o inch in breadth; and the cell-wall may be com- pletely distinct from, or inse- parably blended with, the inter- cellular substance. The nuclei are single, sometimes double ; round, or oval; rendered paler by acetic acid ; with one or two nucleoli; some shrivelled or full of oil-granules; some throwing out projections, like those of cartilage in process of ossification, * See Canton, Pathological Trans., vol. xiii. p. 238. t Microscopic characters of enchondroma. Nuclei granular.108 CARTILAGINOUS TUMOUR. Chemically it consists for the most part of phosphate of lime, and of a peculiar variety of gelatine, called chondrine, which is extracted by boiling in water from the temporary cartilage of the foetus, and from the permanent cartilage of the adult, but not from the adult bone or tendon. It diifers from common gelatine, in contain- ing less oxygen, and in being precipitable by alum, acetate of lead, and sulphate of iron. In external character, cartilaginous tu- mours are firm and smooth, usually some- what nodulated, sometimes hard, some- times so soft as to be mistaken for cysts. Their usual situation is on or within the bones, particularly those of the hands ; and they may be developed either within the bones, which they then cause to expand into a thin shell, or else from their surface, beneath the periosteum ; in which case they usually have, like other tumours in the same situation, a skeleton of • light papery plates, and spicula of bone shooting throughout their sub- stance, as represented in the next cut. Or they may become ossified, from internal independent centres of ossification. But besides the bones, enchondroma may form in the glands, as the testicle, mammary, and particularly the parotid. It may form isolated moveable tumours in the subcutaneous tissue, and may be found in the lungs. It may likewise be combined with the fibrous, fibro- plastic, colloid, and cystic growths, or with cancer. The growth of cartilaginous tumours is usually slow; but this is subject to great variety. Thus, in one case, related by Mr. Frogley, a tumour of this sort, growing upon the femur, attained the circumference of three feet in five years; another, twenty inches in eleven years; another, mentioned by Mr. Paget, acquired the circumference of a man's chest in three months from the time when it was first noticed. The articular sur- faces in the neighbourhood are not affected, nor is there any adhesion or infiltration of other tissues. But, after an uncertain time, the cartilaginous tumour may undergo fatty or earthy degeneration, as in the case of a small nodule the size of a walnut, removed by Mr. Wal- ton from the subcutaneous tissue of the forehead, in which the writer found half the tumour degenerated into a yellow, cheesy mass. More- over, the hyaline substance may soften down into a stufJ" like pease soup, as in another specimen from the vicinity of the parotid which Mr. Walton sent to the author, and which was converted into a mass of cysts, with fresh lobules of cartilage growing into them. Such cysts may ulcerate and discharge their contents, giving rise to great constitutional irritation and exhaustion. * Enchondroma of the hand. From a cast in the King's College Museuna.OSSEOUS TUMOUR. 107 Cartilaginous tumoui'S are more frequent in early life. They are often multiple and hereditary; and although, as a general rule, they do not return when thoroughly excised, yet to this rule there are many exceptions. A case is narrated by Mr. Paget, in which a cartilaginous growth extended along the lym- phatics from the testicle to the vena cava inferior, and into the cavity of that vein.; masses of car- tilage were also found in the lungs.f II. Osseous Tumours are so con- stantly found in connection with the bones, that it will save repe- tition if we refer our readers for an account of them to the Chapter on the Bones. But we must say here, 1, that a distinction is to be drawn between tumours containing true bone-tissue, and others which are merely calcified or impreg- nated with amorphous earthy salts. 2. That some osseous tumours are foi'med by the hypertrophy of ex- isting bones ; and 3, others by the ossification of pre-existing fibrous, fibro-plastic, or cartilaginous tu- mours. When these are attached to the bones, they constitute exostoses; but true bony tumours, formed by the ossification of the other kinds, may exist isolated in the soft parts. The term osteosarcoma was for- merly used to signify any tumour in which bone was mingled with softer tissue ; as, for example, the enchrondroma, or fibrous tumour, when ossifying, and cancerous growths, springing from the sur- face of bone. SECTION V.—GLANDULAR AND VASCULAR TUMOURS. I. Glandular Tumours ai-e formed by the development of a tissue resembling that of secreting glands. Such tumours ai e most common in the female breast, where they are known by the terms chronic main- mar y tumour, and imperfect glandular hypertrophy; but they may * Bony skeleton of enchondroma. t .Aliiiler on Cancer, kc, translated by West, Lend, 1840 ; Lebert, Pbys. Path. vol. ii.; Paget, Lectures, Med, Gaz, 1851; Frogley, Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xxvi.; Paget, ib. vol. xxxix.CYSTIC TUMOURS. 108 also be found in the lip, and in the prostate, parotid, and thyroid glands. Such tumours are generally painless, not tender, moderately soft, elastic, and lobulated. On examination they are usually found to con- sist of three elements: 1. Common fibrous tissue, hypertrophied, forming septa and loculi. 2. Abundance of fibro-plastic cells and nuclei. 3. Imbedded in the former two is found the essential constituent, gland- tissue. This consists of sacs, or pouches of clear pellucid membrane, arranged in lobules or acini, and filled with glandular epithelium. If the containing membrane be ruptured, the epithelium may be seen to pour out. Both the fibro-plastic and epithelial elements in these tumours ai-e liable to softening from inflammatory disturbance, or fi-om fatty degeneration. This disease may disappear spontaneously; or it may remain stationary; or it may enlarge, distend the skin, ulcerate, pro- trude as a bleeding fungous mass, and destroy life by irritation and exhaustion. It is sometimes traceable to local injury, or disorder of the health, but more frequently not. The iodides of potassium and of iron sometimes seem to delay the growth of this tumour; but in general it requires extirpation. Even then it is exceedingly liable to return : and «ises are on record of five or six successive operations on the same patient, followed by renewed growth of the tumour.f II. Vascular Tumours are composed of blood-vessels or of spaces containing blood, and will be more conveniently described in the Chap- ter on the Arteries. SECTION VI.—CYSTIC TUMOURS. These are tumours consisting of a sac, containing solid or liquid sub- stances. They may arise in three ways: 1. By the formation of definite cavities in the meshes of the common areolar tissue. 2. By the dilatation and growth of obstructed gland ducts or follicles. 3. By the independent and erratic development of nucleated cells, which become exaggerated into cysts ; or of isolated particles of gland-tissue, which fill with secretion, but are unprovided with ducts. 4. By the extravasation of blood, and the disappearance of the red particles, and separation of the serum from the fi brine. I. Serous Cysts.—Of the simple cysts, the most common are those containing serum. They may occur in almost any structure, natural or morbid : in the intermuscular areolar tissue ; in bone ; in tumours of almost every kind ; in the secreting glands, as the kidney or breast; but most frequently in the neck in connexion with, or in the neigh- bourhood of, the thyroid gland ; also in the vicinity of the jaws. The * Three acini, from a glandular tumour of the breast; one ruptured, with epithelium coming out. Sketched from nature. t See M. Charles Robin on Heteradenic Tumours in the Nasal Fossaj, &c. ; Lebert, Anat. Path., Paris, ia57, vol. i.> CYSTIC TUMOURS. 100 cyst itself is composed of fibrous tissue, and is often lined with epithe- lium. The contained fluid may be serum, pale or yellow, or tinged with bile or blood, or pei-haps ropy or honey-like, and containing abundance of crystals of chloresterine. Or, lastly, it may be colloid matter, yellow stuff' of the consistence of the vitreous humour, or of half-melted calf's-foot jelly. II. Sanguineous Cvsts, containing fluid blood, are most common in the neck. They probably arise from the partial obliteration of nsevi, of which these cysts, formed of distended veins, are the remains. Treatment.—This, and the preceding kind, sometimes heal and col- lapse after simple puncture, sometimes they require to be dissected out. III. Synovial Cysts, or Ganglia. See Part IV., Chap. III. IV. Gland Cysts are formed by the obstruction of excretory ducts, or follicles of glands, or by the abnormal development of portions of glands without ducts. Under this extensive division we may include cutaneous cysts, or wens; which are formed by the obstruction, or by the misplaced development of follicles, whose inner surface secretes cuticle and subaceous matter, with, perhaps, hair ; and such cysts are found, not only under the skin, and in the ovaries, but in the skull, the chest, and many other parts. Teeth (which, it will be remembered, are parts of the dermal, or exo-skeletou) are also found in these cysts in the ovaries, as well as in cysts attached to the jaws. Cysts in the vicinitv of the testicle, containing spermatic filaments, or in the breast, containing milk ; the cysts foi med in mucous membranes, and ranula, may be classed under this head. The contents of these cysts, which at first may be presumed to be identical with the natural secretions of the parts in which they are formed, become greatly altered by time. Solid curdy masses; viscid honey-like fluid ; or colourless pellucid mucus, are found in different instances. V. Compound Cystic Tumours ; such as occur in the ovaries, and in the villi of the chorion ; formed, by the exaggerated development into cysts, of the cells of which these structures mainly cousibt. VI. Proliferous Cystic Tumours {Sero-cys'tic Sarcoma) are com- posed of cysts, having solid fibro-plastic or glandular growths project- ing into them. (See the Chapter on the Female Breast.) They may originate in two modes,—either as tumours, in which cysts are after- wards developed; or as cysts, to which the solid growth is superadded afterwards. In either case, the history may be divided into three stages. —First, there is the formation of cysts, possibly single ; usually very numerous. Secondly, there is the growth into the cysts, from some part of their walls, of vascular tumours, composed of fibro-plastic cells, or else of rudimentary gland structure. The intracystic growths in either case enlarge and fill the cavities ; and then the third stage arrives, in which the growths, having filled the cysts, burst through, enlarge, distend the skin, cause it to ulcerate, and then protrude through it in the form of bleeding fungous granulations. The most frequent seats of this disease are the mammary and thyroid glands: but it has been found in the lip, the prostate gland, and in the110 EPITHELIOMA. intermuscular tissue. The diagnosis and treatment will be more fully spoken of in the Chapter on Diseases of the Breast. Suffice it to say here, that the disease, although generally incurable, save by extirpa- tion, and although liable to return in situ after extirpation, yet has no tendency to contaminate the lymphatic glands, or to be diffused over various distant oi'gans, like cancer. VII. Fibro-Cystic Tumours are fibrous, fibroid, or fibrinous tumours containing cysts, probably from extravasation of blood. SECTION VII.—EPITHELIOMA. Definition.—A disease consisting first in abnormal development of the epithelium, and probably of the villi or papillae of skin or mucous membrane; then in ulceration ; and then in infiltration of the deeper tissues and lymphatic glands with epithelium. Symptoms. —It may begin in the form of hypertrophy of the epi- dermis or epithelium; there being asoftish, itching, vascular spot, from which cuticle is frequently desquamating; or a patch covered with a dry crust or scab. 2. There may be combined with this a hypertrophy of t\\Q papillcB in some one of the multiform shapes of warts or excre- scences ; either sprouting, prominent, and cauliflower-like, with narrow elongated neck, or broad, flat, and low. 3. The cutis vera may be the part first affected ; being thick- ened and forming a broad, oblong hard swelling, with a slight scab, or perhaps a crack on its surface ; but whether affected or not at first, it is sure to be involved as the disease extends. 4. The subcu- taneous tissue, or even the lym- phatic glands or Tbones, may be, in rare instances, the parts first affected. Anatomical Characters.—On examining a section of the dis- eased tissue, there is distin- guished first, on the surface, a layer of thickened epidermis; mixed, perhaps, with pus and scabs; it is generally opaque yellow, cheesy and brittle, and easily scraped off. 2, Next to this are noticed the papillse, hy- pertrophied in various degrees, and imbedded in the exuberant epidermis around them. 3. Under this * Section of three papillse; the middle one split. Sketched from nature. About 100 diameters.EPITHELIOMA. Ill is the true skin, thickened into a tough brawny mass, (composed of a fibrous basis interspersed with numerous spots and streaks of opaque yellow, or brown. 4. If the subcutaneous tissues are involved, they present the same character. Microscopical examination shows, 1. The epidermic layer to be com- posed of epithelium, arranged in concentric layers around and between the papilla. 2. The papillae and dermis are composed of white, inter- mingled with yellow fibrous tissue, everywhere abundantly infiltrated with epithelium cells, and with theu' nuclei and fibro-plastic matter. In the papillae the epithe- lium is seen to be arranged ' --^^jj,^ symmetrically in concentric - l i_ t'^^'j-^ layers amongst the scanty - ", r fibrous elements; and this ^ ^o-^v ^ ) arrangement may pene- _ ^ \*ff *^ trate to some depth within ^ -^^^ ' ^—-^ ^ ^ v ; the cutis, from which ~ , - • elongated and imbricated —' rolls of epithelium, some- what resembling the heads of young asparagus, can be extricated. 3. Within the cutis and subjacent tissue, the epithelium is found some- times in concentric pellets, like the comedones or grubs, or inspissated contents of sebaceous follicles; sometimes in rings formed within obstructed ducts or follicles, but usually in large irregular quantities infiltrated amongst the fibres of the cutis and of the subcutaneous areolar tissue. The epithelial cells vary much in f size, although their nuclei do not; \^.._^^";'^\ they may be round, elongated, or ^^^^^ ^ / ^ spurred, wrinkled, split into fibres ; they may be infiltrated with oil- globules ; dried up ; or softened into an almost amorphous granular mass mixed with oil and cholesterine, which to the naked eye resembles tubercle. Generally speaking, the larger the cell, the less perfect the nucleus. Some cells have double nuclei, or some nuclei double nucleoli, but not often. Epithelial tumours usually exude from a cut surface a copious, clear, serous juice, in which may be observed floating masses of epithelium cells, nuclei, and, perhaps, oil-globules and cholesterine. The diagnosis of this disease from cancer is spoken of in the last section. * A representation of a papilla, or the apex of a granulation, found in the urine, in the case of epithelioma of the bladder. Internally it contained a loop of vessels; outwardly it was clothed with scales of exuberant epithelium. About 200 diameters. t Epithelial cells infiltrating the deep tissues of the lip, near a so-called canczr of the lip.112 EPITHELIOMA. The Clinical history of this disease is this. First, there may be a period of quiescence; the tumour remaining as an innocent wart for weel<s or years. But if it once begin to ulcerate, its course is one of constant progi-ess. The skin and subcutaneous tissues become more deeply and widely infiltrated, and consequently hardened and adherent; the nearest lymphatic ganglia enlarge and become the seats of similar deposit; and muscle, bone, and every other adjacent tissue is attacked. But whilst the deeper parts are enlarging, the surface becomes the seat of foul and extensive ulceration. It cracks and oozes a purulent or sanious fluid, which, mixing with the epidermis, dries into a scab. When this is detached, a wide ulcer is brought into view, and at last there is formed a deep irregular excavation in the centre, exuding a thin ichor, surrounded by fungous wai'ty growths, and resting on a base of hard adherent and infiltrated skin. Thus the entire lower lip may be destroyed; or the bladder, rectum, and vagina of the female may be converted into one huge cloaca. If excision be performed, the nearest lymphatic ganglia enlai-ge, and form a foul ulcer like the ori- ginal. The constitution may be apparently sound at first, and may continue so till it begins to be worn by the incessant discharge, the pain and irritation of the ulcerated surfaces, the absorption of fetid matter, and the interruption to various functions which ensues, especially if the disease be situated near the mouth, the anus, or the genito-urinary apparatus. Secondary epithelial deposits have been found in the liver, lungs, heart, and nerves. Causes.—]\Ien ai e more subject to this disease than women, and it is rare before 40 ;—but of its predisposing and exciting causes, little more is known than may be summed up in three statements ; viz.—1st, in some few instances, hereditary predisposition may fairly be assumed ; inasmuch as, in -^^^ instances, Mr. Paget found that other members of the patient's family had suffered from this disease or from cancer; and this number, as Mr. Paget observes, although small, is too large to be referred to chance. 2. Constantly repeated local irritation seems to have some small share in producing this disease ; it is generally believed that the smoking of short pipes is a cause of epithehoma of the lip, and that phymosis causes, or at least predisposes to, it within the prepuce. When it attacks the trunk or limbs, it is almost always at the site of some old scar, or ulcer. The frequency of the so-called chimney- sweepers' cancer of the scrotum in England, and the liability of chimney-sweepers to dry harsh warts, and to epithelioma on other parts besides the scrotum, are remarkable. 3. The existence of any simple wart or mole seems to be a sort of predisposing cause ; hence, whenever any such tumour exists, it should be carefully guarded fiom irritation, and if it begins to swell or be troublesome it should be en- tirely excised or destroyed. The parts most frequently affected are the lower lip, tongue, penis, scrotum, and vulva ; the back of the hand or foot; and, amongst in- ternal organs, the os uteri and larynx, and bladder. The warty growths from old scars, particularly on the lower extremities, are instances ofMELANOSIS. 113 the same disease. The malady is far more liable to leturn after exci- sion, and is more rapidly and certainly fatal on the lip, tongue, or penis, than on the trunk or limbs. It will be seen that phagedcenic epithelioma has close affinities with cancer, in its tendency to spread; to invade and infiltrate all tissues successively; to affect the lymphatics; and to re1,urn after excision. It differs, inasmuch as it is more capable of being excited by external causes ; not attended with so early or obvious derangement of the health ; more curable by excision ; homologous in its elements, and not liable, except in the rarest possible instances, to be diffused over distant organs. Treatment.—'The only measure worth speaking of is very early and free extirpation by the knife, followed by repeated and wide excision of any part whatever within the sphere of the malady, if it returns ; or by destruction with caustic after the manner described under the head of Lvpus and Cancer. And extirpation is still to be advocated even in cases where the disease has made great progress, and where the lym- phatics are affected, because although it must be confessed that the disease is almost sure to return, and ultimately to prove fatal, yet it, removes, though but for a time, a disgusting and irritating ulcer, whicli preys on the patient's spirits, and exhausts his vital powers. In other respects, the general and local treatment is that of cancer.* SECTION VIII.—MELANOSIS. Definition.—The word melanosis has been applied indiscriminately to tumours containing notable quantities of black pigment. Pigment is a thing of frequent occurrence in the animal body. In some animals it appeiirs earlier than blood or vessels ; and it may be of different composition and propei- ties in different cases. But it is ^ usually found in the form of the minutest sepia-coloured granules, such as give the colour to the choroid coat of the eye, and to the skin in dark persons, and the lungs of the aged. These gra- nules may be free, or collected into masses, with a cell-mem- * v " ^ brane around them; or may be added to any morbid growth whatever. The chemical composition is not settled; but pigment * For a full account of this disease, consult Hannover, das Epithelioma, &c. Leipzig, 1852. t This cut represents a portion of a very tough fibrous tumour, loaded with pigment, from an old bay pony of Professor Simmonds, of the Eoyal Veterinary College. The author begs to express his acknowledgments to Professor Sim- monds for many opportunities of studying morbid growths in the lower animals.CANCER. 114 from the lungs has been stated to contain from 80 to 90 per cent, of carbon ; to resist sulphuric acid ; and to be converted by the nitric acid, and by chlorine, into a brown substance resembling ulmine. The surgical relations of pigment are these,—1st. It is often to be met with in degenerating growths of any kind. 2ndly. It is of frequent occurrence in those small patches of hypertrophied skin called moles. Srdly. It is often abundant in cancer; so much so as to constitute a variety, called melanotic, or black cancer. 4thly. There is a melanic diathesis in which large quantities of pigment may be deposited or in- filtrated through many organs in the same individual, either alone or in conjunction with fibrous or fibro-plastic elements. This is a very com- mon malady in old bay and gray horses. But although these tumours may pervade the entire body, and occasionally soften, they have no other malignity. See Melanic Cancer. SECTION IX.—CANCER. Definition.—Cancer is a disease evidenced by the development of 'peculiar cells, called cancer cells, or of their nuclei. These, combined with a liquid, or semi-liquid substance, called the cancerous juice, and contained either in a stroma of new fibrous tissue, or in the interstices of some other already-existing tissue, constitute a cancerous growth. The common characters of all cancerous growths, are the fifteen cha- racters of malignancy which we have given at page 99. t Cancer Cells.—These, which form the characteristic element of cancer, are, in their best examples, regular spheres, about ^^j^ inch in diameter, with an oval excentric nucleus, occupying the half or more of the interior, and containing one or more large nucleoli. The outline of the cell is pale and fine—that of the nucleus, bold and well marked ; the contents of the cell finely granular. Acetic acid renders the cell pale and transparent, and the nucleus more distinct. But from the typical form there are many variations,—for the cancer cell may vary in size from the to the ^oVo of an inch ; in shape it may be ovoid, triangular, fusiform, or elongated into one or more spurs, exhibiting a much greater variety of form than any other known cell; * Cancer cells traced by the author with the camera; magnified 200 diameters, a, nuclei; scale of -ooi inch. t Typical Cancer cells and nuclei from nature.CANCER. 115 there may be large mother-cells, containing three or more nuclei or perhaps small complete cells ; or there may be nuclei in abundance, which have not yet had a cell-wall developed upon them, to- gether with abundance of molecules and granules. Cancer cells may deviate from the common type,—1st, through want of development ; hence the smallest and least complete cells are found in the quickest growing cancers of the soft variety, and it may be very difficult to distinguish these from tibro-plastic cells. It may be affirmed that small old slowly- growing hard cancers, yield the most per- fect, and large I'apidly-growing cancers the worst developed specimens of cell. 2ndly. Cancer cells present other varieties depending on degenera- tion and oily inliltration ; for cancer, like all other tumours, may decay into a yellow-cheesy tubercle-looking mass. This was described by Miiller as a distinct variety under the name reticular cancer. The cancerous juice which may be squeezed from the freshly-cut sur- face of every cancer, and should be taken up for examination without scraping, is a rather milky liquid, v/hich mixes readily with water into an emulsion. * The strojna, or framework ot cancer, may either be the natural fibrous, or glandular, or other tissue, or else a new fibrous tissue, of varying degrees of firmness, and intermixed in rapidly-growing tumours, with fusiform cells, and other common fibro-plastic elements. Neither nerves nor lymphatics have been found in cancer. Varieties of Cancer.—1. The type and model of cancer is that which is commonly called soft cancer, encephaloma, or fungus medul- lari^: and which is] characterised by very great abundance of cells, * Mother-cells, and other varieties of cancer cell, drawn by Dr. Lionel Beale. t Cancer cells in their stroma, b, some cells loaded with oil, others with melanotic pigment. Drawn by Dr. Lionel Beale.116 CANCEH. contained in the meshes of a most delicate fibrous tissue. It is, as its name implies, of about the consistence of brain, or of very firm blanc- mange. When cut, it is seen to be of a whitish-yellow colour, or pink- ish, if vascular; on pressure there exudes from the cut surface a plentiful ymce, containing abundance of cancer cells, or nuclei. In external characters the soft cancer usually forms a tumour of rapid growth, rounded, smooth, more or less lobulated, softer in some places than in others, not tender. In its earlier stages it may be circumscribed and separable, though it may extend long distances in the interstices of muscles or other organs; in its latter it is usually adherent, blended with surrounding parts, and not moveable. If situated near the sur- face, it may, by the rapidity of its increase, cause the skin to ulcerate ; then, relieved from pressure, it grows with greater rapidity, throwing up huge fungous masses, from whose surface there oozes a thin sanious fluid. This, however, is not peculiar to soft cancers, but common to any other rapidly-increasing growth. 2. The hard cancer, or scirrhus, or carcinoma, has, as its name im- plies, a much firmer consistence than the preceding variety, which is due to the presence of a dense fibrous tissue; but there may be every gradation, in this respect, from a scirrhus as hard as fibro-cartilage to the softest and almost diffluent encephaloma. In well-marked examples, a hard cancer cuts crisply ; the cut surface shows irregular intersect- ing, firm, whitish fibrous bands, with a softer grayish or yellow matter in the interstices, from which the cancerous juice can be made to exude by pressure. In outward character it presents itself as a firm, hard, * Soft Cancer of the Breast, in the state known as fuvgus hematodes. From the King's College Museum.117 CANCER. heavy, usually nodulated tumour. This, in cancer of outward parts, after a time, becomes adherent, is subject to severe pain of a stabbing or lancinating character, distends the skin, ulcerates, and forms a more or less excavated ulcer, with hard, fimgous, everted edges, constant sanious discharge, and se- vere burning pain. 3. The IfelaniG, or Black Cancer, is cancer usually of the soft variety, infiltrated with pigment. As a primary disease, it generally occurs in the skin, or about the eye. But after a time it may, like the other varieties of cancer, invade every organ in the body. For example, in a case reported by Mr. Windsor of Manchester, it was found in skin, areolar tissue, muscles, pleura, lungs, heart, liver, mesentery, spleen, kidneys, and womb.* * Windsor, Prov. Med. Journ., 1850, p. 225 ; Fawdington on IMelanosis, Lond. 1826. Jt must be admitted that we know not how many of reputed cases of melanosis are cancerous, and how many consist of pigmentary deposit without cancer. t Nodule of black cancer in the true skin. X Soft cancer impregnated with pigment. From a bay mare.CANCER. 118 4. Colloid, or Gelatini-form, or Alveolar Cancer, is a peculiar growth, composed of a stroma of thiu membranous or fibrous mate- rial, so arranged as to form circular loculi, resembling in this respect the pulmonary- tissue, and filled with globu- lar masses, composed of con- centric layers of that struc- tureless material which we have described as colloid matter. The loculi, or rounded cells, are visible to the naked eye on a section, and may vary from the size of a pin's point to that of an egg. The col- loid matter seems to differ much from other animal products, and to resemble the jelly of the um- bilical cord, or mucus, or the tissue of the acalephaj and medusae. Its animal basis is said to contain only 7 per cent, of nitrogen. The rounded masses of gelatinous matter contain granules and nuclei; and the larger masses contain abundance of smaller ones, into which their substance appears to have divided and developed itself after the manner of the growth of cartilage. The gelatinous matter is arranged around these granules and nuclei after the manner of cell-growths. The question now arises, what is growth ? is it cancer ? Most pathologists consider it as cancer, and Lebert describes some, though not all, of the nuclei, as having the characters of cancer-nuclei. The pecu- liar chemical composition of the mass, however, seems to claim for it a place by itself. Its most ti-equent seat by far is the peritonaeum and abdominal vis- cera, yet it is found in the female breast and elsewhere. It has all the characteristics of cancer except that its progress is slow, and that it is slow in relapsing. It is an infiltrating growth, destroying the tissue it invades, spreading to adjacent parts, affecting the lymphatic glands, and appearing in remote organs ; as in a case re- corded by Lebert, in which a colloid tumour of the left breast of twelve years' duration destroyed the bieast, appeared in the axillary glands, destroyed the intercostal muscles by infiltration; and invaded both lungs, the mediastinum and bronchial glands. 5. Hcematoid Cancer {Fungus hmmatoides) is a variety of soft cancer, distinguished by its excessive vascularity, which is sometimes sufficient to cause a sensible throbbing like that of a vascular tumour. * This cut represents the outward appearance of a colloid growth on the mesentery, from King's College Museum. See also Ballard, Med. Chir, Trans, vol. xxxi.; Sibley, ih. vol. xxxix., and a classical case in Lebert, Anatomie Phy- siologique, vol. i.119 CANCER. Hence arise extravasations of blood into its substance, giving it tlie appearance of blood-clot mixed with brain. If ulcerated, there are frequent hsemorrhages from the surfaces. This, however, is common to every form of rapid ulcer, cancerous or not. 6. Cystic Cancer.—Cysts may be produced in cancerous growths by the extravasation of blood, and the absorption of the eoagulum, leaving in its place a clear or coffee-coloured serum. Creancer may be super- added to a previously-existing cystic growth, and may grow from the walls of the cyst as a portion of hypertrophied gland may. Or, lastly (as in the case of cancer of the ovary), it may, from the first, assume the cystic form which characterises the morbid growths of that organ. 7. Osteoid Cancer {^Malignant osseous tumour) is characterised, not merely by the partial ossification of the fibrous or periosteal tissue, in- tersecting a cancer when developed in or upon bone which is common), but by the conversion of the newly-developed cancer stroma, first into fibrous tissue of extreme density, then into a peculiar bone. This bone when macerated and dried is exceedingly dense and compact, like ivory ; yet dull in colour, rough and porous on its surface, extremely brittle and capable of being reduced to a chalky powder; and may be seen, under the microscope, to be imperfectly constituted as to its bone structures, and to contain an admixture of amorphous earthy matter. In the recent state its surface is covered and its interstices filled with the dense fibrous matter, and with a few cancer cells. 8. Villous Cancer.—This name has been assigned to a growth com- posed of the most delicate papillas, containing each a vascular loop, growing from the surface of mucous membrane, and associated with cancer, or more probably with epithelioma. The bladder and gums are the usual seat of this growth. Causes.—Under this head we have chiefly to confess our ignorance. Neither temperament, mode of life, civilisation, previous disease, nor moral causes have been proved to have any special predisposing influ- ence. Domestic animals and cattle are quite as subject to the disease as man is. The dark and bilious are not more subject to cancer than the light and florid. The rich are rather more liable than the poor ; but it is because they are not so often cut off beforehand by other diseases. The healthy and well-fed, the happy and prosperous, are as liable as their less fortunate brethren. The disease is alleged, however, to be more rare in tropical than in temperate climates; and, although there is no such incompatibility as is sometimes supposed between cancer and phthisis (because cancerous patients often display the signs of pre-existing tubercular disease, and many become affected with phthisis), yet it happens most rarely that any person actually phthisical is attacked by cancer.* External violence cannot be a cause of cancer, although it may perhaps occasion or hasten its development in the injured spot. In fact, the only known predisposing causes are,— 1. Descent from a cancerous parent, which seems to have some slight influence, and was found by Lebert to exist in about i of a certain * See case by ]VIr. Sibley, of concurrent development of cancer and pulmonary tubercle; and two other cases iu J. Z. Lawrence on Surgical Cancer, 1855, p. 30.120 CANCER, number of cases. 2. Sex: for cancer is at least from ^ to J more prevalent in the female. 3. Age: because nearly half of the entire number of cases occur between 40 and 60. Lastly—although cancer is not contagious in the ordinary sense of the term, there seems reason for believing that, if fresh cancer cells are introduced into the blood, they may be deposited and propagate themselves. The experiment has been tried on dogs by Langenbeck and by Lebert; and cancerous tumours were found in various parts, when the animals were killed some time afterwards ; yet it must be remembered that some of the tumours found in these cases may have existed before the inoculation. General Pathology.—The ancients considered scirrhus to be a consequence of inflammation, acute or chronic;—or to be a consequence of black bile. During the Hunterian era, it was supposed to depend on a peculiar action of vessels. Then it was believed that the cancer cell was something quite heterologous, alien to the human body, and specific;—now the opinion of pathologists is veering round to the old opinion—that cancer belongs to the same class of changes, as tubercle, chronic inflammation, &c.; and that it arises as they do, by unhealthy proliferation of existing cell or germinal elements. We know nothing of its essential nature. We say that it is the consequence of some un- known condition, to which is assigned the name of the cancerous dia- thesis. The type, and the most frequent variety, is the encephaloma; for although most of the cancers of the female breast are of the scir- rhous variety, and although this is common in the periosteum, dura mater, and pylorus, yet in every other tissue and organ the encepha- loid largely prevails. Cancer may occur at any age ; Lebert has seen it in the brain of a child of seven months; and believes it may be de- veloped in the foetus in utero. Cancer of the eye is most frequent under 15 ; that of the female breast and of the uterus (which form more than a fourth of the entire cases of cancer) between 40 and 60; of the tes- ticle between 20 and 50 ; of the intestinal tube in advanced life; whilst cancer of the bones is equally frequent at all ages. The Progress of Cancer may be divided into three stages:— 1. In the first, it begins insidiously, giadually increases, and may remain for a time unnoticed, if in an organ (such as the skin or breast) whose functions are not active. In this stage the constitutional symp- toms may be slight, if any. 2. The second is a stage of ac^/w local progress. The tumour grows faster; begins to adhere to and to infiltrate neighboui'ing tissues and the nearest lymphatics. And now, not only the functions of the organ affected, and of the others implicated by contiguity, become more de- cidedly deranged, but other symptoms manifest themselves peculiar to the morbid growth. Pain of a most severe, intermitting, neuralgic sort; gradually increasing in seveiity ; felt in the tumour itself as a sharp, stabbing, or burning sensation; in the muscles and bones as a wearing rheumatic pain, often disturbing the sleep at night; some- times preceding all local disease; sometimes not felt till it is far ad- vanced, is one of the most marked symptoms of cancer. This is quite independent of other pain arising from pressure, distension, or stagna-CANCER. 121 tion of blood. So valuable a sign hpain, that if after extirpation of a doubtfal tumour, the patient complains of neuralgia, secondary cancer may be almost certainly predicted. This practical rule was communi- cated to the writer by his friend and preceptor Dr. Robert Ferguson. In this stage, also, may occur several changes in the nutrition of the morbid growth. A portion of the cells may undergo disintegration into a granular mass; preceded by fatty infiltiation and formation of round granular corpuscles; or by a drying up and condensation; and the portions thus altered form a yellow tubercular-looking mass, mingled with the rest of the tumour, which Miiller described under the name reticular cancer, and Lebert as the phymatoid. Ecchymosis, in- flammation, and abscess may occur, or ulceration; but be it observed that ulceration is by no means so common a phenomenon in cancer as is generally taught, unless it be in hard cancer of the skin, breast, or stomach. After ulceration, or before it, portions of the tumour may soften, or may slough away ; but none of these changes are curative; for whilst one part is perishing, others are germinating and spreading the faster. Yet in a few instances, in aged persons, cancer has disap- peared by atrophy, and the breast with it.* In some few cases the ulcer may heal; but the cancerous mass beneath remains. The consti- tutional symptoms of this stage are those of an increasing cachexia, added to the detrimental consequences of pain, discharge, and interrup- tion of function. The complexion becomes sallow, the lips pale, the mind despondent (though delirium in any case of cancer is rare), diges- tion feeble ; the flesh and strength waste; and the bones become light and fragile.* In the third period, diffused and secondary cancerous growths are formed in the liver, uterus, bones, pleura, and other parts; and the in- creasing functional disturbance, added to the increasing decay of the vital qualities of the blood, ultimately prove fatal. Prognosis.—The final destiny of a cancerous patient is pretty certain; the time in which the disease may prove fatal is uncertain; it is shorter in the soft than in the hard cancer ; in young patients than in the aged; and in cancer of internal organs, especially if of vital importance, than of external. Some patients succumb in a few months ; others survive, if carefully treated, several years ; two years, or three, may be considered as more than the usual limits. Treatment.—We know of no radical measures, capable of remov- ing the cancerous taint from the blood, and of arresting the growth of the local disease. All that we can do is to check the disease so far as we can, and make the patient's life as long and as comfortable as our means permit. The first thing to be spoken of is extirpation; against which must be alleged the flicts—that the removal of one affected part cannot re- move the diathesis, and that the disease is almost sure to return in the original situation, or in some other. That in some instances outw\ard cancer is accompanied by the disease inwardly, and that to remove the * Case by Ernest Hart, Path. Trans, xiii. p. 225.122 CANCER* former would be taking away only part of the disease already existing : for instance, in cancer of the eye, or of the testis, some part within the head or abdomen is commonly affected likewise, and operations in such cases are most larely successful. That some patients are killed by the operation itself; and that some have died from being operated on for what afterwards proved to be no cancer at all. On the other hand, in fawnr of extirpation, it must be said that life may undoubtedly often be prolonged by it. That if the disease does return, an operation, thanks to chloroform, may be painless, and the interval one of health and comfort; and that it is possible the disease may not be cancer, but some othei- growth which excision might cure. The fiist point the surgeon should consider is, whether an operation can be performed without danger to life; for it would be both useless and unjustifiable to perform it, if the health were so completely broken down, or visceral disease so advanced, that the patient was liable to sink after it, or if the diseased mass were so adherent, or extensive, that it could not be removed effectually, so that the wound made by the operation would not heal. The methods of extirpation are two—the knife, and caustics. The knife is undoubtedly to be preferred in all cases as the most merciful ; and decidedly so, if the tumour is circumscribed, and can be removed entire, leaving a wound capable of healing by the first intention, so as to give the patient the chance of the most rapid recovery possible. Caustics, or astringent substances used assiduously, and in sufficient strength to shrivel up and kill the diseased tissue, are of the greatest service in cases for which the knife is not available. In the case, for instance, of an open foetid sore, or of a protruding mass giving issue to blood or to foetid sanious discharge, the chloride of zinc, in the form of Bur7ietfs solution, is an admirable thing. The writer has long been in the habit of using it in cancer of the womb; and its powers of checking foetid discharge and bleeding, of allaying burning pain, and of causing soft masses to shrink, are great. It may be applied in varying strength according to circumstances; so dilute as to be a mild asti'ingent and deodorizer, or so concentrated as to be a powerful caustic. The point seems to be to deaden the surface, then to get it to absorb as much of the chloride as possible, so as to tan a considerable depth, and to continue the process till the whole of a diseased mass comes out as a slough. One part of the solution to 64 of water is a good proportion to begin with, but it may be increased. F. 117. There are other caustics in great variety from which the surgeon may make his choice,* such as Manec's arsenical paste, or Canquoin's chloride of zinc paste, described at p. 81. Dr. Simpson recommends the sulphate of zinc dried and powdered, and sprinkled on the sore, or made into a paste with glycerine or lard, in the proportion of an ounce of the sulphate to a drachm of glycerine, or two drachms of lard. It is * An interesting account of them all is given by Mr. Spencer Wells, Med. Times, July 11, 1857. See also Simpson, Med. Times, Jan. 17, 1857.CANCER. 123 not deliquescent, and like the chloride does not attack sound surfaces. The concentrated sulphuric or nitric acid, made into a paste with tow, saffron, sawdust, or asbestos, is an efficient though less manageable caustic; the concentrated solution of chloride of iron, the acid nitrate of mercury, the permanganate of potass, bromine, and various other caustics may be mentioned, but the sulphate or chloride of zinc appears the best. If it be desired to penetrate deeply into a large mass of cancerous tissue, it may be done in three ways,—by deadening the surface with chloride of zinc, and then cutting through the slough nearly down to the living part, and inserting more of the caustic into the incisions— or by puncturing and injecting a few drops of solution of chloride of ii'on, as is done for naevus—or by inserting into the diseased mass small lozenges or stylets composed of chloride of zinc, flour and water, baked till they are hard enough.* In the case of cancerous masses which are so adherent and extensive that they cannot be removed by the knife, and in which the skin is not yet ulcerated, we believe that puncture and the injection, or insertion just described, so as, if possible, to eradicate the tumour with as little destruction of skin as possible, is the best plan, if any plan of extirpa- tion be determined on. During the last ten years, a plan of treating cancer has risen, flourished, and decayed in London, by which the public were promised, not merely that local deposits should be removed, but that the disease should be eradicated from the blood. The means employed were, de- struction of the skin by nitric acid, and of the cancer by chloride of zinc, introduced into incisions made in the first slough. The chloride was mixed with a red root—the sanguinaria—which has some stimula- ting properties, but, so far as cancer is concerned, is inert. What the nature and results of this treatment were, so far as the writer has had the opportunity of learning, may be gathered from the following me- morandum of one case :— On May 15th, 1857, he saw a lady, ast. 46, wife of a clergyman ; childless ; fifteen years ago she struck the left breast; a lump ensued, slowly increased, and became of late very painful; a gland in the axilla was also enlarged and painful; she suffered severe pain in the tumours, and above the clavicle in the neck ; she had been seen by several sur- geons during the last five years, all of whom said that the case was not fit for an operation. In March, 1857, she put herself under the care of a gentleman who professed to ciu-e cancel-. On the 25th, a large portion of the skin of the bosom (including the nipple), and over the gland were destroyed by nitric acid ; after this, the slough was gently cut through, and various substances inserted into the cuts; the pain was most agonising, and brought on violent flooding ; she sat in bed, hour after hour, rocking herself in agony ; the discharge was very pro- fuse ; but an essential part of the treatment was that she was not * Med. Times, Feb. 7, 1857, p. 144. Maisonneuve, Clinique CMrurgicalc. Paris, 1863i p. xliv.CAKCER. 124 allowed to keep her bed, but was taken daily into the open air in an easy chair: she lived well, and drank plenty of wine. In December the writer saw her again; she said that the tirst slough had been six weeks in separating, and that it was obliged to be removed by scissors ; that the wound was six months in healing, if healed it could be said to be ; for it had left a large tense red thin cicatrix adherent to the ribs, which cracked and bled every time she coughed. Her breathing was difficult, her cough severe, there were swellings above the clavicle, and evidently cancerous deposit in the chest. She was greatly emaciated ; strength and appetite gone ; pain constant. At the rirst interview she was hopeful, and said she had been relieved of the neuralgic pains above the clavicle; at this second interview she condemned the whole treat- ment as a delusion. She assured the writer that three ladies who had begun the treatment in March, when she did, were already dead; and she followed them in February, 1858. So this poor creature had passed the last year of her life in unutterable torture. So much for extirpation. But the very hopelessness of the disease ought to stimulate the surgeon to use eveiy effort to delay its course and soothe the patient's sufferings. The growth of the tumour may in some cases be checked by the incessant application of cold, by means of bladders filled with ice, or with a freezing mixture, on Dr. James Arnott's plan—or by pressure, with Dr. N. Arnott's slack air cushion. Powerful astringents, as the tannic and gallic acids, may delay the growth of, and check oozing from a rapidly-growing soft cancer. F. 186. 2. Antiphlogistic measures are quite powerless against cancer; but when it is mixed with some degree of common inflammatory effusion, which is apt to give a great impetus to the cancerous growth, a few leeches, cold applications, and alterative doses of Flummer's pill may be of great service. 3. Tonics, and especially the iodide and other preparations of iron, and quinine, are desirable in order to assist in forming healthy blood, and enabling the system to withstand the ra^^ages of the disease. 4. Specific remedies—such as iodine and its preparations, bromine, arsenic, and ergot of rye—are not known to be of service. 5. Narcotics may be given most unreservedly, for the purpose of subduing the gnawing pain and irritation which tend rapidly to exhaust the nervous system. Opium in the solid form, given regularly and boldly, is the sheet-anchor. Conium and other remedies of its class may be tried. 6. As local applications, during the earlier stages, fine cotton wool dusted with iodide of lead, and an occasional painting with tincture of aconite, or application of a bladder of ice, or of a lukewarm lead and opium lotion, to relieve the neuralgic pain. For the ulcerated stage the local remedies may be arranged under the following heads:—1. The soothing, including the opiate and conium lotions, F. 120, on lint covered with oiled silk; poultices, F. 157, me- dicated with the same remedies; chalk, lead, and bismuth ointments. 2. The gently stimulating; as the black-wash, carrot poultice, yeastELEPHANTIASIS ARABUM. 125 poultice, weak zinc or nitrate of silver lotions. 3. The astringent; as the lotions of iron and tannin, F. 128, 131; or poultice of bread and powdered matico. 4. The antiseptic ; as lotions of the chloride of lime or of zinc, or of creosote, or iodine ; of acetate or niti-ate of lead, or Condy's disinfecting fluid. We may add that poultices should not be applied too warm; and that care should be taken not to let the skin around become pimpled or excoriated, if it should, the tannin lotion, or bismuth ointment, are the best applications. A flat bag of peat charcoal, dry, and wrapped in flannel, may be laid over the wound, to absorb effluvia. 7. The general health and strength must be carefully looked to, since whatever disorders these will hasten the progress of tlie disease. Good diet, cod-liver oil, change of air, tranquillity of mind, and means for securing a proper action of the eliminative organs, will greatly aid in prolonging life, and in lessening the suflerings which our art cannot prevent. SECTION X.—ELEPHANTIASIS ARABUM. Under the term Elephantiasis, two dissimilar diseases have been con- founded : one, the Elephantiasis, so vividly described by Aretseus, the Elephantiasis Groecoruin, which begins by tubercular swellings of the face ; the other, the Elephantiasis Arabum, which we propose to de- scribe here. It consists in a slow hypertrophy of the skin, areolar tissue, and bones, and in their infiltration with a peculiar cacoplastic deposit. The epidermis is thickened and the papilla enlarged, hut not much: the true skin is immensely thickened : its fibrous structure dense and almost rigid : the areolar tissue thickened, its areolae expanded, and filled with oily or gelatinous-looking stuff. In cases which the writer has examined, the microscopical appearances were those of hypertrophy of the tissues involved. The bones also of the affected limb became enlarged and heavy. This is peculiarly a disease of warm climates. The dark races are more liable to it than the fair. In India, it is particularly liable to attack the scrotum, which it converts into a huge tumour. (See Scrotal Tumour.) In the West Indies the leg is its liavourite seat, hence the term Barhadoes leg. The best description of it is that given by Mr. Dalfcon, an able practitioner of Guiana ;* and from this it plainly appears, that it is from the first a constitutional malady. It begins insidiously with feverish or aguish symptoms, pain in the leg about to be attacked, firm doughy swelling resembling that of phlegmasia alba dolens, and some tender- ness of the lymphatic glands. In the course of months, or perhaps of years, the patient suffers a frequent repetition of these attacks; the litnb becomes permanently swelled, and in confirmed cases presents a huge, misshapen, useless mass, like the leg of an elephant ; hard, and * Lancet, 1846, vol. 11. p. 453. Mr. F. Day also describes the disease as con- secutive to malarious fever. This is important. Path. Trans, xiii. p. 304.126 GENEEAL DIAGNOSIS OF TUMOUES FEOM CANCEE. almost insensible to the touch, yet painful. A foetid serous discharge is liable to ooze from the skin ; or ulcers ma}'^ form, and if not very extensive, may diminish the pain, and seem to eliminate a something noxious. Treatment.—The usual thing proposed is the knife; but Mr. Dalton has shown that in the earlier stages the disease may be at least controlled, if not checked. The remedies he proposes are, first, a course of thorough eliminatives, purgatives, and emetics ; followed by tonics. Afterwards, th« limb should be thoroughly and tightly bandaged. Fomentations with astringent decoctions and lotions; the preparations of iodine, diuretics, and a small issue on the outside of the thigh are the remedies for the later stages. SECTION XI.—GENERAL DIAGNOSIS OF TUMOURS FROM CANCER. The Diagnosis of cancer implies—1, its distinction from other tu- mours in the living body, which is chiefly based upon its uncircum- scribed and adherent nature, and the severe and increasing pain and cachexia, which are sure to be present, if it has existed any time, or if it exists in many separate organs ; 2, its distinction anatomically after removal; and here it must be remembered that although the irregular outline, shape, and size of the cells as seen under the microscrope, con- taining a variable number of nuclei, easily separable from each other, readily squeezed out into the fluid forming the cancerous juice, and arranged in the meshes of a fibrous stroma, more or less abundant, taken with the other physical characters and symptoms, may enable the surgeon to decide that the case is one of cancer; yet there are many giowths of rapid formation in which only very small and immature cells or nuclei may be seen, which often turn out to be undoubted cancer, and of the most rapidly fatal kind. The student who wishes to ascertain the microscopic nature of a tumour should first carefully note its consistence, colour, and general appearance. Then he should divide it by a clean incision, and note carefully whether any liquid exudes from the cut surface, with or with- out the aid of slight pressure. If a milky or gruelly juice exudes, easily mixable with water, this must be carefully searched to determine the nature of the solid substances which give the milky appearances. They may be pus, or granular corpuscles, or epithelium; but if, on repeated examination, they present the well-marked characters oi' cancer cells, or nuclei, the diagnosis may be considered as tolerably certain, especially if it coincides with the general symptoms. If no juice is yielded, the tumour may be examined in sections. 1. Infiammatory induration is infiltrating and adherent, but never causes so hard, lumpy, and distinct a tumour as cancer. It contains fibro-plastic, or pus-cells. 2. Soft cancer may present such apparent fluctuation as to be mis- taken for abscess; but its greater elasticity and inequality of surface may serve as distinctions.GENERAL DIAGNOSIS OF TUMOURS FROM CANCER. 127 3. Ulcerated cancer is distinguished from any simple ulcer, and from lupus, by the pre-existenoe of cancerous tumour, and by its hard and immoveable, and extending base. From the ulcer of epithelioma, it is dilFerenced by the warty origin, and the hypertrophy of the cutaneous papillae of the latter. But as the two affections may coexist, and as extirpation is the remedy for each, it is important to attend to the mi- croscopic differences of structure, in order that it may be known whether it is the almost surely fatal cancer, or the possibly curable epithelioma, that the surgeon has to deal with. If cancer, there will be found the cancer cells, or if not, an abundance of cancer nuclei, and in most cases of cutaneous cancer, melanotic infiltration. On the con- trary, in epithelioma there will be found the epithelial cell, in every variety, arranged in adherent laminai, with their large, flattened, and often folded walls, containing, usually, a single nucleus not varying much in size in the different ceils, and there are the concentric loculated arrangements, or nests of epithelium. But as Lebert well observes, it is very possible that some epithelial cells may be found so like some cancer cells that it is hardly possible to distinguish between them. In any case, however, it is the character of the great mass, and not of individual, possibly exceptional, specimens that should be regarded. Moreover, epithelial tumours yield no juice \ or if a liquid be squeezed out, or scraped up, it does not mix uniformly with water, as pus and cancer juice do, but runs into clotty or leafy masses, composed of large numbers of adherent and similar cells, with clear water in the interstices of the masses. It is sometimes stated that cancer may be diagnosed by the micro- scopical appearances of the discharge. But this is fallacious. The cancer cell would perish on an ulcerating surface, and could scarcely be distinguished amidst the pus and ichor present. Ulcerated epithe- lioma may be more easily distinguished, because epithelium i* less de- structible and more likely to come off in coherent masses. The cut at p. Ill represents a papilla from epithelioma of the bladder, found in the urine, and diagnosed during the patient's life. 4. Soft cancer of t\\Q fungus hcematodes variety, when abundantly vascular and pulsating, may be mistaken for an erectile tumour, or aneurism hy anastomosis. But the long, perhaps, congenital dux-ation ol:' the erectile tumour, with the fact that the pulsating cancer must be of very rapid growth, and that the erectile tumour can generally be emptied by steady and continued pressure, are leading diagnostic marks. 5. Glandular hypertrophy may be distinguished by its finely-grained surface, like that of the fully-developed gland during lactation; by its mobility; and by the absence of adherence to the skin, of retraction of the nipple, of swelling of the lymphatics, of much pain, tenderness, or hardness, and of serious derangement of the health. 6. Cystic Sarcoma of the breast {adenocele) or testicle may be dis- tinguished by their slow growth, absence of pain and constitutional cachexia, by their smooth lobulated outline, with frequent cystic.i28 GENERAL DIAGNOSIS OF TUMOURS FROM CANCER. fluctuating protvusions, and the non-occurrence of any inoplications of the neighbouring glands. 7. Enlargement of the lymphatic glands may be distinguished from cancer by the circumstance, that if one only is affected, it presents a smooth, uniform, or lobulated surface; that it is not adherent; and that it is neither so hard as the hard, nor so soft as the soft cancer. If several glands are enlarged, they are not adherent to each other, nor connected by hard bands of indurated lymphatics; they do not increase at the same rate as the cancer does, nor affect the general health. 8. Tuberculosis differs from cancer in affecting by preference the lungs and lymphatic ganglia in young subjects ; whereas the eye and bones in the young, and the breast, womb, and stomach, in the old, are the favourite seats of cancer. Tuberculai- deposit may continue for any indefinite time, and may be perfectly eliminated by suppuration, or may undergo earthy transformation ; and the general health may improve in time: not so with cancer. The small cells of tubercle, destitute of nuclei and nucleoli, mixed with solid amorphous matter, not floating free in a special juice like those of cancer, and not readily and equally diffusible through water, ought not to be confounded with cancer cells. 9. Fibrous Tumours present a rounded, smooth, firm, elastic surface ; non-adherent, and not softer at some parts than at others; the neigh- bouring lymphatic glands are unaffected, and they may acquire large dimensions without serious cachexia. After extirpation, the naked eye will i-ecognise the white fibrous tissue, with few vessels, and no infil- trating juice containing cancer cells. 10. Enchondroma differs from cancer in the cii'cumscribed nature of the tumours, which leave the articulations and other neighbouring parts intact; in their smooth rounded surface; and in their not producing cachexia, even though multiple and of long duration. Microscopic analysis shows cartilage-cells embedded in a hyaline substance. But supposing that some of these cells are set free by the softening down o#' the intercellular substance, in which case they may have some resemr blance to cancer cells, or even that a portion of enchondroma is con- tained in a cancerous growth, a little attention will prevent error. 11. Lastly, the Fibro-plastic Tumour seems more nearly allied to cancer in development and clinical history than any other except epi- thelioma, and often closely resembles it in rapidity of growth. Yet it usually differs from it in having its surface legularly and uniformly lobulated, and of uniform consistence ; it is usually cii cumscribed and non-adherent, unless it has been subject to inflammation; it does not usually infiltrate other textures, nor affect the general health. In its microscopic elements, whether, as Lebert observes, it be of the soft gelatinous or of the red fleshy variety, there is an entire absence of cancer cells, and the constant existence of fibro-plastic cells, depicted at p. 24, and every series of forms between mere nuclei, and fibres elongated and fusiform. Yet it must be remembered that these tumours are ex- ceedingly apt to return after extirpation ; that possibly theyGENERAL DIAGNOSIS OF TUMOURS FROM CANCER. 129 may become multiple; or • even after extirpation bei" replaced by cancer. The Myeloid Tumour, which probably ought to be treated of as a special affection of bone, may be distinguished by the large mother- cells, depicted at p. 103. 12, Scrofulous lymph, the earliest stage of some chronic abscesses, forms a soft, elastic, semi-fluctuating tumour. If punctured at an early stage, a pink lymph of gelatinous consistence, composed of fibro-plastic cells intermixed with new vessels, may be squeezed out; this may persist in an undeveloped condition, and form fibro-plastic tumour ; or may be absorbed ; or may degenerate into a scrofulous abscess, in which the withered fibro-plastic cells appear as curdy flakes, or as one form of so-called tuberculous matter.130 PART III. DIFFERENT KINDS OF INJURIES. CHAPTER I. BRUISES AND SUBCUTANEOUS INJURIES. SECTION I.—INTRODUCTION. Definition.—Injuries attended with the division of various tissues, without wound of the skin ; or if with a wound of the skin, one which is very slight and quickly healed. This definition includes bruises or contusions, that is, injuries in- flicted by blows with blunt weapons,.as well as strains or sprains, which consist in the rupture of tendinous or ligamentous fibres, by over-stretching; besides simple fractures and dislocations, and those subcutaneous wounds which are made by surgeons in tenotomy and other operations. Pathology.—There is a great distinction between injuries without and with wound of skin ; for, as Hunter said, wounds, " in which the parts do not communicate externally seldom inflame, while those of the second order commonly both inflame and suppurate." The general progress of subcutaneous injuries is this. At first there is a certain amount of pain, consisting in a perpetuation of the original sensation of injury. There is some amount of extravasation from the blood-vessels which are torn: and there will be probably in twenty- four hours some amount of throbbing or infiammatori/ pain, with an increase of swelling, from inflammatory exudation. But if the case does well, all inflammation soon ceases; inflammatory exudation and effused blood are absorbed ; and there is a growth of pure plastic material, which fills the gap of the severed muscle tendon or bone as the case may be, and which infiltrates slightly the adjoining portions of tissue. This soon begins to organise itself, after the manner described in the Chapter on Repair, and becomes a fibrous tissue, by which any severed parts are united. If the blood be in a diseased state, and charged with material forBRUISES AND ECCHYMOSIS. 131 inflammatory exudation, or if the reparative material be injured or disturbed, a subcutaneous injury may lead to abscess. The reason why a subcutaneous injury should be so mu(;h less dangerous than one in which the skin is divided—why, for example, a simple fracture or dislocation should be comparatively safe, whilst a compound fracture or dislocation is a highly dangerous accident, appears to be this ; that the wound in the skin may be easily hindered from uniting by a variety of disturbing causes; and that the exudation, in contact with the air and external bodies, is liable to undergo decomposi- tion ; and that the state of decomposition may spread thoughout the wound, and give rise to various"local and constitutional distm'bances, varying from slight inflammation, or suppuration, to pyaemia. Treatment,—The general indications are, to put the injured part into an easy posture and keep it at perfect rest; to apply moderate pressure, so as to check exudation ; to soothe pain, sustain the secretions and strength of the patient, and so prevent inflammation and insure speedy repair. SECTION II.—BRUISES AND ECCHYMOSIS. Definition.—A bruise or contusion signifies an injury inflicted by some blunt object, without perforation of the skin. Bruises maybe divided into three degrees. 1. Those which proditce some laceration of small vessels in the areolar tissue, and perhaps some division of muscular flbre, accompanied by a limited effusion of blood into the part. 2. A large vessel may be ruptured, so that blood is effused in con- siderable quantity, and tears up the cellular tissue, in which it coagti- lates; or if an artery is ruptured, a false or diffused aneurism may be the result. 3. The tissues may be irretrievably pulpified and disorganised] as happens from the contact of a spent cannon-ball, for instance. ECCHYMOSIS is an effusion of blood in the areolar meshes or sub- stance of tissues. When ecchymosis has been produced in the skin or immediately beneath it, there appears a swelling of a reddish colour, which speedily becomes black. On the third day it is violet, and the margin, which was at first well defined, is found to be faint and diff used. About the fifth or sixth day the colour becomes green ; on the seventh or eighth, yellow; and it gradually disappears about the tenth or twelfth—sooner or later, according to the vigour of the individual, and the quantity of blood effused. If an ecchymosis be formed in the cellular tissue without injury of the skin, no discolouration may appear for twenty-four hours ; and if it be more deeply seated among the muscles it will not affect the skin for some days, and may then appear at a part quite remote from the seat of injury ; and, in this last case, will usually be in the foi-m of irregular yellow spots, maibled with green and blue.* * Devergie, Medecine Legale, Paris, 1836, tome ii. p. 57.132 BRUISES AND ECCHYMOSIS. Causes.—Ecchymosis may be produced by many other causes besides contusions. It is a symptom of certain diseases, as scm'vy, purpura, and the last stage of fevers. It may be a consequence of oblique wounds, which do not permit the blood to flow freely out; of spasms, and other violent contractions of the muscles; it may also be caused by suction (as after leech-bites), especially in a part where the skin is thin. It may further be simulated by the application of colouring matters to the skin. Lastly, ecchymosis produced during life may require to be distinguished from various appearances arising after death. Diagnosis.—Ecchymosis produced hy suction may be distinguished from that which is the result of injury, by being generally in the form of small round spots, and situated on the inside of the arms or female breasts; and the surgeon required to decide on the cause of such marks should consider whether they correspond in their appearance to the date which is assigned to them. Artificial discolouration of the shin may be distinguished from ecchy- mosis by its being generally in round or irregular spots, fringed at the edges.* Ecchymosis produced during life may be distinguished from the livid discolouration of incipient putrefaction, or that which is caused by the gravitation o/ blood in a dead body, by noticing that, in the first case, blood is effused into the cellular tissue, and is incorporated with the cutis, which is thickened ; whereas in the two latter cases, the blackness will be confined to the surface of the cutis, and if blood is effused into the cellular tissue, it will be only at some depending part, and will be fluid, and not coagulated.f Treatment.—The indications are (1) to check extravasation of blood ; (2j to prevent inflammation ; (3) and afterwards to pi'oduce absorption of the effused fluids and restore the use of the parts. The bruised part should, if possible, be placed in a raised position ; and cold or iced water, or a bladder containing ice, F. 114, should be applied at once. These measures, together with rest, moderate purga- tives, and not too full a diet,, will suffice for the first two indications; whilst the third will be fulfilled by friction with stimulating liniments, and a bandage after tenderness has subsided. For slight bruises on the face, such as a black eye, the application by a brush or piece of lint to the surface of brandy or spirits of wine, or of the tincture of matico, or a solution of alum or tannin, will often prevent the effusion of blood or its extension by astringing the vessels. If the effusion of blood is great—if the skin is so tense that it will inevitably either burst or slough—an incision may be made into the swelling, but it is better avoided. Then the clot will be gradually ex- truded by the contraction of the cavity, and a simple granulating wound will be left. But it is very bad practice to squeeze out the coagulum, * Fallot, de la Simulation et de la Dissimulation des Maladies, Bruxelles, 1836, p. 67. f Beck's Medical Jurisprudence.133 WOUNDS. as the bleeding might be brought on afresh, and severe inflammation be excited.* If an arter}^ of considerable size is lacerated, which will be known by the situation of the contusion, and the great and rapid swelling, the case must be treated as a diffused aneurism. Fingers and toes, however severely bruised, should not be cut off. CHAPTER 11. WOUNDS. Definition.—Wounds are commonly defined to be solutions of conti- nuity, or separations by external violence of parts normally united, or continuous ;—usually proceeding from the surface of the body or mucous cavities. Varieties.—The incised wounds, or those made with clean-cutting instruments; the punctured, or those made by instruments whose length greatly exceeds their breadth ; including stabs, and pricks of all sorts; the lacerated, in which parts are torn ; and the contused, or those effected by bruising, are the chief varieties. The incised are usually produced with the least violence, and generally admit most easily of repair. The punctured are dangerous from their depth, and from the possibility that deep blood-vessels or viscera may be injured, or that deep-seated extravasation of blood or abscess, may follow. The lacerated and contused wounds are commonly produced with greater violence, less likely to heal, and more prone to slough or suppurate. They do not however, in general, bleed so much as incised and punctured wounds, because arteries, when torn, contract more than when cut. We must remember, however, that we may have a clean tear as well as a clean cut; the definition of a clean wound being that the violence is expended solely in dividing parts, leaving the tissues on either side uninjured. See the Ecraseur. Treatment.—The treatment of all wounds comprises four indica- tions :—1, to check bleeding ; 2, to remove foreign bodies ; 3, to bring the divided parts into their natural position and keep them in union ; 4, to promote adhesion. (1) To check bleeding, moderate pressure, a raised position, and the application of cold, will be sufficient in most cases ; but if the bleeding prove obstinate, the measures must be adopted which will be pointed out in the Chapters on Wounds of Arteries and of Veins. (2) The removal of foreign bodies, if any are in the wound, should be effected as soon as possible, by the fingers or by forceps, or sponge * Hunter on the Blood, part ii. chap. ii. sect. i.WOUNDS. 134 and water. Dirt, gravel, &c., are best got rid of by affusion with lukewarm water. All clots of blood must likewise be removed. (3) In order to bring the sides of the wound into contact, the part must be placed in such a position as will relax any muscular fibres that have been divided, or that lie under the divided parts. Then the edges must be made to meet as nicely as possible. On this point the surgeon should use the utmost diligence, because the more that the parts are adapted, the less chance will there be of suppuration, and the more speedy and free ft'om deformity will the cure be. The edges of the wound may then be kept in their place by cross strips of adhesive plaster, one end of the plaster being first applied to that side of the wound which is loosest, and the other being brought across. Then a compress and bandage may be applied to keep on the dressings, and protect the parts from injury. It should be put on with such a degree of firmness as may feel comfortable to the patient and have the effect of preventing bleeding or other exudation. This point requires particular attention in subcutaneous surgery. If the wound is so situated that the plaster cannot be applied smoothly, a compress of lint may be laid on it first. Collodion.—A very useful substitute for adhesive plaster in many cases is the solution of gun cotton in ether, commonly known by the name collodion. This when applied to any surface dries instantly, forming a semi-transparent film of considerable tenacity, adhering firmly, and forming an artificial scab under which wounds often heal without any suppuration. In applying it, the edges of the wound should be held together as exactly as possible by an assistant, whilst a thick layer of the collodion is smeared across with a brush or small spatula. It is useful to apply it in the intervals of stitches or plasters, in order to exclude the air. This substance contracts so strongly that * 1. 3. 2. 4. @>= * 1. Fine glovers' needle; 2. Old harelip pin; 3. Curved surgical needles; 4. Fine steel needle for twisted suture.WOUNDS. 135 it should be put on in one layer, once for all ; not in repeated layers, else those which are put on afterwards will drag off those applied first. Thick mucilage sometimes is used for the same purpose; so is Friar's balsam. Sutures —In all extensive wounds, and most especially in wounds of the eyebrows, eyelids, ears, and other parts which it is most important to make to unite neatly, and in which plasters would be insufficient, sutures, or, in plain English, stitches, should be employed. Yet, unless for special reasons, the surgeon should not employ them in order forcibly to drag the lips of a gaping wound into contact, or they will give great pain, and his intentions will be frustrated by their speedily ulcerating. They may be removed in from three to six days, or sooner if violent irritation comes on. Five species of suture are enumerated in the old authors. 1. The Interrupted Suture is thus made. A needle armed with a single ligature is passed through the skin on one side of the wound from without, inwards; then at a cor- responding part through the upper lip/ro/7i within, outwards. Then the ends of the ligature (which may be made of silk, or hempen thread, well waxed) are to be drawn together, without, however, any great straining, and are to be tied tightly in a double-reef knot. Silver, iron, or leaden wire is sometimes used for sutures, and has this advantage, that it does not absorb fluids, and so cannot be con- verted into a seton; but it is apt to cut or tear when pulled out. As many of these stitches are to be made as are necessary ; half or three-quarters of an inch is a proper interval. 2. The Twisted Suture is made thus:—The edges of the wound are to be placed accurately in contact, and a sufficient number of pins to be passed through both of them at convenient distances. The first pin should be placed at any loose angle which there may happen to be. When all the pins have been introduced, and the parts are accurately adjusted, the middle of a long piece of silk is to be twisted around the uppermost in the form of a figure of 8. Then the two ends are to be brought down and twisted round each of the other pins successively in like * m-,, , , - ■ manner : and, lastly, are to be secured by a knot. The pins were formerly made of silver, with steel points which were removed after they were inserted, Fig. 2 (p. 34) ; but fine steel needles with lancet points, Fig, 4 (p. 34), are now used instead. After they are inserted their points must be cut off with pliers. 3. The Glovers', or Continuous Suture, is nothing more than the136 WOUNDS. ordinary way of sewing things together practised by seamstresses and housewives. It is employed in wounds of the intestines and abdomen. 4. The Quill Suture is performed by passing a sufficient number of ligatures witli the needle here represented ; but instead of being tied to their opposite neighbours, all the threads on each side of the wound are fastened to a bougie, or metallic rod, perforated with holes. It is very advantageous in pressing the deep parts of a wound together, and is used in lacerations of the female perinseum. 5. The Dry Suture was made by sticking a strip of adhesive plaster, or (before that was in- vented) a strip of linen smeared with white of egg and flour, to the skin on each side of the wound. The adjacent margins of the plaster or linen were then sewed together. (4) The fourth indication is to promote the process of adhesion. For this purpose every circumstance that will disturb the lymph exuded, or that will cause it to decompose, must be scrupulously avoided. The wounded part should be kept absolutely at rest, and if the wound be at all severe the patient should be sent to bed. Pain and mental dis- turbance should be allayed, and sleep procured by opium ; the import- ance of which in preventing fever and pyaemia cannot be over-estimated. The bowels should be relieved, in order to combat any tendency to inflammatory exudation, and the diet be regulated. In most cases just as much light food as will replace the waste of a man at rest is suffi- cient : in some it may be necessary to give meat and wine, in order to make up for loss of blood, and supply material for healthy exudation. No bandages should be tight enough to cause irritation or constriction. If much pain and swelling supervene, all tight applications and sutures must be removed, and fomentations or poultices be applied, till the inflam- mation has subsided, or till suppuration is established. Then the parts may be again gently approximated, that they may heal by the second in- tention ; that is, by the inosculation of their granulations. In wounds, as in other inflammatory cases, cloths dipped into cold water, or a bladder filled with ice, is sometimes more comfortable than warm applications. Cases of complete Disunion.—If any small portion of the body (a finger or part of the nose, for instance) has been completely cut off, and if it be reapplied as soon as possible, and retained by plasters or sutures, and wrapped up so as to preserve its temperature, it will very probably unite again. And even if such a part have been separated for a considerable time, the attempt should not be given up ; but it should be well washed with warm water to free it from dirt, and the stump137 WOUNDS. should also be bathed, so as to remove any dry coagulated blood, before they are reapplied to each other. One case is related in which the last phalanx of the middle finger was cut off, and after an hour and a half was replaced, and united firmly,* Cure of open Wounds.—If a pai-t has been abstracted which cannot be restored, or if any kind of wound cannot be covered by skin, as is the case with lacerated and irregular wounds, the first plan on which it may be treated, is by endeavouring to form a scab, by covering the wound with pledgets of soft lint soaked in blood, which are to be allowed to dry and adhere. This is the natural and simple way in which most slight accidents heal when not interfered with by art; and Mr. Wardrop has seen the large surface exposed by the removal of a diseased breast heal completely under a crust of blood in thirty days. The old-fashioned remedy, the Friar's Balsam, or Tinct. Benzoes comp., is an excellent application for wounds attended with some degree of contusion. It causes the blood to coagulate, and seals up the wound from the contact of the air, and from infectious miasmata. If there is no pain or bad smell, the wound should be allowed to remain unopened till the scabs drop off", and show a cicatrix underneath. But if ,it becomes painful, and a fetid matter oozes out, warm poultices or water-dressing should be applied, and the wound be treated like a common granulating sore. Or, instead of attempting to form a scab, the surgeon may apply water-dressing or poultices from the first, when, if the case proceeds favourably, the wound will become filled with a pink lymph, which in very shallow wounds forms a pliant cicatrix, without granulation, and without suppuration. Abscess after Wounds.—After punctured w^ounds, or after any ex- tensive surgical operation, or other wound, it is possible that part of the exudation, or that some portion of coagulum may decompose and cause suppuration, even after the wound in the skin has healed ; and that the sanious fluid which results may find its way into the veins and cause serious consequences. Pain and tenderness, restlessness and shivering, will cause the surgeon to examine the track of the wound carefully, and to make an incision if there is any mischief underneath. Punctured Wounds.—The first point usually mooted in discussing the treatment of these wounds is the propriety of dilating them, and converting them into simple incisions, in order to avert deep-seated suppuration and confinement of matter. But as those evils by no means follow of necessity, an endeavour should be made first to prevent them. To this end, the part should be kept at perfect rest, and should be bandaged with an agreeable degree of firmness, so as to prevent subcutaneous oozing of blood, which is the most likely cause of inflam- mation. If necessary, low diet, purgatives, and cold lotions must be employed. But if, notwithstanding, there should be severe pain, and swelling, and fever, the case must be treated in the same manner as a deep-seated abscess. * Baily, H, W., of Thetford, Ed. Med. and Surg. Journ., July 1815.138 CHAPTER III. GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. SECTION I.—GENERAL DESCRIPTION. Definition.—Under the term gun-shot wounds are included all the injuries caused by shot and other substances discharged from fire-arms, by fragments of stone or splinters of wood struck thereby, and by the bursting of fire-arms, and of shells. *' The cannon-shot," says Mr. Cole, " for the first five or six hundred yards grinds to powder and destroys everything that opposes its hissing course."* If it strikes a limb it either carries it away or completely smashes it, pulpifying all the tissues with which it comes into contact. The shock in such cases is always very severe, and often fatal of itself. The haemorrhage is usually slight: a gush of blood escapes at the moment the injury is inflicted, but the torn vessels soon retract, and the bleeding for a time is stopped. There were, however, a few instances, during the Crimean campaign, in which fatal haemor- rhage from the femoral artery was caused by cannon-shot injuries. When the shot has travelled some distance, so as to have lost a por- tion of its impetus, the injury which it inflicts is often even greater. Instead of going right through the part struck, it will allow itself to be guided, or its course to be changed, by objects which it may meet in its way, and will thus give rise to wider and more seiious injuries. This happened in the case of a private in the First Eoyals, who was working in the trenches before Sevastopol. He was in the act of shovelling up some earth, with his body bent, and his right hand, in which he held the handle of the shovel, low down in fi ont of the space between his legs. In this position he was struck by a round shot. It shattered his arm, leaving it hanging only by the integuments, and, passing between the thighs at their upper part, it tore away from each of them a large mass of the integuments and muscles, and laid bare the femoral artery on one side. It carried in front of it the penis, and scrotum, and anus, and, guided by the curve of the buttocks, it swept away a large portion of the glutaii of one side. Cannon-shot when nearly spent may produce severe injury without breaking the skin. Bones may be broken, or the deep tissues so con- tused as to lead to sevei e sloughing and loss of the parts. However near the end of its career a round shot may be, it still carries destruction with it; and many a soldier's foot has been knocked off, when put out to stop a shot, slowly ricochetting along like a cricket-ball. * Cole, J. J., Military Surgery, or Experience of Field Practice in India during the years 1848 and 1849. Lend. 1852.GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 139 It is rare for round shot to lodge themselves, yet a case occurred in the Balaklava action in which a six-pound shot was found lodged in a man's ham, with comparatively little distortion of the limb. Much has been said of the effects of the vnndage of balls, that is, of injuries supposed to be produced by balls going near without touch- ing, and ascribed to a current of air accompanying the ball. But later experience has shown the fallacy of all the views once enter- tained on this subject. Men's clothes have been torn, and even their caps carried off their heads by round shot, without producing any injury worth mentioning.* Shells.—If a shell strikes -anything before its explosion, it pro- duces etl'ects similar to those of round shot. After it has burst, the wounds inflicted by its fragments are not so severe as those of cannon- shot, although they certainly rank next in the amount of damage they produce. The large, irregular masses of i]'on often cause the most fearful contusions and lacerations of the tissues, and comminution of the bones. The extent of mischief produced by them may be estimated by the fact that during the late war the bursting of one howitzer shell caused ten admissions into the hospital of the 18th regiment, and that of the men so admitted seven lost an arm or leg. Musket Shot.—The largest number of v/ounds in any engagement is from musket balls. Until the late war, the old round leaden ball, fired from a plain or rifled barrel, was the only one in common use. Now, however, its place has been supplied by the conical ball, in our own and most of the continental armies, including those of our late enemies the Russians. As our men were wounded by both kind of balls, there were ample means of testing their destructive capacities. The conical balls being projected with much greater rapidity, are capable of passing through one or two men, and lodging themselves in the body of a third. They did not appear to deviate from their course to the extent that the old balls sometimes did. What they struck they usually per- forated, in some cases drilling through bones, in others producing severe comminuted fractures. They lodge much less frequently than the round ones, and are far more destructive as instruments of warfare. Again, the ball may, if the force is nearly expended, lodge in the cancellous tissue of a bone, and form for itself a kind of chamber, in which it may be easily moved, but from which it is with great diffi- culty extracted. Sometimes a ball will strike a bone longitudinally, and channel a long groove without fracturing the bone. Grape Shot produce wounds like those from round shot, only, as they are much smaller, so the injuries they inflict are less severe. * " A shot ricochetted with great force over one of the parapets, carrying away the cap from a seaman's head. The man was a little stunned, but no further mischief ensued. When his cap was picked up, it contained a handful of hair, which had been shaved from the scalp by the shot. This would have been a 'poser' for the old wind-contusionists." Account of the wounded in the recent bombardments of Sebastopol, by D. J. Duigan, Esq., Surgeon R.N., at- tached to the Naval Brigade.—il/ed Times and Gazette, Sept. 8, 1855.GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 140 Canister Shot likewise cause wounds similar, though not so severe as those from musket balls of the same size. Small Shot, discharged from a fowling-piece or pistol, produce dif- ferent effects, according to the distance at which they strike. If the distance is great, they will in all probability be scattered, and fall singly; peppering the victim smartly, but not penetrating beyond the subcutaneous tissue, nor doing much harm unless one of them sti ike the eye. But if the distance is small, so that they strike en masse, their effects are far more destructive than those of a bullet, for they spread in the flesh, and so cause greater laceration, besides the mischief arising from their lodgment in the tissues. Although there may be no hall in a gun or pistol, yet the wad- ding may act as a ball, if the piece is discharged close to the body. The surgeon in civil practice who examines a gun-shot wound inflicted with intent to murder, should always save the wadding if he finds any, as it may afford a clue to the detection of the murderer. All gun- shot injui-ies, too, may be complicated with severe burns from the explosion of gunpowder. Occasionally it happens that portions of the accoutrements, money from the pockets, or even pieces of bone from other soldiers' bodies are carried by the shot into the wound and lodged. A remarkable case of this kind is given by the late Mr. Guthrie, of two five-franc pieces being carried from the pocket of one man and lodged by a grape-shot in the thigh of the next. In the naval action before Sevastopol a man in the cockpit of the " Albion " was dangerously wounded by a large piece of the jaw car- ried into his body from the head of a fellow-patient, while being dressed by the surgeon, Mr. Pritchard. Course of Balls,—In the passage of the ball everything is as a rule carried in front of it, and we meet with fragments of the patients' clothing or pieces of wadding in the wound. Yet it is remarkable how easily globular balls may sometimes be diverted from their course by the slightest obstacle. An officer in the engineers returning one evening from the trenches before Sevastopol, was struck in the abdomen by a musket ball. It first impinged against a button of his trousers, which it bent double. This served to change its direction, and instead of pass- ing into the cavity of the abdomen, it travelled downwards between the abdominal muscles, and lodged deeply in the upper part of the thigh. Any trifling obliquity of surface, or difference of density in the parts which it traverses, may cause it to take a most circuitous route. Thus a ball may enter on one side of the head, chest, or abdomen, and may pass out at a point exactly opposite, just as if it had gone entirely through the cavity. In such instances the ball has generally been guided by a ridge of bone ; thus, in the chest it travels round the ribs, or in the abdomen around the crest of the ileum. Sometimes it will make a complete circuit, as in the case of a friend of Dr. Hennen, ■who was struck about the pomum Adami by a bullet, which passed completely round the neck, and was found lying in the very orifice atGUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 141 which it entered. In a similar manner balls will run along concave surfaces: thus a soldier may be struck in the wrist, when the arm is bent in the act of firing, and the ball may graze along the arm, and fly off at the shoulder : or a ball may enter the thorax or abdomen, glide along the inner surface of the peritoneum or pleura, and pass out or be lodged near the spine. If a ball has passed through a part, an orifice of entrance and one of exit is usually found. The orifice of entrance is generally smaller than the ball, with its edge livid, and inverted. That of exit is a larger and more ragged opening, with its edge somewhat everted. The difference in appearance between the entrance and exit of the ball is, however, much modified by the speed at which the ball is travelling when it strikes the patient, and by the resistance of the parts perfo- mted in its course through. The increased velocity with which the new rifles propel the balls, causes them to enter and leave a body without its offering sufficient resistance to produce a difference in the appearance of the two wounds. If, however, the speed of the ball's course be diminished, and a limb be then perforated by it, we have the characteristic appearances of its ingress and egress well marked. The ball in its passage through a part leaves a track which is often indicated by a bluish or dusky-red line or wheal on the skin, or some- times by a peculiar emphysematous crackling. Along this track the tissues are bruised and broken down, and their vitality greatly de- stroyed, and lying in difTei'ent parts of it are the fragments of foreign bodies which the bullet may have carried before it. SECTION II.—LODGMENT AND EXTRACTION OF BALLS. Lodgment of Balls.—Wounds by gun-shot missiles may be either penetrating, usually attended by lodgment of the missile in some part of the body, or perforating, in which the missile passes through and out of the body or limb. It is always imporfcmt to ascertain whether the shot has passed out of the body, or whether it has lodged ; and sup- posing that there are two holes, it must be considered whether they are produced by the entrance and exit of one, or by the entrance of tv:o distinct balls. If there are two holes, and they are distant from each other, some light may be thrown on the question by ascertaining the position of the patient at the time he was wounded, and the posture of his assailant. Thus, a soldier has presented himself with two shot- holes, one on the outside of the ankle, the other near the trochanter ; but they were both caused by the same ball, which entered at the ankle when the foot was raised in the act of running.* In another in- stance, a soldier, who was ascending a scaling-ladder, was wounded in the right arm, and the ball was found under the skin of the opposite thigh.t As a rule, one opening only being present indicates that the ball has lodged, but, in some instances, it may have escaped by the hole at which it entered, after having made the circuit of the body. Or * Guthrie, op. cit. p. 17. f Hennen, op. cit. p. 35.142 GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. it may have impinged against some part, such as the cartilage of a rib, which has caused it to recoil; and a ball has been known to drive a piece of bone into the bi'ain, and fall out of the wound afterwards. In some instances a ball has been unable to perforate a fold of linen, but has carried it for the distance of one, or even thi-ee or four inches into the wound; and on drawing this out, the ball of course comes out with it.* Again, it is very possible that two balls may enter by the same aperture, one of which may pass out, and the other diveige and wound some important organ. Sometimes it will happen that a ball splits, either from a defect in the casting, or from its striking agauist some sharp bony ridge, as the vomer, or shin, or edge of a fractured bone of the skull; and although one portion may have been extracted, another may be lodged and may have injured important vessels or nerves. But it frequently happens, that large masses of metal are impacted in the substance of a part without much external sign of their presence, as in a case related at p. 139. Detection of musket balls and other foreign bodies lodged in the wound.—A ditficulty sometimes arises in determining the presence of a bullet in the wound. A hard body may be felt by the probe, but no clear evidence may be thus obtained as to whether it be exposed bone or a leaden ball. The famous case of Garibaldi was one of this kind, giving rise to great ditierence of opinion as to whether a ball were lodged or not in the cancellous substance of the tibia near the ankle- joint. In this case the French surgeon Nelaton, discovered the ball by means of a probe, the point of which carried a bit of unglazed porcelain. The absorbing nature and rough surface of this material enabled it to carry a portion of lead from the bullet when it had rubbed upon it for a short time. The nature of the stain was then proved by the ordinary chemical tests for lead. On the same occasion, a magnetic probe was suggested by Dr. Miller of King's College, London, and constructed by the direction of Mr. Partridge. This probe, on coming in contact with metal at its point, would cause a deflection of a magnetic needle connected with it. No other but metallic substances would have this effect upon the instru- aient. For the purpose of detecting bullets a very simple, etFective, and practical instrument is used in the American army, the invention of Dr. Kress. Upon the end of a common steel probe is fastened a conical * A silk handkerchief sometimes saves life in the same way; and Mr, Home, in his Report on Gun-shot Wounds in Canada, in 1838, speaks of the great power which the canvas lining of soldiers' stocks has in resisting the passage of musket-hixlh.—JidinburgJi 3Jed. and Surg. Jour., July, 1840.143 GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. piece of hard iron or steel with a flat end, made rough in rectangular lines like a file. By placing the rough end of the cone upon the foreign body at the bottom of the wound and rotating the olive-shaped handle between the finger and thumb, particles of the metallic or other body can be rasped off, and retained in the grooves of the file-like end, and thus brought out for examination. Extraction of halls and foreign bodies.—It is of the greatest im- portance for the future well-doing of the patient, that any ball or foreign particles which may have lodged should be removed by the surgeon. A most careful examination of the parts is always neces- sary. This should be made as soon after the injury as possible, before swelling and oedema of the tissues have come on. If the ball has tra- versed some distance, and it cannot be detected near the surface, a silver probe of about tweh^e inches in length is most useful, and will allow an exploration to be made along the track of the bullet. As a rule, however, the best examination is made with the finger passed t into the wound, which may be enlarged if required. When the ball is deeply lodged, a bullet forceps will be found of great service. Excellent instruments are devised by Coxeter, Savigny, and others. When it is near the surface, a pair of straight incisor-tooth forceps will seize fast * Forceps for extracting bullets.—Weiss. f Pocket spoon and drill forceps for extracting bullets. It screws in the middle, and can be folded into a pocket case.— Weiss. % Bullet extractor, with a cup, moving on a hinge by means of a slide. — Weiss. This probably would be cumbersome in use.GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 144 hold of a leaden ball and remove it with facility. If, howevei-, the ball is lodged in bone, much difficulty is frequently experienced, and great tact required to get hold of it. A small channel may in some cases be made in the bone with a gouge, and the ball may generally then be removed with tolerable ease by means of one of Bell's sharp- pointed tooth elevators. SECTION III.—COLLAPSE FROM GUN-SHOT WOUNDS, Collapse or Shock is the first constitutional effect of a gun-shot injury. It follows immediately or soon after the infliction of the wound, and is present to a greater or less extent in nearly every case. It is more intense in proportion to the severity of the injury, and according to the part ot the body which has suffei'ed; but even com- paratively slight wounds are often followed by a very great amount of collapse. Gun-shot injuries of the thorax and abdomen are always followed by severe collapse. The severity of wounds in these localities, when the cavity is opened, or the viscera wounded, is sufficient to account for this ; but in instances whei e the ball has not penetrated the abdomen or thorax, but merely traversed their walls, there is still usually some shock, and often very much. The cause is probably partly the fear which men have of the result of wounds of either of the large cavities, believing that if a ball strikes the thorax or abdomen the case is necessarily fatal. Another reason has been attributed for the collapse which is so universal, which is- this. Men are generally wounded whilst under fire, while the nervous energies are in a state of extreme tension. They are suddenly struck down, and rendered hors de combat, and depression rapidly follows in proportion to the extent of the previous excitement, and thus we may meet with great collapse following even small injuries. Mr. Matthew adduces, as proof of this doctrine, the fact that men were occasionally received for treatment in the Crimean hospitals before the excitement had subsided; and they seemed to bear the operations without chloroform well, and in some instances begged that it might not be given. The depressed condition may come on imme- diately after an injury, or, more rarely, it may not take place until some hours afterwards, a difference depending on the peculiar mental constitution and nervous development of the patient. After severe gun-shot injuries patients may die from shock only. No large amount of blood may have been lost, or there may have been no destruction of parts which could cause rapid death, and yet the patient never rallies from the state of collapse, and speedily sinks. During the Eussian war as many as 160 wounded men among the regiments of the line died within twenty-four hours, and 149 more within forty-eight hours after the infliction of their wounds, a very large majority of these deaths being due to this cause.GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 145 During the stage of collapse, the patient presents a blanched sur- face ; the face pale, pinched, and anxious ; the extremities cold ; the pulse small, weak, often irregular and fluttering; the voice feeble. Such is the usual condition of the patient, varying of course in degree, when he is first seen by the surgeon. It is a question, therefore, of great moment whether it is best to rouse him from this state of collapse. The nature of the wound must answer this question. If the ball has penetrated the thorax or abdomen, it is best not to attempt to rally him too soon ; vessels may be wounded which it is impossible for the surgeon to secure, and this depressed state is most favourable for nature to form a coagulum, and arrest h£emorrhage. The patient should be placed in bed, with his head low, and be carefully watched, in order, by the judicious application of stimu- lants, warmth to the feet, &c., to prevent the collapse proceeding to too great an extent; in feet, to save him from sinking from the efiects of tliat which, if not carried too far, is most favourable for his ulti- mate recovery. The same rules apply to all cases where large vessels have been, or are supposed to be wounded. When, however, the injury is superficial, or even when it is deep without affecting important vessels, the patient should be rallied from the shock he has received as soon as possible, as reaction is generally in proportion to the amount of depression. SECTION IV.—HyEMOURKAGE FROM GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. HAEMORRHAGE.—Primary or immediate haemorrhage following gun- shot wounds, especially if they are severe, is of comparatively rare occurrence. There may be some slight bleeding at the time the wound is in- flicted, but not, as a rule, in any dangerous quantity. During the Crimean war there were frequent instances in which the upper or lower extremities were torn otF by round shot or shell, and left hanging merely by the integuments, and yet, in the majority of such cases, no immediate haemorrhage resulted which at all jeopardized life. After gun-shot injuries in which the blood-vessels are involved it is usually found that they are much lacerated, and retracted within their sheaths, and thus hasmorrhage is checked for a time. Occasionally cases occur where the femoral or some large vessel has been wounded, and htemorrhage has rapidly proved fatal. In such instances, it is pro- bable that the ball carried away a portion of the calibi'e of the artei y, without entirely dividing it. The very elastic nature and yielding attachments of arteries and veins in certain parts allow of an injury very near without opening the tube of the vessel. In one case given by Mr. Guthrie, a musket ball passed transversely across the middle of the thigh and directly between tlie femoral artery and vein, bruising but slightlv the coats of these A-essels. D ' LGUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 146 Both, however, became blocked up by coagula, and the patient died from gangrene of the limb.* Intermediary hcemorrhage may occur some hours after the receipt of the wound, as soon as reaction begins, or after it has been thoroughly established. In such cases, if the application of pressure fails, the best treatment is if possible to cut down upon and secure both extremities of the bleeding vessels. Secondary hcemorrhage, or that which takes place at a variable period from the fifth to the twenty-fifth day after the infliction of the injury, may be produced— 1st. By any sudden or violent movement of the patient, or anything which increases the rapidity of his circulation. The coagula which had temporarily closed the extremities of the wounded vessel, are pushed away by the force of the blood, and bleeding immediately takes place. Thus patients during the Russian war frequently died of secondary haemorrhage in being conveyed from the camp to Balaklava. Both in these cases and those of gun-shot fracture of the femur great advantages were derived fi-om the easy means of transport by dhoolies boine by men, in the Indian campaigns. The litieres and cascalets of the Fiench army, placed on each side of a mule, are also easier for the wounded than wheel ambulances.f 2nd. It may happen from sloughing, or ulceiation of a large vessel. The wounded tissues may ulcerate, or else may have been so much in- jured by the wound as to be incapable of recovering their vitality. 3rd. A vessel may be cut at almost any period after the injury, by a projecting sharp spiculum of bone. 4th. A peculiar hfemorrhagic or scorbutic diathesis is a frequent cause of secondary haemorrhage, in an army reduced by a long and severe campaign. This diathesis is often produced in long campaigns from improper diet, such as a deficient supply of vegetable food, which causes scurvy in the men, and renders them liable to haemorrhage from even very slight injuries. The blood thus wanting some necessary principle seems incapable of forming coagula sufficiently firm to seal the mouths of the divided vessels;—or it may be poisoned by hospital air. Treatment.—In all cases, if practicable, both ends of the bleeding vessel should be tied; since, if either end is left open, the circulation may be carried on through collateral channels, and haemorrhage may * Jn the 44th regiment, on the night of the 21st June, 1855, a man had his left arm carried away at the shoulder-joint: the limb was completely separated from the trunk, leaving too little of the soft tissues to cover in the face of the stump. The axillary artery appeared to have bled but little, if at all, at the moment of injury, and there was no subsequent hsmorrhage. The laceration laid bare the artery and vein for full three inches of their course. The ends of the vessel for three quarters of an inch were curved, plugged with coagula, and tapering to a point. The pulsation of the artery was full to the very base of the ping. t Williamson's Military Surgery, pp. 241—244.GUN-SHOT INJURIES OF REGIONS. return. The late Mr. Guthrie observes, in his Commentaries, that this should not be elone unless the vessel bleeds, " as baemon hage once arrested may not be renewed." A case occurred in the Crimea under Mr. Matthew which shows that even this rule will not always be the best for the patient's welfare, unless he can be kept under close obser- vation, and free from disturbance.* In wounds of the interosseous arteiy of the arm, owing to the difli- culty in getting at the vessel situated beneath the deep Hexors of the forearm, surgeons have been induced to tie the brachial in preference to the more difficult and tedious operation of securing both ends of the interosseous. Mr. Partridge in two separate cases tied the brachial at King's College Hospital for wounds of the interosseous, and in both instances the haemorrhage was entirely arrested, and the patients did well. For similar reasons, in wounds of the palmar arch, it is better to tie both radial and ulnar; or should it be found that pressure on these fail to arrest the haemorrhage, to proceed at once to tie the brachial, i-ather than explore beneath the palmar fascia for the cut ends of the bleeding vessels. SECTION V.—GUN-SIIOT INJURIES ON THE HEAD AND FACE. ■ Gun-shot Injueies of the Skull are the most unsatisfactory and fatal class of cases which it falls to the lot of the military surgeon to treat. To diagnose the extent of injury intlicted is often very difficult, and yet a correct appreciation of the nature of the wounds, and the parts implicated by them, is of paramount importance. Balls striking the skull usually cause fracture at the point they impinge against, and thus, cases of fracture of the base fi om contre coup are of rare occur- rence in military practice. Simple flesh wounds of the scalp may be produced by the grazing of a fragment of a shell or musket ball. These injuries, if not severe, soon get well under simple dressing and quiet. If, however, there is much laceration of the scalp, suppuration and burrowing of pus is apt to occur, and death of a portion of the external table of the skull often results. * A man was brought in on the evening of the battle of Inkermann who had been shot through the lesj at the junction of the middle and lower thirds. He had lost a large quantity of blood, and it was evident that the posterior tibial artery had been wounded, but it did not then bleed. The exhaustion was excessive. He was placed in a tent, with a pledget of lint on the wound, the leg bandaged and kept elevated, and an orderly left to watch him. On the following morning the pad of lint was removed, but no haemorrhage took place. As the wounded had to be removed from camp to Balaklava, a dis- tance of seven miles, and thence to Scutari by ship, it w'as thought best to tie the vessel, notwithstanding it could not be made to bleed after all the bandages were removed from the limb. The operation was accordingly done, and it was found that a large portion of the calibre of the vessel had been shot away. Probably had not this operation been performed, secondary ha?morrhagp would have come on at some later period, and through the man's feeble condition have terminated fatally.GUN-SHOT INJUKIES OF THE 148 Treatment.—Perfect rest, and the avoidance of all excitement. The bowels should be freely opened by purgatives, and the patient kept on low diet. Fracture of the skull without depression.—Cases of this nature are of frequent occurrence, but are of far more serious importance than the fore- going class of injuries. They are usually accompanied with considerable contusion or laceration of the scalp. The symptoms which such an injury produces are uncertain: in some instances the patient is rendered in- sensible immediately by the blow, while in others he is apparently but little affected by it at the time of its infliction. The wound should be carefully examined luith the finger, to ascertain if there is any de- pression. Often, when merely a fissure can be detected in the external plate of the skull, an extensive stellated fracture may exist in the inner table. This is usually referred to a greater brittleness of the inner table, but Mr. Erichsen has shown, by reference to the case of a man shot through the head from the mouth, that the external table may be more extensively fractured than the internal one, when the ball impinges on it from within. The chief reason seems to be that the ball in passing through the first table met with in its course has its velocity so much diminished that, in accordance with the usual law before referred to, the aperture of exit from the bone is larger than that of entrance into it. The external plate may, in some cases, be grooved by a ball, im- parting to the touch the sensation of a depressed fi acture. Theprognosis in all these cases is necessarily unfavourable, yet very many patients will recover perfectly. The external table may exfoliate and healthy granulations and perfect cicatrization may follow. In unfavourable cases extensive suppuration beneath the scalp may come on, or the inner table of the skull may die, and abscess be- tween the dura mater and bone, with its concomitant evils, may destroy the patient. Treatment.—If the case is clearly one of simple fracture without depression, but little medicinal treatment is required. Cold applica- tions should be kept to the head, and the bowels regularly opened, if necessary, by purgatives. Perfect rest should be strictly enjoined, and all means of excitement avoided. If, however, abscess be diagnosed beneath the inner table, it should be evacuated by the removal of a portion of bone with the trephine. The period at which urgent symp- toms set in after the injury will assist the surgeon in the formation of his opinion. The occurrence of severe rigors with head symptoms coming on from fifteen to thirty days after the injury, would give rise to a grave suspicion of the formation of pus. Fracture of the skull with depression.—The symptoms of such inju- ries are so various, that it is impossible to lay down any correct laws to guide the surgeon in his diagnosis. In some cases the indications of compression of the brain are strongly marked, while in others the patient, when first seen, appears but little affected. If symptoms be urgent, and there be much difficulty in arriving at a satisfactory conclusion, whether there is depression or not, the woundDIFFERENT REGIONS OF THE BODY. 149 should be enlarged, so as to admit of a visual examination of the injured part. In very many instances surgical skill can avail nothing, and the surgeon has but to watch and soothe the dying man, and observe the curious physiological phenomena presented.* Treatment.—If the usual symptoms of compression are present, and depressed bone be positively detected, and there is a scalp wound, the surgeon may trephine. If, however, on the other hand, the bone is found depressed, but no symptoms of compression be present, or if there be no scalp wound, the operation should be delayed until cerebral symptoms have begun to manifest themselves. Tne operation of trephining is so fraught with danger, and experience has sliown that men will recover sometimes unexpectedly from the most severe injuries, that unless there be positive indications for its use, it should not be had resort to. If tlie scalp be wounded and the skull comminuted, and the spicula are pressing on the brani or its membi'anes, these should be imme- diately removed, without waiting for symptoms. Compression of the brain from coagula of blood after injury to the skull is of not unfrequent occurrence. In such cases trephining has been recommended; but the difficulty of diagnosing correctly the seat of the coagulum, supposing haemorrhage really to have taken place, renders the operation very unsatisfactory, and one which should be seldom resorted to. Moreover, it should be noticed that Dy. Stromeyer, who was surgeon-in-chief in the Schleswig-Holstein campaign against the Danes, in 1849, protests strongly against the use of the trephine, even in cases of depression, urging that the admission of air must exert a deleterious influence on a contused portion of brain. From the campaigns of 1849 and 1850 he possesses the notes of forty-one gun-shot fractures of the skull with depression, and of these only seven terminated fatally; thirty-lbur were cured, of whom one only had been trephined.f Balls lodging in or penetrating the skull are almost always fatal. There was no instance during the Crimean war of a man recovering * A private of the 21st regiment in the Crimea, had the whole of the ix)sterior half of the skull depressed by a round shot, yet he lived two hours. A private of the 19th regiment Uved ten days after having, as it turned out at the post mortem, a piece of the skull driven into one of the corpora striata. t In the " Consolidated Statement of Gun-shot Wounds" rendered to Surgeon General Hammond, U.S.A., by Dr. John H. Brinton and refeiTing to 20,930 cases treated during September, October, November, and December, 1862, an account is given of 35 cases of trephining performed in U.S.A. General Hospitals for September 1862, to 31st March, 1863. Of these, 30 were from gun-shot wounds,' 5 from other causes : 3 primary, 32 secondary : 5 recovered, 28 died, 2 remained under treatment. Dr. Moses, Medical Director of the Army of the Cumberland, in the simimer of 1863, in his "Surgical Notes on Gun-shot In- juries," Am. Journ. Med. Soc. April, 1864, says : " Gun-shot fractures of the arch uf the skull are almost universally fatal; and as far as my experience gues, it makes little difference whether you trephine, remove depressed bone, or let them alone. All my operations for trephining have been unsuccessful thus far in the war."150 GUN-SHOT INJUEIES OF THE from such injury. Many survived four or five days after severe damage to the brain, but all these cases were eventually fatal. Gun-shot injuries of the face are of frequent occurrence, and present a greater amount of deformity than v^^ounds in any other part of the body ; nevertheless the issue of such cases, even when the bones are severely injured, is usually favourable, and a very large majority of the patients returned again to duty. During the Crimean war, out of 535 men treated for these injuries, during the second part of the campaign, only fourteen died, or 2*6 per cent., and 83 per cent, returned to duty. Any part of the face may have the integuments lacerated, or perforated, or the bones com- minuted, yet we have not any vital oj gan interfered with. The parts are vascular, and it is their vascularity which accounts for the rapidity with which repair is carried on. The chief danger is haemorrhage, but still, as there are no very large arteries, the bleeding usually ceases alter a while. If the lower jaw be torn away, the tendency of the tongue to fall upon the glottis will be a source of inconvenience to the patient. In the case of a private in the 31st regiment, who was wounded on the 2nd September in the second ;ittack on the Redan, the lower jaw was comminuted by a grape-shot, and the whole of it iu front of the angles was removed in splinters by the surgeon. The tongue was apt to tall backwards on the glottis, and interfere with respiration. This defect the man used to remedy by drawing it forward with his finger, and by resting with his face as prone as possible. He ulti-- timately recovered. Two cases are recorded during the late war in which grape shot weighing nearly eighteen ounces had lodged in the back of the pharynx, having entered through the lace, and breaking down all the tissues with which they came in contact. One patient was a private in the 1st battalion of the Royals, and was treated in the Castle Hospital, Bala- klava. The second was a private of the 31st Regiment. Treatment.—Remove all loose spicula of bone, and adjust the parts as neatly as possible, covering them with some light water dressing. If the jaw be fractured, maintain it in position, either by the per- forated wire or gutta-percha splint. The diet should be fluid, but good. SECTION VI.—GUN-SHOT INJURIES OF THE CHEST. Gun-shot Wounds of the Chest may be divided into, 1st. Those in which the cavity of the thorax has not been opened. 2ud. Those in which the cavity has been opened ; with or without injury to its contents. Of the second class, a very important practical distinction is that into penetrating and perforating. In the penetrating wound the ball, besides entering the chest cavity, remains lodged either iu its interior, or iu some neighbouring pai t. In the perforating woundDIFFERENT REGIONS OF THE BODY. 151 the ball has passed clearly out of the cavity by an aperture of exit in addition to tliat of entrance. In the first class the danger is less than in the latter. Yet severe contusion of the lung may result from a blow of a spent cannon-shot on the thorax; or life may be endangered fi-om shell wounds causing severe laceration of the integument and injury to the ribs. Among wounds of the second class it most commonly happens that a ball passes through the lung. Here we have a track through the sub- stance of the lung, and generally pieces of the patient's dress, or frag- ments of wadding, are found to have been carried before the bullet in its course; A'essels must be torn through, and haemorrhage, often to a great extent, will take place at some period alter the receipt of the injury. This bleeding may occur in the following modes:— a. From the vessels of the chest wall. /8. From the vessels of the lung. The former class (o) may be either, 1st, external through the wound or, 2nd, internal into the cavity of the pleura. The second class (jS) may be internal: 1st. If slight, into the sub- stance of the lung. 2nd. It may flow into one of the bronchi, and so be coughed up. 3rd. If more severe, it may be into the cavity of the pleura, com- pressing the lung, and adding much to tlie patient's sufferings and danger; or it may be external. Possibly old adhesions of the lung to the pleura may exist, gluing the costal and pleural surfaces together, or fi"ora other causes the blood may escape through the wound inflicted by the missile. The lodgment of balls in the lung during the Russian war, owing to the use of rifles, was more rare than in former campaigns. The danger is much greater than when balls pass through the lung. There are, however, instances of men having lived for many years with a ball in one lung. In such cases it becomes clothed with an adven- titious cyst, and thus coated, seems no longer to act as a foreign body. Symptoms of wound of the lung.—Great collapse ; the face blanched and anxious ; difficulty of breathing in proportion to the extent of the wound, and probably some bloody frothy expectoration. In some cases of wounded lung no blood is expectorated ; while, on the other hand, cases of mere contusion of the surface of the lung by a round shot oi' passing ball is attended by bloody sputa. Sometimes there is emphysema in the region of the wound, but this is by no means a frequent or necessary occurrence. Fractured rib is the most frequent cause of emphysema. The prognosis in all penetrating wounds of the chest is unfavourable, particularly if the ball has lodged. Treatment.—The patient should be placed in bed, and the wound carefully examined, to ascertain whether the ball has lodged, or passed through the thorax; and when no counter opening can be found, it will often be detected lying beneath the scapula on the opposite side. The patient should not be roused from the state of collapse, if it be notGUN-SHOT INJURIES OF THE 152 severe, since this is favourable to the formation of clot and arrest of the bleeding. A piece of light dressing should be placed on the wound, and he should be carefully watched, and the symptoms treated as they present themselves. If the wound be superficial and small, and there is much hsBmorrhage, it may be enlarged and the bleeding vessel secured. If the intercostal artery be wounded and difficult to secure, a piece of thin wire or thread may be passed round the ribs including the vessel. If the surgeon has reason to believe that haemorrhage is going on into the pleura, free venesection should be had resort to, sufficient to induce syncope and favour the formation of a clot. If external haemorrhage is taking place there is no need of venesection, as sufficient blood may be lost to produce the requii-ed effect. Much has been said lately concerning the necessity or advisability of bleeding men simply because they have received a chest wound. The late war in the Crimea seems to point out that large bleeding for the arrest of the inflammatory action which follows gun-shot injuries of the chest, is injudicious. Adhesive inflammation along the track of the bullet is desired, and is absolutely necessary for the purpose of hmiting the inflammatory action to the wounded part. By largely bleeding the patient, suppu- ration is induced, and general, instead of local ])neumonia is the result. A low diet, perfect rest, anodynes, and diaphoretics seem to afford the patient the best chance of recovery, if he escape the first danger from haemorrhage. The position of the patient should be that which is most comfortable, as that will probaby be the one which is most favourable for his recovery. On the wounded side is generally selected, as that position favours the discharge of matter, approximates the opposed surfaces of the pleura, and quiets the movements of the ribs on the affected side. Treatment by hermetically sealing the wound.—In the present American civil war, a plan of treatment, proposed by Dr. Howard, for penetrating wounds of the chest and abdomen is said to have been followed by success. This surgeon considered that the custom of leaving open the wound for the escape of blood is objectionable in favouring the continuance of the bleeding, increasing dyspnoea by permitting atmospheric pressure on the surface of the lung, and promoting the putrid decomposition of the effused fluids. He first pares the edges of the wound, if made by a gunshot, thus removing the contused parts unfavourable to union. He then brings together the edges by silver sutures, and puts on several layers of collodion, and then a lint com- press and bandage, with the object of securing union by adhesion. If there follow undue heat and swelling, he applies copious affusion of cold water. Should suppuration occur in the pleural cavity, he removes the matter by the use of a trocar and oanula at the most dependent point, with cai e to avoid admission of air. He states that he has thus obtained union by adhesion and removed the sutureslive days afterwards, and that the bleeding was always controlled, and the distress and dyspnoea alleviated by the treatment. This treatment by herme' tically sealing the wound is stated by Dr. Howard to have been followedDIFFERENT REGIONS OF THE BODY. 153 by a decrease of mortality from wounded lung to the extent of 19 per cent, after one engagement.* Complications and unfawurahle symptoms.—Suppuration - must always take place along the track of the bullet, and generally sloughing. It may be profuse, and the patient may sink under it. Severe pneu- monia or pleurisy may add to the danger. A very frequent cause of death after these injuries is empyema, or the secretion of pus from the^ entire surface of the pleura. SECTION VII.—GUN-SHOT INJURIES OF THE ABDOMEN. Gun-shot Wounds of the Abdomen form a very fatal class of injuries. During the Crimean war 235 cases were treated, and of these 55*7 per cent. died. They may be divided into— 1st. Flesh wounds of the walls of the abdomen. 2nd. Injury to the internal organs without lesion of the walls. 3rd. Penetrating wounds, with or without injury to the viscera or large vessels. 1st. Flesh wounds of the walls of the abdomen may be caused by fragments of shell, by which large portions of the integuments and muscles are often torn away, and portions of the intestines sometimes exposed. Bullets and bayonets will frequently traverse the abdominal walls without penetrating. No protracted examination should be made by the surgeon in such cases; but failing to detect the true nature of the wound, he should leave it for time to decide whether the cavity has been opened, or the viscera wounded. 2nd, Injury to internal organs vjithout lesion of the abdominal walls.—Spent round shot or spent fragments of shell may strike the abdomen and inflict severe injury on the parts within, icithout wounding the walls of the abdomen. The liver, kidney, or spleen, or even the intestines, may be thus ruptured. The condition the abdominal muscles are in at the time the blow takes place will often determine the amount of injury. - If they are perfectly relaxed at the time, the damage inflicted on the internal organs is usually severe, as no re- sistance is offered to the violence of the missile ; whereas, if the abdo- minal muscles are rigid, they oppose or deflect the ball, and its impetus is expended in overcoming this opposition. 3rd. Penetrating wounds of the abdomen with or without injury to the viscera or large vessels.—The fatality which follows such injuries is very great. When the ball merely penetrates the wall and passes out of the abdomen without injuring its contents, the chief danger to the patient is from peritonitis. When, however, the viscera have been wounded the severity of the danger will, in a great measure, depend on whether it is one of the solid organs, as the liver, spleen, or kidney, which has been injured, or whether there has been perforation of the stomach or intestines. From the reports of cases, wounds of the liver, * American Medical Times, Oct. 3, 1863.GUN-SHOT INJURIES OF THE 154 spleen, and kidney appear more fatal than those of the hollow viscera ; and wounds of the stomach and large intestine more fatal than those of the small. Symptoms.—The position of the wound is a great gnide as to whether the abdominal cavity has been opened; occasionally a discharge of reddish serum indicates a wound of the serous cavity. If the omentum or intestines protrude, the diagnosis is plain. If the intestinal canal be distended at the time of the injury an escape of flatus or bilious matter or fa?ces from the wound will indicate the nature of the injury; but it is often impossible to tell by a mere examination, and the surgeon is obliged to tound his diagnosis on the symptoms present. Great col- lapse is the first striking symptom ; if the viscera have been wounded, it is very severe, indeed it is a common cause of death in wounds of this region. When death does happen from shock, it is usually found that the intestines have been largely ruptured, or there has been intei-nal haemorrhage. Frequent vomiting is a symptom which is common in wounds of the intestine, particularly if the injured part be high in the alimentary canal. There is usually pain in the abdomen, and frequently passage of blood by the stools. The after symptoms are referi-ible, 1st, to peritonitis, and 2nd, to the organ which may liave been wounded; e. g. the passage of blood by the urine, or the escape of urine from the wound, or of bile, or of any other special secretion. If the intestine be wounded to a small extent, and not pro- truding, the pi-essure of the adjacent viscera is usually sufficient to prevent extravasation. Treatment.—Having carefully examined the wound without much manipulation, place the patient in bed. He should not be hurried from the state of collapse, unless it be so severe as to threaten a fatal termi- nation. Should it be ascei tained that the intestine is wounded, do not search after the wound with the view of sewing up the opening; for if the wound is only to the extent of two or three lines, the protrusion thi'ough it of the mucous membrane is usually sufficient to arrest for a while the flow of the contents until lymph seals up the opening. If larger than this a stitch is usually required. The protruding bowels must be carefully cleansed and returned as soon as possible. The suture used must be the continuous or glover's stitch, including only the pei-itoneal and cellular coats with the serous surfaces turned in, and opposed to each other, so as to adhere by efl'used lymph. The knot must be cut off short, and disposed of between the stitches, so that the end shall fall into the interior of the gut when the included parts slough or ulcerate. The sewn part should be kept as near to the external wound as possible. Occasionally an artificial anus is the result. Few cases occurred during the Crimean war in which sutures were used, and those were fatal. Large and repeated doses of opium are imperatively called for to re- lieve the pain, and to arrest the peristaltic action of the bowels; it serves also to quell the mental anxiety of the patient. The question of general bleeding must be determined by the surgeon. He should re-155 DIFFERENT EEGIONS OF THE BODY. member that it does not follow that because a man is wounded in the abdomen therefore he must be bled. lu injuries of this region adhesive inflammation is earnestly desired. Prophylactic bleedings are believed by most surgeons of the present day to be positively injurious; and it is generally considered that it is sufficient to meet actively an evil when it presents itself without submitting a patient to powerful remedies in anticipation of a mischief which may never occur. Occasionally cases have been met with in which a ball after pene- trating the abdomen has been lodged in the bladder. M. Baudens removed a ball from the bladder by the operation above the pubis, and the late Mr. Guthrie succeeded in getting one away by the lateral opera- tion. Mr. Dixon* relates ten cases in which balls were successfully removed from the bladder, and three in which the attempts failed. Instances are also on record of balls having been pabsed by the bowels at stool, proving that they must have lodged in the intestine. Wounds of the liver, though usually fatal from intlammation, are not necessarily so: portions of protruding liver have been excised, aud the patient recovered. SECTION VIII.—GUN-SHOT INJURIES OF THE LIMBS—AMPUTATION, PRIMARY AND SECONDARY. Gun-shot Wounds of the Extremities are met with more fre- quently than wounds in any other region of the body. Both the upper and lower extremities are liable to similar wounds, but the danger is far greater in wounds of the latter. We may have— 1st. Flesh Wounds, caused either by the passage or lodgment of balls, without producing any fracture of the bones, or injury to any important vessels or nerves ; or they may be pi-oduced by fragments of shell. The injury inflicted by a bullet is not usually veiy severe, and under simple dressing may soon get well. The damage, however, which results from fragments of shell, often ends in severe sloughing and loss of parts, producing, if the patient sur- vives the dram, great deformity from the contraction and cicatrization of the tissues which have been involved ; for example, after wounds of the calf of the leg, in which there has been loftS of a large portion of the gastrocnemius. 2nd. Simple Fractures are usually caused by spent balls; and al- though, in such cases, the integument may not have been broken, still sloughing often follows from the contusion. 3rd. Fractures with destruction of a portion of the integument are produced— (1st.) By balls penetmting the limb and striking the bone. (2nd.) By fragments of shell which may produce severe contusion and laceration of the integuments and muscles, and fracture of the bone. * Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xxxiii.GUN-SHOT INJURIES OF THE 156 (3rd.) Fractures are often caused by large stones, which have been struck and set in motion by round shot, or iragments of shell. Frac- tui-es produced in either of these three ways are always compound and very generally comminuted. The conical ball may occasionally pass through or lodge in the bone without fracturing it, but as a rule, it breaks it into many fragments, or else, in passing through, it splits it for some distance up the shaft. In the passage of the ball or fragment of shell, large vessels or nerves may be divided, adding much to the severity and danger of the injury. 4th. The whole limb may be torn away by a round shot or shell, and be left hanging merely by the integuments. Such cases are very fatal. They produce fearful collapse, from which frequently the patient never rallies. Treatment.—Simple flesh wounds, if not severe, require but little surgical aid. Foreign bodies should be removed, and the bullet or shot, if possible, and the parts covered with a little water-dressing. If, however, they should slough or ulcerate, they must be treated accordingly. Fractures.—If the fracture be a simple one, caused by a spent shot, without much injury to the superficial or deep tissues, Ihe limb should be put up in a splint, and every endeavour made to save it; but if there is severe contusion and destruction of the deep structures, ampu- tation should be resorted to. It should be remembered that in field practice the military surgeon does not enjoy the same opportunities for treating fractures which the civilian does. Men who have been wounded have to be transported to the secondary hospitals for further treatment, or perhaps carried some distance on a march; and as it is the duty of every surgeon to look first to the safety of the life of his patient, he may have to sacrifice a limb, which, under more favour- able circumstances, he could save. Compound comminuted fractures of the lower extremity in the majority of cases call for amputation. The upper is capable of sustaining and recovering from injuries which would prove fatal or require amputation in the lower extremity. The bones of the humerus or forearm may be comminuted; but unless the integument is either severely lacerated, or torn away, or large vessels or nerves injured, the surgeon should endeavour to save the limb. The splintered and loose portions of bone should be removed, and the sharp projecting extremities cut off, and the case then treated as an or- dinary compounil fracture. Frequently, after severe comminution of the bones of the humerus, a large portion will suffer necrosis, but this may either come away of itself or be removed afterwards by the surgeon, and yet a useful arm may be preserved. John Bryan, of the 20th regiment, was wounded at the assault on the Redan. More than an inch of the thickness of the humerus was removed on the 6th August, yet good union followed with little loss of power of the limb.157 DIFFERENT REGIONS OF THE BODY. In the lower extremity the shock and effects of injuries on the consti- tution are more severe, and they are attended with great dansjer to life; and this danger increases the nearer the injury approaches the trunk, wounds of the upper third of the tliigh being tar more fatal than those in the lower third. Amputation is frequently called for, and it should be remembered that the danger of amputation of the lower extremity is in an increasing ratio for every inch of the limb which is taken away. This applies especially to the thigh. Thus we find in the Crimean returns the following— Amputations. Total. Died. Ratio of Mortality per cent. (Upper third . Thigh Middle third . (Lower third . 88 5G 46 31 31 23 86-8 55'3 50-0 The total percentage of deaths in the Crimea after the amputation of both the upper and /ou-er extremities was as follows: Of the hip (all died) 100 per cent. „ thigh 64- 55 Ifg 37 ,, ,, foot 16 ,, „ shoulder joint 35 „ „ arm 19 forearm 7 „ It is said, however, that the statistics, from all sources that can be relied upon, allow that in amputation of the hip joint, one patient out of three recovers. After the battle of Waterloo, Mr. Guthrie per- formed this operation upon a French prisoner under veiy unfavourable circumstances (nineteen days after) with a successful result.* The Cases requiring Amputation are, 1st. Those in which t'^e limb has been torn away by a round shot or shell. 2nd. Severe laceration of the integuments, with injury to the main vessels, both artery and vein, even though the bone be uninjured. If the artery only is wounded, both ends of it should be tied and an endeavour made to save the limb; but if both vein, artery, and nerve have been torn, the injury is generally so severe that it is best to amputate. 3rd. Severe compound and comminuted fi'actures, with destruction of the surrounding tissues, even though the vessels and nerves be not injured, demand amputation. * Williamson's Military Surgery, p. 186.GUN-SHOT INJURIES OF THE 158 Primary or Secondary amputation.—By the term primary is under- stood an operation perfoimed within forty-eight hours after an injury, and before fever and inflammatory symptoms have set in. Secondary amputation is that which is delayed until inflammatory symptoms have subsi(led and suppuration established. The exj^erience of modern surgeons has decided that amputation, when necessary, should be primary. The late Mr, Guthrie found that the loss after secondary operations was at least three times as great as after primary. The experience of the surgeons in the Crimea cor- roborated this fact to a great extent. The result of the primary and secondaiy operations durnig the second period of the Russian war is seen in the following table, which is copied from the Crimean returns. Primary Operations. Secondary Operations. " Total. Died. Eatio of Mortality per cent. Total. Died. Fatio of Mortality per cent. Amputations of 1 all kinds . j 690 175 25-3 89 38 42-7 It is said that among the Russians in this war there were 3,000 amputations. Of the primary amputations of the arm, lower leg, and loot, one-half recovered ; of the lower and middle thirds of the thigh, two-thirds died; of all the secondary amputations more than two-thirds died. 'i'he patient should, if practicable, be allowed to recover fiom the state of collapse. Too early an operation is liable to be attended with even worse results than one at a much later period. If, however, there is haemorrhage, or any cause which is likely to prolong the collapsed state of the patient, the operation should be performed as soon as possible. Gun-shot wounds of Joints form a class of cases of peculiar interest, inasmuch as they often allow the principles of conservative surgery to be carried out in the treatment of them. Such injuries to the joints of the lower extremities are of more serious import than those of the upper. In the former the joints are larger and the danger to life seems to be in a great measure in proportion to their size. Joints are sometimes severely injured, without any wound of the integuments coveiing them ; thus in cases where the knee has been struck by spent round shot, inflammation, perhaps terminating in sup- puration, may follow. Fragments of shell or bullets may lay open a joint, causing, at the same time, severe destruction of the soft tissues, and perhaps fractur- ing or splintering the bones which enter into the formation of it. When a ball has lodged in the extremity of one of the long bones,159 DIFFERENT REGIONS OF THE BODY. near a joint, a fissure will often extend into the joint. In the case of a man who was shot accidentally in the streets of Balaklava, hy a soldier who was firing at a fierce bullock, the ball lodged in the upper part of the tibia. VVith some difficulty it was removed, but severe infiammation and suppuration of the joint followed, which terminated in the death of the patient. On the post-mortem examination it was found that a fissure extended into the joint. Occasionally bullets will pass through a joint, grooving, perhaps, the articular cartilage. Cases of this nature are most severe, and are more dangerous than those in which the joint has been more fully exposed, as in shell wounds. Secondary implications of joints.—Joints are very frequently impli- cated, secondarily, from the inflammatory action set up by wounds in the neighbourhood extending to them, and involving them in its destructive effects. Private Waldron, 2nd battalion Rifle Brigade, received a bullet-wound o^^er the left knee. The wound appeared superficial, and the joint not to be penetrated, but low chronic inflam- mation of it set in, and was follov.'ed by gelatinous degeneration. The limb was ultimately amputated, and the joint found quite disorganized. In cases of pyemia, secondary deposits of pus may take place in any of the joints. In such, free and early incisions seem to atiord the best clmnce to the patient. Treatment.—In injury of joints, especially of the large ones, and if the damage done be severe, the question of treatment becomes usually one of amputation or excision. The experience of the present American war, by the almost una- nimous testimony of their surgeons, is, that primary amputations in the thigh, and still more secondary, for gun-shot fractures have been very unsuccessful indeed, few escaping a fatal result; that resections of the comminuted bone or fractured joint have been a little less fatal: but that the most favourable results have ensued by treating the cases as ordinary compound fractures, after removing loose fragments, by suspending the limb in a Smith's or Hodgen's splint (see Frac- tures); by free incisions to let out matter; and by constant irriga- tion with cold water. Out of forty-six cases of wounded knee-joint, so treated in the Baltimore Hospital from June 1862 to October 1863, seven died, five remained under treatment, and sixteen transferred to other hospitals.* Dr. Moses, Medical Director of the army of Cumberland in the campaign of 1863,t says that no rules derived from the English army of the Crimea, where the men were starved, can be applicable to men well fed and cared for, as the American army; that he saved eight out of thirteen cases of gun-shot fracture of the femur; and five out of ten cases of gun-shot wound of the knee-joint. Absolute rest; extraction of the ball and of loose splinters; irrigation with cold water; and free incisions for discharge of matter were the means. * Peters, in American Medical Times, Oct. 3, 1S63. t Am. Jour. Med. Soc, April, 1864.160 BUENS AND SCALES. It must be recollected that in ordinary campaigning in an enemy's country great difficulty is experienced in treating cases of excision of the lower extremity. The patient has to be shifted perhaps two or three times from one hospital to another (such was the experience of the Crimean campaign), and therefore that most important element, rest, is wanting. Here it is that starched and plaster of Paris bandages do great service.—See Fractures. In injuries of the upper extremity, excision was frequently per- formed during the late Russian war, and was attended with very good success. Out of thirteen cases of primary excision of the elbow-joint, only three died ; and of eight cases of primary excision of the head of the humerus, only one died. The best modes of performing the operations of excision will be seen under the heading " Excision of Joints " in another portion of the book. It may, however, be here mentioned, that, in performing the operation, great aid will be given to the operator by using Mr. Fergusson's lion forceps to seize hold of the articular extremities of the bones before proceeding to saw them. The great use of this forceps was exem- plified in the following case. A private in the 50th regiment in the Crimea was struck by a round shot in the upper third of the thigh, fearfully lacerating all the tissues and comminuting the femur as high as its neck. Amputation of the hip was perform^ed, by Surgeon-Major Trousdell and Mr. Lawson, the head of the femur, which was sepa- rated from the shaft, being with facility turned out of its socket by the aid of this forceps, a proceeding which would have been almost impos- sible without them. In all operations for gun-shot injuries, chloroform will be found a most useful adjunct. It not only deprives the patient of all pain during the search for balls and foreign bodies, which is often a most tedious proceeding, but it serves to quell, to a great degree, the mental anxiety which is generally present. The patients awake refreshed from a sound sleep, free from injurious excitement, and animated with a hope that what has been done tor them will lead to their ultimate recovery. CHAPTER IV. EFFECTS OP HEAT, BURNS, AND SCALDS.* Division.—The most useful division of burns, for practical purposes, is the threefold one which has existed from time immemorial, into, 1st, burns producing mere redness; 2ndly, those causing vesicaiion; 3rdly, those causing death of the part burned. 1. The first class are attended with mere superficial inflammation, terminating in resolution, with or without desquamation of the cuticle. * Sir C. Blagden and Dr. Fordyce found that they could expose themselves to air heated above 212 degrees without injury ; and that they could bear ihe con- tact of heated spirits when cooled down to 130 degrees; of oil at 129 ; water at 123 ; quicksilver at 117. Vide Phil. Trans, vol. Ixv.161 BURNS AND SCALDS. Tlie pain is philosophically said to consist of perpetuation of the original sense of burning. 2. In the second class there is a higher degree of inflammation, causing the cutis to exude sei-um and form vesicles. These in trivial cases dry up and heal; but if the injury to the cutis has been sufficient to cause it to suppurate, they will be succeeded by obstinate ulcers. 3. The third class of burns is attended with mortification from disorganization of structure. These are, for obvious reasons, not attended with so much pain as the last class; but in every other respect they are infinitely more serious, and the sores which remain after the separation of the sloughs are often months or years in healing. Constitutional Symptoms.—The constitutional symptoms of severe burns are those of great collapse. The surface is pale, the extremities cold, the pulse quick and feeble;—there are violent and repeated shiverings, and the patient often complains most urgently of cold. In some fatal cases these symptoms are soon succeeded by laborious breathing, coma, and death; in others, dissolution is pre- ceded by a period of imperfect reaction, with delirium, and sharp jerking pulse. Prognosis.—Extensive burns, even of small severity, are always dangerous; and especially if vesication has occurred early, and the cuticle has been stripped off. Burns on the trunk are always more dangerous than those of an equal extent on the extremities. With re- gard to the symptoms actually present, it may be noticed, that although the severe pain, such as is common in burns of the second class, is in itself a source of great danger, from its tendency to exhaust the vital powers, still that it is on the whole a favourable symptom, if the in- jury is extensive ; and that apathy and stupor indicate urgent peril. The jjimbds o/demurer in burns are three: 1st, during the first five days, from collapse or imperfect reaction; 2ndly, during the sympa- thetic fever which follows, in which the patient may sink with an affection of the head, chest, or abdomen ; thirdly, during the suppura- tive stage, in which he may die from the profuse discharge or from pul- monary consumption induced by it. Kentish observes that very many cases prove fatal on the ninth day. Morbid Anatomy.—k post-mortem examination readily accounts for the coma and laborious breathing, which are such constant symptoms of fatal burns. Congestion and serous effusion are found on the surflxce and in the ventricles of the brain ; and the air-cells of the lungs are loaded with a thin muco-serous fluid, as in the " suffocative catarrh of the dying " of Laennec. JMoreover, it has been shown by Mr, Cur- ling,* that severe burns in young people may be followed by an acute ulceration of the duodenum, liable to terminate fatally by perfoi'ating the intestine and causing peritonitis, or by opening some large artery and causing effusion of blood, part of which may be evacuated by * Med. Ghir. Trans, vol. xxv.; Humphrey, Association Journ., Oct. 19, 1855. D M162 BUENS AND SCALDS. vomiting and purging. Mr. Murray Humphrey has observed ulceration of the lower part of the oesophagus. See page 34. Treatment.—The treatment of burns in their early stage has been a matter of great dispute. Some eminent sui'geons* have advocated ice or other cooling applications; others, the use of turpentine and other stimulants, which latter plan of treatment was advocated by Mr. Kentish, of Newcastle, at the beginning of the present century. The following, however, seem to be the principles of treatment de- ducible from the conflicting theories and practices which have been pro- posed, viz. :—1st, that the first applications should be of a mildly- stimulating nature; 2ndly, that after the first two or three days they should be soothing; till, 3rdly, slight astringents may be applied to expedite the healing; and, 4thly, that the part should throughout be most carefully preserved from the atmospheric air and from cold. If these principles are held in view, the surgeon will have no difficulty in finding appropriate remedies. Local Treatment of minor cases.—The vesications may, if tense, be pricked with a needle, and the whole part be covered with lint soaked in Carron oil; that is, a liniment of equal parts of oil and lime-water, and then be wrapped in soft cotton wool. After the first two days poppy lotion, or the water-dressing, F. 121, may be applied on lint covered with oil-silk; or a poultice of bread and water, till suppu- ration is established ; the chalk ointment, or zinc lotion, may be applied afterwards till the cure is complete. The part should be kept thickly wrapped in cotton wool during the whole period, to preserve it from the air and from cold and mjury. Of severe cases.—When a burn is severe or extensive enough to cause danger to life, Kentish's plan of first bathing the burnt parts with tepid turpentine, then with all possible expedition applying a liniment composed of ung. resina; ^j.; ol. terebinth ^ss., thickly spread on lint, and lastly, wrapping them up warmly in cotton or flannel, seems to be the most judicious. These di'essings should be allowed to remain as long as possible, and should not be removed unless there is a profuse discharge or bad smell from the wound. Great care should be taken, when the wound is first examined, not to strip off the cuticle, whilst taking off the patient's clothes. Constitutional Treatment.—If there is an urgent degree of collapse (see Parti., Chapter I.), brandy and beef-tea must be given. If there be much pain it should be quelled by opium. Children are commonly said not to bear opium well, but this is a vulgar error; they bear it well if there is adequate reason. The writer has administered TY\,x. of Battley's sedative, in divided doses every night for a fortnight to a child of three years old, who had been badly burned, besides putting her daily under chloroform while the wound was dressed. If the child is out of pain, or drowsy, of course there is no need for opium ; and in all cases it should be given in the smallest doses that will suffice. * Earle's Lectures on Burns, Lond. 1832.163 BURNS AND SCALDS. The bowels must be kept open by castor-oil or rhubarb ; and the diet be plain, but not too low. In the event of any inflammatory or congestive attack of the head or chest, purgatives and leeches or bleed- ing must be cautiously employed, according to circumstances. Jf there is any tenderness under the right hypochondrium, or vomiting, or other sign of irritation of the duodenum, the diet should be of the blandest description, and small doses of hyd. c. creta and henbane be ad- ministered. Treatment of the remaining Ulcers.—The ulcers resulting fi-om burns are often extremely intractable. The granulations are pale, flabby, and exuberant; they secrete pus profusely; and many months often elapse before they are healed. The cause of this disinclination to heal is not well understood; but one cause there is which may be easily detected and remedied, namely, too full a diet, which is often needlessly used on the plea of supporting the strength under the profuse discharge. " There can be no doubt," says Kentish, " that full diet and stimulants, during the suppurative stage, keep up irritation in the system, and cause the immense continued discharge by the exposed sur- faces of the wound."* And it is equally certain that many cases will rapidly get well when the diet is lowered and purgatives are adminis- tered. The binding down of the edges of the ulcer to the condensed tissue beneath is another cause of delay. There should be no hurry in removing the flrst dressings ; but when they are removed, the succeeding applications must be suited to the state of it. If the ulcer is irritable and painful, or hot and swelled, or seems inclined to spread by ulceration, or if small abscesses threaten to form under the skin, poultices, or water-dressing, or F. 121, Dover's powder at bed-time, and aperients should be resorted to. If sloughs are tardy in separating, the case must be treated like the sloughing ulcer. A very useful application in cases requiring gentle stimuli and complete occlusion of the air is a mixture of equal parts of balsam of Peru and olive oil, brushed smoothly over the surface with a soft brush every night and morning. It has the additional advantage of partly over- coming the foetid smell. When the irritable state is removed, a succession of mild stimulants and astringents will be advisable: especially the zinc lotion; chalk, bismuth, zinc, or calamine ointment; simple lint; and pressure with sheet lead or strips of plaster. When the discharge is very profuse, the sore should be constantly kept thinly covered with very finely-pow- dered chalk. Treatment of the Cicatrix.—The cicatrix of severe bu)-ns is very liable to become excessively hard, dense, and cartilaginous, and to con- tract in such a way as to occasion the most serious deformities. Thus, the eyelids or mouth may be rendered incapable of closing ; the chin may be fixed to the breast, or a limb be rigidly or immovably bent. * Second Essay on Burns, Newcastle, ISOO, p. 64.BURNS AND SCALDS. 164 This contraction may, perhaps, be sometimes successfully opposed by keepiiig up extension with a splint, or, if the neck is the part burned, by making the patient wear a stiff collar, and by frequently moving the part during cicatrization ; and the cicatrix may be lubricated with pure oil. If the fingers are severely burned, lint should be interposed be- tween them, and they should be kept apart as much as possible, although it will be very difficult to prevent them from adhering toge- ther.* In burns of the head or face, the edges of the ulcer may be drawn asunder by strips of adhesi\'e plaster. When any of the orifices of the body are involved, they should be kept dilated with canulae, or plugs of oiled hnt. But if, notwithstanding every precaution, the cicatrix contracts, and produces deformity, or prevents any necessary motion, the knife should be resorted to. Sometimes the whole cicatrix may be extirpated, the wound being treated by water-di-essing, and the parts kept in a proper position during the cui'e. Sometimes an incision may be made in the sound skin on each side so as to form gaps, which will be filled with new and more pliant cicatricial tissue. Sometimes it will be useful to divide the cicatrix transversely by several incisions, at the same time dissecting it up from the parts beneath if it firmly adheres to them. Mr. Skey's plan is to make a multitude of small transverse cuts through the cicatrix in the quincunx arrangement, which on healing inci-ease the area of the total cicatrix. But it must be remembered that operations which interfere with large portions of skin are very dangerous to life; and that the subcutaneous method should be employed where practicable. And, lastly, there is a plan which has been adopted with success by Dr. Mutter, an American sur- geon, of dividing the cicatrix, dissecting it up, where adherent, and even dividing any muscular fibres in order to liberate the parts completely, and then filling up the gap by means of a Taliacotian operation ; that is, by transplanting a portion of sound skin from some neighbouring part.f In a very aggravated case of contraction of the cicatrix of a sevei'e burn of the whole surface of skin on the back of the wrist, hand, and forearm, in a young girl, drawing the hand completely on to the forearm and rendering the limb totally useless, Mr. Wood, of King's College Hospital, transplanted a flap of skin from the surface of the abdomen, with such complete success as to restore entirely the use of the hand, with comparative small deformity. This complete trans- plantation from a remote part has not before been attempted by modern surgeons, apparently from the want of success in the attempts of the older surgeons to establish the similar operation of Taliacotius for the restoration of a mutilated nose. In attempting such an operation, great attention and care are required in the selection and adjustment of the flap, and in the easy fitting of the apparatus for retaining the parts about to be united in perfect apposition. *• Vide Part IV. chapter xxiv. f Vide Earle's Lectures on Bums, Lond. 1832; Dupuytren, Clinique Chirurg.; Miitter on Deformities from Burns, in the American Jouni. of Med, Sc., July, 1842. Several successful cases by Mr. Parker, of Bridgewater, are quoted in Kanking's Half-yearly Abstract, vol. ill. p. 106.THE EFFECTS OF COLD. 165 In the same case, a severe contraction of the skin of the neck, bind- ing the chin down to the sternum, was successfully overcome by adja- cent transplantation of skin, in such a manner as to produce a nari-o\v longitudinal cicatrix, after removal of the more resisting portions of the original cicatrix producing the deformity.* CHAPTER Y. THE EFFECTS OF COLD. I. Effects of Severe Cold.—AVhen a person is exposed to very severe cold, especially if it be accompanied with wind,—or if it be during the night,—or if he have been exhausted by hunger, watching, and fatigue—he feels almost an irresistible impulse to sleep, which, if yielded to, is soon succeeded by coma and death. During the state of coma, the body of the suiferer is found to be very pale and cold: the respiration and pulse almost imperceptible, and the pupils dilated ; but the limbs are flexible as long as life remains, unless the degree of cold be very great indeed. On a post-mortem examination, the chief mor- bid appearances observed are great venous congestion and serous effusion in the head. II. Frost-bite.—But if the trunk of the body be well protected, the cold may alfect some exposed part only, such as the nose, ears, or extremities. The lirst visible etfect is, that the part becomes of a dull purplish-red colour; an effect of cold which is notoriously frequent, and which depends on a diminution of the quantity of blood conveyed by the arteries, and a stagnation of it in the A^eins. If the cold con- tinue, the venous blood will be gradually expelled by a contraction of the tissues, and the part will become of a livid, tallowy paleness, per- fectly insensible, and motionless, and much reduced in bulk. When in this condition, a part is said to be frost-bitten. The patient may be quite unconscious of the accident that has befallen him until he is told of it by some other person ; especially if it be his nose or ear that is affected, or some other part that he does not move. It was shown by Hunter that the ears of rabbits and combs of cocks may'be frozen so as to he quite white and hard and brittle, and yet re- cover with proper care. And some of the lower orders of animals may be entirely frozen and yet survive. But it is not credible that a whole limb of a human being, much less that the whole body, could be frozen without death ensuing—although stories of such occurrences have long been current amongst authors.f The indications are to promote reaction, but to avoid too sudden a transition from one extreme to the opposite. * Medico-CMrurgical Transactions, vol. xlvi. p. 149. t See an account of some experiments on tbe revival of toads after freezing in the Lond. and Ed. Journ. Med. Sc., Feb. 18i3.THE EFFECTS OF COLD. 166 Of Frost-bite.—The best remedy for a frost-bite is to rub the part well with snow. After a time cold water may be substituted for the snow, and the friction may be rendej-ed brisker. These applications must be made in a room without a fire ; and a high or even a mode- rate temperature must be avoided for some time. By these means no other inconvenience will ensue, save slight swelling and tingling, with vesication and desquamation of the cuticle; although the part will re- main weak and sensible to cold for some time. For the coma induced by cold the best remedy is friction with flannel all over the surface of the body ; the patient should be put to bed in a room of moderate temperature, ammonia and weak wine and water be administered, and, provided the breathing is restored, a warm bath may be given. The contact of any intensely-cold body (such as frozen mercury) causes severe burning pain, followed by vesication. It thus appears that the effects of sudden abstraction may be similar to those of too great communication of heat. The best application is ice gradually permitted to thaw. III. Gangrene maybe caused if cold be applied continuously to the extremities, especially of ill-fed persons; hence the frequency of gangrene of the feet (gelatio) amongst the starved soldiers in the Crimea. It may be caused, too, if heat be injudiciously applied to frozen or frost-bitten parts. It may also ensue if a part has been exposed for a long period to a low temperature which is suddenly raised; although the cold may not have been sufficient to cause actual frost- bite, and may have been tolerated without inconvenience. A good example of this accident is related by Baron Larrey,* as it affected the French troops during their campaign in Poland in 1807. During the few days preceding and following the battle of Eylau, the cold was most intense, ranging from 10° to 15° below the zero of Reaumur, f But although the troops were day and night exposed to this inclement weather, and the soldiers of the Imperial Guard, in particular, were nearly motionless for more than twenty-four hours, there were no com- plaints of its effects. On the night of the 9th of February, however, a sudden thaw commenced, and immediately a number of soldiers pre- sented themselves at the " ambulances," complaining of severe numb- ness, weight, and pricking pain in the feet. On examination, some were found to have slight swelling and redness at the base of the toes and dorsum of the foot; whilst the toes of others had already become black and dry. And in this manner, the toes, and sometimes the whole foot perished. One case, exactly similar, was treated by Mr. Solly in St. Thomas's Hospital in 1845. The patient, not very temperate, had been employed a whole day in January in handling raw cow-hides. In the evening, feeling his left hand excessively cold and stiff, he put it into warm water, and held it to the fire, which excited great pain and inflammation, ending in gangrene, which spread up to the middle of * Med. de Chir. Mil., torn. iii. p. 61. •j- From 20 to 25 degrees below the freezing-point of Fahrenlieit.MINERAL AND VEGETABLE IRRITANTS. 167 the fore-arm.* The best treatment for such cases is the application of snow or very cold water, followed by evaporating lotions. These, if employed early enough, may prevent gangrene; or even if that have actually occurred, they should be used as long as it appears to be spreading. Subsequently, the part should be wrapped up in resin ointment and cotton wool, and not be disturbed more than is necessary for cleanliness' sake; in most respects, the treatment of senile gangrene should be followed. IV. Chilblains consist in an atonic inflammation of the skin, in- duced in delicate persons by sudden alternations of temperature; such as warming the feet and hands by the fire when cold and damp. They may present themselves in three degrees. In the first, the skin is red in patches, and slightly swelled ; with more or less itching or tingling, or perhaps pain and lameness. In the second, there are vesications— the skin around being bluish or purple. In the third degree there is ulceration or sloughing. Treatment.—Friction, with stimulating liniments, such as F. 146 ; or liniment of turpentine, or of camphorated spirit, is the pi'oper remedy. In most cases, port wine, bark, and cod-liver oil will be of great service. If there ai"e vesications, care must be taken not to break them ; and the liniment must be applied lightly with a feather. If there a.ve ulcers or sloughs, and they are attended with much heat, pain, and irritation, poultices are required. But as a general rule, poultices are too relaxing; and stimulating ointments or lotions (such as ung. resince, calamines, zinci, &c.) should be preferred. CHAPTER YI. THE EFFECTS OF MINERAL AND VEGETABLE IRRITANTS. Of these substcuices, some appear to act by their power of combining with, or of decomposing, the animal textures. Of others, especially the vegetable poisons, the reason of their hostility to animal life has yet to be discovered. I. Acids.—This decomposing agency of the concentrated acids appears to depend mainly on their affinity for water. The sulphuric acid blackens or chars the tissues in destroying them ; that is, separates the water and other constituent elements, and sets free the carbon. The nitric turns them permanently yellow. The hydrochloric leaves a dead white stain. The hjidrofluoric " is, of all known substances," says Turner, " the most destructive. When a drop of the concentrated acid of the size of a pin's head comes in contact with the skin, instantaneous disorganiza- tion ensues, and deep ulceration of a malignant character is produced."! Phosphorus seems to act by the heat disengaged in its combustion. * Quoted in South's Chelius, vol. i. p. 12S. t Elements of Chemistry, 5th edit. p. 377.MINERAL AND VEGETABLE IRRITANTS. 168 Treatment.—After injury from any of these acids, the first thing to be done is to wash it away, and neutralize it by repeated ablution with warm soap and water, with a little carbonate of soda; then to apply poultices or any simple di-essings to the ulcers that remain. The pain of these injuries is greatly increased by cold. II. Alkalies AND Caustic Earths.—These, like the acids, appear to destroy animal matter by combining with its water. They also form a soap with the fat. Caustic potass, in the form of liquor potassce and quickhme, are the substances of this class which most frequently give rise to accidents. The liquor ammonias produces almost instant vesica- tion and great pain when it touches the skin ; it is, therefore, much to be prized as a speedy and efficient counter-irritant. Treatment.—Ablution with weak warm vinegar and water, followed by poultices and simple dressings. III. Metallic Compounds.—The bichloride of mercury acts by its tendency to combine with albumen ; and the chloride of zinc and chlo- ride (or butter) of a7itimony probably produce their cauterant effects in a similar manner. The nitrate of silver is remarkable for the super- ficiality of its effects. It may vesicate the skin, or destroy a film on the surface of a sore, but its action does not spread. It suffers decom- position at the moment of its contact with the animal tissue ; its acid appearing to be separated, whilst the metallic oxide combines and forms a white crust with the animal matter: and this soon becomes black, because the silver loses its oxygen, and is reduced to the metallic state. Treatment.—The bichloride of mercury is rendered inert by white of egg mixed with water; the chloride of antimony is decomposed by water; the nitrate of silver by common salt; and the chloride of zinc by a solution of alkaline carbonate. These, therefore, would respec- tively be the proper applications for external injuries caused by these metallic compounds; although such cases very rarely come under the surgeon's cognizance. Arsenic, locally applied, not only produces inflammation, or spha- celus, but may also be absorbed into the circulation, and produce its ordinary constitutional effects as well. The surgical treatment of any local injury from this mineral must consist in removing it as much as possible by ablution with lime-water, or with water holding the hydrated peroxide of iron in suspension, and then applying fomentations, or whatever other dressings may be most appropriate. IV. Acrid Vegetables.—The inflammation excited by these sub- stances requires merely soothing fomentations and emollient dressings. The smart from the sting of nettles may, it is said, be allayed by a weak infusion of tobacco, or the cut surface of a raw onion, if severe enough to require any remedy at all. If an irritating fluid have been injected into the cellular tissue, free incisions must be made, both to allow its escape and to afford exit to pus. By this means sloughing of the skin may often be avoided, although very likely to occur when the subjacent tissue is extensively disorganised.169 POISON OF INSECTS. CHAPTER YII. EFFECTS OF THE POISON OF HEALTHY ANIMALS, AND TREAT- MENT OF POISONED WOUNDS GENERALLY. SECTION I.—EFFECTS OF POISONOUS INSECTS AND SERPENTS. I. Insects.—The bites or stings of any insects that are met with in England are not of sufficient importance to need surgical assistance, unless inflicted in extraordinary numbers, or in peculiar situations. Mr. Lawrence* mentions the case of a French gentleman who was so severely stung by bees about the upper part of the chest, that he died in fifteen minutes, with all the symptoms of mortal collapse usually produced by the bite of venomous serpents. Children, if much stuno; by bees or wasps, may suffer severely from headache and fever. But the most common instance of danger from these insects is the alarming suffocation produced when their sting is inflicted in the pha- rynx or back part of the mouth, which sometimes happens when they are concealed in fruit, and are incautiously taken into the mouth. Treatment.—If a person have been stung sufficiently to cause faint- ness or constitutional depression, cordials and opiates must be admi- nistered without delay. Respecting the local treatment, the first thing to be done is to examine the parts with a lens, and extract the stings with a fine forceps, if they have been left in the wound, as they very frequently are. Then the best applications are the diluted liquor ammoniae, spirit of hartshorn, or spirit of sal-volatile; carbonate of soda or chalk ; vinegar, or eau de Cologne ; also, soap liniment, or compound camphor liniment, may be used to remove the cedomatous swelling that remains. The author has been informed by a friend at Sydney, that a poultice of ipecacuanha is there considered to be a specific for almost every kind of venomous bite. In the case of a wasp or bee-stint] in the fauces, with urgent danger of suffocation, leeches may be applied externally ; and gargles (espe- cially hot salt and water) should be frequently used, in the hope of re- ducing the tumefaction, by causing a copious flow of blood and of saliva: but if these measures fail of affi)rding relief, an opening must be made into the larnyx or trachea. For the bites of bugs, fleas, gnats, mosquitoes, &c., the treatment is the same. II. Spiders.—The most celeb-ated of this cl?4ss is the tarantula, the miraculous effects imputed to the bite of which are too well known to need repetition here ; and we can feel but little hesitation in subscrib- ing to the opinion of Ray, " that the dancing of the Tarantati to certain tunes and instruments, and that these fits continue to recur yearly as long as the tarantula that bit them lives and then cease, are no other than acting fictions, and tricks to get money." We * Lecture, Med. Gaz. voL v. p. 582.170 POISON OF SERPENTS. leani, however, from the least romancing of the old writers, that it produced swelling, lividity, and cramps, which were cured by scarifi- cations and wine; and these are just the symptoms it might be ex- pected to cause, and the most rational cure. The effects of the scorpion are similar. There is one very singular case on record, of a gentleman bitten on the penis by a spider, in America, suffering from violent vomiting, deep-seated abdominal pain, and suffocative spasms in con- sequence. He was relieved in thirty-six hours by bleeding, opium, and ammonia.* III. Serpents,—The venom of these animals operates, as Fontana observed, by " destroying the irritability of the nerves, and disposing the humours to speedy corruption." The symptoms produced vary in their nature and degree, according to the species of serpent, its degree of vigour, the frequency with which it may have bitten, and the strength of the sufferer. Some serpents can kill only small animals: the poison of some is very virulent, but soon exhausted by frequent biting: that of others is mild but not easily exhausted; some, again, act so energetically on the nerves, as to cause death speedily by con- vulsions ; others produce inflammation of the lungs; and others, whose venom is insufficient to annihilate the nervous functions at once, kill more slowly by the unhealthy or diffuse inflammation which they excite at the bitten part. Viper.—This is the only poisonous snake in the British Isles, but it is not often that it kills human beings. The properties of its venom were most painfully investigated, in every possible point of view, by the Abb^ Fontana ;t who ascertained that it is a yellow viscous liquid, not inflammable,and neither acid nor alkaline; that it contains no salts; and that it has no taste, except perhaps a slight astringent sensation if it is kept in the mouth for some time. It is not hurtful to another viper, nor does it appear to affect certain cold-blooded animals, as leeches and frogs. Moreover, it is perfectly harmless if applied to any natural mucous or cutaneous surface ; so that large quantities of it have been swallowed with impunity. Cobra di Capello.—Dr. Russell found that this was capable of killing a serpent called Nooni Paragoodo, but not another cobra ; and that its poison was insipid when taken into the mouth, and productive of no ill consequences when applied to the eyes of chickens. The symptoms produced on animals bitten by it are fainting and convul- sions, but no swelling ; the lungs are stuffed with blood.J In the case of a keeper at the Zoological Gardens who was bitten on the root of the nose by a cobra, on the 20th October, 1852, there was no swelling, though there was a slightly-pinkish hue of the eyelids; * Eay, Phil. Trans. 1698, vol. xxi. p. 47; Boccone, Museo di Fisica; Hulse, Am. Journ. Med. Sc., May, 1839; Gozzo, Gaz. Med. 1845, quoted in Ranking, vol. ii. f Felix Fontana, Treatise on the Venom of the Viper, translated by Joseph Skinner, 2nd edit. Lond. 1795. + Patrick Russell, M.D., F.R.S., An Account of Indian Serpents, 2 vols, folio, Lond. 1796. Davy, Physiological Researches, Lond. 1839.TREATMENT OF POISONED WOUNDS. 171 dyspnoea, stupor, paralysis of the extremities, and coma came on, and the patient died in 95 minutes. Artificial respiration and galvanism were the remedies employed. The chief points of interest in the post- mortem examination were a dark, alkaline, and fluid state of the blood, which emitted a peculiai'ly sour and sicidy smell; and intense con- gestion of the lungs, spleen, and other internal organs.* Mr. Buckland, in dissecting an animal which had been bitten by a cobra, became in- fected through a scratch on the finger, and felt great prostration, which he relieved by ammonia.f Rattlesnake.—This snake, unlike most otheis, is capable of poisoning itself. Capt. Hall made one bite itself, and it died in eight minutes. Its effects, according to Sir E. Home, may be divided into two stages, either of which may prove fatal. During the fit^st, which may last for sixty-two hours, the symptoms are those of great prostra- tion of the nervous system, and contamination of the blood ; vomiting, deadly coldness, faltering pulse, the skin livid or jaundiced, bleeding from the nose, fainting fits, convulsions, and delirium. Meanwhile the bitten part swells immensely from effusion of acrid serum, and becomes mottled with blood, extravasated under the skin ; and this swelling extends to the trunk. Sometimes it is attended with excruciating pain, sometimes with mere numbness or coldness. During the second stage, large diffused abscesses form in the swelled parts, which contain bloody unhealthy pus and sloughs of cellular tissue, and are attended with low fever. After death the body putrefies very rapidly.J SECTIOISr II.—TREATMENT OP POISONED WOUNDS. In the fil'st place, measures must be taken to remove the poison from the wound or to destroy it. This may be attempted by passing a ligature tightly round the limb, as near as possible' to the wound, and between it and the heart, or by cutting the poisoned part clean out: then by thoroughly sucking the wound and bathing in hot water, to encourage bleeding ; or by putting an exhausted cupping-glass over it; or, lastly, by cauterizing it. This may be done by liq, ammoniaj, caustic potass, or nitric acid; or if the patient can be chloroformed, there need be no scruple in using a red-hot iron. The treatment of snake-hites consists in the administration of power- ful diffusive stimulants, such as hot brandy and water, whisky, am- monia, or the eau de luce, which should be given abundantly in as large quantities as the patient can swallow them. In America, what is called the Western Cure consists in making the patient drunk ; and very large * Lancet, Oct. 30, 1852. t Buckland, F., Curiosities of Natural History, Lend. 1857. X Sir Everard Home, Pijil. Trans, vol. c. Case of T. Soper, who was bitten by a rattlesnake. Hall on the Poison of Rattlesnakes. Phil, Trans, vol. xxx. p. 309. Case of Mr. J. Briental, who was bitten by a rattlesnake, reported by himself, Phil. Trans, vol. xliv. p. 147. Case of a man bitten by a rattlesnake to cure lepra, Ckurke, Lancet, Dec. 15, 1838.ENTOZOA AND PARASITES. 172 quantities are required. Vomiting of bile seems to be a favourable symptom and effort at elimination, and may be treated by more brandy and by a mustard poultice to the epigastrium. If the patient cannot swallow, spirits and ammonia may be injected into the stomach and rectum ; and if the breathing flags, it must be kept up by galvanism or artificial respiration. A7'semc, in doses of a grain in solution every half-hour, for five or six doses, is a remedy which has proved successful ;* but spirits and ammonia are less hazardous. Parts that are swelled should be well nabbed with liniment of am- monia: if abscesses form, early incisions will be requisite. SECTION III.—ENTOZOA AND PARASITES. I. The Guinea Worm.—Dracunculus, or Filaria Medinensis, is a cylindrical thread-like worm, but sometimes as thick as a crow-quill, and several feet long. It is endemic in Africa, India, and other hot countries, whence persons often return to England with this pest about them. The worm appears, whilst exceedingly small, to penetrate the skin and effect a lodgment in the cellular tissue, where it remains dormant for sometime, and gradually increases in size till it can be felt as a little tumour, or perhaps as a cord-like ridge under the skin, feeling like a varicose vein. At last a very painful boil forms, which breaks, and allows the animal's hetid to protrude. Often, at this time, if injured, a considerable quantity of milk}^ fluid exudes fi'om it, which, on examination, is found to be full of small filarise. If the case is neglected, violent inflammation and abscesses ensue; to prevent which the animal must be carefully extracted entire. If the head does not protrude, a cut should be made across the track of the animal, which should be gently lifted up, and then a small roll of plaster be put under it, round which it should be carefully wound, day after day, till it is extracted. Extreme cleanliness, and the application of assafcetida, are said to act as preventives.f II. The Chigoe {Pulex Penetrans) is a minute insect, abundant in the West Indies, which penetrates the skin of the feet, and forms a little cyst beneath it, in which it deposits its eggs. When the cyst is fully formed, it may be of the size of a pea, and is of a bluish colour. The symptoms are a violent itching. The treatment consists in extract- ing the bag containing the creature and its eggs, which operation is dex- terously enough performed by the negroes with the point of a needle, and the cavity left is filled with tobacco ashes. If the bag is broken in the extraction, so that the young chigoes escape, violent inflammation is the result. III. The ECHINOCOCCUS.—This is a minute gregarious animal, in- habiting a cvst, filled with a watery fluid, which is commonly known by the term hydatid. " The cyst of the echinococcus," says Mr. Busk, * A letter to T. Chevalier, Esq., on the effects of arsenic in counteracting the poison of serpents, Med. Chir. Trans. 1813, vol. ii. p. 396. f See a paper by M. Maisoniieuve in the Lancet for 1845, vol. i. p. 152.173 ENTOZOA AND PARASITES, " is contained either singly or in numbers in the interior of a cavity, lined with an organized false membrane, to which it has no kind of ad- hesion whatever, it is found of all sizes, from that of a pin's head, to that of many inches in diameter." When recent it is transparent and colourless; immersed in spirit, or in water, it becomes opaque; and flaccid from exosmosis in the former, distended Irom imbibition in the latter. The walls of the cyst are laminated, and of variable thick- ness ; it contains a perfectly limpid liquid. On its inner surface may be seen, scattered irregularly, a number of minute opaque granules, like grains of sand ; they are covered by the innermost layer of the cyst, but are detached by the slightest force, or by incipient decomposition. Each of these granules consists of a delicate mem- brane, containing a mass of echinococci, all attached by short pedicles to a central stem of granular matter, which also attaches them to the inside of the hydatid cyst. Each echinococcus consists of a rounded body of tolerably solid matter, containing numerous ovoid bodies under its outer coat, and of a head surrounded with a circle of teeth or spines, precisely resembling those of the taenia and cysticerci. These teeth are perfectly characteristic, and not easily decomposed. The echinococcus cyst is most frequently found in the liver: it may, however, occur in the bones, or in the areolar tissue ; especially about the eye, and deep amongst the muscles at the root of the neck. The outward symptoms are those of an encysted tumour, which, if punc- tured, gives exit to a clear serous or purulent offensive fluid (for the condensed sac containing the hydatids may suppurate) ; and the hydatid cysts themselves, or portions of them, will shortly protrude. The dia- gnosis in doubtful cases will be determined by finding the teeth : of the treatment little can be said beyond free incisions if supei ficial. If the cyst be deep-seated a puncture with a small trocar and canula drawing off the fluid and then injecting a solution of the iodide of potassium is the best practice. Some have used an injection of creosote and other lotions, to kill the parasites, and check putrescence.f IV. The Cysticerccs Cellulos^e is an animal of the same descrip- tion as the preceding, but larger, of the size of a pea. It has been found in the anterior chamber of the eye, the cellular tissue of the lids, the pia mater, tongue, the areolar tissue and muscles. It should, when de- tected, be removed by incision. J * The uppermost has its head protruded; the lower one shows the teeth in its inside as usual while living, and the neck a little protruding. 200 diameters. t Vide Busk in Trans, of Microscop. Society, vol. ii. p. li; Dixon, 3Ied. Chir. Trans, vol. xxxv. X See a paper by E. Canton, Lancet, 18-48, vol. ii. p. 91; Gulliver, M. C. T. vol. xxiv.; Haynes Walton on the Operative Surgeiy of the Eye, p. 502.DISSECTION WOUNDS. 174 V. Vegetable Parasites. —We do not attempt to give an ac- count of entozoa and parasites generally, but solely of the surgical treatment which some of them render necessary. We therefore omit all account of lice, of intestinal worms, and of the Trichiniasis, which has created so great a panic, and which has been so ably described by Dr. Althaus.* Also, amongst A'egetable parasites, we omit any account of such as cause ringworm, baldness, pityriasis, &c., and refer only to the Fungus Disease of India, described by Professor H. V. Carter, of Bombay.! In this curious disease, it appears that the sporules of some fungus find their way beneath the cuticle of the foot, then increase, and form tumours, then abscesses, and at last go on and invade the bones, which they excavate and fill with rounded black masses of fungus. The disease affects natives of India only, and seems to be irremediable except by amputation. CHAPTER YIII. POISONS CONTAINED IN DEAD HUMAN BODIES, POST-MORTEM AND DISSECTION WOUNDS. During the decomposition of animal matter, a number of complex substances are foi-med, which have a most deleterious effect if intro- duced into the blood of living animals. If inhaled, and especiallv if inhaled continuously, as they used to be in the dissecting-room, they are capable of pi-oducing sickness, dyspepsia, diarrhoea, nauseous taste in the mouth, and other symptoms indicative of the presence of deleterious miasmata in the blood. But these poisons are usually quickly elimi- nated, and their effects removed by fresh air, apeiients, and stimu- lants. Sometimes also by inhalation, J but more particularly, if inocu- lated, they produce most disastrous efi'ects in the form of inflammation of the lymphatics (See Part III. Chap. IV.), and of diffuse cellular inflammation, with pyaemia. We have already spoken of the latter maladies, generally; now we propose to describe them more particu- larly as they occur from dissection wounds, remarking that the bodies of persons who have died from disorders of an erysipelatous nature, or from puerperal fever, are pre-eminently contagious, and much more dangerous than bodies usually are from mere putridity. The common * Med. Times and Gazette, 1864, vol. i. f On Mycetoma or Fungus Disease. Trans. Med. and Phys. Soc. Bombay. No. vii., 1862. + Travers gives two cases. A Mrs. Clifton died of diffused cellular inflam- mation following a prick. Two of her attendants became 111 from the contact and effluvium of the discharge, although neither had any wound through which a poison might be inoculated. One of them suffered from acute fascial inflam- mation of the arm; the other from low fever, and abscess in the axilla. The latter was engaged in unfolding some sheets from which a most noisome smell proceeded, when she was all at once seized with sickness and faintness, and excruciating pain in the axilla.— Constitutional Irritation, p. 373, 3rd ed. See also Tyrrel's edition of Sir A. Cooper's Lectures, vol. iii.; Nunneley on Erysi- pelas ; Copland's Diet. p. 304.DISSECTION WOUNDS. 175 and extensive use of antiseptic injections in the dissecting-rooms of late years has very much diminished the danger from this cause to the dis- sector. It now rarely happens that unpleasant symptoms occur. Many have been daily in the habit of dissecting for many years, and frequently cut and punctured, without ever having a bad symptom. In almost all cases where symptoms do occur, the subject of them has been reduced in health previously. Post-mortem wounds, "where the bodies are fresh, and the poisons they may contain are in full action, are much more dangerous. Symptoms.—Supposing the patient have infected bis finger through a wound (which is in most cases so slight as to pass un- heeded), at a period varying from six to eighteen hours subsequently, he feels altogether unwell: he is depressed, faint, and chilly, and com- plains of lowness of spirits and nausea. These symptoms are soon suc- ceeded by rigors, severe headache, and vomiting ; tlie pulse is frequent and sharp, but weak; the tongue is coated, and there is the greatest restlessness and despondency. Then the ^jrs^ local symptom appears in the form of a most excruciating pain and tenderness of the shoulder, corresponding to the hand that was wounded. And in some cases there soon afterwards arises a pustule or fester, on or near the wound. But this may be unattended with any pain, and the patient may be ignorant of its existence, or may not even be aware that he has received a wound, till his attention is directed to it by his attendants. A& the case proceeds, the pain in the shoulder becomes more excruciating, and is attended with fulness of the axilla and neck ; and a doughy swelling appears on the side of the trunk, often extending from the axilla to the ilium. At first it is pale ; but it soon assumes an erysipelatous red- ness, or rather a pinkish tint, like that of peach-blossoms. The breathing now becomes difKcult; the pulse quicker and weaker ; the tongue dry, brown, and tremulous ; the mental distress is truly appalling, although there is seldom delirium; the countenance is haggard, and the skin yellow ; and the patient often expires before the local disease has made further progress. Varieties,—^1. In one small class of cases, the influence of the morbid poison is so virulent that the patient actually dies of the pre- cursory fever, before sufficient time has elapsed for any local disease to appear—either in the axilla, or in the wound, or elsewhere. The most speedily fatal case on record, that of Mr. Elcock, was of this variety. He died in forty hours from the receipt of the dissection wound ; and the nervous commotion and mental despondency which he suffered were even parallel to those of hydrophobia. Dr. Bell, of Plymouth, died in the same manner. 2. In another class, ditfuse cellular abscesses occur in several remote parts—the knee, or elbow, for instance, as well as in the axilla, as in the case of J\Ir. Sliekelton.* * The case of Dr. Bell may be found in Batter on Irritative Fever. Those of Mr. Elcock and Mr. Shelielton are quoted at length (witli many others) in Travers on Constitutional Irritation. See also a paper by j\Ir. Adam, in the Glasgow Medical Journal, August, 1830; Stafford in Bled. "Chir. Trans, vol. xx. 1836.176 DISSECTION WOUNDS. 3. In other cases the wounded finger inflames violently, and sup- purates or sloughs; or the diffuse inflammation begins at the wrist, and extends up the arm, or an attack of cutaneous erysipelas accompanies the mischief in the subcutaneous tissue. 4. In a fourth class, inflammation and abscess of the lymphatic ves- sels and glands may be superadded. Termination and Consequences.—If the case do not terminate fatally at an early period, extensive and foul collections of matter form in the parts that have swelled; and abscesses continue to gather under the skin, or between the muscles of the trunk and limbs : and from these the patient may slowly sink ;—or, if he survive, his existence may be a mere burden ; one or more of the fingers may perish by gan- gi'ene, the arm may remain stiff and useless, or the seeds of consump- tion or dropsy may be left in the system. Morbid Anatomy.—The morbid appearances are those of the various grades of diffuse cellular inflammation. The following may be quoted as a fair description of an advanced stage.* The cuticle covering the affected side of the trunk, vesicated and wrinkled ;—the cutis mottled and gangrenous in patches;—the subcutaneous cellular tissue, in some parts distended with serum, in others, softened and turgid with pus ; the tissue between the muscles of the trunk, as well as that which separates the different muscular fasciculi, also softened and puru- lent ;—the muscular fibres, of a dirty yellow colour, and softened ;—the axillary glands enlarged, but not suppurating;—the axillary artery and nerves healthy;—but the veins (especially the smaller branches) dirty red, and softened;'—the brachial and median-cephalic veins of the wounded arm, slightly red, but the fore-arm healthy ; and no connec- tion whatever to be discovered between the abrasion on the finger and the morbidpatis in the axilla;—the pleura of the afi'ected side greatly inflamed ;—the lung covered with lymph, and much serum effused into the cavity of the chest.f Treatment.—This is identical with that of erysipelas and pysemia. (See p. 67.) The indications clearly are, to eliminate the poison from the blood ; to support the strength ; and to relieve pain and promote the discharge of pus or sloughs. First purify the blood by a dose of calomel and by enemata, bearing in mind the experiments of Gaspard and Cruveilhier, in which dogs, into whose veins putrid pus had been injected, recovered on passing black and fetid evacuations.J The thirst must be quenched with lemonade, soda-water^ and effervescing draughts ; beef-tea, and other forms of nourishment, be liberally given; wine, or brandy, or beer, be administered in sufficient quantity to support the pulse ; opium, to render the patient unconscious of his severe pain. This should be given in a full dose at bed-time, and in smaller ones * Abridged from the case of Mr. Young, in Duncan's paper in the Edinburgh Med. Chir. Trans, vol. i. Quoted also in Travers, op. cit. + Dr. Law, in a valuable paper in the Dub, Med. Journal, Nov. 1839, gives several cases of glanders and diffuse cellular inflammation mistaken for acute rheumatism. t Quoted in Ferguson on Puerperal Fever, p. 54.177 HYDROPHOBIA, during the day. Quinine in large doses, or some other form of cinchona, and mineral acids in the latter stages are indicateJ. Local Treatment.—So soon as pain is first experienced in the axilla, warm poppy fomentations should be applied. But so soon as any dis- tinct swelling can be detected, an incision should be made into it,—in order to relieve pain and tension, and to prevent the ditfusionof serum or pus that may have been formed in the meshes of the cellular tissue. Incisions are the sine qua non of the treatment; the point on which success mainly depends : and it is most truly observed by Mr. Stafford, that, in most of the cases that have hitherto occurred, if swelling or abscess formed, and were not opened, the result was fatal. If the patient survive, he should as soon as possible be removed into the country, and be put on a course of tonics and liberal diet. All the collections of matter, which sometimes continue to form for months, should be opened as soon as they are detected ; and the ulcers that remain be dressed with stimulating lotions and bandages. Precautionary Measures.—We need scarcely comment on the expediency of using some precautions in performing post-mortem exa- minations, especially if the operator be out of health, or if the patient have died of any disease of an erysipelatous character. Scratches on the fingers, and hangnails, should be covered with adhesive plaster or collodion, or be touclied with the nitrate of silver to form an eschar, and the entire hands sliould be well smeared with lard. If the operator should puncture himself, or should suffer a scratch or abrasion to come in contact with the fluids of the subject, he should immediately wash his hands, and thoroughly suck the wound. Then the nitrate of silver should be applied to it, in order to decompose the poison and excite a slight inflammation, which will prevent imbibition. CHAPTER IX. EFFECTS OF POISON GENERATED BY DISEASED ANIMALS. SECTION I.—HYDROPHOBIA, Definition.—Hydrophobia is a disease caused by inoculation with the saliva of a rabid animal, and chai'acterised by intermitting spasms of the muscles of respiration, together with a peculiar irritability of the body and disturbance of the mind. Symptoms in the Dog.—Since prevention is better than cure, it is very desirable that every medical practitioner should know the symp- toms of rabies in the dog, and most especially the earliest syraptom.s. These, according to Mr. Touatt, are unusual sullenness, fidgeting, and continual shifting of posture." The cjog retreats to his basket or bed for several hours, where he lies curled up, with his face buried be- tween his paws. Then he becomes fidgety, continually changing his178 HYDROPHOBIA. resting-place; appears clouded and suspicious in his countenance, and gazes strangely about him as he lies on his bed. A peculiar delirium is also an early symptom : the dog perhaps springing up and giving an angry bark at some imaginary object. " I have again and again," says Mr. Youatt, " seen the rabid dog start up after a momentary quietude, with unmingled ferocity depicted on his countenance, and plunge with a savage howl to the end of his chain." But if his master speaks to him every fancied object of terror disappears, and he crawls towards him with his usual expression of attachment. Then comes a moment's pause,—a moment of actual vacuity,—" the eye slowly closes, the head droops, and he seems as if his fore-feet would give way and he would fall ; hut he springs up again, every object of terror once more sur- rounds him, he gazes wildly around, he snaps, he barks, and he rushes ao-ain to the end of his chain to meet his imaginary foe." The amount of ferocity displayed by rabid dogs varies exti'emely. Some there are whose fury knows no bounds, and who, if loose, rush out, biting every man and beast in their way. Others, on the con- trary, not only cannot be made to bite, but, in the very earliest stage of the disease, show an increased fondness, and are perpetually trying to lick their owners' hands and face. Many cases are on record of persons who have been thus infected through some accidental scratch or abrasion ; and hence when rabies has been detected in a dog, it is most important to inquire whether any persons have scratches which he may have licked, and if so, these should be cauterized at once. Another early and constant symptom of rabies is change of voice. Every sound uttered by a rabid dog, says Mr. Youatt, is more or less changed. But there are two sounds, in particular, that deserve notice ; one of which is described as a " a hoarse inward bark, with a slight ele- vation of tone;" and the other a most pecuhar and characteristic com- bination of " a perfect bark, ending abruptly and very singularly in a howl, a fifth, sixth, or eighth higher than the commencement." Other symptoms, observed at the commencement of the disease, are, loss of appetite, propensity to lick cold surfaces, such as stones or iron, and to devour straws, litter, and similar rubbish; and peculiar eagerness, in scenting at and licking not only the common urining places, but corners in rooms that are not usually disgraced by this evacuation. This is considered a highly-important symptom. There is no dread of water as in the human being; on the contrary, an in- satiable thirst, which the dog endeavours to allay by lapping as long as he has power over his jaws. The mouth is dry, and the saliva ex- ceedingly viscid; at first, perhaps, it is slightly increased in quantity, but this increase soon passes oft', and the secretion becomes extremely viscid and scanty, sticking to the corners of the mouth, and annoying the poor dog extremely, who may be seen fighting with his paws at the corners of his mouth, as if trying to dislodge some bone which had stuck between his teeth. Thus, the disease when fully formed, is characterised by delirium with more or less ferocity, alteration of the voice, great thirst, and179 HYDROPHOBIA. viscidity of the saliva, to which may be added perfect insensibility to pain. As it approaches its termination, the eye becomes dull; the hind legs first, then the muscles of the jaws are paralyzed, and at length the poor animal dies exhausted. But there are some cases in which paralysis of the muscles of the mouth and jaws is a vei y early symptom ; the mouth being open and the tongue protruding. A poor dog in this condition will plunge his muzzle into Avater up to the very eyes in order that he may get one drop into the back part of his mouth to cool his parched throat. This form of the disease is generally called dumb madness. The usual duration of rabies is from four to six days. The post-mortem appearances show merely the effects of the malady, in various degrees of congestion of the mucous membrane of the respi- ratory and alimentary surfaces. The tongue, often torn and bruised, and covered with filth; its papillse prominent and reddened, the mu- cous follicles about the fraenum enlarged. In the dumb madness, the tongue hangs from the mouth, and is swelled and dark-coloured. The fauces show a more or less partial blush, and the epiglottis and larynx are usually much injected. The trachea, bronchi, and lungs are some- times much congested, sometimes the reverse. The stomach generally shows vivid redness, or sometimes patches of ecchymosis on the summit of its rugas; the brain, intestines, bladder, and heart display no ap- preciable or constant morbid signs whatever. Perhaps one of the most characteristic evidences of rabies that dissection affords is the presence of a peculiarly-mingled mass of hay, and hair, and straw, and earth, and excrement in the stomach, or peihaps in the fauces, where it may have lodged from defect in the power of deglutition.* Causes.—The cause of this malady in dogs is most frequently a bite from another animal already diseased ; yet it seems occasionally to arise spontaneously. It has been ascribed to close confinement, rank unwholesome food, want of the couch grass, the natural medicine of the dog, and deprivation of sexual intercourse. It has epidemic fits of prevalence, and has been very severe in Liverpool this year, 1864. Besides the dog, hydrophobia infects the wolf, jackal, badger, and cat. But it may be communicated to many other mamniiferous animals, and there is no doubt but that every animal capable of taking the disease can also propagate it. This is equally true with regard to human beings as to animals. MM. Magendie and Breschet inoculated two healthy dogs on the 9th of June, 1813, with the saliva of a man who was labouring under the disease, and who died of it the same day at the Hotel Dieu. One of the dogs ran away, but the other was affected with decided rabies on the 27th of July following, and died of it; and some other dogs, which it was made to bite, died also. Well- authenticated cases are recorded, in which the disease was com- municated to man by pigs and horses; and there is no doubt but that it would be so much more frequently, if it were the instinct of herbi- * See The Dog, by W. Youatt, Loud. 1845.HYDROPHOBIA. 180 vorous animals to show their rage by biting. Bresohet, in the cotirse of numerous experiments on the subject, repeatedly infected dogs with the saUva of rabid horses and asses. One curious fact demonstrated by these experiments is, that when rabbits, or other rodentia, and birds are inoculated with the saliva of rabid animals, they very soon die, but without exhibiting any of the ordinary symptoms of hydro- phobia.* In the horse the disease commences with great distress and terror, and profuse sweating ; he soon becomes frantic and outrageous, stamping, snorting, and kiclving.f In the sheep, the symptoms are similar. An instance is recorded in which eight sheep weie bitten, and became rabid: they were exceedingly furious, running and butting at every person and thing, but did not bite. They drank freely.:|. There are several points connected with the propagation of hydro- phobia which are still involved in great uncertainty. It is not known whether the saliva is the poisonous agent, or whether some poisonous matter may be secreted by the mouth, fliuces, or lungs, and mixed with it. This, however, is not a point of much consequence; but again, it is uncertain whether the whole solids and fluids of the animal are not poisonous also. In fact, there is some reason for believing that the disease may be communicated by the mother's milk.§ More- over, it appears that it may be communicated by contact of the dog's saliva with the skin, or mucous membrane, without any wound or abrasion. II In a case related by Dr. Watson,*[f the dog's tooth merely indented the skin of the back of the hand, but made no wound. Lastly, a point of more importance and uncertainty than any is, whether the bite of an animal in health, or of one merely enraged, may not cause the disease : it is very certain, at all events, that the bite of an animal will prove fatal long before it exhibits any outward symptoms of rabies. Symptoms in Man.—At a variable period after a bite, or after some other mode of inoculation with the saliva of a rabid animal (which period is generally from five weeks to three months, sometimes much longer, possibly even one or two years), the attention of the patient is directed to a peculiar pain of the wounded part, together with slight heat, redness, and swelling. The pain is observed to shoot in the course of the nervous trunks, and has in general a rheumatic character. Sometimes, instead of it, there is a stiffness or numbness, or partial palsy. In some cases it is unattended with redness or swell- * Bresohet sur quelques Recherches experimentales sur la Rage. L'Experi- ence, Oct. 8tb, 1840. t Blaine's Outlines of the Veterinary Art, 2nd edit. Lond. 1816. J Lancet, 1829-30, vol. ii. p. 511. $ Two ewes were bitten by a mad dog, and died hydrophobic. One had two lambs, the other one; all three of which were seized with the disease a week afterwards, although they had not been bitten by the dog, nor, as was supposed, by the mothers.—Steele, Med. Gaz., Oct. 25th, 1839. |] Hutchinson, Lancet, Dec. 8th, 1838. 4[ Lectures, Med. Gaz., May Ttb, 1841.181 HYDROPHOBIA. ing; in others, on the contrary, the wound has thoroughly infiamed, and has broken into suppuration afresh, although healed long before. In some instances these premonitory symptoms have not appeared at all, or have been so slight as to pass unheeded: in a few instances they have not appeared till after the accession of the genuine hydrophobic symptoms ; but in general they ai-e observed from two to five days previously to the actual symptoms of hydrophobia. Of these, the first is a vague feeling of uneasiness and anxiety. The patient finds himself generally unwell ; his mind is irritable, and his countenance gloomy; he experiences a succession of chills and Hushes with transient headache; the appetite fails: there is frequently vomiting, and sometimes a well-marked accession of fever. Next, the sufferer complains of stiffness of the neck and soreness of the throat, with severe spasmodic pains at the epigastrium ; the respiration also is embarrassed, and frequently interrupted by sighing. But these symptoms are in most cases attributed to cold, and their real nature is not suspected for a day or two, till, on a sudden, on attempting to drink, the patient is seized v^ith a fit of suffocating spasm, and mani- fests extreme horror at the sight of fluids. The most prominent symptoms that henceforth present themselves, are three, viz., difficulty of bieathing and swallowing, extreme irrita- bility of the body, and peculiar disorder of the mind. (a.) The difficulty of breathing and swalio'mng depends on spasm of the muscles of the pharynx and larynx. Sometimes the patient can swallow neither solids nor liquids, but more frequently the disability extends to liquids only; because they i-equire a greater exertion of these muscles, and are consequently more liable to excite spasms. It is this circumstance that causes the aversion to fluids, and the alarm at the sight of them, which so generally characterise the disease. At first the spasms are excited only by attempts to swallow fluids ; then they are brought on by the sight or thought of them ; or by the mo- tions of spontaneous deglutition; but as the malady advances, they recur in frequent paroxysms—sometimes spontaneously, sometimes excited by the slightest noise or touch. When the paroxysms have become fully developed, they cause the most frightful struggles for breath. All the muscles are convulsed, the face is black and turgid, and the eyeballs protrude from their sockets. They may come on either during inspiration or expiration, but more frequently the latter; the patient struggling most violently to expel the air that is confined in his chest through the closure of the larynx. In this disease, as in tetanus, the fatal termination may ensue from suffocation in the middle of a paroxysm, although it more frequently happens during an interval, from exhaustion. (6.) Next to the spasm, the astonishing irritability of the surface of the body is the prominent symptom of hydrophobia. The slightest impressions on the senses affect the sufferer most intensely. A look, or a sound; the opening and shutting of the door of his apartment; the motions of his attendants; the reflection of light from a mirror ; theHYDROPHOBIA. 182 least impression on the skin; the touch of a feather, or impulse of the gentlest current of air, are sufficient to bring on the convulsive fits, and are most earnestly deprecated by the patient. (c.) The state of mind is in most cases one of most profound despair. Sometimes there is great restlessness and talkativeness; some- times maniacal fui y ; more rarely entire composure and tranquillity throughout the disease. Progress and Termination.—When the disease is fully esta- blished, its torments are aggravated by extreme thirst; and still more by a peculiar viscid secretion from the fauces, the irritation of which brings on the convulsive fits, and causes a perpetual hawking and spitting, which are veiy constant symptoms. Not unfrequently there is vomiting of greenish matter mixed with blood. As the disease advances, the convulsions increase in frequency and violence; there is constant restlessness and tremor; the lips and cheeks become livid, and perpetually quiver; till at length one fit lasts long enough to exhaust the i-emaining strength, and release the patient from his misery. An entire and remarkable I'emission (perhaps from the use of medicine), sometimes occurs, and the patient enjoys perfect ease, or perhaps sleeps for some hours; but yet the symptoms return, after a time, with aggravated violence. Again, in some cases, there is a perfect calm before dissolution; the patient becomes tranquil, and most of his sufferings subside or vanish; he can eat, nay, drink or converse with facility ; and former objects associated with the excruciating torture of attempting to swallow liquids no longer disturb his feelings. From this calm he sinks into repose, and, suddenly waking from his sleep, expires."* Morbid Anatomy.—The morbid appearances most frequently found are, congestion of the membranes and substance of the brain and spinal cord, and effusion of serum. Sometimes blood is extravasated around the cervical portion of the cord. The lining membrane of the fauces, oesophagus, trachea, and bronchi, are most highly vascular, the papillie at the root of the tongue large, and the lungs congested. The stomach often contains a darkish fluid, and patches of vascularity of a dark-purple colour are found in it and in the intestines. But although some one or more of these morbid appearances are detected in most cases, still there is not one of them that is present invariably. The brain, spinal cord, and fauces have been found pale, and the stomach without spots. Hydrocyanic acid has been detected in the blood after death, but this is not peculiar to hydrophobia.f Pathology.—It is quite clear, therefore, that no change of struc- ture that has yet been discovered can be considered essential to the existence of hydrophobia. It is true that the difficulty of breathing and swallowing may be partially accounted for by the inflammation about the fauces, and the great irritability of the surface is symptoma- tic of irritation of the spinal cord. But still no mere local changes can * Bardsley, Cycl. Pract, Med. Art. Hydrophobia. ■\ Med. Gaz., 5th September, 1840.183 HYDROPHOBIA. explain the mass of symptoms, which must depend on a peculiar change in the blood, or nervous system, or both.* Diagnosis.—The chief diagnostic signs are the spitting, and especially the influence of slight currents of air in bringing on the convulsive attacks. In July 1854, the writer saw a case with his friend Dr. Challice of Bermondsey. The patient, a middle-aged woman, had been bitten in the foot by a cat in the Apiil preceding. She was lying in bed, rational and tranquil, and nobody could have seen at the first glance that she ailed much. The writer took her hand to feel her pulse; and whilst doing so, breathed on it as gently as possible. In- stantly the poor woman started up in bed choking with spa.sm in the throat. This was sufficient for the diagnosis. Preventive Treatment.—As soon as possible after the bite of a suspected animal, the whole wound should be sucked, and so soon after as may be, should be excised or cauterized, or both. IMr. Youatt re- commended the nitrate of silver; and he certainly had a right to speak in fivour of it, since he was bitten many times, and escaped, though he used no other preventive ; and since he gives instances in which out of several animals bitten by the same dog, those which were cauterized by the nitrate of silver escaped all further mischief, whilst some which had the wound excised, or cauterized with a hot iron, were subsequently infected with rabies. These are certainly strong facts in favour of using the niti'ate of silver ; but cases have occurred in which the immediate and free application of it was useless. The rule generally given, however, is that the bitten part should be cut out, care being taken to carry the knife wide of the bite. After this, bleeding should be encouraged by the application of a cupping- glass ; or the wound should be long and diligently washed in warm water. And then (especially if the bite has been irregular, so that it is uncei'tain whether the excision has been complete) the raw surface may be cauterized by the nitrate, or by nitric acid; or by caustic potass. Chloroform will aid the surgeon in carrying out these dis- agreeable processes coolly and efficiently. When we consider that substances introduced fairly into the blood may find their way all over the body in an inconceivably short space of time (pro- bably in nine secondsf), it will be readily seen that excision or cauterization, although performed as soon as possible after the bite, may be of no avail. Yet they should never be omitted, let the interval be what it may. And one case is recorded in which it is said that the patient was saved although the parts were not cut out till the thirty-first day, and not till the symptoms had actually made their appearrance. This, however, is doubtful.J * A case of real hydrophobia, supposed to have occurred without any infec- tion, is quoted from the Trans, of the Coll. of Phys. of Philadelphia, in Prov. Med. Journ. for 1850, p. 225. But if the poison can be so readily imbibed, as we have shown, through a slight scratch, or through the unbroken skin, it is more probable that the disease in this case arose from infection, unsuspected, than that it was of spontaneous origin. t Blake, Edih. Med. and Surg. Journ., Jan. 1840. X Thompson, Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xiii., and Lancet, Sept. 23, 1837.184 THE GLANDERS. Whether the wound, after excision or caustic, should be allowed to heal, or be kept open, and made to suppurate by irritating ointments, is a disputed point. The weight of authoi'ity certainly favours the latter practice, and beyond the inconvenience it can do no harm. As for any other preventive treatment, all that can be done is to keep the patient in as good a state of health, and in as good spirits as possible. But there is not one of the innumerable so-called specifics that is worth a moment's trial. Curative Treatment.—Here we are met at the outset with the doubt whether hydrophobia can be cured at all; whether, like the plague and small-pox, it will not run its course, without the possibility of checking it. Mr. Youatt says that he believes he has occasionally prevented it in the dog, and that he has occasionally seen a case of spontaneous recovery; but that he has never cured it. Dr. Elliotson believes that the premonitory symptoms may show themselves in men and the disease go no further. But although it cannot be denied that a few rare cases have recovered, or have been reported as recoveries; for instance, one after enormous bleeding ; one fiom violent salivation ;* one from the use of lead in large doses ;f still the remedies that were supposed to be successful in these cases have been used again and again in others without benefit. Pages might be filled with an account of the remedies which have been resorted to in vain. Bleeding, which is quite inadmissible; the injection of warm water into the veins, which in Majendie's hands certainly proved a palliative; opium, which sometimes affords tempo- rary relief; Indian hemp :—of all which it may be said, that although they may mitigate the patient's sufferings, yet, that the disease seems to have in it some soui ce of mortality quite independent of outward or local symptoms, and not to be neutralized by any remedy yet within our reach. In the present state of our knowledge, the principal object is to allay the patient's sufferings. This should be done by keeping him perfectly quiet, and in the dark ; by the very gentle and protracted administration of chloroform, by food per anum, stimulants, and ice to the spine by means of Dr. Chapman's bag. For further details we may refer to the Chapter on Tetanus, with which this disease has the closest analogy. SECTION II.—THE GLANDERS. Definition.—The glanders is a disease of the horse tribe, commu- nicable to man and other animals. It is chiefly manifested by un- healthy suppuration of the mucous membrane of the nasal cavities, pustular eruptions on the skin, and unhealthy abscesses in the lym- phatic system. * Account of the effects of a bite of a wild jackal in a rabid state, as the same occurred at Kattywar, in the East Indies, in 1822. Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xiii. 1825. t Med. Gaz., April 14, 1838.THE GLANDERS. 185 Symptoms in the Horse.—It may occur in two forms, which, however, are merely manifestations of the same disease in different parts. When seated in the lymphatic system, it is railed/arc;/—when in the nasal cavities, glanders. But these two forms are essentially identical: the pus of either of them will reproduce the other; and farcy always terminates in glanders, if the animal live long enough, and its progress is not arrested. Farcy begins with hard, cord-like swellings of the lymphatic vessels and glands, called farcy-buds. These slowly suppuiate, and form unhealthy fistulous sores, which discharge a copious thin sanious matter. If suffered to proceed unchecked, farcy leads to glanders, although more frequently the latter arises first. Glanders.—Its symptoms are, a continued flow of discharge from one or both the nostrils (generally the left), which discharge is at first thin and serous ; then thick and glairy, like the white of egg; but after a time becomes opaque, purulent, bloody, and horribly offensive, retaining, however, its viscidity. Soon after it commences, an enlarged gland may be felt under the lower jaw adhering to the bone. The next things noticed are one or more ulcers on the Schneiderian mem- brane, having the sharp edges and scooped-out character of chancre ; these spread widely and deeply, and lead to caries of the bone. Then the lips and eyelids swell, and the conjunctivas suppurate; and the external parts of the face may become gangrenous, and the animal may die in a few days with putrid fever; or he may perish more slowly;— the disease spreading to the lungs, and death being induced by cough, emaciation, hectic, and the formation of unhealthy abscesses in the lungs and all over the body. The distinctive symptoms, according to Youatt, are the continuousness of the discharge, and the adherence of the enlarged submaxillary gland.* Symptoms in Man.—This disease may appear either as glanders or farcy ; either of which may be acute or chronic, (1.) The acute glanders begins with all the symptoms that indicate the absorption of a putrid poison. There are general feelings of indis- position, lowness of spirits, and wandering pains; followed by fever, furred tongue, great thirst, profuse perspirations at night, gi-eat pain in the head, back, and limbs, and tightness of the chest. After some days these symptoms increase : there are severe rigors and delirium, often of a phrenitic character; the perspirations become more profuse, and sour and offensive, and are attended with diarrhoea of a similar character. Then diffused abscesses appear in the form of red swellings about the joints, especially the knees and elbows—the patient com- plains of heat and soreness in the tlu-oat; the tongue becomes dry and brown, the respiration more oppressed, and the fever assumes a decidedly low malignant character. Next (perhaps a fortnight from the commencement of the illness, sooner or later in different cases) a dusky shining swelling appears on the face, especially on one side, * Blaine, op. cit.; Youatt on the Horse.THE GLANDERS. 186 extends over the scalp, and closes the eyes. Then the characteristic features of the disease appear;—an offensive, viscid, yellowish dis- charge, streaked with blood, issues from the nostrils ; and a crop of large and remarkably hard pustules (compared by some to those of the small-pox, and said by others to be about the size of a pea) appears on the face. In the meanwhile the swelling and inflammation increase ;—a portion of the nose or eyelids mortifies ;—the discharge becomes more and more profuse and offensive;—the pustules spread, and extend over the neck and body; fresh abscesses form and suppu- rate ; the thirst is most excruciating; and low murmuring delirium and tremors usher in death—much to be wished for. (2.) The chronic glanders is characterised by a viscid and pecu- liarly foetid discharge from one nostril, with pain and swelling of the nose and eyes;—and emaciation, profuse perspiration, and abscesses near the joints, from which the patient slowly sinks. (3,) In the acute farcy, the patient receives the poison through a wound or abrasion, which inflames violently, together with the lym- phatics leading from it. The symptoms are attended with consider- able fever, and are generally soon followed by the diffused abscesses, pustular eruption, and nasal discharge, that characterise acute glanders. (4.) In the chronic farcy, a wound poisoned by glanderous matter degenerates into a foul ulcer; the lymphatic vessels and glands swell and suppurate ; abscesses form in difierent parts of the body ; and if the disease is not cured, or does not destroy the patient first, it termi- nates in acute glanders.* Causes.—In the horse this disease may, without doubt, arise spon- taneousl}', when the animal is subjected to the usual influences that generate putrid poisons ;—namely, insufficient and unwholesome food, close confinement, and fll ventilation, especially on board ship. Mr. Youatt believes that it may arise, if the animal is kept in a poor state of health, as the climax of constitutional weakness and derange- ment. In man, it is generally produced through inoculation of the matter into a wound ; and the matter from the abscesses or nasal cavities of human beings is capable of communicating the disease both to men and animals. A man died of glanders in St. Bartholomew's Hospital,'in 1840, and the nurse who attended him inoculated her hand, and died of it also in a very few days; and two kittens which were inoculated from the nurse, became affected likewise. Moreover, the blood of a glandei-ed horse injected into the veins of a healthy one communicated the disease, although no abnormal appearance could be detected in it by the microscope.f The time at which the disease appears after inoculation varies from three days to a mouth. Prognosis.—This, in the acute disease,is highly unfavourable; the chronic, however, may be recovered from. * Case of Mr. Turner, Travers, Constitutional Irritation, p. 399; Case of Farcy ending in Acute Glanders in seven montlis, L'Exp^rience, Jan. 1839. f Reynault, quoted in Provincial Medical Journal, 18th Feb. 1843, from the Report of the French Academy for Feb. 2, 1843.ON VENEREAL DISEASES. 187 Morbid Anatomy.—The morbid appearances are the same both in man and in the horse. Clusters of white granules, or tubercles, or, as Dr. Craigie describes it, of matter like putty or thick pus, are found in whatever tissues the disease has invaded ; in the Schneiderian mem- brane, in the antrum and fi'ontal sinuses, and in the vicinity of the different abscesses. The nasal cavities mostly contain a thick brown gelatinous seci-etion, and are studded with foul gangrenous ulcers, from which project fungous clusters of tubercular matter. Treatment.—The chief points are, to open all abscesses as soon as possible ; to syringe the nasal cavities with solutions of creosote, or F. 117, 127; and to support the strength and abate the thirst with wine or brandy and soda-water, beef-tea, &c. The effluvia must be coun- teracted by fumigations of chlorine and aromatics. In fact, in every variety and stage of this horrible disease, the strength must be kept up, and the poisonous discharges neutralized. Creosote injections, the admi- nistration of iodide of potassium with iodine, and mercurial salivation, in different cases respectively are said to have efi'ected cures.* CHAPTER X. on venereal diseases, section I.—general history and pathology. Definition.— By venereal diseases, we understand the effects of certain morbid poisons, usually communicated by sexual intercourse. But the name venereal by no means implies that sexual intercourse is the only mode by which these poisons can be disseminated. As Astruc says, " The venereal disease may be communicated from the infected to the sound, not in one only, but in several different manners, as often as by close and continued contact, the soft tender warm and moist parts of two difierent persons mutually heat each other."f Varieties.—The diseases which are called venereal, are now arranged under three heads:—1st. Gonorrhoea, which is an inflammation and sup- puration of the mucous membrane of the male or female genitals. It may be communicated by means of the pus, to other mucous membranes, and especially the conjunctiva. (See p. 33.) 2ndly. The chancroid * Vide Elliotson's papers la the Med. Chir. Trans, vols. xiii. xviii. {with a coloured plate) and xix.; the Med. Gaz. vol. xix. p. 939; case communicated from father to son, Lancet for 1831-32, vol. i. p. 698; Rayer, de la morve et du farcin chez rhomnie, Mem. de I'Acad. de Med. 1837; the cases of the patient and nurse in St. Bartholomew's Hospital above quoted, in the Lend. Med. Gaz., April I8th and 25th, 1840; case of acute glanders cured by injections of creosote by Mr. Ions, Lancet, April 30th, 1839; case of acute farcy cured by iodide of potassium with iodine. Arch. Gen. de Med., Jan. 1843; Youatt's book on the Horse, 1845; Burgess's Translation of Cazenave on Diseases of the Skin, Lend. 1842. Case treated by mercury, recovery; Mr. Carpenter of Croydon, Med. Times, Aug. 4, 1855. t Treatise of Venereal Diseases, Lond. 1754, preface.188 ON VENEREAL DISEASES. uker, soft chancre, syphiloid, local syphilis or non-infecting sore. This is a highly contagious suppurating ulcer, capable of being inoculated in almost unlimited succession, on the same patient;—but according to the best observations, it is a local disease; it produces an ulcer vvhere- ever inoculated, with probably suppurating bubo, i.e., suppuration of the nearest lymphatic ganglion, but no secondary symptoms. 3rdly. The true syphilis, true chancre, Hunterian chancre, hard, indurated, or infecting sore. This does not usually produce such formidable primary or immediate symptoms as the soft chancre. Mr. Henry Lee* has de- monstrated that it does not yield pus, but generally only epithelium and serum ; there may be no loss of substance at all, rather the con- trary ; the constructive may surpass the destructive element in the sore. (See p. 69.) Whilst the "soft" chancre may stand as the type of a true spreading ulcer, the " hard '' may be a little raised hard patch, with epithelial hypertrophy, more like a small speck of psoriasis than an ulcer. It produces also, not a suppurating bubo, but an indolent multiple enlargement of the cliain of nearest lymphatic ganglia, which rarely suppurate. That which distinguishes this third form is that it gives rises to a peculiar constitutional diathesis ;—when fully developed, it cannot be multipled by inoculation on the same patient; and it causes what are called secondary and tertiary, or constitutional symp- toms ; — that is, a general infection of the system, which was for- merly known as lues venerea, or confirmed pox, and which, as Dr.Wilks justly says, ought to be considered the real disease—the primary one being the mere point of introduction. Disputed Questions.—This will be a convenient place for consi- dering several disputed questions as to the history, origin, and nature of these diseases, and for referring the student to authors from whom he may obtain fuller information than our pages have room for. Disputes have arisen on the questions—1. Were venereal diseases known to the ancients? or are they peculiar to modern times? 2. If modem, were they imported from America? 3. Can any theory be framed as to their origin, and as to the number and nature of the poisons by which they are caused ? 1. The latest researches seem to show that the persons who contend that venereal diseases were known to the ancients, and those who take the opposite line, are each right and each wrong, in a certain sense. There can be no doubt but that gonorrhoea was well known in England in the middle ages, under the terms brenning, burning, ardor, arsura, &c. Yov example, in the regulations for the steios of the borough of South- wark dated 1430, it is ordained that no stewholder keep any woman within his house, that hath the syknesse of brenning. John Ardern, an eminent surgeon of the fourteenth century, defines brenning to be an inward heat and excoriation of the urethra. So also, some ulcers were known. Celsus mentions several varieties of ulcers on the penis, which are easily recognizable as the gangrenous, and phagedasnic. Guglielmus * Lectures on Syphilitic and Vaccino-Syphilitic Inoculations, 2nd edit. Lend. 1863.GENERAL HISTORY AND PATHOLOGY. 189 de Saliceto (1276), Lanfranc of Milan, John of Gaddesden, Doctor of Medicine in the University of Oxford, and author of a Treatise called Rosa Anglica, and Guido de Cauliaco, all flourishing before the end of the fourteenth century, describe ulcers, imposthumes, bubo, and pus- tules as arising from commerce with foul women. Moreover, the ex- istence of maladies which could be contracted and propagated by sexual commerce is proved beyond all possibility of doubt by regulations of the public stews such as those we have just refei'red to. Our fore- fathers were far too wise to allow loose women to parade the streets, and to sow disease broadcast, as we do in these modern Protestant moral days; equally were they too wise to attempt to suppress fornication altogether. But they shut up their loose women in stews or brothels, and put them under strict surveillance, including periodical medical ex- aminations, to make sure against contagious disease. The Statutes of the Stew, at Avignon, established by Jane Queen of the Sicilies and Countess of Provence, in 1347, enact, " that a public brothel should be set up at Avignon, and the wenches who ply there shall not walk the streets, but keep within the brothel, and wear a red knot upon their left shoulder. * * Tlie door to be kept locked, and no young man admitted without leave of the Abbess. * * That on every Saturday the women be singly examined by the Abbess and a surgeon, and if any of them have contracted any illness by their whoring, that they be separated from the rest, and not suffered to prostitute themselves, for fear the youth who have to do with them should catch their distempers.''* Whilst it is thus clear that some disorders existed in ancient times, which could be got from venery, and which we believe to have been identical with the gonorrhoea, and possibly with the soft or non-infect- ing venereal ulcer of the moderns—a disease which is formidable enough if we remember its phagedscnic varieties—it is equally clear that a new element appeared on the stage of modern civilized life be- tween the years 1494 and 1496, amongst the soldiers who were occu- pied under King Charles VIII. of France in besieging Naples. There is no doubt but that this disease was new to the physicians of Europe, for they all declared that they had seen nothing like it before, and stood aghast in ignorance how to treat it. Fallopius, who wrote about fifty years after its introduction, distinctly recognizes the diseases known to the ancients, and the new disease. The ancients, he says, saw in their times ulcers arise about the pudenda, which they called Heats; for writers before the venereal disease appeared, as Guido, mention them as arising from a person not cleansing the glans, or from his having to do with a woman that was menstruating. But I will affirm, he continues, that there is the greatest difference be- tween the French Pox {Caries GalUca) and these Heats. "True French chancres are to be distinguished from the others. Heats, excoriations, &c. are easily cured;—venereal ulcers not so quickly." This new disease evidently spread with great rapidity over the known world, and was everywhere recognized, and received names * Quoted in Astruc, op. cit., p. 60.190 ON VENEREAL DISEASES. as a new and imported disease. The Fiench called it the Neapolitan Disease; but the Italians, and Germans, and English called it the French Disease ; the Dutch, who seem to have got it from the Spanish who then were in force in the Low Countries, called it the Spanish Disease; the Folanders called it the Disease of the Germans; and the Eussiaus the Disease of the Folanders; the Foituguese called it the Castilian ; the East Indians, Fortuguese; the Chinese called it the Canton Disease; the Turks called it the Disease of the Franks {i.e. of the Christians) ; and the Fersians the Disease of the Tui'ks. Its spread over Europe is traced by the writings of physicians, and by the regula- tions of municipal bodies. The parliament of Faris issued regulations of the most stringent sort, so early as March 6th, 1496, that is, within two years of its appearance at Naples, commanding all pei sons infected with the grossa variola, or Great Fox, to quit the city, and repair to a house provided for their reception at St. Germain les Frez. Dr. Simpson has given an account of the regulations established in Scotland in 1497 against the French Fox. The first medical author who wrote of it was Grundbeck, in 1496, Be Pestilentiali Scorra, sive Mala de Framos.* No fewer than thirteen other writers are enumerated whose works on the Morbus Gallicus are extant, and were published at Venice, Rome, Bologna, Leipsic, and Heidelberg, before the end of the year 1500. The first Englishman who published a book on it was William Clowes, in the year 1575 ; but before him, about 140 authors had written on the Continent, of whom about twelve were French, the remainder chiefly Italian and German. The name SypMlis was an invention of Fracastorius, who wrote a Latin poem De Morho Gallico, about the year 1520, and published it in 1536. He feigned that a shepherd named Syphilus was first infected with it through the anger of Apollo. The early writers recognized many ways in which the disease could be propagated ; thus Fallopius says: It affects certain particular parts of men's bodies such as first touch those of others therewith infected ; whether the pudenda as in copulation ; the lips, as in kissing or sucking; the nipples, by giving suck to an infected infant; and the infant by means of the distempered nurse receiving such infection from the nipple." Amatus Lusitanus (1552) gives the case of a man, " who ten years after an infection from which he believed himself cured, married a healthy woman by whom he had two healthy children; but some years after marriage she brought him a son, in whom this disease appeared, and a little after, she had an ulcer on the side of her nose: not being able to suckle her child, she put him out to a nurse, who soon afterwards was contaminated by the child's sucking of her; the nurse infecting her husband besides two other children of * Trans, of Epidemiological Society, vol. i., part 11., p. 144, published by Hardwicke, Piccadilly, 1862. An edict of the Town Council of Aberdeen, dated 21 April, 1497, recognises it as " the infirmity cumm out of Franche and Strang partis." One ten years later, calls it " the syknesse of Napilis." Edicts were issued at Edinburgh in Sept. 1497. It was then called Grand Gore, also French and Spanish Fox.GENERAL HISTORY AND PATHOLOGY. 191 her neighbours to whom she had ignorantly offered her breast in the same manner as to the first. These gave the taint to their parents, and thus nine several persons became diseased with this lues in one month's time.''* If we want further evidence that a new disease invaded Europe at the end of the fifteenth century, and that this disease was true syphilis; that it was not the disease formerly known as leprosy; that it was propagated rapidly, and that its propagation was effected not merely by licentiousness, but by habits of uncleanness such as at least the upper classes of society are now free from, we may find it in the " CoUoquia " of Erasmus,! written about 1520. This book contains one Colloquium between two friends, one of whom laments the marriage of a young girl to a man who was affected with a most glorious pox—scabies siiperbissima, which he says has many names, as French, Neapolitan, and Spanish Pox, and yet no proper name of its own. He describes the flattened nose, stinking breath, and lame leg of the bridegi oom. He says this lues is worse than any kind of leprosy ; for it invades more quiclvly, recurs more obstinately, and often kills; while leprosy often allows men to live to a good old ao"e. This disease might be got by kissing, by whispering into the ear, by contact, and by drinking out of the same vessel. It were better, he says, to let the beard grow to the knees than to have it shaved by a man who might have dressed a poxed patient and infect you with his fingers, towels, combs, or scissors. No one ought to be surgeon and barber too. No persons ought to be allowed to drink out of the same cup. Nor ought any persons except husband and wife to sleep in the same bed. Nor ought guests in any hotel to sleep in sheets that have been used before. On which he observes that the Germans scarcely wash theirs twice a year. Kissing, even in church, should be prohi- bited.—Thus far Erasmus. 2. Was syphilis, the venereal disease par excellence, imported from America ? Columbus is said to have sailed from Spain, August 3,1492 ; to have reached Haiti on December 6 ; and to have left it on January 6, and reached Lisbon on March 6, 1493. Hence he went to Palos on March 15 ; whence he marched with 82 men and 9 Indians who had returned with him, to Barcelona, where the King of Spain was. On 25th September, 1493, he returned to Haiti with 17 ships and 1500 men; whence he despatched 14 ships on a return voyage to Spain in 1494. At the end of 1494, three more ships returned from Haiti, bringing with them Pedro de Margai'ita, a Catalonian gentleman, who has the reputed honour of having brought the pox in his own person to Europe. Ships now passed monthly each way ; one is said to have arrived in Cadiz on June 11, 1496, bringing two hundred soldiers affected with syphilis. Thus the disease was communicated to Spanish women ; and from them to Spanish soldiers who went to Naples to King Ferdinand II. to fight the French. Such is the account commonly given. We have no space to enter into the matter ; but may observe that * Quoted in Daniel Turner's Aphrodisiacus, Lond., 1737. t Erasmi CoUoquia, Elzevir, 1636, p. 512.ON VENEREAL DISEASES. 192 most of the earlier writers ascribe the outbreak to conjunction of planets, inundations, and other natural or supernatural causes. More- over, the Spanish soldiers may have taken it to America. The dis- covery of guaiacum and its use in Haiti gives something like con- sistence to the story. But it is a point unsettled. We cannot pretend to say more than this, that whether syphilis had or had not existed on the earth before, it was unknown to civilized European man till the epoch of the discovery of America. 3. What is the theory of the disease ? If we may glance at the history of opinions, we find that, from about 1550 to 1777, writers forgot the separate existence of any several diseases which might be communicated by connexion, and confounded them all under one head ; taking gonorrhoea (which was supposed to be a seminis profluvium), bubo, swelled testicle, all sorts of ulcers, eruptions, and other constitu- tional symptoms of syphilis to be one and the same disease, and all requiring mercurial treatment. It is true that here and there common sense prevailed. Thus several ancient writers believed mercury to be needless in gonorrhoea; Professor Borgarutius seems to prognosti- cate something of modern doctrine, when he says that lues is not to be feared if there be a copious gonorrhoea or good fat bubo ; and Dan. Turner pronounced mercury unnecessary in clap, and only gave it in compliance with custom.* Still it was only in the year 1776-7 that the identity of gonorrhoea and syphilis was formally denied by Dr. F. Balfour, in a thesis published at Edinburgh.! The distinction between these two diseases was fully established by Benjamin Bell,^ and the utter use- lessness and mischief of mercury in gonorrhoea: yet it was the common practice to salivate in this complaint even in Sir Astley Cooper's time, for he bitterly denounces the custom, which is kept up to the present day by the vulgar advertising quacks. The separation of gonorrhoea from syphilis may be called the first step towards an improved theory of these diseases. That which delayed the general reception of this truth, and has perhaps caused a greater amount of confusion of thought and bad practice than any work ever before published, was John Hunter's celebrated book on the Venereal published in 1786. Hunter, from one experiment, affirmed the identity of gonorrhoea and syphilis, and thus perpetuated the horrors of salivation for the former disease. Not content with endorsing an ancient error, he introduced a new one—in the strange proposition that secondary syphilis is not contagious. This notion was contrary to the general experience of mankind; it was combated by the Edinburgh school; it was contravened by the known facts as to the contagion of infantile syphilis, the existence of the " button scurvy " in Ireland,§ and the * Turner's Aplarodisiacus, p. 315. f The author takes this from MS. notes, in his father's handwriting, of the Lectures on Surgery, delivered in Edinburgh by Prof. J. Thompson, 1804. See also Hales' Salivation not Necessary. London, 1765. Letter to C. Hawliins, 1110. J Treatise on Gonorrhoea Virulenta and Lues Venerea, 2nd ed. Edin. 1797. $ See Wallace on the Venereal.193 GENERAL HISTORY AND PATHOLOGY. " sivvens" in Scotland.* Yet it remained part of the English medical creed on Hunter's ipse dixit; and it was even engrained by the earlier researches and doctrines of M. Ricord. This eminent syphilographer, well represented in England by his pupil Mr. Acton, believed that every primary chancre was inoculable during a certain portion of its existence ; but that secondary ulcers, resulting from general infection of the body, were not so. He believed that infants could be syphi- lized by transmission of the disease through father or mother to the embryo ; but disbelieved the idea that any secondary soi'e, in other words, any sore not the result of primary inoculation, could be propa- gated by inoculation. It will seem incredible to another generation how these false doctrines perverted men's minds and led them to explain away the notorious facts of the infection of nurses by syphilitic children; and of other healthy children and of husbands by syphilized nurses. Jt was asserted, for instance, that for a child to infect its nurse's nipples, it must itself have received the contagion from a primary chancre in its mouth !f After the non-identity of gonorrhoea and syphilis, and the reaffir- mation of the contagiousness of secondary syphilis, the next great step in modern times, has been the determination of the difference between the soft or local non-infecting sore, and the true indurated syphilitic chancre. This was effected on the Continent by Bassereau, Rollet, Fournier, and Clerc, who in 1855 announced the doctrine that the secretion of an in- fecting sore could not be inoculated on the same subject—a theory whicli, as Mr. Lee says, " might have been deduced fi-om Kicord's dogma, that a person can have syphilis once only."| In England the real state of things was made known by the original independent researches of Mr. Henry Lee published from time to time in the Med. Chir. Trans., British and Foreign Med. Review, &c. Mr. Lee showed in 1853 that the suppurating sore is a different disease from the indurated or infecting sore; and in 1856 that the former can readily be inoculated on the patient whilst the latter cannot. And hence we see the fallacy which beset Ricord's inoculations. A true chancre, after a few days, produces, as vaccination does, a constitutional diathesis, which renders the patient insusceptible to a fresh attack for some time—perhaps for life. Hence a true syphilitic sore, primary or secondary, cannot, under ordinary circumstances, be inoculated on the same patient. But it is a gi'eat mistake to infer, as Ricord and Hunter did, that a secondary sore cannot be inoculated on anothei- person ; in other words, that it is not contagious. * The popular name of syphilis amongst the peasantry of certain parts of Scotland, where it had been handed down from ancestors who had got it from the Puritan soldiers of Cromwell—derived from ihe resemblance of mucous tubercles and florid projecting cicatrices to raspberries—identical with button scurvy of Ireland, and most likely with the African and West Indian Yaws. See Benjamin Bell, op. cit. t See Acton's Complete Practical Treatise on Venereal Diseases, Lond. IStl. For a full demonstration of the contai;;iousness of infantile hereditary syphilis, see Diday on Infantile Syphilis, published by the New Sydenham Society, 1859. X Lectures, p. 27. D OOX VENEREAL DISEASES. 194: 4. Plurality of Poisons.—Having thus shown the distinction be- tween gonorrhoea and syphilis and between the non-infecting and in- fecting kinds of chancre, we may ask whether the varieties (^venereal disease depend on variety of poisons. We know what tlie poison of gonoi-rhoea is. It is the pus of an inflamed mucous membrane, and has nothing specific in it. What the poison of syphilis is, we know not, and may imitate Mr, Lee's philosophic caution when he says that we know not whether there be many poisons, or one poison actmg in different ways. 5. Lastly, as part of the general history of syphilis, the student should know that quicksilver was brought into use by the Arabian physicians a thousand years ago as a remedy for vermin and skin disease, and that it was used, from analogy, almost upon the first out- break of syphiHs. It was at first employed by inunction and fumiga- tion ;—afterwards internally ; but at first by very coarse and corrosive preparations. It was immensely abused by quacks ; and guaiacum and sudorific decoctions of sassafras, china and sarsaparilla, with copious sweatings, were early substitutes. There is no doubt but that mercury has done more good than any other remedy, though it was for a long time coarsely used even by I'egular practitioners, who caused patients to spit half a dozen pints a day. Still it has taken three hundred and fifty years of the most actively observant period of man's history, to clear uj) the nature of syphilis, and that during that time, although we have improved in the mode of using old remedies, we have but one new one, the iodide of potassium.* SECTION II.—GONORRHCEA, OR CLAP. Definition.—A gonorrhoea signifies a suppuration of the mucous membrane of the male or female geqitals ; produced by contagion from tlie pus of a membrane in the like state. Symptoms.—In tlie first stage, the patient notices a little itching at the orifice of the ujethra, with a slight serous or thin whitisli discharge. If the disease is not checked, it passes after a few days into the second, or acutely inflammatory stage. The discharge be- comes thick and purulent, and when the disease is at its height is greenish, or tinged with blood. The penis swells; the glans become of a peculiarly cherry colour, is intensely tender, and oft-en excoriated, lu consequence of the tumefied state of the urethra, the stream of urine is small and f()rked, and passed with much straining and severe pain and scalding. Ail the j^arts in the vicinity of the genitals, the * The author must record his obligations to Hennen's Military Surgery; Carmichael on Syphilis ; Bacol's Treatise on SyphiHs; Ti avers on the Venereal; Titley on Diseases of the Genitals of the Male; Judd's Treatise on Urethritis and Syphilis (Plates); H. J. Johnson, in Med. Chir. Review; Colles on the Venereal; Ricord, Traite des Maladies Vdn^riennes, Paris, 1839; Mayo on Syphilis, Lond. 1840; Lane's Lectures in the Lancet, 1841 and 1842; Egan on Syphilis and Inoculation, London 1853; Tyler Smith, Lancet, 1853, vol. ii. Becket's Papers on the Antiquity of Syphilis, Phil. Trans. 1714-24; Bumstead on Venereal Diseases, Philadelphia, 18G4.GONORRHCEA, OR CLAP. 195 oji oins, thighs, perinaeum, and testicles, ache and feel tender ; and the patient's nightly rest is disturbed by long-continued and painful erec- tions, and by chordee, that is, a highly painful and crooked state of the penis during erection. This arises from a deposit of lymph in the corpus spongiosum urethral^ which glues together the cells, and prevents their distension, so that when the penis is turgid with blood, it is bent at one part, and horribly painful. In the third stage, the inflammatory symptoms and chordee abate, and a muco-purulent discharge is left, which, when obstinate and thin, is called a gleet. Complications.—1. If the inflammatory stage be very sevei e, there may be severe irritation or actual inflammation of the iirinary organs; sometimes of the deeper portion of tl)e urethra, producing great pain in the periiia3um, and ppasm of tlie accelerators and other muscles during micturition, so as to interrupt the stream of urine, and cause the most exquisiteagony,-—or even complete retention of urine;—sometimes of the bladder, causing a very frequent desire to make water and great pain in doing so, which lasts for some time afterwards, together with a white mucous cloud in the urine; or thei'e may be shivering, pain in the loins, purulent and serous urine, tenderness of the abdomen, vomit- ing, and other signs of severe irritation of the kidneys. 2. HcBfnorrhage from the urethra ; from rupture of the distended ca- pillaries during violent erection. The loss of blood generally gives relief. 3. Inflammation and obstruction of the mucous follicles of the urethra, which may suppurate and burst either into the urethra or externally or both. 4. Inflammation of the lymphatic glands of the groin, constituting sympathetic bubo. 5. Balanitis (fidXavos, glans), see ]>. 206. 6. Phymosis, or paraphymosis, owing to the swelled condition of the glans and prepuce. When the latter is cedematous, it presents a curious semi-transj)arent appearance called cri/stalline. See Part IV., Chap. XXI. 7. Inflammation of either testicle, or of the ovary in women. See Part IV., Chap. XXI., also p. 201. Besides these seven complications, which arise from an extension of the local inflammation, gonorihoea has at least one well-marked secondary symptom, depending possibly on absorption of pus. Gonorrhccal rheumatism; pain, swelling and tenderness of the joints, especially of the knees and ankles, and feverishness. This generally occurs towards the decline of the complaint, and attacks young people of a delicate strumous habit. The same persons ai-e also liable to rheumatic ophthalmia, or inflammation of the fibrous structures of the eye; but this must not be confounded with the gonorrhoeal inflam- mation of the conjunctiva, which is caused by the contact of the dis- cliarge. Bacot says, that the rheumatism is sometimes suddenly relieved by the appearance of patches of minute papulae or pustules. Gonorrhaa is always most severe in first cases, and in patients whoON VENEREAL DISEASES. 196 are very young, or who possess irritable or scrofulous constitutions. In such cases it may be attended with extreme fever and constitutional disturbance, and may even prove dangerous to life by leading to exten- sive abscesses in the neighbourhood of the bladder.* But after repeated attacks, the urethra becomes, as it were, inured to the disease, and each subsequent infection is generally (although not always) attended with fewer of the symptoms of acute inflammation. In some instances the constitutional affection is extremely anomalous, and characterised by severe and continuous rigors. Gonorrhoea sicca.—There is one form of gonorrhoea which is occa- sionally met with in the male, and Mr. Acton has often met with it in the female, in which the mucous membrane is red, swollen, and tender, but the discharge scanty, flaky, or wanting. In the male, there are severe scalding and pain in making water, with painful erections, and the lips of the urethra are red and swelled. This form of disease has the popular name of the dry clap. Causes.—Suppurative inflammation of the urethra may be caused by, 1. Local irritation of any sort, especially immoderate and pro- tracted sexual indulgence, and the introduction of bougies. 2. Disorders of the constitution, gout, rheumatism, lithic and oxalic gravel. 3. Dis- charges are sometimes occasioned by the use of particular medicines, as guaiacum and cayenne pepper. 4. By unhealthy secretions of even chaste women. Thus—(rt) The menstrual fluid is capable of causing urethritis with violent scalding and chordee, and followed by swelled testicle; and a considei able degree of irritation may be produced by the vaginal secre- tions, just previous to menstruation.f (6) Similar consequences sometimes ensue if the female be affected with any discharge whatever ; or if connection occurs during the later stage of pregnancy. We believe that all purulent discharges are contagious. But the most actively contagious poison is the pus proceeding from genital organs, acutely in- flamed by preceding contagion. This is the cause of the true gonorrhoea virulenta. The inflammations of the urethra have the most perfect analogy with those of the conjunctiva. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of the simple gonorrhoea, that is, of dis- charge not arising from sexual connection, or which a man contracts from some accidental malady in a clean, chaste woman, is well summed up by Mr. Bacot in these words:—" If a discharge come on only a few hours after connection, and if it have continued several days without inflammatory symptoms; if the patient has been liable to some dis- charge after any excess of venery or of wine; in all such cases the pro- bability is that the patient labours under some other diseased condition of the urethra, and that although the intercourse of the sexes may have been the exciting cause, still there may be no imputation on the cleanliness of the female.''^ The time at which the disease usually appears after contagion is the * For cases, vide Judd, op. cit., p. 70. f Judd, p. 24. + Bacot, op. cit., p. 101.GONOREHCEA, OR CLAP. 197 fourth or fifth day. The later it appears the less severe it generally is; yet ia some very mild cases, the discharge comes on immediately after connection. GONORRHCEA IN THE Female,—It is important to consider the precise seat of the disorder. 1. There may be vulvitis, inflammation of the mucous membrane of the external parts only, that is, of the labia, nymphte, meatus urinarius, and parts adjoining, corresponding to bala- nitis in the male. The discharge is profuse, often fetid, the parts much swelled, perhaps aphthous and excoriated, and there is great pain in walkmg and in making water. The inguinal glands may enlarge, or there may be abscess in the labia. 2. The vagina may be aflected likewise. 3. The canal of the cervix uteri may be implicated, with or without abrasion of the mucous membrane. Causes.—Discharges from the female organs may be produced by many causes. 1. Thus discharges of the first sort just spoken of are by no means uncommon in girls or women of any age, and may be the result of want of cleanliness, of teething, of disordered condition of urine, or of any other form of constitutional disturbance. The sui'geon should be well aware of this, as parents are apt to be very much alarmed, and to attribute such complaints to improper causes. 2. Dis- charge of clear viscid mucus from the vagina is not unfrequent in feeble women, the parts of generation being patulous and relaxed. 3. The canal of the cervix uteri is, as Dr. Tyler Smith has shown, the seat of the true leucorrhcea; a discharge of tenacious alkaline mucus, containing abundance of round corpuscles. This is very commonly caused by mental and other circumstances affecting the health in general, and the generative organs in particular. Diagnosis.—Are there any certain means of distinguishing the dis- charges caused by infection from those arising from intrinsic sources ? First, as to symptoms, it may be alleged that a purulent discharge occurring suddenly, with inflammatory symptoms, and excessively obstinate, affecting the vagina as well as the external parts of genera- tion, in a woman who is not a virgin, is most probably gonorrhoeal. The non-venereal cases, so far as the author has seen, are not so obsti- nate, and do not involve such an extensive track. If the discharge comes solely from the external vulva, or solely from the canal of the cervix uteri, with or without excoriation or granular surface, it is pro- bably not gonorrhoeal. But, 2ndly, if it come fiom the vagina, the diagnosis must be chiefly a matter of inference. Discharges from the vagina are acid, and consist of abraded epithelium and pus. But no microscopical or chemical test, at present known, enables us to distin- guish those arising from idiopathic causes in chaste women, from those arising from contagion. Prophylactic Treatment.—The only prophylactic to be relied on is chastity ;—next to this soap and water, followed by an alum wash. Women should iise a weak alum wash with a good female syringe (F. 129); and fissures or excoriations of the penis should be treated with lunar caustic, and a bit of dry lint.198 ON VENEREAL DISEASES. CuEATiVE Treatment.—The remedies for gonorrhoea are three- fold : first, antiphlogistic measures, to get rid of inflammation ; secondly, certain medicines containing a volatile oil, which has a peculiar sanatory infiuence on the inflamed mucous membrane; and, thirdly, astringents to check the secretion of the inflamed surface. Of the first stage.—If the patient apply during the very first stage, before acute symptoms have come on, and if he be able to sacrifice his occupations to the cure, and to keep to the bed or sofa, the disease may almost infallibly be cut short by employing the abortive plan recom- mended by Ricord and Acton. Let him inject the urethra i-egularly once in four hours with a solution of two grains of nitrate of silver to eight ounces of distilled water (F. 134); let this be repeated twelve times, desisting, howevei", sooner, if the discharge is rendered thin and bloody, whicli is the ordinary effect of the nitrate. Then let a weak injection of sulphate of zinc be substituted (F. 135), and be continued till the discharge ceases. At the same time the patient should take a good purge, and after it, three times daily, a drachm of cubebs. He should avoid exercise, fermented liquors, salt, spice, coffee, and stimu- lants of every kind; he should take no supper, and should continue this regimen for a week or ten days after all trace of the discharge has disappeared. The penis should be cooled by a bag of iced water. The manner of injecting is of no small consequence, as the efficacy of the lotion depends entirely on its application to the whole of the diseased surface; and, as Dr. Graves observes, the ordinary opinion that gonoi rhcea is limited to the anterior extremity of the urethra is unfounded and mischievous. The patient should be provided with a glass syringe, with a long bulbous extremity, and having filled it, should introduce it for about an inch with his right hand. Then, having encircled the glans penis with his left forefinger and thumb, so as to compress the urethra against the syringe, and prevent any of the fluid from escaping, he should push down the piston with his right foiefinger, letting the fluid pass freely into the urethra. The syringe should now be withdrawn, but the orifice should still be compressed, and the fluid be retained for two or three minutes; after which, on removing the finger and thumb, it will be thrown out by the elasticity of the urethra. It is always worth the surgeon's while to see that the injection is properly used. Instead of using an injection, many patients who apply early before the inflammatory stage has come on, as well as patients who have had repeated attacks, may be cured by cubebs, in the dose of a drachm thrice daily. Of the second stage.—Supposing it to be a first attack in a young irritable subject, and that it has proceeded unchecked to the acute stage, the patient should be confined to the house. Walking, and, above all, horse exercise, should be prohibited. The penis and scrotum should be supported by a suspensory bandage, and be kept constantly cool. The glans penis, if very irritable, should be protected by a piece of lint spread with spermaceti ointment. The diet should be moderate,199 GONORRHCEA, OR CLAP. to the entire exclusion of fermented liquors, and the patient should drink soda water, barley water, linseed tea, gum water, and other mu- cilaginous fluids. The scalding will be relieved by combinations of alkalies and sedatives (F. 174), and by a hip-bath of the temperature of 80° ; but the bath should not be hot, nor even warm, otherwise it will excite the circuhition and bring on erections. Yet Mr. Milton recom- mends washing the penis with water liot enough to scald painfully. The bowels should be opened with castor-oil, and sleep be procured by conium, henbane, Dover's powder, and other anodynes ; or F. 30, 63, &c., every night whilst there is much pain and chordee. As soon as the patient is free from fever, he should take copaiba or cubebs. Young, irritable people, however, with light complexions, can seldom take these medicines without suflTering from sickness or diarrhoea, or sometimes even from fever and a rash ; and every combination of aromatic and opiate that can be devised will not enable the stomach to tolerate them. If the patient is very plethoric, and suffers greatly from pain and fever, and has a hard pulse and white tongue—and if thei e be great aching in the bladder or perinjeum, protracted agony after micturition, tendei ness in the abdomen, pain in the back, or other signs of irritation of the urinary organs—it may be right to apply leeches to the peri- naeum, and to administer opium fieely ; or a nightly dose of calomel and Dover's powder, or tartar emetic, F. 62 ;—but it is of no use to lov)er a patient who is not feverish. It is decidedly not safe to use injections with young, delicate, irritable subjects during the acute stage, and most especially whilst theie is any tenderness of the glands of the groin, or any acliing in the spermatic cord or testicles ; as they might easily produce swelled testicle, or gieat iri itation of the neck of the bladder. It is be.Nt to refrain from them till the inflammatory symptoms are removed. Treatment of Complications.—Painful erections and chordee may be relieved by a bag of cold water, and a combination of narcotics with antiphlogistics, F. 30, 31, 174, &c.; and if the chordee lasts long, a little mercurial ointment and extract of belbidonna should be smeared on the part at bed-time. H^moirhage may be checked by cold and pressure on the urethra. Inflammation of the mucous glands of the urethra is to be ti'eated by poultices. The swelling may be punctured if it ob- structs the flow of urine, but not otherwise. Swelling of the glands in the groin may generally be removed by rest, and, if necessai y, a few leeches. Of tlie third stage.—As soon as the acute stage has subsided, the patient should use the injections of nitrate of silver, followed by zinc, in the same manner as was recommended for the first stage. If the discharge does not cease entirely, or if it comes back a^ain, other in- jections, F. 135—139, may be tried; adapting their strength to the irritability of the part, and not permitting them to cause severe pain. But a gleet is often a very tedious complaint, and requires a judicious and long-continued course of remedies that act on the uri-200 ON VENEREAL DISEASES. nary organs, together with most temperate habits of living. Copaiba, either alone or combined with astringents, F. 176, tincture of steel, F. 13, 180 ; and cantharides, especially in combination with zinc, F. 179, are the most useful remedies. The bowels should be kept pro- perly open, but saline purgatives should be avoided. If the patient wants to make water oftener than natural, and there is an uneasy sensation in the urethra afterwards, and the xirine deposits a mucous cloud, buchu and uva m-si (F. 181) will be advisable. It is also useful to inject the urethra with cold water from an elastic bottle twice a day. If the urine is preternaturally acid, or alkaline, or the diges- tive organs deranged, the case should be treated as directed in the section on urinary deposits. If the health is materially enfeebled by debauchery or malpractices, affusion of cold water on the genitals, cold sea-bathing, blisters to the perinfcum, bark and steel, good living, and perfect chastity of body and mind are the necessary remedies. If other means fail, a smooth metallic bougie may be introduced every other day, or the porte caustiqm of Lallemand may be introduced, for the purpose of slightly touching the whole of the canal with the nitrate of silver. For gonorrheal rheumatism the patient should be confined to bed, and have warm baths. The bowels should be well cleared by calomel, and then ammonia with lemon-juice, F. 58, every four or five hours, and a dose of Dover's powder at bed-time. In the chronic stage. F. 63 or 72 at bed-time; iodide of potassium, F. 9,4, sarsaparilla, bark, A'olatile tincture of guaiacum, sea air, tonics, and warm bathing, are the remedies. Treatment of Gonorrhcea in Woman.—During the acute stage, rest in the recumbent posture, fomentations of decoctions of poppy- heads and camomile flowers, frequent hip-baths, lubrictxtion with lard or ung. plumbi diacet., and very frequent sponging with a weak solu- tion of alum, or of acetate of lead, F. 117,135,136, a piece of lint dipped in which should be inserted between the labia, with saline purges, F. 39, 58, and anodynes, F 30, are the measures to be adopted until heat, pain, and tenderness subside; afterwards injections of alum or sulphate or acetate of zinc should be used, and be continued for some time after all discharge has ceased. The patient should be supplied with powders, containing 60 grains of alum, or of sulphate of zinc ; or if there be some heat and soreness, 30 grains of alum and 30 of acetate of lead, either of which may be dissolved in a quai t of water, and used as applications in the course of the day, by means of an india-rubber syringe capable of injecting a continuous stream. The vagina should be previously washed out with water, whilst the patient sits in a tepid hip-bath, which also should contain a dessert-spoonful of alum in solution. Terehinthinate medicines (copaiba, &c,) do no good unless the discharge proceeds from the uiethra or its vicinity. It is supposed that these medicines produce their good effects by being excreted with the urine, and so coming in contact with the diseased surface. Hence it has been proposed to use injections of copaiba, andOF THE CHANCROID. 201 it is said that they do good in both sexes. Abscesses or other compli- cations, if they occur, must be treated on general principles. In any obstinate discharge, the cervix uteri should be e:xamined through the speculum, and the interior of its canal be touched with solid nitrate of silver, if a copious muco-puruient discharge be seen to issue from it. Steel is of service in chronic cases. An efi'ective but coarsish method which the writer has seen in the Hopital de I'Ourcine is to open the vagina with a bivalve speculum, and shovel in about a dessert-spoonful of powdered alum. Gonorrhoeal ovaritis.—Gonorrhoea may be complicated with in- flammation of the ovary, and it is said, even with pelvic cellulitis. The symptoms are severe pain deep in the pelvic region, aggravated by coughing, movement, and pressuie ; with feverishness and probably vomiting and great genera] disturbance. The practitioner will recog- nize an inflammatory attack; he will make out that it does not belong to the bowels or urinary oi gans; and he will probably gather from the patient the existence of heat and scalding, of swelling and tenderness, and purulent discharge. Then if the patient be a respect- able married woman, as has been the case with patients whom the writer has seen, the gonorrhoeal element must be a matter of speculation unless the husband confesses it. A few leeches, castor oil, warm fomentations and poultices, and soothing poppy injections are the remedies. SECTION III.—OF THE SOFT, OR SUPPURATING VENEREAL SORE, OR CHANCROID. General Description.—This is'the most common form of vene- real ulcer, and is rarely met with except on the organs of generation. In man it is most common on the inner surface of the prepuce or in the furrow round the glans, and especially by the fra?num. It is most liable to attack some crack, or excoriation, or get into some sebaceous or hair follicle, or to be imbibed by moist mucous membrane ; and is probably innocuous on dry cuticle. Hence the preservation derived from circumcision and uncovered glans. This ulcer has no period of incubation, and probably acts continuously from the moment when the poison first takes eliiect. It is often multiple ; it is very conta- gious, and easily inoculable, spontaneously or by art, up to the time when it begins to heal. Symptoms.—These may be studied when this sore is produced by inoculation with the point of a lancet. It corresponds to the type of an ulcer, p. 69. During the first twenty-four hours the puncture reddens; in the second and third days it swells slightly, and becomes a pimple, surrounded by a red areola; from the third to the fourth day, the cuticle is raised by a turbid fluid into a vesicle, which displays a black spot on its summit, consisting of the dried blood of the puncture ; from the fourth to the fifth day, the morbid secretion increases and be- comes purulent, and the vesicle becomes a pustule with a depressed202 ON VENEREAL DISEASES. summit. At this period the areola, which had increased, begins to fade, but the subjacent tissues become infiltrated. After the sixth day, if the cuticle and the dried pus which adheres to it be removed, there is found an ulcer; its depth equal to the whole thickness of the true skin, its edges seeming as if cleanly cut out with a punch; its surface covered with a grayish pultaceous matter.* The discharge is purulent; the sore is often painful; and attended with inflammatory swelling, which gradually fades into the sound tissues, and is not very hard rmless caustic has been used. It is tedious, lasting from three weeks to three months, and occasionally attended with bubo ; which doubtless arises from absorption of poison- ous matter, and is sure to suppurate, and after suppuration to leave an ulcer with the characters of the original sore. The great test, as M. Ricord showed, of the nature of this disease is, that the pus from the original sore, or from the centre of a suppura- ting bubo, if inoculated, produces an ulcer as already described. If this be done by way of diagnosis—a thing not to be advised—the sore should be destroyed by nitric acid, so soon as its nature is developed. Treatment.—This ulcer is serious enough, although it does not lead to secondary symptoms. The first point is to insure rest in bed ; then, if possible, to destroy the ulcer by concentrated nitric acid. The way is, to dry the ulcer with a bit of cotton wool, and immediately apply a bit of stick the size of a lucifer match, dipped into the acid, so as to destroy the surface, wiping off any excess. If, when the eschar falls, the ulcerative process seems inclined to return, the acid may be repeated. The most favourable conditions for cauterization are, if the ulcer be under six days old, uninflamed, and at the edge of the pre- puce where it can easily be got at. Not so if the sore is of some dura- tion, large, inflamed, and close to the orifice of the urethra. Such cases are left to time, and the application of mild antiseptic lotions on lint, F. 125, 131, 132. An ulcer should not be allowed to touch a sound surface. Rest, aperients, moderate diet, and anodynes, to allay irritation and erection at night, F. 30, 31, are essential. SECTION IV.—INFLAMED SLOUGHING, PHAGEDENIC AND SERPIGI- NOUS VENEREAL SORES. 1. Sloughing, from acute inflammation, a true inflammatory gan- grene, may affect the penis of persons who contract venereal sores, and are exposed to filth, intemperance, heat, and great local irritation, and especially if there be phymosis. There is immense swelling, sanious discharge, and sloughing of the skin where distended. The celebrated Black Lion, which affected the English troops in Portugal in the Peninsular war, was a sloughing of the penis from acute inflammation. Thus was it in a case related by Inspector-General Fergusson ;f a voung officer, four days after connection, penis enormously swelled and * ricnr \ ( p. cit, p. 89. f l'crga.>i' n, Med. Chir, Trans, vol. iv., and Guthrie, vol. viii.203 CHANCRE. deep red ; "malignant ugly chancres on prepuce and glans," looking like holes made by a rusty nail in a piece of mahogany; skin hot, pulse sharp, tongue white, eyes red, &c. Copious bleeding, cold lotions, and neutral salts as purgatives speedily reduced the tumefaction ; in a few days the sores were in a state of healthy suppuration, and doubtless, says Fergusson, " would have healed safely without mer- cury had either the patient's fears or my responsibility permitted me to run the risk." This was char] j chayicroid, plus local inflammation, and required no mercury. Syphilitic chancre has more than four days' incubation. In cases occurring to dirty and broken-down drunkards, and not to young robust men, it is usually the safest plan to slit up the prepuce; cleanse the inner surface with a syringe ; apply poppy decoc- tion, and weak astringent lotions; purge freely and give opium. 2. Phagedccna.—The chancroid is, as Mr. Acton observed, very nearly allied to phageda;na, but some so)-es present all the cha- racters of phagedaena or slouching phagedaena, mentioned at p. 76, spreading rapidly, painful, with profuse sanious discharge, and some diphtheritic exudation. This may depend on some acrimony in the discharge which produced the sore ; or on the influence of tilth, intem- perance, &c. 3. Serpiginous sores are those which partake of the nature of lupus non exedens, wandering interminably over the surface of the abdomen or thigh, and healing in one direction whilst they spread in another* In all these atonic varieties of ulceration, opium must be given in doses large enough to allay pain, bark, mineral acids, steel, and liberal diet to support the strength. Kicord recommends the potassio-tartrate of iron in doses of gr. x. thrice daily. The local applications may be soothing, as F. 120-122; antiseptic, as F. 117, 127; astringent, as F. 128,130, 131; or mercurial, as the black-wash, which certainly is one of the most healing applications possible:—but the calomel fumiga- tion, locally applied, is probably the most efficacious remedy known for all indolent cachectic sores and eruptions whatever. It has long been observed that locally destructive ulcers of the class we now treat of, are not necessarily followed by secondary symptoms, unless in the cases in which they are superadded to true chancre. SECTION V.—CHANCRE, General Description.—This, the starting-point of true syphilis, is usually much less formidable than the chancroid. Its most usual seat is the genitals, yet it may be met with on the lips, fingers, and elsewhere. There may be a considerable period of incubation after ap- plication of the poison, before the effects are pi-oduced, or discovered, usually fourteen, sometimes foi ty dnys. Symptoms.—Chancre presents many A^arieties. There may be no ulcer at all; only a raised pimple, with some exfoliation of cuticle: or a mere excoriation, or fissure, or shallow smooth ulcer not perforat- ing the whole thickness of the skin. The distinctive sign is an abruptly circumscribed induration, like that of a little bit of cartilage. Ulcer-204 ON VENEREAL DISEASES. ation, or inflammation, or suppuration may accompany, but are accidental. Tiie neighbouring chain of lymphatic glands enlarge and harden, but are not usually painful, nor tender, nor adherent. The discharge is, as Mr. Lee pointed out, not copious and purulent, but scanty, serous, containing epithelial debris instead of pus globules. This sore is most generally single. After it has acquired its characteristic induration, it seems to render the system invulnerable to infection from a fresh source. Hence it does not mul- tiply, and cannot be inoculated on the same subject;—except, as Mr. Lee has shown, either before the characteristic hardness is pro- duced, or else after it has been irritated and made to suppurate, when its secretion seems more actively contagious. It heals sponta- neously in about six weeks or less; but does not heal absolutely. It is converted into a cartilaginous lump, prone to break out afresh, or sometimes into a wart or vegetation. Constitutional symptoms follow. Causes.—The chancre is produced by infection from a syphilitic person, and of course is most common on the genitals, after impure connection. It is liable to occur on the lingers of the accoucheur or midwife who attends a syphilitic woman in labour. It may occur on the lips or tongue, from libidinous sexual practices, from kissing an in- fected person, or from drinking out of the same cup or spoon. Glass- blowers have conveyed it from one to another's lips. It may be commu- nicated by foul linen, sheets, seats of privies, &c. It may arise on the nipples by infection from the mouth of a sucking child, and vice versa ; and probably on a child's nates from the hand of a nursemaid. It may also be communicated by inoculation, and especially by vaccination if the vaccine lymph be taken from a syphilized person.* W7iat is the poisonous agent ?—1st. The secretion from a pri- mary chancre. 2ndly. The secretion from any of the forms of secondary eruption or ulcer, mucous patch, &c. Tertiary symptoms are also inoculable. 3rdly. The blood of a syphilitic patient. Ex- periments on this point have been made, with negative results, by Diday, and others ; but Waller and Pellizari have each proved the fact.f 4thly. Not only are the secretions from secondary symptoms inoculable under certain circumstances, but the blood, and the secre- tions of inflamed mucous surfaces in syphilitic patients, even where no distinct form of secondary disease is known to exist, may be the means of communicating the disease."§ Hence a woman need not have a chancre herself, to cause one in a man; but any vitiated or unhealthy secretion, vaginal, uterine, &c., may do it; and so conversely may any urethral or other discharge from a syphilized man. 5thly. There can be no doubt but that the lymph of the vaccine vesicle may be the vehicle; and more especially if it have been irritated or made to bleed, * For cases, see H. Lee, Lectures, pp. 188,204, 260; see also the other writers quoted at pp. 193 ; 194 of this work. t See Bumstead, p. 4 5G, for a good resume of this matter, and for one of the completest accounts of venereal diseases in general. J See Bumstead on Venereal Diseases, Philadelphia, 1864, p. 465. § H. Lee, op. cit., p. 262.205 DIAGNOSIS OF CHANCRE. or if the matter be not taken till the tenth day, when it becomes opaque and ptiriform. An attempt has been made to prove that the pure vaccine \ jmj)h per se, without blood or pus, will only convey the vaccine disease and not syphilis. Surgeons, spite of facts, hang despe- rately to the skirts of their idol John Hunter, and strive to believe his dogma, that no two " actions " can go on in the same part at the same time. There seems to be no doubt, however, that vaccinia and syphilis may be implanted in the same puncture, and each follow its regular course. The patient is both vaccinated and syphilized.* 6thly. The transplantation of teeth, a thing begun in the last century, was put a stop to by the fact that syphilis was sometimes transplanted as well; thus proving the infection of the whole solids and fluids of the patient. Lastly, syphilis may be communicated by generation. (See Sect. X.) Treatment.—Whilst the chancroid or soft sore should be destroyed by caustic, it is generally agreed now that such a proceeding is useless in the common infecting chancre. It is of no use whatever as a means of preventing secondary symptoms; for Langston Parker and Diday have thoroughly destroyed chancres within a veiy few hours of their first appearance, and yet an indurated cicatrix, and indolent enlarge- ment of the nearest lymphatics have come on and been succeeded by secondary symptoms. Chancre generally heals of itself under rest, and any simple astringent application, in three to six weeks; especially the black wash, or calomel ointment, or, still more, the load calomel fumigation. Then the local lesion ceases to be an open sore. There is no doubt, also, but that a mercurial course in any case greatly hastens the healing of primary sores. Whether it have the power of averting secondary symptoms, we know not ; but as it may do so, and as it satisfies the patient's mind, it is perhaps better to use it. If there is any symptom of inflammation, spreading ulceration, or phagedsena, it must be treated as the chancroid. (See Section iii.) SECTION VI.—DIAGNOSIS OF CHANCRE AND AFFECTIONS THAT MAY BE MISTAKEN FOR IT. The surgeon will perpetually be consulted by men who come in great alarm to show some bteach of surface, after impure connection. If he recollect that true chancre may infect any such spot; and that it may lie latent for three, four, or six weeks; and that no destruction of an infected spot will save the constitution, he will take care not to pro- nounce his patient safe too hastily. He will recollect, also, that chancre may be the smallest hard discoloured spot, crack, fissure, &c., any- * For the most masterly resume of modern syphilography, especially in rela- tion to vaccination, see two papers in Med. Times and Gazette, 1862, vol. i. pp. 2t0 and 268, ascribed to Dr. K. Ballard. See also a short account by the author of a case which he observed at the Lariboissiere Hospital in Paris, in September 1863, with coloured drawings of the vaccino-syphilized arms, in the Obsiet. Trans., vol. v. p. 196.206 ON VENEREAL DISEASES. where; and he will look to the nearest lymphatics—above the elbow if the finger be infected, below the jaw if the lip.* The following are the local affections which the patient is most likely to mistake for venereal sores. It must be remembered that he may have any of them and a venereal sore or sores besides. 1. Gonorrhcea externa, or balanitis, is an inflammation of the sur- face of the glans and inside of the prepuce, with profuse purulent dis- charge, and excoriation. It generally affects dirty people with long prepuce, and is caused either by the acrid secretions of the part, or by contact with unhealthy secretions in the female. Sometimes, however, it occurs to healthy people whose health is disordered. The thick, profuse discharge, the peculiar smell, the superficiality of the excoria- tions, distinguish this complaint from chancre and chancroid. The surface should be well washed, then dabbed with an astringent lotion, then be covered with bismuth powder or dry cotton wool. A pur- gative should be given. Lime-water is the best lotion if there is much in- flammation, and a grain of corrosive sublimate to an ounce and a half of lime-water if there is not. If the cure is not effected in two or three days, the excoriations should be touched with nitrate of silver. Some- times balanitis is attended with great inflammation and fever, and with phyimosis, from the great swelling of the prepuce; and the pain may be so severe and gnawing, as to make the surgeon uncertain whether there is not a phagedaenic ulcer concealed by the foreskin. The thick discharge, and the pain being general and not confined to one spot, form the chief means of diagnosis; and repeated injection of warm water and astringent lotions under the foreskin are the remedies. 2. Minute aphthoas-looking points, sometimes in clusters, sometimes surrounding the glans ; some of them healing, whilst others break out. They are totally devoid of pain ; and although they may last a long time, do not lead to ulcers. They are best treated by black wash or mere lime-water, or lotions of arg. nit. or cupr. sulph. and alteratives and aperients. 3. Herpes prceputialis^ begins with extreme itching and sense of heat. The patient examining the part, finds one or two red patches, about the size of a split pea'. On each patch are clustered five or six minute vesicles, which, being extremely transparent, appear of the same red colour as the patch on which they are situated. In twenty-four or thirty hours the vesicles become larger, milky, and opaque ; and on the third day they are confluent and almost pustular. If the eruption is seated on tlie inner surface of the prepuce, the vessels commonly break on the fourth or fifth day, and form a slight ulcer with a whiti * In the words of Ambrose Pare, " Qnand le malade a quelque vlcer malier aux parties hauteuses, calleux, dur, et difficile; et encore quand les viceres.soient consoliders, ( t qu'il y reste certaine durete " . . ."tumeurs aux aines, qui s'en returnant dedans le corps, sans de suppurer,"—CEuvres d'Ambrose Pare, par Malgaigne. Vol. ii. Paris, 1840. The English have characteristically claimed for Hunter the credit of pointing out the hardnets which had long before been observed by others. f Bateman on Cutaueous Diseases, 5th ed. p. 238; Burgess's Cazenavc, p. 88,BUBO. 207 base and rather elevated edges. If this ulcer be irritated by caustic or otherwise, its base may become hard like tliat of a chancre. If left to itself, it mostly heals in a foi tnight; sooner, if situated on the exter- nal skin. The cause of this complaint is either some derangement ot the digestive organs, or irritation within the urethra, produced by un- healthy urine. It is very liable to recur in the same individual, which, of course, if known, will greatly aid the diagnosis. Treatment,—A little dry lint, or goldbeater's skin, at first, and sub- sequently a very weak lotion, with aperient and alterative medicines. 4. l^soriasis prwputii, painful, irritable, and bleeding cracks or fis- sures around the edge of the prepuce; best treated by ung. hydr. nitr. dil., and arsenic internally. 5. Cracks, tears, injuries from a hair, and abrasions, should all be healed up as quickly as possible. Any of them may be the vehicle of chancre or chancroid. SECTION Vir.—BUBO. Definition.—Inflammation of a lymphatic vessel or gland, usually in the groin, and leading from a venereal soi-e. Causes.—1. Inflammation of these glands is of the commonest occur- rence, either after local application of a poison ca}»able of being absorbed, or after an unhealthy inflammation of skin or mucous membrane, as erysipelas, eczema, &c., or, without any special local cause during a period of constitutional cachexia, as the scrofulous or syphilitic. Thus (luringgonorrhoea, or after immoderate sexual indulgence, intemperance, &c., there may be acute suppurating bubo, without the trace of any chancre or chancroid. Again, bubo coming during the existence of a venereal sore may be due, not to it, but to caustic, or some other super- added source of irritation. 2. Bubo may arise during the existence of chancroid, from absorption of its venom, and M'ill almost certainly suppurate quickly. 3. Bubo depending on true chancre is usually multiple and indolent, "affording the sensation of one or more small circumscribed oval or almond-shaped bodies, perfectly distinct from each other, and unaccompanied by any redness of the skin which moves freely over the surface."* This bubo may be afterwards complicated with secondary infiltration of the skin over it, which may swell, and form an abscess or ulcerate, owing to filth, fatigue, abused mercuiial frictions, or other source of local irritation; and thus may be the seat of phageda^nic or other troublesome ulcerations. Symptoms.—Bubo of the penis.—A lymphatic vessel may inflame on the penis, feeling like a quill under the skin, and soon foiming an abscess and open chancroid sore. 2. Acute bubo pursues the course of acute abscess. There is shivering, pain, tenderness and swelling of usually one gland ; the skin becomes red, and points, and matter is discharged. If this bubo be the result of ordinary irritation it may rapidly get well. But in addition to the common suppuration, which in such cases takes place between the gland and the skin, there may * H, Lee, Lecture Assoc. Journal, Jan. 6, 1854.ON VENEREAL DISEASES. 208 be a small abscess within the gland, which is caused by absorption from a chancroid, yields inoculable matter, and when let loose converts the whole abscess into a chancroid sore, with ragged elevated edges, foul cavity, &c. 3. Indolent bubo.—This occurs in persons, weak, scrofulous, or worn out, and may accompany any kind of sore or surface derangement, or may come from constitutional causes only. Glands enlarge; the tissue between them and the skin is slowly infiltrated; imperfect sup- puration takes place at various points, undermining the skin, which perishes by slow ulceration. It must be recollected that a venereal sore may be complicated with a glandular swelling below Poupart's ligament, arising from irritation about the foot. Bubon d'emblee.—This is the name given by the French to a bubo, supposed to arise from absorption of virus from the skin, without ulcer or breach of surface. It is a point surrounded with difficulties, which wants years of close observation to make out. It will be recollected that although suppurating bubo does not usually accompany the primary syphilitic sore, yet that it is liable to happen fi-om general causes, to syphilized patients, and cannot be taken as evidence against the existence of constitutional syphilis. Treatment.—Acute bubo must be treated as an acute abscess ; by rest in bed, aperients, hot fomentations, or an ice bag—whichever the patient finds most agreeable; soothing applications to the original sore; and perhaps a few leeches. If these measures diminish the acute symptoms, without dispersing the tumour entirely, it will be well to try irritation of the surface by iodine paint; pressure by means of a pad and bandage; or by a weight applied as the patient lies in bed; and combinations of tonics with aperients, F. 41. If, spite of these measures, the skin becomes thin and shining, the matter should be let out by a sufficiently free incision. Then after a day or two, lint dipped in solution of nitrate of silver may be passed down to the bottom of the wound with a probe. The indolent bubo, when followed by infiltration and threatening abscess, may also be treated with tonics and aperients, steel, cod-liver oil, and good diet; and iodine paint, or a small blister may be applied. Should matter form and the skin become thin, an incision should be made. There are three sources of difficulty in treating the later stages of bubo. One is loose thin bluish skin undermined with sinuses. This may be dealt with by laying open the sinuses, and destroying red ulcer- ating flaps of skin with caustic potassa, or the strong iodine paint. Secondly, indolent glands left at the bottom of sinuses, or projecting into the midst of the sore, denuded of skin, and incapable of granulat- ing. These may be attacked with solid nitrate of silver, or a grain or two of red precipitate be sprinkled on them; some surgeons detach them with- knife or scissors, or the finger nails. Thirdly, the superven- tion of phagedjEnic or serpiginous ulceration, which requires change of air, opiates at night, bark or steel, good diet, &c.; and the local reme- dies we have before pointed out (pp. 71, 203).209 CONSTITUTIONAL SYPHILIS. SECTION VIII.—CONSTITUTIONAL SYPHILIS. That wliich really distinguishes the true chancre above other primary venereal ulcers is that it is the forerunner of that frightful lues or pox whose ravages date, as far as we know, from the siege of Naples. The multiplicity of diseases it may create is astonishing; but they generally appear in a certain order as to the parts attacked, and as to the nature of the lesion. First, the skin and mucous membranes ; then the iris, the tendons, aponeuroses, and periosteum ; lastly, the viscera, testicles, brain, and liver. At first the lesions are blotches or pimples, or scurfy desquamations; the later ones are purulent suppurating ulcers of the skin or caries of the bones. The original chancre is usually called the primary—the first in time and severity of the constitutional symptoms, the secondary—and the latest and worst, especially the foul ulcers, the tertiary. But the clearest division is that proposed by Dr. Wilks,* The induration and glandular enlargement which occur at the original site of infection, together with all the characteristic syphilitic affections of structures, external or internal, should be called plainly ' syphilitic '—thus including both the primary and secondary. Whilst the tertiary should be called sequela; of syphilis, inasmuch as they consist, not of syphilitic disease pure and simple, but of various cachectic conditions, Ibul ulceration, caries of bones, Sic, which are not peculiar to syphilis, though they may be induced by it, as they may also by scrofula or other cachectic conditions. The peculiar effect of syphilis on the system, says Dr. Wilks, " is a disposition to the effusion of a low form of lymph or fibro-plastic material in nearly every tissue of the body. In those who have died suffering from this disease, there is scarcely an organ but what may be found affected in this particular way." The lymph may form the hard base of chancre, tubercles and mucous tubercles of skin, the hard base of ulcers, nodes on the bones, gurwiiata on tendons or in the areolar tissue, fibroid nodules in the liver and other internal organs. The exudation is soft at first, denser aftei wards ; may be absorbed in fortunate cases under good treatment; or may remain as shrunken hard nodules to the end of life ; or may soften and undergo ulceration. No special structure has been found in it, only fibro-plastic elements. The first outbreak usually occurs at about six weeks. It may be earlier, or may be postponed for some months—rarely more than six. The later attacks may go on at intervals for thirty or forty years if the patient live so long. Whilst the system is syphilized, it is difficult or impossible for the patient to acquire a fresh primary chancre. Yet cases have been collected by Diday, Bassei-eau, and others of second chancre, which fact is evidence that the syphilitic diathesis had been entirely cured. * Guy's Hospital Eep., Third Series, vol. ix., On Syphilis of Internal Organs. D P210 ON VENEREAL DISEASES. Early symptoms.—The most common event is, that the patient, about six weeks after the primary symptoms, complains of malaise, looks dejected, pale and thin, and complains of headache and rheumatism. Then he presents a crop of coloured blotches on the skin of the arms and chest, raised mucous patches on the lips, palate, or throat,scabs from little pimples on the scalp, enlaigement of the glands around the occiput, and falling of the hair. The patient may not be aware that he has had chancre ; but the hardened cicatrix will probably be found on the genital organs or elsewhere with indolent enlarged glands close by. The colour, a reddish-yellow, coppery tint, of most syphilitic skin symptoms, is remarkable. Relapses.—After the first outbreak has disappeared, there is liable to be a relapse and a fresh set of symptoms; perhaps iritis, nodes on the bones, scaly patches on the hands and feet, headaches, and nocturnal pains in the bones. Later symptoms.—If the disease go on, it begets a tendency to waxy degeneration in various organs—that is, to the infiltration of an almost structureless, thickening matter, in spleen, liver, kidneys, &c., and the primary deposits in skin or areolar tissue or bone behave like cancer, and soften down into foul ulcers. The writer, soon after entering practice, attended the wife of a tradesman, aged about eighteen, just married, and of perfectly good character, for primary syphilis. The husband denied all knowledge of the cause. She was treated for a very short time; brought forth a dead child, and a year after, another, who exhibited signs of syphilis, and was ti'eated with mercury. This boy's teeth are depicted at p. 221. He is now about twenty-four : has repeatedly been in hospitals for iritis, and acute rheumatism with valvular deposit. During one rheumatic attack, in which the writer saw him, his skin exhibited a mottled rash, just like syphilitic roseola. The father went on without treatment, and in apparently perfect health, for at least fourteen years, then suffered from enlarged liver and dropsy. But about twenty-one years after the original attack he again came in a dying state under the author's care. He then had foul, shallow, suppurating patches on the thighs and upper arms (ecthyma) ; fistula lachrymalis on the left side, with enlargement and suppuration of adjoining bone; alae nasi thickened, and eaten away at the edges; bridge of nose sunk, with fetid discharge ; voice, a husky whisper, from ulceration of larynx, with copious muco-purulent expec- toration ; vomiting after almost any kind of food; he lived on porter, which he craved for and took in large quantities; liver greatly en- larged ; some ascites ; one testicle enlarged and hard as a small cocoa- nut ; diarrhoea and tenesmus; and the most foul look and smell con- ceivable. Death soon followed. He confessed that shortly before marriage he contracted a very slight ulcer, which gave him no inconvenience. He took a few pills and thought no more of it. This is a typical case of old-fashioned pox, and is introduced here as a testimony against the insane theory that secondary symptoms are due to mercury. We must now enumerate the chief lesions of constitutional syphilis.CONSTITUTIONAL SYPHILIS. 211 1. Of the Skin.—Loss of hair from the scalp, eyebrows, and lids, is very common as an early, and transformation of the nails into scaly masses, with perhaps deep ulceration round their root, as a late symptom. Syphilitic Eruptions vary in degree from the slightest discolour- ation to the most inveterate ulcers. 1. In the mildest form, the skin is mottled and stained in irregular patches of a brownish-red colour, which are caused by a slight swelling and vascular injection. A greater degree of the same derangement will produce syphilitic psoriasis, in which the skin is raised in copper-coloured blotches, covered with scales of hypertrophied cuticle. Or there may be an eruption oipapula; or pimples, varying in size from a pin's head to a pea, or an eczematous state; surface red, shiny, and oozing. These eruptions are succeeded mei'ely by scabs or exfoliations of the cuticle. Or there may be a copper-coloured mottling of the skin around the abundant pimples of acne on the back, breast, and shoulders. 2. Scaly Eruption {Lepra syphilitica) is an aggravated variety of the preceding. It begins with an eruption of copper-coloured blotches, which become covered with scales of enlarged cuticle ; these are suc- ceeded by scabs, and, when they fall off, by shallow ulcers with copper- coloui'ed edges. 3. Vesicular Eruption {Rupid). Large flattened bullae, filled with serum, which gradually become purulent, and finally dry into scabs, under which the skin is ulcerated. The ulcers spread under the scabs, and the latter become remarkably thick from successive additions, so as to resemble oyster, or limpet shells. 4. Pustular Eruption {Ecthyma). Large pustules, prominent or flat, with a copper-coloured base, leading to ulcers. 5. Tubercular Eruption. Broad, red, copper-coloured tubercles, forming most frequently at the alae of the nose, or on the cheeks. They gradually suppurate, and are succeeded by deep irregular ulcers, terminating in puckered cicatrices, and belong to the class of cachectic sequel 03. II. Of MtJCOUS Membrane.—Mucous Tubercles {Tubercle Mu- queux, Pustule Plat, Condyloma) consist of thickened patches of skin, * This cut exhibits the crusts of rupia. From a cast in the King's College Museum.ON VENEREAL DISEASES. 212 with a red and moist surface lilte that of mucous membrane, exuding a thin acrid and ill-smelling discharge. The most frequent situation is the neighbourhood of the genitals, or any other place Avhere two surfaces of skin are in contact. They seem to consist of patches of psoriasis, modified by the moisture of the situation. (See p. 69.) They are most common about the anus and sci'otum ; and especially the vulva and perinaBum in women, on the throat and soft palate, on the lips and nostrils, and between the toes (rhagades). They are eminently con- tagious to the patient and others, and often accompanied with warty growths, by which the genital organs of common prostitutes are con- verted into huge stinking masses of thickened tissue. Syphilitic Sore Throat.—1. Next to the mucous patch, the mildest variety is a superficial excoriation of the mucous membrane of the tonsils or some other part of the mouth or fauces. The parts affected are swollen and sore, usually red and glazed, and stripped of the natm-al epithelium : this state may exist in a mere patch, or may extend over the tongue, and inside of the lips. When attended with patches of thickened copper-coloured and vascular skin, and redness of the conjunctiva, and soreness of the nostrils and ears, it has a very characteristic appearance. 2. The excavated ulcer looks as if a piece had been scooped out of the tonsil. Its surface is foul and yellow, its edges raised, and ragged, and swelled. There is remarkably little inconvenience fi-om it, and very little constitutional affection, unless it be attended with eruption likewise. The patient has a peculiar guttural way of speaking, and often complains of pain in the ears. 3. The sloughing ulcer begins as a small aphthous spot, which rapidly ulcerates, and is attended with great pain and fever. 1'he surface of the ulcer is covered with an ashy slough, and the surrounding mucous membrane is dark, livid, and swollen. The lingual artery may be opened by the spread of the ulceration, and the patient may die of hsemorrhage, unless the common carotid is tied. A complication of tertiary syphilis in a broken-down system. III. Syphilitic Ulcerations of the nose and palate commence with excoriations and mucous patches, which in cachectic persons may be followed by ulcerations of the mucous membrane, similar to those of the throat, which may denude the periosteum, and then produce exfoliation of the bones, with profuse fetid discharge and odious de- formity. Ulceration of the nose generally begins with a sense of heat, and dryness, and snuffling. Syphilitic ulceration of the larynx is characterised by tenderness, great huskiness of voice (which frequently degenerates into a mere whisper), suffocative cough, and expectoration of bloody purulent matter ; there is great loss of flesh and strength, and life is often terminated b}' suf- focation from contraction of the ulcei'S when cicatrizing. IV. Syphilitic Disease of Periosteum and Bone most fre- quently attacks the tibia, ulna, os frontis, clavicle, and other superficial bones. It commences with tenderness of the affected bone, and severe213 CONSTITUTIONAL SYPHILIS. pain, which begins in the evening, and lasts almost all night, but ceases in the daytime. The pain is shortly accompanied with oblong swellings, called nodes, arising from infiltration of the periosteum with lymph and serum. These swellings are rather tender ; they communi- cate a doughy feeling, or obscure sense of fluctuation to the fingers, and the skin over them is at first pale and moveable. If the disease be arrested at this stage, it causes merely a superficial deposit of rough porous bone (syphilitic exostosis); or else a consolidation of the bone itself through the deposition of fresh osseous matter into its cancelli. If the disease proceed one step further, a quantity of glairy serum is effused between the periosteum and bone, producing an exquisitely-painful fluctuating tumour. If it advance still further, the bone may become carious ; matter form between it and the periosteum ; extensive exfoliations ensue ; the patient suffers severely from the pain and discharge; and if the disease be seated on the head, death may ensue from irritation of the dura mater, or protrusion of the brain through apertures in the skull. Such aggravated cases are fortunately now very rare. V. Of Muscle and Tendon.—Tumours called gummata, and * This cut shows the ravages of syphilitic caries. From the King's College Museum.214 ox VENEREAL DISEASES. consisting of lymphy exudation, may form in the areolar tissue, on tendons, or in muscle. They are affected with severe nocturnal pain. A patch of this kind of unhealthy inflammation is apt to form in the tongue, and after a time if a cachectic state be induced, it softens down and an abscess breaks, disclosing a ragged excavation, filled with orange-coloured sloughs, and exuding a copious fetid discharge. If it occurs on the palate, a probe will detect bare exfoliated bone; which rapidly perishes and leaves a hideous chasm. VI. Of Internal Organs.—Syphilitic phthisis from fibroid de- posit in the lung ; the same state of liver and spleen with ascites, dyspepsia, &c., are diseases for which we must refer the reader to Wilks and Marston. VII. Of the Nervous System.—Paralysis, especially if de- pendent on disease of the spinal cord, or of some single nerve, and fits of epilepsy, coming on without due cause in a young adult, should always lead to inquiry for syphilitic contagion. The writer cannot help urging on his medical brethren the duty of making this inquiry in cases of inexplicable organic disease. Some time since he treated a healthy young man, who with slight syphilitic rash had violent haemoptysis. This passed off, leaving the lungs healthy. Some months afterwards came anaemia, enlarged liver, and a peculiar straw tint of skin, with great tenderness and pain in the epigastrium. During this attack, the urine was several times of the darkest porter colour, from dissolved hcematine. The patient seemed at death's door, but was treated on the hypothesis that the malady was syphilitic, and recovered under iodide of potassium and sarsaparilla. For Syphilitic Disease of the Eye, Testis, &c., see Part IV. section IX.—treatment of constitutional syphilis, ESPECIALLY BY MERCURY. Modern experience has shown that syphilis, primary or secondary, may get well of itself. This is most likely to happen to robust per- sons who lead regular lives, take out-door exercise, and perspire freely. It has also confirmed the universal testimony of mankind to the effi- cacy of mercury in removing existing syphilitic symptoms. But, as Dr. Wilks has well pointed out, the universal experience of mankind shows mercury to possess a certain liquefacient or deobstruent virtue thi-ough which it probably tends to remove that caco-plastic deposit which is the characteristic of constitutional syphilis. But unluckily it does not stop there,* for it tends to produce antemia, nervousness, and cachexy by its accumulation in the system, and severe and de- pressing diarrhoea and tenesmus if it makes its way out by the bowels. The problem for the practitioner is to secure the first, and avoid the second effect; for mercury, as Dr. Wilks observes, is a foe to syphilis, but a friend to those ulcerative and suppurative cachexies which con- * See the remarks on IMercury by the late venerable Dr. Farre, quoted in K. Ferguson on Puerperal Fever.TREATMENT OF CONSTITUTIONAL SYPHILIS. 215 stitute the tertiary symptoms. Unluckily the weak, cachectic, and scrofulous are the most prone to suffer the worst forms of syphilis, and they are also the most liable to be injured by any incautious or extreme use of the remedy. Hence our first point is to maintain the highest state of health and strength by general treatment; secondly, to use specific treatment discreetly ; our specifics being mercury, and that other remedy the iodide of potassium, besides a few others of lesser force, as the salts of ammonia and of gold, bromide of potassium and guaiac. 1. The syphilitic patient should be careful to protect his skin from chills, and should theiefore dress warmly. He should live well, avoiding all indigcstibles and things likely to disorder the bowels. His hours should be early. If there be any indication of anajmia, or debility, iron, bark, or quinine, or cod-liver oil should be freely given : with wine or porter. Pain should be allayed by opium, and the air be fresh. 2. Then the object is, if the practitioner determine to give mercury, to induce, gently, mercurial action, and to keep it up lo7ig enough. And there are three modes of effecting this: fumigation, friction, and internal administration. Fumigation is the oldest mode of applying mercurial vapour whether to local disease, primary or secondary, or to impregnate the whole system. For the most part, however, it was a difficult and very uncertain operation, till Mr. Langston Parker* revived and improved it by combining the vapour of water with that of mercury; but the greatest improvement is that effected by Mr. Henry Lee, who has adopted calomel as the preparation to be employed, instead of the sul- phuret or oxide which had been used previously, and which required to be used in very much larger quantity, and could not be depended on from their liability to undergo decomposition. Instead of one or more drachms of oxide or sulphuret, Mr. Lee prescribes ten grains of calomel for each fumigation. Of course rather more or rather less may be used at discretion. If the patient can afford it, he may buy at an instrument maker's an apparatus consisting of a lamp so arranged as to evaporate both the calomel and some water, with an india-rubber cloak to confine the vapour. A poor man must content himself with a heated brick or tile, which may be put into a chamber- pot under a cane-bottomed chair, on which he will sit in puris natu- ralibus, having a blanket round his neck, enveloping the chair and himself, and retaining the vapoui-s. The heat of the lamp or brick should be such as to evaporate the dose of calomel evenly during the ten or fifteen minutes which should be spent in the operation ; not to dissipate it too soon. The fumigation should be repeated every night at bed-time, till wry slight sponginess of the gums is produced, which should be maintained' by regulating the quantity of calomel, till the sore has healed, and hard- * H. Lee, Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xxxix.; Langston Parker, Modern Treat- ment of Syphilitic Disease, Lond. 1854.ON VENEEEAL DISEASES. 2iG ness of cicatrix and glands, or the secondary symptoms have vanished or are vanishing;— or, in other words, so long as the symptoms, general or local, continue. Generally speaking, three to lour or five weeks is long enough. See eretUismus, p. 217. If the internal administration be preferred, five grains of blue pill should be given every night and morning, and if no elFect on the mouth is produced by the sixth day, the dose at night should be doubled. Calomel in dose of a grain night and morning, with half a grain of opium takes effect very quickly. The prot.-iodide in dose of one grain at bed-time, or gr. \ four times a day, is the favourite remedy of Ricord. The strong mercurial ointment is not so likely to disorder the bowels as the blue pill, but it is more troublesome, and is now almost an obso- lete remedy. The dose is from 5SS.—3),; to be rubbed in daily upon the inside of the thighs or arms till it disappears. The morning is the best time for doing it, as the skin is then softer. It should be rubbed on different limbs successively, the patient wearing the same drawers both by day and night. If the skin becomes irritated, it should be well washed and bathed. If the patient cannot rub in the ointment him- self, it must be performed by a servant whose hands should be pro- tected by a pig's bladder, well softened in oil and tied round his wrist. The ill effects of Mercurv depend, first, on its tendency to localize itself, or to seek peculiar outlets for elimination ; and, secondly, 001 its tendency to destroy or impoverish the blood constituents. To the former category belong: 1. Irritation of the bowels, with dysenteric symptoms, straining and tenesmus. To be treated by opium with clialk mixture ; hip-bath, and opiate enema, F. 101; omitting the mercuiy for a few days, and combining it afterwards with opium; and using double precaution against cold and damp. 2. Sore throat.—Redness of the whole fauces, and ulceration of the tonsils with fever. In this case the mercury must be discontinued for the present, 3. Violent salivation.—This may be caused by a too liberal use ot the remedy, or by a sudden check to the cutaneous secretion by cold and damp, or by loss of blood, or anything that suddenly lowers the system. It is, however, very common to meet with persons who ai-e salivated by very small quantities; and every practitioner should make a point of ascertaining this before he prescribes mercuiy for any new patient. There is good reason for believing that a great susceptibility of saliva- tion and tendency to Bright's disease of the kidney often go together. The symptoms of severe salivation are, swelling and inflammation of the salivary glands, cheeks, tongue, and fauces, with a flow of pecu- liarly fetid saliva, and superficial sloughing of the surface of the gums and of the inside of the cheeks. The best local applications for this state are, gargles of brandy and water, of the solution of chloride of lime, of tannin, or of hydrochloric acid (F. 107, et seq.), or chlorate of potass (F. 204). The bowels should be kept open by aperients; whilst the patient should have a good diet, and the iodide of potassium with bark217 TREATMENT OF CONSTITUTIONAL SYPHILIS. may be given. The experiments of M. Melsens, showing the fact that mercury and other metallic substances may long continue in the body in combination with the tissues, and that they may be dissolved out and eliminated through the kidneys by means of the iodide of potas- sium, furnish a good explanation of the modus operandi of this medi- cine, in all cases in which mercury has been administered to excess.* Change of air, and especially removal from^ the venereal wards of an hospital, are indispensable.f 4, Eczema mercuriale [Eczema ruWum, Erythema mercuriale, hy- drargyria), a disease now unknown and depending on abuse of mer- curial frictions, consists of patches of redness and inflammation, which appear first on the groins, axillae, and flexures of the limbs, and then spread over the trunk. 'J'hese patches are covered with minute vesicles, which soon burst, discharging a thin acrimonious fluid, and leaving the surface excoriated, and exceedingly painful and tender. The discharge often becomes profuse and fetid, and the affected parts much swollen and fissured. It genei'ally lasts for ten days, but may remain for many weeks.J Treatment.—Warm bathing ; fomentations of decoction of poppies, camomiles, or bran ; aperients, diaphoretics, and opiates, during the early stages; subsequently, bark or sarsaparilla, and the mineral acids. Dr. CoUes has described another and less se- vere form of eruption, which resembles the itch, except that the inter- vals between the fingers are free from it. The treatment is the same. 5. Erethismus mercurialis consists in an impoverished state of blood, and want of nourishment of the heart and brain. The symptoms are great depression; anxiety about the prascordia, dyspnoea, frequent sigh- ing, weak and tumultuous action of the heart;—frequent sense of suf- focation, disturbed sleep, and faintness upon any exertion, which faint- ness might prove fatal. In a case which the writer lately treated, calomel fumigation had been continued for eleven weeks, in order to get rid of an indurated cicatrix, and to prevent secondary symptoms; spite of which, the cicatrix continued indurated, and psoriasis had ap- peared when the writer saw the patient, a fortnight after the discon- tinuance of the mercury. The symptoms were anaemia, intense debi- lity, sleeplessness, night sweats, copious urine, great nervousness, palpitations on the slightest exertion, and entire impotence. This case shows that the calomel fumigation is capable of doing as much mischief as mercury in any other form, and that it is unwise to push mercury as a preverdive of future symptoms. If used judiciously it will relieve such manifestations of syphilis as exist, but cannot always be expected to eradicate the diathesis at once. Treatment.—Removal to a fresh atmosphere; stimulants ; tonics ; and nourishment; espe- * See Dr. W. Budd's Translation of the Essay of M. Melsens, in the Brit, and For. Med. Chir. Rev., Jan. 1853. f Dr. Macleod relates two cases of coma following the sudden cessation of salivation; one fatal; the other cured by reproducing it. Lond. Med. and Fhys. Jour. vol. Ivi. p. 231. t One variety, hydrargyria maligna, now almost unknown, is attended with typhoid-like fever. Eight out of fourteen cases died. Alley on Hydrar- gyria, Lond.1810.ON VENEREAL DISEASES. 218 cially decoction of bark with nitric acid; followed by small doses of iodide of potassium.* In whatever way mercury be administered, many practitioners always give iron or quinine, or both, at the same time; and after it, a course of iodide of potassium with some bitter, F. 1, 4, 13, 17, 19, 94, 205. In the case of secondary symptoms, if they are ushered in with pain in the chest and febrile symptoms, it will be necessary to give saline medicines and warm baths, and confine the patient to the house. When the febrile state has vanished, if the patient has never taken a course of mercury,—or if he has been subjected to an imperfect course of it for the primary symptoms,—and his constitution is sound, he may take a course of calomel fumigation. If, under its use, the strength and general appearance are improved, so much the better ; but if he gets thinner, weaker, and haggard, and suffers from chills or feverishness, or if his ulcers become irritable and phagedsenic, it must be given up, and the iodide of potassium be substituted. In the later stages of secondary and tertiary syphilis, mercury must be used with great caution, more especially if the lesions incline to ul- cerate and suppurate. Yet in such cases the bichloride combined with bark or steel, F. 87, Plummer's pill, F. 66, and the biniodide with iron are of most service. The iodide of potassium is especially useful in the later stages, and in all cases of syphilitic deposit or eruption, in which mercury is judged inexpedient, or has been given so far as is thought prudent, without re- lieving the symptoms. It is best to give it for two or three weeks, then change it for some other tonic and alterative. The strong decoction of sarsaparilla has the deserved reputation of healing irritable ulcers, and adding to the patient's nutrition. The muriate and carbonate of ammo- nia are often combined with the iodide of potassium, F. 197. The sudo- rific decoctions of guaiacum, drank hot in large quantities, are perhaps not so worthless as they have been deemed. The chloride of gold in doses of gr. seems sometimes to do good. The surgeon will need great variety of remedies, in protracted tertiary cases. The main object should be to improve the general look and condition of the patient; to treat symp- toms ; to give short courses of alteratives in succession, continuing each so long as it does good ; never to push a remedy, if it does manifest harm, under the vague idea that it is specific ; and to try and wear out the disease with as little harm to the constitution as possible. Local Treatment,—For syphilitic eruptions, the warm, vapour, and sulphur baths will be often expedient. Obstinate patches of lepra or pimples may sometimes have their removal hastened by ung. hydr. nitratis diluted, or the ung. hydr. precipitati albi, or the ung. picis. Itching eruptions may often be relieved by a weak lotion of corrosive sublimate. Ulcers must be treated according to their condition, whether inflamed, irritable, or indolent. In general, weak mercurial applications, such as black wash, or weak red precipitate ointment, * Vide Dr. Bateman's case, Med. Chir. Trans, vol, ix.; CoUes' Lectures on Surgery, vol. ii. 242.TREATMENT OF CONSTITUTIOXAL SYPHILIS. 219 answer best as local applications, without reference to any constitu- tional effect. For the loss of hair, a pomade containing a very small proportion of ung. hyd. nitr. scented ;—and the roots of the hair should be well cleansed by rubbing with a bit of soft flannel dipped into vinegar. For the common excoriated sore throat, any soothing detergent gargle will do—F. 107, 108. When there are ulcers, it is advisable to use gargles of corrosive sublimate (F. 112); and when the ulcers are indo- lent they may be touched with the liniinentum ceraginis. Mercurial fumigation may be used to the part affected. When a foul ulcer is seated on the velum, or roof of the mouth, or pharynx, or alae nasi, an attempt may be made to check its ravages, by destroying its surface and edges with nitric acid. Ulceration of the larynx is occasionally benefited by similar fumigation, but mercury so as to affect the mouth is almost always injurious; as it is in other cases of rapid ulceration. Sarsaparilla and sedatives, blisters to the throat, and occasional leechings, swabbing with solution of arg. nit., and the operation of tracheotomy, if the breathing becomes much embarrassed, are the necessary measures. Mucous tubercles about the genitals should be washed with solution of chloride of soda, and then be sprinkled with diy calomel. The pain of nodes is often relieved by blisters, and so are rheumatic pains of venereal origin. Acute inflammation of the periosteum or peri- cranium is best treated by iodide of potassium, in doses of three grains every four hours, and Dover's powder; the use of mercury requires the greatest caution, and is only admissible if the patient has a sound con- stitution, and has never taken a course of it. It is peculiarly noxious when there is caries of the bones of the nose. When nodes are very tense and full of fluid, it may be necessary to puncture them, but it is better to adopt Mr. W. Fergusson's plan of subcutaneous incision, instead of direct puncture. If during secondary syphilis, the nose becomes tender or painful, the greatest benefit will be derived from the application of one or two leeches twice or three times a week to the inside of the affected nostril. At the same time the patient should take plenty of sarsaparilla, with iodide of potassium, and should have the benefit of country air, and a nutritious diet. By these means, any further mischief will sometimes be averted. If, however, ulceration does occur, it is of the utmost consequence to remove any loose or carious portions of bone as soon as possible. The practitioner who treats obstinate tertiary symptoms has need of some knowledge of cookery. We particularly commend various soups, taken as medicines in large quantities : their effects are soon evident on the skin and kidneys. Whey; diet drinks with hartshorn shavings; isinglass, &c.; sweet wort, good stout; &c. (F. 85, 196, &c.) Lastly, whenever a case is doing badly, and irritable inflammation or ulcera- tion spreading, in defiance of ordinary remedies, the surgeon should cinchonize the patient; that is, give five grains of quinine every four hours till the ears ring, F. 3.220 SECTION X.—CONGENITAL SYPHILIS. The Fcetus in Utero and the membranes of tlie ovum are often infected with syphilitic disease. As regards the precise cause, it seems agreed that a syphiiized father or mother—whether the infection be new or of long standing—may beget a syphiiized fcetus. It is certain that if a woman be infected at any period of pregnancy she may give birth to a syphiiized child. It is also believed that the father may beget a syphiiized foetus, whilst the mother shall remain intact, or only be infected secondarily by imbibing the secretions of the syphiiized child ; or, which comes to the same thing, the mother of the syphiiized child may show no trace of the disease herself. SypHiLiTiG Abortion.—One of the commonest effects of syphilis in a pregnant woman is the production of a diseased state of placenta, by means of which the foetus is starved, and perishes, and is aborted. The author believes that this usually commences in the decidual portion, which becomes indurated, thickened, and impervious, so as to spoil lobule after lobule of the placenta, hindering the circulation of maternal blood through it, and inducing, as a subsequent change, atrophy of the villi of the chorion. On the other hand, the child may die from syphilitic disease, and atrophy of the placenta follow. Symptoms in the Infant.—Some children are born puny, shrivelled, and with eruptions on them ; but far more frequently the child, if it reach the full time alive, is well nourished and plump. In some of these cases the writer has been struck with the remarkable volume of the placenta, owing to hypertrophy of the decidual element, and a peculiar staining of pinkish colour. If a child be born healthy, the first manifestations of syphilis occur usually within a month, rarely later than three. The first symptom usually noticed is snuffles, a noise arising from purulent mucus in the nose ; then follow papulse on the palms and soles, and about the anus and scrotum, or female vulva: these are succeeded by mucous patches, which also appear in the mouth, and desquamation of cuticle from the tongue. If the disease go on, flat vesicles appear on the eyebrows, head, and body, leading to shallow ulcers with dusky margins, and covered with scabs. The anaemia and feebleness, and jaundiced tint, which accompany these symptoms show that the liver is probably affected, and in severe cases phthisis and atrophy prove fatal, and sup- puration of the thymus is said to occur. Treatment.—Few therapeutical processes are more easy and agree- able than the treatment of congenital syphilis, when the child is cleanly- kept and properly fed. All that is needed is to smear about ten grains of blue ointment every night on the soles of the feet, and let the child wear socks day and night. The first thing noticed in a few days is an improvement in nutrition and general well-being; then the local symptoms amend. This improvement in the process of healthy blood- making under mercury, and^the existence of anaemia as a first sign of relapse, are remarkable. In three weeks or thereabouts the course221 CONGENITAL SYPHILIS. may be discontinued, and be resumed again when fresh symptoms appear. 'J'he writer has had ample opportunity of observing that infantile syphilis is hable to relapse, no matter whether mercury be continued or no, and that it is best to discontinue the drug for a time, so soon as the maximum of benefit to the general health is attained. Local symptoms should be treated with soap and water, black wash, bismuth ointment, &c. If the parents display any symptoms of syphilis, they should be treated for it and be kept apart till cured. When the woman becomes pregnant again, shall any preventive treatment be adopted? The author advises it decidedly, on the ground that alterative mercurial treatment can do no harm, and that it is the best mode of relieving disease of the placenta, whether it arise from syphilis or scrofula. The best remedies are blue pill and conium at bedtime, with small doses of quinine daily : corrosive sublimate in smallest doses, with sarsa, bark, or tincture of steel. F. 03, 83, 87, &c. The CONGENITAL SYPHILITIC TAINT often pursues children to a late period of life. It may or may not affect the general growth and development. This depends on the degree to which the latent diathesis has been called into play, and the amount of actual disease which has existed. The symptoms which in young adults testify to their having suffered fi om syphilitic disease in childhood, are these : first, HutcMn- soYisteetkj^ I'he permanent teeth (not the milk teeth), and especially the central incisors of the upper jaw, are short and narrow, with a broad vertical notch in their edges, and their corners rounded off. The ac- companying drawing of the teeth of the young man mentioned at p. 210 will show what is meant. It is not horizontal notches, nor * So called, after the pattern of " Bright's " disease, in honour of Mr. Jonathan Hutchinson, to whose patient and laborious researches we owe almost all we know of the history of hereditary syphilis after childhood. See his Clinical Memoirs on Diseases of the Eye and Ear consequent on Inherited Syphilis, Lond. 1863, p. 204. 4222 ON VENEREAL DISEASES. loss of enamel, which is often seen in the second teeth of strumous persons, but the peculiar appearance here depicted which is the cha- racteristic. " The skin," says Mr. Hutchinson, " is almost always thick, pasty, and opaque. It also often shows little pits and scars, the relics of a former eruption, and at the angles of the mouth are radiating linear scars running out into the cheei<s. The bridge of the nose is almost always broader than usual and low ; often it is remarkably sunk and expanded. The forehead is usually large and protuberant in the regions of the frontal eminences ; often there is a well-marked broad depression a little above the eyebrows. The hair is usually long and thin, and now and then (but only rarely) the nails are broken and splitting into layers. If the eyes have already suffered, a hazy state of the cornese, and a peculiar leaden lustreless condition of the irides, with or without synechijE may be expected. If, however, the eyes have not yet been attacked by syphilitic inflammation, they will present no deviation from the state of perfect health and brilliancy. The occurrence of well- characterized interstitial keratitis is now considered by several high authorities as pathognomic of inherited taint." Frequent abortions and loss of the earlier infants of a family are also suspicious. Iritis, in infants from about six to fifteen months; scrofulous corneitis between the age of eight and fifteen ; inflammations of the deeper structures of the eye; and deafness, are the special symptoms enumerated by Mr. Hutchinson as evidence that the patient has suffered heretofore from syphilitic disease. But as we before said, the syphilitic taint alone produces no visible symptoms unless some actual disease of mouth, skin, eyes, &c., have followed. Hence, a young adult may have truly syphilitic disease of congenital origin, but yet none of the foregoing signs of previous attacks. Whatever form of disease can be provoked by scrofula may be imi- tated by syphilis; in every case, therefore, of inexplicable strumous or strumous looking disease in early life, the evidences of syphilis may be cautiously inquired for. The remedies ai'e mercury, iodide of potassium with ammonia, and tonics. The two former should be used to relieve existing symptoms, but not to prevent future ones. SECTION XI.—DOUBTFUL AND MIXED CASES. Typical Cases.—The student will meet with many cases which answer to the description we have given, and which may serve as patterns:—such are, ordinary gonorrhoea, followed or not by tenderness of inguinal glands, orchitis, and rheumatism ; soft chancre, with or with- out suppurating bubo, and without secondary symptoms; pure hard chanci'e, with indolent glandular enlargement and secondary symptoms in six weeks. But many cases will be met with, in which one of these forms of disease will be combined with some other ; or with the remains of a foregoing infection, hereditary or not, and which it will be extremely difficult to disentangle, and to identify with the pattern cases in books.* * Of all these complications there is a perfect magazine of cases and illus- trations in Dr. Jeffery Marston's papers, Med. Chir. Trans, vols. xlv. and xlvi.DOUBTFUL AND MIXED CASES. 223 Soft plus hard chancre. " It must always be borne in mind," says Mr. Lee, " that the character of a sore at one time is no ceitain indica- tion of what it may previously have been, or of what it may ultimately become." It is therefore unsafe, even when a chancre has been watched from the first, and is pronounced soft, to promise exemption from secondary symptoms. For there may have been a twofold inoculation, and each disease may exist in one spot.* Hard plus soft chancre. A " hard," true infecting chancre, may have the ulcerative and suppurative characters of the soft" super- added to it; from intense local irritation, dirt, &c., as frequently happens with sores on the skin of the penis; or from cachexy. Such sores are inoculable, and leave little if any induration. Infecting sore ^\w& suppurating bicbo. Constitutional syphilis may follow a sore which has been attended with suppurating bubo, if the constitution is scrofulous, or there has been much local irritation, or hard is mixed with soft chancre. Bubon d'emhlee followed by constitutional sj/philis. Thei-e is no doubt of this fact according to Benjamin Bell, Marston, and other authorities, although whether j3os^ or propter be doubtful. Gonorrhcea followed by infection. Chancre may occur in the urethra, and if too far down to be visible, may be indicated by more or less pain, soreness and hardness at one spot, and detected by external examination, or by the bougie. Still there are cases adduced by Marston, showing that infection has followed cases of apparent gonorrhoea, with indolent glandular enlargement, but without anything like ulcer. Such cases are most explicable, accoiding to Dr. Marston, by considering them analogues of the very superficial and diffuse irri- tation of the glans, which accompanies a small patch of infecting sore. Hunter,t as is well known, succeeded in inoculating himself with an infecting sore and constitutional syphilis by means of the matter from a gonorrhoea. Whether, as Ricord suggests, the patient from whom the matter was taken had concealed chancre, or, as Marston suggests, a true syphilitic gonorrhoea, or, as Mr. Babington suggests, whether the sore were inoculated by means of a dirty piece of caustic, will pro- bably never be known. The fact remains. * Whilst these pages are ni the printer's hands, the author has been favoured with the following note by Dr. Jefteiy Marston :— " The most useful description as well as the most truthful, of the infecting sore is, that it originates in a pimple, a papule, an erosion or abrasion, a crack or a fissure, around which a thickening or induration ensues, but that hardness is not essential to the infecting sore. This hardening, according to Sigmund, occurs in one or other of the three following conditions :—1. Hardening or in- duration of sore and glands; 2. Hardening and induration of cicatrix and glands; 3. Hardening and induration of lymphatic glands only, the original local lesion never having become bard. In doubtful cases I place a great deal of reliance upon the state of the inguinal glands, and Sigmund, who seems to me to have studied the subject very carefully indeed, looks upon this indura- tion of the lymphatics as of more importance than the character of the sore or its discharges." " Constitutional syphilis ma]) appear whilst a patient has a soft sore, and yet have nothing to do with it." f On the Venereal Disease, part vi. chap. ii. s. 2.ON VENEREAL DISEASES. 224 SECTION XII.—SYPHILTZATION. Syphilization signifies the repeated inoculation of matter from a venereal sore, upon the same patient, either to render him insusceptible of fresh attacks, or to relieve existing symptoms. It w^as first devised by Auzias Turenne and Sperino of Turin, about 1850, and since, has been carried out on a very large scale by Professors Boeck, Faye, and other practitionei s at Christiania and other parts of Scandinavia. The only chancre that can be inoculated repeatedly is the soft; and it has been satisfactorily proved that ai'ter about four hundred inocula- tions, the system is still susceptible of the virus of the hard chancre, so that there is no protection in it. Nevertheless, it seems abundantly proved that obstinate constitutional syphilis, which has been rebellious to other remedies, has become subdued during this most strange and disgusting process.* * See Bumstead and Henry Lee, op. cit.; Aper9U des diffe'rentes m^thodes de traitenient employees a I'Hopital de Cliristiania, centre la Syphilis con- stitutionelle. Par J . L. Bidenkap. Christiana, 1863. This book gives a series of cases treated by M. Boeck by syphilization, and another series treated by M. Hjort by that which comes nearest to it, i. derivation, or the foi-mation of a series of pustules by emetic tartar. Of course the rest in bed, hospital diet, &c., were the same in both cases, and there can be no doubt of the superiority of syphilization over derivation and over sweat- ings, &c., whether as regards the time required for the suppression of symptoms or the frequency of relapses. M. Bidenkap affirms the inoculability of the in- fecting sore—a thing we gi'ant, if, as Marston and Lee have shown, there be a pus element superadded; for a hard chancre suppurating may be inoculated, not a hard chancre per se. At last, after from four to five months of syphili- zation, comes a time when inoculability ceases, and then the constitutional symptoms are cured. Syphilization, says M. Bidenkap, does by art for syphilis, what is done spontaneously in small-pox by the eruption; it provides for the development and multiplication of virulent matter, during which a local and general immunity against any further action of that virus is established. " My experience is," says Dr. Jeffery Marston in a MS. note to the author, " that so long as an ulcer is open and spreading upon any part of the body in a consti- tutionally syphilized individual, no other manifestations may appear." We must accept these facts, though we caimot explain them.225 PAET IV. INJURIES AND SURGICAL DISEASES OF VARIOUS TISSUES, ORGANS, AND REGIONS. CHAPTER I. DISEASES OF THE AREOLAR TISSUE. Of the diseases of the areolai' tissue, the greater number have been already sufficiently described, when treating of the elementary pro- cesses of disease, and eflects of injuries. We have nothing to add to our account of inflammation; abscess, acute or chronic; diffused or erysipelatous inflammation; oedema, ecchymosis, and scrofulous ulcer. Of the inflation with air we shall speak under the head of emphysema ; and of the injection of irritant liquids under the head of extravasation of urine. This tissue is the favourite seat of a great variety of tumours, especially the fatty, painful subcutaneous, tibro-plastic and allied species, encysted, and cancerous; for the diagnosis and treatment of which we refer to the Chapter on Tumours. Cancer in this tissue, whether superficial or deep, is rare as a primary affection, and is usually of the soft variety; but no doubt many of the cases heretofore reported as cancerous have been fibro-plastic. CHArTEil II. SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN. I. Hypertrophy of the entire skin, which increases in breadth and length so as to project in pendulous flaps or ridges, is sometimes seen, and is sometimes congenital. If inconvenient, the knife is the remedy. II. Warts, or Vegetations, are diseases consisting in an hyper- trophy of the papilla; and cuticle. (1.) The commonest variety is the wart which frequently grows on the hand or face of children, and which consists of lengthened papillce, each containing a vascular loop, and D QTUMOURS OF THE SKIN. 226 clothed with dry, hard cuticle. If necessary to interfere, warts may be snipped off', or tied, or be touched with caustic; but they often return obstinately, in spite of treatment, and disappear of themselves when let alone. Perhaps the best plan is to divest them as much as possible of cuticle, and then cover them with mastic and tannin varnish, F. 183. (2.) A second variety consists of hypertvophied papillae, clothed with thin cuticle, especially apt to come on the inside of the thisjhs, peri- nseum, about the anus, within the prepuce, and in similar situations on and near the genitals of either sex, especially the female. ^omQ are highly vascular, and easily bleed ; some ai e pale and indolent; some broad and flat; some tall and stalked ; all disciiarge a thin sour ichor ; and are caused by the irritation of the discharges of gonori hoea or of syphilis, combined with that of the natural perspiration of uncleanly persons. They may grow on the site of a healed chancre, or mucous patch, or secondary sore. These warts are commonly called venereal warts, because they are doubtless caused by the irritation of venereal discharges; they are contagious, and may produce similar warts in healthy persons. Treatment.—If daily washing with soap and water, and with chloride of zinc lotion, F. 127, does not suffice, the most efficacious plan is to cut off all the morbid growths with the knife or curved scissors; and apply an astringent lotion during the cicatrizing state. If they grow again, tliey may be touched with nitrate of silver, or some escharotic, such as one drachm of muriatic acid with three drachms of muriated tincture of iron ; liquor plumbi diacetatis ; creo- sote, or the acid nitrate of mercuiy. (3.) A third variety is the wart which comes on the face of some other part of the skin of eldeily persons, and, after a time, becomes the seat of epithelioma. With this may be classed the chimney-sweeper's wart of the scrotum, the warty growtlis which are the first stage of so-called cancer, epithelial cancer, or cancroid (or properly speaking, epithelioma), of the lip and penis, and the warty tumour of cicatrices, described by Csesar Hawkins, which begins as a simple wart on the site of an old scar, increases, ulcerates, throws out huge fungous masses ; contaminates the glands, and causes death by the pain and exhaustion of foul ulceration.* See Epithelioma, p. 110. III. Corns are growths of thick cuticle, not merely lying upon the true skin like callosities, but penetrating into it. They are produced when the skin, situated over some projecting point of bone, is irritated by pressure or friction. Their usual seat is on the joints of the toes, and tight boots or shoes are their usual cause. They are divided into two kinds, the hard and the soft. The hard are situated on the sur- face of the foot, where the cuticle can become dry and hard ; the soft between the toes, whei-e the cuticle is soft and spongy. We must ob- serve, however, that what are called soft corns between the toes, are * CjEsar Hawkins, Med. Cbir. Trans, vol. xix.; R. W. Smith, Dublin Quar- terly Jour. Med. Sc. May, 1850; Hannover, Epithelioma, &c.TUMOURS OF THE SKIN. 227 not always corns, but excessively irritable fungous warts, and con- sist of a growth from the cutis vera, not of a mere thickening of the cuticle. Treatment.—The points to be attended to are, to have the boots or shoes properly adapted to the shape and size of the feet;—to wash the feet every night, and to rub the corns every morning v/ith a little Naples soap, or some other kind of soap just moistened. If very pain- ful they may be poulticed at night, and kept moist by day with glyce- rine, so that they may be kept soft and pliable, not hard and dry. If these measures be adopted, and the part relieved from pressure, the corn will soon peel off. But some feet are so misshapen originally, or the toes are so crowded together by wearing small, low, pointed shoes, that it is impossible to contrive any shoes that will not press and create corns somewhere. In some of these cases the application of a plaster of thick soft leather, having a hole punched in it to receive the corn and relieve it from pressure, is a very useful device. If the corn is on the sole of the foot, a piece of felt, or small fold of flannel may be arranged so as to relieve it from pressure. For the soft corns between the toes, and for very irritable corns, the nitrate of silver is the best application. When a corn inflames, and matter forms beneath it, the pain is most excruci- ating, and only to be relieved by paring it down and letting out the fluid.* IV. Horny Tumours are formed by an inspissation of the matter of the sebaceous follicles, and by laminated growths of epithelium from their interior. They ai-e easily removed by two oval incisions.f V. Wens are encysted tumours, most common on the head, face, and shoulders, consisting of obstructed sebaceous glands (whose orifice may often be found in the form of a small black spot or crust), or else of erratically-developed cutaneous cysts. The matter contained is a collection of epidermic scales with hairs, oil-globules, and crystals of cholesterine, and has received the name atheroma or steatoma, from its I'esemblance to gruel or suet. Distension, suppuration, ulceration, and fungous granulation of the interior of the cyst sometimes occur. Treatment.—if an aperture is visible, and the tumour is not very large, it may be opened by a probe or director, and the contents be pressed out. Otherwise, it may be extiipated entirely by running a scalpel through it, seizing the cut edge of the cyst, and gently tearing it out with a touch or two from the knife. If the wen is much in- flamed, it may be laid open by a free incision, and be allowed to dis- charge its contents into a poultice, then to suppurate and contract. VJ. CiiELOiD Tumour (Kelis).—This consists essentially in an hypertrophy of the tissue of the true skin, intermixed with fibro- plastic matter. It presents itself in the form of one or more project- ing tumours, or of thickened reddish patches, in the substance of the * Brodie, Lecture on Corns. Med. Gaz. vol. xvii. p. 775; Key on Bunion, Guy's Hosp. Kep. vol. i. p. 416. t Vide Erasmus Wilson, Med. Cijir. Trans, vol. xxvii.BOIL. 228 skin. The most frequent situation is the chest; but such tumours are partial to the site of cicatrices (especially in people of colour, and sol- diers after flogging), and are often multiple. Occasionally superficial ulcers occur; but in most cases this disease leads to no ill consequences. It is extremely liable to return after extirpation. Iodine and arsenic should be cautiously tried, F. 94, 97.* VII. MoLLUSCUM.—A malady consisting in the development of numerous tumoui's on any part of the body where hair grows ; varying in size from that of a small shot to that of an orange ; hard and pain- less ; either embedded, or prominent and stalked ; sometimes exuding a milky fluid from a minute aperture; consisting, according to Dr. L. Beale, of an altei ation of the hair follicles, and hypertrophy of the areolar tissue. Probably the chloride of arsenic, if resorted to early, might cause diminution of the tamoxirs (F. 97). But if one or more becomes very inconvenient, it may be cut out.f VII[. Moles.—Oblong patches of imperfectly-organised skin with black matter in its interstices, small vascular patches, and other con- genital imperfections of the skin, should be extirpated, if at any time they seem inclined to spread and become irritable, because it is pos- sible that they might become the nidus of epithelioma, or of cancer. The health should be carefully wat(!hed under such circumstances. IX. Cancer of the skin may be a result of the propagation of the disease from the breast, or from some gland; or may be primary. Sometimes it affects the scirrhous form, and presents itself in the shape of one or more hard tubercular dull-red masses ; sometimes it begins as an innocent-looking, but rapidly-growing wart, which speedily assumes the characters of soft cancer ; bleeds or exudes a sanious liquid, and contaminates the nearest glands. The melanotic variety is also common. It is a frequent occurrence that cancer is deposited in warts, moles, and similar growths; and it is possible that it may be combined in one tumour with epithelioma. For the clinical history and treat- ment we must I'efer to the Chapter on Cancer. X. Boil (Furunculus).—A circumscribed round hard swelling, de- pending on inflammation of one spot of the true skin, and on the deposit therein of unhealthy lymph; usually attended with the acutest pain and tenderness ; and ending in suppuration, and the discharge of a flake of softened lymph, and a small sloughy shred of areolar tissue, which form what is called a core. It is caused by blood disorder, from unwholesome food, or from unknown epidemic atmospheric causes, or from depressing influences generally. It may be acute, with great pain, swelling, and fever; or chronic, indolent, hard, and slow to sup- purate ; or may come out in crops, one coming so soon as the preceding one is healed. Treatment,—If acute, poultices ; and so soon as suppuration is fully * Warren on Tumours, p. 40; Burgess's Translation of Cazenave, p. 305; Mayo's Pathology, p. 236; Lebert, sur les Maladies Cancereuses, p. 682; Long- more, Med. and Chir. Trans, vol. xlvi. f Bateman, Cutaneous Diseases; Lionel S. Beale, Pathological Trans, vol. vi.CAEBUNCLE. 229 established, a clean cut with a sharp lancet: if, however, the lump be indolent, incision does no good ; during the last stage of the acute, and during the whole course of the chronic, stimulating applications, such as resin or Peruvian balsam ointment; or painting with tincture of iodine. The constitutional treatment must be at first eliminative ; that is, the bowels should be emptied, and the tongue cleaned by a grain or two of calomel, &c., F. 37 or 38 ; and the diet should be re- gulated ; but if successive crops come out, alteiatives and ti'uics should be given. Tlie liquor potassge in drachm-doses twice daily (or the liq. sodge, which cured John Hunter) has a good reputation in these cases; but of late years it has more frequently failed than not, and it appears that tonics, especially the preparation of bark with acids F. 1, &c., are the most useful remedies. Where there is no obvious derangement of the general health which may serve as a key to the treatment, and when general remedies fail, a thorough change of air should be tried. The writer has effected many cures by sending the patients to Paris, after a short course of tonic and alterative treatment. XI. Carbuncle {anthrax) is an exaggerated boil. An oval or irregular portion of skin, varying in size from that of a hazel nut to that of an egg ; or, perhaps, very much larger, becomes infiltrated with unhealthy lymph, forming a hard, dull-red swelling ; very tender, with a heavy aching pain. After a few days of gradual increase, soft- ening and suppuration occurs at several parts, which become of a duller red, and more prominent, and yield an obscure sense of fluctua- tion. Then follows ulceration of these points, forming round apertures, giving exit to a thin ichor ; but if pressure be made, a thick glutinous matter may be squeezed out. The ulcerated apertures enlarge and meet; much viscid stuff is discharged, mixed with softened fibrous ex- udation, and with sloughs of the areolar tissue, and the wound slowly granulates and heals. Such is the course of carbuncle, if left to itself. It is always an indication of vitiated blood, and has the same series of causes as the boil, but there is some utterly unknown cause, which has produced a most extensive visitation of these maladies during the last few years. When large, especially if situated on the head or face, it is liable to be attended with violent fever, followed by great, and, perhaps, fatal prostration of strength. The treatment is that of erysipelas. Since it is a blood disorder, efficient means should be taken at first to produce a full discharge of bile and urine, F. 33, &c. The strength should be kept up by soup, and brandy or wine, at discretion. Opiates should be given to allay pain, and quinine or Liq. cinch, fl. with nitric acid to recruit the strength. Fomentations and poultices should be used to hasten suppuration. It is generally agreed that the cure may be hastened by measures for letting out sloughs and dis- charge. In some cases it is beneficial to cut through the swelling whilst haid and brawny; but it is usually better to defer this till sup- puration has commenced, and then thoroughly to cut through the infil- trated tissues, and insure a free dischai-ge of all pus and sloughs; after this to apply warm poultices with the resin or creosote ointment.230 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF MUSCLES, ETC. Mr. Pritchard, in his able Surgical Address before the Brit. Med. Assoc., at Bristol, in 1863, advocated the use of caustic potass, as less liable to risk of pya3mia from entrance of matter into gaping vessels, and as more thoroughly softening the sloughs and insuring their dis- charge. CHAPTER III. DISEASES AND INJURIES OF MUSCLES, TENDONS, AND BURS^. I. Simple Atrophy of muscle, with more or less fatty degeneration, may arise from want of exercise, however caused. Moreover, it some- times happens, that after a fever, or after injury, or disease, or exposure to cold, or after some affection of the nervous centres, one arm, or one leg, or both legs are smitten, as it were, with a blight. The affected member is always chilly; its skin is numb : it is imperfectly nourished, and decreases in bulk ; if the patient is young, it ceases to grow in pro- portion with the other parts of the body ; and its flexor muscles often become affected with rigidity, so that the joints are immoveably bent and contracted. Treatment,—Steel, quinine, cod-liver oil, and other tonics; warm clothing and liberal diet; stimulating frictions, affusion with cold water, passive exercise, shampooing, and electricity or galvanism, so as to keep the muscular fibrillae exercised. II. Inflammatory Spasm is a malady of which the commonest example is the stiff neck, or rheumatic inflammation and spasm which affect the muscles of the neck after exposure to cold, in persons whose blood is imperfectly purified. But it may affect any other muscles. Purgatives and fomentations usually soon produce a cure. We may remind the surgeon of the frequent recurrence of— III. Muscular Spasm as a symptom either, 1st, of irritation of the bowels or other internal organs ; or 2ndly, of disease in the nervous centres. Of the former class of cases, spasm of the sphincter ani, of the muscles of the hip, and of other parts in children whose intestines are loaded, are examples. Of the latter, the spasm which attends hemi- plegia, with irritation of the brain. ly. Rigid Atrophy is a state in which a muscle becomes short, rigid, and inextensible ; generally causing displacements and deformi- ties of the parts to which it is attached. Causes.—1st. It may be in- duced by long inactivity of the antagonist muscles ;—thus, after long- continued disease of the knee, the flexor muscles of the ham may become shortened and inextensible, keeping the joint permanently bent, and often dragging the tibia off from the condyles of the femur. 2ndly. It may be a sequel of habitual spasm, by whatever cause produced. Treatment.—In the early stages, friction, shampooing, and mecha- nical extension. But in cases of long standing, the only remedy that can231 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF MUSCLES, ETC. be relied on is dkision of the affected muscle or of its tendon; by which means the divided parts will retract; they will unite by lymph, and will consequently be lengthened, and then extension may be prac- tised with gieater etHcacy. (See Clubfoot and Wry Neck.) V. Acute Atrophy.—In this affection one or more muscles rapidly waste away, and their wasting is attended with severe pain, especially in the course of their nerves. It appears to depend on rheumatism of the muscular nerves, and to be caused by cold.* VI. Rupture of Musci-es and Tendons.—This is an accident which is frequently caused by violent muscular contraction; especially if, after illness or long inactivity, the muscles are subjected to sudden and severe exertion. The muscles which are most frequently ruptured are, the gastrocnemius, the rectus femoris, which sometimes is entirely detached fi om the patella,f and the biceps flexor cubiti; but more fre- quently the tendons give way, especially the tendo Achillis, and flexoi- tendons of the wrist. The symptoms of this accident are, sudden pain, and sometimes an audible snap. The patient cannot extend the tendon as he can in the opposite limb. A depression may be felt with the fingers at the rup- tured part. The reparation of ruptured tendons, and of tendons divided by sub- cutaneous section, is accomplished by the exudation of lymph between the severed extremities and into their sheath. This quickly sets into a homogeneous substance, minutely gianular and studded with elongated nuclei, which speedily assumes the fibrous characters and consistence of tendon.J This process proceeds best when unaccompanied with extra- vasation of blood, or with inflammatory exudation. Treatment.—The main ponit is to keep the injured part in a state of constant rest and relaxation,§ so that the seveied ends may be in close approximation, and to prevent any violent extension till union is firm. When the tendo Achillis, or the gastrocnemius muscle is ruptured, the knee may be kept bent by a string passing from the heel of the slipper to a bandage round the thigh. For ruptures of the extensors of the thigh, the limb must be placed in the same position as in fracture of the patella. If tlie biceps is ruptured, the elbow must be kept bent to its utmost; if the tendons about the wrist or fingers, the forearm must be confined by a splint. After three or four weeks of rest, the surgeon may use passive motion ; that is, may bend and extend the joints of the injured limb with his hands several times successively. But the patient must be cautious in using the muscle for a long time ; and (if it be the tendo Achillis) must walk with a high-heeled shoe for two or three * Two cases of it are given in Mayo's Pathology, p. 117. The author has seen several, which all attempts have failed to cure, f Vincent, op. oil. p. 71. % See Mr. William Adams's account of the Reparation of Tendons, Trans, of the Pathological Soc. vol. vi. $ Muscles are to be relaxed by putting them into a position the reverse of that which they occupy when in greatest action—not by merely approximating their attachments.—Vincent, p, 11.232 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF MUSCLES, ETC. months; so that the recent callus may not be stretched and lengthened, which would cause permanent weakness. VII. Sprains.—A sprain signifies a violent stretching of tendinous or ligamentous parts, with or without rupture of some of their fibres. It produces instant severe pain, often attended with faintness ; and great tumefaction and ecchymosis ; with subsequent weakness and stiff- ness. If the part is not kept at rest, or if the diet is intemperate, or the blood impure, and if the knee or some other large joint is affected, there will be great pain, inflammation, and fever, that may lead to serious or even fatal results. Treatment.—The most essential measure is perfect rest; and to in- sure this, the patient should go to bed, and if the part affected be the knee, it should be confined by a pasteboard splint. During the first day or two, the object is to allay pain, and to anticipate inflammatory effusion. Warm fomentations, henbane, an aperient, and plain diet are the measures. If inflammatory pain (that is, throbbing beat and swelling, not the mere pain of the injury) should be developed, leeches should be applied ; otherwise not. Then the best thing is to protect the part by a firm bandage, so that the reparative process shall not be disturbed ; and once daily to foment it well with hot water, and rub it with a stimulating liniment. If after a sprain, the part injured is liable to fits of inflammation, and very slow in recovering its powers, treat it as if chi'onic rheumatism (p. 44) by iodide of potassium. VIII. Acute Inflammation of the Sheaths of Tendons and Fascia is generally caused by punctured wounds, especially by punc- ture of the fliscia of the biceps during venesection; and by punctures of the fingers, inflammation of the tendinous sheaths of which is called thecal abscess ; paronychia gravis, or tendinous whitlow. It is attended with severe, tensive, throbbing pain ; exquisite tenderness ; slight, but tense and resisting swelling; and very great constitutional disturbance. It may lead to suppuration ; the matter extending itself along muscles and tendons, from the fingers to the forearm, causing sloughing of the tendons, severe irritative fever, life in danger, and the limb left stiff and useless. Treatment.'—If the pain and tension increase, notwithstanding the employment of leeches, fomentations, and purgatives, free incisions must be made through the inflamed parts; in order to give vent to matter, if it have formed, or by creating a free discharge of blood to prevent its formation.—See Whitlow. IX. Contraction and Rigidity of the fasciae are exemplified in contractio7i of the palmar fa sciw.—See the Index. X. Tumours of Tendon and Ligament.—Small fibrous tumours, about the size of a pea, are apt to form on the tendons or fasciae. Sometimes they follow a sprain. The author knows an eminent musi- cian, on whose palmar fascia such small tumours appeared after a pain- fully long practice at the piano; but they often arise without any spe- cific exciting cause, probably from some rheumatic taint. The iodide of potassium is the best remedy, F. 94.233 GANGLION. XI. Chalkstone Deposits are composed of the lithate of soda ; a white insoluble substance, which in gouty subjects is frequently depo- sited into the texture of the bones, joints, and cellular tissue, but most frequently into the cellular tissue that environs the tendons of the feet or hands. Tiiese deposits may be permeated by exquisitely- sensible threads of cellular membrane. After remaining indolent for a variable time, they may inflame the superjacent skin, and cause the formation of ulcers that are extremely obstinate, and discha]*ge vast quantities of the concretion. They must be treated with simple dress- ings. It is rarely expedient to meddle with these tumours with the knife; but if any one be very inconveniently situated, and be perfectly indolent, it may be extirpated. The wound must be expected to heal very slowly. XII. Ganglion.—This is an encysted tumour formed by the sheath of a tendon, or by a new cyst developed in one of the fringes of the synoval sheaths, or by a bursa, whether original or created by friction. When recent, it is an indolent fluctuating tumour, transparent enough to permit the light of a candle to be seen through it. It contains a clear synovia ; thin, or viscid and semifluid. Not unfre- quently this fluid contains a number of small cartilages of a millet-seed shape, which are found floating loose in a thin fluid, but appear to grow from some part of the lining of the cavity, and afterwards become detached. The ordinary situation of ganglion is that of the various bursse; on the patella or olecranon, or on the inner side of the head of the tibia, or the angle of the scapula; but most fre- quently about the wrist, fingers, and back of the hand in connexion with the extensor tendons. In this situation it is often the result of a sort of hernial protrusion of the synovial membrane lining the sheath through an accidental opening in the fibrous sheath itself. When the general sheath of the flexor tendons at the wrist is affected in this way, it forms a remarkable tumour, which pro- * A ganglion, formed by the synovial sheath of the flexor tendon ot a finger.234 ACUTE INFLAMMATION OF BURS^. i jects in the palm of the hand, and also above the wrist, but is bound down in the middle by the anterior annular ligament of the carpus. Considerable pain and weakness are caused by these swellings. When ganglion has lasted some time, or has been subjected to inflammation, the cyst becomes thickened, and the tumour loses its softness and transparency. The ordinary cause of ganglion is a twist or strain of some kind, or irritation from pressure or friction, or from a rheuma- tic change in the lining membrane and its secretions, or some unknown ' constitutional tendency. Treatment.—(1.) The best plan of treating recent non-inflamed ganglion seems to be, either to burst it by pressure with the thumbs, or to puncture it with a grooved needle, or else to make a subcutaneous incision into the sac ; that is, to introduce a needle with a cutting point, and to turn the point against the mside of the sac and divide it, with- out, however, making a larger wound in the skin than is necessary to introduce the needle. The object of these operations is to empty the sac, and form an aperture by which its contents may henceforth pass into the cellular tissue and be absorbed. As soon as it is emptied, constant pressure should be applied by means of compress and bandage, which may be wetted with cold lotion, if agreeable. (2.) If this plan fails, recourse may be had to blisters, friction with mercurial and other stimulating liniments, or Scott's ointment, F. 160, or the iodine paint, F. 89. (3.) In obstinate cases, if it is a bursa (as over the patella or olecranon), and has no connexion with the sheaths of tendons, it may be dissected out. (4.) But if the bursa is large or deeply seated, as ' over the angle of the scapula, it may be freely cut into and emptied, after which it will probably heal up. (5.) In obstinate cases, especially if the cyst is much thickened, a puncture may be made, and a few threads of silk, or a wire, be passed through the sac as a seton. This destroys the secreting power of the sac, and effects a radical cure, but the operation requires great discretion, as it may be dangerous to life. (6.) Ganglion of the flexors of the wrist should not be tampered with ^| incautiously. If an operation is necessary, Mr. Fergusson prefers a free H incision, as less dangerous than puncture. (7.) Mr. Wickham strongly ^ recommends the vapour bath, or local steam bath, as a means of getting rid of thickness and stiffness after these operations. Lastly, any rheu- matic or gouty tendency should be corrected by proper medicines.* XIII. Acute Inflammation of Burs^ is most frequently exem- plified in the affection called the housemaid's knee, which is aii acute inflammation of the bursa that intervenes between the patella and skin, common enough in that class of females, from kneeling on hard damp JjAil stones. It causes very great pain, swelling, and fever ; it may be dis- ^ll tinguished from acute inflammation of the synovial membrane of the 'jHI knee-joint, by observing that the swelling is very superficial, and in front of the patella, which is obscured by it; whereas in inflammation of the synovial membrane of the knee, the patella is thrown forwards, ^l|f and the swelling is most prominent at the sides. * See an abstract of a paper by Coulson, in Ranking, xiv. 279.DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE LYMPHATICS. 235 Treatment.—Rest, leeches, fomentations, and purgatives ; by which, if the pain and swelling are not relieved, a free incision should be made into it. XIV. Loose Cartilages, and melon-seed-shaped excrescences, are sometimes formed in the synovial sheaths of the hand and foot as they may be in the joints. They may be removed by subcutaneous incision. CHAPTER IV. DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE LYMPHATICS. I. Acute Inflammation of lymphatic .^^awfis has already been ex emplitied when speaking of bubo. The inflamed gland enlarges rapidly, and forms a hard, tense swelling, with great pain and fever. If it suppurate, there may be shivering, delirium, and intense constitutional disturbance, till the pus is evacuated. The affection may be caused, 1. Like any other acute abscess, by constitutional disorder. 2. By local violence, such as blows or kicks. 3. By the irritation or absorption of acrid matter from ulcers, blisters, or eruptions of the skin. 4. By simple injuries, a clean prick, for instance, in persons whose health is deranged. 5. By punctures inoculated with some irritant fluid, per- haps from a putrid body. When the disease arises from ulcers or punctures, the inflammation generally begins in the lymphatic vessels leading to the glands, which appear as red lines under the skin, and feel hard, cordy, and tender. If one of the Angers has been poisoned, there will be inflammation at the seat of injury, tender red lines extending up the front of the forearm, and a tender enlarged gland just above the inner elbow. When pain and fever are intense, it will be right to apply leeches, and afterwards warm fomentations; but in most cases, especially when the cause is constitutional, and the disease is allied to idiopathic abscess, it will be better to induce suppuration as soon as possible, by fomenta- tions and poultices ; and so soon as pus has formed, it should be dis- charged by free incision. The constitutional treatment must include moderate purgation, vegetable salines, F. 58 ; and the other measures directed for acute abscess, and for dissection wounds, II. Chronic Enlargement of these glands, is, 1, most frequently caused by deposit of exudation in scrofulous persons. One or more glands become enlarged; usually the submaxillary or cervical; during the early years of life they may suppurate, or the swelling may en- tirely subside, or may remain during the whole of life.—See Scrofulous Diseases. 2. Hjipertrophy, or infiltration with fibro-plastic matter, may con- vert one or more glands, especially in the neck, into hard, indolent, slowly-growing tumours; to be treated by cod-liver oil and iodide of iron or of potassium ; and if these fail, by the knife.236 MSEASES AND INJURIES OF THE BONES. 3. Cancer of the lymphatic glands is usually a secondary affection, as we have before described. More rarely they are the primary seat of the disease, which then is more frequently soft cancer than hard. The diagnosis at first may be difficult, especially between soft cancer com- mencing in young subjects, and any other form of enlargement. But the rapid progress of the soft cancer, and the failure of health, which is sure to ensue after a certain time, will be leading distinctions. CHAPTER Y. DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE BONES. SECTION I.—DISEASES DEPENDING ON HYPERTROPHY. I. Microscopical Characters of Diseased Bone.—When a thin transverse section of diseased bone is examined under a good microscope, the observer readily distinguishes some large round or oval apertures— sections of the Haversian canals which convey the blood-vessels. Around these the bone—an obscurely-granular substance—appears to be arranged in concentric laminEE, containing amidst the laminae the bone cells, with the canaliculi or minute pores projecting from them. Larger vacuities in the bone, visible to the naked eye, contain the maiTOw and veins. Now it appears, from the researches of Mr. Tomes and of Mr. Campbell De Morgan, that bone during life is in a state of constant absorption and renewal. Fresh Haversian canals are being incessantly tunnelled out in the solid bone, and older ones are filled up. This is evident fromDISEASES OF THE BONES. 237 the numerous gaps and breaks in the lamiuss, from the irregular and eroded edges of some of the Haversian canals, and from the evident way in which new and small Haversian systems are intruded into larger pre- existing ones. The soft .parts which till the medullary cavities and the Haversian canals, thus evidently have the power of absorbing the bone with which they are in contact. The microscopical changes observed in diseased bone consist in dilier- ences in the quantity and quality of the bone structure, and in the nature of the substances which fill its cavities. Thus, 1st, in bone, which is unusually dense and heavy, with few cavities Ansible to the naked eye, the minutest structui'e is also con- densed, the Haversian canals small, the corpuscles opake, and arranged in well-marked laminse. 2ndly. In bone which is loosened out and spongy, the Haversian canals are large, the laminse ill defined, the corpuscles ill developed; as in the second figure, p. 236. 3rdly. The medulla and other struc- tures which fill the bone cavities, may be variously diseased; they may be con- gested ; the fat cells may be atrophied 5 or replaced by inflammatory exudation, tubercle or cancer, and the bone may be infiltrated with free oil.* II. Simple Hyperteophy.—It some- times happens that one or more bones in- crease in length and breadth, without any deviation from their healthy struc- ture. Thus the tibia, or fibula, or femur, has been known to become enlarged and lengthened after some disease which has brought an increased flow of blood to the limb; and the superior maxillary bone has been converted into a solid mass with complete obliteration of the antrum. The deviation from common nutrition on which such enlargements depend, is hardly to be controlled by medicine, al- though, if any drug is likely to be of ser- vice, it is the iodide of potassium. III. Exostosis signifies a tumour formed by the ii-regular hypertrophy of bone. Such tumours are hard, painless, and globular, and mostly situated on the * See a paper by Mr. Tomes and Mr. De Morgan on the .Structure of Bone, I'tiii. Irans. 1852, and a review of it by R. Druitt in the Brit, and For Med Quarterly for 1853; and Wedl, Patholog. Histology, published by the SydenhamDISEASES OF THE BONES. 238 upper part of the humerus, or tibia, or on the lower part of the femur, near the insertion of the adductor magnus. Their shape is sometimes broad and flat; sometimes rounded and prominent, with a narrow neck. Their structure is that of ordinary bone, sometimes dense and compact, especial ly when they grow from tlie frontal or temporal bones ; sometimes porous in the centre, with a thin external cortex. Some- times they result from the ossification of a fibrous, or fibro-plastic, or cartilaginous tumour or node of the periosteum; sometimes they are bony from the first, and are formed, as it were, by a development of one particular part of a bone, perhaps a natural process or spine. The preceding figure is an illustration. They cause no pain, unless they happen to press on nerves or arteries; but they may by their bulk interfere with the functions of various important parts, and give rise to the most serious evils. When situated on the inner surface of the skull, they may cause epilepsy; in the orbit they may cause the eye to pro- trude on the cheek ; they may obliterate arteries, and impede the action of muscles, and the movements of joints. Sometimes they arise without any very obvious cause ; occasionally they originate in a blow, or strain, or in an unnatural degree of pressure on a bone thinly covered by soft parts. Treatment.—In the first place, an attempt may be made to procure absorption of the tumour by means of iodide of potassium and friction Avith ointment of mercury or iodine. The more recent the tumour, the more effectual such measures are likely to be. In some cases (especially if the complaint follow a blow), a moderate course of mer- cury, so as barely to affect the mouth, will be effectual. If these measures do not succeed, the tumour may be removed by operation, if requisite on account of the inconvenience it produces. If it is globular, with a narrow neck, it may be cut down upon, and be sawn or chiselled off, or cut off with a gouge. But supposing that its base is broad, so that this cannot be done, its periosteum may be shaved oft'; after which it will probably perish by necrosis, or else waste away ; or the niti'ic acid, or potassa fusa, may be applied to its surface, to cause it to exfoliate. But these operations are not to be undertaken without due forethought; for they may be followed by extensive inflammation and necrosis, or by suppuration into a joint; and in operating on an exostosis neara joint, the possibility of opening the synovial membrane, should always be considered. Exostoses of the clavicles of children almost always disappear of themselves.* SECTION II.—DISEASES DEPENDING ON ATROPHY AND DEGENERATION, I. Atrophy of the bones is marked by a diminution of their weight. Sometimes it is attended likewise by a decrease in bulk ; bu sometimes, whilst the outward bulk is nearly unaltered, the prope * Vide Sir A. Cooper on Exostosis, in Cooper and Travers's Surgical Essays Mayo's Pathology, p. 11; Stanley on Diseases of the Bones, Lond. 1841; T. B. Curling on Atrophy of Bone, Med. Chir. Ti ans. vol. xx.239 DISEASES OF THE BONES. substance is withdrawn, the coilex being reduced to a thin shell, and the cancelli to a few fine threads with their interstices filled with fat. In this condition the readiness with which the bones become broken has given rise to the appellation fragilitas ossium. Atrophy may be caused by disuse and want of exercise simply; by disease of an adjacent joint; by interruption to the supply of arterial blood; (thus, after fracture with division of the medullary artery, the lower part of the tibia and femur, and upper part of the humerus, may undergo atrophy ;) by that peculiar defect of nutrition which sometimes causes all the structures of a limb to be withered and blighted ; (vide p. 17), by old age ; and by the peculiar state of the system which accompanies fatty degeneration, rickets, and mollifies ossium. II. Rickets, or Hachitis, is a peculiar unhealthy condition of the whole body, arising from hereditary taint, or else from defective hygi- enic conditions, and especially from want of fresh air and of bright light. It is frequently attended with scrofulous disease; but its leading characteristic is the imperfect development, atrophv, and dis- tortion of some or many of the bones. These are soft, and consist of " a sort of cartilaginous tissue, which will bend without breaking, and through which a knife may be readily passed." According to Messrs. Tomes and De Morgan, rickety bone has the structural arrangement of bone with- out the impregnation with earthy salts. The articular extremities of the bones are often disproportionately large. The shafts are unable to support the weight of the body without bending. In moderate cases, the ankles only may be a little sunk, or the shins bent, or the spine curved ; but in aggravated cases the physiognomy and general appearance are very peculiar. The stature is stunted; the head lai-ge, with a protuberant forehead. The fbntanelles are slow in closing ; the face small and triangular, with a very sharp- peaked chin, and projecting teeth ; the chest narrow and prominent in front, whence the vulgar term pifjeon-breasted; the spine va- riously curved; the pelvis small; the pro- montoiy of the sacrum and acetabula pressed together, rendering the cavity perilously small for child-bearing ; and the limbs crooked, their natural curves being increased. Hyper- trophy of the white substance of the brain, and persistence of tlie thymus gland to a later period than natural, aie said to be ac- companiments of rickets. This disorder gene- i-ally attacks the childien of the poor from the second to tne tentJi or240 DISEASES OF THE BONES, twelfth year of their age. After puberty, it is astonishing how firm the bones become, and, in particular, how they are strengthened by strong ridges developed on their concave sides. Treatment.—The health must be invigorated by sunlight, pui-e air, animal food, cod-liver oil, iron, and the other measures prescribed for scrofula. To these remedies, the author Yecomm&adsphosphate of lime to be added, F. 201. When a child with crooked legs is brought to the surgeon, he should ascertain whether the deformity arises from relaxation of the joints merely—the bones remaining straight—or from crookedness of the bones themselves. For the knees and ankles may be greatly bent inwards from the former cause, but will become straight of themselves when the health becomes stronger, especially if salt bathing and frictions are used to the legs and back. But if the tibia or femur are actually bent, the surgeon must take care not to tell the parents that the child will grow out of it; for there is no evi- dence that a bone which has once yielded can ever recover its primitive shape spontaneously. Therefore some mechanical contrivances should be used, in order both to strengthen the bent bones, and to keep them so till they are strong enough to bear the weight of the body; and a pair of simple wooden splints, well padded, and applied with some de- gree of tightness, from the top of the thigh to the foot, seem to answer every useful purpose, and the child soon learns to walk about in them with his knees straight. They should, of course, be taken off once daily for a good washing and rubbing.* III. MoLLiTiES OssiUM [Makicosteon, Osteomalacia) is a disease generally, but not invariably, affecting elderly females, in which the bones become softened and brittle, and lose their earthy constituents. In tlie very first stage, the affected bones are softened and extremely vascular. As the disease advances they become somewhat thickened, and so soft as to be easily cut with a knife. On a section being made, the osseous tissue is found nearly absorbed, a mere shell being left, which in most cases is filled with " a dark grumous matter, varying in colour from that of dark blood, to a reddish light liver colour." Under the microscope the Haversian canals are found to be dilated, the osseous cells diminished, and the colour to be owing to the numerous oil-globules with which the bone abounds, and to the presence of blood pigment. As the disease advances, the affected bones seem to be reduced to mere thin shells, filled in some cases with serum, in others with fat; whilst in some instances all bony matter whatever has disappeared, and the periosteum has been left as a cylinder tilled with a dark fatty substance of the consistence of liver. The disease is evidently constitutional, and usually affects almost every bone in the skeleton, although two instances have been reported to Mr. Solly, by Mr. Hodgson, of Birmingham, in which it was con- fined to the lower extremity; and in one of these, amputation was performed. Moreover, it is liable in women to affect the pelvis, either alone, or before any other part. At the commencement of it, the * See Bishop on Deformities, Lancet for 1846, vol. i.DISEASES OF THE BONES. 241 patient is observed to be out of health, emaciated, complaining of violent achings in the bones, and of very great feebleness and profuse perspirations. Then from a fall or some other slight injury, a bone breaks ; perhaps it unites again ; but afterwards bone after bone breaks from the slightest cause; the weakness increases, and the patient be- comes bedridden; and now, as the bones bend or break from the slightest influences, the chest and ribs become distorted to an almost inconceivable degree, and death at last occurs from exhaustion, or from tJie obstacle which the distorted limbs oppose to the action of the lungs. The fatal issue may not occur for several years, in the less severe cases. Softening of the bones of the pelvis in women is in- dicated by violent aching pains about the hips, and pain or difficulty in v/alking. Of the causes of this disease, nothing is known, and of its real nature just as little. It is evidently, however, not a mere atrophy. The ex- treme vascularity of the bones in the earlier stages of the affection, and the severe pain, render it probable that they ai e the seat of some morbid cell-growth. That the urine is loaded with phosphate of lime, which in a case related by Mr. Solly formed a renal calculus, is an interesting and intelligible point in the history of the disease. No available treatment is known, beyond common measures for supporting the strength and allaying pain.* SECTION III,—NEURALGIA IN BONE. The bones, like other parts, are subject to that severe and continuous pain which is known by the name neuralgia. The patients are gene- rally women, the part affected the condyles of the femur, or the head of the tibia or humerus. The characters which distinguish neuralgic pain have been already briefly described (p. 20), and will be further treated of in the Chapter on Diseases of the Nerves. SECTION IV.—INFLAMMATION AND SUPPURATION OF BONE AND PERIOSTEUM. I. Inflammation produces in bone the same changes that it does in the soft parts. In its slighter degrees it causes softening and swell- ing from enlargement of the channels which contain the blood-vessels, and from an opening out and greater porosity of the texture. This may be followed, in protracted chronic inflammations, by the fllling up of the expanded channels of the enlaigod bone, so that, instead of being enlarged and porous, it is enlarged and denser than natural. They who delight in hard words, may employ the term osteoporosis for the former, and osteosclerosis for the latter of these conditions. Severer degrees of inflammation may cause suppuration, softening, ulceration, and mortiflcation. The enlargements produced by gout and rheuma- * See a remarkable case of soflness of the bones, by Mr. H. Thompson, Med. Obs. and Injuries, vol. v. 1776 (the urine deposited a copious mortar-lilte sedi- ment); Solly, Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xxvii.; Pagefs Lectures, i. 135 ; Dr. Robt. Lee's Midwifery, p. 18; Rokitansky, vol. iii,; Wedl's Pathological Histology. D R242 DISEASES OF THE BONES. tism will be considered in the Chapter on the Joints, under the head of Chronic Rheumatic Arthritis. II. Acute Inflammation of bone most frequently attacks the femur or tibia in children, and is usually attributed to cold. It fre- quently affects more than one bone, but is generally confined to the shafts, and does not often extend through the epiphysial cartilage into the articular extremities. Symptoms.—The patient is seized with violent shivering and fever, and with deep-seated severe pain, and great swelling of the aflected limb, the skin of which displays a kind of erysipelatous redness. Mat- ter soon forms, burrows among the muscles, and at last points in one or several places. Sometimes the patient is * destroyed by the violence of the constitutional derangement, or sinks under the profuse suppura- tion that follows; but more frequently life is pie- served, and the bone left in a state of necrosis. On examination of cases that have proved fatal, or that have been subjected to amputation, the shaft of the bone is generally found sei)ai-ated from the epiphyses, and partially or entirely separated from its periosteum; and patches of newly-formed bone are deposited upon its surface, and between the layers of the periosteum. Treatment.—Aperient and febrifuge medicines, with leeches and fomentations, should be assiduously employed at first. So soon as fluctuation can be detected anywhere, a free and depending opening should be made; and it is better to do so too soon than too late. When a free exit is provided for the matter, a bandage should be applied to prevent its accumulation. If the patient seem likely to sink, in spite of tonics, stimulants, and nutriment, the limb must be amputated. Diffused Abscess.—In some instances the medul- lary tube and cancelli of the bone are found filled with pus. This is apt to happen after amputation, excisions, and compound fracture. Sometimes, however, it is induced by cold or bruises, without a Avound. It may be suspected when an entire bone is necrosed, including its articular extremities, which usually escape in common inflammation, although the shaft perishes. The facility with which a communication can be established, between the cancellous structure and the veins of an injured bone, explains the frequency with which symptoms of blood-poisoning, and deposits of pus, and the other symptoms commonly attributed to phlebitis, are apt to occur after injuries of the skull and of other bones. —See Pycemia, * Necrosis of the humerus.243 DISEASES OF THE BONES. III. Chronic Inflammation of bone is most frequently the re- sult of some constitutional disorder, and generally attacks several bones simultaneously. It is denoted by slow enlargement, tenderness, weight, and pain, increased at nights. If caused by injury, it may lead to necro- sis ; but in general it produces no organic change, save irregular en- largement. Treatment.—The general health should be improved by change of air, alteratives, and tonics, especially Plummer's pill, or hyd. c. creta, in small doses at night, F. 63, 64, and the iodide of potassium, with sarsaparilla. Of the iodide of potassium, Mr. Stanley observes, that it never fliils to assist in the removal of inflammation from bone, espe- cially when the periosteum or medullary membrane is involved, is in favour of small or moderate doses, such as gr. ii.—iii. thrice daily. F. 94, kc. The local measures are, repeated leechings and fomentations, so long as there is tenderness or much pain; with Scott's ointment, F. 160, or blisters or iodine paint subse- quently. IV. Inflammation of the Perios- teum (or Periostitis) generally occurs on the subcutaneous aspect of thinly-covered bones; especially the tibia, ulna, clavicles, and cranium. Its chief causes are, 1st, a syphilitic taint, in w^hich case it produces very painful oval swellings, called nodes, through an infiltration of lymph and serum into the periosteum, or between it and the bone. 2ndly. Rheumatism, especially in persons who have taken mercury to excess. 3rdly. Scrofula. In the two latter cases there is usually produced a swelling of the periosteum of the entire circumference of one or more bones. The scrofulous form attacks children, and is accompanied with remarkably little pain. If acute or mismanaged, periostitis may lead to suppuration, and caries or exfoli- ation ; but more frequently it causes merely a superficial deposit of bone, or an expan- sion of the surface of the bone. Periostitis occurring near a joint, is apt to involve the synovial membrane. Treatmerit.—For the acute, leeches, fomentations, purgatives, Dover's powder at bed-time, and colchicum in doses of TYLxx'^ of the wine every six hours ; or gr. iii. of the iodide of potassium at the same interval. If the case be of syphilitic character, it may be expedient to administer a regular course of mercury, or of the iodide of potassium, when the acute symptoms are passing off. For the chrouic, the same244 DISEASES OF THE BONES. treatment as for chronic inflammation of bone. The severe nightly pain is, after the application of leeches, best relieved by renewed blis- ters. Fi-eqnent and regular application of the iodine paint is very elTective in relieving the pain and causing absorption ^of the effusion, whether resulting from blows, rheumatism, syphilis, or scrofula. An incision is sometimes necessary if there is a collection of fluid between the periosteum and bone, and no measures succeed in producing its ab- sorption and allaying the pain ; but it very often happens, especially in venereal cases, that mercury (if not previously administered to excess), or the iodide of potassium, sarsaparilla, and blisters, will accomplish those objects. If not, subcutaneous incision, effected by passing a long narrow blade under the skin for the distance of an inch or two into the swelling, may succeed in relieving pain and tension, and. disengorging the distended blood-vessels, after all other remedies have failed. The scrofulous form admits of only palliative and constitutional treatment, ^ V. Abscess is a rare consequence of in- flammation of the bone. A cavity lined with a vascular membrane, and filled with pus, is formed in the substance of a bone, generally the tibia, which may or may not be unusually dense around it. There may possibly be a small piece of necrosed bone confined in the cavity, or some of that yellow decayed lymph called " cheesy tubercle." Abscess may be suspected when, in addition to permanent inflammatory enlargement and tenderness (which may have lasted for years), there is a fixed tensive pain at one particular spot, aggravated at night, and unrelieved by any remedy, though perhaps it may have occasional remissions. The two affections that are most likely to be confounded with it are neuralgia and chronic inflammation. Treatment. — When there is good reason to suspect the existence of abscess, the bone must be laid bare by an X or H incision, and an opening be made with a trephine at the precise seat of the pain. Mr. H. Lee recommends the trephine to be very small, as then more than one perforation can be made, if needful; and he has shown that this operation may be resorted to witli benefit, not only in cases of abscess, but in many others, in which the bone is ex- tremely condensed, and its interior contains the residue of previous effusion. After the pus is evacuated, the wound must be left to granu- late and cicatrize.f * Circumscribed abscess in bone, f Sir B. Brodie's Lecture, Med. Gaz., Surgical Essays, 1854, p. 44. Dec. 1845 ; Lee's Patliological andDISEASES OF THE BONES. 245 SECTION V.—NECROSIS AND EXFOLIATION. The term necrosis, although signifying the death or mortification of bone generally, is yet usually restricted to one form, in which part of the shaft of a cylindrical bone dies, directly from injury, or else from violent inflammation, and is enclosed in a case of new bone. The term exfoliation signifies necrosis of a thin superficial layer, which is not encased in any shell of new bone. I. Necrosis is a frequent consequence of inflammation of the shafts of long bones in children, especially of the femur and tibia. It more frequently attacks bones or parts of bones of compact tissue, than of spongy. Yet sometimes a small portion of the cancellous tissue in the centre of the head of a long bone, as of the femur or tibia, becomes necrosed, with great detriment to the neighbouring joint. Necrosis of the lower jaw from the fumes of lucifer matches, will be noticed in the Chapter on Diseases of the Face and Mouth. Pathology.—The bone dies ; but its periosteum and the suiTounding cellular tissue, if healthy, together with the articular ^ extremities of the bone, and its medullary membrane —any contiguous healthy parts in fact — effuse lymph, which speedily ossifies, forming a new shell around the dead portion, and adhering to the living bone above and below it. The dead portion (techni- cally called the sequestrum) generally consists of the circumference of the shaft only, and not of the entire thickness; for the interior of the sliaft seems to be atrophied and absorbed after the death of the ex- terior. The inside of the sequestrum is usually rough, as if worm-eaten by the absorbing action of contiguous granulations. In the majority of cases the epiphyses, or articular extremities, are fortu- nately unaffected. After a time, if the sequestrum is removed by art or accident, the newly-formed shell contracts, its cavity is abolished, and it gradu- ally assumes the shape and function of the former bone. Symptoms of Necrosis.—After acute inflamma- tion, the bone remains permanently swelled; and the apertures which were made for the discharge of matter remain as sinuses, from which many sensi- tive, irritable granulations shoot. These sinuous apertures in the skin correspond to holes in the shell of new bone (technically called cloacce). They usually form above and below the sequestrum, or enclosed portion of dead bone; and if a probe be passed into them, the sequestrum may be felt loose * Necrosis of sliaft of tibia; partial formation of new bone; following upon previous caries of the head of the bone. From St. Mary's Hospital Museumf246 DISEASES OF THE BONES. in the interior ; or at least the probe will strike against dead bone, which may be a long time separating itself from the living. Treatment.—The indication is to remove the sequestrum. Any hope of its being absorbed or extruded by any natural process, is quite nugatory; and to permit it to remain, is but to condemn the patient to a perpetuance of disease and deformity. So soon, therefore, as the shell of new bone is sufficiently strong, and the old sufficiently loose, the latter should be removed. If small, it may perhaps be grasped and removed without difficulty ; if larger, an operation will be necessary. A free incision should be made so as to expose the surface of the bone, and it should be made at a part where cloaccB exist, or where the bone is nearest the skin. Then the new shell must be perforated with the trephine, or with Hey's saw ; or the cloacge may be enlai ged with bone forceps, or with a chisel or gouge ; —and the sequestrum must be drawn out. If it cannot be extracted entire, it should be divided with a cutting forceps, and each portion be extracted separately. If the sequestrum cannot easily be extracted, the wound should be plugged with lint, which will tend to enlarge the cloacae. Mr. Stanley directs that as little as possible of the new bony shell should be removed, because it might not be replaced, and the bone be left too weak to be useful. Necrosis of the ai'ticular extremities of bones, or of the tarsus or carpus, often causes irreparable disease of the neighbour- ing joints, and requires excision or amputation. Yet, even here, conservatism should prevail, if possible; and free incisions for the discharge of pus and debris, and for the extraction of dead or carious portions of bone should be resorted to, before a part is condemned. II. Exfoliation signifies the mortification and * The upper sbows a gouge; the lower a useful form of forceps for seizing and extracting the sequestrum. t This cut shows the extremity of the phalanx in the act of separation by exfoliation. At the part where the separation is to occur, the cancelli are seen to be enlarged, so as to form a kind of dipM, and their walls are thin.CARIES. 247 separation of a superficial layer of bone, or of the extremity of a bone —of a phalanx, for example, or of the end of a bone after amputation —without the formation of a shell of new bone, as in necrosis. It is generally caused by some mechanical or chemical injury, or by stripping off the periosteum. Not, however, that stripping off the periosteum is invariably followed by exfoliation; for the bone may remain jed and moist, and throw out granulations; whereas, if it be about to exfoliate, it becomes white and dry. Treatment.—A lotion of weak nitric acid may be useful; and the exfoliating portion should be removed as soon as it can be detached. SECTION VI.—CARIES. Caries is an unhealthy inflammation, through which the cavities of bone become the seat of various exudations, which interfere with the vitality of the bone substance, and cause it to be absorbed, or else to ulcerate. On examination the bone is soft and dark red; its cells are filled with a red serous or thick glairy fluid, or with soft granulations of feeble vitality, part of which may die and be converted into "cheesy tubercle."—(See p. 92.) After a time sup- puration occurs; an abscess breaks, and the cai-ions portion of the bone, already softened and spongy, gradually perishes in minute scales, which are thrown off and discharged with the pus. The bone, when macerated and dried, looks soft and spongy ; eaten into hollows, and thrown into irregular elevations ; the latter marking the site of granulations, and of attempts at reparation. Si/mptoms.—" The external character of the limb," says Mayo, " is the same in necrosis and caries. The bone appears enlarged, and one or more sinuses open from it at points that are soft, and red, and sunken." If a probe is passed into these, it will readily break down the softened texture of the carious bone, which yields a gritty feel. Causes,—Caries most frequently attacks bones of a soft, spongy texture ; such as the vertebrcE, the round and flat bones, and the articular extremities of long bones. Its genuine cause is some constitutional disorder, scrofula, syphilis, or mercury. Treatment.—The indications are twofold ; —to rectify constitutional disorder, and to remove the local disease. The former object must be accomplished by change of air, tonics, and alteratives, sea air and sea water, and the measures that248 TUMOURS IN BONE. have been diiected for scrofula, or for tertiary syphilis, supposing the caries to be connected with either of those maladies. If it can be done, the best local remedy consists in freely exposing and removing the whole of the diseased portion of bone by the saw, or gouge, or trephine. If this cannot be done, lotions of the dilute nitric or phosphoric acid may be tried, injected into the sinuses with a glass syringe. Pressure by means of adhesive plaster spread on wash leather applied upon the intervals between the sinuses is often beneficial, as also is iodine paint to those parts of the surface which are unbroken and uninflamed. The latter treatment is very applicable to slow chronic debilitated cases. But we must add that the English surgeon would do well to adopt M. Chassaignac's drainage tube in many cases. Any number of these may be passed through a carious bone, or in the close vicinity ; as when an unhealthy abscess forms under the periosteum. By its means, the pus and particles of perishing bone are removed incessantly as they are formed, and the tissues being thus relieved of dead elements are put into a condition favourable for repair. The writer, during a visit to the Lariboissi^re Hospital in Paris in 1863, saw enough to convince him of the value of the drainage in scrofulous disease of bone. SECTIOX VII.—TUMOURS IN BONE, We have already described the various enlai'gements of bone, which depend on hypertrophy and inflammation. Besides these, bone is liable to every variety of tumour, and especially to enchondroma, and the fibrous, and fibro-plastic, which may i-espectively be developed on its surface, or within its substance. We must refer to the Chapter on Tumours for a description of these growths in general; and to that on the Jaws, for further researches on their special characters. Besides these, the following tumours require notice :— I. Tumours from extravasated Blood.—Mr. Travers * de- scribes a case in which, after a blow, the clavicle enlarged into a firm, oval, elastic tumour; which, when punctured by a grooved needle, yielded a few drops of dark grumous blood. The whole bone was extirpated. On examination, it was proved that the tumour had evi- dently originated in a ruptui-e of the vessels of the bone, and an extra- vasation of blood into the cancelli. By the pressure of this blood, and a continuance of the extravasation, the bony tissue was expanded and absorbed ; and the cancelli were converted into chambers filled with dark solid coagula. The tumour was invested by the periosteum. The cephalhcematoma of newly-born children is a state depending on effusion of blood within and around the bones of the head. II. Pulsating Tumours are sometimes developed in bone, and may be of three kinds. 1st. Soft cancer, the circulation through which may be so energetic, that the tumour pulsates, and yields a whizzing sound like that heard in aneurisms. 2ndly. Tumours formed by the development of erectile tissue in the substance of a bone; and, * Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xxi.CANCER IN BONES. 249 3rdly. Tumours depending on eulargenfient of the osseous arteries.* To the last, the name of osteo-aneunsm is given. The seat of the tumour is generally the extremity of one of the long bones, and frequently the tibia just below the knee. The patient complains of a sudden pain in the part. This is followed by painful swelling, and all the veins of the leg are observ^ed to be very tense and full. After a time, the whole limb becomes dark red, and painful ; and the tumour becomes distinctly pulsatory. It is generally moderately firm to the touch, and perhaps gives a slight crackling sensation, owing to the thin shell of bone covering some part of it. On examination it is found to be com- posed of a spongy tissue, containing convoluted vessels and cells, the latter filled with clots of blood in concentric layers : the bone of course expanded, thinned, and absorbed. This disease has also been observed in the humerus, radius, femur, and ilium. The treatment of such growths consists either in removing them by a direct operation from the cavity of the bone, or by ligature of the main artery of the limb ; or, lastly, iu very aggravated cases, resulting in entire removal of the thickness of the bone affected if this should be the main support of the limb in amputation or excision of the affected part of bone. III. Simple serous or synovial Cysts, and those containing hydatids, are occasionally developed in bone ; causing it to form a tumour, the diagnosis of which must be exceedingly difficult, until the part has been laid open by operation. Mr. Keate treated a case suc- cessfully by removing as much as possible of the cysts, and of the bone containing them, and applying a solution of sulphate of copper to the diseased surface.f IV. Cancer appears to have a peculiar predilection for the bones; since not only are they the fi-equent seat of primary cancer, especially of soft cancer in early life, but they also frequently suffer from second- ary'' deposits, especially during the progress of cancer of the breast. In many cases, too, the entire skeleton suffers a remarkable atrophy, all the bones becoming thin, light, and breaking from muscular exertion, or from the slightest violence. The bones most frequently affected with primary cancer, are the upper jaw, lower end of the femur, and upper end of the tibia and fibula. Cancer differs somewhat in its progress, according as it is deposited in the interior or on the exterior of bone. In the former case it is usually found in circumscribed masses, which, as they increase, cause entire atrophy of the bone around, and reduce it to the thinnest possible shell, so that it breaks. When the cancer, on the contrary, is developed on the exterior, it causes considerable hypertrophy of the periosteum, and the surface of the bone sends out stalactitic branches into the tumour, just as it does when an enchondroma, or fibrous tumour, has a * Stanley, Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xxviii.; Breschet, Sur des Tumeurs San- guines. f Vide Mr. Keate's case, Med. Chir, Trans, vol, x.; quoted also in Mayo's Pathology; case of hydatids growing on the tibia and causing absorption of the bone and fracture, in Wickham on Diseases of Joints. See also Med. Gaz. vol. XXX. p. 990; Rokitansky, vol. iii.250 FRACTURE. similar situation. It must be noticed that this ossification of the fibrous septa of a cancerous tumour does not constitute an osteoid cancer. Of the symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment, we need not speak again here, except to say that the question of amputation or extirpation must be decided by the rules given in the Section on the Treatment of Cancer. SECTION VIII.—FRACTURE GENERALLY. Definition.—The term fracture explains itself. Fracture is said to be simple, when there is no wound of the skin communicating with the broken part of the bone ; compound, when there is such a wound; transverse, when the line of fracture lies across the limb; oblique, when the line of fracture slopes, so that the fractured surfaces tend to slip off each other; comminuted, when the bone is smashed into fragments ; complicated, when there is laceration of artery, or other additional injury. Exciting Causes.—The exciting causes of fracture are two—me- chanical violence and muscular action. Mechanical violence may be direct or indirect. It is said to be direct, when it produces a fracture at the part to which it is actually applied; as in the instance of frac- ture of the skull from a violent blow. It is said to be indirect, when a force is applied to two parts of a bone, which gives way between. This is exemplified in the case of fracture of the clavicle from a fall on the shoulder. The sternal end of the bone is impelled by the weight of the body, and the aci omial end by the object it falls against; and the bone, acted upon by these two forces, gives way in the middle. Some- times in children fracture is partial {green-stick or willow fracture), part only of the fibres breaking, and the rest bending. The bones most commonly fractured by muscular action are the patella and olecranon ; but the humerus, femur, or any other bone may give way from this cause, if preternaturally weak. Predisposing Causes.—There are certain circumstances which render the bones more liable than usual to be broken. These are, 1. The atrophy arising from old age, or from prolonged disuse of any limb. 2. Certain diseases, as fatty degeneration, mollities ossium, and cancer. 3. Original conformation; the bones of some people being exceedingly brittle, without any assignable cause. Repair.—The first few days after fracture is a period of repose; little or no change taking place, except, perhaps, the effusion of small quantities of lymph and serum, and the absorption of blood that may have been extravasated. To this follows a period of exudation, in which plastic lymph is effused between, possibly around, the broken ends. To this follows a period of development, in which the lymph is converted first into fibrous tissue, and then into bone, or first into cartilage, and then into bone. The time which elapses before union is completed may vary from four to ten weeks; being so much the less, in proportion as the patient is younger and heathier, and especially if the fracture isTREATMENT OF FEACTURE. 251 nicely adjusted, and kept at perfect rest. The material which unites a fractured bone fills up the medullary cavities, and renders the part quite solid at the seat of injury. The last stage in the process of repair consists in the absorption of superfluous bone, and the restoration of the medullary cavities. This may be completed in from six to twelve months. The material by which fractures were con- solidated was called, in old surgical works, callus. If the broken ends are accurately ad- justed together, it is simply deposited between them, with very slight infiltration of the peri- osteum, and slight, if any, projection of callus. If the ends are not accurately adjusted, the callus fills up any angular interspaces, as shown in the adjacent cut. This cut also exhibits the formation Of what is called a provisional callus, that is to say, a ferrule of new bone encircling both fragments for some little distance above and below, so as to splice them together firmly, before they are actually united by a permanent callus. It was formerly taught, that this is the regular mode in which the union of broken shafts of long bones is accomplished. But later researches have shown, that the doctrine of formation of provisional callus is generally true only in the case of animals, in whom it depends on the constant movement and disturbance to which their bones when broken are subjected; and in the human subject it is generally true only as regards the ribs, which ai'e bones almost in perpetual motion.* The source from which callus was exuded, was verj'' much disputed in the last generation. Doubtless in the most favourable cases, of simple fracture nicely adjusted, and uncomplicated by inflammation, it pro- ceeds from the bone and periosteum only. Yet any neighbouring fibrous tissue, is probably also capable of exuding a lymph or generating a cell growth which will ossify; nay, if the greater part of the shaft of a bone be removed or necrosed, the lymph yielded by the periosteum, if sufficiently preserved, may be converted into a new bone. Experiments made on animals by M. Oilier of Lyons show con- clusively that a portion of periosteum removed from all connections, except those absolutely necessary for its continued vitality, will pro- duce bone even in most unnatural situations, such as under the skin of the back or neck. Bones that do not unite.—The neck of the thigh-bone, the olecranon, the acromion, coracoid, and coronoid procesess and the tuberosity of the os calcis, patella, and other bones invested with synovial membrane, do not * See Mr. Lawson's case of Provisional Callus in neglected Fracture of the Femur in a child: Med. Times, 19th Feb. 1859.TREATMENT OF FRACTUEE. 252 reunite readily by bone. For this there are three reasons. First, there is great difficulty in keeping the broken surfaces absolutely in contact; and, secondly, at perfect rest; lastly, the con- * tact of synovia, and the distension caused by its abun- dant effusion into the joint and between the broken surfaces of bone. Moreover, if portions of the skull be removed, the gap is not filled up.f Symptoms.—The symptoms of fracture are three: 1. Deformity; such as bending, or shortening, or twist- ing of the injured limb. This is judged of by the eye. 2. Preternatural mobility. This is ascertained by the surgeon, who firmly but gently gi'asps the upper end of the broken bone, and moves the lower, so as to see if one end moves independently of the other, or if any part yields on pressure. 3. Crepitus; a grating noise heai-d and felt both by patient and surgeon when the broken ends are rubbed against each other. If the broken parts [are displaced, they must be drawn into their natural position, otherwise no crepitus will be detected. Of these three signs deformity is sometimes absent in fracture of the ribs, pelvis, and scapula; mo- bility and crepitus in impacted fractures, or when the bones are held firmly by muscular spasm. Crepitus is also prevented when the broken ends are separately imbedded in the adjacent soft tissues. All these signs are often absent in fractures of the skull, producing a simple fissure. In addition to these symptoms, there will be more or less pain, swelling, and helplessness of the injured part, startings and spasms of the muscles, and considerable subcutaneous ecchymosis. The causes which produce displacement after fracture are three. 1. Muscular action, which produces various degrees of bending, short- ening, or twisting, in different cases. 2. The weight of the parts below, which, for instance, causes the shoulder to sink downwards when the clavicle is broken. 3. The original violence which caused the fracture, as when the ossa nasi are driven in. Treatment,—The general indications for the treatment of fracture are, to place the fragments in their natural position ; and, having done so, to maintain them in perfect contact and at perfect rest till they have firmly united. The first thing required in fractures of the lower extremities is to carry the patient to his home, or to an hospital, gently, on a litter, with both legs tied securely together at the knee and ankle, so that there may be no chance of the broken bone being thrust through the skin. A litter may be made of a couple of poles, and a sack or horsecloth. * Fractured tibia and fibula after seven years; large callus and irregular ossi- fication. St. Mary's Museum, f See Paget's Lectures and Mayo's Pathology.253 TREATMENT OF FEACTURE. Then the bed on which the patient is to lie should be made as firm arid level as possible. The patient is to be gently laid on it, undressed, and examined. Before putting on any apparatus, a good washing will be of use. Secondly, the fracture must be reduced or set; that is to say, the broken parts must be adjusted in their natural positions. For this purpose, the upper end of the limb must be held steadily by one assistant, while the lower is extended, or firmly, but gradually and gently drawn in such a direction as to restore the limb to its proper length and shape; the surgeon, meanwhile, by manipulating with his fingers, placing the fragments in their correct position. It is better not to do this until the splints and other apparatus are made ready for fixing, lest redisplacement occur in the meanwhile by muscular spasm and a fresh and painful adjustment rendered necessary. Chloroform sliould be administered to prevent pain and spasm. Thirdly, it is usual to bandage the whole of the fractured limb from its extremity. This is done for tlie double purpose of preventing swelling, and of confining the muscles, that they may not contract and disturb the fracture. Fourthly, it is necessary to use some mechanical contrivances to keep the limb of its natural length and shape, and prevent any motion at the fractured part. It is usual to employ for this purpose splints of wood, carved to the shape of the limb. But every surgeon ought to be able to construct splints out of such materials as the carpenter's shop affords. The surgeon should measure with a tape the sound limb which corresponds to the injured one, and choose splints that are long enough to rest against the condyles or other projecting points at its extremities. These must be padded; and pads are easily made of tow or horse- hair, well shaken or pulled out, and wrapped up in pieces of old linen. But the v^ery best pads are made of old blankets, which should be cut into strips long and wide enough to line the splints; and a sufficient number of strips should be laid on, to give the requisite softness, and they may be arranged so as to press, or not to press, exactly where the surgeon desires it. The splints, when ready, should be firmly bound to the limb with pieces of old bandage or linen straps and buckles; and when they are properly put on, so as to keep the broken part immove- able, and prevent muscular spasms, without being too tight, the patient is sure to express himself as unspeakably comfoi ted. Instead of wooden splints, it is sufficient in some cases to use pasteboard softened in boiling water, so that it may be accurately adapted, and then allowed to dry and stiffen. A good plan used in the Belgian hospitals, is to cover the broken limb with a layer of cotton wool, and, then (keeping up proper extension) to apply a bandage and cover with layers of brown paper, moistened and spread with good paste, to a sufficient thickness to keep up a resisting amount of stiffness. A strong pasteboard splint is thus formed accurately adapted to the normal shape of the limb while under extension. One of the greatest improvements in the mechanical treatment of fracture, especially of the leg, is the starched or gummed bandage.254 TKEATMENT OF FRACTURE. This is composed of laj^ers of lint or old linen, or of bandages soaked in thick mucilage of starch or dexti-ine, or of mixture of equal parts of powdered gum arabic and precipitated chalk. These, when dry, form a remarkably light but firm support, A dry bandage should be put on first of all; then layers of wadding to fill up all hollows ; then layers of bandages well soaked in starch. But how is the starched bandage to be got off, or loosened, if too tight? In order to provide for this, a strip of stout tape should be laid lengthwise on the limb before the starched bandage is put on. By lifting up one end of this, the blunt point of a pair of scissors may be got under the bandage without wounding the skin; so that the starched bandage can be ripped up and taken off, as a complete mould; then, if damped with boiling water, it can be softened, and put on again more comfortably. Plaster of Paris is an admirable material, from its faculty of quickly setting. The limb should first be bandaged with strips of paper: outside this, long thick layers of linen well thickened with plaster of Paris and water; extension should be kept up till it has set. Wounds may be left uncovered. Splints may also be made of gutta-percha, softened in boiling water, moulded to the shape of the limb, and then trimmed with scissors, and hardened by cold water: by mixing the gutta-percha in a softened state with a proportion of one-fifth of the sesquioxide of iron, it is made more manageable in working, and sets sooner and harder and more resistant to heat than when in its unmixed state. Or of wire gauze, per- forated zinc, and a hundred other substances, of which perhaps paper cut into strips, soaked in paste, and laid on in layers, is one of the most convenient. We think it right also to mention the straw splints, made by filling a linen bag, of the size of the splint required, with mibroken wheat straw, such as is used in thatching, the straw being cut to the length of the limb, and the open end of the bag then sewn up. This is both splint and pad in one, and may often be of great service in country and military practice.* The remaining treatment of simple fracture must be conducted on general principles. Cordials, to restore the patient from the shock of the injury; the catheter, if he cannot make water, which is common after fractures of the leg ; aperients, if necessary ; cold lotion, if agree- able; and leeches, very rarely, to allay excessive inflammation, must be employed at the discretion of the practitioner. But of all ]-emedies for allaying pain and irritation, preventing spasms and starting and dis- placement of the bones, and enabling the patient to bear tranquilly the penance of long confinement to bed, nothing equals opium, in grain doses, once, twice, or thi'ice a day; given without the patient's know- ledge, and mingled, if need be, with colocynth, to prevent consti- pation. The apparatus and bandages must, if necessary, be loosened when * See some remarks by Mr. Tuffnell, in Kauking's Abstract, vol. iii. p. 240.255 NON-UNION OF FRACTURE. swelling comes on, and be afterwards tightened sufficiently to keep the parts steadily in their place; and care must be taken to prevent pain- ful pressure on any particular spot, and to rectify any displacement as soon as it may occur. If the fingers or toes become blue or benumbed, the surgeon should remember the possibility of gangrene from too tight a bandage. If through mismanagement, a fracture has united crookedly, the pa- tient should be narcotized by chloroform, and the uniting or united part be bent, or even broken, if necessary, so as to restore the right shape. Such a proceeding may easily be effected before the fourth week, and the author knows cases in which it was done successfully after many months. Habitual Deformity must not be confounded with fracture or dislocation. When a person who has met with a fall, or other accident, is found to have a limb shortened or misshapen, the surgeon should always ask whether or not there was any deformity before the accident, else he may fall into the ridiculous error of treating an old deformity as if it were a recent injury. SECTION IX.—NON-UNION AND FALSE JOINT. . There are some cases in which fracture of the shafts of bones does not unite by bone. This is liable to happen:— 1st. If tlie fractured part is subjected to frequent motion and dis- turbance ; in which case the effused lymph, instead of ossifying, will either be converted into bands of fibrous tissue, uniting the broken ends, or else a false joint will be formed ; the ends of the bones being covered with synovial mem- brane, and surrounded with a liga- mentous capsule. 2nd]y. The reparative processes may be deficient if the vital powers are exhausted by age and debility; or if the system is under the influence of gout, syphilis, or cancer; or if an acute disease or fever comes on; or if the part be deprived of its nervous influence. Thus Mr. Travers relates a case in which a patient had a fracture of tlie arm and of the leg, and like- wise an injury of the back, which palsied the lower extremities. The arm united readily enough, but the leg did not. In some cases of women, pregnant or suckling; broken bones have not united; but they more frequently do so. But yet there are some cases which it is as diflicult to account for as it is to remedy.256 NON-UNION OF FRACTUEE. 3rdly. The ends of the bone may be separated by and imbedded in the adjoining muscular or fibrous tissues so as to prevent the close contiguity necessary for a proper union. This has sometimes occurred in non-united fractures of the thigh and upper arm bones. Treatment,—There are three indications : 1st, To bind up the part in splints, or the starched bandages, or to envelop it in a mould of plaster of Paris, so as to insure perfect rest, perfect apposition, and pressure of the brolven ends against each other. But, as Sir B. Brodie very justly observes, the bandage should not be put on so tightly as to impede the general circulation of the limb, 2ndly. Should this not succeed, after a fair trial of six weeks or two months, means must be adopted to excite the adhesive inflammation around the fracture. This may be done by rubbing one end of the bone roughly against the other, and brealcing up any fibrous bands, and then splints should be again firmly applied for a month. If this also fail, some operation must be resorted to. 1. The surgeon may cut down on the fracture, by the subcutaneous method, and scarify the ends of the bones by a long narrow knife; or he may pass in a probe, or ii-on wire, between the broken extremities, and allow it to remain a week or ten days, after which the limb should be put up immovably in splints. 2, The fracture maybe cut down upon,and one or both of the broken ends be drilled with holes, into which ivory pegs are to be firmly driven, and allowed to remain for some weeks. 3. A seton may be passed through the limb, between the fractured ends, or through the fiesh close to the fracture, 4. If other measures also fail, the last resource is to cut down on the fractui e, and saw or shave off the ends of the bone (sometimes it is found that a little piece of muscle is wedged between them, which must be removed) ; but these opera- tions are of a most severe and dangerous character, and not to be resorted to without absolute necessity. 3rdly. Care should be taken to detect and remedy any constitutional disorder to which the want of union can be attributed. Debility must be counteracted by tonics, nutritive food, and stimulants. Mr. Fer- gusson relates a case of fractured thigh, in which no callus was formed for three weeks, until the patient was allowed a reasonable quantity of whiskey, to which he had been previously accustomed; and Sir B. Brodie relates similar instances. It will be worth while to administer lime plentifully in the form of liquor calcis with siU'saparilla, F. 84 ; or two ounces of lime-water may be given thrice a day, with an equal quantity of milk; or, which is better, the phosphate of lime, as recom- mended by the author, F. 201. Mercury may be given if there is a syphilitic taint; and Mr, B. Cooper gives a case of non-union in which, although the general health appeared perfectly good, mercury given to ptyalism effected a cure after the seton had failed.* A few instances are known in which, the callus, after union was completed, inflamed and became absorbed, so that the fracture was dis- * Vide Sir A. Cooper on Dislocations and Fractures, p, 568; Brodie in Med. Gaz. vol, xiii.; and cases by Kennett, Hill, Stanley, Bowman, Fergnsson, Hilton, Geohegan, Square, and others, in Ranking's Abstract, vols. x. xiv. and xvi.TREATMENT OF COMPOUND FRACTURE. 257 united again. Leeclies and blisters to the part proved effectual reme- dies.* A recent callus is also sometimes absorbed during fever; and this occurrence used to be common enough in the sea-scurvy. SECTION X.—COMPOUND FRACTURE. Definition.—A fracture with a wound, which communicates with the fractured part. Causes.—Fracture may be rendered compound. 1. By the same injury which broke the bone. 2. By the bone being thrust through the skin. 3. By subsequent ulceration or sloughing of the integuments. Dangers.—These are threefold. 1. The shock and collapse of the injury, which may prove fatal in a few hours, especially if much blood has been lost. 2. Inflammation, erysipelas, pyaemia, fever, and tetanus. 3. Hectic or typhoid fever from excessive suppuration. Question op Amputation,—In order to decide upon the necessity of this operation, the extent of the injury and the restorative powers of the patient, and the resources of the sui'geon as to nurses, nourish- ment, &c., must be carefully considered. If the bone is very much shattered and comminuted; if the soft parts are extensively torn or bruised; if the large vessels or nerves ai-e injured, or if the knee- joint is extensively damaged and freely exposed by a fracture extending also far into the femur or tibia ; if, in particular, a large portion of the skin and soft parts have been torn away, or so injured that a large tract of it must slough ; if the patient is very old, or much enfeebled, either by previous disease, or present loss of blood; if the collapse of the injury is excessive and permanent—amputation is probably requisite. See Gunshot Wounds, p. 156. Compound Fractures of Joints should be treated as described under gunshot wounds. Laceration of Arteries is a dangerous complication both of simple and compound fracture. It is detected by the great flow of blood, if there be a wound; and if not, by a rapid, diffused, and dark-coloured tumefaction of the limb, with coldness and want of arterial pulsation in the parts below. If it be the femoral, amputation will most pro- bably be required, because the vein may have been injured also ; if any other (the anterior or posterior tibial, for instance), it may be secured ; provided that there is no other valid cause for amputation, and that the required incision will not too much aggi-avate the injury to the soft parts. But, cseteris paribus, this accident is always an additional reason for am- putation, if there be other circumstances rendering it probably expedient. Treatment.—If it be determined to save the limb, it must first be placed in a proper position, and then the fracture must be reduced, if a sharp end of bone protrude, and it cannot easily be returned or kept in its place, or if the periosteum be scraped off or injured, so that it will probably become necrosed, it should be sawn off. Any loose fragments or splinters of bone should be at once removed; and, if * James, Address in Pro v. Med. Trans. 1840. D SPARTICULAR FRACTURES. 258 necessary, the wound may be dilated for this purpose. If suffered to remain, they greatly aggravate the inflammation and danger of tetanus, and may produce long-continued disease of the bone. If the pro- truding bone or its periosteum be not injured, and the size of the wound does not permit it to be replaced, the wound may be dilated for that purpose. After reduction, the great object is to close the wound as nicely as possible, so as to heal it up, and to convert the compound fracture into a simple one, and the best application is a piece of lint dipped in blood, collodion, or in compound tincture of benzoin; then bandages and splints are to be used. If necessary, the splints should have apertures corresponding to the Avound, so that it may be dressed without disturbance to the whole limb. When swelling comes on, the bandages must be loosened, and cold be applied if agi'eeable. Pain and restlessness must be relieved by full doses of opium; thirst by saUne draughts, F. 58; and the bowels be opened, if necessary, and if it can be done without disturbance. The catheter should be used, if required. But perhaps reaction is not fully esta- blished.—" We notice irregular action of the heart; the pulse does not rise as it should do; in the state of sympathetic fever the artery is left subdilated, weak, and its beats are fluttering and uncertain; the tongue is coated to a certain degree; the expression of the countenance agitated, and unsteady in its direction ; and the sensorium seems faltering iu its powers. The patient does not clearly understand his real state, and usually declares that he feels well; he does not sleep much, and is wandering when he does. The wound is dry, and the parts about it assume an ashen colour, with the feel of pufiiness in the parts about it.' * For this condition brandy and beef-tea are the remedies. The great object in the subsequent ti-eatment is to prevent the lodgment of matter, by sponging and pressing it out carefully at each dressing, syringing with weak zinc lotion, and applying compresses to prevent its aceumu- lation, and, if required, by making depending openings for its discharge. But if, notwithstanding the employment of tonics, wine, and good diet, the patient seems likely to sink under the discharge and irritation, ampu- tation is the last resource. SECTION XI.—PARTICULAR FRACTURES. T. Fractures of the Ossa Nasi, and of the Malar and Superior Maxillary Bones, may be produced by violent blows or falls on the face, or by gunshot injuries. Treatment.—Any displacement of the fractured portions should be rectified as soon as possible, by passing a strong probe or female cathe- ter up the nostril, and by manipulation with the fingers. A depressed fragment may often be conveniently raised by passing one blade of a dressing forceps up the nostril, and applying the other externally, so as to grasp the fragment between them. Some practitioners are in the habit of introducing tubes or plugs of oiled lint, in order to keep * Vincent, op. cit. p. 127.259 PAKTICULAR FRACTURES. the fragments in their places ; but this appears to be unnecessary, and is very irritating. A plug of lint, may, however, be requisite to check profuse hgemorrhage. If the fracture is compound, any loose splinters should be carefully removed. The great swelling, ecchymosis, bleed- ing from the nose, and headache, with which this injury is followed, will require to be combated by bleeding or leeches, purgatives and cold lotions, and spoon diet; and if collections of matter form, they should be opened without delay. If there are symptoms of pressure on the brain, and the vomer seems depressed, it should be carefully drawn forwards, if possible. 11. Fracture of the Lower Jaw may be caused by violent blows. Its most usual situation, says Mr. Vincent, is close to one of the eye-teeth. Sometimes in children (though rarely) it occurs at the symphysis, and still more rarely at the angle, or in the ascending ramus. Oy the bone may be fractured in two places, one on each side of the symphysis. Symptoms.—It is known by pain, swelling, and inability to move the jaw, and irregularity of tha teeth, because the anterior fragment is generally drawn downwards'; by the muscles arising from the hyoid bone, whilst the posterior fragment is fixed by the temporal. On moving the chin, whilst the hand is placed on the posterior fragment, crepitus will be felt; and the gums are lacerated and bleeding, and the teeth at the point of fracture loosened. The diagnosis of fracture of the ascending ramus will often be obscured by the great swelling. Great pain and difficulty of motion and obscure crepitus, usually felt and heard best by the patient himself on account of its contiguity to the internal ear through the temporo-maxillary articulation, are the chief signs. Treatment.— A piece of pasteboard, or gutta percha, cut to the shape here given (a), softened in boiling water, should be accurately fitted to the jaw, and then a four-tailed bandage should be applied. This is made by taking a yard and a half of wide roller, and tear- ing each end longitudinally, so as to leave about eight inches in the middle, which should have a short slit in it. The chin is to be put into this slit, and then two of the tails are to be tied over the crown of the head, so as to fix the lower jaw against the upper, and the other two are to be fastened behind the head.* It is useful to place a thin wedge- shaped piece of cork or gutta percha between the molar teeth on each aide, especially if any of the teeth at the fractured part are deficient, in order to insure more perfect adaptation, and to keep the incisor teeth a little apart. Sometimes a tooth falls down between the broken * Woodcut b shows the pasteboard splint as applied; the longer piece applied to the rami, the shorter one doubled back under the chin, and its ends brought up on either side.FRACTURE OF THE CLAVICLE. 260 parts ; a circumstance which should be looked to, if there is much The patient for the first fortnight must be fed en- tirely with broth, gruel, bread-pap, &c. The cure generally occupies five or six weeks. III. Fracture of THE Clavicle is most frequently situated at the middle of the bone, and is generally caused by falls on the arm or shoul- der, when it is usually ob- lique in direction; some- times, however, by direct violence, when it is gene- rally situated near the acromial extremity, and transverse to the axis of the bone. When fracture of the acromial end of this bone is situated between the coraco-acromial ligaments, there is very little displacement, and often little or no crepitus from impaction of the fragments) but when the fracture is external to these ligaments, the acromial extremity of the bone is apt to turn round at right angles to the sternal portion.* Symptoms.—The patient complains of inability to lift the affected arm, and supports it at the elbow; the shoulder sinks downwards, forwards, and inwards ; the distance from the acromion to the sternum is less than it is on the sound side ;—and the end of the sternal frag- ment of the bone projects as though it were displaced, although it is not so in reality, but merely appears to be so, in consequence of the sinking of the shoulder and of the outer fragment. Treatment.—The shoulder must be raised, and must be supported in a direction upwards, backwat^ds, and outwards. The broken parts may be reduced, either by putting the knee between the scapulae and drawing the shoulders backwards ; or by placing the elbow close to the trunk and a little forwards, and then pushing it upwards. To support the parts during the cure, the most common apparatus is— The stellate, or figure-of-8 bandage, represented in the cut (p. 261). In the fii-st place a thick wedge-shaped pad must be put into the axilla, with the large end uppermost. Then a long roller must be passed over each shoulder alternately, and be made to cross on the back. In the next place, the arm must be confined to the side by two or three turns of * A Treatise on Fractures in the vicinity of Joints, by Robert William Smith, M.D. &c. Dublin, 1847. A most complete and masterly work. difficulty in fitting them together.FRACTURE OF THE CLAVICLE. 261 the roller; and lastly, the elbow should be well raised by a sling, which is also to support the forearm. It will be noticed, that the shoulder is kept up by the sling, out by the pad, and back by the bandage. The same objects may be gained by means of three handkerchiefs, one to act as the pad in the axilla ; another for a sling; and the third to keep the arm close to the body — the whole being stitched together. An excellent plan, of French origin, and frequently used by Professor Syme, of Edinburgh, is to take three silk handker- chiefs ; two ai-e looped round the shoulders under the axilla, and tied behind, leaving one end of the knot longer than the other. The long ends are then passed across the back and under the opposite loop, and finally tied together, drawing forcibly the shoulders back- ward towards each other. The third is used as an elbow- sling to support the arm and bind it to the side. Another simple contrivance, invented by Mr. James Duncan, for the same purpose, is a strip jean about a yard long, of the shape represented in the next figure (p. 262). The elbow is fixed in the hole ; the smaller straps pass back and front of the chest, and are buckled over the opposite shoulder; and the bi-oad part is buckled round the chest, confining the arm to the side. The whole being in one piece cannot slip, and is very available for children. In ordinary cases the patient may be allowed to walk about in a week or ten days, and the cure will be completed in a month or five weeks. The patient should be informed that some little irregularity is apt to remain. If, however, there is any difficulty in maintaining a proper position, the patient must be confined to bed, and some additional apparatus be employed. The simplest is a straight splint across the shoulders, to which they are to be bound by the figure-of-8 bandage ; or a splint shaped like a T, of which the horizontal part is bound to the shoulders; and the vertical part passes down the back, and is confined by a belt round the abdomen. Besides these there is the claviole bandage, which consists of two262 FRACTURES OF THE SCAPULA. loops for the shoulders, attached to two pads resting on the scapula, which are drawn together by straps and buckles.* The application of the proper sling in these cases is very important, and its neglect or in- efficiency frequently produces a contorted union of the broken collar- bone. Mr. Wood, of King's College Hospital, recommends its applica- tion in the following way;—A stout silk handkerchief long enough for the purpose is folded cornerwise and laid over the elbow and forearm with the double corner towards the hand. One end of the handker- chief is then carried obliquely along the back to the opposite shoulder, and the other across the chest to meet it; the ends are then crossed over the opposite shoulder, carried under the axilla, and tied behind. The double corner is then carried between the- hand and the breast, and fastened by a needle and thread securely to the upper part of the front end near the shoulder. The hand is thus kept well up towards the opposite shoulder, the elbow well forward, and the whole arm confined efiectively to the side. In cases of willow fracture of the collar-bone in children, the proper application of such a sling is the only means of retention that is neces- sary or effective. IV. Fractures of the Scapula.—The body of this bone may be broken across by gi-eat direct violence. One case is known also in which it was fractured by muscular action.f The symptoms are, great pain * Mr. Vincent treats all fractures and dislocations of the clavicle by merely- placing the patients on flat beds, by which the parts assume and preserve their natural position. Bandages, he says, do little good commonly, and are not required if the patient keeps his bed. Op. cit. t Quoted In Eanbing's Abstract, vol, ii, p. 104.263 FRACTURE OF THE ACROMION. in moving the shoulder, and crepitus; which may be detected by placing one hand on the acromion or spinous process, and moving the shoulder or the inferior angle with the other. Treatment.—'A roller must be passed round the trunk over a large flat pad or napkin placed upon the scapula, and a few turns be made round the humerus, so as to fix the arm to the side, and prevent all motion. Opium and quietude, perhaps purging and low diet, will be required to avert inflammation of the chest. Fracture of the Neck op the Scapula, by which is meant an oblique fracture, detaching the coracoid process and glenoid cavity from the rest of the bone, is a rare accident, insomuch that some surgeons have doubted its existence.* The symptoms described by Sir Astley Cooper are the following:— The shoulder appears sunk, and the arm lengthened ; the acromion is usually prominent, and the deltoid dragged down and flattened ; the head of the humerus can be felt in the axilla ; and on placing one hand or one ear on the acromion, and moving the shoulder, crepitus may be detected. Crepitus may also be felt on pressing the coracoid process, which is situated deep below the clavicle, between the margins of the pectoral and deltoid muscles. The accidents with which this fracture is most likely to be confounded are fracture of the neck of the humerus, and dislocation of the shoulder joint; the symptoms of which should be carefully studied and compared. The existence of crepitus, and the fact that the surgeon can move the shoulder freely (although with great pain), are the chief points of diagnosis between this accident and dislocation. Treatment.—The shoulder must be supported by the same sling, bandage, and pad that are used for fracture of the clavicle ; but a short sling from the axilla of the injured side to the opposite shoulder should be used in addition to the long sling from the elbow to the shoulder. Union may occur in seven weeks. Opium, rest in bed, and warm fo- mentations ; perhaps, leeches and purgatives, will be necessary for the contusion with which this fracture is accompanied. Fracture op the Acromion is known by a flattening of the shoulder, because the fractured portion is drawn down by the deltoid; and by an evident inequality felt in tracing the spine of the scapula, with total inability to raise the arm outwards. It may be distinguished from any dislocation, by noticing that the humerus may be freely moved in any direction, and that, on slightly raising the shoulder, the fragment is restored to its place. This is also a rare accident; and Mr. Fergusson believes that, in some of the supposed cases of ligamentous union, the detached portion was never united by ossification to the rest of the bone from birth. Treatment.—The same bandages, &c., are to be applied as for frac- ture of the clavicle; but great care must be taken to raise the elbow * See a case by Mr. May, of Reading, Med. Gaz., 8th Oct. 1842. Mr. Wor- mald possesses a specimen, of which many casts have been taken by Mr. Wilmott, of St. Mary's Hospital Museum.264 FRACTURES OF THE HUMERUS. thoroughly, so that the head of the humerus may be lifted up against the acromion, and keep it in its ]>]ace. Moreover, no pad must be placed in the axilla ; otherwise the broken part will be pushed outwards too much. Mr. Wood employs a broad figure-of-8 bandage, the upper loop of which passes under the opposite axilla, crossing over a pad placed on the broken part of the shoulder, while the lower loop passes down the back and under the elbow, flexed at a right angle across the chest. Three or four of the concluding turns of the bandage are to be taken round the body, arm, and hand horizontally. Union is almost always ligamentous, owing to the difficulty of keeping the parts in strict apposition. Fracture of the Coracoid Process is a rare accident, caused by sharp blows on the front of the shoulder. Symptoms.—The patient is unable to execute the motions performed by the biceps and coracobrachialis; that is, to bring the arm upwards and forwards ; and motion and crepitus of the detached process may be felt by pressing with the finger between the pectoralis major and del- toid, whilst the patient coughs or moves his shoulder. Treatment.—The humerus must be brought forwards and inwards, so as to relax the biceps and coracobrachialis, and must be confined to the trunk. V. Fractures of the Humerus.— Fracture of the shaft will be known at a glance by the limb being bent, shortened, and helpless, and by the crepitus felt when it is handled. The Upper Extremity of the Humerus may be fractured. 1, through the anatomical neck ; 2, through the line of junction of the epiphysis; 3, through the surgical neck; 4, the greater tuberosity may be broken otf; 5, the head may be dislocated from the glenoid cavity, and the cervix be fractured likewise. (1.) Fracture through the anatomical neck, that is to say, within the capsular ligament, is a rare accident, difficult of diagnosis ; there being scarcely any displacement: " The impairment of the motions of the joint and crepitus," says Dr. Smith, " are almost the only symptoms on which we can depend." There is one variety of this fracture in which the detached head of the bone is driven forcibly into and impacted in the reticular tissue of the head of the shaft, between the tubercles, one or other of which is usually broken off. " In this accident," says Dr. Smith, " the arm is slightly shortened, the acromion process projects more than natural, and the shoulder has lost, to a certain extent, its rounded form; the upper extremity of the shaft of the humerus is approximated to the acromion, and the entire of the globular head of the bone cannot be felt. In consequence * This cut shows the line of fracture of the anatomical neck; and the line of junction of the epiphysis.FRACTURES OF THE HUMERUS. 265 of the fracture of the tuberosity, crepitus can be readily detected, when the shoulder is grasped with moderate firmness, and the arm rotated. The absence of a rounded tumour in the axilla, and the impossibility of feeling the glenoid cavity, are sufficient to enable us to distinguish this fracture from luxation." (2.) Fracture at the line of junction of the epiphysis, called by Sir A. Cooper " fracture through the tubercles, or at the anatomical neck," is a not unfrequent accident in early life, and is usually caused by great and direct violence. Symptoms.—The head of the bone can be felt in the glenoid cavity (by which sign this accident is distin- guished from dislocation) ; it remains motionless when the elbow is rotated; there is a striking and abrupt projection situated beneath the coracoid process, and caused by the upper extremity of the shaft of the bone, drawn inwards by the muscles which constitute the folds of the axilla. It may be felt rounded, smooth, and slightly convex, not with the sharp irregular margin of ordinary fracture: a slight extension from the elbow draws the bi'oken point of the bone into its natural place, but it immediately projects again when the extension is discon- tinued : the axis of the arm is directed downwards, outwards, and backwards. (3.) Fracture of the surgical neck presents nearly the symptoms of the preceding variety : the head of the bone felt in the glenoid cavity ; the elbow capable of being moved by the surgeon in all directions, whilst the head of the bone remains motionless ; the projection of the upper end of the shaft under the pectoralis muscle; the deformity re- moved by extension, but returning when the extension is discon- tinued. There is one variety of this accident in which the lower fragment is driven up and impacted in the cancellous tissue of the head of the bone. This complication adds mate- rially to the difficulty of diagnosis, inasmuch as there is slight shortening and some de- formity, but yet none of the usual signs of luxation or of fracture of the neck of the bone. Crepitus may, however, be produced, if the surgeon very firmly grasp the head of the bone, whilst an assistant rotates the elbow. (4.) Fracture of the greater tuberosity is usually caused by blows or falls on the shoulder. Symptoms.—Great breadth of the injured joint; slight projection of the acro- mion and flattening of the deltoid, though the finger cannot be sunk into the glenoid cavity as in a case of dislocation; the head of the bone is held in the glenoid socket by the axillary muscles, whilst the sepa- rated tuberosity is drawn outwards by the supra and infra spinatusand * Fracture of the surgical neck of the humerus, united.FRACTURES OF THE HUMERUS. 266 teres minor; a deep groove can be felt between the fractured tuberosity and the head ot the bone ; the latter of which can be felt to move in its socket when the elbow is rotated, and the whole limb can be moved in any direction by the surgeon. All of the preceding fractures, even including the fracture of the anatomical neck, usually unite firmly by bone; for though fracture at this part would seem likely to deprive the head of the bone of all vas- cular connection and means of support, yet probably some ligamentous bands, which are sufficient for the purpose, remain untorn: in cases of impaction there is no difficulty. Yet the patient should be informed that some deformity is likely to remain, and some loss of motion, though time and use will go far to restore the latter. (5.) In fracture of the cervix humeri, with dislocation, the head of the bone can be felt in the axilla, if the arm be raised ; and it can be felt not to move when the elbow is rotated. The arm is shortened, and the broken extremity of the shaft can be perceived to move under the acromion. In treating this peculiar form of injury, it is generally found impossible to restore the head of the bone to its place; but the broken summit of the shaft must be brought into the glenoid cavity, and there be retained by a figure-of-8 bandage, and by keeping the humerus close to the side. Treatment of Fractured Humerus.—In all cases it is advisable that the patient be confined to bed for a week or a fortnight, and par- ticularly if the fractui'e be at the upper extremity of the bone; which latter accident will probably be followed by great pain and swelling, and require leeches, fomentations or cold lotions, purgatives, and opiates. The hand and forearm must be well and evenly bandaged, to prevent oedema, and the fracture be set, by steadying the shoulder, whilst the elbow is drawn downwards. Next, a long carefully-padded hollow splint should be placed on the inner side of the limb, bearing well against the axilla and the internal condyle, a second on the outer side from the acromion to the outer condyle, and perhaps a third and fourth, shorter, of pasteboard, before and behind. These must be fastened by bands of firm webbing, buckled. Then the arm being placed easily by the side,* a firm broad band must be passed round the body, so as to confine the elbow to the side, and a sling put on, en- veloping the hand and wrist only, to relieve the weight of the hand and forearm comfortably, but not to thrust up the elbow. In all cases the surgeon should take care to have the parts well washed with soap and water before the splints are put on, and when- ever they are shifted; otherwise the confined perspiration may cause an intolerable itching, which tempts the patient at night to loosen the bandages. No wise man neglects trifles. In cases of fracture of the surgical neck above the insertion of the * In fracture of the humerus, just below the insertion of the deltoid, that muscle Is apt to DJake the upper fragment project; but if the surgeon take care that the limb hang easily by the side of the body, this will soon cease.—Vincent, p. 13.FRACTURES OF THE HUMERUS. 267 pectoral teres and latissimus, the upper fragment is tilted upwards and outwards, by the supra and infra spinati, and the lower drawn inwards by the first-mentioned muscles. It will be found in such cases impossible to get the axes of the fragments in a sti'aight line, and it will be prac- ticable only to prevent the lower fragment being drawn too much towards the thorax. This will be best accomplished by placing a stout pyramid pad in the axilla with the thicker end uppermost—a long splint hollowed out at the upper end, and reaching from the acromion to the outer condyle, on the outside, and a bandage round both arm and body, leaving the elbow free, but including the hand and forearm. In one case, Mr. Tyrrell was obliged to keep the arm at right angles with the side, by means of a splint like the letter L upside down: and the surgeon's ingenuity will often be taxed to devise means suited for par- ticular cases. At the expiration of about five weeks, the patient may be allowed to swing the arm gently backwards and forwards, and gradually to bring it into use. Fracture of the lower extremity of the Humerus may present many varieties. 1. There may be an oblique f racture above the condyles, which usually happens to children. The radius and ulna, with the lower fragment, are drawn upwards and backwards as in dislocation ; but the natural appeai'ance of the parts is restored by extension. 2. Either condyle may be broken off, and the fracture may or may not extend into the joint. 3. There may be one fracture between the two condyles, and another separating them both from the shaft. All these injuries may be distinguished from dislocation of the elbow by noticing that the motions of the joint are free, and are attended with crepitus above the elbow, and that the length of the forearm, measured between the condyles of the humerus and the lower extremities of the radius and ulna, is the same as on the sound side. The patient should be warned that it is very difficult to avoid all deformity and loss of motion. * Line of oblique fracture of the lower extremity of the humerus, and the kind of deformity.268 FEACTUEES OF THE FOEEARM. Treatment.—The fore and upper arm should be bandaged, and a piece of pasteboard, gummed sheeting, or leather softened in water, should be cut to a right angle, like the letter L, so as to fit the elbow when bent, and should be applied on the inner and outer sides, and be retained by another bandage ;t or an L-shaped splint, well padded and covered with oil or gutta-percha sliin, be placed in front of the joint, and secured with broad straps of adhesive plaster above and below. This will allow fomentations and leeches to be applied behind to the joint, and being padded high in fiont of the lower fragment, gives a good fulcrum and power of extension. This splint may be made of perforated zinc, and provided with a male and female screw in front, and with a hinge at the elbow, so that passive motion may be applied in frac- tures near or into the joint, VI. Fractures of the Forearm.—Fracture of the olecranon may be caused by direct force, or by violent action of the triceps muscle. Symptoms.—The patient easily bends his limb, but has great pain and inability in straightening it. A hollow is telt at the back of the joint, because the broken part is drawn from half an inch to two inches up the arm; but sometimes, when the ligaments are not torn through, this displacement may be very trifling, or altogether absent. Treatment.—The patient may be allowed to move the part gently in three weeks. Union will be liga- mentous, unless the parts are in the closest apposition. The French surgeons treat this injury by a flexed posi- tion of the arm with a view to the possible occurrence of anchylosis. A perfectly straight position is apt to tilt backward the upper end of the olecranon against the fossa of the humerus. The best way of treating it is to use a straight splint, and to pad it thickly opposite the joint, so as to give a slight bend, and to secure it by broad sti-aps of adhesive plaster. If there is much inflammation, it must be subdued by rest and leeches before any tight apparatus is put on. M. Malgaigne's hooks, p. 285, have been applied, in order to insure apposition. ' Compound fracture of the olecranon is far trom an uncommon con- sequence of violent blows or falls on the elbow ; audit is often followed by protracted disease of the joint. The part must be bathed and fomented; any loose fragments of bone be extracted; the wound be closed with bloody lint, or collodion, if the skin can be neatly brought * Line of fracture of the internal condyle. ^ . . •{• A very convenient angular splmt is made by Matthews, and other instru- ment makers capable of being adapted to various lengths and positions of limb, and useful in most cases of fracture of tbe arm or forearm.FRACTURES OF THE FOREARM. 269 together; the elbow must be kept straight and motionless with a splint; leeches and fomentations be used to reduce inflammation; and when the wound is healed, and the joint free from active disease, gentle exercise must be employed to restore it to its proper uses. If the bones are so excessively comminuted as to render it probable that the process of reparation will be tedious and exhausting, excision of the joint should be performed; unless, indeed, the injury is so very severe as to render amputation indispensable. Fracture of the Coronoid Process is very rare. It is caused by the action of the bra- chialis muscle. Mr. Liston gives a case of it which occurred to a boy of eight years old, and was caused by his hanging with one hand from the top of a high wall. This is sometimes attendant upon dislocation of both bones of the forearm backwards. In this case there is much difficulty in keeping the bones in their proper position. A speci- men of such a fracture with dislocation is in the Museum of King's College. Symptoms. — Difficulty of bending the elbow, and dislocation of the ulna,—the olecranon projecting backwards. Treatment.—The arm must be bandaged, and kept at rest in the bent position. Union will be ligamentous. Fractures of the shafts of the Badius and Ulna, together or singly, are known by the ordinaiy signs of fracture, especially by the crepitus felt on fixing the upper end, and rotating or moving the other. The action of the pronator quadratus, when freed by a fracture of the radius at its middle third, from the opposite and controlling action of the supinator brevis, almost invariably gives a prone position to the hand and wrist. The hand is also usually everted in this injury by the action of the supinator longus upon the lower fragment. In fracture of either bone singly, and especially of both bones togethei-, the lower frag- ments are very apt to be drawn together by the pronator quadratus, so as to obliterate, if not corrected, the interosseous space and prevent the pronating and supinating power so essential to a proper use of the hand. The objects in the treatment are to prevent the fractured ends of either bone from being pressed inwards towards the interosseous space, and to prevent the upper fragment of the radius from being more supinated or everted than the lower. Treatment.—The fracture is easily reduced by extension from the wrist and elbow. Then the elbow being bent, and the forearm placed in a position intermediate between pronation and supination (that is to say, with the thumb uppermost), one splint should be applied to the flexor side, from the inner condyle of the humerus to the fingers' ends ; and another from the outer condyle of the humerus to the back of the * Fracture of olecranon. Ligamentous union. St. Mary's Museum.FEACTURES OF THE FOEEARM. 270 wrist. Both splints should be wide enough, and should be well padded along their middle, so that they may prevent the bones from being pressed together. The hand should be kept in a line with the forearm. The cure is generally complete in a month or six weeks. Fracture of the lower extremity of the Badiiis, from half an inch to an inch above the wrist, is now commonly called Cones's fracture, horn. the name of the eminent surgeon who first accurately described it. It deserves careful study from its liability to be mistaken for dislocation. The carpal extremity of the bone is usually broken off either obliquely or transversely, and the fragment is drawn backwards and outwards by the extensors of the thumb and supinator longus. Of course the * carpus and metacarpus go along with it. Thus, if the back of the forearm be looked at, there is seen to be an apparent swelling, formed by the carpus and lower fragment; and immediately above this a well-marked sulcus. On the palmar side is a more extensive but less prominent swelling, which seems as if caused by the tlexor tendons being thrown forward: this swelling extends about one-tliird up the forearm, and terminates below at the anterior annular ligaments of the wrist. The extremity of the ulna is seen projecting towards the palm and inner side of the limb; sometimes it is even dislocated forwards. The chief points of distinction between this injury and dislocjition, are the facility with which all deformity is removed by grasping the hand and making exten- sion ; the return of deformity on ceasing the exten- sion ; and the position of the styloid process of the radius, which moves with the hand if the case be fracture, but not if it be dislocation. Other varieties of fracture at this part are, 1. Ob- lique fracture of the posterior margin of the articular surface of the radius, with partial dislocation of the hand backwards : 2. Fracture of the lower end of the radius, with displacement forwards: 3. Fracture of both radius and ulna, which may be recognised by attention to the symptoms presented. * This cut is copied from Dr. Smith's work on Fractures, f Vertical fracture of lower extremity of radius. Fracture also of styloid process of ulna, with ligamentous union. From a preparation of the late Mr. Wilmott, of St. Mary's Hospital.271 FKACTURES OF THE HAND. Treatment.—The elbow being bent and steadied, the hand should be grasped and powerfully extended, and at the same time somewhat adducted. A pad should be placed along the extensor side of the fore- arm, and the thickest part of it should correspond to the displaced fragment of the radius, against which it should press, so as to push it forwards, and somewhat in the prone position as well. Another pad should be placed on the flexor side, but should not reach lower than the margin of the superior fragment. " An anterior and a posterior splint," says Dr. Smith, '* are then applied, each of which should be at least an inch broader than the forearm; the posterior should extend from the elbow to the fingers, and should be curved from the wrist downwards to receive the adducted hand; the anterior need not descend below the palm of the hand; a roller is then to be carried around the splints in the usual manner." Three weeks should elapse for a young patient, and four or five for an old one, before the wrist is moved ; and the patient should be informed at first that some months will elapse before the use of the part is restored. VII. —Fractures of the Hand.—The carpus is rarely fractured without so much other injury as to render amputation necessary. Fracture of the metacarpal hones^ or of the phalanges, will be readily recognised. The former usually project forward when broken, by the preponderating action of the anterior muscles. With respect to com- pound fracture of these parts we may observe, that no part of the hand should be amputated unless positively necessary, and even one finger should be saved if it can be done. Treatment.—For fractures of the carpus, middle metacarpal bones, and first phalanges, it is a good plan to make the patient grasp a ball of tow or some other soft substance, and bind his hand over it; for fracture of the lateral metacarpal bones, it is better to support the hand on a flat wooden splint, cut into the shape of the thumb and fingers. If one finger only be fractured, it may be confined by a thin lath or paste- board splint. It must be recollected that the palmar surfaces of the metacai'pal and digital bones are concave. They must, therefore, be slightly padded before they are bound to any flat surface, or they will unite crookedly. VIII. Fracture of the Ribs is generally situated in their anterior half, and is commonly caused by direct violence, such as blows; the bone giving way at the point struck. Sometimes, however, it is caused by indirect violence; as, for instance, when the chest is violently compressed between two points. In 1837, several people were crushed to death iu a crowd in the Champ de Mars, in Paris, and many of them were found to have several ribs broken in this manner. Sometimes, in old subjects, one or more ribs are broken by violent coughing.* Symptoms.—Fixed lancinating pain, aggravated by inspiration, coughing, or any other motion. By tracing the outline of the bone, or by placing the hand or the stethoscope upon it, crepitus may be felt * See an interesting paper on Fracture of the Ribs, by M. Malgaigne, in the Arch. G^n. de Med. 1838, quoted in B. and F. Med. Rev. vol. vii. p. 554.272 FRACTURES OF THE PELVIS. during the act of coughing or inspiration, and the patient is sensible of it likewise. If the fracture be situated near the spine, or if the patient be very corpulent, it may be difficult to detect it with certainty: but this is of little consequence ; for in every case, when a patient complains of pain on inspiration, after a blow on the chest, the treatment is the same. Treatment.—The indications are, 1. To diminish motion of all the ribs, by passing a broad flannel roller, or a towel fastened with tape round the chest, so tightly, that respiration may be performed chiefly by the diaphragm. The bandage should have shoulder-straps to keep it up. The arms should be confined to the side so as to prevent all motion of the scapula; and this latter in fat women is all that can be done: moreover, there are some patients who find all bandages intole- rable, but who do very well by being kept quiet in bed. Another plan sometimes used is to apply broad straps of adhesive plaster round the side of the chest on which the fracture is placed, leaving the opposite side free. 2. To prevent inflammation of the chest, keep the respiration easy, and relieve pain or cough, by rest in bed, by purga- tives, and opiates ; bleeding if necessary. Emphysema, a swelling caused by the presence of air in the cellular tissue, is an occasional complication of this fracture. It is produced in the following way:—The extremities of the fractured rib perforate both pleuroB and wound the lung. In the act of inspiration, air escapes from the lung into the cavity of the pleura, and from thence through the wound in th.Q pleura costalis into the cellular tissue of the trunk. Emphysema forms a soft puffy tumour, that crepitates and disperses on pressure. Treatment.—" The first object," says Mr. Vincent, " is to adapt a firm bandage over the part of the rib bi'oken, by which the effusion of air into the cellular tissue under the integuments is stopped. The air passing from the wounded lung is now confined to the cavity of the pleura, with which it is filled, compressing the lung. By this means the wound which was made whilst the lung was dilated, is more com- pletely closed than would have been done with any contrivance of art. This wound is usually healed on the eighth day: at that period the breathing greatly improves,"f and the case is soon reduced to one of simple broken rib.—6ee the Chapter on the Injuries of the Chest. IX. —Fracture of the Sternum. Symptoms.—Crepitus may be felt during inspiration or other movements of the trunk, and dis- placement (if any) can be detected by examination. Treatment.—The same as for fractured ribs. X. Fractures op the Pelvis can be caused only by most tre- mendous violence, so as sometimes to wrench open the sacro-iliac joints ; and are often attended with some fatal complication ;—such as laceration of the bladder or rectum, or of the great arteries or A'-eins. Treatment.—The only thing to be done is, to place the patient at perfect rest, and in as easy a position as possible; to keep a catheter in * Vincent, op. cit., p. 47.273 FRACTURES OF THE FEMUR. the bladder; to make incisions if urine is extravasated into the peri- nseum, as it will be if the urethra is lacerated by fractured portions of the rami of the ischium and pubes, and to treat any symptoms that may arise. If it can be borne, a broad belt may be passed round the pelvis ; and another under the nates, which might be attached to a pulley over the bed, so that the patient may raise the pelvis, without ex- erting any of the muscles attached to it. There are some cases of frac- ture of the OS innominatum pass- ing through the acetabulum, and caused by falls on the hip, which might be mistaken for fracture of the cei'vix femoris. For instance, in some cases related by Mr. Earle,f the foot was everted, and there was loss of prominence of the trochan- ter ; but there was no shortening, and the limb could be turned freely outwards, which motion is highly painful after fractui e ot the neck of the femur. In a case reported by Dr. George D. Gibb, of Portman Street, in which the right side of the pelvis was literally smashed, the leg was everted and shortened an inch and a half; the trochanter nearer the anterior superior spinous process than on the sound side. On rotating the limb, the right trochanter appeared to move in the segment of a smaller circle than the left, and crepitus was distinctly felt in the joint. The diagnosis will be aided by the crepitus felt on ap- plying the stethoscope to the ilium, and by examination per anum. It very rarely happens that the acetabulum and cervix femoris are both fractured. The patient must be kept on a fracture-bed. One of Mr. Earle's cases was cured in eight weeks, Dr. Gibb's in sixteen.^ Fracture of the os coccijgis, or of the lower extremity of the sacrum, may be caused by violent kicks or falls ; the former may occur during parturition to women who have childi'en after the coccyx is united to the sacrum. The loose portions must be replaced by introducing the finger within the rectum. The patient should keep in bed, and the bowels must be kept relaxed, so that no disturbance may be occasioned by hard stools. XI. Fractures of the Femur present many varieties, which must be carefully studied ; because, as Pott observes, " they so often * Fractured pelvis. St. Mary"s Museum. t Earle on Fractures of the Pelvis, Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xix.; see also case Ixxi. in the last edition of Sir A. Cooper on Fractures and Dislocations. J British American Journal, Sept. 1849.FRACTURES OF THE FEMUR. 274 lame the patient and disgrace the surgeon." We must, therefore, treat separately, 1, of fracture of the neck of the femur internal to the capsular ligament; 2, of ft-acture of that part external to the capsular ligament; 3, of oblique fracture through the great tro- chanter ; 4, of fracture separating the epiphysis of the trochanter major; 5, of fracture just below the trochanter; G, of the shaft; 7, of the condyles. or fall the patient finds himself unable to stand, and complains of great pain, increased by motion, and principally seated at the upper and inner part of the thigh. The leg is shorter than the other;—the foot turned outwards ;—the heel rests in the interval between the ankle and tendo Achillis of the other leg: crepitus may be detected if the hand or the stethoscope be placed on the trochanter, whilst the limb is drawn to its proper length and rotated. When extension is discontinued the limb shortens again. The trochanter generally projects less than on the other side ; and if the foot be rotated by an assistant, it is felt to move in a * It is sometimes stated that the neck of the femur is commonly shortened in old persons, and sunk from the oblique to the horizontal postore; but it is doubtful whether this is the case, except when the joint has been affected with chrfynic rheumatic arthritis. In this disease, which often affects old bedridden persons, the acetabulum is expanded and surrounded with irregular bony- growths; the cartilage removed and replaced by porcellaneous deposit; the neck of the femur shortened so that the head is almost in contact with the top of the t^haft; the capsule thickened, with irregular growths of bone around it (which have sometimes been mistaken for a misplaced effort of nature to repair a fractured cervix); sometimes at the part where the capsular ligament is inserted, the bony texture is completely absorbed, and its place supplied with a ligamento-cartilaginous substance; appearances which have been mistaken for united fracture. Smith, op. cit,; Edwin Canton's Surgical and Pathological Observations, Lond. 1855. See page 256. r,jx (1.) Fracture of the cervix '''■'"jfK f^^o^is internal to the cap- W^'^r\ ^^^^ generally caused by '^'t'l'/f;}c. indirect violence; that is, by i^}:/>/j a slight force acting on the ^/''^/''<'i lower extremity of the limb, as happens in slipping off the curbstone; sometimes, how- ever, it is produced by falls or blows on the hip. It is very rare in persons under fifty; but very common in old people, especially old women ; because this part of the femur seems to suffer first and chiefly, from the atrophy and fatty degeneration which all the bones, more or less, ex- perience in advanced life.* Symptoms.—After a blowFRACTURES OF THE FEMUR. 275 segment of a lesser circle than natural. The limb may generally be freely moved by the surgeon, although with great pain, especially if it be abducted ; but the patient cannot lift it from the bed. The above symptoms are liable to considerable diversity, arising from accidental variations in the manner in which the frac- ture occurred. Thus (a.) the amount of shortening (which was stated by Sir A. Cooper at from one to two inches) de- pends on the degree to which the fibrous investment of the neck is lacerated. This invest- ment is thickened by a reflexion of the fibres of the capsular ligament from its attachment into the neck of the bone to- wards the head, where it is covered by the synovial mem- brane of the joint. If that membrane be not much in- jured, the shortening may be much less than an inch ; more- over, it is doubtful, according to Dr. Smith, whether the capsular ligament, if entire, would permit the limb to be drawn upwards for more than an inch. Again, if the fibrous investment of the neck be not torn, or if the fracture be very oblique, so that the upper opposes the ascent of the lower fragment, or if the lower be driven into and impacted in the upper fragment, there may be no immediate shortening at all. (6.) The time at which shortening occurs may vary. Sometimes it is very slight at first, but becomes very decided in a few days, doubtless when the muscles have recovered from the paralysing effects of the injury. Sometimes, in an obscure case of fracture, the limb retains its natural length for a few days or weeks, and then suddenly shortens, whilst the patient is attempting to walk: doubtless because the attempt has caused the laceration of some untorn fibres of the periosteal invest- ment of the cervix, which before held the fractured parts in apposition. In other cases the limb gradually shortens to the extent of one or two inches during the six months succeeding the injury. This is owing to interstitial absorption of the neck of the femur. (c.) position of the limb is sometimes anomalous; being inverted in a few cases.276 FRACTUKES OF THE FEMUR. {d.) In some cases the neck of the bone is driven into, and impacted firmly within, the cancellous tissue of the head; a circumstance which of course renders it difficult to say whether the injury be one of fracture or of mere contusion. The chief cha- i-acters of this injury are those summed up by Dr. Smith :—" 1. Slight shorten- ing of the limb. 2. Slight eversion of the foot. 3. Absence of crepitus. 4. Great difficulty in all cases, and in the majority an impossibility of removing the shortening of the limb by extension; and, lastly, less loss of power than in other forms of fracture of the neck of the femur." Prognosis.'—^This fi-acture does not unite by bone, except in the rare instances in which the broken surfaces are held closely together by the untorn perios- teum, or by impaction ; or in which the fracture is partly internal and partly external to the capsular ligament. In such cases there is no doubt that bony union may occur; but in the majority the fracture either unites by ligament, or, more commonly, does not unite at all; but the stump of the cervix becomes rapidly absorbed, rounded, and covered with a smooth porcellaneous deposit, and plays in a socket formed by the hollowing and absorption of the head. The capsular ligament becomes excessively thick, and so does the obturator externus muscle, so as to support the weight of the body. The reason of this non-union is, probably, the want of apposi- tion and of pressure of the fractured surfaces against each other; to which may be added the age and debility of the patients; the atrophy of the part injured; the imperfect nourishment of the upper fragment, and the general indisposition of bones covered with synovial membrane to throw out callus. Diagnosis.—The surgeon fehould be aware that a fall on the hip is apt to produce interstitial absorption and shortening of the neck of the femur, with disappearance of the cartilage, eburnation of the articular surfaces, and in-egular deposit of bone around the cervix (the same sei'ies of changes which the part undergoes in chronic rheumatic arthritis), with shortening of the limb, and wasting of the muscles ; with most of the conditions, in fact, that follow a fracture. Thus, the patient on recovering from the immediate effects of the injury, finding the limb lame and shortened, may accuse the surgeon of having over- looked a dislocation or fractui-e. Of course the sui-geon must defend himself by proving the absence of the symptoms of these injuries immediately after the accident, and by reference to authenticated * Impacted fracture of neck of femur. St. Mary's Museum.FKACTURES OF THE FEMUR. 277 cases in which the same ill consequences have followed bruises without fracture.* Treatment.—If the patient is very old and feeble, it is of no use to sacrifice his little remnant of health and strength, and run the risk of producing sloughing of the nates by long conHnement to bed, in the hope of procuring union by bone. But he should be kept in bed for a fortnight, till pain and tenderness abate ; with one pillow under the whole length of the limb, and another rolled up and placed under the knee, or he may be placed on a fracture bed. Then he may get up and sit in a high chair, and shortly begin to crawl about with crutches ; and in time he will regain a tolerable use of the limb, especially if not very corpulent. The sole of the shoe must be made thick enough to counteract the shortness of the limb. It must be added, that this injury often proves fatal during the first three weeks from the shock to the constitution, or from the bruises inflicted on the limb. (2.) Fracture external to the capsular ligament is caused by dii-ect violence, such as falls or blows on the hip, bv which the neck of the femur is broken otF, and driven into the cancellous structure of the great tro- chanter ; and at the same time one or both trochanters are spHt through likewise. If the cervix be firmly im- pacted, and the trochanters are still adhering by untorn periosteum, the diagnosis of this fracture presents obvi- ous difficulties, for there is no crepitus; the limb is shortened, but yet cannot be brought to its natural length by any justifiable amount of extension, and is not so everted nor so powerless as is usual in fracture ; yet if the distance of the trochanter from the anterior superior iliac spine be measured, it will be found less than on the opposite side: the projec- tion of the trochanter is also somewhat diminished. If, however, this fracture be so comminuted, that the cervix is not impacted in the shaft, the shortening and eversion are well marked, and crepitus can be pro- duced on extension and rotation. (3.) Oblique f racture through the Great Trochanter.—This accident may occur at any period of life, and is attended with the following symptoms:—the limb is everted, but very little shortened, and the shaft of the bone may be felt widely separated from the trochanter. This fracture unites readily by bone; and the treatment required con- * Smith, op. cit.; Canton, on Interstitial Absorption of the Neck of the Femur from Bruise, &c. Med. Gaz., Aug. 11, 1848.FRACTURES OF THE FEMUR. 278 sists of extension of the limb by the long splint, and a circular girth with a pad, to support the upper extremity of the shaft, and keep the broken surfaces in apposition. (4.) Fracture of the Epiphysis of the Tro- chanter Major.—The trochanter is sometimes broken off from the femur, at the part where it is united by cartilage, as an epiphysis in youth. The diagnosis is generally obscure; but we allude to the accident in order that the surgeon may be aware of the possibility of such an occurrence. The part will unite by ligament. (5.) Fracture of the Femur just below the Trochanters is liable to be followed by great deformity, because, as Sir A. Cooper said, the upper fragment is tilted forwards by the psoas and iliacus. Yet Mr. Butcher has shown that it is generally the lower fragment which is drawn upwards and outwards by the power- ful action of the hamstring muscles and glu- tens maximus.* (6.) Fracture of the shaft of the Femur requires no observations as to its causes or symptoms. Treatment. — For all cases of fractured thigh, including those of fracture of the cervix, in which the patient's strength admits of a reasonable effort to procure union, the long splint is the best instrument. The com- mon long splint, known as Liston's, is repre- sented in the next cut. It is a narrow deal board, of a hand's breadth for an adult but narrower and slighter for a young person. It should be long enough to reach from below the axilla to four or five inches below the toot. At its upper end it has two holes, and at its lower end two deep notches, with a hollow for the outer ankle. * Butcher on Fractiues of the Femur, Dublin Quarterly Jour. Med. Sc., Feb.1853.279 FRACTUEES OF THE FEMUR. First, the splint should be thoroughly well padded with layers of blanket. Then the limb should be evenly bandaged from the toes upwards, and gently extended to its proper length and shape. Next, one fixed point of extension is made by passing a bandage repeatedly round the instep and ankle, and tlirough the notches at the lower end of the splint. Next, the splint is thoroughly secured to the limb by a bandage carried upwards. Lastly, the extension is to be made by grasping the foot and splint together, and steadily making traction, while an assistant di-aws up tightly the perineal band through the holes at the top of the splint. This method of not attempting ex- tension till after the ankle is secured to the splint is a saving of much pain to the patient. The next cut shows an improved form of the long splint, employed by Mr. Haynes Walton. It will be seen that it does not extend below the foot, and that it has two splits of unequal depth, through which the bandage is passed, so as to get a thorough purchase from the a kle (not from the heel and dorsum of the foot), and to keep the splint square with the leg. The ankle should be well padded. For a perineal band, Mr. Walton recommends a fold or two of blanket, or several folds of flannel, sewed up in oiled-silk, and having a pisce of stout tape tacked to each end. In order to prevent the galling of the perineal band, and its sup- posed tendency to draw the fractured parts asunder, Mr. Fergusson had adopted the plan in some cases of making counter extension from a strong stay of jean, accurately fitted to the upper third of the opposite thigh ; from which a band extends back and front to the upper end of the splint. This is very comfortable, and obviates the necessity of the band round the belly, since it draws the splint towards the body. Professor Syme of Edinburgh now treats fractured thigh-bone by placing the patient straight upon a hard mattress, drawing over both legs and body a folded bedsheet, which is then fastened down at the sides. Along each side of the fractured limb, long sandbags are then280 FRACTURE OF THE FEMUR. placed reaching from hip to heel. The feet are not included under the sheet, but kept in a symmetrical position with each other. In the United States, this injury has lately been much treated upon a plan of Dr. Nathan Smith's. This consists in placing along the front of the limb from the pelvis to the toe a piece of iron wire, of the thickness of a No, 10 or 12 catheter. This is bent at the knee and ankle joints into an easy angle and tastened to the limb, without being permitted to touch it, by adhesive plaster and a roller, omitting au interval if there be any wound. The wire and limb are then suspended to the ceiling of the room by a hook and cord, the latter being fastened to the wire in two places, one above another below the knee. Ex- tension is made by the degree of obliquity given to the suspending cord, and counter-extension by raising the foot of the bed on bi icks, so that the inert gravity of the trunk tends towards the head in the opposite direction. Mr. Fergusson has devised a modification of the straight splint, con- sisting of a long iron bar, of the length of the ordinary straight splint; the upper half of which can be unscrewed and removed, so as to makeFKACTUEE OF THE FEMUK. 281 it a short splint, for fracture below the knee. It has a foot-board, which can be adapted to any length or thickness of limb, and to any portion of the knee or ankle-joint,* 2. A second plan is that of Pott.f It consists in laying the patient on the affected side, the thigh at right angles to the trunk, and the knee bent—with a many-tailed bandage and four splints, applied be- tween the pelvis and trochanter above, and the knee below. The dis- advantages of this plan are, first, that the patient soon turns round on his back, dragging the upper fragment away from its right place; and, secondly, that the pressure on the great trochanter may cause slough- ing. The first evil may be prevented simply by watching fhe patient, and telling him to turn ruund on his belly rather than on his back, if he wishes to shift his position. The second may be remedied by placing him on his back, at the end of a fortnight, with his knees bent up, and supported by pillows. 3. A third plan of treatment is by the fracture-bed, of which the best modification is that of Mr. Torry Hester, of Oxford. The patient is placed on his back ; the thigh and knee bent up over a double inclined plane, in which position they are kept immoveably. But the whole bed is placed on a sort of hinge, so that the patient's trunk can be raised or lowered, without causing any motion of the hip- joint.J 4. The starched bandage may be employed in fracture of the lower third. Another plan, which enables compound and gun-shot fracture of the femur to be easily dressed, when the wound is on the hinder part of the limb, has been devised by Surgeon John T. Hodgen, of St. Louis, U. S. A cradle is constructed, of the accompanying figure (p. 282). The foot-board, a, is 4J inches wide, 1 inch thick, and 14 inches long, and rests on a trariverse rod, a, 15 inches long and 1 inch square. The centre support, c, is 7 inches high, 8 broad, and 1 inch thick. This piece is 21 inches from the footboard. The longitudinal strips are 42 inches long, 1^ inch wide, and J inch thick ; each is screwed at one end to the footpiece, leaving 4J inches between the upper and lower. The lower are fastened to the outside of the centre support at c ; the upper, at the inner side of the upright portion. It is adapted to either limb by binding the ends of the pieces designed for the perinceuin and pubes, and shortening them, so that the foot may come to the footboard;—the upper strip passing in front of the pubes, the lower, a short distance from the perinseum. Strips of cloth 2| inches wide are now placed on the upper longitudinal bars and pinned, so that they may form a double inclined plane, on which the limb may rest. Any one or more of these may be removed or renewed when necessary for cleanliness' sake. Broad strips of adhesive plaster are now placed on either side of the leg, and * Many forms and varieties of this splint are manufactured by Matthews, of Portugal Street, Weiss, and Savigny. t Pott, Chirurgical Works, vol. i. p. 365. % A New Method of managing Fractures, by James Torry Hester, 1853.282 FRACTUKE OF THE PATELLA. secured with a roller. It is now placed on the plane, and the free ends of adhesive plaster secured to the footboard. Extension is maintained, by a weight and pulley. The bottom legs of the bedstead are laised upon bricks, so as to make the weight of the trunk the counter-extend- ing force. Thus the limb is suspended ; air freely passes round it; its circulation is not impeded ; there is no sore heel, nor perinseum ; the bed-pan can be used, and the wound dressed, or any displacement recti- fied without disturbance.* If both thighs are broken, a fracture-bed may be employed, if the surgeon has one. (7.) Fracture of the Condyle into the knee-joint mostly happens to old persons, and not unfrequently proves fatal. In these cases the leg should be placed in as straight a position as possible in anticipation of some degree of anchylosis of the joint. XII,—Fracture of the Patella may be of two kinds, according as it is caused, (1,) by muscular action, or (2,) by direct violence. I. Fracture of the Patella by Muscular Action generally occurs thus : A person is in danger of falling, perhaps from missing a step in going down stairs, or from missing his footing after a leap. The knee is bent, and the patella drawn up; and then a sudden contraction of the rectus snaps it across. The symptoms experienced by the * Am. Med. Times, May 23, 1863.FRACTUKE OF THE PATELLA. 283 patient are, the feeling as of a blow or sudden snap, and inability to straighten the knee. The surgeon, on examination, finds a chink be- tween the broken parts, into which he can press his fin- ger, and which is increased by bending the knee. This, as we have already said, is one of the fractures in which it is very difficult to produce reunion by bone, in consequence of the diffi- culty of bringing the broken surfaces into exact appo- sition. And not only so, but even when the patient's recovery is considered com- plete, the fragments are apt to be left in a state of very wide separation ; the power of the extensors, and, con- sequently, of straightening the knee, and of keeping it straight, is lessened or almost lost, and the patient is not only lame, but in constant danger of falling, and of again rupturing the connec- tion between the fragments, or else of breaking the opposite patella. The exact pathology of this accident has been very minutely studied by Mr. William Adams, who has shown, in the first place, that th e fragments may be united by true ligamentous substance, a firm mass of new tissue, generally from half an inch to an inch long, and passing between the broken surfaces. This is represented in the diagram A (p. 284); and if the ligament is short, the cure is a good one. But, in the second place, Mr. W. Adams has shown that in the cases in which the patient recovers with wide separation of the frag- ments (and in some cases this is so much as four or five inches), there is no ligamentous union at all; but the fragments are merely held together by the subcutaneous fascia in a thickened condition. So that what is commonly called union by a long ligament is in reality no union at all. * This cut represents an old fracture of the patella, with wide separation of the fragments. The patient fractured the bone twice. The first time he was treated with bandages, &c., to bring the broken parts together, and they united well. The second time the limb was laid in an easy position without bandages. The result is here shown:—The upper fragment high up in front of the femur ; the lower one down in front of the tibia; the power of extending the joint lost. When the knee is bent, as in the above cut, the condyles of the femur are seen with the skin tightly stretched over them.284 FRACTURE OF THE PATELLA. The conditions under which this failure of union occurs are shown in the diagram. In the first place, wide separation of the fragments renders union very unlikely. But, in addition, at B and c is shown the tendency which the fragments have to become everted. Then if the fascia folds over, and adheres to one of the frac- tured surfaces, as at C, or to both, as at B, union becomes physically impossible; and the fascia, somewhat thickened, is the only, and a very in- adequate bond of union. When the bone is broken by muscular action the ligamentous in- vestments of the joints connected with it are always more extensively lacerated than by a direct blow. In the treatment there are three indications. First, to place the patient in such a position that the muscles which tend to draw the frag- ments asunder may be relaxed. For this pur- pose, the patient's trunk should be somewhat raised in a half-sitting position, and the injured limb, with a well-padded long straight splint behind it, should be extended and raised at the heel. Extension of the leg relaxes the vasti and crureus, and flexion on the trunk relaxes the rectus femoris. Secondly, to bring the fractured surfaces into as close apposition as possible. In some cases, in which the ligamentous fibres passing over and by the side of the patella are not extensively torn, there is so little separation, that no apparatus is required. In others, the surgeon places a simple pad, or strap, or bandage above the upper, and another beneath the lower fragment, and draws them together by longitudinal straps passing between. The same end may perhaps be gained by a figure-of-8 bandage. A leather strap may be fastened round the limb, just above the patella, and a tape passing from each side of this may be fastened to a slipper on the foot. Or an attempt may be made with a starched bandage, applied from the foot to the middle of the thigh, and pressing above, but not upon the patella. A very comfortable apparatus is Wood's splint for fractured patella. This is a straight light iron splint, provided with two moveable hooks behind the knee. Over these the folds of a figare-of-8 bandage may be passed, including in each opposite loop the broken fragments respectively, or a ring of vulcanized india-rubber may be used instead of the bandage at the knee. (See p. 285.) But in all such appai-atus there are two difficulties: that they are liable to cause the fractured surfaces to be tilted up, as in diagram B ; * See Mr. W. Adams's paper in Pathological Transactions, vol. il. p. 254. The author has to express his obligations to Mr. Adams for allowing him to consult some valuable MSS., including a letter from M. Malgaigue.In surgery, as in all other arts, tho;ie means are best which act directly; and there is no doubt but that the best instrument for treat- ing fractured patella is M. Malgaigne's hooks, here depicted. Two of the hooks are fixed into the tendon at the upper edge of the bone, and two into the lower, and they can be brought and kept in apposition by the screw. They cannot penetrate the bone, nor wound the joint. They may be kept in. six weeks, to insure bony union. Malgaigne had treated (1853) about eleven patients, producing bony union, and no bad results.* Thirdhi, inflammation must be sedulously prevented if possible. If it comes on, it must be removed by leeches, cold lotions, or warm ibmentations, and purgatives ; and no constrict- ing apparatus should be applied during this condition. In such a case as that depicted and described at p. 283, it has been proposed to scrape off the aponeurotic membrane which adheres to the broken surfaces, by subcutaneous section, and then to apply the hooks. 2. Fracture by direct violence is generally comminuted; perhaps longitudinal. There is * See a very able paper in Med. Times and Gazette for 1864, vol. 1. p. 86, by Mr. Pyle, of the Middlesex Hospital, for a series of eight cases treated by the hooks and eight by the old method. The superiority of results is remarkable, and not less so the less amount of irksomeness and shorter time of cure. The author believes from results which he has seen that fractured patella is one of the oppi'obria of English surgery.FRACTURES OF THE LEG. 286 usually much inflammation, and not much separation of fragments; so that position and bandages suffice, * after inflammation has been subdued. 3. Compound Fracture of the knee-joint will require excision or amputation, if the skin is very much torn, or the bones comminuted; and amputation if the popliteal vessels are injured likewise. If the vessels are entire, and the bone not commi- nuted, nor the skin torn away, an effort may be made to save the limb. XIII. Fractures of the Leg. —The ordinary fractures of the leg may be readily distinguished by cai-e- ful examination. There are several methods of treatment. (1.) By the common splints.—The injured leg being laid on its outer side, the fracture is reduced by extension from the knee and ankle. Then a many-tailed bandage is applied by some surgeons after the manner represented in the cut. This bandage is easily made thus:— take a piece of roller, long enough to reach from the knee to the foot, and to overlap about one-third of the leg besides. Cut another roller into pieces, and lay them across the first at right angles, in such a manner that each shall overlap one-third of the preceding one : these transverse pieces (which should be half as long again as the circumfe- rence of that part of the leg which they are to encircle) are to be stitched to the longitudinal one, and then the bandage is ready for use. One splint, well padded, should be applied to the outer side of the * Comminuted fracture of the patella, partially united by bone. From a patient of Mr. Partridge's.FRACTURES OF THE LEG. 287 limb; another to the inner side; and if there is any projection of either fragment, it should be kept in its place by a third slight splint to the shin. The outer splint should have a foot-piece, which should be carefully padded in such a manner as to prevent the foot from turn- ing either inwards or outwards, especially the latter. There is a very useful rule, which should be attended to in all cases of injury below the knee ; it is, to keep the great toe in a line with the inner edge of the patella. (2.) By the Macintyre's leg splint, or some of the numberless varieties of it in existence, as improved by Mr. Liston and other sur- geons. The adjoining cut represents it as applied to a patient of Mr. Fergusson's in the King's College Hospital, with a compound fracture, which is left uncovered by the bandages. It is straightened out by means of the screw under the knee, as Mr. Fergusson prefers the straight position in almost all cases of fracture of the lower extremity. Before its application, it must be made to correspond to the length of the sound limb, and must be well padded. (3.) By the very convenient side-splint of Mr. Fergusson's, de- scribed in a preceding page. Tliis may be applied either on the inner or outer side, according to circumstances. (4.) By iiiQ junks.—This very simple but efficient contrivance con- sists of a piece of old sheeting, with a bundle of reeds rolled together from either end. But it is more easy to comprehend it from seeing it once than from a page of description. (5.) By the starched or plaster of Paris bandage.—In simple cases of fracture of the leg, the patient may leave his bed at the end of a week, with the fracture supported by the starched apparatus. When this has become dry, the patient may get up, and move to his chair or sofa with crutches, but the foot must be suspended from his neck by a sling; and he must be particularly cautioned not to attempt to move it by his own efforts. (6.) In the United States fractures of the leg are usually treated by Dr. Buck's method. This consists, first, in placing on each side of the288 FRACTURES OF THE LEG. lower half of the leg or heel the end of a broad piece of adhesive plaster spread on strong unyielding material, such as Canton flannel, leaving a long loop under the heel. To the loop is to be hooked a cord, which passes over a pulley placed in an upright piece of wood fastened to the foot of the bed. Extension is made by a weight fastened to the end of the cord sufficient to neutralize the action of the muscles. Counter-extension is provided for by raising the lower part of the bedstead, on bricks, or wood blocks, as before described in Dr. N. Smith's plan of treating fractured femur. Coaptation splints are also used to the fractured part, in addition to this apparatus, when de- sirable. Lastly. In all cases of fracture of the leg, it is a good plan to sus- pend, or swing the injured part, by means of Dr. Salter's or some similar apparatus. It is not only more comfortable for the patient, but it allows of the use of the bed-pan, with much less risk of dis- turbing the fracture.* For FRACTURE OP THE HEAD OF THE TiBIA INTO THE KnEE- JOINT the treatment is the same as for fracture of the condyles - of the femur. The limb should be placed straight, so that the end of the femur may act as a splint, and keep the broken parts in their places. The whole limb should be raised, so as to relax the extensor muscles of the knee ; and this should be done in all cases of fracture of the upper end of the tibia (for which, consequently, the treatment by splints, with the knee bent, is inapplicable). Pasteboard splints and starched bandages should be applied to keep the joint motionless ; but they should not cover the front of the knee. Passive motion should be commenced in about five weeks. Fracture of the lower end of the Fibula, about three inches above the ankle joint (Potts' fracture), is not an uncommon accident, and may be caused by twists of the foot, by a dii-ect kick, or by jump- ing on uneven ground. Fracture of the internal Malleolus may occur in the same way; and one or the other of these fractures commonly accompanies dislocation of the ankle. Treatment.—They may be treated either with the bandage and two splints, or with Macintyre's splint, or with Fergusson's side-splint, or * The apparatus is made by Matthews of Portugal Street, Lincoln's Inn. Some cases of fracture of the lower end of the thigh likewise admit of this treatment. It is depicted in the chapter on Excision of the Knee.DISEASES OF THE SYNOVIAL MEMBRANE. 289 with Dupuytren's (p. 288), which is a diminutive of the long straight splint. It is to be well padded, and applied to the side opposite the fracture; but it is not so easy to keep the foot in a proper position with this as with the other apparatus. The surgeon will often find one or more hags of smid most convenient auxiliaries in keeping fractures of the leg in proper position. They may be used both to lay the broken limb upon, and also to put on either side to prevent the limb from rolling. This substance is so ponderous and devoid of elasticity, that it steadily retains whatever position is given to it. Compound fractures of the leg are to be treated on the principles already laid down for the treatment of compound fracture in general. Some cases do very well laid on the outer side on a well-padded side- splint, and covered by a many-tailed bandage. This position is most suitable for cases complicated with erysipelas, sloughing, or burrow- ing of matter, along the front and inside of the limb. XIV. Fractures of the Foot will often be attended with so much other mischief as to render amputation expedient. But an at- tempt should be made to save part of it; especially the ball of the great toe. Pasteboard splints and other contrivances must be used to preserve the proper position; and if matter forms, there should be no delay in freely dividing the dense fascias of the foot, to let it escape. The tuberosity of the os calcis may be broken by the action of the muscles attached to it, in the same manner as the patella and olecra- non, and like these parts will probably unite only by ligament. The treatment must be the same as that of ruptured tendo Achillis.* CHAPTER YI. DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE JOINTS. SECTION T.—THE SYNOVIAL MEMBRANE. 1. Acute Inflammation of the synovial membrane (or synovitis) may be produced by local or by constitutional causes. The former are, blows, strains, mechanical injuries, and especially penetrating wounds. The latter are, exposure to cold, and the rheumatic, gouty, syphilitic, mercurial, and sometimes the gonorrhoeal poisons. It very seldom attacks young children. The joint most frequently affected is the knee. Symptoms.—In the most acute form, the symptoms are severe aching pain in the joint, aggravated by the slightest motion ; great * Hamilton's Practical Treatise on Fractures and Dislocations, published at Fhiladelphia by Blanchard and Lea, 1860, is a good book on the subject, D UDISEASES OF THE 290 swelling occurring very soon after the pain ; redness and tenderness of the skin; and fever, which is often violent and alarming. The swelling is peculiar, and is distinctive of the disease. It is occasioned hy a rapid effusion of fluid into the synovial cavity; and, consequently, if the joint is superficial, it fluctuates freely. It is always most prominent at the points where the joint is least covered by ligament, and, consequently, the shape of the joint is always altered. When the knee is affected, the patella is protruded forwards, and theie is a great fulness at each side of it, and at the lower and front part of the thigh. In the elbow, the swelling is most distinct above and. between the olecranon and the condyle, and in the hip and shoulder there is a general fulness of the surrounding parts. Prognosis.—This disease is much more serious when it affects one joint solely, and more particularly when it arises from local injury (especially a penetrating wound), than when it affects many joints, and arises from constitutional disorder. The danger to life in any case will be proportionate to the severity of the febrile symptoms, and the rapidity and sharpness of the pulse ; delirium, or typhoid symptoms, show great peril. Morbid Anatomy.—In slight cases the synovial membrane is red- dened, and the joint contains a quantity of turbid serum. In very severe cases, the membrane suppurates rapidly, and the cartilage entirely ul- * Sketch of a patient affected with acute synovitis of the right knee.291 SYNOVIAL MEMBRANE. cerates. In other severe, but more protracted cases, the membrane becomes thickened, pulpy, and highly vascular; granulations form on its surface and project like fringes into the cavity of the joint, and at the same time the cartilage ulcerates. Treatment.—In all cases arising from injury, the joint, or rather the whole limb, should be confined by a splint, so as to keep it perfectly motionless. This is indispensable ; for the joint cannot be kept motion- less without it. The best splint is very thick leather or pasteboard, which admits of being easily adapted to the surface of the joint when softened in warm water; but, during the acute stage, a long wooden splint, properly padded, should be arranged so that it may be fastened to the limb at some distance above and below, and so that it may not touch the joint itself. If the knee is the part affected, it should not be allowed to become bent on the thigh, or if it is already bent, it should be brought as nearly straight as possible. The other measures are leeches in abundance to the joint, or cupping near it; ice, evaporating lotions, or warm poppy fomentations, according to the patient's choice ; a good dose of calomel, followed by saline purgatives, till the motions are no longer dark and offensive : the treatment should be commenced by thorough purgation; then opiates at night to relieve pain. A warm poultice of camomile flowers, boiled till they are quite soft, or bran poultice, sprinkled with laudanum ; or cotton wool covered with oiled silk, will generally be found moie soothing than cold applications. Blisters are inapplicable till the acute stage is subsiding. A Saltej-'s swing (see Index), is a very valuable adjunct in treating acute in- flammation of the knee and ankle joints, and gives much ease to the patient. When the disease is manifestly connected with rheumatism—when it is attended with red sediment in the urine and acid perspirations, and affects several joints, and extends to the synovial sheaths of tendons, after due purgation, as described above, colchicnm should be adminis- tered every six hours (F. 69, &c.); if this fails, iodide of potassium (F. 95), with F. 72 at bed-time; when the fever subsides, guaiacum may be given. When there is a tendency to gout, and the patient complains of grind- ing, excruciating pain, as if the joint were torn asunder, the colchicum is also the main remedy. In syphilitic cases (which will be known by the patient's general history, by his wan, peculiar appearance, and most likely by the existence of papular or other eruptions, vide p. 209), mercurial fumigation may be tried when the acute symptoms have subsided ; but if it has, or if the constitution is broken down, recourse may be had to the iodide of potassium in doses of gr. iii. ter die, with a small dose of colchicum and opium at night; and sarsaparilla or cod- liver oil should be given in abundance. F. 82, 83. In all these cases warm baths, in which a quantity of carbonate of soda or potass has been dissolved, will probably be of service. II. Chronic Inflammation of the synovial membrane is charac- terised by swelling of the joint, of the same nature that attends theDISEASES OF THE SYNOVIAL MEMBRANE. 292 acute form, and by a dull aching pain, usually increased at night, and often attended by sudden startings of the limb, accompanied with a sense of weakness and relaxation, and not usually aggravated by pressing the articular surfaces against each other. The swelling always comes on in a few days after the pain ; and sometimes, in long-continued cases of an indolent character, it is the only symptom present: these cases are called hydrops articuK or hydrarthus, and are rheumatic in their origin. If the disease proceed, the synovial membrane and surrounding tissues may become thickened and gristly, and the swelling lose its softness and fluctuation. This constitutes probably the condition described by Sir B. Brodie, as pulpy degeneration of the synovial membrane ; a slow thickening from deposit of unhealthy exudation, which is liable to lead to ulceration of the cartilage and destruction of the joint. Some of these cases have their origin in necrosis, caries, or abscess in the bones forming the joint close to the articulation, gradually implicating the synovial membrane and setting up destructive action in the joint. The causes are the same as those of the acute form, of which it may be a sequel. Treatment.—The indications are, first, to correct constitutional dis- order ; secondly, to reduce inflammation ; and thirdly, to produce ab- sorption of the effusion and thickening, and restore the part to its proper uses. In the first place, thei"efore, if the complaint is constitutional, and depends on gout, it must be treated by colchicum and warm aperients, especially the decoction of aloes and alkalis. F. 70, 94, &c. If the habit is rheumatic, colchicum, or the iodide of potassium, or guaiacum, F. 56, 57, must be resorted to ; and in most cases, especially those fol- lowing syphilis or gonorrhoea, warm-bathing, change of air, sarsaparilla, and carefully-regulated diet will be indispensable. See Part II., Chap. VI., Sect. X. Secondly, in cases arising from local injury; whilst there is any activity about the inflammation (especially an increase of aching pain at night), the part should be confined by a splint or starched bandage, and should be bathed with cold lotions, and blood should be repeatedly taken by leeches or cupping. Mild alteratives should also be adminis- tered, F. 63, &c. The third indication is to be fulfilled by counter-irritants, beginning with blisters ; which are as serviceable in the chronic as they are detri- mental in the acute disease. They should be applied in succession, and be quickly healed up; and should not be put too near the joint, if it is superficial, as the knee. The strong acetum cantharidis will often be found a very convenient substitute. After the blistering, when the activity of the disease has subsided, the iodine paint; the linimentum hydrargyri; or stimulating liniments, F. 143, &c.; the douche, or affusion with hot water; and the vapour-bath will complete the cure. But all stimulating applications must be at once abandoned, if they cause an aggravation of heat and pain. The ointment of Scott, F. 160, the ceratum hydrai^gyri comp. of the Pharmacopoeia, is one of the most293 CHRONIC RHEUMATIC ARTHRITIS. useful applications for the convalescent stage of this and other chronic diseases of joints. It is applied thus: the surface of the joint, having first been washed with camphorated spirit, should be covered with the ointment thickly spread on lint; next, adhesive plaster should be evenly applied in strips, so as to form a complete casing for the joint ; and lastly, a bandage. When the knee is bandaged in this way the adhesive straps should be arranged so as not to press too tightly on the patella. Supposing, after inflatmnation has subsided, the joint is left stiff,—the knee, for example, in a half-bent state—a process of very gradual extension may be set about by means of splints with a screw attached ; but the greatest care must be taken not to light up a fresh inflammation. III. Abscess in Joints.—If after acute or chronic inflammation, a joint becomes very much distended, and somewhat cedematous, and there is constant pain unmitigated by remedies, with rigors, a quick pulse, and considerable constitutional excitement, suppuration of the synovial membrane may be fairly suspected. The first thing to be done under these circumstances is to make a puncture with a grooved needle, and examine the fluid that exudes. If it is serum, two or three more punctures may be made, and an exhausted cupping-glass be applied over them ; and by these means the part may be very safely and expeditiously relieved of a considerable quantity of fluid. If it is pus, a free opening should be made, so that the matter may run out easily; the joint should be placed on a splint in the most easy and convenient posture: the general health should be amended by tonics, alteratives, and proper diet; and then, in favourable cases, a cure will be effected by anchylosis. But if the suppuration and constitutional disturbance increase, the limb must be amputated, or the joint excised. In the elbow joint, excision should be always performed. In favourable cases the same operation may be practised in the shoulder, knee, and hip joints. Purulent depots in Joints.—It has been mentioned in several pre- vious chapters, that a rapid effusion of puriform fluid into the joints and other parts is a frequent occurrence in puerperal fever, erysipelas, and other cases in which the blood is contaminated by a morbid poison. The part becomes red and painful, and very soon afterwards is found to be filled with pus. The only local treatment consists of a free incision in a depending position, and a splint with a bandage to prevent ac- cumulation of matter.—See Fycemia. IV. Chronic Rheumatic Arthritis {Nodosity of the Joints) is a disease characterised by peculiar alterations of all the tissues of one or more joints. Joint cavities are enlarged and made hollower. The heads of bones are irregularly enlarged, and flattened ; with overhanging mushroom-like borders, and often a great variety of projections and pedunculated exostoses around. The cartilage, as we learn from Mr. William Adams, seems to take the first step in the morbid process, be- coming greatly hypertrophied, and afterwards ossifying. Yet wherever it is exposed to friction, the covering of cartilage is generally wornCHRONIC RHEUMATIC ARTHRITIS. 294 away, leaving the bone bare, and of ivory hardness and polish—a con- dition depending upon a filling up of its canals and interstices with bone tissue, or at least with earthy deposits. This eburnated bone is liable to be worn into grooves, or to be worm-eaten by ulcer- ation. The ligamen- tous textures are usu- ally wasted, unra- velled, or altogether absorbed. The syno- vial membrane thick- ened, vascular, and studded with innu- merable melon-seed- shaped projections, fibrous, cartilaginous, or bony. Symptoms. — The patient complains of racking pain in the affected joint, of a rheumatic, gnawing, weaving character, and sometimes ren- dered worse by changes of weather, sometimes by the heat of the bed at night. It is not usually aggravated by pressing the articular sui'faces against each other. The joint becomes stiff"; its movements limited, and often attended with an audible and sensible grating sound. The muscles ai-ound it become wasted, and the limb often shortened. When the hip is the part affected, the body is bent forwards at an acute angle with the hip ; the step is shoi-t, and the power of flexing the limb on the pelvis, as in going up stairs, very limited. In the shoulder joint, which is frequently the seat of this disease, the glenoid cavity has been found greatly enlarged, completely divested of cartilage, and surrounded with an irregular osseous growth : the glenoid ligament and long tendon of the biceps absent; so "that the head of the humerus may be drawn up and play against the under surface of the acromion, which may be coated with porcellaneous substance ; the head of the humerus increased in size; flattened, divested of cartilage, its cortex thin, and cancelli soft and porous, and the circumference of the anatomical neck overlaid with an irregular growth of bone; the cap- sular ligament generally thickened, but absorbed in certain places, and the tendons connected with it almost entirely atrophied and absent.295 LOOSE CARTILAGES. There can be no doubt that these appearances have been occasionally mistaken for the results of injury—such as rupture of the biceps, or unreduced dislocation. This disease may invade almost any joint, but especially the hip, the shoulder, the joints of the hand, and especially that between the thumb and carpus, and those of the spine.t The causes are obscure, but are referred to the rheumatic or gouty diathesis, or both. Young women may be attacked at puberty, or middle-aged women at the cessa- tion of the menses, or persons much exposed to cold and wet; but it is the aged who are the peculiar victims of this disease. Any blow or bruise is liable to act as an exciting cause. See Dislocations of the Shoulder and Fractures of the Hip. The treatment., not very suc- cessful at the best, consists in the use of warm aperients, antacids, and medicines reputed to possess anti-rheumatic virtues, such as the warm purgatives and tonics under F. 37, 38, 55, 56, 72, 73, and 7 ; in fact, rhubarb, beaurae de vie, guaiacum, ammonia, sulphur and bark, with generous diet, opiate embrocations, llannel bandages, and warm douches, especially of the Bath waters. The chloride of arsenic has been recommended. Vapour or Tui'kish baths may be tried. V. Loose Cartilages commence as little pendulous growths upon the synovial membrane, which become accidentally detached. They occur most frequently in the knee. Symptoms.—They can be felt when they present themselves at the surface of the joint; and when they get between the ends of the bones, which they are very apt to do during exercise, they cause sudden ex- cruciating pain and faintness, followed by inflammation. Treatment.—If possible, the loose body should be fixed by bandages, so as to prevent it from getting between the bones, otherwise it must be removed by subcutaneous incision, a plan which seems to have been * This cut shows the head of a femur, the preceding one the corresponding acetabulum affected with chronic rheumatic arthritis; from specimens belong- ing to E. Canton, Esq. t R.W.Smith, on Fractures, &c. near Joints; B, Bell, on Diseases of the Bones, 1828 ; Edwin Canton, Surgical and Pathological Observations, 1855 ; W. Adams, on Enlargement of Articular Extremities of Bones in Chronic Rheu- matic Arthritis, Pathological Trans, vol.iii.; R. W. Smith, on Chronic Rheumatic Arthritis of the Shoulder, Dublin Quarterly, Feb. 1853.296 THE LIGAMENTS. proposed almost simultaneously by Mr. Syme, of Edinburgh, and M. Goyraud, and which avoids the danger of a direct wound into the * joint. The cartilage is to be pushed up as high as possible into one of the synovial pouches by the side of the patella, and a long narrow knife is passed down upon it through the skin two or three inches above, and made to divide the synovial membrane to such an extent that the cartilage may be squeezed through into the subcutaneous cellular tissue, »:{^ but without enlarging the wound in the skin. There the cartilage must remain till the wound in the synovial membrane has had time to heal; and then it may, if desired, be easily removed by an incision through the skin; but if it causes no inconvenience it may be allowed to remain.f r SECTION II.—THE LIGAMENTS. I. Inflammation.—Authors have described a form of inflam- mation of the ligaments of joints characterised by great pain from motions that shake or twist them.| It must be treated like subacute rheumatism. II. Relaxation.—If any joint have been long disused, and espe- cially if its innervation be impaired, its ligaments are liable to become relaxed and elongated, so as even to permit the dislocation of the bones to which they are attached. Thus, in a case related by Mr. Stanley, which followed an attack of hemiplegia, the ligamentum teres and capsular ligament of the hip were so elongated as to permit the head of the femur to slip out of the acetabulum. A similar result may ensue from long-continued chronic synovitis or rheumatism. Me- chanical support, blisters, friction, cold allusion or sea-bathing, and electricity, are the only available remedies,§ Slighter degrees of * Knee-joint opened, patella turned down, synovial membrane studded with melon-shaped gi-owths. St. Mary's Museum. t See B. and F. Med. Review, vol. xi. p. 526, and Fergusson's Practical Surgery, p. 321. I Mayo's Pathology, p. 79. $ See s^ix cases of dislocation from this source, narrated by Mr. Stanley in Med. CMr, Trans, vol. xxiv.SCROFULOUS DISEASE OF JOINTS. 297 relaxation occurring to weakly children may be cured by good diet, tonics, and friction. SECTION III.—THE CARTILAGE. I. The diseases of articular cartilage have been particularly studied by Professor Kedfern of Aberdeen, who has shown that any disturbance whatever of their nutrition by injury or disease, produces one and the sanae change in their structure ; viz., that the cartilage cells enlarge, become crowded with corpuscles by excessive proliferation, and lose their cell-wall; so that the contained corpuscles are either mingled with the intercellular tissue, or else are discharged on the surface of the cartilage, if near it. Meanwhile the intercellular or hyaline sub- stance may soften into pus, or may become fibrous.* II. The Reparation of cartilage after injury or disease is effected by the conversion of the softened intercellular substance into white fibrous tissue, and of the nuclei that have escaped from the cells into yellow fibi-es, which together form a cicatrix. III. Ulceration of cartilage consists in the progressive disintegra- tion of the softened hyaline substance, and in the bursting of the cells and discharge of their contents. The pathological importance of this morbid process has been very much diminished by the discovery that it may exist to a considerable extent, even in the knee-joints of persons accustomed to bear heavy burdens, without any symptoms whatever. The cartilage may also, whilst preserving its healthy structure, wear away gradually in old men and animals, till it leaves the bone quite bare ; the latter becoming dense, smooth, and polished,! yet with no symptoms except a slight grating. Ulceration of cartilage may occur as the result of any severe disease of the synovial membrane or of the bone. But it appears that it may exist by itself, without any disease of the otlier joint textures, and without any symptoms. It seems, therefore, that whatever grave importance may be attached to this process belongs really to the disease of bone, or of synovial membrane which accompanies it. section IV.—SCROFULOUS DISEASE OF JOINTS, WHITE SWELLING, AND ARTICULAR CARIES. I. In THE Adult.—In persons of unsound constitution, any neg- lected injury or inflammation of any one of the joint structures is liable to lead to total and irreparable disorganization of the joint; in- cluding complete ulceration or destruction of the cartilage, caries of the * P. Kedfern, M.D., on Anonnal Nutrition in Articular Cartilage, Edinburgh, ] 850; and on the Healing of Wounds in Articular Cartilage, Edinburgh Monthly Journ. Med. Sciences,' Sept. 1851. One starting-point of the "cellular patho- logy." t This change is said to occur in the astragali of old draught horses, without occasioning any inconvenience to the animals. Richet, Brit, and For. Med. Rev., Jan. 1846. Mr. Queljett, quoted in Canton, op. cit. See also William Adams, op. cit.SCROFULOUS DISEASE OF JOINTS. 298 bones, conversion of that part of the synovial membrane which lines the ligaments into a yellow gelatinous substance; softening and ulcer- ation of the ligaments; and conversion of all the tissues around the joint into a gelatinous substance, riddled with abscesses, in which all natural distinction of structure is lost. This condition may be produced in the scrofulous adult by an insi- dious idiopathic disease, which was formerly called chronic ulceration of cartilage. Symptoms.—For the first few weeks (or perhaps months) of this disease the patient complains only of slight occasional rheumatic pains, perhaps flying about and affecting several joints, but at length settling decidedly in one. After a time, the pain increases in severity, espe- cially at night, and it is generally referred to one small spot, deep in the joint, and is compared by the patient to the gnawing of an animal. Moreov^er, it is usually accompanied by an aching of some other part of the limb: thus, when the hip or elbow is affected, there is an aching of the knee or wrist; but it is important to notice that both the pain in the affected joint and the sympathetic remote pain are always aggra- vated by motion of the joint, and by pressure of the articular surfaces against each other. As the disease proceeds, the suffering becomes most excruciating, and is attended with painful spasms and starting of the limb during sleep; so that the patient's rest is broken, his spirits ex- hausted, and his appetite and general health rapidly impaired. At first the pain is unaccompanied with any swelling; in fact, this symptom never appears in less than four or five weeks, and often not for as many months, and when it does appear it is slight; and as it depends on an infiltration of the tissues around the joint, and not on effusion into it, the shape of the joint is not so much altered at first, but soon becomes more rounded, pulpy, and equally soft at all points, till it finally assumes the appearance of a globular enlargement which contrasts very strongly with the wasted condition of the limb above and below. The tissues are then brawny and exsanguine, giving a white appearance to the joint, marbled by blue veins upon the surface. Terminations.—In fortunate cases, that are subjected to judicious treatment at an early stage, the disease may be arrested, and the patient recover with a stiff or anchylosed joint; but in unfavourable cases, the * Sketch of diseased knee, from a patient of Dr. Paul's, at Camberwell House Asylum. The tibia and fibula dislocated backwards.SCROFULOUS DISEASE OF JOINTS. 299 cartilage is entirely destroyed ; the bone can be heard to grate on the least motion; suppuration occurs into the joint, and numerous tortuous abscesses form around it; the surrounding soft parts are disorganized ; the ligaments are destroyed, so that the flexor muscles, which have long kept the joint immoveably bent, at last dislocate it: if the knee is affected, for instance, the head of the tibia is drawn backwards into the ham, as in the foregoing sketch; and at last the patient, unless relieved, dies exhausted. 11. In Children, and in some adults, the disease may begin very insidiously ; with slight lameness or weakness, as it is called, of the limb, and wasting of the muscles, and very little pain except after exercise. Then succeeds a swelling of the joint, and of all the textures round it; with increased wasting of the limb, and flexion and distortion of the joint. This may be followed by abscess. Pathology.—The most essential circumstance to be regai'ded in this disease is the constitution. Whether in adults or in children, this is sure to be of a debilitated scrofulous sort. Regarding the local changes, they may commence in the synovial membrane; 2, in the cartilage; 3, in the bone; 4, in the parts around. 1. Acute or chronic synovitis, especially if the result of injury, in a person of bad constitution, will very frequently cause destruction of the cartilage, and caries of the bone, suppuration in the joint, and the other train of symptoms just described. This case will be known by the swelling from effusion into the joint in the early stage. 2. Whether ulceration of the cartilage alone, without morbid change in the bone or synovial membrane, is capable of giving rise, as is com- monly supposed, to the disease just described above, must, after Dr. Redfern's researches, be considered doubtful, it is more than probable that some morbid state of the bone, or of the synovial membrane, or of both, accompanies it from the first. 3. In the case of scrofulous children, it seems pretty certain that the disease commences with ca- ries of the cancellous texture of the articular extremity of the bone. The affected bone is found to be soft, red, and easily crushed; its cancelli are filled with a red- dish granulation, sometimes with inspissated pus, or " tu- bercle." Owing to the soft- ened state of the bone, the cartilage peels off from it readily. When peeled off, its under surface is probably * This cut exhibits caries of the astragalus, with incipient separation of the cartilage. From the King's College Museum. The next shows a state ap- proaching to spina ventosa.SCROFULOUS DISEASE OF JOINTS. 300 found ulcerated; and between it and the bone there is a small quantity of highly-vascular lymph growing out of the carious cancelli. When the cai'tilage is perforated, inflammation and suppuration ensue in the joint; abscess bursting outwardly follows. In some few cases, from the rapidity of the caries, the cartilage is detached en masse; and sometimes necrosis of a small portion of'the bone ensues. This disease most frequently affects the hip, knee, elbow, and small bones of the carpus and tarsus : it is very common in scrofulous chil- dren, but rare after thirty. An advanced stage gives rise to what was formerly called spina ventosa; that is, the extremity of the bone becomes greatly enlarged by superficial deposits, but is hollowed out into a mere shell by caries in its interior. The prognosis, in the first stage, that is, before swelling has occurred, may be favourable; but after swelling has existed for some time, the patient will be fortunate in recovering with anchylosis ; and after sup- puration, he will, if an adult, be almost certainly compelled to sufler excision. 4. In some instances, as the author has seen in practice, a joint may be disorganized through the presence of scrofulous exudation and sup- puration into the areolar tissue contiguous to it. This case requires no particular observation, except that any suppurating spot should be opened early.* Treatment.—If there be much pain, the first and most indispensable measure is perfect rest; which must be insured by swinging the limb (if one of the lower joints of the leg be affected), and by a sling (if those of the arm), confining the joint with a starched bandage (not too tight) or splint of gutta percha, or of thick leather softened in hot water, accurately moulded to the part, and then lined with flannel. The use of splints is two-fold. First, to prevent deformity ; secondly, to insure rest. But we do not intend to say that eveiy patient with scrofulous disease of knee, or hip, or ankle, should be kept absolutely at rest during the whole course of the disease; on the contrary, during the convalescent stage the patient may go out on crutches with the joint bandaged, and the leg supported by a sling round the neck, so as to get fresh air and exercise; provided always that no pain is occa- sioned. 2. Occasional leechings may be used in the early stages, when the pain is severe. But loss of blood is merely a palliative of acci- dental fits of inflammation. 3. Counter-irritation either by a seton, or caustic issue, or the actual cautery, is a measure which was more in repute formerly than it is now; the cases in which it is most service- able are the very painful joint ulcerations of adults; to scrofulous children it is more likely to be hurtful than advantageous. A capital plan in these cases is a succession of small blisters applied over different parts of the joint, following the pain, and never suffered to remain too long. The application of iodine paint, either in patches or over the * This kind of affection was particularly described by Mr. Wickham on Diseases of Joints, p. 84. See also Coulson on Hip Joint, p. 85; and South's Chelius, vol. i. p. 210.301 ARTICULAR CARIES. whole joint, is also of great value as a stimulating counter-irritant of much power. If the knee is affected, a small caustic issue may be established on each side of the head of the tibia, and may be kept open by an occasional touch with caustic potass or sul- phate of copper. The actual cautery is exceed- ingly efficacious as a counter-irritant, and the patient may be rendered unconscious of it by chloroform.* Sir B. Brodie has shown that issues, when long established, sometimes irritate the constitution, bringing on a return of the pain which they relieved at first, and which will again depart if they are healed up. It is a practical rule, therefore, to give them up for a time, before condemning a joint to excision. For children, if counter-irritation is deemed neces- sary, blisters answer very well. 4. The oint- ment of Scott, applied as described in a preceding page, will often be found a useful auxiliary to time and quietude. 5. Mercury, given so as gently to aftect the system, was believed by Sir B. Brodie to be of great benefit in the case of adults.t 6. In other cases, the treatment must be that which we have prescribed for scrofula: cod-liver oil; iodide of iron or of potassium; sarsaparilla; nutritious food; and sea-air, so soon as the patient is able to go out. Pain must be allayed by hemlock or opium. 7. There can be no doubt that recovery is often prevented by the presence of pus, and of the debris of bone and cartilage in the cavity of the joint. When suppuration, therefore, has taken place, it seems rational not to let the matter burrow and establish sinuses, and disoi-ganize the surrounding^ textures, but to adopt Mr. Gay's plan, and freely lay open the joint by longitu- dinal incisions, or else introduce Chassaignac's drainage tubes. Thus, an exit being provided for discharge, the parts will be relieved of one obstacle to recovery. Besides, weak injections of iodine, dilute nitric and phosphoric acid, and other applications, may be made to the diseased surfaces, and carious or necrosed portions of bones be removed. 8. If all other measures prove unavailing, and the health is sinking, the diseased articular surfaces should, if possible, be cut out; otherwise, the limb should be amputated. * Refer to the Index. t Lectures, Med. Gaz. vul. xx.wii.302 ANCHYLOSIS. SECTION V.—ANCHYLOSIS. Anchylosis signifies a fusion or union of the ends of bones, and is a frequent consequence of serious injuries and diseases of joints ; there- fore, whenever it is likely to happen, the affected joint should be placed in the position which will be the least inconvenient for it to preserve. The elbow should be placed at a right angle; the wrist straight; the hip and knee a very little bent; and the ankle at a right angle to the leg. Moreover, in almost every case of diseased joint, unless the surgeon is on his guard to prevent it, the patient will put it into a bent position, in which it will remain till the extensor muscles are almost paralyzed, and the flexors shortened and inextensible. The continued traction of these muscles aids in disorganizing the joint and dislocating one bone from another, as is constantly seen in disease of the knee and hip. There are three varieties of anchylosis:— 1. The spurious ov false anchylosis, which depends on thickening of the synovial membrane, and organization of bands of adhe- sion around the joint, gluing the various structures to the skin and to each other. 2. Ligamentous anchylosis signifies the union of two arti- cular surfaces by fibrous tis- sue ; and some degree of it almost inevitably follows in any case in which recovery takes place, after destruction of cartilage. 3. Bony when fibrous tissue so pro- duced ossifies. Treatment—It is very evi- dent that nothing ought to be 1 done until all diseased action has ceased, and the parts have returned to a quiescent state. Then measures may be taken for restoring the power of mo- tion. 1st. There is the category of slow and gentle measures, consisting of passive motion, combined with friction, shampooing, and local steam- baths. By passive motion is meant, that some person shall take ihe affected limb and gradually bend and extend the stiff joint with just force enough to cause a little yielding, and little or no pain. A screw, * This cut sbows the results of long-continued disease of the ankle-joint. The bones are completely welded together by bony anchylosis.ANCHYLOSIS, 303 fitted to a splint with a hinge in it, may also be used for the purpose of gradually straightening out the jouit. 2ndly, A more active set of proceedings consists in dividing, by sub- cutaneous section, the tendons of any muscles, or any fascia, or even any muscular fibres, whose rigidity is an obstacle (see Tenotomy), Immediately after this operation, pressure should be applied to prevent bleeding, and the wound should be allowed to heal. Then a fresh attempt may be made under chloroform ; and if it can be done without too great violence, the joint may be forcibly extended so as to tear through bands of fibrous tissue in or around the joint. At the same time any degree of subluxation or displacement may be rectified. After the operation the limb must be put in an easy posture on a splint, and the case be treated hke a recent sprain, till inflammation has subsided ; then gentle passive motion will probably entirely restore the use of the limb after some weeks of treatment.* When the knee-joint is concerned, the hamstring muscles, and por- tions of fascia, may probably require division. If the elbow, the aponeurotic offshoot of the biceps. The knee may be straightened by pressure; the elbow likewise by main force. The pectoralis major, latissimus dorsi, teres major and minor were divided by Diefl'enbach to effect reduction of an old dislocation of the shoulder ; and the pec- tinaeus and sartorius by an American sui-geon in a case of contracted hip. 3rdly. If the anchylosis is bony and extensive, there is no resource except to saw through the bone, or cut out a wedge-shaped portion, and then employ sufficient motion to establish a false joint. This operation was successfully performed by Dr. Rhea Barton, of Philadelphia, on the hip in 1827, and on the knee in 1838. It was also successfully performed by Dr. Gibson, of Philadelphia, in a case of complete anchy- losis of the knee, with not a vestige of ligament, cartilage, or synovial membrane remaining. Having laid bare the front of the joint by a V incision above the patella, he sawed out a wedge-shaped portion of the bone, [and gently bent the rest so as not to endanger the popliteal vessels.f But of course this is so serious an operation, that it must not be undertaken without balancing the advantages with the risks of it. Moreover, before having recourse to it, the surgeon should try fairly whether the joint can be bent by main force; for it need scarcely be said that the rupture of any amount of fibrous tissue, or fracture of bony tissue without wound of skin, is a very much safer proceeding than the making a deep wound involving the bone. * See paper by Mr. Brodhurst on Forcible Extension and Rupture of uniting medium of partially anchylosed surfaces. Med. CLir. Trans., vol. xl. f Vide American Journ. Med. Sc., July, 1842, and a case by Dr. Bucli, Ran- kmg's Abstract, vol. iii. For further information, consult Fergusson, op. cit.304 DISEASE OF THE HIP-JOINT, SECTION VI.—DISEASE OF THE HIP-JOINT, OR MORBUS COX^. This joint is exceedingly liable to chronic disease, and there are cer- tain peculiarities in the symptoms which render it expedient to devote a section to it in particular. It is uncertain whether scrofulous caries of the head of the femur, or whether ulceration of the synovial mem- brane and cartilage, is the primary morbid change; but the symptoms and ulterior consequences are nearly the same in either case. Symptoms.—The disease begins with slight occasional pain, and more or less stiffness and weariness in the joint, some eversion of the foot and dragging of the leg, and lameness. As it advances, the pain becomes very excruciating in the cases of ulceration of cartilage, whilst in those of scrofulous caries it is comparatively trifling; but in both forms it is felt chiefly in the knee ; and in the scrofulous caries, the pain in the knee may be the only symptom complained of; nay, there may even be some swelling there. The criterion, however, is, that if the surgeon presses on the hip-joint, either in front over the psoas and iliacus, or behind the great trochanter, or if he jerks the femur against the acetabulum by a sharp tap on the trochanter major or' heel, pain will be felt in the hip, and the pain in the knee will be greatly aggravated. After these symptoms have gone on increasing for a variable time, the nates become flattened, its lower fold less evident, and the whole limb weaker ; and it is noticed that the affected limb is, or appears to be, longer than the sound one, a lengthening which possibly may depend in some slight degree on effusion into the synovial membrane, and protrusion of the trochanter; but much more probably is caused by the patient's habit of standing with his weight supported entirely on the sound limb, and of lowering the diseased side of the pelvis, and stretching out the diseased leg to steady himself with. Sometimes, instead of being lengthened, the limb is apparently shortened, as shown in the adjoining cut (Fig. 1), which gives a bird's-eye view of a child, a patient of Mr. Partridge's, in the King's College Hospital. This apparent shortening is caused by contraction of the sartorius, tensor vaginae femoris, psoas, and iliacus, and by the patient's endeavours to throw the limb into an easy posture; it varies from time to time, and is not to be seen in all cases. But if the disease proceed, there comes another kind of shortening, caused either by absorption or by caries of the neck of the femur, or by the destruction of the acetabulum and capsular ligament and dislo- cation of the bone upwards by the muscles. The deformed appear- ance caused by this dislocation is well exhibited in the following sketch (Fig. 2), taken from a patient under the care of Mr. Fergusson, in the King's College Hospital; it also shows the apparently broad and large, but really wasted and flattened form of the nates. The effect of the .altered length of the limb in distorting the spine is also seen. Some- times the limb is turned inwards, as in dislocation on the dorsum illi;305 DISEASE OF THE HIP-JOmT. or outwards, as in fracture of the neck of the femur: this is accidental. This organic shortening is usually attended with an increase of the pain, and of the starting of the limb during sleep, and is in most cases (but not all) soon followed by abscess, which may burst on the nates. Fig.]. Fig. 2. above or below the glutens maxima, or the gi'oin, between the psoas and pectineus, on the inner side of the vessels, or may burrow between the muscles of the thigh ; or the acetabulum may be perforated, so that matter passes into the pelvis and bursts into the ]-ectum. From this suppuration stage it is exceedingly rare for an adult to recover, al- though, in the case of children, the prognosis is not unfavourable, if the strength is pretty good, and the lungs fi ee from disease; and the patient may be so fortunate as to recover with an anchylosed hip. TheDISEASE OF THE HIP-JOINT. 306 duration of the disease may vary from two or three months to sevei'al years. Diagnosis.—From psoas abscess it may be distinguished by the absence of pain in the back, and of tenderness on pressui e in the iliac and lumbar regions. Psoas abscess also points on the outside of tlie femoral vessels below Poupart's ligament. From chronic rheuraatic arthritis, by the history of the case, the age of the patient, the irregular hardness caused by ossified growths around the joints, the absence of audible crepitation, and by the pain caused by pressing the articular surfaces against each other; which is not a character of the chronic rheumatic affection. Yet it must be remembered that this latter disease may lead to abscess if the patient meets with injury. The great pain caused by pressing the femur against the acetabulum will distinguish this disease from sciatica. Treatment.—This must of course be the same in principle as the treatment of other diseased joints. If the patient comes under treat- ment in the earliest stage, the limb should be maintained at perfect rest in the straight posture, by means of a straight splint reaching from the axilla to the foot, or by sandbags. If distortion has already com- menced, a bandage of leather or pasteboard should be applied ; and the patient should not be permitted to lie constantly on the sound side, else the distortion of the spine and the chance of dislocation will be en- hanced. Cupping or leeching, if there is considerable pain and tender- * Sketch of the patient from whom Mr. H. Smith removed the head of the thigh bone. It illustrates the extraordinary attitudes which patients are liable to acquire. The dotted lines show the course of Mr. Smith's incisions.307 DISEASE OF THE HIP-JOINT. ness, with strength sufficient, will be of great service in the early stages, and a grain of grey powder with henbane may be given nightly. F. 63, 64. But the principal dependence is to be placed on cod-liver oil and tonics, and on counter-irritation by means of a succession of small blisters around the hip, or at the anterior edge of the tensor vaginae femoris, or by a seton in the groin. When abscess forms, it should be opened subcutaneously, or by drainage tube, so as not to let the air enter the cavity as the pus escape. The position of the patient in bed is a point of considerable import- ance, since if lei't to himself he is apt to acquire the most distorted and ungainly attitude, " The following contrivance," says Mr. Coulson, " will be found very useful;—a double-inclined plane should be formed by joining two portions of wood together in such a manner that when the child's hams are made to cor)espond with the angle of junction, his legs and feet should extend down one plane, and there be confined to the foot-boards by rollers, whilst his thighs and buttocks extend down the other. The foot-boards will also have the beneficial effect of removing the weight of the bed-clothes from the feet. Opposite the anus a small opening should be made to admit the passage of the faeces. The whole trunk of the child should lie quite horizontally on the bed." The prone position is recommended by Coulson in the latter stages, as it avoids pressure on diseased and ulcerated hips; it allows dressings to be readily applied, and counteracts the patient's habit of lying with the diseased limb drawn up across its fellow. A couch is constructed with an angle, corresponding to the bend of the hips ; it has one part horizontal on which the abdomen and chest repose, while the pelvis and legs hang down an inclined plane. In cases in which a carious head of the femur keeps up constant irritation and discharge, with no chance of benefit from ordinai y local or constitutional remedies, whilst the acetabulum and bones of the pelvis, as well as the lungs, kidneys, and other viscera are so free fi'om ac- tive disease as to give a fair chance of recovery, excision of the head of the femur may be proposed. This operation was first performed by Mr. Anthony White in 1821, with perfect success, although Sir E. Home and the medical officers of St. George's Hospital gave it as their opinion that it would be useless, impracticable, and fatal. It was revived by Professor Fergusson in 1845, and has since that time been performed not only by that gentleman, but by Mr. Simon, Mr. H. Smith, Mr. French, Mr. Haynes Walton, Mr. Cotton of Lynn, Mr. Morris of Spalding, Mr. Jones of Jersey, Pro- fessor Buchanan of Glasgow, and Mr. T. Holmes, and with such an amount of success that it may now fairly rank amongst the established opera- tions of surgery ; and it is a strong argument in its favour that the acetabulum, although oi'iginally involved in the disease, yet frequently sets up a process of repair, and becomes filled with fibrous membrane, as soon as it is relieved by dislocation from the presence of the carious head of the thigh-bone. It is not a difficult proceeding. An incision five or six inches in length is made over the diseased and displaced bone;308 NEUEALGIA OF JOINTS. another at right angles across the trochanter ; the soft tissues are cleared away l'rom the bone (they consist of little more than skin and cellular tissue, for the thick muscles which cover the part in health are long since wasted), the saw is applied below the trochanter, and the head of the bone with that i)rocess removed. The adjoining cut shows the portion of bone removed by Mr. H. Smith. Any necrosed or carious portion of the acetabulum should be got away if possible. After the operation the limb must be brought into the straight position, and be kept at rest by means of a long splint, and the case be treated on general principles. If everything goes on well, the patient will recover a useful limb with a considerable degree of motion at the hip, and can walk comfortably with a high-heeled shoe.* SECTION VII.—NEURALGIA OF JOINTS. The characters of neuralgic pain, as distinguished from that which accompanies organic disease, have been described under the head of Hysterial Neuralgia (see p. 11); but we introduce this short section in order to remind the young surgeon of the possibility of mistaking hysterical pain for ulceration of a joint. SECTION VIII.—WOUNDS OF JOINTS. Symptoms.—A wound may often, but not invariably, be known to have penetrated a joint, by the escape of synovia, in the form of small oily globules. Treatment.—The object is to avert acute inflammation of the syno- vial membrane, which might prove fatal. If the knee be the part wounded, and there is comminuted fracture of bone or great loss of skin, * Coulson, op. cit.; O'Beirne and Bellingham, on the use of Mercury in early stages, quoted in Ranldng's Abstract, vol. x. p. 290; Fergusson's Surgery, 3rd edit. p. 469; Henry Smith, Essay in Lancet, 1848, vol. i. p. 361; Syme, Lancet, 1849, vol. i. p. 266 (objects to the operation) ; Cotton's case, Med. Gaz., 1849 ; casebySkey, Med. Gaz., Aug. 31, 1850; sequel to Fergusson's case by Smith, Med. Times, Dec 4, 1852; T. Holmes, Lancet, Aug. 27, 1864.309 DISLOCATION OR LUXATION, GENERALLY. excision may be requisite; if the popliteal artery is wounded, amputa- tion. The wound should be carefully closed and covered with a piece of lint dipped in blood. The limb should be comfortably bandaged, and constitutional measures be adopted to avert or subdue inflammation. See Sect. J. SECTION IX.—DISLOCATION OR LUXATION, GENERALLY. Symptoms.—The characteristic symptoms of dislocation are two:— 1. Befof^mity : there being an alteration in the form of the joint; an unnatural prominence at one part and a depression at another, together with lengthening or shortening of the limb. 2. Loss or deviation from the proper motions of the joint. Causes.—Dislocation may be caused by external violence, or by muscular action. And the circumstances that enable muscular action to produce it are,—a peculiar position (as when the jaw is very much depressed) ; paralysis of an antagonist set of muscles ; elongation of ligaments ; or fi acture or ulceration of some process of bone. Thus, ulceration of the acetabulum permits the head of the femur to be dis- located upwards, and fracture of the coronoid process permits the ulna to be dislocated backwards. Morbid Anatomy.—Dislocation is almost of necessity attended with some rupture of ligaments, which, however, readily unite and heal.- If the dislocation be left unreduced, the lymph thrown out around the head of the bone in its new situation becomes converted into new ligaments, and into a new socket, which is lined with a smooth ivory substance, and not with cartilage; and a very useful degree of motion is often acquired. Meanwhile the old socket gradually becomes filled up. Diagnosis.—Dislocation may be distinguished from fracture, 1. By the absence of crepitus. For although a slight crackling is often per- ceptible, owing to an effusion of serum into the cellular tissue, it can hardly be mistaken for the grating of fracture. 2. By the circum- stance that the surgeon can move a fractured bone moi-e freely than is natural, and a dislocated one less so. 3. By measurement of the bone supposed to be broken, which, if broken, will be most probably short- ened. 4. If a fractured bone be drawn into its proper shape, the dis- tortion will return so soon as the extension is discontinued ; if a dis- located bone be drawn into its proper place, it will usually remain there. Treatment.—The reduction of dislocations is to be effected by getting the head of the displaced bone into such a position that the muscles may draw it into its socket. Sometimes this may be done by manceiwring, as in certain ways of reducing dislocated shoulders and hips, that will be presently described; sometimes main force must be used; the socket being fixed on one side, and the bone pulled on the other till the resistance of the muscles is overcome. The extension should be made in such a position as to relax as many of the opposing310 DISLOCATIONS OF THE JAW. muscles as possible, and should be aided by gentle rotation and such other movements as may help to dislodge the dislocated part. After reduction, leeches, fomentations, and purging must be used, if required, to prevent inflamro,ation, and the joint should be kept at rest till any laceration of its ligaments may have healed, otherwise the dislocation may be perpetually recurring. Dislocations should always be reduced as quickly as possible, before the patient has recovered from the shock of the injury, and before the muscles have had time to contract and fix the bone in its new situation. The patient should be put under the influence of chloroform, in order to prevent involuntary resistance of the muscles ; a much safer thing than the bleeding, the half-grain doses of tartai'-emetic, and the hot bath that were formerly prescribed. Compound Dislocation is a dangerous accident, because of the actual synovial inflammation, rapid ulceration of cartilage, and violent constitutional disturbance, with which it is liable to be followed. The necessity of excision or amputation will depend on precisely the same contingencies as in compoimd fracture :—old age; bad constitution ; shattering of the bone; extensive bruising or laceration of ttie integu- ments, so that the wound cannot be closed ; laceration of large blood- vessels, which will often require amputation or excision : as a rule ex- cision is to be preferred to amputation in these cases. If the limb is to be saved, the dislocation miust be reduced ; if the end of the bone protrude through the skin, and render reduction difficult, it must be sawn off, or the aperture must be slightly dilated ; the wound must then be closed, and covered with a piece of lint dipped in blood ; and the case be treated as a wounded joint. Dislocation and Fracture.—Supposing the femur or humerus to be dislocated and fractured also, Sir A. Cooper dii-ects the fractured part to be first well secured in splints and bandages, and then the dis- location to be reduced without delay. Because if the dislocation is not attended to till after the fracture has united, the difficulty of reducing it will be very much increased through the lapse of time; and, perhaps, the bone may be broken again during the forcible extension that will be necessary. Congenital Dislocation is the result of original want of deve- lopment, or of intra-uterine disease, and is mostly incurable. SECTION X.—PARTICULAR DISLOCATIONS. I. Dislocation of the Jaw may be caused by a blow on the chin, wiien the mouth is wide open, or by spasm of the external ptery- o-oid muscles, by which the articular condyles ai'e drawn over the transverse root of the zygomatic process. Symptoms.—The mouth fixedly open, the patient unable to shut it ; speech and deglutition almost impossible ; saliva dribbling away ; the chin protruding (brwards ; and the condyle felt to project unnaturally under the zygomatic process, whilst the finger sinks into the parotid311 DISLOCATIONS OF THE CLAVICLE. space. If one side only is dislocated, the chin will be turned towards the opposite. Treatment.—The surgeon should first fix the head carefully against a wall, or high chair; next, wrap a napkin round his thumbs, and place them at the roots of the coronoid process behind the molar teeth ; then he should press them downwards and backwards, elevating the chin at the same time with his lingers. Or he may place the handle of a fork on the last molar teeth, and depress them with it, using the upper teeth as a fulcrum. Or a piece of cork may be put between the molar teeth in order to act as a fulcrum, whilst the chin is elevated. After reduction, the chin must be confined for a week or two by a. four-tailed bandage. II. Dislocations of the Clavicle.—The sternal extremity of this bone may be dislocated forwards by blows on the shoulder. It can l eadily be felt on the anterior surface of the sternum. It may also be displaced upwards upon the end of the sternum. The treatment is in all respects the same as for fractured clavicle, with the addition of pres- sure by the thumb on the displaced end of the bone. Dislocation of this end of the bone backwards has been caused by curvature of the spine. In one case it produced so much pressure on the oesophagus as to threaten starvation, and was in consequence extirpated by Mr. Davie of Bungay. There are also a few cases on record of dislocation of this end of the clavicle backwards by violence. Pain and difiiculty of breathing are the consequences; the reduc- tion and subsequent treat- ment the same as for the dislocation forwards.* The outer extreirdty of the clavicle may be dislo- cated upwards on the acro- mion. The shoulder is sunken and flattened, and on tracing the spine of the scapula, tlie end of the cla- vicle can be felt upon the acromion. The outer ex- tremity of the clavicle has also been known to be dis- located under the acromion by a kick from a horse on the shoulder, f The treat- ment is the same as for frac- ^ ture of the clavicle or aero- "^,^,0^ mion, (See p. 262.) * Vide a case by M. Pellieux in the Revue Medicale, Aug. 1834, p. 151, and another by Mr. Brown, of Callington, Med. Gaz., Aug. 1, 1845. t Forbes's Rev., vol. vi. X Dislocation of the shoulder downwards.312 DISLOCATIONS OF THE SHOULDER. Ill, Dislocation of the Shoulder-Joint may occur in three principal dii'ections. The head of the humerus may be thrown down- wards, forwards, or backwards; besides which, it may be partially dislocated forwards and upwards. 1. In the dislocation downwards or into the axilla, which is the most common, the head of the bone slips between the subscapularis muscle and the long head of the triceps, and rests upon the outer or axillary border of the scapula, pressing upon the axillary plexus of nerves, between the subscapularis muscles and the ribs. Symptoms.—The arm is lengthened; a hollow may be felt under the acromion, where the head of the bone ought to be; the shoulder seems flattened ; the elbow sticks out from the side, and cannot be . made to touch the ribs ; and the head of the bone can be felt in the axilla, if the limb be raised; although such an attempt causes great' pain and numbness. Diagnosis. — There are three fractures liable to be mistaken for this dislocation, viz., fracture of the acro- mion; of the neck of the scapula; and of the neck of the humerus. The first two may be known by the facility with which the form of the joint is restored by raising the limb, and by the crepitus felt on doing so. In fracture of the cervix humeri, the limb is short- ened, instead of being lengthened as it is in dislo- cation, there is not so much vacuity under the acromion, and the rough angular end of the shaft may be felt in the axilla instead of the na- tural smooth head of the bone. 2. In the dislocation forwards, the head of the humerus is thrown on the inner side of the ooracoid process, and may be felt under the clavicle. Symptoms.—The arm is slightly shortened ; the elbow projects back- wards ; the acromion seems pointed, especially behind, and the head of the bone cannot be felt under it. 3. In the dislocation backwards, the head of the bone may be felt on the dorsum scapulae; and the elbow projects forwards. There is a fulness behind and a hollow under the acromion. 4. In the partial dislocation forwards, the head of the bone is313 DISLOCATIONS OF THE SHOULDER. thrown partly off from the glenoid cavity against the coracoid process. The symptoms are, projection of the acromion and a hollow under it at t the back of the joint, whilst the head of the bone is prominent in front, and may be felt to move on rotating the elbow; cramps of the hand; and difficulty of raising the elbow, because the head of the bone strikes against the coracoid process. Treatment.—There are five methods of reducing the first or down- ward form of dislocation. 1. By simple extension. A jack-towel is to be passed round the chest, both aboA^e and below the shoulder, so as to fix the scapula well ; this should be held firmly. Another should be fastened round the arm, above the elbow, being tied in the knot called the clove hitch, represented in the an- nexed figure. Exten- sion should then be made by the latter; /ri:^:522s3^^-^:2==^%^^ the patient sitting on ^ V the floor, his elbow /f^^^b>.^fy ^s^zsJ^^^^^^^^y being bent, and the ^ humerus being raised * Partial dislocation unreduced. Head of humerus under coracoid procpss; the head of the bone and part of the glenoid cavity are worn away. St. Mary's Museum. t Unreduced dislocation on the dorsum. A new socket formed. St. Mary's Museum,314 DISLOCATIONS OF THE SHOULDER. outwards, so as to relax the deltoid, supraspinatus, and biceps muscles. When extension has been made for some "minutes, the surgeon should lift the head of the bone with his knee, and it will frequently return with a snap. 2. The extension may be performed in the same direction with the aid of the pulleys; recollecting always that they are not to be used in order to exert greater force, but to exert it 7nore equably. A damp bandage should be applied round the elbow, to protect the skin before the strap of the pulleys is attached. 3. By the heel in the axilla. The patient lies down on a bed, and the surgeon sits on the edge. He puts his heel (without his boot^* into the axilla, to press the head of the bone upwards and outwards, and at the same time pulls the limb downwards and a little forwards, by menus of a towel fastened round the elbow. 4. By the knee in the axilla. The patient being seated in a chair, the surgeon places one of his knees in the axilla, resting the foot on the chair. He then puts his hand on the shoulder to fix the scapula, and with the other depresses the elbow over his knee. 5. According to the method invented by Mr. White of Manchester, and revived by Malgaigne, the patient lies down, and the surgeon sits behind him. The scapula is well fixed, by placing one hand upon the shoulder, or by passing a jack-towel over the shoulder and fixing it to the opposite corner of the bed ; then the arm is raised from the side, and drawn straight up by the head, till the bone is thus elevated into its socket. Modifications of this process have long been in use on the Continent; and there is no doubt but that English bone-setters have some plan * A case is related by Dr. Warren, of Boston, in which a person made a violent attempt to reduce a dislocation by putting tlie heel of his boot into the axilla. The result was a rupture of the axillary artery. Vide Banking's Abstract, vol. iii. p. 43.315 DISLOCATIONS OF THE SHOULDER. by which the leverage afforded by the length of the limb is made avail- able for tilting the head into its socket. For this purpose the elbow is straightened, and the limb raised and moved in a circular direction, so as to dislodge the head of the dislocated bone, and enable the muscles to draw it into its socket. Mr. Skey uses an iron knob, instead of the heel. The extension used in reducing the dislocation forwards must be made in a direction downwards and backwards. For the dislocation backwards, extension should be made forwards. After reduction a pad should be placed in the axilla, and the arm and shoulder be supported for some days with a figure-of-8 bandage, a few turns of which should confine the arm to the trunk. Warm fomentations—perhaps leeches—and subsequently frictions, will relieve tlie pain and swelling. The more weak and flabby the patient, or the oftener the dislocation has occurred, the longer will confinement be necessary, in order to allow of a complete consolidation of the ruptured ligament. In fact, when the dislocation has occurred more than twice, an apparatus consisting of a clavicle bandage, with a broad band round the head of the humerus, should be worn for some months, so as to restrain the motions of the joint. It has been before directed that this and all other dislocations should be reduced as soon as possible after the injury. If the reduction has been delayed till the muscles have fixed the part, and the patient is robust, it may be necessary to bleed or administer tartar-emetic or chloroform, and to make a long, slow, and gentle, but unremitting ex- tension by the pulleys. When the extension has been continued some time, the surgeon may gently rotate the limb by the foi-e-arm, or lift the head of the bone. If the dislocation has lasted some time, there will be still greater necessity for a tedious operation. Sir A. Cooper's opinion was, that a reduction ought not to be attempted after three months. But the criterion which Mr. B. Cooper proposed is a better one ; and that is, the degree in which the arm has been exercised, and the amount of useful motion which it has acquired in its new situation ; for, in proportion as the head of the bone has formed for itself a new socket, so most likely will the old socket have become unfit for its reception again. There are numerous instances on record, of the most disastrous and even fatal results that have ensued from attempts at ] eduction at a later period: the integuments and muscles have been lacerated ; abscess has formed, and been followed by anchylosis of the joint; nay, even the whole side has been palsied from injury to the cer- vical vertebrae, and the axillary artery has been torn across. Injuries of the shoulder-joint are liable to be followed by various obstinate and intractable affections, owing probably to the superven- tion of the state described at p. 294, as chronic rheumatic arthritis. The capsular tendons, and long head of the biceps waste away, and the arti- cular surfaces are altered in shape, and partially displaced. Such cases were formerly described as dislocation upvoards, and rupture of the biceps. Sometimes the deltoid muscle wastes away, owing, probably,DISLOCATION OF THE ELBOW. 316 to injury of the circumflex nerve. Violent spasms and neuralgic pains of the arm sometimes occur from injury to the other nerves.* IV. Dislocation of the Elbow presents six varieties. Botk radius and ulna may be dislocated, 1, simply backwards; or, 2, back- wards and outwards ; or, 3, backwards and inwards. 4. The ulna by itself may be dislocated backwards; and the radius by itself either, 5, backwards; or 6, forwards. 1. When both radius and ulna are dislocated backwards, the elbow is bent at a right angle, and is immoveable. The olecranon projects much behind ; a hollow can be felt at each side of it, corresponding to the great sigmoid cavity ; and the trochlea of the humerus forms a hard protuberance in front. The coronoid pi'ocess rests in that fossa of the humerus which naturally contains the olecranon. 2. In dislocation of both bones backwards and outwards, the coronoid process is thrown behind the external condyle; and in addition to the preceding symptoms, the head of the radius can be very plainly felt on the outer side of the joint. 3. The dislocation backwards and inwards is known by a great pro- jection of the outer condyle, in addition to the symptoms of the first variety. 4. In dislocation backwards of the ulna solely, the olecranon is much projected backwards, the elbow is immoveably bent at right angles, and the forearm is much twisted and pronated. The treatment of these four varieties is the same. Reduction may be ejected, first, by fixing the lower end of the humerus whilst the forearm is drawn forwards; or, secondly, the surgeon may bend the elbow forcibly over his knee; or, thirdly (if the case be quite recent), he may forcibly straighten the arm, so as to make the tendon of the biceps pull the trochlea of the humerus back into its place. * See Stanley on Rupture of the Biceps Tendon, Lend. Med. Gaz. voL iii., and Soden, Med. Chir. Trans., 1841.317 DISLOCATION OF THE HAND. 5. The head of the ^xtdius alone may he dislocated forwards; being; thrown against the external condyle. The elbow is slightly bent, and, n bending it more, the head ot the ladias can be felt to strike against the front of the humerus. Treatment.—Simple extension from the hand, the elbow being straight. 6. Dislocation of the radius backwards is very rare. The arm is bent, and the head of the bone can be felt behind the outer condyle. Eeduced hj simply hend'mg and adducting the arm, which should be kept bent for three weeks. Diagnosis.—These dislocations of the elbow may be distinguished from fractures of the lower extremity of the humerus—1, by the im- paired mobility of the joint, and by the absence of crepitus ; 2, by measuring the length of the humerus from its condyle to the shoulder; which, in dislocation, will be equal to that of the sound limb, but will be diminished in fracture of the lower extremity of the humerus. But when it is considered that these six dislocations may be combined with various fractui'es of the condyles of the humerus and of the bones of the forearm, it will be admitted that the injuries of the elbow present a sufBciently wide and com{;)licated field of study. V. Dislocations of the Wrist may readily be distinguished by the altei-ed position of the hand, which is thrown either backwaids or forwards if both bones be dislocated, or twisted if only one be dis- placed,—and by the alteration of the natural relative position of the styloid processes of the radius and ulna with the bones of the carpus. They are reduced by simple extension.* VI. Dislocations of the Hand. — The os magnum and os cuneiforme are sometimes partially dislocated through relaxation of their ligaments, and form projections at the back of the hand, which must not be mistaken for ganglia. Mr. Fergusson has also known * Dupuytren taught that these dislocations are extremely rare, or, in fact, almost impossible ; and that fractures of the lower extremity of the radius are generally mistaken for them. But the experience of English surgeons shows that real dislocation, without any fracture, is not by any means uncommon. See a very carefully reported case in the Lond. Med, Gaz., June 17th, 1843.DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP. 318 the OS pisifbrme dislocated hj the action of the flexor carpi ulnaris muscle. Treatment.—Co\d aflfusion, friction, and mechanical siipport. Dislocations of the thumb, fingers, and toes, are difficult of redaction, in consequence of the strength and tightness of their lateral ligaments, and the small size of the part from which extension can be made. A firm hold may be obtained by means of a piece of tape (spread with adhesive plaster where it is in contact with the skin) fastened with the knot called the clove hitch, represented in the above figure. But it is a good plan to place a part of the tape round the head of the dis- located bone, so as to pull it straightforvvards into its place. Exten- sion should be made towards the palm, so as to relax the flexor muscles. But, " before the reduction has been effected," says Mr. Listen, " it has been in some cases even found necessary to divide one of the ligaments; the external is most easily }-eached; it is cut across by introducing a nari'ow-bladed and lancet-pointed knife through the skin at some distance, and directing its edge against the resisting part." In compound dislocation of the first phalanx of the thumb on the metacarpal bone, the head of the latter should be sawn off if the bone cannot be replaced and retained easily; and in compound dislocation of the second phalanx, it is better to saw off the head of the first if it pro- ject through the wound. VII. Dislocation of the Ribs.—The costal cartilages may be torn from the extremity of the ribs, or from the sternum ;—and the posterior extremity of the ribs may be dislocated from the spine by falls on the back : but these accidents are very rare. A case is lelated in which the heads of the last two ribs were driven forwards from the spine, in a boy of eleven, by a violent blow on the back ; abscess formed and the case terminated fatally.* The body of the sternum has also been dislocated in front of the manubrium, and the ensiform cartilage is sometimes separated. In all these cases, the same local and constitu- tional ti-eatment must be adopted as was prescribed for fracture. VIII. Dislocations of the Hip-Joint.—There are four principal varieties of this dislocation. 1st. The dislocation upwards ; in which * Dublin Med. Press, 3rd Feb. 1841.DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP. 319 the head of the bone is thrown on the dorsum ilii. 2nd]y. The dis- location backwards on the sciatic notch; ordly, downwards, on the obturator externus muscle ; and 4thly, forwards, on the os pubis. Be- sides which there are two or three others that are exceedingly rare. t 1. Dislocation upvjards on the dorsum ilii is the most frequent. Symptoms.—The limb is from an inch and a half to two inches and a half shorter than the other; the toe rests on the opposite instep ; the knee is turned inwards, and is a little advanced upon the other; the limb can be slightly bent across the other, but cannot be bent out- wards ; the trochanter is less prominent than the other, and nearer the spine of the ilium ; and if the patient is thin, and there is no swelling, the head of the bone can be felt in its new situation. Diagnosis.—Fracture of the cervix femoris may be distinguished from this dislocation by the circumstance that the limb can be freely moved in any direction, although with some pain ; that it is turned out- wards instead of inwards ; and that it can be drawn to its proper length by moderate extension^ with some crepitus, but becomes shortened again as soon as the extension is discontinued: whereas in dislocation, it requires a forcible extension to restore the limb to its proper length * Dislocation upwards of the Hip-Joint. From Sir A. Cooper, t Dislocation backwards of the Hip-Joint. From Sir A Cooper.320 DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP. and shape ; but when once the head of the bone is replaced in its socket, it remains there.* Treatment.—As we have said at pp. 309 and 315, dislocations may- be reduced hj manoeuvring or by main force : the former being the preferable plan if it can be adopted. The manoeuvre by which a dislocated hip can be reduced (sometimes called the flexion method) consists in employing the length of the limb as a lever and the trochanter as a fulcrum, by which the head may be got into such a position as to slip into its socket. For this purpose the knee must be bent on the thigh, and the thigh on the pelvis: the * There are a few cases on record of fracture of the upper extremity of the femur, in which a portion of the great trochanter was brolien off, and drawn by the muscles backwards on the dorsum ilii, into the position usually occupied by the head of the bone when dislocated ; so that the nature of the accident was obscure; but there was no shortening.DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP. 321 surgeon then grasping the ankle with one hand, and the knee with the other, causes the thigh to perform a circular movement of abduction, finishing with a slight rotatory movement, when the bone will pi-o- bably be replaced. Chloroform should be used, if there is any diffi- culty. See the diagram, p. 319.* When the patient is old and of relaxed fibre, or of tender years, dis- locations of the hip may be reduced by a method analogous to the heel in the axilla. The surgeon sits and presses one foot against the perinasum, whilst extension and rotation are effected by his assistants. But if main force must be resorted to, the patient must be thoroughly chloroformed, and placed on his back on a table ; a leathern girth or strong towel should be passed I'ound the upper part of the thio-h, so as to bear firmly against the perinjeum and crista ilii, as represented in the foregoing cut, which was sketched from nature by Mr. W. Bagg; and this should be attached to a ring or hook securely fastened into the wall or floor. A linen roller should next be applied to the lower part of the thigh,and over it I the strap belonging to the pulleys; which last are to be fixed to the wall or some other firm object. Then extension is to be made in such a direction as to draw the thigh across the oppo- site, a little above the knee. After a little time, the surgeon should gently rotate the limb, or lift the upper part of it, and the head of the bone will probably re- turn to the acetabulum. The patient should then be carefully moved to bed, with his thighs tied together. Mr. Skey ad- vises extension to be made from the ankle, so as not to drag on the pelvis by the hamstring muscles. Another way is to lay the patient on the sound side and to The foregoing diagram may explain the mechanism of reduction. The pro- cess IS well summed up by a writer in Medical Times, 30th June, 1855 •—" Lifl up, bend out, roll in,"—See case by Mr. Cock, ibid, t Dislocation downwards. From Sir A. Cooper.DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP. 322 fix the apparatus with the extending or pulley side fixed higher than the counter-extending or body side, 2. The dislocation backwards (commonly called the dislocation into the sciatic notch) is a modification of the preceding, and is known by the following symptoms:—The limb is shortened from half an inch to an inch; the toes rest on the ball of the great toe of the other foot; the knee is advanced and turned inwards, but not so much as in the last case; the trochanter is rather behind its natural position, and not so prominent, and the head of the bone can scarcely be felt. This position of the head of the femur may be the result of ill-directed attempts to reduce a dislocation on tlie dorsum ilii, Treatmeixt.—Reduction by flexion if possible. If main force is used the patient should be placed on the sound side, and the limb be drawn across the middle of the opposite thigh. After a little while the upper part of the limb should be lifted by means of a napkin, so as to raise the head of the bone over the edge of the acetabulum, the thigh being at the same time rotated outwards.* 3. In the dislocation downwards, the head of the bone is thrown into the thtjroid foramen, or on the obturator externus. The symptoms are as follow:—the limb is lengthened one or two inches; it is drawn away from the other; the toes point downwards and directly forwards; and the body is bent forwards, because the psoas muscle is on the stretch. In this, as in all other dislocations of the hip-joint, the liga- mentum teres is torn across. Treatment.—The object is to draw the head of the bone outwards, and rather upwards. There are two methods of effecting this. In the first place, the patient may be laid on his back on a bed, with one of the bedposts between his thighs, and close up to the perinaeum. Then the foot may be carried inwards, across the median line ; so that the bedpost, acting as a fulcrum, may throw the head of tlie femur out- wards. But the foot must not be raised, otherwise the head of the femur may slip round under the acetabulum into the sciatic notch. (2.) Or the pelvis may be fixed sideways by a broad band, and the pulleys be applied to the upper part of the thigh, to draw it out- wards at riglit angles to the body: whilst the knee is at the same time pulled downwards and inwards. * The above account is condensed from Sir A. Cooper, op. cit. chap, ii, sect. iv. Mr. Richard Quain has published (Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xxxi.) an account of a careful dissection of a recent case of this injury, and of experi- ments made to determine the exact relation of the visible deformity to the true position of the head of the bone ; and has concluded that, in the ordinary form of this dislocation, the head of the femur does not reach the sciatic notch, but is lodged immediately behind the acetabulum, over the base of the ischiatic spine, and opposite to a small part of each of the two sacro-sciatic foramina; that the advanced position of the displaced limb at the knee, and the situation of the foot with " the toe resting against the great toe of the other foot" are not neces- sarily present; that during the extension the thigh should be at a right angle witli the abdomen, and in a state of abduction; that the extending force should be applied above the knee; and that this joint should be bent in order to relax the sciatic nerve, which runs either immediately before or behind the displaced head of the bone.I DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP. 323 4. In the dislocation upwards and forwards (on the pubes); the limb is shortened about an inch ; very moveable; it is drawn away from the other, and the foot points directly outwards ; the head of the bone may be plainly felt below Poupart's ligament; and by this cir- cumstance this dislocation may be distinguished from fracture of the cervis femoris. Treatment.—Flexion may be tried; putting a bedpost between the patient's thighs, and abducting the limb, so as to throw the head of the bone downwards. If the pulleys are used, the patient is to be laid on the sound side; exten- sion should be made in a direction backwards and out- wards, the counter extension being in front of the patient; and after it has been con- tinued a little time, the head of the bone should be lifted over the edge of the acetabulum by means of a napkin. Sir Astley Cooper decided that eight weeks is the latest period after which it is justifiable to attempt the reduction of a dislocated hip, except in persons of extremely relaxed fibre or of advanced age ; and numerous instances are on record of death from abscesses or phlebitis, occasioned by violent extension at a later period. With respect to the relative frequency of these dislocations, Sir A. Cooper believed that out of twenty cases, twelve would be on the dor- sum ilii, five in the ischiatic notch, two in the foramen ovale, and one on the pubes.f Unusual Dislocations.—Besides the above four varieties, a dis- location directly downwards on the tuberosity of the ischium; one directly backwai-ds on the spine of the ischium ; and one directly up- wards on tJie space between the anterior spinous processes of the ilium, have been known to occur, although very rarely. In a case of disloca- tion directly downwards, recorded by Mr. Keate, the limb was length- * Dislocation forwards. From Sir A. Cooper. t These dislocations generally happen to adults. In very old people it is more common for the cervix femoris to give way. They are also rarely met with in children—although Sir A. Cooper relates one case which happened to a boy of seven; Mr. Travers, jun., one to a boy of five ; and the late Mr. Place, of Wimborne, was good enough to communicate to the author the particulars of a case of dislocation on the dorsum ilii happening to a boy of ten.DISLOCATION OF THE PATELLA. 324 ened three inches and a half, and was fixed and everted; the trochanter was sunk ; and the head of the bone, close to and on a level with the tuberosity of the ischium, where it was capable of being moved under the finger. In a case of dislocation on the spine of the ischium, which happened in the practice of Mr. Earle, at St. Bartholomew's, the limb was lengthened about half an inch ; it was neither everted nor inverted, but if anything the latter : there seemed to be a gi eat vacuity in front of the hip; the edges of the sartorius and tensor vagina femoris could be plainly felt, and a cavity behind them ; and the trochanter was further back, and not so prominent as usual. But the dislocation di- rectly upwards is the most common of these unusual forms. In a case that was examined by Mr. Travers, jun., some time after the accident, the limb was completely everted and slightly moveable; and the neck of the bone lay between the two anterior spinous processes of the ilium ; so that when the patient was erect, the limb seemed to be slung or suspended from this point. The diagnosis must in such cases be guided by an attentive examination of the deformity that is present, and by the absence of any symptoms of fracture. The reduction must be effected by extension, made in such a direction as seems most likely to bring the head of the bone into its socket.* IX. Dislocations of the Knee.—Dislocation of the tibia from the femur is not very common; and, when it does occur, is rarely com- plete. In most cases the tibia is thrown backwards towards the ham. The deformity and impediment to motion will enable the practitioner to distinguish the accident: the displacement must be rectified by simple extension, and the knee be kept at rest till inflammatory symp- toms have subsided. There often remains a peimanent inability to keep the joint firm in the straight position. Dislocation of the Patella may occur either inwards or out- wards ; more frequently in the latter direction on account of the out- ward traction of the extensor muscles. The symptoms are, that the knee cannot be bent, and that the bone can be felt in its new situation. This dislocation may be caused either by mechanical violence, or by a sudden contraction of the extensors of the thigh. It mostly happens to knock-kneed, flabby people. There is, in general, no difficulty in reducing it by means of the finger and thumb, if the knee is straight and the leg raised. There is one variety of this dislocation, however, in which the patella is turned round on its long axis, so that its outer edge lies immediately under the skin, and its inner edge rests on the trochlea of the femur, where it is as firmly fixed as if screwed down. In one instance, the surgeon was unable to reduce it by any means, even although he divided the ligamentum patellae, and cut through * See a paper on Eare Dislocations of the Hip Joint, in the Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xx., by Mr. Travers, jnn. Guy's Hosp. Kep., vol. i., Keate, Med. Gaz. vol. X.; a case of dislocation directly upivards, Lancet, May 15th, 1841; Mr. Earle's case, Lancet, vol. xi., p. 159; case of dislocation downwai'ds and backwards (with dissection and drawing), by Mr. Wormald, Med. Gaz., 28th Jan., 1837.325 DISLOCATION OF THE ANKLE. the quadriceps at its insertion into the patella ; and the patient died in eleven months, in consequence of his wounding the joint. Mr. Mayo relates a similar case, in which he succeeded in overcoming the difficulty by bending the knee to the utmost, so that the patella was drawn out of the groove in which it was lodged.* The patella is dislocated upwards after rupture of its tendon by the extensor muscles. This must be treated as fracture of the patella; but it is very rare. Partial Dislocation of the Semilunar Cartilages.—During sudden twists of the knee-joint, the semilunar cartilages may slip out of their proper position, and become wedged in between the tibia and femur. The symptoms are, sudden extreme sickening pain, and inability to stand, or to straighten the limb, with a depression on the side of the joint affected. This accident generally happens to people of relaxed habits, and when it has once happened is very liable to recur. In a case dissected by Mr. Fergusson, the external semilunar cartilage was found to be torn from its connexion with the tibia, except just at its extremities. The best way of restoring the part to its place, is to place the patient on the affected side, with the knee bent, and rotate the tibia gently in its axis. Should this not succeed, says Mr. Vincent, " the only thing is to keep the patient in bed, and in some of his slumbers all will come right" of itself. The patient should put on an elastic knee-cap before he moves about. Dislocation of the Head op the Fibula is of very unfrequent occurrence ; except as a consequence of relaxation of the ligaments from weakness, which must be treated by cold douche, stimulating lina- ments, and bandages, with a pad to press on the head of the bone, or by rheumatic effusion into the joint cavit)'-; to be treated by iodine paint, bark and iodide, &c., F. 94. There are two cases of it, caused by violence, in Sir Astley Cooper's work; the head of the bone could be felt to pass more backwards than natural, and could be moved by the finger. The pad of a tourniquet was employed to keep it in its place. X. Dislocation of the Ankle is generally caused by jumps from great heights or from carriages in motion, and may occur in four direc- tions, each of which is usually complicated with fracture of tibia or fibula, or both. 1. Dislocation of the tibia inwards Is the most common. It is attended with fracture of the lower third of the fibula, and may be easily known by the sole of the foot turning outwards; its inner edge turning downwards ; and great projection of the internal malleolus. 2. Dislocation of the tibia and fibula outwards is attended with fracture of the internal malleolus, and may be known by the sole of the foot * Three cases are related in Sir A. Cooper; and a similar one in Sir Gr. Bal- lingall's Military Surgery. Mr. Vincent says, that the obstinate resistance which this dislocation offers is owing to the fact that when the limb is straight, the extensor muscles, which are the retaining force, are in their position of strongest action; when the knee is bent they are in their weakest position. 0^. cit. p. 74.DISLOCATION OF THE ANKLE. 326 turning inwards. 3. In the dislocation forwards, the foot appears shortened, and the heel lengthened, and the toes pointed downwards. There is also a partial dislocation forwards, in which the tibia is only- half displaced from its articulation with the astragalus, the fibula being also broken ; the foot appears shortened and immoveable, and the heel cannot be brought to the ground. 4. A dislocation bark- wards has been described; but it must be excessively rare, as Sir A. Cooper never saw it. There is a case of it described by Mr. Colles, which, however, was probably one of transverse fracture of the tibia and fibula just above the joint, with displacement back- wards. The fracture of the fibula about three inches above the outer malleolus, which accompanies the dislocation of the tibia, is commonly called Pott's fracture. As a fifth variety, may be quoted the thrust- ing up of the astragalus between the bones of the leg, as represented in the adjoining cut. t Treatment.—These injuries may be so various and complicated, that it is impossible to lay down particular rules for every variety, although » Unreduced dislocation of the tibia inwards, with fracture of fibula; from a cast taken by Mr. Wilmott, of St. Mary's Hospital, a year and a half after the accident. There was no attempt at reduction. t Astragalus thrust up between tibia and fibula, Accident of five years' standing; no attempt had been made at reduction. There was no fracture. From a cast by Mr. AVillmott.DISLOCATIONS OF THE FOOT. 327 the general principles are clear. Reduction must be effected as soon as possible, and for this purpose the patient may either be laid on the injured side, with the knee and hip bent, or on the back, with the thigh raised, and knee bent. Then, whilst an assistant steadies the knee, the surgeon must grasp the instep with one hand, and the heel with the other, and make extension (aided by pressure on the head of the tibia), till he has restored the natural shape of the parts. Then the limb must be put up with a splint on each side, in the same manner as a fracture of the lower part of the leg, taking care to keep the great toe in its proper line with the patella ; and it may be slung, or may be put on its side, according to the judgment of the surgeon; and the starch bandage applied, after swelling has subsided, according to circumstances. Chloroform may be administei-ed to render reduction more easy, and opium in regular doses afterwards, to prevent displacement by twitching and spasm. Compound Dislocation of the ankle-joint is by far the most fre- quent example of that kind of injury. If the wound in the integument does not heal by the first intention, the joint inflames ; suppuration occurs in about five days; much of the cartilage is destroyed by ulcera- tion ; at last the wound is filled with granulations, and the patient recovers a tolerably good use of the foot in from two to twelve months. The first thing to be done is, to wash away all dirt with warm water; to remove any shattered pieces of bone gently with the fingers, and then to reduce the bone to its place; slightly enlarging the wound in the skin, if necessary, in order to effect this without violence. If it is very difficult to return the end of the tibia, or if it is fractured obliquely, or much shattered, or stript of periosteum, it is better to saw it off; as the patient will have quite as good use of the Umb afterwards. Then the external wound should be closed with a bit of lint dipped in the patient's blood, or covered with collodion, and the leg be secured with a tailed bandage placed on a Macintyre splint, or two of Pott's side splints, if the situation of the wound will allow, and be wetted with an evaporating lotion. Care must be taken not to let the foot be pointed, nor be turned to either side. The remaining treatment is the same as that of compound fracture; and the rules which are given as to the necessity of amputation are the same in both cases, XI. Dislocations of the Foot.—The most important of these are the dislocations of the astragalus, which may be separated from its connexion with the os naviculare and os calcis in various ways. Sometimes it is thrown inwards, so as to I'est on the inner surface of the OS calcis; and in this case, there appears an unusual projection below the inner ankle, and a corresponding depression below the outer one, and the whole foot seems displaced outwards. Sometimes it is thrown outwards ; and then the foot seems to be displaced inwards. If these dislocations are simple, reduction should be immediately at- tempted by extension, and chloroform will be needed; perhaps the pulleys, for the reduction is often a work of difficulty; but patience and good management will usually succeed. Chloroform and opiumWOUNDS OF AETERIES. 328 ought to vender unnecessary the proposal of dividing the tendons of refractory muscles, unless they intervene between the bone and its socket in such a way as to prevent replacement. If the dislocation is compound, and the bone cannot be replaced, or if it is much shattered, it may be dissected out. In these two dislocations, the astragalus is separated from the other tarsal bones, but preserves its connexions wit,h the tibia and fibula, so that they may be regarded merely as varieties of dislocation of the ankle-joint, in which the tibia and fibula carry the astragalus with them in their displacement. It may, however, be completely shot out from under the tibia, and lie under the skin of the outer side of the foot. And lastly, it may in the same way be dis- located backwards; projecting behind the ankle-joint, and pushing the tendo Achillis backwards. This displacement, if only partial, it will be extremely difficult to rectify, and if complete, it will most likely be impossible.* If under these circumstances the dislocation be com- pound, the bone may be dissected out. The same may be done even in simple dislocation if the use of the foot can be thereby improved. Besides these, the five anterior tarsal bones may be dislocated from the OS calcis and astragalus. The cuneiform bones may be dislocated upwards from the navicular; the metatarsal bones from the tarsal, and the toes from the metatarsal. In any of these cases, the proper posi- tion of the parts must be restored as much as possible by pressure and extension, and be preserved by bandages; but reduction will often be very difficult, if not impossible. CHAPTER VII. INJURIES AND DISEASES OF ARTERIES. SECTION I.—WOUNDS OF ARTERIES. Symptoms.—An artery may be known to be wounded by the profuse spirting out of florid blood, per saltum; that is to say in jets, corre- sponding to the beats of the pulse, and indicating by their size that of the artery, or of the wound in it. Pathology.—The bleeding from wounded arteries must necessarily be often profuse and dangerous, because from the nature of their coats, they do not collapse as the veins do ; and because of the perpetual current of blood impelled by the heart. * For cases of the dislocation of the astragalus backwards, see a paper by Mr. B. Phillips, Med. Gaz., vol. xiv., p 596, and Fergusson's Practical Surgery. See also Mr. Cross's case of dislocation of astragalus reduced by dividing the tendo Achillis, quoted in Eanking, vol. ix., p. 140; Campbell de Morgan, B. Phillips, Lonsdale, and others. Lancet, 1849, vol. ii., p. 618. Heniy Lee's case, in which the os calcis and the other bones of the foot were dislocated from the astragalus with, the tibia, Lancet, 1852, vol. i., p. 313. Richard G-. H. Butcher, of Dublin, on Fractures near the Ankle Joint; Dublin, 1852 (objects to tenotomy as a means of facilitating reduction).329 WOUNDS OF ARTERIES. But we find a provision in nature for avoiding this danger. 1. If an artery of small size, as the digital or the temporal, be cleanly cut across, there will be a pretty brisk hajmorrhage for a time; but it will soon cease, mider the influence of the following natural processes. First, the divided vessel contracts, so as to close its orifice ; and so, also, as to lessen its canal immediately above, into the shape of the neck of a champagne bottle. If all goes on well, there is, secondly, the exudation of fibrin around the orifice; and thirdly, there is coagulation of the blood for a short distance within. The vessel also, fourthly, retracts into its sheath, if the surrounding tissues are loose enough to admit of it. Under the influence of these four processes, the bleeding is checked ; then if all goes on well, the contracted orifice is sealed up by the exuded lymph, and the coagulum within gradually becomes firmer, adheres to the walls of the vessel, loses its colour, fibrillates, and, in process of time, becomes organized into fibro-cellular tissue, forming, with the impervious end of the artery, a mere fibrous cord. 2. If a very large artery, such as the femoral or subclavian, is wounded, and if the aperture in it is large, and the flow of blood is in no manner opposed, the loss of blood will be so rapid as to occasion death almost instantaneously, if, however, the wound in the artery is very small, it may be closed firmly by coagulated blood during syncope, and the patient may survive if properly treated. 3. If the artery is of the second order, as the humeral or tibial, the bleeding will most probably cease for a time. But in the course of some hours, when the faintness has passed off", and the heart beats sti'ongly again, the coagula in the orifice of the vessel will most probably be dislodged, and the bleeding will recur again and again, so that the patient will very likely die of it, unless it be checked by art. In some cases, however, the orifice of the vessel may become permanently closed. 4. A puncture or partial division of an artery may be much more troublesome than complete division; because the chief process for arresting hsemorrhage, namely, the contraction, is prevented; and the bleeding can only be obstructed by the coagulated blood in the wound. Under these circumstances, three things may happen. In the first place, the aperture, if longitudinal or very small, may in favourable cases be closed by adhesion, the arteiy remaining pervious. The uniting lymph, however, is very liable to be dilated into a false aneurism. An oblique cut is likely to bleed most obstinately. Or, secondly, the channel of the artery may be obliterated by coagulated blood. Or, thirdly, bleeding may recur perpetually, till the patient dies, or the un- divided part of the vessel ulcerates, or is divided by art. From these details may easily be gathered the reason why, when a small artery has been partially divided (as the temporal in arteriotomy), it is judi- cious to divide it completely. When an artery is torn across, it contracts almost immediately, and330 TEEATMENT OF becomes quite impervious, so that an arm or leg may be torn off by a shot or by machinery, without any loss of blood from the axillary or tibial arteries. For this reason, there is no hjEmorrhage from the um- bilical cord of young animals, which is either torn, or bitten through by the mother. Lastly, it will be readily seen that division of arteries which are diseased, or which are situated in condensed and inflamed tissues, so that they cannot contract or retract, will be followed by profuse bleeding. Hence it is, that after secondary amputation, in which the parts divided are condensed from inflammation, bleeding is much more copious, and many more ligatures are required, than after primary amputation. Treatment.—The first indication is to stop the flow of blood. For this purpose, if the wound is a small one, and there is bone underneath, as in the hand, forearm, or temple, the surgeon may make firm pres- sure on it with his thumb or finger: if the wound is wide and deep, he should poke his forefinger into it, wipe away all clots, and press with the point of the finger on the exact spot the blood issues from ; or he may seize the bleeding orifice with his finger and thumb: in other cases, the blood maybe checked by grasping the limb above, and press- ing the main artery against the bone, with the points of the thumbs or fingers; or by applying the tourniquet ;t or in default of that, by passing a handkerchief round the limb, with a stone twisted in it over the artery, and twisting it tightly with a stick. Immediate danger being averted by these means, the surgeon will probably apply a ligature. Ligature.—When a stout thread is tied tightly around an artery, it divides the middle and internal coats, leaving the external or cellular coat enclosed in the knot. If the student makes the experiment, and unties the knot, and slits up the artery, he will see the results shown in the next cut. Then in the living body, the following series of phenomena occurs. The cut edges of the internal coats unite by adhesion, and the blood between the point tied and the nearest collateral branch coagulates and adheres to the lining membrane : and so the canal is sealed up. Mean- while, the ring of the cellular coat enclosed in the ligature ulcerates; the ligature comes away in from five to twenty-one days (sooner or later, according to the size of the vessel), and, finally, that portion of the artery, which is filled with coagulum, shrinks into a fibrous cord. * Contracted artery from umbilical cord of a calf. f The tourniquet is described in the Chapter on Amputations.WOUNDS OF ARTERIES. 331 The success of the operation will be promoted bj using a small round ligature (of brown hempen thread), so as to divide the internal coats of the vessel smoothly, and by taking care to disturb it as little as possible from the surrounding parts which supply it with blood. If the place of ligature can be selected, it is better not to have it too near below the point where a large branch is given off, in order that the vessel may be sealed by a good coagulum before the ligature is separated; but this is of no great consequence.* When, however, the artery is diseased and brittle, the ligature should be large, and not tied too tightly; otherwise it may cut through entirely; or else a small portion of the adjoining tissue must be included in the knot. The manner of tying an artery is simple enough. If the orifice pro- jects a little, as it does from the surface of muscles divided in amputar tion, it should be taken hold of with a forceps, and be gently drawn out, and then an assistant should tie a ligatm-e round it as tightly and smoothly as possible in a double knot. If the bleeding orifice cannot be drawn out with the forceps, it may be transfixed with the tenaculum; but in some cases, where it is deeply seated or cannot be found, or is contained in a dense, consolidated tissue, it may be necessary to pass a curved needle and ligature through a considerable thickness of the flesh, and tie it up altogether. This was the practice usually adopted by surgeons of the last century; and is well called by John Bell, groping or diving with the needle. In all cases, however, where it is possible, the artery alone should be included in the ligature. After tying, one end of the ligature should be cut off, not too close to the knot, and the other be made to hang out of the wound. Assalini's spring forceps, and the little wire forceps, or serrefines, are useful when there is a lack of assistants. When an artery is completely divided, it is necessary to tie both orifices ; and if it is wounded, but not divided, a ligature must be placed by an aneurism-needle both immediately below and above the wounded part. It is necessary to observe, that in all cases, when it is possible, a wounded artery must be tied at the wounded part; and not in the trunk above. But here the question may be asked. Supposing that there is a wound of an artery situated at a great depth under muscles ; or that the wound is in an inflamed or sloughy state ; so that the adjacent parts are so infiltrated with blood that it must be extremely difficult to find the wounded vessel—would it not answer the purpose to tie * J. F. D, Jones, M.D., Treatise on Hgemorrhage and the Ligature, Lend. 1805 ; Porter on Aneurism,TREATMENT OF 332 the main trunk of the limb at some place between the wound and the heart, where it can be done easily—just, in fact, as an aneurism is treated ? The answer is, Certainly not:—the artery should be secured by two ligatures, one immediately above, and one immediately below the wound; and should not be tied in the trunk above: and the reasons for this rule must be evident enough from the following considei'ations. 1. A trunk may be tied that has no connection with the branch wounded. Thus, in wounds of the upper part of the neck, the trunk of the common carotid has been tied many times when the bleeding vessel has been the vertebral. 2. There is the possibility of high division, or some other unusual distribution of the arteries. 3. The limb below must be supplied with blood, by collateral circulation, else it will mortify. But whenever," to use Mr. Guthrie's words, " this collateral circulation is sufficient to maintain the life of the limb, blood must pass into the artery below the wound, and must, as a general rule, pass up and out through the lower end of the divided artery." 4. Gan- grene is very liable to follow if a ligature be placed high up in the thigh, in consequence of a wound. 5. The lower end of a wounded artery is not so quickly and effectually closed by a natural process of cure, as the upper, and is exceedingly liable to yield to the blood that regurgitates into it from below, and to bleed again and again until closed by ligature. Wherever, therefore, an artery may be wounded, it should be secured at the wounded part, if practicable. We say if practicable, because in any case, if a man cannot do the best thing, he must do the best he can.* This will usually be to tie the artery ascertained to be the wounded one as near as possible to the bleeding point; and to re- peat this process at the distal side, if bleeding occurs from that end. (See p. 334.) * The rule of practice is well shown by a case which occurred to Mr. Butcher, of Dublin. A man was deeply stabbed in the right thigh by a knife; profuse and almost fatal hasmorrhage ensued, which ceased, but after thirteen hours returned; the wound 1J inch long, in the long axis of the limb, a little above its middle, right over the sheath of the femoral artery, which was laid bare by it. The artery above being compressed, Mr, Butcher passed his left forefinger into the wound, but could not touch the bottom of it. Then he dilated it upwards and downwards for at least three inches. This allowed him to pass his fore- finger still more deeply along the course of the wound, far 'behind the femoral artery, which lay between the finger and the bone. The tourniquet being slackened, up came a gush of scarlet blood from the very deepest part of the wound. The forefinger being now passed still more deeply in the track of the wound, entered a kind of tendinous slit. This was enlarged, yet the finger could not reach the bleeding point, though the wound was deep enough to bury the fingers and part of the hand. The patient being almost dead, and the least movement or the shifting of the tourniquet impracticable, Mr. Butcher at once secured the common femoral, below Poupart's ligament, by a transverse incision. This checked further bleeding, but the patient died of exhaustion twenty-four hours from the accident. A p. m. showed that the knife had sliced off a portion of the tube of the profunda artery, immediately behind the upper margin of the adductor longus tendon.—On Wounds of Arteries, by Richard G. H. Butcher, Dublin Quarterly Joum. Med. Sc., Aug. 1854,333 WOUNDS OF AKTERIES. When the wound in the skin is not sufficiently gaping to expose the bleeding part, the finger or a bougie should be first passed down as a guide to it, and then it should be laid open by a sufficiently long inci- sion upwards and downwards. But if it is clear that a vessel is wounded by a stab from the remote side of the limb (as if the femoral is pierced by a wound at the bacljof the thigh), a bougie may be passed in, as before, as a guide for the incisions, but the operator may lay the vessel bare at the side where it is most easily accessible.* Aoupressui^e.—Great as are the advantages of the ligature over the searing irons which preceded them, yet it has some disadvantages; and in order to escape these, a process termed acupressure has been pro- posed by the fertile and ingenious mind of Professor Simpson. The disadvantages of the ligature are, 1st, that being composed of porous and decomposable materials, it is liable to become saturated with putrescent matters, and act as a seton of the worst kind; 2ndly, it of necessity causes sloughing, more or less, of the tissues encircled in the knot; 3rdly, it is sometimes most tedious in coming away. It may be remembered that Lord Nelson Avas ill for weeks through a ligature applied after the amputation of his arm, which did not come away. Thus ligatures keep open wounds for long periods, and render them, whilst open, prone to those states of decomposition which j'esult in low inflammation and pyaemia. Professor Simpson proposes, 1st, to employ metallic instead of textile substances; 2ndly, to use them in such a way as allows them to be removed at will, so soon as the occlusion of the artery is complete, which may be at the end of 48, 60, or 120 hours, according to the size of the vessel. The method of employing simple acupressure is by passing a long needle through one of the flaps of a wound, in such a way that it shall compress the bleeding artery, just, says Professor Simpson, as we do the stalk of a flower when we fasten it into the lapel of our coat with a pin. The engravings show what is meant better than description. Fig. a shows the outer surface of a flap, with the needle passed through it; fig. h shows the mouth of the artery on the wound-surface of the flap, bridged over and compressed. The needle, which must be from 3 to 6 inches Fig. a. Fig. h.334 TREATMENT OF in length, according to the thickness of the wound, may in some cases be made to compress the vessel against a bone. In the second method of acupressure, a small sewing-needle is em- pjg_ (.^ ployed, threaded with a short piece of dead or inelastic iron wire, by which it may be pulled out at pleasure. This is dipped down into the tissues on one side, then raised up, and made to bridge over the vessel, which is meanwhile compressed with the point of the left forefinger. In the third method, the sew- ing-needle is passed simply behind the'vessel, and a noose of fine iron wire passed over the point, brought Fig. d. over the track of the vessel tightly enough to close it, and then secured with a slight twist round the stem of the eye-end of the needle. When- ever the operator chooses, he can pull out the needle, and then the wire loop follows without resist- ance. The wire passed through the needle should be distinguished by being twisted, or in some other way.* Other methods of checking the bleeding from arteries are, 1. Torsion is performed by drawing out the vessel, fixing it by a pair of forceps a quarter of an inch from the end, and then twisting the end roimd and round till it will not untwist itself. There is no English authority for applying this method to large arteries, but it may be useful enough when many minor vessels bleed after the extirpation of a tumour. 2. Pressure is a means of suppressing hsemorrhage that may be resorted to either when the ligature is deemed unnecessary, or when it cannot be applied. Thus it is applicable to wounded arteries of small size situated immediately over bones—as the temporal or occipital; or to arteries that cannot be tied, because they lie very deeply—as the vertebral or pudic after lithotomy; or to arteries that are so diseased that a ligature will not hold. The pressure must be confined as much as possible to the bleeding orifice, and should be effected by a graduated compress; i. e., one composed of several pieces gradually decreasing in size, the smallest being on the wound. It is also a good plan to apply pressure to the|<J0urse of the trunk above the wound. Moreover, when pressure is to be relied upon, the whole limb, including the fingers or * For fuller information, see Professor Simpson's original Papers in the Med. Times and Gaz., January, 1864.335 WOUNDS OF ARTERIES. toes, should be accurately bandaged from its extremity, in order to di- minish its entire circulation, and it should be placed in a raised position. When the palmar arch is wounded, one compress may be placed on the wound, and another on the back of the hand ; a paper-knife or strong slip of wood may then be laid on each compress transversely across the hand, and their ends be firmly tied together. In some cases it will be impossible to apply compression in any other way than by the fingere of the operator and his assistants, relieving each other at regular inter- vals till bleeding ceases. This is termed " digital compression," and has often saved valuable lives. 3. Cold (especially sponging with iced water, or covering the bleed- ing part with ice in bladders) is applicable to cases of bleeding from numerous small vessels. 4. Styptics are of various kinds. 1. Some of them check hsemor- rhage, by opposing a mechanical obstacle to the exit of blood—as the a^anc, and other porous substances which entangle it; 2, others act by coagulating the blood; or 3, by causing contraction of the bleeding vessels ; or 4, by exciting the adhesive inflammation and formation of granulations. The tincture or solution of perchloride of iron ; a satu- rated solution of alum ; tui-pentine, creosote, the nitrate of silver, and the matioo leaf, ai'e the best. They are applicable to the same cases as cold and pressure; that is, when the bleeding vessels are very nume- rous and small. The actual cautery, which is the most potent styptic of all, has two operations. If the iron be red hot, it stops bleeding mechanically, by burning up the orifices of the vessels; but the bleed- ing is liable to return when the eschar separates. It is better, there- fore, to use the iron at a black heat, for it then excites the adhesive in- dammation; and is very efficacious for arteries that either cannot be tied, or that are too diseased to hold the ligature. A pinch with the forceps will often cause small vessels to cease bleeding. Many obsti- nate haemon-hages from small vessels cease when the wound is cleared of coagulum, and the bleeding part exposed to the air, or sluiced with iced water, and bound up again. 5. Medical Treatment.—In cases of arterial hajmoiThage, which there is any difficulty in restraining by ligature or otherwise, it will be necessary to keep the patient in the recumbent posture, and to tran- quillize the heart's action by opium. The diet should consist of milk, broth, and other substances that nourish without stimulating. Supposing that so gi"eat a loss of blood has taken place as to en- danger the patient's life, the head must be kept low: beef-tea with brandy be given frequently by spoonfuls, and opium in small doses every thi'ee or four hours. It has been recommended in extreme cases to apply a tourniquet to ^h of the unaffected limbs, with a view of retaining in them as much blood as possible. In a desperate case, where life would evidently be lost without it, transfusion should be resorted to. See Part V. Chapter II.SECONDARY HEMORRHAGE. 336 SECTION II.—SECONDARY HEMORRHAGE. Secondary HiEMORRHAGE may be defined to be that which comes on after the lapse of a few hours, or later, after an injury. There are several varieties. 1. It often happens that in a few hours after a wound has been bound up, and the patient put to bed and become warm, sundry small arteries bleed. This case is easily managed. The wound must be opened ; any vessels must be tied that require it; the surface be sponged, with cold water, and then be exposed to the air for a few hours. 2. A second variety is that which has been so ably described by Mr. Guthrie,* and which occurs when a wound of the femoral artery is treated like an aneurism, by tying the vessel at a distance, instead of tying it immediately above and immediately below the wound. Mr. Guthrie lays down the following propositions, viz., That although any artery in the vpper exti'emity may be tied anywhere with very little risk of gangrene, yet that gangrene of the foot and leg often follow, when a ligature has been placed high upon the femoral artery, in con- sequence of a wound. This is not the case when the ligature is applied for an aneurism, because then the collateral circulation has had time to enlarge before the operation. But if after ligature of the femoral, the collateral circulation is sufficient to maintain the life of the limb, the blood will pass into the large arteries below the part tied. Then if there be nothing to hinder it, the blood will escape from the lower orifice of the wounded artery. Mr. Guthrie shows also that the processes by which the ends of a divided artery are healed, are less perfect in the lower end than in the upper. The artery does not contract so much, neither does it retract, neither is there a perfect internal coagulum, neither is there an exuda- tion of such plastic lymph. Hence when blood begins to pass into the lower part of the vessel through the collateral circulation, the wounded part gives way to the pressure. The characteristics of this kind of haemorrhage are, that the blood (to quote from Mr. Guthrie) " is of a venous colour, and flows or wells out in a continuous stream, as water rises from a spring, and not with an arterial impulse." It may come on at almost any interval till tire wound is healed. The prevention of this accident will consist in observing Mr. Guthrie's rule, to tie every wounded artery both above and below the wounded part, if practicable. If haemorrhage does occur, the vessel should be cut down upon and secured. Nevertheless, in no case, says Mr. Guthrie, should an operation be done on a wounded artery unless it bleeds. For if it does not bleed, rest and pressure may avert the necessity of any operation at all. But on this point, see p. 147, * Commentaries on Military Surgery, 6th ed., p. 190 et seq.337 VARICOSE ANEURYSM. 3. There may be general oozing of blood from a wound, owing to some disorder of the general health, such as malarious fever in hot climates. Its causes and treatment are described in the Chapters on Hasmorrhage and Gunshot Wounds, p. 146. The surgeon must recol- lect its liability to occur in the female from the menstrual nisus, 4. Haemorrhage may occur from sloughing or from ulceration of an artery ; or from imperfect closure of an artery when a ligature sepa- rates ; through the influence of some diseased state of the artery or of the constitution, which has prevented the healthy process of adhesion. This form of hgemorrhage will be more likely to occur if the ligature was coarse, thick, and ill applied, so as to bruise the internal coats in- stead of cutting them evenly; or if the artery was much disturbed iu its sheath daring the operation. In such a case the only remedy is to cut down upon and tie the bleeding orifice; or, if that cannot be done, or the vessel be too diseased to hold the ligature, carefully-graduated pressure and styptics may be tried. A small button of lint, imbued with turpentine or with solution of perchloride of iron, may be put on the bleeding point (or the latter may be touched with a black-hot iron first), over that a larger compress, and so on, till Arm pi'essure can be produced. Should all these measures fail, the trunk must be tied above at tlie nearest point to the wound that is possible. In the case of haemorrhage from an artery laid open by hospital gan- grene or phagedaena, the actual cautery, with the free application of nitric acid, turpentine, or bromine, and pressure, are the best remedies. SECTION III.—I^FFDSED AND TRAUMATIC ANEURYSM, AND ANEURYSMAL VARIX. I. Diffused Aneurysm.—When an artery has been lacerated, by a broken bone, for instance, without a wound of the skin, or when an artery has been stabbed, and the wound in the skin has healed, but that in the vessel remains open, so that the blood escapes into the cellular tissue, a diffused aneurysm is said to be formed. But this term is not at all descriptive of the real state of things, and is very liable to lead the young practitioner into the error of treating the case as if it were a real aneurysm. The fact is, that a real aneurysm has a sac ; the dif- fused aneurysm has none. Hence the escape of blood from the wounded part may be unlimited. A true aneurysm may, however, become dif- fused by its sac being burst by a blow or giving way under the pres- sure of the forces of circulation. The symptoms are, a dark-coloured swelling of the limb; perhaps fluctuating; perhaps yielding some degree of pulsatory thrill, if the aperture in the artery is large; and most probably, if a main trunk is wounded, there will be coldness, numbness, absence of pulsation, and tendency to gangrene in the parts below. The case must not be treated as if it were an aneurysm, by a ligature high up ; but the main artery being compressed with the fingers, the swelling must be laid open, the blood removed, and the wounded part of the artery secured by two D Z338 VARICOSE ANEURYSM. ligatures, one immediately above, the other just below it. The whole field of surgery does not present a more difficult operation, nor one re- quiring greater judgment, nerve, and dexterity.* This is a case, in which, as John Bell well said, boldness is better than caution. " Run your bistoury upwards and downwards, so as to slit up the tumour quickly; plunge your hand suddenly down towards the bottom; turn out the great clots of blood with your fingers, till having reached the bottom entirely, yoib begin to feel the warm jet of blood ; and directed by that, clap your finger upon the wounded point of the artery ; as it has but a point your finger will covei- it fairly, and your feeling the beating of the artery assures you that all is now safe."t After the operation, considerable suppuration, perhaps sloughing of the sac and parts infiltrated ensues. This must be treated on general principles. It is possible that a diffused aneurysm may be mistaken for a rapidly- growing cancer. A man may meet with a blow on the thigh, causing pain and swelling. The swelling does not subside: on the contrary, it continues slowly to increase; evidently infiltrates the whole tissues of the limb; is somewhat elastic, perhaps displays feeble pulsation at parts; punctured with a grooved needle yields serum or blood. The case is supposed to be malignant, and amputation hopeless ; the patient sinks. After death there is found no cancer, but a great collection of blood, fluid or coagulated, amongst all the deep muscles, and proceeding from a small artery that had been ruptured by the blow. An incision would have revealed the mystery. II. The False or Traumatic aneurysm is said to exist when the lymph, by which a puncture in an artery has been united, yields to the pressure of the blood, and dilates into a sac. If the puncture in the artery be small and the blood be slowly effused under a strongly resisting fascia or aponeurosis, a sac may be gradually formed by condensation of the enveloping tissues, and a false aneurysm be the result. This is * In addition to the numerous capital cases illustrative of these doctrines, which are to be found in Mr. Guthrie's Commentaries, a very ably and fairly reported case, which occurred in the practice of Mr. Henry Smith (Med. Times, June 23rd, 1855), well deserves perusal. An old man met with a punctured wound at the upper part of the right thigh; arterial bleeding followed, but soon ceased. A tumour formed, occupying the whole of the front of the upper part of the thigh; it was circumscribed, pulsating, and communicating a thrill to the ear. Its pulsation was controlled by pressing the external iliac artery; the popliteal beat freely. Arterial hsemorrhage returned on the seventh day. Mr. Smith being summoned, most correctly diagnosed a wound of some arteiy, probably the profunda, not the femoral. The external iliac artery was tied. Everything went on well for a month, although the original wound sloughed. The ligature came away, and the wound of the operation healed ; but on the thirty-fifth day from the operation, and forty-second from the injury, the ori- ginal wound bled again. It Med again profusely on the fifty-ninth and sixty- third day (from the injury) ; and on the last-mentioned day Mr. Smith again operated, by enlai-ging the original wound, and at a great depth, and under cir- cumstances of great difficulty, securing the vessel originally wounded, which was either the profunda or external circumfles. In another month the patient was well. f John Bell, Discourses on Nature and Cure of "Wounds, Edinburgh, 1800, vol. i., p. 75.339 THE H^MOERHAGIC DIATHESIS. to be treated, like the last case, by two ligatures; one immediately- above, the other below the wounded part, if careful compi-ossion tails to effect a cure. III. Aneurysmal Varix is produced when an arteiy is punctured through a vein (the brachial artery through the median basilic vein at the bend of the elbow, for instance), and they adhere together, the communication between them remaining permanent. The consequence is, that blood passes from the artery into the vein at each beat of the pulse, causing it to become enlarged and tortuous, and to present a vibrating thrill at each pulse. IV. Varicose Aneurysm is said to exist when an artery has also been punctured through a vein, and a false aneurysm has formed between them, opening into both, and formed of lymph that was effused between them. The difference between aneurysmal varix and varicose aneurysm (which is a cause of perplexity to young students) is this: aneurysmal varix is a swelling of a vein, caused by the admission of arterial blood into it. Varicose aneurysm is the same thing, but with the addition of a false aneurysm, situated between the artery and vein. These two cases need not be interfei'ed with unless they enlarge rapidly, or cause inconvenience. If they do, md flexion fail (p, 348), a ligature must be placed both above and below the wounded part of the artery. SECTION IV.—THE HiEMORRHAGIC DIATHESIS. The hemorrhagic Diathesis is a peculiar constitutional defect, which seems to consist in a want of contractility of the arteries, and of coagulability of the blood ; so that the slightest wound bleeds almost uncontrollably, and life may be lost through the most trifling injury or surgical operation. If the existence of this diathesis be ascertained, surp-eons would do well to refrain from operations with the knife on the individual possessing it. In a case of congenital phymosis, in a person of this kind, which fell under Mr. Liston's care, he very judi- ciously employed the ligature instead of the knife. This diathesis often runs in families. Thus the history is recorded of four children who were born of healthy parents: their skins were white and complexions fair; they were very subject to fever with ecchymosis; their blood was very fluid, but coagulated in the usual manner ; violent coughing easily produced hsemoptysis or epistaxis, and any slight injury caused ecchymosis of the skin. One died at twenty months from biting his tongue; another at eight years from general mucous hsemorrhage ; and a third at twelve from epistaxis. In a case of obstinate bleeding of this kind, pressure and the nitrate of silver, matico, or tannin, locally, and a nutritious diet, with tincture of the muriate of iron or the acetate of lead and opium, or gallic acid, or turpentine in very small doses, F. 74, seem to be the most hopeful remedies. Of course in such cases as these it would be a great absurdity to tie an arterial trunk at a distance, though the mistake has been committed.* * Vide Brit, and For. Med. Rev., Jan. 1840; and two valuable papers by Dr,340 ACUTE ARTERITIS AND EMBOLISM. SECTION V.—DEGENERATION AND INFLAMMATION OF ARTERIES * I. Degeneration of the arteries is a very common affection in advanced life, and is the cause not only of rupture, dilatation, and aneurysm, but probably of the dry gangrene of the aged, of softening of the brain, and of apoplexy. The first step in the process, in the larger arteries, seems to be thickening of the innermost coat in patches of variable size by an interstitial deposit of fibrine. The next step seems to be, the fatty degeneration of this fibrine into a so-called atheromatous or pappy mass, which, examined microscopically, is seen to consist of oil-globules, cholesterine, amorphous fragments, and earthy crystals. Then the fibrous coat becomes thin and loses its structural chaiacter, and also undergoes fatty degeneration; the elastic fibres being se- parated and replaced by fat, and losing their curling properties : mean- while the outer or cellular coat becomes thickened and vascular, as if from chronic inflammation. Instead of the fatty degeneration, the fibrine and coats of the vessel may undergo the calcareous or ossific; producing specks, or rings, or projecting spicula of calcareous or bony matter, or even converting the vessel into a rigid earthen tube. In the smaller vessels, especially of the brain, the middle coat loses its structural marks, and becomes studded with oil-globules or with earthy particles. II. Acute Arteritis and Embolism,—The cases described under this name were probably cases of embolism. From the venous system clots may be transported to the right side of the heart, and block the pulmonary arteries wholly or partially; if wholly, causing sudden deatli; if partially, producing gangrene, or " inflammation " of a portion of lung. The occurrence of pneumonia after wounds and operations is thus easily accounted for. Conversely on the left side of the heart, portions of fibrine, detached from its walls, may find their way into the arteries, and may be arrested in, and block them up, stopping off the current of the blood, and giving rise to very serious consequences ; for instance, to softening of the brain, if either of the cerebral arteries should be the seat of obstruction ; or to the disorganization of the organ supplied by smaller arteries; or, again, to the production of pyoemia, through the disintegration of the separated fibrine, and the admixture of its decomposing particles with the blood.t Allan of the Haslar Hospital, and Mr. Miller of Edinburgh, in Dr. Cormack's Journal for June and July, 1842. The stout porter of the St. George's, Hanover Square, workhouse, Mount Street, has this diathesis. * Guthrie, op. cit.; Mayo, Pathol., p. 447; Copland, Diet., Art. Arteries; Hodgson on Diseases of Arteries, Lond. 1815, p. 5; Gulliver, M. C. T. xxv.; Brodie's Lectures; Edward Crisp on the Structure, Diseases, and Injuries of the Blood-vessels, Lond. 1847; Descriptive Catalogue of Pathological Specl- meus, in Museum of Royal Coll. of Surgeons, vol. iii. I W. Senhouse Kirkes, M.D., on Detachment of Fibrinous Deposits, &c., Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xxxv. Cohn, ilber Embolischen Krankheiten; also Med. Times, 18G2.341 ANEURYSM. When a large artery is blocked, the symptoms, which formerly were ascribed to arteritis, are, tendeiness and swelling of the affected artery, violent pain and numbness and tendency to gangrene in the parts supplied by it. The author some time since treated a young man for dysentery; and, during convalescence, the axillary artery in the last part of its course suddenly became swelled and painful, and the hand cold, with no pulse. The patient was treated with small doses of mercury, and the circulation was completely restored in three weeks. Dr. Crisp relates several cases of far greater severity. A girl, aged 22, suffered from violent fever, fainting, profuse perspii'ations, great pain in the limbs, and tenderness in the course of the arteries. After some days, no pulse could be felt in the axillary from an inch below the clavicle, or in the popliteal. Both feet became gangrenous, especially the left, which was amputated below the knee eight months after- wards : at the time of the operation no pulse could be felt in any of the extremities. Very little blood came from the larger arteries, and that not per saltwn, but the smaller vessels bled profusely. On examination of the leg, the arteries seemed smaller than natural, but not otherwise diseased. In another case, the patient died with rheumatism and diseased heart; the brachial artery was enlarged and plugged with fibrine. In the dry gangrene of the aged, the main artery sometimes, but not always, contains solid fibrine. In a case, recorded in the Provincial Medical Journal, 23rd April, 1842, sudden obliteration of the left axillary artery, with intense pain and numbness of the arm, and sloughing of the end of one finger, followed the haemorrhage of abortion in a young lady of 24. SECTION VI.—ANEURYSM. Definition.—An aneurysm is a pulsating tumour formed by a sac filled with blood coagula, and fibrinous laminas, and communicating with an artery, by the rupture or dilatation of which it has been produced. Varieties.—In the first place, a distinction must be made between aneurysm, which consists of a dilatation of an artery, for a i^art only of its circumference; and the general dilatation, which consists of a bulbous expansion of all the arterial tunics for the whole of their cir- cumference, and which differs from true aneurysm in containing no laminated fibrine or coagula. The true aneurysm consists of a sac formed by one or more of the arterial tunics. The false and diffused aneurysms, so called, which result from wounds of arteries, have been described in the 3rd section of this chapter. Besides these kinds, authors speak of a sacculated aneurysm; that is, one which is formed into pouches by an unequal dilatation of its' parietes; and of a dissecting aneurysm, that is to say, one in which the blood finds its way between the arterial tunics, and may even open into the artery at another part. Pathology.—Aneurysm generally commences by a giving way of the342 ANEDEYSM. internal and middle coats of the artery at the site of some atheromatous spot, after which the pressure of the blood dilates the external or aneurysm. Let the aneurysm, however, begin as it may, it gradually dilates under the constant pressure of the heart's impulse. It soon becomes lined with coagula, deposited in distinct concentric laminje, of w^hich the outer ones are the palest and firmest; and whether it was originally formed of all the three tunics or not, certain it is, that the inner two soon waste and disappear, and cannot usually be traced far from the opening into the artery. Symptoms.— If an aneurysm be seated in the neck or limbs, it ap- pears as a tumour in the course of an artery, and pulsating with it. By the stethoscope, a blowing sound or bruit will probably be heard at each pulsation. If it be small, and not filled with coagulum, pres- sure on the artery above will render it flaccid, and it may be emptied by further pressure; and the blood returns into it afterwards with a peculiar vibratory thrill. The patient will very often say that it com- menced after some violent strain, when something appeared to give way. The first thing usually felt is a pulsation ; then a tumour, not painful at first, but gradually becoming excessively so from its pressure as it enlarges. The neuralgic pain, caused by the stretching of nerves by an increasing aneurysm, is often most excruciating. In the chest, aneurysm will be principally known by an unnatural pulsation felt by the patient, and detectable by the stethoscope; together with symp- * An incipient aneurysm of the arch of the aorta. The portion of artery represented is slit up..so as to show the cut edges, with the atheromatous de- posit between the coats of the vessel. f Paul Broca, Sur Us Anevrysmes, Paris, 1856, p. 41. * cellular coat into a pouch. This mode of origin is evi- dent from the distinct, rounded, circumscribed opening by which most aneurysms communicate with the artery. It may also commence by a dila- tation of all three of the tunics at some diseased spot. Sometimes the wound of the inner and middle coats produced by a ligature has produced aneurysm at the part tied.f Sometimes, again, as in a case that happened to Mr. Listen, an artery ulcerates and opens into a contiguous abscess, the sac of which becomes the sac of theANEURYSM. 343 toms of disordered circulation and respiration. Tn the abdomen, an aneurysmal tumour may be felt through the parietes. Diagnosis.—Other tumours situated over ai'teries, and receiving con- tiguous pulsation fi'om them, may be distinguished from aneurysm by noticing, 1st. That they do not pulsate at first, when they are small; whereas aneurysms do so from their earliest formation. 2ndly. That a tumour may often be lifted up from the artery, and that then it will cease to pulsate. 3rdly. That aneurysms are generally soft at first, and become hard sub- sequently ; tumours are gene- rally the reverse. 4thly. That tumours cannot he emptied by pressure; and that no alteration is made in their size or consistence by com- pressing the artery above. 5thly. Enlarged lobes of the thyroid gland may be distin- guished from aneurysm of the carotid by their slipping up out of the fingers, along with the larynx, in the act of deglu- tition. 6thly. Psoas abscess may be known from aneurysm by the precui'sory pain and weakness in the back; and by its disappearance when the patient lies down. 7thly. Pulsating tumours composed of erectile or of cancerous growths—especially those con- ' nected with bone—are some- / times mistaken ibr aneu- rysms ; from which, in fact, it may be hardly possible to distinguish them during life, since they may have the same kind of pulsation, at- tended with the same whizzing noise, and checked, like that of aneu- rysm, by pressure on the artery above. The mistake, however, is ot * 'I'his drawing exhibits an aneurysm of the common femoral artery, for which the external iliac was tied by Sir B. Brodie. The ligature is seen im- bedded in lymph; the coagulum in the artery above and below it; and the laminated coagula in the aneurysm. From the Museum of St. George's Hospital.344 ANEURYSM. no very serious consequence, because the ligature of the main artery, which would cure an aneurysm, might check the growth of a tumour. 8thly. The contiguous impulse of a tumour in contact with an artery is in one and the same direction in all its parts, whereas, in an aneurysm it is an impulse radiating in all directions from a common centre, a dilating impulse. This may be demonstrated by placing the ends of two quills or lead pencils on opposite sides of the tumour, if the impulse be a true dilating impulse the pencils will diverge from each other, but not by a contiguous impulse. Progress.—As an aneurysm enlarges, its coats become thinner, but are strengthened by the adhesion of the parts around. As the enlarge- ment proceeds, these are gradually absorbed ; bone offers r.o resistance, but is absorbed as well; and at last the tumour reaches the skin and distends it. Inflammation succeeds ; the skin becomes red, then livid and vesicated ; and sloughs. When the edge of the slough separates, a fatal bleeding ensues; sometimes in a gush enough to destroy life at once, although more frequently the blood oozes away slowly. But an aneurysm may open into a mucous canal; or into a serous cavity ; ov into a vein, with, of course, a fatal disturbance of the circulation if the vein is large ; or into the cellular tissue of a limb ; or it may cause death through its pressure on the trachea or oesophagus; or through the pain and irritation created by its compressing nerves or interfering with the abdominal viscera, without bursting. We may observe, that when an aneurysm opens into a mucous canal (as shown in the follow- ing figure), it is usually by a small round ulcerated spot, not by a slough, Fig. 1* Fig. 2. * Figure ] exhibits a front, and Fig. 2 a back view of an aneurysm of the arch of the aorta, which burst into the trachea. From Mr. Lane's Museum.345 ANEURYSM. as in the skin ; when it bursts into a serous cavity, it is generally by a crack or fissure. Causes.—The predisposing cause of" aneurysm is some pi-e-existing degeneration of the arteries. The exciting cause may be, strong emotion of the mind, violent exertion of the body, or local injury. Men are very much more subject to it than women ; and it is espe- cially a disease of middle life, being most frequent between the ages of thirty and fifty, although Mr. Syme has met with it in children of seven and eight. Situation.—The most favourite situation of aneurysms is in the aorta, near the heart; but if aneurysms of the aorta are excluded from our consideration (since they are not to be relieved by any surgical interference), we shall find that, of all the arteries of the limbs, the popliteal is the most frequently affected. Thus, out of 179 cases of spontaneous aneurysm collected by Lisfranc (not including any of the aorta), there were 59 of the popliteal artery ; 26 of the femoral in the groin; and 18 in the femoral at other parts; 16 of the carotid; 16 of the subclavian ; 14 of the axillary; 5 of the external iliac; 4 of the innominata ; 3 of the brachial, common iliac, and anterior tibial, re- spectively ; 2 of the gluteal, internal iliac, and temporal, respectively ; and 1 of the ulnar, perinseal, internal carotid, radial, and palmar arch, respectively. Dissecting Aneurysm.—This variety of aneurysm begins with ulcer- ation of the lining membrane of an artery at some diseased spot, in such a way that the blood penetrates between the arterial tunics, split- ting them up, and making false passages between them. In this way very anomalous symptoms may be produced, of which no better example can be desired than is afforded by a case of Dr. Todd's, related in the 27th volume of the Med. Chir. Transactions. In this case, ulceration had taken place in the aorta, and this was the starting-point of a split- ting up of the middle arterial tunic, which extended upwards through the innominata into the right carotid, and partly into the left, and downwards nearly as low as the kidneys. The getting in of the blood between the coats of the arteries stopped the circulation through the proper canal of the vessels; and caused softening of the anterior por- tion of the right hemisphere of the brain by depriving it of its supply of blood ; besides suppression of urine, and other symptoms that would have been almost inexplicable, unless a post-mortem examination had been performed. Spontaneous Cure.—Every aneuiysm does not pursue the fatal course we have described, but in a small number of cases a spontaneous cure is. produced. 1st. The most natural and obvious, although unhappily a very infrequent mode of cure, occurs, when a laminated coagulum lines the sac, in sufficient quantity to resist further dilatation ; or con- versely, when the piopulsion of blood into the tumour is so languid as to allow of the formation and solidification of that clot. And here we must observe that a distinction is to be made between an active and a passive clot. The active consists solely of fibrine slowly deposited fromANEURYSM. 346 the blood on the unnatural snrface, and tending to become organized and to remain permanently as a false membrane, and to check the disease; and the formation of this is promoted, as we have just said, by everything that renders the circulation at that point languid, without stopping it altogether. The passive clot, on the contrary, is a mass of coagulated blood, such as may be produced by cutting off any quantity of blood from the circulation, as in ecchymosis ; and this, as we have shown (see Ecchymosis), is rarely susceptible of becoming organized, but usually is dissolved and absorbed: or not seldom gives rise to sup- puration and is discharged. Yet a second mode of spontaneous cure is sometimes found to be caused by violent inHammatioa or abscess, in which the aneurysm and artery are involved ; so that the blood in the sac is made to coagulate, and the artery obstructed by the coagulum. 3rdly. It has happened, in a few lucky cases, that a portion of clot has been detached from the interior of the sac by some accidental violence, and has effected a cure by blocking up the opening into the aneurysm, or by embolism in the main trunk of the artery itself below the aneu- rysm. 4thly. The artery has become obliterated by an accidental pres- sure of the aneurysm upon it, above or below the opening of communi- cation, under the resisting tension of a strong aponeurosis; or by the pressure of blood escaping from it on its bursting into the cellular tissue. Treatment.—The indications are to imitate the natural modes of cure, and especially the first. 1. By Compression. This very simple and obvious mode of treat- ment was employed long since by Guattani and others, and with some degree of success ; but it was usually applied immediately on the aneu- rysm itself, and was both imperfect and violent, so that it more fre- quently failed than succeeded, and often caused considerable mischief. During the last few years, however, it has been revived by the Dublin surgeons, Hutton, Cusack, and Bellingham, and has been rendered so safe, painless, and speedy a remedy, that it ought to supersede the liga- ture in popliteal aneurysm, and, in fact, in any case v/hatever in which it can be applied. And it is used mediately; that is, on the sound artery between the aneurysm and the heart; and in such a way as to retard the circulation and so cause an active clot; not to stop it sud- denly, and so produce a passive clot. The instrument employed to cause the pressure, may be either Signoroni's tourniquet (shown in the sketch, p. 347)—an arc of steel, with a joint in the middle, and a screw by which the extre- mities of the instrument are pressed together; or else a solid clamp of steel, having a wooden splint at one end, and a pad with a screw at the other. But as these are liable to slip, Carte's circular tourniquet, which envelopes the whole pelvis firmly, and in which the severity of the pressure is mitigated by India-rubber bands, is the favourite instrument at present. In some cases a common four-pound weight may be placed over the artery in the groin, with a pad intervening; or the pressure may be effected by the fingers.347 ANEUEYSM. The advantages of compression are, that it can be discontinued in a moment should it appear expedient; and that there is no chance of that severe and frequent accident of the ligature—secondary haemorrhage: and that should it fail, the knife can still be resorted to, without deteri- oration or disadvantage in the condition of the parts. The objections which have been ui'ged against it are, that in some cases the patient, from irritability of system, cannot bear it for a suffi- cient length of time to produce a cure ; and that inflammation and sloughing of the integuments may ensue, especially if there is a de- bility of the circulation, and a want of vitality in the skin. Compression is contraindicated when the integuments ai-e inflamed, or the limb much swelled from venous obstruction ; and likewise in cases which are very rapidly increasing, with little tendency to the formation of fibrinous layers, for there is always a danger of the tumour bursting, or of the limb below becoming mortified. In such cases the ligature must be applied. And if, during the course of treatment by pressure, such circumstances should suddenly arise, it must be at once remitted, and immediate recourse had to ligature of the vessel above. The patient, before undergoing this treatment, should be purged, and during it he must be confined to bed ; the excretions by stool and urine be kept up by aperients and salines; the diet nourishing but not stimulating ; and pain and restlessness be allayed by opium. The skin at the part pressed should be shaved, if necessary, and be well powdered with French chalk. The pressure should not be severe enough to cause great pain; and it should be applied at two or three points, in the course of the femoral artery; being shifted, when it becomes irksome, from one to another. It should not be carried to the point of com- pletely closing the vessel; its most beneficial operation being that of obstructing or lessening the flow of blood so as to relieve the interior of the aneurysm from the force of the heart's impulse and to keep the vessel348 ANEURYSM. at rest by limiting its diastole. This may be left to the patient himself, if intelligent and made acquainted with the exact object of the process ; but he must be cautioned of the danger of sloughing from too violent compression. It may generally be left off at night. If the case goes on favourably, the aneurysm is, after a time, found to have lost its pulsation, and to have become solid. This happy event may occur in three or six days, or perhaps may require as many weeks; after which the tumour wastes slowly, and the lim.b may be brought into use again. In cases which do not admit of pressure being applied mediately, it may be tried cautiously on the tumour itself, or upon the artery below it. Cases are recorded which give room for hope from such measures.* 2. Continued Flexion was first proposed by Mr. Ernest Hart, and is one of those simple, common-sense methods which really are more difficult to hit upon than many complex and elaborate ones. The limb must be bandaged well, and evenly, from foot to thigh; the patient be quieted by opiates, and the knee-joint (if it be a popliteal aneurysm) gradually bent, and kept so. Thus the artery being bent transversely at right angles, has its calibre diminished. Digital compression may be used as an aid. This plan was first tried in this country by Mr. Hart in 1858 ; then by Mr. Shaw, of the Middlesex Hospital; Spence, of Edinburgh ; Pemberton, Durham ; and many others.f 3. By Ligature.—In cases in which the above plans are inapplicable or unavailing, the artery must be tied between the aneurysm and the heart. The operation, it is generally taught, according to Hunter, should be performed neither too near the aneurysm, so as to place the ligature on a portion of the vessel that is diseased, nor too far from it, lest the circulation through it be kept up too freely, by means of collateral branches. After the operation, the temperature of the limb falls two or three degrees; but in a few hours it rises rather higher than that of the opposite limb, because the blood is forced to circulate through the superficial capillaries. Subsequently it sinks again rather below the natural standard. Therefore the patient should be placed in bed, with his limb in an easy position; wrapped up in cotton wool, to preserve its circulation ; and though it become rather swelled (which is not unlikely), cold must on no account be applied. After the operation the limb may become gangrenous. If the gangrene spread beyond the fingers or toes, amputation should be performed at the level of the ligature. Brasdors operation.—\Yh.en. a ligature cannot be applied—as in aneurysm of the carotid, innominata, or subclavian—between the * For the earlier cases, see Dr. 0. B. Bellingham, Dublin Journal, May 1845; Greatrex and Robinson, M. C. T., vol. xxviii.; Carte, Dublin, Med. Press, May 16, 1849 ; case of axillary aueurism cured by compression on the distal Side, by Dr. M. Goldsmith, of America, ib.; for the later, Bellingham, Med. Chir. Trans., xxxiv.; and cases by Tuffnell, Cock, B. Phillips, and others, in Ranliing, vol. xvii. For a summary of objections see Mr. Syme's Contributions. f See Hart in Med. Cliu*. Trans, vol. xlii. ; also Med. Times, 1862, vol. i. p. 145 ; also report of paper read at Med. Chir. Soa Dec. 8, 1863; Med. Times, 1863, vol. ii. p. 657.349 ANEURYSM. aneurysm and the heart, it has been proposed to tie the vessel on the distal side ; and this operation has been performed with success in cases of carotid aneurysm, by Mr. Wardrop and others. Slime's operation.—For such cases, Mr. Syme, whose vigour and fearlessness as a surgeon are above all praise, has revived the old opei'a- tion of direct ligature which Hunter caused to be discarded in favour the distant ligature. This is in effect the same as the operation for traumatic aneurysm, so vividly described by John Bell, and quoted at p. 338. Mr, Syme lays open the aneurysm, scoops out the blood, and seizes and ties the artery just above and below its orifice into the aneurysm. But it may be said. How is the patient to be hindered from bleeding to death whilst this is done? With great sagacity, Mr. Syme made an incision along the outer edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle (it was an axillary aneurysm), through the platysma and fascia, so as to allow his assistant's finger to be pushed down and compress the artery where it issues from under the scalenus articus, and lies on the first rib. This mode of commanding arteries in complicated opera- tions is well worthy of note. Thirty years ago, in a case in which troublesome haemorrhage was apprehended during removal of the upper jaw-bone, Mr. Syme made an incision between the ramus of the lower jaw and mastoid process, so as to have enabled a finger, if need be, to have been thrust in to compress the internal maxillary artery.* 4. Fergussons Treatment by Manijjulation.—In two cases of aneu- rysm of the right subclavian artery, between the scaleni, Mr. Fergusson instead of trying the hopeless operation of ligature between the tumour and the heart, or the very doubtful one of ligature on the distal side, endeavoured to block up the artery, by fibrine squeezed from the sac. He first emptied the sac by pressure with his thumb, then deliberately squeezed and rubbed the opposed surfaces against each other, so as to force some of the fibrine into the artery. The effect in each case was immediate and striking. In the first case there was giddiness, in the second partial hemiplegia, rendering it probable that some particles of fibrine had been carried up to the brain ; in the first, after one or two repetitions of the manipulation, all circulation in the vessel and its branches below was arrested, and the tumour became smaller and firmer. Nevertheless after some coiisiderable exertion, it burst into the brachial plexus, and the patient died seven months after the first manipulation. In the second case (in which, by the way, all pulsation had ceased in the arteries below for some months before the manipulation) the tumour became gradually less, and the man was alive and well two years afterwards. 5. Various modes of cure have been from time to time proposed on the principle of causing coagulation of the blood in the sac. The most hopeful of these, is the injection of a solution of basic per- chloride of iron, of the strength from 15 to 20 degrees of Beaume's Areometer, by means of a syringe, the fine nozzle of which is made with a cutting point, so as to puncture the sac. The piston is * Syme, Med, Cliir. Trans, vol. xliii.VASCULAR TUMOUR. 350 depressed by a screw, each turn of which causes one drop of liquid to exude ; and during the operation, the artery should be compressed above, and the tumour be gently handled, so as to mix the perchloride with the blood as rapidly as possible. If it succeeds, the tumour is converted into a solid mass, and a little serum only exudes from the puncture.* 6. Medical Treatment.—In cases in which an operation is impossible the great object is to keep the circulation tranquil, without reducing the strength. The nervous system should be tranquillized by opm?n, or tobacco-smoking. Small bleedings may be performed in some cases, if the patient is plethoric, and the tumour increases rapidly, with violent pulsation ; but it should never be carried to faintness. The diet should be light and unstimulating, but highly nutritious to dispose to the formation of plastic fibrine. With the same view the administra- tion of the acid salts of iron, especially the perchloride, is much to be recommended. Bodily or mental excitement should be rigidly abstained from. Digitalis and tartar-emetic ?iv^ of questionable propriety. The acetate of lead, F. 75, is said to have the faculty of rendering the blood coagulable, and of diminishing the calibre of the arteries. It used to be mentioned in terms of commendation by Mr. Green, in his lectures at King's College, who gave some instances of its efficacy.f But it must be recollected that frequent bleeding and too rigid starvation will increase the irritability of the heart and arteries, and diminish the plasticity of the blood. Particular care should be taken not to ad- minister drastic purgatives; because they invariably cause a great excitement and throbbing of the arteries. SECTION VII.—VASCULAR TUMOURS, The Vascular Tumour (Ncbvus, Erectile Tumour, Telangeiec- tasis) consists, anatomically, of enlarged and dilated blood-vessels. It seems to consist in an overgrowth of these organs, and may affect capillaries, ai'teries, or veins, together or separately. In a great many cases of infantile origin it is very superficial, consisting of a mere red patch of dilated capillaries {mother's marks or stains with little or no elevation above the surrounding skin). In most cases there is a mass of dilated capillaries, inextricably packed together; and on a section, the great dilatation of the vessels, and the small quantity of intervening tissue, causes them to resemble a collection of cells rather than of tubes. * For an account of the older plans of causing coagulation, such as Sir E. Home's heated needle, the introduction of tlireads, and galvano-puncture, see South's Chelius, vol. ii. See also M. Pravaz's plan ot injecting the perchloride of iron, Lancet, 1853, vol. i. p. 561; Fergusson's Surgery, 3rd ed., p. 638 ; Broca, op. cit. Mr. Moore, of the Middlesex Hospital, has lately tried the plan of passing many yards of very thin iron wire into an aneurysm of the innominata; much coagulation took place, but the patient died. •J- See also a case of aneurysm of aorta cured by acetate of lead in large doses, Arch. Gen. de Med., Sept. 1839 ; see Mr. Fergusson's papers, Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xl.351 In some instances the arterial character predominates; the tumour, if situated in the skin, being of a vivid scarlet, and pulsating strongly ; in others, it is of a most dusky hue and venous character. In some instances, again, the affection seems to be confined to the larger blood- vessels, with little, if any, implication of the smaller ones. If the arteries are affected (as shown in the following figure), the tumour (which is sometimes designated aneurysm by anastomosis) is tense and pulsates vividly ; if the Veins, they feel like a bunch of earth-worms, and are easily emptied. The most frequent situations are the skin, and subcutaneous cellular tissue, especially about the head. It has been found in bone. The causes are unknown. The disease is usually congenital. The vulgar idea is, that a lobster, or raspberry, or some such thing has been longed for by the mother, and that the influence of her mind has impressed on the foetus the image of the thing she longed for. It may originate, however, later in life. Symptoms.—Nsevus of the skin may present itself as a mere red speck or patch, or as a soft raised swelling, dusky or scarlet, according as it is arterial or venous. The subcutaneous nsevus feels soft, and very much hke a fatty tumour, except that firm pressure will usually cause it to be emptied and to disappear. " Some of these tumours," says Mr. Listen, " communicate a thrill to the fingers; they can be emptied to a certain extent, by uniform and continued pressure, or by inter- rupting the circulation, and are instantly filled on permitting the blood again to flow into or towards them. The large ones pulsate syn- chronous with the heai t's action. They are much increased in size by anything that increases the activity of the circulation ; as the cries of children, and the violent exertion of adults. On the application of the stethoscope, pulsation is heard as in common aneurysmal tumours, and352 N^VUS. a sound which differs from that of the common aneurysm, being loud, rough, and whizzing, and which being once heard can never be mis- taken." Diagnosis.—These tumours are distinguished from fatty growths by the signs which have just been described ; and from vascular cancers, by their long continuance without deranging the health. Consequences.—The author has seen many cases of congenital vas- cular tumours waste spontaneously during the first few months or years of life, and give no further trouble. In other instances they increase to a certain size, and then become stationary, or waste, leaving, perhaps, certain cysts containing blood or a reddish serum, as the remains of cells and pouches formed by distended vessels. In other cases, again, they increase rapidly, invade every adjoining tissue; ulcerate or slough at the most prominent parts; and so may destroy life by haemorrhage, or keep it in constant danger. The tumour com- posed of dilated veins is a very different thing from varix, inasmuch as it spreads in a manner showing it to be quite uninfluenced by the weight of the column of blood. In one patient the author has seen a cluster of dilated veins, the size of a walnut, under the skin of the calf of the leg. This has been stationary since birth. In another case of a middle-aged woman, the author has seen this condition begin and extend rapidly from under the heel, up the calf of the leg to the ham. There was a great hypertrophy of skin, and under it, lai'ge clusters of dilated veins. Treatment.—The cure of these diseases may be effected—1, by mea- sures which retard the circulation through the enlarged vessels ; or which cause the blood to coagulate, or which excite the adhesive inflam- mation, and so obliterate or disorganize the distended vessels; or, 2, by extirpation with the ligature or knifis. The formei- class of remedies is best adapted for naevi under the skin, the latter for those which im- plicate the skin itself. Of the former class the best remedy is the seton ; and the best way of using it is to pass several threads with a common sewing-needle, in different directions across the tumour, withdraw them so soon as they have excited suppuration, and then pass others through other parts of the tumour. If a larger needle is used, it should be straight and flat, with sharp edges, and should be made to drag as much silk as it can possibly carry, so as to fill the wound, and prevent hjemorrhage. Some surgeons dip the threads in croton oil, or in a solution of lunar caustic, but this seems unnecessary. On a similar principle the usevus may be punctured with the point of a lancet, and a fine probe which has been dipped in melted nitrate of silver, or a needle heated to a black heat, may be passed through it in various directions, or Mar- shall's galvanic cautery may be employed for this pui-pose ; or its sub- stance may be simply broken up with a cataract-needle. Pressure by means of a smooth surface of ivory or sheet-lead, confined by strips of plaster and a bandage, is a good remedy, if the nsBvus is small and situated over a bone, so that it can be applied uniformly and effec-353 tually. Mr. Fergusson sometimes passes a needle under a small nffivus, and twists a thread over it, so as to cause considerable pressure, allowing it to remain for forty-eight hours or longer, after the manner used for the reUef of varicose veins. Congelation, after Dr. James Arnott's method, will sometimes check the growth of a nasvus. The injection of an astringent fluid, by means of Anel's syringe, was pro- posed some time since, and a solution of sulphate of zinc, so employed, caused the patient's death by convulsions. The obvious conditions necessary for the safety of this plan are—that the liquid employed shall not be poisonous in itself; that it shall be capable of at once curdling the blood, so that there may be no chance of its being diffused through the circulation ; and that it shall not cause abscess or render the clot incapable of being afterwards absorbed with safety. The neutral solution of perchloride of iron, recommended by Pravaz, may be employed; but experiments are wanting to decide upon the substance most suitable. Probably a solution of matico or some astringent vege- table might answer. Mr. Haynes Walton has used a solution of tannin with success in a case of najvus of the orbit. The solution of perchlo- ride of iron has been used with success by Mr. W. Adams in a case of traumatic aneurysm ; and Dr. Brainard, of Illinois, has published a case in which, after ligature of the common carotid had failed, he pro- duced a cure of a rapidly-increasing navus of the orbit by injecting a solution of 8 grains of lactate of ii'ou in a fluid drachm of water. Vac- cination has also been used for this disease; but it requires that the whole surface of the tumour and some of the skin around should be inoculated, so as to cover it with a confluent vesicle, which excites great fever ; and the opportunity of doing so must be rare. A very small nsevus may also be destroyed by touching it with a glass pen dipped in nitric acid: this is also a good method of removing little red spots on the face, formed by a distended vessel with radiating branches ; but immediately after applying the acid, the part should be sponged with a solution of carbonate of soda, to prevent too wide a destruction of the skin, and consequent scar. The tumour composed of dilated veins is best treated by subcuta- neous incision, so as to divide it in several places, and by continued bandaging. If small, and not growing, it should not be meddled with. Extirpation of these tumours by the knife is advisable only when they are of the cutaneous variety, or when they can be lifted up from the parts beneath, so that their whole extent can be ascertained. Two elliptical incisions should be made, to include the whole of the diseased growth, and a little of the sound tissues around. For, to use Mr. Guthrie's words, " it cannot be too forcibly impressed on the mind of the surgeon, that if the diseased part be cut into, the bleeding will be terrific and difficult to stop." But it is generally considered that the ligature is the safest and best method. With this proviso, that skin should not be included in a liga- ture and allowed to ulcerate ; but that it should either be dissected back D 2 A354 in flaps from the tumour, before the latter is tied; or that, if this is not done, a cut should be made through the skin for the ligatures to lie in; —or that the ligatures should be passed under the skin, so as to stran- gulate the morbid growth, and leave the skin untouched. One mode is to pass two or three needles crucially through the base of the tumour, and then twist a strong twine ligature firmly round be- neath them. Or, two or more double ligatures maybe passed through the base of the tumour, with a curved needle which has its eye at its pointed extremity and then the tumour may be strano-u- lated by tying the adjacent threads together. Or, the knot devised by Mr. P'ergusson, represented in the adjoining figure, may . .. be used. A double thread is carried by a j - . f I stout long suture needle, with a large eye, \ ■ - J • •^ transversely under the centre of the tu- y (' ^ mour, and divided in the middle. Next, '-'■^-^ the disengaged end of the thread is passed through the eye of the needle along with the one already occupying it, and, having been brought one-fourth round the circumference of the tumour, is passed through its base transversely to the first. Lastly, the adjoining ends of the two threads are to be tied tightly, so that each of the two threads shall include an 8-shaped portion of the tumour. The tumour may be punctured before the threads are finally tightened; and in every case the constric- tion should be made as tight as possible. After two or three days the ligatures should be tightened, or fresh ones should be applied. In each of these cases the skin should be cut through just before the threads are tightened, so as to make a chink for them to lie in, and to avoid the pain and delay of ulceration through the skin. A somewhat similar and entire strangulation of the tumour, when it affects the skin, is accomplished by Mr. Wood in the following manner. A needle mounted on a handle with a slight curve only in the blade, and a piece of stout, smooth, hempen ligature, well soaped and then oiled, are used in this operation. First, the needle, armed, is passed diagonally across the base of, and under the ntevus, the loop of the thread caught and left in the puncture, and the needle withdrawn. Then the needle, carrying the long end of the thread, is again passed across the base of the nsevus at right angles to the former, the loop again retained, and the needle finally disengaged. Care must be taken in doing this part of the proceeding to have the fi-ee end of the thread travelling through the needle's eye, so as to leave it disengaged when withdrawn. Then four curved incisions are made passing from one puncture to the other throuo-h the skin only. The loops are then drawn upon so as to sink the thread well into the incision opposite to them (see fig. 1). Then355 the ends of the thread are each passed through the loop of its own side, drawn tightly through the punctures, and tied in a loop knot or bunch Fig. 1. Fig. 2. so that they can be unloosed and retightened as the tissues shrink and ulcerate under the pressure. In four or five days, the strangulated parts are sloughy and more or less separated. If not the ligature must be tightened upon them. As the wound fills by granulations, these must be carefully watched, and any tendency to njevous growth (marked by a deeper redness than the healthy granulations) must be restrained by the application of strong nitric acid, laid on with a feather, the parts being afterwards well oiled. Another method, practised by Mr. Wood in cases where it is desirable to save the skin and prevent a scar, as in subcutaneous nsevi of the face, neck, hands, and arms, is done as follows:—The same needle is used as in the operation last described. Armed with a stout, hempen, well-soaped ligature thread, it is first passed under the skin round half the circumference of the morbid tissue, entering and emerg- ing at the opposite poles of the tumour. The short end of the thread is left in the puncture, and the needle withdrawn, carrying the long end. Next, it is passed under the base of the tumour across its diameter, entering and emerging at the punctures first made. The loop at the eye of the needle is then caught, and held while the needle is with- drawn, carrying the free end of the thread. Lastly, the needle is passed round the remaining half of the circumference, under the skin, through the same two punctures, and the ligature thread detached. There are now a loop and two free ends emerging from the further356 puncture, the thread being entirely sunk into the puncture nearest to the operator, as seen in the adjoining figure (see tig. 2). The ends are then each made to pass through the loop, and tied very tightly in a loop knot, so as to leave the power of tightening it as the parts inclosed shrink under the ulcerative process. As the thread is tightened, the loop recedes into the puncture, but is held there by the ends passing through it, and the pressure exercised throughout is everywhere equalized. By this method the suppuration and sloughs formed by the najvus escape by the two punctures along with the thread. Two small spots of cicatrix remain the only evidence of the operation having been done. A method analogous to extirpation is, the dwision of all the soft parts around the tumour. This was once done successfully by Mr. Lawrence, in an aneurysm by anastomosis on the finger. He divided all the soft parts, except the tendons and thecae. But in other cases it has been unavailing. If the disease is inaccessible to any of these means (as in the orbit) and increases rapidly, ligature of the common carotid (or of whatever other large vascular trunk supplies it) is the only resource. The figure in the preceding page represents a case of this disease, chiefly of a venous character, in a female, about thirty yeais of age. Mr. Storks tied the common carotid artery, with the effect of producing357 PHLEBITIS. a marked decrease in the tumour; and the patient having been sub- sequently admitted into the King's College Hospital, under the care of Mr. Fergusson, the remaining tumour was successfully treated with the needle and ligature, employed as for the cure of varicose veins,* CHAPTER VIII. INJURIES AND DISEASES OF VEINS. SECTION I.—WOUNDS OF VEINS. The hemorrhage from wounded veins is not in general dangerous, unless from some large and deep-seated trunk, in which valves are not present, or from a large varicose vein on the leg, in Avhich the valves are impaired. It may in ordinary cases be restrained by pressure and a raised position. But if there is any difficulty in the matter, it will be necessary either to apply a ligature or to keep up unremitting pressure on the bleeding point with the finger. The latter practice was resorted to " in the case of his Excellency William Prince of Orange, who, in his hurt by the Spanish boy, as my Lord Bacon relates, when the internal jugular was opened, could find no way to stop the flux of blood, till the orifice of the wound was hard compressed by men's thumbs, succeeding for their ease one after the other, for the space of forty-eight hours, when it was hereby stanched."! SECTION II. INFLAMMATION OF VEINS, OR PHLEBITIS. The veins seem to be not particularly susceptible of inflammation; nor does that inflammation, if unaccompanied by the admixture of decomposing fluids with the circulation, seem to be particularly noxious ; on the other hand, decomposing fluids, introduced into the circulation through a wounded vein, will very readily cause death, without any inflammation of the vein by which they entered. Still less without any afiection of the vein spreading towards the heart, as used to be supposed. Hence Pyamia may exist without phlebitis, and phlebitis may exist without it. 1. Veins not prone to inflame,—That the lining membrane of veins * Vide Curling's Fathological Lectures in Med. Gaz., July, I83S ; Lawrence, Med. Chir. Trans, ix. 216; a fatal case of convulsion during the operation for nsvus by injection, Med. Gaz. vol. xxi., p. 529 ; J. Adair Laurie on Cricoid Aneurysm, Med. Gaz., 21st Oct., 1842, The author has also borrowed from a lecture which he heard delivered by Sir. B. Brodie, at St. George's Hospital, in Nov., 1842, as well as from many clinical remarks of Mr. Fergusson's after operations in the King's College Hospital. See also Birkett, Med. Chir. Trans., vol, XXX.; Paget, Lectures on Surgical Pathology, vol. ii.; Brainard, Lancet, Aug. 20, 1853; Mr. Adams's case, Lancet, 3rd Sept. IS53; Haynes Walton. Ophthalmic Surgery {On Nceviis vear to Orbit). t Turner, op, cit., vol, i,, p. 346.PHLEBITIS. 358 has a very small tendency to inflammation, and does not exude lymph as a serous membrane does, was proved by Mr. Lee, by means of the experiment of cramming with wadding a portion of the jugular vein of an ass, from which the blood was excluded by ligatures. A similar piece of wadding was introduced into the peritonaeum. After forty- four hours the ass was killed; when there was found to be abundance of lymph covering the wadding in the peritonagum ; none on that in the vein. This experiment shows that fibrine found on the lining membrane of inflamed or injured veins is deposited from the blood. 2. Mr. Lee has also shown that pus, and other morbid fluids, mixed with healthy blood, cause it to coagulate; that if any such fluid were to find its way into a wounded vein, the blood ought, by coagulating, to seal up the vessel, and prevent it from being carried into the circulation. 3. When a vein is filled with coagulum, thus produced by ad- mixture with morbid mattei', and containing it; if the poison is such that it ought to be eliminated, the areolar tissue around inflames, and becomes the seat of suppuration and abscess; the coats of the vein be- come thickened and softened; and the clot they contain is discharged by means of the abscess thus formed. 4. If the coagulum be disturbed; or if the poison be such as to hinder coagulation ; or if, through some defect in the blood, firm coagu- lation does not take place; or if the coagulum once formed softens down, so as to allow the poisonous fluid to mix with the circulating blood, that general contamination of the blood to which the name Pyoemia is given may follow. 5. Emholism.—Lastly, pathologists are becoming more aware of the mechanical conditions under which local disease of any one part may pro- duce disease elsewhere, or constitutional disturbances. If the clots, mixed more or less with decomposing animal matter, which form in the veins at the site of wound or local inflammation, be disturbed, and mix in small shreds with the whole current of blood, they may induce clotting in the right side of the heart, obstruction of small branches of the pulmonary artery, with consequent lobular pneumonia, and universal blood-poisoning. But if a large clot be disturbed bodily, it may pass through the right side of the heart and block up the pulmonary artery, partially or entirely; producing sudden death, or death after a short struggle. But as Dr. Benjamin Ball has shown, these cases are not quite hopeless; and Dr. Richardson's experiments point to ammonia, from its solvent power over blood-cl(»ts, as the most probable remedy.* Sudden breathlessness, with free and loud entrance of air into the lungs, with great disturbance of the heart's action, coming suddenly in any case where blood may have stagnated and formed a clot in large veins, as in phthisis, are the symptoms. * See Benjamin Ball snr les Embolies Pulmonaires, Paris, 1862 ; Cohn, Klinik der Embolischen Gefasskrankeiten, Berlin, 1860; a Summary of the Subjects in Medical Times and Gazette, 1862, vol. i.; case of Embolism by R. Druitt, Med. Times, 1863, vol. ii.359 VARICOSE VEINS. 6. Idiopathic Phlebitis.—This is not a very common disorder. The author has, however, treated a few cases, such as the following:— 1. A woman, sst. thirty: several superficial veins on the outer part of left thigh, swollen and tender; skin over them red; blood in some parts coagulated ; no constitutional symptoms. 2, A girl, set. nineteen: complained of severe pain in right knee. On examination, the pain was referred to the ham and upper part of the calf, which were swollen and tender; and there was tenderness and redness of the saphena, up the thigh ; the tongue loaded ; headache, thirst, and nausea. Kest, purgatives, and fomentations are the remedies for such cases; the origin of which is probably to be found in some impurity of the blood. 7. Traumatic Phlebitis.—When a vein is wounded, and the wound is not accurately closed, or when it is disturbed, so as to break up the commencing adhesions, and allow jjus or decomposing sanies to find its way into the vessel, the first effect should be, as we have just said, the coagulation of the blood. Even then, if the blood be healthy, the part be kept at rest, and the intruding liquid small in quantity and not very noxious, no greater harm need ensue than some swelling and inflamma- tion around the vein. But under more unfavourable conditions, the blood in the affected vein will coagulate widely {thrombosis) ; parts of the clot soften into purifovm fluid; the cellular tissue in the track of the vein suppurate; the skin redden; and the vein become first thick- ened from infiltration, then soltened, and broken down, so as to allow the clots contained to mix with the abscess around it. This process will be accompanied with considerable pain and fever; but not with pyaemia if the blood has coagulated firmly and widely enough. The morbid anatomy is very simple. The vein is thickened, and reddened wherever its inner surface has been in contact with clot; and it contains coagulated blood, which in the focus of the disease is decolorized, and soft- ened intopuriform fluid. Treatment.—From the foregoing details some useful practical hints may be extracted ; for instance, the expediency of the most accurate closure of all wounded veins; the great use of those old-fashioned so- called vulnerar^y balsams, such as the Friar's Balsain, or of the appli- cation of brandy, or collodion, or similar substances, to wounds, so as to seal them up from the atmosphere, and produce firm coagulation of the blood; the necessity of rest after a wound, so as not to disturb the coagula; the danger of great loss of blood, and of too low a diet (es- pecially after parturition), which might render the blood incapable of firm coagulation ; the fact that the abscesses about inflamed veins are ti'uly eliminative and salutary in their character; and the questionable utility of cold lotions, leeches, and mercury, to diminish the local in- flammation, which probably, as Mr. Lee remarks, is the means adopted by nature to prevent general infection of the blood. The remedial measures, then, are rest, warm fomentations, and poultices ; early in- cision of abscesses; evacuation of bile and faeces, by one or two doses of calomel; opium, to relieve pain, and insure quiet of mind and body; and wine, especially if there has been great loss of blood.360 VARICOSE VEINS. SECTION III.—VARICOSE VEINS AND PHLEBOLITES I. Varix signifies an enlarged and tortuous state of the veins, which are generally thickened, rigid, and divided into irregular pouches, witjj their valves incapable of preventing the reflux of blood. This state is usually said to be caused by anything that retards the venous circu- lation ; such as occupations that require a standing posture; or pi-essure from loaded bowels or the gravid uterus. But there must be some other cause, because varix often occurs when there is no pressure on the veins to account for it; and if produced by temporary pressure in healthy people, it subsides of itself when that pressure is removed; a fact that is familiar to practitioners in midwifery. Moreover it may exist to a great extent without causing much inconvenience ; and in other cases, a very small amount of it may produce very serious evils ; such as pain, soreness, aching. Hence the writer believes that in many cases the blood is primarily at fault, and that a gouty condition of this fluid, with tendency to stagnation, precedes the distension of the vein. It is most frequently seated in the lower extremities, scrotum, and rectum. Varicose veins on the leg pi-oduce several troublesome consequences* 1. In the first place, they occasion great pain, weight, and fatigue upon taking much exercise, or remaining long in an erect posture. 2. They frequently cause ulcers or excoi'iation of the skin. 3. Sometimes a vein becomes exceedingly thin, and bursts, causing a profuse or even fatal haemorrhage, inasmuch as there may be no valves between the part ruptured and the heart. 4. Occasional clotting of the blood occui-s in the affected vein, with inflammation ; which may perhaps give rise to abscess. Treatment.—This may either be palliative or radical. The pallia- tive consists of measures adapted to prevent further enlargement, and induce contraction of the distended veins. If one or two trunks only are affected, it may be sufficient to apply pieces of leather spread with soap-plaster firmly over them ; but if many smaller veins are enlarged, the whole limb should be well supported with a calico or caoutchouc bandage, or laced stocking, which should be applied in the morning, before the patient rises. Friction with a flesh-brush is strongly recom- mended by Mr, Vincent; but in all cases the friction should be in the course of the blood, not against it, so as not to strain the already weakened valves. Galvanism may be of service. When the patient is not taking exercise, the leg should be placed in a raised position. But the author would call attention to the little-noticed fact, of the great aggravation of pain, weight, and swelling of the aflected part, produced by inactivity of the bowels and kidneys, and of the great relief obtainable by purgatives, antiarthritic medicines, and tonics. But if these means fail, and the patient is subject to urgent incon- venience, the radical cure must be resorted to; that is to say, the diseased veins must be obliterated: a proceeding which will have someVARICOSE VEINS. 361 prospect of success if only one or two large trunks are affected; but not if all the minor cutaneous veins are enlarged also. There are several ways of effecting this. 1st. Some years ago Sir B. Brodie recom- mended division of the vein by suhcutcmeous section, in the following way. A long, curved, narrow-pointed knife, like a bistoury, but cutting on the convex edge, was introduced by the side of the vein, and carried horizontally with its flat surface between it and the skin. Then the convex edge was turned towards the vein, in order to cut through it, as the knife was withdrawn. 2ndly. Mr. Watson, of New York, recommended, in some cases, excision of a portion of the affected vein. Then, 8rdly, there is a method which was introduced by Mr. Cart- wright, and improved by Mr. Mayo, of destroying a narrow slip of skin across the vein by a paste of potassa fusa and quicklime, in order to cause slight inflammation of the vein, with coagulation of the blood in it, and obliteration of its cavity. 4thly. Pressure by means of a firm pad and bandage may be used for the same purpose. 5thly. The twisted suture. The surgeon pinches up the vein between his left forefinger and thumb, and passes a needle behind it: it is a good plan also to pass another at right angles, which should be made to transfix the vein twice, and should go behind the first; a thread is then to be twisted around them tightly enough to stop the circulation ; and this may be done at as many places as the surgeon thinks requisite. The points of the needles should be cut off. They should be allowed to remain till the blood in the vein is solidified, or until they have produced slight ulceration. 6thly, Mr. H. Lee has adopted with good effect a subcutaneous section of the affected vein, at a part between two of the needles. In varicocele and varicose veins, Mr. Wood has employed with great success a plan by which the inclusion of skin as well as of the vein in the ligature, and, consequently, much pain and soreness is avoided. A piece of small iron wire and a peculiarly formed pin are employed. The pin is straight at the point, and spear-shaped, like a hare-lip pin. At the other end it is bent into a right angle, upon which a loop is twisted, terminating in another round loop for convenience of handlingVARICOSE VEINS. 362 and fastening. First, a common curved suture needle, armed with thread, is passed fairly under and across the vein. The end of the thread is then fastened to a loop or bend in the middle of the wire, which is drawn through double after the thread and detached. Then the pin is passed through the same punctures, between the skin and the vein, i. e., on the opposite side of the vessel to the double wii e. This can easily be accomplished by pinching up the skin between the finger and thumb, and slipping the vein out from between them by a slight rolling motion. The wire loop is then slipped over the end of the pin, and the latter cut off a short distance from the punc- ture. The ends of the wire are then crossed under the shaft of the pin, twisted round the bent part, fastened through the loop, and cut off. Then by twisting the pin upon its own axis, the wire is gradually tightened upon the vein, and can be made to grip tighter as the latter ulcerates through, by giving a turn to the pin. When it is desirable to withdraw the pin and wire, it can be done with very little pain by untwisting the ends of the wire from the pin and drawing out the latter in the usual way. This sets free the wire, which can then be also easily withdrawn without the delay of waiting (if not desirable) until the whole of the enclosed tissues are completely ulcerated throrigh. Two punctures only are left, which heal up rapidly after the wire is withdrawn. Usually no suppuration follows. No irritating pressure is made upon the punctures, as in the apparatus used sometimes for tightening the threads. By the use of metal instead of thread, there is less chance of retention of putrid or purulent matter in contact with the living and absorbing tissues, and of pyaemia, while complete divi- sion of the vein by a double acupressure is effected. Both before and after any of these operations, care must be taken to avoid every cause of inflammation; because any of them may be followed by abscess or pyaemia, if precaution be neglected.f II. Phlebolites are calcareous concretions, formed by the de- * This diagram gives an imaginary view from behind the vein, t Vide Arnott in Med. Cliir. Trans., vol. xv.INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE NERVES, 363 generation of coagula, in dilated veins. The following figure repre- sents a patient of Mr. Fergusson's, in whom several of these con- cretions formed in pouches of ii-regularly-dilated veins under the lower jaw. They were extirpated by the knife, which is the only remedy available. CHAPTER IX. INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE NERVES. I. Complete division of a nerve produces palsy and loss of sensi- bility in the parts to which it is distributed. The nerve, however, will readily unite in the same manner as bone or tendon, and sensi- bility and motion will return. Sensibility has been known to return in one case in three weeks (in a case related by Paget in ten days), and the power of motion in four weeks, after division. A nerve may also recover its functions after a small piece of it has been rem^oved. Some- times, however, the divided ends, instead of uniting, shrink and be- come bulbous, as they do in a stump after amputation.* * The bulbous ends of a nerve which had not united have been cut out, but without avail. Vide Sir G. Ballingall's Mil. Surg., p. 249.NEUROMA. 364 II. Partial Division.—If a nerve is partly divided, leaving some fibres on the stretch, as sometimes happens in venesection, very dis- agreeable consequences may ensue, such as immediate severe pain, recurring in paroxysms, and shooting in the course of the nerves ; violent spasms, or palsy of the limb; fits of eplipesy ; and great dis- order of the digestive organs. The same symptoms may also ensue if a nerve has been bruised, or compressed, or stretched; or if it it has been divided, and its extremity has become implicated and compressed in a cicatrix. This not unfrequeutly happens after amputation, and pro- duces excruciating pain, with spasm and retraction of the muscles of the stump, causing it to become conical. Treatment.—If these symptoms come on immediately after a wound, so that it is probable that a nerve has been partly divided, an incision may be made so as to divide it completely. If, however, they ap- peared whilst a wound was healing, the best plan is to remove the cicatrix entirely. But it unfortunately happens, that neuralgic pains, when once established, do not always cease, even when the cause which produced them at first is removed. Very disagreeable consequences, in the shape of palsy, or numbness, or spasm, are sometimes caused it" a nerve is subjected to pressure, as, for instance, the pressure of crutches on the axillary nerves; or from a blow, such as people often meet with on the ulnar nerve above the elbow; or from a violent stretch. Leeches, blisters, and the application of mercurial ointment, or of opiate or belladonna plasters, or painting with tincture of aconite, are the chief remedies. III. Rheumatic Inflammation.—In a recent case, thorough pur- gation by calomel, colchicum, rhubarb, and carbonate of potass, may cut short the attack. In chronic cases, the iodide of potassium, guaiacum, and other anti-rheumatic remedies, must be used according to circumstances. Lumbago and sciatica are thus treated. IV. Neuroma signifies a fibrous tumour developed in the sheath of a nerve. According to Dr. Van der Byl and Dr. Snow Beck it ori- ginates in an exudation around the tubules of a single fasciculus, within the neurilemma. This becomes organized into a fibrous or fibroid tumour, which enlarges and obliterates the adjacent nervous tubules by its compression.* Such tumours are smoothly globular or oval, and may vary from the size of a pin's head to that of an orange. Often they exist in great numbers in the nerves of one patient; and are painless ; whilst, as we notice in the Section on Tumours, p. 102, one single small fibrous or cartilaginous tumour, which has no visible connexion with any nerve, may be the seat of the most excruciating pain. Yet these tumours, like any other morbid condition that may exist in or about the trunks of nerves, may produce every conceivable symptom of nervous irritation. Iodine paint, externally, and iodide of potassium, internally, may be tried; but if they fail, as they most likely will, any tumour which is troublesome must be extirpated, pro- * See E. W. Smith, of Dublin, on Neuroma; Dublin, 1849; Van der Byl, Pathological Trans,, vol. vi.NEUEALGIA. 365 vided that it be not intimately embedded in the substance of a large nerve, such as the sciatic, the division of which would paralyze a limb. V. Neuralgia, or Tic-Doloreux.—This affection may be defined to be severe pain affecting the nerves, not necessarily produced by or- ganic lesion. It occurs in paroxysms of very severe pain, mostly of a plunging, lancinating character, shooting in the course of the nerves. It most frequently attacks persons of middle age, female sex, and com- fortable circumstances. Causes,—The exciting causes may be of two orders. 1. There are some which act upon the nerve that is the seat of pain. Thus neuralgia may be produced by wounds and other injuries, as before related; by tumours at the origin or in the course of the nerve, especially cancer ; by spicula of bone pressing on the nerve (which is a frequent cause of facial neuralgia); or by some disease in the brain or spinal cord at its origin. 2. It may be caused by states of the blood ; as, for instance, by loss of blood and debility, accompaneid by pallor and anaemia, especially if combined with torpor of the kidneys and bowels; by wet and cold ; by irritation of the skin from eruptions or wounds; by carious teeth; by disorders of the alimentary canal; by a rheumatic taint; sometimes by diseases of the urinary or other internal organs; lastly, by malaria. When arising from malaria, it is generally intermittent, like other dis- eases arising from the same source, and occurs at regular intervals. But all intermittent neuralgia is not necessarily caused by malaria; because this, as well as other nervous affections, may occur only at stated periods, although caused by a local source of irritation that is permanent. The nature of the complaint is apparently functional derangement. The suddenness of its accession and departure, and the absence of organic change in nerves that have been affected for years, prove that it is not essentially inflammatory. See p. 20. The most common forms of neuralgia are—the Supra-orbital Neu- ralgia, Brow Ague, or Hemicrania, which is usually caused by malaria; neuralgia of the superior and inferior maxillary nerves, which is often caused by diseased teeth, or disease of the bony canals through which those nerves pass; and neuralgia of the breast and testicle, which will be treated of elsewhere: it may also attack the extremities, or any internal organ. Treatment.—The indications are three. First, to remove all soui'ces of irritation which may affect the painful nei-ve, either at its origin or in any part of its course ; remembering always that the painful spot is very seldom the real seat of the disease; secondly, to amend any dis- order of the constitution that can be detected; thirdly, to alleviate pain. In the first place, therefore, the whole course of the affected nerve should be thoroughly examined ; and if there is a cicatrix, or tumour, or wound, or a carious tooth, or an abscess, or ulcer, or hernia, or aneurism, to which the pain can be attributed, measures should be366 NEURALGIA. taken for their removal if possible. In cases of neuralgia of the ex- tremities, if there is any tenderness, or other reason for suspecting inflammation of the nerve or its sheath, leeches and blisters, followed by liniments (especially F. 145, 151), applied in the course of the nerve, combined with proper constitutional remedies, may effect a cure. The head, and particularly the spine, should be well scrutinized. If there is any vertebra particularly tender, an opiate or belladonna plaster, or a plaster of arnmoniacum with mercury, or, in extreme cases, the tartar-emetic ointment may be applied. This is the condition which has been described under the term Spinal Irritation. But the writer is more inclined to believe that this is an effect of a general nervous or hysteric condition, than an original or substantive disease in itself. The condition of the great secreting organs, as well as of the stomach, uterus, and rectum, should also be ascertained, in order to make sure that a morbid condition of one of these parts is not the real source of the evil. Secondly, The state of the constitution must be regulated in the same manner as was directed in the treatment of chronic inflamma- tion^ If there are paleness of the lips, emaciation, and debility, iron, bark, and other tonics may be given with advantage. Inquiry should always be made in these cases for piles, menorrhagia, Bright's disease of the kidney, and other weakening ailments. On the other hand, purging and low diet have cured cases attended with hard full pulse and plethora. In all cases, the appetite, the tongue, the biliary and alviue secretions, and the state of the uterine system, should be investigated. In the brow ague and other cases arising from malaria, quinine should be given in doses of three grains every four hours, F. 3 ; if it fails, arsenic, F. 97 ; or the extract of nux vomica, in doses of gr. | ter die, or guaiacum, may de tried. In cases of a rheumatic or gouty character, colchicum, F.70, &c., may be of service. Asssafcetida with aloeticpui'- gatives and valerian may be given if there are hysterical symptoms, and sarsaparilla with iodide of potassium, F. 197, might be tried ; or the hydrochlorate of ammonia, or the nitrate, if the malady has followed syphilis, or if there is any reason to suspect thickening of the bones of the skull. But all lowering remedies, and especially mercury, should be used with the utmost care and hesitation. Thirdly, If no cause whateA^er can be detected ; or if, when detected, it cannot be removed • or if, as frequently happens, even though re- moved, its removal fail to cure the disease, an empirical and palliative plan of treatment is the only resource. A course of purgatives, espe- cially the croton oil, in doses of TY\, i ter die ; tonics, especially the quinine, carbonate of iron, and oxide or sulphate or valerianate of zinc ; any remedies, in fact, that have been known to do good, may be tried in succession ; taking care, however, not to impair the constitution by giving them at random. Opium, morphia, hyoscyamus, belladonna, conium, stramonium, or prussic acid, given internally; friction with ointnaents, or alcoholic solutions of veratria, or aconite (gss ad ^^i), chlorodyne, subcutaneous injection of morphia—galvanism, acupuncture, the moxa.WOUNDS OF THE SCALP. 367 the actual cautery, and the outward application of chloroform, generally afFoi'd some relief, and sometimes completely cure. Division of the nerves, with or without excision of a portion, is the last and a very bad resource It may produce instant ease: this, however, lasts but a short time ; and the oftener it is repeated the more transient are its effects. Sometimes, after repeated divisions, the pain is as severe as ever, although the part may become quite numb and insensible to the touch. The infra-orbital and mental nerves (which may be divided from within the mouth just as they escape from their foramina), the frontal, the radial, just after it has passed between the supinator tendon and the bone, and the digital, are those which have been most fre- quently operated upon. VI. Anomalous Nervous Affections.—The same local and con- stitutional causes that gave rise to neuralgia, may also occasion every other symptom that can be produced by functional nervous disorder; such as rigid and permanent spasm (as in wry neck), or twitching and convulsion of muscles ; difficulty of swallowing and performing eva- cuations, owing to spasms of the oesophagus, of the sphincter ani, or of the perineal muscles; sneezing, dumbness, stammering, thirst, and affections of the sight and hearing. The treatment must be conducted on the same principles. CHAPTER X. INJURIES OF THE HEAD. SECTION I.—WOUNDS OF THE SCALP. Wounds and contusions of the scalp, be they ever so slight, are not to be neglected. For they may be followed by erysipelas, or by inflam- mation and suppuration under the occipito-frontalis, or within the cranium, or by suppuration of the veins of the diploe, and general pyaemia, that may easily prove fatal. Wounds should be accurately and quickly closed; but first of all, care should be taken to wash away all foreign bodies and clots with clean water, and a bit of clean old linen, or a clean sponge. The writer will say, once for all, that sponges that have been used to wipe up foul discharges should never be used for recent wounds, particularly of the scalp. No part of the scalp, however torn or bruised, should be cut away. Cases are known in which almost the whole scalp has been stripped fiom the bone, and yet has been laid in its place, and the patient has perfectly recovered. It is wise not to use stitches if it can be avoided. Neither are they usually necessary; for the wounds may be controlled by plasters and bandages. If used, they need not go through the whole thickness of the scalp. It is a good plan to seal368 CONCUSSION OF THE BRAIN. up the wound with collodion, or Friars Balsam on lint; so as to coagulate the blood outwardly, and lessen the risk of suppuration. The patient should be confined to the bed, or to the house, and be purged, and put upon regular bat not low diet. Hamorrhage from small vessels is usually controlled by closing the wound and using pressure. If a large vessel be wounded, it should be tied. Sometimes a blow on the head, which has not pierced the skin, causes an extensive and increasing extravasation of blood under the scalp, rendering it evident that an artery has been divided by the blow. The exact situation of the injured vessel should, if possible, be ascer- tained, and pressure be applied there with a small pad of lint and a well-applied compressing bandage. If suppuration occur, which will be indicated by rigours, chills, and dry tongue, with increase of swelling, attended by a throbbing pain, and if purgation does not remove these symptoms, adhesions may be separated at any suspicious spot; or a moderate incision down to the bone be made at any part where mischief is likely to occur. In- cisions are the sine qua non in suppuration under the scalp. This is usually indicated by a puffy swelling around the eyes and about the temples, with severe pain of a throbbing character in the head. If there is mere serous effusion in this situation, it may, if necessary, be let out by one or more punctures with a lancet. If blood is extra- vasated without a wound, absorption is to be promoted by moderate purgation and cold lotions ; and no incision is to be made, unless posi- tively necessary, on account of the tendency to suppuration and putrefaction which the admission of air promotes. SECTION II. CONCUSSION OR CONTUSION OF THE BRAIN. Definition.—Concussion (commonly called stunning) signifies sudden interruption of the functions of the brain, caused by a blow, or other mechanical injury to the head. Symptoms.—There are two degrees of it. 1. In ordinary cases, the patient lies for a time motionless ,unconscious, and partially insensible; if roused and questioned, he answers hastily, and again relapses into apparent insensibility; after a time he moves his limbs as if in an uneasy sleep, and vomits, and frequently recovers his senses instantly afterwards; remaining, however, giddy, confused, and sleepy for some hours. 2. In the more severe degree the patient is profoundly insensible, the surface and extremities pale and cold, the features ghastly, the pupils sluggish and sometimes dilated, but equal on both sides, unless the brain is injured: in less severe cases they may be contracted, the patient turning away irritably from the light; the pulse feeble and intermittent, or perhaps insensible,, and the breathing slow, or performed only by a feeble sigh drawn at intervals. Vomiting is an important symptom. It is not present in very slight cases, nor in very severe ones ; and its occurrence is mostly an indica- tion of approaching reaction and recovery.369 CONCUSSION OF THE BRAIN. Consequences—1. In cases not attended with severe lesion, the patient suft'ers from some degree of headache and feverishness for a few- days, which may be easily aggravated into a fatal inflammation of the brain. 2. If the concussion be very severe, it may be followed by death ; and there is no doubt but that it is attended with more or less of contusion, ecchymosis, rupture, and extravasation of blood in small specks, or in larger masses ; and that in the cases formerly described, in which persons were said to have died of concussion purely, without anatomical lesion, there was some injury of the spine or disease of the heart to account for death. And the word concussion really means contusion.* The degree of danger in any case may be estimated by the degree in which the spinal and ganglionic systems appear to be implicated. If, therefore, the pulse and I'espiration continue teeble for many hours ; if the eyelids do not move when irritated, and the legs are not drawn up when the soles of the feet are tickled, the prognosis will be serious. 3. Concussion is occasionally succeeded by a peculiar ■ state of insensibility, which may last some days. The patient lies as if in a tranquil sleep ; his pulse is regular ; but on the slightest exertion it rises to 130 or 140, and the carotids beat vehemently; when roused he answers questions, but immediately relapses into miconsciousness. Some patients in this state resemble somnambulists; they may get out of bed, bolt the door, shave, or make water, but still are insensible to what passes around. 4, It may leave a very infirm state of the health and intellect; impairment of the memory, or of the senses, especially of smell and hearing ; and a constant tendency to inflammation, and to exti'avagant actions after drink or any other excitement. Pathology.—The early symptoms, it will be seen, are partly those of impaired cerebral function, partly those of collapse, or sj^ncope. Vide p. 1. It is commonly said that concussion may prove fatal without any injury that can be discovered by dissection; but Dr. Bright pointed out, many years ago, that the brain may be studded with minute ecchymoses, the size of pins' heads. The difference of injuries, however, inflicted slowly and gently, fi'om those inflicted suddenly and with violence, is remarkable. As Mayo long ago observed, great part of the brain of an animal may be gently and quietly sliced away with little or no eflect; but if ever so small a portion be suddenly ci-ushed, the heart stops directly.f * See Mr. Prescott Hewett's Lectures, Med. Times and Gaz., ISS^S. f " The English dragoon sword is so blunt that the strongest man cannot drive it through the head-dress of the Sikh or Afghan; nevertheless the enemy is most often beaten from his horse, and frequently killed by the violence of the shock. Not so, however, with the trenchant blade of the Sikh: this weapon, wielded by a strong man, will cut through any head-piece, and bury itself per- haps in the brain; and yet you find no symptoms of concussion or compression. In the former example the soldier is effectually disabled, often killed outright; in the latter, although the individual is mortally wounded, he may be able to continue the fight, and even to kill his antagonist, before he falls himself dead or dying from his horse."—Cole's Field Practice in India, p. 45. See also a very able paper in the B. and F. Quarterly, Jan. 1853, by Dr. Pv. C. Williams. D 2 BCONCUSSION OF THE BRAIN. 370 Treatment.—The indications are : 1, to recover the patient from insensibility and collapse; 2, to prevent inflammation of the brain; 3, to restore any faculties that may remain impaired. 1. In order to fulfil the first indication, friction of the surface with the hand, and the application of warmth .to the feet, or mustard plasters to the calves of the legs, may be resorted to, if the depression is very great, and the pulse very low ; but it is better in most cases to leave the patient to recover by himself, with the head on a level with the chest, than to be officious in administering stimulants, as they would increase the eflusion of blood, supposmg the brain to be lace- rated. Mr. Guthrie's sentiments on this point are very decisive. " It is useless to open the patient's veins," he observes, " for they cannot bleed until he begins to recover, and then the loss of blood would probably kill him. It is as improper to put strong drinks into his mouth, for he cannot swallow; and if he should be so far recovered as to make the attempt, they might probably entei- the larnyx and destroy him. If he be made to inhale strong stimulating salts, they will probably give rise to inflammation of the inside of his nose and throat, to his subsequent great distress."* Professor Miller has well observed, that daring the insensibility from shocks the patient should be examined to ascertain what other injuries, if any, he has sustained. Broken bones, dislocations, and wounds should then be set to rights. 2. After reaction has taken place, the bowels should be freely acted on, and perfect rest and low diet should be observed. If the pulse becomes hard and frequent, and if the patient complains of pain, throb- bing or tightness intiie head, or becomes flushed, or delirious, or stupid and comatose, if vomiting come on again, or heat of head and white tongue, all which symptoms indicate the approach of phrenitis, blood should be taken from the arm, or by leeches or cupping from the head, the purgatives should be repeated as often as may be necessary, with saline and antimonial draughts in the intervals; and the head should he shaved and kept wet with evaporating lotions or iced water, or ice-bag. As a general rule, after any severe blow on the head, the patient should observe a cautious antiphlogistic regi- men for a month or six weeks—carefully keeping himself free from all fatigue, intemperance, and excitement. If violent delirium or con- vulsions come on after an injury to the head which has been treated by copious venaesection, and if they are not relieved by further depletion, or if that seems inexpedient, they would probably yield to acetate of morphia. 3. In order to remove headache, deafness, giddiness, squinting, loss of memory, tinnitus auriura, and other remote consequences of con- cussion, a course of mild alterative mercurials, repeated blisters, or an issue or seton, the shower-bath, change of air, and a most regular diet, are the remedies. * Guthrie, G. J., on Injuries of the Head affecting the Brain, Lend. 1842, p. 11.COMPRESSION FROM EXTRAVASATED BLOOD. 371 SECTION III.—COMPRESSION FROM EXTRAVASATED BLOOD. Symptoms. —The symptoms of compression of the brain are those of apoplexy. They are, insensibility; palsy (sometimes general, some- times confined to one side) ; dilated and insensible pupil; slow, labour- ing pulse; skin often hot and perspiring; retention of the urine, through palsy of the bladder ; involuntary discharge of faeces, through palsy of the sphincter cini; stertorous breathing, owing to palsy of the velum pendulum palati; and whiffing or puffing respiration, from palsy of the buccinator and other facial muscles. Sometimes, however, the pupils are contracted, and sometimes one is contracted and the other dilated, usually indicating the side of the brain implicated most. Sometimes more or less squinting is present, or the eyes are turned spasmodically upward, so that only the whites are seen. That side of the body is paralysed which is opposite to the injury; and the paralysis, like the insensibility, may vary immensely in degree. There may be every degree from mere numbness and weakness to com- plete loss of power; and every degree of interruption to the mental functions, from slight drowsiness, or slowness, to utter unconsciousness. Convulsions and muscular twitchings or rigidity indicate generally iiTitation or laceration of the brain or its membranes. Causes.—Compression (surgically considered) may be produced by three causes. 1. By extravasation of blood. 2. By fracture of the skull, with depression. 3, By suppuration within its cavity. The symptoms of compression from extramsated blood generally show themselves in the following manner:—The patient receives a blow, and becomes stunned and insensible from the concussion, with extremely feeble pulse and cold skin. After a while he recovers his senses ; but again in an hour or two he becomes sleepy, confused, and insensible; with slow stertorous breathing, slow pulse, and dilated pupils. The symptoms closely correspond with those of one form of apoplexy, called the ingravescent; in which the patient suddenly feels an acute pain in the head, caused by the bursting of a blood-vessel, and becomes sick and faint—in fact, suffers from concussion. Then he re- covers his senses; but shortly afterwards, as the extravasation from the ruptured vessel increases, becomes quite comatose.* On the other hand, if a large quantity of blood is extravasated rapidly, the symptoms of compression may immediately succeed the insensibility of concussion, without any interval of consciousness. The blood may be situated, 1, between the dura-mater and skull ; and if in large quantity, it proceeds most likely from laceration of a branch of the middle meningeal artery. It may, however, proceed from one of the sinuses, particularly the lateral. It is the common con- sequence of fracture, by which the vessels running in the grooves of the bone are to]-n through. 2, between the membranes. Here we may refer to p. 23, for a notice of the fact, first clearly pointed out by * CopLand, Diet., Art. Apoplexy.372 COMPKESSION FROM EXTRAVASATED BLOOD. Mr. Prescott Hewett, that injuries are often accompanied with extrava- sation within the cavity of the arachnoid ; and that the blood may coa- gulate, forming a thin layer, which adheres and becomes vascular like a false membrane. 3, in the substance of the brain. The diagnosis between the symptoms of concussion and those of compression is a sort oipons asinorum and bugbear to young students, who are often led to expect sharply-drawn distinctions which are seldom found in practice. Moreover, it is often confused by ideas that the injury in concussion is immaterial; whereas, as we have before said, the real condition of a concussed brain is one of contusion and ecchymosis, which may produce symptoms of their own. The leading points of distinction are obvious enough. 1st. The symptoms of concussion always follow the accident imme- diately ; those of compression from effusion of blood may come on after an interval. " The first stunning or deprivation of sense," says Pott, " may be from either: no man can tell from which ; but when these first symptoms have been removed, or have spontaneously disappeared, if such patient is again oppressed with drowsiness or stupidity, it then becomes most probable that the first complaints were from concussion, and that the latter are from extravasation." 2ndly. In concussion the pulse is feeble, the skin pale, and the respiration sighing and feeble; and the greater the insensibility the feebler will the pulse be. In com- pression, on the contrary, when reaction is thoroughly established, the pulse will be slow and full, and the skin hot and perspiring. 3rdly. Stertorous breathing and muscular palsy are rare in mere concussion, common in compression. 4thly. The pupil in concussion is variable: sometimes contracted, sometimes dilated, and not always insensible to light; in compression, it is almost always dilated and insensible, and sometimes unequal on the two sides. Treatment.—The head should be shaved and examined, and if there is no sign of fracture or injury, the case must be treated as one of apoplexy; the indications being to avert inflammation, and procure absorption of the blood by cold applications to the head, calomel, and purgatives in repeated doses. If, in spite of the above measures, the insensibility continues, and the lungs become clogged with mucus, and the breath escapes from the corner of the mouth with a peculiar whiff during expiration (like that of a smoker), showing paralysis of the portio dura and pressure upon the meso-cephalon, which ai-e very peri- lous symptoms, the last resource — and under these circumstances, it must be confessed, a very desperate one, and one which modern surgeons become daily most unwilling to resort to,—is trephining. The trephine should be rather large, because the blood is almost aiwavs found coagulated. Perhaps the inner table maybe found exten- sively fractured, with only a mere fissure of the outer table. An explo- ratory incision may be first of all made at the seat of injury ; or, if that be unknown, over the parietal bone on the side, opposite to the paralysis, if any, and over the course of that branch of the middle menin- geal artery which may be supposed to furnish the hjemorrhage.373 FRACTURE OF THE SKULL. When a piece of bone has been removed, the dura-mater, in its normal state is found to be level, and of a reddish-silvery colour, and it rises and falls synchronously with the motions of respiration ; but if there is fluid underneath, it bulges up tightly into the aperture made by the trephine, it is of a darker purplish colour, and its motions are very indistinct or entirely lost. In this latter case a puncture should be made to let the fluid escape ; and numerous instances are on record in which, after the surgeon has punctured the distended dura-mater, and some ounces of blood have escaped, the patient has recovered his consciousness immediately.* If on opening the dura-mater the blood should be found under the p'a mater, and, perhaps, in the substance ol the brain, the areolar membrane holding it should be carefully torn by the forceps, to permit the coagula and disorganized brain tissue to escape. Lastly, to quote from the valuable practical remarks of Mr. P. Hewett, supposing a man to fall—from a ladder, for instance—in a fit of apoplexy, care must be taken not to ascribe to the fall the effects of the disease which preceded it. SECTION IV.—FRACTURE OF THE SKULL. Fractures of the skull are caused by great violence, such as blows or falls on the head, and gun-shot wounds. If the blow be caused hya large blunt object, or by a fall on the head, it will most Lkely result in a widely ex- tended fissure, running perhaps across the vault or base of the skull, and tearing arteries, sinuses, or nerves in its way ; fracture of the base, for ex- ample, is common when the patient falls on his head from a height, so that the weight of the whole body tells upon the base of the skull through the spinal column. If the blow be caused by a sharp instrument, as a ham- mer, or pickaxe, or brickbat, it will probably cause a starred depression confined to the seat of injury. Sometimes the outer table will show a small hole, while the inner table will be starred and de- pressed in picula much more extensively, occasionally tearing the dura- mater and injuring the brain. The Symptoms and consequences of fracture of the skull depend on the conditions which accompany it; especially, 1. On the amount of * Guthrie, op. cit., pp. 39, 125; Brodie, Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xiv.374 FRACTURE OF THE SKULL. concussion. 2. On the forcing in of portions of bone so as to com- press the brain, or on internal haemorrhage. 3. On the complication with scalp wound. 4. On the situation. 5. On the inflammation excited subsequently. 1. Simple Fracture with Depression may be ascertained by a cai'eful examination of the shaved scalp, when, if it exist, there will be felt a depi-ession at one part, with a corresponding edge or projecting ridge near it. Sometimes a coagulum of blood or other effusion under the scalp conveys the feeling of a sharp elevated ridge of bone: it may be known, however, by its yielding to firm pressure with the finger, and by observing that no part of the bone is helow its natural level, at the same time that the edge of the apparent depression is raised in a rim above the level of the surrounding skull. Sometimes, too, an irregular conformation of the sutures and Wormian bones may be mistaken for fracture. Moreover, a mere driving in of the outer wall of the frontal sinuses or mastoid cells, or any place where the diploe is large, is not necessarily attended with injury to the brain. Occasionally both tables may be driven in upon one of the large venous sinuses, or between the cerebral hemispheres without compressing the brain substances. Treatment.—1. In a case of simple depressed fracture, if there are no symptoms of compression, and if the patient is conscious and rational, he should be bled, purged, and kept under the strictest antiphlogistic )-egimen ; and then, perhaps, recovery may be completed without the slightest appearance of compression, and inflammation be averted. Even if there be slight symptoms of compression, the same plan is to be adopted. In children, whose bones are soft and thin, great indentations and depressions may be produced without fracture. They are to be treated antiphlogistically ; and if the bowels are kept well open, they may not cause any bad symptom whatever, and the bone may rise in time to its proper level, 2. If the fracture be compound, in like manner, as a general rule, it is better not to trephine, unless there are symptoms. If comminuted, and if splinters are sticking into the brain or its membranes, the bone must be elevated. If possible, it should be done with the elevator alone. But if one piece of bone is wedged in under another, a small aperture should be made with the trephine, or Hey's saw, in order to make room for employing the elevator. If any pieces of bone are perfectly loose and detached, they must be removed ; but not if they have a pretty good adhesion to the pericranium or dura-mater. 3. Fracture of the Inker Table.*—This part may be splin- tered extensively by some injuries which do no great damage to the * Mr. W. F. Teevan, of the Westminster Hospital, has made numerous experiments which show that the aperture of entry is caused by the penetrat- ing body only; and that the aperture of exit is larger, inasmuch as it is made by the penetrating substance plus the fragments of bone driven out of the proxi- mal table and diploe.—Experimental Inquiries on Wounds of the Skull. Brit, and For. Med. Chir, Rev., July 1864,375 FRACTURE OF THE SKULL. outer table; especially by sabre-cuts descending perpendicularly; musket-shots, and blows with pokers and similar weapons. When there is reason to suspect this, a most careful examination should be made with the probe, and, if discovered, the trephine should be em- ployed to raise or remove any splinters that may compress or irritate the surface of the brain. 4. Fracture of the Base of the SkulI; may run in various directions, but most frequently through the petrous, squamous, basi-sphe- noid, and ali-sphenoid bones. The diagnosis will be founded — 1. On the nature of the in- jury ; for the patient has pro- bably pitched on his head and has a wound or bruise on the vertex, but no frac- ture there. 2. There will most probably be copious venous bleeding from one ear; the blood coming from the diploe of the bone, or from the petrosal or lateral sinuses, being permitted to well out through the tympanum by laceration of the membrana tympani. In this case, if the mouth and nostrils be closed, air will perhaps also bubble out through the external auditory meatus in expiration. 3. After bleeding has ceased, a most significant symptom is the draining away through the ear of the cerebro-spinal fluid from beneath the arachnoid. It is a dear fluid, hardly coagulable by heat, and containing much less albumen and saline matter than serum does. This indicates that the fracture passes through the internal auditory meatus, and has ruptured the tube of arachnoid, which accompanies the auditory and facial nerves into that meatus, and so allows the escape of the cerebro-spinal fluid. Immense quantities of it may be discharged. In one case recorded by Hewett, the serous fluid seemed to come from the internal ear or mastoid cells or tympanum, there being no fissure found (though carefully looked for) on the inner surface of the skull." 4. Various symptoms may be noticed, indicating damage to the nerves that escape by the base of the skull. Thus extreme deafness points to the auditory ; paralysis of the muscles of the face, inability to close the eye tightly, and a dragging of the mouth to the opposite side, point to the facial nerve ; loss of sensibility in either half of the tongue, to the third division of the fifth ; loss of motion, to the ninth ; inability of swallow- ing, and slow or stertorous breathing, to the eighth; and thus the implication of these nerves shows the course of the fracture to be through their several foramina. 5. Bleeding from the nose or mouth, and great ecchymosis within the orbit, not a mere speck of blood * Fracture of the Inner Table of the Skull, St. Mary's Museum,376 WOUNDS OF THE BRAIN. beneath the conjunctiva, but a complete ecchymosis coming from behind, will also show the direction of fracture, across the sphenoid, ethmoid, and frontal bones. In some cases traumatic aneurysm of the orbit has followed, and has been relieved by ligature of the common carotid. In this and in other fractures of the skull the symptoms depend on the amount of injury to the brain, and so does the prognosis. Stupor, dilated and unequal pupils, with rapid pulse, hot skin, dry tongue, and delirium, are unfavourable symptoms; yet fracture of the base has been shown not to be necessarily fatal as was once supposed ; and if there is no primary injury to the brain, if the patient is thoroughly purged and kept on low diet and in the most absolute repose, so as to arrest inflammation, he may recover.* SECTION V.—WOUNDS OP THE BRATN, AND HERNIA CEREBRI. I. Wounds of the Dura-ma.ter add very considerably to the danger of compound fractures of the skull, both from the risk that inflammation may spread over the surface of the arachnoid, and from the greater chance of hernia cerebri. Hence this membrane should never be punctured in search of fluid, without due consideration. II. Wounds of the Sinuses are of no great consequence, provided the blood does not accumulate within the skull; haemorrhage from them is easily restained by pressure. III. Wounds of the Brain, whether incised or lacerated, are not attended with special and recognisable symptoms besides those which arise from the concussion, compression, or inflammation that may acci- dentally be present. Instances are numerous in which portions of the brain have been lost, without any ill consequences at the time or after- wards. But yet Sir B, Brodie has observed in some cases a greater degree of mental confusion than usually attends concussion, and, in others, spasmodic tvvitchings of the muscles. If foreign bodies are embedded in the brain, the danger will be materially augmented. Sir B. Brodie says, that no foreign body, whether a portion of the skull or not, is to be removed, if the removal will add in the least to the irritation or injury; but the practice of most surgeons is to remove them without delay, but with as little disturbance as possible. The treatment of these cases consists in the preventing of inflamma- tion, and in causing the wound to cicatrize without the formation of hernia cerebri. IV. Hernia Cerebri.—When a portion of the skull has been removed, the brain is liable to protrude through the aperture in the form of a rounded tumour, styled hernia or fungus cerebri. Mr. * See Guthrie, op. cit.; Sharp on Injuries of the Head, Lend. 1851; MM. Laugier, Robert, and Chassaignac, in Ranlting's Abstract, vols. ii. and iii.; Mr. Hilton's excellent Clinical Lectures, Lancet, 1853, vol. i.; and Prescott Hewett's Lectures, Med. Times, 1855 and 1858.INFLAMMATION OF THE BRAIN. 377 Guthrie describes two varieties of it. In the first, which occurs within two days, the tumour is composed of coagulated blood, and is caused by- haemorrhage into the brain near its surface. It is accompanied with delirium and phrenitis, and is generally fatal. The best treatment is, to shave it off level with the surface, so as to permit a free discharge of blood. The other kind of tumour consists of brain itself, infiltrated with lymph and blood. If the dura-mater is still entire, the tumour causes it to slough by its constant pressure, and then protrudes through the aperture in the skull. As it increases in size, it suffers constriction from the apei ture through which it passes, and sloughs; but is speedily succeeded by a fresh growth of brain and of fungous granulation, which undei-goes the same processes, till the patient dies of the irritation. Treatment.—In order to prevent this tumour, a well-regulated pres- sure, just sufficient to afford a natural support, should be made upon the brain by means of compresses of soft lint oiled, in all cases when the skull is perforated. If the fungus has already protruded, the best application is liq, calcis, with which the lint may be wetted. If this fail, and the degree of pressure requisite to prevent increase cause symptoms of cerebral oppression, the part should be shaved off level with the scalp, and any further growth be prevented by the liq, calcis and lint, and pressure, as before. Fungous granulations proceeding from the exposed pia- or dura-mater must be carefully distinguished from true hernia cerebri. These are best treated by the application of lunar caustic frequently. SECTION VI. ^TRAUMATIC INFLAMMATION OF THE BRAIN. General Description.—Inflammation of the brain and its mem- branes rarely makes its appearance till a week after an injury, fre^ quently not till three weeks, or even later. Its symptoms and progress are vei y various; sometimes sudden, violent, and soon terminating in destructive suppuration; sometimes slow, insidious, and unsuspected, till suddenly manifested by fatal coma or palsy. Symptoms,—First stage.—The patient complains of tightness and pain in the head, aggravated by heat, motion, and anything that causes excitement of mind or body, together with a disagreeable sense of lan- guor or weakness, confusion of ideas, quick pulse, disturbed sleep, nausea, and want of appetite, and alternate flushing and paleness. Second stage.—The symptoms having lasted a day or two, there comes on a violent rigour, followed by burning heat of the skin : the pulse is hai'd and frequent; the carotid and temporal arteries pulsate vehe- mently; the headache becomes most intolerable and throbbing; the pupils are contracted ; light is unsupportable to the eyes, and sound to the ears; the tongue is dry, the bowels obstinately costive, and the stomach rejects everything with frequent retching. Besides these symptoms, violent delirium or convulsions come on at intervals, or perhaps coma. If they are unrelieved, the third stage soon follows.378 INFLAMMATION OF THE BRAIN. The pulse loses its force, and becomes either slow and oppressed, or excessively rapid ; and squinting, low delirium, convulsions, or palsy, soon usher in death. Rigours, followed by squinting, dilated pupil, stertorous bi-eathing, coma, and palsy, are indications ot supj)uration. Certain changes on the outside of the head also accompany the mischief that is going on within. Supposing the injury which is tlie cause of the inflammation to have been accompanied with a wound, which up to the occurrence of the inflammation has been going on well,—to use the words of Pott, " the sore loses its florid complexion and granulated surface, and becomes pale, flabby, glassy, and painful; instead of good matter, a thin gleet is discharged from it; the lint with which it is dressed sticks to all parts of it; and the pericranium, instead of adhering firmly to the bone, separates all round from it to some distance fi"om its edges." The bone, moreover, may become white, dry, and bloodless. If there be no wound, the scalp will pre- sent a puify, circumscribed, indolent tumour at the seat of injury, on incising which the pericranium is found detached, and the tissues infiltrated with serum. Jf the dura-mater is exposed, it at first appears of " a dull, sloughy cast, and smeared over with something glutinous,'' and subsequently is covered with matter. Pathology.—So far we have described the classical or heroic form of acute encephalitis. But many cases will be met with in which the order of symptoms is very irregular. Thus, in the first place, severe and continuous vomiting may be the earliest symptom, without any complaint of the head ; or a sudden attack of convulsions, or of furious delirium ; or a sudden palsy, owing probably to insidious mischief which betrays itself when too late; or pains in the head of an inter- mitting character; or severe shiverings, terminating in a hot and sweating fit;—and many of these symptoms may occur without any fixed or regular signs of inflammation being betrayed by the pulse. Again, injuries of the skull are liable to be followed by pyoemia, with abscess in the lungs, liver, or joints, and the other signs of that affec- tion. This may occur from mere bruises which have injured the diploe, without fi'acture of either table, and without wound. Sleeplessness, wild intermitting delirium, and sudden suppression of a flux of cerebro- spinal fluid from the ear, after fracture of the base of the skull, espe- cially if accompanied by hot skin, quick pulse, and rigours, are very suspicious symptoms. Morbid Anatomy.—The morbid appearances usually found are suppuration in the diploe ; clots in the sinuses ; exudation of yellowish or greenish lymph on the free surfaces of the dura-mater and arachnoid, covering perhaps extensive tracts, and perhaps partially or entirely converted into pus; similar exudation beneath the arachnoid, passing into the sulci, and thus appearing, on section, to be in the substance of the brain itself; serous effusion into the A'entricles; softening, oi- abscess of the central part of the brain or cerebellum. Prognosis will be unfavourable if the malady is not promptly re- lieved by depletion, or if it has advanced to its second stage.379 TREPHINING. Treatment.—The prevention of inflammation after injury depends chiefly on the most perfect quiet of mind and body, which may be in- sured by a careful administration of morphia; by free purging; a moderately low diet; and the application of cold to the head. The earliest symptoms are to be combated by free bleeding and leeching, with cold to the shaved head, and purgatives with antimony. If exuda- tion seems to be pouring out, as indicated by the persistence of the symptoms, in spite of depletion, the remedies are mercuiy given so as to atfect the system—for instance, two grains of calomel every six hours; blisters to the head or nape of the neck; mustard cataplasms to the feet; terebinthinate or stimulant enemata ; and trephining, if suppuration is indicated by symptoms of compression (and especially by palsy of the opposite side of the body), by the above-mentioned state of the wound, or Pott's puffy tumour. The trephine should be large, and if the matter be seated between the dura-mater and skull, it may aff'ord relief. But so capricious are the symptoms of injury and disease of the brain, so difficult the diagnosis, so impossible is it to be always sure of the precise seat of inischief, and so inherently dangerous are these injuries necessarily, that the trephine may not lay bare the real mischief, or even, if it does, may give no relief. Abscess in the brain, or softening, may be very remote consequences of injury, not occurring perhaps for years. Their symptoms are very obscure and insidious. Occasional headache; general loss of health and strength ; impairment of the memory or other mental faculties; quick pulse, and furred tongue; disorder of the eyes or ears ; sense of constriction, or of coldness in the scalp, or of creeping in the limbs, with numbness, are the most frequent. But these are succeeded by sudden convulsions, or palsy, or coma, from which the patient soon dies, although he may perhaps recover for a time. Treatment.—Blisters, issues, or setons; purgatives ; the most regular diet, and avoidance of every kind of excitement of mind or body, are the remedies in case mischief is expected. After the occurrence of palsy, or other decided symptoms, blisters : leeches, if the pulse is strong enough, and there is pain or heat in the head; purgatives and enemata. But if the patient is low and feeble, he must be supported by mild nutriment and stimulants, especially ammonia, quinine, and nutritious soup. SECTION VII.—TREPHINING AND PARACENTESIS. I. Trephining.—The apparatus requisite for this operation com- prises a large and small trephine, a straight and curved Hey's saw, an elevator, a couple of small pairs of holding forceps, with fine points, straight and curved—besides a good scalpel, and the other instruments which every surgeon is supposed to have in his pocket. There are four cases which may require this operation. 1. Fracture of the skull with depression of bone. 2. Extravasation of blood under the skull. 3. Suppuration of the dura-mater. And, lastly, occa- sional cases of epilepsy arising from the ii-ritation of a diseased spot380 TREPHINING. of the skull. For the first and last cases, the trephine should be quite small, so as not to sacrifice more than is absolutely necessary. Supposing it to be a case of depressed fracture. In the first place, the bone, if not already laid bare by a scalp wound, must be exposed by an incision in the shape of a V, or H, or T. Then, perhaps, some loose fragment may be picked out, or a pi-ojecting point may be cut off with a Hey's saw, or with bone forceps, that will enable the surgeon to raise the depressed portion. But if this cannot be done, a circular piece, consisting of the edge of the depressed bone, and of the adjoining bone under which it has been wedged, must be removed. The peri- cranium being shaved off from the part which is to be perforated, the surgeon applies the trephine with the point of his forefinger pro- tecting the crown, and works it with an alternate pronation and supi- nation of the wrist, and when it has made a circular groove deep enough to work in steadily, he takes care to withdraw the centre pin. He saws on steadily and cautiously, pausing frequently and examining the groove with a probe, to ascertain whether it has reached the dura- mater, and when it has, he introduces the elevator to raise the circular piece of bone. He must be particularly careful to fix the centre pin, and the greater pai t of the circumference of the instrument, on firm bone,—and by no means to press heavily, whilst sawing, on any piece that is loose or yielding The saw will be known to have reached the diploe by the escape of blood with the bone-dust; but it must be recol» lected that the diploe exists neither in children nor in the aged. When the piece of bone is removed, the surgeon must gently insinuate the point of the elevator under that which is driven in, and using his finger or the edge of the firm bone as a fulcrum, must carefully raise it to its proper level. Small detached portions driven under the rest must be removed carefully by the forceps. Then all loose frag- ments having been removed, and the wound sponged clean, the scalp must be cai-efully laid down, and the patient be put to bed. The trephine should not be applied in the coui'se of the sutures or venous sinuses, nor over the lower part of the frontal or occipital bones, if it can be avoided ; but, if necessary, there is no great objection. n. Paracentesis Capitis, or puncture of the head, is an opera- tion that has been resorted to by Dr. Conquest in hopeless cases of hydrocephalus in children. It consists in inti'oducing a very fine trocar or giooved needle perpendicularly to the surface, through the anterior fontanel, as far as possible from the longitudinal sinus. When two or three ounces of fluid have escaped, the puncture should be carefully closed, and moderate support be applied to the head by bandages. If the child becomes fliiut, it must be kept in the recumbent posture, and have a few drops of sal volatile. The operation may be repeated at intervals of two or three weeks.* * See Dr. Watson's Lectures in the Med. Gaz. for March 1841.DISEASES OF THE SPINE. 881 SECTION VIII. TUMOURS. I. Tumours of the Scalp are most frequently cutaneous cysts, or vascular tumours. (See pp. 108, 227.) II. Tumours of the Bones are apt to be of most ivory-like density. If near the orbit, so as to interfere with the eye, or if very disfiguring, they may be removed. HI. Tumours within the Cranium, that concern the surgeon, are usually fibro-plastic, or soft cancer, arising in the bone or mem- brane, and perforating the skull. Other enlargements, such as aneu- rysms, or hydatids, will produce similar symptoms at first. The earliest symptom is generally intense, long continued, and frequently returning headache. Then there may follow the signs of compi ession, in the form of gradually-increasing-mental imbecility, and palsy of the limbs. Sometimes the patient is cut off with a sudden attack of hemiplegia. But if he survives long enough, the growth makes its way outwardly, perforates the skull, and appears as a soft lobular tumour. Attentive examination may perhaps detect two kinds of pulsation in it; one synchronous with the arterial pulse, the other with the rise and fall of the brain in respiration. The tumour cannot be m.oved laterally ; but in its earlier stages may perhaps be returned into the skull, giving rise, when returned, to symptoms of compression of the brain which subside when it is permitted to protrude again.— See p. 377. The treatment must be palliative; leechings, purgatives, and moderate diet. Any interference with the knife is almost sure to be fatal.* CHAPTER XT. diseases and injuries of the spine. section I.—DISEASES AND DEFORMITIES. I. Lateral Curvature from debility of the bones, ligaments, and muscles, is exceedingly common in this countiy in young females from about the age of ten to sixteen. The first thing that attracts attention is a projection, or, as the vulgar say, a growing out of one scapula, or of one side of the bosom, or an elevation of one shoulder, most commonly the right. On examination, the spine is found to be curved like an italic/, and somewhat twisted on its long axis. The right shoulder and the right side of the chest are unnaturally high and rounded, whilst the opposite is depressed and concave. In the same way the left hip projects, whilst the loins on the right side are curved inwards. Cc(?<s<?s.—This affection is readily caused by occupations or postures that tax one side of the body more than the other ; especially the habit * See Lebert, sur les Mai. Cancereuses, &c.382 DISEASES OF THE SPINE. of standing at ease on the right leg, with the left knee a little bent; a common habit with all persons who stand long. By this means the left side of the pelvis is thrown up, and the right shoulder raised. Awkward one-sided postures in sitting whilst writing, or at needle- work, are also causes. We may add, that there are some circumstances which may possibly cause distortion, even in the healthiest adult; such as one leg being shorter than the other, or walking with a wooden leg. Why one-sided postures should cause distortion must be evident, when it is considered that the intervertebral substance is compressible, to such an extent, that an adult man of middle stature loses about an inch of his height after having been in the erect posture during the day, and does not regain it till after some hours of rest. " Since the united thickness of the intervertebral substance in an adult man is about 3 • 875 inches," we see that tliey lose nearly one-fourth by com- pression, which they do not recover till after some hours of rest. But if the weight of the body falls unequally on the spine day after day, it must be evident that they will become compressed on one side more than on the other; and that if their elasticity be impaired, and the muscles and ligaments be weak, and the bones soft, as they are in young persons who have not a sufficiency of fresh air, wholesome food, and active exercise, this lateral distortion will become permanent.* Curvature from Rickets.—There is another form of curvature from debility, which chiefly affects young children of the lower orders, and arises from rickets. It is generally distinguished by the general rickety aspect of the patient (vide p. 239), and by the distortion of the limbs that is also present, as well as by the circumstance that the spine is not simply curved laterally, as de- scribed above, but is often curved directly forwards ; the seat of this curvature being the upper part of the back ; or perhaps it may be curved backwards. Treatmeiit.—The flrst and most essential measure is to strengthen the bones and muscles, by means of good diet, sea air, steel, cod-liver oil, or phosphate of lime, F. 201 ; the shower-bath ; sluicing the back with cold salt and water in the morning ; a hard mattress instead of a soft feather-bed ; early rising, * Bishop, Lancet, 1846, vol. i., p. 215. t From a preparation of Mr. Fergusson's, in the King's College Museum.383 LUMBAR ABSCESS. and abstinence from books. 2. Whilst the back is weak, it ought never to be subjected to the dead-weight of the body.* The patient should take as much out-door, foot, or horse exercise as her strength will allow ; but when not moving, she ought to be lying down on the floor, or on any convenient hard couch, and not sitting or standing upright. 3. A gentle course of gymnastic exercises, calculated to bring the left arm into play, may be useful. 4. Mechanical support may be required in severe cases; and the best way of applying it seams to be by a circular well-padded iron girdle, to be buckled round the pelvis, to which is attached a crutch, by which the axilla of the de- pressed side can be supported and gradually raised, whilst a broad band passes over the convex side of the chest, and forces it back into its proper position. The author has devised a chair, with supports for the shoulders, so that they can be kept at the same level, and in the same vertical plane; whilst it allows of free motion of the body back- wards and forwards.! II. Angular Curvature [Pott's Curvature) is produced by soft- ening and absorption, or caries of the bodies of the vertebrae—a disease which generally affects scrofulous children or adults. It usually begins with symptoms that indicate irritation of the spinal cord, such as weak- ness, coldness, and numbness of the legs, and incapability of taking ex- ertion ; and these symptoms are followed by twitchings and spasms of the legs, and afterwards by palsy. The bowels are costive ; and there is difficulty sometimes of passing, sometimes of retaining, the urine, which is generally pale and alkalescent. Children rarely complain of much pain or tenderness in the back; but if the patient is an adult, there is generally a heavy dull aching pain, aggravated by motion, to- gether with great tenderness on pressure ; and a peculiar dead sicken- ing sensation like that of a carious tootli, if a smart blow be struck on the diseased part with the knuckles. Great distress is sometimes caused if the patient seats himself quickly (or bumps down into a chair, as the vulgar say), so as to shake the spinal column ; and this will sometimes elicit a complaint from childi-en, who give no other sign of pain or tenderness. If the disease is situated in the dorsal vertebras, it will moreover be accompanied with tightness of the chest, and difficulty of breathing; and if in the cervical, one or both arms may be palsied, and there will be a difficulty of supporting the head, which the patient steadies with his hands whenever he moves about. As the disease advances, the trunk becomes curved forwards, and the spinous processes of the diseased vertebras project backwards ; so as to cause great deformity. Perhaps abscesses, of the chronic scrofulous sort, form, and if so the patient will exhibit great constitutional derange- ment and hectic. Consequences.—1. In favourable cases, the diseased bones collapse * Jackson, the pugilist, used to say that he knew an infallible plan for making any child crooked; viz., Let it bolt its victuals and stand on one leg. Mayo's Philosophy of Living. t It is made by Spratt, of Brook Street, Hanover Square.DISEASES OF THE SPINE. 384 and are anchylosed, as after ulceration of the cartilages of joints ; abscesses, if they form, are healed, or their matter is absorbed; and the patient recovers in two or three years, with more or less deformity, which is of course incurable. 2. In some fatal cases the patient dies suddenly from two or three of the diseased vertebrte giving way, and crushing the spinal cord; or from dislocation of the odontoid process, owing to ulceration of its ligament; or from the bursting of abscesses into the spinal cord; or from their bursting into the pleura or peritoneum; but more frequently death is caused by slow irritation and exhaustion, consequent on the formation and bursting of psoas or lumbar abscesses. Diagnosis.—This affection must not be confounded with hysteria. It may readily be distinguished from the distortion which arises from debility by noticing that the curvature is abrupt and angular, whereas in the latter affection it is gradual and rounded, and implicates nearly the whole spine. Treatment.—1. Rest in the horizontal posture is absolutely neces- sary. But the patient must not be taught to lie on his back, nor must any means be used with a view of straightening the spine, as they would merely impede the natural process of recovery, by preventing the remains of the diseased vertebrai from falling together. A bandage containing strips of whalebone, and reaching from the head to the hips, is of use in keeping the trunk at perfect rest. 2. Issues may be made and kept open with caustic on each side of the spinous processes of the diseased vertebrae, if there is any irritation of the spinal cord. In scrofulous cases they do no good. Leeches may relieve occasional accessions of pain or tenderness. 3. At the same time, the constitution must be thoroughly supported by good diet, and by cod-liver oil, sarsa- parilla, phosphate of lime, F. 201, or bark with lime-water, and steel, and other tonics and alteratives, as directed for scrofula. 4. Efficient mechanical support during convalescence is necessary. III. Lumbar and Psoas Abscess.—These are abscesses arising commonly from that diseased condition of the spine which has just been described, although abscesses may occur in the same situation from con- stitutional debility and other causes, without spinal disease. When the connexions of the various muscles and fasciae and the relations of the great nerves to the spine are considered, the variety of courses which these abscesses take is very intelligible. Sometimes they point in the back (constituting lumbar abscess if low down) ; sometimes the matter makes its way between the abdominal muscles, and may pomt at any part of the abdominal parietes ; sometimes it enters the sheath of the psoas muscle, passes downwards in its sheath generally along the course of the anterior crural nerve, causes absorption of that muscle, and points below Poupart's ligament, forming a tumour which diminishes or dis- appears when the patient lies down, and receives an impulse on cough- ing. This is called psoas abscess. In some few cases it does not extend below Poupart's ligament, but can be felt through the abdominal parietes as an oblong tumour in the situation of the psoas muscle: in other cases it extends downwards into the thigh, on the outer side, or385 SPINA BIFIDA. in front of the femoral vessels. Sometimes it reaches rs low as the knee ; sometimes passes backwards to the nates; sometimes through the pelvis and sacro-sciatic notch to the nates; and sometimes it has discharged itself through the bladder or rectum.* It all cases of doubtful diagnosis the evidence oi' disease of the vertebrae, and of rigi- dity of the psoas muscle, or of inability to hop on the leg of the diseased side, or to extend it fairly on the pelvis, or to turn the toes inwards, should be looked for. The diagnosis is further alluded to in the Chap- ters on Aneurysm and Hernia. Treatment.—The first indications are, to procure absorption of the matter, to keep up the health, and to remedy the spinal disease. If the tumour enlarges, and threatens to burst in spite of these measures, it must be treated in the manner directed for large chronic abscess. IV. Acute or Subacute Inflammation of the spinal cord may be caused by blows, by twists, or other injuries, and may occur durino- acute rheumatism ; moreover, it not unfrequently attacks persons who are greatly exposed to cold and wet, such as labourers and prostitutes. It is not uncommon in hot climates in the form of peculiar diseases, called barbiers and beriberi. Fever, violent pain in the back, and com- plete paiaplegia, with loss of power over the rectum and bladder, are the symptoms. The treatment must consist of bleeding or cupping; calomel to affect the mouth, and subsequently blisters and warm baths. In subacute and chronic cases the iodide of potassium ; with colchicum or alkalis if indicated by the state of the urine; or the bichloride of mercury with tincture of bark, F. 87. V. Spina Bifida, or hgdrorachitis, is an affection in which the spinous processes and laminse of some of the vertebrse are cleft or defi- cient. The spinal membranes, deprived of their ordinary support, yield to the pressure of the sub-arachnoid fluid which they contain (which also is secreted in unusual quantity), and bulge out, forming a fluctuating tumour in the middle line of the back. Pathology.—This affection evidently has its origin in the earliest stage of foetal existence, and depends on an arrest of development of the neural arches of the vertebras, and generally of the lumbar and sacral. It is found, on dissection, that not merely the spinal membranes are distended, but that the nerves may have very important connexions with the sac, which is usually formed by a distension of tJie folds of pia-mater and visceral aracihnoid, investing the branches of the cauda equina—below the termination of the cord proper. This is well illustrated by a preparation in the St. George's Hospital * See Stanley, op. cit., p. 331. Mr. Stanley points out the diagnosfs between the psoas abscess and the iliac abscess; which latter is a collection of matter in the cellular tissue between the peritonfeum and the fascia and iliaca, or between that fascia and the iliacus muscle. It generally arises from cold, strains, or falls, or from general debility; sometimes from spinal disease, but it is not so regularly connected with the last cause as psoas abscess is. It generally attacks adults, and often women after parturition. It usually points above Poupart's ligament, near the anterior superior spine of the ilium; and the difQculty of extending the thigh, so constant in psoas abscess, is absent. D 2 CDISEASES OF THE SPINE. 386 Museum, made by Mr. Hewett, who kindly obtained permission for the author to have this drawing made. The patient was five months old, and died under Mr. Tatum's care. The cavity of the tumour is seen to be intersected by the branches of the cauda equina. The nerves passing out of the spinal canal at the upper part of the opening, run across the cavity of the tumour to its posterior wall, where they are firmly fixed, the nerves being here flattened and spread out upon a fine membrane. From the sac, the anterior branches of the first four sacral nerves return in distinct bundles, forming large. loops, to the anterior sacral foramina, through which they pass as usual to form the sacral plexuses. The fluid had evidently been effused between the visceral arachnoid and pia-mater ; and the walls of the sac were formed by the visceral and parietal arachnoid and by the skin, all of vvhich were much thickened, and firmly united to each other. In cases like this in which the nerves pass through the cavity of the tumour, it is probable that the fluid was originally in the subarachnoid cellular tissue, after partial adhesions had formed between the nerves, and the two layers of arachnoid covering its posterior surface. But in some cases the nerves are found spread out upon the posterior wall of the sac, without passing through its cavity ; and in these most pro- bably the fluid was effused into the subarachnoid cellular tissue, after extensive adhesions had united the cord and its nerves to the two layers of arachnoid covering its posterior surface. Whereas, if the fluid beCANCER OF THE SPINAL COLUMN. 387 effused into the cavity of the araGlmoid, before any adhesions form be- tween the two layers of that membrane, no nerves will, in Mr. Hewett's opinion, be connected with the sac. Terminations. — The tumour ^ formed by a spina bifida may -. , ~ ... vary in size from that of a turkey's egg to that of an adult head ; and its integuments may be thick and covered with a dense cuticle, or may be thin and transparent. In some cases the tumour bursts during the act of birth; in most others, after the patient has lived some months or years, it becomes enor- mously distended., and ulcerates, the patient speedily dying of the irritation. In one case, of a young woman, aged 27, which came under the author's obser- vation some time ago, and which was afterwards under the care of Mr. Walsh, the tumour re- lieved itself when distended, by the exudation of a watery fluid through a minute apei ture. In some few cases the patient lives to the ordinary span of life, with- out being troubled with the de- formity. There is, further, a gi-eat variety in the amount of incon- venience attending it. Sometimes it is combined with congenital hvdro- cephalus ; sometimes with club-foot; sometimes with more or less palsy of the legs, or incontinence of urine (which symptoms are easily accounted for by the wasted and compressed condition in which the cord and its nerves are often found), whilst in other cases there are none of these inconveniences, unless the tumour is compressed or inflamed. Treatment.—We have been thus minute in describing the real nature of this disease, in order to deter the surgeon from hazardous attempts at curing what must almost inevitably be an incurable malady. We read of cases in which the tumour has been cut off, and the edges united by twisted suture ; or, in which it has been included in a ligature and tightly tied; but these plans will not be readily adopted by any one who would rather not open the spinal membranes, or injure the cauda equina. The operation of puncture, too, is generally followed by speedily fatal results. Therefore, we think the surgeon's wisest plan is, merely to apply moderate support by means of a hollow truss, From the King's CollegeINJURIES OF THE SPINE. 388 or some such contrivance, so as to counteract that tendency to effusion which there always is when the natural support of any part of the body is taken away.* If the swelling increase very fast, and the surgeon is inchned to try the effect of a puncture, he should, at all events, strictly observe the following rules laid down by Mr. P. Hewett. 1st. " The tumour should never be punctured along the mesial line, especially in the sacral region; for it is generally at this point that the cord and its nerves are connected with the sac. The puncture is to be made at one side of the sac, and at its lowest part, so as to diminish the risk of wounding any of the nervous branches. 2nd. " The instrument ought to be a needle or a small trochar ; for, if a lancet is used, there will be a greater risk of wounding some im- portant part contained in the cavity of the tumour."t After puncture, very great attention should be paid to proper sup- port by bandages. VII. Cancer of the Spinal Column. When severe and continued pain in some part of the spine, with more or less derangement of the nervous functions, and perhaps some perceptible tumour, occur in a patient afiected with cancer, the probability is, that some of the mor- bid growth is deposited in or near the vertebrse.J SECTION II.—INJURIES OF THE SPINE. I. Concussion.—Violent blows or bendings of the spine are liable to produce very serious injury to the spinal cord. Sometimes they cause an immediate paralysis of the parts below the seat of the injury, which gradually passes off, and thus resembles the effects of concussion of the brain; sometimes they are followed by inflammation, which requires prompt antiphlogistic measures, in order to avert permanent paraplegia or death, II. Extravasation op Blood.—A severe blow on the back some- times causes an extravasation of blood into the spinal canal, which, as it increases, causes compression of the cord and paraplegia. III. Dislocation and Fracture.—Dislocation of the spine is rare, except in the cervical region; but it occasionally does occur even in the lumbar and dorsal without any accompanying fracture. When fracture occurs, it generally passes transversely across the body and arch of the vertebrse. The ill consequences of these accidents will, of course, be proportioned to the amount of injury inflicted on the spinal cord; and if that escapes compression, the consequences may not be serious. Thus it may happen that one or more spinous processes may be broken off; or that the cervical vertebris may be twisted round; and the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebrae have been displaced back- * See a successful case treated by Sir A. Cooper in this way, Med. Chir. Trans., vol. ii. f See Cases of spina bifida, with remarks by Prescott Hewett, Lond. Med. Gaz., 1844. X Ceesar Hawkins, Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xxiv.389 INJURIES OF THE SPINE. wards, the patient recovering with permanent deformity, but nothing worse.* But it more frequently hap- pens in fracture and dislocation of the vertebras, that the spinal cord is compressed or lacerated, and the parts below the seat of injury deprived of their nervous influence ; and in these cases the symptoms vary, according to the level of the injury. If the injury affect one of the lumbar or lower dorsal vertebrce, the legs and lower part of the trunk are palsied and insensible, the penis is erect, the faeces are discharged involuntarily, owing to palsy of the sphincter ani; but the urine cannot be voided volun- tarily, owing to palsy of the mus- cular coat of the bladder. Imme- diately after the injury, the secre- tion of urine is diminished, but in a few days it becomes copious, ammoniacal, and offensive, and the mucous coat of the bladder in- flames, and secretes a quantity of viscid adhesive mucus. The bovv'els are distended with wind, and obstinately costive; in protracted cases the evacuations become black, treacly, and extremely offensive. The temperature of the palsied parts at first rises—in one case so high as 111° F.—but afterwards sinks to the natural level, or below it. In some few cases, in which the spinal cord is not entirely compressed or lacerated, the patient may retain some degree of sensation or motion, or may suffer from painful spasms of the legs ; but in general the loss of feeling and motion is complete. If the fracture or dislocation be high in the back, or at the lower part of the neck, there will, in addition to the above symptoms, be palsy of one or both arms, and great difficulty of breathing, especially of expi- ration, because the intercostal and abdominal muscles are palsied, and the diaphragm has no antagonist. If the injury be above the origin of the phrenic nerve (fourth or fifth cervical) the diaphragm will be palsied, and death instantaneous. The most frequent example of this is the dislocation of the odontoid process, which is sometimes caused by ulceration of its transverse ligament, sometimes by blows on the back of the head, or by lifting a child up by the head. * Guerin, L'Experience, Dec. 3, 1840 ; Shaw, Med. Gaz., vol. xvii., p. 936.390 INJURIES OF THE SPINE. JV. Softening is a frequent consequence of concussion or lacera- tion of the spinal cord. The affected part becomes pulpy and diffluent, without, however, any traces of inflammation. V. Acute Inflammation of the spinal cord is a very rare conse- quence of injuries, except penetrating wounds, which generally prove speedily fatal in consequence. It is known by rigors, delirium, twitchings, and numbness of the limbs; difficult and quick breathing; tympanites of belly ; followed by paralysis of legs, possibly of arms ; perhaps general convulsions and coma. Suppuration has been found along the whole of the spinal canal, and the pus has been known to make its way along the sheaths of the nerves, so as to form considerable col- lections amongst the muscles.* Prognosis.— If a fracture is situated high up, so as to affect the respiiation, the patient rarely survives more than a day or two. If it is situated in the lower part of the back, or loins, he may Uve two or three weeks, or a month ; and, in some rare cases, recovery has even occurred, of course with permanent paraplegia. The manner in which death occurs after these injuries is from general exhaustion and debility. The appetite and digestion fail ; a weakening diarrhoea comes on, and then the nates slough, and the patient soon sinks. The prognosis is very uncertain after severe blows; sometimes the patient lives and recovers the use of his limbs even after complete paraplegia ; sometimes life is saved but with permanent paraplegia ; sometimes, on the other hand, the patient having appeared to recover from the ill effects of the injury, most unexpectedly becomes paralytic, and dies from slow disor- ganization of the cord. Treatment.—1. If there be any displacement, an attempt may be made to reduce it by extension. In partial dislocations of the neck, however, the attempt should be very cautious indeed, since, although it has succeeded (in the case of M. Gu6rin for instance), it has also been known to produce instant death. 2. The patient must be kept at perfect rest in the horizontal posture, and the greatest care must be taken to prevent or delay gangrene of the nates, by arranging pillows or India-rubber water-cushions. 3. The urine must be drawn off by the catheter, and the bowels be kept open by clysters and purgatives, to which Sir B. Brodie recommends ammonia to be added. Tonics and the muriatic acid may be given to support the strength, and ob- viate the derangement of the urine. The tympanitic state of the belly may be relieved by rubbing it with the compound camphor liniment. 4. Cupping may occasionally be employed if there are inflammatory symptoms, and the pulse is firm. But in the majority of cases, if fracture has occurred, and the cord is injured, loss of blood is contra- indicated by the pulse, and would hasten a fatal issue. 5, If the patient recover with his life, any remaining weakness or palsy may perhaps be attempted to be removed by the cautious use of blisters or * See case of latent fracture of spine, proving fatal by suppuration within the vertebral canal, by Mr. Simon, Pathological Trans., vol. vi. Dr. Bris- towe, ih.INFLAMMATION OF THE EYE. 391 issues, friction, waini bathing, and the internal use of nnx vomica; but they will very rarely do any good.* 6. An operation for cutting down on the fiacture, and cutting out the arch of that vertebra or vertebrae which presses on the cord, was performed forty years ago by Cline, and Astley Cooper. The results were not lucky, but the idea has been revived by Brown-Sequard. CHAPTER XII. INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYE. SECTION I.—INFLAMMATION OP THE EYE GENERALLY. I. The Eye is a very complex organ, containing very many different structures of great delicacy and minuteness. The effect of disease on each of these parts and structures requires to be considered sepa- rately ; yet the student should be aware that he may not find in actual practice that the various diseases ending in itis, such as choroid- itis, or sclerotitis, have such nicely-defined differences as are often assigned to them in books. For instance, it is a most arbitrary assump- tion that the choroid can be inflamed apart from the retina, or the retina apart from the choroid; still more to talk of congestion of the one, and inflammation of the other. No doubt there are many instances of isolated affections even amongst the most minute textures, as we shall show presently. But the flrst grand distinction the student must draw, is between inflammation of the conjunctiva, popularly, but falsely called ophthalmia, and inflammation of the eyeball. The con- junctiva, including that which covers the cornea, is a mucous mem- brane, subject to inflammation with mucous or purulent discharge, smarting or scalding pain, and more or less sensitiveness to light. This may be caused by various derangements of health ; by long appli- cation with bright light; by atmospheric influence; or by the applica- tion of irritants, of which gonoi'rhceal pus is the most intense. I t may lead to opacity and ulceration of the cornea, but be quite unattended with disease of the interior of the eye, and is greatly under the control of local astringent applications. In very severe cases, however, the deep- seated parts are apt to be implicated in the vascular action, although they may escape occasionally from the ravages of disease. II. Inflammation of the Eyeball, on the contrary, is attended with quite a different set of symptoms ;—those, in fact, which, as Dr. Jacob observes, are commonly ascribed to iritis; as if the iris were the only tissue concerned, whereas, in reality, in iritis, all the inner struc- tures of the eye are more or less involved. The symptoms are, a bright pink arterial tint of the sclerotic; the iris altered in colour, first * Vide Cooper on Dislocations, and Brodie on Injuries of the Spinal Cord, in Med. Cbir. Trans., vol. xxi.INFLAMMATION OF THE EYE. 392 from increased vascularity, next from effusion; the pupil irregular, its contractiJe and expansive power diminished; dimness of vision; no great intolerance of light; pain, not scalding, but aching, or neuralgic, and of various degrees of intensity. Loss of transparency in the cornea, especially of the posterior elastic lamina, adhesions of the iris to the crystalline capsule; opacity of the lens and its capsule; softening of the inflamed cornea or sclerotic, so that they bulge under the pressure of the liquid within, fluidity of the vitreous humour, complete para- lysis, or permanent bulging of the iris ; loss of healthy structure of the retina, and various changes in the choroid, and effusion between it and the retina, are among the consequences of protracted subacute or chronic inflammation. Of the acute inflammation, attended with intensely ago- nizing pain, swelling of the eyelids, chemosis, flashes of light, and hot scalding tears, the consequence may be not merely effusion of lymph, with loss of transparency of the cornea and lens, but suppuration within the eyeball, indicated by shiverings, most acute pain, and a yellow distended cornea ; which in such a case sloughs, if not slit open by the surgeon. Causes.—Inflammation of the eyeball may be—1, traumatic, that is, caused by injuries; 2, idiopathic, or caused by various morbid states of the blood. 1. The first, or traumatic form, may be caused by various injuries, especially blows and wounds ; but the liability to it, and the severity of it will be greatly increased by intemperance, or any other circumstance which deranges the general health. The symptoms will be those which we have already enumerated, in various degrees of severity, attended with furred tongue, quick pulse, headache, and fever. The treatment embraces all the points treated of in the Chapter on the Treatment of Inflammation in general. First, the causes—foreign bodies, chemical irritants, and the like—must be removed if possible. Secondly, sooth- ing measures must be adopted to allay disturbed sensation;—per- fect rest of the eye, and if there be a wound of the eyeball, the eyelids should be closed by a narrow strip or two of court plaster; opium, to allay pain and to insure repose of body and mind; applica- tion to the injured part either of a bit of soft, dry, old cambric, or of a fold of rag dipped in cold water and frequently renewed ; or of linen dipped in warm water, or in a warm decoction of poppies, which- ever the patient finds most soothing; for if the one does not suit, the other must be tried. Thirdly, eliminatives; such as a good dose of calomel and colocynth with rhubarb and carbonate of potass, so as to drain the blood of cacoplastic matters. These complete the preventive measures. But if, notwithstanding, inflammation does come on, then, fourthly, the afflux of blood must be checked. If the patient is able to bear it, venaesection may be performed. If not, from eight to twelve leeches may be applied to the temple, or cupping. The fourth indication will also be assisted by the use of saline purges, and saline draughts with small doses of tai'tar emetic. Fifthly, should the pre- ceding measures not check the disease, or should bloodletting be con-INJURIES OF THE EYE. 393 sidered inapplicable, mercury should be given gently, as directed for iritis, so as to control the effusion, or cause it to be absorbed. Lastly, the diet should be proportioned to the patient's strength, but not too low. The eyes should be protected from light; yet without sacri- ficing good ventilation and coolness. As the disease is disappearing, bark will often be of material service. 2. Of the various idiopathic inflammations of the eyeball, we will mention (a) that most foudroijant attack, which sometimes occurs in pycemia; in which the eye is filled with unhealthy lymph, and destroyed with a rapidity that admits of scarcely any remedy. See Pycemia. (6) Inflammation of the eyeball as a consequence of con- tamination of the blood from the poison of syphilis, is described under the head of syphilitic iritis ; (c) that caused by rheumatism, common or gonorrhosal, is described under the heads of sclerotitis, and of rheumatic iritis, (d) Scrofulous affections are spoken of under the head of scrofulous iritis, and corneitis ; and of cancer of the eye. Sect. 18. Strumous ophthalmia, commonly so called, is a disease of the conjunc- tiva, so far as it is a local disease at all. Lastly, one eye may be affected sympathetically by disorganization of its fellow ; a thing to be averted by removing the cornea and evacuating the morbid products, or extirpating the eye after the manner of Bonnet.* SECTION II.—INJURIES. L Wounds of the eyelids or eyebrows should be most carefully ad- justed by means of sutures, introduced with a very fine needle, which should pass through the cartilage, if divided. The glover's needle is the best. The greatest care should be taken to prevent irregular cicatrization, with the distortion, and inversion or eversion, that may be the result of it, A linen rag wetted with cold water should then be laid on the part—inflammation should be counteracted, and the patient be kept at rest till the wounds are healed. Wounds of the forehead, but more especially of the eyebrow, and of the margin of the orbit, even though the globe of the eye has not been struck, are occasionally followed by loss of vision, owing to concussion of the retina, or effusion of blood in the eye. II. Blows on the eye are generally followed by a disreputable-look- ing ecchymosis, which is inconvenient enough. But sometimes a blow on the naked eyeball, even when so slight as to leave no trace of injury, or a severe blow on the temple, causes detachment of the retina, or some other deep-seated injury to the eye, dimness or total loss of sight, which, when neglected, may lead to permanent blindness. * See a series of cases by Haynes Walton, illustrating this point, Med. Times, Feb. 18th, 1854; and similar cases by Mr. K. Taylor, ibid , Oct. 28th, 1854. The author most strongly recommends the perusal of a Treatise on inflam- mations of the Eyeball, by Arthur Jacob, M.D., ike, Dublin, 1849.INJURIES OF THE EYE. 394 For the prevention and treatment of ill-consequences, refer to the Section on Inflammation of the Eyeball generally. Blood effused into the chambers is generally absorbed in the course of a fortnight, if inflammation be kept down. If coagulated firmly, it will take much longer, even months. Rupture of the eye may be caused by a violent blow. Extreme quietude and care should be taken to save any remnant of sight, and to avert dangerous inflammation. Dislocation of the crystalline lens is another possible re- sult of a severe blow. If driven into the anterior chamber, and if the patient is young, and if it gives no trouble, it may be left to nature, especially if there be reason to think that the capsule does not surround it. If, however, it be- comes irritating, or if the patient is above forty, it should be removed. If dislocated into the posterior chamber, it will almost certainly produce disorganization of the eye, if not removed by extraction; and it may be well to bring it into the anterior chamber by means of a needle, before the removal. III. Foreign Bodies. When a patient complains of a foreign body in the eye, the surgeon should first examine the cornea; then the inside of the lower eyelid and lower part of the globe, by everting the lid, and telling the patient to look up. If nothing is dis<'0vered there, the patient should turn the eye downwards, so as to expose the upper part of the globe, and the surgeon should turn the upper eyelid inside out, which may easily be done by taking the eyelashes between the flnger and thumb, and turn- ing the lid upwards over a probe. If any substance stick in the cornea, so that it cannot be removed by a probe, or silver toothpick, or fine forceps, the point of a cataract needle or lancet should be carefully passed under it so as to lift it out. A still more effective instrument is a sort of delicate scoop or gouge, introduced by Haynes Walton; for foreign bodies, when sharp and angular, and particles of hot iron often become so imbedded in the cornea, that they must be scooped out. Perfect rest to the eye should be enjoined, and every other means be taken to obviate inflammation. To remove particles of lime or mortar, the lids should be everted, and the eye be well syringed or sponged with weak vinegar and water, or with oil, or with pure water, if neither be at hand. For injuries with acids or alkalies, ablution or syringing with water is the readiest remedy. We may observe that whenever there is an inflammation of the conjunctiva, with a fair probability that it may have been caused by the intrusion of a foreign body, the strictest and most accurate search should be made ; because an eye might be lost, or the patient subjected to weeks of ill- ness, and of ineffectual treatment, if it were allowed to remain. When- ever a foreign substance has passed within the anterior chamber, if it can be seen and readily seized, it is better to extract it at once, if the * Gouge for removing foreign particles from the cornea.395 DISEASES OF THE EYELIDS. surgeon possess tlie requisite skill and instruments, which are those required for the extraction of cataract. Mr. Bowman finds a drop of castor-oil the most soothing application in those very painful cases, in which the epithelium has been scratched or roughly stripped off from the surface of the cornea.* IV. Prolapse op the Iris, in consequence of penetrating wounds of the cornea, may be attempted to be i-educed by closing the eye, and very gently rubbing the lid against the cornea, so as to press on the prolapsed portion, and afterwards by exposing it to a strong light, so as to cause the pupil to contract. Or a solution of atropia, F. 198, or of the extract of the Calabar bean, may be applied to the con- junctiva, and this, whether a portion of the pupillary margin be or be not prolapsed. In either case, if dilatation or contraction can be effected, there may be a favourable issue. Mr. H. Walton relates an instance in which reduction was effected by means of a probe. Dr. Mackenzie thinks that if the little bag of iris were emptied of its aqueous humour, it would often return immediately to its place, and suggests an attempt to empty it by pressure. Unless the reduction can be attempted immediately after the prolapsus, all chance of returning it is lost, because it soon becomes strangulated. When the prolapsed part cannot be returned, some surgeons have advised that it be snipped off, lest it irritate the eye; but in doing so there is likelihood of pro- ducing further ]}rotrusion. In some rare accidents when a a large part or nearly the whole of the iris hangs out, it may be prudent to remove apart; but, generally, the safer plan is to let it remain; all that is not required to plug up the opening v/ill very soon be removed spon- taneously. The protruded part, says Mr. Walton, rapidly cicatrizes over, with a partly opaque, and partly transparent cicatrix. Any appUcation (such as the lunar caustic formerly recommended) interferes with the natural process. SECTION III.—DISEASES OF THE EYELIDS. I. HORDEOHJM, or sty, is a small painful boil at the edge of the eyelid, having most probably its seat in a ciliary follicle. Treatment.—Poultices or fomentations ; subsequently ung. hydr. nitrat. dilut., to remove any remaining hardness. Aperients, and afterwards tonics and alteratives, are always necessary, as the com- plaint always arises in debilitated constitutions. II. Ophthalmia Tarsi is an inflammation of the palpebral con- junctiva and the edge of the eyelids, with disordered secretion of the Meibomian glands—so that the eyelids stick together, and become encrusted with dried mucus during sleep. It may be acute—attended with great pain and soreness,—but in general it is chronic and obsti- nate, and attended with itching. It commonly occurs to weakly persons with disordered digestive organs. It may lead to ulceration of * Bowman, Lectures on the Parts concerned in the Operations on the Eye, Lend., 1849, p. 120.DISEASES OF THE EYELIDS. 396 the eyelids, disease of the hair follicles, and loss of the lashes; some- times to thickening and subsequent inversion of the edge of the lids. Treatment.—In the first place, the health, which is always out of order, must be remedied by aperients, alteratives, tonics, change of ail', bathing, and whatever other measures may be suitable for each particular case. Whilst there are much heat and swelling, the eyes should be bathed with an anodyne collyrium, F. 142, and the edges of the lids be smeared with lai'd at bedtime to prevent them from stick- ing together. But so soon as the bowels have been well cleared, an astringent collyrium, F. 140, may be used during the day, and the diluted ungueutum hydrargyri nitratis be applied in very small quantity, with a small camel's-hair brush, to the edges of the lids at bedtime, F. 1G8. The lashes should be plucked out if there is any ulceration about their roots. Mr. Walton generally cuts them off even in the early stage of the affection, as this facilitates cure by enabling the applications to be move effectually made. III, Syphilitic Ulcers of the eyelids, if primary, will be known by their sudden appearance in a patient otherwise healthy, and by their not having been preceded by a wart or tubercle, like cancerous or epithelial ulcers, and by the results of inoculation. Secondary ulcers will be known by their coppery colour, and the general ca- chectic look of the patient, and presence of secondary symptoms in other parts. Treatment.—The treatment of syphilis generally. IV. Trichiasis signifies a growing inwards of the eyelashes. Sometimes the lashes which turn in, seem to constitute a second or distinct row, and the term distichiasis has been applied to this state. Mr. H. Walton has shown, however, that the appearance of this sup- posed independent row is a deception, and depends on the isolated position of the innermost lashes when inverted. Causes.—It seems to depend on some changes in the fibro-cellular tissue in which the cilia follicles lie, produced by irritation. The disease is exceedingly common amongst the lower orders, especially the Irish. Treatment.—If pluck- ing the lashes proves ineffectual, an operation must be resorted to; and three ai-e enumerated by Mr. Walton. One consists in the excision of a portion of skin from the lid, so as to give a sufficient outward tendency to the whole lid, to keep the inverted lashes away from the globe. An incision is made through the skin of the lid close and parallel to the lashes. A second incision is made to meet the extremities of the first, and to include an elliptical portion of skin between them, which is next dissected out, and the edges brought together by sutures. The other operation consists in the extirpation of the roots and bulbs of the offend- ing lashes. An incision is first made along the edge of the lid through the skin, corresponding to the lashes that are to be removed. Two other short cuts are then made at each end at right angles, so as to form a small flap, which is to be lifted, and the bulbs of the hairs most carefully dissected off the cartilage. The skin is then to be laid down, and retained by a stitch. The third is a last resource, and must be397 DISEASES OF THE EYELIDS. done only as an extreme measure, and when there is so much thickening of the lid edge, and so much irregularity of the lashes, that neither of the others will suffice. It is to dissect away the hair follicles from the entire tarsal border. V. Entropion has been attributed to a variety of causes, among which may be mentioned contraction of the ciliary margin of the lid, thickening of the conjunctiva at the line of reflection from the lid to the globe, contraction of the entire tarsal cartilage, and redundancy of the skin of the lids. Mr. Wilde has endeavoured to show that it is due to contraction of the conjunctiva lijiing the lid. Mr. Haynes Walton attributes its immediate cause to the unnatural action of that portion of the orbicularis palpebrarum muscle, which covers the edges of the tarsal cartilage, and which he states to be thicker, and more marked, than any other poi tion of the muscle that is on the cartilage. Mr. Wilde shows that the operations usually undertaken for the removal of entropion, such as the division of the tarsal cartilage pei-- pendicLilarly at each angle, and suspending the lid after Crampton's method, under the idea of the contraction either of its edge or body ; or the removal of any portion of the conjunctiva; or the cutting off the so-called redundant skin—do not answer; and recommends the plan of cutting off the cilia, leaving, however, the cartilage entire. Among the other proofs that Mr. Walton adduces, of the power of the ciliary portion of the orbicularis muscle to act in the manner he describes, is the fact, that a colleague of his can invert his lids by the influence of the will alone. He proposes, therefore, the removal of the ciliary portion of the muscle so as to destroy the inverting power, and the removal of a portion of the skin of the lid to overcome whatever contraction the tarsus may have acquired. Simple division of the lid by a centi'al slit has been recommended, and is adopted by some sur- geons ; and Mr. Walton says that this operation, by destroying the per- verted action of the orbicularis, may in some instances answer, i. e., where the tarsus has not acquired any permanent curve, but in the great majority it will not, it being necessary in addition to remove a bit of the skin of the lid also. An incision is made along the edge of the tarsus, and close to its cuticular margin, from one angle of the lid to the other; and a second nearly parallel to it, about three lines distant, and joining it at its extremities ; the knife being cai-ried down to the cartilage, through both skin and muscle. Then one corner of this flap being raised by forceps, it is * The first cut represents an ectropion caused by a cicatrix ; the second shows the successful results of the operation spoken of in the text.DISEASES OF THE EYELIDS. 398 dissected clean off the cartilage, and the edges of the wound brought together by sutures.* VI. Ectropion, or eversion of the eyelid, may be caused, 1. By a - ^Ajc^enm^ of the conjunc- tion that ensues; and it may be necessary besides to cut out a tri- angular slip from the tarsus. In the aged, the eyelid falls down from paralysis, and the exposed conjunctiva becomes thickened. 2. It may be caused by a cicatrix on the cheek,—that resulting from a burn, for instance. But by far the most common cause is the cicatrization result- ing from the healing of abscesses at the edge of the orbit. Various operations have been suggested and practised for its removal, one of which consists of the removal of the cicatrix, and the subsequent trans- plantation of a portion of skin from the temple or the cheek, after the manner described in the observation on lost noses. It is a simpler and better plan to transpose the skin, as Mr. Walton calls it,—that is, to separate it freely to a considerable extent around, draw it to the position required, and retain it by sutures. It may also be necessary to I'emove a wedge-shaped portion of the tarsal cartilage. VII. Lagophthalmos (hare eye) signifies an inability to close the palpebrje. Sometimes it arises from the contraction of cicatrices, and requires the same treatment as ectropion, when arising from the same cause. But it sometimes depends upon inaction of the orbicularis muscle, thi'ough palsy of the portio-dura; so that the levator palpebrse being unopposed, keeps the eye open. This may be caused by exposure to cold—on the outside of a coach, for instance : in which case it is at- tended with numbness of the cheek, and generally subsides in a few days with aperients, nursing, and perhaps a blister behind the ear. But it may be caused by a tumour in the course of the nerve ; by disease of the part of the temporal bone through which it passes ; or by congestion within the head, like the following disease :— VIII. Ptosis signifies a falling of the upper eyelid from palsy of the third nerve. Sometimes it is attended with headache, giddiness, and * Vide Wilde on Entropion and Trichiasis, Dublin Jouvn. Med. Sc., March, 1844; Haynes Walton, Operative Ophthalmic Surgery, Lend. 1853, p. 157. ttva, owing to long-continued inflammation. The weak ung. hydr. nitric, oxyd., or lotion of arg, nit. (gr. ii. ad ^i.), may be tried first, in order to bring the con- junctiva into a healthy state; but if they do not succeed, a portion of the thickened conjunctiva must be removed by a careful dis- section along the edge of the lid ; so that the parts may be braced up by the contrac- \399 DISEASES OF THE EYELIDS. other signs of congestion in the head, which should be treated by bleed- ing, purgatives, and blisters. Sometimes it arises from debility, and may be removed by tonics. Sometimes it is an accompaniment of that form of amaurosis which arises from organic cerebral disease ; and is attended with dimness of sight, a sluggish dilated pupil> and more or less strabismus : the eye being turned outwards and downwards because the external rectus and superior oblique are the only muscles un- paralysed. If it occurs without any assignable cause, and persists, notwithstanding the employment of every measure calculated to im- prove the health, a portion of skin must be tali:en out from the eyehd, so that the lid may be brought under the influence or action of the occipito-frontalis muscle, and be elevated by it. This must not be done, however, if, as Mr. Walton remarks, double vision should be caused by the eye being thus brought into use. This author says further, that the portion of skin to be removed must be taken near the eyebrow, else the lid may be everted, and should be dissected neatly out with a scalpel, so that there may be no scar. IX. Ancyloblepharon.—Union of the edges of the lids, when complete and congenital (which is very rare), may be removed by an incision ; when partial and consisting of a junction of the lids near one angle, which is sometimes caused by cicatrizing ulcers, it is incurable. X. Symblepharon signifies a union of the lid to the globe, fol- lowing some accident that has caused ulceration of both—the introduc- tion of lime, for instance. It is irremediable, if the adhering surfaces are extensive. Very slight adhesions (fraena) may be divided ; but the raw surfaces are too apt to adhere again. To prevent this, Mr. Walton divides the band vertically through its entire thickness, and brings the edges of each side severally together by sutures. XI. TUMOUP^ of the lids may be of many varieties. Warts, enlarged cutaneous follicles, and vascular tumours, or ncevi, are to be treated the same here as elsewhere. Cysts of hydatids may grow beneath the loose fold of conjunctiva which passes from the inside of the eyelid to the surface of the eyeball. If that fold be divided longitudi- nally, the hydatid will escape, or may be extracted by a hook or for- ceps. There is one small tumour found here, and called, par excellence, the tarsal tumour, the true nature of which the writer has examined, in concert with Mr. H. Walton. It consists of one of the acini of the Meibomian follicles, filled by thick sebaceous matter. If it pi ojects on the inner surface of the lid, it is readily recognized as a small darkish speck, which may ulcerate and discharge its contents. If it chance to project on the outer surface of the so-called tarsal cartilage (for it must be observed that the Meibomian follicles are not, as is usually said, on the inner surface of the cartilage, but are contained within its very substance), then the obstructed follicle, having no means of emptying itself, forms a small tumour, which increases by the addition of fibro- plastic matter to its exterior. Such tumours may be felt under the skin and orbicularis, attached to the outer surface of the tarsal carti- lage. On everting the lid, a shght depression is noticed within, A400 DISEASES OF THE LACHRYMAL .APPARATUS, sufficiently free puncture should be made from within the lid, the cyst broken up with a probe, and the sebaceous and epithelial contents be evacuated. XII. Pediculi.—These loathsome insects sometimes lodge about the roots of the eyelashes, and produce an obstinate itching. They are easily killed by any mercurial preparation ; but the surgeon ought to be aware of their existence, as they might be mistaken for crusts of dried mucus. SECTION IV.—DISEASES OP THE LACHRYMAL APPARATUS, L—The Lachrymal Gland is occasionally subject to acute and chronic inflammation—the symptoms and treatment of which will be obvious. II. Xerophthalmia signifies a dryness of the eye from deficiency of the tears, or rather of the mucous secretion of the conjuncti\-a. It may be palliated by the occasional application of glycerine, or of a tepid lotion of infusion of quince-seed, by means of an eye-cup. Mr, Taylor has succeeded in two instances in restoring useful vision by keeping the cornea constantly moist with glycerine.* III. Epiphora signifies a redundancy or over-secretion of tears, so that they run over the cheeks. It should be distinguished from the stilliddium lachrymarum, or overflow of tears, in consequence of an obstruction in the channels that convey them to the nose. It may depend on general irritability of the eye, and is not unfrequent in scrofulous children. When arising from this cause it should be treated by aperients and altei-atives, with tonics and antacids (F. 38, 10, 11, 20, 76, 77). An emetic may be given if the stomach is foul. The same local applications may be used as are prescribed for scrofulous ophthalmia. Search should be made for foreign bodies or inverted eyelashes. IV. Closure of the Puncta Lachrymalia may be congenital, in which case it is quite incurable, or it may be a consequence of inflammation of the lachrymal sac and its appendages. Of couise it produces a stilliddium lachrymarum. When a consequence of inflam- mation, it is only temporary, and passes off as soon as the inflammation subsides, to which the treatment should be directed. Actual closure of both puncta, except from the cicatrization of a wound, scarcely ever takes place, and the loss of only one does not matter much if there be no accompanying inflammatory affection, and the eyelids ai'e not dis- placed. The treatment to be adopted when both are obliterated, and the canaliculi are not destroyed, is, according to Mr. Bowman,t to cut across one of them close to the obstruction, and then slit up the canal on a probe. When an orifice cannot be so formed, he recommends opening the sac below the tendo oculi, and slitting up the canal near the ob- • See his excellent paper on this disease in the Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ., No. 198, new series, t Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xxxiv.401 FISTULA LACHRYMALIS. struction on a probe run into it from the sac. For this to be successful, the obstruction should be sufficiently far from the sac to allow of the canal being slit up in the interval through the conjunctiva. When this cannot be effected, there should be made an opening between the sac and the inner corner of the eye, and a fistulous aperture be established by the presence of a foreign body. To ascertain whether there is actual stoppage in the passage, Anel's gold probes may be used. Bowman has also shown that every divergence of the lower punctum from slight eversion of the eyelid, the ]-esult of chronic inflammation of the con- junctiva or disease of the skin of the lid, may produce stillicidium. To remedy this condition, he slits up the canal from the punctum, till the incision reaches that part of the mucous surface on which the tears col- lect or against which they rest. V. Obstruction of the Nasal Duct is most probably a conse- quence of thickening of the mucous membrane that lines it, and is, ac- cording to Mr. Walton, a scrofulous ati'ection not uncommon in delicate young persons. The patient complains of wea/^wess of one eye, which is perpetually watering; and of dryness of the corresponding nostril. The lachrymal sac distended with teai-s and mucus or muco-purulent matter forms a small tumour by the side of the nose, from which the contents can be squeezed upwards through the puncta, or downwards into the nose, if the obstruction be not quite complete. A case is re- lated of complete obliteration of the bony canal of the nasal duct by bony deposit, in which a permanent opening was made from the eye to the nose.* Mr. Walton has lately met with a similar case in the person of a medical man. Obstruction mostly leads to VI. Chronic Inflammation of the Lachrymal Sac —tender- ness of the sac, perhaps redness of the supeijacent skin ; irritability and constant tendency to inflammation of the conjunctiva, with mucous or purulent discharge. There is often great variation in the symptoms in the same case, especially at different seasons of the year; for there may be great sufi'ering in winter, and scarcely any inconvenience in summer. VII. Acute Inflammation of the sac is known by great redness, swelling, pain, and tenderness, at the side of the nose, implicating the eye, and attended with fever and headache. The writer has seen it as a sequel of scarlet fever. If it be not soon relieved the sac will sup- purate and burst. VIII. Fistula Lachrymalis signifies an ugly fistulous aperture at the inner corner of the eye, communicating with the lachrymal sac. It is the ordinary consequence of the three preceding affections, if unre- lieved, and may be said to have five stages. First, it begins with obstruction of the nasal duct; the most prominent symptom of which is a perpetual watering of the eye. Secondly, this is followed by m- flammation ; which, thirdly, gives rise to abscess ; and this, fourthly, by its bursting, causes the fistulous aperture from which the name of _* H. Walton, Med. Times, May 1846. A case is related in Forbes's Eev. xii. 641, of congenital absence of the nasal duct, in which M. Berard succeeded in establishing a communication with the nose. D 2d402 FISTULA LACHRYMALIS. the affection is derived; whilst, fifthly, in old neglected cases the lachrymal or superior maxillary bone may become carious ; but. this is not very common. The fistulous aperture is generally crowded with fungous granulations, and the skin around is red and thickened, from the perpetual irritation of the tears that escape fi om it. Sometimes there is considerable loss of skin. Treatment.—Acute inflammation of the sac must be treated by leeches, purgatives, and cold lotions or poultices. If the pain increase in severity, and become throbbing, the sac should be opened in the manner to be presently described. Chronic inflammation of the sac should be treated by an occasional leech ; by steaming the nose so as to soothe and bring the whole track of mucous membrane into a healthier state, and by the strictest atten- tion to the general health, and especially to the functions of the skin and of the digestive organs. When the sac becomes distended, the patient should endeavour to press its contents down into the nose; and he should also frequently draw in his breath strongly whilst his mouth and nostrils are closed, so as to draw the tears down the duct by the pressure of the atmosphere. The secretions of the eyelids should be corrected with citrine ointment (F. 168), and a few drops of some astringent collyrium (F. 140) should be put twice a day into the inner angle of the eye, so as to be absorbed by the puncta, and carried into the sac. By these means the thickening of the duct inay perhaps be removed, ur, at all events, the patient may go on pretty comfortably. Surgical treatment.—But if the retention of the tears in the sac causes a constant irritability of the eye, or if there is a fistulous orifice between the sac and the cheek, measures should be adopted to restore the obstructed duct. In former days this was effected by means of the style, a silver or silver-gilt probe with a head like a nail, which was introduced through an opening made just below the tendo oculi, and worn for some weeks, or even months. But this mode of treatment has been in a great measure superseded by that introduced by Mr. Bowman, who slits up the canaliculus upon a fine director, and is thus enabled to introduce directly into the sac a series of probes of increasing sizes, oy wnich dilatation is gradually eflected. As this method, how- ever, is apt to be rather tedious, Mr. Hulme, after having slit up the canaliculus, passes a fine wire of virgin silver down the duct into the nostril, bends the edge of it over the lid, and cuts it off with a pair of nippers, leaving a hook about ^ of an inch long hanging externally over the lid, where it may be fixed by a piece of plaster. In a few days a lai'ger wire is introduced, and so on until the largest size will pass, which will be in two or three weeks.* IX. The Lachrymal Gland is very rarely the seat of disease, and the author is not aware of any accurate dissections or microscopical examinations: moreover, it is pretty certain that other tumours in the outer part of the orbit have been mistaken for enlargements of this gland ; and that a healthy gland has been occasionally removed unin- * Med. Times and Gazette, May, 1.859,403 DISEASES OF THE CONJUNCTIVA. tentionally with such a tumour. Pain, preternatural flow of tears, and a lobulated tumour under the outer part of the roof of the orbit, are the symptoms; careful extirpation the remedy. See Section xviii. Sometimes this gland is extirpated, in order to get rid of the flow of tears, in cases in which the eye has been lost, and the puncta closed by burns or other injuries, so that the tears are incessantly dribbling on the cheek. An incision must be made for this purpose along the edge of the orbit, through skin, orbicularis, and fascia, when the gland will be exposed, and both portions of it must be removed; for it must be recollected that it has two lobes, and that if either of these is left, the purpose of the operator is defeated. SECTION V. DISEASES OF THE CONJUNCTIVA. I. Common or Catarrhal Ophthalmia consists of inflammation of the conjunctiva. Symptoms.—Smarting, heat, stiffness, and dryness of the eye, with a feeling as if dust had got into it; the conjunctiva of a bright-scarlet redness; the redness superficial, so that the enlarged vessels can be moved by pulling the eyelids ; slight intolerance of light axid flow of tears on exposure of the eye at first, followed by a thin purulent discharge, which in severe cases becomes thick, and doubtless contagious. Causes.—Slight local irritation, disorder of the digestive organs, or cold and damp. Treatment.—A dose of calomel followed by black draught, and pre- ceded by an emetic if the stomach is very foul; the eye to be frequently bathed with poppy decoction, or the weaker forms of F. 140, luke- warm or cold, according to the patient's choice; the edges of the eye- lids to be smeared at night with fresh lard, and with weak ung. hydr. nit. ox. after the first day or two; a green shade to be worn over hath eyes, if there is much intolerance of light; but the patient not to be confined to the house too long, unless the case is very severe, or the weather bad. If there is much inflammation, a large drop of solution of arg. nit. (gr. i. ad _^i.) may be put into the eye twice or thrice a day. If there is much pam, leeches may be applied to the temples; and if the patient is plethoric, and there is much headache and fever, bleeding and calomel in repeated doses may be required. But it is a great mis- take to treat common inflammation of the conjunctiva, when it occurs in delicate subjects, by lowering measures. After the bowels are cleared, a good diet, and exposure to moderate light and cool air, and an astringent lotion, will do more good than black draughts, leeches, and green shades. II. Chronic Inflammation of the Conjunctiva may be a sequel of the acute; or may be caused by some local initation, such as inverted eyelashes ; or by some derangement of the health. Treatment.—1. All local sources of irritation should be removed. 2. The general health should be amended, in the same manner as directed for chronic inflammation generally. 3. The distended capil-404 PURULENT OPHTHALMIA. laries must be unloaded by occasional leechings, and be excited to contract by stimulants and astringents, such as the various collyria in F. 140, &c., which should be used with an eye-cup; or the vinum opii (which Mr. Walton dilutes with an equal quantity of water), and of which a few drops may be put into the eye daily. The edges of the eyelids should be smeared every night with weak ung. hydr. nit. ; and blisters should be applied behind the ears, if the case is obstinate. III. Purulent Ophthalmia, or purulent conjunctivitis, is a very violent form of inflammation of the conjunctiva, and is attended with a thick purulent discharge, which supervenes in from twenty-four to forty-eight hours after the commencement of the disease. There are three varieties of it:—1, the purulent ophthalmia of children ; 2, the common purulent ophthalmia of adults; and 3, the gonorrhceal ophthalmia. The Purulent Ophthalmia of Children, or ophthalmia neona- torum, always begins to appear a few days after birth ; generally on the third day. Symptoms.—At first the edges of the lids appear red, and glued together; their internal surface is red and villous, and the eye is kept closed. Then the conjunctiva of the globe becomes intensely scarlet and much swelled, sometimes so much so as to cause eversiou of the lids; it secretes a thick purulent discharge, and the child is very restless and feverish. If neglected, this disease may occasion opacity or ulceration, or perhaps sloughing of the cornea ; but it generally yields to early and proper treatment. Yet sometimes the interior of the eye is very much damaged, and the retina is left very feeble. Causes.—In most instances in which the author has seen this disease, the mother has complained of some amount of discharge during her pregnancy. In some well-marked cases the husband has also had gleet; therefore it is not unfair to infer that this ophthalmia is caused by the contact of vaginal secretion during birth. Possibly irritation of the eyes from neglect of cleanliness may be a cause in other cases. Treattnent.—This disease, if submitted to early treatment, is easily cured by great attention to cleanliness, and by incessantly washing away the discharge with some mild astringent lotion. Either of the weak collyria (F. 117) will answer; and a large drop of a solution of one grain of nitrate of silver to an ounce of distilled water may likewise be put between the lids once a day with a camel's-hair pencil. The practice pursued at the Central London Ophthalmic Hospital, is to wipe away from the eye with a soft rag and warm water as much discharge as possible, then to apply with a syringe a lotion of four grains of alum to an ounce of water ; after that, the edges of the lids are smeared with lard to prevent them from sticking together, and these proceedings are repeated every half-hour. Neither blistering nor leeching is resorted to. When the discharge is on the wane, the lids may be smeared at night with weak citrine ointment. The eye should be opened with very 2;reat delicacy by resting the fingers on the edges of the orbit, and then drawing open the lids in such a way as to avoid any pressure on the405 GONOREHCEAL OPHTHALMIA. eyeball; because if the cornea is beginning to suppurate, it might easily be burst, and the lens be squeezed out. The bowels should be cleared with a grain of calomel or gray powder, followed by a little castor-oil or I'hubarb. If the disease has been neglected, and there is great tume- faction, a leech maybe appHed to the temple, and halfa grain of calomel be given every eight hours, for three or four doses. If the insides of the lids become thickened, a condition called granular conjunctiva, which never happens unless too strong a lotion has been used, the proper plan is to leave the injured eye alone, and to lay a few threads of cotton, spread with blistering plaster, between the external ear and the head, so as to create a discharge. If the cornea ulcerate or slough, or if the discharge be obstinate, tonics are required (quin. sulph. gr. fs. —vel ext. cinchon. gr. iii. ex lacte), and the astringent collyria should be persevered with. IV. Purulent Ophthalmia in Adults {Contagious or Egyptian Ophthalmia). Symptoms.—This disease begins with stiffness, itching, and watering of the eye, with a sense of dust in it, and slight swelling of the lids, which stick together during sleep, and on examination of their internal surface, the palpebral conjunctiva is found to be intensely red, thick, and villous, like a foetal stomach injected. As the disease advances, the conjunctiva covering the globe becomes also intensely red, swollen, and villous, and discharges a copious secretion of pus. The swelling of the ocular conjunctiva is called chemosis. It is produced by effusion of serum and lymph into the cellular tissue which connects the conjunctiva to the sclerotic; and it elevates the conjunctiva into a kind of roll around the margin of the cornea, which sometimes overlaps it entirely. These symptoms are accompanied with severe burning pain, extending to the cheek and temple, and great headache, fever, and pros- tration ; the palpebral also are swollen, tense, and shining, so that the patient cannot open the eye. Consequences.—This affection may lead to ulceration or sloughing of the cornea; and very commonly to some impairment of vision, from ex- tension of inflammation to the internal parts of the globe. Causes.—It may be produced by severe local iiTitation, as the intro- duction of lime, for instance, or a blow. It is endemic in Egypt, owing to the glaring sunshine and the particles of sand with which the air is loaded. It may also be produced by the close damp atmosphere, saturated with animal vapour that results from crowding many persons together in a confined space, and fi'om the neglect of cleanliness and ventilation ; hence, its prevalence amongst the military in barracks; in ischools; and on board ship—especially amongst the wretched inmates of slave-ships. But when once produced, by any cause whatever, it is most probably both contagious and infectious; that is, capable of being propagated both by contact with the purulent secretion, and by exposure to the floating particles of pus in the air of crowded and fetid dormi- tories. V. Gonorrhceal Ophthalmia is the most violent form of puru- lent conjunctivitis. The symptoms are essentially the same as those406 GONORKHCEAL OPHTHALMIA. of the last species; but the disease seems to begin in the ocular rather than in the palpebral conjunctiva, the chemosis is greater, lymph being generally eft'used into the subconjunctival areolar tissue, the discharge thicker and more abundant, the constitutional disturbance more severe, and the cornea much more apt to slough. It is sometimes said that one eye only is usually affected, not both, as in the Egyptian variety ; but both eyes are often affected, although usually at an interval of a few days, and that which is attacked last generally suffers the least. Cause.—This disease arises without doubt from the application of gonorrhoea! matter from the urethra to the eye. Prognosis.—This is very unfavourable. The sight of the affected eye will either be lost, or excessively impaired, unless treatment be very early and efficacious. Diagnosis.—If a patient applies with violent conjunctivitis, and there is a suspicion that he has a clap and has infected his eye, the surgeon should insist on an examination of the penis, however strongly the patient may deny the fact of his having any disease. Consequences.—The most frequent and detrimental is sloughing of the cornea. The sloughing generally occurs quite suddenly; the cornea may be clear in the morning—cloudy and flaccid in the evening —and by the next morning it may have burst; and this change may supervene at any time ti-om the second day of the disease till the last. After this has occurred, the swelling of the lids subsides, the discharge diminishes and becomes thinner, and the pain greatly abates. If the slough is very small, the iris may protrude, and close the aperture, im- perfect sight remaining,—but generally the greater part of the cornea perishes; a fibrous deposit takes place on the iris, and becoming dis- tended produces staphyloma: and all useful sight is lost. Treatment.—There are three sets of measures which maybe adopted in this very hazardous disease; viz., antiphlogistic remedies, scarifica- tions, and astringents. If the patient applies at the very commencement, the use of an alum or a nitrate-of-silver lotion several times a day, indeed every hour, and fomentations of poppy, together with a low diet, antimony, and confine- ment to bed, may suffice to check the disease. But if the disease has reached its height, and there is great fever and headache, with full bounding pulse, it may be right to bleed locally by means of leeches to the temples, to purge, and to administer nauseating doses of antimony, and Dover's powder, at bedtime, to allay pain. The patient must be kept in bed, in a darkened room, with the head elevated, and on low diet. But experience has shown that antiphlogistic measures are not very generally applicable in the treatment of this uisease. Indeed, in the contagious form, there is often an amount of prostration, moral and physical, which lequires the most active tonic treatment from the very commencement. In such cases, quinine, ammonia, nourishing diet, and alcoholic stimulants, may save a cornea which would inevitably slough were a depressing treatment adopted. If these measures, combined with the local applications to be mentioned407 SCROFULOUS OPHTHALMIA. presently, do not arrest the disease, and the chemosis is evidently ex- tending round the cornea, and the cornea is becoming hazy, incisions, at equal distances, should be made completely through the swollen con- junctiva, beginning at the margin of the cornea, and radiating towards the circumference of the eye.* " A small curved bistoury must be in- troduced just where the chemosed conjunctiva overlaps the cornea, and the point carried through the entire thickness of the swelling to the palpebral sinus, taking care not to injui^e the sclerotic coat, then the hand should be depressed, and the bistoury made to cut its way out. The incisions may be advantageously employed more than once in the same case, and are useful even when the conjunctiva is not extensively chemosed ;"t but an eye may perish in spite of them, as of all other means. The patient, if unruly, should be narcotized by chloro- form ; if not, he should sit on a low chair, and the operator stand behind him, and raise the upper lid with a retractor, whilst an assistant depresses the lower. They should be fomented with warm water, that they may bleed. If there comes on, as frequently happens, an exacer- bation of pain towards evening, it may be prevented by applying a few leeches in the afternoon, oi* by putting blisters behind the ears. The eyes should be frequently but gently washed out, by means of a piece of tine sponge, or syringe, with warm water or poppy decoction, containing three grains of alum to an ounce, in order to get rid of the purulent secretion ; and once or twice daily, a few drops of a freshly- made clear solution of two grains of nitrate of silver in an ounce of dis- tilled water should be dropped into the eye by means of a camel's-hair pencil. As soon as the chemosis begins to lessen, the weaker prepara- tions of F. 140 may be used. The diet should be improved, and the edges of the lids should be smeared at night with weak ung. hydr. nit. ox. If the strength becomes impaired, or if the cornea has given way, tonics, especially bark, F. 1, 4, should be administered, which, with repeated blisters, and a continuance of the astringent applications, are the measures for removing the relics of the disease. VI. Scrofulous Ophthalmia {phlyctenular ophthalmia) gene- rally attacks children under eight years of age, but is not uncommon in adults. Symptoms.—The characteristic feature of this disease is the extreme intolerance of light; quite out of propoi tion to any local visible disease. The lids are kept spasmodically closed, and the head turned obstinately away from the light; yet there is no general vascularity of the con- * This practice was revived by Mr. Tyrrell (vide Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xxi. part ii., and Tyrrell on the Eye, vol. i., p. 73). It is mentioned by Astruc in the following terms:—" It was thought proper some time ago to try the same remedy in the eye tending to a mortification, as is made use of in other parts of the body when they are threatened with the same disease ; viz., to scarif y the swelled conjunctiva thick and deep, so that the globe of the eye, and especially the cornea, might be less compressed by it; for that sudden destruction of the eye seemed to be chiefly owing to its being too tightly embraced by the swelled conjunctiva."—Astruc on the Venereal bisease, translated from the Latin, Lend. 1754. t Haynes Walton, Operative Ophthalmic Surgery, p. 271.403 SCROFULOUS OPHTHALMIA. juDctiva, but a little line of vascularity running towards the cornea, and terminating at one or more phlyotenulce, or small opaque pimples (or sometimes pustules) at the margin of the cornea. This, like other scro- fulous diseases, is extremely obstinate, and liable to recur frequently. Treatment.—The first and chief point is to look after the general health, and especially to use moderate but effectual purgation, till the bowels are emptied, and their secretions rendered healthy. Three or four doses of calomel at bedtime, on alternate nights, with rhubarb and soda, or rhubarb and polychrest salt, F. 37, in the morning, will generally relieve the intolerance of light quickly; and when the tongue is cleaning, and feverishness has subsided, recourse must be had to tonics, cod-liver oil, and to the other general remedies directed for scrofula. Quinine is particularly recommended by Mackenzie, and a combination of quinine with sulphate of iron (F. 16, &c.) by Mr. Walton. Pure air. is essential. Secondly. Various applications are recommended to relieve the distressing intolerance of light, such as cold lotions applied to the outside of the eye, and to the forehead and tem- ples ; or water to which a little vinegar or spirit, or nitric jether, has been added; or the white of egg curdled with alum, or warm poultices, or dec. papav. vel anthemid,, or exposing the eye to the vapour of wai m water, or to the vapour of laudanum or sp. camph., which may be put into a teacup and be held in warm water; but belladonna, F. 149, applied round the eye is the most efficacious, and small doses of extract of conium internally. Both eyes should be protected by a shade. Thirdly, in the advanced stage of the disease, benefit may be derived from dropping in a few drops of dilute vin. opii or lotion of nitrate of silver (gr. i. ad ^^i.) once a day, and especially from the application of dilute citrine ointment to the edges of the hds at bedtime. VII. Granular Conjunctiva signifies a thick, rough, fleshy state of that membrane (especially of that part of it which lines the eyelids), and is a frequent consequence of severe and long-continued ophthalmia, or probably of treatment by applications of too irritating a kind. It causes great pain and disturbance to the motions of the eye, and, if it continues, will render the cornea opaque by its friction. Treatment.—The directions generally given are, that the thickened part should be scarified; that, after one or two days, it should be touched with lunar caustic or sulphate of copper, that the scarification and caustic should be repeated alternately at intervals of two or three days, and that, if these measures prove fruitless, the thinnest possible layer of the granular surface should be shaved off with a fine knife or scissors. But it is a sounder plan of treatment to use counter-irrita- tion on the outside of the eyelids, and improvement of the general health by tonics and change of air ; and to discard any local applica- tion that causes pain or uneasiness, especially if this state of con- junctiva follows an attack of inflammation that has been freely treated by caustic. When the malady is idiopathic, the system is, according to Mr. Walton, much below par, and requires tonics. It is the complaint of the poor Irish.409 DISEASES OF THE CORNEA. Vni. Pterygium is a peculiar alteration of the conjunctiva,—a trian- gular portion of which, with the apex towards the cornea, becomes thickened, elevated, red, and fleshy. It may spread over the cornea and obstruct vision ; but it does not cause much inconvenience besides, and is not essentially an inflammatory affection, although it sometimes follows protracted ophthalmia. It is most common in warm climates, such as Calabria: the examples seen in London are chiefly in persons who have returned from the West Indies. The author would suggest the affinity of this growth to the cheloid tumour of the skin. Treatment.—If the disease is increasing, excision should be per- formed. The growth should be seized close to the cornea with tena- culum forceps, should be cut quite across, and be dissected off, towards the internal canthus. But yet, as Mr. Walton directs, that portion which covers the cornea should not be meddled with, because after the operation that will probably waste ; neither should the semilunar fold and caruncle be extirpated. IX. Tumours, such as warts, polypi, fibro-plastic, and even enchon- dromatous growths, may spring from any part of the conjunctiva, whether near the cornea or not. Early excision by curved scissors is the remedy. SECTION VI.—DISEASES OF THE CORNEA. I. Acute Inflammation of the Cornea, or acute keratinitis, is occasionally a consequence of neglected injury. The part becomes red and opaque, the sclerotic around highly vascular ; and ulceration of the cornea, or suppuration between its layers, or abscess of the anterior chamber, may ensue. A few leeches to the temples may be required if the attack be very acute, and fomentations generally afford relief. Small doses of mercury, discontinued or suspended should the gums become tender, will check the progress of the inflammation, but this should be given along with quinine and ammonia, and the diet should be liberal. The treatment of the diseases of this extra-vascular tissue is essentially tonic. Stimulating applications are prejudicial. Turpentine in the dose of one drachm three times a day, in an emulsion with carbonate of soda and mucilage (F. 74), has been recommended. II. Scrofulous Keratinitis, or Corneitis, most frequently occurs between the ages of six and eighteen. Accoi-ding to Mr. Jonathan Hutchinson, it is, in the great majority of instances, the result of hereditary syphilis, and is constantly seen in connection with that peculiar stunted and abortive growth of the teeth, which he has traced as a result of syphilitic stomatitis in infancy. Symptoms.— The cornea opaque, rough, and red, and unusually pro- minent ; the surrounding sclerotic also red; pain and intolerance of light ai-e generally trivial; there is some tendency to inflammation of the iris and retina; the pulse is frequent, and the skin dry. Treatment.—For the acute, purgatives and fomentations. For the chronic, quinine, iron, and cod-liver oil, perseveringly administered; blisters repeatedly applied to the temples and behind the ears ; iodide ofDISEASES OF THE COKNEA. 410 potassium and the general treatment directed for scrofula. The vin. opii, and ung. hydr. nit. ox. to the eyelids, are almost the only local applications admissible. III. Opacity of the cornea may be divided into two kinds. 1st. The opacity which results from the Adhesive Inflammation, and effusion of fibrine between its layers, or between it and the con- junctiva, which is a very common consequence of inflammation of the cornea, and of scrofulous ulcers during their healing stage ; and 2ndly, the opacity, or leucoma, which is produced by a loss of substance and its resulting cicatrix,—that which follows a pustule of the small-pox, for example. The former kind is in most cases curable; the latter gene- rally not so. When an opacity of the former kind is slight and diffused, it is called nebula; when denser and of a firmer aspect, albugo. Sometimes the lymph forming an albugo becomes vascular, and one or more vessels run to it from the cii-cumference of the eye, and the cornea becomes red and fleshy : this state of things is called pannus. Treatment.— 1. All sorts of irritation about the eye or lids, and most especially inverted lids, or inverted hairs, or granular conjunctiva, must be removed, and any existing degree of inflammation be counter- acted by proper measures. Then, 2, absorption of the lymph may be promoted by counter-irritants, such as blisters or tartar-emetic ointment behind the ears ; by measures calculated to improve the health ; and by the application of stimulants to the eye. The ordinary applications are, caustic lotion (gr. i. ad ^^j.), or hydr. bichlor. gr. i.—ad aq. .^j.; vin. opii; or, ung. hydr. nit. ox. Whichever is selected should not excite long-continued pain or active inflammation. Gooch used to cure opacity of the cornea, even of long standing, and, in fact, other forms of chronic inflammation of the eye, by the administration of corrosive sublimate, in doses that would now be considered hazardous. He gave gr. \ twice a day; and in a few days' time increased the dose to gr. ^, and then to gr. i. It caused feverishness, purging, slight sweating, and headache. IV. Leucoma signifies an opaque cicatrix of the cornea. If recent, it may become much better spontaneously, or may be partially re- moved by the measures just indicated. If of long standing, it is irre- mediable, and sometimes becomes the seat of calcareous degeneration, a small particle of earthy matter being found in it, which may require removal because of its friction against the eyelids. Should both eyes be affected with leucoma, and should the opacity be exactly in front of the pupil, and so large that vision is lost, it will be right, provided that dilatation of the pupils by atropine does not improve sight, to make an artificial opening in the iris opposite some part of the cornea that is transparent. Mr. Bowman has described a case of roarty opacity, caused by the development of vascular papillse, covered with hypertrophied epithe- lium ; and relieved by shaving off the morbid growth to the level of the healthy cornea.* * Op. cit., pp. 39,122,DISEASES OF THE CORNEA. 411 * Op. cit., pp. 37, 117. Superficial Opacities—" There are some varieties," says Mr. Bow- man, " which appear to be on or near the very surface of the cornea, and which it is probable may occupy the anterior elastic lamina. The very opaque chalky-looking films which often follow the application of quicklime or new mortar to the eye, seem to be of this kind, and so, also, do those which have been supposed by some to be stainings of the surface of the corneal tissue by a deposit of the lead lotion in common use. Occasionally we have a superficial excoriation of the cornea—one can hardly call it an ulcer—which the epithelium limits with abrupt edges, thus favouring the accumulation, on the depressed surface, of the frothy mucus or sud which the movements of the lid furnish. " The opacity thus produced is often very opaque, and unless you were aware of its cause, might seem more serious than it really is. A lens, or the point of a needle, will inform you of its real nature. "There is another form of opacity, which I believe to have its seat in the anterior elastic lamina, although it is vain to endeavour to prove it, except by a section of the parts. It has a silvery lustre, and a very fine texture of interweaving stria;, and it creeps very gradually from near the border, over the surface of the cornea, towards the centre. The epithelial surface retains its smoothness and lustre, and the opacity does not appear to have much depth. Other varieties of opacity, vei'y chronic in their course, and evidently not inflammatory, are Hable to form, as I believe, in the same tissue. They may be of a brown tint, with an indefinite margin, and may atfect both corneas at the same time." Superficial opacity, caused by a thin film of earthy matter, has been successfully removed by operation by Mr. Bowman,* Mr. Dixon, and Mr. Haynes Walton. If the acetate of lead is used as a collyrium when there is any abra- sion of the conjunctiva or cornea, a white precipitate is formed, which is liable to become fixed in the cicatrix as a dense white spot. The film may, however, sometimes be removed by a needle. The nitrate of silver, if applied too long, is apt to turn the conjunctiva of a deep olive hue. V. Onyx signifies a suppuration between the layers of the cornea, and is an occasional result of acute ophthalmia, especially of the ca- tarrho-rheumatic, but more commonly follows slight injuries. It is liable to extend rapidly, and to destroy the whole or great part of the cornea by sloughing. It indicates a debilitated constitution, and must be treated with tonics and stimulants, e. g. quinine and ammonia. If there be much tension of the eyeball, the aqueous humour should be evacuated, care being taken that the puncture is made in a sound part of the cornea. VI. Ulcers of the cornea may be the results of the jMyctenula of scrofulous ophthalmia, or they may arise from mechanical injury, or from any form of conjunctival inflammation. They may likewise com-DISEASES OF THE CORNEA. 412 mence as mere abrasions, or as little nebulous spots, independently of any- other affection. When a consequence of the scrofulous phlycteuulse, they are generally deep, and tend to perforate the cornea, and leave an opaque cicatrix ; when arising from other causes, they are often superficial, and heal with a semi-transparent cicatrix, which gradually becomes clear. part." In this state the case merely requires to be watched, to prevent injurious increase of action. " Secondly, an ulcer may be inflamed, when its hazy circumference will be observed to be highly vascular. Leeches and counter-irritation, with soothing applications, are the remedies. But an ulcer is not necessarily inflamed because it has red vessels going to it: these bring materials necessary for its repair, and are not morbid. " Thirdly, an ulcer may be indolent, clear, and transparent, looking as if a little bit had been cut out of the cornea; v/ithout any vascu- larity or effusion of lymph. This state requires slightly-stimulating applications." Again, ulcers may form on a surface that is already rendered opaque and nebulous by scrofulous inflammation. However, in any case, counter-irritation, and measures to impi'ove the health, together with weak caustic lotion or vin. opii used twice a day, are the chief remedies. The surgeon should remember the tendency of the cornea to slough from insufficient and non-azotized food, as proved by the experiments of Majendie. The pupil should be dilated with belladonna, if the ulcer is near the centre of the cornea. When an ulcer is very irritable, keeping up constant pain and into- lerance of light, in spite of soothing applications, the best plan is to touch its surface with a finely-pointed pencil of nitrate of silver, so as to p]-oduce an insensible film on the surface : this is to be repeated at intervals of three or four days. VII. StaphyI-OMA is a term employed to signify any proti'usion on the anterior surface of the eye. 1. Staphyloma iridis signifies a pi o- trusion of the iris, which occurs when the cornea is perforated by ulcere or wounds. The term myocephalon is applied to the protrusion of a very small piece of the iris through an ulcerated opening in the cornea. For the treatment see p. 395. * This figure exhibits the healing stage of an ulcer of the cornea. It is copied by Mr. W. Bagg from a drawing for which the author has lo thank Mr. Partridge. 'J " These ulcers may," as Mr. Tyr- rell observes, " exist in three states. First, that which we may term healthy, when the surface and cir- cumference exhibit a degree of hazi- ness or opacity of a whitish or gray aspect, which is owing to the effusion of adhesive matter on the surface, and in the surrounding texture, which is essential to the healing of theDISEASES OF THE CORNEA. 413 2. Staphyloma of the cornea is said to exist when a portion or the. whole of the cornea, whose texture has been disorganized by injury or disease, has perished ; and the cicatrix with which the iris has become covered, bulges before the pres- sure of the humours of the eye, and forms an opaque white promi- nence. If partial, it is usual to recommend that the nitrate of silver or butter of antimony be applied to the apex of the staphy- loma, so that the inflammation excited may thicken the cornea, and enable it to resist further protrusion; tlie caustic to be well washed off with milk before the lids are closed. But besides sym- pathetically affecting the other eye, it is seldom that the use either of the nitrate of silver or butter of antimony cheeks the increase of staphy- loma, and sooner or later the eye collapses from the necessarily extensive use of the knife. Therefore, when the staphyloma is still limited, Mr. H. Walton shaves it off; by which means the cut part fi-equently cica- ti'izes, and no further protrusion is efteeted. This treatment is appli- cable to small staphylomata, and especially those that rise suddenly, and have a small, well-defined base. VIII. Hernia Corner.—When the cornea is nearly perforated by an ulcer, a thin transparent vesicle is apt to protrude fi'om the aperture, <;onsisting of a tliin lamella of the cornea; the posterior elastic mem- brane. The best plan is to keep the eyelids closed for a few days. Cicatrization to the edges of the cornea soon ensues. IX. Conical Cornea.—In this curious affection the cornea retains its transparency, but assumes, more or less, a conical form, the apex being generally central. As it increases it causes almost total depriva- tion of vision, which, however, can be partially remedied by looking through a minute apertui-e in a piece of blackened wood, and sometimes by using concave glasses; sometimes by a combination of the concave glasses with the wood having the hole in it, or a perforated diaphi'agm set in a spectacle-frame. Mr, Bowman * recommends that the pupil should be limited in size and altered in position. He performs an " iriddesis " downwards, and in a week or ten days again operates upwards. The pupil thus assumes the form of a vertical slit, like the pupil of a cat. The results of his operations have been satisfactory. See Artificial Pupil. X. Arcus Senilis is the name given to a circumfei'ential opacity of the cornea, which has been shown by Mr. Canton to depend on fatty degeneration. As its name implies, it is most generally met with in the aged, and affects each eye symmetrically. When existing in one * Ophthalmic Hosp. Reports, Oct. 1S59.414 DISEASES OF THE SCLEROTIC. eye only, it is generally connected with some previous injury or disease which has spoiled the corneal tissue. Mr. Canton has pointed out that the arcus, when met with in early life, as at fifty, forty, thirty, or earlier, is often associated with fatty degeneration of the heart.* SECTION VII.—DISEASES OF THE SCLEROTIC. I. Acute Inflammation of the Sclerotic is commonly called Rheumatic Ophthalmia ; because the structure affected is similar to that which is commonly said to be attacked by rheumatism. But sclerotitis is, properly speaking, an inflammation of the sclerotic, and in some measure also of the cornea, iris, and other proper structures of the eyeball; and it ought not to be called rheumatic, unless there are pains in the joints, acid perspiration, or other evidences of the rheu- matic diathesis. Symptoms.—It is known by redness of the sclerotic,—dimness of sight, sometimes great intolerance of light, sometimes not—severe sting- ing pain of the eye, and aching of the bones around, which is greatly aggravated at night,—and fever. It may be caused by cold ; and sometimes is a sequel of gonorrhoea. It may lead to opacity of the cornea, or to iritis. Diagnosis.—This form of ophthalmia may be distinguished from in- flammation of the conjunctiva, 1st, by the character of the pain, which is a severe aching, principally felt in the eyebrow, temple, and cheek, and is greatly aggravated every evening; being excessively severe during the night, but remitting towards morning. Whereas, in con- junctivitis, the pain is of a scalding nature, and accompanied with a sensation as if sand was in the eye. 2nd]y, by the character of the redness, which is deep-seated and of a pale pink ; and by the vessels running in straight lines from the circumference of the eye towards the cornea; whereas in conjunctivitis the redness is scarlet and superficial, and more vivid; the vessels are tortuous, and freely anastomose, and can be moved about with the finger. Treatment.—In severe cases, it is commonly said to be necessary to bleed generally or locally; at all events, to purge, and administer mer- cury with opium till the gums begin to suffer. But Mr. Taylor says, that he has seen severe cases treated by bleeding, leeching, and mercury, and that all have been made worse. The plan which he has found rather successful, is to give bark and iodide of potassium, with mercury in small doses or with tincture of colchicum at bed-time ; and he says that blisters to the temple or eyebrow are sometimes useful. The pain may be relieved by friction of the forehead every afternoon, vv^ith extract of belladonna dissolved in warm laudanum (3j. ad ^j.), or F, 149, —warm pediluvia or warm bath,—and Dover's powder at bedtime. When decidedly intermittent, and out of all proportion to vascularity, it may be relieved by five grains of quinine every four hours till the * Lancet, Jan. 11,1851.415 DISEASES OF THE IKIS. ears ring. Dry warmth, by means of muslin bags filled with camomile flowers, and heated on a hot plate, is a very soothing application. II. Catarrho-rheumatic Ophthalmia is a combination of in- flammation of the sclerotic with that of the conjunctiva. The symptoms of conjunctivitis, that is to say, roughness and sense of dust in the eye, muco-purulent discharge and superficial scarlet redness,—are combined with the deeper-seated, straight-lined redness, and with the zone around the cornea, and fits of nocturnal aching that characterize inflammation of the sclerotic. This disease generally occurs in broken-down consti- tutions, and is very apt to lead to onyx, and to ulceration of the cornea, and suppuration in the anterior chamber. Treatment.—Warm opiate collyria, F. 142, weak citrine ointment, and the other topical applications for conjunctival inflammation, must be used in addition to the remedies prescribed for inflammation of the sclerotic. III. Tumours of the Sclerotic i-equire caution in meddling with them, lest the cavity of the eye be opened. SECTION VIII.—affections OF THE ANTERIOR CHAMBER. I. The term Aquo-CAPSULITIS has been applied to signify inflamma- tion of the membrane of the aqueous humour. But it will be highly satisfactory to know, that as there is no such membrane, so there can be no sucli disease; and that the appearances commonly considered to denote this disease,—namely, a mottled opacity of the posterior layers of the cornea—really denote inflammation of the posterior layers of the cornea,* II. Entozoa.—The Cysticercus Cellulosce has on several occasions been found within the anterior chamber. In most of the recorded cases the patient has been the subject of one or more acute attacks of inflammation of the eye leading to opacity of the cornea. On examination a globular vesicle was discerned floating in the anterior chamber. It requires to be extracted by incision.f SECTION IX.—diseases OP THE IRIS. I. Inflammation of the Iris, or Iritis.—The iris is exceedingly liable to inflammation, which generally involves also the sclerotic, the anterior capsule of the lens, and in fact most of the deeper structures in the eyeball. Dr. Jacob has well remarked, that "The use of the term iritis has the effect of directing the practitioner's attention to the iris, which bears a great deal of inflammation without destruction to the organ, and of withdrawing it from the retina, which bears very little, without permanent injury to vision." * See a Clinical Lecture by H. Haynes Walton, on the Non-existence of Aquo-Capsulitis, Med. Times, 5tli May, 1855. •f See Mackenzie, Med. Cliir. Trans, vol. xxxii.; Canton, Surgical Observa- tions, Lend. 1853; Haynes Walton, Operative Ophthalmic Surgery, p. 502.416 DISEASES OF THE IRIS. Symptoms.—In the first stage, the fibrous texture of the iris is in- distinct, appearing confused, and it loses its colour ; if dark, it becomes reddish ; if blue, it becomes greenish. The pupil, also, loses its mobi- lity, is contracted and irregular. In the next stage, lymph begins to be effused ; sometimes in the form of a thin layer, causing the surface to appear rusty and villous,—sometimes in small nodules; sometimes the pupil is filled with a film of it, sometimes, but very rarely, it is poured out in such abundance as to fill the whole cavity of the aqueous humour. The eye displays that kind of redness which arises from vas- cularity of the sclerotic; that is to say, a pink redness, with vessels running in a straight line from the circumference of the eye, and ter- minating in a vascular zone around the cornea; but in very acute cases the entire conjunctiva becomes injected likewise. Sometimes the cornea is slightly hazy. The patient complains of intolerance of light and dimness of vision, and of more or less burning, stinging pain in the eye; but besides this, there is also a severe neuralgic aching of the brow and parts around the orbit, coming on in nocturnal paroxsyms. Causes..—Iritis, as we explained in the first section, may be caused by injuries, or by over-exertion of the eye; but it more frequently de- pends on constitutional taint, syphilis, or gout. Prognosis.—Favourable, if the disease is recent, although the impair- ment of vision may be considerable ; but doubtful, if it be of very long duration, if there be much deep-seated pain, and especially if there be effusion of lymph behind the iris. Varieties.—Iritis may vary in the degree of acute inflammation which attends it ; being active and rapid, attended with bright redness, great pain, and fever, if it occurs in a robust plethoric subject; but in other cases, slow and insidious. It is also divided into several species, according to the na- ture of the cause pi-oducing it. Thus 1. The traumatic iritis is that which arises from pene- trating wounds of the eye. 2. Syphilitic i7ntis. — This is the most frequent variety. It is distinguished by the effusion of lymph on both surfaces of the iris, and in little nodules of a reddish or dirty- brown colour, which cause the pupil to become irregular. There is o-reat pain at night, and but little by day, and secondary venereal affec- tions of the throat or skin are usually present at the same time, or have preceded it. It may occur to infants who are affected with constitu- tional syphilis. * A drawing representing the nodules of lymph effused in syphilitic iritis.417 DISEASES OF THE IRIS. 3. The rheumatic iritis arises under the conditions that cause the development of rheumatism in other organs. It differs from the syphi- litic variety in the fact that there is less tendency to the deposit of lymph on the iris, and in the anterior chamber. The iris becomes dull and discoloured, without shovnng nodules of lymph, yet the pupil is more likely to become irregular and adherent; and the adhesion is, too, for the most part more general. Occasionally a little ring of fibrinous matter is deposited on the capsule of the lens, just within the circle of the adherent pupil. It is from such deposits, the accumulated effects of many attacks of inflammation, that the eye becomes destroyed. The surface of the eyeball is more inflamed, and frequently of a purplish- red colour, consequently there is not the definite zone of sclerotic red- ness that is usually so clearly defined in syphilitic iritis. The cornea, especially the posterior elastic lamina, is prone to become more or less opaque in patches, remains of which opacity may be permanent. But there is no greater characteristic of the disease than its ten- dency to return, insomuch that a person may have an attack once or twice a year, or at longer intervals, during a long life, and this, even after the pupil has been closed by plastic material. It may be well to state that a white ring around the cornea is present in all inflamma- tions of the surface of the eye in which the cornea remains clear and vascular. 4. Scrofulous iritis.—This term may be used to signify either idiopathic iritis occurring in a scrofulous habit, and generally combined with corneitis; or else a deposit of cachectic lymph on the iris, which leads to scrofulous suppuration of the eyeball, or atrophy. Treatment,—The indications are, 1, to subdue inflammation; 2, to arrest the effusion of lymph, and cause absorption of what is already effused ; 3, to preserve the pupil entire; 4, to allay pain. 1. If the patient be strong, and the disease acute, with full strong pulse, and much fever, bleeding from the arm, or cupping from the temple may be requisite. The bowels must be well cleared, the anti- phlogistic i-egimen generally be observed, without bringing the patient into a state of debility, and blisters be applied after the most acute stage has subsided. 2. To fulfil the second indication, the principal remedy is mercury ; and the ordinary plan of administering it is to give gr. i.—ii. of calo- mel with gr. I—J of opium at intervals of six or eight hours. But a most salutary change has come over the practice of suigeons in the ad- ministration of mercury, as well as in the use of bloodletting. It is now some years since, in attending a case with Mr. Walton, that the writer learned from him, with much satisfaction, the efficacy of small doses in iritis; such as two or three grains of hyd. c. creta, combined with hyoscyamus or conium, and given twice, thrice, or perhaps four times in the twenty-four hours, and the doctrine that the curative effect of mercury is almost always to be produced, short of salivation, which may well be termed one of the poisonous effects. If the remedy be thus gently administered, the dose being lessened so soon as the mouth begins D 2 E418 DISEASES OF THE IRIS, to be tender, the lymph will generally be found to break up and gradu- ally disappear, leaving the pupil clear. In debilitated or scrofulous subjects, and in tedious cases, tonics, such as bark, cod-liver oil, or iodide of potassium may be given w^ith the mercury. Turpentine in drachm doses, F. 74, has been recommended in iritis instead of mer- cury ; but its efficacy admits of doubt. 3. The pupil should be kept well dilated by means of a filtered solu- tion of one scruple of extiact of belladonna in an ounce of distilled water. But the most elegant way is to drop into the eye a solution of the sulphate of atropine (gr. i. ad. ^i. aquse distill.). Stramonium and hyoscyamus have the same effect, but in a much less degree. 4. The pain must be relieved by nightly doses of opium, and the application of poppy fomentation to the eye, and the rubbing in of the unguentum opii to the temple. In the rheumatiG iritis the secretions of the liver and bowels should first be well cleared out by calomel with warm aperients; then the hyd. c. creta in very small ,doses twice daily, with colchicum, alkalies, and purgatives, and counter-ii-ritants, are the best remedies. Pediluvia containing mustard should be used every night. The same plan of treatment will serve for the gouty iritis, if such a disease should be met with. II. Synechia Posterior, adhesion of the iwea to the capsule of the lens ; Synechia Anterior, adhesion of the iris to the cornea; and Atresia Iridis, or closure of the pupil,—three consequences of organi- zation of lymph from protracted iritis,—may be partially removed by mercury, if recent, but are irremediable, except by operation, if of long standing. But belladonna should always be applied; because if a very small portion of the pupil is by chance unadherent, it may be di- lated, so as to afford a very useful degree of vision. III. Myosis—a preternaturally-contracted pupil—is sometimes met with in persons accustomed to look at minute objects, and is attended with great obscurity of vision, especially in a feeble light, because the iris is unable to dilate. To give repose to the eyes, and attend to the health, are the only available indications of treatment: Mackenzie says that belladonna is hurtful. IV. Mydriasis signifies a preternatural dilatation of the pupil, which does not contract on exposure to light. This state, as is well known, is readily produced by belladonna and many other narcotico- acrid poisons ; it is caused also by any injury of the brain affecting the tubercula quadrigemina, as in apoplexy and compression of the brain ; and is often an attendant of confirmed amaurosis. But sometimes it seems to depend simply on a derangement of the nerves supplying the iris, without diminution of the sensibility of the retina ; and this form of it may also be attended with ptosis ; as a further evidence of paralysis of the third nerve. Sometimes it depends on gastric irritation and general debility, and is lessened as the health improves. If the retina is sound, which will be known by the perception of light, and by vision being improved by looking through a small round aperture in aDISEASES OF THE IRIS. 419 piece of blackened card, concave glasses are often of service. One case is recorded which was said to be cured by ergot of rye, in scruple doses four times a day.* Generally speaking, in uncomplicated cases, the prognosis is good if a tonic plan of treatment be adopted. Mr. R. Taylor has seen good results follow a succession of blisters to the temple or brow, and the application of stimulating vapour—as of ammonia— to the eye. He also believes that nux vomica is of service. V. Cysts filled with watery fluid, and growing from some part of the iris, may be mistaken for cysticercus, or dislocated lens ; the chief distinction being that they have a fixed attachment. A cyst may be congenital, or may grow after some injury. If allowed to remain and increase, the whole eyeball becomes disorganized. The usual treatment recommended is, to incise the cornea, draw out the cyst, and cut it off. But this is a most severe operation, and one likely to be followed by the loss of vision ; whereas Mr. Walton gives cases which show that if the cyst be punctured freely with an iris knife, it will collapse and give no further trouble. The operation may, however, require to be repeated. VI. Artificial Pupil.—By this is meant an alteration in the shape or position of the pupil, or a new aperture in the iris, effected by surgical oj)eration, for the purpose of allowing the rays of light to reach the retina. The cases in which such an operation may be expedient, are, 1, partial opacity of the cornea; 2, complete or partial closure of the pupil by lymph; 3, closure of the pupil from prolapse of the iris, or adhesion of it to the cornea, in consequence of ulceration or of wound of the cornea, which, in this case, is more or less opaque ; 4, closure of the pupil, after the crystalline lens has been extracted or absorbed. Respecting the various/or/?is of operation which have been proposed for these and for the other combinations of circum- stances that may be met with, we must content ourselves with detailing such general principles as every surgeon ought to be acquainted with; referring those who wish for fuller information to the works of Bowman, Wilde of Dublin, Mackenzie, Guthrie, Wharton Jones, Tyrrell, and Walton. Such particulars as we give are gathered chiefly from the "Operative Ophthalmic Surgery" of the last-named gentle- man. 1. There is the operation by incision {coretomia), which is especially available when the pupil is closed, after the re- moval of the lens, and when the cornea is clear, and the iris tolerably healthy in structure, so that it is capable of retract- ing and forming a I'oundish pupillary aperture, after incision. The instrument employed is the iris knife, a lancet-shaped tnife of various dimensions, according to the size of the aper- ture required. This is carried through the cornea, near its margin, across the anterior chamber, and thrust up to its shoulder into the iris. * L'Experieuce, Sept. 1839.DISEASES OF THE IRIS. 420 2. The operation of incision with extension was proposed by Mr. Walton for cases in which, owing to loss of contractility in the iris, a sufficiently large aperture could not be made by simple incision. The iris is divided by incision, and then, by means of a fine blunt hook, the outer lip of the incision is drawn outwards till a sufficient opening is made. 3. A third operation, similar in principle to the last, is effected by introducing a very fine pair of scissors, through a wound in the margin of the cornea; thrusting one blade through the iris, and making first one cut, then a second, meeting at an acute angle like the letter V. 4. The operation of excision {corectomia) consists in incising the cornea, close to the margin, drawing out the iris by a hook or forceps (if it does not protrude of itself), and cutting out a small portion of it. This is applicable to cases of opacity of the cornea, with the iris and lens healthy; or to closure of the pupil from lymph, with adhesion to the centre of the capsule, without opacity of the lens or of the rest of the capsule; for it is now established that the centre of the capsule may be opaque from lymphy deposit after iritis, and the lens and rest of the capsule remain transparent. 5. Another operation adaptable to cases of closure, complete or par- tial, of the pupil, the lens being healthy, consists in puncturing the cornea, introducing the very fine canula forceps, seizing the iris close to the pupil, and tearing away a portion of it; or else introducing a hook, seizing the edge of the pupil, and tearing a thin strip outwards. 6. The operation of separation (coredialysis), which consists in tearing away a portion of the circumference of the iris, is resorted to when there is central opacity of the cornea, with a portion of the cir- cumference clear; the pupil being also closed from prolapse or adhesion to the cornea. 7. The operation of Iriddesis, devised by Mr. Critchett.* It is thus perfoi-med : a small opening is made into the anterior chamber close to the margin of the cornea; the iris is seized with the canula forceps, near its ciliary margin, and drawn out until the pupil is sufficiently displaced, and the piece thus drawn out is secured and strangulated in a small loop of floss silk, previously slipped over the forceps, and drawn tight by an assistant. This operation is particularly applicable in cases of central opacity of the cornea. The best position for the pupil is as nearly central as possible: if it cannot be made central, it is better, according to Mr. Walton, at tlie inferior margin of the iris. But before resorting to any of these operations, it must be ascer- tained, 1st, that the adhesions of the iris cannot be removed by mercury or belladonna; or opacity of the cornea by extei-nal applications, aided by time, which, if the health be kept in good ordei-, does much towards restoring every impaired organ to its normal condition ; 2nd]y, that the retina is perfectly sound; 3rdly, that all tendency to inflamma- * Opbllialmic Hosp. Eeports, vol. i., p. 220.CATARACT. 421 tion (syphilitic or otherwise) has ceased. It is not advisable to operate if one eye be quite sound ; and supposing one eye to be irrecoverably lost, it is not advisable to form an artificial pupil in the other, pro- vided the patient find his way about with it. Moreover, the new pupil should be made large, because it will ahvays contract somewhat afterwards. SKCTION S.—INFLAMMATION OF THE CAPSULE OF THE CRYSTALLINE LENS. This is a very rare affection, and always chronic. Vision is con- fused,—objects looking as if they were seen through a fine gauze. On examining the eye with a strong lens in a good light, the pupil being well dilated with atropine, a number of minute red vessels are seen in the pupil. If the anterior capsule be affected, the vessels form a circular wreath of vascular arches with the centre clear : if it be the posterior capsule, they are central and arborescent. The iris is always slightly discoloured and sluggish. Treatment.—Local bleeding, if necessary ; mercury, counter-irrita- tion, change of air, and alteratives. SECTION XI.—CATARACT. Definition.—An opacity of the crystalline lens or of its capsule, or of both. Symptoms.—Before examining any patient with suspected cataract, the pupil should be dilated with atropine, F. 198, and then, if there be capsular cataract, there will be seen behind the pupil an opaque body of a gray dead-white; if lenticular catai-act, of a bluish-white, or amber-colour. The patient usually gives as his history, that his vision has become gradually impaired; that objects appear of irre- gular outline, or multiplied, or as if surrounded with a mist, or as if a cloud was interposed between them and the eye. If lenticular cataract alone be present, he will say that the sight is better in the evening, or in a subdued light, or when the back is turned to the win- dow ; or perhaps after the application of belladonna or atropine,— obviously because the pupil, being dilated under those circumstances, permits more light to pass through that part of the lens which is as yet transparent, or which, though opaque, is thinner, and therefore affords less obstruction to light than the centre. In the most confirmed cases, the patient is yet able to distinguish day from night. There is also the catoptric test,—that is, the mode of examining the eye by the reflection of light, which was proposed by M. Sanson. When a lighted taper is moved before the eye of a healthy person, three images of it may be observed. 1st. An erect image, that moves upwards when the candle is moved upwards, and that is produced by reflection from the surface of the cornea. 2ndly. Another erect image, produced by reflection from the anterior surface of the crystalline lens,CATARACT. 422 which also moves upwards when the candle is moved upwards; and 3rdly. A very small inverted image, that is reflected from the pos- terior surface of the crystalline lens, and that moves downwards when the candle is raised upwards. To render this most distinct, the pupil should be dilated, and the examination be made in a dark room. Now, in lenticular cataract, this inverted image is from the first rendered iu- distinct, and soon abolished; and the deep erect one is soon afterwards abolished also. In capsular cataract, from the first, only the front erect image, that, namely, produced by reflection from the cornea, is visible. But the disease must be advanced, and the observer experienced, if this test is to avail ; and the ophthalmoscope gives the earliest means of detecting opacity of the posterior part of the lens. Diagnosis will be spoken of under Amaurosis and Glaucoma. Causes.—Cataract, especially capsular, is sometimes attributable to inflammation, and may be caused in a short space of time by wounds or other injuries of the lens and capsule, or of the eye in general. But the ordinary cataract of old age seems to be a mere effect of impaired nutrition. 1. Hard Cataract,—This form is met with in elderly people only. It is caused, according to Mr. Walton, by graynessor opacity appearing in an already discoloured lens ; and the greater the coloration of the lens, the less will be the amount of grayness required to obstruct vision. After thirty, the lens naturally acquires a yellow colour, and the hue becomes deeper, till it is like a piece of amber. The amber colour, therefore, the characteristic hue of cataract in aged persons, is not the effect of disease. Sometimes the colour is as deep as that of dark ma- hogany : and Mr. Walton has brought before the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society the particulars of a case in which the cataract was so black that it could not be detected till the eye was examined with the ophthalmoscope, or the concentrated light of a powerful lens. According to Mr. R. Taylor * the change in such cataractous lenses is twofold. The nucleus becomes hard and dry, to a degree far exceed- ing what is ever seen in the healthy lens; while the superficial layers are softened, frequently to the state of a semi-fluid pulp. The nuclear lens-fibres are hard, atrophied, and brittle, and are rendered more or less opaque by fine molecular deposit, as well as by little cracks and fissures. Those of the superficies are softened, and more ov less disin- tegrated ; they, also, are dotted over with fine molecular matter, which is also found floating free in masses, and filling up, and rendering opaque, many of the superficial lens-cells. This molecular matter is probably the result of the coagulation of the albuminous blastema by which the whole of the lens textures are pervaded. The opacity generally commences in the superficial layers of the lens, for the most part in the form of streaks or radii, converging towaids the centre, or, more correctly speaking, following the course of the natural division of the lens. Less frequently it commences in the nucleus, in the form of a cloudy opacity. When the disease is of long * Pathological Transactions, vol. vii.423 CATARACT. standing, the surface of the cataract frequently assumes a uniform milk or cream-white colour. 2. Soft Cataract.—While hard cataract is seen only in persons above thirty-five years of age, soft cataract may occur at any period of life. It appears to be due to disintegration aftecting the whole substance of the lens, similar to that which affects the surface alone in hard cataract. The colour in infancy is bluish white, like milk and water ; later in life there is generally less of the blue tint. The surface frequently presents an appearance like that of fractured spermaceti; or it may be traversed by radii and streaks, which glisten like a piece of tendon. In this variety vision is generally more imperfect than in the hard kind. The iris is frequently pressed upon by soft cataract; but this may also occur in hard cataract when the surface of the lens is much degenerated. This phenomenon is probably due, in the majority of instances, to the swelling of the diseased lens from the imbibition of moisture; but in other instances, the opinion of Mr. Walton is doubtless correct, that it is tiaused by unnatural vascularity in the deep-seated textures of the eyeball. 3. Congenital Cataract must, therefore, always be soft. In this variety vision is generally more imperfect than in the hard kind. 4. Capsular Cataract.—In this variety the opacity may be general, or may commence partially. It is almost invariably of a dead or chalky whiteness, scarcely ever shining, and always showing the same opacity in whatever position it may be viewed. It is not unfre- quently the result of a slow inflammation, which may be accompanied with pain in the eye. It may be produced also by inflammation extend- ing from the iris. Opacity of the anterior portion may be seen im- mediately behind the iris. That of the posterior appears at some little distance behind the pupil, and presents a concave striated surface, of a dull-yellowish appearance. 5. Capsulo-lenticular cataract is very common,—in fact, entire opacity of the capsule is always followed by opacity of the lens. Treatment.—The cataract must be removed by operation. No other treatment is of any avail to get rid of the disease. It is, how- ever, a general rule not to operate till the cataract is mature—that is, not whilst the degree of vision is sufficient for ordinary purposes; more particularly if the patient is very old and feeble, or if one eye is already lost; because, under these circumstances, a fiulure of the operation would entail utter blindness. Therefore the patient should assist his vision by using F. 198, night and morning, so as to dilate the pupil, and defer the operation till, despite of that aid, his blindness is com- plete. Prognosis.—This will be favourable if the patient is in good health and of temperate habits ; if the iris moves freely, and if the retina seems perfectly sensible to light. On the other hand, it will be doubt- ful if there are signs of vascular disturbance in the eye; if the iris is motionless or altered in colour ; or if the cataract is complicated with amaurosis, softness of the eyeball, or glaucoma. Preparation.—Before operating, the patient should be put into asCATARACT. 424 perfect a state of health as possible. The state of the biliary, and more especially of the urinary excretion, should be examined, and purging, exercise, and low diet be enjoined, if the habit is inflammatory. But no rude lowei'ing measures, or violent purgation, or sudden change of diet should be resorted to indiscriminately; and many patients require a better diet, with tonics and wine. There are three established methods of operating for cataract;— 1, extraction; 2, displacement (or couching); and 3, solution, or the operation for causing absorption. Two new operations have lately been introduced, linear exti action, and Sc/mft's operation. These appear to be still on their trial. I. Extraction.—The object of this operation is, to make an inci- sion through half of the circumference of the cornea, almost close to the sclerotic ; to lacerate the capsule of the lens ; and then to extract the cataract entire, through the pupil. Its advantage is, that it effec- tually removes the cataract; but it is the most difficult of all the operations for cataract, and demands, for its success, much knowledge and much practice. It is best adapted for hard cataracts in elderly people. But it should not be attempted, 1st. If the patient is very feeble, in case the wound of the cornea might not unite. 2ndly. If the anterior chamber is very small and the cornea very flat, so that a sufficiently large opening cannot be made in it. 3rdly. If the iris adheres to the cornea, or if the cataract pushes it forward against the cornea, thus rendering it impossible to incise the cornea without wound- ing the iris, or if the pupil is habitually contracted. 4thly. If the eye is sunken, or if the fissure of the lids is preternaturally small. 5thly. If the eyes are very unsteady, or if the patient is subject to habitual cough or asthma, or is unmanageable in consequence of idiocy. Some practitioners direct that one eye only should be operated on at a time, the other being kept as a reserve, whilst others operate on both together. Operation.—In the precise manner of performing this, there are very many varieties. Some surgeons incise the lower, others the upper, part of the cornea; some sit before, others behind the patient; some are ambidexter, others use the right hand only. But, referring those who The instruments required are, 1, u knife having a triangular blade ; M may wish for fuller information to the various works on ophthalmology before quoted, p. 419, we shall content ourselves with describing one method of operating, which is, we believe, most generally em- ployed at the present day.CATARACT. 425 the back straight and blunt; the point sharp; the edge slanting ob- liquely; the blade increasing in thickness, as well as in breadth, as it approaches the handle. The advantages of this shape are, that it fills up the incision which it makes, and prevents the escape of the aqueous humour; and that the flap of the coinea is made by one simple motion, that is, by pushing the knife onwards. That used by Mr. Walton measures from the point to the shoulder j^th of an inch, and across the broadest part ^^th. of an inch, which gives a longer blade and a more acute angle than that shown in the drawing. But different operators use knives of different shapes. 2. A curette; an instrument with a curved needle at one end, and a small spoon at the other. Mr. Walton has devised a guarded curette, in which the hook is concealed till protruded by a spring. 3. A se- condary knife to enlarge the incision in the cornea if required. 4. A sharp jfiook. The patient may be either sitting, or lying on his back with the head properly supported, and in a good light. The operator, behind him, uses his right hand for the right, and his left for the left eye. An assistant draws down the lower lid, and steadies it against the malar bone, without pressing on the globe. The operator, with the forefinger of the non-operating hand, raises the upper lid and locks it under the edge of the orbit, just resting the point of this forefinger against the upper surface of the globe, and that of the middle finger against its inner surface, so as to steady it. Then holding the knife lightly with the thumb and first two fingers of the other hand, and resting his hand against the side of the face, he commences by—1. Puncturing the cornea at the centre of its outer margin, half a line, or even less, from the sclerotica, 2ndly. The blade is pushed gently across, parallel with the iris, in such a way that the point shall penetrate the other side of the cornea, exactly opposite to the first puncture; and that the edge shall cut an even semicircular flap of the upper half of the cornea. Just when the incision is completed, which should be slowly and care- fully done, the eyelids should be dropped, and all pressure be ceased. 3rdly. Having waited a few seconds, the surgeon lifts the upper lid sufficiently to expose the cornea, tells the patient to look towards his feet, so that the globe may be directed downwards; then introduces the curette, and freely lacerates the capsule of the lens. 4thly. He makes very gentle pressure on the under part of the globe, and on the upper eyelid, till the lens rises through the pupil and escapes. Lastly, the eye should be opened after a minute or two, to see that the flap of the cornea is rightly adjusted, and that the iris is not prolapsed : if it is, the eyes should be exposed to a bright light, so as to make the pupil contract, and the prolapsed portion should be gently pressed upon with the spoon of the curette. Then the operation is finished. Complications.—1. Sometimes, in consequence of the premature escape of the aqueous humour, the iris falls forwards under the edge of the knife. If the point of the knife is completely entangled in the iris, it is necessary to withdraw the instrument, heal the wound, andCATARACT. 4:26 repeat the operation afterwards. If, however, a little bit of it should get under the edge of the knife, Avhen the section is nearly complete, an attempt should be made to extricate it by pressing on the cornea just over it with the nail; but if this does not readily succeed, the operator may push on boldly, since, if a little piece of it be cut, it will be of no great consequence. 2, If the opening of the cornea is not large enough, it must be enlarged with the secondary knife. 3. If a portion of the lens remain behind, it should be left to be absorbed—unless it has passed into the anterior chamber, and can be removed very easily indeed. 4. If the vitreous humour seem disposed to escape, the cataract should be hooked out with the hook. After Treatment.—The patient should be put to bed, with the shoulders raised, the room darkened, and with a very soft dry linen rag over both eyes. The bowels should be kept open, and everything be avoided which is likely to provoke coughing, sneezing, or vomiting. Mr. Walton allows the usual diet, at the usual times, only in rather diminished quantity ; and this plan seems preferable to that of keeping the patient exclusively on slops. If all goes on comfortably, the eyelid may be raised on the seventh day, and then if there be no prolapse of the iris, and the cornea be united, he may get up occasionally, wearing a shade, sitting in a darkened room, and walking about a little. After a fortnight the eye may be opened in a weak light, and be gradually brought into use. But, inasmuch as it remains weak and irritable, the patient must take the greatest care to avoid exposure to cold, excess in diet, over-exertion of the eye, or exposure of it to too strong a light. Gray spectacles are the best protectors against too glaring a light. The patient will require convex spectacles for exact vision, but they must be used very sparingly for some weeks. He should have two pairs, one with a short focus for near objects, and another of long focus for distant objects. The inflammation which may come on after the operation may be of two kinds. If the eyelids are swollen, and florid, and tender, and there is a thick yellow secretion about the lids, and the conjunctiva is red, swollen, and chemosed, the inflammation is acute, and requires to be treated by bleeding and purging. But if, as Mr. Tyrrell shows, the palpebrse are not much discoloured, and are cedematous, and if the secretion is tliin and light-coloured, and the conjunctiva cedematous, the patient will be benefited by good broth, carbonate of ammonia, and opium. II. Displacement, or Couching.—The object of this operation is to remove the cataract from the axis of vision. It is a clumsy and violent operation, and adapted only to those cases of hard cataract, of which the exti-action would be unadvisable, for reasons mentioned in a preceding page. The disadvantages of it are, that the pressure of the lens on the ciliary processes and retina is liable to be followed by pro- tracted inflammation or amaurosis ; and that the lens may rise again to its old place, and obstruct vision as before. The preparation of the patient, his position during the operation, as well as that of the427 CATAKACT. surgeon, and the duties of the assistant, are the same as required for the operation of extraction. The pupil should be dilated with atropine. Operation.—A curved needle is passed through the outer side of the sclerotic, the ^th part of an inch behind the margin of the cornea, and in the transverse axis of the globe. It is carried into the vitreous humour, the posterior capsule of the lens lacerated, then upwards and forwards behind the iris, and in front of the cataract; which then is steadily and gently pressed upon till it is carried downwards out of sight. It should be held down for a few moments to fix it, and if it rise again, it must be again depressed for a short time. Then the needle is with- drawn. III. The Operation for producing Absorption is very easily performed, and excites veiy little inflammation ; but it requires to be repeated several times, and the cure occupies several weeks or months. It is well adapted for soft cataracts, especially the congenital, but does not answer with the hard cataracts of old people. The instruments employed are needles, straight or curved; which are now made of great delicacy, strength, and sharpness. The pupil must be freely dilated. Operations.—1. The needle may be introduced behind the iris in the same manner as for depression. 2. Or the needle may be introduced through the cornea, an opera- tion now styled the anterior operation ; formerly keratonyxis. It is safer, simpler, less painful, and less injurious to the eye than the first mentioned: inasmuch as a wound of the cornea alone is less serious than one irapUcating vitreous humour, sclerotic, conjunctiva, and per- haps retina or ciliary processes. The needle is passed through the cornea close to its margin, and is made to lacerate the capsule to the extent of the pupil, so as to admit the aqueous humour to the substance of the lens; but without displacing or cutting it into fragments, or, in fact, attempting to do too much. This operation is liable to be followed by severe pain and vomiting, if the cataract be so fluid that it mixes readily with the aqueous humour: in this case tJie contents of the anterior chamber should be evacuated, as recom- mended by Mr. Dixon ; or portions of the cataract may press on the iris; in the latter case, the irritation may be so sevei'e as to render it necessary to perform extraction. The operation may require to be repeated after two or three months. 3. There is a third modification of this operation, which Mr. Tyrrell termed drilling. It is particularly adapted for cases of capsular or cap- sulo-lenticular cataract with adhesion of the pupil, caused by iritis. It is performed by introducing a fine straight needle through the cornea near its margin, and passing it through the pupil into the lens to the depth of about one-sixteenth of an inch, and rotating it freely. This operation may be repeated at intervals of four, five, or more weeks. It causes the lens to be dissolved by the aqueous humour; and if the puncture be made in a fresh place at each operation, that portion of the capsule which is behind the pupil may become loosened and detached.428 CATARACT. This operation may also, according to Mr. Tyrrell, be occasionally re- sorted to, in order to diminish the size of the lens, previously to depres- sion or extraction. IV. Linear Extraction consists in removing the lens through a small opening in the cornea. It was originally introduced by Mr. Gibson of Manchester; but had long fallen into disuse, when it was again brought forward by Mr. Bowman in this country, and by Pro- fessor von Grsefe in Germany. A small opening is made at a little distance from the margin of the cornea, the capsule is freely lacerated, and the fragments of the lens are removed by the curette. As the use of the curette is liable to excite inflammation of the iris, Professor von Grasfe commences his operation by removing a small portion of it {iri- dectomy), so as to facilitate the removal of the nucleus. V. Schuft's operation is essentially the same as that of Professor Grsefe, but he has introduced several modifications, especially the use of a new form of scoop, by which he maintains that the operation, which was formerly considered as applicable only in soft cataracts, may be employed with advantage even in the hardest lenses. The removal of a portion of the iris, and the risk of bad consequences from the free use of the scoop, constitute serious objections to these operations in the minds of some surgeons. Operation on Infants.—Congenital cataracts should be operated on early—within four months, if possible, lest the eye, which, when born blind, habitually oscillates from side to side, may never acquire the power of being directed to one particular object. The pupil being well dilated, the child, narcotized by chloroform to insure quietness, should be placed on a table—the head on a pillow, and rather hanging over it—one assistant holding the legs and trunk, a second the arms and chest, a third, fixing the head between his two hands, and a fourth, depressing the loicer eyelid with one hand, and steadying the chin with the other. The operator then, seated behind the patient, performs the operation for absorption as before described. Care must be taken not to dislocate the lens. The operation on children, and, in fact, on per- sons under twenty, generally excites so little inflammation, that both eyes may be operated on at once, but the bowels must be kept open, and leeches should be applied if there be pain. Capsular Cataract.—When congenital cataract of the capsulo- lenticular sort is left to itself, the lens often becomes absorbed, and the capsule, which is mostly tough or opaque, remains in the field of vision ; and it sometimes happens that an opaque capsule is left, or that it be- comes opaque after one of the operations for cataract. There are three plans of treatment. 1. One needle, or better, still, two, as recom- mended by Mr. Bowman,* may be introduced, as for depression; and then may be made to tear through the opaque capsule, which then may shrink and leave the pupil clear. 2. The upper part of the capsule, for four-fifths of its circumference, may be detached by the needle from the suspensory ligament, and then be pushed down below the * Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xxxvi.GLAUCOMA. 429 pupi], 3. If no other plan succeed, an opening may be made in the cornea, through which it may be extracted by means of a small hook or forceps. Mr. Middlemoie has proposed a plan for removing such bodies through the sclerotic. There is great uncertainty of clearing the pupil of capsule by any other mode but extracting it, yet so dangerous has that operation been deemed, from the escape of the vitreous humour, which is almost sure to occur when previous operations have been done within the eye, that the extraction is seldom attempted. To meet this difficulty, Mr. Haynes Walton has introduced into practice a peculiar sort of forceps for the removal of the capsule. The instrument is no larger than a needle, so that the opening in the cornea need not be larger than neces- sary to allow of the exit of the strip of capsule to be removed, and all the objections to extraction are overcome. SECTION XII.—GLAUCOMA. Glaucoma, as it is now understood, means a disease which gradually involves every tissue of the eyeball, and, if it cannot be arrested, ter- minates in disorganization and total blindness. It occurs in an acute and a chronic form, and its victims are generally elderly people, of feeble and broken-down constitution. Acute Glaticoma comes on suddenly, v.'ith violent neuralgic pain in the eye, and throughout the ophthalmic branches of the fifth nerve. There is rapid loss of A'ision. Perception of light may be gone in a few days, or even in a few hours. The cornea is dull and steamy ; the iris, dull and slate-coloured, is bulged forward by posterior pressure against the cornea; the pupil is dilated and fixed ; the sclerotic discoloured and dusky, and traversed by large tortuous veins, purplish, or of a dull-red colour; the eyeball is of stony hardness. The extremely violent cases, in which vision is lost in a few hours, are separated into a class by Professor von Gifefe, as Glaucoma fulminans. It is very important to recollect that the outburst of acute glaucoma is generally preceded during a period of varying duration by premoni- tory symptoms: these are, rapidly increasing presbyopia, piismatic rings round the flame of a lamp or candle, slowly progressive contrac- tion of the field of vision, dull, aching pain ; increased tension, &c. To the last symptom very great importance is attached by Mr. Bowman.* Chronic Glaucoma.—In chronic glaucoma the disease proceeds slowly and insidiously. Pain, if present, is only occasional; the cornea be- comes very much flattened, and in a great measure loses its sensibility. If the eye be examined with the ophthalmoscope while the lens and humours are still clear, there will be found excavation of the optic disc, probably pulsation of the central artery, and sometimes small dotted hemorrhage in the retina. There is stony hardness of the eyeball; sooner or later the lens becomes opaque, and all the tissues more or less disorganized. * Brit. Medical Journal, Oct. 1862.GLAUCOMA. 430 Pathology.—The pathology of glaucoma has been carefully inves- tigated by Professor von Grsefeand by Mr. Hulk, who arrive at nearly similar conclusions. Professor von Graefe says: "1 consider acute glaucoma to be a choroiditis (or irido-choroiditis), with diffuse imbibi- tion of the vitreous body (and aqueous humour), and in which increase of the intraocular pressure, compression of the retina, and the well- known series of secondary symptoms, are produced by the increased volume of the vitreous humour." Treatment.—Until within the last few years, chronic glaucoma was considered as beyond the reach of treatment; abstinence from ex- ertion of the eye, and attention to the general health were recommended as palliatives. In acute glaucoma, leeches, cupping, mercury, opium, &c. relieved the pain and sometimes cut short the paroxysm ; but the result was always the same : each attack left the vision more impaired, and sooner or later it was totally lost. In 1857 Professor von Grsefe described a new operation which he termed Iridectomy, and by which he maintained that the abnormal tension of the-eyeball is completely and permanently removed, and the disease arrested and cured. Since its introduction this operation has been extensively tried in this country and abroad, and has excited much discussion. As it consists merely in removing, after a peculiar fashion, a small portion of the iris, its modus operandi is not evident; hence it is still strongly opposed by some eminent surgeons. The extensive experience of others, however, has led them to be satisfied with the results, even though they could not fully explain how they were arrived at; and it certainly seems that even a more formidable operation would be justifiable in such an intractable and destructive disease. It is now established, in the opinion of the great majority of surgeons, that iridectomy is advisable under the fol- lowing circumstances:—■ In the Premonitory Stage, when the intermissions are no longer complete, when the exacerbations are frequent, the tension permanently raised, the field of vision contracting. In such cases, if the operation be performed befoi e structural changes have taken place, complete success may be expected. In Acute Glaucoma, when there is a fair quantitative perception of light. The sooner the operation is performed the better, as in severe cases, destructive changes take place with great rapidity. When per- formed early, under favourable circumstances, permanent recovery may be expected; when delayed, the prognosis varies according to the ex- tent to which degeneration has taken place. In Chronic Glaucoma patients seldom apply until considerable dege- neration of tissue has taken place. This, iridectomy does not profess to remedy ; but, according to the condition of the eye, we may expect im- provement to a variable amount, and, at all events, arrest of the disease, with retention of what sight remains. Those who wish to study this very important subject more fully will find a translation of Von Grgefe's papers in the Sydenham Society's volume for 1859; Mr. Hulke's paper in the Med. ChirurgicalTrans-THE OPHTHALMOSCOPE. 431 actions, vol. xliii.; and many papers in the medical jom'nals. A lively controversy, in which everything that can be said for and against the operation, will be found in the British Medical Journal, from Sept. 26th, 1863, to June 11th, 1864; and a very able and temperate resume of the whole subject in four lectures by Mr. Soelberg Wells, on " Glaucoma and its cure by Iridectomy." Method of performing Iridectomy.—The patient having been chloro- formed, the eyelids fixed with the spring speculum, and the eye steadied by seizing the conjunctiva with a pair of forceps, an opening is made into the anterior chamber by means of a lance-shaped iridectomy knife, which should be entered about half a line from the junction ot the cornea with the sclerotic, great care being taken not to wound the lens. If the anterior chamber be very small from great bulging for- ward of the lens, it will be safer to use a narrow extraction-knife in the usual way. The aqueous humour should be evacuated very slowly, and the iris seized by a pair of fine forceps and carefully divided by the scissors dose to the ciliar;/ margin, from one-fourth to one-sixth being removed. The new pupil may be made in any direction ; but for many reasons the upward one, though slightly more difficult of performance, is the best. SECTION XIII.—THE OPHTHALMOSCOPE. I. This instrument is to the eye what the stethoscope is to the chest. It has already rendered obsolete nearly all that had been written on the deep-seated diseases of the eye ; for it has been the means of detecting changes unaccompanied with any objective symptoms, and not known till quite lately to exist. Its use is quite indispensable in all cases of impaired vision, not attended with extreme intolerance of light. Very seldom indeed does a patient complain, from the use of the instrument, except in cases in which such a result might fairly be expected, and might be avoided by ordinary caution. II. The ophthalmoscope, in its simplest form, is a concave circular mirror of about ten inches focus, made of silvered glass or polished steel, and having a hole in the centre. As an appendage there is needed a convex lens an inch and a half in diameter, with a focus of from two and a half to three inches, set in a common eye-glass frame with a handle three inches long. The investis:ation must be made in a dark room. The patient's pupil should be dilated as a rule. The light of a candle is hardly sufficient, certainly not for beginners. An oil lamp is better, but by far the best is an argand burner that slides on a vertical rod. The patient sits by a table, and the lamp is placed by his side close to his head, with the flame on a level with the eye, from which it is screened by a little flat plate of metal attached to the burner. The operator sits directly in front; and, holding the instrument close to his eye, and a little obliquely to catch the light from the lamp, he com- mences at the distance of about eighteen inches from the patient, toTHE OPHTHALMOSCOPE. 432 direct the reflection on the eye When this is got the convex lens must be held at the distance of two and a half inches f om the eye and the focusing commenced, by moving them slowly backwards and forwards. When the light fairly enters the eye a reddish glare appears, and as it is focused, an orange-red or orange-yellow is seen ; then the blood-vessels of the retina come into view. '1 he retina itself presents a whitish aspect, through which the choroid is more or less discernible. ?he entrance o'f the optic nerve should now be sought ; P-^aWy a par of it will already have been seen as a whitish spot: but the way to discern it properly is to make the patient look inwards. It appears as a wS ci?cuL spot, in the centre of which are the central vein and Trtery of the retina, giving forth a variable number of branches, usually ''VheTonvex lens is not usually needed for examining neai^sighted eyes, nor, in general, for the anterior structures of the eye. The an- nexed sketch (fig. 1) illustrates the above description, and accurately shows the proper position of the lamp, the direction of the patient, and the slightly-raised position of the observer. III. But what is the principle of the ophthalmoscope; why is a re- flector needed ; why cannot the eye be illuminated with the very lampTHE OPHTHALMOSCOPE. 430 2 F from which the light is boiTowed ? When a streim of • .u into the eye, the rays are reflected back by h™.,lat d cho'°T a^d, returning as they enter, are brought to I conve ^»ee the™ t illumination, sim'ply because fla™ i^ ftefo^n oSertL"' our eye cannot be there too, nor can it see through th 1™ '^ moscope is requisite. ' "^"^ ophthal- ""'■^ «° c;Jtb'r^tti;' o7Z It is not uncommon in eyeballs that are diseased to see the mil.nf.nn London 0,AthaIn,ic Ho;pto Tith pu£ .tS'"" the sight is unimpaired. P"l«at,ng letinal vessels, although The C/ioroid must be focused to be examined Ti,„ ■ lighter and less distinct shade KsVok%f,ts'i:?"-°"' °' ^ jprd hV™ss::X'vSi^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ h^^Uhf ^ ^'^'^ '^^'P^'-^"^- - not incompatible wTh patient to look dix'ectly fo'^i Fi^ouen v t^^-^^ ^'^"^"^^ structure to be made out \^Tlh. V ^ particular the absence of t]"ttinal ve'Ll ,?f ^"'""^'""'^ recognised bv 0.^. the seat oftUag^m^S^^^^^^^^^^^THE OPHTHALMOSCOPE. 434 tnore or less detrimental to perfect vision. It should therefore be care- fully examined. Fig. 2. The Vitreous Humour, the aqueous, the lens, and its capsule and the cornerar airparts vkich in the healthy state of the eye are t ans- pareni, and admit of a clear definition and observation of the whole of {he posterior part of the interior of the eyeball. _ V Morbid APPEARANCES.-Such is a description of the parts seen by the ophthalmoscope in the healthy state We -w propose, f^^^^^^^ guidance of the student, to give an outline of the ^^^'^'^^^Wf/^^^^^^ L observed, premising that a thorough knowledge ^1^^ "s^o^ f ^« strument can only be acquired by most careful practical study. X On^^olcisthefirst point to which attention should be directed in in^:na?e"amination ^f the eyeball. The f-ges in the d^^^^^^ iteelf are so frequently connected with changes in the parts around its chcumfL^^^^^ tlat during its examination, the state ot these circum- ferential parts must be carefully noted. Hmerlmia of the Disc is of very frequent occurrence ; the retinal vesTelfmav be enlarc^eJ and dilated, and the veins varicose ; in addition Twh ch^the su "ace^^of the disc may be seen finely injected, instead ot sLwing itrwhite normal appearance. This injection may proceed to * TO those interested by the opl^tha^o^naeS Tr Sthologie des Auges. folio, Vienna ; reference :-Ldward Ja/ff,^'/?^"T'^„„i5.iieiten des Menschlichen Auges, folio, Euete's Bildliche l^^^^^^JS/Ss Ye^ iii., 1858 ; the Ophthalniic Hos-435 THE OPHTHALMOSCOPE. such an extent as almost to hide the disc (fig. 3). Hyperasmia of the disc is common in those cases of impaired vision from overwork, which Fig. 3. are met with in the case of engravers, compositors, sempstresses, &c. Blood may be effused on the surface of the disc, constituting what has been called apoplexy of the papilla. Black pigmental deposits are occasionally seen on its surface, and frequently at its edge. The disc may present a cupped appearance, as in glaucoma, where it is said to be indicative of intra-ocular pressure; or an elevated appearance of its centre. The form of the vessels entering and leaving the centre, and the nature of the shadow, as shown by varying the light, will be the best means of ascertaining in these cases which state is present. Atrophy of the Disc is far from uncommon ; it is often congenital; it is sometimes found in a squinting eye, and is often associated with excessive myopia. In cases of atrophy of the disc, the retina generally preserves its normal condition and vascularity. The optic disc does not always preserve its circular form; it is occasionally jagged in its out- line, and pigmentary deposits are of frequent occurrence at its edge. From the choroidal degeneration which is often seen around its circum- ference, and from the white shining appearance of the sclerotic through the retina, the edge of the disc may be but indistinctly defined, and the crescentic patches of sclerotic may be confounded with the outline of the disc by the beginner; but to the practised eye the outline may always be distinguished. The Retina.—Its transparency should be unimpaired, and its vascu- larity not greatly different from that of the healthy state. If the disc be hyperemic, it will naturally partake of the extra vascularity, but not always ; for the disc may be injected with small vessels, while the re-436 THE OPHTHALMOSCOPE. tinal vessels are natural. Its vessels are subject to varicosities ; and a certain indistinctness of outline is frequently observable in its over- loaded veins. The arteries often show plastic exudations in their course, which have evidently been deposits during an inflammatory stage (Hg. 4). Extravasations of blood are occasionally seen from the rup- ig. ture of one or more of the vessels (fig. 5) ; the gradual absorption of Fig. 5. which may be watched. Serous effusions between the retina and cho-437 THE OPHTHALMOSCOPE. roid are attended always with more or less danger to sight, according to the locality and amount of the effused fluid. The retina may be seen, floating as it were, or lying in folds over the pait, the bright-red cho- roid of course being hidden from sight. As the effusion is over or near the macula lutea, so is a more unfavourable pi ognosis to be feared. The retina is often anemic and even atrophied. M. Desmarres describes an affection which he calls oedema of the retina. It is doubtless afl'ected in secondary syphilis. The Choroid, as may be anticipated from the vascularity of its struc- ture, is most importantly involved in chronic changes in the deep-seated structures of the eye; and although we are by no means disposed to draw any strict line between the inflammation of the different tunics of the eye, as existing independently of each other; yet this structure shows changes so marked that the effects of choroiditis may be safely classed under one head. The principal affections of the choroid aie hypersemia; when, instead of its usual somewhat orange-red colour, it becomes of a bright scarlet, the vessels are enlarged, and the pigmental striations are more or less indistinguishable. The absorption of the pigment from some parts causing white patches, and its redeposition in others forming the black deposits so often met with, are signs of the atrophy and disorganization of this important structure. These black deposits may take place at any part of the fundus, but they are most frequently met with around the edge of the optic disc. They are always situate between the choroid and retina. Atrophy of the choroid when occupying the situation of the macula lutea, is always attended with considerable impairment and confusion of vision, and is of course iri-emediable. Plastic exudations from its surface, pushing the retina forwards, are sometimes seen. The appear- ance of an eye which has been the subject of chronic choroiditis is most striking. The black, white, yellowish, and red variations of colour have been described by Desmarres as the Choroide tigree. Effusions of blood from the surface of the choroid may take place, and probably many of the deposits on.its surface have had this origin. Colloid degeneration has been described by Donders.* An affection often met with in short-sighted pei sons, and involving both the choroid and sclerotic, must be noticed. The sclerotic is thinned at the posterior part of the eyeball, and bulges backward into a conical shape, carrying the choroid with it, and thus altering the antero-posterior diameter of the eye. It has been denominated sclero-choroiditis posterior. It generally takes place near the optic disc, and appears as a semi-lunar white patch, which more or less com- pletely surrounds the optic disc. That the letina is perfect over this white patch is evident from the retinal vessels being continued over it in their normal size and distribution. The Macula Lutea may be the seat of morbid deposits, haemor- rhages, and plastic exudations. Small vessels sometimes enter about * Archiv. fiir Ophthalmologie, 1855-6,DISEASES OF THE CHOROID. 438 these pnits abnormally. All alterations from the healthy state in these structures are more or less detrimental to vision. The vitreous humour is often the seat of hsemori hage. Floating par- ticles may exist in its substance, which is generally more fluid than in its normal state, or a greater or less degree of turbidity may interfere with its transparency, and envelope in a fog the pails posterior to it. Cholesterine scales may be seen floating about in it, and the cysticercus is occasionally seen iu its substance. The vitreous humour should be thoroughly examined both with and without the lens. Floating par- otides and alterations in its anterior portion are best seen with the mirror alone. The use of the ophthalmoscope in diagnosing cataract in its incipient stage must be very evident. It is necessary that the pupil should be fully dilated with atropine. The frequency with which cataract com- mences in striae at the edge of the lens, makes it impossible to state with any precision the condition of the whole structure with an undilated pupil. The stria;, which were undiscernible before the introduction of this instrument, are recognised with the greatest facility, appearing as black markings on the red field of the choi'oid. By fully dilating the pupil, also, we are able to examine well the capsule of the lens, which is often rendered spotted by deposits of uvea from the surface of the iris, and thus gives rise to muscce and indistinctness of vision. SECTION XIV.—DISEASES OF THE CHOROID ; ASTHENOPIA ; SYNCHYSIS ; AND HYDROPHTHALMIA. I. Inflammation of the Choroid, or Choroiditis, is not a common disease ; Dr. Mackenzie has generally met with it in strumous females. Symptoms.—It commences with more or less intolerance of light, and dimness of vision, together with pain in the eye, eyebrow, and fore- head, and lachrymation. The conjunctiva is not uniformly red, but one or more enlarged vessels are seen to proceed from the back of the eye, and to terminate in a vascular zone partially surrounding the cornea. The pupil is often displaced, and brought towards the affected side of the choroid. If it proceed, the sclerotic becomes thin and blue, showing the choroid through it—(staphyloma scleroticce), and finally the cornea may become opaque, and the whole globe very much en- larged and protruding from the socket. The digestive organs are generally much deranged from the fiist, and hectic and emaciation come on when the eye becomes much distended and painful. See ophthalmoscopic appearances of diseased choroid, page 437. Treatment.—If an acute case of the sort should occur in a strong constitution, local bleeding, purgatives, blisters to the nape of the neck, and warm or vapour baths, and mercury, may be necessary. But in cases of debility, great caution must be used in regard to depleting measures and mercury ; and together with the latter some tonic should always be given. Counter-irritation is always of service. When theDISEASES OF THE CHOROID. 439 sclerotic becomes much distended, it may be punctured with a needle —the instrument being introduced for one-eighth of an inch towards the centre of the eye, so as not to wound the lens; this will cause' temporary rehef. II. Weakness of Sight, or Asthenopia: Musc^ Volitantes. —Persons of delicate constitutions and sedentary habits, especially if they are in the habit of writing much, or otherwise exerting their eyes on minute objects, are liable to suffer from dimness of sight; un- easiness on exposure to a strong light; and the vision of floating black specks or streaks, which, from their resemblance to flies, have acquired the name of muscce volitantes. In one form of the affection the patient is unable to continue for any length of time to look at minute or near objects; partly on account of the confusion and obscurity which over- spread them, and partly from a sense of fatigue in the eyes. A short interval of repose is sufficient to recruit the eyes, so that the power of vision returns. The disease is apt to increase unless the particular em- ployment that seems to produce it be abandoned, but it never ends in total destruction of sight, and must not be confounded with amaurosis. It is often improperly called Choroiditis. These symptoms evidently depend on weakness of organization, either original or pi'oduced by over- exertion ; and the principal measures to be adopted are tonics, aperients, shower-bathing, and change of air, with perfect rest of the eyes, which afterwards should not be used too long at a time. It is almost al- ways associated with hyperemia of the optic disc; see page 437. Weakness of sight, with intolerance of light, is very commonly an ac- companiment of short sight; it may always be recognised by an uneasy bashful look about the patient's eyes, the lids of which are half-closed, and perpetually winking, and the brow contracted. Dr. Mackenzie has shown that the appearance of muscse is caused either by globules of mucus on the surface of the cornea, or by minute particles floating within the eyeball.* This is confirmed by the ophthalmoscope, although in all cases the floating particles cannot be seen. The surgeon should take care not to mistake the effects of mere fatigue of the eyes, such as aching, increased vascularity, intolerance of light, and muscae, for inflammation; and not to treat such symptoms indiscriminately by depletion. III. Synchysis' (often attended with shrinking of the eyeball) is an unnatural fluidity of the vitreous humour, apparently from the breaking up and absorption of its containing tissue; it may or may not be also discoloui-ed. The eye feels soft and flaccid, the iris is peculiarly tremulous, shaking backwards and forwards like a rag in a bottle of water, the retina becomes insensible, and the lens opaque. This affec- tion is sometimes the result of wounds or concussions, and sometimes comes on without obvious cause. It is supposed to depend on slow in- flammation. It is irremediable. It sometimes follows operations for cataract in which the needle has been too freely used. But although * Mackenzie, Edin. Med. and Surg. Joum., No. 164.440 EETINITIS. there is this great change of structure, vision may still be wonderfully perfect. For the ophthalmoscopic changes see page 438 IV. Dropsy of the vitreous humour, or Hydrophthalmia, proba- bly depends on slow inflammation of the inner tissues of the eyes, gene- rally the result of injury. It causes enlargement of the globe, with loss of sight. In some cases there is constant excruciating pain, only to be relieved by puncturing the sclerotic with a needle. In others, there is no pain; the disease advances a certain length, and then becomes stationary; and the only thing complained of, besides the loss of vision, is the deformity. SECTION XV.—RETINITIS. The Retina must of necessity be more or less involved in any in- flammatory process which alfects the deeper structures of the eyeball; but sometimes it appears to be the original or sole seat of inflammation. That inflammation may be confined to the retina, without affecting the other textures of the globe, is rendered probable by the distribution of the arteria centralis retinae, and its very slight vascular connexion with any other tissue.* Autliors describe three forms; the acute, subacute, and chronic. 1. In the acute form the symptoms are—severe, deep- seated, and throbbing pain in the eye, extending to the temples and head; vision rapidly impaired, or even altogether lost; frequent sensa- tions of flashes of light, with great fever and delirium. The pupil gradually closes, the iris loses its brilliancy, and the sclerotic is highly vascular and rose-red. If unrelieved, the whole globe may suppu- rate. 2. Subacute.—Dimness of sight, headache or giddiness, flushed countenance and fever; the pupil soon becoming motionless, and the iris turbid. 3. Chronic.—Gradually-increasing dimness of sight; visions of black spots or flashes of light; irritability of the eye and intolerance of light; tenderness of the eyeball, and of the parts around ; but the patient, though he may shade the eye, does not always shut it. These affections are distinguished by the circumstance that dimness of sight and intolerance of light occur before redness or any external sign of in- flammation. But the practitioner must carefully discern between these symptoms and the intolerance of light, or photophobia, which occurs in Strumous Ophthalmia, as the treatment for the two complaints should be diametrically opposite. The age of the patient, and the fact that in Strumous Ophthalmia the sufferer has periods of remission, and can usually open the eyes towards evening, will sufficiently mark the dif- ference ; besides, in acute Retinitis, there is deep-seated pain felt at all times, while in Strumous Ophthalmia the pain is very little felt, so long as lio'ht is completely excluded. See retinal changes, page 435. Causes.—Exposure to vivid light, flashes of lightning, strong fires, the reflection of the sun from snow, and the like; or habitual exertion of the eye on minute objects, together with neglect of exercise, confine- ment of the bowels, and over-indulgence in food and spirituous liquors, or else with debility, and want of nourishment. * Taylor, Med. Times and Gaz., June 5th, 1852.441 AMAUROSIS. Prognosis.—Tf, in the acute or subacute form, vision is not much impaired, nor the iris altered, nor the pupil much contracted, the pro- gnosis may be favourable. Treatment.—For the acute, local bleeding, purgatives, mercury ad- ministered so as gently to affect the mouth; for the chronic form, a gentle course of mercury, and the antiphlogistic treatment generally, according to the urgency of the symptoms, and the strength of the patient. The eyes should not be closely covered, but the patient should be kept in a darkened apartment, observing at the same time that it is thoroughly ventilated. So soon as the symptoms abate, bark and change of air will be found of great service. SECTION XVI.—AMAUROSIS. Definition.—Imperfection of vision, depending on some change in the retina, optic nerve, or brain. Symptoms.—1. Of course the first and most prominent symptom is impairment of vision ; the mode and degree of which are, however, subject to very great variety. Sometimes the sight becomes suddenly dim, and is soon extinguished altogether; more frequently it becomes impaired by slow degrees ; and at first it is so only at intervals; after the eyes have been fatigued, for instance, or when the spirits are low, or the stomach disordered. Sometimes it commences as indistinct vision, or amblyopia; or as diplopia, objects appearing double ; or, as hemiopia, one-half only of the objects looked at being seen; or objects may appear crooked, disfigured, or discoloured ; or they may be seen covered with patches; or the affection may commence as near-sighted- ness or far-sightedness. The patient finds himself unable to estimate distances, and misses his aim when trying to snuff a candle, or pour wine into a glass. The flame of a candle generally appears split, lengthened, or broken into an iridescent halo. 2. Ocular spectra, sometimes in the form of floating black spots (musccB volitantes), sometimes as flashes of light, or as a coloured cloud or network.* 3. Sometimes incipient amaurosis is attended with great intolerance of light—sometimes, on the contrary, with a constant thirst for light, or feeling as if objects were not illuminated enough. 4. The patient walks with a peculiar uncertain gait, and his eyes have a vacant stare; the eyelids move imperfectly and seldom—the pupil is generally dilated (unless it be an incipient case attended with intolerance of light); the iris moves sluggishly, and in confirmed cases is totally motionless. But if one eye be sound, and be exposed to light during the examination, the pupillary movements may not be lost. The ophthalmoscope enables us to state with tolerable accuracy when the cause is strictly cerebral; for if with impairment or loss of sight, the eye looks perfectly healthy, we may without much doubt say that the disease is within the skull. * The student will do well to read Milton's account of his own blindness, as given in Dr. Johnson's Lives of the Poets, and in Travers's Treatise on the Eye.442 AMAUKOSIS. Whenever the state of the eye will admit it, the ophthalmoscope should be used not only for diagnosis, but to ascertain the arrest or the progress of the affection. Diagnosis.—Amaurosis may be distinguished from cataract by noticing, 1. That, in cataract, an opaque body can be seen behind the pupil, and that the impaii-ment of vision is, for the most part, in pro- portion to the extent of that opacity; whereas, in pure amaurosis, in young persons, the pupil shows its natural colour. A greenish colour of the pupil has sometimes been considered a diagnostic mark of amau- rosis. On this point, says Mr. Walton, " the paleness or light yellow- ness, that exists behind the pupil after middle life, is often thought to be symptomatic of amaurosis; it is, however, but the effect of the coloration of the lens, and is seeu with or without defective nervous power : young persons with amaurosis never exhibit this appearance. It is this coloration that produces so much difficulty in diagnosis in adults ;" and unless the symptoms be talven into account, it is often impossible, from the mere look of the pupil, to determine between the earliest stages of the two diseases. 2. That, in cataract (with the exception of the radiating variety), vision is simply clouded, and that a lighted candle appears as if enveloped in a mist; whereas, in amau- rosis, objects are seen d'^s-coloured or perverted in shape ; and that a lighted candle seems split, or lengthened, or iridescent; and that muscoB volitantes, and flashes of fire when the eyes are shut, are not present in pure cataract. 3. That, in cataract, vision is better in a dull light, whereas it is generally the reverse in amaurosis. 4. That a patient with cataract is always able to discern light from darkness, and that he looks about him, and moves his eyes, as though conscious that vision still exists, although he may be unable to discern particular objects; whereas, in confirmed amaurosis, there is the fixed vacant stare of utter darkness, and the eyeball is protruded and motionless. 5. That in pure amaurosis in young persons, befbi e the lens has begun to change colour, the three images of a candle are as distinct as in the healthy eye, which is not the case in cataract. In the aged, says Mr. Walton, the catoptric test may enable the surgeon to compare the existing degree of opacity, with the amount of imperfection of vision ; for instance, he may judge the case to be amaurotic if the degree of blindness is great, out of all proportion to the degree of opacity of the lens; but the ophthalmoscope will be found the greatest aid to diagnosis. Prognosis.—This is generally unfavourable—unless the disease depends on some palpable cause which admits of removal, and unless the remedial measures employed very soon produce good effects. Varieties.—Amaurosis has been divided into the functional and organic; the former depending on some sympathetic or other disorder which does not primarily affect the structure of the nervous apparatus of the eye—the latter on organic disease. Causes.—The usual causes of amaurosis are circumstances that overstimulate and exhaust the retina ; such as long-continued exertionAMAUROSIS. 443 of the eye on minute objects ; or exposure to glaring light, especially if combined with heat—and these exciting causes are particularly aided by intemperance, stooping, too much sleep, and any other circumstances capable of producing determination of blood to the head. -Amaurosis may also be a consequence of anaemia, and want of power; of organic change, inflammation, concussion, compression from extravasated blood, fractured bone, morbid effusions, tumours, or aneurisms—whether affecting the brain, optic nerves, or eye. Treatment.—The indications in every case are, 1. To rectify any palpable disorder—inflammation or plethora by depletion; debility by tonics; bad habits, if possible, by moral means. 2. To neutralize de- termination of blood to the eye or head by counter-irritation. 3. To stimulate and restore the excitability of the retina. For practical pur- poses it will be convenient to classify the disease under the five follow- ing heads, viz., 1. Inflammatory ; 2. Atonic ; 3. Sympathetic cases; 4. Those produced by poisons; and 5. By organic disease. Inflammatory.—If amaurosis be attended with any of the symp- toms of retinitis, iritis, or choroiditis, that have been before en umerateiJ, leeching or cupping from the temple or mastoid process may be performed at intervals. The bowels should be well cleared, the diet should be devoid of alcohol, and all employment of the affected organ, and all violent bodily exertion, should be desisted from. Mercury should be administered so as to bring the system gently under its in- fluence. (F. 64.) Counter-irritants of all sorts are beneficial; blisters, or the tartar-emetic ointment applied behind the ears or to the nape of the neck; immersion of the feet in hot water and mustard ; or an issue in the arms in chronic cases. In cases where gout is evident, colchi- cum; where rheumatism, iodide of potassium ; where scrofula, cod- liver oil and iodide of iron may be beneficial. 2. Atonic amaurosis may come on at the close of any exhausting illness, or may be pi-oduced by great loss of blood, menorrhagia, im- moderate suckling, leucorrhcea, excessive venery, or other debilitating circumstances. It has been frequently noticed after diphtheria.* It may be distinguished by its being attended with debility, pallid lips, weak pulse, dilated pupils, and an anemic state of the retina; and the patient generally sees best after a meal or a few glasses of wine, and in a strong light.f The treatment consists, first, suppressing any habitual discharge, or other source of exhaustion. Secondly, in strength- ening the system by change of air, tonics, quinine, steel and zinc, and especially by good living. At the same time the abdominal secretions should be well regulated by aperients (such as aloes and rhubarb), that act copiously, but not drastically; and the cutaneous and general cir- culation be promoted by exercise and bathing, especially the shower- * See Med. Times, 1859, vol. i., p. 659. f The nyctalopia, or night blindness, of the woodmen in Canada is an ex- ample of insensibihty to all light save that of the sun. The moment the sun sets, there is total blindness till daylight. It seems to be caused by hard work and poor monotonous diet, and to be allied to scurvy,—See Hinde's Travels in Labrador.AMAUROSIS. 444 bath. F. 9, 13, 21, 190. It is in this form, if in any, that local stimulants are applicable—such as exposing the eye to the vapour of sether or sal volatile (a teaspoonful of either beino- held in the hand) ; stimulating snuiF (F. 184), cataplasms of capsicum to the temples; friction of the forehead with cajeput or croton-oil, or with an alcoholic solution of veratria. 3. Sympathetic.—(a.) Amaurosis not unfrequently supervenes on an attack of jaundice. If there be evidence of congestion in the head, as there frequently will be, blood should be taken by cupping, whilst the abdominal disorder should be removed by appropriate measures. (b.) If there be headache, vertigo, foul tongue, and other evidence of abdominal disorder, an emetic, blue pill or hyd. c. creta, in small doses every night; and pui-gatives, till the secretions are set to rights, followed by tonics and counter-irritants, are the requisite measures. In similar cases, some foreign authors recommend the use of Schmucker's or Richter's resolvent pills, F. 185. Turpentine, or the kousso, or the oil of male fern should be given if there be signs of tape-worm. (c.) Amaurosis sometimes arises from irritation of the fifth pair of nerves. If it follows a wound on the forehead, the latter should be dilated, or if it have healed, the cicatrix should be cut out. Tumours of all sorts near the eye, and carious teeth should be removed. 4. Frorn Poisons.—Amaurosis is liable to be induced by certain * This cut exhibits atrophy of the left optic nerve and right tractus opticus consequent on amaurosis. From the Middlesex Hospital Museum. poisons, such as lead and bel- ladonna. If the amaurosis persist after the ordinary effects of the poison have been got rid of by the usual measures, the cold shower-bath, counter irritation, electricity, and iodide of potassium, are the remedies most likely to be of service. 5. Organic. — These cases are the most hopeless. If the disease has followed an injury of the head, or fit of apoplexy, or syphilis, or if there be rea- son to suspect a tumour in the brain, or in the course of the optic nerve, — a moderate course of mercury, or of iodide of potassium with alkalis and sarsaparilla, and with counter- irritants, should be tried, and sometimes may effect a cure. Amaurosis arising from a tumour within the brain will445 SHORT AND LONG SIGHT. usually accompanied by symptoms that will sufficiently point out the hopeless nature of the disease. There is an interesting case of this kind related by Mr. Browne of Belfast, in the " Dublin Journal of Medical Science," for May, 1849, in which there was increasing amau- rosis, with complete paralysis of the motores oculi nerves; after death a tumour, nearly three drachms in weight, was found in one of the crura cerebri. For other cases of amaurosis arising from organic disease, especially if there be fixed pain in the head, palsy, or epilepsy, or idiocy, the best thing that the surgeon can do will be to prevent congestion in the head by occasional depletion, and counter-irritation; to maintain the secretions of the liver and bowels; to keep up the strength by a nutritious but not stimulating diet, and to guard the patient from mental and bodily excitement. SECTION XVII.—SHORT AND LONG SIGHT. I. Short Sight, or Myopia.—In this affection parallel rays of light are brought to a focus before they reach the retina; and this may be caused either by the refracting power of the eye being too great, or its antero-posterior axis too long. It is often hereditary ; but it is apt to be brought on in youth by too close attention to study, or by con- tinued working at small objects, as in engraving, watchmaking, &c. In such cases the ciliary muscle is brought constantly into play in the adaptation of vision, and thus the curves, both of the cornea and crystalline lens, become more convex. Sclero-choroiditis posterior, by elongating the optic axis, is a not unfrequent cause. Such cases are detected by the ophthalmoscope. It is probable that in all cases of decided myopia, there is a small white crescent at the outer side of the optic disc ; but when this white spot is irregular and extensive, and when there are little irregular patches of pigment sprinkled here and there, we conclude that the myopia is due to the disease in question. Treatment.—The proper treatment for the first form of myopia is to avoid over work on minute objects, and to neutralise the defect by carefully adjusted spectacles. When it is dependent on sclero-choroiditis posterior, and the disease is progressive, very caieful treatment is necessary. The eyes ought never to be emjiloyed for long at a time ; heat and congestion about the eye may be l elieved by the use of the eye douche; when there is considerable disease of the choroid, Mr. S. Wells recommends a prolonged course of small doses of bichloride of mercury, and the use of the artificial leech.* II. Presbyopia.—In presbyopia, owing to certain changes in the interior of the eye, probably iu the lens, the patient, though he can still see distant objects distinctly, finds his vision fail for near objects. " In pure presbyopia the far point is at a normal distance from the eye, parallel rays are united upon the retina, and neither concave nor convex glasses (even after the instillation of atropine) at all improve distant vision. The eye is neither myopic nor hypermetropic. There * On Impaired Vision, p. 73.SHORT AND LONG SIGHT. 446 is, in fact, no anomaly of refraction, but only a narrowing of the range of accommodation ; the near point is removed too far from the eye, and hence the difficulty of accurately distinguishing small objects.* Far-sighted persons ought to take to the use of spectacles as soon as they find that they cannot read at the usual distance without i'atigue to the eye. Lenses should be selected which cause the type to appear bright and distinct, but not larger than natural, when held at from ten to twelve inches from the eye. III. Hypermeteopia.—In hypermetropia the refractive power of the eye is too low, or the optic axis is too short. The effect of either of these conditions is that parallel rays are not brought to a focus on the retina, but behind it. It is, in fact, the converse of myopia. This aflection was first clearly described by Grjefe, and has since received much attention from Donders. The subject is one of very great im- portance, as these authors have clearly shown that hypermetropia is one of the most common causes of that most inconvenient and intract- able affection, asthenopia, and a very common cause of convergent strabismus. Parallel rays being focused behind the retina, it follows that even for distant vision the power of accommodation must be exerted, and when the eye is employed on near objects, as in reading, writing, &c., the rays being divergent, a much greater exertion is necessary. The ciliary muscle is thus subjected to a strain which it cannot bear, and after a longer or shorter period of employment the print becomes dim, the lines run into each other, the eye feels hot and full, so that the patient feels relief from rubbing or pressing them, and in many cases there is dull frontal headache. There are few surgeons who are not aware of the intractability of this complaint under the usual mode of treatment, and of the numbers of sempstresses, engravers, pi-inters, &c., &c., who are more or less incapacitated by it from following their employment. It is, therefore, very satisfactory that the true nature of this atfection has been discovered, and that it can be simply and effectually remedied by the use of well-selected convex spectacles, by which the ciliary muscle is relieved from all unnatural strain. The frequent association of convergent strabismus with hyper- metropia is accounted for thus: Convergence of the optic axes in- creases the power of accommodation; the patient, therefore, uncon- sciously exerts the internal recti when looking at near objects, and, to avoid the inconvenience of double vision, one is contracted more than the other, so that the image, falling upon a less sensitive part of the retina, may be mentally ignored. The habit leads finally to confirmed strabismus. An excellent account of the varieties of abnormal or impaired vision which may be remedied by the use of spectacles will be found in the work of Mr. Soelberg Wells, on Impaired Vision, already referred to. * Impaired Vision, by Soelberg Wells, p. 15.SQUINTING. 447 SECTION XVIII.—SQUINTING, Squinting, or Strabismus, may be defined to be a want of paral- lelism in the position and motion of the eyeballs. The essential cause of the affection is very obscure. Probably our knowledge is best expressed by the statement that for the most part there is some weakness of sight, or some want of adjustment in the visual axis of one eye, in consequence of which it is involuntarily turned aside in order to avoid the double or distorted vision that would result from looking at objects with two eyes of different powers. The ordinary form of squint in young persons is the convergent, or that in which the eye is turned inwards; the divergent, or that in which the eye is turned outwards, is more rare, and is chiefly met with in elderly persons, for the most part from paitial paralysis of the in- ternal rectus. It occasionally happens that both eyes squint: but it must be remarked that the appearance of this is more frequent than the reality. A squinting patient may change eyes as it were: that is to sav, he habitually uses one eye only; and although he habitually uses the stronger eye, and squints with the weaker, yet, at times, and especially if excited, he will look straight with the squinting eye, and squint with the sound one. Hence, there is often some difficulty in deciding at first which eye is the really squinting one; a point that must be determined by quietly watching the patient, and finding out which eye squints habitually when at rest. Occasionally, it is true, however, both eyes converge at the same time. When one eye is dis- torted and fixed, the affection is called luscitas. Causes.—1. Squinting may be congenital. 2. It may be induced by bad habits; such as the imitation of parents, nurses, or school- fellows, if they happen to squint; or by constantly looking at spots and pimples on the nose; or it may follow affections (such as horde- olum) which render motion of the eye painful, and during which the patient turns the eye inwards and keeps it motionless. 3. It may be caused by using one eye constantly to the neglect of the other. It has been known to occur after one eye has been for a long time shaded, in consequence of an inflammatory attack; which shows the expediency of always covering both eyes when a shade is necessary. 4. If there happens to be an opacity on the cornea of one eye, and that eye is the better one, the patient will sometimes continue to use it for ordinary vision, but for that purpose is obliged to distort it so as to remove the corneal opacity from the visual axis. 5. Squinting, like almost every other conceivable consequence of defect of nervous influence, is some- times a relique of fevers and the exanthemata. 6. It may be induced by irritation or disorder of the stomach and bowels, teething, worms, constipation, and so forth; it may, moreover, be caused by fright or violent fits of passion; and in some children it aways appeal's when the health is out of order, and disappears when it is restored. Lastly, it may be caused by some disoi'der of the circulation in the brain.SQUINTING. 448 Thus, it is pretty frequently the precursor of acute hydrocephalus or convulsions in children; and when it is associated with dropping of one or both eyelids, and with unusual sleepiness, or torpor of the intel- lect, or faltering in the gait, some mischief within the head may fairly be anticipated. Treatment.—If the affection be recent, that is to say, of not more than a few weeks' duration, it may perhaps be removed or mitigated by judicious medical treatment, especially by purgatives, antacids, and tonics (F. 37), and by abstinence fiom study, and plenty of exercise in the open fields. Various devices have been proposed for strengthening and exercising the weak eye, by shutting up the sound one, wearing goggles, placing black patches on the nose, and so forth. But if the squint is of long standing and is habitual, and, above all, if there is any disparity in vision, very little, if any good can be done unless the in- ternal rectus muscle is divided. This is easily performed in the follow- ing manner:—The patient, if an adult, and manageable, sits in a low chair; if an unruly child, he should be quieted by chloroform and laid on a table. The instru- ments required are a pair of blunt-pointed scissors, a smooth slightly-curved blunt hook, and a speculum or retractor. Then the lids of the squinting eye being held apart by a spring retractor wire speculum, the surgeon, desiring the patient to look outwards, pinches up a fold of the conjunctiva with the forceps opposite the lower edge of the internal rectus, a little behind its insertion into the sclerotic. This is snipped with the point of the scissors; and next the subconjunctival cel- lular tissue is snipped through, so as to expose the glistening surface of the sclerotic. It must be remarked that this subconjunctival tissue is sometimes so thick as to be mistaken for the muscle. The aperture thus made should be quite small, only just sufficient fairly to intro- duce the blunt hook, which should next be thrust up- wards between the muscle and the sclerotic. Lastly, the tendinous insertion of the muscle, and the conjunctiva which covers it, are to be divided with the scissors. " In order," says Mr. Walton, " to secure effectually every portion of the tendinous expansion of the muscle, the hook should be passed a little below the level of the pupil in its oi-dinary state of dilatation, directed backwards to a sufficient distance, swept along the side of the globe, and its point made to project just a little above the level of the pupil." It should be the desire of the operator to cut no more of the conjunctiva than is required to insure the complete division of the muscle, and of this latter there cannot be the same certainty ex- cept the membrane be cut at the spot directed. Mr. Walton has lately brought the edges of the conjunctival wound together by one or two fine sutures passed through the very margin of the edges. The sutures do not cause the least ii-ritation. They drop out about the third orTUMOURS IN THE ORBIT. 449 fourth day. The advantages of this plan are that it prevents the dropping of the caruncle, the falling in of which to a great degree causes the vacancy sometimes so marked after the ordinary operation; that rapid union is eriected instead of the slow granulating of an open wound ; and that there rarely appear any of those fungous growths that are otherwise common. When the operation is complete, the surgeon will find that the patient can move the eye more freely than before in all other directions, but that he cannot move it directly inwards. In cases in which, after division of one of the recti, the eye has not returned to its central position. Sir W. Wilde has drawn and retained it in its pi'oper place by means of a ligature passed through the sclerotic attachment of the divided rectus, and fixed by sticking-plaster to the nose or temple, and allowed to remain two or three days. The external rectus may be divided by a similar operation, for the divergent squint; and in some instances this has been done for the relief of divergent, which has followed the cure of the convergent, squint. No operation should be attempted when the squint depends on opacity of the cornea, or on cicatrices, tumours, or other mechanical causes; and it should always be ascertained, before dividing any muscle, that its antagonist is not paralysed. SECTION XIX.—TUMOURS IN THE ORBIT, CANCER OF THE EYE, ETC. I.—Protrusion of the Eyeball.—We have already spoken of tumours in the eyelids ; of tumours on the surface of the conjunctiva ; and of tumours resulting from disease of the lachrymal gland. We have yet to allude to the fact that tumours, fatty, osseous, encysted, and solid or sarcomatous, as they were formerly called (which" have not yet been sufficiently examined), may occur within the orbit, caus- ing, as their general symptoms, protrusion, with more or less displace- ment of the eyeball, and projection at the seat of the tumoui-. The danger of tumours in this situation is twofold: destruction of the eve from continued pressure; and protrusion through the roof of the orbit into the cavity of the skull, with compression of the brain ; which should be averted by extirpation so soon as the morbid growth is of a size to threaten mischief. Sometimes it is fliir practice to puncture, or still better to lay open, an encysted tumour by a free incision. But it is not every protrusion of the eyeball that is caused bv ' tumours. For instance,—1. An excessively protruded and goggled state of the eyeball sometimes occurs in connexion with anannia, general debility, and enlargement of the thyroid gland [Graves's or Basedow's disease). See Bronchocele. 2. Suppuration, or inflam- matory effusion, may take place within the orbit. This may occur either internal or external to the ocular sheath of Bonnet and O'Fer- rall, a layer of fascia, immediately surrounding the eye, extending from the posterior margin of each palpebra to the apex of the orbit, and perforated by the ocular muscles. Effusion may take place in the D 2 G450 CANCER OF THE EYE. orbit either internal or external to this sheath. If internal to it, there will be a chemosed-like projection of the conjunctiva at its angle of reflection from the eyeball to the palpebra. If intense pain, unrelieved by treatment, with shivering, indicates the presence of pus, a puncture should be cautiously made within the palpebrse by the side of the eye- ball. II. Cancer may affect the eye or other contents of the orbit, parti- cularly during the earlier periods of life. It may occur in anv form, and affect any structure; for the common opinion that it usually first attacks the optic nerve or retina, is, according to Lebert and Paget, not well founded. The scirrhous, or hard variety, is very rare; most ocular cancers being of the soft or else of the melanotic variety. 1. Cancer within the Orbit.—Weight, perhaps pain in the orbit, and displacement of the eye, with dimness of vision, are the earliest symp- the cervical glands, and in distant organs, follow in succession. 2. Cancer vnthin the Eye.—After some amount of vascularity, and of other signs of derangement of the eye—or, perhaps, after if has been discovered (if the patient is a child) that the sight of the eye is lost— an examination is made, and a patch of metallic lustre, of a grayish, reddish, or yellowish-white colour is discovered deep in the eye, behind the crystalline lens. The iris is tarnished, and sluggish. As the tu- mour grows, and comes nearer to the cornea, it can usually be clearly distinguished as being lobulated, and covered with blood-vessels. In time, it fills the eye, and presses the iris against the surface of the cornea, the eyeball is tense and painful, and the surrounding parts very vascular. Finally, it bursts through the cornea or sclerotica; a huge fungus protrudes, and the disease arrives at a fatal termination through the stages we have just indicated. The diagnosis of intra-ocalar cancer is important, because deposits of * From a drawing of a preparation in King's College Museum, with which the author was favoured by Mr. Partridge. toms; which are followed by the protrusion of a tu- mour. Engorge- ment of the sur- rounding blood- A^essels, destruction of the eyeball, ad- hesion of the palpe- brge, protrusion of a large tumour, bleeding, slough- ing, or exuding thin offensive dis- charge, and cancer- ous deposits in the cranial cavity, in451 CANCER OF THE EYE. unhealthy or tuberculous lymph may occur in the depth of the eye, and present all the outward and visible signs of a cancerous growth. In fact, the diagnosis of such a growth is considered by the best authori- ties to be impossible, until time reveals whether the eye is to burst be- fore a protruding fungus, and the health to exhibit the decay consequent on the extension of cancer ; or whether, on the other hand, the eyeball is, 1, to remain blind but unaltered ; or, 2, to be the seat of scrofulous suppuration ; or, 3, to waste and become atrophied ; one of which three contingencies usually results when this peculiar appearance is the result of injury or of slow inflammation in a scrofulous subject. 3. Melanotic cancer is common in this situation, Lebert having found it in }^ cases: it may primarily affect the orbit, conjunctiva, or optic nerve, but, curiously enough, has not been found primarily in the iris or choroid, where it might naturally have been expected. Mela- notic cancer pursues the course of soft cancer, but perhaps more ra- pidly. Protrusion of a tumour exuding a darkish sepia-like fluid, and a great multiplicity of organs affected with secondary deposits, are leading features. There is at present considerable confusion existing in the use of the term melanosis, which is often used as if synonymous with cancer. But, as we have before observed, melanotic cancer is true soft cancer, combined and infllti ated with large quantities of black pigment. On the other hand, collections of black pigment may exist in natural and morbid structures without cancer. Patches of black pigment may be found, and may remain for years on the conjunctiva unaltered. 4. Cancer may commence on the conjunctiva in the form of small vascular tumours, which soon display the characters of soft cancer, or the dusky hue of melanosis. Scirrhus is treated of by authors, but is extremely rare. Cancer, likewise, may affect the caruncle, constituting the disease formerly called encanthis. 5. It may also affect the lids ; but here we must note the not un- frequent occurrence in aged persons of epithelioma on the lower lid; commencing as a wart, lasting an indefinite time, but, if irritated, terminating in incurable ulceration ; yet altogether different from can- cer in structure, and giving much more hope from extirpation. Secondly, of a glassy ulcer of the lupus kind. Treatment.—The treatment of cancer of the eye comprises two classes of measures: 1, the various palliatives mentioned in the Section on Cancer; 2, extirpation, which latter is also to be regarded as palliative, since, in cancer of the eye, the disease (if not already developed within the cranium) is sure to appear there or elsewhere. It seems to be the general opinion of surgeons that it is useless to extirpate soft cancer of the eyeball, especially in children ; but that, in melanotic cancers, the extirpation of the contents of the orbit affords a greater chance of prolonging life ; and that all superficial cancerous tumours of the conjunctiva should be freely extirpated as soon as possible. III. Extirpation of the Eye is required occasionally, not only for cancer but for disorganizing suppuration, and other diseases which452 CANCER OF THE EYE. may render a sightless eyeball a source of great irritation. For it must be remembered that one radically diseased eyeball is liable to induce disease in the remaining sound organ. When the eyeball alone is to be extirpated, for a non-cancerous growth. Bonnet's and O'Ferral's operation may be performed, which consists in dividing the conjunc- tiva, cutting through the insertion of the recti and obliqui muscles, drawing the eyeball ibrwards, and severing the optic nerve. Sometimes it is necessary to slit up the external commissure of the lids ; but in most cases the entii-e contents of the orbit require to be removed. During this operation, Mr. H. Walton places the patient on his side, to allow the blood to run away more easily. The first step is to slit up the external commissure of the lids, with the conjunctiva and ad- joinuig skin, to a sufficient extent. The eyelids then being held apart with retractors or spatulas, the operator takes hold of the eyeball with his fingers, or with hooked forceps, cuts through the conjunctiva above and below; cuts through the levator palpebral, dissects away the attachments of the superior and inferior oblique, and all vascular and cellular attachments to the walls of the orbit; then drawing the globe strongly inwards, cuts through the optic nerve, vessels, and muscles at the apex of the orbit, by means of a straight scalpel or pair of scissors passed along the outer wall of that cavity. Mr. Walton does not find that crooked instruments have any advantages for this last puipose over straight ones. The lachrymal gland should be taken away ; bleeding should be arrested by syringing with cold water; if troublesome, by a solution of alum on lint. The lids must then be closed, and a compress dipped in cold water be applied over the face. IV. Artificial Eyes consist of a thin scale of enamel coloured to imitate the natui-al eye. They are adapted for cases in which the globe is sightless and shrunken, after the removal of staphyloma, for instance. " Besides the removal of defoi'mity," says Mr. Walton, " the presence of the false eye may be of essential service in keeping the lids in their natui al position ; and preventing the cilia from irritating the shrunken globe; in placing the puncta in a more natural position for conveying away the tears; in acting as a defence against intruding bodies, which are apt to be retained within the lids and to produce irritation, and as a means of keeping the cavity free frona collections of lachrymal secre- tions." After staphyloma or any other disease which has rendered the eye- ball shrunken and sightless, if the patient objects to the trouble and ex- pense of an artificial eye, it may be convenient to divide the levator palpebree, in order that the lids may remain permanently closed. This maybe effected by making a transverse incision in the upper eyelid just below the orbit, and seizing the belly of the muscle as far back as pos- sible. Then a piece should be snipped out of it with scissors.* * See Tyrrell on Diseases of the Eye, 1840; Mackenzie on Diseases of the Eye, 4th edit., 1854; Dalrymple's Pathology of the Human Eye, 1852; Bowman on the Parts concerned in the Operations on the Eye, 1849 ; Dixon on J)iseascs of the Eye, 2nd edit,, 1859, and in "A System of Surgery," edited by Holmes,EXAMINATION OF THE MEATUS. 453 CHAPTER XIII. DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE EAR. SECTION I.—EXAMINATION OP THE EAR. Examination of the Meatus.—Every surgeon ought to accustom himself to examine the external passage of the ear, and to become fami- liar with its appearances, both in health and in disease. We may pre- mise that this canal is in the adult about an inch and a half long ; that its course is inwards and slightly forwards ; that it presents a slight curve with the convexity upwards, and is narrowest about its middle. It may be said to have three divisions, which differ in structure and ap- pearance. In the first or outermost part of the tube, the passage, says Sir W. Wilde, is " Ibrmed almost entirely of pure fibro-cartilage covered with its perichondrium," and lined by the same tine dermal structure that invests the auricle. "Here the skin is studded over with fine white hairs pointing inwards, and also with numerous sebaceous glands or follicles. It is here also more loosely connected to the cartilage than at any other part of the tube; and this accounts for the fact that small circumscribed abscesses occur in this part of the canal more frequently than in any other. The next portion of the tube may be called the glandular division, because in it are seated the ceruminous glands that secrete the ear-wax; this is about three-eighths of an inch long, and is the narrowest portion of the tube." Its walls have less of cartilage, and more of dense fibrous membrane in their composition, and its der- mal lining is tiner. When in a healthy state it is generally lined with wax, which forms a ring, coating this part of the meatus. The tliird and last portion of the passage is generally slightly dilated, and its walls consist of bone covered by a thin dermoid layer which also serves as a periosteum. Tliis part of the meatus, like the menibrana tympani, can only be seen satisfactorily by means of a speculum, the best of which is a silver tube of conical form, with its small end of an oval shape and slightly prolonged so as to support itself in the meatus. The best means of making this examination is either to use the direct rays of the sun, or to reflect into the speculum the light from a window, by means of a mirror: that used for the laryngoscope is very suitable. The surgeon should take the auricle with one hand and gently draw it outwards and backwards, whilst with the other he inserts the speculum as far as it will go without pain. Then by gently moving the large end of the speculum from side to side, a stream of light may be made to play on the innermost portion of the meatus, and on the membrana 1861; Operative Ophthalmic Surgery, by Haynes Walton, 2nd edit., 1861; Hulke on the Ophthalmoscope, 18151; Wells on Long, Short, and Weak Sight, 1862 ; Ophthalmic Hospital Reports, from 1857 ; The Ophthalmic Review from April, 1864.454 EXAMINATION OF THE MEATUS. tympani. If artificial light is necessary, a gas or other lamp or candle, with a reflector, answers sufficiently well. When the innermost portion of the meatus is thus examined, its lining exhibits, if healthy, a " dry, pearly-white, shining appearance;" in various chronic conditions of disease it is more or less red and vas- cular, or it may become villous or granular like the granular conjunc- tiva, and secrete pus or throw off laminjE of thickened epidermis. The membrana tympani also is seen closing the passage obliquely ; of a bright semi-transparent appearance, and slightly concave externally. It is divided into two parts by the handle of the malleus, which in its perfectly healthy state is very distinctly seen, running downwards and backwards from the "short process" above to a little below the centre of the membrane. A little behind and below the end of this bone the membrane presents a brighter spot, of triangular form, due to the re- flection of the light. In morbid conditions affecting the polish or cur- vature of the membrane, this spot presents various changes. SECTION II.—AFFECTIONS OF THE EXTERNAL EAR. I. Foreign Substances in the Ear.—Children not unfre- quently poke bits of slate pencil, peas, glass beads, &c., into the pas- sage of the ear: any such body should be removed as quickly and as gently as possible, by syringing the ear with warm water. If it cannot be thus removed, it should be allowed to remain. Probably it will after a short time spontaneously fall out, or a repetition of the syring- ing, at short intervals, may be successful. The meatus itself may in time enlarge, and permit its exit. Foreign bodies have remained in the meatus without permanent injury for years. Except in the case of soft fibrous bodies, or substances lying just at the entrance of the pas- sage, therefore, other instruments, which seldom succeed and almost invariably do harm, should not be used. In any case the surgeon should make certain, by an examination with the speculum, that there is a foreign body present, before he begins poking instruments into the ear, remembering that a late eminent hospital surgeon is said to have dragged out the stapes whilst fishing for a small nail, which was not in the ear after all. II, Accumulation op Wax, mixed with hair and cuticle, is a common cause of deafness. Syringing the ear gently with warm water is an effectual mode of dislodging it. Syringing, however, is not always to be done with impunity, for if the membrana tympani be in- flamed or dry, and the passage devoid of wax, great irritation may be induced by a jet of water, especially if it be forcibly injected. The con- dition of the membrane, therefore, ought to be previously ascei'tained by an examination with the speculum ; avoiding the too common prac- tice of using a probe without first ascertaining the cause of deafness. A little cotton should be inserted into the concha after syringing. The water used should be quite warm enough to be comfortable, and the syringe should hold one or two ounces; its piston should work easily455 CATAERHAL INFLAMMATION. and accurately, so that no air-bubbles may be squirted in; the patient should be carefully protected by towels; and the water injected should be clean, and in a separate basin ; the dirty water that has been already used should not be injected over again.* A large metal syringe is the best instrument for washing out accu- mulations of wax; a small elastic bottle is the best for applying lotions or injections ; and one of the small elastic suction-bottles with a tube, commonly known as Margetfs, is a capital thing to enable patients themselves to pass a gentle stream of warm water into the ear, as a fomentation, in any case of pain or inflammation. This is a most soothing process. Margett's syringe is also useful for douching the eye. HI. Catarrhal Inflammation of the lining membrane of the meatus. This is often excited by cold or stomach disorder, and is most frequent in children whilst cutting their teeth ; it may accompany strumous ophthalmia, porrigo, and other eruptions; or it may be a sequel of either of the exanthemata, or, in fact, of any weakening illness. The little patient is feverish and complains of earache; the meatus is swelled and vascular ; and these symptoms are soon followed by thin yellowish discharge. A purgative should be given ; during the early stage the ear should be fomented or soothed with a large bi'an poul- tice ; the discharge should be constantly washed away : and if it con- tinue after the health is restored, astringent applications must be used combined with mild counter-irritation, F. 135, 136, 140. The sur- geon should not allow the parents to believe that an habitual discharge is salutary, or that there is any fear, under proper treatment, of " driving it in upon the brain." If at any time during the treatment, an attack of acute pain and fever should come on, and the discharge should stop suddenly, leeches, pur- gatives, and fomentations must be resorted to, and all astringent appli- cations be abandoned till these acute symptoms have subsided. IV. A THICKENED state of the epidermis lining the meatus is not uncommon. The flakes of cuticle that sometimes till the meatus, with or without disciiarge, must be removed by syringing with warm water ; and then the membrane should be brushed over with a weak solution of nitrate of silver, and afterwards with dilute citrine oint- ment (F. 168) melted and applied warm with a brush. Cleanliness is of the greatest consequence, as this afiection is very apt to return if it is neglected. The epidermis often accumulates in exceedingly hard masses very difficult to remove. Warm oil or a lotion of carb. sod£B should be frequently applied, and gentle syringing repeated as often as is necessary. V. Small follicular abscesses often form within the meatus, especially in persons of weakened constitution. They are exceedingly painful, and very apt to recur. The constitutional condition should be looked to. Fomentations as hot as can be borne, and the local applica- * A simple kind of water-spout is made by Coxeter, which may be applied to the ear, and entirely prevent the patient from being wetted.POLYPUS. 456 tion of opium, s:ive the greatest relief. A small dose of morphia at night is sometimes desirable. The diluted ung. hyd. nitrat. is a valuable application. Experience does not seem to be in favour of opening them. VI. Polypus.—This term includes two sorts of morbid growths. The first consist of fleshy pedunculated growths, nearly colourless, having a thin cuticular covering, unattended with pain, not appearing as the result of inflammation, and not accompanied with discharge, and- usually attached to the middle glandular portion of the meatus. These are extremely rare. The others, which are very common, and which grow chiefly from the very bottom of the meatus, are consequences of inflammation, and are always attended with discharge. They are usually found of the size of a pea or bean, but may, of course, be much smaller, or may be so large as to project from the meatus. When small they are usually of a florid red colour. They consist of fibro- plastic cells, with more or less of perfectly-developed fibro-cellular tissue, and of almost structureless gelatinous substance. Cancer of the ear in an early stage may simulate polypus. Tt^eatment.—Polypi are generally symptomatic of other affections of the organ, especially of the deeper-seated parts, to the removal of which the surgeon's chief attention should be directed. When these affections im- prove, polypi will sometimes waste away, or become loose and fall out of the meatus. For the most part, however, they require special means for their cure. The instruments here figured are very effective in ex- tracting them ; and their return may be prevented (counter-irritation * Sir W. E. Wilde's snare for polypi; the father of the ecraseur.457 ECZEMA. being at the same time employed) by applying lunar caustic on a fine stick, or on the point of a probe to their point of origin. Equally ef- fective, and less liable to set up irritation, is the application of alum in the form of powder. The meatus should be regularly syringed with warm water or an astringent lotion. In the lever forceps, constructed by the late Mr. Avery, the forceps' blades, A, when properly inti'oduced, can be made to grasp the neck of the polypus, by the pressure of the thumb on the button, B, which pushes forward the canula, c, so as to close the blades. These, however, are better as flat rings than as solid plates. VII. Fungous Granulations are also exceed- ingly common. They generally occur at the very bottom of the meatus, or grow from the membrana tympani, or from the cavity of the tympanum after the membrane has been perforated by ulceration. Sometimes the membrane is covered with florid vas- cular granulations, so as to resemble the granular conjunctiva. The common polypus is but an exag- geration of this condition. Treatment. — The solution of nitrate of silver should be regularly applied to the diseased surface by a camel's-hair pencil, and astringent washes shoulc" be injected. With regard to all inflammatory afiections of the external meatus it should be borne in mind that they may, especially in the young, extend to the surround- ing bone, and through it, or through the veins, implicate the brain. The great safeguard is a perfectly free exit for discharge. In all cases the constitutional condition needs attention. VIII. Hypertrophy op the External Ear.—Dr. Graves men- tions a case in which the pendant lobes of the ear became thickened and elongated through a deposit of fat into their cellular tissue; the patient died of fatty degeneration of the liver. The author has seen one or two cases in which the whole external ear was excessively enlarged and thickened. Cysts also sometimes form in the lobe, and in the insane, effusions of blood take place beneath the perichondrium, IX. Eczema of the auricle is a very troublesome affection ; and if it becomes chronic, is apt to produce thickening of the lining mem- brane of the meatus, and of the membrana tympani. The treatment consists, during the acute stage, in active purgation (F. 33, &c.), and warm poppy fomentations; saline and alkaline medicines, and good diet. In the later stage, the black wash may be used as an injection, and the dilute citrine ointment be smeared over the auricle at bedtime. Bark,458 DISEASES OF THE EAR. with liquor potassas, or iodide of potassium, may be given with benefit, or cod-liver oil ; and in obstinate cases chloride of arsenic. (F. 97.) X. BONY" TUMOURS sometimes form in and almost entirely occlude the meatus. Much relief may be given by the careful removal of ac- cumulations of cerumen, &c., behind them, and by iodine locally applied. XI. Sebaceous tumours are met with in the meatus and tympanum, and are very apt to prove fatal even in early life. They contain masses of epidermoid scales surrounded by a distinct cyst, and often perforate the bone, and press upon the brain. They escape observation, inasmuch as they seem to give rise to very few symptoms. When discovered they should be laid open, the contents evacuated, and the cyst withdrawn.* SECTION III.—AFFECTIONS OF THE TYMPANUM AND INTERNAL EAR. I. Acute Inflammation of the membrana tympani is so closely connected with inflammation of the tympanal cavity, or otitis in- terna, both in its causes, symptoms, and consequences, that we may treat of them together. The usual causes are cold, especially exposure to currents of cold air ; or sea-bathing ; or violent syringing or probing, or otherwise irritating an inflamed ear. These inflammations may also come on during the course of fever, and most particularly during scar- latina, and may be caused by rheumatism and gout. Symptoms.—Sudden and intense pain in the ear ; often so excruci- ating as to produce delirium; increased by coughing, sneezing, and swallowing; generally coming on first at night, and always worse at night; feeling of fulness in the ear; tenderness and soreness in its vicinity; tinnitus aurium, that is, unnatural noises of various sorts, heard by the patient; deafness, partial or complete (except that in some cases there is morbid sensibility to sound), and violent fever. On examination during the first stage the meatus is found more or less red, swelled and tender, and dry ; the membrana tympani dull, opaque, and vascular. If the acute symptoms go on from bad to worse, suppura- tion occurs within the tympanum and mastoid cells, with most in- tense pain, and possibly facial paralysis ; and at last the membrane ulcerates or bursts, and allows of the dischaige of pus from the external meatus. In other more severe or neglected cases inflammation within the cranium may occur and prove fatal. See p. 377. In less severe cases, the membrane may be left thickened and opaque, and the cavity blocked up by adhesions; or there may remain an obstinate discharge, which may give rise to caries of the bone, and mischief within the cra- nium hereafter. Treatment.—This disease must be combated by vigorous antiphlo- gistic measures. Leeches should be repeatedly applied both to the mas- toid bone and in the depression immediately below the auricle between the jaw and mastoid bone, and by means of a leech glass to the orifice of the meatus itself. Fomentations and poultices should be applied, * Toynbee, Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xliv.459 CHROKIC INFLAMMATION OF THE EAR. and the bowels should be opened by calomel and efficient purga- tives. Should the acute symptoms not be mitigated by these mea- sures, and especially if there should be any sense of fulness, or swell- ing, or fluctuation over the mastoid process, an incision, an inch or more long, should be made with a stout scalpel through the periosteum, down to the bone, parallel to and half an inch from the attachment of the auricle. Blisters may be applied when the acute stage is subsiding ; or a portion of the incision, if made, may be converted into an issue. Extreme pain of a neuralgic or rheumatic character accompanying otitis may be allayed by painting with tincture of aconite, or with solution of extract of belladonna in warm laudanum, behind the auricle; and by cinchonism, as in treating the so-called rheumatic oph- thalmia, p. 414. In some of these cases when pus has been formed within the tympa- num, or a lai-ge quantity of mucus has accumulated, which, owing to swelling of the mucous membrane, cannot find exit by the Eustachian tube, it is very desirable to perforate the membrana tympani. Irrepa- rable disorganization of the ear may thus be prevented, and much suf- tiering saved. A bulging outwards of the membrane from the pressure within, taken in connection with the other symptoms, would constitute the indication for this proceeding, A small thin-bladed knife, or a shai-p steel probe may be used. Care must be taken not to touch the ossicula, or the internal wall of the cavity. The best position for the incision is at the lower and posterior portion of the membrane. II. Subacute and Chronic Inflammation.—The researches of Toynbee and Wilde have shown most conclusively that by far the majority of cases of deafness are not nervous, as is sometimes thought, but depend on changes wrought in the tympanic cavity by subacute or chronic inflammation. Mr. Toynbee divides the diseased appearances in the tympanic cavity into three stages. In the first stage, the lining membrane retains its natural delicacy of structure, but its vessels are enlarged and tortuous; blood is sometimes effused into its substance^ and sometimes lymph is poured out on its free surface. In the second stage the membrane is thickened and flocculent; and occasionally covered with cheesy, tuberculous, or fibro-calcareous concretions; but the morbid change most frequently observed consists of fibrous bands, which are sometimes numerous enough to occupy nearly the whole of the cavity. In some instances they connect the inner sur- face of the membrana tympani to the inner wall of the tympanic cavity, or to the incus and stapes; but by far most frequently they extend from the crura of the stapes to the adjoining wall of the tympanum, so that this bone is, as it were, completely enveloped in a fog of adhe- sions.* In the third stage, the membrana tympani is ulcerated, as is also frequently the mucous membrane of the tympanum ; the ossicles * These adliesions, however, do not in all cases occasion deafness ; they are probably sometimes part of the natural formation of the organ. It is to be remembered, also, that mucus may dry up into membranous-looking shreds, undistingiiishable by the eye from those formed by lymph. Hinton, Med. Chir. Trans., J85G, and Guy's Hospital Keporis, 1863.460 CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OP THE EAR. are discharged, and the whole middle ear disorganized; caries of the bone and abscess may follow. The causes of the less severe varieties of otitis are the same as those of the acute, but of less intensity ;—exposure to cold ; injudicious bathing ; heated and unhealthy rooms ; the weak and unhealthy states of the system left by fever, or the exanthemata; the scrofulous dia- thesis, especially if food, clothing, and fresh air be deficient; and the gouty and rheumatic diatheses. Sj/mptoms.—These, unfortunately, are often so slight, that the patient gives no heed to them, till in process of time he finds himself altogether deaf in one or both ears, A slight woolly sensation, or oc- casional noises or ringing, with variable obtuseness of hearing, and slight aching, are most frequent. Treatment.—The general indications are to improve the health ; to relieve local inflammation by leeches—applied repeatedly, so long as they give relief to pain, noise, and headache—and by counter-irri- tants, such as small blisters, applied in succession over the mastoid bone, or to the nape of the neck. The feet should be kept warm, and the skin be cleansed by warm baths. Any diseased state of the exter- nal meatus should be remedied by the measures spoken of in the pre- ceding section. Iodide of potassium and mercury are the most effica- cious remedies for removing the consequences of protracted otitis. The latter should be given in small doses, long-continued, such as one grain of the hyd. c. creta, night and morning ; or the bichloride, which is spoken of in high terms by Toynbee and Wilde. It may be given alone, or with the tincture of bark, or of steel, F. 87. There are some forms of otitis, connected with peculiar diatheses which require notice; and especially, first, the rheumatic, which has been much studied by Mr. Harvey. This may be acute, and may be accompanied with general rheumatism, and may require the treatment already prescribed for acute otitis; or may be subacute or chronic. Loud noises in the ear, deafness, rheumatic or neuralgic pains about the head or face or other parts, generally becoming worse at night, and tenderness or stiffness of the scalp or neck, are the common symptoms : leeching, and colc^hicum given in regular small doses, with or without mercury, are the remedies recommended for the moi'e acute cases ; the iodide of potassium, guaiacum (which is strongly recom- mended by Harvey), with bark or sarsaparilla, for the more clu'onic. Otitis may also be connected with gout,'—for the treatment of which, the remarks on modified inflammation, may be consulted;— or with scrofula, or with mere debility and cachexia, in which case cod-liver oil and bark, or steel, will be of great use ; or with secondary syphilis, for which the iodide of potassium and sarsaparilla, or corrosive sublimate, are the most appropriate remedies. A very insidious form of inflammation within the tympanum is apt to exist quite unsuspected in children ; especially those that are of strumous or otherwise weakly habit. The tympanum in these cases is filled, and even distended with purulent mucus, which finds no exit, owing to obstruction of the Eustachian tube. Death sometimes ensues from461 CARIES. sudden attacks of convulsions, and very few morbid conditions besides this are found. No complaint is made of the ear ; but the children cry- when it is washed, or they are fond of having it tickled with a pin, or put their hands to it, or roll their heads on their pillows. They are also often unwilling to he jumped in play. On examining the ear, the membrana tympani is often seen bulging, and it presents a peculiar dull reddish-white appearance due to the fluid within appearing through it. Counter-irritation, and tonics, especially the iodide of iron, with good food and fresh air, are the remedies.* An effect of chronic thickening of the mucous membrane of the tympanum is III. Anchylosis of the Stapes.—This is a frequent cause of deaf- ness from the age of puberty upwards. It may be merely membranous from rigidity of the thickened membrane—or bony. Not unfrequently a laige deposit of new and hard bone of ivory whiteness surrounds the entire articulating surfaces of the stapes and vestibule.f These cases used to be set down as nervous. There is generally no history of pain ; nor does the examination of the ear exhibit much indication of disease. There may be more or less dryness, vascularity, or contraction of the meatus, or rigidity and concavity of the membrana tympani. The adapting power of the ear is chiefly impaired, so that rapid or mixed conversation is especially difficult to follow. Temporary relief is often given by yawning, pulling the outer ear, or pressing on the trac-us. Small doses of the bichloride of mercury, or larger doses of iodide of potassium, with counter-irritation, and scrupulous avoidance of everything that can favour congestion of the mucous membranes, or the development of rheumatic conditions, are remedies by which a large amount of benefit may be obtained. Turkish baths may be employed. TV. Caries, or necrosis of the petrous or mastoid bones, is a fre- quent consequence of suppuration within the tympanum or mastoid cells. Constant fetid discharge; fungous granulations choking the meatus ; deafness; palsy of the side of the face; dead bone felt with the probe; probably abscess over the mastoid process, or abscess occurring amongst the muscles of the neck, and pointing low down, are the symptoms. We may reiterate the injunction, that prevention is better than cure ; that an early incision down to the mastoid bone may prevent caries, but that, at all events, if matter forms, it should be at once freely evacuated. A seton at the nape of the neck is often useful. Any loose portions of bone should be extracted. Sir P. Crampton drew from the meatus of a young lady a piece of bone com- prising the entire internal ear—vestibule, cochlea, and semicircular canals, with a small portion of the inner wall of the tympanum. The patient had urgent symptoms of inflammation of the brain, with hemi- plegia, and total deafness of one ear, but ultimately recovered. Other cases have been since recorded. The discharge should be carefully washed away by injections, as F. 136. * Hinton, Med. Chir. Trans., 1856. •j- Toj iibee. Diseases of the Ear, p. 266.462 PEEFORATION OF THE MEMBRANA TYMPANI. V. Inflammation of the Dura Mater, with effusion of green- ish-yellow fibrine ; abscess within the brain ; plugging of the sinuses or jugular vein with dirty-looking fibrine, from the entrance of fetid secretion into them ; and general pyat;mia, may be consequences of ear disease, just as they may of fracture of the skull, p. 378, and the observations we have made on the insidious approach of mischief within the head in the one set of cases apply equally to the other. VI. Earache—(otalgia). This term ought to be restricted to signify neuralgia of the ear. Genuine neuralgia of the ear,—occur- ring in fits of excruciating pain, shooting over the head and face— may be distinguished from otitis by the sudden intensity of the pain— which is not throbbing,—does not increase in severity,—is not attended with fever,—and comes and goes capriciously. Its causes are the same as those of neuralgia generally, but particularly caries of the teeth; and its treatment principally consists in removing carious teeth, or stopping them, and giving purgatives, followed by quinine and after- wards iron. The tincture of aconite may be painted behind the auricle. The affection is by no means common. We cannot too strongly impress on the surgeon that what is popularly called earache is an inflammatory pain, to be treated by leeches, fomentations, and purgatives. VII. Perforation of the Membrana Tympani may be the con- sequence of laceration by violence. As we have before said, this very often accompanies fracture of the petrous bone ; but it may be caused also by blows on the head, boxes, as they are called, on the ear; by violent blowing of the nose, by which means a current of air is forcibly injected through the Eustachian tube; by forcibly syringing, which, as Mr. Toynbee observes, may easily rupture a thinned and dry mem- brane ; by descent in the diving-bell; by the introduction of foreign substances; and lastly, by loud noises, especially the discharge of cannon. Sense of shock in the ear, bleeding and deafness, are the immediate symptoms. If inflammation comes on, it must be met by the measures detailed above ; and if deafness continue, as a result of the aperture, it must be treated as we shall show presently. 2. Perforation is far more commonly the result of acute otitis^ and sup- puration within the tympanum. 3. It may also result fi-om chronic inflammation and ulceration. The symptoms which indicate an aperture in the membrane are, that perhaps the patient blows through the ear in blowing his nose forcibly; or that he can taste, or perceive in his throat, substances applied within the meatus. On examination with the speculum the aperture may generally be seen; or if the patient inflate the tym - panum, in the manner to be presently described, air-bubbles and mucus may be seen to issue from it. The consequences of perforation, if so small that it is capable of being closed by a film of the natural moisture of the parts, may be very slight. But a large opening generally causes considei'able deafness. Treatment.—Any diseased condition should be treated as already directed; and the nitrate of silver may be applied by means463 CALCAREOUS DEPOSIT. of a fine probe coated with it (F. 193) to the aperture. But if the opening should not heal, or if the case he chronic with a con- siderable loss of substance of the membrane, a substitute for the mem- brane must be employed. Some patients had long been in the habit of putting a drop of water or of oil into the ear, with great benefit. But in 1848, Mr. Yearsley made known the simple but important fact, that a little bit of cotton-wool, moistened with water or oil, if passed down the meatus, and applied against the orifice, will act as an excellent substitute for the lost membrane. The patient can usually be taught to introduce and withdraw this cotton with great nicety, by means of a forceps or bodkin, and to place it exactly in the right spot. Whether it requires to be be removed twice, or once daily, or not so often, depends upon circumstances. Mr. Toynbee uses, instead of cotton, artificial membranes of small oval pieces of thin India-rubber. In purulent discharge, following internal otitis, the general health must be improved by tonics, alteratives, and aperients; and by warm baths (cold bathing is almost sure to be injurious); and the local disease must be treated by the cautious use of stimulants and astiin- gents. The ear should be twice daily, very gently, syringed out with warm water; and immediately afterwards a tepid lotion of alum or sulphate of zinc, or acetate of lead, may be dropped into the meatus till it is filled, and after remaining there two or three minutes, be allowed to run out, F. 135, 136, 140. If the discharge is very fetid, a lotion of two drachms of solution of chloride of lime to half a pint of water may be used, or F. 117; and if the case is obstinate, the whole interior of the meatus may be pencilled twice a week with a solution of nitrate of silver (gr. v. ad 5!.), by means of a camel's-hair pencil. If the discharge, as sometimes happens, causes excoriation of the auricle, or of the neck, these parts must be first fomented, and then smeared with an ointment of hyd. prsecip. alb. But it seems advisable not—as a general rule—to insert ointments into the meatus. VIII. Collapse of the Membrana Tympani.—The membrane may loose its normal resiliency as the result of inflammation, causing ulceration of one or more of its laminaj or a general weakening of the whole. In this condition it falls back, irregularly, towards the pro- montory, or even lies in contact with it. In some cases, on the patient's inflating the tympanum, it starts forward, with great increase of the power of hearing; in others it is attached by adhesions to the inner tympanic wall, and further results of inflammation are also present. In these latter cases the Eustachian catheter should be ti'ied, and it is sometimes found beneficial. In the former cases a lotion of nitrate of silver, 6—8 grains to the ounce, or other astringents, and frequent gentle inflation of the ear, are useful. Sometimes the support of the artificial membrana tympani will greatly improve the hearing. IX, Calcareous Deposit in the membrana tympani. This is frequently met with, mostly in crescentic patches following the course of the circular fibres. It accompanies and follows various diseased464 THE EUSTACHIAN TUBES. conditions, but does not appear itself to cause any very considerable degree of deafness. X. The Eustachian Tubes, as is well known, are passages be- tween the cavity of the tympanum and the throat, allowing the air to enter and escape from that cavity as may be required. But Mr. Toynbee has given good reason for believing that, contrary to the com- mon opinion, the tubes are not habitually open; and that so far from permitting constant and uninterrupted communication, their oridce is always closed, except during the act of swallowing. During this act, the tensor and levator palati muscles " open the guttural orifice of the tube, afford free egress to the mucus secreted by the lining membrane of the tympanum, and allow air to enter or leave the tympanic cavity." That this is so, is rendered probable by the circumstance that the act of swallowing gives relief to the uneasy feelings in the ear experienced by persons who descend in a diving-bell; which it does by allowing the condensed air to enter the tympanum, and so to make the pressure on its inner surface equal to that on its outer. " Again,'' says Mr. Toyn- bee, "if an attempt is made to swallow, while the nostrils are closed by the finger and thumb, a sensation of fulness and pressure is ex- perienced in the tympanic cavity, in consequence of the air being then forced, during the act of deglutition, through the open tube into the tympanum ; and this sensation continues until, by another act of swal- lowing, the tube is reopened, and the confined air escapes into the fauces," These things being premised, we are prepared to understand the nature of that which has been called throat deafness^ and which depends on the morbid states of the tympanum, extending from the throat through the Eustachian tubes. In the first place, the common catarrhal deafness,—the ringing and crackling noises in the ear, with which every one is familiar ; the change of sensation experienced on blowing the nose or swallowing—supplies the commonest instance. This, in most cases, is trivial, and soon gets well. But in delicate children it is often otherwise, and a slight but increasing amount of deafness remains, depending, no doubt, on a swelled condition of the tympanal membrane, and accompanied, as is natural, with a general flabby and relaxed condition of the mucous membrane of the nose and fauces. The same thing may happen to adults. This condition will be distinguished by the swelled tonsils and relaxed throat; by the aggravation each time cold is caught; by the sudden noises from bursting of mucous bubbles, heard by the patient, and by the surgeon through the otoscope. This is a flexible stethoscope, one end of which, expanded into a hollow bell, is put over the patient's ear, whilst the other is applied to the surgeon's. Then, if the patient be desired to close his nose and mouth firmly, and while doing so, to make an effort as in blowing the nose, or to swallow, the surgeon may hear the shock of air against the membrana tympani if the tubes are pervious; he will hear a squeeling or gurgling sound if they contain fluid ; whilst if they are impervious,EUSTACHIAN TUBES. 465 he will of course hear nothing. Yet he must recollect tliat some patients cannot acquire the l^nack of inflating their tympanum, and it must not be too hastily assumed that they ai-e impervious. Of the severer forms of inflammation of the tympanic cavity we have already spoken. Treatment.—The general health must be braced by bark, steel, cod- liver oil, and other tonics (F, 87, 65, &c.) ; and the relaxed mucous membrane, by gargles, of which the author can recommend the sul- phate and chloride of zinc (F. 109), most strongly, and by creosote in- halation ; and repeated blisters may be applied behind the ears. It has been proposed that the tonsils and uvula should be extirpated in these cases. But although it may be justiflable to remove a superficial slice of enlarged tonsils, on other grounds, yet it is now amply proved, that enlargement of the tonsils by itself is not a cause of deafness ; and, n fortiori, that the cutting out of healthy tonsils cannot improve the hearing: besides that, there is good reason for believing, that this mu- tilation rashly performed, may have the most disastrous consequences on the voice, on the general health,, and, as Mr. Harvey believes, on the proper development of the generative organs. See Chap. XV. The operation of catheterism of the Eustachian tubes, for the purpose of dilating them, or of injecting warm water or air, or medicated liquids or vapours into the cavity of the tympanum, has also been much advocated. But the author cannot recommend these operations for general adoption; first, because they are painful, and because he believes they very seldom, if ever, do any real good; and secondly, because they are dangerous, and have proved fatal in more instances than one. When it is considered that in some cases the bony partition between the Eustachian tube and the carotid canal is almost entirely absorbed, and that in others there is but the thinnest shell of bone, or perhaps only a mere membrane between the tympanic cavity, or mastoid cells, and the cavity of the cranium or jugular fossa (all of which morbid changes the author has seen in Mr. Toynbee's collection), it will be readily understood how the pokings in the dark at the Eustachian tube, and forcible injections of the tympanum that we read of, may have very easily pioduced ftital results. Possibly the reason more mischief has not been done, is, that the catheter has been poked somewhere, but not into the Eustachian tube. Perforation of the membrana tympani, which has been proposed, in order to allow the access of air to the tympanum when the natural openings in the throat are obliterated, is another operation very seldom required. An opera- tion, however, if that term can be applied to it, has been lately intro- duced by Politzer of Vienna, which as a substitute for Eustachian catheterism, produces the most admirable results. It is based upon the fact that the Eustachian tubes are opened by their muscles during the act of swallowing. Politzer employs a small india-rubber bottle to which is attached a portion of flexible bougie. This bougie is intro- duced about half an inch into the patient's nostril, which is then closed over it by the surgeon. The patient is now told to swallow4G6 DEAFNESS. (having before taken water into his mouth for the purpose), and during the act the surgeon squeezes the bottle, so forcing the air into the nasal cavity. Thus the Eustachian tube being opened, and the nasal cavity cut off from the pharynx, at the same time that the air is pressed in, it passes into the tympanum, overcoming, in the great majority of cases, any obstruction that may exist. This procedure carefully per- formed is very suitable to many of the cases of thickening of the mu- cous membrane of the throat which are so frequent, especially in children. IX. Functional Nervous Deapness.—Deafness is said to be nervous, when it depends on general torpor and debility, and is better at some times than at others, especially in fine weather, and when the patient is cheerful or excited, and the stomach in good order, and when there is an entire absence of all symptoms or vestiges of inflammation. But such a form of deafness is rare; and Mr. Toynbee has shown, that even in very old persons, in whom it is often supposed to be common, the usual cause of deafness is not defect in the nervous apparatus, but thickening, adhesions, and other effects of inflammation of the tym- panal cavity. Treatment.—Aperients, with diffusible stimulants, especially ammo- nia, arnica, and valerian ; stimulating gargles, masticatories of pelli- tory, &c. If the meatus is dry, and altogether deficient in cerumen, great benefit may be derived from the introduction of a few drops of fish-oil, or of ox-gall, into the meatus, and the application of mustard, and other counter-irritants behind the ear. Electricity may be mis- chievous. X. Organic Nervous Deafness.—Deafness may be caused by blows on the head, or fracture, which produces either concussion or rupture of the auditory nerve. Depletion, if any inflammatory symp- toms are present, with alteratives and counter-irritants afterwards, are the only remedies. Deafness may also be produced by organic alterations in the brain, and may be attended with epilepsy or idiocy, or may be a consequence of apoplexy or convulsions. The treatment must be the same as for amaurosis arising from similar causes (p. 445).* * Copland, Diet,, art., Ear; Pilcher on the Structure and Diseases of the Ear, Lond., J 838; Essay on the Ear, by Joseph Williams, M.D., Lend,, 1840 ; Harvey on Deafness and Enlargement of the Tonsils, Lond., 1850; Toynbee, in Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xxiv.; Med. Gaz., 7th July, 1843; on Senile Deafness, Edin. Monthly Journ. of Med. Sc., Feb. 1849 ; On an Artificial Membrana Tympani, Lond. 1853 ; On the Diseases of the Ear, 1860 ; Yearsley on the Application of Cotton, &c.. Lancet for 1848, vol. ii., pp. 10, 64, &c.; Sir W. R. Wilde, Practical Obs. on Aural Surgery, Lond., 1853; Hinton, Diseases of the Ear, in Holmes' System of Surgery, vol. iii. p. 134.KHIKO-PLASTIC OPERATIONS. 467 CHAPTER XIV. DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE FACE AND NOSE. SECTION I.—AFFECTIONS OF THE OUTER PARTS OF THE FACE, NOSE, AND LIPS. I. Salivary Fistula is said to exist when the stenonian duct has been perforated by a wound or ulcer, so that the saliva dribbles out on the cheek. Treatment.—In the first place, a good passage must be established from the duct into the mouth. This may be done by puncturing the mouth through the fistula in two places, passing a small skein of silk, or, still better, a piece of very flexible wire, through the apertures, and securing the two ends in the mouth by a knot. After a few days, when a sufficient aperture into the mouth has been established, means must be employed for closing the fistula. Its edges may be pared and brought together in a straight line, by means of needles and the twisted suture. To facilitate this, the skin may, in some cases, be dissected up, so that it may be shifted along. In some cases, the cauteiy, a small blunt one, at a black heat, may be passed round the edges, to make them contract. In cases of deep narrow fistula, Mai-hall's galvanic cautery may be used. In other cases, the aperture may be covered with a flap of skin raised from the adjoining parts. II. Hypertrophy.—The nose sometimes becomes prodigiously en- larged through an hyperti'ophy of the areolar tissue and skin, especially in persons who have been addicted to the pleasures of the table. Such tumours are very inconvenient and unsightly, but not dangerous. They grow slowly—are indolent and painless—the sebaceous follicles are much enlarged, and secrete profusely, and the skin is more or less mottled with veins. Treatment.—If the patient desire it, the tumour may be removed with the knife ; but the surgeon must first well examine his general health, and put him on regular diet. An incision may be made in the median line nearly down to the cartilage. Then an assistant distends the nostril with his forefinger, whilst the surgeon seizes the morbid growth, and shaves it clean off, close to the cartilage. After the operation, there will be considerable hsemorrhage from numerous vessels. Some of these may be tied, some may be pinched with a for- ceps, some may be secured with a very fine cambric needle and thread; and any general oozing may be restrained by the application of cold water or matico leaf, or, if it be obstinate, by plugging the nostrils, and making pressure with strips of plaster. III. Khino-plastic, or Taliacotian Operations.—When a por- tion or the whole of the nose has been destroyed by disease or accident, the deficiency may be restored by a transplantation of skin from anKHINO-PLASTIO OPERATIONS. 463 adjoining pai't; the operation being varied according to the extent of the deformity. But whether this mutilation arise from scrofulous ulceration, or from lupus, or from scrofulous disease of the bones, or from syphilitic disease, plenty of time should be allowed before any operation is thought of, else it may be frustrated by a return of the disease. 1. When the wliole or greater part of the nose has perished, a tri- angular piece of leather should be cut into the shape which the nose formerly presented, and be spread out flat on the forehead, with its base uppermost, and its boundaries should be marked out on the skin with ink. Then the remains of the old npse (if any) are to be pared, and the margins of the nasal aperture are to be cut into deep narrow grooves. When the bleeding from these wounds has ceased, the flap of skin marked out on the forehead is to be dissected up, and all the cel- lular tissue down to the periosteum with it, so that it may hang at- tached, merely by a narrow strip of skin between the eyebrows. When all bleeding has ceased, the flap is to be twisted on itself, and its edges are to be fitted into the grooves made for their reception, and to be fastened with sutures. The nose thus made is to be supported, but not stuffed, with oiled lint; it should be wrapped in flannel to support its temperature, and if it become black and turgid, owing to a deficiency in the return of blood from it, a leech may be applied. When adhesion has thoroughly taken place, the twisted strip of skin, by which its con- nexion with the forehead was maintained, may be cut through, or a little strip may be cut out of it, so that it may be laid down smoothly. 2. The septum or columna nasi is often restored by the same opera- tion with the nose itself, by means of a flap from the forehead; but it is better, as Mr. Liston proposed, to form it out of the upper lip at a subsequent operation. A strip is cut out of the centre of the upper lip, a quarter of an inch in breadth, and of its whole thickness. The frse- nulum having been divided, this strip is turned up, but not twisted ; and its labial surface having been pared off, and the inside of the apex having been made raw, the two latter surfaces are united by the twisted suture, and the wound of the lip is also united by the same. During the cure, the nostrils must be kept of their proper size by introducing silver tubes occasionally. 3. When one ala nasi alone is destroyed, a portion of integument may be measured out on the cheek, and be raised to supply the de- ficiency. But if both alse are lost, or if the cheek be spare and thin, it is better to supply their place with skin brought from the forehead. The slip which connects the engrafted portion with the forehead will of course be long and thin; and in order to maintain its vitality, a groove may be made to receive it on the dorsum of the nose. But when union has occurred, this connecting slip may be raised and cut off, and the groove which contained it be united by sutures. 4. Depression of the apex of the nose is to be remedied by raising the parts, dividing any adhesions that may have formed, making, if necessary, a new columna, in the manner described above, and support-HARE-LIP. 469 ing the parts carefully with plugs of lint, till they have acquired firm- ness. But it may be done still more completely by a method which was proposed by Dieffenbach, and a modification of which has been practised with great success by Mr. W. Fergusson. "The point of a small scalpel," says Mr. Fergusson, " was introduced undo- the apex, and the ala; were separated from the parts underneath; next the knife was carried on each side between the skin and the bones, as far as the infraorbital foramen, taking care not to interfere with the nerves, when, by passing the point of my finger below the nose, I caused the latter organ to be as prominent as could be wished. I now passed a couple of long silver needles, which had been prepared for the purpose, with round heads and steel points, across from one cheek to the other, having previously applied on each side a small piece of sole leather, perfoi ated with holes at a proper distance; then I cut off the steel points, and with tweezeis so twisted at the end of each needle, as to cause the cheeks to come close to each other, and thus to render the nose prominent. Thus, by bringing the cheeks more into the mesial line, a new foundation, as it were, was given to the organ. Adhesion occurred in some places, granulations in others ; in the lapse of ten days the needles were withdrawn, and in the course of a tew weeks, when cicatrization was complete, the nose presented as favourable an appearance as could reasonably have been desired."* 5. Depression of the ridge, owing to the loss of the ossa nasi, may be remedied by paring the surface, and covering it with a flap of skin from the forehead ; or by making a longitudinal incision, and engraft- ing a small portion of skin from the forehead into it; or, if the case is slight, by cutting out one or two transverse slips, and bringing the cut edges together by sutures, so that thus the surface may be stretched to its proper level. IV". Hare-Lip signifies a congenital fissure of the upper lip, arising from arrest of development. Its usual place is just on the left side of the middle line; and it may exist on one side only, or there may be a double fissure with a small flap of skin between. With the im- perfect development of the skin there is usually more or less of the same condition in the bone. That part of each superior max- illary bone which contains the incisor teeth, and which consti- tutes a distinct bone in the human embryo, and in many animals—the intermaxillary, or premaxillary of Owen—the divided hgemal spine of the nasal vertebra—may be discon- nected on one or both sides, leaving a gap in the alveolus, which may possibly extend backwards, and be complicated with fissure of the palate. This intermediate portion may be displaced and attached like a snout to * Practical Surgery, 3rd edit., p. 578.470 HARE-LIP. the end of the septum navium. Sometimes the upper incisor teeth and their alveoli project through the fissure in the lip. Treatment.—The first consideration is the age at which treatment shall be undertaken. Sir A. Cooper used to recommend that it should be put oft' till the child was two years old, and had cut some teeth, because of the supposed liability of young infants to be carried off" by convulsions ; but Mr. Fergusson and most modern surgeons believe the risk to be overrated, and prefer operating as soon as possible. Mr. Henry Smith has operated on the fourth day, and Mr. Bateman, of Islington, on the fourth hour after birth with success. Infants may die (just as little Jews die sometimes after circumcision), but such an event is especially rare. The second point to be considered is, how to deal with the bone, should it project through the fissure. The old plan was to cut it off; but conservatism has gained the day here, as in most other departments of medicine, and at present the plan proposed by Gensoul, and im- proved by Haynes Walton, is adopted, of cutting perpendicularly through the alveolus with bone forceps between the incisor teeth, and gently bending back the projecting part to a convenient level. In some cases related in Cooper's Dictionary, this object was gained by the use of a truss worn for several hours daily; but if the operation is per- formed soon after birth, there will be no time for this. The next step is one recommended by Mr. Walton; and consists in freely detaching the lip from the bones behind, so that it may hang loosely, and be brought together easily. Fourthly, the edges of the fissure are to be pai-ed. We take it for granted that the child has been quieted by chloroform, and that it is laid flat on the lap of a nurse, with its head on the knees of the surgeon, who sits in front. Then the bone having been bent back if necessary, and the lip freed as just described, the surgeon, seizing the lip by the corner of the fissure with his left forefinger and thumb, pierces it with a narrow knife at the top of the fissure just under the nose, and carries the insti'ument down- wards, so as to shave off the edge of the fissure ; and it is better to remove too much than too little. There is a nice manoeuvre that should be adopted in finishino- the incision. The knife should not be carried straight down, but should be carried inwards, in the direction shown in the cut, so as to save the very bottom of the cleft; by this means, when the parts are healed, there will be less of a notch left. This process is repeated on the other side, and the two strips are next detached from the upper angle. The edges of the fissure being thus made raw, the next step is to bring them into the nicest adaptation possible, and to keep them so. The usual method employed is the twisted suture. Three fine lancet- pointed needles are thrust through the raw edges of the fissure. TheyEPITHELIOMA. 471 should go through about two-thirds of the thickness of the hp. The first should be put through the lower angles, where it is most essential that the adaptation should be most exact; another may run through and compress any artery that bleeds; a third higher up. Then the centre of a long slip of lint, or of twine, should be wound round the uppermost pin and be brought round the others as shown in the chapter on Incised Wounds; besides which, Mr. Fergusson cements the suture and lip by a plentiful application of collodion. In order to prevent any strain on the stitches, it is now usual to put on a spring truss invented by Dr. Dewar, of Aberdeen, and so contrived as gently to press the cheeks towards the middle line. This is worn till adhesion is firmly established. The diet of the patient, if an infant, will give no trouble. If he be older, it should be nutritious. There need be no hurry in withdrawing the pins; the fifth or seventh day will be soon enough ; and then the cicatrix should be supported by plaster. If union should fail, the pins or some other suture should be in- serted again, to take the chance of union during the granulation stage. Instead of the twisted suture, some surgeons trust to the common interrupted suture. The button suture, represented in the adjoining cut, is warmly recommended by * Dr. Wood, now of Barnwood House, Gloucester, who has veiy successfully cultivated this branch of plastic surgery. He uses on each side two perforated silver discs having wires soldered to their backs, over which a double ligature is tied, after having been passed through the lip. Mr. Wood believes that by thus avoiding the pinching and rigidity of the needles, he obtains a more efficient and unobjectionable mode of union ; and recom- mends the same suture in cases of divided periuEBum and similar cases.f If the hare dip is double, both sides may be operated on at once, the middle flap being transfixed by the sutures. But care should be taken to push up the middle flap towards the nose, so as to render the latter organ more prominent, as it is in genei'al very flat in cases of hare-lip, V. Cancer of the Lip is a very rare disease, and, according to Lebert, more commonly attacks the upper than the lowei-lip. What is popularly called cancer of the lip is in reality— V"I. Epithelioma, of which disorder the lower lip is the favourite seat. Epithelioma, the so-called cancer, or epithelial cancer of the lip, is a disease of middle, or paulo-post-rmMlQ hfe, and affects the lower rather than the higher classes, men much more often than women, and * Dr. Wood's buttons—natural size. t See paper by Dr. Wood,in Med. Gaz., 1841; Haynes Walton, Mei. Times, June, 1848 ; Fergusson, op, cit.EPITHELIOMA. 472 the left more often than the right side. There must be some sort of predisposition; but the first attack can very often be traced to some slight but incessantly renewed irritation, and especially smoking short earthen tobacco-pipes. Teeth encrusted with tartar, and the habit of holding rough twine between the lips, have been alleged as causes in particular cases. The disease begins as a crack or excoriation, covered with thick epidermis ; or as a wart; or as a superficial hardness of the skin ; and it usually begins on the red prGkibmm, or on the edge where this joins the skin. In its earliest stage it may continue, for a very long time, stationary or slowly progressing; most likely repeatedly shedding flakes of epidermis, and silently increasing in breadth and glands under the jaw swell; the muscles and lower jaw-bone are at- tacked by ulceration and caries; the teeth drop out. The health, sound at first, begins to give way ; and the influence of this intense local irritation, combined with the difficulty of taking food, and the absorp- tion of fetid secretions, are amply sufficient to destroy life. This disease, as to its nature, is probably in great measure local, and destroys life by its local progress, not by general diffusion over the system, as cancer. Its morbid anatomy has already been amply de- tailed ; suffice it to repeat that the dermis, the enlarged papilljE, muscles, glands, and bone are abundantly infiltrated with scaly epithe- lium ; and Paget relates that in two out of seven autopsies, epithelial deposits were found in the heart or lungs. The only wonder, considering how abundant the epithelial nuclei are in the neigh- bourhood of the diseased part, is, that this is not universal. The diagnosis is generally easy ; yet in the earlier stages it might be diffi- cult to distinguish it from any other ulcers caused by irritation and disorder of the health. Mr. Earle showed that all the appearances of cancerous disease might be assumed by common ulcers near the outlets of the body, if subjected to much irritation, but that such ulcers admit of cure by removing foul teeth and other sources of mischief, and at- tending to the general health. The presence or not of enlarged cuta- neous papillae may serve as a diagnostic mark. Treatment.—Extirpation, free and eai ly, is the only remedy worth speaking of; and the surgeon's chief anxiety should be to remove all the affected tissues, without regarding the patient's appearance. The depth. At last, however, possibly from some irritating local applica- tion, a stage of active progress sets in, and is accompanied by corroding ulceration; and then comes a foul ulcer with hardened base, fungous wart-like edges, and surface covered with scabs of dried pus and epithe- lium, or exuding a fetid sanious discharge. If it proceeds unchecked, the lip is destroyed; the saliva dribbles from the mouth; the473 CANCRUM ORIS. classical V incision, as Lebert terms it, may therefore be abandoned; and a clean sweep made with the knife. 'J'he wound must be brought together vertically by pins and the twisted suture; and, if desirable, in order to facilitate this, incisions may be made at each corner of the mouth. The operation may be successful; at all events the cure may last the patient's life; but quite as often, or more so, a relapse occurs within the space of from six months to two years. The more quickly the disease has relapsed, the more quickly it is likely to do so, after a second operation ; yet the operation should be boldly repeated, and the glands or jaw-bone be removed, if necessary. Hannover relates the case of a man who was operated on for the first time in May 1834, for a disease of two years' duration ; the second time in 1846 ; the third in 1849 ; the fourth in 1850 ; with good results up to 1852. tio instance is known of a spontaneous cure of ulcerated epithelioma of the lower lip ; and the knife, under chloroform, is infinitely less formidable than the daily miseries of the disease. In cases not fit for the knife, the pallia- tive treatment of cancer must be adopted.* VII. Corroding Ulcer op the Face ; Lupus Exedens ; Can- croid.—Epithelioma proves fatal, as we have just narrated, by the supervention of a corroding and intractable ulceration in a tissue previously infiltrated with epithelium. But we must recall to the student's memory, that a corroding ulcer, proving ultimately fatal, is apt to attack the face, without pre-existing epithelial, or cancerous disease. Lupus exedens is an instance. Another, closely allied, is a sort of corroding ulcer, which is very apt to affect the lower eyelid, nose, or cheek of the aged. It often affects some wart that has existed for years. It produces an irregular dryish glassy ulcer, without the hard base or warty edges of epithelioma, or of hard cancer ; and so slowly progressive that it may sometimes be doubted whether the patient has died of the disease or of old age. The glands are not affected. Excision of such ulcer, or of its precursory wart, may be performed ; but these are the cases in which a permanent cure may be hoped for by the use of arsenic as a caustic. The case of the late Pope, Gregory the Sixteenth, may be an example. He had a corroding nicer on the nose, which was treated successfully with the arsenical paste, by M. Allertz, of Aix-la-Chapelle, so that the ulcer healed, and there was no relapse during the remaining eight years of the Pope's life. True epithelioma and cutaneous cancer may also affect the face, head, or ear; but it seems that in none of these parts is epithelioma so rapid in its progress, or so likely to relapse after opei'ation as in the lower lip. VIII. Cancrum Oris—{Phagedoena otHs, gangrenous erosion of the cheek)—is a phagedseno-gangrenous affection of the lips and cheeks, occurring almost exclusively amongst the ill-fed squalid children of large towns. It appears to be a disease of debility, and to be in- duced by want of proper food and of fresh air, and by neglect of clean- liness. Like other disorders of a similar character, it is very liable * See Paget, Lectures, vol. ii.; Lebert, op. cit.; Hannover, op, cit.CHEILO-PLASTIC OPERATIONS. 474 to follow the measles oi' scarlatina, or any other severe and weakening illness. Symptoms.—In the instances which have fallen, under the author's observation, it has commenced as a shallow ulcer on the lip or inside of the cheek: with a peculiar dirty-gray or ash-coloured surface, and black edges. Sometimes it is said to commence with an exudation of a pale-yellow fibrinous matter, like that exuded in diphtherite. At the same time the face is swollen, the breath exceedingly fetid, and there is a dribbling of fetid saliva mixed with blood. If the disease proceeds, the ulcer becomes gangrenous, and destroys the cheek and gums ; the teeth drop out, typhoid symptoms supervene, and the patient dies ex- hausted. The swelling which accompanies this disease shows nothing like active or healthy inflammation. It is moderately firm, or what may be called semi-cedematous, and is either pale, or else of faint-pink colour. In the most rapid form of the disease it commences at once as a black spot of gangrene, which slowly spreads, and is not accompanied by any inflammation whatever ; all the parts around being quite pale and wax-like. The constitutional symptoms are at first those of weak- ness, and disorder of the stomach and bowels, and afterwards the rapid feeble pulse and stupor of typhus. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of this affection is of some importance, because when a child has died of it, the parents, through ignorance or malice, are liable to bring the surgeon into trouble, by accusing him of having caused death through profuse mercurial salivation. Tiie chief points of distinction are, that in this disease the ulceration or gangrene is circumscribed, and is generally confined to one side; and that it com- mences usually in the cheek, and that it only affects that part of the gums which is in close contiguity, and that the tongue is untouched. Whereas in severe mercurial salivation, the ulceration is diffused; the whole of the gums, and the lining membrane of the cheeks, and the tongue, as well as the palate, being affected from the first. Treatment.—The indications are threefold. 1st. To evacuate and correct the seci-etions of the stomach and bowels by a dose of calomel, followed by rhubarb and magnesia. 2ndly. To keep up the strength by wine, beef-tea, and other nuti itious articles, and by bark or quinine in sufficient doses. The chlorate of potassa has been strongly recom- mended, and may be given in doses of gr. xx.—xl. in the twenty-four hours. 3rd. To excite a healthy action in the diseased part by stimu- lating lotions, especially solution of nitrate of silver, alum, sulphate of copper, or the chloride of lime ; and, lastly, if these means fail to arrest the disease, by applying the strong nitric acid so as to destroy the whole of the diseased part, in the same manner as was directed for hospital gangrene,* IX. Cheilo-plastig Operations, by which are signified opera- tions for the restoration of the lip, may be expedient when the lower * See James on Inflammation, p. 527 ; Marshall Hall, in Lancet for 1839—40, p. 409; P. H. Green, ibid.; and also in Cycl, Pi'act. Sm-g., art., Caucrum Oris; Willis on Cutaneous Diseases; Hunt, Med, Chir. Trans., vol. xxvi.475 AFFECTIONS OF THE NASAL CAVITIES. lip has been so destroyed by cancrum oris, or by ulceration, or opera- tion, as to occasion deformity, and difficulty of speaking, or of retaining the saliva. Such operations may consist infringing soft parts from the sides of the face towards the middle line, and retaining them by a twisted sutnre, as in hare-lip ; but the exact incisions required must depend on the circumstances of the case, which may vary ad infinitum. In other cases, sufficient substance to form a new lip may be raised from below, by making acuived incision from one masseterto the other below the chin. A vertical incision downwards in the middle line will allow a considerable flap to be raised on each side to the proper level to form a new under lip. The incision in the middle line must now be stitched together, and the new lip must be kept up to its proper place, and prevented from being again drawn down, by stitching its lower margin to the periosteum of the jaw. This plan was proposed by Dr. Hamilton, U. S. Operations may also be required for enlarging the mouth when too small; in which case, after sufficient incision, the cut edges of the skin and mucous membrane should be united by sutures, so that they may heal over (see Phymosis). In a case of this sort, Mr. Hancock, before making his incision, ascertained, by desiring his patient to grin, the exact insertion of the levators of the angles of the mouth, and carried his incisions to this spot. For contracting the mouth, if too large, or if one corner of it is rendered flabby and unmanageable by palsy of the portio dura, Mr. Hilton has cut a piece from one corner.* SECTION II.—AFFECTIONS OF THE NASAL CAVITIES. I. Foreign Bodies may be removed from the nose by a small curette, or scoop, or bent probe. If they cannot be brought through the nostrils, they may be pushed back into the throat. The removal should be effected as early as possible. II. Epistaxis, or hcemorrhage from the nose, may, like other hajmorrhages, be produced, 1st, by injury ; 2ndly, it may be an active haemorrhage of arterial blood caused by general excitement and plethora, or by determination of blood to the head, or by the suppression of some other discharge, or by one of those forms of irritation of mucous membrane, common in the scrofulous and phthisical; 3rdly, it may be a passive draining of venous blood, owing to obstruction of the circulation by disease of the heart or liver, or to a morbidly-thin state of the blood, together with relaxation of the vessels, as happens in scurvy, purpura, and the last stage of fever. Treatment.—1. If the patient be i-ed-faced, plethoric, and subject to headache and giddiness, the hsemorrhage may be regarded as a salutary * See the siu'gical works of Fergusson, Syme, Pancoast, and Jobert de Lam- balle ; Hilton's Clinical Lectures, Lancet, 1853, vol. i.; Case of Eestoration of Lip, by Dr. F. H. Hamilton, of the United States; Ranking, vol. xvi.; Mr. Hancock's case, Lancet, 10th Sept., 1853. By the way, it is much to be desired that plain FiOglish be used instead of dog Greek. To speak of a Rliinoplastic operation on the lip is ridiculous; and reminds one of the French phrases biftek de veau, and rosbif de mouton.476 NASAL POLYPUS. effort of nature ; a good purgative, F. 33, should be administered, the liver, bowels, and kidneys be thoroughly cleared, and the diet regu- lated ; if the bleeding continues, the sulphuric acid, F. 24, may be given, to which sulphate of magnesia may be added if the bowels re- quire it, and quinine or steel under other circumstances. 2. But the hsemorrhage requires to be stopped at once, either if it have conti- nued so long that the patient will be injuriously weakened,—or if it arise from injury,—or if it be a passive haemorrhage depending on visceral disease or general cachexy. If an upright posture, a bladder of ice applied to the forehead or a piece of cold metal to the back, with a draught of iced water or lemonade, and compression of the nostril, do not stop it, the patient may snuff up powdered gum, or gall-nuts, or powdered matico; and, these failing, the nostrils must be gently- plugged with lint. In very urgent cases, the posterior orifice of the nostril must be plugged also. This is easily done by passing a bougie, with a long piece of silk fastened to its end, through the nostril into the pharynx. The end of the silk in the pharynx is then brought through the mouth with a pair of forceps, and a piece of soft sponge, less than an inch in diameter, is tied to it. Then by pulling the silk back through the nose, the sponge is drawn into the posterior opening of the nostril. The plugs of coagula, in severe cases, should not be dis- turbed for three days. Local treatment being provided for, the case must be treated consti- tutionally. If there is great fever and vascular excitement, the nitrate of potash, F. 58, or tartar emetic, F. 68, may be of use; in cases in which the liver is deranged, the nitromuriatic acid and dandelion, F. 22 ; in cases in which the blood seems deficient in coagulability, alum,'F. 187, sesquichloride of iron, gallic acid, F. 186, or turpen- tine, F. 74. , . , . Ill Nasal Polypus.—1. The common gelatinous polypus is a tumour of the consistence of jelly, pear-shaped, yellowish, slightly streaked with blood-vessels, attached by a narrow neck to the mucous membrane. The patient has a constant feeling of stuffing and cold in477 NASAL POLYPUS. the head, which is increased in damp weather. If he force his breath strongly through the affected nostril, whilst he closes the other, the polypus may be brought into view. There are very often more than one of these tumours, and they are very liable to return when re- moved. If polypus be permitted to remain, it continually increases in size, blocks up the nostril, displaces the septum, and obstructs the other nostril, causes prodigious deformity of the cheek, prevents the passage of the tears, and may even cause death by pressure on the brain. The structure of these polypi is fibro-cellular or areolar tissue, covered with ciliated epithelium. The most usual point of attachment is one of the superior turbinated bones. Treatment.—A probe should be introduced to feel for the neck of the polypus, which should then be seized with forceps, and be gently twisted olf. If, as sometimes happens, it projects backwards into the pharynx, it must be extracted through the mouth with curved forceps if requisite, or a loop of stout twine may be passed, by means of a bougie, along the floor of the nostril into the pharynx, where it may be passed around the tumour by the fingers; and the tumour may be dragged forwards through the nostril. The double hook depicted here may be stuck into a polypus, and twisted round and round so as to tear it off. Such hooks are made b}'' Savigny, of various sizes, for polypi of the ear, nose, and uterus. Wilde's snare for polypus of the ear, depicted at p. 456, may be useful. Formerly surgeons used to strangulate these tumours by passing the ends of the ligature through a double canula, in the same way in which it was customary to treat uterine polypi. But clean evulsion is a far prefei'able operation, and tliere is no fear of any bleeding that cannot be checked by iced water or by plugging. In a few cases it may be necessary to slit up the ala of the nostril where it joins the cheek, in order to get at the root of the tumour. Polypus, it must be observed, is a coarse old-fashioned word em- ployed to signify any sort of pedunculated tumour attached to a surface, to which it was supposed to adhere like a parasite with many claws. Thus fibrinous clots attached to the interior of the heart used to be spoken of as polypi of the heart. But the most frequent seat of polypi is mucous membrane; and the most common and legitimate species is that fibro-cellular tumour, developed in the submucous tissue, and covered with entire mucous membrane, which we have just described. 2, Another variety is composed of fibro-plastic cells, and is, in fact, a mass of granulations, not developed into fibro-cellular tissue. This is, unlike the preceding, often caused by local irritation. The common aural polypus is an example. 3. Warty and epithelial growths with narrow necks constitute another variety. 4. Lastly,EHINORROaA. 478 cancer, encysted tumours, or any other sort of tumour which projects and has a narrow neck, may be called by the same name. For instance, The hydatid polypus, a rare variety, described by Sir A. Cooper as consisting of a number of thin vesicles filled with a watery fluid, and attached by a peduncle, bursting upon the slightest pressure. Sir A. Cooper recommended that the peduncle should be touched with a hair- pencil dipped in butter of antimony. IV. Cancerous Tumours, projecting into the nasal cavities from the antrum or the adjoining parts, have been described as fungoid or carcinomatous polypi. Rapidity of growth, a bleeding fungating sur- face, and pain and signs of cachexia, will probably be diagnostic marks sufficient to deter the surgeon from attempting evulsion with forceps. It must be remembered that soft cancer oi'iginating within the cranium may come down through the ethmoid into the nose. V. Rhinorrhcea, or Oz^ena, so called from its foetor, signifies a purulent or sanious discharge from one or both nostrils. Like otorrhoea, it is but a symptom, and it will be necessary to consider the morbid conditions on which it may depend. 1. Catarrhal Rhinorrhosa.—The writer has seen very many cases, in which patients of delicate constitution, after a tedious common catarrh, have been troubled with most profuse and obstinate purulent discharge from the nasal cavities, often very fetid in the morning j attended with great weight and stuffing in the head, copious flow of tears, frontal headache, }'elaxed throat, cough, and general signs of debility ; but more especially great depression of spirits. Sometimes, under such circumstances, the mucous membrane swells into red fleshy eminences. In a case in which the writer was consulted this year, a portion of the swelled mucous membrane had been mistaken for polypus, and it had been proposed to extract it. This state of things is often accompanied with catarrhal deafness. The treatment is easy, and includes removal to a dry bracing atmosphere, aperients, bark with mineral acid, and the inhalation every evening of the steam of boiling water, to which twenty or thirty drops of creosote have been added. For the mode of inhaling, see Chap. XV. 2. Scrofulous Rhinorrhcea generally begins early in life, and depends on inflammation or ulceration of the mucous membrane. It may be a consequence of the catarrhal variety, or may follow some fever, or may begin spontaneously. The discharge is more fetid in itself; and not only so, but it is mixed with exudation, and collects in the upper part of the nasal cavities, and there putrefies, giving rise to an odom- that causes the patient to be a nuisance to ail about him. If the case goes on from bad to worse, the bones may be implicated; either the septum may be eaten through, which is of little consequence, or the nose may sink in, and the same hideous deformity may ensue that was formerly not uncommon in secondary syphilis. Treatment.—The writer has often been surprised at the inefficient treatment pursued in these cases; in which, although there is no danger to life, yet the nauseous efflu- vium that issues from the patient renders him a pest to himself and all479 ABSCESS OF THE ANTKUM. about him. He some time since treated a highly-respectable female, who had long been afflicted in this way, and had been cruelly salivated by a chemist, and excoriated with a nitrate of silver injection, with which she had been supplied at an hospital. The relief afforded by a large syringe daily used so as to wash away all clots and collections of matter with a copious stream of warm water, to which a little chloride of zinc, F. 127, 136, may be added, is unspeakable. A leech or two should be applied to the inside of the nostril if the bridge of the nose is tender, or if there are any marks of obstruction about the lachrymal duct. The citrine ointment, F. 168, may be thoroughly applied by a camel's-hair brush, and bark, iodide of potassium, cod-liver oil, and other anti-scrofulous remedies be administered in tedious cases.* 3. Syphilitic Ozoena requires no further remarks ; but we must add that some cases of the appaiently scrofulous variety, in children, may have their origin in congenital syphilis. The presence of foreign bodies should always be inquired into in any case of discharge from the nostrils. VI. Imperforate Nostrils.—The nostrils are sometimes imper- forate, owing to congenital malformation. The passage may (if the parents wish it) be restored by a cautious incision, and must be kept open with bougies. If, however, the obstruction be seated far back it ought not to be meddled with. SECTION III.—AFFECTIONS OF THE ANTRUM AND JAWS. 1. Abscess of the Antrum may be caused by blows on the cheek, but it more frequently results from the irritation of decayed teeth. It has been caused in a newly-born infant from injuries received during parturition ; the face having presented to the pubes.f The symptoms are permanent aching and uneasiness of the cheek, preceded probably by acute throbbing pain and fever and rigors, and followed, if an opening is not made soon, by a slow general enlai gement. This, if permitted to increase, causes bulging of the cheek, extrusion of the eye, obstruction of the lachrymal duct, depression of the hard palate, loosening and dropping out of the teeth, and closure of the nostril. The parietes of the cavity sometimes become so thin from distension, that they crackle on pressure like parchment. Sometimes (though rarely) the matter makes its way into the nostril; and sometimes the abscess points externally, or bursts into the mouth. Treatment.—A free aperture may be made into the cavity. If either of the molar teeth be loose or carious, it should be extracted, and a trocar be pushed through the empty socket into the antrum. But if all the teeth are sound, or if they have been all extracted before, an incision should be made through the membrane of the mouth above the alveoli of the molar teeth, and the bone be pierced by a strong * See a Paper by R. Druitt, for further details of the Treatment of Ozsena, Med. Times, 1858, vol. ii., p. ill. f G. A. Rees, Med. Gaz., N. S., vol. iv., p. 860.DROPSY OF THE ANTRUM. 480 pair of scissors or trocar, as represented by the following figure. The instruments should not be made of too highly-tempered steel, lest they break. The cavity should be frequently syringed with warm water, in order to clear away the matter, which is sometimes thick like putty. If the discharge continues profuse and fetid, search should be made with a probe for loose pieces of bone, which should be removed without delay, the aperture being enlarged if necessary. II. Dropsy of the Antrum.—The antrum may become enor- mously distended, in consequence of an accumulation of its natural clear mucous secretion, if the aperture into the nostril has become obliterated. In a case which occurred in Mr. Fergusson's practice in the King's College Hospital in 1850, there was great protrusion of the cheek, and of the hard palate, and other signs of tumour, so that the patient was sent up for the purpose of having the bone extirpated ; but on examination it was discovered that the antrum was greatly distended with a yellow viscid fluid containing brilliant particles of cholesterine ; and an opening having been established through the anterior wall of481 TUMOUBS OF THE JAW-BONE. the cavity, the patient was soon discharged cured.* In some cases the parietes are so thin as to crackle on pressure. III. Tumours of the Upper Jaw-bone may present themselves in very great variety. Thus, in addition to the abscess and di opsy of the antrum, there may be— 1. Hypertrophy of the bone, some part of which increases immensely in bulk without forming a circumscribed tumour. 2. Exostosis; a circumscribed tumour of bony tissue, porous, or hard and dense as ivory. 3. Enchondroma ; which is rare. 4. The Fibtv-plastic tumours of Lebert, constituting, as he observes, tumours perhaps of the consistence of firm brain; often blotched with red, and very difficult to distinguish from cancer, except by mici'oscopic examination. A specimen which the author recently saw extirpated by Professor Fergusson, and which had returned after a previous operation, was of the colour and consistence of kidney, and afFoi'ded most brilliant examples of large many-nucleated mother-ceils.—^Hee Fih^o-plastic Tumours. 5. Fibrous tumours {Osteosarcoma); dense and homogeneous ; con- taining bony spicula. 6. Encysted tumours; which, when situated within, or in front of the bone, have doubtless been more than once mistaken for enlarged antrum. Such tumours may contain glairy matter, and not seldom teeth, and probably consist of tooth capsules, unnaturally developed. 7. Cancer affects the upper jaw more frequently than it does any other bone, and constituted 10'35 cases of cancer of the bones collected by Lebert, The symptoms of any one of these growths--which may be de- veloped in the gums, peiiosteum, alveoli of the teeth, or in the cancellous substance of the bone, or in the antrum—are manifested by a tumour bulging the cheek in front ; which may increase, depress the roof of the mouth, and loosen the teeth ; protrude into the nosti il, and beneath the base of the skull into the pharynx;' lift up the floor of the orbit and displace or compress the eye ; and so, if allowed to remain, may render life odious by deformity, and at last put an end to it by inter- fering with breathing, or swallowing, or by compressing the brain. The diagnosis, which is important, is between the growths of local character, which if thoroughly extirpated, do not return, and cancer. Slowness of growth ; freedom from pain; an equable and firm con- sistence of the swelling; the skin moveable over it; ulcei'ation of any projecting part within the mouth, if it exists, superficial, not fungating nor bleeding, nor yielding a copious, thin, fetid discharge ; the tumour not affecting the general health, otherwise than by the inconvenience necessarily attached to its situation and bulk—these are the indications of a fibrous, or other non-cancerous growth. On the contrary, rapid growth, early cachexia, grinding pain, early loss of teeth, bleeding fungous growths projecting from their sockets, or into the nose or * Med. Times, 18tb May, 1850. D 2 1TUMOURS OF THE JAW-BONE. 482 pharynx (where they may be felt by passing the fingers up behind the velum pendulum), and implication and adhesion of neighbouring parts, give the best grounds for pronouncing the growth cancerous. Treatment.—For all these tumours, excepting decided and rapidly- growing cancers, extirpation as early as possible is the remedy. In cases of cysts, however, attached to the front of the bone, it suffices to lay them freely open, by removing their anterior wall. The student who desires to understand, and the surgeon who proposes to execute, this operation, may naturally divide it into two parts ; first, the incisions through the soft parts necessary for laying bare the tumour ; and, secondly, the division of those processes of bone necessary for detaching it afterwards. The great experience of Mr. Fergusson has enabled him very materially to abridge the incisions through the soft parts. In the case of a very small tumour, it may be perfectly possible to remove it through the mouth ; but if this opening be in- sufficient, Mr. Fergusson cuts through the upper lip exactly in the middle line, and carries the incision into the nostril. By thus availing himself of the natural expansion of the nostrils, he gains as much room as by a much larger incision from the angle of the mouth, and there is less bleeding at the time, and less deformity afterwards. If, however, the tumour requires more room for its removal, the incision just de- scribed must be carried up between the ala of the nose and the cheek, to within half an inch of the eye; probably another from the angle of the mouth to the zygoma; possibly another at right angles to this. After this the operator must dissect up the flap of the cheek, large or small, from the tumour, so as to lay it quite bare; and, in so doing, the infraorbital artery and nerve will probably be divided. The next step of the operation consists in the division of the various attachments of the tumour, and in removing it. If circumscribed and seated in the fiont wall of the antrum, it may be sawn round and de- tached by forceps, without removing the alveoli; otherwise the surgeon begins by extracting an incisor on the one side, and a bicuspid or molar tooth on the other side of it, and by cutting through with his bistoury the gum and mucous membrane covering the bone at the parts where separation is to be effected. Perhaps he may turn the membrane back in flaps, so as to save as much as possible of the soft parts of the roof of the mouth. Then he cuts through the bone with curved bone forceps ; or, if necessary, he grooves the bone above and on either side with small saws of various sizes and shapes, sawing quite through the alveolar processes, and completing the separation of the tumour with the cutting bone forceps. But let us suppose that the tumour is large, and requires the re- moval of the body of the superior maxillary bone, but not the malar or floor of the orbit. If the student examines a skull, he will see that the bones which require to be divided are these:—viz., first, the horizontal palatine plates of the superior maxillary and palatine bones, with the alveoli corresponding to the incisor teeth. This (after the ' alveoli are sawn through) may be done with a saw, or by means ofFISSURE OF THE PALATE. 483 bone forceps, one blade being introduced into the nostrils, the other into the mouth. Secondly, the body of the superior maxilla must be sawed horizontally across just below the orbit, and the severance be completed as before by forceps ; and lastly, the tumour must be grasped most firmly with a strong pair of clawed forceps used by Mr. Fergusson (the Lion Forceps), and must be forcibly wrenched from its attachment to the pterygoid plates of the sphenoid ; and so it may be removed. Again, let us suppose that the entire bone is so implicated that the whole of it, including the floor of the orbit, must be extirpated; then, in addition to the division of the hard palate as before, the ascending nasal process must be cut through at the level of the orbit, and the malar bone likewise at its middle. If the malar bone requires to be removed as well, the zygoma, and the process which unites it with the frontal, must be divided. The contents of the orbit must be separated by careful dissection, and be held up with a bent spatula. When the processes of bone just mentioned have been cut through, the tumour must, as before, be forcibly moved, to separate it from the pterygoid and lachrymal bones, and dislodge it; the infraorbital nerve must be gently divided behind ; in all cases the soft palate should be left untouched; and an incision carried along in front of it to the last molar tooth, should be made at the beginning of the proceedings. During the operation, the common carotid may be compressed, to pre- vent haemorrhage. After it, the facial, and any other arteries that re- quire it, are to be tied, the chasm to be'filled with lint, and the wound closed with sutures.* IV. Fissure of the Palate.—As the upper lip may be fissured through defective development, so also may the various parts consti- tuting the hard and soft palate. In some cases the uvula merely is fissured ; in others, the cleft extends forwards as far as the lips, and may be combined with a hare-lip. The fissure in the hard and soft palates is invariably in the middle line, but when it extends forwards through the alveoli, it diverges somewhat to one side. In a few cases the fissure is double in front, so that it may, as a whole, be compared to the letter Y, the two lines in front having the pre-maxillary bones between them. This affection, when extensive, necessarily causes very great difficultv * See Fergusson's Practical Surgery, 3rd edit., p. 618; Listen on Tumours of the Face, Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xx.; Paget's Lectures, vol. li.; Henry Smith, Med. Times, April 17, 1852; E. G. H. Butcher, Dublin Quarterly Joum. Jled. Science, 1853.FISSURE OF THE PALATE. 484 in sucking and swallowing, and great risk of losing the child through starvation; if the child grows up, it causes a very serious impediment to distinct articulation. Treatment.—When the fissure of the palate is combined with hare- lip, and the gap extends from back to front entirely through the hard and soft palate and lip, the lip should be operated upon soon after birth, in the manner described when we spoke of hare-lip; and the observa- tions then made should be attended to, as to the saving and pushing together any projecting bone. During childhood, trusses should be worn to bring the edges of the bony fissure nearer together. If, however, the fissure at birth should be discovered to be in the soft parts only (as shown in the next cut), the surgeon may adopt M. Cloquet's plan of cauterizing the angle of the fissure for a very limited extent, and allowing it to cicatrize ; then repeating the operation again and again till the contraction following each cicatrization has closed the whole fissure. The cautery should be a small iron, at a black heat. M. Cloquet had tried this method upon four patients at the date of the publication of this paper, with success. The author is not aware that it has yet been adopted by any English surgeon, but hopes that this will soon be the case; as it will be a most important boon to patients, if their malady can be relieved during infancy, before they have acquired a defective mode of speaking, and so if they can be spared the misery which this deformity and the usual operation inflict upon them.*—See Canterij, in Part v., chap. iii. The method heretofore adopted has been to leave the patient to attain the age of puberty, and then to perform the operation of Staphyloraphy, or suture of the uvula. This is always a difficult, and in former days anything but a successful, operation, owing in great measure to the difficulty of preventing the flaps, when united, from being dragged asunder by the muscles. Mr. W. Fergusson, who for the first time carefully examined and dissected the malformpd parts, ascer- tained exactly what the forces and effects of the muscles really are, as follows:— It had been often remarked that the action of the muscles upon the edges of the fissures in the soft palate was difficult of explanation. If the defoi'med part is examined whilst perfectly quiescent, the gap is seen conspicuously, the lateral flaps are distinct, and the posterior nares, with the upper end of the pharynx, are observed above and behind them. If now the flaps are touched, they will in all probabi- lity be jerked upwards; and if they be still further irritated, each flap will be still more forcibly drawn upwards and outwards, so as hardly to be distinguishable from the rest of the parts forming the sides of the nostrils and throat. But, on the other hand, if the pharynx be irritated, and made to perform the act of deglutition, the margins of the fissures will be bi-ought together. Now it is easy to understand that the separation of the flaps must * See abstract of M. Cloquet's paper in Gaz. Med., March 3, 1855; Brit, and For. Med. Chir. Rev., July 1855 ; Ranking, Abstract, vol. xxi.485 FISSURE OF THE PALATE. be produced by the action of the palatine muscles, and also that this must occasion a very serious impediment to any operation for uniting them by adhesion; but the muscular action by which the pips are brought together was a mystery till Mr. Fergusson showed that it was caused by the upper semicircular border of the superior con- strictor muscle of the pharynx ; and to him is due the credit of pro- posing that the muscles which tend to separate the flaps should be neatly divided, and of showing what the muscles are, which really need to be divided, viz., the levator palati, and the palato-pharyngeus. The operation is thus described by Mr. Fergusson:—''^ With a knife whose blade is somewhat like the point of a lancet, the cutting edge being about a quarter of an inch in extent, and the flat surface being bent semicircularly, I make an incision, about half an inch long, on each side of the posterior nares, a little above and parallel to the pala- The patient should be intelligent and quiet; and not under 12 or 14. Iced water for gargling, so as to check the bleeding, should be at hand. The parts must be well dissected from the hard palate, by which means * From a preparation of Mr. Fergusson's in the King's College Museum. t " If care be taken, in dividing the levator palati, not to run the knife towards the upper and back part of the pharynx, there is no harm to be dreaded from the incision above described. Were the instrument carried far upwards and backwards, the internal carotid would be in danger; but if its point be pushed straight outwards and forwards, it will sink into the pterygoid fossa, and possibly divide the tensor palati muscle, where it can come in contact with the external pterygoid process only."—Fergusson's Pract. Surg., 3rd edit,, p. 612. tine flaps, and midway across a line straight downwards from the lower opening of the Eustachian tube, by which I divide the levator palati on both sides, just above its attachment to the palate. ]• Next I pare the edges of the fissure with a straight, blunt-pointed bistoury, removing little more than the mucous membrane; then, with a pair of long, blunt- pointed, curved scissors, I divide the posterior pillars of the fauces, imme- diately behind the tonsil, and, if it seems necessary, cut across the ante- rior pillar too; the wound in each part being about a quarter of an inch in extent. Lastly, stitches are introduced by means of a curved needle set in a handle; and the threads being tied, so as to keep the cut edges of the fissure accu- rately in contact, the operation is completed."486 FISSURE OF THE PALATE, all tension will be taken off, and the sides of the fissure will fall loosely togetlier, and the stitches may be now applied. It is highly important that a sufficient number of stitches be introduced. The greatest strain will be generally at the anterior extremity of the fissure, where the soft parts are most firmly connected with the bones. The stitches are introduced by means of a curved needle set in a handle. " The point of the instrument, armed with a small smooth thread, is passed from below upwards about a quarter of an inch from the cut margin of the fissure, and made to appear in the middle of the gap, when the thread is seized with forceps, drawn three or four inches out of the mouth, and then the needle is withdrawn. A similar manoeuvre is followed on the opposite side." Thus there is a double thread through each side of the fissure. One thread, C, is now pulled through ; one end of it put into the loop of the other thread; when, by pulling A B, C will be of swelling, will make all secure. After the operation has been finished, the patient must be kept perfectly quiet. It is better that the patient should not take anything for some hours after the opera- tion until the parts have become somewhat quiet; but then bread soaked in milk, or in good beef-tea, which has some pounded meat mixed with it, should be given, so as to supply good plastic material. Enemata of beef-tea may be of service. The surgeon need not be in any great hurry to remove the stitches. Mr. Fergusson, in his early operations, was in the habit of taking them away on the second day after the operation, but latterly he has permitted them to remain longer. " It is better, in my opinion, to let the threads remain several days too long than that they should be moved a minute too early. Usually I take one or two stitches away on the third or fourth day, and on the fifth or sixth remove them all. It is better, I think, to take them out at intervals than all at once."* It must be remarked that many surgeons think that the division of the muscles in the above-described manner, does not offer any particular advantages over free lateral incisions, parallel with the edges of the cleft. * See Fergusson's Practical Surgery, Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xxviii.; Medical Times, Nos. 3S8 and 389 ; Lond. Journ. of Medicine, Jan. 1849 ; and some suc- cessful cases by Mr. Gay, Lancet, Feb. 19, 1853. iD drawn through the other side. This manoeuvre, which is of great use in all plastic operations in deeply-seated parts, is ascribed to Mr. Avery. " Two, three, four, or five threads, of different colours for distinction' sake, are intro- duced in this way, and then, after the cut margins of the flaps are sponged free of blood and mucus, the various threads are fastened." The knot shown in the next cut is a good way ot bringing the edges together ; a double- reef knot, not too tight, so as to allow487 TUMOUKS OP THE LOWER JAW. Fissure in the antei-ior part of the bony palate may be left, after the fissure in the soft parts behind has been closed. As we have before said, during growth, whilst the bones are pliable, the maxillary bones should be pressed together by means of a truss worn daily for some hours. At puberty, relief may be further attempted by means of an operation first proposed by Dr. J. M. Warren, of Boston (called urano-plastic, from ovpavos, a vault). This consists in paring off the tissues from the bones on each side of the fissure, in two lateral flaps, and stitchmg these together in the middle line. The late Mr. Avery, whose patience and mechani- cal ingenuity admirably fitted him for operations of this nature, was very suc- cessful in closing fissures in the front of the palate, as the writer had opportu- nities of witnessing, Mr. Pollock has also operated successfully.* If no operation can be done success- fully, the last resource is an obturator, or, in plain English, a plug, of gold or caoutchouc, to close the aperture. But this should not be used during growth, otherwise it will hinder any natural process of recovery; and if too large a plug be used, it will cause absorption of the palate, and make the evil worse. V. Tumours of the Lower Jaw may be of any of the varieties which affect the upper jaw, but cancer is not so frequent. Their dis- tinctive characters have been before detailed. Free extirpation is the remedy; and in this, as well as in the case of tumours of the upper jaw, Mr. Fergusson advises the incisions to be carried in such directions as shall cause the least subsequent deformity ; and states his beUef that any portion, or even the whole of the bone, may be taken away without cutting the margin of the lip ; by which means the cicatrix will be less conspicuous, and bleeding from the labial artery will be saved. Mr. Syme adopts the same course. The incisions are carried along, parallel to the horizontal or ascending ramus, and are made so long that the tumour may be thoroughly exposed when the flap is raised. If the tumour is large, and situated near the middle of the bone, it must be laid bare as we have just described. A tooth must be ex- tracted on each side of the tumour: next, the bone may be sawn half through perpendicularly on each side, and then be divided completely by the straight cutting forceps, one blade being passed up on the inner side of the bone, and the othei- placed in the groove made by the saw ; and lastly, the parts attached to the inner side of the bone must be * Pollock, Med. CMr, Trans., 1856.TUMOUKS OF THE LOWER JAW. 488 cautiously divided ; namely, the digastric, mylo-hyoid, genio-hyoid, and genio-hyo-glossus muscles. When the attachments of these muscles are divided, care must be taken not to let the tongue retract into the throat, which might push back the epiglottis and cause suffocation. To prevent this, a ligature may be passed through the tip of the tongue, by which it may be held forwards during the operation, and which may be fastened to the twisted suture by which the wound is after- wards to be closed. If, however, the disease is not so very extensive, it may not he necessary to sacrifice the whole thickness of the bone, but a horizontal portion of the base of the bone may be saved, which will prevent the chin from falling in after the operation. In order to effect this, the bone may be sawn downwards for half its depth on each side of the tumour, and a horizontal cut be made below it; and then the diseased portion be separated completely with the cutting pliers. If a lateral portion is to be removed, an incision should be made along the basis of the bone, to its posterior angle, and up behind the ascending ramus. Thus a flap is formed, which may be turned up so as to furnish a good view of the tumour, and then the bone is to be divided as before described. If the extent of the disease renders it necessary to remove the entire side of the bone, and to separate it from its articulation with the temporal, the operator must begin by making a curved incision from beneath the ear, along the basis of the jaw to the chin. The flap so formed is to be dissected up, and the masseter with it; an incisor tooth is to be removed, and the bone to be sawn vertically through; the end is next seized and depressed, and the tempoial muscle dis- sected from the coi onoid process; the pterygoid muscles and other internal attachments are then to be divided, and finally the ligaments of the joint. Whilst effecting the disarticulation of the condyle, the point of the knife should be kept close to the bone, so as to avoid all risk of wounding the external carotid artery. After bleeding has been restrained, the wound is to be closed by sutures, excepting at the middle, where an aperture should be left for the ligatures, and to per- mit the escape of discharge. The salivary ducts and facial nerves divided in these operations may be left to themselves; the muscular power of the face is usually recovered, and the saliva finds a channel into the mouth.* VI. Necrosis of portions of the jaws is occasionally the result of mechanical violence, carious teeth, or violent salivation ; but of late years a new source of this disease has been detected in phosphorus. This when imbibed by persons employed in lucifer match manufacto- * See Listen's Elements of Surgery, and Practical Surgery, 2nd edition; Guthrie, in Med. Gaz., vol. xvii.; Brodie, ibid., vol. xv.; Listen on Tumours of the Face in Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xx. ; Bell on the Teeth; Johson en the Teeth; and Fergussen's Practical Surgery. Diseases of the lower jaw requiring amputation have been caused by a projection anteriorly ef the coronoid process, which hindered the evolution of the wisdom tooth.—Ferbes's Rev., vol. viii.AFFECTIONS OF THE MOUTH AND TONGUE. 489 ries, especially if they have carious teeth, may cause inflammation of the periosteum, with thickening and infiltration, followed by inflamma- tion and abscess, and resulting in necrosis of a portion of bone with extensive sloughing of the soft parts around. The health is much broken down ; the discharge particularly fetid and copious. " With loss of appetite, sallow countenance, and feeble circulation," says Mr. Stanley, "the first indication of the disease is usually toothache, fol- lowed by the dropping out of the teeth, more especially of the grinders, and then by the death of a portion of the jaw." There is no reparation subsequently as in common necrosis. Treatment.—In the earliest stage, free incisions through the gums and thickened periosteum ; when necrosis has taken place, deodorizing lotions copiously applied; meat beaten to a pulp, and other nourishing food; loose portions to be removed as soon as detached.* VII. Closure of the Jaws, with more or less inability to open the mouth and to masticate solid food, may be a result of disease of the bone implicating the joint; or of rigid cicatrices within the mouth, produced after sloughing, whether caused by drinking boiling water, or by the profuse administration of mercury. The division of any rigid bands of cicatrices, the division of the masseter muscles by subcutaneous section, a narrow knife being thrust from the mouth between the muscle and the skin, an operation which has been successfully per- formed by Mr. Fergusson, and the use of a screw dilator, are the only available remedies. SECTION IV.—AFFECTIONS OF THE MOUTH AND TONGUE. 1. Tumours of almost every kind, including cartilaginous, glandu- lar, vascular, and serocystic, may be found in the cheeks, but the com- monest are encysted tumours, containing a glairy liquid. They may project on the inner surface of the lips, or may exist under the tongue, where such tumours are known by the tei-m ranula. It was formerly supposed that ranula depended on obstruction of the Whartonian sali- vary duct; but this is not the case. These tumours should be ti'eated in the first place by simple free incision, or by cutting out a piece of the sac. Should this not suffice, the interior may be touched with lunar caustic, or a small seton be passed through it, to cause it to sup- purate and waste away; or the cyst, if loosely attached, may be dis- sected out. When ranula has existed long, it may increase greatly and form a tumour of very considerable size, pushing the tongue over to the other side, or up to the roof of the mouth, interfering very seriously with speech, deglutition, and even respiration, not allowing the mouth to be closed, projecting under the jaw, and even, as in a case related by Mr. Mayo, of Winchester, reaching down between the sterno-mastoid muscle and trachea to the clavicle. The contents of such cysts become mortar- * See Stanley on the Bones, and a Lecture by Mr. Simon, Lancet, 12th Jan. 1850.490 AFFECTIONS OP THE TONGUE. like, or almost solid, and the cysts themselves thickened and closely- adherent to the surrounding parts, so as not to be detached without great bleeding. In any such case, if the tumour is too large to be ex- tirpated, or its contents too solid to be removed by an incision within the mouth, an incision must be made in the middle line beneath the jaw, between the muscles which pass from the jaw to the hyoid bone; or wherever else it is most superficial. The contents must be removed ; as much of the cyst as can be detached, be cut off; and the remainder left to suppurate. Mr. Mayo fills the remainder of the cyst with lint dipped in turpentine, both to check bleeding and to cause the cyst to be quickly thrown off.* II. Tongue-tie signifies a prolongation of the fraenum linguse, con- fining the apex of the organ to the lower jaw. It is usually detected by the difficulty which the infant has in sucking; and may easily be relieved by dividing the frasnum with a blunt-pointed pair of scissors, taking c^re to direct their points downwards, and to keep as close to the lower jaw as possible, so as to avoid the lingual artery. III. Wounds of the tongue are liable to be attended with severe haemorrhage from the lingual artery or from veins. If the bleeding orifice cannot be tied or controlled by acupressure, one or more ligatures must be introduced with curved needles, so as to include and constrict the bleeding parts, or a heated iron may be applied. Children are apt to inflict very severe bites, even sometimes almost biting off the end of the tongue. The author has treated several such by leaving them entirely to nature. He has known surgeons put themselves to very great trouble to introduce sutures, but the patient fared none the better. IV. Inflammation of the tongue, known by great swelling, ten- derness, and difficulty of speaking, and of deglutition; generally ac- companies severe salivation; but it may occur in an acute form inde- pendently of this cause. It must be treated by purgatives and gargles; by leeches, incisions, and the antiphlogistic regimen generally, if neces- sary. If abscess form, the fluctuating part should be opened- Ab- scesses which form under the tongue may cause suffocation by their pressure on the glottis: an incision beneath the chin, through the mylo-hyoid muscle is the only resource.f V. Hypertrophy.—Enlargement, without tenderness or structural disease, sometimes affects the tongue, causing it to protrude permanently from the mouth. It is usually the result of an attack of acute inflam- mation, which has caused the tongue to protrude. On this point the * Mr. Mayo's case, Lancet, 1847, i. 667; also Fergusson's Pract. Surg., 3rd edit., p. 599. -j- Sometimes the tongue enlarges suddenly to an immense size, so as almost to cause suffocation, but without any symptoms of inflammation, properly so called. A case which proved fatal, in spite of bleeding, leeching, calomel, and incisions, is related by Mr. Lyford, of Winchester, in the Lancet for 1828, p. 16; a similar case, cured by purgatives and incision, by Mr. Taynton, Med. Gaz., vol. xii., who speaks of it as the only case he had seen in a practice of forty years; and one by Mr. Collins (ib., p. 642), in a pregnant woman, cured by an incision in the raphe on the under surface.491 AFFECTIONS OF THE TONGUE, author believes the following case will supply a practical hint. He was some time since consulted in a case in which the tongue had protruded largely from the mouth, in consequence of severe salivation. He found that the continuance of the protrusion was owing, first, to the impaired function of the recently-inflamed organ; and, secondly, to some amount of constriction by the teeth ; but gentle pressure easily caused it gradu- ally to return into the mouth. Had it been left to itself it might, to all appearance, have remained protruded for ever. Hence, in all such cases, the surgeon should replace the tongue, as soon as the acutest stage of inflammation has passed, and should not wait for it to go in of itself. Treatment.—Steady compression should be first tried, by compress and bandage. Should this fail, a ^-shaped piece should be removed, by the ecraseur. VI. Ulceration of the tongue presents many varieties. One of the commonest is that which arises from the irritation of decayed teeth, and is usually soon cured by removing the cause, and using aperients and an astringent gargle. A more troublesome sort begins with aphthous spots on the tongue or any other part of the inside of the mouth, which produce excessively irritable and tedious ulcers in suc- cession. Aperients and tonics, and the application of nitrate of silver, or lin. teruginis are the remedies. Secondary and tertiary syphilis are also liable to cause ulcers here ; which are to be recognized by the his tory of the patient, and by the benefit probably derivable from sarsa- parilla with iodide of potassium. VH. Cancer of the tongue usually soon produces a deep excavated ulcer, which will be distinguished from either of the simpler kinds by its having been preceded by nodular enlargement, and by pain and embarrassment in the use of the organ. In the case of the late Bransby Cooper, neuralgia of the right side of the neck and face was the first symptom ; followed by difficulty of swallowing and articula- tion, fetid breath, and loss of flesh. Death occurred from arterial hemorrhage in ten months. There was found a deep excavation at the root of the tongue ; the tissues around, as well as the muscles about the OS hyoides and some adjoining lymphatic glands, infiltrated with cancer. VIII. Epithelioma of the tongue may be scarcely less fatal than cancer, from which it may be difficult to distinguish it except by microscopical examination. A typical case of it occurred in the person of the late Professor John Reid, of St. Andrew's. His age was 39, and health good. In December 184-7, he noticed a small ulcer on the right side of the tongue ; it slowly extended and acquired hard everted edges, but caused little inconvenience. In July 1848, it had attained the size of a five-shilling piece; its surface and edge were ragged, and it caused considerable pain, especially at night. A hard ridge could be felt all round the ulcer, and glands enlarged beneath the jaw. The health, by the end of August, had completely given way from the pain, when the diseased part of the tongue was excised by Mr. Fergusson. In less than a month the wound had healed, and the health was re-AFFECTIONS OF THE TEETH AND GUMS. 492 established. In November the enlarged glands were removed by Dr. Duncan. The disease returned in the cicatrices of the wounds, and spread chiefly in the upper part of the neck. Death occurred in July 1849. The diseased part of the tongue and the gland, which were excised, were infiltrated with epithelium. Paget observes, however, that a col- lection of epithelium may form deep in the tissues of this organ, without any primary changes of its surface. Treatment.—In any such cases, and in the case of any ulcer, when the failure of all treatment gives room for suspicion, free and early ex- tirpation should be performed, by means of the e'craseur. Amongst palliative measures the application of ice may be found useful. The cases ot these two eminent members of the profession present a subject for useful comparison. The epithelioma was here quite as malignant as the cancer. Yet diseases, though equally fatal, should not be confounded, if their anatomical elements are distinct.* SECTION V.—AFFECTIONS OF THE TEETH AND GUMS. I. Lancing of the Gums of children may be performed for two reasons. If the gum is swelled, inflamed, and tender, whether or not a tooth be quite ready to come through, a free incision may be made with a fine lancet, for the purpose of letting blood flow. But if it is tightly stretched over a tooth, which is bursting through, the incision should be carried down to and all along the tooth, so as to release it entirely. In either case a sharp and pointed instrument should be used, to be thrust in with its back to the tooth, and made to cut its way out. The common gum lancets are blunt and butcherly. II. Irregularity of the Permanent Teeth is a consequence of contracted and ill-formed jaw-bones. If either of the canine teeth or of the incisors of either jaw project much, the patient should be taught perpetually to endeavour to push it back into its proper position with his fingers. But if at the age of fourteen or fifteen this method has not succeeded, and the teeth are much crowded, the projecting tooth may be removed, although in many cases it is better to sacrifice one of the bicuspides to make room for it. If a growing child is underhung, so that the under incisors come in front of the upper ones when the mouth is shut, or so that the teeth meet at the cutting edges, instead of the lower teeth being received within the upper, the child should be encouraged daily to push the upper teeth forwards with its tongue and fingers r and should frequently put the end of a spoon-handle behind the upper incisors, and then close the mouth, using the spoon as a lever to press the upper teeth forwards and the lower ones backwards. But if these simple means do not succeed, recourse should be had to the appliances used by professional dentists.f * For Dr. Reid's case, see Hughes Bennett on Cancer, &c.; Arnott. Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xxii. The author has to thank Mr. Birkett and Mr. Avery for some particulars of Mr. Cooper's case. f A good accomit of which will be found in Tomes's Lectures on Dental Sui-gery.493 CARIES OF TEETH. The wisdom teeth, especially in the lower jaw, are extremely liable to be misplaced, growing directly outwards or inwards, and producing ulceration of the cheek or tongue; or projecting forwards against the peighbouring molar, or backwards into the coronoid process, or even being contained within a tumour in the substance of that process. Tumours of either jaw may likewise arise from mal-deveiopment of either of the other teeth. III. Fracture and Dislocation op Teeth.—If a portion of a tooth is broken off', without exposing the pulp cavity, the exposed surface should be filed smooth, and then no inconvenience will pro- bably follow. If it is snapped off' at the neck, and the pulp cavity is exposed and very painful, it should be touched with lunar caustic, and the mouth be frequently bathed with strong poppy decoction; and when pain and tenderness have ceased, an ailificial tooth may be fastened by a pivot to the stump. If, however, the loot of the tooth is loosened by inflamination, it had better be extracted at once. If a tooth is loosened by a blow, it should be fastened by silk to its neighbours. If a tooth is entirely di'iven out, it should be replaced as soon as bleed- ing has ceased, and be fastened in by silk; no food should be allowed that requires mastication, and inflammation should be combated by re- peatedly leeching the gum. IV. Caries of Teeth signifies a successive softening and decay, gradually spreading till it reaches the central cavity of the tooth, which from that time is subject to fits of toothache. It depends on original imperfect foi'mation of the enamel and bone, especially in scrofulous and ill-nui'tured persons, and may further be promoted by any circumstances which lower the general health. It is very fre- quently a consequence of pregnancy, and of nursing; it may follow any serious illness, or loss of strength, or the abuse of mercury. It is rank nonsense to allege that it may be caused by steel or acids used as tonics, or by any abrasion or loss of enamel. It is as truly a con- stitutional disease as phthisis or scrofula. The author has seen the four upper incisors quite rotten in a scrofulous child at thirteen months. Treatment.—The whole of the decayed portion should be I'emoved, and the cavity be filled up with gold, or an amalgam of silver and mercury, or of silica and gutta percha. If the decay has laid open the pulp cavity, it may be necessary first to use some applications, under which the pulp may heal up and close over by bone, or at least may get into such a state as to yield no discharge ; for it is of no use to stop a tooth if there is any secretion of purulent matter from the pulp underneath. The best application seems to be creosote, inserted into the pulp cavity on a little bit of cottonwool, and over that another bit of cotton w^ool dipped in mastic varnish, F. 183. This will require to be changed once in two or three days, till all discharge ceases. But if the pulp continue irritable, tender, or bleeding, it will be necessary to deaden it with a little fragment of nitrate of silver, or to destroy it by a minute quantity of arsenic. After this, which is not494 TOOTHACHE. a painful process, the cavity may be again dosed with creosote, till it ceases to discharge. Then it may be stopped by some gutta percha and silica; and lastly, comes one of the neatest processes of scientific dentistry. A fine hole may be bored through the gum into the pulp cavity. Should any discharge foim in that cavity, it will drain out of this aperture, and thus a tooth with the pulp destroyed may continue useful for years. A great deal may be done yet, to abridge the sufferings of children, by looking after caries of the milk teeth. These should be stopped by some varnish on wool to protect them from the food. There is a prejudice against extracting any of the first set of teeth in children, however carious, on the supposition that the jaw might become contracted, and the permanent teeth crowded. Mr. Tomes tells the author that this fear is groundless. These teeth certainly should not be extracted needlessly : but it is better to do so than to allow them to cause much pain, or gum-boils; or to tempt the child to bolt his food from the pain of chewing it. Every case in which teeth decay with rapidity, should be looked upon as requiring medical treatment; and in particular the admin- istration of cod-liver oil, steel, bone-dust, &c.: F. 201. V. Toothache.—(1.) Inflammation of pulp. When the tooth- pulp has been laid bare, it is liable to injury from food which may be forced right down into the fang, or from hot, or cold, or acrid liquids; and will inflame likewise from cold, errors in diet, or anything else that disorders the general health. The pain is most agonizing; the tooth becomes exquisitely tender ; then it rises in its socket from infiltration of the soft tissues there; the periosteum and gum swell and inflame, and if the case goes on, suppuration occurs in the socket and outside it, and an abscess forms. Treatment.—If the tooth is useless it had better be extracted at once ; if likely to be useful, the cavity should be cleared of foreign substances, and then be treated with creosote as above. If the patient is feverish, and the tongue foul, a dose of calomel and colocynth, broth diet, and warm fomentations will do good; so also will washing out the mouth with a tumbler of hot water containing a teaspoonful of bi-carbonate of soda. There aie other measures too, such as a leech ; an incision of the gum on either side of the tooth, down to the bone; solution of tannin in ether, or of camphor in chloi'oform, or of alum in nitric ether; the use of pellitory chewed, &c. 2. Irritable gum.—The gum between a decayed tooth and its neigh- bour, may become spongy and swelled, and excessively sensitive ; giving rise to a very wearing kind of toothache; and causing excruciating pain if a portion of the food happens to be pressed down upon it. This may be reheved by a deep incision through the swollen gum, and the use of tannin gargle, of pellitory chewed, and of aperients, F. 34, 35. 3. Neuralgia—Whether it occurs in teeth that are entirely sound, or partially carious, is to be distinguished by its occurring in pa- roxysms which come and go suddenly, in more or less regular intervals.495 EXTRACTION OF TEETH. It is very common in the earlier months of pregnancy, and other conditions of disordered health. Treatment.—Quinine in large doses, together with aperients and alteratives, are the most successful remedies. 4. Rheumatic toothache,—flying about the jaw, and affecting several teeth in turns, is not relieved by extraction, so much as by blue pill and aperients, with small doses of colchicum, followed by the muriate of ammonia, in half-drachm doses, every four hours, or the iodide of potassium with bark.* 5. Either of these conditions may lead to a thickening of the fang by bony deposit.. It sometimes occurs on teeth that are perfectly sound, but more generally on carious teeth, or stumps. The tooth is tender, long, and aches obstinately. The excessive pain of this affection is in general only to be relieved by extraction. VI. Necrosis of Teeth.—A tooth is said to be necrosed when it has become black and unsightly, and loose in its socket. This affec- tion may be caused by blows which have torn across the nutrient vessels, or by inflammation of the pulp (perhaps from the abuse of mercury). Extraction must be performed, if the tooth cause imflam- mation or other inconvenience. VII. Extraction of Teeth.—Nothing which relieves human suffering ought to be slighted or despised. No wise surgeon therefore will fail to make himself acquainted with the way of pulling out teeth * Vide Dr. Watson's Lectures, Lect. 39.496 EXTRACTION OF TEETH. with dexterity. It is an operation which is easily performed by any one who has the proper instruments, and uses them with ordinary care ; and it is one which if unskilfully or carelessly performed may lead to very serious results, to say nothing of the suffering which it inflicts. We beg the reader, therefore, to study well the construction of the instruments employed, and to practise with them on the dead body, before he tries his hand on the living. They are the forceps, the ele- vator, and the key. 1. The forceps is the instrument that is now generally employed by dentists. It should be made with sharp edges, so that it may be pushed up between the tooth and the gum, and should seize the tooth by its neck, close to the alveolus. For this purpose, also, the jaws of the instrument should be made to incline towards each other in such a way, that they may slip up and embrace the neck of the tooth accurately when the handles are pressed together; and they should be ground in such a manner that they may be adapted accurately to the shape of each tooth. For this purpose the surgeon will require seven sets of instruments. One instrument is required for the left upper molar (fig. ]), and one for the right (fig. 2), because of the peculiar conformation of those teeth. One will serve for the lower molars of either side (fig. 3) ; one will serve for any single-fanged tooth of the upper jaw (fig, 4), and one for any single-fanged tooth of the lower jaw (fig. 5). Stumps in the upper jaw may be extracted with497 EXTKACTION OF TEETH. the instrument fig. 6, and those in the lower jaw with fig. 7. The instruments here depicted were devised by Mr. Tomes some years since, and are made by Evrard, who lives opposite the Middlesex In extracting teeth by the forceps, there are two things to be done ; first, to loosen the tooth, and then to jmll it straight cut. In extracting the incisors and canines of the upper jaw, they may first be loosened by giving them a gentle twist, combined with a slight rocking motion, and then maybe pulled perpendicularly downwards with a slight inclination backwards. The incisors and canines of the lower jaw are to be loosened by giving them a firm but gentle motion backwards and forwai-ds, and then may be pulled straight up. The bicuspides and molars are to be loosened by moving them from side to side, so as to make the alveolar process yield a little, and then they may be pulled perpendicularly, up- wards or downwards, as the case may be. The operator should grasp the forceps firmly, in such a manner that it may move altogether with his D 2 K498 INFLAMMATORY SOFTENING OF THE GUMS. hand; but yet not so forcibly as to run the risk of crushing tlie tooth. 2. The elevator is highly useful for stumps, and for old straggling teeth. The point is to be thrust firmly down between the tooth and its socket, and then by bringing the instrument into a horizontal position, and making a fulcrum of the edge of the alveolar process, or of the adjoining tooth, or of the operator's fingei's, the tooth may be lifted out. 2. The key is an instrument that is often employed for the ex- traction of the bicuspides and molars; but it is more painful than the forceps, and every one must know instances of laceration of the gum, and splintering of the alveoli, followed, perhaps, by tedious exfoliation, that have been produced by the clumsy use of this instru- ment; not to mention the risk of the claw slipping from the decayed tooth and dragging out a sound one instead. If, however, it is pre- ferred, care should be taken to select an instrument of proper size, and to place the fulcrum in a proper position. If the key is too small, and the fulcrum too high, very probably the ciown of the tooth will be snapped off. If the key is too large, and the fulcrum too low, either the claw of the instrument may be snapped across, or the alveolar process be exten- sively splinteied. The adjoining figui'e is intended to show the right position, which will draw the tooth more or less perpen- dicularly from its socket. The fulcrum ought to be placed on the inner side, for the bicuspides of the lower jaw, and mo- lars of the upper; and on the outer side for the molars of the lower jaw. The denies sapienticB of the upper jaw should never, according to Be.ll, be extracted with the key, because of the delicate texture of the bone on which the fulcrum must rest. Before extracting teeth with the key, it is usual to cut away the gum from their necks by means of a gum lancet; a practice only necessary if the gum has been subject to repeated inflammation, which renders it ad- herent to the tooth, and liable to be lacerated on its removal; or secondly, in order to afford room for the claw, if the tooth has decayed down to the gum. Some persons, instead of using a lancet, separate the gum by means of a small tenaculum. VIII. H/EMORRHAGE after Extraction of Teeth.—This operation may be followed by very severe and dangerous hfemorrhage, which sometimes appears to come from the dental artery at the bottom of the socket; sometimes from the gums, when they have been long diseased. The cavity must be cleared of all coagulum ; and be cleanseti with a bit of lint dipped in solution of alum. Should this not answer,499 INFLAMMATION OF THE TONSIL. the alveolus must be plugged in the following way: One end of a long thin strip of lint is to be firmly pressed into it, so as to come into con- tact with its very bottom, and the remainder in successive portions is to be forced in till the socket is filled up to the level of the gum. A compress should then be placed on the part, thick enough to be pressed upon by the antagonist teeth, and the mouth should be kept firmly closed by a bandage passing from under the chin to the vertex. . IX. Tartar, or salivary calculus, is an earthy matter deposited on the teeth from the saliva. It is found most abundantly on the superior molars and inferior incisors, obviously because those teeth are nearest the orifices of the salivary ducts. If suffered to accumulate, it causes inflam- mation and absorption of the gums, and gradual loosening of the teeth. Treatment.—The deposit of this substance is to be prevented by cleaning the teeth twice a day with a soft tooth-powder (precipitated chalk is the best) and a little soap, and by the use of a quill toothpick. The hairs of the tooth-brush should be soft, and not too closely set; so that they may penetrate the better into the interstices of the teeth. When any quantity of the tartar has accumulated, it should be removed by the scaling instruments. The edge or point of the instrument is to be introduced between the concretion and the gum, so as to detach the former in flakes ; in the meanwhile a finger or thumb, guarded with a towel, should be pressed firmly on the cutting edges of the teeth, so that they may not be loosened by the force necessarily employed. Sometimes a small portion of this substance is found sticking in the orifice of one of the salivary ducts, and creating great discomfort by its irritation. It may easily be removed. X. Inflammatory Softening and Absorption, vulgarly called scurvy of the gums, generally affects middle-aged or elderlv people, and may be a consequence of the accumulation of tartar, but more frequently depends on a congested state of the liver and bowels. The gums are swolleUj spongy, exceedingly tender, and subject to con- stant aching pain, and they bleed on the slightest touch. It" the disease proceeds, they separate from the teeth ; the alveoli gradually become absorbed, and the teeth loosen, and at last fall out. These consequences are sometimes speedy, and are attended with suppuration in the alveoli; but more frequently they are slow, the teeth dropping out one by one in the course of years. Treatment.—The gums should be unloaded by deep and free scari- fications and repeated leechings: the bowels should be well cleared bv a course of purgatives ; and gargles should be employed to correct the secretions of the mouth, and excite the vessels to contract. Whilst there is much pain and softness, the soothing gargle, F. 113. Subse- quently, recourse may be had to F. 109, 111, &c. XI. Gum-Boil {alveolar abscess, parulis) is a small abscess com- mencing in the socket of a tooth, and bursting through the gum, or sometimes through the cheek. It is usually caused by the irritation of a dead or carious tooth. In neglected cases, extensive exfoliation of the bone may follow.500 EPULIS. Treatment,—Fomentiitions; removal of the tooth, if much decayed ; and an incision as soon as mattei* can be detected. If the tooth is extracted soon, the sac of the abscess very often comes away with it. XII. Epulis signifies a fibro-plastic or fibrous tumour of the gum. It generally commences between two teeth, which it gradually sepa- rates, then loosens, and finally displaces, and may spread so as to involve several of them. Or it may begin on the free surface of the gum, internal or external, and may form a tumour flat, prominent, polypous, or pendulous. This tumour is indolent, painless, and of slow growth ; but it ought always to be extirpated without delay, because it is liable to increase, and might become the seat of offensive ulceration, to say nothing of the deformity and inconvenience which it occasions. * If possible, it must be cleanly shaved from the periosteum; but if necessary, the tooth on either side must be extracted, and the tumour entirely cut out. A portion of the alveolar process must be removed likewise, if necessary, in order to render the extirpation complete. A similar tumour is sometimes formed when a dead portion of the root of a tooth remains in its socket, and the gum has healed over it. The tumour should be entirely removed with the knife, and the ex- traneous body should be sought for, and be extracted, if possible. Cancerous tumours of the gums are exceeding rare ; they will, how- ever, be recognised by their rapid gi owth, and tendency to haemorrhage, * This cut represents an epulis, in a patient of Mr. H. Walton's; it had existed many years, and interfered with the movements of the tongue and use of the jaws, and so produced great emaciation.501 CHAPTER XV. SURGICAL DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE NECK. SECTION I.—SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE FAUCES, TONSILS, AND rVULA. 1. Acute Tonsillitis, Quinsy, or Inflammation of the Tonsil, is known by rapid swelling of the part, considerable throbbing pain ; deglutition difficult, perhaps impossible; headache, foul tongue, and fever. It must be treated by poultices, a dose of calomel followed by purgatives, inhalation of the steam of hot water, and gargles calculated to promote the secretion of saliva (F. 107). If the gland continue to swell, or if it occasion any embarrassment to the breathing, an incision should be made into it to unload the vessels, and give exit to matter. The tongue should be kept down with one forefinger, whilst a straight bistoury, wrapped round with lint except an inch and a half of its point, is plunged directly into tne tumour, and made to cut its way out towards the median line. Abscesses behind the pharynx require similar treatment. II. Chronic Enlargement of the Tonsil is a frequent sequel of inflammation, especially of reiterated catarrh in scrofulous children. It causes sundry inconveniences. The parts are liable to fiequent attacks of acute inflammation ; deglutition is impeded; the voice is rendered hoarse ; respiration is noisy and laborious, especially during sleep; the diseased state of mucous membrane is extremely liable to be continued into the ear, as we explained when treating of throat deafness, and to lead to disoi-ganization of the delicate structures in the tympanal cavity ; and suffocation has even been caused by viscid mucus entangled between the swollen glands. Treatment.—In the first place the system must be strengthened, and the secretions be kept up by proper tonics and alteratives. Steel, espe- cially the iodide, bark, cod-liver oil, or F. 87, 65, 41, 37, &c,, may be administered with benefit. At the same time contraction must be pro- moted by astringent gargles, F. 109, by swabbing the throat once a day with a lotion of arg. nit. ^j, aq.dest. ^^j., or liq. iodinii, and by apply- ing stimulating or ioduretted liniments to the skin. The method of swabbing is simple. A piece of sponge the size of a walnut must be put over the end of a stick, cane, or whalebone, in such a way that it completely covers the end of the stick ; and it must be firmly sewn or fastened on. The patient sitting, opens his mouth, and the surgeon having made the sponge to imbibe a solution of nitrate of silver, presses down the tongue with the left forefinger, introduces the sponge into the pharynx, and fairly swabs out every part of it. Inhalation of vapour is another remedy of the gi-eatest possible efficacy when the mucous membrane of the fauces, mouth, and tonsils502 CHRONIC ENLARGEMENT OF THE TONSILS. is flabby and swollen; as well as in the catarrhal rhinorrhoea, in throat deafness, and in coughs attended with copious expectoration. In order to inhale etiectually it is necessary to have some apparatus; and the essence of all such apparatus is, that they have one passage for introducing the external air below the sur- face of the liquid whose vapour is employed; another through which the patient can draw the air mixed with vapour into his mouth. The cheapest and most efficient inhaler the author is acquainted with is a simple double tube with mouthpiece, sold by G. Mawe, of Aldersgate Street. But, for the sake of the poor, he lecommends one to be made thus:— Take any large stone or glass bottle with a wide mouth, and a soft cork ; take two pieces of German glass tubing; bend the shorter one at an angle to serve as mouthpiece; put the ends into a gas flame, to melt off" any sharp edges; boi-e' the cork, by means of a ]-at's-tail file, with two holes for the tubes to pass thi'ough; put the necessary liquid into the bottle; insert the cork with the tubes, and the machine is ready for use. The most efficient vapours are evolved from boiling water, to which twenty drops of creosote, or the same of tincture of iodine, have been added. If these measures fail, and such an operation is deemed necessary, part of the gland should be removed with the knife—a much more ex-^ I)editious and cleanly method than the ligature. The surgeon seizes the tumour with a hook or forceps (depressing the tongue with its handle), then introduces a blunt-pointed curved bistoury, and shaves a thin slice off", cutting upwards, parallel to the isthmus faucium. The nearest half of the blade of the bistoury should be wrapped in lint, to prevent the lips from being cut; and in operating on the right side, the surgeon will find it most convenient to cross his hands, the left, holding the forceps, being undermost. Very little should be removed ; not only to avoid heemorrhage, but likewise because of the possible truth of Mr. Harvey's theory that removal of the tonsils interferes with the development of the genital organs. There are certain guillo- tine instruments which can also be very adroitly used for this purpose. Specimens of excised tonsils which the author has examined have been infiltrated with cells, most of them exactly resembling pus. III. Enlargement of the Uvula produces tickling cough and expectoration by irritating the larynx. If it does not yield to the treat- ment directed tor enlarged tonsil, it should be stretched and steadied with a Ibrceps, and be cut through the middle with a pair of long; scissors. Our design being to describe such affections only of these parts asDISEASES OF THE (ESOPHAGUS. 503 require surgical remedies, we must pass over the various other sorts of sore throat which are assigned to the physician; merely remarking that the affection which we have described as quinsy, is phlegmonous and deep, yet that the superficial and catarrhal inflammations require nearly similar treatment. SECTION II.—SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE PHARYNX AND (ESOPHAGUS. I. Spasm of the CEsophagus [spasmodic stricture) is known by its generally occurring in sudden fits—the patient at a meal finding himself altogether incapable of swallowing, and the attempt to do so producing spasmodic pain and a sense of choking. The diagnosis be- tween this and the organic ox permanent stricture is founded on the suddenness of its accession: it being much better at some times than at others; and the fact that the bougie, if passed, either meets with no obstruction, or with one that very easily yields. Treatment.—This affection always depends on a weakened or hyste- rical state of the system, or on the presence of some other disorder, as has been mentioned whilst treating of neuralgia. Brodie relates a case that ceased on the removal of bleeding piles; and Mayo another that was cured by relieving chronic disease of the liver. Tonics, antispas- modics, and alteratives, especially iron with aloes and galbanum at bed- time : exercise in the open air; the shower-bath, and other forms of warm and cold bathing ; great attention to the diet; care not to swal- low anything imperfectly masticated or too hot; and the occasional passage of a bougie, are the remedies. II. Palsy of the CEsophagus occasions inability of swallowing, but without pain or other symptoms of spasm ; and a bougie, when passed, meets with no obstruction. It generally depends on organic disease of the brain or spinal cord, which must be examined into and cured if possible. The patient should be fed by the stomach-pump, by nutrient enemata, and by pushing soft food occasionally down the oesophagus with a probang. The palsy has sometimes been tempora- rily relieved by electrifying the patient on an insulating stool. Nu- trient enemata should be composed of very strong beef or mutton broth, without salt or spice. The quantity injected at one time should not exceed four ounces ; and if the rectum does not retain it a few drops of laudanum should be adde>l. III. Dilatation and Sacculation.—The cesophagus has been found after death exceedingly dilated. The symptoms during life were great dysphagia,—food, when swallowed, never seemed to reach the stomach, and was vomited in a few minutes. If this condition should be ascertained during life, the patient should be fed as in palsy. Some- times a blind pouch is connected with the cesophagus, and occasions great distress in swallowing, by intercepting the food. It may be formed either by a protrusion of the mucous membrane through the muscular fibres, or by the sac of an abscess which has burst into theDISEASES OF THE (ESOPHAGUS. 504: tube- The only remedy is to feed the patient constantly with the stomach-pump, so that the pouch may be allowed to close, IV. Permanent Stricture of the oesophagus signifies a narrow- ing produced by a thickening of its coats, which form a firm ring, en- croaching on the canal. It is generally found just below the termina- tion of the pharynx ; that is, opposite the cricoid cartilage, and is most frequent in females. The symptoms are, difficulty of swallowing, noticed probably for years, gra- dually increasing ; never absent; and occasionally aggravated by fits of spasm. The act of swal- lowing frequently produces pain in the chest, which shoots be- tween the shoulders, and up to the head. When a bougie is passed, it meets with an obstruc- tion. The causes of this affection are generally unknown: some- times, however, it appears to be a sequel of repeated quinsy, or to be caused by swallowing boiling or corrosive liquids: in one case it appeared to be induced by vio- lent retching in sea-sickness. The prognosis is always serious, espe- cially if the complaint is of long duration. If unrelieved, its con,' sequences will be ulceration of the oesophagus, either above or below the stricture, with sali- vation, vomiting of purulent matter, and impossibility of de- glutition, which in no long time will be followed by death. The fatal termination may be owing either to sheer starvation, or to the iri'itation of the local disease, or the extension of ulceration to the lungs. Treatment.—A mild course of mercury, so as just to affect the gums ;—occasional leeching, to relieve exacerbations of pain or spasm : —hyoscyamus or conium, if there be much irritability ;—a seton be- tween the scapulas; and the occasional passage of a bougie, or of a hall prohang—an ivory ball attached to a piece of whalebone or flexible wire —or of a piece of sponge moistened with a weak solution of nitrate of silver, and attached to a stout copper wire, as recommended by Sir C. Bell, are the remedies. The method of introducing the bougie is as * This cut exhibits a stricture of the oesophagus. From the Museum of the Middlesex Hospital,DISEASES OF THE (ESOPHAGUS. 505 follows:—The patient sits upright, with the head thrown as far back as possible, and the mouth wide open. The bougie, which should be previously warmed in the hand and oiled, and gently curved, is passed down into the pharynx in such a manner that its point may slide along the vertebrae. In order that it may not excite cough by interfering with the epiglottis, the patient should be directed to protrude the tongue from the mouth as far as possible ; or to perform the act of deglutition just when the bougie is entering the pharynx. If it meets with an obstruction in its descent, the surgeon should slightly withdraw it, then again press it gently against the obstruction, increasing the pressure for a few minutes if it gives no pain. If it fail to pass, a smaller one should be tried. V. Ulceration.—" Simple but fatal ulceration," as Mayo correctly called it; that is to say, phagedcenic or corroding ulceration, without the pre-existence of epithelioma or of cancer (compare pp. 80, 113), is liable to affect the pharynx at the level of the cricoid cartilage, or the oesophagus lower down. If the finger or a bougie is passed, its point returns marked with bloody pus. The consequences are always the same ;—exhaustion from the irritation of the disease, and from the inability to swallow; or possibly a more speedy death from perforation of the aorta or of the pleura. VI. Epithelioma and Cancer also sometimes affect this part. The symptoms are alike : burning pain between the scapulae ; and dif- ficulty of swallowing. Treatment.—A deposit of hard cancer into the walls of the (eso- phagus will at first be scarcely distinguishable from stricture, and must be treated like it; but when burning pain indicates ulceration, then nutrient enemata, belladonna plasters to the back, opium, ice-cream, &c., should be used to relieve the pain; and a very careful diet, in- cluding eggs, meat beat to a pulp, and other nutriment of small bulk. VII. Tumours pressing on the oesophagus, whether abscesses, polypi, aneurisms, bronchocele, or enlargement of the bronchial lym- phatic glands, will produce all the symptoms of organic stricture. Aneurisms and abscesses have been burst by the passage of bougies—■ with, of course, instant death in the former case, and relief in the latter. Before performing this operation, therefore, the chest ought to be well scrutinized by auscultation, to detect any unnatural pulsation or hruit; and any signs of embarrassed circulation or respiration should not be overlooked. Polypus.—Cases are recorded of polypous tumours projecting into the pharynx or oesophagus.* VIII. Foreign Bodies, when fixed in the pharynx, or about the * Vide Sir E. Home on Strictures, vols. i. and ii.; Monro on the Morbid Anatomy of the Gullet, &c.; Brodie on Local Nervous Affections {spasmodic stricture)'^ Mayo's Pathology ; Stokes in Cyclop. Pract. Med., vol. ii.; and Sir C. Bell's Institutes of Surgery, vol. i.; Arrowsmith's case of Polypus in Oeso- phagus, Med. Gaz., N. S., p. 165. There is a case of congenital imperforate CEsophagus in the Musee Dupuytren, at Paris ; it was continuous with the trachea.506 (ESOPHAGOTOMY. aperture of the larynx, or in the oesophagus, produce a sense of choking, and fits of surtbeative cough. This accident, if unrelieved, may prove fatal in two manners. The patient may either be suffocated at once, by spasm of the glottis, or, if the foreign substance remains impacted, it may produce ulceration of the parts, attended with exhausting cough and dyspnoea, and profuse fetid expectoration. Treatment.—The patient should be seated in a chair, with the head thrown back, and the mouth wide open. The surgeon should then in- troduce his finger, and should pass it swiftly into the pharynx, and search the whole of it thoroughly. When the substance is felt, it may perhaps be entangled in the point of the nail, or curved forceps may be guided to it by the finger. Pins and fish-bones are often entan- gled about the velum, or in the folds of mucous membrane between the epiglottis and tongue. If the patient has false teeth, the surgeon should take them out, and thus will pass his finger in another inch; and he should remember the proneness people have to swallow false teeth. If the body has passed into the oesophagus, and it is small and sharp (a fish bone, for instance), it may be got rid of by making the patient swallow a good mouthful of bread. If large and soft (as a lump of meat), it may be pushed down into the stomach with the probang. But large hard bodies, especially if rough and angular (such as pieces of bone or glass, &c-), should be brought up if possible. A pair of long curved forceps, or a piece of whalebone armed with a flat blunt hook, or with a skein of thread, so as to form an infinite number of nooses, are convenient instruments. If the stomach is full, a dose of tartar emetic dissolved in a very small quantity of water may be adminis- tered, in the hope that when the contents of the stomach are vomited, they may bring up the offending substance with them. One case is on record in which a chicken-bone lodging in the oesophagus Avas dissolved by making the patient swallow large quantities of dilute acid. If a foreign body has got into the stomach, the patient should eat plenti- fully of rice, potato, and suet pudding, so that it may pass through shielded by plenty of faeces. If all means fail, however, and the sub- stance can neither be brought up nor down, and if it be lodged in the cervical portion of the tube, it must be extracted by the operation of cesophagotomy in the following manner. IX. (EsoPHAGOTOMY.—Tlie operation should be performed on the side towards which the foreign body projects. Its situation having been ascertained, an incision of sufficient length must be made through the skin and platysma between the sternomastoid muscle and trachea. The cervical fascia must next be divided on a director. The surgeon must then divide the cellular membrane with a blunt knife, or lacerate it with his fingers, avoiding the carotid and thyroid arteries and the recuri-ent nerve. A common silver catheter may then be passed down the throat, and be made to project in the wound, so that the oesophagus may be opened by cutting on it. This small wound in the oesophagus should be dilated with forceps, in order to avoid h.'emorrhage, and the foreign body should then be extracted. This operation has occasionallyTHE LARYNGOSCOPE. 507 been performed for the purpose of conveying food into the stomach in cases of stricture of the oesophagus, but with no very satisfactory results.* X. Use of the Stomach-pump.—The tube of this instrument is to be introduced in the same manner as the cesophagus bougie. It is usual to place a gag in the patient's mouth, having a hole for the tube to .pass through, in order that it may not be compressed by the teeth. Before pumping out the contents of the stomach, one or two pints of water should be injected into it, and care should be taken not to with- draw quite as much as was injected. More water should then be thrown in, and the process should be repeated till it returns colourless. The stomach-pump ought only to be employed in those cases of poisoning by opiimi, of alcohol, or other narcotics, in which the ner- vous system is rendered so insensible that vomiting cannot be excited. For, in the first place, the operation is not fi ee from danger. It is a well-established f^ict, that a tube may sometimes be passed into the trachea of a sensible person without creatmg any peculiar sensation, or exciting cough; but if the patient be insensible, that accident will be much more liable to happen. In fact, a case is on record in which a ' meddling surgeon, with more zeal than knowledge, did actually pass the tube down the trachea and inject the lungs with chalk mixture, which he had far better have permitted his luckless patient to have swallowed quietly; and Sir C. Bell tells us, that he has seen, on dis- section, both lungs filled with broth, which was intended to have been injected into the stomach. Again, it is known that in one case the mucous membrane of the stomach was sucked into the holes of the tubes, and torn into strips—a thing likely to happen if the stomach is pumped too empty. Besides, this artificial evacuation of the stomach is by no means so efficacious as free vomiting, assisted by plenty of diluents. Lumps of arsenic were left in the stomach in the very case just cited, in which the mucous membrane was torn.f section nr.—the laryngoscope. I. The Laryngoscope is a small mirror by which we can see the inside of the larynx. It was invented by Dr. B. G. Babington in 1829, but, like many other inventions, lay dormant for thirty years ; for altliough it was noticed and used occasionally by Trousseau, Liston, and the late talented Mr. Avery; and although it was used to demonstrate the mechanism of the voice by Garcia in 1855, who was the first to obtain a view of his own larnyx, still it was only brought into vogue by Tiirck of Vienna in 1857, and Czermak of Prague in 1858. To the exertions of these gentlemen is due the present general * See Arnott on OSsophagotomy, Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xx.; lieport of a case in which it was performed unsuccessfully for the relief of stricture by Mr. Watson, of New York, and of two cases in which it was performed for the removal of a foreign body, in vols. ii. and iii. of Ranking's Abstract. f See an amusing Clinical liCcture on the abuse of the Stomach-pump, by Professor Watson, in Lond. Med. Gaz., vol. xvii.; and Roupell's Illustrations of the Efifects of Poisons.THE LARYNGOSCOPE. 508 use and application of the instrument. In these islands it has been particulai'ly studied by Dr. George D. Gibb, from whom the writer re- ceived much valuable information for previous editions of this book ; also by Dr. Morel! Mackenzie, Dr. George Johnson, Dr. Walker, junior, of Peterborough, and Mr. Smyly of Dublin.* II. The Apparatus required is first of all a means of illuminat- ing the th]-oat; and secondly, a mirror reflecting to the observer's eye the image of the parts that he wishes to see. The illumination may be direct or reflected. In the direct method, the surgeon places the patient so that a stream of sunshine, or the light of a lamp is turned directly into the throat. Lamps of various kinds are used, and some of them intensified by a reflector behind, or a bull's-eye condenser in front of the flame, or both. But most operators prefer to put the lamp in the same position as it is in for the ophthalmoscope, and to throw the light into the mouth by means of a reflector. This reflector, a circular mirror, may be used as that of the ophthalmoscope, being fixed before the eye, and having a central aperture through which the observer looks. It may be fixed on a large and strong spectacle-frame, or may be attached to a stem which is held between the teeth. Or the reflector may be worn on the forehead, being attached by a ball-and-socket joint to an elastic band which goes round the head. The mirrors are best made of glass silvered, attached obliquely to stems of adequate length. They are of various sizes, from half an inch in diameter upwards, and are usually square, with the angles rounded off. III. In using the Laryngoscope the practitioner should begin upon himself. There are many methods, but the least complex is that of Dr. G. Johnson, who sits before a common looking-glass, and throws the light of a moderator lamp into his throat. The practitioner must first learn how to warm the mirror very gently at the lamp, so as neither to crack it nor spoil the silvering by the heat, nor yet to have it so cool as to condense the breath. The next thing is to manage the tongue. Most people by a little practice can learn to press the tip behind the lower teeth, and to keep down the mass of it out of siglit; if the patient cannot do this he must put it out as far as possible, take hold of it with a handkerchief in his left hand, and keep it well down, and the hand out of the way of the light. Then the practitioner intro- duces the warmed mirror, holding it against the soft palate and uvula, which he gently lifts without touching the phai-ynx. Whilst he perse- veringly works at this part of his experiments, he will learn, if he did not know before, what the nausea, giddiness, heat in the forehead, and universal dis(;omfort are that belong to sea-sickness. He will pro- bably be shocked at the whiteness of the back part of his tongue; then * See Dr. Gibb's Translation of Czermak on Laryngoscope, New Sydenham See, 1861; on Diseases of Throat and Windpipe, 2nd edit., 1864; Dr. G. Johnson's Lectures, Lancet, 1864, vols. i. and ii.; Dr. Walker's Papers in British Medical Journal, 1862 and 1863; Dr. Morell Mackenzie, Practical Hints, Med. Times, April 19,1862 ; On Hoarseness, Galvanism, &c., 1863; Smyly's Lectures on Laryngo- scope in Dublin Medical Press, 1864.LARYNX AND TRACHEA. 509 will get a view of his epiglottis, and at last will be rewarded with a view of the aperture of the glottis, and would do well to study the natural appearance of the parts, and their movements in swallowing, and in uttering the broad A. IV. Rhinoscopy.—By elevating the soft palate with a hook which is part of the laryngoscopic apparatus, and introducing a mirror with its face upwards, the practitioner may get a view of the posterior apertures of the nares, tubinated bones, and adjacent parts. This inspection is particularly useful in the diagnosis of polypi and other tumours, p. 477. y. The Use op the Laryngoscope is twofold: in diagnosis, and in the application of remedies. In diagnosis it reveals the pre- sence of foreign bodies: it shows whether the muscles of the larnyx are paralyzed or no; and whether either or both vocal cords are moveable; whether the surface is smooth or ulcerated; whether swelled or not from inflammation and oedema; and whether tumours exist or not. As for the application of remedies, that one which seems almost universally applicable, to this and to all other cases where it is required to deaden an over-sensitive surface to astringe and diminish over-secretion or oedema, and to modify the surface of ulcers, is the strong solution of nitrate of silver twenty grains to the ounce. This is conveniently applied by means of a brush bent at an angle, and made by Weiss. Foreign bodies can be seen, seized, and extracted, oedema scarified, tumours removed with the laryngeal ecraseur, and galvanism applied by means of a conductor invented by Dr. Morell Mackenzie. SECTION IV.—SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE LARYNX AND TRA- CHEA, INCLUDING TRACHEOTOMY, AND THE VARIOUS CIRCUM- STANCES WHICH REQUIRE IT. I. Foreign Bodies in the Larynx and Trachea.—(a) It some- times happens that a person who is busily laughing and talking during a meal, suddenly rises from table, attempts to put his finger into his throat, speedily turns blue in the face, and then drops down dead. This arises from a piece of food getting into the rima glottidis; a thing liable to happen if a sudden inspiration be made through the mouth, as in laughing, when the mouth is filled with food. It rarely happens that the surgeon arrives in time to do any good; but if he should be promptly on the spot, he ought to search the pharnyx with his fingers, to ascertain whether the obstructing substance can be removed ; and if not, he ought to open the air-passage immediately ; and to pass a probe up into the larnyx through the wound, so as to push the ibreign substance back into the mouth. (6.) It may be impacted in the ventricles of the larnyx or upper part of the trachea; in which case it will probably produce violent spasmodic cough and difficulty of breathing, together with a fixed pain referred to one particular spot—a croupy sound during respi- ration, which may be heard by the stethoscope most distinctly at the seat of that pain ; loss ot voice, and probably an acute attack of in-LAKYNX AKD TRACHEA. 510 flammation. Here the laryngoscope will be of service. Dr. Gibb has twice by means of forceps removed a pin sticking across the larnyx. In another case a piece of walnut shell was seen but could not be removed, and was afterwards coughed up spontaneously. Small irre- gular bodies, such as bits of apple core, may remain for months. The trachea must be opened if there be risk of suffocation; and after a time if need be, the wound may be enlarged upwards to feel for and remove the intruding body. (c.) The foreign substance may be loose in the trachea; especially if a button, stone, or other smooth body. In this case, the violent coughing and sense of suffocation produced by its first introduction generally subside for a time ; but every now and then there are violent fits of coughing and of spasmodic difficulty of breathing, during which the substance may be heard by means of the stethoscope, or perhaps may be felt by the finger to be forcibly impelled against the upper part of the larnyx. (d.) The foreign substance may have passed into one of the bronchi, where, perhaps, it may be detected by causing a whistling or murmur- ing sound; and it will very pi obably be dislodged and driven up- wards when the patient coughs. The light bronchus is that into which it generally falls, because it is a little anterior to the left, and encroaches a little on the middle line. It is sometimes difficult to distinguish the symptoms produced by a foreign body in the larynx or trachea from those of croup or laryngitis. But the surgeon may generally pretty confidently decide that a foreign body is present, if the symptoms came on suddenly during a meal;—or perhaps the history will be that the patient was playing with a button, or cherrystone, or some similar body in his mouth, and that he chanced to fiill down, when the button disappeared, and the symptoms came on directly afterwards. Moreover, in these cases, expiration is generally more difficult than inspiration, whereas it is usually the reverse in croup. Besides, when there suddenly occurs a fixed pain, and a fixed whistling sound in the larnyx or bronchi, without any other symptoms of croup, the case must almost of necessity arise from a foreign body.* If there is any doubt, the pharynx and oesophagus should be well searched, hj finger and probang, to make sure that the foreign body is not there. If any foreign body remain in either bronchus, it sets up more or less irritation: cough, pain, muco-purulent expectoration ; perhaps night-sweats, and other signs of hectic. Treatment.—When any foreign substance has entered the trachea, the indication plainly is, to get it out again ; and the great point in the treatment is, to lull the vigilance of the muscles which guard the aperture of the glottis, so as to induce them to let it pass out by the way it entered. For it must be remarked that it is muscular spasm, * See an interesting paper by Mr. C. Hawkins, and another by Mr. Travers, jn.n., Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xxiii.; Sir B. Brodie on Mr. Brunei's Case, Med. Gaz., July tth, 1843 ; a Review of Gross on Foreign Bodies in the Air Passages, by Mr. Henry Lee, Brit, and For. Med. Cliir. Rev., Jan. 1856.LARYNGOTOMY AND TRACHEOTOMY. 511 excited by the contact of the foreign body, which not only hindei-s it from escaping when driven up to the glottis by the breath in expiration, but puts the patient in danger of suffocation as well. In the first place, theiefore, if the substance be moveable, and round, and the symptoms not urgent, let the patient be kept quietly in bed and under the influence of narcotics, in doses proportioned to the age; such as syrup of poppies with tincture of henbane and a little ipecacuanha. Then probably the substance may become coated with mucus, and may be expectorated during an effort at coughing or vomiting. If the symptoms be more urgent, let the patient be put quickly under the influence of chloroform, with the same purpose of lulling the muscles of the larynx ; when narcotized let him be turned upside down ; a child may be held with his head downwards, and be slapped on the back without ceremony; for a heavy person an apparatus will be neces- sary, in order to fasten him into a chaii-, such as was contrived by Mr. Brunei when he had swallowed the half-sovereign. But if this proceeding does not answer, or if it seems to induce the risk of suffocating the patient, the au'-tube must be opened ; and this for two reasons : in oi der, first, to provide means for breathing; and secondly, to provide, if necessary, for the extraction of the intruding substance. For it must be remarked, that the irritability of the glottis subsides, so that the foreign body may pass through it, so soon as an artificial opening is provided. II. LARYNGOTOMY AND TRACHEOTOMY.—The air-tube may be opened either through the larynx, or through the rings of the trachea. The former operation is the more quickly and easily performed on an adult; it is further from the lungs, and less dangerous. Tracheotomy is more difficult and tedious ; but is necessary if there is any idea of in- troducing a forceps. Laryngotomy is performed by cutting longitudmally through the skin, then through the cricothyroid membrane, which may be felt as a soft depression, an inch below the pomum Adami. Tracheotomy is thus commonly directed to be performed :—The head being thrown back, an incision, an inch and a half to two inches long, must be made exactly in the middle line from below the cricoid cartilage to the top of the sternum. The skin, superficial fascia, and f;\t, are then divided; the sternohyoid muscles are separated with the point of the knife; the loose cellular tissue and veins are cleared from the front of the trachea with the fingers or handle of the scalpel; the thyroid gland, if in the way, is pushed up; a tenaculum is hooked into the trachea to draw it up slightly and steady it; then the surgeon seizes the moment, and whilst the trachea is stretched, sticks in his knife, with a slight jerk, at the bottom of the wound, and carries it upwards, so as to divide two or three of its rings. Various other methods of performing Tracheotomy.—There are several instruments and plans which have been devised, for the purpose of rendering tracheotomy a more easy and safe opei ation. Amongst these we may mention first, Dr. Charles Edwards's plan of operating512 LARYNGOTOMY AND TRACHEOTOMY. above the isthmus of the thyroid gland, and immediately below the cricoid cartilage. The operator should feel for the cricoid cartilage, and ink a perpendicular line, a quarter of an inch long, in the middle line below it. The skin should be drawn up over the thyroid, and then be cut through in this line. Then the cricoid cartilage and first ring of the trachea being made out, the hook of the steel director is to be hooked in just below the cricoid, and made to hold the larynx well upwards and forwards. It will be seen that the groove of the director is open to the very end, and that on the opposite side to the groove the instrument finishes in a tenaculum hook. This hook then being fixed under the cricoid, and held up with the operator's left hand, a nari'ow stout scalpel is passed along the groove, with its edge downwards. " Should the thyroid isthmus," says Dr. Edwards, " or any pulsating vessel be in the way below, the puncture should barely admit the extre- mity of a probe-pointed bistoury;" in which case the bistoury being steadied against the end of the groove may be made to divide two or three rings of the trachea from within outwards in subcutaneous fashion; the soft parts over the trachea can be dilated enough after- wards to admit of the introduction of the tube. Of course if the sur- geon chooses to perform the operation below the thyroid gland, this instrument will be equally useful.* The instrument shown below was devised by Mr. H. Thomp- sonf at the request of Dr. Marshall Hall, who wished to find some method of opening the trachea most expeditiously and safely. It con- sists of two blades, united at one end by a hinge ; at the other bent downwards at an angle, and furnished with cutting edges, nicely * Charles Edwards, M.D., Lancet, 1853, vol. 1., p. 492. f Lancet, 1853, vol. i., p. 221.513 LABYNGOTOMY AND TRACHEOTOMY. adapted together, so as when pressed together, to make as it were but one edge. 'J'here is a screw, by which the blades may be separated. The patient lies down; the surgeon feels with his left forefinger for the lower edge of the cricoid : holding the instrument in his right, with the blades closed, he inti'oduces the cutting point transversely, in the middle line, about a quarter of an inch below the cricoid, so as to slip the point into the trachea, between the first and second rings. Then the blades are separated by the screw, sufficiently to admit a tube; the screw is then reversed and the instrument withdrawn. Trocars have been invented for tracheotomy, for which they are dan- gerous. They should never be used upon children, although they might be introduced between the cricoid and thyroid cartilages in the adult. The great danger and difficulty of the operation, is the bleeding from the numerous veins which lie in front of the air-tube, and which are kept filled by the embarrassment of the breathing. The instant the trachea is opened, blood rushes in with the air during inspiration, and the patient is very liable to be suffocated. In any such case, the surgeon should not hesitate to suck out the blood and mucus with his naked mouth, or through any catheter or tube, or with a syringe. But in order to prevent this accident, he should use the knife most sparingly, and should be particularly careful not to cut downwards near the sternum. He should separate the tissues and clear the front of the trachea with a blunt hook, or the handle of the scalpel. Bleed- ing, if arterial, should be checked by ligature; if venous, by iced water, compression with the fingers, the ligature, or actual cautery ; and the trachea should not be opened till it is suppressed. So soon as an opening is made, the foreign body is sometimes expelled with a strong gust of air through the wound; sometimes through the now tranquil glottis; but if not, it may be gently searched for with a probe, and be removed by forceps or by a blunt hook; or the patient being chloroformed, may be turned upside down, and slapped on the back, as we have before said. If this proceeding be not successful, the patient must be sent back to bed, and be kept slightly narcotized ; and after a day or two the effort to remove the foreign body may be repeated. But in this case, and in any other in which the operation was performed for the relief of dyspnoea, a curved tube should be introduced for the patient to breathe through. It should fit tightly into the aperture, and prevent the entrance of blood into the trachea. It should be of such a size, as Trousseau has remarked, that the air may pass through it in respiration without any whistling noise.* When the patient wishes to cough, or speak, or swallow, he must be taught to close its orifice with his finger. It should be double, as represented in the following figure, so that by withdrawing the innermost tube, it may be cleared of any mucus that may accumulate in it. It should have a hole in its convex surface, so * Trousseau, L'Experience, Nov. 5, 1840; Clin. Lecture, Med. Times, Jan. 4, 1856. A series of papers on Traclieotomy by Dr. Turner, of Keith, are well worth reading, Prov. Med. Journal, 1854.514 LAEYNGOTOMY AND TRACHEOTOMY. that the patient may have the benefit of the air that enters by the larynx. The surgeon should have several sizes. Those indicated i 0066 the cut are the sizes made by Matthews. The tube depicted is the exact size of No. 4. The next drawing represents a double tube, the outer of which i leduced to two slips: by pressing these together its introduction is made easy. The last improvement reduces the tube to two narrow blades, s rable by means of a screw. The tube should be secured by a tape round the neck, as shown : the adjoining drawing of a patient of Mr. Partridge, in King's College Hospital : boy aged five, whose trachea had been open- ed on account of the presence of a foreign body. The throat should be carefully wrapped in a woollen comforter, and the air be made moist. M. Trousseau has515 LARYNGOTOMY AND TRACHEOTOMY. pointed out the impoi'tant fact, that a difficulty of swallowing is liable to come on about the fourth or fifth day; and that it is expedient to give thickened soups, pounded meat, and other half-solid substances; liquids are then apt to enter the larynx, because the epi- glottis is out of gear. \ III, Tracheotomy or Laryngotomy is required for any disease or injury which causes mechanical impediment to respiration. 1. In acute laryngitis, croup, and diphtheria, w^hen suffocation is imminent, tracheotomy should be performed. Some surgeons condemn it in croup, on the plea of its hopelessness. But we reply that is the only remedy; that it has undoubtedly in many cases prolonged a life which was on the verge of extinction ; that it furnishes an exit for flakes of false membrane that cannot pass the rima glottidis; and that it very likely would be more successful if it were done earlier, without waiting till the patient is exhausted by struggling for breath. More- over, Mr. Henry Smith has well shown that in some fatal cases of croup, the obstruction has been seated in the larynx only, and that an opening below would have saved life. In the state called cedema glottidis, in which the submucous tissue about the glottis becomes infiltrated with serum in consequence of a low degree of inflammation, or of a general dropsical diathesis, a glance at the adjoining figure will show that laryngotomy must be often ne- cessary to preserve life. This state may be suspected when intense dys- pncea, not referable to disease in the chest, and hoarseness arise, either during sore throat, or erysipelas, or after scarlet fever. It may be acute, or may be of slow origin and progress. Its extent may be deter- mined by the laryngoscope. If acute, free purgation, free perspira- tion enforced by the vapour bath, leeches outwardly, and shallow scari- fications or punctures of the tonsils, and of the epiglottis, and any other swelled structures that can be got at, are the first remedies : after these the solution of nitrate of silver ; and, in any case, not to let a patient die suftbcated, for want of laryn- gotomy. The cedema is more usually above than below the vocal cords. 2. In chronic inflammation and ulceration of the larynx, the opera- tion should also be performed before the disease has lasted long enough to exhaust the patient by the suffocative cough, dyspnoea, and purulent expectoration which attend it. This is an occasional consequence of secondary syphilis, and more frequently of confirmed phthisis; but the516 LARYNGOTOMY AND TRACHEOTOMY. operation should always be performed if there is imminent danger of suffocation, even though the patient's ultimate recovery may be quite hopeless, 3. The operation is sometimes required for tumours, warty ex- crescences, and epithelial growths within the larynx. The symptoms are slowly increasing hoarseness, followed by loss of voice, tickling cough, and noisy breathing; with purulent or bloody expectoration if ulceration occurs. The laryngoscope will confirm the diagnosis. 4. Tracheotomy was proposed nearly 20 years ago by Mr. Mayo, as a palliative in hydrophobia. It was afterwards proposed by Dr. Marshall Hall, in order to relieve or prevent the congestion within tlie head which may precede the sqyqyqv epileptic fits, iroxa the spasmodic closure of the rima glottidis. Experience has decided against the proposal in epilepsy,! and hydrophobia does not kill by suffocation. * 1. Warty excrescences within the larynx. Laryngotomy has been per- formed. From the Middlesex Hospital Museum.—2. Ulceration of the larynx. Both cases probably epithelioma. f See cases of failure, by Dr. Ogle and Dr. Ormi?rod, of Brighton, quoted in Ranking, vol. xsvii.POLYPUS OF THE EPIGLOTTIS, ETC. 517 5. Cases that simulate Laryngeal Disease.—Some yeai's since, the medical journals made themselves merry at the expense of the house- surgeon to one of the largest hospitals in London, who, being summoned in the night to a patient apparently dying of dyspnoea, immediately performed tracheotomy, but without avail ; for the man expired very soon afterwards; and on a post-mortem examination it was found that there was nothing the matter with the larynx, but that a large aneurism existed on the arch of the aorta. What was the use, it was said, of cutting the throat of a man who was dying of aneurism ? The house-surgeon, however, was not to blame, because, as is now very well known, tumours about the aortic arch may produce spasm of the glottis, by interfering with the recurrent nerves. But now that this fact is known, every surgeon should carefully scrutinise the chest in obscure cases of dyspnoea, to see whether it arise from this cause. No permanent good can then result from tracheotomy; yet the author heard of a case lately, at the Winchester Hospital, in which it certainly rescued a patient from immediate death, although he died shortly after- wards from other effects of the aneurism. But the operation is not admissible in that spasm of the glottis which often alfects children during teething; nor yet in cases in which the symptoms of laryngitis are mimicked by hysteria.* The laryngoscope will show the absence of disease of the larynx. IV. Polypus of the Epiglottis, Larynx, and Trachea.— Professor Ehrman of Strasbourg collected the histories of thirty-one cases of polypus in these parts of the human subject, three in the cow, and two in the horse, in an interesting monograph. The early symp- toms are hoarseness, and perhaps loss of voice, especially if the tumour be situated near the chordae vocales ; cough of a croupy, suffocative character ; sense of obstruction in breathing, speaking, or swallowing; dyspnoea, gradually increasing with the growth of the tumour, next coming in terrific fits of sufi'ocation, at last fatal: when the tumour, if within the trachea, is driven up between the chordae vocales by ex piration ; or if attached to the epiglottis, is drawn down by inspira- tion. The most distinctive symptom is a valvular flapping sound heard or felt when the tumour moves during respiration. In more than one case the tumour, or a portion of it, has been torn off and coughed up : this of course decides the diagnosis. In a case by Mr. Stallard, the tumour was detached within the trachea, and the patient died suffocated. Polypi here, as elsewhere, are usually fibro-cellular, fibro-plastic, or epithelial. The laryngoscope here substitutes sight for faith. Instead of inferring that a tumour probably exists, the surgeon may see that it does.f * Coxeter's Laryngeal Syringe, for introducing a few drops of caustic solution into the larynx, is a good substitute for the pencil. t Histoire des Polypes des Larynx. Strasburgh, 1850; Case by Mr. Stallard, Med. Gaz,, 19th May, 1843. There is a preparation of it in the King's College Museum from Mr. Mayo's collection. Lr. Gibb has collected a list of thirty other preparations in museums, of laryngeal growths and excrescences. On Throat and Windpipe, 2nd edition.518 FRACTURES OF THE OS HYOIDES, ETC, In a case which occurred to Professor Ehrman, the patient, a healthy- woman, set. 33, had lost her voice for three years ; when she began to experience a sensation as of the opening and shutting of a valve in the larynx ; violent cough came on occasionally during swallowing, and caused expectoration of small portions of tissue. She was suddenly seized with a fit of suffocation, almost fatal, when Professor Ehrman performed tracheotomy, and the next day extended the incision up- wards, through the junction of the alse of the thyroid cartilage, and removed a cauliflower excrescence from the left vocal cord. Recovery was complete, except of the voice. Seven months afterwards the patient unfortunately died of typhoid fever. The tumour was epithe- lioma, and had just begun to sprout again when the patient died. In another case. Dr. Brauers, of Louvain, laid open the larynx and cau- terized a warty excrescence with acid nitrate of mercury and actual cautery. Final result not stated. The laryngoscope, however, enables the practitioner to detect the presence of tumours, whether attached to the epiglottis, to vocal cords, true or false, or any neighbouring part; and in many instances to re- move them. This will be the easier if pendulous and having a narrow neck, for then they may be snared and cut off with an e'craseur; the same in principle as Sir W. R. Wilde's snare for polypi of the ear. Dr. Moura Bourdillon has devised a clever ecraseur, with which he perforates the tumour, and holds it fast whilst it is being cut off, so that it shall not fall into the trachea, although, if it should, it will, says Dr. Gibb, be readily expectorated. The honour of first having removed a laryngeal tumour belongs to Dr. Walker, of Peterborough, who performed the operation on 18th August, 1861. Dr. Gibb fol- lowed, in November, 1862. If the tumour have a broad base, and cannot be snared, it may be gradually destroyed by touches with soUd nitrate of silver. Lastly, it may be observed that the operation of true laryngotomy, i. e., division of the alse of the thyroid at the middle line, may be prac- tised in any case where it shall be judged expedient; and may be com- bined into a transverse incision for turning back one of those alse, so as to submit the affected parts to direct treatment. V. Fractures of the Os Hyoides or of the Thyroid Car- tilage are rare accidents, which may be produced by blows or falls on the front of the throat. The symptoms are pain; displacement of the fragments, ascertained by examination; difficulty of swallowing or of breathing; and perhaps hsemorrhage from the mucous membrane, which may be lacerated; perhaps emphysema. The treatment must depend on the urgency of the case. In a case of perpendicular fracture of the thyroid cartilage, seen by Dr. Gibb, the two lateral portions of the cartilage were separated at the pomum Adami; but the only symp- toms were loss of voice, and an "indescribable sensation" in the throat.* In a case of fracture of the hyoid bone, the mouth was * The author has to thank Dr. Gibb for the following references :—Dr. Gibb's case, Brit. Amer. Med. Joum., Montreal, vol. vi., p. 306; Cases of Fracture ofTREATMENT OF THE DROWNED- 519 kept open by a gag, whilst the fragments, which had been displaced, and had even pierced the mucous membrane of the fauces, were restored to their proper position. Ice may be applied outwardly if haemorrhage is very profuse, or inflammation violent. The trachea must be opened if requisite to provide for breathing, and the stomach-pump if the patient cannot swallow. VI. Scalds of the Glottis, through swallowing boiling water or corrosive fluids, produce the ordinary symptoms of laryngitis—suffoca- tive cough, and dyspnoea. Treatment.—Leeches, ice to the throat, opiates or chloroform to tranquillize, and tracheotomy if required. VII. Hanging may destroy life in three ways. 1. By dislocating the neck. 2. By compressing the trachea, and suspending respiration. 3. By compressing the jugular veins, and inducing apoplexy. Treatment.—Artificial respiration, bleeding from the jugular vein if the face be turgid, dashing cold water on the face and chest, and a current of galvanism passed fi'om the nape of the neck to the pit of the stomach, so as to excite the diaphragm.* VIII. Drowning, Treatment of.—Let the head hang down for two seconds, to let any water run out of the mouth: then lay down the body with the head raised; put two fingers into the mouth and draw the tongue well forwards; wipe out the mouth and throat; strip off wet clothes; wipe the face, nose, and eyes dry; and set people at work to rub the rest of the body dry. If breathing has nearly but not quite ceased, endeavour to rouse the circulation and the respiratory acts by friction of the entire surface, occasionally dashing cold water on the face, neck, and chest, and then wiping quite dry with a warm towel; and by tickling the nose and fauces, to excite sneezing, cough- ing, or vomiting. If breathing should not be thoroughly restored by these means, it should be set to work artificially. In some cases it may be expedient to draw blood from the arm, or jugular vein, in order to lessen the load of the heart; and this opera- tion (or leeches) may be required for congestion of the head or chest, after the immediate peril has passed away. Enemata of brandy may be of service in the early stage, whilst the heart's action is faltering. Hot bottles should be put between the thighs and under the axillse, and the temperature of the limbs be maintained by hot flannels, &c. A case is related in which life was restored by the most persevering friction, which was kept up for eight hours before the humanity of the Hyoid Bone, Amer. Journ. Med. Sc., Philadelphia, vol. xiii., 1833, p. 250; Stethoscope, Richmond. Vir. U. S., June, 1855 ; Pathological Trans., vol. i., p. 199 ; Fracture of Thyroid Cartilage, Brit, and For. Med. Rev., N.S., vol. viii., p. 272. See also Gibb, on Throat, 2nd edition. * For the manner of applying galvanism in these cases refer to Part V., Chap. II.520 WOUNDS OF THE THROAT. surgeon, Dr. Douglass of Havre, was rewarded by a return of respira- tion.* IX. Aetificial Breathing is required in all cases of suspended animation, whether from drowning, injury, noxious gases, chloroform, or narcotic poisons. It may be performed by passing a pipe through the mouth, or a male catheter through the nostril, into the glottis ; or by simply putting a pipe into one nostril, and closing the mouth and the other nostril, and blowing through it. But it is a better plan to use a small pair of bellows, putting its muzzle into one nostril. The operator should be careful to force the air into the lungs with very great gentleness, and to press the larynx against the spine, so that the air may not go down the oesophagus. If the larynx has been crushed by a rope, or by a violent blow, it may be necessary to perform trache- otomy, so as to impel a current of air directly into the trachea. Or, instead of forcing air into the lungs, the operator may employ Dr. Sylvester's method, of imitating the natural expansion of the chest by muscular effort.f The patient is laid on his back with the shoulders raised; the tongue brought forward, and retained, if necessary, by gently closing the patient's teeth in it. Then the operator raises the patient's arms by the side of his head, and extends them gently and steadily upwards and forwards for a few minutes. This action imitates inspiration. Then the patient's arms are turned down, and gently and firmly pressed for a moment against the sides of the chest: this imitates a deep expiration. These actions should be perseveringly repeated about fifteen times in a minute. SECTION IV.—SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE EXTERNAL PARTS OF THE NECK AND THROAT. I, Wounds op the Throat are generally made with intention of suicide, and are extremely dangerous, no less from the importance of the parts injured, than from the despondency of the patient. Treatment.—The general indications are, 1 st, to arrest hsemorrhage; 2ndly, to obviate difficulty of breathing; 3rdly, to prevent inflamma- tion of the trachea or chest. In the first place, any arteries that are wounded must be tied, and haemorrhage from large veins must be restrained by pressure with the finger, kept up as long as may be necessary. The patient should be put to bed in rather a warm room ; and so soon as all oozing has ceased, but not before, his shoulders should be raised by pillows, and head be bent forwards, and be confined by a bandage passing from each side of the nightcap to the shoulders. Plasters are inad- missible, and so are sutures, except in the cases that will be alluded to * Med. Gaz., 23rd December, 1846. f The True Physiological Method of restoring persons apparently drowned or dead, and of resuscitating still-born children, by H. Sylvester, M.D. Lond., 1859. There is a rolling method, invented by the late Dr. Marshall Hall, very ingenious, but coarse and inefficient by the side of Dr. Sylvester's.BRONCHOCELE. 521 presently. If the wound penetrates the trachea or larynx, it should be covered with a loose woollen comforter, or a layer of cotton wool, or, after the first week, with one of Jeffreys' respirators, if it can be nicely adapted. The patient should not be kept too low ; and if the pharynx or oesophagus is wounded, should be fed by a common, large- sized, elastic tube and bottle. But if during the inflammatory stage the attempt causes great irritation, it may be necessary to employ nutrient enemata merely. At all events, no tube should be passed through the wound for that purpose. The great thirst and dryness of the fauces, experienced in these cases, may in some measure be mitigated by sucking a wet rag, or, still better, a lump of Wenham Lake ice. If the patient find great difficulty in expectorating through the wound, he must be taught to close it partially by leaning his head forwards, and placing his fingers on it, whilst he makes an expiratory effort, so that he may expel the air with a sudden gust. In every stage of the cure, difficulty of breathing should be viewed with suspicion. It may arise from several causes. 1. If the wound is above the larynx, it may be caused by the epiglottis being detached from the tongue, and hanging down upon or irritating the rima glot- tidis, or by clots of blood collecting in the pharnyx. 2. It may be caused by an irregular and jagged division of the larynx or trachea, so that some pieces of the cartilage hang into the tube; or supposing the trachea to have been completely cut through, it may be caused by the aperture of the lower portion being overlapped by the upper. In these cases it may be requisite to employ sutures, but they should be passed merely through the cellular tissue around the cartilage, and neither through the cartilage nor the skin. 3. It may be caused by swell- ing of the mucous membrane of the larynx and ti'achea in the acute inflammatory stage immediately after the injury; or by chronic thickening of that membrane from the continued irritation of cold air, if the wound is very slow in closing. In the former of these cases, free antiphlogistic measures must be used; the latter must be prevented by using a proper position, so as to promote the approximation of the wound whilst it is healing. In either case it may be necessary to make a longitudinal division of the trachea to relieve the dyspnoea. 4. Another frequent cause of dyspncea is the passage of blood into the trachea, if the wound is prematurely closed, and especially if it is sewn up or covered with plasters. Even sup- posing the trachea not to be opened, great danger may result from closing a wound of the throat before bleeding has ceased, for the blood may accumulate in the cellular tissue, and coagulate, and compress the trachea. II. Bronchocele {Goitre, Derbyshire neck) signifies an hypertro- phy of the thyroid gland. There are two varieties: the common, which appears due to some quaUties of air and water; the exophthalmiG^ due to nervous ex- haustion. 1. Common Goitre.—Symptoms.—A soft, projecting, elastic tumourBRONCHOCELE. 522 occupies the front of the neck, in the situation and of the shape of the thyroid gland. It is "rarely tender, and the skin is not discoloured. Frequently one lateral lobe is larger than the other ; and occasionally the middle lobe or isthmus is solely or principally affected. Consequences.—When of moderate bulk, it rarely causes any incon- venience, except occasional headache, and difficulty of breathing in a stooping posture. But when very large, it may produce a most dangerous difficulty of swallowing and breath- ing, and congestion in the head by its pressure on the trachea, oesophagus, and jugular veins ;f or it may induce thickening and disease of the trachea, with most obstinate cough, which may end in con- sumption. Prognosis.—If it be soft and recent, and occur in a. young patient, it will most likely be cured ; but pro- bably not if it be old, hard, and the patient advanced in life. Anatomy.—The disease begins, probably, with hypertrophy of the natural gland structure, and concurrent formation of cysts. The gland structure nearly resem- bles that of the secretory glands; that is to say, consists of pouches of pellucid membrane, containing nuclei and nucleated cells; although not provided, like the secretory glands, with ducts. The cysts are developed in the interstices of the gland structure, and often have growths of it sprouting frohi their walls. Some cysts attain large size, and are filled with glairy matter, more or less solid: in very old cases earthy deposit may be formed. Other cysts which contain blood, or a bloody liquid, are probably the remains of dilated veins. % (See pp. 107, 351.) Causes.—Bronchocele is what is termed an endemic disease: that * From the King's College collection. The oesophagus is seen to be pushed to the right side by the tumour. t Mr. Howship gives a case of bronchocele with the jugular vein passing through its substance. The patient suffered greatly from congestion in the head. J Vide Baillie's Morbid Anatomy, by Wardrop, 2nd ed , p. 84, and Turner's Art of Surg., vol. i., p. 198. The second cut exhibits a preparation in the Middlesex Hospital Museum. The tumour is full of earthy deposit.523 BROKCHOCELE. is, one peculiarly belonging to certain places; amongst which may be mentioned Derbyshire, Nottingham, and the chalky parts of England generally ; and various Alpine and mountainous districts, especially the Tyrol and valley of the Rhone. The use of melted snow; or of water impregnated with calcareous or earthy particles, to which the inhabitants of all those places are more or less habituated, although not perhaps the in- variable cause, is the most probable that can be assigned.* Most persons who are sub- ject to it always find it increase when their health and strength are lowered ; and in coun- tries where it is en- demic, it is closely as- sociated with cretinism and idiocy. Therefore it is to be looked on as a disease of low degenerative type, and treated accordingly. 2. The exophthalmic goitre (disease of Dr. Graves, or of Basedow, who first called attention to it,) is a combination of mal-assimilation, excited action of the heart, throbbing of the arteries, loud whirring so- called ancemic purr during the systole of heart and arteries, and in the veins, and nervous excitation, with goitre, and protruded eyeballs. This disease seems to be induced solely by causes that depress the nervous system, without any reference to air or water. The eyeballs may be returned into their place by gentle pressure with the fingers. There is no doubt but that the conditions which give rise to this variety of goitre greatly contribute to the other. Both aie most frequent in women, or in men of very nervous and hysterical character. In women, they are often associated with ovarian or sexual disturbance, and with that deep colouration of the eyelids which accompanies it. Treatment.—The best remedy for the endemic bronchocele is iodine, combined with iodide of potassium to render it soluble, as in the com- pound tincture of the London Pharmacopoeia, and given in such doses as not to cause pain or disorder of the stomach or the general health. (F. 88.) A lotion of iodine with iodide of potassium, may also be applied to the tumour ; but it must be remembered that the swelling generally enlarges, instead of decreasing, if the skin be ii-ritated. The patient, if possible, should remove from a district in which the malady is prevalent, and should drink boiled or distilled water. A residence on * Capt. Alexander Gerard, in his account of Korrawur in the Himalayas, says, that "although the Korrawurrees can get nothing but snow for some months in the year, they are not so subject to goitres as the people that live in the damp grounds in the forest at the foot of the hills, where there can never be any snow water."524 BRONCHOCELE. the coast, and warm ses^-bathing, are mostly advantageous. Particular attention should be paid to the mental condition, to the uterine func- tion, the appetite^ and digestion, the sleep, and the state of the heart; and steel with aloetic purgatives, or contrariwise, conium, valerian, and remedies that abate nervous excitement, with good diet, and country air, should be advised. This last plan of treatment (without iodine) is applicable to the exophthalmic cases.* Instead of iodine, the burnt sponge, the bromides of potassium and of iron; chlorides of barium and calcium ; iron; solution of potass or soda; digitalis, hyoscyamus, and belladonna; and sea-water, have been used. If medicine proves ineffectual, and the tumour enlarges rapidly, so as to threaten suffocation or apoplexy, surgical operations must be resorted to, but not otherwise. There are three which have been pro- posed and practised:—viz., the introduction of setons ; ligature of the arteries which supply the gland ; and extirpation. The general results of these operations may be stated thus ;—All three of them have at different times succeeded; all of them are hazardous to life, and have proved fatal; and the first two have, in some instances, failed to lemove the disease, although the patient has recovered with his life. If a seton be passed, it should be of silk, and large enough to fill the wound made by the needle, so that there may be no fear of bleed- ing. The needle should be long and narrow. If after the seton has remained for some time, it ceases to produce a diminution of the gland, it should be withdrawn, and be reintroduced in another place. Extirpation of the gland is performed by making an incision in the middle line of the neck ; the skin and muscles must then be dissected from the tumour; and every artery be tied as soon as it is divided. Then (as it is mostly enlargement of the isthmus, or middle lobe, that requires this operation), a strong double ligature should be passed through it, and should be firmly tied on each side of it, before it is cut out. Encysted Tumour.—The cysts, which are formed in this gland, and which contain a glairy matter or blood, often require treatment. If necessary, they may be punctured, when they will most likely in- flame, suppurate, or lose their lining membrane by sloughing, and contract. If this does not answer a seton should be passed. They are apt, after puncture, to give exit to a great quantity of arterial blood ; if this prove troublesome, the wound must be filled with lint, when it will readily cease. In a case of cyst in the thyroid gland, which occurred to Mr. Fergusson, he could distinctly feel some- thing of atheromatous consistence within it. An incision having been made, this turned out to be a cauliflower intracystic growth, so ex- tremely vascular, that the wound was obliged to be closed. Similar * For a capital account of the exophthalmic goitre, see a paper by Dr. J. 0. Fletcher, of Manchester, Brit. Med. Journ. for 1863, vol. i., p. 529.PAROTID TUMOURS. 525 cysts are liable to form in other parts of the neck, not connected with the thyroid gland. Their treatment is the same.* This gland may further be affected with acute and chronic inflam- mation, and " tubercular " deposit; either of which may lead to abscess. Their treatment must be conducted on general principles. It has also been affected with cancer, although rarely. Some cases of it are recorded in the Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xxvii., by Mr. Csesar Hawkins, and by Mr. Brown, of Bath. The patients presented solid tumours in the situation of the gland, not having the characters of ordinary bronchocele ; and one distinctive feature was the fixity of the parts. III. Hernia Bronchalis {Bronchocele vera. Goitre aerien) is a very rare tumour, formed by a protrusion of the mucous membrane through the cartilages of the larynx or the rings of the trachea, and caused by violent exertions of the voice. Larrey met with sundrv instances of it in French officers, and in the muezzin or priests that call the people to prayer from the minarets in Mohammedan countries. The tumour is soft and elastic, can often be made to disappear by pressure, and is increased by any exertion. The only available treat- ment is moderate support.f IV. Parotid Tumours.—This name may be assigned to those tumours which occur in front of the ear, over the parotid gland. Cysts of various sorts, filled with glairy matter, or with blood; enchondromatous tumours, pure, or mixed with newly-developed gland tissue, and enlarged lymphatic glands, are the commonest; cancer may also be met with. Such tumours may of course invoh^e the facial nerve; the facial artery, or the external carotid; or may extend in- wards to the pterygoid and styloid processes. "If thei'e be reason to suspect," says Mr. Listen, " that the disease is of a malignant nature, and not thoroughly limited by a cellular cyst, no interference is ad- missible. If, on the contrary, it be at all moveable, has advanced slowly, possesses a smooth surface, and is firm (neither of stony hard- ness, nor pulpy), then an operation may be contemplated." If slowness of growth and capability of being moved freely concur, the surgeon should remove such tumours; keeping his knife i^lose to the tumour, especially at its deep part, so that he may not divide the nerve or artery, if possible. Sometimes, howev^er, they may be so involved, that their division is unavoidable. The patient should always, therefore, be warned of the possibility of facial paralysis after removal of one of these tumours. V. Tumours in the side op the Neck.—Every variety of tumour may be found in this locality; enlarged lymphatic glands ; cysts serous and sanguinolent; tumours composed of gland structure, like that of the thyroid gland ; fibroplastic tumours, and cancer; the * Vide a paper by Mr. B. Phillips in Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xxv., on Tumours in the Neck not involving the Thyroid Gland; Paget, Lectures, vol. ii.; Fer- gusson, Pract. Surg., 3rd edit., p. 655. t Larrey, Clinique Chirurgicale, torn, ii., p. 81. Paris, 1829.WRYNECK. 526 last possibly involving the great vessels, or attached to the vertebrae. If subjacent to the skin merely, and freely moveable on the subjacent tissues, they may readily be removed; but if they lie deep, and are bound down by the platysraa and fascia, they require some consideration. If a tumour be of slow growth, defined in its outline, and moveable, so that it be probably not cancer, or if it interferes with deglutition or respiration, its extirpation may be attempted. If any suspicious tu- mour be of recent origin, the surgeon should wait, to see whether rapidity of growth and implication of adjacent parts give reason for believing it to be cancerous. See the remarks on the removal of tumours in Part V. VI. Wryneck is a peculiar distortion in which the head is bent down towards one shoulder (generally the right), and the ftice is turned to the opposite. The right eyebrow and right corner of the mouth generally become elevated, so as to preserve their horizontal position, notwithstanding the distortion of the neck. Varieties.—This affection presents many varieties. It may perhaps be only a part of general lateral curvature of the spine. Or, 2, it may depend on caries of the cervical vertebrje. 3, It may be caused by contraction of the cicatrix of a burn or ulcer. Or, 4, by glandular enlargement on one side of the neck; the treatment of which cases requires no observation in this place. But the genuine wryneck is produced by contraction of one sterno- mastoid muscle, which may depend, 1, on inflammatory or rheumatic spasm of that muscle. This form generally occurs somewhat suddenly to weakly children with disordered digestive organs. The writer has seen it as one of the kinds of rheumatic affections which follow scarlet fever. The muscle is hot and tender, and any motion causes pain. Treatment.—Perfect rest in the horizontal posture, and poultices, or hot fomentations, so as to keep the skin constantly moist and perspir- able, with purgatives and carbonate of ammonia, followed by bark with carbonate of ammonia, warm salt baths, and good diet.* 2. It may depend on rigidity and atrophy of the muscle, which may be a sequel of the state of inflammatory spasm last described, or may be congenital. Treatment.—The use of a machine to keep up extension, may be of service in cases that are of no very long duration. If it fail, as it probably will, or if the case be congenital, division of the sternal origin of the muscle (or perhaps of the clavicular also) is the last resource. It is best performed thus :—The skin covering the muscle at about an inch from the sternum is to be pinched up between the left forefinger and thumb. A narrow curved bistoury is then to be thrust under the muscle, and is to be made to divide it as it is being withdrawn ; but the wound in the skin must only be large enough to admit the instru- ment. The aperture may be made at the anterior border of the right * For further information respecting this form of wryneck, consult Aber- nethy. Lecture xxxii.; James on Inflammation, 2nd ed., p. 484 ; Brodie on Local Nervous Affections; and Coley, Med. Gaz., N. S., vol. iv., p. 148.PNEUMOTHORAX. 527 muscle, and between the sternal and clavicular portions of the left. So soon as the division is complete, the ends of the muscle retract with a dull snap, and the thumb should be pressed on the part, to prevent effusion of blood under the skin. When the wound is healed, but not before, an apparatus should be applied to elongate the callus, and re- store the neck to its proper position. Dr. Little finds that the best way of getting a purchase on the head, so as to keep it in a proper position, is by encircling it round the forehead and occiput with a broad strip of adhesive plaster, and with a bandage over this. Another strip of plaster is put round the waists A tape is then sewn firmly to the bandage and^ plaster which encircle the head, either in front of or behind the ear, according to circumstances, and should be made to pass diagonally across the neck and chest, and be fastened to the waist- band on the opposite side, with the requisite degree of tightness to insure proper rotation of the head. In cases of voluntary retention of the head on one side. Dr. Little has resorted, with advantage, to painful counter-irritation on the other * 3. Lastly, this distortion may be caused by palsy of one sterno- mastoid muscle, in consequence of which, the other muscle, being uncontrolled, drags the neck permanently to its own side. If the administration of remedies calculated to remove any existing disease in the head or back, and to improve the health, and if strychnine, blisters, and electricity fail, division of the sound muscle has been re- commended.f CHAPTER XVI. SURGICAL DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE-CHEST. I. Pneumothorax signifies a distension of the cavity of the pleura with air, and collapse of the lung. It is known by the following symptoms:—On the affected side there is an absence of the respiratory murmur, with an exceedingly clear sound on percussion, and im- mobility of the ribs; and there is puerile respiration on the other side. It may be caused, 1, by a fractured rib which has lacerated the lung—and in this case it is attended with emphysema, as has been detailed at p. 271. 2. It may be caused by the bursting of an abscess of the lung into the cavity of the pleura, or by ulceration of the surface. This, if not preceded, is almost sure to be followed by pleurisy with serous effusion. This will be indicated by succussion and by metalUo tinkling, in addition to the signs mentioned above. Succus- * Little on Deformities, Lond. 1853. t Vide Cases of Wryneck, &c., by Dieffenbach, in the Lancet for Sept. 1838. Gooch gives a case of wryneclc and distortion of the jaw caused by contraction of the platysma myoides, and cured by division of that muscle, in the year528 WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. sion simply consists in shaking the patient, when (inasmuch as both air and fluid have escaped from the lung into the pleural cavity) the fluid will be heard to splash, if the ear is applied to the chest at the level of the fluid. If there is fluid in the cavity of the pleura and air besides, the clearest parts on percussion will always be uppermost, in whatever posture the patient may be. The metallic' tinkling is a clear sound, lil^e the dropping of water into a cask. It is produced when the patient coughs, by which means a drop of fluid is shaken from the orifice in the lung, and made to fall to the bottom of the chest. 3. It may be a consequence of the escape of air from a wounded lung, after the external wound through the parietes of the chest has been closed. Treatment.—So far as the mere surgical treatment of this symptom is concerned, if the breathing become very difficult, with a distended and tympanitic condition of the diseased or injured side of the chest, a small trocar may be introduced between the fifth and sixth ribs, to let the air escape. II. HEMOTHORAX, which signifies the presence of blood in the pleural cavity, may be suspected if great dyspnoea and dulness on percussion follow a fractured rib, or if it come on rapidly after closure of a wound in the chest. The blood may proceed either from the intercostal artery, or from the lung. Treatment.—If the difficulty of breathing be very urgent, a punc- ture must be made to let the blood escape. III. Hydrothorax, or dropsy of the chest, is indicated by great difficulty of breathing, especially on lying down—livid countenance —disturbed sleep—dulness on percussion. It is usually a sequel of disease of the heart. IV. Empyema signifies abscess of the chest, or suppuration of the pleura. It is an effect of inflammation, whether idiopathic, or caused by injury; or else of the bursting of abscesses of the lung, in which case it will be accompanied with pneumothorax, or of the bursting of abscess in the vicinity. The signs are enlargement of the side of the chest—sepa- ration of the ribs—dyspnoea—difficulty of lying on the sound side—heart displaced to the right side, if the effusion be on the left. V. Paracentesis.—There are three cases in which it may be ex- pedient to withdraw the fluid from the pleura. First, a patient after an attack of phthisical pleurisy may go on for months with a large collection of serum in the cavity. The health improves up to a certain point; but the fluid remains unabsorbed, and the breathing is too limited for any useful purpose of life. Secondly, the effusion may be so great as to threaten death by asphyxia. Thirdly, the liquid, instead of being noxious by its bulk, may be so by its properties. There may be pain, and tendency to point at a particular spot; and there may be the shiverings and other hectic symptoms which indicate the absorption of decomposing pus. In either of these three cases an operation is expedient. The simplest operation is to puncture the skin between two ribs, say the fifth and sixth, where nearest the sui-face, that529 WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. is a little behind their middle, and thrust in a very fine trocar, to which an exhausting syringe is adapted. By this the liquid can be slowly pumped oat of the chest, without the least risk of introducing air. Supposing the liquid merely serous or inodorous, when about a quart has been withdrawn the wound may be closed, and the operation repeated in a week. If the fluid extracted be offensive, the case must be treated like any other huge abscess. The boldest plan is to with- draw as much liquid as possible, and inject one or two pints of water, containing a drop of iodine in solution, repeating this process till the liquid returns inodorous. The puncture must be repeated at intervals. Should a permanent opening be established, it would be better to introduce a drainage tube. One sufficient aperture must be made. A long bent iron probe is passed through it, into the cavity, and made to project at one of the intercostal spaces, as far back and as low down as possible. Here it is to be felt and cut down upon, and made to project; and then a piece of silk to be attached to an eye in it, which is to be drawn through the wound, and by means of the silk, an India-rubber tube ; the ends of the tube are tied together, and the pus allowed to drain away. But in any case, should the discharge be offensive, the iodine injection should be repeated. VI. Hydrops Pericardii may occur under the same conditions as hydrothorax, and may be combined with it. Its diagnosis is obscure. It may be suspected to exist if the patient complain of constant weight in the prsecordia, great dyspnoea, especially when lying on the back, and faintness upon exertion; if there is great dulness on percussion, and manifest fulness over the region of the heart—if its pulsations are tremulous—and the circulation embarrassed. The operation of para- centesis pericardii has been practised, although it can rarely be of much benefit, and ought not to be dreamed of until blisters and diuretics have failed entirely. It has been attempted in sundry cases of hydro- thorax, which were mistaken for hydrops pericardii; but by a second lucky mistake the pleura was opened instead. It may be performed either by making an incision opposite the heart's apex, and dividing the muscles and pericardium with great precaution, or by first making an opening into the pleura, opposite the junction of the fifth or sixth rib with its cartilage—and then introducing the finger, feeling for the distended pericardium, and cutting into it with curved scissors ; but it is an operation which we by no means recommend. VII. Wounds and Contusions of the Parietes of the chest require the same treatment, whether the ribs are fractured or not. A bandage may be applied to prevent motion of the ribs, if the patient express himself relieved by it; but sometimes it adds to the distress, and must not be used. The bowels must be opened, the diet mode- rately low, cough and irritation be allayed by full opiates, and bleed- ing or leeches be employed, if necessary, to relieve difficult breathing and congestion of the lungs of a plethoric patient. VIII. Penetrating Wounds of the thorax, such as stabs from a sword, are usually attended with wound of the lung, of which we shall D 2 M530 WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. speak directly. In the dead body, when air is admitted to the cavity of the pleura, the lung collapses at once : this is certainly not the case in the living body, unless the external wound be very extensive in- deed ;—on the contrary, the lung continues to discharge its functions, although less perfectly in proportion to the amount of air passing in and out of the wound in the chest. The writer has had the oppor- tunity of ascertaining that the respiratory murmur may be perfect throughout the lung, just after a wound in the pleural cavity has been closed. Hernia of the Lung.—If the lung protrudes, the rule generally given is, to retui'n it as quickly as possible, unless it is injured or be- ginning to mortify ; but Mr. Guthrie recommends that it should be permitted to remain, as it closes the aperture into the pleura, and speedily granulates and heals over. Hernia of the lung, without external wound, protruding through the pleura amongst the muscles, is excessively rare, and must be treated by bandage or truss. IX. Wounds of the Lung, if extensive, are probably quickly fatal. If not, they will probably present the following symptoms:—- Great dyspnoea and sense of suffocation ; the countenance jtallid and ex- tremely anxious—and expectoration of blood, which is coughed up in florid arterial mouthfuls, mixed with occasional clots. If the wound is not extensive, there may be only a certain amount of oozing into the pleural cavity, and no cough nor bloody expectoration at all. Some- times a violent blow causes hsemoptysis, though there be no actual wound of lung. The dangers of wounds of the chest are threefold. 1st. Hcemorrhnge, which may destroy the patient by exhaustion, or may fill up the air passages and induce suffocation. 2ndly. Inflam- mation^ which may supervene, and will be aggravated by the irrita- tion of clots of blood, splintered bone, or of other extraneous bodies. 3rdly. Profuse and exhausting suppuration, with cough, debility, hectic, and all the symptoms of phthisis. Treatment.—The first indication is to check the hasmorrhage. If this proceed from the intercostal, or any other artery of the parietes (although these do not often give trouble), the wound must be en- larged, and the bleeding orifice be seized with forceps, or tenaculum, or be secured by torsion.* If haemorrhage proceed from the wounded lung, the remedies are ice or cold drinks, perfect quietude, opium to insure sleep and diminish the respiration, astringents, as gallic acid, or alum, administered internally. Secondly, the wound should be quickly examined, and if it be of large size, or a gunshot wound, the finger should be introduced into it, to remove clots of blood, splinters of broken ribs, or any other foreign substances that it may readily find. If it is not sufficiently large for this purpose, it may be dilated by a probe-pointed bistoury. At the same time, an intercostal artery, if wounded, should be secured. * Mr. Lawson says that the intercostal artery was not once secured in the Crimean campaign. j See also Dr. Fraser on Penetrating Wounds of the Chest.531 WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. Thirdly, the wound should then be accurately closed with sutures or lint and plaster, and the patient should be suffered to lie as quietly as possible. He should have plenty of cool air, and a very light cover- ing. The rule is generally given, in all injuries of the thorax and abdomen, to place him on the wounded side ; but he must decide for himself what position is the-most comfortable. The closing of the wound is a great relief to dyspnoea. It is warmly advocated by the American surgeons. Fourthly, inflammation must be combated; and all modern ex- perience shows that this is best done by gentle treatment;—opium ; aperients ; ice; cool drinks and quiet;—veneesection rarely need be per- formed. The diet must be proportioned to the patient's condition : beef-tea, meat and port wine in one case; iced lemonade, barley- water, or milk and water in another. But, as Mr. Lawson observes, the inflammation which follows an injury is a totally different thing from idiopathic pneumonia.* Fifthly, if there should be evidence that the side of the chest has become tilled, and the lung compressed, by air, by extravasated blood, or by inflammatory effusion, serous or purulent, either tlie wound m\ist be opened, or another incision should be made into the pleural cavity lower down. Secondary hcemorrhage, after wounds of the lung, may, 1, be caused by inflam,matory excitement ; or, 2 (if the wound be gunshot), by the sepai'ation of sloughs from the lung ; or, 3, by the sloughing of an intercostal artery that may have been brushed by the ball. Venaj- section is the remedy for the tirst case, and the ligature, pressui'e, or styptics, such as gallic acid internally, for the latter two. Foreign bodies in the chest add greatly to the danger of exhausting suppuration, although patients have recovered for years with balls, or pieces of cloth, encysted in the lung or pleural (;avity. ]n some cases, a ball has remained rolling loosely about in the pleural cavity. If any foreign body is detected, it should, if possible, be removed, and part of the upper border of a rib may be sawn away with Hey's saw, if necessary, in order to get at it. X. Abscess behind the sternum, and caries of that bone, sometimes require a perforation to be made in it with a trephine.t XI. Wounds of the Heart generally prove fatal from hemor- rhage. Numerous instances, however, are on record, in which stabs or musket-wounds of this organ, have healed, both in man and animals, without any ill effects remaining. The diagnosis and prognosis will of course be extremely doubtful. The only available remedy is opium, in order to prevent haemorrhage and keep the circulation as quiet as pos- * See ChisholnVs Military Surgery for the Confederate Army, 3rd edit., Columbia, 1864. Also Papers by Hamilton and others, Am. Med. Times, 1863 and 1864. t For cases, references, &c., see G. Borlase Childs, Lancet, 24th Aug, 1850 Cassar Hawkins, Med. Gaz. N.S., vol. v., p. 62.532 PARACENTESIS ABDOMINIS. sible, so that the blood may coagulate in the wound, and the coagulum become adherent and organised. XII. Deformity of the chest and spine is an almost inevitable consequence of severe pleurisy, or of empyema. The lung, compressed by pleuritic fluid, or bound down by adhesions, cannot expand again in the act of respiration, and the side of the chest falls in to accom- modate itself to the crippled lung. These cases will be known by their history ; by the fact that the deformity was preceded by en- largement ; and by the deficient respiratory sounds which will be de- tected by auscultation. Mechanical appliances are of very question- able utility; but the writer has seen abundance of cases, in which, if the patient were young, and the disease not too severe and long-con- tinued, great flattening and deformity have been completely recovered from by the unaided efforts of nature. CHAPTER XVII. INJURIES OF THE ABDOMEN, AND SURGICAL OPERATIONS. I. Paracentesis Abdominis, an operation much better called by the Anglo-Saxon term tapping, is required in ascites, and in ovarian dropsy, when the abdomen becomes so distended that the breathing and the circulation of the lower extremities are seriously impeded. Diagnosis.—In the first place, ascites may be known by the abdo- men being equably enlarged and fluctuating, not feeling harder at one part than at another ; whilst in ovarian dropsy, the swelling probably fluctuates less distinctly, for it may be composed of distinct cysts, some of which feel more distended than others. If, however, the ovarian tumour consists of a single thin-walled cyst, this diagnostic mark will be absent. A second means of distinguishing the two affec- tions is afforded by percussion. In ascites, the bowels, as they contain air, float up thi'ough the f^luid; and, in whatever position the patient may be placed, they tend to occupy the uppermost part, and the fluid the lowest; and a clear sound may be elicited by percussion over the bowels, but a dull sound over the fluid. Thus, if the patient be placed on his back, a clear sound will be produced over the anterior surface of the abdominal parietes, but a dull sound towards the sides and back. In ovarian dropsy, on the contrary, the abdomen is distended by a tumour, which occupies its front part, the bowels being behind and on either side of it. Consequently, when the patient lies on her back, per- cussion of the anterior surface pi'oduces a dull sound ; whilst a clear sound may be produced towards the back part and sides. Yet if the quantity of ascitic fluid be very large, and the abdomen be so distended that the mesentery does not allow the bowels to float up and entirely reach the anterior wall, it must be evident that this diagnostic mark may be far less palpable. Even in this case, however, the croaking of533 PARACENTESIS ABDOMINIS. air in the bowels may be perhaps felt; and as Dr. Tanner remarks, in some MS. notes with which he has favoured the author, it is more likely that ascites Avill be taken for o.varian dropsy than the converse. In any case of doubtful diagnosis, therefore, the probabilities are in favour of ascites. Some degree of ascites is frequently present with ovarian dropsy. Moreover, fluid may escape into the peritoneal cavity from the ovarian tumour, as stated by Hughes Bennett. Thirdly. A microscopic examination of the fluid which is removed will, in ovarian dropsy, most probably reveal the old disintegrated blood- globules, the epithelial cells, the large compound granular masses, and heaps of granules, oil-cells, and crystals of cholesterine, which abound in the liquid of old ovarian cysts. Lastly, there are the history and general symptoms, the uterine derangement, and pelvic tumour felt in the early stage of the ovarian disease ; the impaired health, oedema of the legs, and enlargement of the liver, which probably precede ascites. Into these it is not our province to enter. Operation.— The rule generally given is, that the patient must be seated in a chair,—that a broad towel must be passed round the lower part of the abdomen, its ends fobe crossed behind and intrusted to two assistants, who are to be instructed to draw it tight and support the belly as the fluid escapes. These precautions are taken, because of the risk that the removal of the compression to which the abdominal veins have been habituated, might cause the blood to gravitate into them from the heart and induce syncope, or that perhaps they might burst, and occasion a fatal hemorrhage. But this risk is entirely avoided if the plan be adopted of placing the patient in the recumbent posture on her side, at the edge of the bed, and turning her over as the fluid escapes ; and this plan is not only safer and more convenient, but more eflectual for getting rid of the fluid. But be this as it may, the surgeon, holding a trocar in a canula in his right hand, with the end of his forefinger about two inches from the point of the instrument, plunges it through the linea alba, two inches below the umbilicus; then holding in the canula with his left hand, he pulls out the trocar with his right. Modern instruments are provided with an India- rubber tube at right angles; so that the fluid may pass into a con- venient receptacle, without noise or splashing. Mr. Spencer Wells's syphon trocar has the additional advantage of permitting escape of fluid without the delay of withdrawing the trocar, a point of someOVARIOTOMY. 534 impoi'tcince in tapping non-adherent ovarian cysts. If the trocar is a large one, which is expedient in ovarian dropsy, it will be as well, before introducing it, to puncture the skin with a common lancet. The aperture is afterwards to be closed with lint and plaster, and a broad bandage with napkins as a compress, to be applied with comfort- able tightness. (See Bandages.) If a patient with ascites happens also to have an old irreducible hernia, and the sac is much distended, and preserves a f)-ee communication with the abdomen, it is a good plan to puncture the sac instead of the linea alba. 11. Ovariotomy.—The ovary, which, in a healthy condition, is about inch in its long diameter, and composed of peritongeal and fibrous coat, enclosing a vascular stroma filled with minute cysts, is liable to many diseases. Sometimes a solid tumour is developed in it, or a cutaneous cyst containing hair, teeth, and bone. But the disease to which the name ovarian tumour, or ovarian or encysted dropsy is given, may be described as an exaggeration of the entire organ, or of one or more of the individual cysts contained in it, into an enormous tumour, which may weigh from 50 to 100 lb., or even more. This tumour may be simple or cancerous. In the simple, the parts composing the tumour are natural struc- tures, only greatly hypertrophied ; in the cancerous, the solid intra- cystic parts are composed of cancer tissue. In some cases a cancerous growth may be superadded to a previously-existing simple tumour. The number of cysts may be one, or almost infinite, there being in the latter case a vast number of smaller ones developed in the inter- stices, and projecting into the cavities, of the larger ones. They may be thin and flexible like bladder, or thick and semicartilaginous. The contained fluid may be clear aud transparent as pure water, or thick and ropy, from the presence of a peculiar extractive matter; or may be of a deep coflfec colour from the presence of broken-down colouring matter of the blood; or opake, fi om the presence of the matters shown in the preceding page. The ovarian fluid contains much less albumen than blood serum does, and no phosphate of soda, or but very little.* The diagnosis from ascites has been spoken of already. From preg- nancy it must be distinguished by its history and duration, and es- pecially by the physical condition of the uterus, as ascertained by ex- amination. The diagnosis is sometimes more difficult than might be thought. Supposing a woman who has a right to be pregnant and believes heiself so. There may be enough enlargement of breasts and stomach derangement, the menses may have been just so long absent, and the movement of a small hard cyst within a larger one may be so like the gravitation of the foetus in utero as to deceive a careless prac- titioner. The state of the os uteri, the absence of the fcetal heart- sounds, and the duration of the case will, however, enlighten him. But for all those points we must i-efer to special writers, our concern being only with the treatment by operation. * Analysis by Dr. G. 0. Rees, quoted in Dr. A. Farre's article Uterus, in Todd's Cycloptedia.OVARIOTOMY. 535 Once in existence, three courses are open to this disease. 1. It may subside after tapping, or after accidental rupture of the cyst into the peritonasal cavity. The latter event, however, has proved fatal thi ough peritonitis in most of the instances in which it has been noticed. In some cases relief, more or less great, has followed the ulceration of the tumour, and the discharge of its contents through the navel or into some part of the bowels. But each of these cases is rare. 2. The disease, although incurable, may lemain stationary, the system become habituated to it, and life go on almost as though the burden existed not. The writer in former editions mentioned the case of a lady, aged about 60, of tall commanding figure, in whom an ovarian tumour, of immense size, has existed for more than thirty years. Her health had been for years pretty good, although when the disease first made its appearance, before the diagnosis was fully made out, she suffei-ed for three years from all the remedies that the physicians of George the Fourth's time could devise for the dispersion of the swell- ing. Since the last edition she died of suppuration of the cyst. 3. But unhappily such cases as these are the exceptions. In by far the greater number the tumour continues to increase; fills up the abdomen ; interferes with the breathing ; makes the patient's existence a misery ; and at last wears her out from pain and irritation, and especially from vomiting, which seems to set in when the tumour has reached its climax. Or the tumour may undergo degeneration and suppurate; and shiverings, hectic, and perspirations indicate absorption of noxious matter. Haemorrhage from the utei'us is of frequent occur- rence in the advanced stages, and so far as the writer has observed, it should not be interfered with, unless very profuse. The fatal issue will be, of course, much quicker if the malady is of a cancerous nature ; in which case, instead of remaining free and unattached in the peritonseal cavity, or even instead of being bound down by more or less numerous bands of adhesion, the tumour becomes amalgamated with the abdominal wall, with the liver, and with other visceia, and communicates a can- cerous infiltration to every part that it adheres to. The question then is, what can our art do to cui'e the patient, or to mitigate her sufferings; and there are three things that lequire mention, viz., Istly, tapping ; 2ndly, various medical and surgical measures adopted in the hope of producing atrophy of the tumour; and, 3rdly, extirpation, or ovariotomy. 1. Tapping.—This is the simplest mode of procuring relief; and in some few cases the tumour, emptied by this means, continues quiescent for years or for life. But far more commonly the operation r equires to be soon repeated. Cases aie extant, in one of which the patient lived to be tapped 06 times at intervals of about a month ; and, in another, 128 times at intervals of six weeks ; but taken as a general rule, it may be affirmed that few patients survive more than four years after the first tapping. After the first operation, the patient feels quite well ; but the riuid collects, say in six months. Then follows a second tap- ping; the patient remains pretty well for four months. Then a third,536 OVARIOTOMY. which lasts for three months; and so on; the interval becomes shorter; the emaciation greater; other cysts enlarge, to reach which, it may be necessary to use a very long trocar, and to plunge it quite deeply, or the punctui'e must be in the linea semilunaris, or wherever fluctuation is most evident. Tapping joer vaginam, when a fluctuating portion of tumour projects much in that situation, may be worth adopting. At last no more can be done. Vomiting is incessant; and delirium and exhaustion close the scene. 2. Under the second head may he enumerated an immense variety of plans for producing atrophy or absorption of the tumour; such as (a) the administration of the iodide of potassium, with tonics, and the iodide of iron: these should have a fair trial in incipient cases, and after tapping: in cases in which the author has been consulted, he has always found a tonic plan of treatment the most effectual. Considering the enormous amount of blood-cells, albumen, and other blood-stuff in the fluid contents of the tumour, the writer has suggested the admini- stration of gallic acid and the other vegetable astringents. As for mer- cury and remedies whose object it is to promote absorption by creating gieat evacuations, or by lowering the system, the writer can only say that he believes the less they are resorted to the longer the patient will live. (6) Mr. Isaac Baker Brown's plan of first emptying the cyst by tapping, then applying firm pressure and administering mxcrcury. (c) Operations for opening the cyst into the cavity of the peritonseum by subcutaneous section, thus imitating the cases in which the cyst has been ruptured by violent action of the abdominal muscles, and the fluid has been absorbed, and the patient cured. But of course, for the success of such operations, it is requisite that the active growth of the tumour be at an end. (d) Operations for causing the tumour to waste and suppurate by passing setons. (e) Procuring adhesion of the cyst to the abdominal parietes, and establishing an ulcerated opening into the cyst at the adherent spot; or cutting into the cyst, and stitch- ing the edges of the opening into it to those of the wound through the abdominal parietes; thus establishing an artificial oviduct, through which the contents of the cyst may be evacuated. Most of these plans were originated by Mr. I. B. Bi-own. (/) The iodine injection has been tried by Dr. Simpson with good results; and by Mr. Spencer Wells. The latter gentleman prefers a solution of 20 grains of iodine and 30 of iodide of potassium, in an ounce of distilled water, to the strong tincture of the Edinburgh Pharmacopoeia, which Dr. Simpson employs. About two fluid ounces of this solution are injected after the cyst has been completely emptied. The same precautions are neces- sary as in the injection of the tunica vaginalis, not to let the point of the trocar slip out of the cyst, so as to run the risk of injecting the fluid into the peritonaeum. For this purpose a catheter may be passed through the canula of the trocar, deep into the cyst, before the fluid is let out, and be held there. The iodine is injected, or allowed to run in through a glass syringe, and is suffered to remain. If it answers the desired end, it will destroy or modify the inner surface of the sac, takeOVAKIOTOMY. 537 away its secreting power, and cause tlie cyst to wither. The pain which follows the injection may be relieved by opium, and fomentations. But it stands to reason that this is not a radical remedy, and that it is not a safe remedy, unless there be but one cyst. To ascertain the last point. Dr. Gi-aily Hewitt uses an exploring sound, which may be passed into the interior of the cyst, through the canula of a trocar; which is provided with an india-rubber diaphragm to prevent the escape of the liquid, till the whole interior of the cyst has been exploied.* {g) There is another operation of fair promise which was proposed by Dr. Tanner, for cases in which the presence of extensive adhesions renders it impossible to remove the cyst. This consists in tying tightly the pedicle of the tumour after the fluid has been removed by tapping. Thus it may be hoped, that whilst the supply of blood furnished to the cyst by its adhesions will be sufficient to prevent gangrene, the ob- struction of the main arterial channel might prevent the fluid from being secreted anew. 3. Ovariotomy.—The remaining remedy is extirpation. But before describing the operation we must, as a part of the history of our pro- fession, give an account of the objections which have been raised against it. Some of these were fair enough twenty years ago, and were raised in thorough good faith. The early difficulties and misadventures of ovariotomists appeared great; and it was fair enough to say, that although the disease did lead to a miserable death by itself, that this was no reason for submitting the patient to a cruel and hopeless operation . The increased skill in diagnosis, the improved details of treatment, nay, the general improvement of all surgery, have now done away with these objections in the minds of rational men. But our profession, like every other, contains a few persons whose bigotry and prejudice are invincible. They admit that they cannot themselves remove this burden on their fellow-creatures' lives, and yet, like the old Pharisees, they will not allow any one else to try. With minds thoroughly fossilized, incapable of making one advance in science themselves, their sole pleasure is to revile those who do; to excite odium against them ; to use vituperative expressions, such as " belly-ripping," where argu- ment fails; and to delight themselves in the miserable notoriety which they gain by their frantic attacks on scientific men. Such men continue to rail against ovariotomy, as they do against every other improvement. Let us, then, see what objections can now, or may have been formerly raised against ovariotomy. They were threefold. First, the difficulty of diagnosis] as proofs of which used to be cited a number of cases in which the belly was laid open for what was no ovarian tumour at all. Secondly, the impos- sibility, in some cases, of removing the tumour, through adhesions, even though it were ovarian. Thii-dly, the mortality. In support of these objections there used to be cited the case of four patients operated * See remarks by Dr. Simpson quoted in Prov. Med. Journ., 1854, p. 1067 ; case by Spencer Wells, and description of Dr. Graily Hewitt's instrument, Med. Times, 1859, vol. i., p. 549.OVARIOTOMY. 538 on by Mr. Lizars forty or fifty years ago, of wliom one died; one re- covered ; in one, after the abdomen was laid open, there was found to be no tumour at all ; and in the fourth there was discovered an enormous mass of convoluted vessels looking like a placenta, which proceeded from the omentum to the tumo-ir, and of course rendered extirpation quite oat of the question, so that the incision was closed again.* Witliout, however, reproducing here more of the older partial statistical summaries, let us quote from the very elaborate table draw up by Dr. Clay, in his Translation of Kiwisch on Diseases of the Ovaries, I860. Dr. Clay gives a total of 537 cases of ovariotomy attempted or com- pleted. Of these, diagnosis was at fiiult in 36 : and an analysis of these instructively shows the affections most likely to be mistaken for ovarian disease ; 23 were uterine tumours, 2 mesenteric, 2 tubal fceta- tion, 2 omental, 1 splenic, 1 obesity and meteorism, 2 chronic inflam- mation and thickening of colon, &c., 2 no tumour at all, 1 not stated. In 13 of these some tumour was removed; in 23 the abdomen was closed without further operation. In 82 cases, the operation was abandoned through adhesions. By summing up the recoveries and deaths in these cases, we see what mortality has been due to laying open a diseased abdomen simply, without removal of a tumour. Thus, of these 82 cases, 58 recovered and 24 died. Of the 23 non-ovarian cases of simply opened abdomen, 16 recovered, and 7 died. In 24 cases there was partial excision of ovarian tumour. The com- plete excision was hindered by most close and extensive adhesions, or by a solid cancerous tumour. These are a fatal series ; 14 died. In 395 cases complete ovariotomy was performed ; and of these 212 recovered and 183 died. The prevalent causes of death were shock, hsemorrhage, and peritonitis. A few died from tetanus and other complications. Looking upon ovariotomy as embracing almost all the dangers of all surgical operations, it may be affirmed that it will participate in the general improvement which time brings. Shock will be mitigated by careful nourishment before the opeiation ; by a gentle administration of chloroform ; by a quick and dexterous operation, and by skill in mitigating symptoms afterwards. Operators are more on their guard against haemorrhage, and more alive to its dangers. Adhesions are better dealt with than formerly. As for peritonitis, they are more than ever convinced that this is another word for chemical decomposi- tion ; for the results of unclean hospital air; for the intrusion of pus into the peritonseal cavity, or of the decomposing sanies of the stump of the pedicle. And whatever makes ovariotomy safer will make all other surgical operations so also. On behalf of the operation we say, 1st, That the mortality arising from this is not larger than that from many other surgical operations; and, to use the words of Mr. Southam, the statistical argument is singularly inconsistent when used * Solly, in a Lecture in the Med. Gaz., vol. xxxviii. See Tilt, Lancet, 1848, vol. ii., p. 626.OVAKIOTOMY. 539 by surgeons who do not hesitate,io recommend operations still more dangerous, for the removal of diseases not immediately fatal; as, for example, ligature of the innominata artery for aneurism ; an operation that always proved fatal till the year 1864. Out of 106 cases, Mr. Spencer Wells has preserved the lives of 70—a mortality of 1 in 3—a result more favourable than that of the larger amputations, herniotomy, or lithotomy in the adult. Dr. Clay, 110 operations, 76 recoveries. Mr. Baker Brown has perfoimed complete ovariotomy in 68 cases, with 28 deaths and 40 recoveries. 2ndly, that no other plan of tieat- ment can effect a radical cure, but that by this, according to Clay's tables, 23 women, relieved of a burden which made life miserable, have married and borne children. 3rdlv, at any late, there is one rule which ought in all fairness to be applied to the results of individual operators. One man esteems it a duty to give his patient a chance, though the case be an unpromising one ; another selects only'promising cases; still the average of two-thirds of recoveries is hopeful. 4thly, that if the surgeon, in order to complete his diagnosis, makes a small incision, to ascertain the existence of adhesions, and closes it again with suture if he finds this to be the case, no great harm is likely to result : in fact, this, which is sometimes raked up as an opprobrium against operators, is a perfectly justifiable measure. Lastly, that it is by far the most merciful plan of treatment, if adopted early, in patients other- wise healthy, with a still growing but nonadherent tumour. In a field where so many have distinguished themselves, it would be impossible to mention all, and unfair to select a few of those who have acquired celebrity for their skill and success in this operntion; yet the writer cannot refrain from adducing the names of Mr. Lane, Dr. Clay, Mr. Southam, Mr. Walne, Dr. Fiederic Bird, Mr. Jeaffreson of Framlingham, Mr. West, Mr. Ciouch of Bruton, Mr. L B. Brown, Dr. Tanner, Mr. Hutchinson, Mr. Bryant, Dr. Tyler Smith, Dr. Keith, and Mr. Spencer Wells. The surgeon who proposes to himselt to perform this operation, should make certain, 1st, that a tumour exists, and that it is ovarian; 2ndly, that the tumour is increasing, and likely to destroy life, if allowed to remain. No one would interfere with a stationary tumour. 3rdly, that the increase of the tumour is not arrested by tapping, mo- deiate pressure, and iodine or iron. One tapping is often expedient, as a means of diagnosis, because if the empty sac subsides into the pelvis, it is a guarantee against extensive adhesions. 4thly, that the disease is not cancerous. Cancer may be suspected if the tumour has begun early in life, is increasing very fast, and is adherent, and if there is great pain, and decay of health and strength. 5thly, that the general health is such as would be desired in any patient who was to undergo a capital operation ; lastly, he should ascertain whether there are exten- sive adhesions to the abdominal parietes or viscera. This he may do in some measure by noticing whether the tumour shifts its place as the patient rolls herself from side to side, and also by a very ingenious test which the author has seen used by Dr. F. Bird ; namely, by putting540 OVARIOTOMY. the abdominal muscles in action, and noticing whether they rise much from the surface of the tumour. Thus, if the patient whilst lying on her back be told to raise herself up in her bed without using her arms, the recti muscles will start up into a prominent band, if their sheath is not bound down by adhesions on its peritonseal surface, but not if it is, unless the adhesions are long, or the cyst flaccid. By observing also, as Dr. Sibson suggests, whether the tumour descends during inspira- tion ; and by grasping and endeavouring to slide the abdominal parietes over the tumour, or to grasp them and lift them from the tumour, much valuable information will be derived; but the decisive test is a short in- cision, and exploration with the finger. The reasons for running the risk will be much the strongest in the case of a young healthy person, whose life, if spared, might be long and valuable. The operation comprises the following steps. The patient ought to have the bowels and bladder empty, and to have taken food three hours previously. The temperature of the ; operation room should be raised to a degree comfortable to the patient; but the high tem- peratures and moist vapour of the earlier operators are no longer adopted. The patient's position should be easy, and chloro- form should be administered. The most happy method of operating, supposing that the circumstances admit of it, is, to make a short incision, say from four to six inches, between the umbilicus and the pubes, along the linea alba, through the periton£eum. Next, to puncture the cyst, and empty it; and for this purpose to employ the large trocar with hooked canula, devised by Mr. Spencer Wells for rapidly emptying the cyst, seizing it, and withdrawing it without allow- ing any of the fluid to escape into the peri- toneal cavity. In the next place, to separate the tumour from its pedicle, and secure the divided tissues, so that there shall be no in- ternal bleeding, which is one great source of danger after the operation. At the same time it is one of the greatest modern im- provements that the divided pedicle shall not be put back within the abdomen, where it may possibly bleed, and certainly suppurate before the ligatures separate; whilst the ligatures themselves keep the wound open, and541 OVARIOTOMY. favour the spread of inflammation; but that it shall be brought out of the wound and be fixed there. This improvement is due to Mr. Dufiin. For this purpose the pedicle may be compressed by a clamp, originally devised by Mr. Hutchinson, consisting, in the most improved form of the instrument, of two plates of steel, which are gilded, and are capable of being screwed so as to compress the pedicle thoroughly.* The inner surface of each plate is jagged, so that the pedicle can scarcely slip. It should, as Mr. Spencer Wells ob- serves, be so placed as not to drag the uterus, and consequently should be as far from that organ as possible; and if the pedicle be very short, a portion of cyst may be cut off, sufficient to make a pedicle long enough to project through the wound. The latest form of clamp used by Mr. S. Wells is here depicted. It is more easily applied, more secure, and gives less annoyance to the pa- tient than former models. Lastly, the wound is closed accurately (leaving the stump of the pedicle secured by the clamp just protruding from it), and so the operation is finished. The method of closing the wound recommended by Mr. Spencer Wells is by a sufficient number of sutures of fine, strong, pure silk, which should be passed from within outwards through the entire thickness of the wound, including the peritonaeum, so as to bring two surfaces of that membrane into contact, and produce adhesion of them, and exclude the contact of the purulent matter which may be secreted by the other structures. But there are cases in which the steps of the operation do not follow so smoothly as we have just described them. The abdomen may contain a large quantity of ascitic fluid, most of which must be allowed to escape before beginning upon the ovary. It may not be possible to extract the tumour through a small incision, either because its con- tents are too viscid to run out, or because it is solid and cannot be emptied (of course any lesser contained cysts may be punctured), or because of adhesions. These, if old, firm, and extensive, may cause the operation to be abandoned ; if slighter, they may be gently torn through, or, if need be, divided with the knife, and any arteries or veins of suf- ficient consequence must be tied. If it be impossible to apply the clamp, a stout whipcord ligature may be made to encircle the whole * See Medical Times and Gazette, Dec. 11, 1858.542 WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. pedicle; and even then, some single vessels may require to be tied. The remaining ovary should be examined, and if diseased may be re- moved ; but the patient should not needlessly be spayed. One steady assistant should take chaige of the edges of the wound, holding them close to the cyst, so that the bowels shall not protrude between; flannels steeped in water at 98° should be at hand to protect them if need be* The patient should be kept thoroughly warm during the operation, by flannel stockings, and bottles of hot water to the feet; and the abdomen be afterwards padded with the softest cotton wool, and sup- ported by a many-tailed or Indian bandage. Morphia may be ad- ministered in regular small doses, to procure sleep by night and ease by day. Sickness and thirst may be allayed by sucking ice. The diet should be good, consisting of soup, light pudding, and wine or brandy and soda water, according to the patient's taste. The bowels should be regulated as they are after a confinement; that is, having been well emptied before the operation, they need not be disturbed till they begin to feel uncomfortable; then a lavement may be administered. The catheter should be introduced regularly. If great pain and tenderness come on, a common warm linseed poultice may be applied, as suggested by Mr. Wells ; and if serous effusion should be produced by peritonitis, he very rationally recommends that the wound should be partially opened to let it escape, as he did in one case, with the best possible results;—for, as he observes, the serum in this case was so acrid that it scalded the fingers; and there is no doubt but that it would have been capable by inoculation of producing puerperal fever: what mischief, then, must it not cause within the peritonaeal cavity? Mr. Wells has also evacuated fluid from the pouch of peritonaeum between uterus and rectum, by vaginal puncture, and in one case has left in a drainage- tube with excellent effect. (Med. Times and Gaz,, July 1864.) Dr. Peaslee has reported three cases in which he has practised daily syringing of the peritonaeal cavity with warm water, and injections ot chloride of soda. The patients recovered. (American Journal Med. Science, July, 1864.)t III. Violent Blows on the Abdomen from obtuse substances, * " The fatal mistakes of the operator are, leaving important blood-vessels unsecured; tearing any of the abdominal viscera inadvertently or in coarse haste to get through adhesions; uniting so badly the external wound that it opens and lets out the intestines; treating the gravid uterus as if it were an ovarian cyst; leaving blood or escaped tiuid, or even instruments or sponges in the cavity of the abdomen; as is likely to happen when the operation is hurried to a close, the intestines shovelled back, and the external wound badly adjusted, under that precipitate dread of peritoneal exposure which is incul- cated almost within the first week of dissecting-room life."—Dr. Savage, Lancet, 1864, voL ii., p. 220. t See Lizars on the Extirpation of Diseased Ovaria, Edinburgh, 1825 ; J, Hughes Bennett, Ed. Med. and Surg. Jour. April, 1846 ; B. Phillips, Med. Chir. Trans vol. xxvii.; Dr. R. Lee, on Ovarian and Uterine Diseases, Lond., 1853 ; Dr. Tilt, Lancet, 1849 and 1850; Mr. 1. B. Brown, on Diseases of Women, Lond. 1854 ; Southam on Ovariotomy, Prov. Journ. 1845, and Transactions, 1847 ; Dr. Tanner, in the Lancet for 1852, vol, ii., and Med. Times lor 1853, vol. i.:WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. 543 the passage of cart-wheels, spent shot, and so forth, may produce vaiious results. 1. They may cause severe concussion and collapse, which may either speedily prove fatal, or may pass off' without further ill consequences, or may be succeeded by inHammation. 2. They may produce laceration of the bowels, or of the solid viscera; with effusion of blood or of their secretions into the perito- nseal cavity. This may be suspected if the patient complains of excru- ciatinpj pain radiating over the whole belly ; if the features are pinched, the belly soon swells, and the pulse is very small and tremulous. Treatment.—The patient must be suffered to lie quietly during the stage of collapse, without any officious administration of stimulants ; and so soon as pain or vomiting comes on, he should have opium by enema. Subsequently leeches, and fomentations to the belly, to abate inflammation ; and opium, to support the system under the irritation, are the only available remedies. The bowels should not be disturbed either with purgatives or enemata for the first three days, nor should any nutriment be taken, save,very small quantities of ice, milk and water, or beef-tea, at intervals. IV. Abscesses between the abdominal parietes occasionally result from contusions or punctured wounds, and sometimes occur idiopathi- cally. According to the principles laid down in the chapter on Abscess, they should be opened early, both because of the tendinous structures by which they are covered, and of the possibility that they might burst into the peritonasura. V. Penetrating Wounds of the abdomen may be divided into four species: namely, 1st, simple wounds of the parietes; 2ndly, wounds of the viscera ; 3rdly, wounds of the parietes with protrusion of the viscera; and, 4thly, wounds in which some of the viscera are protruded and wounded likewise. 1. In the case of a simple wound of the parietes, the surgeon must first (if it be large enough) gently introduce his finger, to ascertain that no part of the intestines is beginning to protrude ; then the wound must be closed by suture, which should be passed deeply. If the epigastric artery is divided, it must be cut down upon and tied. The surgeon must recollect that when any part of the abdominal parietes has been wounded or severely bruised, it is almost certain afterwards to becom.e the seat of hernial protrusion. 2. Wounds of the viscera.— In the case of small wounds of the abdomen without protrusion, it will be often impossible to say whether the bowels are wounded or not, but the treatment must be altogether the same, whether they are or not. (a) Wounds of the stomach may be known by the situation and depth of the wound, by vomiting of blood, by the very great depression C. E. Thompson of Westerham (describes the improved trocar mentioned at p. 534), Med. Times, 1858, vol. i., p. 329 ; Spencer Wells in Med. Times and Gaz. 1858 and 1864 ; Dr. Clay in Obstet. Trans., vol. v., his 109th and 110th cases, Glasgow Medical Journal, Oct., 1864.544 WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. and collapse, and by the nature of the matters (if any) that escape from the wound, (6) Wounds of the bowels may perhaps be known by the passage of blood with the stools, but certainly by faecal matter escaping from the wound, or by the symptoms of extravasation of their contents into the abdominal cavity—that is to say, excruciating pain, radiating over the whole belly from the seat of the injury, and attended with signs of great collapse. Fortunately, however, as Mr. Travers has shown, wounds of the stomach and intestines, unless very large, are not so liable to be at- tended with extravasation as was formerly thought. For, in the first place, the mucous membrane protrudes through the muscular, so as to fiill up a small aperture; and, secondly, any tendency to extravasation is counteracted by the constant equable pressure of all the abdominal viscera against each other. Moreover, lymph is soon effused, and glues the neighbouringparts together, and thus the aperture is circumscribed, and any future extravasation is prevented. (c) Wounds of the liver, if extensive, are, from its great vascula- rity, nearly as fatal as those of the heart. Small wounds and lacera- tions may be recovered from. There will at first be symptoms of great collapse, which, if the patient survive, will be succeeded by severe sickness, pain in the liver, yellowness of the skin and urine, great itching, and a glairy, bilious discharge from the wound. {d) Wounds or ruptui-e of the gall-bladder are almost invariably fatal, although there are one or two instances of recovery on record, (e) Wounds of the spleen, if deep, are also fatal, from the great haemor- rhage that follows, although the whole organ has been removed from animals, and from man, without much consequent evil, (/) Wounds of the kidneys are attended with bloody urine. They are exceedingly dangerous, from haemorihage, next from violent in- flammation with excessive vomiting; and lastly, from profuse sup- puration, kept up by the passage of urine through the wound. Very mild laxatives, the warm bath, very light dressings, so as to admit of the flow of urine through the wound, and some unctuous application to prevent excoriation of the surrounding skin, are the necessary mea- sures. (gr) Wounds of the bladder, if communicating with the peritonEeum, are extremely dangerous, owing to extravasation of urine. In fact, unless there is an external wound through which it can escape, they are almost uniformly mortal. The catheter must be worn constantly. Mr. Syme (in his " Contributions") gives a case of rupture of the bladder, below the line of reflection of the peritonaeum, in which the patient recovered, free incisions having been made to give exit to the urine which was extravasated between the abdominal muscles and skin. 3. If the intestines protrude, and are neither wounded nor gan- grenous, they should first be freed from any foreign particles that stick to them, and then be returned as soon as possible. The patient should be placed on his back, with his shoulders raised, and his knees drawn up. If absolutely necessary, the wound must be a little dilated withWOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. 545 a probe-pointed bistoury. Then the surgeon should return the bowel portion hj portion, passing it back with his right forefinger and thumb, and keeping his left forefinger on that which is already replaced, to prevent it from protruding again. He should be careful to replace intestine before omentum, and any wounded part should be returned last. The abdominal parietes are best sewn together as after ovariotomj'- 4. If the stomach and intestines, when protruded, are found to be wounded, the wound should be sewn up by a continuous or glover's suture (keeping the serous surfaces applied together, and turned in- wards). (See p. 135.) Then it is hoped that the aperture in the bowel will be united by the adhesion of the contiguous serous surfaces ; and the silk employed in the suture will be detached by ulceration, and fall into its cavity. If, however, any part of the bowel that is protruded be very much lacerated, or be gangrenous, it should not be returned, but be left hanging out, that an artificial anus may be foi-med. The symptoms of inflammation of the peritoneum or abdominal viscera, which is of course exceedingly likely to follow these wounds and injuries, may readily be recognised. The patient lies on his back, with his knees drawn up; he breathes solely with the thorax, and not with the diaphragm or abdominal muscles; the countenance is anxious ; the pulse small, wiry, and resisting, but becomes fuller after bleeding; there is severe throbbing pain, with gi-eat tenderness, more or less widely diffused; a dry tongue, constant nausea, or vomiting, or obsti- nate constipation, complete the catalogue. If the case proceed to a fatal termination, the belly swells from serous effusion (if this be the case the v/ound should be opened) or from tympanites; and the pulse becomes more frequent and weak, the patient retaining his senses to the last. The treatment comprises opium or morphia, which may be given as enemas to allay pain and keep the wounded part at rest; fomentations ; leeches if necessary; ice to allay sickness; and cold beef-tea by spoonfuls. It is quite unnecessary to give purgatives in cases of inflammation of the bowels. It is true that the bowels will be obstinately costive ; but this costiveness arises from their being inflamed, and unable to pro- pel their contents onwards; and the proper remedies for it are such as will relieve the inflammation—that is, bleeding, leeches, fomentations, and calomel and opium. But if, in spite of common sense, the surgeon attempts to overcome the costiveness by colocynth pills and black draughts, he will soon induce obstinate vomiting, that will render all his other remedies nugatory. If in any case of inflammation of the bowels it is probable that they are loaded with faeces, the. proper re- medy is the repeated injection of warm water as an enema. To relieve the flatulent distension an enema of 1 drachm of the essentml oil of rue well mixed with half a pint of gruel or soap and water, will be found exceedingly efficacious.* * See Travers on Wounds of the Intestines, Lond. 1812; Henneh's Militarj- Surgery ; the observations on the treatment of Enteritis in Fergusson on Puer- D 2 NARTIFICIAL ANUS. 546 VI. Artificial Anus signifies a preternatural communication be- tween the intestinal tube and skin. It may be a consequence of pene- trating wounds, of abscess or ulceration of the intestines, or of mortifi- cation of intestine in strangulated hernia, and it is sometimes pur- posely made by the surgeon in case of imperforate anus, in order to afford an exit for the faeces. The external opening is irregular, everted, and red, and the surrounding skin excoriated. The aperture in the intestines adheres by its margin to the peritonseum, so that extrava- sation into the abdomen is prevented. That portion of intestine which is immediately above the aperture, and that portion which is immediately below it, meet at the artificial anus at a more or less acute angle, and present two orifices ; one by which matters descend from the stomach, and another which leads down to the rectum. These two orifices are separated by a sort of crescent-shaped septum, formed by a projection of the mesenteric side of the bowel opposite to the aper- ture. Now it may readily be understood that the greater the aperture in the bowel, the more acute will be the angle at which the upper and lower portions meet, and the greater will the septum also be; and that, if the septum is large, it will act as a valve, and close up the orifice of the lower portion of bowel, causing any matters that come down the upper portion to escape externally, instead of passing into the lower.* The consequences of this affection may be, 1st, that the patient may die of starvation, from the escape of the chyle, if the aperture is near the duodenum. 2ndly, that a portion of the intestine may protrude and form a hernia; besides the constant disgusting annoyance occasioned by the escape of ftecal matter and flatus. Treatment.—If the affection is of recent origin, and especially if it is consequent upon strangulated hernia, the patient should remain in bed, and great care should be taken to keep the parts clean; and then, per- haps, the external aperture may contract and cicatrize. If the latter is very small, and if the passage between it and the bowel is of some length (a state of parts termed fcecal fistula), something may perhaps be done by compression, or by engrafting a piece of skin over the aper- ture ; or by making an oval incision in the skin on each side of the aperture, and bringing the outer edges of the incision together by means of needles and the twisted suture ; or by applying the actual cautery to the margin of the wound. But if the loss of substance in the bowel is considerable, and the projecting septum large, the chance of recovery is not great. A pad of simple linen or lint may be worn to compress the aperture, and prevent discharge from it, or sometimes a hollow truss with a leathern or horn receptacle, may be used with advantage. Enemata are useful in all cases. Moreover, a tent may be thrust into both internal orifices, in peral Fever; Griffin's Medical Problems; Holland's Notes and Reflections; Dr. Watson's Lectures ; and Chisolm's Military Surgery. * See the Cliapter on Artificial Anus in Lawrence on Hernia, and Dupuytren in Diet, de Med. torn. iii.ABDOMINAL SECTION. 547 order to enlarge the lower one, and repress the septum, as proposed b}' Dessault. As a last resource, a small portion of the septum may be nipped and strangulated by the forceps, or enterotome invented by Dupuytren for that purpose. VII. Abdominal Section.—There is a class of cases of obstruc- tion of the intestines, in which it is found, after death, that the mis- chief has been done by some one little band of lymph, the consequence of inflammation, and that if this could have been found and severed, the patient might have had at least a chance of recovery. Intestinal obstruction may, however, aiise from many other causes such as, ist, ileus, or obstinate spasm ; 2ndly, impaction of accumu- lated fasces, or, pei'haps, of a large gall-stone, or intestinal concretion, as of chalk or magnesia, taken incautiously as medicines; 3rd]y, solid growths within the intestine ; 4thly, tumours pressing upon it from without; 5thly, stricture of the intestine; 6thly, invagination or in- tussusception, or the slipping of one portion into, and constriction by, another. This condition is rarely recognized in time, and is often mis- taken for dysentery, and the writer believes that many children die of it, without the true cause being known. The child is ill, probably vomits ; is evidently in pain in the bowels, and usually passes the con- tents of the lower bowels mixed with moi-e or less blood ; afterwards blood alone. Jl ost probably the parents send for medicine, and possibly get a powder containing some purgative, which makes the case worse or hopeless. The symptoms of strangulation continue; and if the patient survive long enough, there is a discharge of fetid bloody serum oozed out by the strangled bowel, and possibly a portion of bowel may be * Invagination of the intestine, from nature, by Dr. Westmacott. A large coil of the small intestines, including the caput coli, has been engulphed within the ascending colon. The vermiform appendage is seen projecting out ; and through an aperture, made artificially, the black and almost gangi'enous intes- tine is seen strangled within.ABDOMINAL SECTION. 548 passed down to, and protrude from the anus. In some desperate cases, the strangled part has bodily sloughed off, and been voided ; the continuity of the canal has been established again, and the patient has recovered. The best remedy is opium. Lastly, constriction by bands of lymph ; or by rents in the mesentery through which the bowel has slipped; besides internal hernia; obturator hernia, for example. Moreover, from whatever cause arising, the symptoms are usually much the same —^viz., obstinate constipation; a vomiting first of a yellowish or greenish liquid, then of a feculent or stercoraceous matter; great " tympanitis," or distension of the intestines with flatus and fgecal matter, and occasional fits of colicky pain—arising from the efforts of the intestine to overcome the obstacle, during which the coils of the distended guts can be seen through the abdominal parietes. To these essential symptoms, tenderness, and other signs of inflammation are added in greater or less degree. Now the practical question arises—suppose there were to be a case of evident mechanical obstruction of the bowels ; that injections have heen used as largely as they safely can; and that purgatives have been given till they do but add to the distressing vomiting; that leeches and opium and hip-baths have been resorted to for the relief of tenderness; and that some space has been given, if the symptoms are not very urgent, to see what nature unaided can do, and that the case remains unimproved—shall the patient be left to die ? or shall surgical means be resorted to, to give him a chance? The author would say, let the patient settle his affairs, worldly and spiritual, and let an operation be resorted to. The most favourable circumstances which such a case can present are, if the patient is not too much exhausted by a long continuance of pain and vomiting; if he can point to any one spot as the seat of uneasiness, and, probably, of stricture, and if an examination of the distended coils of intestine seems to confirm this suspicion; and if he has been known to suffer on former occasions from an attack of in- flammation in the abdomen, thus making it probable that the obstruc- tion is caused by bands of lymph, rather than by either of the othei- causes ; and if the present attack have come on suddenly. If the operation is determined on, the air of the apartment should be warmed; flannels dipped in warm water should be ready to pro- tect the bowels if they proti'ude; chloroform should be adminis- tered, and the bladder emptied. Then an incision should be made through the linea alba below the umbilicus ; the peritonasum be care- fully opened, and the finger at once passed to the probable seat of obstruction. This seems to be most commonly found near the termi- nation of the small intestines at the bi-im of the pelvis on the right side. To reach it, it is usually necessai y to draw aside the distended bowels and to explore the mesentery. If a band is found, the finger must be passed under it, and a probe-pointed bistoury used to sever it, the wound should be closed with abundance of sutures, and a compress and bandage be placed over it. In one of the cases in which the549 ARTIFICIAL ANUS, author has operated, the patient pointed beforehand with perfect accu- racy to the spot where the obstruction was found. Should the operator eitlier fail in finding an obstruction, or in relieving it, the desperate resource remains of opening tlie bowel, as low down as possible, and stitching the opened part to the edge of the wound in the parietes so as to establish an artificial anus. -Although these proceedings have not hitherto met with much success, in all the cases recorded the patients' sufferings have been much relieved thereby, and an easier death has resulted.* VIII. Artificial Anus for the Relief of Obstruction.— When an obstruction of the bowels is situated in the rectum or colon, and the passage of faecal matter is entirely prevented, so that life is in imminent danger, it is the surgeon's duty to propose an operation for the patient's relief. The class of cases referred to, comprise, 1, cases of congenital defi- ciency of the rectum in new-born children, in which an attempt has been made unsuccessfully to open the bowel from the peringeum; 2, cases of impassable stricture of the rectum, or of some part of the colon; 3, of obstruction by cancerous and other growths within, or tumours without; or, in fact, by any other conceivable cause. Before resorting to such an operation, the surgeon must first ex- plore the rectum thoroughly by finger and bougie, inject water by the long tube, and take every other method of establishing an accurate diagnosis, since, of course, to make an opening below the point of stricture would be useless. Then there are two places in which the operation may be performed:— (1.) The sigmoid flexure of the colon may be opened by an incision in the left iliac region. This operation was proposed by Littre in 1720. Instead of opening the sigmoid flexure on the left, the caecum on the right side may, if deemed expedient, be opened by an oblique incision, near the anterior superior spine of the ilium. (2.) The colon may be opened in the lumbar region by a vertical incision along the outer edge of the quadratus lumborum, just above the crest of the ilium, as was proposed by Callisen in 1817, or by the horizontal section proposed by Amussat in 1832. This is generally called Amussat's operation. An incision through skin and fat may be made horizontally above, and parallel to, the crest of the ilium, com- mencing near the spine, and carried outwards for from two to five or six inches, according to the age and bulk of the patient. Taking the interval between the external oblique and latissimus dorsi muscles as a guide,—perhaps meeting the musculo-cutaneous lumbar nerves,—the * See a most able and comprehensive paper by B. Phillips, Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xxxi., containing copious bibliogi-aphical notices, and a catena of opinions; an account of a case by R, Druitt, in the same vol.; and of others by Dr. Gold- Ing Bird and Mr. Hilton in vol. xxx.; by Fergusson, Lancet, 1850, vol. i., p. 128. Also a most practical paper on complications of hernia,^and obstruction of the bowels, with numerous engravings and cases, by the late R. R. Robinson of Cam- berwell, from whom the author received much valuable information. Lond. Journ. of Med., 1851.ARTIFICIAL ANUS. 550 surgeon carries his incision through muscles and fascia, so as to come on the bowel at its posterior part, where not covered by peritonseum. When the loose renal fat which is usually found here has been divided (or portions of it removed), so as fairly to bring the bowel into view, two ligatures must be passed through it, above and below, so as to steady it when opened, and to attach the edges of the opening in the bowel to that in the skin when the operation is completed. This must be done likewise when the sigmoid flexure is opened in front; and par- ticular care should be taken to secure the edges of the wound into the bowel, so that no effusion can take place into the peritonseum. The right or left lumbar region must of course be selected, according to the situation of the stricture. If the patient recovers, he should be provided with a smooth ivory plug, attached to a metallic or India-rubber plate, and secured by a truss or bandage, for the double purpose of preventing the escape of faeces at inconvenient times, and of preventing the aperture from con- tracting, and so refusing a free vent to their discharge. The ultimate fate of the patient will depend in great measure on theHERNIA. 551 nature of the disease whicli required the operation, and on the effects which this may have ah^eady caused. Out of forty-eight cases col- lected by Mr. Hawkins, there is scarcely one in which death can lairly be said to have been caused by the operation itself.* IX. Gastuotomy for the relief of Starvation.—In a case ot cancer of the oesophagus, in which life was at the point of extinction by starvation from utter impossibility of swallowing; in which the trachea even had been opened for the relief of the breathing, and in which the rectum, as it always will in time, ejected the materials mtro- duced as nuti-itious enemata, Dr, Habershon caused an aperture to be made into the stomach, through the left linea semilunaris, which was skilfully effected by Mr. Cooper Forster. Eggs, milk, and other articles of nourishment were introduced, and the man lived till the third day after the operation, with his sense of starvation relieved, and then ex- pired in comparative comfort.f X. In a case of acute inflammatory disease of the Appendix C^CI, arising apparently from the impaction of a small mass of feculent matter, Mr. Hancock made an incision close above Poupart's ligament into the abdominal cavity, and gave issue to some offensive serum, to the great relief of the patient, who was moribund, but recovered. He proposes a similar opei ation for the purpose of letting acrid effusions drain away, in cases of unhealthy peritonitis, and the hint is a valuable one.l CHAPTER XVIII. HERNIA. SECTION I.—NATURE AND CAUSES OF HERNIA GENERALLY. Definition.—Hernia signifies a protrusion of any riscus from its natural cavity. But the word, used by itself, is restricted to signify protrusion of the abdominal viscera. Causes.—The formation of hernia may be readily understood by considering that the abdominal viscera are subject to frequent and violent pressure from the diaphragm and other muscles by which they are surrounded, a pressure which tends to force them outwardly against the parietes of the abdomen. If any point of the parietes be not strong * Almost all that is known of these operations is summed up in a paper by Mr, Caesar Hawkins, Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xxxv., which contains copious re- ferences to the original memoirs ol Amussat, Pring, Maitland, Teale of Leeds, Evans ot Derby, Clement of Shrewsbury, Baker of Birmingham, and other English and Continental operators. Motes of a good case in wblch it was per- formed by Mr. Hutchinson, for obstruction by cancerous tumour following ovariotomy, Med. Times, 1859, vol. i., p. 11. t Quoted in Ranking, vol. xxviii., from Guy's Hosp. Eep., vol. iv. 3rd Series. X A short account of disease of the Appendix Cajci, cured by operation; by Henry Hancock. Loud. 1848.552 HERNIA. enough to resist this pressure, some portion of the viscera may be forced through it, and form a hernial tumour externally. The predisposing cause of hernia, therefore, is a weakness of the parietes of the abdomen, which may be produced by various circum- stances. Thus, 1. Some parts of the parietes are naturally weaker than others, especially the inguinal and crural rings, and the umbilicus; and it is at these parts that hernia most fi'equently occurs. 2. The abdominal parietes may be weak from malformation, or congenital deficiency. 3. They may be weakened by injur}' or disease, such as abscesses, wounds, and bruises, or by distension by the pregnant uterus, or by obesity or dropsy. 4. In certain cases an unnatural elongation or laxity of the mesentery and other serous connections of the viscera and hypertrophy of the omentum by fatty deposit from a predisposing cause of hernia. The exciting cause is compression of the viscera by the action of the muscles that surround them, and especially of the diaphragm. Hence hernia is so frequent a result of violent bodily exertion—lifting heavy weights and the like—especially if the patient have been previously weakened by illness. Moreover, it is not uncommon in persons afflicted with stone or strictui-e, from the immoderate straining that they employ in passing their urine. The viscera most liable to hernial protrusion are the small intestines, omentum, and ai-ch of the colon. But every one of them has occasion- ally been found protruded, partially or entii'ely—especially in cases ot congenital deficiency of the abdominal parietes. The Sac of a hernia is a portion of the parietal or reflected layer of peritoneum which the protruding viscera push before them in their escape, and which forms a pouch containing them. It very soon con- tracts adhesion to the surrounding cellular tissue, and consequently does not return into the^ abdomen when the viscera are replaced, although it must be observed, that a hernia may be pushed back en masse, sac and all, when great force is used in reducing a strangulated hernia. As the hernia increases in size, the sac also increases ; partly by growth, partly by distension, and slight laceration or unravelling; partly by fresh protrusion of peritoneum. Sometimes it diminishes in thickness whilst increasing in capacity; sometimes, on the contrary, it becomes thick, indurated, and divisible into layers. Its neck (the narrow part which communicates with the abdomen) always becomes thickened, rigid, and more or less puckered, in consequence of the pressure of the muscular or ligamentous fibres which surround it. Sometimes the sac has two constricted portions, or necks—either because (as in oblique inguinal hernia) it passes through two tendinous apertui-es—(the external and internal abdominal rings)—or because the original neck has been pushed down by a fresh protrusion. Some hernise, however, are destitute of a sac, or at least of a complete one. This may happen,—1. If the protruded viscus is not naturally covered by peritonaeum ; as the cajcum. 2. If the hernia occur in consequence of a penetrating wound. 3. In some cases of congenital umbilicalREDUCIBLE HERNIA. 553 hernia. 4. Hernia may be considered virtually without a sac, if the sac has been burst by a blow, or if it has become entirely adherent to its contents. Instances, again, are known in which two peritoneal sacs have protruded through one and the same aperture in the abdomi- nal parietes ; and in which one sac has come down within a previously- existing one. Division.—Hernia is divided into several species: 1st, according to its situation—as the inguinal, femoral, and so forth; 2ndly, according to the co7idition of the protruded viscera; which may be (a) reducible or returnable into the abdomen; (6) irreducible, that is, not returnable into the abdomen, but without constriction; or (c) strangulated, that is, subject to some constriction, which not only prevents their return into the abdomen, but also interferes with the passage of their contents, and with their circulation. SECTION II.—REDUCIBLE HERNIA. Symptoms.—A soft compressible swelling appears at some part of the abdominal parietes. It increases in size when the patient stands up ; if grasped, it is found to dilate when he coughs or makes any exertion ; and it diminishes or disappears when he hes down, or when pi'operly-directed pressure is made upon it. If the sac contains intes- tine only {entero-cele), the tumour is smooth, rounded, and elastic; hor- horygmi (or flatulent croakings) are occasionally heard in it, and when pressed upon, the bowel returns into the abdomen with a sudden jerk and gurgling noise. If, however, it contains omentum only (epiplo-cele), the tumour is flattened, inelastic, flabby, and unequal to the touch, and when pressed, it returns without noise, and very slowly, the pres- sure requiring to be continued till it has nearly disappeared. But very often one hernial sac contains both intestine and omentum (cntero- epiplo-cele) ;* and very frequently it is perfectly impossible to ascertain which it contains by any external examination. Treatment.—This may be palliative or radical. The palliative plan is, to employ a truss, an instrument consisting of a pad placed on the seat of protrusion, and of a steel spring which passes round the body, and causes the pad to press with the requisite degree of force. In writing for a truss it is usual to give the circumference of the body at the hips, midway between the spine of the ilium and the trochanter. The patient must expect to hnd the truss rather irksome for the flrst week. It should be constantly worn by day ; and if the patient will submit to wear it at night, also, so much the better. If he will not do this, he should, at all events, apply it in the morning, before he rises from the recumbent posture. The skin of the part which it presses upon should be regularly washed, and bathed with Eau de Cologne or spirit, else large boils are apt to form on it. * From KTjXTq, tumour; evrepov, intestinum; and IttLttXoov, omentum. The word KriXy) is frequently used in the older surgical terminology; ex. gr., hydro- cele, a tumour containing water; hcematocde, a tumour containing blood; bubonocele, a hernial tumour in the groin.554 EEDUCIBLE HEENIA. There are some cases in which the common truss fails to keep up a rupture comfortably, and for these the surgeon should be prepared to recommend other instruments, which are, for the most part, the pro- perty of various individuals, and each of which has some peculiarity adapting it to particular cases. Coles's truss has a spiral spring acting on the pad. The MocMain lever truss has a simple belt passing round the body, thus dispensing with the usual circular spring ; and the pressure on the pad is effected by means of a strap passing under the thigh, and acting on a spring lever attached to the pad. Salmon and Odys self-adjusting truss has a pad revolving on a ball and socket. The Maidstone truss allows the pad to slide on the spring, so that the circumference of the instrument may be adapted to the varying size or movements of the body. Egg's truss is said to be made of old sword- blades : it is very strong, though not irksome, and requires no fastening. Adams's graduated pressure truss has two springs of different curves, by sliding which on one another the amount of pressure maybe varied. In Tod's truss the spring goes round the waist, and curves downwards to compress a pad at the internal abdominal ring. Newsons wire truss has a round wire, instead of a flat steel spring, which renders it less likely to be displaced. Trusses may have French pads, which are of an oblong-triangular shape, instead of oval, like the English ; or pads filled with air ; or with sand, which will retain any shape given to it; or may have springs going entirely round the body. Instead of a steel spring an elastic India-rubber belt may be used, such as are con- structed by Bouijeard. Dr. Arnott has devised a truss, in which^ by means of a wire, external to the steel spring, and capable of being tightened or slackened by a nut and screw, the amount of pressure can be regulated with the greatest possible nicety. Dr. Charles Edwards has invented one, in which the pad is capable both of revolving and of sliding on the spring. For children the India-rubber band and pad generally answer without a spring. A pad of hard polished wood is recommended by Mr. Dartnell. He also uses flannel instead of leather as a covering for the spring, as it can be washed.* The trusses devised by Mr. Woodf have been employed with much success in curing small herniae as well as in keeping up and preventing the increase of herniae for which an operation for radical cure has not been deemed advisable. These trusses are of four kinds, viz,, for inguinal rupture, oblique and direct; for crural, and for umbilical hernia. They are all based on a distinct principle, that of applying a flat and level pressure at the sides of the hernial opening instead of in the axis. Mr. Wood considers that the principle of a convex pad pro- jecting into and exerting its chief pressure in the centre of the hernial aperture is erroneous, and calculated to increase the size of the hernia by invagination, the longer the truss is worn. The truss pad for oblique inguinal rupture is of the shape of an obliquely curved hoi'se- * It is made by Spratt, of Brook Street, Hanover Square. D\: Charles Edwards's (of Cheltenham) is made by Weiss. Dartnell, Lancet, 1848, vol. ii. t See Wood on Rupture Inguinal, Crural, and Umbilical, pp. 168, 224,KEDUCIBLE HERNIA. 555 shoe, the outer limb (intended to press upon Poupart's ligament) being shorter than the inner, which is laid over the inner pillar of the ring. (See fig. 1.) The curve of the horseshoe is placed over the deep hernial opening, and the bearing of the side spring is exactly in the centre of the Fig. 1. pad. When a radical cure is looked for the pad is composed of a hard smooth substance, boxwood being the most con- venient. For peculiar cases a double C spring is made to work in the horns of the horseshoe under the side spring, or the hard surface may be covered by an India-rubber water bag of the shape of the pad. The pad for direct inguinal hernia is of the shape of an ovate ring with a hole in the middle opposite to the axis of the hernial opening. This exerts its chief pressure upon the margins, preventing their giving and enlarging under the pressure of the bowels. (See fig, 2.) The double bearing of the horseshoe and ring pads enable them, under sufficient pressure of the side spring, to keep in Fig. 2. place better than the convex pads, while the tension of the integuments across the opening prevents the rupture from emerging there. The spermatic cord and pubic spine escape the injurious pressure of the pad by lying in the cleft or opening. For large and diffi- cult cases of inguinal rupture, he em- ploys a double or twin pad, each half of which presses upon each of the pil- lars of the ring or sides of the neck of the sac. The spring goes entirely round both hips, one end pressing upon the inner, and the other on the outer of the half pads, so that an increase of pressure can be made upon either half that may be desirable. The two pads are bound together by a transverse strap. Thus a lateral as well as a backward pressure is kept up. The pad for crural hernia is egg-shaped in outline, its bearing surface being flattened for pressure upon the front wall of the crural canal, its upper border rounded to support Poupart's ligament, and its lower tapered off to accommodate itself to the saphenous opening. (See Fig. 3, p. 556.) This is also sometimes pro- vided vvith pad-springs.* (B shows a section,) Radical cure.—If the patient is below the age of puberty, or not much above it, and if the hernia has not existed very long, a proper truss, if constantly worn, has in some cases effected a permanent cure. The herniary aperture, no longer subject to distension, then becomes con- * These trusses are made by Mr. Matthews, of Portugal Street, Lincohi's-Inn Fields,IRREDUCIBLE HERNIA. 556 tracted and finally closed, and the neck of the sac oblitei-ated. This cure may perhaps occur in two or three years ; but, as a measure of precaution, the truss should be worn for two or three years more. This is most fre- quently the case with the umbilical and other hernias of infants. But the herniEe of older patients have commonly till of late in this country been considered as admitting of palliative treatment by truss only ; and the patient has been doomed to wear the instrument for the rest of his days. Modern surgery, however, has placed some means of radical cure at our dis- posal, which we shall describe more conveniently under the head of re- ducible inguinal hernia. SECTION III.—IRREDUCIBLE HERNIA. Definition.—Hernia is said to be irreducible, simply, when the pro- truded viscera cannot be returned into the abdomen ; although there is no impediment to the passage of their contents, or to their circulation. Causes.—Hernia may be rendered irreducible, 1, by an adhesion of the sac to its contents, or of the latter to each other, or by membranous bands formed across the sac. 2. By enlargement of the omentum or mesentery—whether from simple deposition of fat, or from sarcomatous or other organic change. 3. Omental hernia may be rendered irre- ducible by a contraction of that portion which lies in the neck of the sac, so that it is not stifl' enough to stand against the pressure intended to push it back into the abdomen, but doubles up under it. Consequences.—Irreducible hernia may produce sundry inconve- niences. In the first place, the patient is often liable to dragging pains in the abdomen, or perhaps attacks of vomiting, which come on after food, or when he assumes the erect posture, because the protruded omentum or intestines being fixed, resist all distension or upward move- ment of the stomach. These inconveniences will be gi-eatly aggravated, if the patient increase in corpulency, or become pregnant. Moi-eover, the protruded bowels being deprived of the support naturally aflbrded them by the abdominal muscles, their fgeculent contents are apt to lodge in them, and frequently cause colic or constipation. Lastly, the bowel is greatly exposed to external injury, and inconstant hazard of strangu- lation. Treatment.—This may be either palliative or radical. 1. The palliative treatment consists in applying a hollow bag truss, or else a truss with a hollow pad, or circular India-rubber water pad, that shallSTRANGULATED HERNIA. 557 firmly embrace the hernia, and prevent any additional protrusion. The patient should avoid all violent exertion or excess in diet, and should never let his bowels be confined. 2. Radical cure.—It has occasionally happened, after confinement to bed for several weeks with fever or some other emaciating ailment, that a hernia, irreducible before, has been replaced with ease, owing to an absorption of the fat of the omentum or mesentery, and relaxation of the abdominal apertures. The same result has also in some cases been effected by art—by keeping the patient in the recumbent posture and on very low diet for six weeks or two months, and by the frequent use of glysters and laxatives, and at the same time by keeping up a constant equable pressure on the tumour by means of a bag truss made to lace over it. This plan is very uncertain as to its results, and will be effectually defeated if there are any adhesions ; and, besides, there are not many patients who will submit to it. It will be more likely to succeed if the hernia is omental, than if it contains intestine. But several instances are known, in which, after the contents of old hernise had been replaced, they produced so much irritation in the abdomen, that the patients wei-e glad to compound for their life by keeping the hernia. Any surgical operation with the view of opening the sac, dividing adhesions, and returning the parts into the abdomen, is scarcely justifiable, as it would be exposing life to too great a hazard.* SECTION IV.—STRANGULATED HERNIA. Definition.—Hernia is said to be strangulated, when it is con- stricted in such a way, that the contents of the protruded bowel cannot be propelled onwards, and the return of its venous blood is impeded. The causes of strangulation may be,—1. A sudden protrusion of bowel or omentum through a narrow aperture, in consequence of violent ex- ertion ;—a thing not unlikely to happen if a truss has been worn for some time, and then is carelessly left off. 2. Distension of the pro- truded intestines by flatus or faeces, or tumefaction and congestion of the omentum or mesentery. 3. Swelling of the neck of the sac may be a cause; and spasm was formerly considered so. The seat of stricture is either the thickened portion of peritonseum which forms the neck of the sac, or tendinous bands external to it, at the internal or deep hernial apertui e. Less frequently, it is lower down in the canal, and occasionally in large scrotal ruptures at the pillars of the superficial ring. In some cases the bowel has been constricted by membranous bands, or by fissures in the omentum within the sac itself, or by an old neck of the sac, see p. 552. But it must be recol- lected that the membranous aperture, through which the displaced bowel passes, does not exert any active force upon it;—on the conti'ary, * See B. Cooper, quoted in Eanking, vol. xvi. A case in which Velpeau practised subcutaneous incisions for the relief of an irreducible hernia is related in Bull. Gen. de The'rap., 15th and 30th Aug. 1840.55S STRANGULATED HERNIA. it is the ruptured part which has been squeezed into a narrow aper- ture, and is pressing outwardly against that aperture. Yet the effect is the same in either case. The symptoms of strangulated hernia are, fit-st, those of obstruction of the bowels ; secondly, those of inflammation. The patient first com- plains of flatulence, colicky pains, a sense of tightness across the belly, desire to go to stool, and inability to evacuate. It is true that stools may be passed if there be any faecal matter in the bowel below the hernia, or if the hernia be entirely omental, but with very transient relief. To these symptoms succeed vomiting of the contents of the stomach, then of mucus and bile, and, lastly, of matters which have acquired a stercoraceous appearance, by being delayed in the small in- testines. On examination the surgeon finds a rupture, which he cannot put back, and which is uneasy, tense, and incompressible. The commu- nication between the abdomen and the misplaced bowel is almost, or, if the stricture be tight, is quite interrupted; and therefore the im- pulse felt on coughing is either diminished or altogether lost. More- over, as Mr. Luke * very clearly pointed out, if the hernial tumour is examined with both hands, and if one hand is employed in grasping the body of the tumour, and two fingers of the other in feeling near the neck of the tumour for the impulse created by each act of compression, it will be found that the sensation of impulse Avill cease to be felt at the part where the stricture exists; and will not be felt all along the neck of the hernia, as it would if no stricture existed. If this state ot things continue, the inflammatory stage comes on. The neck of the sac becomes tender, and tenderness diffuses itself over the tumour and over the abdomen, both of which become very painful and much more swelled. The countenance is anxious; the vomiting constant; the patient restless and despondent; and the pulse small, hard, and wiry. After a variable time, the constricted parts begin to mortify. The skin becomes cold, the pulse very rapid and tremulous, and the tumour dusky red and emphysematous; but the pain ceases, and the patient, having perhaps expressed himself altogether relieved, soon afterwards dies. Varieties.—There is often considerable diversity in the rapidity and violence of these symptoms. If the patient be a strong adult, and the strangulation have commenced suddenly with a fresh protrusion during some forcible exertion, the inflammatory stage may come on instantly, and be followed by death in a very few hours. On the other hand, if the patient be old, if the hernia have been long irreducible, and have a large neck, and if the strangulation be produced by distension of the protruded bowel with flatus or faeces—the symptoms of mere obstruc- tion may last many days before those of inflammation come on. To this latter class of cases the term incarcerated is applicable.f Again, * Quoted in Mr. AVard's very able Memoir on Strangulated Hernia, Lond., 1S54. See also Med. Times, Dec. 1854. f There is great confusion in the use of these terms, as some surgeons employ the term incarcerated to signify what is generally known as irreducible hernia.559 STRANGULATED HERNIA. if the hernia be omental, the symptoms will probably be less acute than if it be intestinal; but not much less. The bowels may act in this case: also if ?iportion of the calibre of the bowel be constricted, and not the whole, so that a passage may be left: also if the vermifoi-m appendix be the only part constricted ;* but the surgeon must not think the case cleared up if the bowels act, if other symptoms remain. Morbid Appearances.—After death £i-om strangulated hei'nia, the bowels are found reddened, the upper portion of them much distended, and there are effusions of turbid serum and lymph. Around the sac the tissues are oedematous or emphysematous. The strangulated intes- tine is dark, claret-coloured, and turgid with blood, roughened in patches by a coating of lymph ;—or displaying patches of gangrene, in the form of greenish or ash-coloured spots, which break down under the finger. The mucous and muscular coats, where they have been sub- jected to the pressure of the stricture, are liable to be ulcerated. The omentum is dark red ; if gangrenous, it feels crispy and emphysematous, and the blood in its veins is coagulated. The sac also contains bloody serum. Treatment.—The indications are, to return the intestine,, or such portion of it as may be reducible; and for this purpose to divide any constricting part, if necessary. The Taxis.—This is a Greek Avord, absurdly and pedantically used to signify the acts of gentle pressure with the hands, by which hernise are reduced. The bladder having been emptied, the patient should lie down in an attitude of complete repose, and be put under the influence of chloroform; if this be not used, he may be made to lie in a warm bath, with his shoulders raised; and both his thighs should be raised towards the belly, and be placed close to each other, so that every muscle and ligament connected with the abdomen may be relaxed. If not narcotized, he should be engaged in conversation, to prevent him from straining with his respiratory muscles. In order effectually to remove the expulsive force of the diaphragm, Dr. Buchanan, of Glasgow, directs the patient to make a deep expiration, and to abstain from drawing in the breath as long as possible.f Then the surgeon, if the tumour be large, grasps it with the palms of both hands, gently com- presses it, so as to squeeze out a little flatus and venous blood, and occasionally with his fingers gently moves the parts at the neck of the tumour, or pei'haps tr'es to pull them very gently downwards, in oi'der if possible to dislodge them.| This operation may be continued for a quarter or half an hour, or longer, if the tumour be indolent, but not * Smyly on Hernia, Dublin Journal, May, 1863. + Quoted from Glasgow Medical Journal, July, 1856, in Ranking, vol. xxiv. X Mr, T. Hunt, late of Herne Bay, now of Alfred Place, in a communication with which he has favoured the author, condemns all kneading and pushing, and says that he believes that gontle, long-continued, and equable pressure ■will reduce every hernia, provided time and gentleness are allowed for the operation. Mr. Hunt's opinion is grounded upon numerous cases during a practice of thirty years.560 STRANGULATED HERNIA. so long if it be tender; and at last, perhaps, the surgeon will be de- lighted to hear a gurgling sound accompanying the return of a portion of intestine. The operator should recollect that too much force may bruise or rupture the viscera, or drive sac and all into the abdomen, or push them between the layers of abdominal muscles, and that he must not be satisfied with a partial reduction of the volume and tension of the tumour, if the vomiting remains unrelieved ; because, as Mr. Mayo has shown, such a diminution might be caused by merely forcing the serum contained in the sac into the abdominal cavity. Taxis with Inversion.—In many cases of strangulated hernia resist- ing the ordinary application of the taxis, reduction has been effected by raising the pelvis and depressing the shoulders, so as to turn the trunk of the patient " topsy turvey." This is best done by raising the pelvis on a chair placed under the lower part of the mattress of the bed, and letting the patient's head and shoulders rest upon the bed itself. Care must be taken to ^keep the legs bent up to the body, and the trunk itself bent forwards, so as to relax completely the aponeurotic struc- tures in the groin. Inversion of the patient acts by the gravitation of the viscera towards the diaphragm, and the dragging of the mesentery and omentum out of the neck of the sac. This, aided by a gentle ap- plication of the taxis, and by fiictions over the belly made in a direction from the strangulated part, will often succeed in overcoming the stran- gulation, when other means fail. If the taxis do not succeed, certain auxiliary measures are commonly resorted to. (a) The first to be mentioned is chloroform, inhaled till it produces complete relaxation and unconsciousness. (6) Bleeding to the approach of syncope may be tried if the patient is robust, the hernia small and of recent date, and if there is much tenderness of the sac or of the abdomen, in which latter case it may be employed before trying the taxis. (c) The hot hath (96°—100° F.) continued long enough to produce great relaxation, is useful in similar cases ; but it must be recollected that a delicate person will not be very likely to bear the shock of an operation, if bled or boiled to death's door first of all. (d) A large dose of opium, or morphia, is a remedy most useful in cases of acute strangulation, if for any reason chloroform be not given ; and especially if the pain and vomiting are violent. (e) The tobacco enema (3j. and Oj. aq. ferv. allowed to stand ten minutes, and half to be used at a time) has certainly been successful in many cases, especially of inguinal hernia; but it is a most dan- o:erous remedy. It has proved immediately fatal to some patients, and has rendered others incapable of surviving the shock of the ope- ration. (/) Cold applied to the tumour by means of pounded ice or a freez- ing mixture (F. 114) in a bladder, is a remedy commonly enumerated ; and is said to be most applicable to large scrotal herniae when the symptoms are not very urgent. But it is not without its hazards ; for it may cause gangrene of the skin if applied too long, or if hotSTKANGULATED HERNIA. 561 applications are incautiously used after it ; and, above all, it may be tlie excuse for injurious delay. Certainly it should not be used if painful. {g) Purgatives and enemata are irritating and mischievous in sudden acute strangulation, but vastly beneficial if the patient is aged, the hernia large and long irreducible, and if the attack has been preceded and caused by constipation. Large doses of calomel and colocynth are the best purgatives, and the enemata should consist of as much gruel or water as can be injected without causing A'^ery much pain or disten- sion. Moreover, Dr. O'Beirne* has fully shown that greater benefit is to be derived in cases of incarcerated hernia and obstinate constipation from passing up a long tube (the tube of a stomach-pump answers very well) into the colon, than from the use of the ordinary short enema- pipe. The long tube relieves the bowels of their flatus ; and of course by diminishing the bulk of the contents of the abdomen, renders the return of the hernia more easy.f Operation not to be delayed.—In old standing cases, occurring to aged people with large herniae, the surgeon may be justified in waiting some time to try the effect of his remedies; but in acute cases occur- ring to young people, we would earnestly inculcate the rule that if the taxis, aided by chloroform or opium, do not very speedily succeed, it is the safest plan to perform an operation for dividing the stricture with- out further delay. It is very well remarked by James of Exeter,J that time is of the most extreme value in the treatment of strangulated hernia. The earlier the taxis is tried, the more likely it is to succeed ; before the bowel has been long and strongly nipped, and thickened by congestion. The same may be said of an operation. The operation that may be perfoimed may be either the old one of opening the sac, dividing the stricture, and returning the intestine; or secondly, the plan of division of the stricture, without opening the sac ; or thirdly, Mr. Gay's operation for limiting the incisions to parts in- vesting the neck of the sac. The manner of operating for each variety of hernia will be found in the following sections. . Here we make a few observations applicable to the subject generally. 1. Supposing the sac to he opened, the intestine should be well exa- mined, and especially that part of it which has been actually com- pressed by the stricture, and which should be gently drawn down for that purpose. If it be merely dark claret-coloured from congestion, or slightly roughened with lymph, or if it exhibit a few black patches of ecchymosis, it should be returned—the operator being careful to re- place it bit by bit—intestine before omentum—and those parts first which protruded last. The wound may then be closed with sutures, and a firm compress be placed upon it. 2. If the hernia were irreducible long before it was strangulated, * James O'Beirne, M.D., New Views of Defecation. Dublin, 1833. t Vide Lancet, July 6 and 27, 1839 ; also James's Eetrospeclive Address, in Prov. Med. Trans., 1840 ; and O'Beirne on Defecation. % Ou the Operations for Strangulated Hernia. Lond., 1859. D 2 OSTRANGULATED HERNIA. 562 and if its contents were united to the sac by firm and broad adhesions, they should not be disturbed. But if the adhesions are recent, or very thin and slight, they may be cautiously torn or divided, and the bowel be returned. 3. If the intestine is mortified, which will be known by the softened green or ashy spots, the mortified parts should be slit open, and at- tached by sutures to the skin on each side, the stricture divided, and the patient left to recover with an artificial anus. Again, if a large portion of intestine, which has been long irreducible in an elderly per- son, appear extremely dark and advanced towards sphacelus, so as to rendei- it doubtful whether it would be capable of performing its functions when returned, it has been advised to make an opening into it, and So afi'ord an outlet for its contents through an artificial anus; but such a proceeding must not be rashly resoi'ted to. 4. If the omentum is gangrenous, or if it is thickened and indurated, it would, if returned, excite dangerous irritation of the peritonseum. In this case some surgeons advise it to be left to granulate in the sac, or to cut it off close to the neck of the sac, and leave it there as a plug to prevent further protrusion. Macfarlaue and others, on the contrary, recommend it to be cut cleanly off, and all the vessels to be tied with fine silk ligatuies, and the end to be then passed quite into the abdo- men, breaking up any adhesions about the neck of the sac, if necessary; thus avoiding the dragging pains and colic which are liable to occur if a portion of the omentum or intestine is fixed. It is better, however, to tear slowly with forceps through the healthy part of the omentum, so that the numerous small vessels may be so stretched and twisted by the process that few, if any, ligatures may be required. 5. But it may happen that there may be a portion of intestine con- cealed within the omentum, and completely enveloped in a kind of sac formed by it. This is especially liable to be the case in the umbilical hernia. Therefore, to use the words of Mr. Prescott Hewett, " when the hernial sac appears to contain thickened omentum only, the omen- tum ought to be drawn out and carefully examined, to see that it does not form a sac containing a portion of intestine."* If it is thickened and firmly united to the neck of the hernial sac, throughout its whole circumference, an incision should be carefully made through it; bearing in mind that it is often extremely thick, and that the intestine may be firmly adherent to its inner surface. In fact, as Mr. Hewett says, the surgeon ought carefully to "examine every portion of omentum which is in a hernial sac, so as to ascertain that no knuckle of intestine is contained within its folds, before it is returned into the abdomen, left in the sac, or removed altogether." Division of the Stricture external to the Sac.—Petit, Aston Key, Luke, and other eminent surgeons have recommended that the stricture should be released without opening the sac itself. The argument in favour of this proceeding is, that less injury is inflicted ; that there is no rough hj\ndling and exposure of the intestine; and that the case is * Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xxvii.563 STRANGULATED HERNIA. brought nearer, as regards safety, on a level with one in which no opera- tion has been performed. The argument is confirmed by experience ; and this mode of operating should always be adopted, unless there is some reason to the contrary. It is especially advisable, when the hernia is of very great size, and has been long irreducible, so that the idea of returning its contents could not be entertained; and when the hei'nia is small and of quite recent date. In a similar case, M. Gue'rin has divided the stricture by means of a subcutaneous incision.* Mr. Gay's modification of this operation consists in making a small incision, near the neck of the sac, and carrying the tip of the forefinger to feel for the seat of stricture, and dividing it by a histouri cache. We shall allude to this operation again when speaking of femoral hernia, to which it is chiefly applicable ; and may remark that the advantages claimed for it are, that it meddles only with healthy parts, is slight, comparatively safe, and easily performed, and that there is no long convalescence. Seutins Plan.—Baron Seutin has described a method of dilating the stricture, which he has employed so successfully that he rarely has had occasion to use the knife for strangulated hernia. It consists in insinu- ating the tip of the forefinger into the consti-icting orifice, pushing the skin before it, and dilating it forcibly. There is a germ of reason in this which makes it well worthy of trial. It is open, however, to the serious objection that the already injured and strangulated viscera are exposed to further damage by the forcible traction and pressure of the finger.f Hernia reduced en masse.—When the taxis is used forcibly for the reduction of a strangulated hernia, the tumour, sac and all, may be forced back through the herniary aperture, and lie between the abdo- minal muscles and the peritonaeum; or between the muscles and the fascia transversalis. Or, according to Mr. Birkett, the neck of the sac may be burst, " so that the intestine escapes into the loose connective tissue between the peritonaeum and internal abdominal fascia." In such a case, the symptoms of strangulation continue, and altliough the tumour disappears outwardly, yet there will be symptoms of fulness and tendei-ness above Poupart's ligament, in the situation of the internal ring. The first thing to be done is to make the patient stand up and cough, in order if possible to bring the hernia down again, when it should be operated on without delay ; but if this does not succeed, a * Vide Fergusson's Practical Surgery, p. 526. Gu^rin, Gaz. M(5d. de Paris, 7th Aug. 1841; Mr. Key's Memoir, on dividing the stricture external to the sac; I,uke, Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xxxi. t The surgeon seeks with his forefinger for the aperture that has given issue to the hernia, pushing up the skin sufficiently from below: then with the pulp of the finger towards the bowel or omentum, he insinuates it between the viscus and the aperture. This proceeding demands perseverance. When intro- duced, the finger is to be hooked, and made to stretch the ring till a sensible dilatation or tearing is produced. The plan appears to have been most success- ful in femoral hernia; and when stricture was seated at the external abdo- minal ring. Quoted in Ranking, vol. xxiv., p. 164.EEMARKS ON HERNIA. 564 cautious incision should be made through the abdominal parietes, over the suspected seat of the disease ; the tendon of the external oblique should be divided, so as to lay open the internal abdominal ring; and the sac if found should be drawn down, the stricture divided, and the case be then treated according to the ordinary rules.* After-treatment.—-After the hernia has been returned, a compress —a towel, for instance,—should be put on the site of the tumour, and be retained with a bandage, so as to prevent any protrusion from coughing, sneezing, or any other accidental exertion, and the patient should have a full opiate. The surgeon should not. be in haste to get the bowels to act, and should abstain from giving salts and other pur- gatives ; for as the intestine that was constricted remains for some time inflamed, weakened, and incapable of pi'opelling its contents, they would but irritate it uselessly. Castor-oil and laudanum may be resorted to after twelve or twenty-four hours. Tenderness, pain, and other in- flammatory symptoms may be allayed by leeching, fomentations, and opium. Free exit should be afforded to pus. A truss should be ap- plied before the patient gets up again. Mr. Wood suggests that in cases in which this operation is done, and there appears to be little or no active inflammation or disorganization of the parts, a silver-wire suture may be put into the sides of the hernial opening, so as to effect a radical cure of the hernia. Such a proceeding will scarcely increase the risks of inflammation, since this, when dangerous, affects the bowel itself which has been strangulated, and is of little importance in the parietes of the sac. SECTION V.—REMARKS UPON THE DIAGNOSIS AND COMPLICATIONS OF HERNIA. We may I'emark that hernia is a malady extremely common in every rank of life, and one for which the practitioner should never fail to make inquiry, in cases of disturbance of the abdominal viscera. 1. The patient may not he aware that he has a hernia, or if aware of it. may think it of no consequence, or may be deterred by mauvaise honte from mentioning it. For example, an elderly clergyman of eminence consulted the writer a few years since, respecting various dyspeptic symptoms ; nausea, loss of appetite, and painful sensation of dragging at the stomach, and in-egularity of the bowels. When ohked if he was ruptured, he said, that he had never thought it worth men- tioning-, but that whilst preaching, some time ago, he had felt some- thing come down into the scrotum. He had in reality a large double scrotal rupture, which was the cause of his dyspepsia. But it is more particularly when a patient is affected with vomiting and constipation, especially if the face is pinched and anxious, that the surgeon should inquire for, or rather should examine for himself, the ordinary seats of hernia, such as the inguinal and femoral rings and the * Luke, Med. Chir. Trans., and Med. Gaz., 5th May, 1843 ; Report of discus- sion on a paper by Mr. Birkett, at Med. Chir. Soc, Med. Times, June 25, 1859.KEMAEKS ON HERNIA. 565 umbilicus, and the extraordi7ia)-y, such as the linea alba, and the thyroid and ischiatic foramina. It would be a terrible thing to be treating a patient for enteritis, and let him die of strangulated intestine. 2. The patient may have a tumour, at one of the common seats of hernia, which is yet no hernia. The commonest example of this is an enlarged gland at the bend of the thigh. Yet if, with such a tumour, a patient should have symptoms of strangulation, the surgeon should not hesitate to cut down upon it. There often has been found a small hernia behind such a tumour; and in any such case the rule is, if in doubt, operate. 3. The patient may have a hernia, reducible, or irreducible, which yet is not the cause of the symptoms. There are numberless causes of internal strangulation, which may exist along with a hernia. First, the bowel maybe strangulated within itself; a condition known as intussusception, and described at page 547. Secondly, it may be strangulated by an awkward twist on its own axis. Thirdly, it may be tied down by some accidental band, the result of previous infiammation ; a thing that should always be inquired for. In women, bands of adhesion not seldom exist between one ovary and some adjoining part: and this should be borne in mind. Fourthly, the bowels may be simply matted together by recent adhesions, the result of subacute inflammation. Fifthly, they may be thrust through an aperture in the diaphragm. (See Diaphragmatic hernia.) So that in any case, if the condition of a hernia does not account tor the symptoms of strangulation, the possi- bility of some other cause should be looked for. The following cases may be examples. The author was sent for to see a stout elderly man, whom he found in bed, with vomiting, and intense pain of eight hours' duration. On inquiry, it was discovered that he had an umbilical hernia ; but this was reduced and not tender, although there was great tenderness and fulness in the vicinity. The bowels had been open the day before. Two grains of opium were administered. At the next visit, the writer was shown a large quantity of bloody serous fluid which had passed from the bowels. Another dose of opium was given, and the patient kept under its influence. Late at night some bilious matter passed, and the patient gradually recovered. These were symptoms of intussusception. Whilst the author was correcting these pages in 1857, he was sent for to see a patient set. 57, ill for a week, with pain in the bowels and vomiting. The man's countenance exhibited severe sutfering ; he was constantly vomiting a white frothy liquid, and said he had burning pain in his stomach. Had had double-scrotal rupture from infancy. On examination both ruptures were thoroughly reduced ; and the forefinger, pushing the flabby scrotum before it, could be passed up through ten- dinous apertures an inch in diameter, into the abdomen. Everything was soft in the neighbourhood. But in the left iliac fossa was a large sweUing, somewhat nodulated. There was great tenderness in the right hypochondrium. Repeated enemata brought away enormous quantities of small pale brown lumps, and the swelling in the sigmoidINGUINAL HERNIA. 566 flexure disappeared ; but it took two days to bring down dark green bile from above. If a patient with irreducible hernia be attacked by colic, or enteritis, or peritonitis, the case will present many of the features of strangula- tion. Yet it may perhaps be distinguished by noticing that the pain and tenderness did not begin at the neck of the sac, and are not more intense there than elsewhere. The diagnosis will be very obscure if the inflammation commences on the omentum or intestine in the sac. But the general rule is, when in doubt, operate. 4. " Strangulation may occur in a person the subject of double hernia, and a doubt may arise as to which is the hernia requiring operation. In such a case, the hernia that has existed the longest, and is the most tense, should be the one first subjected to the knife."* 5. Reduction en masse.—Lastly, the possibility of this accident should be remembered. (See page 563.) SECTION VI.—INGUINAL HERNIA. Definition.—Inguinal hernia is that which protrudes through one or both abdominal rings. Varieties.—There are four varieties. The oblique, direct, congenital, and encysted. 1. The oblique inguinal hernia is the most common. It takes precisely the same route as the testicle takes in its passage from the abdomen into the scrotum. It commences as a fulness or swelling at the situation of the internal abdominal ring, that is to say, a little above the centre of Poupart's ligament, next passes into the inguinal canal (and in this stage is called bubonocele), and if the protrusion increase, it projects through the external ring, and descends into the scrotum of the male, or labium of the female. The coverings of this hernia are, 1, Skin. 2, A thick layer of cellular tissue derived from the superficial fascia of the abdomen, in which the superficial epigastric artery ramifies. 3, The fascia spermatica externa, a tendinous layer, derived from the intercolumnar bands, a set of curved and transverse fibres, which connect the two margins of the external ring. Under this lies, 4, the cremaster muscle, sometimes called tunica communis. 5. Next comes the fascia propria vel infundibiUiformis, a cellular layer continuous with the fascia transversalis of the abdomen; and lastly, 6, the sac. The deep epigastric artery is always internal to the neck of the sac. The spermatic cord is generally behind the sac; but, in some lai'ge and direct cases, the parts which compose the spermatic cord are separated by the tumour, so that the vas deferens and sper- matic artery lie sometimes in front, sometimes on. either side of it. (See figs. 4 and 8, right side.) •2. The direct inguinal hernia usually protrudes before it the con- joined tendon of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles, just * R. R. Robinson, on Complication of Hernia, Lend. Jour. Med., 1851.INGUINAL HERNIA. 5GT behind the external ring. Its coverings are the same as those of the oblique variety, except the fascia propria and cremasteric fascia, for it has no connection with the cord. The epigastric artery runs external Fig. 4* to the neck of the sac. This hernia may, however, separate or burst through tiie conjoined tendons before it. In a few rare cases it has been found to protrude outside the border of the conjoined tendon and to be covered by a few cremasteric fibres. The spermatic cord gene- rally lies on its outer side. (Figs. 5 and 8, left side.) 3. The congenital hernia is a variety of the oblique, and is so called because the state of parts which permits of it exists only at or soon after birth. A portion of omentum or intestine accompanies the testicle in its descent, and passes down with it into the very pouch of perito- naeum which forms the timica vaginalis reflexa, before its communica- tion with the general peritonseal cavity has become obliterated. The sac of this hernia is consequently formed by the tunica vaginalis; its coverings in other respects are the same as those of the oblique variety, and the protruded bowel lies in immediate contact with the testicle, and if not replaced generally adheres to it. (Fig. 6.) 4. The encysted (or hernia infantilis) is a sub-variety of the conge- nital. The protruding bowel pushes before it a sac of peritonaeum either into or close behind the tunica vaginalis, and this tunic and the sac adhere very closely together. This hernia, therefore, has, as it * Figure 4, quoted from Med. Times, 1864, vol. 1., p. 220, shows the parts of inguinal rupture seen from the front; b, shows the fibres of the internal oblique normally covering the deep ring and restraining protrusion.563 INGUINAL HERNIA. were, two sacs: viz. one proper sac, and another anterior, composed of the tunica vaginalis, which in these cases is very liable to be the seat Fig. 5.* of hydrocele. Fig. 7 shows another vai'iety of the encysted hernia, in which the sac is apparently formed of tunica vaginalis, but its com- munication with the testicle is closed. Diagnosis.—1. The difference between the oblique and direct in^ guinal hernice, and their relations to the epigastric artery, and to the crural ring and Poupart's ligament, are shown in Fig. 8. In the oblique, the neck of the tumour inclines upwards and outwards, and causes a fulness extending up to the middle of Poupart's ligament. In the direct it inclines (if at all) rather inwards; and when the hernia is reduced, the finger, carrying integument before it, can be passed straight back into the abdominal cavity, feeling the edge of the lectus muscle internally, and the os pubis close below. But in old cases of oblique hernia, the neck of the sac is dragged down towards the middle line, so that all distinction is lost. 2. Hydrocele may be distinguished from hernia by its beginning at the bottom of the scrotum ; by its being semi-transparent and Huc- * This diagram, fig. 5, gives an internal view of the parts concerned in the formation of inguinal, crural, umbilical, and obturator hernia ; a, the superficial ring seen through the opening at which direct hernia protudes; 6, the deep ring through which oblique hernia passes ; c, the crural ring; /; the epigastric artery; d, the umbilical ring; e, the obturator opening.INGUINAL HERNIA. 569 tuating, and preventing the testicle from being clearly felt (whilst the cord can be distinctly felt above it); and by not dilating on coughing. Whereas hernia begins at the top of the scrotum ; it is not transparent; does not fluctuate ; does not prevent the testicle from being clearly felt, although it obscures the cord ; and dilates on coughing. But hernia may and does often coexist with hydrocele, the former beginning from above, the latter from below. Moreover, a hernia, consisting of intes- tine greatly distended with flatus, or a sac containing efi^used fluid, has been known to be as transparent as a hydrocele. 3. Hydrocele of the Cord, if low down, may be distinguished by its transparency and fluctuation ; but if high up, it may extend into the * From the King's College Museum. Fig. 6 exhibits a congenital omental hernia of the right side. Fig. 7, an encysted hernia; a kind which was first described by Hey, of Leeds, in a letter to Gooch. (Vide Gooch's Chir. Worlis, vol. ii., p. 217.) He says: " The intestine in this case had forced its way into the scrotum before the tunica vaginalis had formed its adhesion to the cord, but after its abdominal oriiice was closed: under which circumstance it brought the peritonajum down with it, forming the hernial sac : contrary to what happens in the hernia congenita, where the intestine descends before the orifice in the tunica vaginalis has closed, and consequently has no hernial sac but that tunic."570 INGUINAL HERNIA. abdominal ring, and receive an impulse on coughing, and the diagnosis be very difficult. But as a hernia may be concealed behind this kind Fig. 8. of tumour, the rule, when in doubt, operate, should be acted upon in case of symptoms of strangulation. 4. Varicocele (or cirsocele), which signifies a varicose enlargement of the spermatic veins, resembles hernia, inasmuch as it increases in the erect posture, and perhaps dilates on coughing; but it may be dis- tinguished from hernia by its feeling like a bundle of distended veins or a bag of worms; and although, like hernia, it disappears when the patient lies down, and the scrotum is raised, still it quickly appears again, if pressure be made upon the external ring, though that pressure would effectually prevent a hernia from coming down again. 5. Lastly, a testicle that has not come down through the external abdominal ring into the sci-otum, has been frequently confounded with a bubonocele, or small hernia in the inguinal canal; and has been com- pressed with a truss, to the great pain and detriment of the patient. A little care and attention will prevent this mistake. Treatment.— Inguinal hernia, if reducible, must be kept up with a truss. Care must be taken not to let the pad bear against the spinous process of the pubes, or the spermatic cord. (See page 556.) Radical Cure.—From the earliest times attempts have been made to571 INGUINAL HERNIA. produce a radical cure of this kind of hernia, especially by measures calculated to obliterate the sac. Thus excision of the sac, and of the testicle with it;—ligature of the sac;—pi-essure by hard trusses; injection of iodine ; the use of caustics, so as to produce a slough and subsequent firm cicatrix ; the introduction of isinglass, blood, and goldbeaters' skin, have been practised with much danger and little suc- cess. At present there are operations, of established repute, which act by plugging up and closing the herniary apertures. Gerdys Operation.—.More than twenty years since, M. Gerdy pro- posed a method of pushing a fold of integument up as far as possible into the neck of the sac, securing it in this inverted or invaginated position by means of two sutures (both ends of a ligature being passed from within the invaginated skin), and then denuding the pouch of in- vaginated skin of its cuticle by means of liquor ammoniag, so that the surfaces of skin and peritonaeum thus opposed to each other respectively may adhere, and the neck of the sac be effectually plugged. This opera- tion was practised by Mr. Bransby Cooper with some benefit. For the herniary aperture in Mr. Cooper's patient was so large before the operation that the bowel could not be kept up by a truss; whereas, after the operation, a common truss enabled the patient to pursue a laborious occupation with safety and comfort.* Wutzer's Operation.—Professor Wiitzer of Bonn has performed this operation since 1838, and it was introduced into England by Mr. Spencer Wells in 1854. The essential parts of it consist in the in- vagination of a portion of the coverings of the hernia—including skin of the scrotum, fascia, and sac—which are introduced into the inguinal canal; in the use of a wooden plug which shall retain the invaginated tissues there, and which shall be of such a size as to fill the canal as nearly as possible; and in the use of an outward wooden pad, of corre- sponding size and shape to the plug, which shall be so applied, that by means of equable pressure the opposed surfaces of the invaginated portion of sac shall adhere, so that the neck of the sac shall be plugged up, and obliterated. The original instrument of Wiitzer consisted of a roundish plug, with cover to match. The subjoined drawing represents an instrument enlarged and improved by Professor Rothmund of Munich, and subse- quently by Mr. Spencer Wells. Mr. Redfern Davies has since suggested that the plug should be made to expand like a glove-stretcher, so that it may fill out the internal ring. The structure and application of it will be readily learned from the following description of the opei-a- tion.f The patient's bowels should have been well cleansed by castor-oil a day or two previously, and the rectum be emptied by enema on the morning of the operation. The bladder should be empty, the hair of the * Bransby Cooper, Guy's Hosp. Rep.. Oct. 1840. t See Spencer Wells, first paper, Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xxvii., 1854; also his Lecture in Med. Times, 1858, vol. i., p. 79; and paper in the Dublin Quar. Journ., Med. Sc, May, 1858. Redfern Davies, Med. Times, 6th August, 1859.INGUINAL HERNIA. 572 affected side removed, and the hernia carefully reduced. The patient should be in the same position as for the taxis. The surgeon stands on the side on which he opea'ates. Fig. 9. The first step consists in invaginating the sac and its coverings. The surgeon using the left forefinger for the left side " places it," says Mr. Wells, " on the scrotum, about an inch below the external ring, and then pushes a fold of the scrotum before his finger, with a little rotatory movement slowly and steadily into the canal, keeping the palmar surtace of the finger turned forwards and a little outwards, until it is well under the tendon of the external oblique, and the plug of scrotum is well pressed up to, or through, the internal ring." He must make sure that his finger is within the inguinal canal, beneath the tendon of the external oblique, and that it has not merely slipped up under the skin, outside the tendon. The next step is, to introduce the wooden plug ; which should have the needle or needles passed within it, so ftir as may be, without permitting their points to project. The surgeon taking it in his dis- engaged hand, is directed by Mr. Wells to bend the finger which is in the canal, and slip the plug along its dorsal surface, so as to introduce the plug adroitly, whilst withdrawing the finger. Here, again, the operator must be on his guard, both that the invaginated sac and skin do not come down with the finger, and likewise that the wooden plug be introduced into the inguinal canal, and not merely slipped up under the integument; and following Mr. Wells's authority, must feel that the external oblique tendon lies over, and l olls over it; which fact ought also to be ascertained with regard to the preliminary introduction of the finger. The next point is, to push the needle or needles onwards, till their points come through the skin. Then the cover must be adjusted, and fixed by the screws —the needles also be fixed in their places by screws ; their steel points removed and knobs put on, and the handle of the instrument be taken off. Thus it will be evident that two surfaces of sac are pressed together, whilst the inguinal canal is filled with invaginated tissue; and now the object is to get the opposed surfaces of sac to adhere. The meansINGUINAL HEENIA. 573 thereto is the pressure which may be produced by the screw. The part should be examined every day, by raising the cover, and the pres- sure equaHsed, if need be, by a little cotton wool. The patient must be kept in bed, with his knees and scrotum supported. About the fourth or fifth day, inflammatory redness and swelling are seen around the needle punctures; in another day or two, suppuration follows, and serous fluid begins to ooze from the invaginated skin. Now the instrument may be removed, and it will probably be found, by pulling at the skin of the scrotum, that adhesion has taken place firmly; if not, the instrument may be replaced for two or three days longer. If the pressure is too severe, or unequal, or continued, of course sloughing may occur. " About six or seven days may be allowed," says Mr. Wells, " from the period the instrument is applied, and from seven to fourteen more, till cicatrization is complete; so that the patient must be prepared for a three weeks' confinement to his room. After this, a light truss with a weak spring, and large, well-stuffed pad must be worn for about three months, during which time the patient must abstain from violent exercise." This operation has now been performed in a large number of cases in England, but has not been followed by such a proportion of perma- nently successful cases as to enable the surgeon to reckon with any degree of confidence upon its results, although in some cases, when it has failed of complete success, it has enabled a truss, heretofoi-e use- less, to be worn with benefit. Mr. Wood has shown that the hinder part of the canal remains unobliterated, and that the rupture generally returns by slipping behind the invaginated tissues, and then unfolding the invagination. (Wood on Rupture, p. 84.) Treatment by metallic stitch.—Mr. Spencer Wells, in August 1858, in a case in which Wiitzer's operation had been performed, and had been followed by some bulging, and a threatening of a return of the hernia, pushed a fold of scrotum up to the external abdominal ring, and passed a handled needle along his finger, and for an inch behind the external oblique tendon. The needle was made to penetrate the skin, and draw back an iron wire, each end of whicii was secured by a skein of cotton. After seven days the wire was withdrawn, and it was found that some amount of thickening had been produced: the truss was applied again, and a perfect cure followed. To Mr. Redfern Davies, of Birmingham, is due the credit of apply- ing a simple form of operation to the femoral and ventral hernia. For instance, in a case of femoral hernia, after it has been returned, the finger or fingers are made to carry a plug of invaginated skin and sac as far as possible into the femoral ring. Then a curved tube, contain- ing a needle, is carried on the finger well through the ring ; the needle is made to pierce the double integuments, and to bring through a silver wire suture; one, two, or more such sutures are passed, according to the size of the rupture ; the ends are passed through small pieces of vulcanized India-rubber, and are secured by split shot clamped upon574: INGUINAL HEKNIA. them after they have been drawn tight. In about eight days the wires are removed; in eight days more the patient may get up and wear a light truss, till the invaginated plug is firmly secured. The appli- cation of this method to ventral hernia will be evident.* Wood's Operation.—In the last place, we come to the operation devised by Mr. John Wood, of King's College Hospital, which the author has seen him execute with the most consummate skill, and the good effects of which he has witnessed in a case in which Wiitzer's operation had failed. Mr. Wood's operation is based upon a principle diametrically opposite to that of Wiitzer, of which he conceives that the principle of dilating the hernial apertures by means of a plug, is erroneous and injurious, not effecting the object proposed, and being moreover calculated to increase the size of the rupture in case of failure to produce a cure. The steps of his own operation are in- tendon and Poupart's ligament are caused to adhere across the cord, and are blended in one mass of adhesion with the invaginated sac and pillars of the superficial ring. The instruments now used by this sui'geon in this operation are very simple, consisting of a small tenotomy knife, and a stout, semicircular needle mounted in a strong handle with a point flattened antero- posteriorly, and adapted rather for splitting the tissues than for cutting through them. The needle is introduced each time unarmed. When the tissues are transfixed, a piece of stout copper wii'e, silvered, about 2 feet long, is hooked on to the eye of the needle, and drawn back with it through the tissues. The steps of the operation are conducted as follows:—The patient being laid on his back with the shoulders well raised and the knees * See Femoral and Ventral Hernia radically cured, by Redfern Davies, Med. Times, Feb. 12, 1859; (four cases of femoral and two of ventral hernia;) Mr. Spencer Wells's case, ib., Feb. 5, 1859. Fig. 10. tended to draw forward the hinder and inner walls of the hernial canal by trans- fixing the conjoined tendon, and to unite it to the front and outer wall by suture, so as to close up the hernial canal entirely. He invagi- nates the hernial sac without including the skin, and by the arrangement of the su- tures draws up its fundus into the deep hernial opening. (See F'ig. 10.) On each side, the pillars of the superficial ring are bound closely to- gether, no skin being suffered to intervene. The conjoined0)0 IXGUINAL HERNIA. bent, the pubes cleanly shaved, the rupture completely reduced, and chloroform administered, an oblique incision about an inch long is made in the skin of the scrotum over the fundus of the hernial sac. The knife is then carried flatwise under the margins of the incision, so as to separate the skin from the deeper coverings of the sac to the extent of about an inch or rather more all round. (See Fig. 11.) The Fig. 11. forefinger is then passed into the wound, and the detached fascia and fundus of the sac invaginated into the canal. The finger then feels for the lower border of the internal oblique muscle, lifting it forwards to the surface. By this means the outer edge of the conjoined tendon is felt to the inner side of the finger. (See dissection of parts in Fig. 12.) The needle is then carried carefully up to the point of the finger on its inner side, and made to transfix the conjoined tendon, and also the inner pillar of the superficial ring. When the point is seen to raise the skin, the latter is drawn over towards the median line, and the needle made to pierce it as far outward as possible. (See Fig. 13.) A small hook bent on the end of the wire is then attached to the eye of the needle, drawn back with it into the scrotum, and then detached. The finger is next placed behind the outer pillar of the ring, and made to raise that and Poupart's ligament as much as possible from the deeper structures. The needle is then passed along the outer side of the finger, and pushed through Poupart's ligament a little below the deep hernial opening. (See Fig. 14, dissection.) The point is then directed through the sameINGUINAL HERNIA. 576 skin puncture before made, the other end of the wire hooked on to it and drawn back into the scrotal puncture as before, and then detached. Next, the sac at the scrotal incision A. and B.) The whole is held steady by a spica bandage. The wire is kept in from ten days to a fortnight, or even longer if the amount of consolidation and adhesive action is not satisfactory. Very little suppuration usually follows, but after a few days the parts traversed by the wire can be felt thickened and hardened by adhesive deposit which blends together the sac, the pillars of the superficial ring, and the tendinous boundaries of the hernial canal into a resisting mass, the wire becoming more and more loosened by ulceration in its track, until it can be untwisted and withdrawn upwards. In this operation the hernial canal is closed along its whole length, and an extended adherent surface is obtained to resist future protrusion. A horseshoe pad is worn for a few months. It may then be laid aside, unless in exceptional cases, or when the patient is about to be subjected to violent sti-ains or lifting. For large cases of direct hernia, Mr. Wood crosses the wires in the canal, and obtains an additional hold upon the pillars of the ring below. The ring pad truss before described is also employed in these cases after the operation. For small cases, and the hernia of children, he employs a pair of rectangular pins, one of which is made to traverse from above down- wards the conjoined tendon and inner pillar and the other Pou- part's ligament from below upwai-ds. Both these pins are made to Fig. 12. is pinched up between the finger and thumb, the cord slipped back from it as in taking up varicose veins of the cord. The needle is then passed across behind the sac, entering and emerging at the opposite ends of the scrotal incision. (See Fig. 15.) The end of the inner wire is again hooked on and drawn back across the sac. Both ends of the wire are then drawn down until the loop is near the surface of the groin above ; they are then twisted together down into the incision, and cut off to a con- venient length. Traction is then made upon the loop. This invagi- nates the sac and scrotal fascia well up into the hernial canal. The loop of wire is then twisted down close into the upper puncture, and bent down to be joined to the two ends in a bow or arch, under which is placed a stout pad of lint. (See Fig. 16,577 STRAKGULATED INGUINAL HERNIA. enter and emerge at the same cutaneous aperture, without any inci- sion of the skin. During their application the forefinger invaginates tlie thin skin of the scrotum into the hernial canal, and thus protects the important deep-seated parts. The same structures are transfixed as desciibed in the preceding operation. The pins are bent at a right angle near the blunt end, and provided with loops at the bent part (see Fig. 17, p. 579), so that each can be locked into the loop of the other, and then by a half turn can be twisted round so as to entwine closely the included structures, and cause them to adhere intimately as the pins ulcerate nearer to each other, and finally meet. By the oblique direction of the pins an adhesion along the whole length of the canal between the surfaces of the perforated sac;, and the tendinous walls of the canal and pillars of the ring is insured. Out of 100 cases of all kinds and every degree of severity of inguinal rupture, opei'ated upon by this surgeon, no less than 68 have proved up to the present time satisfactory cures. Many of the patients were operated on five or six years ago, and in the less severe cases have worn no truss after the first few months. One only died. The fatal result occurred three weeks after the operation, from pyamia then prevalent in the hospital. Most of those not entirely cured have been much improved, and a truss made available, Kone have been made worse by the operation.* * In a case at wLicli this surgeon lately assisted Mr. Walton, of St. Mary's Hospital, the patient died a week after from peritonitis. This case was of a D 2 P Fig. 13.578 STRANGULATED INGUINAL HERNIA. 2. The irreducible inguinal hernia must be supported with a bag- ti-uss. If it contain only omentum, a common truss is sometimes Fig. 14. Fig. 15. applied in the usual manner, so as to make the omentum adhere to and plug the neck of the sac. But this cannot often be borne, and is liable to induce swelled testicle. For these cases, a ring pad truss on Wood's principle, with an India-rubber water cushion, is the most comfortable and effective apparatus.* 3. In attempting the reduction of strangulated oblique inguinal hernia, the patient should be placed with his body bent forward, his pelvis raised, and his thighs as close together as possible (although the surgeon must put one arm between them), and the pressure must be made upwards and outwards. The operation for this hernia is performed thus :—The parts being shaved, and the skin made tense, an incision three or four inches long must be made through the skin, along the axis of the tumour, begin- ning from above its neck. This will be quite long enough, even for the largest hernia; because the object is to bring the seat of stricture fully into view, without exposing too much of the sac. Then the sue- very aggravated and exceptional character, an enormously large hernia with a very large opening into the cavity of the belly, and a lax and indefinite neck. * Wood, On Rupture, Inguinal, Crural, and Umbilical. Pvobert Hardwicke, 192, Piccadilly.STRANGULATED INGUINAL HERNIA. 579 cessive coverings, before enumerated, are usually divided in the fol- lowing mannerl—a little bit of each is pinched up with forceps, and Fig. 16. I'ig- 1^- cut into with the knife held horizontally; a director is passed into this little aperture, and the layer is then divided on it to the extent of the incision in the skin. Cautious operators will find (or make) many more layers than those usually enumerated, which are, in fact, easily subdivisible, especially in old hernise. But the practised surgeon, who knows that he is operating on the living body, and that his object is to cut through everything till he reaches the sac, will dispense with these dissecting-room tbrmalities. When at last the sac is reached, which will be linown by its bluish transparency, it is to be opened sufficiently to admit the finger, a little bit of it being first pinched up and cut through, so as to admit the director. Then the left forefinger should be passed up into the neck of the sac to seek for the stricture, which will generally be at the internal ring. It is usually at tlie deep ring, but may be at the external ring (or at both); but wherever it is, it must be dilated so as to allow the finger to pass into the abdomen, A curved blunt-pointed bistoury or hernia-knife—not cutting quite up to the point—should be passed up flat on the finger through the stricture, and its edge be then turned up so as to divide it; and in every case the division should be made directly upwards, parallel to the linea alba; and then whether the hernia be direct or oblique, the epigastric artery will not be wounded. If no strigture be discovered in the neclj, it must be sought for in the body of the sac.FEMORAL OR CRURAL HERNIA. 580 The subsequent proceedings—the return or otherwise of the in- testine, and the after-treatment—are detailed in the preceding section. If the surgeon perform the operation without opening the sac, the first point, says Mr. Luke, is to ascertain the exact seat of the stricture. Now, since the stricture prevents the communication of impulse from any one part of the tumour to any other part beyond the stricture, all that is requii'ed is, to press the tumour firmly between the fingers of one hand so as to cause impulse, whilst with the fingers of the other hand at the neck of the sac, the precise point where impulse ceases is ascertained. At that point will be found the seat of stricture. " The next step is, to incise the integuments so that the centre of the incision shall be directly over the stricture; a proceeding easily accomplished by causing a transverse fold to be pinched up between the fingers and divided by transfixing it with a straight bistoury, in a direction parallel with the long axis of the tumour. The various fascias are subsequently divided, until the neck of the tumour is fairly exposed. If this be carefully and completely done, a depression will usually be observed at the seat of stricture, presenting a more contracted appeai'ance at that part than at others. To the touch this contracted part feels thick, while into it thin layers of fascia dip, which may be mistaken for the stricture itself, but which may be divided wholly independent of it, and no relief arise from the division. When these layers are turned back, the real stricture is exposed to view." Then the next step is, to scarify the thickened pei'itonasum forming the stricture, so as to render it dilatable, without actually cutting through it, and then the taxis is to be used for the return of the hernia. When the stricture is caused by the margin of the external ring, it is easily divided by the hernia- director and bistoury ; when at the internal ring, it must be done by the same means, although the operation is more difficult.* SECTION VII.—FEMORAL OR CRURAL HERNIA. Definition.—Femoral hernia is that which escapes behind Poupart's ligament. It passes first through the crural nng—an aperture bounded inter- nally by Gimbernat's ligament—externally by the femoral vein—be- fore, by Poupart's ligament—and behind by the bone. It next descends behind the falciform process of the fascia lata ; thirdly, it comes for- ward through the saphenic opening of that fascia; and lastly, as its size increases, it does not descend down on the thigh, but turns up over the falciform process, and lies on the anterior surface of Poupart's liga- ment. The coverings of this hernia are—1. Skin. 2. The superficial fascia of the thigh, loaded with fat, and divisible into an uncertain number of layers. 3. Fascia piropria, a layer of cellular tissue derived from the sheath of the femoral vessels, blended on its superficial aspect with the/asaa cn6ri/omz's which closes the saphenic aperture. It is in general pretty dense about the neck of the hernia, but thin, or even * Luke, Med. Cliir. Trans., vol. xxxi., p. 108.FEMORAL OR CRURAL HERNIA. 581 deficient on its fundus. 4. The sac. Between the last two there is often found a considerable layer of sub-peritonseal fat, which might be mistaken for omentum. Femoral hernia rarely attains a very large size. It is much more frequent in the female than in the male, obviously from the greater breadth of the pelvis, and greater span of the crural arch.* Diagnosis.—1. Femoi'al hernia may be distinguished/rom the in- guinal by observing that Poupart's ligament can be traced over the neck of the sac, and that the spinous process of the pubes lies internal to and above it; whereas it is the reverse in the inguinal hernia. Supposing that a large femoral hernia is so fixed that it will not allow the course of Poupart's ligament to be traced, the diagnostic mark pointed out by James, of Exeter, may be attended to, to wit, that an inguinal hernia descends towards the labium, a femoral may mount upwards and out- wards to near the spinous pi'ocess of the ilium. This difference, accord- ing to Mr. Wood, is also found in the direction of the cough impulse. If the abdominal rings be examined, and found unoccupied by the tumour, all doubt as to its crural nature is removed.f 2. Psoas abscess resembles this hernia in its situation, in dilating on coughing, and diminishing when the patient lies down. The points of distinction are, that it is generally more Fig. 18.J external, that it fluc- tuates, but does not feel tympanitic, and that it is attended with symptoms of dis- ease of the spine. 3. Varix of the femoral vein also re- sembles this hernia, inasmuch as it dilates somewhat on cough- ing, and diminishes when the patient lies down; but then if pressure be made be- low Poupart's liga- ment, the swelling quickly reappears, al- though it must be evi- dent that under such circumstances a hernia could not come down. * Mr. Partridge informed the author that he had met with a case of femoral hernia, protruding below Poupart's ligament, external to the vessels, t James, On Operations for Strangulated Hernia, &c., London, 1859, p. 10. X The cut, talcen from a preparation of Mr. Fergnsson's in the King's College582 FEMORAL OR CRURAL HERNIA. 4. Bubo and other tumours of the groin may in most cases be re- cognised by their general character and history, and by their being un- attended with symptoms of inflammation or obstruction of the bowels. But if there be any such swelling, and sj'^mptoms of strangulation as well, an incision should certainly be made to examine it; for there may be a tumour that may be satisfactorily proved to be an enlarged gland, and yet there may be a small knuckle of intestine strangulated behind it. 5. Lastly, the possibility of there being a strangulated obturator hernia behind the femoral hernia should not be lost sight of. Treatment.—1. The reducible femoral hernia should be supported by a truss, the pad of which should tell against the hollow which is just infei-ior and extei-nal to the spinous process of the pubes. This hernia is very seldom cured radically ; only a few cases are recorded. For femoral rupture, in suitable cases affecting young and healthy women, Mr. Wood has devised an operation by which a wire is made to traverse Poupart's ligament twice, across the neck of the hernia] sac, fixing it firmly to the fascia lata covering the pectineus muscle inside the femoral vessels. This operation also is done without invagination of the skin, by a small incision, and the use of the same kind of needle and wire as in the operation for the inguinal variety, the after-treatment being the same as before described. This surgeon, however, only recommends the operation in excep- tional cases of femoral hernia in women, since their less laborious occu- pations, less necessity for muscular exertion, and more voluminous dress, render the use of a truss more convenient and effective than is usual in men. 2. The irreducible should be supported by a truss with a hollow pad; or perhaps (if it be omental) the pressure of a common pad may be borne. 3. The femoral hernia, when strangulated, gives rise to much severer symptoms than the inguinal does, because of the denser and more un- yielding nature of the parts which surround the neck of the sac. In performing the taxis, the patient should be placed in the usual position, with the thigh of the affected side much rolled inwards, and crossed over towards the other side. The tumour should first be drawn down- wards, from the anterior part of Poupart's ligament, and then be pressed with the points of the fingers backwards and upwards. If, howevei', the taxis and chloroform do not succeed, the operation should be resorted to. Museum, shows a femoral hernia with its relation to the other parts which pass under Poupart's ligament. Externally are seen sections of the iliacus and psoas muscles, with the crural nerve between them; then the femoral artery and vein ; next the hernia, which passes through a small aperture occupied by an absorbent gland in the normal state, and is bounded by Gimbernat's liga- ment on its inner side. The hernia passes downwards in the sheath of the femoral vessels, separated, however, from the vein, as that Is from the artery, by a process of cellular tissue. The sheath of the vessels is continuous above with the fascia transversalis.583 FEMORAL OR CRURAL HERNIA. The old operation.—In the first place the skin must be divided. Some sm'geous make one simple perpendicular incision. Sir A. Cooper directs one like an inverted j^; Mr. Liston prefers making one incision along Poupart's ligament, and another falling perpendicularly from its centre over the tumour, thus : '^..^^^ The skin may be very safely and expeditiously divided by |^~^\ pinching it up into a fold, and running the knife tln-ough it with its back towards the sac. Mr, Fergusson sometimes I makes one like an inverted so that the skin can be turned back in three flaps; after which the succeeding layers may be divided by a simple longitudinal incision. Then the different cellular layers down to tiie sac must be divided by the bistoury and director, as in the inguinal hernia, and the sac must be opened with very great care, because it is generally very small, and embraces the bowel tightly, and seldom contains any serum or omen- tum. Then the finger should be passed up to seek for the stricture, which, according to Sir A. Cooper and Mr. Liston, will be generally found to be the inner edge of the falciform process. This must be gently divided for a line or two, the incision being directed vpivards and a little inwards, towards the spinous process of the pubes. It must be recollected, that if this incision were carried too far, the spermatic cord in the male, or roimd ligament in the female, would be injured. If, however, the stricture is not released by that incision, a few fibres of Gimbernat's ligament must be divided. 2. The operation without opening the sac is described by Mr. Luke thus. After premising that the seat of stricture is sure to be at or near the femoral ring, and that it is sometimes caused by bands of fascia propria, half or three-quarters of an inch below the ring; and that the upper boundary of the tumour on the abdominal surface is often marked by a visible depression, or at least that it can be felt by the fingers ; a fold of integuments," he continues, " is to be pinched up at that part, and divided by transfixing it with a narrow knife, so that the incision, when the skin is replaced, shall fall perpendicularly to the body, with its centre opposite to the depression referred to. By a tew strokes of the scalpel the tendinous expansion of the abdominal muscle is to be laid bare; after which a finger should be introduced as far as Poupart's ligament, between the tendinous expansion and the tumour, where the latter rises upon the former. The ligament being thus ex- posed, a hernia-director is guided under it by the finger into the femo- ral ring, the margin of which may be safely and easily divided in an upward direction with a common probed bistoury, and the taxis applied in the usual way. Should the margin of the ring have formed the stricture, the taxis for the most part succeeds very readily, and the operation is completed in a very short time. But should the stricture be caused by the bands of fascia propria referred to, the director will have passed over them as it entered the femoral ring, in which case any amount of division in an upward direction will be of no avail. When the taxis does not succeed readily, these bands of fascia may generally be suspected to be the cause of failure. The fact may be made suffi-584 UMBILICAL HERXIA. ciently clear by introducing the finger -upon the neck of the sac, under Poupart's ligament, while the body of the sac is pressed between the fingers and thumb of the other hand, when it will be discovered that no impulse is communicated to it by such pressure. By a little attention the bands may be detected crossing the neck of the sac from half to three-quarters of an inch below the ring, and may be divided by insi- nuating the nail of the forefinger of the left hand under them from above, and by carrying the point of a probed bistoury along the nail, with its blunt edge towards the sac. The division is made by the surgeon drawing the bistoury away from the sac towards himself, a proceeding which, if properly performed, avoids all danger of wound- ing the sac or its contents."* 3. Mr. Gay's operation^ respecting which Mr. Fergusson says em- phatically that he scarcely ever performs any other for crural hernia, and that, " if the sac is not opened, it is the nearest reasonable approach to the taxis that surgery has yet made," is thus performed: An inci- sion, rather more than an inch long, is made'near the inner side of the neck of the tumour. The superficial fascia having been divided, the forefinger (of the left hand if the hernial tumour is on the right side, and vice versa) is to be passed through this wound, along and close to the side of the hernial tumour, to its neck. On the finger, a histouri Gache is to be passed through the cribriform fascia, and through the crural canal to the ring. " By the least amount of force, and with the aid of a little gentle compression of the inner side of the tumour by the finger, the point of the bistoury may be insinuated between the sac and the pubic margin of the ring; the edge of the knife is then to be turned towards the pubes, and by projecting the blade, the seat of stricture in that dii-ection may be effectively divided." If, after this, and after the division of any other stricture that may be felt around the neck of the sac, the hernia cannot be reduced, the incision can be en- larged, and the opei-ation of opening the sac, as usually directed, be performed, t SECTION VIII.—THE UMBILICAL, VENTRAL, AND OTHER REMAINING SPECIES OP HERNIA. I. Umbilical Hernia—(exomphalos)—is most frequent in chil- dren soon after birth because of their incomplete development. It is also not uncommon in women wlio have frequently been pregnant, although, in many of the so-called umbilical hernias in adults, the her- nial aperture is really not at the umbilicus, but a little on one side of it. The coverings of this hernia are skin, superficial fascia, and sac ; they are always very thin, and not unfrequently the sac is adherent to its contents. In infants the presence of a sac is not so well marked. Treatment.—If reducible, and the patient an infant, the plan recom- * Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xxxi., p. 112. f On Femoral Ruptures, with a new mode of operating, &c,, by John Gay, Lond., 1848.VENTRAL HERNIA. 585 mended by Cooper is to place a hemisphere of ivory with its convex surface on the aperture, and retain it there with cross slips of plaster, and a bandage round the belly. The objection to this is that the con- vexity of the pad is very apt to slip out of the aperture, and so be in- effective ; while, on the other hand, if it be held effectively tight, it is not only inconvenient, but tends to dilate the aperture and keep it open. A pad of linen, covered with a round flat disc of sheet lead, will do as well. An adult should wear a truss or elastic belt, with some contrivance to prevent it from slipping down below its proper level. Mr. Wood has devised a pad for umbilical rupture which, like his trusses for inguinal and femoral hernise, is constructed upon the prin- ciple of applying the pressure at the margins of the ring, tending to close them, instead of in the centre, tending to keep them open. This pad is made of a cylinder of india-rubber or gutta percha arranged in an oval ring, the centre opening being closed by an obtura- tor made either of sheet india-rubber, or, in difficult cases, a plate of hard metal or ivory, flat and level. The ring is fixed under a broad elastic body belt, held in place by a shoulder-strap if necessary. The effect of the belt passing over the edges of the ring pad is to cause it to press backwards and inwards so as to close the opening.* (See Fig. 19.) Fig. 19. This truss has been worn in many cases, both in the adult and infant, with entire success. This surgeon has also operated with success for the radical cure of umbilical hernia which had resisted the methods of treatment by pressure. The operation consists simply in applying sub- cutaneously silver-wire sutures to the tendinous margins of the hernial opening so as to draw them together and cause their adhesion.f For the irreducible umbilical hernia a large hollow pad should be worn. If it become strangulated, and the patient is aged, and the strangulation were preceded by constipation, purgatives and copious enemata should have a fair trial. If the operation be necessary, an incision should be made over the neck of the tumour through the skin (which is very thin), and the tendinous parts be divided, and the bowels returned without opening the sac, if possible. n. Ventral Hernia is that which protrudes through the Unea alba, or through the linecB semilunares or transversce, or, in fact, through any other parts of the abdominal parietes, save those which * Wood, On Rupture, page 259. f Op. cit. page 251.OBTUKATOR HERNIA. 586 are the ordinary seats of hernia. It may be a consequence of wounds or bruises. Its treatment requires no distinct observations ; but if it should ever be necessary to operate for the relief of strangulation, care must be taken to avoid the epigastric artery.* III. Perineal Hernia descends between the bladder and rectum, forcing its way through the pelvic fascia and levator ani, and forming a tumour in the perinseum. IV. Vaginal Hernia is a variety of the preceding, in which the tumour projects into and blocks up the vagina, instead of descending to the perinseum. V. Labial or Pudendal Hernia, another variety, descends be- tween the vagina and ramus of the ischium, and forms a tumour in one of the labia. It is to be distinguished from an inguinal hernia which has descended into the labium, by the absence of swelling at the abdominal rings. These three hernia must be replaced by pressure with the fingers, and be kept up by pads made to bear against the perinseum, and perhaps by hollow caoutchouc pessaries worn in the vagina. Fig. 20. t VI. Obturator or Thyroid Hernia projects through that aper- ture in the obturator ligament which gives exit to the artery and nerve. In a fatal case related by Mr. Howship, in which a very small piece of * Mention is made in the Lend. Med. Gaz., 21sfc Oct., 1842, of an adipose tumour, situated between the peritoueeum and abdominal muscles, and project- ing through an aperture in the linea alba, through which it could be pushed back, so that it completely simulated a hernia. Such a case, if complicated with peritonitis, might render the diagnosis very obscure; but an incision would clear up the mystery. t From a preparation of Mr. Fergusson's in the King's College Museum.587 DIAPHRAGMATIC HERNIA. intestine was strangulated in this opening, the patient complained of great pain down the leg in the course of the obturator nerve. This might be an aid in the diagnosis. In a case in which Mr. Hilton laid open the abdominal cavity, and disengaged a knuckle of intestine from the obturator foramen, there were no symptoms that indicated the kind of obstruction met w^ith.* In a case successfully operated upon by Mr. Obr6 there were symptoms of strangulation, and a slight degree of fulness in the triangular space at the upper part of the right thigh compared with the left; and a distinct hardness in the neighbourhood of the femoral artery behind the saphenous opening. Mr. Obr^ made a straight incision, as in the operation of tying the common femoral artery, beginning three inches below Poupart's ligament, hoping to find intestine low in the crural canal. When the cribriform fascia was opened, and the saphenous opening exposed, no hernial sac was found, but a hard something could be felt lying deep on the inside of this opening. The dissection was continued downwards : the fascia lata divided ; the pectinseus exposed and divided transversely for about an inch and a half, when a hernial sac was exposed, which rose up into the wound to the size of a pigeon's egg. The finger was passed into the obturator opening; the sac opened, and found to contain small intestine; the edge of the aperture slightly divided, (in doing which the saphenic vein was wounded, and was tied,) the intestine was returned, and the patient did well. VII. IscHiATic Hernia protrudes through the sciatic notch. This and the preceding are exceedingly rare ; and the tumours are of neces- sity small. If discovered to exist during life, they must be returned and supported by proper apparatus-—and if strangulated, the stricture must be divided by operation. VIII. Diaphragmatic Hernia is generally a result of congenital deficiency, or accidental separation of the fibres of the diaphragm. But it may also be caused by violent falls on the abdomen, or by violent pressure of any kind, capable of lacerating the diaphragm, and driving some of |the bowels into the thorax.f It may also be a consequence of gunshot or lance wounds. This form of hernia, if strangulated, will produce the ordinary symptoms—vomiting, constipation, and pain; and the distinction from the symptoms of ileus or intussusception—or from those produced when a fold of bowel is entangled in a rent in the omentum, or mesentery; or when the bowel is constricted by mem- branous bands resulting from previous inflammation of the peritonaeum, will be very difficult, if possible. In a case recorded by Dr. Copeman, of Norwich, the patient had umbilical hernia, which was quite free from strangulation, but a portion of the stomach and omentum had escaped, through a rent in the diaphragm, into the left pleural cavity. * This case, like most others, was unfortunately operated upon too late. The obstruction existed from the 20th January to the 1st February. Hilton, Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xxxi., p. 323 ; Obre, Banking, vol. xiv.: Keport of cases In Lancet, for 1851, vol. i., p. 512 ; Wilkins, Lancet, 1853, vol. i. t Reid on Diaphragmatic Hernia, Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ., Jan. and July, 1840; Copeman, Prov. Med. Journ., 1855.DISEASES OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS. 588 This patient complained of pain in the left shoulder, and below the heart, and dyspnoea. Mr. Guthrie had predicted, in his Commentaries,* the possibility of hernia through the diaphragm, after a gunshot wound, and had de- scribed the operation which might be attempted for its reduction : that is, an incision through the walls of the abdomen, large enough to admit the hand to draw back the stomach into its proper place. He informed the writer (Jan. 1856) that he had received from the Crimea an inte- resting account of a gunshot wound, in which the greater part of the stomach and duodenum protruded into the chest through a wound of the diaphragm caused by a Minie ball. A similar case is described in Williamson's Military ISurgery, page 91. CHAPTER XIX. strRGICAL DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS. I. Foreign Bodies in the rectum sometimes require to be removed by surgical art. They may consist either of small bones or the like that have descended from above, or of pins, glyster-pipes, or other bodies introduced from below. Substances of very extraordinary dimensions (a blacking-bottle, for instance) have been forced into the anus. The grand point is first to dilate the bowel well, by passing in several fingers coated with lard, or by means of a speculum, and then a proper forceps, or a lithotomy scoop, may generally be used with success. Several specula have been invented for the purpose of enabling the surgeon to see into the anus ; to remove substances from within, or to make medicinal applications, or to perform operations. The simplest is a glass tube, silvered and covered with caoutchouc, of various sizes, and having various kinds of apertures to allow of the inspection of the mu- cous membrane. This was invented by Mr. W. Fergusson, A very complete three-valve speculum has been devised by Mr. Lane, and is made by Savigny. Others are made by Coxeter, and other mechani- cians. II. Imperforate Anus (vliresfa ani) signifies a congenital closure of the rectum, and may occur in various degrees. The anus may be merely closed thin, fine skin, which soon becomes distended with meconium; or the gut may terminate in a blind'pouch at any point from the sigmoid flexure downwards, the anal aperture being altogether wanting ; or the anus may be open for an inch or two, with an obstruc- tion beyond; or the rectum may terminate in the bladder, or urethra, which will be known by the escape of urine tinged with meconium ; or, * Sixth ed., 1855, p. 505.589 SPASM OF THE SPHINCTER ANI, although the anus may be closed, there may be a fistulous track leading from the rectum just above it, and opening somewhere in the peri- nseum.* Treatment.—If the end of the intestine can be felt protruding when the child cries, a free crucial incision may be made into it without delay: if it cannot be felt, a day or two should be waited, so that it may become distended with meconium, and then a cautious incision should be made with a double-edged bistoury, in the direction of the curve of the sacrum. If it succeed in reaching the bowel, the aperture should be kept open by a bougie. But if this operation should fail in reaching the bowel, or if the rectum appear to be altogether deficient, the only resource is the for- mation of an artificial anus in the left loin (p. 550). When the rec- tum opens into the bladder or urethra, an aperture must be made into the neck of the bladder for the free dischai'ge of the faeces,J if the natural orifice cannot be restored. III. Spasm op the Sphincter Ani is known by violent pain of the anus, with difficulty of evacuating the fgeces. On examination, the muscle feels hard, and resists the introduction of the finger. This affection may be caused by constipation of the bowels, or disorder of the health. It may occur in sudden paroxysms which soon go off; or * Case in South's Chelius, vol. ii. p. 329. t Imperforate anus. From the King's Coll. IMuseum. X Case in Fergusson's Pract. Surg., 3rd ed., p. 720.DISEASES OP THE RECTOM AND ANUS. 590 may last permanently, and lead to organic thickening and stricture of the anus. It is very frequently connected with ,piles, or with fissure of the anus, or ulcer just within it. Proctalgia, or neuralgia of the anus, is a very common disorder of children and of gouty adults, and in either case is best treated by purgatives. ]V. Fissure op the Anus is a small chap, or crack, or ulcer, giving intense pain during the passage of the motions, frequently continuing two, four, or even eight hours after the evacuation. Introduction of the finger causes greater suffering in this than in any other affection of the rectum. A piece of hypertrophied skin, probably the remains of an external pile, and generally situated behind, leads, in many in- stances, to the fissure. Immense relief is produced by free purgation. If, after a fair trial of purgatives, and the local use of sulphate of copper, nitrate of silver, or of tannin lotion, or ointment of galls with lead, the symptoms continue unabated, recourse must be had to the knife. (See next paragraph.) V. Ulcer of the Rectum, if influenced by the sphincter muscle, is seldom cured without the use of the knife. If, however, it be situated at a distance, and out of reach of the action of the muscle, it may heal up by the local application of stimulants, and attentive regulation of the bowels. In the first place, probably a dose or two of calomel, followed by castor-oil, should be administered, and after this blue pill, dandelion, nitro-muriatic acid, and such other remedies as may be necessary to bring the secretions, especially those of the liver, into a healthy condi- tion. 2, Meanwhile, an attempt may be made to soothe the local irritation by washing out the rectum with a pint of thin arrowroot and water after a motion; or by injecting, by means of a glass syringe, about two fluid drachms of purified glycerine; or by using a lotion of borax and extract of poppies, F. 122, or belladonna liniment, F. 149. 3. Stimulating applications, such as nitrate of silver and citrine oint- ment, may be tried to the fissure or ulcer. 4. Other means failing, an incision should be resorted to. The left forefinger should be intro- duced, and a straight, nariow, blunt-ended bistoury by its side ; with the latter, an incision should be made through the fissure, or ulcer, so as to divide the mucous membrane, and in severe cases, part of the sphincter. A little flake of cotton wool should then be laid in the wound, so that it may heal by granulation.* VI. H.55MORRHOIDS, or PiLES, are small tumours situated near, usually within, the anus. They consist of folds of mucous and sub- mucous tissue in various stages of inflammatory swelling, congestion, infiltration, or permanent hypertrophy, and usually contain enlarged veins. Sometimes there is a little varicose knot with the cellular tissue around thickened. Sometimes the blood in a dilated vein coagulates, * See observations by Richard Quain, F.R.S., quoted in Eanking's Abstract, vol. xvi.HAEMORRHOIDS. 591 forming a solid tumour with the thickened cellular tissue around. Agaiuj'the mucous membrane of the whole circumference of the bowels becomes swollen and hyper- trophied, with its surface ex- ^^^^^^^ftl tremely vascular and sensi- ^^^^^^^^ out at every evacuation of the -^^^^^iiJ^^S^^—-^ bowels; causing great pain from being compressed by the sphincter until fairly put back into its place, and bleeding freely from the straining and pressure ; or there may be a formation of erectile tissue, chiefly made up of capillaries, and bleeding freely when touched and after evacuation of the faeces. Lastly, there may be one or more distinct pendulous tumours, varying in size from that of a pea to that of a walnut, of a pale or reddish- brown colour when indolent, but dark or bright red when congested or inflamed. These add greatly to the discomfort and tendency to prolapse. External Piles may be met with, 1, in the form of round hard tumours just at the margin of the anus, and covered half with skin and half with mucous membrane ; or, 2, of oblong ridges of skin ex- ternal to the sphincter, commonly called blind piles. Symptoms.—Piles may be met with in two states—indolent or in- flamed. When indolent, they produce the inconveniences that neces- sarily result from their bulk and situation, and from getting within the gripe of the sphincter ; more or less pain in defsecation ; prolapse ; and if not pain, yet a sense of weight and discomfort that is exces- sively annoying, and that renders the mind inapt for matters requiring deep thought. Sometimes, too, the bowel is apt to come down when the patient is taking exercise or exerting himself. When inflamed, they occasion the following symptoms: Pain, heat, itching, fulness, and throbbing about the anus—a sensation as if there were a foreign body in the rectum—pain and straining in passing evacuations. These symptoms may, in violent cases, be complicated with irritation of the bladder, frequency of micturition, pain in the back, pain and aching down tlie thighs. The young surgeon should remember, that a patient with piles may not be aware of the nature of his complaint, or through delicacy may abstain from mentioning it. Whenever, therefore, a patient complains of unusual irritation of the bladder, or of symptoms of dysentery—that is to say, frequent, painful, and unsatisfactory efforts to pass motion—the surgeon should always make inquiries after piles. In women, piles may cause aching of the back, uterine irritation, with mucous discharge, and many anomalous symptoms, which the sur- geon will in vain endeavour to cure until he finds out the l eal cause. The haemorrhage from piles will be treated of more particularly at p. 595. * Piles after excision, showing the dilated veins, of which they are in a great measure composed. tive. This swollen membrane is apt to become prolapsed, or, in plain English, to comeDISEASES OF THE RECTUM AND AKUS. 592 Causes.—The predisposing causes are any circumstances that pro- duce fulness of the abdonainai vessels, or that impede the return of blood from the rectum—such as luxurious and sedentary habits of life —pregnancy, habitual constipation, and disease of the liver. The excit- ing causes may be anything that irritates the lower bowels—particu- larly straining at stool—and violent doses of purgative medicines; among which aloes is blamed more than it deserves to be. Since this medicine is so valuable and in such common use, and yet so little understood, the writer will, for the sake of his younger readers, state briefly what the use of aloes is, and in what its misuse consists. Aloes is what was formerly called eccoprotic; that is, 'an expeller of faeces. When taken into the stomach it is readily dissolved and absorbed, and is eliminated through the colon and rectum, which latter parts it stimulates to unload themselves of their contents; and if they contain faecal matter, which from torpidity they do not expel, aloes is an effectual and unirritating remedy. But if these parts are already active and empty, aloes can but irritate them fruitlessly, caus- ing straining and tenesmus, and also probably piles. Lastly, piles are most frequent in women, and are I'are under puberty. General Treatment.—The grand objects are to remove the predis- posing and exciting causes. The patient, if stout, plethoric, and of sedentary habits, ought to live abstemiously, and take plenty of exer- cise. The bowels should be regulated by some mild aperient, capable of producing daily copious soft evacuation without straining or grip- ing. Senna, sulphur, cream of tartar, and magnesia, in the form of electuaries, F. 46—55, or compound colocynth pill, are frequently used for this purpose ; or pills of rhubarb and soap, w^ith ipecacuanha, taken twice a day, F. 52 ; or a small dose of castor-oil or PuUna water, F. 42, in the morning. It is a good plan to inject the rectum with cold water both before and after the motions. In some cases it is advisable that the patient have his regular daily evacuation at night, just before bedtime, so that the prolapsed and irritated parts may have time to become quiescent during the night. In cases of long standing, in which the mucous lining of the rectum is relaxed, cubebs, or Ward's paste, or the confect. pipei'is. comp,, may be given with great benefit in doses of 5j ter die. In similar cases, especially if the patient is advanced in years, and the piles are attended with a flow of mucus, copaiba may be given in the dose of thirty or forty drops every morn- ing in milk ; and a scruple of common pitch may be taken in pills every night at bedtime. Old people rarely dislike the taste of copaiba. If the piles are inflamed, leeches to the anus, or cupping on the sacrum, a dose of calomel and opium at bedtime, followed by castor- oil in the morning ; low diet, rest in bed, warm hip-baths, fomenta- tions, and poultices. Cold lotions of lead, with a little laudanum, may be substituted for the warm applications, if more comfortable. If there is a tense, bluish, solid tumour, evidently containing coagu- lated blood, it may be punctured ; but perhaps it is better not to do so.HEMORRHOIDS. 593 Local Treatment.—Having by the general treatment provided as far as possible against the original causes of the malady, it is the sur- geon's duty to use such local measures as shall tend to restore the part to a healthy condition; amongst which we shall mention, 1. perfect cleanliness. The anus should be well washed with soap and water after each motion; and if the piles are internal, and protrude during evacuations, they should be washed before they are returned. 2. Astringents.—The zinc lotion, F. 117; or iron lotion, which is particularly recommended by Mr. Vincent, F. 128 ; or lotions of alum or tannin, of either of which a drachm or two may be injected into the anus after each motion,,and be allowed to remain; the gall ointment, with or without lead, F. 162, and creosote ointment—are often of benefit. Dr. Burne recommends an ointment composed of pulv. hellebori nigri 3j. adipis 'l^., which he says never fails of affording great relief, although exceedingly painful for a time. An ointment of a drachm of black oxide of mercury to an ounce of lard has also leceived high recommendations. 3. Pressure by means of a bougie introduced occasionally, or a firm pad of flannel, covered with oiled silk ; or a pad of smooth wood or of ivory, made to bear up well against the anus by means of a stout peri- nseal or T bandage (see Bandages), or by means of a spring like that of a truss, is often of service. There is an instrument consisting of a short egg-shaped ivory bougie, which is introduced into the anus, and which is attached by a slender neck to an ivory pad ; so that pi-es sure is thus made both internally and externally: this may be useful" in cases of internal piles with relaxed mucous membrane and tendency to prolapse, when no measure for removing the piles is thought advisable. 4. Nitric Acid.—All the above measures are preventive or palliative, and if they do not succeed, it is better to adopt some radical remedy. The first in order is the nitric acid ; a most safe, speedy, and effec- tual remedy in the proper case, first introduced by Dr. Houston of Dublin. It is adapted for destroying a diseased surface—not solid tumours—but any ''patch of tender, tumid, and bleeding surface of mucous membrane which is the source of irritation and haemorrhage. The operation is performed as follows:—The bowels having been just previously cleared, the patient must be told to protrude the piles; and if he cannot do it easily, he should sit over a vessel of warm water, or have an enema of warm water. The diseased surface is to be wiped with lint; and a portion of it, the size of sixpence, to be deliberately dabbed with a smooth wooden stick dipped into the concentrated acid. When this has taken effect, any superfluous acid is to be mopped up, lard is to be applied copiously, in order to prevent the caustic being too widely diffused, and the parts are then to be returned within the sphincter. The patient should go to bed, and the bowels be kept quiet—if necessary by opium—for forty-eight hours; and when the slough caused by the acid separates, the surface generally cicatrizes speedily, and leaves the D 2 Q594 DISEASES OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS. part braced up and contracted. It is difficult to exaggerate the benefits of this plan of treatment. It seldom causes pain or any ill consequences. The author has by two applications of it relieved a patient permanently of pain and haemorrhage which had lasted for years, and which on the average caused him to lose two hours' time every morning, by rendering him incapable of attending to anything save his own miserable sensations. When the parts cannot be pro-^ truded, the acid may be applied through the speculum. 5. The Ligature,—But the acid will not be a sufficiently potent remedy if ther e are one or moi'e actual tumours, or if a large track of mucous membrane is swelled and protrudes. For such cases, any tumours, together with a portion of r elaxed mucous membrane, should be extirpated, and the ligature is the usual means of effecting it. Although the removal of piles need not be such a bugbear as some persons make it, yet the surgeon should pause if there be any organic disease of the liver or kidneys; and the patient should be put into the best state of health possible. The piles are to be protruded as before; then (the patient having chloroform to render him unconscious of pain, and to relax the sphinc- ter) the piles may be seized one by one and drawn out, and a small fine piece of hempen twine be tied as tightly as possible round the base of each. They may be seized with any forceps ; but one like that here depicted is very convenient. But it is better, especially if the tumour is large, to pass a double ligature through its base with a needle, and tie either half separately. Before finally tightening the ligatures, the piles should be slightly punctured. Any fold of superfluous membrane should be similarly seized and dealt with ; and the surgeon should take care, whilst about it, to tie up enough ; to tie it in small portions so that it may quickly slough off"; and to tie it so tightly as to kill it at once. After the operation, the ends of the thread should be cut short, and be returned into the rectum. The patient should remain in bed, and the bowels should not be disturbed for forty-eight hours after the operation. Pain is to be relieved by an opiate, F. 32; and if it persist, the ligatures should be examined to see whether they remain as tight as possible, and if not, they should be reapplied.595 H/EMORRHOIDS. 6. Excision is the proper remedy for external piles. Any very larg'e and loose ridge of skin around the anus may at the same time be re- moved with the scissors, and the edges of the cut be brought together by a tine suture. To apply the ligature to the skin is barbarous. For internal piles, mere excision is dangerous, as the patient might bleed to death. It may, however, be done safely thus :—The tumour havino- been protruded, the base of it should be transfixed by a long needle, which will prevent it from returning into the anus. Then it may be cut off; and the cut surface being exposed to the air, will not bleed, or if it does, it is easy to apply cold, astringents, or ligatures. After twelve hours the needle may be removed, and the part allowed to go up. Mr. Henry Lee has adopted a plan of seizing the part to be re- moved between the blades of a sort of curved forceps, and cutting it off; then touching the cut surface with nitric acid, or, still better, with an iron at a black heat. The pressure of the forceps prevents all bleeding at the time, and tlie caustic not only prevents it afterwards but also renders the patient more safe from pyaemia, hastens the cure, and leaves the parts more braced. Mr. Henry Smith employs for his purpose an ingenious clamp with a screw.* Mr. Wood employs a spoon-shaped forceps, so as to prevent the diffusion of the acid ; and when he seizes the fold of membrane to be extirpated, he holds the forceps with its long axis paralh^ with that of the bowel, so that any subsequent contraction of cicatrix may not contract the calibre of the bowel. If the tumour be very large, he passes through it, from side to side, beneath the blades of the forceps, a thin silk ligature, leaving one end hanging out at the anus ; thus the edges of the wound are hindered from gaping when the forceps is removed. Or the plan may be adopted of cutting through the mucous mem- brane at the base of the pile, so as to make a groove in which the ligature lies, and to shorten the process of separation. The most vascular part of the pile is left, and this may be tightly tied by one ligature, or, still better, be transfixed and tied in two portions.f The eoraseur may be used in some cases. Vn. Warts and Condylomata. See p. 225. Vni. HEMORRHAGE from the rectum is a very frequent concomi- tant of piles, and may be of two kinds. In the tirst place, it may be caused by the bursting of a varicose vein : in which case the blood is venous; and the hemorrhage in general occurs at once in considerable * Described in Lancet, Oct. 4, 1863. t Curling On Rectum, 3rd edit., 1863, p. 54.596 DISEASES OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS. quantity; and may never occur again. This form is rare. But far more frequently it proceeds from the vascular surface of internal piles,' which gives way under the straining which accompanies defsecation. In the latter case the blood is arterial; it is squirted from the anus in jets when the patient is straining at the water-closet, and the bleeding occurs very frequently, especially when the patient is feverish, or the bowels disordered, or the piles inflamed. Haemorrhage from the rec- tum may be distinguished from that which has its source higher up by noticing that the blood is generally of a florid hue, and that it covei's the fjeces, but is not intimately mixed with them. Treatment.—1. If the hsemoi'rhage is moderate in quantity, if it has been of habitual or periodic occurrence, if it induces no weakness, and if it brings relief to pain in the head or any other feeling of dis- order, before suppressing it the patient must be made to adopt a course of exercise, temperance, and aperient medicine. 2. But if the patient is weak and emaciated ; if the lips are pale, and the pulse feeble, the bleeding should be at once suppi'essed. (We may observe here, that whenever a patient applies for relief in consequence of violent palpi- tations and shortness of breathing, or giddiness and swimming in the head—if the lips are pale, and the extremities tend to swell—the sur- geon should always inquire for piles, because, as we before observed, some patients, through false delicacy, will not mention them.) Or if the bleeding, as sometimes happens, instead of relieving symptoms of heat and fulness in the rectum, aggravates them, it should be stopped, whatever the patient's complexion may be ; and if he is of a full habit, he should live abstemiously, and keep the bowels open. The means of checking hajmorrhage from the rectum are, 1. That piles, if any exist, should be tied or cauterized with the aid of a clamp. This is the remedy—direct and surgical. 2. Astringent applications, such as in- jections of dec, quercus, or F. 128. 3. The internal remedies most likely to be of service are salts of iron or bark with sulphuric acid, or the balsams of copaiba and Peru. F. 9, 13, 14, 186, &c. 4. In order to stanch violent bleeding, the anus may be distended with a specu- lum, and any bleeding vessel be tied, or touched with a heated wire. Or the anus may be plugged.* IX. Discharge of Mucus—clear and viscid—without faecal odour, may be caused by piles, ascarides, the use of aloes, or any other causes of irritation to the rectum. To be treated by mild aperients, astrin- gent injections, and copaiba or cubebs. F. 37, 39, 13, &c. * In severe bleeding, occurring after an operation on the rectum, after the failure of more ordinary means, a plug of the following description may be used. A good-sized conical cork, with a string passed through its centre, is to be placed in the rectum, then graduated circular pieces of lint penetrated by the string must follow : two or three pieces of lint can be passed at a time, and the entire number must be suflBcient to form a good-sized conical plug, which is prevented from floating about in the rectum by traction on the string. Firm pressure over a large space can be obtained by the adoption of this method. For this note, the author is indebted to Mr. Sharman, some lime of St. Mark's Hospital, now of the London Hospital.ABSCESSES. 597 X. Abscesses near the rectum may be caused by the irritation of foreign bodies, or by caries of an adjacent bone, but they are much more frequently the result of the various causes of disordered circulation in the hsemorrhoidal vessels that were mentioned as producing piles, and especially of that morbid state of mucous membrane which accompa- nies pulmonary tubercle or the tendency thereto. They may either be large and deep-seated, or small and superficial. 1. Deep-seated ab- scesses are attended with great aching and throbbing, difficulty and pain in evacuating the faeces, and fever, and on internal examination an elas- tic ill-defined tumour or fluctuation may be felt. If these abscesses are left to themselves, a vast quantity of matter may accumulate in the loose cellular tissue of the pelvis, and severe irritative fever result from its confinement. 2. Superficial abscesses are attended with more or less pain, tenderness, and throbbing, and swelling around the anus. Or either may be quite chronic and indolent. Treatment.—In acute cases leeches and fomentations may be tried at first; but if they do not very soon remove the pain and tenderness, or if there is the least suspicion that matter is forming, a bistoury should be pushed home into the inflamed part, and if it be at all extensive, two or three punctures or counter-openings in the most depending parts, or where pointing occui's, should be made. XI. Fistula in Ano signifies a fistulous track by the side of the sphincter ani. It is extremely difficult to heal, both because the con- stant contractions of the sphincter and levator ani interfere with the union of its sides, and because of the passage of fascal matter into it from the bowel. There are three kinds spoken of in books. 1. The complete fistula, which has one external opening near the anus, and another into the bowel above the sphincter, where it may be felt like a small papilla. 2. The blind external fistula, which has no opening into the bowel, although it mostly reaches its outer coat. 3. The blind internal fistula, which opens into the bowel, but not externally, although its situation is indicated by a redness and hardness near the anus; or pei'haps the aperture is so small as to be scarcely perceptible. This atiection is a common result of abscess by the side of the rec- tum. Brodie's opinion is, that it always commences with an ulcera- tion of the mucous membrane of the rectum, and an escape of faecal matter into the cellular tissue, which gives rise to abscess, and the abscess to fistula. But most other surgeons believe that it may be the result of abscesses around the anus, which have no connection with the rectum. Besides, there may be openings near the anus, lead- ing from the tuber ischii, which may be carious. Treatment,'—The grand remedy for this affection is division of the sphincter ani, so as to prevent contraction of that muscle for a time, and division likewise of the internal orifice, if any. The digestive organs and secretions must first be put into good order, and the bowels be well cleared by castor-oil and an injection, so that they may not want to be disturbed for two or three days. Operation.—The patient being placed on his knees and elbows on a bed, or being made to kneel598 DISEASES OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS. on a chaii' and lean over the back of it, or lying on his side close to the edge of the bed, and the nates being kept asunder by an assistant, the surgeon introduces his left forefinger into the anus, and at the sanae time explores with a probe the whole extent and ramifications of the fistula. If it is of the blind internal kind, its situation must be ascer-- tained, and a puncture be made into it by the side of the anus. Perhaps a pi-obe bent at an acute angle may be passed into it from the bowel, and serve as a guide for the puncture. Then, one forefinger being still in the anus, the surgeon passes a strong curved probe-pointed bistoury up to the further end of the fistula. Next (if the internal opening cannot be found) he pushes it through the coats of the bowel, so that its point may come in contact with his forefinger. Then he puts the end of his forefinger on the point of the bistoury, and draws it down out of the anus ; and as soon as it is fairly emerged, he pushes the handle towards the orifice of the fistula, so as to divide skin, sphincter, and bowel at one sweep. Sir B. Brodie recommends that the bistoury should always be passed through the internal opening of the fistula, and says that the affection will very likely j-eturn if this is not divided; he also condemns the piactice of cutting through the bowel higher up than this opening; but all ramifications and buri'owings of the fistula under the skin should be slit up. A little flake of cotton is then to be placed in the wound, and the patient to be kept in bed for three days. The subsequent treatment consists in the use of perfect cleanliness, and the daily introduction of a little flake of cotton (which may be dipped in some stimulating lotion if necessary) between the edges of the wound for the first few days, so as to prevent its edges from uniting, and to cause it to granulate from the bottom. If haemorrhage prove violent, after this operation, and does not yield to the application of cold or a bit of matico leaf, the anus must be well dilated with a speculum, so as to expose the bleeding surface to the air, and any artery discernible may be tied ; or else it may be firmly plugged with lint, which is to be secured by a T bandage. If the patient will not submit to this operation, or if he is labouring under disease of the lungs or liver or kidneys, in an advanced stage, so that it would be unsafe, the treatment must be palli(ntive merely.: The confect. piperis, or copaiba and tonics, may be administered inter- nally, and stimulating injections and ointments be applied to the fistula.: Luke's operation of cutting the fistula by ligature may be adopted by: any one who is fond of variety, or whose patient fears the cold knife. XII. Prolapsus Ani consists in an eversion of the lower portion of the rectum, and its protrusion through the anus. It is not merely that a fold of the mucous membrane protrudes; but that the mus- cular coat, and whole thickness of the bowel come down. This affec- tion is most common in infancy and old age. It may depend on a natural laxity and delicacy of structure, or be caused by violent strain- ing, in consequence of costiveness, or of the existence of piles, or stone, or stricture. , Treatment.—Whenever the protrusion occurs, the parts should bePROLAPSUS ANI. 599 carefully washed, and then be replaced by pressure with the hand. If there is any difficulty in doing so, the forefinger, oiled, should be pushed up into the anus, and it will carry the protruded part with it. If, however, as sometimes happens, a larger portion than usual has come down, and it is so swelled and tender from the constriction of the sphinc- ter, and from being irritated by the clothes, that it cannot be returned, the patient should be put under chloroform, and so reduction be effected; but should the prolapsed portion come down again, the patient must keep in the recumbent posture, and assiduously apply iced water. In other cases, leeches, fomentations, and a dose of calomel and opium may be requisite. To keep the bowel up, it is a good plan, especially in children, to press the nates together with the fore- tinger and thumb, and to carry a bioad strip of adhesive plaster from one side to the other, to be kept on till an evacuation is desired, and then replaced. To cure this affection radically, the bowels should be so regulated as to prevent costiveness and straining; injections of dec. quercus, or of F. 128; sponging with cold water—tonics, especially steel, and support by pads and T bandages, may be used to give tone to the parts. Dr. MacCormac of Dublin recommends that when the stools are passed, the skin near the anus should be drawn to one side with the hand, so as to tighten the orifice. If the prolapsus be combined with piles, that which extirpates them will probably cure it. Otherwise two or three folds of the flabby mucous membrane on the protruded bowel may be pinched up with forceps, and tied tightly with ligatures. 2. Or ligatures may be passed by needles through several folds of skin just at the margin of the anus, which are then to be tied up tightly. Or 3, a small patch of relaxed mucous membrane may be destroyed by acid. Either of these operations may be repeated as often as necessary. Their effect in producing adhesion and consolidation of the relaxed tissue must be obvious. There is a French operation, which consists in excising a portion of the sphincter ani; but when this * This cut, from a preparation in the King's College Museum, shows a sec- tion of a prolapsed rectum—the whole circumference of the lower part of the bowel being everted and extruded. The mucous membrane is excessively thickened from the irritation of exposure.600 DISEASES OF THE EECTUM AND ANUS. Operation used to be performed (as it commonly was sixty years ago): for fistula, it was often followed by inability to retain the fseces. XIII. Internal Prolapsus, or Invagination of the Rectum. —When the rectum in women has become distended, and has lost its tone from protracted constipation and the abuse of warm ene- mata, the upper part of the bowel is apt to come down within the lower, and to be gripped by it after the manner of an invagination. This state of things causes great distress, constant feeling of weight and of desire to pass motions, and difficulty in so doing. On examination with the finger, the canal of the rectum is found obstructed by a tumour with a capacious cul de sac around it, and with the natural passage of the bowel in its centre. The writer has reason for believing that some degree of this affection is not very uncommon amongst women. Treatment.—Aperients, such as rhubarb, with cubebs or cinnamon; or with small doses of nux vomica : mild astringent injections, and the bougie ; the point of Avhich should be carefully guided into the orifice in the centre of the prolapsed portion.* XIV. Spasmodic Stricture of the rectum—known by great diffi- culty in evacuating the bowels, with spasmodic pain on doing so—is a rare affection. " It generally depends," says Mr. Mayo, " on a vitiated state of the secretions ; and is move frequently relieved by a regulated diet and alterative medi- cines, and the use of injec- tions, than by the employ- ment of the bougie." (See Proctalgia.) XV. Permanent Stric- ture. — In this affectiotf there is a chronic thickening and contraction of the mu- cous coat of the rectum, so as to form a ring encroaching on its canal. It is generally situated at from two inches and a half to four inches from the anus. More rarely it is met with higher up, or even in various parts of the colon. It may follow the contraction of cicatrised ul- cers. The symptoms are great pain, straining, and dif- ficulty in voiding the fseces, which are passed in small, * This malady is particularly described by Earle, Med. Gaz., vol. v.; Che- vallier, Med. (.;hir. Trans., vol. x.; Mayo on the Rectum, p. 182; and Bushe on the Rectum, New York, 1837.601 STRICTURE OF THE RECTUM. narrow, flattened fragments; and on examination the stricture may in ordinary cases be readily felt. Irritation'of the bladder and uterus, and pains or cramps in the leg, with headache and dyspepsia, are occasional additional symptoms. If this affection be unrelieved, it leads to ulceration of the rectum above the stricture, with a consequent aggravation of all the symptoms, and death from irritation. Treatment.—The remedies are aperients and injections so as to pro- duce daily soft unirritating stools, and the bougie. A bougie, capable of being passed with moderate facility through the stricture, should be introduced once in three or four days, and be allowed to remain fifteen or twenty minutes; and its size should be gradually increased when a larger one admits of being passed. An improved bougie is one in- vented by Mr. Partridge, made of a short cylinder of smooth metal, mounted upon a slender handle, so that the sphincter is not painfully distended. Mr. Wood uses a bougie with a thick end and a slender stem, with an /-like curve, to follow the normal sweep of the bowel and to give that forward direction to the point of the mstrument which the rectum has in its upper part. (See fig.) When the stricture is placed high, this curve very much lessens the danger of perforating the coats ot the bowel below the stricture. The curved bougie is introduced with the upper concavity directed backward as far as the lower third. It is then gradually turned forward as in the " tour de maitre " with the catheter. Instruments of every sort introduced into the rectum should be handled with the utmost gentleness. Nothing is gained by forcing a large bougie through a stricture. The cure is to be effected by the repeated and gentle stimulus of pressure, so as to excite absorption, not by mere mechanical dilatation. There are numerous fatal instances on record in which the bowel has been torn by bougies, and by that most dangerous and loathsome instrument, the common clyster syringe, in the hands of careless or ignorant people. For the administration of enemata, the pipe should be only an inch and a half in length, with a large bulbous extremity. Or if in cases of stricture, or of obstinate costiveness with great accumulation of fasces, or of incai'cerated hernia, it is desirable to introduce a tube further, it should be quite flexible like that of a stomach-pump. But the natural sharp fold at the junction of the rectum with the sigmoid flexure, and the fact shown by Mr. Earle that the bowel not unfrequently makes a horizontal curve to the right before descending into the pelvis, render the introduction of bougies into the sigmoid flexure a very blind, hazardous proceeding, and one that is not often to be justified. Moreover the surgeon must be on his guard lest he fall by inadvertence into another error. That is to say, he must not pronounce his patient to have a stricture merelyDISEASES OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS. 602 because the point of the bougie catches in the folds of the mucous mem- brane, or is obstructed by the promontory of the sacrum. ; XVL Polypus of the rectum, a rare disease ; must be removed by ligature, or by knife, or the ecraseur. XVII. Cancer of the rectum is usually of the scirrhous variety, and situated at first about two or three inches above the anus. It may either commence as a distinct tumour, or as an infiltration of some part of the walls of the bowel. The earliest symptoms are uneasiness in the rectum, with a sense as if some fgecal matter had lodged there; aching and pain in the back, hips, and thighs, and iiTitation of the bladder. As the disease advances, the bowel becomes more or less obstructed ; there is frequent discharge of a fetid muco-purulent matter streaked with blood;-and there is a most obstinate constipation, at- tended with enormous swelling of the abdomen, and sometimes with all the symptoms of strangulated hernia; but this may alternate with the most profuse and exhausting diarrhoea. Abscesses about the rectum, opening perhaps into the bladder or vagina, aggravate the patient's misery, and death ensues from exhaustion, or from peritonitis, or per- haps from rupture of the distended bowels. This disease is to be distinguished by examination with the finger, or with the speculum ; which will detect hardening and ulceration, or perliaps fungating tu- mours blocking up the gut.* Treatment.—The first object is, to keep up the action of the bowels by enemata of wai-rn water, and by the mildest laxatives: and to allay irritation by occasionally leeching the sacrum ; by belladonna and opiate plasters; or occasional enemata or suppositories of opium^ or large doses of henbane or conium ; and by the tepid hip-bath. Sir B, Brodie recommends injections of linseed oil, either pure or mixed with lime-water, and balsam of copaiba with alkalies internally. When the obstruction threatens to become considerable, it will be expedient to use bougies, very gently, of the softest material, and not more frequently than is absolutely necessary. When these fail, it may be expedient, as a temporary resource, to cut through, or to excise some portion of the obstructing growth, or even to force the finger, or a flexible tube, through it, if possible with safety: some surgeons have even extirpated the lower extremity of the rectum ; but all these operations can only be regarded in the light of palliatives. As a last resource, an artificial anus may be formed by Amussat's operation.! For cancerous and epithelial diseases of the verge of the anus, and their treatment, by operation or otherwise, we may refer to the works of Lebert, Curling, and Lisfranc. XVIII. Pruritus Ani, a very violent itching of the anus, is a very * In a case related to the author by Mr. Mayo, of Winchester, ulceration of the anus, of the worst syphilitic character, laid open the peritonaeum between the rectum and vagina: a portion of omentum protruded ; it was imperfectly replaced, as it was supposed, naturally enough, to be a prolapse of the rectum, and the patient died with symptoms of strangulation. f Walshe, op, cit., p. 297. Csesar Hawkins, Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xxxv.603 DISEASES OF THE URINARY ORGANS. troublesome affection. It may be complicated with an excoriated or fissured state of the surrounding skin (rhagades). The best plan is, to keep the bowels open with sulphur, seidlitz powders, or castor-oil, with occasional doses of blue pill; to put the stomach into proper order; to bathe the part very frequently with water as hot as can be borne; and to apply some stimulating or astringent substance, such as nitrate of silver, weak solution of corrosive subhmate, the citrine or creosote ointment, or lemon-juice. Thread-worms should be got rid of by enema of strong infusions of quassia. The liq. arsonici chloridi, F. 97, may be tried in an obstinate case. Chloroform may be used mixed with lard (5j. ai ^j.), as an oint- ment, or, as Curling suggests, a few drops may be put into a wine-glass which may be held to the anus to act by its vapour. CHAPTEK XX. DISEASES OF THE URINARY ORGANS. SECTION I.—RETENTION OF URINE FROM SPASMODIC STRICTURE. I. Retention of Urine.—This term signifies want of power to pass the urine from the bladder. It therefore includes the idea that there is urine to pass ; and must be carefully distinguished both in theory and in practice from the suppression of urine, in which no uruie is passed because none is secreted. II. The urethra is a canal surrounded by various structures, whose actions are capable of hindering the flow of urine through it. There is a layer of erectile tissue, which when turgid closes the canal; there is a layer of unstriped or organic muscular fibre ; and, besides, * Henry Thompson, F.R.C.S., &c., Patholofry and Treatment of Stricture, being the Jacksonian Prize Essay, &c., Lond., 2nd edit., 1858. The cut shows a catheter, recommended by Mr. Thompson, and modelled according to the length and direction of the urethra. It is divided to suit the size of the page, and is exactly one-half of the real size. The axis of the point forms a little more than a right angle to that of the shaft.604 DISEASES OF THE URINARY ORGANS. at certain points there ai-e voluntary muscles,—the muscles of Wilson- and Guthrie, the levator ani, and accelerator urinai, ' The layer of organic muscle, the existence of which was inferred by" Hunter, and demonstrated by Kolliker, has been more minutely inves- tigated by Mr. Jabez Hogg and Mr. Hancock. According to the last- named gentleman, it appeals that the urethra is invested by a double layer of organic or unstriped muscular fibre ; one layer immediately surrounding the canal, the other external to the prostate and the cor- pus spongiosum urethrse; which muscular coats are continuous with those of the bladder. Hence not only can the canal be closed by spasm of the voluntary fibres which are in relation with its membranous por- tion, but any part of the canal may be closed by the layer of involun- tary fibres. Moreover, * it is well to bear in amind that violent vo- luntary efforts, as in straining to empty the bladder, tend to close the urethra by the ac- tion of the levator ani.f :hra, according to Mr. H. ihes ; its circumference un- leatus, '7 inch in the bul- lensions capable of being int in the erect posture is or layer of deep perinseal •3 of a circle 3'25 inches ; curve is sharper in thin In children, the greater elevation of the bladder in the pelvis produces a greater curve in the urethra. Varieties.—Retention of urine may arise from causes functional or organic. The functional causes may be, 1, want of power in the mus- cular coat of the bladder and urethra ; 2, spasm of the urethra, mixed in some cases with some amount of inflammatory swelling. The organic causes include permanent stricture, that is to say, obstruction of the canal by organic disease and contraction ;—cicatrices, the blocking up of the tube by stones or other foreign bodies coming down from the bladder, or introduced from without;—or by the presence of abscesses, or cancerous or other tumours;—or of fractured and displaced bones external to the urethra ; or by disease of the prostate gland. In the present section we shall speak of that form of retention of urine which arises from spasm of the urethra. * A very useful syphon, which can be fixed on to the end of the catheter, for the more couvenient flow of the urine. f Anatomy and Physiology of the Male Urethra, by Henry Hancock, F.R.C.S., Lond. 1852; Investigations of the Anatomy of the Urethra, &c., by Jabez Hogg, Pathological Trans., 1855.605 SPASMODIC STRICTURE. III. Spasmodic Stricture generally affects persons who are already labouring tinder some slight degree of permanent stricture, or whose urethra has been rendered irritable by repeated attacks of gonor- rhoea, or by a diseased condition of the urine; these, therefore, are the predisposing causes. The usual exciting causes are, exposure to cold and wet, and indulgence in liquor, which disorders the stomach, and renders the urine unusually irritating. Hence, an attack of spasmodic stricture generally comes on at night. It may also be caused by can- tharides, whether taken by the mouth, or absorbed from blisters ap- plied to the skin. Like irritation of the bladder, it may be a symptom of gout. It may likewise be caused by sexual excitement and by piles and other sources of irritation of the rectum or bowels. Symptoms.—The patient finds himself unable to pass his water, although he has a great desire, and makes repeated straining efforts to do so. The bladder soon becomes distended, and can be felt as a tense, round tumour above the pubes ; and unless relief is given, the counte- nance becomes anxious, the pulse quick, and the skin hot. The strain- ing efforts at micturition also become more frequent and violent, and the distress and restlessness a)-e extreme. In this way the patient may, perhaps, go on for many days; a little urine passing occasionally when the spasm is less urgent, but the bladder still remaining loaded, till re- lieved by ti'eatment. If not relieved, and if the urethra wei'e previously diseased, either the bladder may burst into the peritonaeum; or, as more frequently happens, the urethra behind the stricture (which, of course, becomes dilated and weakened under the pressure of the urine impelled by the whole force of the abdominal muscles) bursts into the perinseum, and give rise to extravasation of urine, as will be described in the third section. The inflammatory stricture, in which great pain and tenderness of the perinseum, and fever, are combined with spasm, is generally caused by abuse of injections, or by exposure and intemperance during acute gonorrhoea. The treatment of this and of the spasmodic variety must be the same. Treatment.—The surgeon's proceedings must be regulated by the duration of the retention, and the amount of distension of the bladder, and by the previous history of the patient, as to the time during which the urinary organs have been diseased, and as to the exciting cause of the retention. If the symptoms are not extreme, if they have been brought on by cold or conviviality, and there is no history of old stricture, a hot bath and continued fomentations, with a full dose of opium, and followed by castor-oil, or F. 38, will often relieve the patient. In cases in which there is no need of an aperient, a full dose of opium or Dover's powder, or an opiate enema or suppository, or a whiff of chloroform will suf- fice f for it is the great object to stop all violent voluntary efforts, and when they are discontinued the bladder will often empty itself easily. In inflammatory cases it may be requisite to leech or cup from the perinseum, or even to bleed, or give antimony; and large draughts of606 DISEASES OF THE URINARY ORGANS. soda water, with a teaspoonfiil of the bicarbonate added, and other alkaline liquids, are also often of great service iu cases of no great urgency, arising from errors in diet. The muriated tincture of iron, in doses of vrix. every ten minutes, is an empirical remedy, Avhich the writer has often seen used. No one pretends to explain its modus operandi; and as it is seldom or ever given without the warm bath or other means, it is difficult to say what amount of benefit is really due to it. But if these means do not succeed, a catheter must be introduced ; or if the distension of the bladder be very great, it should be done at once, the patient being narcotized by chloroform. A silver catheter, of good size (8 or 9), may first be introduced. (This cut shows the sizes ^ 2 3 ^ s e OOOOOOOOO ot catheters and bougies adopted by Savigny and by most othet makers, ^,No. 1 being "125 and No. 9, '25 inch in diameter J The surgeon should well warm and oil it,, and pass it through the palm ot his hand, so that he may make sure that it is smooth and fit for use. 'J'he patient may either lie down flat, or stand with his back against a wall. The surgeon, holding the catheter in his right hand, raises the penis with his left, and introduces the instrument, with its concavity towards the left groin. Then he gradually raises it till it is perpen- dicular with the abdomen; and then the instrument ought to pass under the pubes into the bladder, whilst the handle comes down to a horizontal position. The instrument should be held lightly, and let make its own way, so to say, along the passage. The surgeon, if neces- sary, may draw the penis well forwards on it, so as to stretch the urethra, and prevent the instrument from becoming entangled. He should make the point slide along the upper rather than the lower sur.^ face of the urethra. On meeting with an obstruction, he should press against it, but very gently ; and by delicate manipulation for five or ten minutes, the stricture will in most cases be made to yield. The oiled forefinger of the left hand introduced into the rectum is a most use- ful help. Some surgeons prefer to pass the catheter without any stretch- ing of the urethra, using one hand only, and holding the catheter with the concavity at first turned downward till the bulb is reached; and then turning it with a sweep in front of the left groin till the point turns upwards. This turn is called by the French the " tour de maitre." If the penis be overstretched, the effect is certainly to narrow the diameter of the urethra, and to retard the catheter. On the upper wall of the urethra, about an inch and a half from the orifice, is a follicle, *' lacuna magna," rather larger than the rest of the " glands of Littr6," in which the point of a catheter may be caught. If the silver catheter does not pass, the surgeon may try a gumSPASMODIC STRICTURE. 607 catheter that has been kept for some time on a wire, so that it keeps its curve when the wire is drawn out. Instead of oiliag the catheter, Mr. H. Thompson carefully fills the urethra with pure olive oil by means of a glass syringe, forcing it down to and through the stricture, and retaining it by the finger and thumb at the orifice till the catheter is introduced. Mr. Thompson says that the instrument passes with less pain by this means.* Whenever spasmodic stricture occurs frequently or periodically, the surgeon should examine most carefully into those conditions of the health generally, and of the urine particularly, which give rise to it; and should resort to the catheter as sparingly as possible, unless there is some organic stricture requiring it. When there is great depression or debility, tonics; when periodicity of attack, quina; when an over- loaded state of the bowels, aperients; and, when the urine is irritating, the measures detailed in the eighth section of this chapter should be resorted to. Puncture of the bladder.—If none of these means succeed, and the bladder has become exceedingly distended, an operation will be neces- sary to relieve it, and save the patient's life. Althougli, we must observe, that this is never necessaiy from mere spasm, unless there is also extensive and old-standing disease of the urethra or prostate. The time at which it must be done must be decided by the surgeon's judg- ment ; sometimes, as Sir B. Brodie obsei'ves, it is necessary within thirty-six hours, sometimes not for three or four days. The operations may be— 1. Forcing a passage; that is to say, pushing the catheter onwards through the obstruction into the bladder, as nearly as possible in the course of the natural passage. This is not applicable to stricture ; but to cases in which the obstruction is in the prostate, and should only be attempted by one who is an expert manipulator, and thoroughly ac- quainted with anatomy. 2. Incision of the urethra in the perinceum, with or without division of the stricture. This, with the cases to which it is applicable, is de- scribed in the next section. 3. Functure of the bladder by the rectum is performed by placing the patient on his hands and knees, or placing him on his back with his knees drawn up, and bringing him close to the edge of the bed, intro- ducing the right forefinger into the anus, and a long curved trocar and canula by its side, then feeling for, and making sure of, the distended bladder just behind the prostate, and exactly in the middle line, and plunging the trocar into it—leaving the canula for four-and-twenty hours. The rectum should be first of all cleared by enema. The point of the trocar should be withdrawn slightly within the canula as it is being introduced into the anus, so that it may do no mischief. This operation has been strongly recommended by Mr. Cock,t who has had great experience of its utility. * On Stricture, p. 179, 2nd edit. f Cock, Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xxxv.608 DISEASES OF THE URINARY ORGANS. 4. Puncture of the bladder above the pubes.—This is performed by making a small incision through the linea alba just above the pubes, and then thrusting a long trocar and canula downwards and back- wards into the bladder, where it is not covered by the peritona;um. In performing this operation care should be taken that the point of the instrument does not glide between the bladder and pubis. The canula must be retained, and the patient be kept on his back to prevent extra- vasation; and no time should be lost in restoring the natui'al passage. SECTION II.—PERMANENT STRICTURE. Permanent Stricture signifies a contraction of the urethra, caused usually by inflammation, infiltration of plastic material, and subsequent shrinking of this material and of the canal, and gristly degeneration of the tissues around the canal. But Mr. Hancock has found, contraiy to the general opinion, that lymph may be effused on the free surface of the mucous membrane, and then be developed into imperfect fibrous tissue, partially blocking up the canal. In some cases a small portion of the mucous membrane, perhaps only a line or two in extent, is found thickened and deprived of its natural elasticity ; or perhaps contracted so as to form a sharp fold, as if it had been tied with a thread. But in old neglected cases, the canal with the corpus spongiosum around may be converted into a thick, gristly, cartilaginous mass several inches in extent. The most frequent situation of stric- ture is ''in the substance of the bulbous portion of the camd, or a little anterior to it."* * Henry Smith, F.E.C.S., quoted in Ranking, vol. x., 1849, with an account of examination of ninety-eight specimens. See the same author's work on Stricture, Lond. 1857, p. 29; Mr. Henry Thompson (op. cit., 2nd ed., p. 83)PERMANENT STRICTURE. 609 The causes are repeated gonorrhoea, intemperance, and iinhor.ltliy conditions of the urine. Symptoms.—In what may be called the fiist st ige, the patient finds that he wants to make water oftener than usual, and that he has more or less uneasy sensation in the peri- nasum alter doing so ; he also notices that a few drops hang in the urethra, and dribble from him after he has buttoned up. Then he observes that the stream of water is smaller than usual, and forked, or scattered, or twisted, and that he requires a longer time and greater eftb)t than usual to pass it. Itching of the end of the penis and gleety discharge -are Se- quent concomitants. If the disease proceeds to its second stage, the bladder becomes irritable, obliging the patient to rise in the night to void his urine. He is liable to attacks of spasms with complete letention, as was described in the pre- ceding section. In one of these, the urethra may ulcerate or burst, giving rise to urinary abscess, or to extravasation of urine, as will be de- scribed in the next section. Rigors occurring in paroxysms like ague fits are not uncommon. (See Section Vll.) Finally, if the complaint is permitted to continue, the health suffers from the constant irritation and want of sle^p; the bladder and kidneys become diseased; the complexion becomes wan ; the appetite fails ; the patient complains of chills and flushes, of aching and weakness in the divides the urethra into three regions ; and iinds that out of two hundred and seventy specimens, two hundred and tifteen, or sixty-seven per cent., are situated in the first region; which comprises an inch of the canal before, and three- quarters of an inch behind, tlie junction between the spongy and membranous portions of the urethra. "That part of tbe urethra," says Mr. Thompson^ " which is most frequently affected with stricture, is the portion comprised in the inch anterior to the junction; that is, the posterior or l)ulbous part of the spongy portion." The second region, comprising two and a half or three inches in front of the first, was the seat of fifty-one strictures, or sixteen per cent.; and the tliird region, consisting of the anterior two and a half inches, fifty-four, or seventeen per cent. * This drawing, from a preparation in the King's College Museum, shows the urethra laid open, and a stricture in the membanous portion just in front of the verumontanum. D 2 EDISEASES OF THE URINARY ORGANS. 610 back, and of great languor and depression of spirits ; and the urine is constantly loaded with fetid mucus. After death, the urethra behind the stricture is found greatly dilated; the prostate, with its ducts dilated, and in a state of suppuration, or perhaps containing small cir- cumscribed abscesses; the bladder sometimes dilated, but more fre - quently contracted, and enormously thickened; sometimes sacculated from a protrusion of its mucous coat between the fibres of the mus- cular; the ureters dilated, and converted into subsidiary receptacles for the urine, and the kidneys either greatly dilated or disorganized. An engraving illustrative of this will be found in the seventh section of the present chapter. Treatment.—remedies for stricture are twofold. The first, which should always receive the earliest and greatest attention, are such as tend to remove any disorder of the stomach, or of the genei-al health, and any irritating quality of the urine, or inflammatory ten- dency about the parts concerned. It must be recollected, especially with people of education, that the mind has an in important share in pro- ducing the SM6/eci<L'5 symptoms of stricture; and that gout will often produce pain and spasm in the perinseum, which can be charmed away by an alkaline purgative and colchicum ; further, that every irritated and infiltrated tissue has a natural tendency to recovery, when the exciting causes are removed. If sexual indulgence, drink, dissipation, and gonorrhoea will produce chronic inflammation and tendency to stricture, it is equally true that chastity, temperance, rest, early hours, warm baths, purgatives, and alkaline remedies may undo the mischief. Hence it is a coarse and violent proceeding to introduce instruments into the urethra of a young man without pressing necessity, until a course of proper treatment has failed ; and it may be a mortiferous proceeding in the case of an old man. Shiverings, fever, suppression of urine, and death may follow. In every case then, admitting of delay, the surgeon should begin by calculating how much of the malady is removable by regimen and medicine, and should remote that first. Warm batlis ; opiate supposi- tories; belladonna smeai-ed on the perinasum ; and alkalies after meals maybe of service. F. 38, 72, 77, 78, 79, 149, 181. (See Gleet, Chrmic Inflammation of the Bladder, and Urinary Deposits.) Then will be the time for the second class of remedies, consisting of mechanical means, such as 1. Dilatation by a bougie or sound : 2. Dilatatioa by means of expanding instruments: 3. By a ca- theter retained: 4. By the caustic bougie : 5. By incision from within : 6. By division from the perinaeum. These we proceed to discuss in succession. 1. The Bougie.—The common bougie is, as its name implies, a wax candle, or cylindrical body composed of linen imbued with wax or plaster. It is flexible, becomes softened by heat, and is supposed to be capable of doing less harm than a metallic instrument, if mismanaged. Similar instruments (less safe) are made of gutta-percha and caoutchouc. But, as has been well said by Mr. H. Thompson, the surgeon whoPERMANENT STRTCTURE. 611 knows what he is about will prefer to have an instrument that will obey his hand, and which is adapted to the normal direction of the pas- sage. He will, therefore, prefer a metallic sound. But if the instru- ment is to be introduced by the patient himself, it may be flexible ; and if the canal is tortuous from disease, and the natural direction lost, and the unnatural direction difficult to find, it may be convenient for the surgeon to use a flexible instrument, in the hope that it may find its own' way into the bladder. In the first place the surgeon desires to ascertain whether there is a stricture, and if so, wheie. For this purpose he takes a full-sized sound, i. e., one that will enter the orifice easily, and fill it; and having warmed, oiled, and passed it through his hand to make sure of its polish, he introduces it in the manner directed for the introduction of a catheter, if it seems to meet with an obstruction, it should be drawn a little backwards, then most gently pressed onwards, to see if it will enter, and be grasped by it. If not, it may be exchanged for a smaller one, and gentle persevering trials be made—not too much at one time—to get the instrument fairly into the stricture. The surgeon should allow it to remain in for five or six minutes, by which time probably the patient will complain of sickness or faintness ; and when he withdraws it, should make a note of the size. After three or more days—more or less according to the pain and irritation caused—the process may be repeated ; and it must be gone on with at the same interval, with a gradual increase of the size of the instrument, till the canal is restored to its natural calibre. For some months afterwards it is expedient to pass a sound about once a fortnight. Chloroform may be given if there is great pain or difficulty. Metallic bougies, or sounds made of silver, or steel plated, are always to be preferred to those of soft materials, 1st, if the stricture is old and very hard and gristly ; 2ndly, in cases of very irritable urethrae, because their smooth polished surface is not so apt to cause spasm; Srdly, in cases where a false passage has been formed, which these in- struments, as they can be directed with greater precision, can be better made to avoid. They should be eight or nine inches long, not smaller than No. 4, their curved part need not be so long as that of a catheter, and they should be mounted on a firm wooden handle, and their point should be made to slide along the upper surface of the urethra when near the bulb, as it is below and at the sides that false passages generally exist, and are most easily made. These instruments may also be used for the cure of old impassable strictures in the following way :—A sound of moderate size, about one- fifth or one-sixth of an inch in diameter, may be introduced once in three or four days, and be firmly pressed against the stricture for from five to fifteen minutes, taking care to keep its point against the upper part of the urethra. This will cause the anterior part of the stricture to relax a little ; and if the process is repeated often enough it will at last clear the way to the bladder. Or a sound with a conical point may be introduced into the anterior part of the stricture, and keptDISEASES OF THE URINARY ORGANS. 012 there for an hour or two at a time. This is often called the cure by vital dilatation.^ The plaster bougie, if used, must be slightly bent, and oiled. If its passage is resisted, gentle pressure may be tried, to see if it will enter the stricture. If it seem to pass, the operator should let go for a moment to see if it recoil; for it must be remarked that it may bend against the stricture without entering it, and may thus lacerate the canal. If there is more than one stricture, a metallic sound with a bulbous point may be of use, because it will not be grasped by the fii'st stric- ture after the bulb has passed. 2. Urethra Dilators.—The good effects of the bougie are owing to the stimulus of gentle pressure. But, in order to accelerate the cure, various plans have been proposed for effecting dilatation, with or with- out actual laceration of the stricture. First may be mentioned the compound circular catheter, used by Dr. Andrew Buchanan of Glasgow, 1831, and described in the Med. Gaz. for March 1841. It consists of three or more graduated silver tubes sliding one over the other, and the smallest sliding over a round-pointed probe. The external tubes acting as guides enable the inner ones readily to pass the strictured part, and when once a smaller tube has passed, it is safe and easy to slide in the others. In guiding this instrument along the membranous and prostatic portion, Dr. Buchanan retains his finger in the rectum. {See Figure A.) Dr. Sheppard, of Stonehouse, uses a very small catheter, B, grooved on one side: along this a metallic button, or traveller, c, can be pushed * Vide Sir B. Brodie on the Urinary Organs, 3rd edit., 1842. Guthrie ou the Urinary Organs, Lend. 1843. f Sound with bulbous point. Natural size.PERMANENT STRICTURE. 613 by means of a fine wire which lies in the groove. The travellers are of various sizes. The instrument is made by Weiss. Mr. T. Wakley's instruments.—Tiiey consist of, firstly, a very small catheter, A, which is to be passed through the stricture into the bladder. Secondly, a slender steel rod, B, which is next to be passed within the catheter and screwed into it. This rod and the catheter thus united form a directing-rod, over which other instruments are to be passed. Thirdly, there is a series of straight silver tubes, c, of graduated sizes ; the smallest just one size larger than the directing- rod; the largest equal to a No. 10 bougie. Each of these tubes is constructed so as to glide accurately over the directing-rod ; and thus, the latter being in the urethra, any stricture can be dilated to as great an extent as the surgeon thinks prudent at one sitting. Of course the size of our page prevents the artist from showing more than two ends of these instruments ; the middle will readily be imagined by the reader. In the next place, Mr. Holfs improvement of M Perreve's instru- ment, may be mentioned. It consists of a staff, formed of two blades, A and B, joined at the smaller extremity, C, and capable of diverging by means of a screw, D, at the handle. Between them is a directing- t * Mr. Wakley's Dilator. See Lancet for 1851, vol. i., p. 122. t Mr. Holt's Stricture Dilator. See Barnard Holt on the Stricture Dilator, Lond., 1852; and On Immediate Treatment of Stricture by means of the Stric- ture Dilator, Lond., 1863.DISEASES OF THE UEINARY ORGANS. 614 rod, E, and on this directing-rod, under cover of and between the two separate blades, a dilating-tube, F, can be passed down to and within the stricture after the staff in its undilated state has been passed. Mr. Holt's instrument has been improved in the last few years. The directing-rod, E, is made hollow, with an opening at the back of the curve of the dilator, and is fitted with a stylet. Thus urine will flow through it so soon as it has reached the bladder, and this fact will be made clear. This was devised by Mr. Smyly, of the Meath Hospital. Mr. Holt begins by ascertaining the permeability of the canal, and the gauge of a sound that will fit the orifice of the urethra, A dilating tube of the same size is then chosen, and some screws in the handle (which do not appear in our figure) are then set at such a distance as to let the dilating tube pass, but not to allow the urethra to be stretched further. The instrument is then introduced closed. When the bladder is reached, the dilating tube is pushed home quickly so as to split and not merely dilate the stricture. The dilator is a little rotated to insure separation of the split, and is then withdrawn : a catheter introduced to draw oS the water, and the patient sent to bed with directions to take every four hours two grains of quinine and ten minims of laudanum. A catheter should be introduced once a day for a week, and then occasionally, to keep the passage open. Mr. Holt believes this process to be as safe as it is easy and expeditious. Mr. Coxeter has an instrument consisting, like the foregoing, of two blades, joined at the smaller extremity. The upper blade. A, is con- nected with a rod, E, which works within the lower blade, B, by several small bars riveted at each end, whose action is like those in the well-known instrument called the parallel ruler. By turning the nut D, the rod, E, which ends in the screw, F, is pushed forwards ; thus the connecting bars cause the upper blade, A, to separate from the lower. 8. If a small catheter is retained in the bladder for two or three days, the passage suppurates and dilates remarkably; just as the lachrymal duct does from the presence of a style, this method of cure may be attempted when the stricture is very gristly and car- tilaginous ; or when the urethra is irregular, or has had a false pas- sage made in it. The catheter should be of silver, and should be retained by means of two strings, which may be passed backwards between the thighs, and be fastened to a band round the waist. It should be removed in two or three days, and a larger catheter should * Coxeter's Stricture Dilator.PERMANENT STRICTUEE. C15 be passed four-aud-twenty hours afterwards, and should be introduced often enough subsequently to keep up the dilatation. But the con- tinued presence of the catheter is liable to cause so great an amount of irritation that it cannot always be borne, even with the aid of opium. 4. The caustic bougie is a most powerful agent in deadening the sensibility of very irritable stricture, but is liable, if mismanaged, to produce inflammation, retention of urine, haemorrhage, abscess, and any other conceivable mischief. Two kinds of caustic are used; the nitrate of silver and the caustic potass. The caustic potass is much used by Mr. Wade, who speaks highly of its effects.* 'J'he nitrate of silver may be used by means of a small fiagment inserted into the end of a bougie. There are, besides, instruments lor cauterizing the urethra, especially its prostatic portion, such as the porte caustique of Lallemand : in which a stilette coated with the solid nitrate can be protruded: there is an instrument useil by Henry Smith and others, in which the stilette is covered with sponge, dipped in a solution of the lunar caustic ;—and, still better, a catheter, devised by Mr. Erichsen, for injecting a few drops of caustic solution into any part of the urethra that it may be desired to operate on. 5. Puncturation, or division of the stiicture by means of the lanceted stilette,\ invented by Mr. Stafford, or of'lMr. Fergusson's urethrotome, may be resorted to in some cases of old stricture of small X extent, at the anterior part of the urethra, which resist dilatation. Tlie lanceted stilette consists of a tube, a, straight or curved, which is * Robert Wade on Stricture of the Urethra, 2nd edit., Lond., 1849. See also H. Smith on Stricture, p. 121. The observations in H. Thompson on Sirictm-e, 2nd edit., p. 229, on the measured and observed effect of minute fractional parts ot a grain of the potass, are well worth reading. t Stafford on Stricture, Lond. 1829. Fergusson, Pract. Surg., 3rd edit., p. 190. X -tergusson's urethrotome.DISEASES OF THE URINARY ORGANS. 616 pushed down to the stricture, and from which a lancet, B, can be made to protrude by pressure on the head, c, so as to divide the con- tracted texture. The screw D regulates the extent to which the lancet protrudes ; and a spring within the larger extremity of the instrument provides for the return of the lancet within its sheath. Mr. Fergus- son's urethrotome consists of a very long director, under cover of which a very nari'ow blade can be introduced. Another instrument consists of a sound of ordinary dimensions, ending in a narrow director. The latter is passed through the stric- ture, and then a lancet-blade can be thrust forwai ds, along a slit run- ning through the length of the director. Thus the lancet cannot get out of the proper channel. Wood's urethrotome dilator combines the properties of a dilator of the urethra with that of scarifying the stricture while stretched. The scarifications are limited in extent, and only made in the callous tissue of the stricture, which alone is put upon the stretch by the dilator. Being confined to the indurated tissue, there is less likelihood of haemor- rhage, pyaemia, or urinary extravasation, than when a free internal in- cision is made into the areolar and very vascular substance of the corpus spongiosum. Mr. Wood believes that it produces a less irregular cicatrix than the mere splitting, which might cause another stricture. By the application of a clean, straight, and limited incision, as in divid- ing a stricture of the rectum all round, this return in an aggi-avated form is less probable, and less force is required to accomplish dilatation, which is obtained in a slow and gradual manner. The instrument (see fig. p. 617) is composed of a grooved director of the size of a No. 1 catheter, which is first passed through the stricture into the bladder, as shown by a few drops of urine trickling along the groove. Over this is then passed a dilator, of the size of a No. 12 catheter, with an oval section of which the longest diameter is vertical. This terminates in a conical extremity provided with a slit below, which transmits a small urethrotome or cutting blade to the extent of a quarter of an inch, protruded by pressing upon a small thumbplate at the opposite end of the dilator tube, A stout handle projects obliquely at the end of the dilator, by which the opei ator obtains a firm and steady command over the instrument. When the conical point of the dilator is felt to be fairly held by the stricture the blade is gently protruded first on one side and then on the other of the stricture until it is felt to yield gradually to the dilator pressed firmly onward at the same time. Mr. Wood thinks this instrument safer and more under command than any other urethrotome, while it may, if desired, be used as a dilator only, 6. The operation of opening the Urkthra from the Peki- NvEUM is absolutely requisite in all cases of rupture of the urethraPERMANENT STRICTURE. 617 with extravasation of urine, and in cases of stricture complicated with abscesses or false passage when no instrument can be passed ; and it is expedient in cases of very old stricture with extensive urinary fistulae, when the health is giving way, and other means fail of afford- ing relief. It is performed thus: —the patient is placed in the lithotomy position ; a grooved staff' is passed through the stricture if possible. If this be not possible, it must be passed down to it. The left forefinger, introduced into the rectum, is to feel for the staff in the urethra, and serve as a guide to the incisions. Then a straight bistoury is to be plunged in just above the anus to the depth of an inch, with its edge upwards, and made to cut its way out upwards in the middle line of the peri- nseum. The end of the sound should next be felt for and cut upon, and the knife is then to be carried backwards through the stricture into the urethra beyond it, which is always more or less dilated and prominent, especially if the patient is told to strain and try to pass urine. The stricture should be thoroughly divided, and all sinuses laid open. A catheter should then be passed into the bladder, and be retained there for twenty-four or forty-eight hours. If the operator desires merely to relieve the bladder, and does not think it prudent, from the pa- tient's condition, to make the more extensive incisions through the stricture which we have just de- scribed, he may, after the first in- cision, keeping the back of the knife to the rectum, cut into the mem- branous part of the urethra behind the stricture, and so get a female catheter into the bladder, reserving the stricture for future ti-eatment.DISEASES OF THE URESTAEY ORGANS. 618 7. Perinmal Section.—Professor Syme has recommended this opera- tion, not merely for cases in which incision is commonly considered necessary, that is, for cases of impervious and complicated stricture; but for others, in which, although an instrument can he passed, the stricture is excessively irritable, and resists the common treatment by dilatation, or contracts again perpetually, and is wearing out the patient's health by pain, rigors, and other signs of irritation, and in which the patient's state of health is such as to render an operation on these parts safe, and the residue of his life worth enjoying. The patient having been put under the influence of chloroform, and held in the lithotomy position at the edge of a bed, " a grooved director slightly curved, and small enough to pass readily through the stricture, is in- troduced and confided to one of the assistants. The surgeon, sitting or kneeling on one knee, now makes an incision in the middle line of the perin£Bum or penis, wherever the stricture is seated."* It should be about an inch and a half long, and extend through the skin and tex- tures external to the urethra. The operator then taking the handle of the director in his left, and the knife, which should be a small straight bistoury, in his right hand, feels, with his forefinger guarding the blade, for the director, pushes the point into the groove behind the stricture, and runs the knife forward so as to divide the whole of the thickened texture at the contracted part of the canal. A full-sized catheter should be retained for twenty-four hours aftei-wards. The cases in which this operation is allowable are specified above. The amount of fatality at- tending it must be difficult to be estimated precisely: it will be less in private than in hospital practice, and in proportion as the patients are free from renal disease. Outof 219 cases collected by Mr. Thompson, only 15 deaths occurred within two or three months of the operation, and of these, 9 were hospital cases, which proved fatal by pyaemia. This is the greatest danger: hsemorrhage seems not to be so great a source of risk.f 8. Lastly, supposing a case of old complicated gristly stricture, with complete retention from inflammation or spasm, the surgeon must estimate whether it might not be safer on the whole to puncture the bladder by the rectum, and so to give a period of tranquillity to the diseased parts, than to run the risk of a large wound in im'per- * On Stricture of the Urethra, by James Syme, F.R.S.E., Ediu., 1849. t See the very fair and impartial summary of the value of this operation in Mr. H. Smith's worii on Stricture, p. 252; also in Mr. Thompson's work, p. 302.619 KUPTURE OF THE URETHRA. fectly vitalized tissues, in a constitution, perhaps, already almost worn out. In whatever manner a stricture has been cured, the bougie should still be used at intervals, to prevent a fresh contraction. SECTION III.—URINARY ABSCESS, EXTRAVASATION OP URINE, AND FISTULA IN PERINiEO. I. Urinary Abscess is a frequent consequence of stricture. Either an abscess forms in the cellular tissue close to the urethra, and after a time opens into that canal; or, perhaps, one or two drops of urine escape into the cellular tissue, in consequence of ulcera- tion of the urethra behind the stric- ture ; and this small quantity of urine produces inflammation, so that an ab- scess forms, filled with dark-coloured putrid pus. This may make its way behind the pubes, or between the bladder and rectum ; and may point above the pubes, in the groin, or even burrow into the fascia of the thigh. But its more usual course is to produce a tumour, pointing in the perinseum, forming be- tween or in front of the layers of the triangular ligament. Symptoms.—A patient with old stric- ture complains of rather more difficulty of micturition than usual, and of some amount of obscure swelling of the scro- tum or perinseum, of an oedematous kind. There may be little or no pain, and little inflammation for the first twenty-four hours; after this the swell- ing increases; if in the scrotum rapidly ; if in the periuEeum it will be deep, hard, and painful, but not prominent. Shiver- ing, hot skin, and dry tongue follow. Treatment.—The abscess should be opened immediately, and the patient may soon be brought from the gates of death to comparative health. It will also be expedient to cut through the stricture as directed in the last section, and pass a catheter into the bladder. II. Rupture of the Urethra and Extravasation of Urine. —This is another consequence of old stricture, and it generally happens * This cut exhibits the urethra laid open; a stricture at the commencement of the bulbous portion; and false passages, one of which leads into an abscess that surrounds the membranous portion.620 FISTULA IN PERIN^O. in the following way:—A patient, who has long been labouring under difficulty of micturition, has a fit of spasmodic retention more obsti- nate than usual. He is repeatedly getting out of bed, and straining with all his might to pass his water. At last, during one violent etFort, he plainly feels that something has given way; his painful sense of distension becomes immediately less, and he is very well pleased, and thinks himself better. And perhaps he is now able to make a little water by the natural passage, because the stricture generally relaxes, when, by any means whatever, it is relieved from the former pressure. But at the time when something seemed to yield, the urethra burst; the urine was forced by the whole power of the abdominal muscles into the cellular tissue of the scrotum, perinseum, and groins; the patient soon complains of a smarting or tingling about the anus and perinseum; the urine, which has become putrid and concentrated by long confinement in the bladder, speedily causes inflammation and sloughing; the skin over the infiltrated parts displays a reddish blush, which is soon succeeded by black spots of gangrene; low typhoid symptoms appear; the tongue is black, the pulse begins to falter, the skin is clammy ; low muttering delirium and hiccup come on ; and the patient soon departs this life, unless proper measures are taken for his relief. A black spot on the glans penis, indicating that the urine has penetrated the corpus spongiosum, is a very fatal sign. Treatment.—A staff or catheter must be passed as far as possible, and it may sometimes be passed quite into the bladder, because, as was observed above, the stricture generally relaxes after the bladder is unloaded, be it how it may: the perineum must be incised in the middle line, and at the same time free incisions must be made into any parts that are swelled or emphysematous, showing that they have been pervaded by the urine. The first points necessary for the patient's safety, viz., the relief of the bladder, and the escape of putrid pus and urine being thus provided for, the surgeon must use his own discretion as to meddling with the strictured part then, or reserving it till the patient has rallied a little. The urethra may also be ruptured by blows or kicks on the peri- njeum, or by accidents that fracture the bones of the pelvis. The symptoms will be pretty evident. The patient will be unable to make water; or if he attempts it, the urine will be extravasated into the perinasum and scrotum. There will also be bleeding. The treatment consists in introducing a full-sized catheter into the bladder, and re- taining it for twenty-four hours; and in incising the perinajum if urine has been extravasated. III. Fistula in Perin^eo, or Urinary Fistula, signifies an opening from the perinaium into the urethra, through which the urine dribbles when the patient makes water. It is a frequent consequence of urinary abscess and extravasation. Treatment.—The first and most essential measure is, to restore the urethra to a healthy state, and to dilate any strictures that may happen to exist, by the bougie. When this has been done, the fistula shouldAFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA. 621 be stimulated to granulate by injections of arg. nit., or by passing a heated wire into it; and the external orifice should be occasionally touched with potass, so as not to allow it to heal before the whole track is closed—otherwise fresh abscesses will form. In extreme cases the urethra must be laid open, as before directed. For loss of substance, an incision may be made on either side, and the edges be vivified and brought together by suture. Sometimes there is a blind fistula in perinseo; that is, a small narrow fistula, opening into the urethra, but not externally. It is occa- sionally inflamed and tender; and may be felt as a small tumour in the perinreura ; perhaps the size of a horse-bean. It is attended with more or less discharge from the urethra. The treatment consists in laying the tumour open, and dilating any strictures that exist. Sometimes a fistulous communication forms between the urethra and rectum. This may be known by air, and sometimes liquid fgecal matter passing through the urethra. It is to be treated by dilating the urethra, so that the urine may pass freely ; and then a heated wire may be introduced into the fistula from the rectum, in order to close it by the adhesive inflammation. SECTION IV.—OF SOME OTHER AFFECTIONS OF THE MALE URETHRA. I. Contraction of the Urethra following injuries, such as blows on the perinseum, must be ti'eated in the same way as perma- nent stricture. It usually results in the most intractable form of stricture. II. Contraction of the Orifice of the urethra may be a con- genital affection, or may be caused by the cicatrization of ulcers. It must be counteracted by the daily passage of a short bougie, otherwise it may produce all the evil consequences of stricture further back. If the contraction is very great, and causes retention of urine, one of Anel's probes, a common probe, and a dii ector may be introduced in succession, and then, when the bladder is emptied, the orifice must be dilated by a slight incision downwards. III. False Passage.—This may be produced by using too small a sound, and pushing it out of the urethra, or by the misuse of caustic bougies. There is nothing to be done for the false passage ; but the stricture, which was the origin of it, must be treated either with the metallic sound, or by keeping in a small catheter. When the surgeon suspects that he has pushed an instrument out of the right passage, he ought to leave the urethra untouched for at least a week, when the false passage will frequently close and become obliterated. This usually takes place if a proper passage be kept open for the urine. Injudicious meddling with a small catheter will, however, cause the false passage to remain pervious for a long time. IV. Haemorrhage from the Urethra may be caused by the rude introduction of bougies, or by injuries from without, or by theAFFECTIONS OF THE URETHKA. 622 separation of a slough formed by the caustic bougie; or, lastly, by a rupture of blood-vessels during acute chordee. If the application of cold does not check it, pressure may be tried. A flat piece of cork should be pressed by the patient against the perinseum far back, and be gradually moved forward, till it lights on the right spot, and the drip- ping of blood ceases. Gallic acid may be of service, or a solution of tannin in iced water used as an injection. V. Solid Tumours in the course of the urethra, composed of in • durated follicles, torment the patient by keeping up a perpetual gleet and chordee. The mercurial ointment with camphor externally; and the passing of a bougie ; or keeping a small catheter in the bladder for a few days at a time—are the chief remedies. VI. Tumours withii^ the Urethra, formerly called Caruncles, consist either of vascular excrescences near the orifice, which may be snipped off or cauterized ; or of small polypi growing from the pros- tatic or membranous portion. Both are rare. VII. Acute and Chronic InflaxMmation of the mucous lining of the m-ethra, from whatever cause arising, present the symptoms and consequences, and require the treatment, of the gonorrhoea and gleet which arise from contagion. The author has found epithelium only in discharges from the male urethra, which yet caused great irritation to the female after connexion. VIII. Foreign Bodies in the urethra may consist of calculi, pieces * 1. Discharge from gonorrhoea, all but cured. \+a. The same, with acetic acid. 2. Discharge in a case of obstinate idiopathic gleet; patient had been long married; wife had vaginitis with discharge; infant, ophthalmia neonatorum. f The Urethral Forceps consists of two blades, capable of being expanded by being pushed through the canula a, and of being closed if the canula is pushe<i forwards above them; d, a screw, regulates the distance to which they can be expanded.623 DISEASES OF THE PROSTATE. of bougies, straws, slate pencil, or of other bodies introduced from without; of clots of blood, of mucus, or, in rare cases, of portions of fascal matter, or worms that have passed into the bladder from the intestines by means of an ulcerated opening. They may perhaps be pushed forwards by the fingers, aided by the patient's sti'ainings,—and then may be brought out through the orifice (which must be slightly dilated if necessary) by forceps, or a bent probe. Many instruments have been invented for this purpose, and especially by lithotritists. The urethral forceps of Weiss, the instrument consisting of two blades, B, passing through a canula, A, and having a central file, C, tor pul- verizing any substance that admits of it;—and the scoop with a tongue are the most useful. A common scoop with a long slender handle, a loop of fine wire, and a pair of very fine dissecting forceps may also be found useful. During the necessary manipulations a finger or thumb should be pressed on the urethra behind the foreign body—throuoh the rectum if needful—in order to prevent it from slipping backwards into the bladder. With this precaution it may answer to inject a good stream of water from a large syringe, so as to dilate the passage. But ]f these means fail, the substance must be pushed back into the mem- branous portion (if not there ali-eady), and be extracted by an incision m the perineum. Incisions into the front of the urethra should be avoided, foi- they are apt to leave irremediable fistula; or, if near the scrotum, may occasion infiltration of urine into its loose areolar tissue. SECTION V.—DISEASES OP THE PROSTATE.* I. Acute Inflammation of the prostate is generally a consequence of acute gonorrhoea, but may he caused by stricture, calculus, or ;iny * For the latest and best account of the structure and diseases of the prostate, see Henry Thompson on the Enlarged Prostate and Stone in the Bladder, Lond. 1858 ; also Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xl.; Ellis, lb., vol. xxxix.; also Loulson on Diseases of ^he Bladder and Prostate Gland, 4th edit,, Lond., 1852, p. 421. Adams on the Prostate Gland.624 ENLARGED PEOSTATE. other source of irritation. The symptoms are, great weight, pain, and throbbing at the neck of the bladder, and tenderness of the perinseum; the gland feels swelled and tender on examination by the rectum, and there are frequent, violent, and exceedingly painful efforts to make water: as the disease subsides, a greyish viscid muco-purulent matter is voided by the urine. Treatment.—Rest in bed, cupping or leeches to the perinseum, or general bleeding if the patient is strong, hot baths, poultices, and fomentations: and enemata of starch ^ij., laudanum 5SS. every night. If the urine cannot be passed without it, a very small gum catheter may be introduced ; but it should be avoided if possible. II. Chronic Inflammation, with enlargement from interstitial deposit, may be a sequel of the acute; and should be treated by baths, small doses of mercury, alkalies, and iodide of potassium. III. Abscess of the prostate is an occasional, though rare, conse- quence of tubercular deposit in scrofulous subjects. It is more com- monly an acute affection, and may be suspected if rigors, and obscure swelling in the perinasum, with an evident and elastic enlargement felt by the finger in the rectum, with great tenderness on pressure, follow the symptoms of acute inflammation. The dorsal vein of the penis is often distended ; there is some oedema of the prepuce, and semi-erection of the penis from pressure. In any such case, the swelling should at once be freely punctured through the rectum with a bistoury. If left to itself, the abscess may burst into the rectum or the urethra, which latter circumstance will be indicated by a sudden discharge of pus with the urine, and a stinging pain accompanying the discharge of the last few drops. If the signs of its having opened into the ui'ethra are pre- sent, no opening should be made through the rectum or perinseum, lest a urinary fistula ensue. Peihaps thei-e may be haemorrhage. If the case is chronic and the habit scrofulous, quinine and tonics, and small doses of cubebs, to act as a gentle stimulant on the parts, will be of service. IV. Chronic Enlargement, or Hypertrophy.—"The pros- tate," says Mr. Ellis, " is essentially a muscular body, consisting of circular or orbicular involuntary fibres, with one large central hole or the passage of the urethra, and another smaller oblique opening, directed upwards below the form.er for the transmission of the common ejaculatory seminal ducts to the central urinary canal. . . Its circular fibres are directly continuous behind, without any separation, with the circular fibres of the bladder." The prostate is thus essentially a cir- cular involuntary sphincter to the neck of the bladder, and expeller of the seminal fluid; but although it contains many mucous glands and follicles, intermixed with the muscular fibres, it is by no means entitled to the name gland. It contains, further, a small vesicle or utricle, at the mouth of which the ejaculatory ducts open, and which is believed to be the male homologue of the female uterus. The affection we now treat of is peculiar to advanced life, and con- sists in an hypertrophy or enlargement of the natural muscular struc-625 ENLARGED PROSTATE. ture, and incidentally of the glandular. " In youth," says Mr. Thomp- son, " the organ becomes enlarged by interstitial plastic effusion^ the result of inflammatory action. In age there is an unnatural develop- ment of the prostatic tissue itself." The increase may be but slightly above the ordinary chesnut size of the gland, or it may render it as large as a man's fist, or larger. It may aifect the whole organ, especially the lateral lobes, pretty uni- formly ; in which case the pi'ostatic portion of the urethra is greatly lengthened ; or it niay affect one side more than the other, in which case the canal will be twisted; or it may affect the posterior median portion, which lies between the ejaculatory ducts, enlarging it into what is commonly called the middle or third lobe; a lobe which, ac- cording to Mr. Thompson, is purely the result of unnatural enlarge- ment and does not exist in health. The consequence of this is, that there is a projection at the very orifice of the urethra, causing a most serious impediment to the issue of the urine. The prostatic portion of the urethra, besides being lengthened, twisted, and obstructed, may be very much narrowed ; or, on the contrary, may be expanded into a sort of pouch, which may communicate with cavities formed by the dilated ducts of the gland, and contain calculous matter. Hypertrophy and derangement of the muscular tibres at and near the trigone, may pro- duce a ti-ansverse bar at the neck of the bladder. * Enlarged prostate, f Cyst of the prostate from the King's College Collection. D 2 S626 ENLAEGED PROSTATE. The enlargement, further, may be due to an increase of the organ generally; or to the development of one or many masses of fibrous TUMOUR; exactly similar in structure to those concentric masses of muscular fibre which are developed in the womb, and are commonly known as fibrous tumours. One or more of these masses, involving more or less glandular tissue, may be developed alone, and may project as a pedunculated tumour; or may be contained within the prostate, capable of enucleation, and may constitute the whole disease; or may be combined with general hypertrophy. The symptoms of this disease may be divided into those which the surgeon ascertains by physical examination, and those of which the patient himself makes complaint. On examination, by means of a well- oiled forefinger introduced into the empty rectum, the surgeon ascer- tains the existence of the tumour; and on using the catheter, finds an obstruction at the neck of the bladder. Most probably, too, after the patient has voided all the urine that he can, the catheter will relieve him of a further quantity. The symptoms which the patient describes are slowness and dif- ficulty in making water, sense of weight in the perinseum, and tenes- mus; so that, as Coulson observes, he often believes he has internal piles. In the next place, the bladder becomes irritable, and the calls to make water are oftener than before. Tlien, as the patient cannot empty the organ completely, iu consequence of the projection foi-med by the tumour, a portion of urine always remains behind, and decom- poses, and becomes ammoniacal. Sometimes a fit of complete retention ensues, and it may be brought on by exposure to cold or excess in venery. Next the mucous coat of the bladder, irritated by the fie- quent strainings, and by the alkaline urine, inflames and secretes a viscid mucus. Finally the obstacle continuing to increase, the bladder is con- stantly distended, the urine perpetually dribbles away, the uretei's be- come dilated, the kidney disorganised, the patient's little remaining strength is exhausted, and he dies. Abscess in the gland, or ulceration of that surface which projects into the bladder, sometimes adds to the patient's misery, and hastens his death. The causes of this hypertrophy are as unknown as those of any other tumour. It generally commences, as Sir B. Brodie observes, about the time that the hair turns gray, and when earthy specks begin to be de- posited in the coats of the arteries. Not, however, that all old men have enlarged prostates; on the contrary, as Mr. Thompson observes, the change is abnormal and exceptional. Out of forty-tliree specimens from men of 50 and upwards, he found two atrophied; nine enlarged slightly ; and only five considerably, or to such a degree as to have given rise to symptoms during life. He believes that the change rarely begins before 55, or after 70. Treatment.—This must be palliative. The patient should avoid irregular diet, fatigue, and exposure to cold. The bowels must be kept easy, so that there may be no straining at stool;—irritation of the bladder must be alleviated by the measures we shall speak of in the627 ENLARGED PROSTATE. next section ; and occasional fits of pain or congestion by leeching and hot batlis. The surgeon must take care that the bladder is regularly emptied, and if not he must introduce the catheter at intervals to get rid of the residual urine. The catheter should be long; its curved portion about a quarter of a circle whose diameter is 4*5 or 5 inches. The handle should be well depressed between the legs as the point is entering the bladder, in order that the point may l ide over the projec- tion. The finger also may be introduced into the rectum to guide it. A small gum catheter which has been kept a long while on an iron wire of the proper curve, may be riseful. If the prostatic urethra be twisted to one side, a very flexible elastic gum or india-rubber catheter of full size, ending in a tapering point with a small knob to it, will be found very useful in finding its way through the devious passage into the bladder. It should be passed with a twisting motion so as to give a spiral course to the point. A silver catheter, with a very short abrupt curve, is recommended by Coulson. In order to empty the bladder completely, it may be necessary to tu]-n the patient on his hands and knees. In any long-neglected case tlie urine may be drawn off in small quantities at a time, and the strength be well supported with tonics, wine, and plenty of nutriment. Radical remedies for producing absorption of the tumour, such as mercury, the iodide and bromide of potassium, and certain mechanical arrangements, have Iteen proposed. But in the present state of know- i ledge, it is not desirable to use any such remedy in any way that shall ] interfere with the patient's health and comfort. \ V. Complete Retention of Ukine from enlargement of the ! prostate. In this case, if there are inflammatory symptoms, cupping from the perina?um, the hot bath, and opium are indicated. The catheter should be passed if possible. If, however, the catheter cannot be passed by the natural route, the surgeon, guiding it with his left forefinger in the rectum, may thrust it through the projecting part of the gland into the bladder, or he may use a lance ted stilette. But if this cannot be done, the last resource is puncture of the bladder; by the rectum, if possible ; if not, above the pubes. VI. Calculi of the prostate are composed, according to Dr. G. Bird, like other calculous concretions on mucous membranes, of phosphate of lime mixed with triple phosphate, and may be deposited either in the dilated urethral canal of an enlarged piostate, or in the ducts and cells of the gland, or in both. The most remarkable instance of prostatic calculus on record is related by Dr. Herbert Barker, of Bedibid, toDISEASES OF THE BLADDER. 628 whose kindness the writer is indebted for the engraving of it in the pre- ceding page. The entire calculus is nearly 4| inches in length, and, at its broadest extremity, 4| inches in circumference, and weighs 1681 grains. It is composed of twenty-nine separate portions, slightly adhering by conchoidal surfaces, no doubt originally deposited in separate cells of the prostate, and the whole agglomerated into one mass by the absorp- tion of the intervening tissue.* The symptoms of these concretions are, at first, irritation of the neck of the bladder, and difficulty of micturition, as in other cases of en- larged prostate; the calculi may also be probably felt with the sound, or by the finger in the rectum. In some cases it may suffice to keep the urethra well dilated, so as to favour spontaneous escape; or it may be possible to remove one or more with the urethral forceps; but, should they cause great irritation, abscess, or retention of urine, it will be necessary to cut down on them from the perinajum, and remove them, as was successfully done by Dr. Barker. VII. Cancer of the prostate is very I'are. In one or two cases of haid cancer which occurred in Sir B. Brodie's practice, the gland was enlarged, of a stony hardness; there was great pain in the groins and periiiseum, irritability of the bladder, and cancerous cachexia. Soft cancer is equally i-are. The symptoms are nearly the same as those of cancer of the bladder.f SECTION VI.—DISEASES OP THE BLADDER, I, Irritable Bladder.—Many cases described under this title are cases of gout or of inflammation. Simple irritability, that is, a fre- quent inclination to pass the urine with or without spasm ; but with- out inflammation or organic disease, may be caused, 1. By an irritat- ing state of the urine ; the qualities of which, and the presence or otherwise of oxalate of lime, triple phosphate, and albumen, should be ascertained ; 2. It may be the effect of mere nervousness, which is not uncommon in elderly people, or of mental agitation; 3. It maybe caused by irritation of the rectum, womb, or other adjacent organs; notably in children by irritation of ascarides; 4, By general debility; 5. By exposure to cold. The surgeon should examine into causes. Soothing medicines, such as belladonna, F. 149, may be of use. II. Nocturnal Incontinence.'—Involuntary flow of urine during the night is common enough in delicate children ; but the surgeon may be consulted on account of its continuing to an age at which such an infirmity becomes very troublesome and degrading. Any such case should be carefully studied under these heads. 1st. It should be as- certained whether the urine is irritating in quality or excessive in quan- tity; which it very frequently is. Thus, it will often be found, that the malady is aggravated when the bowels are confined, or the diet un- wholesome, or saccharine drinks used too freely, or when there has * Trans, of Provincial Medical Association, N.S., vol. iii. f For cases, see Coulson, op. cit.; Stafford M. C. T., xvii.629 DISEASES OF THE BLADDER. been too much fatigue ; all which circumstances must be avoided. (See Section 8.) 2nd. If there is nothing wrong in the urine, the condition of the bladder must be attended to ; blisters to the sacrum ; tonics, or very small doses of nux vomica, may be of service. 3rd. The habit must be attacked ; the patient may be awakened at a certain hour, so that he may void his urine of his own accord: sometimes touchino" the orifice of the urethra with nitrate of silver, so that the flow of nrine may cause severe smarting, is worth trying. The habit not unfrequently results from the patient lying upon his back habitually when asleep, so that the urine is kept constantly upon the over-sen- sitive surface of the trigone. By turning him on the side or face, this may be avoided. Small doses of tincture of cantharides are also recom- mended ; but the writer has more than once seen the malady increased tenfold by the use of this drug in cases in which irritating and too copious urine was the source of the mischief. ill. Paralysis of the bladder may occur under many circum- stances. It may be caused by injury or disease of the head or spine; it is often present in typhus fever—it may be caused for a time by any severe injury, especially of the legs—it generally i-emains for a few days after the bladder has been long distended, whether from prostatic disease or stricture—and it sometimes occurs suddenly to nervous sedentary people, who, if they let their bladder get filled beyond a cer- tain point, find that they cannot empty it. The symptoms of it are, either retention of urine, i.e., that the patient cannot make water at all; or else incontinence of urine, i.e., that the water dribbles away without his being able to hold it, from over-distension of the bladder over- coming the elastic contractility of the neck of the bladder. The diagno- sis of retention through palsy, from retention through stricture, is easy. The retention from palsy comes on suddenly, and thei e is no obstacle to the introduction of a catheter. Yet palsy of the bladder may be combined with spasmodic stricture. Treatment.—The catheter, if required ; in pure palsy, the muriated tincture of iron : cubebs, buchu, strychnine. Benefit has been obtained by passing shocks of electricity from the pubes to the sacrum. F. 21, 180, &c. Sloughing of the entire mucous lining, with a layer of the muscular coat, has been lecorded by Mr. Spencer Wells, Mr. Bai-nes, and Dr. Martyn. In each case there was retention of urine after severe labour ; in Dr. Martyn's the slough came away as an entire cast of the inner surface a month after the labour.* IV. Incontinence and Dribbling op Urine.—This is a symp- tom that requires particular notice; because in nine cases out of ten it happens, not because the patient cannot hold his water, but because he cannot ^rtss it,—-either from stricture or enlarged prostate, or palsy of the bladder. For it must be noticed, that in either of these cases, so soon as the bladder becomes full, a little urine begins to dribble away through the urethra—and besides the patient may perhaps be able to squeeze out a little by straining with his abdominal muscles, and may * Obstetrical Trans., vol. v. p. 188.DISEASES OP THE BLADDER. 630 believe his bladder to be empty, although all the while it is enor- mously distended. No surgeon will fail to put his hand on the pubes when he sees the urine dribbling away. The obvious remedy is the catheter. V. Hysterical Retention op Urine.—There is one form of palsy of the bladder which is not unfrequent in hysterical women, and which consists in a deficiency of will rather than of power. They are not unable to empty the bladder if they try—but they are unable to try. These cases must be treated with purgatives, and fetid medi- cines, both internally and as enemata, F. 102. If the catheter is not employed, the patient will generally begin to make water so soon as she suffers much from distension. VI. Acute Inflammation of the bladder {cystitis) in young per- sons is most fi-equently a consequence of neglected or ill-treated gonor- rhoea ; in oldei- persons it may arise from gout; or it may be an aggra- vation of persistent chronic inflammation from stone or stricture. The symptoms are pain, referred to the perinseum and sacrum, tenderness of the lower part of the abdomen, micturition exceedingly frequent, at- tended with great straining, and followed by an aggravation of the pain, a mucous or muco-purulent sediment in the urine, and fever. (See p. 634.) Treatment.—Leeches to the lower part of the abdomen or perinjEum, hot baths, and warm fomentations; a good dose of calomel, followed by castor-oil, to divert irritating matters from the kidneys; opium by mouth, or by enema, or suppository, in sufficient doses thoroughly to allay pain, and the bicarbonate of potass, neutralized with lemon-juice, or F. 58, 78. VII. Chronic Inflammation of the bladder (catarrhus vesicce) is a very frequent consequence of irritation from stricture, diseased prostate, or stone, and from gout. Symptoms.—Micturition fi-equent, and attended with scalding pain ; the urine loaded with muco-purulent matter, which is sometimes tinged with blood, sometimes yellowish and puriform, but more gene- rally grayish, streaked with white, alkaline, and excessively viscid, so as to stick to the bottom of the chamber-pot when turned upside down. In the early stages there is but little mucus, and the urine may remain acid; but as the disease advances, the quantity of mucus becomes enormous, and the urine is voided of a brownish hue, and of a most offensive ammoniacal odour. Moreovei-, it may clog the urethra, and cause retention of urine ; a kind of retention difficult to manage, because the mucus clogs up the eyes of the catheter. In this stage there is very frequent desire to make water, and constant pain above the pubes.- In general, the mucus contains johosphate of lime, which may be seen in it in white streaks, and which is apt to collect and form a stone in the bladder. Ulceration.—Pei'haps the mucous membrane of the bladder may ulcerate, and after death it may be found as cleanly dissected from the muscular coat as if it had been done with a knife. This will be attended with an intense aggravation of the pain and frequency ofDISEASES OF THE BLADDER. 631 micturition, and with a dark colour of the urine owing to the admix- ture of a little blood which exudes from the ulcerating surface, and which, after the urine is passed, sinks to the bottom like coffee-grounds. The quantity of purulent deposit is increased with occasional shreds of mucous membrane, and lymph, and sometimes small clots of blood. The bladder frequently throws out flakes of lymph, which become encrusted with patches of phosphate of lime. Moreover, it becomes exceedingly thick (the common opinion is that it is hypertrophied; Mr. Hancock finds that the thickening is inflammatory); and portions of it are apt to form pouches which are soon filled with mucus, or with phosphatic calculi. Finally, disease of the kidneys ensues, and the patient dies. Treatment.—In the first place, if there is a stricture, or enlarged prostate, or stone in the bladder, proper measures should be taken for their removal or relief. In the next place, if the symptoms are at all severe, the patient should keep himself in the recumbent position as much as possible, with the pelvis elevated. Thirdly, if there is at any time a great aggravation of pain, and the strength is pretty good, a few ounces of blood may be taken by cupping on the sacrum or peri- nseum; but, as a general rule, all lowering measures are injurious. Pain and irritation are to be allayed by the hip-bath, and by enemata or suppositories of opium. Opiate plasters to the sacrum are sometimes of use. The bowels should be kept properly open by mild aperients. The diet should be nourishing, but plain; with weak brandy or gin and water, or sound sherry, for drink. Of medicines, the most useful, according to Brodie, is the root of the pareira brava. Uva ursi, buchu, Chian turpentine, cubebs, copaiba, and tinct, ferri mur. in small doses three times a day, are remedies of similar virtues. Hyoscyamus or opium, and small doses of mineral acids, if the urine is highly alkaline, may be added to any of them. The sul- phate of zinc may also be highly useful, F. 9, 181, 182, kc. Injections into the bladder are not to be thought of when there is acute inflammation of the bladder, and blood mixed with the mucus, but they are highly serviceable in chronic cases, by washing out the decomposed stinking urine and mucus. Injections of simple warm water are very useful: but very dilute nitric acid (TY\,i.—ii.—ad ^iss. aq. destil.) is of great service when the urine is highly ammoniacal. We should have a catheter with a double passage, and may throw in the water in a continuous stream by a syringe, or else may irrigate the bladder, by attaching a caoutchouc tube to each orifice of the ca- theter ; one being dipped into a basin containing the dilute acid ; the other into a receiver. Injections of the nitrate of silver have also been used : these require a catheter of very pure silver strongly gilt; those of the acid may be passed through the nickel silver instruments used in lithotrity ; or witli an elastic bottle and elastic catheter.* In the excessively painful case of ulceration of the bladder, opium * See Coulson on the Bladder, &c., 4tli edit., p. 170; G. Harley, Lectures; Med. Times and Gaz., Nov. 5, 1864.632 ORGANIC DEPOSITS IN THE UEINE. given regularly and largely, and introduced into the rectum, is the chief remedy. Injections into the bladder of strong solution of extract of poppies, or of salts of morphia, may be tried. VIII. Cancer and Epithelioma sometimes affect the bladder either in the form of solid deposits, or of vegetations. The ordinary symptoms are frequent desire to make water; and uneasiness in the region of the bladder, aggravated after micturition, and often extending to the glans penis, perinseum, rectum, and groins. The urine is gene- rally turbid, and deposits an adhesive purulent mncus, and it is very frequently mixed with blood, in irregular clots ; and with these, portions of cancerous substance, or of epithelial granulations, are sometimes intermingled. These symptoms, combined with the absence of a cal- culus, and the probability perhaps of detecting a tumour within the bladder by means of the sound, or by examination of the rectum; or the tumour formed by the thickened bladder in the hypogastrium, and microscopic examination of fragments which pass, are the chief means of diagnosis. The epithelial granulation depicted at p. Ill, was taken from the urine of a gentleman who died of epithelioma. The treatment consists in allaying pain by opiates, and in checking haemorrhage and catarrh of the bladder by gallic acid or tincture of steel, and in giving an abundant diet. IX. Villous Vascular Growth.—A growth of excessively fine arborescent tufts, consisting, like the villi of the chorion, of loops of large capillaries, and clothed with a cell-growth—generally proving early fatal from profuse hgemorrhage. Whether the growth be in its essential nature really vascular or warty, or epithelial or cancerous, or sometimes one or the other, is yet uncertain. Mr, Partridge has collected some cases of this malady, and thinks that the frequent pre- sence of blood in the urine, with no other morbid condition to account for it, is the best diagnostic sign. X. Polypus of the bladder will display many of the symptoms of stone, but may be distinguished by not being moveable. It has been extirpated. XI. Tuberculous disease ; abscesses bursting into the bladder ; and cancerous or corroding ulceration spreading from the bowels, rec- tum, or vagina, must be treated on general principles. section VII.—diagnosis of blood, albumen, pus, and epithe- lium IN THE urine, disease OF THE KIDNEYS, HEMATURIA, AND SUPPRESSION OF URINE. I. Organic Deposits in the Urine.—This is the most conve- nient place for giving a brief description of those organic substances which are occasionally mixed with the urine, through disease of the organs which secrete it, or through which it passes. For a complete account of the subject, we must refer to Dr. George Johnson's work on the kidney, and to Dr. Lionel Beale on the " Microscope in Clinical Medicine." Here we can find room for a few practical remarks only.ALBUMINOUS URINE. 633 1. Blood is very frequently found in the ui'ine, rendering it dark and smoky if the quantity is but small, but betraying itself by red clots if the quantity is large. The blood-cells may be detected by the micro- scope, and the serum by the test to be presently mentioned. If it proceed from the secreting portion of the kidney, it will most likely be in small quantity, and uniformly diffused through the urine; and fibrinous moulds of the kidney tubules will be found in the sediment, and may be detected by the microscope. If the blood comes from the pelvis of the kidney, it may be in larger quantity, and there may be worm-like clots moulded in the ureters. (See Hse,maturia^ p. 637.) 2. Serum, without red particles (albmnimiria), is very frequently mixed with the urine; when the kidneys are affected with any of those forms of degeneration or chronic inflammation known by the collective term Bright's disease ; or when, without original disease in themselves, they are exceedingly congested from pregnancy, disease of the heart, or any other cause. It is not at all unfrequent in the urine of children at the commencement of the exanthemata, or, properly speaking, in most acute diseases. Serum may be detected by the discoveiy of its albumen, the presence of which causes serous urine to be commonly known as albuminous urine. To detect albumen, heat a small quantity of filtered urine to the boiling point, in a test-tube over a spirit lamp; when the albumen will coagulate, and, according to its quantity, may either produce a mere opacity, or may even solidify the entire specimen heated. If the urine * Small globules; blood, nuclei, small epithelial cells, and spherules of oxalate of lime. 2. Pus. 3. Epithelium from the bladder; the typical form, a long oval, pointed at each extremity, with central nucleus; the younger cells spherical and pellucid; the older ones flattened, often full of granules or oil. 4. Small casts from the kidney, consisting of fibrinous matter entangling few epithelial cells; two of these cells distinct. 5. Triple phosphate.ORGANIC DEPOSITS. 634 be alkaline, this test will fail, because then heat alone will not coagu- late the albumen ; and, moreover, heat alone may cause a deposit of white phosphates; therefore a few drops of nitric acid should be added after the boiling, which will dissolve the precipitate if phosphatic, but not if albuminous, and will throw down the albumen if the urine is ali^aline. 3. Fibrine in the urine, when present in large flocculi from any- ulcerated surface in the bladder, is readily distinguished. This sub- stance, however, is most interesting when moulded in the tubules of the kidney, and accompanying albuminous urine ; thus giving evidence of the seat of the effusion. These fibrinous casts of the tubuli uriniferi may vary much in size and appearance. They may be small and trans- parent, or large and transparent; or they may contain kidney epithe- lium in large or small quantity. When small, they show that they have been moulded in tubules not deprived of epithelium. 4. Epitheliumy from any part of the urinary organs, may be pre- sent in urine. Here we may recall to the recollection of our readers, that under slighter degrees of irritation the uniting medium which gives consistence to any epithelial or cuticular layer becomes loosened, the epithelium is formed in greater abundance, and is shed or des- quamated more rapidly than natural. Under higher degrees of irrita- tion or inflammation, the entire epithelial covering is stripped off or excoriated—a state of things usually followed by the evolution of pus globules on the inflamed surface. 1. The small round gland epithe- lium from the kidney, and the nuclei of disintegrated epithelium cells, are often found in small quantity in the urine when containing oxalate of lime, or when irritating from any other cause. 2. The kidney epithehum may be agglutinated by fibrinous effusion, and may be found in the sediment of albuminous urine in the form of epithelial casts, in those acute and chronic inflammations which Dr. G. Johnson calls desquamative nephritis. 3. The same epithelial cells and casts also may be found loaded with oil globules in certain stages of some varieties of Bright's disease. 4. The .epithelium from the pelvis, ureters, and especially from the bladder, is often found in great abundance when these parts are irritated by the urine, or by any other cause. The writer has found immense quantities in the urine after difficult labours ; it presents itself as a purulent-looking deposit, seen under the microscope, to consist of columnar or oval cells, of very various shapes and sizes, with single nuclei, the larger and older cells often full of granular matter, and almost disentegrated. The urine is not albuminous of necessity. (See fig, 3, p, 633.) 5. Mucus, a viscid, stringy, structureless substance, coagulated by acetic acid; alkaline in its reaction, when proceeding from the bladder and fauces; acid, when coming from the vagina; not albuminous; often containing large quantities of phosphate of lime, and having the property of rendering the urine alkaline, and of precipitating triple phosphate. It usually contains some amount of desquamated epithe- lium, and a few globules, perhaps epithelial nuclei. 6. Pus may be present in the urine, thi'ough suppuration of any635 DISEASES OF THE KIDNEIS. part of the mucous lining of the urinary passages, or from an abscess in some contiguous part which has burst into them. It generally falls to the bottom of the vessel containing the urine, " forming a dense homo- geneous layer of a pale-greenish cream colour, seldom hanging in ropes in the fluid, like mucus, and becoming, by agitation, completely diffused through it. The addition of acetic acid neither prevents this ditFusion, nor dissolves the deposit. If a portion of the deposited pus be agitated with an equal quantity of liquid potassse, it forms a dense, ti-anslucent, gelatinous mass. On decanting some urine from the deposited pus, the presence of albumen may be detected by heat and nitric acid."* The pus globules may be recognised under the microscope, and the addition of acetic acid reveals the characteristic nuclei. 1. When pus comes from the uriniferous tubes, the kidney being in a confirmed state of suppurative disorganization, it may sometimes be found moulded in the form of the tubules; but at all events it may be presumed to come from this source, if constantly present in the urine, and equably diffused through it, and if there are the other signs of kidney disease to be pre- sently described. 2. Pus from the bladder will probably be mixed with large quantities of mucus, constituting muco-purulent matter. 3. Pus from an abscess will be variable in quantity, and not equally diffused. We must here remark that a few pus globules are often mixed with epithelial debris without the urine being albuminous. 7. The Echinococcus occasionally infests the kidney, producing severe disturbance. Small cysts, containing the animals, with their charac- teristic booklets, p. 173, may be found in the urine, as in a case lately published by Dr. Herbert Barker. Turpentine in diuretic doses is the best means of dislodging them. II. Acute Inflammation of the Kidney {Acute Nephritis) is sometimes caused by blows on the loins, or by the irritation of renal calculi, but is very rarely an idiopathic primary affection. The symp- toms are, burning pain and tenderness in the loins ; colicky pains in the belly; the urine scanty and high coloured, and the bladder irri- table, so that there are constant attempts at micturition; fever and great thirst, and vomiting. The remedies are—cupping, leeches, and castor-oil—repeated doses of calomel, opium, and antimony, with colchicum if the habit is gouty ; warm baths, or warm fomentations to the loins, and barley-water and other demulcent drinks. III. Chronic Disease of the Kidneys, when it comes under the surgeon's care, is generally a consequence of long-standing disease of the urethra or bladder. When the bladder has been subject to fre- quent distension through stricture or enlarged prostate, and its mucous membrane inflamed, the ureters are liable to become dis- tended and converted as it were into subsidiary receptacles for the urine, so that all the violent strainings to evacuate it tell upon the kidneys; and these become diseased, through the mechanical irrita- tion, and the extension of inflammation from the bladder. The pelvis and infundibula undergo suppurative inflammation—a state described * Gelding Bird on Urinary Deposits, 2nd edit., p. 273.636 DISEASES OF THE KIDNEYS. as pyelitis, and then the disorganization of the uriniferous tubes easily follows. Symptoms.—A person who has long been labouring under some chronic affection of the bladder, begins to complain of general weak- ness and languor, both bodily and mental. The sleep is unrefreshing, the tongue nauseous, and the appetite lost. There is frequent pain of a weak aching character in one or both loins; occasionally shootino- down to the testicles or groins. The urine is albuminous ; it is gene- rally pale-coloured and opaque when passed; sometimes it is tinged * This engraving, from a preparation in the Middlesex Hospital Museum, represents the beginning, middle, and end of a fatal case of disease of the urinary organs. It shows a tight stricture about three inches from the ex- tremity of the penis; the urethra dilated behind it; another stricture in the membranous portion; false passages and abscess around; the bladder con- tracted in size but enormously thickened; the ureter dilated and tortuous, looking like an intestine; and the kidney expanded and atrophied, with scarce any of its secreting substance remaining.637 DISEASES OF THE KIDNEYS. with blood, and sometimes containing shreds or flakes of lymph. As the disease proceeds, it deposits pus after standing. Fits of sleepiness, headaches, and sickness come on. These cases are almost sure to end fatally. Sometimes the patient dies of exhaustion and obstinate vomit- ing ; sometimes of suppression of urine and coma ; sometimes in a sudden fit of severe shivering; and sometimes of a rapid attack of inflammation of the pericardium or some other serous membrane. The kidneys are found after death to be soft and disoi'ganized; readily separating from their capsule, which, however adheres firmly to the flat and cellular tissue of the loins ; and most likely they are dilated into cysts; the secreting tissue being spread out over the dilated pelvis and infundibula. IV. Abscess in the Kidney.—This may be suspected if dull pain in the loins and repeated shivering follow the symptoms of ne- phritis. Sometimes the abscess bui sts into the ureter, and an immense quantity of pus is discharged with the urine. Abscess of the kidney also sometimes bursts on the loins, and the patient has been known to recover. V. Treatment of Chronic Kidney Disease.—On this subject we can but give a few general hints. When there is much tenderness in the loins, a moderate quantity of blood may be taken by cupping. Blisters or plasters of the emp, ammoniac!, or of opium oi- belladonna may also be of service. The skin should be kept warm by flannel. It will be necessary to provide for the free action of the liver and bowels, and to keep up the secretion of the kidneys, if deficient, by the milder sorts of diuretics, such as small doses of neutral salts ; the infusions of buchu, and uva uisi, of carrot-seed, or of the I'oot of parsley. The tar- trate of iron will be of great service. The diet generally should be plain, but nutritious. If the loss of albumen is gi-eat, it should be combated by gallic or tannic acid, or tincture of galls or rhatany, or decoction of oak-bark internally, and by the use of strong essence of meat. F. 198. VI. Hematuria, or Bloody Urine.—The seat of the htemorrhage may be either the kidneys, or the pi'ostate or bladder. 1. Haemorrhage from the kidney may be caused by the irritation of renal calculi, or by blows on the loins; by the congestion consequent on scarlet fever ; and by other diseased states of the whole system, as in typhus and scurvy. At the Cape of Good Hope and some other parts of the world a form of haematuria is endemic, and is caused by the presence of a minute worm in the veins of the kidney.* 2. Hemorrhage fi'om the prostate or bladder may be caused by the rude introduction of instruments, or by the irritation of stone; or by the existence of an ulcer or fungoid tumour, of which, in fact, it is often the earliest manifestation. When the blood is derived from the bladder, some portion of it often flows pure after the urine is discharged, * John Harley, Med. Chir. Trans., 1864, and Hooper's Phj-sician's Vade Mecum, 1864.638 UEINARY DEPOSITS. and it is in much greater quantity, and often in larger and more irregu- lar clots than when derived from the kidneys; moreover, the pain in the back, and other signs of renal irritation that accompany bleeding from the kidney, will not be present. Treatment.—When hsemorrhage from the kidneys is attended with inflammatory symptoms, cupping, purging, and the acetate of lead are indicated ; when with symptoms of debility, the dilute sulphuric acid, alum, tinct. ferri muriatis, or gallic acid. Cold may be applied to the loins and hips by means of bladders of ice. In hsemorrhage from the bladder a catheter should be passed and be retained, in order to pre- vent both accumulation of blood in the bladder and straining efforts at micturition. If the hemorrhage is obstinate, the bladder may be in- jected with cold water containing a scruple of alum to each pint; and if much blood have coagulated in the bladder, it may be necessary to break it down by r epeated injections of water. Small doses of turpen- tine will sometimes check a hasmorrhage from the bladder, which re- sists all other means. Vll. Suppression of Upjne {Ischuria Renalis),—When the kid- neys have been long abused by inordinate indulgence in strong drink, and are falling into disease, or when they have become diseased, they are liable suddenly to lose their function of secreting the urine. The consequence of this is, that the urea and other elements of the urine accumulate in the blood ; the patient complains of great uneasiness in the head and loins; he becomes first drowsy, and then comatose, and dies in four or five days. This affection is alluded to here in order to hint at the diagnosis between it and retention of urine. In suppres- sion, if the catheter is introduced, the bladder will be found empty ; whereas in retention, whether from stricture, or from diseased prostate, or from palsy of the bladder, it may be felt full and distended above the pubes. SECTION Vlll.—URINARY DEPOSITS OR GRAVEL.* In the urine are washed away the refuse matters derived from diges- tion, assimilation, and the wear and tear of the body. Any deviation, therefore, from a healthy state of digestion and nutrition is sure to be followed by a deviation from the healthy properties of the urine. So extensive and complicated is the chemical and physiological history of these changes, that we can but refer to the woi'ks of Prout, Liebig, Golding Bird, Bence Jones, Owen Rees, Garrod, Hassall, Lionel Beale, and George Harley, and must confine ourselves to the immediate bearings of the subject on surgical practice. We may observe that when the surgeon examines the urine, since it varies extremely in its properties at various hours of the day, the whole * For information on the subject of tbis and the following sections, consult Prout on Stomach and Urinary Disease; Garrod, Lancet, 1849; Bence Jones, Lancet for 1850, vol. i.; Brodie on Diseases of the Urinary Organs, 3rd edition ; Golding Bird on Urinary Deposits, 3rd edit.; Hassall, Lancet, 1850-53; Lionel Beale on Urine, Urinaiy Deposits, and Calculi, 2nd edit. 1864 ; Dr. G. Harley's Lectures in Med. 'J'imes and Gaz., 1864.639 GRAVEL. quantity that is passed during twenty-four hours should be collected into one vessel; so that its acidity and speciric gravity and quantity may be flxirly estimated. We may observe as a further preliminary, that when a precipitate is let fall from the urine after it has been voided, it is called a sediment; that when precipitated in the bladder or kidneys it is called gravel; and that gravel lodging in any part of the urinary passages may concrete into stone. Further, that when the urine of any person habitually pre- sents any one kind of deposit, he is generally said to have a correspond- ing diathesis; as the lithic diathesis, &c. The principal diseased conditions we are at present concerned with are those in which the urine deposits—1st, uric or lithic acid; 2ndly, oxa- late of lime ; 3rdly, phosphates. 1. Li thic, or Uric Acid, or Red Gravel.'—This is deposited in the form of minute crystals, tinged with the colouring matter of the urine. It generally indicates a highly acid state of the urine, through which it is precipitated from the ammonia and other substances which ought to be held in solution. The amorphous Uthates of ammonia, soda, and lime form a very common sediment, varying in colour from nearly white to dark red or yellow. The ui'ine from which it is deposited is generally acid; clear when passed, but clouded as it cools; and this sediment may readily be distinguished by its dissolving when heated slightly. Lithates, deeply tinged by pink or brick-dust colouring matter, form the sediments observed in fever, gout, and chronic diseases of the liver. The lithate of soda is sometimes found. II. Oxalate of Lime is generally deposited from uiine which is highly acid, and contains much lithate. It is in the form of minute _ * I. Lithic acid. 2. Lithates in powder, and spherules of lithic acid or lithate. 3. Basic phosphate. 4. Torula.640 GRAVEL. octaliedral crystals, invisible except by the microscope. The dumb-bell form is rare, and probably another form of oxalate. ( Dr. Beale.) III. Phosphatic Deposits may arise in two ways. First, from excessive secretion of the mucus of the bladder. If the bladder be irritated from any cause so as to create this condition, the urine may be rendered alkaline by decomposition of its urea into carbonate of am- monia. But this is tar from being any evidence of a phosphatic dia- thesis. For example, the writer has often found crystals of lithic acid, in highly-ammoniacal urine—which has doubtless been secreted acid—in gouty cystitis. Thus, an irritating—possibly over-acid—state of the urine may be the cause of ultimate alkalinity. Secondly, they may arise from a primarily alkaline, or insufficiently- acid state of the urine, through which the phosphates of lime and of magnesia are precipitated: but they do not prove that phosphoric acid is in excess in the urine. The most common cause of alkalescence, or of deficient acidity in the urine, is surmised by Bence Jones to be ex- cessive acidity of the stomach. Thus, as the writer of this work stated in the edition of 1841, the urine is often loaded withf triple phosphate when the stomach is full of acid. In such a case the urine if alkaline is said to be so from preponderance of potass or soda. The ammoniacal urine which is commonly found in chronic cystitis, in disease or injury of the spinal cord, in the latter stages of prostatic disease, and under any circumstances which cause habitual retention of urine, is the result of putrefaction. When ui-ine is alkaline from ammonia, reddened lit- mus-paper steeped in it, and afterwai'ds heated, recovers its red colour, which is not the case when alkalescence arises from the presence of fixed alkali. The varieties of phosphatic deposit are—1, the triple phosphate of ammonia and magnesia, which appears in sparkling prismatic crys- tals on the surface of the urine (fig. 5, p. 633); 2nd, basic triple phos- phate, formed by the addition of ammonia either in the bladder or out of it (fig. 3, p. 639); and 3rd, the phosphate of lime, a white amor- phous powder, generally associated with mucus. Pathological Relations.—The lithic sediments, crystalline or amor- phous, often accompany gout, and may exist in conjunction with a highly sthenic plethoric condition ; not that this is always the case, for they may indicate debility, mal-assimilation, or excessive fatigue. The * 1. Oxalate of lime crystals. 2. Oxalate of lime in pellucid spherules; single, double (or dumb-bells), and quadruple. From the urine of a woman whose only symptom was extremely distressing palpitation. 3. Cystine.641 GRAVEL. oxalic generally indicate feeble powers of assimilation, and exhaustion of the nervous system. The phosphatic, when not arising fi-om changes in the bladder, usually indicate low dyspepsia. Any deposit may exist occasionally in small quantity unnoticed ; it is the constant or abun- dant presence which is the important evidence of disease. When a patient is secreting the red crystalline gravel, or has, to use the vulgar phrase, a fit of the gravel, he usually complains of great pain in the loins and bladder ; frequent desire to make water; and aching of the testicles and hips. Sometimes these symptoms are attended witli great feverishness; sometimes with mere languor and dyspepsia. When oxalate of lime is abundant, the whole urinary organs are apt to suffer extremely; with frequent micturition ; aching in the loins and bladder; great ii'ritation of the genital organs; often these symptoms are combined with peculiar lassitude, tits of headache, sour perspira- tion, nettle-rash, extreme despondency, and other signs of obstinate in- digestion, and of a disordered condition of the blood. Aching of the eye- balls has been often noticed by the author. Treatment.—The treatment of urinary disorders has of late years been made too dependent on a superficial chemical examination of the urine ; it being the custom to give acids if the urine is alkaline, and so forth, without sufficient regard to other circumstances. The author stated in an edition of this work published in 1841, that this summary method of treatment was essentially erroneous. Subsequent experience has confirmed his ideas on this point; and he would advise his readers, under all circumstances, to treat the general health on rational princi- ples, and leave the urine to take care of itself. The first thing to notice, is the patient's blood-making powers, and his habits. Because if lusty and red-lipped, and a high liver, and troubled with lithic gravel of no long duration, he will generally be speedily relieved by full purgation ; by reduced diet, warm baths, and liq. potassge in drachm-doses thrice daily after meals. The diathesis will be kept at bay likewise by habits of early rising, by exercise enough to make the skin eliminate acid ; by great temperance in meat and beer or wine; by freely eating fresh vegetables, and especially cabbage, water-cresses, and fruit, provided always that they cause no inconve- nience to the stomach ; and by occasional effervescing, alkaline, or saline draughts—such as lemon-juice, potass-water, Seltzer-water, or F. 58, 60, HI, 70, 72, 73, &c. Hot air or vapour baths may be of use. But far different must be the treatment if the urinary deposit, be it what it may, is created, not by an excess of material in the system, but by feebleness of the powers which ought to convert the food into healthy fiesh and blood, or by overwork of mind or body. In these cases the prime object must be to strengthen the digestion ; and the means are the following—1. It is often beneficial to begin the cure by freeing the liver and bowels of black offensive scybalous motions, by a grain or two of calomel, with colocynth, or with some tonic purge, to carry it off, F. 37, 41, 50, &c. The motions should be inspected, and the medicine be repeated at discretion till they are rendered healthy. D 2 T642 VARIOUS KINDS OF STONE. 2. There are few remedies comparable to change of air, including, as it must, change of diet, water, habits, and occupation, for the cure of all disorders of mal-assirailation. 3, Alkalies, such as F. 77, 79, may be given in small doses after meals to the infinite comfort of the stomach, if the patient complains of sour eructations, flushed face, flatulence, &c,, and this, no matter whether the urine is ammoniacal or not. 4. But the most important medicines are Tonics. Of these one of the most useful is the nitromuriatic acid, F. 22, which may always be given with benefit on an empty stomach, if the patient likes it; if he feels that it takes away that nauseous, flabby, alkaline condition of mouth which so commonly accompanies a low digestive power. But the other mineral acids—bark, quinine, nux vomica, and other bitters ; the sulphates of zinc and iron; and the muriated tincture of iron—will all be found useful. 5. Conium, or even opium, introduced into the rectum as a sup- pository is sometimes necessary to allay local irritation, especially in phosphatic and oxalic case^. It may also be necessary as a means of procuring sleep, and preventing the nervous system from being worn out by its own irritability. 6. The diet should consist of those sub- stances which are most readily convertible into good flesh and blood, and least liable to undergo degenei-ation during their solution in the stomach. Meat, good soup, milk, eggs, good bread, cruciferous vege- tables—brandy and water, pale sherry, good Bordeaux, and bitter ale— show the kind of substances to be preferred; and pastry, sago, slops, and bad wine the things to be avoided. SECTION IX.—THE VARIOUS KINDS OF STONE. The various deposits spoken of in the preceding section may, as we observed, lodge in some part of the urinary organs, and concrete into stone. There are altogether fourteen species, many of which are exces- sively rare. The principal ones are, the lithic, phosphatic, and mul- berry. I. Lithic Acid stones are genei-ally oval, flattened, fawn or maho- gany coloured, and on a section are seen to be composed of concentric laminae. Tests.—This acid may be dissolved by boiling in liqiior potassa;; it burns away almost entirely befoi'e the blowpipe with an odour of burnt hom, and if digested in a small quantity of nitric acid, and evaporated at a very gentle heat, it leaves a residue, which, when cold, becomes purple, if exposed to the vapour of ammonia (murexide). II. Lithate op Ammonia rarely forms a stone, because it is tole- rably soluble in warm urine. Tests.—It may be known by the same tests as the preceding, and, besides, it evolves ammonia when treated by liq. potassse. III. Phosphate of Lime or bone-earth stones are rare. They are pale brown, friable, and laminated. Tests.—Soluble in nitric or muri- atic acids, and precipitated by liq. ammonias; quite infusible. (Beale.) IV. Triple Phosphate (o/ammonia and magnesia) i'orms white or pale-gray stones, composed of small brilliant crystals. Tests.—EvolvesSTONE IN THE KIDNEY AND URETER. 643 ammonia when treated with liq. potassse ; is soluble in acetic or muri- atic acid; precipitated again by ammonia in form of crystals of basic phosphate; fusible under the blowpipe, its fusibility varying with the amount of triple phosphate. V. The FUSIBLT3 Stone is formed of the phosphate of lime and triple phosphate mixed. It forms a white friable mass like mortar, and is very fusible. VI. The Mulberry Stone is composed of oxalate of lime. It is dark red, rough, and tuberculated. Tests.—Not dissolved hy boiling in potass ; soluble in nitric acid ; if exposed to the blowpipe, the acid is burnedoff, and quicklime is left, which, if moistened, reddens turmeric paper. VII. Besides the above, stones are sometimes composed of cystine, a peculiar animal substance, containing much sulphur, soluble both in alkalies and dilute mineral acids, but not in acetic acid: precipitable in peculiar six-sided crystals by acetic acid from its solution in ammonia (see fig. 3, p. 640); also of carbonate of lime; of the fihrine of the blood, and of xanthic or uric oxide, a peculiar animal matter allied to uric acid. The lithate of soda, the lithate and carbonate of magnesia, and silica, are also rare ingredients in calculi. Alternatiiig Calculi.—Sometimes stones are composed of alternate layers of lithic acid and oxalate of lime; and very commonly the outer layers of a stone are phosphatic, the nucleus lithic or mulberry. The phosphates commonly succeed the other deposits, being surely produced after a time by the irritation of the mucous membrane ; but the lithic and mulberry never coat the phosphates. SECTION X.—STONE IN THE KIDNEY AND URETER. Symptoms.—The symptoms of stone in the kidney are, pain in one or both loins; irritation and retraction of the testicles; the urine bloody after violent jolting exercise; and occasional fits of inflamma- tion of the kidney. Stones in the kidney are most frequently com- posed of hthic acid, which will be known by the deposit of red sand from the urine. The oxalate of lime is more rare. Crystals both of this substance and of lithic acid have been detected in the tubuli uriniferi. Phosphatic stone in the kidney is still more rare. When it does exist, it is generally composed of the phosphate of lime, and indicates incipient disease of the organ. Treatment.—When a stone is ascertained or suspected to exist in tlie kidney, the indications ave,fii'st, to examine the general health, and treat any derangement according to the rules laid down in the previous sections; secondly, to endeavour to expedite the passage of the stone through the ureter, by diluents and diuretics; and by the cautious use of exercise so as to dislodge it; and, thirdly, to remove inflammation if it exist, by cupping on the loins, by mild aperients and copious enemata of warm water, by opium or henbane, and by warm baths or fomentations. Pounded ice applied to the loins gives great644 STONE IN THE BLADDER. relief when much burning pain is complained of, but it must be used with caution. The ordinary and most favourable event of stone in the kidney is, that it descends through the ureter into the bladder. In some cases, however, it remains in the kidney, increases in size, completely fills up the pelvis and infundibula, and causes the organ either to waste away or to suppurate ; the abscess bursting either into the colon, or on the loins. The Passage of a Stone through the Ureter causes the following symptoms:—The patient complains of sudden and most sevei e pain, first in the loins and groin, subsequently in the testicle, and inside of the thigh. The testicle is also retiacted spasmodically. At the same time there are violent sickness, faintness, and collapse, which may last two or three days, and are only relieved when the stone reaches the bladder. Treatment.—The warm bath, large doses of opium, emollient ene- mata, and plenty of diluents, are the obvious remedies, and an active purgative may perhaps be tried if the process is slow. Sir B. Brodie has shown that there is a set of symptoms which sometimes affects gouty peojile—consisting of pains in the loins reach- ing to the groin and neck of the bladder, and scanty, high-coloured urine—which very much resemble those caused by the passing of a stone through the ureter. They may be distinguished by the absence of faintness and vomiting, and readily yield to purgatives and colchicum. section XI.—stone in the bladder. Stone in the Bladder produces the following symptoms : 1. Ir- ritability of the bladder, frequent irresistible desire to make water. 2. Occasional sudden stoppage of the stream of water during mictuii- tion, from the stone falling on the orifice of the urethi-a; tlie stream probably flowing again if the patient throws himself on his hands and knees. 3. Occasional pain at the neck of the bladder, always severest after micturition. 4. Pain in the glans penis. If the patient be a child, he is always attempting to alleviate this pain by pulling at the prepuce, which becomes extremely elongated. 5. Occasional passage of blood and crystals of uric acid or oxalate with the urine. 6. Sounding.—But none of the above symptoms must be depended on alone. The existence of the stone must be made sensible to the ear and fingers, and the instrument employed for this purpose is a sound, a solid iron rod, the size of a medium catheter, not large enough to distend the urethra. Its handle should be pohshed, and the E^iaft smaller than the end, so as to move easily in the urethra, and the surgeon should possess several, of various lengths. The form of sound used by Mr. Fergusson is the best. One of these instruments should be introduced at a time when the urinary organs are comparatively free from irritation, and the health from disturbance. The patient should be on his back on a high bed,645 STONE m THE BLADDER. the pelvis raised on a pillow, and the bladder nearly, but not quite, full. In order to insure perfect quietness, and to prevent pain to the patient, he should be put under the influence of chloroform, and if the bladder is empty, tepid water should be injected. The sound should be care- fully moved about, to examine every part of the bladder, and if there is a stone of any size it will most probably be heard to strike and felt to grate upon it. If nothing, however, is discovered, the patient may be made to turn on one side, or to sit upright, or the finger may be passed into the rectum ; or a sound with the same abrupt curve as the litho- trite may be used to explore the bas fond of the bladder, behind the prostate; or a catheter may be introduced, and the stone may perhaps be felt to strike against it as the urine flows away. But if the symp- toms are well marked, the surgeon must not be contented with one unsuccessful examination. Diagnosis.—In sounding there are two errors to be avoided. First, that of assuming that there is no stone, when none can be felt. The chief circumstances which occasion difficulty in this respect are, enlarged prostate ; cysts or pouches, in which the stone can be hid; and small size of the stone. The second error is that of taking something for a stone which is not. Thus polypous or pendulous growths, portions of the bladder hardened, or rough from ulceration or from fibrinous deposit, or en- crusted with phosphates ; even the spine of the ischium, exostoses, and tumours of neighbouring parts, have at times been mistaken for stone. The symptoms of stone vary in severity:—1, according to its size and roughness; 2, according to the state of the urine; 3, according to the condition of the bladder, whether healthy or inflamed. They may be very slight for years; in fact, a little pain in micturition and bloody urine after riding may be the only inconveniences. But after a certain period the bladder becomes more and more in-itablc, and finally in- flamed ; the urine alkaline, and loaded with viscid mucus and phosphate of lime ; the strength fails ; and finally, after years of suffering, the patient sinks. The sources of vesical calculi are two :—1, the urine ; 2, the mucus of the bladder; and calculi are exceedingly liable to form from the latter source, if the prostate is diseased, or if foreign bodies are intro- duced into the bladder, so as to serve for nuclei. In these cases the stone is invariably phosphatic. The composition of a stone may be judged of, but not alvvavs ac- curately, by the state of the urine. Its size may be appreciated :— 1, by its composition, for the phosphatic are always the laigest; 2, by the time it has existed; 3, by observing the force i-equired to dislodge it from its situation; 4, it mny be measured by passino- the sound across its surface, or by the urethra forceps or lithotrite, oi- by Coxeter's hollow sound. Phosphatic stones are of quickest growth; they are softest and most friable. Uric and oxalic stones are of slow growth; they are hard, break into sharp fragments, and give a clearer rijig or click when struck with the sound than do the phos-646 LITHOTKITY. phatic. Stones have been known to A'ary in weight from a few grains to forty-four ounces, and in number from one to one hundi'ed and forty-two. Mr. C. Mayo, of Winchester, extracted one weighing four- teen ounces and a half, but it was brol^en; the patient lived several years, Gooch tells us that Mr, Harmer, of Norwich, in the year 1746, extracted one entire which weighed nearly fifteen ounces, and the patient lived five years. Sir A. Cooper extracted one entire, weighing sixteen ounces, but the patient died. Dr. Mott, of New York, in 1834 extracted one entire weighing seventeen ounces two drachms and thirty- six grains, from a young man aged twenty-one, who survived five days.* The operation was the bilateral. Treatment.—The indications are:—1, to get rid of the diseased state of the urine ; 2, to allay pain and irritation ; 3, to remove the stone. The first and second are to be accomplished by measures which have been already spoken of when treating of gravel and of chronic inflam- mation of the bladder. The third may be executed in three ways, viz,, 1, solution ; 2, lithotrity; and 3, lithotomy—each of which requires to be treated of in a distinct section. SECTION XII.—LITHOLYSIS, OR SOLUTION OF STONE. Sir B. Brodie long since showed that phosphatic calculi may some- times be dissolved altogether, and sometimes be so disintegrated or reduced in size that they may escape through the urethra by means of the injections of very dilute niti-ic acid directed for chronic cystitis. The Vichy water, a solution of bicarbonate of soda saturated with carbonic acid, has considerable effect not only on lithic calculi, which it dissolves by virtue of its alkali, but on the phosphatic, which it affects through its carbonic acid, and by disintegrating the animal matter which cements them together, f Experiments have been made on various alkaline and saline solutions and solutions of lead, aided by the force of galvanism, by Dr. Elliott Hoskins, of Guernsey, Dr. Bence Jones, Dr. G. Robinson, of Newcastle, and others; but they have not been yet brought to any practical result. SECTION XIII.—LITHOTRITY. Definition.—An operation for grinding or crushing stone in the bladder into fragments of so small a size that they may be readily ex- pelled through the urethra. History.—So desirable is this object, that it has been treated of, or attempted, by surgeons in every epoch of civilization ; by Hippocrates amongst the Greeks ; by Albucasis of the Arabian school; by Franco, * The writer must thank Wm, Darling, Esq., M.A., M.D., &c., formerly of New York, for this fact; Dr. Darling was present at the operation, and weighed the stone. f See Dr. Willis's work on Stone; Elliott Hoskins, Lond, Journ. of Med., Oct. 1851; Ranking, vol. xiv. and xvii., quoted from Phil. Trans,, 1852. Dr. G, Robinson's pamphlet on Electro-Lithoiricy. Lond., 1855.647 LITHOTKITY. Guido de Cauliaco, Hildanus, Haller, and others, down to the end of the eighteenth century. The attempts, however, were, as Mr. Coulson observes, isolated, and fruitless, till, in 1813, Gruithuisen, a Bavarian surgeon, published two memoirs on Lithotrity, and described his in- struments, consisting of "• a sti'aight canula, intended to pass into the bladder and serve as a conductor for a perforator, which was either lance-shaped or dentated ; a wire for seizing and fixing the calculus, a handle rapidly moved by a bow-drill, a branched forceps, and a hook for the purpose of crushing the fragments of stone when divided by the perforator." It does not appear, however, that these instruments were used either on the dead body or on the living, and the project was soon forgotten.* Following the historical summary prefixed to Mr. Coulson's very complete and elaborate Lectures on Lithotrity, originally published in the Lancet for 1852, and since collected into a separate volume, we find that the person who next toolc up the subject was Civiale. In the year 1817, then a poor student, he constructed the models of some in- struments, and the next year applied to the French Minister for pecu- niary aid towards carrying on his experiments. His chief instiument was a double metallic tube, the inner tube having six elastic steel branches at its extremity : these weie intended to grasp the stone, which was then to be bored by a lance-shaped lithotriteur. Pursuing his researches, Civiale, in 1819, reduced the six branches of his instru- ment to four, and in 1820 to three. He added a bow-drill; and with these improved instruments experiments were publicly made in 1822, at the Hospital of La Pitie', and in the dissecting-rooms of the Faculty. In 1819, Mr. Elderton published in the April No. of the ' Edinburgh Med. and Surg. Journal' a proposal for attacking calculi with a curved two-branched instrument and perforator. But Elderton's proposal, like Gruithuisen's, was unfruitful ; Civiale's was more fortunate. In April 1822, M. Amussat described an instrument which he had constructed for crushing stone. This was a strong two-bladed forceps acting laterally, concealed in a canula, and worked by a lever. In June of the same year, M. Leroy, now better known as Leroy d'Etiolles, produced an instrument, consisting of a double canula, of four long watch-springs, attached to the extremity of the inner canula, to catch the stone, and of perforators worked by a bow-drill. In April 1823, M. Leroy produced an improved instrument. The appearance of this drew M. Civiale from his retirement; but not till May 1823 did he publish an account of his process. On January 10, 1824, he performed his first operation in the presence of Barons Percy and Chaussier, commissioners appointed by the Faculty. The patient was relieved of his stone in two sittings; a third equally quickly. Thus Civiale is to be regarded as the inventor of lithotrity. Hitherto we have spoken chiefly of boring instruments. The first * Coulson on Lithotrity and Lithotomy, Lend., 1853.648 LITHOTRITY. crushing instrument of any value was manufactured by Mr, Weiss in 1824. It was composed of two blades sliding on each other, and brought together by a screw. This is, in essentials, the instrument used at the present day. ISir B. Brodie, however, thought that the screw would act with such violence on a hard calculus that the * bladder would be injured by the flying off of the fragments ; and so for a time it was laid aside. In 1825, Dr. Haygarth invented a sliding instrument, to which a screw was connected at the suggestion of Mr, Hodgson, who tried it on a patient in the Birmingham Hospital in the same year. To this dis- tinguished surgeon belongs the honour of having first performed the modern operation of crushing by the screw. But the method which now acquired celebrity, and which was first practised by Heurteuloup in 1830, consisted in hammering the stone to pieces. The patient was confined to a bed of peculiar construction, called the lit rectangulaire; and the percuteur courbe d marteau—a sliding instrument composed of three blades—was made to seize the stone. This was then broken by i-epeated blows with a hammer on the other extremity of the instrument, which was fixed securely to a vice. But this plan was fraught with many inconveniences. The instrument was too feeble : in one case it was bent up over the pubes ; its blades were apt to become so clogged with pulverised fi-agments, that they were withdrawn w'th ditficulty, or pei-haps not until the orifice of the urethra had been slit up; and the bladder was exposed to injury from pei'cussion communicated from the instrument, and from the violent splitting of the calculus. * Weiss's Lithotrite with screw force. The upper or male blade is drawn back by the thumb upon k. The scale shows the degree of separation ; b, the handle. I. The end of the blades ; 3, end of the blades of a lighter instrument for fragments; 2, end of a catheter scoop for permitting escape of detritus.LITHOTRITV. 649 Heurteloup's instrument was next improved and simplified bv Costello, who seems to have reinvented the two sliding blades which Weiss had designed eight years previously. Mr. Oldham, a gentleman attached to the Bank of Ireland, devised the oval slit in the female blade, for the escape of detritus, shown in tigs. 1 and 3. In 1834, Mr. Fergusson employed the hand-rack and pinion represented in the above cut. The advantages of the rack and pinion are that the degree of force can be felt by the hand, and that pressure can be alternated with per- cussion. The latest instruments, however, have a screw, with such modifications as enable the male blade to be drawn back, without reversing the screw. This was devised by Civiale, made by Charriere, and improved by Weiss and Coxeter. The shaft also is smaller than the jaws, so that it can be moi-e readily manipulated in a small urethra; the instruments also are of two kinds—the larger and heavier, with fenestrated female blade, for crushing a stone into fragments—the lighter, such as No. 2 in the preceding page, for further crushing frag- ments into powder. The account we can find room for of lithotrity is most imperfect. It is an operation requiring the greatest possible perfection of diagnosis so as to fix on the cases best adapted for it. It demands enormous experi- ence, and involves so many small practical details, that it is quite out of our power to describe them. We can but give a meagre sketch, and must refer the reader to Mr. H. Thompson's work on Lithotomy and Lithotrity, as the fullest, newest, and ablest work on the subject. The Preparatory Treatment necessary consists in correcting any de- tectable disorder of the digestive oi-gans or general health, and allaying any irritation of the urinary organs, by hip-baths, opiates, and repose. The surgeon should also by bougies dilate the urethra, and by sound- ing estimate the size of the stone, and the capacity and degree of irri- tability of the bladder; for so long as that is very irritable the ope- ration must be delayed. The best patients are those who have a urethra of full size ; a blad-650 LITHOTEITY. der neither irritable nor paralysed, but capable of holding five or six ounces of urine, and of expelling it. The gi'eat danger of the operation is mechanical injury to the blad- der. The great aim should be gentleness. It is generally best not to use chloroform unless the patient much wishes it. The operation is not generally painful; if so, it should be cut short. The patient should be placed on his back on a couch, with the head on a pillow, the knees gently raised and supported, and a little apart. The pelvis must be raised above the level of the shoulders ;—-about two inches under ordinary circumstances: but four to six inches if the pros- tate be much enlarged. The object is to get the stone away from the neck of the bladder, which is the part most liable to injury ; much fur- ther away, of couise, if the prostate be enlarged, otherwise it cannot be reached at all. " The centre of the cavity and space beneath it," says M]'. Thompson, " form the area of operation." The bladder should contain from four to six or eight ounces of water, and it usually suffices to desire the patient to hold it for a couple of hours before the operation. The cases in which it is most desirable to inject water, are those of atony and flaccidity of the bladder, so that it hangs in folds instead of being equally round. The instrument, warmed and oiled, is now to be most gently intro- duced, and it must be passed fully into the bladder. The blades must he coaxed almost into the bladder before the handle is lowered. The next step is to seize the stone. There are two ways of doing this, by bringing the stone to the instrument, by opening the blades—depress- ing them into the fundus of the bladder, and getting the stone to roll between them ;* 2. To apply the instrument to the stone, so as to seize it with certainty, without doing more than rotating the instru- ment in the neck of the bladder. This is neater and safer. The rules for exploring the bladder so as to seize the stone are most minute and precise. When the stone is fairly grasped, the screw or other mechanical force employed should be made to crush it. Rules are given for finding and seizing the fragments, which of course fall perpendicularly into a very limited area, and perhaps two or three may be seized and crushed at the first sitting, which, however, should not exceed three or four minutes. At the end of the operation it must be seen that the blades aj-e entirely closed, and not choked by detritus, while the instrument is withdrawn. The subsequent parts of the treatment are these. First, all pain, which is often severe, must be allayed by opium, administered by the mouth, or in the form of enerna or suppository, F. 101, 174. Hip- baths, barley-water and other demulcent drinks, and alkaline medicines may be used with the same intention. The patient should keep in the recumbent position, that the fragments may not fall on the neck of the bladder. The operation must be repeated at intervals, till every fragment is * Brodie, Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xxxviii.; F, C. Skey, on the Merits of the Two Operations for Stone, Lend., 1854.LITHOTRITY. 651 cruslied and expelled. In favourable cases thei-e is some degree of scalding and pain, which soon pass off, and allow the operation to be repeated in three or four days. In less favourable cases, there may be severe pain and spasm of the bladder, requiring an interval of six or eight days. When the stone has been broken into fragments, these may be pul- verized with the lighter instrument. Mr. Thompson's opinion is, that it is best to pulverize a stone thoroughly. The powder comes away without effort. As for fragments of medium size, he thinks they are better left to take their chance. Mr. Fergusson, on the contrary, employs scoops to bring them through the urethra. After each operation, and especially after the first, the patient should not attempt to make water for some hours; and should remain quietly on his back for two or three days. Probably he will not be able to make water, fi'om the injury which the neck of the bladder has received, and will require the catheter. It may be expedient to make him pass water on his knees, especially if the prostate is enlarged. If a fragment become impacted in the urethra and cause retention, it must either be gently pushed back into the bladder; or extracted by the urethra forceps, or by probe or hook ; or crushed in the urethra ; or lastly, be cut down upon from the perinseum. Contraindications.—The circumstances which render the operation of lithotrity difficult or dangerous, relate 1, to the urethra ; for if this be naturally small, as in children, or strictured by disease, and incapable of being dilated so as to admit the necessary instruments, lithotomy is to be preferred to lithotrity. In children under puberty, the advan- tages of lithotrity are few, unless the stone is very small, and can be disposed of at one or two sittings ; for the operation of lithotomy at this age gives most favourable results. 2. Unconquerable irritability and contractility of the bladder, especially if already thickened by disease. 3. Very great enlargement of the joros^a^e, and especially of the so-called third lobe, which hinders the manipulation of the instru- ment and the escape of detritus. 4. Great size of the stone, such as a larger diameter than two inches, especially if accompanied with much hardness, and if there are more stones in number than two. If these be the contraindications, it will be readily inferred that the Gases in which Lithotrity may he beneficially resorted to, are those in which 1, the patient is an adult, with a full-sized urethra ; 2, in which the prostate is not enlai-ged ; or at all events, in which, if the prostate be slightly enlarged, the stone is small and friable, the general health good, and the bladder not irritable ; 3, in which the bladder is free from thickening, extreme irritability, Sind purulent catarrh. Simple mucous catarrh is no contraindication; in fact, being caused by the presence of stone, it will be relieved by that which removes its cause. Lastly, cases in which the stone is single, or in which at least there are not more than two; not large ; nor very hai'd. The oxalic are the hardest and most intractable of all.LITHOTOMY, 652 This operation may be followed by rigors, and great constitutional disturbance and debility: or by inflammation and abscess in the pelvic areolar tissue, which may prove fatal; but Sir B, Brodie gave it as his opinion, that if prudently and carefully performed, with a due at- tention to minute circumstances, it is liable to smaller objections than almost any other of the capital operations in surgery; and subsequent experience confirms this opinion fully. It must he observed, in conclusion, that the benefits of lithotrity are most fully evinced when patients apply for relief at the earliest .possible period after the descent of the stone into the bladder. SECTION XIV.—LITHOTOMY. Definition.—The best definition is the homely P]nglish phrase, cutting for the stone. The Indication for this operation may be defined to be, the presence of a stone in the bladder, which it is not judged expedient to remove by lithotrity. The only Contraindication is the presence of such serious organic disease, and especially of the kidneys or lungs, as would render the patient likely to sink from the immediate effects of the operation. But the surgeon is not justified in withholding a means of relief, if the only one, and if the patient desires it, ntiei ely out of I'egard to his own repu- tation for success in operations.* There are several methods in which lithotomy may be performed, and these may be classified, says Mr. H. Thompson,! under two heads, and seem to have originated in two different sets of ideas. The first [sihelateral operation, which provides an exit for the stone where there is most space for it, that is, downwards between the coccvx and sacrosciatic ligament. It no doubt comes in the way of important blood- vessels, and it involves free division of the prostate gland.f Hence another class of operations has been devised on anatomical, or a priori grounds. They are styled by Mr. Thompson central operations, inasmuch as the incisions " are limited to the central pai t of the perinseum, and are made in the line of the raphe itself or transverse to it, and lie mainly between the anus and the symphysis pubis. They do not ap- proach the rami or the great vessels, nor do they run transversely near to the origin of the branches from the pudic artery. In no case do the incisions reach the external limits of the prostate gland." I. The Lateral Operation is doubtless the safest if one opera- * The mortality from this operation increases as the age does. Out of one hundred and eighty-six cases, collected by Mr. Hutchinson, one hundred and thirty-seven were under the age of twenty, and of these one hundred and twenty-three recovered; forty-nine were over twenty years, and of these no fewer than twenty-six died, or more than half. See Med. Times and Gaz., Jan. 8th, J 859. t Practical Lithotomy and Lithotrity, or an Inquiry into the best modes of removing Stone from the Bladder, by Henry Thompson, F.R.G.S., Lond., 1863. A book which is really a model for style, method, and practical insight.653 LITHOTOMY. tion be applied indiscriminately to all cases. There are an infinity of minute variations in the manner of performing if, and in the instru- ments employed by different surgeons. In the following pacres the author proposes to describe chiefly the method employed bv Mr Fero-us- son which he has had many opportunities of witnessing at the King's College Hospital. ° 1. Lateral Operation.-The instruments needed are the follow- ing : A sharp-pointed knife ; a straight probe-pointed knife if necessary to enlarge the internal incision ; a curved staff, deeply grooved;—it should be lai ge, the groove deep and not extending more than half way up the straight part of the instrument;—Mr. Fergusson's staff has the groove on the left side ;—forceps of various sizes, and scoops for extract- ing the stone 5 and a sound to make sure that the bladder is empty after the operation. Needles and tenacula, canulaj and a stone-crusher, may be at hand, in case of need. The bladder may contain a little urine—as much as would collect in an hour.* The best operators prefer it empty rather than fall, and do not inject it if empty, as was formerly taught. If the bladder be empty the stone will be close to its neck;—if full when cut into, instead of contracting regularly it falls together in folds which may entangle the stone. It is advisable that the bowels should be cleared in the morning with a simple enema. The surgeon must take care that there is a good firm table for the operation ; about two feet and a half high. When the time is come, the patient should lie down on this, and be put under the influence of chloroform. Then the staff may be introduced, and should be made to act as a sound, to make clear the existence of the stone to the operator and his assistants. If the staff does not serve this purpose, a sound must be used; for this is a point about.which there should be no mistake. The next point is to place the patient in a convenient posture. He was formerly placed on his back, with his shoulders resting in the lap * See Thompson, op. cit.654 LITHOTOMY. of an assistant, who sat astride behind him. This is dispensed with in these chloroform days, and the shoulders are raised comfortably by a pillow. Then, in order to expose the perinaeum thoroughly, he must be made to raise and separate his thighs; and to grasp the outside of each foot with the hand of the same side; and the hand and foot may be firmly bound together by a broad gai-ter. Mr. Pi lchard, of Bris- tol, employs a kind of anklet and bracelet, which are buckled round wrist and ankle respectively, and can be securely hooked together or un- hooked in an instant. This is pre- ferred by Mr. Thompson. The but- tocks should be brought to the edge of the table ; meanwhile, if not done before, the perinaeum should be shaved. The surgeon may, says Mr. Fergusson, pass his left forefinger well oiled into the rectum, to ascertain the size of tlie prostate, and its depth from the surface; he should also explore with his fingers the surface of the peri- nosum, and the position of the rami and tuberositits of the ischia. This exploration, says Mr. Thompson, also makes the rectum contract to the smallest bulk. Everything being now prepared, an assistant on each side holding the thighs firmly asunder—another being at hand to give the sui-geon his instruments—and a fourth stationed on the left side holding the staff perpendicularly, and well hooked against the symphysis pubis—in which position he is to hold it steadily from first to last;—and keeping up the scrotum out of the way;—the surgeon places the fingers of the left hand on the right buttock, and with tlie thumb fixes the integu- ments of the perinseum, taking care, however, not to draw them up. Then he commences by a free division of the skin, with more or less of the subjacent tissues; entering his knife just on the left side of the raphe, about an inch and three quarters in front of the anus, and cutting downwards, with a sawing motion, to midway between the anus and the tuberosity of the left ischium. " The blade of the knife," says Mr. Fergusson, " should next be run along the surface of the exposed fat and cellular tissue, and then the forefinger of the left hand be thrust into the wound, about its middle, and directed upwards and forwards between the left erector and accelerator muscles." If any muscular fibres of the transversus or other tissue offers resistance, it may be divided by a touch with the knife ; but usually they give way before the finger, which reaches and feels the groove of the staff in the655 LITHOTOMY. membranous part of the urethia. This is the first stage of the operation. The left forefinger nail is now to be well fixed in the groove of the staff, the knife is slipped in over it, with its flat surface nearly hori- zontal ; its point is made to pierce the tissues covering the staff and to enter the groove, and to slide along the groove towards the bladder, dividing the membranous part of the uiethra, and the edge of the prostate. This completes what the French would call the second temps. Now the knife being withdrawn, the left forefinger is gently in- sinuated along the staff into the bladder with a rotatory kind of motion, dilating the parts as it enters ; and is made to feel for the stone. "By it, too," says Mr. Thompson, " the surgeon takes a kind of hold of the bladder and maintains his communication with it." In the next place, the assistant removes the staff, and the surgeon cautiously introduces the forceps over the finger into the bladder ; the finger being with- drawn as the instrument enters. And, at this moment, Mr. Fer- gusson, with admirable dexterity, opens the forceps, and with a turn of the wrist, giving a scooping motion to the open blades, catches the stone as it is brought within their jaws by the gush of urine that escapes. For it must be observed, that so closely does the finger follow the knife into the bladder, that no urine escapes till the finger is withdrawn. If, however, the stone is not caught in this ready way, the forceps must be closed and brought into contact with it—then the blades be656 LATERAL OPERATION. opened over it and made to grasp it; if seized awkwardly, it is relin- quished and seized again—then it is extracted by slow, cautious, undu- lating movements. The forceps should be held with the convexity of one blade upwards and of the other downwards ; and the endeavour should be to make the parts gradually yield and dilate, not to tear them. The gen€7^al maxims to be borne in mind during the performance of this operation are, 1, to make a free external incision, and to bring it low enough down, so that the urine may subsequently escape freely without infiltrating the cellular tissue ; 2, not to cut deeply too high up, nor to open the urethra too much in front, for fear of dividing too much of the urethra, and wounding the artery of the bulb. Many surgeons begin one inch above the anus ; 3, not to wound the rectum, or pudic artery, by carrying the incisions too low, or cutting loo much inwards or outwards;—the left forefinger should protect the I'ectum throughout; 4, not to cut through the prostate. Mr, H.Thompson believes that infiltration of urine through too large an internal incision, is not so much to be dreaded as the bruising, and tearing of the neck of the bladder, and its delicate cellular connections which may accompany too small an incision. The usual pons of young operators, is the difficulty of getting the finger and forceps into the bladder, and the propensity to let them slip between the bladder and rectum. * This diagram, copied from a paper by Mr. Bryant, Lancet, Feb. 11th, 1843, is useful as exhibiting au internal view of tbe parts at the neclc of the bladder, concerned in lithotomy; a a, vasa deferentia; h, vesicula seminales; c, pros- tate ; d d, ureters. It will be noticed that after the first incision, the use of the knife is very li- mited indeed. Yet, if the stone is very large, the prostate very hard, or if any muscular or other tis- sues resist the finger as it passes in, they may be touched with the edge of the blunt- pointed bistoury. In fact, the right side of the gland may be di- vided, equally with the left. Also after the stone has been grasped, the same may be done if needful.LITHOTOMY. 657 This, as Mr. Fergusson pointed out in his late lectures at the Royal College of Surgeons, is particularly liable to be the case with children in whom the bladder is more an abdominal than a pelvic organ. The operator does not get into the bladder. Instead of insinuating his finger through a wound in the prostate, and between it and the stati', he pushes the prostate before him, and tears it from the membranous part of the urethra. In seizing the stone, if not caught at the first gush of urine, care must be taken not to grip the bladder with it. The forceps should have long blades, curved so as to retain the stone without undue pres- sure. They may be lined with linen, which aifords a firmer hold, and takes up less room, and is less likely to crush the stone than the me- tallic teeth usually employed. 1 The extraction of the stone resembles a problem in midwifery. As i the OS uteri must not be allowed to come down before the child's head i and get jammed between it and the pubes, so the surgeon must not Idrag down the prostate in front of the stone, and jam it against the ramus of the ischium. It may be useful, says Mr. Fergusson, to push it back over the forceps with the left forefinger. Moreover, the ; extracting force must be dii-ected downwards and backwards where the interval between the bones is the largest; and, as Mr. Thompson well observes, should be employed slowly and tenderly to stretch but not to tear. If the stone is so large that it will not pass, there is the choice of crushing it, by a huge lithotrite, or by a screw instrument invented by Haynes Walton. Large stones are dangerous on account of the ma- nipulation required to extract or crush, and the high operation is })roposed for such cases. A surgeon in America finding himself unable to extract a stone by the perinseum, immediately cut into the bhvdder above the pubes, and extracted it that way. The patient recovere<]. If the stone is adherent, or encysted, the finger-nail and the scoop must be employed to detach it. If pouched behind the prostate, a finger in the rectum may lift it within reach of the forceps. If grasped by the bladder behind the pubes it may be brought down by injecting with warm water. The varieties of this operation before alluded to are as follow.LITHOTOMY, 658 Many surgeons direct the assistant to hold the staff so that it may project in the perinaeum, and incline a little to the left side of it,— and when they have opened the urethra, and are about to incise the neck of the bladder, they take its handle in their own left hand, and bring it down horizontally. Mr. Key preferred a straight staff". Again, there are great diversities in the manner of cutting into the bladder. Some use a histouri cache, an instrument containing a blade that protrudes to a certain extent on touching a spring. Sir B. Brodie preferred a beaked knife; or, if the stone is very large, a double-edged knife with a beak in the centre, so as to divide both sides of the pros- tate. When the bladder is opened he directs the wound to be dilated by means of the blunt gorget, which distends the neck of the bladder, and splits cleanly through the prostate, without any risk of haemorrhage or mischief. Many surgeons open the bladder by means of the cutting gorget; the beak of which being put into the groove of the staff, held horizontally in the operator's left hand, is pushed cautiously on, and made to cut its way into the bladder. If this instrument is employed, every precaution must be used to keep it in contact with the staff, and not to let it slip between the bladder and rectum—an accident that has been the death of not a few. Professor Buchanan, of Glasgow, employs a rectangular staff, with the shorter branch grooved in its side. This is introduced and made to feel the stone. The surgeon introduces the left forefinger into the I'ectum (where he keeps it duiing the whole operation), feels that the prostate is between his finger and the short branch of the sound, keeps the angle of the staff just in fi-ont of the gland, and depresses the handle, so that the angle may project in the perinseum between the anus and bulb, and that the left thumb may feel the groove. The handle is now committed to an assistant, with instructions to depress it steadily, and keep it in the same position. The surgeon then plunges a bistoury iuto the groove of the staff in the middle line just above the anus, at the point where the skin and mucous membrane meet. The bistoury (a straight and sharp backed instrument whose blade, cutting on both edges near the point, and is of the same length as the short branch of the staff) is pushed to the extremity of the groove, being kept strictly at right angles to the handle of the staff". In withdrawing it, it is made to cut at first outwards and downwards, then directly downwards, so that the incision turns as it were round the finger in the rectum. The advantages of this operation are said to be, that it is simple and easy; that it is free from hsemorrhage, because removed from the trans- verse vessels of the perinaeum ; and that the incisions are small, and yet the wound roomy, from the extensibility of the rectum, Buchanan's staff has been modified by Mr. Hutchinson, who has converted it into a grooved catheter staff, with a stopcock ; so that the surgeon may be certified, by the escape of urine, that he has really reached the bladder, and may inject water if need be. Dr. Corbett has added to Buchanan's staff another external staff", the short branch of which is pointed; and which is so contrived that when the first staff'659 LITHOTOMY. is introduced into the bladder, the second external staff is fitted iii; its short branch perforates the skin and falls into the gi-oove of the short limb of the first staff, and so the road from the skin into the bladder is unmistakable.* The late M7\ Avery constructed a most ingenious instrument, by means of which a baby might perform lithotomy. A staff introduced into the bladder contained machinery, so tliat by turning a handle, a trocar was made to pierce the perinajum from within ; thus making it impossible to miss the bladder. This will come into use when female surgeons cut for the stone. After-Treatment.—The surgeon—especially if the stone has been crushed, or if there is reason to suspect more than one—makes certain by means of the sound, or by syringing the bladder, that eveiy fragment has been removed. Mr. Fergusson introduces a sup- pository of morphia, before the patient is removed to his bed. The patient should lie on his back with his shoulders elevated ; a napkin should be applied to the perinasum to soak up the urine, and the bed be protected by oilcloth. Some surgeons introduce a large gum elastic canula through the wound into the bladder for it to flow through for the first twenty-four hours. If not, the surgeon should introduce his finger after a few hours, to clear the wound of coagula. Pain must be allayed by opium—the bowels be kept open with castor-oil—the wound be kept perfectly clean—the diet be nourishing—and then, in favourable cases, the urine begins to flow by the urethra in about one week (sometimes in three or four days), and the wound heals completely in four or Ave. Complications.—1. Severe licemorrhage may proceed at the time of the operation, or after it, from thepudic, prostatic, or bulbous arteries if wounded. If the bleeding orifice cannot be secured, it must be com- pressed as long as may be necessary with the finger. A general venous or arterial oozing must be checked by filling the wound firmly with lint or sponge—the tube being then indispensable; and by ice applied to the perinseum, or lower part of the abdomen. Care should be taken that blood does not accumulate in the bladder. This may be suspected if the patient is pale and exhausted, and must be combated by injections of cold water, to make the bladder contract. Sloughing of the areolar tissue, a result of a hasty operation, is indicated by heat and pain about the neck of the bladder ; heat of the skin and sleepiness, followed by a rapid jerking intermittent pulse—hiccup—the belly tympanitic, the countenance anxious, and the other signs of irritative or typhoid fever. To be treated by hip-baths, wine and bark, thoroughly opening the wound with the finger, and, if necessary, laying the wound into the rectum, so that the urine and fetid discharge may escape. 3. Sim- ple peritonitis ; pain and tenderness extending from the bladder over the abdomen, must be treated as directed at p. 545. 4. Pyosmia, see p. 64. II. Central Lithotomy.—The bilateral operation is performed by making a curved incision, with the convexity upwards, from * See Hutchinson's paper, Med. Times And Gaz., Feb. 21st, 1857; and Corbett ib., Dec. 8th, 1858,LITHOTOMY. 660 one side of the perinseum to the other—carrying it between the anus and bulb of the urethra—opening the membranous poi tion of the urethra—and then pushing a double histouri cache into the bladder, by ^Yhich both sides of the prostate may be divided. Some years since Dr. Willis proposed an operation, which he called LiTHEGTASY, or Cystectasy, in which, after the membranous part of the urethra was laid open, the prostate was dilated by fluid pressure, till it admitted of a forceps being introduced to seize the stone. The success of this operation in the six or eight cases in which it was tried, was not great—probably because the patient was kept too long under treatment.* Allarton's Operation.'—An operation on the same principle has been proposed by Mr. Allarton.f A staff with a central groove is in- troduced, and held firmly against the pubes. The operator having in- troduced his left forefinger into the anus, and pressing its point against the staff in the prostate, passes a long-handled straight-pointed knife into the perinjeum, exactly in the middle line, about half an inch above the anus, till it hits the groove in the staff. Then he moves the point of the knife a few lines towards the bladder, and next withdraws it, enlarging the incision upwards as he does so, to the extent of from three- quarters of an inch to an inch and a half. Next, he passes a long ball- pointed wire or probe along the groove of the staff quite into the bladder, and withdraws the staff. Following the guidance of the wire, the operator insinuates his left forefinger, well greased, along it through the prostate, dilating the parts as it goes onw\ards. Now if the stone is small, it probably comes in contact with the finger; and if the patient strains, will follow the finger as it is withdrawn, and come out. If not, the wound in the prostate may be farther dilated by Weiss's female dilator, or by the end of the forefinger enlarged by the super- imposition of several india-rubber finger-stalls. In cases of difficulty, the stone may be crushed, or the operation converted into the common bilateral one. Amongst the advantages of this operation, Mr. Allarton enumerates the impossibility of missing the bladder; the small amount of cutting, and of danger ; and the fact that the patient, from the wound being in the middle line, preserves the power of the muscles, and can strain so as easily to bring the stone within the reach of the operator. This operation, says Mi-. Thompson, is that by which the bladder is reached with the smallest amount of cutting. " It appears to become dangerous, just in proportion as injury by laceration or over-pressure under the name of dilatation is superadded to the incisions." Want of space is the vice of median operations; they are therefore not adapted for children, nor for large stones, nor for large and rigid prostates; and it is better to incise either side, than use undue force in dilatation. John Wood's Operation.—Mr. Wood, after a limited incision round the front and left side of the anus, opens the membranous * See Willis on the Urinary Organs; Eanking's Abstract, vol. iii., p. 119. f Lithotomy yimplified, by G. Allarton, Lend., 1S54; A Treatise on Modern Median Liihotomy, Lond., 1863.661 STONE IN WOMEN. urethra up to the prostate. Then comes into play the peculiar staff of his invention, the blades of the grooved portion of which can be separated in the prostate, so as to stretch the passage and allow the surgeon's left forefinger to be gradually insinuated into the bladder. The in- cisions are limited, the vessels safe, and the operator cannot miss his road nor push his finger in any wrong direction. The writer will say, in conclusion, that the general history of medicine and surgeiyis in favour of such methods as spring from experience, rather than from d priori considerations. III. The Rectovesical Operation consists in cutting into the bladder from the rectum, in the middle line behind the prostate. M. Chassaignac has twice performed a recto-vesical lithotomy in the middle line, by means of the ecraseur* IV. The High Operation is performed by making an incision through the linea alba, and opening the bladder (which is projected upwards on the point of a long catheter) at its fore and upper part, where it is not covered by peritonsBum. This operation may be occa- sionally resorted to when the stone is of great size, and the prostate much enlarged, or the space between the tuberosities of the ischia contracted. SECTION XV.—STONE IN WOMEN. Stone in women is much less frequent than it is in men, and when a renal calculus reaches the bladder, it is much more easily voided. If, however, there be one too large to escape, it must be removed. 1. The surgeon may employ lithotrity. 2. The orifice of the urethra may be simply dilated, which may be effected by Weiss's female dilator, slowly or quickly, as may be desired, 3. Not to mention the plans for cutting into the bladder from the vagina, or other parts, the orifice may be incised. 4. Incision may be combined with dilatation. The great evil is the almost certainty that more or less incontinence of urine will follow. Mr. Fergusson recommends that the dilatation should be effected very slowly, by means of a metallic or some other dilator, till the urethra is capable of admitting the forefinger, when a forceps may be introduced to seize the stone. If this should not answer, and it seems necessary to make an incision, he recommends that the anterior half of the urethra—not its whole length into the bladder—should be divided to the extent of half an inch with a probe-pointed bistoury; after which sufficient dilatation may be effected with the forefinger oiled. The outer part of the urethra, which is the most imdilatable part of it, would be alone divided by this operation, and the neck of the bladder, unless very roughly used, would speedily acquire its tone and use. In this way the eminent surgeon just quoted has extracted a stone three inches in circumference, and the patient had the power of retaining her urine immediately afterwards.f * De la taille Recto-Vesicale par ecrasemeat lineaire, par Emile Servoin, D.M., &c. &c. Paris, Rignoux. 1862. t Fergusson, Practical Surgery, second edition, p. 135.DISEASES OF THE PENIS. 662 CHAPTER XXI. DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITALS. SECTION I.—DISEASES OF THE PENIS. I. Phymosis signifies a preternatural constriction of the orifice of the foreskin, so that the glans cannot be uncovered without difficulty, if at all. It may be a congenital affection, or may be caused by the contracted cicatrices of ulcers. Besides the obstruction which it occasions to the functions of the organ, it prevents the washing away of the secretions from the corona glandis, and thus renders the patient liable to ft equent balanitis and gleets, and in advanced age to epithelioma of the penis; and it is a source of great trouble if he happen to be afl'ected with the venereal disease. Treatment*—The surgeon may either circumcise, that is, cut off the end of the foreskin, which is advisable if the end is thickened and gristly, or may sht it up. If he circumcises, he should draw out the end of the foreskin, hold it between the blades of forceps, and cut it straight off; after which, with scissors, he should cut up the mucous lining of the foreskin to the corona, so as quite to uncover the glans. If he prefers the slitting plan,a director maybe introduced about an inch between the glans and prepuce, and a curved, narrow-pointed bistoury passed along its groove, by which the prepuce may be slit up. Then, in the adult, after either operation, four or five fine sutures should be passed through the margin of the incision, so as to draw together the edge of the skin and that of the mucous lining of the prepuce, that they may unite by adhesion. If this is not done, the skin and mucous membrane will be separated by the swelling and occasional erection that follows the operation, and the wound, instead of being a mere line, will be half an inch wide. In a young child, these sutures, however, may be dispensed with without disadvantage, the operation being rendered much shorter and less painful. Instead of these operations it is now proposed to make two or three cuts, each about a quarter of an inch deep, through the skin and mucous membrane * The author early this year saw a Cambridge student, £et. 23, alfected with congenital phymosis of the tightest kind. He advised him to come up to town in the long vacation to be circmucised; and meanwhile, for the sake of clean- liness, daily to inject warm water under the prepuce. The result was that the orifice spontaneously gave way, and no operation was required.663 EPISPADIAS. forming the edge of the prepuce, at equal distances. But the author has seen unsatisfactory results from stingy operations. II. Paraphymosis is said to exist when a tight prepuce is pulled back over the glans, constricting it, and causing it to twell. Treatment.—The surgeon first compresses the glans, well oiled and covered with a bit of lint, in the fingers of one hand, so as to squeeze the blood out of it, then pushes it back with that hand, whilst he draws the prepuce forwards with the other. If this fjiils, the constricting part of the prepuce must be divided with a curved-pointed bistoury. III. Cancer of the Penis is rare. That which is commonly called cancer, is epithelioma, which generally begins as a warty excres- cence on the inner surface of the prepuce. It generally occurs to elderly persons, who have had phymosis. The disease, left to itself, follows the ordinary course. After a time ulceration commences. Whilst one part is perishing, fresh warty growths sprout up and invade the rest of the organ ; ulceration spreads with its fetid dis- charge ; there is immense irritation with the urine; the morbid growths strike root into the corpora spongiosa ; the glands in the groin are alfected, and the patient dies miserably. This disease may be combined with cancer; it may be complicated with syphilis ; it may, in its earlier stages, be identical with, or indis- tinguishable from, vascular warts, or condyloma, if ulcerated. The rule hence deducible is, that free and early extirpation should be per- formed in all doubtful cases of papillary excrescences, and that if the disease return, the part should be amputated. Statistical results are here impossible without microscopic examination; but the general ex- perience of surgeons may be expressed by the words of Fergussou: "that if certain sores which may be termed pseudo-cancerous were treated by excision at an early date, there would be a better result than surgery can yet boast of;" but that when the disease has obtained a firm footing, a temporary respite is all that amputation can give. IV. Amputation of the Penis.—An assistant steadies and com- presses the root of the organ ; then the surgeon stretches it out with one hand, and cuts it off with one sweep of a bistoury. Care must be taken that too much of the skin of the prepuce is not left, as it con- stitutes an impediment to the passage of the urine afterwards. It is better also to slope off the incisions opposite to the urethral canal so as to leave the spongy body a little longer than the cavernous, with a spout-like end. The urethral wall should then be slit up a little way, and the mucous membrane stitched back to the preputial skin, so as to counteract the tendency to contraction which the opening of the urethra always shows after this operation. Bleeding vessels are now to be tied, and cold to be applied, and after three or four days a piece of bougie is to be introduced into the orifice of the urethra, and to be retained there during the cicatrization. V. Epispadias.—As the ha^mapophyses of the foremost vertebra in the cranium and the soft parts covering them, may be ill developed.ELEPHANTIASIS. 664 leaving the fissures known as cleft-palate and hare-lip, so the cor- responding parts of the sacral series, if ill developed, leave fissure, ill that region. 1. The pubic bones may be imperfect at the sym- physis, leaving a gap, completed by ligament. 2. The two sides of the penis may be separated—which the surgeon may attempt to unite, but will haidly succeed. 3. There may be complete absence of the anterior wall of the bladder, the abdominal wall, the pubic symphysis, and of the upper surface of the penis. This is a horrid case: there is a deep gap at the lower part of the abdomen, from which the red mucous membrane of the bladder protrudes, and the urine is in- cessantly dribbling. 'J'he testicles and scrotum may be well developed. The surgeon may content himself with mechanical appliances for palliating the patient's inconveniences; or he may attempt, if he thinks it prudent, a radical cure, such as that which Mr. Simon devised and executed. This consists in first establishing a fistulous passage from the imperfect bladder into the rectum, and then in closing the edges of the fissure. The results of the operation were not proportionate to the ingenuity and skill evidenced in its invention and execution, as the patients eventually died.* Mr. Wood has recently operated on two of these cases with complete success. This surgeon does not attempt to open the bladder into the rectum, but closes the gap in the abdominal wall by transplantation from the groin and scrotum, leaving a small opening above the imperfect penis to act as an urethra, to which an india-rubber bottle can be fixed. Mr. Holmes, of St. George' Hospital, has also succeeded in a like operation in two cases out of four. VI. Hypospadias is a deficiency of the parts constituting the under surface of the urethra. It is very common indeed for the last half inch or inch of the urethra to be impervious, there being an orifice about the situation of the frjjenum ; but this requii es no treatment. If the gap is so extensive as to interfere with the proper use of the genitals, it may be attempted to be relieved by paring the edges of the skin on each side of the fissure, and uniting it by suture, provided that the urethra is pervious to the end of the penis. An American surgeon has proposed to unite the edges of the fissure by cauterizing them with nitrate of silver, and then scraping off the black eschar; by,which means the surfaces are made raw without hemorrhage or loss of substance. VII. Elephantiasis.—The natives of India are liable to this dis- ease in the areolar tissue of the penis and scrotum, which parts become completely buried in the enormous tumours which are developed, and which may weigh possibly 601b. to 1801b., hanging down to the patient's knees, or even to the ankles. (See p. 683.) The malady generally begins in tlie prepuce, from which it spreads and involves the areolar tissue of the scrotum. The skin is wrinkled, and there is a kind of aperture from which the urine escapes. The * Mr. Simon's case, Lancet, 1852, voL ii., p. 568; case by Mr. Lloyd, Lancet, 1851, voL ii.,p. 370.DISEASES OF THE TESTIS. 665 only remedy is extirpation of the diseased mass, which should be done early. Tiiere can be no danger in trimming oif a few pounds of redundant scrotum. But if the disease be very voluminous (following the directions of Allan Webb and other Indian surgeons, and of Dr. Wiblin, by whom the author saw a remarkable scrotal tumour removed at Southampton in 1862), the surgeon should place the patient on a table, two houi-s before the operation, should raise the tumour by a pulley attached to the ceiling, and should ice it, so as to let all possible blood return from it into the circulation. Chloroform is given ; a clamp composed of parallel bars, with screws at each end, is applied to the neck of the tumour to act as a tourniquet; if there be any hernia, care should be taken that it has been wholly reduced. Then he makes first a longitudinal cut with a long knife up the urinary aperture, over the dorsum of the penis, which part is to be dissected out; next, by similar incisions over each cord and testicle, those parts are exposed, dissected out, and held up: whilst lastly the operator makes a clean sweep with the remainder of the tumour. The great danger is the haemorrhage ; which must be obviated by a rapid operation, and by plenty of ligatures. If the tumour is very large, the attempt to save the testicles, or even the penis, might be hazardous, and a clean sweep must be made.* SECTION II.—DISEASES OF THE TESTIS. I. AcDTE Inflammation of the testis {acute testitis, orchitis, hernia humoralis) may be caused by local violence, but more frequently occurs in conjunction with gonorrhoea, through an extension of inflam- mation from the urethra. It is very liable to be induced if the patient indulges in violent exercise and fermented liquors, or neglects to use a suspensory bandage while employing injections. Symptoms.—The discharge from the urethra diminishes, and the patient soon complains of aching pain in the testis and cord, extending up to the loins, and soon followed by great swelling, excruciating ten- derness, fever, and vomiting. The epididymis is the part most affected. The swelling depends mainly upon an effusion of lymph and serum into the tunica vaginalis. Treatment.—Absolute rest in bed ; the application of leeches, or the abstraction of blood from some of the veins of the scrotum ; opium at night to allay pain; purgatives, especially F. 40, followed by tartar emetic in doses of a sixth of a grain, F. 67, every five or six hou)-s, warm fomentations, and a suspensory bandage, or handkerchief, to elevate the part upon the abdomen. After the acute stage has subsided, strong astringent lotions, F. 117, may be employed. Some hardness and swelling (as the patient should be informed) always remain after the acute attack. As soon as the very acute stage has subsided, coin- * Field Notes for Amputations, &c., by Allan Webb, M.D., Calcutta, 1855. East Indian cases; Esdaile on Natural and Mesmeric Clairvoyance, Lend., 1852. John Wiblin's case, Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xlvi., and Med. Times, 1862, vol. ii., with tabular record of European and West Indian cases.666 DISEASES OF THE TESTIS. pression will be found a useful means of reducing the swelling, and supporting the dilated vessels. The affected testicle is grasped and separated from its fellow, and then is encircled with strips of adhesive plaster, which are to be applied regularly and as tightly as the patient can bear; the first strap being applied round the spermatic cord im- mediately above the testicle, and the other downwards in succession, slightly overlapping each other.* Acute inflammation of the testicle is treated by Mr, Henry Smith by simply making a deep puncture with a thin sharp knife into the body oi-' the testis. By this incision a small quantity of serum and a few drachms of blood are emitted, and almost instantaneous relief is given to the pain. Scarcely any other means beyond a little aperient medicine, or the use of a cooling lotion are employed. Mr..-Smith is of opinion that the efficacy of this plan of treatment is due mainly to the tension being taken off, the compressed tubes of this testicle through the free division of the tunica albuginea, although some amount of relief must result from the direct removal of blood from this inflamed part. II. Chronic Inflammation [Sarcocele) is known by more or less hardness, swelling, tenderness, and occasional pain. Very often it com- mences in the epididymis. It may be a sequel of acute inflammation, or may be caused by disease in the urethra, which should always be looked for, and treated if found. It sometimes depends on a syphilitic taint, which will be probable, if the patient has the aspect of secondary syphilis, if the pain is principally severe at night, and if there are secondary venereal affections of other parts: chronic rheumatism is often a cause. It very often, in its latter stages, is accompanied with some degree of effusion into the tunica vaginalis (Jiydro-sarcocele). It may be distinguished from cancer by the distinction between testis and epididymis not being lost; by its often affecting both testes; by the greater uniformity and smoothness of the swelling, its slower pro- gress, and less amount of pain and superficial vascularity. As it increases, the tumour softens in parts, thus again presenting similarity to cancer; but when it softens it is not so large as soft cancer would be. On examination, the testicle is found to contain a yellow exudation, which is both interspersed in its substance, and also, according to Sir B. Brodie and Mr. Curling, is deposited in the tubuli seminiferi, and may be found extending into the vas deferens. Treatment.—So far as regards the part—rest; a suspensory ban- dage ; occasional leeching; or cold lotion; or iodine paint; or blisters; or Scott's ointment, with pressure by strips of plaster. The constitu- tional treatment requires care and discrimination. In some uncom- plicated, and in some syphilitic cases, it is expedient to administer mercury very gently ; in other cases, corrosive sublimate with bark or * This practice, which was first recommended by Frickp, of Hamburg, was adopted by Ricord, and introduced into tliis country by Mr. Acton and Mr. Langston Parlcer. See also T. Blizard Curling on Diseases of tlie Testis, 2nd edit., Lond., 1856 ; Caesar Hawkins, Lond. Med. Gaz., JS.S., vol. iv., p. 943.HERNIA TESTS. 667 sarsaparilla, the iodide of potassium, cod-liver oil, nourishing diet, and tonics. III. Abscess of the testis may be a result of clironic or scrofulous inflammation—very rarely of the acute. A puncture should be made so soon as fluctuation is clearly felt, and the skin is adherent. And when the matter has been evacuated, the case should be treated by pressure, and in other respects like any other abscess. IV. Fungus, or Hernia Testis.—When the fibrous tissue of the testis has been perforated by abscess, a soft fungus, composed of the tubuli, and of flbro-plastic matter, is apt to protrude. This should be returned to its place by pressure with lint and strips of plaster; bi- chloride of mercury or iodide of potassium with tonics may be given to excite absorption of interstitial lymph if there is a syphilitic or scrofulous taint; and stimulating applications, such as the lunar caustic, should be used in order to excite granulation. Should this fail, Mr. Syme's operation should be resorted to, of making two semi-elliptical incisions ( ), one on either side of the fungus, removing the narrow edge of skin around the fungus, and then bringing the healthy skin from either side over it, and employing sutures and other measures for procuring adhesion. To shave off the protruding substance would be almost equal to castration. V. Scrofulous Inflammation commences with a deposit of so called "tubercle" into some part of the testis or epididymis, either into or be- tvveen the tubuli. A nodular swelling appears externally, attended with very little pain or tenderness, which after a time inflames and bursts, and gives exit to the fungous protrusion just mentioned. It often happens that the lungs are diseased as well. Treatment.— The health must be invigorated by cod-liver oil, bark, the iodides of iron and potassium, lotions of zinc, iodine, &c. (See p. 96.) When all the tubercular matter has been evacuated, the abscess heals of itself; but, before this occurs, the whole organ is often disorganized and ren- dei'ed useless, and sometimes it is necessary to remove it, on account of the irritation and drain on the system. VI. Atrophy of the testicle may be a result of excessive venereal indulgence, or of injury or of inflammation ; the part becoming fiUed with exudation, which degenerates, and in so doing annihilates the tubular structure, and is then itself absorbed. The gland may dwindle to the size of a pea. There is no cure. VII. Imperfect Descent of the Testicle.—This organ may either remain in the abdomen permanently, or may be stopped in the inguinal canal. The latter condition renders it extremely subject to pain and injury, and renders the patient liable to hernia. In order to prevent these evils, Mr. Curling recommends, that if the testis has not quitted the abdomen by the time the child is a year old, a truss should be applied to prevent it from coming down at all. When a testicle not fully come down, is complicated with hernia, an endeavour must be made to keep up the hernia by a small pad, which will keep the testis down. In cases, in which the testicle in this situation isDISEASES OF THE TESTIS. 668 mistaken for hernia, the absence of it from the scrotum, the peculiar pain felt on handling it, the peculiar consistence of the swelling, and the absence of impulse on coughing, are the chief diagnostic marks.* (See p. 570.) In these cases, Mr. Wood recommends the use of a truss with a perforated or ring pad covered by a water cushion of india- rubber. The opening in the pad is to be made large enough to receive the projecting testicle, while the edges of the ring protect it from injury, and restrain the protrusion of the hernia behind the testicle. (See Wood on Rupture.) VIII. Neuralgia of the testis and cord produces fits of excruciat- ing pain, which leave the parts tender and slightly swollen. The treat- ment must be that of neuralgia generally. (See p. 20.) Violent pur- gatives in general do mischief. A few leeches, the application of intense cold, counter-irritants, and opiate or belladonna plasters or liniments, sometimes afford relief. The internal remedies most likely to do good are steel, quinine, and other tonics. Extreme sensitiveness of the testis, so that it cannot bear the slightest touch—the representative of the irritable uterus and ovaries—is another form of this disorder sometimes met with in nervous hypochondriacal subjects; especially in persons who labour under a diseased condition of the urethra, or ex- cessive spermatic discharges. Tonics and cold applications may be tried, and the cause of the affection should be ascertained, and, if pos- sible, removed. In these cases the patients often desire to be castrated. But the surgeon is not justified in doing so, unless there is positive disease. For a surgeon to remove healthy testicles for epilepsy, or neuralgia, or monomania, is an abominable act, which deserves to be punished according to the Mosaic law, " An eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth," IX. Hydrocele signifies a collection of serum in the tunica vaginalis. Symptoms.—It forms a pear-shaped swelling, smooth on its surface, fluctuating if pressed, free from pain and tenderness, causing merely a httle uneasiness by its weight. It commences in the lower part of the scrotum and grows upwards. Occasionally, if large, it is constricted obliquely across the centre by a band of fascia. The epididymis and testicle can sometimes be felt on the posterior surface of the tumour near the bottom. On placing a lighted candle on one side of the scrotum, the light can be discerned through it. Causes.—Hydrocele may be a sequel of inflammation of the testis or of syphilis, but more frequently arises without any local cause. It is often supposed to follow strains of the loins or belly. Diagnosis.—Solid enlargements of the testis may be distinguished from hydrocele by their weight, solidity, and greater painfulness, and by the absence of fluctuation or transparency. The diagnosis from hernia will be found at p. 568. Varieties.—It sometimes happens that the tunica vaginalis preserves its communication with the abdomen, and then becomes filled with * See T. Blizard Curling, op. cit., 2nd edit., 1856.669 HYDEOCELE. serum, forming a cylindrical tumour, extending up to the abdominal ring, to which the name congenital hydrocele is applied. On raisin^ and compressing it, the fluid is slowly squeezed into the abdomen, and slowly trickles down again afterwards. This case is liable to be complicated with a congenital or encgsted hernia, to prevent which, and to close the communication with the cavity of the peritoneum, a truss should be worn. Sometimes the transparency and fluctuation of hydro- cele are absent in consequence of a thickening of the tunica vaginalis, which may be known, according to Brodie, by noticing that the thickened membrane forms a projection along the epididymis, whei'eas in solid enlargements of the testicle the projection of the epididymis is lost. Sometimes the tunica vaginalis is partially adherent to the testicle. Sometimes loose cartilages are found in the sac; they are easily removed by a slight incision. Treatment.—The remedies for hydro- cele are threefold. 1. Strong discutient lotions (F. 118, &c.), which sometimes assist the cure in children, but cannot be depended on for adults. 2. Evacuation of the serum, or the palliative cure. This may be accomplished by a puncture with a common lancet, or trocar; but the method most commonly adopted at present, consists in making a number of punctures with a grooved needle, so that the fluid may escape from the tunica vaginalis into the cellular tissue of the scrotum, whence it is readily absorbed. This palliative treatment is always sufficient for children, but very rarely so in the case of adults. 3. Radical Cure.—This is performed by injecting certain stimulating fluids, or by introducing setons or other foreign substances into the tunica vaginalis, in order to excite a degree of inflammation sufficient to destroy its secreting faculty. It miist not be forgotten, however, that this 7'adica! cure is totally inadmissible if the testis is diseased, or if the hydrocele is complicated with an irreducible hernia, or if the tunica vaginalis preserves its communication with the abdomen. Mere thickening from previous disease is, however, no objection. Operation.—The surgeon grasps the tumour behind, and plunges a trocar and canula into the sac, pointing the instrument upwards, so * Hydrocele. From King's College Museum.DISEASES OF THE TESTIS. 670 that it may not wound the testicle. He next withdraws the trocar, at the same time pushing the canula well into the sac. Then, the old plan was to inject three or four ounces of some irritating liquid, such as port wine or zinc lotion, through the canula, by means of an elastic bottle fitted with a stop-cock, to let it remain a few minutes, and then let it run out, and withdraw the canula. But the remedy most in favour at present is the tincture of iodine, which was used with very great success at Calcutta, by Sir R. Martin. The disease is so common in the East, that Sir R. Martin can refer to thousands of successful cases. The sac having been punctured with a small trocar and canula, about one or two drachms of a mixture of one part tincture of iodine, and two of water are injected and allowed to remain in the sac. Mr. Fergusson uses for this purpose a small glass syringe, with a silver or platinum nozzle made to fit the canula. Mr. Curling recommends palladium. One advantage this method certainly has—namely, that there is much less chance of extravasation into the scrotum, than when the sac is filled with many ounces of fluid. Some amount of pain, inflammation, and effusion may be expected to follow ; and when they subside, the part generally secretes no longer. If it does, the operation must be repeated; or one of the older plans, such as a few threads passed through the sac, by way of seton, or an iron wire, as proposed by Dr. Simpson, may be tried. X. Encysted Hyrocele.—Sometimes a serous cyst is developed on or near the testis. Most frequently it is situated between the tunica vaginalis and epididymis ; very ^ rarely between the tunica vaginalis and testis, and more rarely still within the substance of the external layer of that tunic; sometimes in the spermatic cord. These cysts contain a clear liquid, in which sper- matozoa have been found; owing, as Mr. Curling has shown, to acci- dental I'upture of one of the ducts of the gland. They may be punc- tured with a grooved needle to let the fluid escape, if they have become of inconvenient bulk; and if it is necessary to adopt some radical me- thod of cure, the best plan seems to be to pass a thread or two through the sac with a curved needle, and retain it till it has caused some in- flammation. XI. HyE,MATOCELE signifies an extravasation of blood into the tu- * Eucysled hydrocele. From a preparation in Middlesex Hospital Museum.VARICOCELE. 671 nica vaginalis, in consequence of injury. It is sometimes combined with ecchymosis of the scrotum. Treatment.—In the first place, time, rest, moderate purgatiA^es, and cold lotions, must be employed to prevent or allay inflammation, and allow the blood to be absorbed. Should great inflammation and tense swelling threaten suppuration, an incision should be made. But sometimes the long presence of unabsorbed blood leads to more serious ill consequences. A ponderous tumour is formed, consistmg of the expanded tunica vaginalis, lined with clot, and filled with sanguinolent serum. If tapped, it probably fills again. For this case, the only thing to be done is to make a free incision, turn out the clot, and leave the cavity to granulate. But if, from the magnitude of the tumour, it is evident that the risk of this operation, and of the sloughing that may follow, is too great—and if, as probably happens, the testicle itself is wasted b)^ the continued compression, and completely involved in the fibrinous layers, so as to be indistinguishable—the only remedy re- maining is extirpation,* XII. Varicocele [Cirsocele or Spermatocele) signifies a varicose state of the veins of the spermatic cord. It is induced by the ordinary causes of varix ; that is to say, weakness of structure combined with obstruction to the return of blood through corpulence, constipation, and the like. It is much more common on the left side than on the right; the traditional explanation of which is, that the left spermatic vein is more pressed upon by fsecal accumulations, and that its course is longer and more circuitous than that of the right vein opening at right angles into the renal vein. Treatment,—In ordinary cases, sufficient relief may be obtained by keeping the bowels thoroughly open; by frequently washing the scrotum with cold water or astringent lotions, so as to constringe tlie skin ; and by su]iporting it with a suspensory bandage, made of good stout jea7i, braced firmly to a band passing round the pelvis. But there are some cases in which this disease produces very serious incon- venience—pain in the scrotum and loins—sense of dragging at the stomach—loss of appetite—flatulence—and despondency of mind—and for these cases, something more must be done. Mr. Wormald recom- mends the loose skin of the scrotum to be pinched up and confined with a steel ring. Blisters and counter-irritants, so as to inflame and condense the scrotum; division of the veins by the knife or caustic, and passing setons of thread through them, have had their advocates; and even the barbarous operation of passing a ligature through the scrotum, and tying up the skin of half the scrotum, with all the vessels except the artery and vas deferens—so that they may be divided by ulceration—has been practised in some cases with success ; in others with fatal results, but certainly always with a risk of causing atrophy of the testis. A more humane method is that of passing the ligatures subcutaneously, so as to divide veins only and not skin. These opera- * See case by Bowman, Lancet, 1853, voL i., p. 177.DISEASES OF THE TESTIS. 672 tions on the veins are always attended with sorae risk. This risk, how- ever, is considerably lessened by the use of metallic wire sutures or needles, a combination of which has been before described under the section Varicose Veins, in the operation performed by Mr. Wood (see p. 361). Less suppuration follows their use in the above manner. There is, therefore, less danger of pyaemia. Sir A. Cooper proposed the operation of cutting away a good piece of the loose relaxed skin. " The manner of performing it is as follows :—The patient being placed in the recumbent posture, the relaxed scrotum is drawn between the fingers ; the testis is to be raised to the ring by an assistant; and then the portion of the scrotum is to be removed by the knife." Any artery requiring it must be tied ; and cold must be applied to check bleeding ; and then the lower flap of the scrotum must be brought upwards and forwards, and be attached by sutures to the fore and upper part; and a suspensory bag be applied to press the testis upwa]ds, and glue the scrotum to its surface. One method consists in the application of moderate pi-essure to the dilated veins at the external abdominal ring, by means of Evans's patent lever truss; so as to release them from the pressure of the superincumbent column of blood, and afford them a moderate degree of support.* XIII. Morbid Growths,—The testicle is liable to almost every variety of morbid growth. Thus the fibrous and fibro-plastic tumours may be developed within it; cysts of A^arious kinds (forming the hydatid disease of Sir A. Cooper), of which probably the origin is, according to Mr. Curling, to be found in dilated tubules of the rete testis, and which may accompany cancer, and other growths that are not cancer ;—and enchondroma, which seems to have a peculiar predi- lection for the testicle, and may be found here in connexion with many other kinds of morbid growth. It may be developed within the tubules, or within the lymphatics.* The diagnosis of these growths is chiefly concerned in proving, first, that they are not inflammatory nor syphilitic, on the one hand, which is shown by their resisting all treat- ment ; and secondly, that they are n(jt cancerous, which is shown by their slowness of increase, and by the absence of cachexia. If the tumour becomes of unsightly magnitude, it should be extirpated. XIV. Cancer of the testis is almost always of the soft variety ; it may be combined with enchondroma, or with cystic growth. At first the gland swells, and becomes hard, heavy, and elastic in feel ; it is scarcely, if at ail, painful or tender, and merely causes slight aching in * See Sir A.Cooper, Guy's Hosp. Rep., vol. iii.; Reynaud, Journ. des Con- naissances Med., Feb. 1839 ; James in Prov. Med. Trans, for 1840, and Curling, op. cit. The diagnosis of Varicocele has been spoken of at p. 570. f See Jabez Hogg, Path. Trans., vol. Iv.; Curling, Med, Chir, Trans,, vol. xxxvi., and Path. Trans,, vol. vi,; and especially Mr. Paget's account of a case of enchondroma of the testicle, Med, Chir. Trans., vol, xxxviii. The testis was cut out, and the patient perished of an extension of the disease up to ihe lumbar glands, into the ascending cava, and throughout both lungs.DISEASES OF THE SCROTUM. 673 the loins by its weight. After a time it enlarges rapidly and feels soft; large and toi tuous vessels appear under the skin; the cord swells, there are occasional darting pains passing up the the cord into the back, with a heavy dragging sensation iu the gland, the lumbar glands become affected, large tumours form in the iliac fossa, and cachexia and death soon follow in the ordinary course. Treatment.—When the patient first applies, it will be right, if the diagnosis is undecided, to treat the case as if fibro-plastic or syphilitic, by the administration of iodide of potassium. But if the disease is proved to be cancer, and there is as yet no invasion of the lumbar glands, nor mai-ked cachexy, extirpation may afford the patient a few months of life less burdened by pain and disease. XV. Castration is performed thus:—the scrotum being shaved, the surgeon grasps it behind to stretch the skin, and makes an incision into the tunica vaginalis, to examine the testis, if there is any doubt in the diagnosis. If there is none, he extends the cut from the external abdominal ring to the very bottom of the scrotum. If the skin is adherent, or diseased, or if the tumour is very large, two elliptical incisions maybe made,so as to remove a portion of skin between tliem. Then he separates the cord from its attachments, and an assistant holds it firmly between his finger and thumb, to prevent it from retracting when divided. He now passes his bistoury behind the cord, and di- vides it; and seizing the lower portion draws it forward and dis- sects out the testicle. The arteries of the cord, and any others requiring it, are then to be tied; and the wound must not be closed till all the bleeding has ceased, as this operation is often followed by secondary haemorrhage. SECTION III.—DISEASES OF THE SCROTUM, I. (Edema of the Scrotum.—The loose cellular tissue of this part is liable to immense distension from dropsy. Punctures with a sewing-needle will relieve it. If great and tense oedema, from erysipelas or low inflammation, should thi eaten sloughing, a free incision shoukl be made.* The latter ease very much resembles extravasation of urine, but may be distinguished by the absence of swelling in the perinseum, and of obstruction in micturition. II. Cancer Scroti.—This disease is commonly called the Chim- ney-sweeper s Cancer, because it is said to be seldom met with except amongst that class of men, and because the irritation of soot is said to be the cause of it. Some other irritants are believed to have the same effect on the scrotum. Thus, it is stated on the authority of Dr. Paris, that smelters are liable to a similar disease. And on the other hand, it is said that soot may produce this disease on other parts beside the scrotum. The etiology and anatomy of the disease, however, require further investigation. It usually commences as a florid vascular wart, called the soot-icart. * Listen on Acute Oedema of the Scrotum, Med. Cliir. Trans., vol. xxii. D 2 XIMPOTKNCE. 674 This gradually spreads, affects the whole scrotum and neighboui ing parts of the penis, and ulcerates, producing a fungous sore with ragged edges, discharging a thin offensive matter, and causing so much pain and constitutional disturbance as ultimately to destroy life. The super- ficial inguinal glands become secondarily affected in this foi-mof disease, constituting an important diagnosis between cancer scroti, and cancer of the testis itself in which the iliac and lumbar glands are first affected. This disease is probably, in general, epithelioma, sometimes cancer; in either case, free and early excision should be adopted, as we have often before said.* SECTION IV.—IMPOTENCIO AND SYPHILOPHOBIA. Impotence in the male may depend on a variety of conditions. 1. It may be caused by absence, or mutilation, or malfoi mation, or original weakness and want of development of the genital organs. 2. After any severe illness, the genitals may remain incapable of per- forming their functions, long after the restoration of the health and strength in other respects. Steel and other tonics, with cantharides, musk, nux vomica, Indian hemp, galvanism cautiously applied to the spine, spices, eggs, and oysters, and above all, time, and abstinence from attempts at connexion till the strength is fully restored, are the remedies. Phosphorus, F. 191, is said to be a potent aphrodisiac. 3. Blows on the head, or spine, are apt to be followed by impotence; which sometimes is relieved, but more frequently is permanent. A cautious course of mercury, followed by the stimulating aphrodisiacs just mentioned, are the remedies most likely to be of use, A similar result sometimes follows a fit of apoplexy. 4. Certain diseases are always attended with a diminution, and sometimes with a complete loss of sexual power; especially diabetes, diseases of the kidneys, some forms of dyspepsia, and the latter stages of most chronic organic dis- eases. 5. It sometimes happens that a young man, the first time he yields to carnal temptation—or that a newly-married man on the night of his nuptials, finds himself incapable of accomplishing his wishes— through awkwardness, or timidity, or over-anxiety, or, perhaps, be- cause on nearer inspection he finds his chere amie less tempting than she seemed, or because the consciousness of guilt prevails over the sense of desire. He straightway fancies himself impotent. The sur- geon should cheer his spirits, and should inform him that his case is by no means uncommon: he should advise him, if married, to banish his fears ; if single, to wait till he can gratify his passions legitimately in marriage. There is a very frequent and distressing class of cases, in which the patients, generally young men of good education and refined feelings, and with vigorous development of the genital oi gans, believe themselves * See Walshe on Cancer ; Hughes Bennett on Cancer, p. 126; Lebert sur le Cancer, p. 674; Hannover on Epithelioma, p. 141. I'aget's Lectures, vol. li.675 SYPHILOPHOBIA. to be impotent, or to have spermatorrhoea ;* or perhaps to be labouring under secondary syphilis—a state designated Syphilophohia. These cases require very skilful and kind treatment. The malady is in reality mental; caused often by the struggle between natural passion and religious sentiment, and aggravated usually by some disorder of bodily health, such as oxaluria, or other form of poisoned blood. If the surgeon foolishly makes light of the case, or if he still more foolishly tries to argue the patient out of his malady, the patient immediately flies to the advertising quacks, to the great detriment of mind, body, and estate. The proper course to pursue is, to improve the general health. The writer has cured many an inveterate case of imagined impotence or syphilis by a few grain doses of calomel, followed by combinations of quinine with Epsom salts, and afterwards steel oi- zinc. Retention of the testes in the abdomen is considered by some as a cause of impotence, although in many instances, when the gland is held in the iliac fossa by extensive adhesions, atrophy follows, yet it has often been found perfectly plump and healthy. The nearer it is to the scrotum, the more likely it is to be active, especially if protected from injury by a proper apparatus (see p. 370). Lastly, impotence may be produced by premature and excessive venery, or by the practice of self-pollution. Such cases not un- frequently come under the observation of the London practitioner. The sexual .organs have been rendered so weak and irritable, that the least excitement from a lascivious idea or from the mere friction of the clothes, brings on an imperfect erection, followed immediately by the discharge of a thin fluid. The erection is so imperfect, and followed so soon by the discharge, that the patient is incompetent for sexual con- nexion ; and the frequent and abundant losses of seminal fluid (whence the term spermatorrhoea is given to this malady), together with the patient's consciousness of his own imperfection, brings on a most mise- rable state of bodily weakness and mental despondency. General tonics, and cold-shower-bathing, will do something to relieve this state; but the most essential thing is, the observance of perfect chastity of idea, so that all excitement may be avoided. It may be supposed that the prostatic portion of the urethra, in these cases, is preternaturally irri- table ; and this condition of the parts at the orifice of the seminal ducts may tend greatly to keep up the excessive secretion, and to promote the action by which it is expelled. It is a very important indication, therefore, to lessen this sensitiveness, and so interrupt the chain of morbid phenomena. The author has found great benefit from the use of enemata of cold water at bedtime; cold or tepid salt hip-baths; F. 179, 181, and opiate suppositories. He has seen cases in which a preternatural * The patient should be instructed that a periodic discharge of seminal fluid, at intervals of three weeks or a month, is as natural a phenomenon as ovulation and menstruation in the female. Of course, if frequent or excessive, it is weak- ening ; but it is readily brought within limits by treatment.676 DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITALS. irritability of the ejaculatory apparatus, with in-voluntary nocturnal emissions* even of a bloody fluid, together with very great pain in the back, languor, and despondency of mind, have been caused by the presence of irritating urine, containing oxalate of lime, and cured by the means described in the section on Urinary Deposits. Lastly, there is the application of nitrate of silver to the prostatic portion of the urethra, as directed at p. 615 ; of which it may be said, that if some- times useful, it is often useless, if not mischievous. Any tampering with, and every means of directing the patient's thoughts to the genital organs, should be avoided if possible. CHAPTEE XXII. SUKGICAL DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITALS. I. Catarrhal Vulvitis.—Women—even youngfgirls—are subject to mucous or purulent discharges from the parts at the entrance of the vagina; which may also perhaps be excoriated. Purgatives, tonics, soap and water, and astringent lotions are the remedies. (See p. 201.) II. Noma signifies a phagedsenic affection of the labia pudendi of young female children, precisely resembling the cancrum oris, p. 473, in its causes, and nature, and symptoms. After two or three days of low fever, the little patient is observed to suffer considerably whilst making water, and on examination, the labia present a livid erysipe- latous redness and vesications, that are rapidly followed by phagedsenic ulcers. The disease is very frequently fatal. The treatment is the same as directed for cancrum oris. The surgeon must be very careful not to mistake this or the preceding afiection for venereal disease ; an error common enough among parents. In the year 1853 there were several criminal trials at Dublin of persons falsely accused of tampering with children.* III. Vesico-Vagina Fistula signifies a communication between the bladder and the vagina. It generally results from sloughing of the parts after a tedious labour.f As soon as it is discovered the patient should be made to lie on her face; the utmost cleanliness should be en- forced by means of astringent injections and fomentations ; by which means the cicatrization and contraction of the aperture will be pro- * Kinder Wood on a fatal affection of the Pudenda of Female Children, Med. Chir. Trans., vol. vii. p. 84. Wilde, Med. Times, Oct. 1853. f With the improvement of midwifery, and with less cowardice and delay in resorting to the forceps, this accident ought to disappear. Midwifery lec- turers are to blame for the absurd overcaution which they inculcate with regard to the forceps. It is, by-the-by, curious to remark, that out of nineteen cases related in Remarks on the Urethro-Vaginal, and Vesico-Vaginal Fistules, by N. Bozeman, M.D„ of Montgomery, Ala, 1857, fourteen occurred in coloured girls, or n egresses. * •VESICO-VAGINAL FISTULA. 677 moted. When the spontaneous processes of cure are carried so far as can be, art must step in. The application of a cautery at a black heat to the edges of the fissure, at intervals of from ten to thirty days, so as to get them not to slough, but to contract, is much used, and with very excellent results, by Dr. Arthur Farre, both in the vesico- and recto-vaginal fistula and in lacerations of the perinaBum ; and the writer has seen it used with excellent effect in a case of recto-vaginal fistula by Dr. Tanner. But in most of such cases an operation should be performed as follows: —The patient, gently chloroformed, must be comfortably supported, leaning forward on her knees, with the chest at a lower level than the * abdomen. When a woman who has borne children, with a largish belly and somewhat relaxed, is placed in this position, and when the orifice of the vagina is dilated with the fingers, or with a single- bladed speculum, resembling a spoon with the edges rounded off, the downward pressure of the abdominal viscera will expand the vagina, air will enter audibly, and a good view will be obtained of the whole * Vesico-vaginal fistula. Sketch of a patient in the position described in the text, with a catheter in the bladder: a, edge of fistula.678 DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITALS. canal, and of the cervix uteri at its extremity * Or she may be in the lithotomy position. Then, while an assistant on either side separates the labia and keeps the rectum out of the way by finger or bent spoon- handle, the operator, by means of forceps or hook and long narrow knife, entirely and thoroughly denudes or vivifies, as the French say, the edges of the aperture, especially at each extremity. Too much care cannot be taken in this respect. Then sutures are to be passed either by means of a needle with a fish-hook curve, which the writer devised for the purpose, first through the farther, then through the nearer edge ; the needle being so curved that it can be introduced and withdrawn without wounding the vagina, and so that the operator's hand does not get in the way of his eyes. When a sufficient number have been parsed, their ends may be passed through a bar of white metal, drilled with holes ; one bar on the farther the other on the nearer side of the fissure, so as to act as quill sutures: the ends of the wires to be secured by split shot, pushed on the wires close up to the bar, then pinched by forceps to make them bite the wires. This is Dr. Marion Sims's plan. A better needle, however, is the hollow one represented here, de- * This fact has long been applied by the author in practice; and has been prominently stated by iJr. Marion Sims in his Clinical Kemarks on Uterine Surgery, Lancet, 1864, vol. ii.679 VESICO-VAGINAL FISTULA. scribed by Dr. Simpson, and said to have been deviseil by Mr. Startin, Other modes of securing the wire sutures, are—the metallic button of Dr. Bozeman, a phite of lead adapted in size and curvature to tit the spot; and perforated with holes through which each pair of ligatures is drawn, and then fixed with split shot. This apparatus insures great fixity of the parts, and its use has been attended with great success. Instead of using a shot the wires may be twisted. Dr. Simpson has devised a wire splint, to hold the margins, or rather the whole site of the wound steadily, and to hold the sutures. It is made by twisting fifteen or twenty strands of fine iron thread into a cord ; the ends of which are plaited together in a circle, which may be moulded so as to surround the wound. A sufficient number of apertures is made with a common bcier, to allow the sutures to pass. The above figure shows it applied.* The annexed engravings repiesent needles adapted for wire sutures in these or any other operations. Mr. Price's has two holes, about half an inch apai t, and the upper and under surtaces grooved; wire " from hole below to that above ; end of wire doubled to hold it. Mr. Murray's has a groove and open box end. * Copied from Dr. Simpson's Lecture in Med. Times and Gaz , Jan. 81h, 185'J. Jlr. Simpson prefers the common blue anneali d iron wire, No, 32, The best is manufactui-ed by Cockers, of Sheffield.680 DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITALS. Mr. Listei's, one hole ; the side grooved. Perhaps, after all, if the edges be thoroughly vivified, and accu- rately brought together by thread sutures, it suffices. After the operation, a short metallic catheter, curved like S, com- municating with an ox-gut or elastic urinal, should be retained in the bladder, so that no urine may accumulate there. The patient should lie on one side, turning rather over towards the face; cold water be oc- casionally injected into the vagina ; opium be given in the dose of a grain at bed-time, and another once or twice more in the day; and the wound should not be examined, nor the sutures be disturbed, nor the bowels be opened, till the fifth or sixth day. Opium is most necessary: in one case, spite of it, the author was foiled by spasm of the bladder, which diove out the catheter, and sent urine gushing through the wound. To provide for cases in which there is extensive loss of substance, M. Jobei t de Lamballe detaches the vagina from its attachment to the anterior part of the neck of the womb, and so draws it down that there may be no strain on the stitches, or the vaginal tube may be split up fi om the vesical, and the split edges be brought together.* IV. Recto-Vaginal Fistula must be treated at first by cleanli- ness and mild laxatives. If after a time the aperture does not close, it must be treated as in the last case. V. Laceration op Perineum during labour, if up to, but not through the anus, if the patient use extreme cleanliness, will generally heal, so as to give little or no subsequent inconvenience. Complete laceration of the perinceum into the anus is attended with distressing incontinence of faaces, and is prev^ented from healing by the action of the sphincter. Hence it is necessary to divide the sphincter on each side of the laceration, then to sew together the edges of the laceration, and to prevent the new wounds from uniting, by placing a few threads of lint in them, until the laceration has united. If possible it should be done at once; if not, the operation must be delayed till the lochia have entirely ceased. Then the patient being chloroformed, and placed in the lithotomy position, the opposite surfaces of the lacerated parts * See some observations by R. Druitt, Lancet, 1852, vol. ii., p. 576. Marion Sims, quoted in Ranking, vol. xv. Jobert de Lamballe, Gaz, des Hop., Oct. 16,, 184 9. Traits des Fistules Vesico-uterines, &c., Paris, ]t>52.681 PROLAPSE OF THE VAGINA. and of the lower part of the vagina between must be freely denuded of mucous membrane. Haemorrhage must be checked by iced water, or if necessary by ligatures; then the parts are to be brought to- gether by the quill suture. Three good-sized ligatures should be passed quite deeply through the tissues, and be attached to a piece of bougie on either side, and the edges of the skin be brought together by two or three interrupted sutures. Then the finger being introduced into the anus, and a straight probe-pointed bistoury by its side, the sphincter should be divided. The catheter must be retained after the operation, to prevent the contact of urine with the wound, opium be freely given, and the bowels kept confined for four or five days.* It is very important in this operation (especially if it be associated, as it often is, with prolapse of the uterus) to have a broad and extensive sur- face of adhesion by denuding the mucous membrane sufficiently, and taking deep hold with the sutures, so as to bring together firmly the elastic fas^cia which supports the perinajum on each side. If this is not done, dilatation speedily takes place of the cicatrix, producing a thin stretched and feebly resisting perinasum. Generally it is advisable to employ, superficially, the common interrupted suture, in addition to the deep quilled suture. VI. The Catheter may be easily introduced into the female urethra with one hand, thus:—The surgeon holding it like a pen, but with its point on the tip of the forefinger, passes the forefinger between the labia, and feels for the meatus, placing his finger firmly upon the nodular projection behind it at the entrance to the vagina. The cathe- ter, guided upon the finger, is then easily slipped into the orifice. Either hand may be used, according to the patient's position in bed. Vn. A Vascular Excrescence, varying in size from a large pin's head to that of a horse-bean, is liable to grow from the female urethra, causing great distress through its exquisite sensibility. It should be cut off, and the potassa fusa be applied to the surface to pre- * The plan of dividing the sphincter was proposed by Horner : the necessity of opium by Davidson: all the essentials of the operation are summed up by I. B. Brown, in his work on Diseases of Women, Loud., 1S54.682 DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITALS. vent its reproduction. But, immediately after the caustic, a sponge dipped in diluted vinegar should be applied, in order to prevent injury to the surrounding sound parts ; and if it is necessary to introduce the caustic within the urethra, it must be by means of a tube which has an aperture in it corresponding to the diseased surface. VIII. Imperforate Hymen.—Sometimes this membrane com- pletely obstructs the vagina, and causes the menstrual fluid to accu- mulate and distend the uterus. The impediment is easily got rid of by a crucial incision. Then all the black treacly fluid that has accu- mulated should be immediately syringed out with warm water, other- wise it might putrefy, and cause typhoid fever and death. The abdomen should be bandaged, and the patient be confined to her bed till the uterus has resumed its healthy size. IX. The Labia may be the seat of acute inflammation, and of en- cysted tumours, which perhaps may be connected with the round ligament; of hernia, and of fibrous or fatty tumours. The treat- ment of these cases requires no distinct comments. The clitoris and nymphse, if they grow to an inconvenient size, should be curtailed by excision. X. Varicocele.—Enlargement of the veins of the labia, forming a soft tumour, which enlarges when the patient rises, and increases so as to form a most painful impediment to exercise, but disappears wheri she lies down. Treatment.—Cold bathing, and support by a firm truss, or T bandage with a pad. XI. Prolapse of the Vagina is a consequence of structural de- bility, and is liable to follow parturition, and to accompany and aggra- vate congestive diseases of the womb. When the posterior wall pro- lapses, bringing with it the rectum, there is great distress and difficulty in getting rid of the motions ; when the anterior wall with the bladder prolapses, there is a great irritability of the bladder; difficulty of emptying it; decomposition of residual urine, and other ill conse- quences. Cold astringent injections, tonics, baths of alum water, and firm perinseal bandage (see Bandages), are the first set of remedies. Should these fail, it may be necessary to resort to a pessary—a thing which no one, however, should use if he can help it. Lastly, there is the ingenious operation of I. B. Brown, which consists of two parts; first, in contracting the circumference of the vagina; secondly, in uniting the posterior portions of the labia, so as to bring forward the perinseum, as it were, to act as a natural cushion and support to the prolapsed parts. The first object is accomplished by denuding a longi- tudinal slip each side of the vagina, bringing the cut surfaces together longitudinally, and uniting them by suture; the second, by denuding and uniting the inner surfaces of the posterior halves of the labia, as in the operation for ruptured peringeum. XII. Cancer, of the Vulva ; fungoid bleeding projection, or scirrhous thickening, leading to deep and rapid ulceration, with adherent and hard base; must be treated as directed at p. 122. XIII. Corroding Ulcer, Epithelioma, Esthiomene of Eu-683 DISEASES OF THE BREAST. guier, Elephantiasis. The external female genitals are liable to various kinds of enlargements and of ulceration, whose nature and alliances require even yet to be further studied. 1. There is the superficial lupus (p. 80), affecting the young and scrofulous ; puffy congestive swelling, and infiltration of the skin in soft tubercles ; ulcer- ating in one direction, healing in another. 2. The corroding ulcer, or esthiomene perforant (p. 81), a deep glassy ulcer; base slightly infil- trated, burrowing up by side of vagina; distinguished from pure syphi- litic ulcers by its rebellion to anti-syphilitic treatment, and by its not being followed by syphilitic symptoms. 3. Elephantiasis; enlarge- ment of the labia and other external parts (well described by Egan) ; rendering them a huge, warty, fissured, and most cumbrous mass; consisting in great hypertrophy of the fibrous dermis, in infiltration of fibro-plastic matter, and, as the author believes, sometimes superadded epithelioma. 4. A combination of corroding ulceration, with hyper- trophy in various forms ; thickened cutis, warty excrescences, and soft tubercles. Of these various instances of disease, many owe their origin to the combined forces of filth, gonorrhoea, syphilis, and scrofula or some other kind of cachexia. The treatment must consist of, 1, clean- liness and astringents ; 2, anti-scrofulous, or anti-syphilitic remedies, according to circumstances; 3, these failing, excision of the diseased parts ; either at one coup, or at several, according to their extent; and the destruction of corroding ulcers by the actual or some other efficient cautery.* CHAPTER XXIIT. DISEASES OF THE BREAST. I. Hypertrophy of the breasts to an enormous size is very common during the earlier months of pregnancy in plethoric women. Aperients will assist time in effecting a perfect cure. In unmarried women the same thing sometimes happens ; ihe breasts becoming so large as to be a perfect'burden. If there are any remedies they are the preparations of iodine, and the various means for insuring the healthy action of the womb. II. Boys and Girls about the age of puberty are subject to slight swelling and tenderness of the breast, which soon disappears of itself if not interfered with. III. Lacteal Tumour.—Sometimes a lacteal duct becomes oblite- rated, and the milk accumulates in it, forming an oblong fluctuating tumour near the nipple. If this is punctured, milk will continue to be * See Egnn on Syphilis, p. 146; Huguier sur rEsthiomene; Mem. de I'Acad. de Med., 1849 ; Lebert, Hannover, Paget, op. cit. Compare Elephantiasis Scroti, p. 664.DISEASES OF THE BREAST. 684: discharged during lactation, and, after the child is weaned, it will dry up and heal. In a very few rare instances there has been formed a IV. Lacteal Calculus.— The fluid part of the milk in an ob- structed lacteal duct having been absorbed, whilst its more solid and earthy ingredients remained, and concreted into a calculous mass. V. Abscess in the Lacteal Tubes.—An elderly woman applied to the author some time since with a painful, elongated swelling, stretching from the nipple to the circumference of the breast. It evidently consisted of a lacteal tube which had suppurated; and, after being punctured, and yielding half an ounce of pus, it soon got well. VI. Sore Nipples.—Excoriations and cracks of the nipples not only cause great pain and inconvenience in suckling, but are a frequent cause of acute inflammation of the breast. The tannin lotion, originally recommended by the author many years ago, F. 131, and a touch with lunar caustic, to a very deep irritable fissure, wei-e the best remedies, till the discovery of collodion ; which is certainly a better means of gluing up and protecting the fissure. The nipple should be defended, if need be, fi-om the clothes and from the child's mouth, by a metallic shield. Women who are subject to this affection should frequently wash the parts with salt and water, or solution of alum, during preg- * This cut shows a very convenient mode of bandaging the breast. The bandage consists of a piece of linen split into two tails, of which one is fastened round the waist, whilst the other supports the breast, passes over the opposite shoulder, and is fixed to the first, behind.685 NEURALGIA OF THE BREAST. nancy ; or should apply every night a liniment composed of equal parts of rectified spirit and olive oil. VII. Acute Inflammation of the breast {Acute Mastitis) is known by great swelling, tenderness and |pain, and -fever. These symptoms are generally soon succeeded by formation of matter. The abscess, if confined by the fascial envelope of the organ, is very slow to point. This affiection may occur at any period during lactation. It may be caused by cold—by too stimulating a diet—by neglect in suck- ling—by irritation propagated from the nipples, and by a loaded state of the bowels and defective biliary and urinary secretion. The sudden- ness with which it may come on is sometimes surprising. A woman may get up apparently well; may be seized with shivering, pain, swelling of the breast, violent fever, and delirium ; and these symp- toms as suddenly subside when calomel and black draughts have cleared away some most offensive motions. Treatment.—At first a mild purgative, and fomentations; the milk should be drawn ofi', if it can be done without very much pain, and Dover's powder should be given to allay restlessness. The arm should be kept quiet in a sling. Three or four leeches, if great pain and good pulse. So soon as fluctuation is well established, a puncture should be made. And then efficient support should be given by ban- dages, or by cross strips of adhesive plaster, so as to take off the weight of the organ, compress the distended vessels, and prevent all bagging of matter. Likewise if, after leeches and purgatives, the tenderness and pain diminish, so that there seems a chance of resolution without sup- puration, similar support is most useful. The following cut shows the manner in which the breast may be suppoi ted by strips of plaster (but those represented are too short): a sufficient number should be applied to cover the entire breast, except the nipple, and they should be long enough to go over the shoulder, so as to suspend the breast, and not allow it to drop. VIII. Chronic Inflammation may be a sequel of the acute; or may be of a scrofulous nature. Swelling and considerable hardness of part, or of the whole of the breast, ending usually in burrowing sup- puration, are the characters ; tonics, pressure, and free puncture of abscesses in the most depending position at which they show a ten- dency to point, the remedies. IX. Neuralgia of the Breast may exist pur et simple; or may (as more frequently happens) be superadded to a small glandular tumour. Extreme pain, aggravated at each monthly period, and out of proportion to all local structural disease (if any) is the chai-acteris- tic. The treatment was detailed in the section on Neuralgia. X. The True Hydatid Disease consists in the development of a parent cyst, containing other secondary cysts, consisting of pai'asitic animalcules {echinococcus hominis) floating in a clear limpid water. It presents a globular oval hard tumour, attended with more or less pain, but no derangement of the general health. As it increases, fluctuation becomes perceptible, and the skin becomes distended and ulcerates. The686 DISEASES OF THE BREAST. cyst may he punctured and injected with a strong solution of the iodide or bromide of potassium (p. 173), and allowed to suppurate, or may be excised, which is preferable. XI. Partial Hypertrophy {Chronic Mammary Tumour^ of Cooper; Sero-Cystic Disease, of Brodie; Imperfect Hypertrophy {adenocele), of Birkett; Glandular Tumour, of Paget).—Morbid growths of many kinds may be developed upon or near the breast, or within it; including enchondromatous, fatty, and vascular tumours. But the morbid growth which requires to be most carefully studied, and compared with cancer, is Partial Hypertrophy, or Glandular Tumour. In this, three things will probably be met with. 1. A development of more or less perfect gland tissue, the characters of which are deline- ated at p. 108. 2. Concurrently with this, a hypertrophy of i}\Q fibrous tissue (p. 103), which envelopes and intersects the gland; together with fibro-plastic matter, more or less developed into tissue, firm or gelatinous. 3. In the meshes of this interstitial fibrous tissue, cysts, or cavities filled with a serous fluid, coffee-ground matter, or other form of altered or decomposed blood or pus, are exceedingly liable to form * Mode of supporting the breast by strapping.687 PARTIAL HYPERTROPHY, Cp. 109). The growth of glandular or fibro-plastic matter, projecting into the cavities of the cysts, was formerly designated by the name sero-cystic sarcoma. The abundant formation of epithelium has in- duced some persons, most improperly, to describe this disease as epithe- lial cancer. We may add that portions are often found softened, and in a state of fatty decay. The growth is usually slow. The size attained may be enormous. Mr. Fergusson, in 1853, removed one weighing twenty- seven pounds. No age is exempt ; yet the majority of cases occur in women under thirty-five. The tumour generally commences at the circumference of the breast, and is produced by the hypertrophy of one lobule. It is moveable under the skin; feels granulated just as the natural organ does when its tissue is developed by lactation or during menstruation; may increase so as to cover over and hide, or cause atrophy of the remainder of the organ ; yet is not attended with retrac- tion of the nipple, or adhesions, or enlargement of the lymphatic glands. There may be pai7i, especially at the menstrual period, at which time the entire gland becomes more enlarged and tender; yet not the wearing pain of cancer. When cysts are formed, fluctuation becomes perceptible at one or more points ; the disease increases slowly or quickly ; at last it distends the skin, and a round aperture is formed, from which a cauliflower excrescence sprouts out; and the pain and discharge may be very ruinous to the health. The disease may last almost any number of years, and may increase to a great size without greatly affecting the health. In some cases it disappears of itself; in others it remains stationary. The writer had * From a preparation of the late Dr. Hooper's, now in the King's College Museum. It shows cysts in the breasts, some empty, others partially filled, others entirely tilled with new growth of glandular tissue.DISEASES OF THE BREAST. 688 (at the date of the 6th edition, 1853) three ladies under his care with this tumour. In one, the mother of eleven children, it came after the health had been broken down.by puerperal fever, which completely hin- dered suckling. This patient (1855) had got well spontaneously. In the second, a very feeble and anaemic person, it came shortly after weaning one cliild, and disappeared during the next pregnancy. In the third, it was first noticed at nineteen: she was married at twenty-one; at twenty-three the tumour was slowly on the increase, and was excised by Mr. Henry Lee ; it furnished a capital specimen of the disease. In a year after the operation, the tumour returned ; continued stationary for two years; and in the year 1859, had disappeared, concurrently with great improvement in the health. Treatment.—In the early stages, tonics, and measures adapted to re- gulate the bowels and the menstrual functions—such as the iodide of potassium with bark, the iodide of iron, saline and chalybeate mineral waters, &c.—should be administered at discretion. If it should be hot, swelled, and painful, a few leeches may be of use. Lebert speaks highly of the tepid douche, and of ointment of iodide of lead in the in- tervals. The breast should be enveloped in cotton wool. Severe pain or distension may be relieved by opiate or belladonna liniment. Lastly, should the growth increase rapidly, with cyst formation or suppura- tion, the part of the breast containing it should be extirpated. XII. Gland Cysts (p. 109), not like the last, developed between the lobules, but consisting of an expansion of obstructed gland ducts, may be situated on the surface, in the centre of, or behind the organ ; and may be of various sizes, though rarely larger than a filbert. They are lined with epithelium, and enclose a yellow, reddish, or green mucous fluid, containing milky and fatty globules and epithelium, which last accumulates after a time, and l enders the contents of the cyst more solid. Serous fluid sometimes exudes from the nipple.* In a patient of the author's, aged 46, a cystic tumour, size of a wal- nut, has existed twenty yeai's close to the nipple, which it causes to retract; is swelled and painful during the catamenia; a little bloody serum can be squeezed out, or runs out of itself. The cyst is evidently composed of a dilated duct, and has a bit of hypertrophied gland tissue close to it. These cysts may be combined with glandular tumour: but if not, and if they increase, puncture so as to empty them, and moderate pressure may be tried, when perhaps they may shrink with or without suppuration. But if great irritation and discharge are created, a part or the whole of the organ should be removed. XII. Cakcer of the breast is, according to Lebert, of the hard or scirrhous variety, in three-fifths of the number of cases ; of the soft or medullary in one-fifth; and of intermediate forms, including a few rare and exceptional cases of melanotic and colloid cancer, in the other fifth. Paget believes that of every hundred primary hard cancers, ninety-five * See Birkett on Diseases of the Breast, Loud., 1850.would be found in the breast; and rates the number of soft cancers in this part much lower than Lebert does. Symptoms.—It is usually felt first as a tumour about the size of a nut; not tender nor painful; situated in, and incorporated with, some part of the breast. It gradually increases, feels excessively hard, be- comes irregular or tuberculated, and not circumscribed irom the sur- rounding pai-ts. Its tendency is to increase in breadth, rather than in prominence, and to involve more and more of the gland. In fact, the gland may appear shrunken ; especially when the disease produces ad- hesion of the skin and nipple and atrophy of the subcutaneous fatty tissue. From this cause the nipple and the skin often become drawn in and puckered. During this first period, the general health may be good, and the patient only be troubled with slight pains, especially about the menstrual times. The second stage is one of active local progress. Stabbing or lanci- nating pains of great severity come on ; the cancer more and more in- volves the skin, which reddens, then excoriates, then ulcerates awav, forming a chasm with hard jagged edges, greenish ashy surface, most foully-smelling discharge, and pain like coals of fire. This ulcer may be almost stationary for years; or may increase rapidly by sloughing; or may throw up fungous granulations; or even at some part may un- dergo an imperfect cicatrization. But slowly or quickly, on the disease goes. Adhesion of the gland to the pectoral muscle; cancerous infil- tration of the axillary glands and increasing decay of health and strength, complete the usual phenomena of this stage. In the third stage, other organs become affected. Severe rheumatic pains, deposit of cancer in the bones, with perhaps fracture ; cancerous deposits in the liver, with consequent sickness, and failure of appetite ; or in the uterus, or the breast; infiltration of the ribs and intercostal muscles, and effusion into the pleura, with pleuritic pain and dyspnoea : these added to the constantly-increasing original disease, at last wear out the miserable remnant of the patient's life. The average age at which this disease begins, is from thirty-five to fifty-five. Of 62 cases adduced by Lebert, 158 by Paget, 147 by Birkett, 22 only appeared before thirty. There is no evidence what- ever of any essential connection of this disease with marriage, celibacy, sterility, previous disease, mental causes, or external violence. The average duration of life is less than four years ; but in this matter there is great diversity. In some cases the disease begins with a furious on- slaught, and kills in a few months. The younger and more robust the patient, and the more rapid the early symptoms, the worse will the prognosis be. On the contrary, cancer affecting the aged and atro- phied, may linger on for many years, and kill the patient by inches. Treatment.—The first question that will arise, is the propriety of extirpation ; regarding which we must refer to p. 121. Suffice it to say, that although it were proved that the operation does not prolong life in the end; although the disease is sure to return in the cicatrix, in the other breast, or elsewhere ; yet, that the surgeon should advise D 2 Y690 CANCER OF THE BREAST. it as a means of procuring about a twelvemonth's relief from the weari- ness and anxiety of disease; provided, 1, that the internal organs are sound, and the health such that the operation itself is not likely to be mortal; and 2, that the bi'east is yet not so adherent, nor the skin and glands not so diseased as to render it unlikely that the wound will cicatrize. Again, an exceedingly rapid progress, especially of soft can- cer, in young persons, may render the operation hopeless; whilst an exceedingly slow progress in the old would render it unnecessary. Palliatives.—But, in proportion to the hopelessness of cure, so ought our efforts to be strenuous in devising means for assuaging the bodily torments, the loathsomeness, the mental despondency, which render the sufferer insupportable to herself and to others. In addition to the di- rections which we have already given (p. 123), we may subjoin the following brief hints to the younger practitioner. In the first place, study the effects of opium and other narcotics on each individual patient. Learn the form and combination which serve in smallest doses to procure sleep by night, and to allay pain by day, with least headache and loss of appetite. When the ordinary forms of opium or morphia do not agree, try the black drop; the preparations of Squire, Battley, or Jeremie ; make great use of opiates locally (F. 26 to 32). Try chlorofoi-m inhalation in its mildest degree. We have observed great relief to the miserable rheumatic pains from daily administration of sul- phuric or chloric asther; or of negus or good beer. Lebert speaks highly of the value of sulphate of quinine for the same purpose (F. 3). Thus death will be postponed so far as it is induced by the exhaustion of pain. In the next place, for a disorder whose starting-point is some error of nutrition, it is more than probable, that, if any remedy is to be found, it will be in some article of diet, which shall supply to the cancer matter, the 'complemental material required for its conversion into healthy plastic matter. Besides the articles mentioned at p. 94, turtle soup, eels, American oysters, Edinburgh ale. Tent or Constantia, oatmeal porridge, with wine or beer, may give a stimulus to nutrition. As to particular symptom.s, the oedema of the arm, which is often such a distressing complication of the later stages of this disease, may be somewhat retarded by bandages, and by keeping the limb in an ele- vated posture. Blisters near the shoulder, and punctures of the skin, may be tried when it becomes excessive. Itchings may be allayed bv glycerine, infusion of tobacco, tincture of aconite or of belladonna painted on the part; or by baths of bran or gelatine; or by the local application of chloroform, and especially by astringents, as the tincture of galls, or solution of tannin. It is important to save the skin from excoriation as long as possible, by tannin, black wash, bismuth, &c. XIV. Extirpation of the Breast is thus performed:—The patient being narcotized and on a convenient couch, an assistant takes the arm of the affected side and holds it out, so as to put the pectoralis on the stretch. The surgeon then makes a semi-elliptical incision below the nipple along the lower border of the pectoralis major, and another on the upper and inner side of the nipple, so as to include that partDISEASES OF THE HANDS AND FEET. 691 between them. He next dissects out the lower and outer part of the gland, quite down to the pectoralis (taking care not to get behind that muscle), and then, cutting from below upwards, he separates the re- mainder. If an adjacent gland is enlarged, the incisions should be managed so as to include it also. When the mass is removed, its sur- face should be wiped and examined, and the wound should also be well examined, to ascertain that no part of the gland, and that no hardened or discoloured portions of cellular tissue or of muscular fibre, are left behind. Arteries are then to be tied, and the patient to be put to bed, and when all oozing has ceased, sutures and a few strips of adhesive plaster may be applied. If desirable to effect gentle pressure on the wound, to stop oozing, a small flat sand-bag, says Mr. Birkett, may be placed upon the flaps. XV". Men occasionally suffer from cancer of the breast, and other morbid growths, which manifest themselves in the same manner, and require the same treatment as in the female.* CHAPTER XXIV. DISEASES OF THE HANDS AND FEET—CLUB-FOOT, AND OTHER DEFORMITIES OF THE LIMBS. 1. Club-foot (Talipes) signifies a deformity of the foot, produced by rigidity and contraction of various muscles of the leg. 1. In the most simple and most common variety, talipes equinus, the heel mei-ely is raised, so that the patient walks on the ball of the foot. 2. In the talipes varus, which is the more common congenital form of club- foot, the distortion is much more complex. In the first place the heel is raised; secondly, the inner edge of the foot is drawn upwards ; and thirdly, the anterior two-thirds of the foot are twisted inwards ; so that the patient walks on the outer edge, and in confirmed cases, on the dorsum of the foot, and outer ankle. 3. In the talipes valgus the outer edge of the foot is raised up, and the patient walks on the inner ankle. (See fig. 3, p. 693.) 4. In the talipes calcaneus the toes are raised and the heel is depressed, so that the patient walks upon it. There are also compound varieties; as the talipes equino-varus, equino-valgus, and calcaneo-valgus; whose names sufficiently point out their nature. Each of these deformities may be congenital, or may come on after birth, with the exception of the talipes equinus, respecting which, it is very doubtful if it is ever congenital. Causes.—Their origin may be traced to contraction and shoi tening * For all necessary infonnation, see Mr. Birkett's Treatise on Diseases of the Breast; Lebert, op. cit,; Paget, Lectures, vol. ii.692 CLUB-FOOT. of muscles. The exciting causes may be any circumstances that inter- fere with the supply of nervous influence, or with the proper nutrition of the muscles. Thus, to take the simplest case first, it may be caused by primaiy spasm affecting one or many mus- cles ; and this again may be dependent (in non-con- genital cases), 1st, on a rheu- matic or sub-inflammatory state of those muscles or their nerves; 2ndly, on irri- tation propagated directly from the spinal cord, from actual disorder of that part; 3rdly, on irritation reflected from the spinal cord, but originating in disorder of some other organ, especially of the bowels. The cause of intra-uterine spasm is pro- bably some shock to the ner- vous system of the mother. Secondly^ instead of being caused by primary spasm of any given muscles, it (in non- congenital cases) may be caused by primary paralysis of their an- tagonists ; so that there being no proper balance of forces about the ankle joint, the foot becomes fixed in one of the above- mentioned deformed po- sitions ; probably by a process of adapted atrophy; which is, in plain English, a process by which a muscle shortens itself perma- nently, if long placed in a shortened position. Thirdly. It may be caused as a sequel of * Talipes equinus, from a cast in the King's College Museum, f Talipes varus, from the King's College Museum.693 CLUB-FOOT. bruises, injuines, or disease of joints. (See Spurious Anchylosis, p. 303.) General Treatment.—The indications are, first (in non-congenital cases), to remove all causes, and to soothe spasm, and give power to palsied muscles. If any case comes under treatment, before the con- tracted muscles have become fixed in their rigidity, this may be done by purgatives, and other means of sweeping away excentric causes of irritation : or by fomentations and anti-rheumatic remedies, as the case may be. The writer has met, in his practice as an accoucheur, with cases of valgus in newly-born children fiom spasm of the peronaii and other muscles which raise the outer edge of the foot; in which castor-oil and friction, and manipulation, effected a cure ; in other cases, if the spasm has seemed obstinate, he has divided whatever tendons were rigid. In one case this form of spas- modic valgus was associated with wry neck. Both did well. Tonics, especially steel, aie of service with older children. The cases in which deformity arises from paralysis are less promising. But here a distinction must be drawn between local paralysis and general. Local paralysis, such as the blighting and atrophy of an entire limb, from exposure to cold, or even from fever, or irritation of teething, is curable by friction, galvanism, and other means of keeping the muscles from lapsing into quietude and degeneration, combined with tonics and proper nourishment. But when it depends on primary disease of the nervous centres, such as a hydrocephalic attack in a strumous child, and in adult paralysis generally, it is much less so. As to mechanical measures, in slight cases, splints of gutta percha, or of wood, with bandages, and great care, may do everything. Mr. Barwell, of Charing Cross Hospital, advocates a system of treatment by means of vulcanized india-rubber bands, acting like springs, to sup- plement the inefficient action of the weakened antagonistic muscles. The springs are applied over these muscles, and act in their direction ; they have a thin plate of flexible metal at each end, which is attached by adhesive plaster placed round the limb to keep them in place. But in severe cases, delay is injurious ; and from the healthy condition of the muscles at birth, active treatment will be more likely to be satisfactory if adopted early. Therefore if these measures do no speedy good, it is better * Talipes valgus, from Mr. W. Adams's collection.TALIPES VARUS. 694 soon to resort to Stromeyer's operation of subcutaneous tenotomy; our knowledge of which, and in fact of the entire pathology of these deformities, and the establishment of what is now called ortho' pcBdic surgery, is dated from the publication of Dr. Little's Thesis, in 1837.* The rationale of this operation may readily be comprehended. The tendon being divided, its separated extremities heal by anew connective tissue, which renders it longer, and which, while recent, may be stretched to any desired length. Thus the mechanical shortening of the muscle is neutralized. At the same time, the antagonist muscles, which become wasted and inert, are relieved from a constant state of tension, and are enabled to resume their natural functions, so that the limb has a chance of increasing in strength and bulk. The operation is performed thus :—The tendon is put on the stretch; and a narrow sharp-pointed knife is thrust through the skin on one side of it; then its edge is turned against the tendon, and made to divide it as it is being withdrawn. The tendon to be divided is the tendo Achillis in the talipes equinus. The same in the varus, and those of the tibialis posti- cus, anticus, and flexor longus digitorum. In the valgus, the peronaei and the extensor longus digitorum : any tendons, in fact, which oppose the restoration of the foot to its proper position. It is often expedient to divide a portion of the plantar fascia, or of the muscles of the sole of the foot. Fasciae contract under chronic rheumatism. Imme- diately after the operation, the foot should be put quietly up with splint and roller, with a dossil of lint and strip of plaster over the punc- tures, 'and be retained in the same position of defoi-mity as before the operation. In the course of four or five days, apparatus must be adapted for bringing the part into proper shape. 11. Talipes Varus.—In the foregoing paragraphs we have described club-foot generally. Now we proceed to detail the anatomy more par- ticularly of the talipes Amarus, and in so doing avail ourselves of the description, by Mr. W. Adaras,f of a severe form in an adult female : since essentially similar deviations, especially in the head of the astra- galus, exist in the foetus at birth. J In reference to this deformity, the foot may be regarded as consisting of two portions, which move in different directions upon two distinct centres of motion. The division between these two portions corre- sponds to the articulation between the first and second rows of the tarsal bones, viz.:—between the astragalus and scaphoid, and the os calcis and cuboid bones (indicated by the oblique dotted line in fig. 6). At this great transverse tarsal joint, a considerable amount of motion * Symbolse ad Talipedum Cognoscendum, Berol., 1837. See also Dr. Little's Treatise on Deformities, Lend., 1853. t The writer has to thank Mr. Adams for the three cuts illustrative of the anatomy, which are taken from his original paper in Trans, of Patholog. Soc., vol. vi., 1855. % See vol. iii. of the Trans, of the Pathol. Soc, where representations of the foetal astragalus are given.095 TALIPES VARUS. exists in the healthy condition of the foot; and in talipes varus the inversion of the foot takes place essentially from this centre of motion, and involves only the anterior two-thirds of the foot. The posterior third of the foot, consist- ing of the OS calcis and astragalus, has its centre of motion in the ankle-joint, from the construction of which it can only move in the direction of flexion and extension ; at least this is essentially the direction of its motion. In a severe case as that I'epresented, the posterior third of the foot is elevated by the action of the muscles of the calf upon the os calcis, and the astragalus is raised from its horizontal into a vertical position ; its centre of motion being at the ankle-joint. The anterior two-thirds of the foot are drawn inwards and up- wards, producing the inversion charac- teristic of varus, by contraction of the tibialis anticus and posticus, the flexor longus digitorum, and in severe cases the extensor and flexor pollicis; its centre of motion at the great tarsal jomt is indicated by the dotted line in figs. 6 and 7. In this movement * Talipes varus; outer side of leg. f Posterior aspect of leg, and sole of foot.696 TALIPES VARUS. * Anterior aspect of leg, and dorsum of foot. the navicular bone is drawn directly under the inner malleolus (see fig. 7). These are the only movements essential to varus; but, in some cases, shortening of the foot takes place from contraction of the plantar fascia and flexor brevis—and also in severe cnses, after the period of walking, more or less transverse rotation of the foot takes place from the superincumbent weight telling upon the foot in the act of progression, so as to narrow the transverse arch, and approximate the filth to the fii st metatarsal bones, as seen in fig. 6. As a result of these changes in position affecting different portions of the foot, the bones become somewhat misshapen. The head of the astragalus presents the most important deviation in form, which Mr. Adams, in opposition to Scarpa and Little, describes as existing at birth, 7.* and regards as an adaptation of the bone in its cartilaginous condition to the altered position of the navicular bone. In a severe case, the head of the astragalus, instead of its regularly convex surface directed anteriorly, as in the healthy foot, presents two aiiicular facets at right angles to each other, and divided by an abrupt line; one, the larger, looking directly inwards, and articulating with the displaced navicular bone ; the other, looking directly forw^^irds, is left exposed by the altered portion of the navicular bone, and coveied only by the elongated portion of the ligament which in a healthy state connects these bones. The most important alterations in the direction of the tendons relate to those of the anterior and posterior tibial muscles. The anteriorTALIPES VARUS. 697 tibial tendon deviates to the inner side, and crosses the inner mal- leolus in a curved direction downwards and backwards in proportion to the severity of the case. The posterior tibial tendon does not pass from behind the inner ankle obliquely downwards and forwards, beneath and then in front of this process towards the navicular bone, as in a state of health; because the navicular bone itself is displaced inwards, backwards and upwards, by the contraction of the tibialis posticus muscle, so as to be lield in contact, and articulate with the inner malleolus. The tendon, therefore, passes directly downivards to its insertion, or even with a slight inclination backwards * In fig. 6, this tendon turns a little under the malleolus to reach the navicular. The lujaments are elongated in front of the ankle-joint, and on the convexity of the foot, and shortened in the sole of the foot and behind the ankle-joint, in proportion to the severity of the case, and its duration. Treatment.—In tlie cure of talipes varus, the great practical rule is to divide the treatment into two distinct stages, and to accomplish the objects of the first stage very thoroughly before commencing the second. In the first stage the inversion of the foot is to be overcome by divi- sion of the anterior and posterior tibial tendons, and that of the flexor t longus digitorum ; and then by bandaging the foot to a straight splint placed on the outside of the leg extending to the knee. For an infant * As in case exhibited to the Pathological Society by Mr. H. Thompson, vol. vi., p. 357. t The above four cuts, for which the author has to thank Mr. W. Adams, exhibit—1, talipes varus; 2, the bandage applied after division of the tibialis tendons; 3, the distortion reduced to simple equinus; 4, restoration complete.698 KNOCK KNEES. the splint should he 1:^ inch in width and made of wood, or sheet iron, softly padded. When by this means the foot is sufficiently everted so as to form a sti-aight Hne with the leg, and does not exhibit any dis- position to turn inwards upon the removal of the bandage ; when, in fact, instead of varus, a state of extreme equinus has been produced,— the [Second stage may be commenced. This consists in dividing the tendo Achillis, and subsequently bringing down the heel by means of a Scarpa's shoe; or in slight infantile cases the foot may be bandaged to a bent splint applied in front of the ankle-joint. In slight cases it is by some recommended to divide all tlie tendons at once, but the objects are best accomplished by dividing the treatment into two stages. In severe adult cases, and where the deformity is exti'eme, and accom- panied with much rigidity, the same principle is to be followed, but a more complicated apparatus is desii'able. That invented by Mr. Adams, and described in his lectures on " Orthopaedic Surgery," appears to be well adapted for these cases.* III.—Weak Ankles and Flat Foot,—In this affection the foot is flattened, its arch is sunk, and the astragalus forms a projection below the internal malleolus, rendering the internal boj-der of the foot con- vex, instead of concave. In bad cases the inner ankle almost touches the ground, and the patient walks with great pain and lameness. This affection depends on weakness of the muscles, especially of the tibialis anticus ; also on undue curvature of the tibia ; it is often congenital: and affects lai'ger numbers of the English than of the Irish. Treatment.—The patient should wear shoes or boots with high heels, and with the inner edge of the heel much thicker than the outer. He should also be directed to turn the foot out very little, if at all. Benefit may also be derived from a well-applied bandage, such as is re- presented at p. 72. It should always be applied so as to be carried round the ankle from the inner side of the foot. In severe cases the patient should wear a boot with a piece of steel or whalebone fastened to the sole, and passing pei-pendicularly upwai'ds to the middle of the inner side of the leg, and having an india-rubber pad to support the arch of the foot.f An india-rubber spring, as advised by Mr. Barwell, to supply the place of the tibialis anticus, deserves trial. iV. Knock Knees are treated by Mr. Lonsdale on the same prin- ciples as the crooked rickety leg; by adapting a long well-padded splint to the outer side of each limb, fastening it below by straps and buckles at the outer ankles, and above by a broad belt, to which both splints are attached, and which is buckled round the body at the level of the hollow part of the loins. The splints should be hindered from coming too far forwards, and should bear well against the trochanter and outer ankle. Meanwhile, the knee is to be drawn into its proper place by a * Med. Times and Gazette, 1856. t The writer has devised a good boot for these cases, made by Currie, Opera Arcade, London, S.W.699 CONTEACTION OF THE FINGERS. band buckled over it, and wide enough to embrace both the head of the tibia and condyles of the femur.* V. Contraction of the Toes.—It often happens that one of the toes is permanently elevated, and rides over its neighbours, from the habitual use of narrow boots ; and the upper surface of this toe, being peculiarly exposed to friction, is generally covered with corns so painful, that many persons have been compelled to have the part am- putated. Or the toe may be bent into the position of the so-called hammer-toe. Division of the extensor tendon (or of the flexor, in the hammer-toe variety,) may, however, enable the toe to be brought down into its place, and prevent the necessity of amputation. VI. Bunion—a swelling over the metatarsal joint of the great toe —is a disorder which is much more talked of than understood, but which the writer has taken pains to study the varieties of, which are these: 1. A recent bursal tumour, or ganglion; thin, easily burst under the skin by pressure, which is the proper treatment. 2. A thickened bursa in the same place, filled more or less with liquid, some- what tender and inflamed. Rest, fomentations, and anti-arthritic purges. 3. The same bursa in an indolent state; thickened but not tender. Iodine paint, or empl. hydrarg. 4. The same in a state of sup- puration. To be treated like any other abscess or fistula, accord- ing to its condition. 5. Different from all these is a distortion of the foot, in which the great toe is thrown outwards, whilst the head of the metatarsal bone pi-ojects and forms a swelling on the inner side of the foot; but the foregoing bursal swellings may be superadded. This affection depends on natural formation, and the changes induced by age and labour, and, above all, by gouty enlargement. Beyond properly- fitting boots, roomy at the toes, tightly fitting the instep, there is little to be done for this; unless any tendon which pulls the toe outwards can be divided, and the joint be restored by extension with a splint; all the preceding four vai-ieties, however, are curable. VII. Contraction of the Fingers generally depends, not on any spasm of the tendons, but, as Mr. Partridge has shown the writer, on shortening and rigidity of the palmar aponeurosis and tendinous sheaths; or on a ligamentous degeneration of the areolar tissue on the palmar aspect of the fingei's. This is a part of the morbid changes accompanying chronic rheumatic arthritis. Treatment.—Friction and extension are of no use. But the con- tracted tissues may be divided by subcutaneous section. If any of the muscles of the fore-arm be rigid, its tendon may be divided. VIII. Congenital Contraction of Fingers is generally seen in the little finger, and is not very uncommon. The finger can be straightened, but the skin is then seen to be very tightly stretched in a line at the junction of its radial with its palmar surfaces, and, as it were, continuous with the cutaneous web between the fingers. The last phalanx of the finger is always drawn inwards, as well as bent; and * Lonsdale, Med. Gaz., June, 1849.ULCERS ABOUT THE NAILS. 700 the contraction depends upon a congenital deficiency of the skin in the direction of the length of the finger. Thus a longitudinal web is produced * by extension. The most diag- ^ nostic sign is the absence of the padding and bandaging will then bring the finger into a straight position.! IX. Webbed Fingers.—This is a deformity consi.sting of an union of the fingers to each other. It may be congenital, or may be caused by burns. It is a most intractable affection. Mere division of the con- necting skin is often of no avail, for the fingers very often grow toge- ther again when the wound heals. In order to counteract their union, a flap of skin may either be brought fi'om the dorsum of the hand and be engrafted between the fingers, or, as Mr. Listen proposed, a perfo- ration may first of all be made in the connecting skin near the roots of the fingers, and be prevented from closing by keeping a piece of cord in it till the edges have healed, and then the remainder of the con- nexion may be divided. X. Ulcers ABOUT THE Nails.—1. A very common and trouble- some affection is that which is popularly termed ^^the growth of the nails into the flesh,''' and which most usually occurs by the side of the great toe. It does not, however, arise from any alteration in the nail, as its name would imply, but the contiguous soft parts are first swelled and inflamed by constant pressure against the edge from the use of * Contraction of the palmar aponeurosis. From a dissection by Mr. Partridge. ■}■ This instrument is constructed under Mr. W. Adams's direction by Bigg, of I^eicester Square. Mr. Gumpel, of Leicester Square, is also to be recom- mended as a maker of light and ingenious apparatus. deep transverse folds in the skin corresponding to the bend of the joints. In contractions produced by muscular action these trans- verse cutaneous folds are deepened instead of being obliterated. Treatment. — This form of contraction does not require any division of tendons, but yields to long-continued mechanical ex- tension, constantly applied for several months, or perhaps a year. A steel plate may be adapted to the palmar and dorsal aspects of the outer third of the hand, and held in position by elastic bands, so as to afford a fixed point, and from this plate a straight and narrow bar of steel may be cariied along the upper and outer margin of the fii'iger ; a little ingenuity in701 WHITLOW. tight shoes. If this state be permitted to increase, suppuration occurs, and an ulcer is formed with fungous and exquisitely sensitive granula- tions, in which the edge of the nail is embedded, and which ol'ten pro- duces so much pain as totally to prevent walking. Treatment.—The objects are to remove the irritation caused by the nail, and reduce the swelling of the soft parts. In most cases, if the nail, having been well softened by soaking in warm water, is shaved as thin as possible with a bit of glass, the pain and irritation may easily be allayed by rest for a day or two, with fomentations and poultices; and then any ulcer that has formed will soon heal, with the aid of black wash on lint, or a touch of lunar caustic. But if the case is more obstinate, the edge of the nail may be removed, by passing the sharp blade of a pair of scissors resolutely under the nail, cutting it through, and then quickly tearing away the offending portion with for- ceps. The pain attending this opei'ation i-enders chloroform expedient. XI. Onychia Maligna is a peculiarly unhealthy ulcer occurring at the root of the nail, either of the fingers or toes, but more fre- quently of the latter. It com- mences with a deep-red swelling, and an oozing of a thin ichor from under the fold of skin at the root of the nail; and, lastly, an ulcer is formed, with a smooth tawny or brown surface, a very fetid sanious discharge, and swelled jagged edges of a peculiar livid dusky hue. It is in general extremely painful, especially at night. This affection often springs from acquired or inherited syphilis. Treatment.—Mr. Wardrop recommended a course of mercury, as for tertiary syphilis. As a local application, a solution of arsenic (liq. arsen. Sij.'ad aq. ,^ij.) was recommended by Mr. Abernethy ; or solu- tion of nitrate of silver, or black or yellow wash.f XII. Whitlow, or Paronychia, signifies an abscess of the fingers. There are four kinds: the cutaneous, subcutaneous, tendinous, and car- huncular. The cutaneous whitlow consists of inflammation of the sur- face of the skin of the last phalanx, with burning pain, and effusion of a serous or bloody fluid which elevates the cuticle into a bladder. This is often eczematous in its character and origin. The subcutaneous is attended with greater pain and throbbing, and suppuration under the skin at the root of the nail, which may come off. Treatment.—In the first two forms purgatives, followed by tonics ; fomentations and poultices are the remedies. It is but seldom that in- cisions are demanded further than to let out the fluid from beneath the raised cuticle or skin. The dead skin or cuticle should be carefully * From a cast in the King's College Museum. t Vide Lawrence, Lectures, in Med. Gaz.; James "Wardrop, F.R.S.E., on Diseases of the Toes and Fingets, Med. Chir. Trans., vol. v.EXOSTOSIS. 702 snipped off close all round with a small pair of scissors, and the poul- tice, if inflamed, applied, or lead lotion. If not inflamed, the zinc ointment is the best remedy. If the tip of the finger is long painful and tender without suppurating, it should be well pencilled with lunar caustic. The resin ointment is recommended by Mr. Vincent as an application, after the part has been opened. The tendinous whitlow, or thecal abscess, affects the tendinous sheath or periosteum, and was described at p. 232. We may observe here, however, that if purgatives and fomentations do not speedily relieve, the finger should be freely laid open with a scalpel. The knife should be canied deep enough to feel the resistance of the bone or tendon, so as fairly to open the sheath of the latter. If matter have extended into the palm, the incision should be continued along the metacarpal bone till it freely gushes out. It is better not to cut into the spaces between the metacarpal bones (unless matter points there very deci- dedly indeed), for fear of wounding the digital artery. If it be neces- sary to slit up the palmar fascia, a cut should be made over the head of a metacarpal bone, in order that a director may be passed under it. The carbuncular whitlow is an unhealthy infiltration of the subcu- taneous tissue of the finger, brawny, slow to suppurate, and altogether resembling, and requiring the treatment of, carbuncle, p. 228. XIII. Exostosis.—A fibrous tumour, which subsequently ossifies, is not uncommon on the dorsal surface of the last phalanx of the great toe. To cut away the anterior half of the nail, and dissect it out, is the only useful treatment.* * See Barwell on the Cure of Club-foot without cutting Tendons. Lond., 1863.: E. J. Chance on Bodily Deformities. Lond,, 1862.PAET Y. OF THE OPERATIONS OF SURGERY. CHAPTER 1. OF OPERATIONS IN GENERAL. I. The Apparatus necessary for operations in general comprises bis- touries, scalpels, saws, bone forceps, scissors, or other cutting instruments adapted for specific purposes, dissecting forceps, tenaculum, and Assalini's forceps to take up arteries ; one or two tourniquets to place round the main arteries when considered advisable ; plenty of hempen ligatures, iron and silver wire, hare-lip pins, needles threaded or wired, lint, ad- hesive plaster, and bandages, fine sponge, water both warm and cold, and brandy and hartshorn in case of faintness. There should also be a sufficient number of assistants—^there should be one whose sole business it should be to administer the chloroform, and to watch its effects; others to keep the patient in a proper position, to hand the different instruments to the surgeon, or to assist him in other respects; besides a good light, and a bed or table, with pillows or cushions to make the patient's position as convenient as possible. Mr. Fergusson gives the useful hint that it is desirable to have delicate instruments made to shut in a handle like a pocket clasp-knife, so that they may be kept in the surgeon's waistcoat pocket till they are wanted, and that their edge or point may not be injured through the carelessness of the assistants. Moreover, the operator should himself see that everything is at hand that may be wanted. It would be awkward in the middle of an am- putation to send out for a saw. II. Incisions,—In making incisions there are sev^eral points that demand attention. First of all, the manner of handling the knife, which, as systematic writers say, may be held either like a common dinner knife, or like a pen, or like a fiddlestick. In holding the knife in the first way, which gives the greatest power to the operator, the thumb and middle finger should be placed opposite to each other near the junction of the blade with the shaft; the first finger should be laid on the back of the blade, and the little finger used to elevate or depress the extremity of the handle. The first two positions are those which are employed commonly ; the third is resorted to in cutting into the dif-OPERATIONS IN GENERAL. 704 ferent layers over a hernial sac, and in sundry other delicate operations. Secondly, before commencing an incision, the skin inust be gently stretched and steadied with the points of the fingers, otherwise it will be dragged along by the knife, and the incision will be ragged, and shorter than was intended. Thirdly, in cutting through the skin, the knife should be passed in at right angles to the surface, and should be at once carried down to the subcutaneous tissue; then the blade should be inclined downwards, and be made to cut through the skin to the requisite extent; and, lastly, as the incision is finished, the instrument must be again brought to a right angle with the surface. By these means the whole thickness of the skin will be cleanly divided, both at the beginning and end of the incision, without any " tailing of the in- cision.'' Timid operators are apt to make the incision through the skin too limited, which embarrasses their subsequent proceedings;. besides that cutting more of the skin subsequently (unless the patient is under the influence of chloroform) is very painful. In making incisions over a hernial sac, or in any place where the skin is loose, it saves time and pain to the patient to pinch up a fold of skin of a size proportionate to the length of the intended incision, to transfix it with the scalpel or bis- toury, with its edge directed upwards, i.e., from the patient, and to cut straight to the surface. By this means a straighter and more even in- cision is made down to the fascia, with great ease and expedition. When two incisions are to be made to meet near their extremities (as, for example, the two semi-elliptical incisions in amputation of the breast), the second should fall into the first nearly, but not quite at its extremity, so that there may be no little isthmus of skin left undivided between them ; again, in making a V incision, the second cut should not be begun where the first terminated, but at its other end; that is to say, it should be made towards the first, and not from it. In making a T in- cision likewise, the transverse cut should be made first, and the other be directed towards it. Lastly, the angle of a V incision should, if possible, be always dependent. III. Preparation.—The object is to get every organ and function in as healthy and tranquil a state as possible, by regular diet and aperients, with or without tonics or sedatives, till the pulse has become quiet, the tongue clean, and the bowels regular, the liver, kidneys, and skin in good order, and the mind cheerful. IV. The After-treatment should be conducted so as to wai-d off the most probable sources of danger—whether sinking from shock, or from loss of blood, or the occuri-ence of unhealthy changes in the surface of the wound and in the fluids exuded thereby, such as give rise to the various kinds of inflammation, phlebitis, erysipelas, diffused inflammations, and pyaemia. In the observations we have made on incised wounds, we have shown how important it is that the patient should be supplied with beef-tea, and solid nourishment, and with wine in sufficient quantity to maintain a healthy state of blood; and that he should be kept quiet. The late Mr, Copeland is said always to have given his patients half a grain of opium evei-y five or six hours705 ETHER AND CHLOROFORM. for the first two or three days after an operation, for the purpose of tranquillizing the nervous system, and his success proved the benefit of the plan. V. Air in Veins.—The entrance of large quantities of air into a vein is a most dangerous accident, that has sometimes occurred during the extir])ation of tumours from the neck or axilla. A large vein being cut across, whose coats adhere to some firm textures around, so that they cannot collapse, a sort of bubbling sucking noise is suddenly heard, the patient instantly faints, and generally dies soon afterwards. On examination the right auricle is found distended with frothy blood. If any such sound should be perceived during an operation, the sui geon should instantly put his fingers on the spot that it proceeds from, and the patient, if taint, should be kept in the recumbent position with the head low, and should be well plied with brandy. The air has no noxious properties in itself, and if introduced slowly, in small quantity, does no harm ; lai ge quantities prove fatal by interfering mechanically with the action of the heart.* CHAPTER II. MEAKS OF PRODUCING INSENSIBILITY TO PAIN. History.—So terrible is the idea of the surgeon's knife, that it cannot be wondered at that many attempts have been made, at various times since surgery was first cultivated, to diminish the tortures which it inflicts, both in apprehension and in reality. Dr. Simpsonf brings forward quotations .from Dioscorides, Pliny, and Apuleius, authors of the time of the Roman empire, showing that in that age the root of the mandragore or mandrake [atropa matidragora), steeped in wine, was given to cause insensibility (Trotetz/ auaKrOrjcrlav) in persons who were to be cut or cauterized; and that whilst the influence of this remedy lasted, a limb might be cut off without any pain or sensation. The seeds of the rocket {eruca) infused in wine were taken, according to Pliny, by criminals about to undergo the lash, in order to induce a certain recklessness or hardihood of feeling. The wine mingled with myrrh, which was offered to our Saviour before his Passion, furnishes an instance familiar to eveiy one. The bang, or extract of Indian hemp, is used in India for the same purpose at the pre^.ent day. Di'. Simpson has shown further that the inhalation of narcotic vapours was used as a preparatory to surgical operations in the thirteenth century. So far concei'ning the ancients. The modern history of anaesthetics may be said to begin at the end of the eighteenth century, when Mr, * For the best account of these curious cases, refer to Sir C. Bell's Practica 1 Essays, Lend., 1841. •j- Edinburgh Monthly Journal of Medical Science, December, 1847; Simpson's Obstetric Works, 1856, vol. ii. D 2 Z706 MEANS OF PRODUCING INSENSIBILITY TO PAIN. James Moore, son of Dr. Moore of Clifford Street, and house-surgeon to St. George's Hospital, introduced a plan for diminishing the sensi- bility of limbs before amputation, by compressing the principal nerves. This he effected by means of an instrument resembling Signoroni's torniquet, depicted in the chapter on Aneurysm, except that his instru- ment consisted of a horseshoe-shaped arch of steel, with a pad at each extremity, and a screw to act upon one of the pads. Moore was per- mitted by John Hunter, in 1784, to try his plan upon a patient in St. George's Hospital, who had lost all his toes, and had a large irritable ulcer on his foot, and whose leg, after having been submitted to the process, was cut off below the knee by Mr. Hunter, with an extremely small amount of pain.* This plan, however, was soon given up; it is not certain, and is not without some disadvantages; for Malgaigne,! who attempted by this means to benumb a patient's leg, before an operation, found that although some amount of insensibility was produced, yet that considerable pain was caused by the instruments used for compression. At the end of the last century the brilliant discoveries of oxygen and other gases by Priestley, Black, and Cavendish, and the fervent study of pneumatic chemistry, cre-dtei a new, though very short-lived branch of therapeutics. The attention of the profession was hopefully dii-ected to pneumatic medicine, as it was called; that is, to the possi- bility of curing diseases, and especially consumption, by the inhalation of various kinds of gases. A Medical Pneumatic Institution was set up at Clifton by Dr, Beddoes,J with huge reservoirs of gases for the use of patients. Humphry Davy, just out of his apprenticeship, was ap- pointed superintendent in 1799;—his experiments on the inhalation of nitrous oxide, created great excitement;—S. T. Coleridge, Robert Southey, John Rickman, P. Roget, Boulton, Watt, Wedgwood, and others, since distinguished as poets and philosophers, eagerly made proof of the effects of the intoxicating gas;—the gaz oxygenium and gaz aciduia carbonicum, and other gases, were introduced into the catalogues of medicinal drugs ; it was now fondly hoped that we were in possession of remedies simple, and certain, for almost all maladies; and even Davy, though far from participating in the sanguine dreams of Beddoes, believed it possible that by various combinations of carbu- retted hydrogen and nitrous oxide, " we should be in possession of a regular series of exciting and depressing powers, applicable to every deviation of the constitution from health." But experience ruthlessly proved the fallacy of these, as of many other ingenious and plausible speculations. In the course of his experiments, however, Davy found that the nitrous oxide relieved him irom headache after a profound fit of intoxication which he had brought on by drinking a bottle of wine * A Method of Preventing or Diminishing Pain in several Operations of Sur- gery, by James Moore, Member of the Surgeons' Company of London. 1784. f Malgaigne's Operative Surgery, by Brittan, p. 42. X A Letter to Erasmus Darwin, M.D., on a New Method of Treating Pulmo- nary Consumption. By Thomas Beddoes, M.D. Bristol, 17u3.707 ETHER AND CHLOROFORM. in eight minutes, with the purpose of comparing the effects of wine with those of the intoxicating gas ; he also found that it mitigated the pain of cutting a wisdom tooth; and he threw out the hint that as it appeared " capable of destroying physical pain, so it might probably be used with advantage during surgical operations,"* Nothing in good earnest, however, was done: there was no esta- blished or systematic use of ansesthetic means until the year 1844, when Horace Wells, a dentist of Hartford, Conn., U.S., acting upon Davy's suggestion, both inhaled the nitrous oxide gas himself before one of his teeth was extracted, with the effect of producing a complete uncon- sciousness of pain, and administered it to several patients who under- went the same operation, with the same beneficial results. In the December of that year he visited Boston, and made public trial of the administration of the gas, befoie the Medical College of that city. But this experiment failed from want of proper management; and the failure subjected Wells to so great an amount of ridicule, that he fell sick through vexation, retired from practice as a dentist, engaged him- self in stuffing and exhibiting birds and in the sale of shower-baths ; afterwards came to Europe as a picture-dealer, then returned to America, became more and more unsettled in his mind, and died by his own hand in January 1848. But the experiment of Wells, at Boston, fatal as its results were to liimself, was not altogether devoid of fruit. W. G. T. Morton had been a pupil and partner of Wells, and afterwards settled in Boston, where he studied medicine and chemistry for a shoi't time under Dr. Charles T. Jackson, and then pi-aotised as a dentist. He was the person who introduced Wells to the Medical Society of Baston, and a share of the ridicule attached to the unsuccessful experiment fell upon his shoulders. It appears that the idea of finding some means of extracting teeth without pain occupied the attention of both Morton and Jackson, and was the subject of conversation between them. Morton learned from Jackson the use of chloric ether as a local appli- cation to aching teeth. Both had read in Pereira's work on Materia Medica, that the vapour of sulphuric ajther was inhaled in spasmodic asthma, chronic catarrh, and whooping-cough, and to relieve the eflTects caused by the inhalation of chlorine gas. In fact, for these purposes, the inhalation of ether, pure, or medicated with conium or other sub- stances, was a well-known and not uncommon remedy, and had been spoken of by various authors from the time of Beddoes and Kichard Fearsonf in the latter end of the eighteenth century. Jackson himself had inhaled ether to relieve the irritation caused by accidentally breath- ing chlorine gas. Mortons Discovery.^V>\xt the meiit of first employing the inha- * See Memoir of Sir H. Davy, by his Brother, John Davy, M.D., Lend., 1839 ; and Researches, Chemical and Philosophical, by Humphry Davy, Superintendent of the Medical Pneumatic Institution, Lond., 1800, p. =165, et seq. t Short Account of Different Kinds of Airs, so far as relates to their Medi- cinal Use, by Richard Pearson, M.D. Birmingham, 1795.708 MEANS OF PRODUCING INSENSIBILITY TO PAIN. lation of ether in such a way as to produce a decided and controllable state of insensibility to the pain of surgical operations, is undoubtedly due to Morton. He first made several experiments on himself, with imperfect success, arising from the great difficulty of procuiing ether sufficiently pure; but having at last, on the 30th of December, 184(5, by inlialing it from a flask through a glass tube, succeeded in making himself unconscious, he determined to try the experiment on the first fit subject that presented himself. So eager was he, that he sent out agents that afternoon to try and tempt some Yankee, with the offer of five dollars, to come and inhale the ether, and loose a tooth. No one, however, would be so tempted ; but that same evening the very person wanted came of his own accord. A man, Eben H. Frost by name, applied to have a tooth extracted, and being wonderfully timid, and wishing to be mesmerised in order that he might feel no pain, he was easily persuaded to inhale some ether from a handkerchief. He soon became unconscious, and Morton extracted a bicuspid tooth, the patient knowing nothing of the operation till he recovered his senses, and saw the tooth lying on the floor. A Dr. Hayden, who held the lamp for the operator, and one Tenny, a journalist, were witnesses of the fact, and, together with the patient, immediately drew up and signed a document attesting it. And so, a new era in surgeiy began with the painless extraction of Frost's tooth by Morton, at 19, Tremont's Row, Boston, at nine in the evening of the 30tfi of September, 1846.* Morton lost no time in prosecuting the discovery he liad made, although he did not at first disclose the nature of the agent employed. He continued to make experiments at his own house ; and having made the subject known to Dr. Warren, was permitted to introduce his anaesthetic agent into the practice of genuine surgery, and on the 16th of October administered the ether in the Massachusetts General Hospital, at Boston, to a patient from whom Dr. J. C. Warren removed a tumour in the neck; and on the day foUovving to a patient from whose arm a tumour was extirpated by Dr. G. Hayvvard. From that time the use of the novel remedy spread rapidly in all directions ; but before pursuing its history we must drop a passing word of regret at its disastrous effects on the fortunes of its discoverer. Morton endea- voured to make a mystery of the means he employed, and to secure to himself, by patent, the exclusive right of administering it. But Jackson, seeing that the thing promised to be both famous and lucra- tive, now laid claim to the discovery as his own, on the plea that certain information which he had given Morton, respecting the pro- perties of ether, had directly led Morton to the use of it. To pacify Jackson, and bar any claims he might hereafter set up, he was allowed a share in the patent which was taken out. Nevertheless he sent a communication to the French Academy, in which he suppressed Mor- ton's name, and claimed the whole discovery as his own. Meanwhile the patent turned out to be good for nothing, and Morton, who * Ether and Chloroform, by Henry J. Bigelow, M.D. Boston, 1848.709 ETHER AND CHLOROFORM. had neglected his business, and injured his health by the excitement of liis discovery, was left with his pockets erapt}^ and even the bare honour of the invention almost wrested from him.* From America the news of the discovery was conveyed to England in a communication from Dr. Bigelow, of Boston, to Dr. Francis Boott, and it was received most cordially.f On the 21st of December, 1846, Mr. Liston tried the ether with the best possible results in a case of amputation of the thigh, and in one of evulsion of the toe-nail. On the 31st, the writer was present when Mr. Fergusson used it in the King's College Hospital, and in less than a fortnight it was tried by almost every surgeon in the kingdom ; whilst the medical periodicals for a long time were crowded with fresh instances of its powers in alleviating suffering, and with descriptions of various apparatus for administering tlie vapour. It was employed in every variety of surgical operation, fiom the Cfesarian section, in which it was used by Mr. Skey, at St. Bartholomew's Hospital, on the 25th of January, 1847, down to tooth" drawing ; and in all kinds of painful examination or manipulation : it was used in cases of strangulated hernia and of dislocation, and in the obstetric operation of turning, in order to diminish the resistance of the muscles; in various cases of painful and spasmodic affections, such as tetanus, neuralgia, and spasmodic asthma; it was employed to tranquillize the insane, to detect feigned disease, and to diminish the sufferings incidental to parturition. It was used too on infants, on the aged, and on animals. Its mod>is operandi closely resembles that of chloroform ; what differences exist, shall be described further on. Chloroform.—Brilliant as w\as the career of the ether discovery, it was destined soon to be eclipsed. Ether, whose chemical symbol is C4H5O, is one of a numerous class of bodies, all composed of hydrogen and carbon, with variable proportions of oxygen or some other electro- negative. Dr. J. Y. Simpson, of Edinburgh, believing that amongst these bodies some might be found equal or superior to ether, made many experiments on himself and friends with chloride of hydrocarbon, acetone, nitrous ether, and other analogous substances, and at last, on the 4th of November, 1847, in company with Dr. Keith and D]-. Matthews Duncan, found in a heavyish liquid that had been put by and almost foi-gotten, an agent which was manifestly superior to ether in its narcotizing virtues, and immeasurably more pleasant. This was chloroform. It had been investigated some time before by Dr. Glover, and it was recommended to Dr. Simpson by Mr. Waldie of Liverpool ; moreover, inhalation of the fumes of that solution of it in alcohol which ]s known by the name of chloric ether had been tried some time before by Mr. Jacob Bell; but undoubtedly the merit of establishing the an- aesthetic power of chloi oform, as a matter-of-fact, belongs to Dr. Sirap- * See a Eeport of the Trustees of the Massachusetts General Hospital, with a History of the Ether Discovery, in Littell's Living Age, Boston, 18th March, 1848. f Vide Lancet, January 2, 184T, and all the medical periodicals of that year, passim.710 MEANS OF PRODUCING INSENSIBILITY TO PAIN. son. The surgeons who first performed operations with the aid of it, were Dr. Miller and Dr. Duncan, at the Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh, early in November 1847,* Chemical History.— Chloroform is a terchloride of a hypothetical base, termed Formyle, which consists of two atoms of carbon and one of hydrogen. Hence the symbolic designation of chloroform is C2H,Cl3, It was discovered by Soubeiran in 1831, by Liebig in 1832, and by- Mr. Samuel Guthrie, of Sacket's Harbour, New York, in the same year ;t its real nature was ascertained by Dumas and Pe'ligot in 1835. It is obtained by distilling rectified spirit with water and chloiide of lime, in the proportions of four pounds of powdered chloride of hme, twelve pounds of water, and twelve fluid ounces of rectified spirit. These are mixed and distilled, so long as a dense liquid, which sinks in the water with which it comes over, is produced. It is rectified by agitating it with the strongest colourless sulphuric acid, which if it contain any impurities, such as the empyreumatic oils with which it is liable to be contaminated, at once destroys them by charring, and renders them manifest by the dark colour of the line where the chloro- form and acid come into contact. It is poured otf and agitated with tresh acid, if necessary, then poured carefully oft' into a dry stoppered bottle, and shaken with some peroxide of manganese, from which it may be decanted, fit for use.J Pure chloroform is a dense colourless liquid, having the specific gravity, when quite pure, of from 1*480 to 1*5, It is exceedingly volatile, and boils at about 140^. It has an agreeable sweet fruity smell and taste, and if poured on a piece of blotting-paper and evapo- rated, ought to leave no oily empyreumatic smell behind. By passing its vapour through a red-hot tube, it is decomposed, and hydrochloric acid is given off, which may be detected by means of paper moistened with solution of nitr-ate of silver. By such a process, Dr*. Snow detected it in the bodies of kittens poisoned by a very minute quantity of it, and in the muscles of a child's leg which had been amputated at St. George's Hospital after inhalation of the vapour. Chlor-oform is almost incombustible, thus offei'ing an advantageous contrast to ether, from the explosion of which at least one serious acci- dent happened dur-ing its administr-ation.§ Effects on the Animal Economy.—When the vapour of chloroform is received into the lungs, it is absorbed into the blood, and conveyed to the nervous centres and r-est of the body, upon which it soon produces very marked effects. These it is convenient to divide into degrees, and the division which the writer proposes as the most practically useful, is the following :—The first, or slightest degree, corresponds with what may be called exhilar-ation or slight intoxication. The pulse is quick- * Miller's Principles of Surgery, vol. ii., p. 756. t Cogswell, Lancet, 1847, vol. ii., p. 631 ; Waldie, ib., p. 687. X Gregory, quoted in Ranking's Abstract, vol. xi., p. 231. 9 Med. Gaz., 2Cth Sept. 1850.CHLOROFOEM. 711 ened, and the whole surface, especially the face and eyes, becomes suf- fused with red. The current of ideas is vivid and not quite under control; fear is banished ; but thei e is perfect consciousness of all that is going on, and the severe pain of operations is still felt intensely; although the pain of disease as well as that part of suffering which de- pends on mental apprehension is relieved. In the second degree there is no longer perfect consciousness. The patient generally neither speaks nor moves, though it is still possible for him to do both if spoken to or roused, and he is in a condition of deep drovvsine.ss ; it may sometimes be called drunken-drowsiness. All the varieties, too, of intoxication may be displayed, according to the mental peculiarity of the patient. One man is noisy, and inclined to fight; another laughs at jokes of his own making; a w^oman may weep or talk of her husband or children. But these phenomena are not universal, and are of veiy short duration; ibr this degree soon passes into the next, if the inhalation be prolonged, or into the first, if it be discontinued. In the third degree, there is profoiind sleep ; all voluntaiy motion and sensation are at a standstill; the eye is suffused and turned up- wards, the pupil contracted, and the breathing slow, as in natural sleep. But yet in this degree, the eyelids wink if touched ; sneezing is excited by tickling the nostrils ; in tact, reflex movements are vividly performed, as they are in sleep; and though the patient lie unconscious, he is not yet sufficiently motionless for severe or prolonged surgical operations. The fourth degree, which may be termed perfect insensihility (or anossthesia, if a Greek term is better), is distinguished by the circum- stance, that in addition to the profound sleep of the third degree, reflex actions are no longer excited by the nerves of common sensation. The eyeball may be touched freely without winking ; the muscles are per- fectly relaxed; and it is the very beginning of this degree, which it is desirable to produce, for the commencement of surgical operations. The fifth degi-ee approaches the condition known as coma; it is marked by tendency of the pupil to dilate ; and slower breathing : if the quantity of vapour be increased, death may occur from coma. If this account of the increasing effects of chloroform be carefully perused, it will be seen that it belongs to the class of substances of which opium and the various preparations of alcohol are examples. It begins by affecting the mind and consciousness. In its smallest dose it stimulates, then disturbs, then suspends the mental operations. It next diminishes the power of the nerves in receiving and communi- cating, and of the brain in perceiving sensations, whether arising from causes within the body, or without; hence it diminishes or abolishes the perception, and the existence of pain. It further benumbs that power called the reflex function of the spinal cord ; the power by which the spinal cord, upon the production of any change in the nerves of sensation, puts into play the corresponding nerves of motion, and this quite automatically and independently of the will or consciousness.712 MEANS OF PRODUCING INSENSIBILITY TO PAIN. This is the power by which irritation of any part causes its muscles to contract. Hence, the torpefaction of this power insures the absence of invohmtary movement, and the complete relaxation of the voluntary muscles. But if carried a little too far, it abolishes breathing too, and death ensues fi om apnoea. It will be more convenient to treat of death from chloroform a little further on. There are one or two minuter facts, which are well worth knowing. All parts of the body do not become insensible in equal times. For instance, in experiments on rats and mice with ether, Dr. Anstie found that the hind quarters remained powerless, and the muzzle in- sensible, after the conjunctiva, skin of the chest, and forelimbs had recovered their sensibility and mobility respectively.* " Certain por- tions of the skin and subcutaneous tissue," says Dr. Anstie, " retain their sensibility with extraordinary tenacity; these are the matrix of the great toe nail, the margin of the anus, and the whole of the skin of the organs of generation. It is impossible to obliterate their sensibility without pushing chloroformization to a degree which greatly surpasses that required for ordinary purposes. This explains the frequency with which death has happened in the course of anaesthesia induced from the performance of operations for phymosis, evulsion of the toe nail, haemorrhoids, &c." Involuntary passage of urine or faeces during pro- longed anaesthesia is a symptom of paralysis of the sympathetic and betokens danger. Dose.—In speaking of the dose of chloroform, it must be remembered that it is not the mere quantity inhaled, without reference to time, but the quantity present in the blood in a given time, which is to be regarded. Patients may be kept under its influence a long time, and thus may inhale a large quantity with safety; but even a small quantity too rapidly inhaled, and insufficiently diluted with air, may be dangerous. Dr. Snow calculated that about twelve minims of chloroform circulating in the blood of an adult pi'oduce the second degree of narcotism, eighteen minims the degree in which operations are performed ; a little more than thirty suffice to arrest respiration, and thirty-six or thirty-seven to stop the action of the heart. These numbers refer to the quantity actually circulating in the blood at a given time. It is necessary also to bear in mind, that when a patient is inhaling air highly charged with chloroform, the narcotic effects con- tinue to increase, as Dr. Snow pointed out, for twenty seconds, after the inhalation is discontinued, owing to the absorption of the vapour remaining in the lungs. But it seems very certain, that much less is requisite for producing full insensibility in some persons than in others,! * Stimulants and Narcotics, their Mutual Eolations, with Special Researches on the Action of Alcohol, Ether, and Chloroform on the Vital Organism. By- Francis E. Ansiie, M.D., &c. Lond., Macmillan, 1864, pp. 302—353, &c. f Sibson, Med. Gaz., vol. vi., p. 276; T. Wakley, Lancet, 1848, vol. i., p. 19 ; Dr. Snow, Med. Times, 31st August, 1850 ; on Death from Chloroform, London Journal of Medicine, April, 1852; case of Death, Med. Times, Oct. 19, 1852 ; see also Lancet, Oct. 29,'l853.—Dr. Crisp, Lancet, 1853, vol. i. How shall we713 CHLOROFORM. Mode of administration.—Dr. Simpson, the father of chloroformiza- tion, uses no apparatus whatever, but a simple handkerchief; and the writer^ from his own experience, thinks that this unpretending way is the best in all cases in which the slighter degrees only are required ; as, for instance, in common midwifery cases, and in cases in which pain has to be allayed without deep or protracted narcotism. It is equally safe, too, for the profounder degrees of insensibility required for severe operations, pi'ovided the administrant uses that degree of care without which no sane person would touch this remedy ; but it is rather more wasteful of the vapour. The patient should lie down. But if sitting, the attitude should be such as to allow of the completest repose; it, however, is much more difficult to narcotize a person sitting. He should be encouraged to be as tranquil as possible, and compose himself to sleep. A napkin should be folded into a hollow cone, and twenty minims of chloroform, by measure, be poured into its apex; then it shoidd be held about two inches from the face of the patient, who should be instructed to begin to breathe through open mouth, slowly and deeply, so as to inhale as much of the vapour as he can. If there is any choking, the napkin should be removed a little further. The narcotism should be insinuat- ingly begun ; so as to avoid any distressing gulping, or choking, or struggling, especially in the case of children. When the first twenty minims are exhausted, the same quantity should be repeated ; and this should be done again and again at intervals, till the requisite degree of narcotism is produced. So soon as the eye, when opened, looks suf- fused and heavy and turned up, and the patient scarcely speaks if spoken to, then the second degree is at its acme, and the third be- ginning. If the inhalation be continued, the degree of profound sleep, and next that of complete insensibility, will be established, and then, so soon, as Dr. Snow observes, as the eyelid can be raised, and the conjunctiva touched without winking, the surgeon may begin. When the operation is fairly commenced, it is not necessary to keep up so great a degree of narcotism. The patient having been secured against the first plunge of the knife, may be kept in a sufficient state of unconsciousness by an occasional whiff of the vapour, whenever his countenance exhibits any signs of feeling. In fact, during a protracted administration, when the patient is thoroughly narcotized, the vapour should be intermitted; the patient should for certain intervals be allowed pure air, and the chlo- roform be resumed from time to time when there is some approach to wincing- under the hands of the operator. The value of apparatus is, that they save the chloroform, and enable the surgeon {if the valves work well) to regulate the dose; but no valves or machinery can be substitutes for care and common sense. ensure Safety in the Administration of Chloroform? By Patrick Black, M.D., 1855 ; Further Remarks on the Cause and Prevention of Death from Chloroform. By John Snow, M.D., Lancet of Feb. 1856.714 MEANS OF PRODUCING INSENSIBILITY TO PAIN. Dr. Anstie, although he condemns the handkerchief, gives four cases in which patients were nearly killed because the apparatus did not work well. The simplest is Dr. Sibson's mask. This consists of a mask, cover- ing nose and mouth, constructed of thin flexible metal, so that it can be adjusted to a face of any form or size. It has attached to it a small cavity, within which is a piece of blotting-paper, on which the twenty minims of chloroform are dropped from time to time. Through this cavity the air is drawn i;i by the act of inspiration, bringing the chlo- roform vapour with it. A valve of vulcanized india-rubber permits the entrance of the air, but prevents its escape by the same route. Another valve opens to allow of the escape of the air that has been once breathed, but shuts during inspiration. This latter valve, if entirely turned aside, permits the atmospheric air to enter freely without any chloroform, or, if removed partially, permits it to be mixed with it in any proportion. Matthews has an improvement which allows the chloroform box to be turned in any direction, so that the chloroform can never run into the mouth. D?'. Snow's Inhaler consists of Dr. Sibson's mask, which is connected by a long flexible tube to a double metallic bottle. The inner bottle contains the chloroform, and has proper apertures for the transmission of air. The outer bottle contains cold water, in order to provide that the vapour may be raised at an equable temperature. Another rude but very good apparatus is made by folding a piece of very stiff paper into the sh^pe of a fool's cap ; leaving an aperture at the top. A piece of sponge is sewed to the inside of the paper near the top; and on this (first wetted with cold water) the chloroform is poured. Dr. Skinner has devised a useful inhaler consisting of a piece of thick muslin stretched on a frame * Messrs. Weiss have devised one inhaler, by which the quantity of chloroform and of air can be regulated; and another fixed to the operating-table, which is said to provide against waste of the vapour, and excessive doses. From Dr. Anstie's description, it does not add to the patient's safety. If, however, any apparatus at all is to be used, it should be Clover's. This consists of a mouthpiece having valves to admit the fresh air at plea- sure ; and connected by a flexible tube to a large india-rubber air-proof bag; which the administrator hangs from his shouldei s, and carries on his back. This bag is filled with air, leady impregnated with chloro- form vapour in definite proportions. A bellows holding 1000 cubic inches of air is made to drive its contents through a box into which 40 minims of chloroform have been introduced by a graduated syringe; this quantity gives 45 inches of chloroform vapour, or 4J per cent, to the air with which the bag is filled. The valves should be opened at first so that even this vapour may be further diluted.f * Obstet. Trans., vol. iv., p. 116. f See Notices of Surgical Instruments, by James R, Traer, Med. Times and Gaz., August 9, 1862.715 CHLOROFORM. The following hints may be of use to beginners :—The chloroform should not be allowed to touch the lips, or it may blister them. The patient should not be chloroformed within two hours of a full meal. This precaution may prevent the annoyance of vomiting. He should be narcotized before he is removed to the operating-table, and before he can see any preparations or knives. The humanity of this precaution, if a timid patient is to be brought into the operating theatre of an hospital, is evident. He should be taken back to bed again in a state of unconsciousness. There should he no hurry, because complete in- sensibility to pain, and absence of involuntary movement and wincing, are more safely obtained after the vapour has had time to permeate all the capillaries and benumb all the peripheral nerves. Dr. Snow makes the most valuable observation, that insensibility to pain cannot be ob- tained in a very rapid manner without a dangerous degree of narcotism of the nervous centres. The inhalation should occupy at least from four to seven minutes before the third degree of narcotism is esta- blished ; and then it will usually be another minute more before the surgeon should begin—eight minutes altogether. The loud talking or violence of the intoxication stage is no cause of alarm ; quite the re- verse ; it shows that the vapour has not produced a dangerous eftect, and that a slight increase is neressary to produce the next degree. At every operation the management of the chloroform should be committed to one competent person, whose duty it should be to attend to it, and nothing else, with his eye on the breathing, and his finger on the pulse. The class of patients on whom chloroform acts most pleasantly and safely are women in childbirth; next, children, in whom it scarcely ever causes either mental excitement or struggling. Moreover, immu- nity from pain is obtained with less narcotism of the nervous cent)'es than in adults. It does not work so well on infants. The very aged are long in recovering their consciousness after inhalation. The more feeble a patient is, the more quickly and pleasantly does the vapour generally act; if very strong and robust, considerable mental excitement is apt to occur in the second degree of narcotism, and struggling or rigidity of the muscles in the third. Some patients hold their breath for some seconds. In this case, the first deep inhalation should be of pure air only. The cases in which the inhalation of chloroform is useful, comprise, in the first place, every surgical manipulation attended with pain; of which it seems not only to render the patient unconscious, but also, by preventing its effects on the mind, to neutralize its depressing power on the body. To lull the pain during operations as well as the smarting after them ; to lull the pain and shock of violent injuries, and of the surgical examination and setting of fractures which follow; to facilitate the reduction of hernia and dislocations and the passing of catheters, and to detect feigned disease; these are its chief surgical uses. But its benefits are not confined to the abolition of pain; there is great reason for hoping that it renders operations less mortal; it en-716 MEANS OF PRODUCING INSENSIBILITY TO PAIN. ables the surgeon to pro(;eed with his dissection in a more leisurely manner; it does awav with the sci'uples of the over-modest woman, to whom the shame of exposure is worse than the pain of the knife; and it circumvents the opposition of the timid and unruly. In military surgery it has special uses. " In the prolonged searches," says Dr. Macleod,* " which are sometimes necessary for the extraction of foreign bodies, it not only prevents pain, but restrains the involun- - tary contraction of muscles which otherwise would throw great obsta- cles in the way of both sear(>,h and extraction. In field-practice, too, when a number of men come in quick succession during a general en- gagement, to be operated upon, the brave fellows who are waiting for their turn are spared the depression which the groans of their com- rades under the knife would otherwise inflict upon them." In the case of children, many things can be done nicely with chloro- form, which could be but most ill done, if at all, without it. Take, for instance, the case of wounds of the eyelids or eyebrows, which, if not most accurately sewn up, are sure to be followed by frightful seams, or by inversion or eversion of the lids, and perpetual overflow of tears. By a little chloroform, not merely the pain and fright of the injury, and the severe smarting caused by the needle, but the struggles also, which render quickness and nicety of adaptation impossible, are done away with; the patient sleeps t]-anquilly during the process, and wakes composedly soon after, absolutely without any ill consequences whatever. The writer administered it day by day for a fortnight to a child of four years, who had been severely scalded, in order to prevent the screams and struggles which accompanied the dressing of the wound. No ill effects whatever resulted. The child slept during the dressing, and awoke without sickness. But the uses of chloroform are far from being confined to the prac- tice of burgery. In midwifery the uneasiness and spasms which attend the early stages, and the distension and rigidity of the later, together with the anxiety and fears, are so tranquillized that, although fortu- nate and healthy women need it not, yet those who have ever experi- enced the comfort of it, are never willing to forego it in another con- finement. Moreover, inordinary cases, its good effects may be obtained with the smallest doses, without scarcely passing the first or second de- gree of narcotism, and without the slightest danger at the time, or ill effect on mother or child afterwards.f In the operation of midwifery its effects are admirable ; and not the least happy circumstance is, that it works so well with opium. In general physic its use is great; not so great, perhaps, as the writer was led to hope in preceding editions of this work. In the last edition but one we said, " In genei-al terms, it may be said to achieve perfectly, and at once, what opium is an hour or two in doing gradually. Moreover, it has the happy property of being so * Notes on the Surgery of the War in the Crimea. By G. H. B. Macleod, M.D , F.R.C.S., &c,, Lond. 1858. t The writer has an Essay on the Causes, Varieties, and Prevention of Pain in Labour, which he hopes to publish ere long.717 CHLOKOFORM. quickly and entirely eliminated from the system, that there are in most cases no ill effects afterwards ; none of the checked secretions for which opium is, justly or unjustly, so often blamed. Hence, in violent pain and spasms, especially in colic, in spasmodic asthma, and spasmodic cough, dyspnoja, dysui-ia, dysentery, dysmenori hoea, and almost every other compound of dvs, in hysteria and convulsions not depending on fulness of the nervous centres, this remedy may be resorted to. In the violent colic of intants, for example, the sagacious physician, instead of letting the patient shriek itself to death, whilst he is waiting for the effect of remedies, will, by this vapour, stop the pain, which is the element of danger, and remov^e the causes of the illness radically at his leisure." Increased experience compels the writer to say, that although his former opinion stands good with regard to cases of sudden painful ill- ness, in previously healthy persons, yet that chloroform is not always eliminated quickly; and that it often leaves an amount of sickness, headache, and feverishness, which are great drawbacks to its use in cancer, neuralgia, and dysmenorrhoea, cases in which the writer has tried it; and for which sether and camphor, F. 206, is to be preferred. See Tetanus. Cases in which it is inapplicable.—It is generally considered better not to use chloroform in cases of extraction of cataract, in elderly per- sons. There are two reasons for this. First, lest the vomiting which often happens afterwards might force out the whole contents of the eye- ball. But ]\Ir, Haynes Walton has shown that this accident may be prevented if the proper amount of gentle pressure be exerted on the eyelids by means of strips of plastei'. Another more serious objection, is the loss of appetite and digestion which chloroform may occasion in aged persons. In operations on the jaws, or fauces, there is no serious fear that the blood will run into the glottis and sufJbcate the patient, provided the patient's head be turned on one side repeatedly to let it out freely. Full narcotism should be induced before these operations, and it should be kept up as well as it can by inhalation at intervals from a sponge wetted with cold water, on which twenty minims of chloroform have been poured. The cases in which on general princi- ples it should be given with hesitation, are those of chronic organic disease of the brain, atrophy or dilatation of the heart, and embar- rassed circulation through the lungs. But since the shock of an ope- ration is in itself extremely formidable to patients so aflected, it is probable that a cautious administration of the ansesthetic might dimi- nish the danger instead of adding to it. Epileptic patients are liable to have their fits induced by the inhalation. It should never be given to a woman without a witness. Moreover, it should never be adminis- tered by any person to himself, nor yet be used as a plaything or a luxury. If pain is bearable, and not injurious, let it be boi ne. Accidents from Chloroform.—The commonest is vomiting, which, however, is of very little consequence. If it occur during the inhala- tion, the patient's head must be turned to one side to let the vomited matter escape. If very troublesome afterwards, a little brandy and718 MEANS OF PRODUCING INSENSIBILITY TO PAIN. soda water, or an aperient, may be administered. The patient, if chilly, should be wrapped up warmly. When the patient is an adult, and particularly if old, the chloroform may not be entirely eliminated for some hours, and may occasion nausea and giddiness, and haunt the patient disagreeably with its smell and taste. Abstinence from food be- forehand will diminish, but will not infallibly prevent vomiting in all persons : since this is either an eliminatory act, for the purpose of puri- fying tlie blood, like the vomiting on the day after a debauch, or else, like sea-sickness, the result of bi ain disturbance. Death from Chloroform.—That a remedy so powerful should be capable of extinguishing life, follows as a matter of course from the details which we have given. The manner in which life is extinguished, and which has been the subject of controversy, is not always the same in different cases. In the first place, chloroform mavkill by apnoea, or suffocation; by interfering with the passage of the blood through the lungs ; by giving the blood such a quality that the pulmonary capillaries refuse a passage ±0 it; or by acting upon the medulla oblongata in such a way as to stop the reflex act of inspiration. This mode of death seems to occur often in the case of animals poisoned experimentally; sometimes in man. Possibly spasm of the glottis may be produced by a concentrated vapour. In such a case, the symptoms would be those of " congestion of the head and face, staring eyes, turgid veins, struggling or convul- sive spasms, ineffectual efforts to expand the chest," preceded by a sense of choking, and irresistible propensity to struggle against further inha- lation. After death, congestion of the lungs, and fulness of the D'ight side of the heart would be found.* There is a capital experiment recorded by Dr. Chapman,f in which the heart of a cat poisoned by chloroform, full and motionless, was set beating by the loss of blood which ensued fi om division of the aorta and pulmonary artery, and beat for an hour and a half. Hence it is evident that this heart was stopped because overloaded, and unable to force the blood through the lungs: not paralysed intrinsically. Eut, secondly, there can be no doubt, that chloroform usually kills man by syncope or angina, that is, paralysis of the heart. And the order of phenomena is usually this :—-The patient all at once raises his body and struggles, the face is noticed to be deadly pale and the limbs relaxed, blood ceases to flow from cut artei ies, no pulse is felt at the wrist, the heart cannot be felt to beat, the breathing continues slowly and gaspingly for half a minute or more, then all is over. Of deaths belonging to this category, no better example can be given than the following:—A gentleman, aged 73, with intermitting pulse, and arcus in each eye, had been chloroformed six or eight times for the puipose of undergoing lithotrity. On Dec, 4, 1851, he was again chloroformed; during the operation he exhibited considei able faintness, though he recovered himself before it was over. A few minutes after * We quote almost verbatim from Dr. Black's very able pamphlet, f How Chloroform Kills, Med. Times, 18th Oct, 1850.719 CHLOROFORM. the operation he had what was described as alarming syncope. Spite of this, the patient was chloroformed again on the 15th and 19th Dec, by Dr. Snow; whose large experience had given him no room to anti- cipate bad results. On Sept. 15th, 1852, there was occasion for another operation. Chloroform was again given by Dr. Snow. The patient became insensible in three or four minutes, without struggling. The operation was begun. A little of the vapour was given twice or thrice to keep up the effect. After a few minutes great paleness of lips and face were noticed ; but immediately afterwards the face reddened, and the patient strained, as though he telt the operation. Hereupon, a little more vapour, lai'gely diluted, was given. But now after two or three inspirations the breathing ceased. It seemed as though the patient were holding his breath a little, as sometimes happens; but on feelino- the wrist there was no pulse. In a few seconds came one deep inspira- tion ;—a few rapid and feeble pulsations of the heart wore heard, which then ceased; one or two very faint inspirations followed at the interval of a quarter of a minute ; then death. Cold affusion and artificial re- spiration were employed without avail. On inspection the heart was found large, soft, friable, and in a state of fatty degeneration. That death in this, and in other similar cases, is brought about by paralysis of the heart, and not by suffocatiori, was successfully shown by the late Dr. Snow. He showed that death from pure suflbcation is never so quick as death from chloroform has always been ; that in cases of death from privation of air, the heart goes on beating for some few minutes after breathing has ceased; whereas, as a matter of fact, in most cases of death by chloi oform, the breathing has been proved to go on up to the time the pulse stopped, and after it;—that patients have breathed it freely without struggling up to the instant of death; and that sudden paleness is a more frequent phenomenon in these ca^es, than turgescence of the face; although neither is incompatible with palsy of the heart. The writer may add, that in the only case in which any alarming symptoms occurred whilst he was administering chloro- form, the patient complained afterwaids, not of choking, but of the un- mistakeable symptoms of angina,—fixed pain, great oppression, and feeling as of a load in the region of the heart. Thirdly, chloroform may cause death by what the French call by the classical term sideration, to wit, a star-struck or blasted state of the nervous system ; or, in plain English, by a sudden annihilation of the life of the brain and spinal cord. Hence the syncope may be caused by the state of the brain, and not merely by the direct action of the poison on the heart. That the poison has an injurious operation on the nervous centres, is manifest fi om the nature of the thing, and from the vomiting. In giving it to young babies the writer has occasionally noticed squinting, blueness of lips, and tendency to convulsions. In an uncertain number of cases, too, chloroform may have added to the general exhaustion, which has caused patients to sink from the shock of operations.720 MEANS OF PRODUCING INSENSIBILITY TO PAIN. Yet all the accounts concur in establishing the fact that in the infi- nitely greater number of cases in man, it is by direct paralysis of the heart that death is produced. A remarkable circumstance is the apparent capriciousness of the accident. It has been suggested that in some cases the chloroform has been impure ; but of this there is no proof. In otheis, that the patient's heart was weak, or in a state of oily degeneration. Yet in most cases after death the heart has been found quite sound. In others, that the vapour was given from a handkerchief, and not with an apparatus. But the writer does not hesitate to say, that if the administrator keeps one eye on the breathing and a finger on the pulse, a handkerchief is quite as safe as an inhaler, or safer, provided that but little chloroform be put on at a time. In other cases, again, it has been suggested that the administration was hurried, or careless. And this is no doubt true. The admini- strator, puzzled or annoyed by the persistence of the second or intoxica- tion stage, gives a sudden increase, and the heart stops. There is no peculiar post-mortem appearance to be found in the victims of chloroform. The blood corpuscles have been found crenated or wrinkled at their edges, but this is not universal ; neither has it been shown that this appearance is confined to cases of death from chloroform. Nothing constant is remarked as to colour of the blood; nor yet as to congestion of brain, lungs, or other organs. In the earlier years of chloroform it was sought to be shown that death was due to latty degeneration of the heart: no theory could be more convenient, nor yet more frivolous. The only inference to be drawn was, that any man might have a fatty heart without knowing it, and that therefore chlorofoim should never be administered without the amount of care which ought to be taken if it were certainly known that the heart were degenerate. But the truth is, that a little chloroform may be safely borne by a diseased heart; while much of it will stop the beating of the healthiest. It must be fully admitted, too, that the conditions under which a moderate dose of vapour paralyses the heart are not known ; and that, whilst a lesson of caution should be learned by us all, we have no right to cast blame on any chloroformist who may have the mis- fortune to lose a patient. But the same apparent capiiciousness attends most other instances of sudden death. We do not always know, why any given soft and thin heart should stop suddenly at a given time ; but we do know enough to put us on our guard. In the first place, our object should be, to obtain the greatest effect from the smallest quantity, and to avoid sudden increase. Then, to avoid all circumstances which disturb the heart; and, above all, mental agitation. The sitting posture is to be avoided. The patient should be as nearly as possible under the circumstances that induce sleep. Some good soup should be given an hour before, and some brandy just before721 CHLOROFORM. le operation. Account must be taken of exposure to cold and loss of lood during long operations. The air which reaches the patient should e puie ; and lastly, if the pulse be very soft, and the heart's impulse ;eble, and the patient subject to breathlessness on slight exertion, it will 3 wise to give enough merely to abate mental disquietude, without iitire insensibility. The signs of danger of narcotism fi'om protracted inhalation ai-e, i) breathing slow, or shallow and quick and feeble, or intermittent; b) pupil dilating ; (c)pulse very feeble or intermittent. The remedies re to take away the chloroform, open doors and windows, and dash cold ^ater in the face, and give stimulants by mouth or rectum. But apposing that symptoms of heart-failure show themselves? Then, in idition, pull the tongue forwards, so as to unstop the glottis; use rtificial respiration by Silvester's method ; or by inflating the lungs from louth to mouth, and emptying them by pressure on the thorax; to o^Ay one pole of a galvanic apparatus to the neck; another to the dia- hragm or to the heart itself, running in a fine needle; (galvanism, be it bserved, should be used gently, and not long together). If breathing be ^stored, the rest is a matter of time and stimulants. Dr. Chapman's 'iperiment, in which the distended heart of an animal was set beat- ig by loss of blood, suggests the propriety of opening the jugular ein, and letting some blood flow, especially if the face be turgid. >r. Sibson suggested to the author, in conversation, the expediency of ejecting into a vein, towards the heart, some stimulating liquid. The eartwill beat a long time in warm water: and the injection of warm '■aler with a little salt, or of pure fi'esh blood from the veins of a ystander, would be a most desirable experiment. The number of well-authenticated cases of death from chloroform col- icted by the Committee of the Royal Medico-Chirurgical Society is 123 ; '■hich probably is not more than two-thirds of those which have actually ccurred. It is an abuse of statistics to attempt from any data yet at ur command to estimate the amount of danger run by any individual atient. This must be a result of the quality of the chloroform, f the quantity used in a given time, of the mental and bodily condition f the patient, of the care and skill of the chloroformist, and of the latience of the surgeon who has to operate; for if he be in a hurry, nd pull out his watch, and if the chloroformist take the hint, and ush the vapour suddenly, the patient is in imminent risk. Has chloroform, on the whole, increased the mortality of operations ? )r. James Arnott asserted that the mortality of amputations has icreased from 21 to 34 per cent, since the introduction of chloroform, nd in consequence of the use of it; but the inquiries of the Com- littee of the Royal Medico-Chirurgical Society have confirmed the onclusions previously arrived at by Mr. Fenwick and Mr. Coates, hat the mortality of operations has not been increased. Chloroform compared with other Anesthetics.—It remains 0 be seen whether some substitute can be found for chloroform, or /hether a combination of it with other narcotics may be equally D 3 A "MEANS OF PKODUCING INSENSIBILITY. 722 effectual and more safe. Ether is much less pleasant than chloroform, more irritating to the air-passages, and more apt to be followed by headache and other unpleasant symptoms, of which the persistent taste and smell of it in the breath are not the least. It is less rapid in its action, and therefore less convenient in practice; but it has this important property, that it seems not only not to depress, but to exalt the action of the heart, even when administered for a considerable time; in fact, if it kill, it is by suspension of the breathing, and not by palsy of the heart. It is said to produce complete muscular relaxa- tion more perfectly than chloroform, so that it is perhaps preferable in cases of hernia, dislocation, and spasm. It would be proper to use ether, therefore, in cases in which there is any doubt of the heart's soundness. The writer generally uses a combination of it with chloro- foi-m in equal proportions in midwifery; but perhaps a mixture of one part of alcohol, two of chloroform, and three of ether, proposed by Dr. G. Harley, is the most advantageous, as it evaporates equally. The Dutch liquid, or compound of chlorine and olefiant gas, so called because discovered by the Dutch chemists in 1795, resembles chloro- form in its general effects, and is only about one-half so powerful or rapid in its action. It is not easy to procure. A mixture of equal parts of chloroform and alcohol has caused death in America. Amylene, a liquid hydrocarbon, was iised by Dr. Snow in 238 cases: its anaes- thetic powers were satisfactory, and it caused voniiting in two only out of the 238 cases, although chloroform caused it in 22 per cent. But its odour is abominable, and it destroyed life in two out of the 238 cases. Bisulphuret of carbon is a powerful, but uncertain and disagreeable agent. Dr. H, Bigelow, of Boston, removed a breast, with the aid of sixty quarts of nitrous oxide gas, " consumed during six minutes, and pro- ducing a most tranquil and complete insensibility."* There is a compound, F. 206, which the writer constantly pre- scribes in cases in which a strong narcotic stimulant is desirable. Two drachms of camphor dissolved in an ounce of ether form a liquid, of which a little may be put on a handkerchief, and inhaled in nervous headaches, brow ague and other forms of neuralgia, colic, uterine cramp dui ing pregnancy, &c. Means of producing local Anesthesia.—Something is desired which shall produce perfect insensibility of the part to be operated on, and yet leave the brain in possession of its faculties. Very many ex- periments to this end have been made by Dr. Simpson, who has found that the strongest preparations of opium, aconite, belladonna, tobacco, and Indian hemp produce no appreciable insensibility when applied to the human skin; and although prussic acid rubbed on the gums, and the vapour of chloroform applied continuously to the skin, produce some numbness, yet still they are not sufficient to render a cutting * See Med. Chir. Trans., voL xlvii.; Cbapman, Westminster Review, Jan. 1859 ; Anstie, op. cit.; Dr. Kidd on Anaesthetics; and Papers in Med. Journals, 1863.723 INTENSE COLD. operation, or the extraction of teeth, painless. Galvanism and electri- city have been tried, and failed; and a combination of narcotic appli- cations with galvanism has been tried by Dr. Richardson with very unsatisfactory results. Creosote soothes decayed teeth, and carbonic acid the surface of ulcers. A small quantity of chloroform put into a spoon, and evaporated over a candle, will allay the pain of an ulcer. But the most efficient local anaesthetic we are at present acquainted with, is Intense Cold, the properties of which have been explored by Dr. James Arnott. The writer has witnessed his mode of applying it, and has applied it himself, thus :— The operator must be provided with about a quarter of a pound of ice, broken quite fine, which may be effected by putting it into a small canvas bag, and using a mallet or flat iron. "The pounded ice having been placed on a large sheet of paper, any loosely cohering particles may be separated by a paper-folder, and the unreduced larger bits re- moved. Beside it, on the paper, about half its weight of powdered common salt is placed, and they are then thoroughly and quickly mixed together, either by the folder while on the paper, or by stirring them in a gutta-percha, or other non-conducting vessel. If the mixture be not quickly made, the extreme cold of part of it may again freeze other parts of it into lumps.'' There must be in readiness a small net of thin gauze, into which the mixture is put; and as soon, says Dr. Arnott, as the action of the salt upon the ice appears by the dripping of the brine, it is ready for use. The part to be benumbed should be held horizontally, and the net should be laid over it; but it is as well to raise the net once in every three or four minutes, in order to watch the effects, and render them equal. A sponge should be held so as to catch the briny fluid that escapes. The process requires a little nicety, which one or two trials will give. If it be nicely performed, it makes the skin immediately pale and benumbed, but gives no disagreeable sensation. This efi^ect gradually increases, till the skin is shrunk, of a peculiar tallowy corpse-like pale- ness, perfectly insensible, and stifiish. Dr. Arnott believes that, by protracted application of the ice, the fat is congealed. The process, as the author can testify, is rapid and painless; and when the effects or the cold have passed off, if the part be bathed with cold or iced water, or covered with a bladder containing it, there will be very little ting- ling or inflammation ; possibly a little redness. Unquestionably, if the application be continued for an unreason- ably long time—say for an hour or two—or if heat be incautiously applied too soon afterwards, the same effects may ensue as those which we have described at p. 165, under the head of frost-bite, parti- cularly if the patient be of a bad or weakly constitution. But the moderate and judicious use of cold is followed by no ill consequence whatever, and it seems to promote the process of healing. As an anaesthetic remedy, it appears amply sufficient, and well adapted for most of the minor operations, such as those on small tumours, abscesses, warts, inverted toe-nails, fistula, piles, varicose724 MEANS OF PRODUCING INSENSIBILITY TO PAIN. veins, application of the actual cautery, formation of issues, and the like. For extensive and deep operations, and those in which perfect quiet is requisite, it is insufficient. Besides its use as an antesthetic before operations, it has been employed to check the growth of cancer and nsevus, and to assuage the pain of boils, carbuncle, gout and neuralgia. The writer has used it in whitlow, and it gave relief to the pain, but did not hinder the formation of matter. For the application of the freezing mixture to ulcerated surfaces, a fine india-rubber bag or gut may be used. Dentists employ a modifi- cation of a process invented by Dr. James Arnott, for passing a stream of water of any temperature through a membranous bag over a diseased part. In the apartment over the operating-room is an apparatus by which at first a stream of water of the temperature of the body, and then a saline solution, gi adually cooled down to about 15° of Fahren- heit, or lower, is made to pass through an india-rubber tube. At one part of this tube there is inserted a tube of the thinnest possible india- rubber, which is wrapped around the condemned tooth and the adjoin- ing gum, and through which the cold current acts upon those parts. The writer has seen the process conducted by Mr. Quinton, and can testify that the success of it was complete ; that is to say, it occasioned no pain itself, and it allowed a tooth to be pulled 'out without any. The gum was blanched, and did not bleed, but the tooth, and inside of the socket did. Kinsing the mouth for some time with cold water takes away all unpleasant consequences. The writer's objection to the process is, that it is more troublesome than the result is worth; especially if many teeth are to be operated on.* Mesmerism.—There is no doubt but that the manoeuvres which are called mesmeric passes, if practised long enough upon susceptible per- sons, are capable of producing a kind of cataleptic condition accompanied with insensibility to external impressions, and that in this state surgi- cal operations have, in many instances, especially amongst the natives of India, been performed without the patient's consciousness. But ample objections to mesmerism, as a medical agent, may be gathered from the works of its advocates. The writer has most carefully analysed the works of Dr. Esdaile, a surgeon of great experience in India; in which it is asserted, 1st, as to the nature of mesmerism :—" That it is the transmission of nervous matter to the brain of the patient from the brain of the agent, through the nerves of the latter." Which is no- where proved. 2ndly, as to the process:—That it consists in touching some part of the patient's body, breathing on it, and making stroking movements, called passes; but it is alleged that the intention or will of the operator is the chief agent, no matter how the passes are made. 3rdlv, as to the effects :—That they consist of various degrees of insen- * See Dr. James Arnott's pamphlet on benumbing cold as a preventive of pain and inflammation from surgical operations, with minute directions for use, 1854. Pamphlets by Mr. Quinton, Mr. Blundell, and others on Anesthetic Dentistry. Mr. Butcher, in his Observations on Hare-Lip, Dublin, 1856, speaks briefly on the use of cold, but complains that it causes pain in the case of children with hare-lip; as much pain as the operation itself.725 EXTIRPATION OF TUMOUES. sibility, delirium, and muscular rigidity ; during which it is asserted that the patient is completely under the control of the operator ; his bodily sensations, his actions, and his very thoughts being exactly those which the mesmerizer may will his passive victim to expei-ience. We do not mention certain other alleged phenomena, such as the power of seeing without eyes, of prophesying, &c. &c., which do not concern us. On the other hand, there is the admission, 4thly, that mesmerism is only one of six powers, each capable of producing the same effects on mind and body ; the other five being—religious fanaticism—exhaustion of the brain by long contemplation—exhaustion of any one organ of sense—narcotic medicines—and last, not least, hysteria. Where so many known causes exist to explain the phenomena of mesmerism, it seems unnecessary, to say the least, to go out of our way to imagine a transmission of nervous power. It is confessed further by Dr. Esdaile, 5thly, that all the mesmeric phenomena, like the hysteric, if once in- duced, may occur in paroxysms, without any mesmeric passes, when- ever willed by the patient, especially if the nervous centres have been rendered morbidly sensitive by the mesmeric process. If these things be properly weighed, and if the reader consider far- ther that the mesmeric state (or in plain English hysterical catalepsy), is one which cannot be induced in persons of sound vigorous mind ; that, if free from all objection, it could seldom be available at the time and place requisite ; and that it is confessed that a person susceptible of it is, to use Dr. Esdaile's words, " at the mercy of any foolish or unprincipled person,"—he will agree with the writer, that it has no claim to be re- ceived into the rank of therapeutical agents. " It is often," says Dr. Esdaile, " very difficult and laborious to excite the mesmeric action in the constitution ; but being once felt, a very slight recurrence to the ori- ginal process will often bring on the mesmeric paroxysm ; and if the ex- citement of the nervous system is kept up by frequent mesmerizing, an independent diseased action is set up in the constitution, we have, in fact, inoculated the system with a nervous disease, acting spontaneously, and obeying natural laws we do not understand."* CHAPTER III. THE MINOR OPERATIONS. I. Extirpation op Tumours.—A different proceeding is to be adopted in the case of cancer and of other growths. In the former it may be necessary to remove a portion of skin by two semi-elliptical incisions, if it appear to be contaminated by the diseased growth. But in extirpating wens or fatty or fibrous tumours, however large, it is a general rule not to remove any of the skin, unless it is much inflamed or ulcerated, or so entirely adherent to the tumour that its separation * Esdaile on Natural and Mesmeric Clairvoyance, Lond. 1852, p. 235; Intro- duction of Mesmerism into the Hospitals of India, 1852, p. 42; Brierre de Boismont on Hallucinations, by Hulme, p. 216.726 THE ECRASEUK. would be very tedious and difficult. Again, in the former case, it is necessary to cut quite wide of the diseased mass, and remove plenty of * the surrounding tissue; in the latter case, the incisions should be carried through the cellular cyst of the tumour. Then after a fi*ee incision through the cyst, the tumour may often be squeezed or twisted out, and its connections be torn, with the assistance of one or two touches of the knife. In all cases it is a better plan (unless the tumour is exceedingly large) to caiTy the dissection at once boldly to the deepest part whei'e the largest vessels enter than to tie the different branches as they are divided, by which means some vessels may perhaps be tied more than once. Again, it is requisite in every case that the extirpa- tion be complete, because if tlie smallest portion is left, it may become the nucleus of a fresh growth. If, therefore, it is found that there is any portion of a tumour which cannot be cut out without fear of dan- gerous hsemorrhage, a double ligature should be passed through its base, and be tied tightly on each side of it. The serrefines of wire and the small forceps here depicted, which hold on by their own elasticity, may be of service to check bleeding in extensive operations. 11. The EcraseuPw—As the act of biting the umbilical cord by an animal is to the cut of the knife or scissors, so is the effect of this in- strument to that of the knife. It is a machine, consisting of a fine chain (perhaps wire or whipcord), and of a screw or rack for tighten- ing it; so that when the chain is made to surround any tumour it is made slowly to crush or bite its way through. The advantage of the instrument is, that it causes little or no bleeding. The cases in which it is applicable are those of cancer of the tongue, piles, vascular tumours, polypi and other tumours of the womb and rectum, and the division of the pedicle of an ovarian cyst. In the case of a tumour witli a pedicle, its application is easy; if the mass is solid, or it is desired to extirpate a portion of the side of the tongue, for example, the chain may be * A well-constructed forceps by Matthews, for operations and resections. The teeth hold like those of the shark, on which they are modelled.VENISECTION. 727 passed through the centre and be made to cut one line of a V incision first, and the other afterwards. Or two instruments may be used together. The ecraseur was invented by M. Chassaignac, and in- troduced into England by the late lamented Mr. Price. III. Venjssection at the bend of the arm should always, if possible, be performed in the median- cephalic vein. A ligature being placed a little above the elbow (but not tightly enough to stop the pulse at the wrist), the operator takes the forearm in his hand, places his thumb on the vein a little below the intended puncture, and then (using the right hand for the right arm, and vice versa) pushes the lancet obliquely into the vein, and makes it cut its way directly outwards. When sufficient blood has been taken, the surgeon should untie the ligature above the elbow, and place his thumb on the bleeding aperture. Next he should put a little bit of lint on the wound, and secure that with a strip of plaster, only removing his thumb sufficiently to admit of the application. Then he should remove his thumb enough to put on a little square compress of linen, and over that the middle of a bandage. This is to be passed round the elbow in the form of a figure of 8, and the two ends are to be crossed and turned backwards over the compress. The next figure (p. 728) is intended to show the way in which the surgeon should grasp the arm, and keep his thumb over the bleeding aperture till the bandage is secured. The jugular vein is some- times opened in cases of apoplexy in adults, and in children if the veins at the elbow are hidden by fat. The patient, if a child, being laid in a nurse's lap, * This cut shows the veins of the bend of the elbow, together wi tion of the brachial artery to the median basilic vein. ith the rela-728 ARTERIOTOMY. with his head towards the surgeon, the latter puts his left thumb on the vein a little above the clavicle, and then opens it with a lancet, cutting towards the thumb, and in a direction downwards and inwards, so that the incision may cross the fibres of the platysma. When blood enough has been taken, the wound should be closed with lint and plaster, and not till then should the thumb be removed. In per- forming the operation of venaesection care must be taken that the open- ing in the skin and fascia is directly over, and rather larger than that in the vein, otherwise an accumulation of blood takes place under the skin, causing a tumour (thrombus) which by pressure upon the vein may stop the flow of blood. This is especially the case in rense- section of the jugular if the fibres of the platysma are not properly divided. The veins in the leg, scrotum, or neighbourhood of the eye or ear, can readily be opened in the same manner, instead of the ordinary mode of venassection, or leeching, or cupping. Abscess in the areolar tissue, inflammation under the fascia, phlebitis, neuralgia, varicose aneurysm, and aneurysmal varix, are occasional ill consequences of venaesection. IV. Arteriotomy.—The temporal artery should be opened above the outer angle of the eyebrow—not just above the zygoma. The surgeon feels for the largest branch—usually the anterior—steadies it with two fingers, one placed above, and the other below, the intended puncture—then pushes in the lancet in the same manner as in ve- naesection. The incision should be directed across the vessel, and should cut it about half through. When sufficient blood has flowed, the best plan is to introduce the lancet, and cut the vessel completely across, so that its ends may retract. A firm graduated compress should then be applied, and be confined with a bandage passing round theCUPPING. 729 head ; and some degree of pressure should be kept up on the wound for a week or ten days. Any subsequent bleeding or spurious aneurysm must be treated by completely dividing the artery, if it has not been done already, and by pressure ; but if the wound is much inflamed or ulcerated, so as not to admit of pressure, a transverse incision should be made on each side of it, and the artery be tied in both places. V. Cupping.—The patient being placed in a comfortable position, with towels arranged so that his clothes may not be soiled by the blood, and being moreover protected from cold, so that the flow of blood to the surfece may not be checked, and the operator having his scarificator, glasses, torch, spirits of wine, lighted candle, hot water, and sponge conveniently arranged on a table close by; the first thing is to sponge the skin well with hot water, so as to make it somewhat vascular. The operator next dries it with a warm towel, and adapts his glasses to the part. Their number must depend on the quantity of blood to be taken—from three to five ounces is a fair calculation for each glass. In the next place, he dips the torch in the spirit^ sets it on fire, introduces it for half a second into one of the glasses, and im- mediately claps the latter on the skin—and the same with the other glasses in succession. As soon as the skin has become red and swollen, I he charges the scarificator, and takes it between his right forefinger and thumb, at the same time holding the lighted torch between the little and ring fingers of the same hand. He then detaches one glass by insinuating the nail of his left forefinger under its edge—instantly discharges the scarificator on the swollen skin, and as expeditiously as \ possible introduces the torch into the glass and apphes it again. The ; same process is repeated with the other glasses. When they become ! tolerably full, or the blood begins to coagulate in them, they must be I detached in succession and reapplied, if blood enough has not been \ taken—and when the operation is finished, the wounds should be • closed with lint and plaster. There are several points connected with this operation that require notice. In the first place, the glasses must ; not be exhausted too much ; if they are, the pressure of their rims will I occasion severe' pain—the blood will not flow—and the operation will : very probably be followed by a considerable ecchymosis. Secondly, ; the position of the glasses must be slightly varied each time they are I applied, so that their edges may not again press on the same circle i of skin. Thirdly, the expediency of not burning the patient need I scarcely be hinted at. Fourthly, in taking off the glasses, the upper part of each should be detached first, so that the blood may not escape. Lastly, the length of the scarificators must be adjusted to the thick- ness of the skin ; for if the incisions are too deep, the fat will protrude through them, and prevent the flow of blood. The direction of the incisions should correspond to the course of the muscular fibres beneath ; but this is of no g]-eat consequence. For cupping on the temples smaller glasses and scarificators are employed. A branch of the tem- \ poral arteiy is generally wounded, and the flow of blood may be expedited by slightly lifting the lower part of the rim of the glass.730 TRANSFUSION OF BLOOD. Pressure should be kept up on the wounds for some days afterwards, in order to prevent secondary haemorrhage or false aneurysm.* VI. Transfctsign of Blood.—This is an operation which may be performed in two sets of cases. In the first place, whenever death seems imminent from pi'ofuse loss of blood; especially after flooding in labour; after operations, wounds, and injuries of all kinds, and the bui-sting of varicose veins. In every such case, it is the surgeon's positive duty to perform this operation. Secondly, there are some cases in which death is creeping on from slow starvation through disease, such as cases of cancer, and of any other organic disease that is causing exhaustion, in which it may be a question to be decided by the patient whether the attempt shall be made to prolong life for a few days or even hours. Besides these cases, the surgeon may think it expedient in cholei'a, to inject water containing the saline constituents of the serum. In flooding and other sudden accidents it will almost certainly happen that no elaborate apparatus is within reach, and the surgeon will have to use whatever he can lay his hands on. It is consolatory therefore to know that most of the successful cases of transfusion have been performed with common pewter or brass syringes. The operator must of course find some healthy person who is chari- table enough to spare some of his blood. Then supposing that he has nothing but a common syringe, he must immerse it in hot water, and thoroughly rinse it out so as to cleanse it from dirt. The next thing is to open a vein in the patient's arm, or if there is no prominent vein there, in the leg. It may, if large, be opened with a lancet, as in vengesection, and then a probe be passed into it, to serve as a director for the nozzle of the syringe. The probe ought to pass up freely along the canal of the vein. If there is any difficulty, an incision an inch and a half long should be made over a vein, which should be gently raised on a probe passed under it, and be opened sufficiently. The operator next takes out the piston of the syringe. Then, the arm of the person who is to give the blood having been, meanwhile, bound up, he opens a vein freely, and catches the blood in the syringe, closing the nozzle with one forefinger. When he has taken as much blood as the syringe will hold, he desires the blood-giver to put his finger on the wound to stop the blood; then puts in the piston, holds the syringe with the nozzle upwards, presses the piston so that all air and a little blood may escape, then, whilst a little blood is escaping, he inserts the nozzle into the vein, and gently drives in the blood. Three or four ounces may be injected twice, or thrice, at intervals, according to the effect produced. If the surgeon has time for choice of instruments and for a deliberate * Messrs. Weiss have shown the writer a French instrument, ventouse, as it is called, in which an elastic suction-bottle, with valves, is used to exhaust the air. It appears to be very efficient, and much less troublesome than the torch and spirit of wine apparatus, as the amount of suction can be regulated with the greatest nicety.ISSUES. 731 operation, he may use the very ingenious apparatus invented by Mr. Whitehouse, of Brighton, constructed by Weiss, and here depicted. It consists of a cup of glass or of metal plated, a flexible tube A, and a tube B, which is to be inserted into the vein. This last has an air- trap connected with it, so constructed that any bubbles of air would be detained in it, and be rendered visible to the operator. The blood is received into the cup, and allowed to fill the flexible tube and air-trap (which is emptied of air by being turned upside down), then the nozzle can be inserted into the vein. By raising the cup the force of the stream is increased, and it can be stopped in a moment by the finger and thumb of the operator.* VII. Acupuncture is easily performed by running in five or six needles with a rotatory motion. It is certainly very efficacious in some cases of neuralgia; but it is by no means easy to explain its operation. Acupuncture is also resorted to in anasarca, when the skin is much distended ; and we have spoken of its utility in hydrocele, ganglion, hydrothorax, and ascites, for the purpose of permitting the serum to exude into the cellular tissue. VIII. Issues may be made by caustic, or by incision, or by the actual cautery. The first may be made either by rubbing a portion of skin of the requisite extent with the potassa fusa, or by making a paste with equal parts of the potass and soft soap, and laying it on the skin till the latter is converted into a black slough. The parts immediately around the issue should be protected with several layers of stick- * The writer has to thank Mr. "VNHiitehouse for much vahiable information on the subject of this instrument. It may be mentioned that about the year 1836, Mr. Philpot, his partner, performed transfusion successfully with a common pewter syringe. Mr. Whitehouse recommends that the blood should be defibri- nated, by being beaten up with a fork, before it is injected, so as to avoid embar- rassment with clots.732 CAUTERY.—SETONS. ing-plaster. After the application of the caustic, the part should be poulticed till the slough separates, and then the sore may be prevented from healing, either by binding several peas firmly on its surface, or by touching it occasionally with the caustic. The second species of issue is made by pinching up the skin, and slitting it up with a lancet, and then introducing some peas to prevent it from healing. It may be remarked, that issues should never be made over projecting points of bones, nor over the bellies of muscles, for they might degenerate into most obstinate sores. Thus, for diseased vertebr£e, the issues should be made between the spinous and transverse processes; for diseased hip, behind the great trochanter, and not over it; for diseased knee, just below the inner tuberosity of the tibia. Issues, if indolent or irri- table, should be healed up. They are only of use, says Mr. Vincent, when the actions carried on in them are vigorous and healthy. IX. The Actual Cautery is certainly a very efficient, and it is very far from being the most painful, manner of effecting counter- irritation. On the contrarj'-, its effects are speedy, and not attended with very much suffering. It is easily effected by means of an iron rod with a knob of the size and shape of an olive at one end of it, and a wooden handle at the other. The knob being heated red hot, is rubbed on the skin so as to make two or three blackened lines about half an inch wide, and an inch asunder. Then the cold-water dressing or a poultice may be applied till the shallow eschars separate; and it appears to be better to keep the sores open by touching them occasion- ally with the cautery, than by the ordinary irritating dressings. We have spoken in more than one place of the efficacy of the cautery for closing fissures and fistulas. The surgeon will require instruments of various sizes and shapes for these pui-poses. Marshall's galvanic cautery is a very convenient instrument for cauterizing the interior of sinuses, or fungous granulations. A current from a galvanic battery of half-a-dozen cells is passed along the metallic rods and through the handle; the rods are isolated by an intermediate strip of ivory, and the current passes through the wire at the end, raising it to an intense heat. The wire can be arranged in any conve- nient shape. There are other modifications, some having an apparatus in the handle for making and breaking contact at will. X. Setons are introduced by pinching up a fold of the skin, and pushing a needle through it armed with a skein of silk or cotton, or a long flat piece of india-rubber. As soon as one or two inches of the thread are brought through, the needle is cut off. A fresh portion ofELECTRICITY AND GALVANISM. 733 the thread is to be pulled through the wound every day, so as to keep up a constant irritation and discharge. If the discharge is insufficient, the thread may be covered with some irritating ointment before it is drawn under the skin. Instead of threads, a small Chassaignac's drainage-tube may be used (see p. 59). XI. The Moxa is a peculiar method of counter-irritation long prac- tised in the East, and occasionally employed in Europe, for the relief • of chronic nervous and rheumatic pains, and for chronic diseases of the joints. One or more small cones, formed of the fine fibres of the Artemisia chinensis, or of some other porous vegetable substance—such as German tinder, or linen impregnated with nitre, are placed on the skin over the affected part, and then are set on fire and allowed to burn away so as to foi-m a superficial eschar. The surrounding skin must be protected by a piece of wet rag, with a hole in it for the moxa. It is convenient sometimes to use the moxa as a rubefacient or vesi- cant, and not as a cauterant. A roll of German tinder ignited may be held with dressing forceps at a little distance from the skin, the surgeon at the same time blowing upon it with a blowpipe till the skin becomes red. XII. Vaccination.—The matter should be taken on the seventh or eighth day, before an inflamed areola is spread around the vesicle ; and it should be lymph, clear and transparent, not purulent. The operator with the point of a lancet—a sharp-pointed tenotomy knife is better— should puncture, scratch, or abrade the cuticle in five spots, on the out- side of the left arm below the shoulder : each spot may be the size of 0, and the five may be arranged in the form of a cross. Then taking a drop of clear lymph on the point of the knife, he inserts it into one of the spots, taking care that the abraded skin absorbs it; and so with the others. The lymph should be applied directly from one child to another, and should not be carried about on points or lancets. But if the lymph for the first patient is on jjomfo, the surgeon should hold them in the steam of warm water so as to liquefy it, and then wipe one on each abraded spot. Special instruments, such as Spratley's, con- sisting of a grooved needle, mounted on a handle, with an angular point, guarded by a stop to prevent its going too deep, are not so good as a clean sharp-pointed knife or lancet. To preserve lymph safely, it should be dried, not kept moist in tubes or bottles. XIII. Electricity and Galvanism.—In certain cases of defective cii'culation and nervous influence; when the thigh is weakened and benumbed after sciatica ; in cases of atrophy of the extremities after fever ; when the extensors are paralyzed from long disuse, as after disease of joints ; in deficient menstruation ; in loss of voice from734 SLINGS AND BANDAGING. relaxation of the mucous membrane of the fauces; in hysterical neu- ralgia,—these agents may be resorted to. Electricity is used by passing slight shocks from a Leyden jar or by putting the patient on an insu- lating stool in connexion with the prime conductor, and taking sparks from him. Galvanism is most applicable in asphyxia from poisoning or hanging, when the affusion of cold water and other stimulants fail to excite the action of respiration. The best method is, to place one wire in the nape of the neck and the other at the pit of the stomach ; or, if the sensibility is so feeble that this fails to take effect, a needle may be inserted deeply between the eighth and ninth ribs on either side, so as to reach the diaphragm, and the current be passed between them. The surgeon may employ a constant current, from a battery ; or the interrupted, to and fro series of small shocks, known as Faradi- zation. The latter is the proper form for exciting the heart or dia- phragm. It may be obtained from a large single-cell battery on Smee's or Daniell's principle, with a coil wound round a piece of soft iron, which is thereby converted into a temporary magnet, and with a contriv- ance for interrupting the circuit, and giving a stream of gentle shocks. Or from a magneto-galvanic battery, in which the force of a permanent magnet is employed to create a stream of shocks by a rotatory apparatus.* XIV. Galvano-puncture.—In obstinate neuralgia it is a good plan to insert two needles deeply, at two points in the course of the nerve, and to pass a galvanic current through them. CHAPTEK IV. SLINGS AND BANDAGING. I. Slings.—The importance of a proper application of these supports to the extremities is often overlooked. For the upper extremity three kinds of sling are appropi iate for inju- ries of the different bones. A long, soft, stout silk handkerchief should be chosen if possible. If the upper arm be broken or injured the sling should support the wrist only. There should be no upward pressure upon the elbow, for that would tend to displace the broken fragments and shorten the arm. In fracture of the/ore-am, the handkerchief should, on the contrary, be spread out along the arm from the fingers to the elbow, so as to give equal support in its whole extent. In f]-acture of the clavicle, one end of the handkerchief (the outer) should pass obliquely aci'oss the back of the patient, and be tied to the front end over the opposite shoulder, hugging the elbow closely and drawing it well forward in front of the chest, at the same time covering the hand and holding it well up towards the opposite shoulder, so as to lift up the shoulder well and push it backward. The foot may be slung by means of a long and broad strip of calico passing in a loop round the neck, after the manner of a clergyman's * Consult Dr. Althaus on Paralysis, Neuralgia, and their Treatment, by Galvanisation and Faradisation, &c.; and Harry William Lobb on Galvanism, and on Treatment of Paralysis, &c.735 SLINGS AND BANDAGING. stole, and fastened by the ends, being sewn on each side of a slipper. By this means the patient is enabled to move on crutches with little pain and danger to the injured part. II. Bandages usually consist of strips of linen, calico, or flannel, varying in breadth from one to three, five, or more inches, and in length from one to six, eight, or twelve yards, Sometinies they are made of india-rubber web, or of a substance like stockings; but, for most purposes, stout unbleached calico, or thin fine calico, will answer. They are generally rolled up longitudinally for use, and hence have re- ceived the name of rollers. Besides the simple roller, there are many compound bandages, as the T bandage, and the many-tailed bandage (described at p. 286) ; but the latter are not now much in use, and, like other special bandages, are generally prepared by professed band- age-makers. Lastly, bandages may often be made out of handkerchiefs, or square pieces of linen, III. The chief uses of bandages are, 1st, to keep on dressings, to pro- tect a diseased part from injury, and put some little restraint upon its motions ; 2ndly, to affoi'd a support to relaxed muscles, ligaments, and vessels. Deprive any part of its normal support, and varicose veins and dropsical effusions are sure to occur ; and conversely many cedema- tous and other chronic swellings of the limbs and joints may often be cured by the proper application of bandages alone. IV. The Roller.—In applying this to any limb, the surgeon should hold it as represented at p. 72, or in the next figure but one, and should pass it from one hand to the other as he encircles the limb with it. He should begin at the extremity of the limb, applying it most tightly there, and a very little more loosely as it ascends. He should unfold very little of it at a time, and should make each fold overlap about a third of the previous one. When the limb increases in size, he must turn the bandage on itself after the manner depicted in the cuts. V. Bandage for the Finger.—This is a simple strip of linen, that may be wound round the finger a few times with the requisite tightness. We introduce the figure in order to show how to fasten itSLINGS AND BANDAGING. 736 neatly without pins or stitches, by merely splitting up the end of the bandage into two tails, which may be turned opposite ways round the finger, and be tied in a bow. This is a convenient way of keeping dressings on the penis, unless sticking-plaster is used, which is better. VI. For the Hand.—A bandage about two inches wide may be passed in a figure of 8 round the hand and wrist, excluding the thumb, and may be finished by one or two circular turns round the wrist. VII. For the Fore-arm.—After applying it about the hand and wrist as just described, carry it up the fore-arm, and in every turn fold or reverse the bandage sharply and smoothly back upon itself, in such a way that it may lie on the limb without creases. VIII. For the Foot.—Let the roller be first passed round the metatarsus, and then be carried up round the ankle, and back again round the foot exactly as depicted at p. 72. The bandage should always be brought up on the inner side of the instep, as there shown, in order to support the arch of the foot. Sometimes it is necessary to cover the heel entirely with the bandage. This can only be neatly accomplished737 BANDAGING. by careful practice on the living subject, under competent instruc- tion and example. IX. For the Leg.—After the foot and ankle have been well en- veloped, let the bandage be carried up the leg, and be turned sharp {re- versed) on itself on the calf, in order that it may lie closely, and the folds not be separated. Each turn should overlap the preceding for two-thirds of its breadth. X. For the Knee.—To support the knee, in ordinary cases, a bandage may be passed round it in a figure-of-8 form, excluding the pa- tella. If that bone is to be covered, the bandage must be passed lightly over it afterwards several times, making turns when necessary to pro- cure smoothness. XI, Four-tailed Knee Bandage.—When it is meiely wished to keep on dressings, or to give slight support, the four-tailed bandage devised by Dr. Westmacott may be used. A piece of linen a yard and a half long, and eight or nine inches wide, is split up in the middle at each end to within a few inches of the centre. The centre being then placed on the patella, the four tails are brought under tlie knee, crossed, and tied two and two. XII. For the Groin.—Having first taken a turn or two round the upper part of the thigh to secure the end of the roller, the dresser D 3 b738 SLINGS AND BANDAGING. should pass obliquely across the lower part of the abdomen, and round the opposite ilium. Then, passing it straight across the back, bring it in front of the affected grqin, then round the back of the thigh, next round the abdomen again; and so on in a figure-of-8 form, with the folds crossing each other over the groin. XIIL FOKTHE Axilla.—In order to keep on dressings or poultices, &c., put the centre of a common liandkerchief folded cornerwise under the axilla, cross it over the shoulder, and carry the ends one before, t^ne other behind, the chest, to tie under the opposite axillai (p. 739).* XIV. For the Head.—A roller having been carried horizontally round the forehead and occiput, and secured by a stitch, let it be car- ried vertically over the head and under the chin. At the point of ci'ossino- on either side let it be secured by a stitch. XV. Four-tailed Head Bandage.—A four-tailed bandage hav- ino- been prepared as directed for the patella, and the centre of it havino- been placed on the top of the head, inclining either to the front or the back, as circumstances may require, two of the tails may be car- * Copied from Smith's Minor Surgery, Philadelphia, 1843.SLINGS AND BANDAGING. 739 ried back round under the occiput, and be either tied there or be brought round the neck; and the other two be tied under the chin. In bandaging the head, care should always be taken to comb the hair so that it may lie smoothly and comfortably ; and likewise to arrange the bandages so that the pressure may tell exactly where it is required. XVI. Bandage for the Pertx^um.—This consists of a circular740 SLINGS AND BANDAGING. flannel, covered with oiled skin, intended to press on the perinseum. The perpendicular piece is divided to enclose the scrotum, or labia, and lastly, is brought up in two por- tions to be attached to the circular girth in front. The pad must be made capable of being slipped backwards or forwards on the straight strap, so that it may be made to bear with nicety on the exact spot required. The cir- cular giith may be kept up in its proper place by means of a pair of braces passing over the shoulders. This bandage is highly useful in prolapsus ani; and in prolapsus uteri from relaxation of the A'agina; in which firm pressure on the perinseum gives the greatest possible comfort. A good substitute for it is found in a T bandage made of a piece of broad roller. The transverse piece is tied round the waist, and the vertical slit up half way in front is fastened741 OPERATIONS FOR TYING ARTERIES. on each side to the front of the transverse piece. This bandage may thus be made to support a pad, either for the rectum or the uterus and vagina, or a poultice or other application to the male perinseum.* CHAPTER V. OPERATIONS FOR TYING ARTERIES. SECTION I.—THE CAROTIDS, LINGUAL AND FACIAL. I. The Common Carotid Artery of either side, follows a course as nearly as possible represented hyaline drawn from the sterno-clavicular articulation to a point midway between the angle of the jaw and the mas- toid process. Each artery lies against the anterior spinal muscles, the longus colli, and rectus capitis anticus major. Each is contained in a dense cellular sheath, which includes, besides the artery, the internal jugular vein on its outer side, and the pneumogastric nerve between the m-tery and vein. In front of the sheath, and connected to it, lies the descendens uoni nerve, which sweeps downwards, and about the middle of the neck unites with a branch of the cervical plexus, to form a loop from which branches are given off to the muscles that pull down the larynx. Behind the sheath lie the sympathetic and cardiac nerves, and at the lower part the inferior thyroid artery and recurrent nerve cross behind it towards the larynx. Yet it must be recollected that occa- sionally the descendens noni has been found within the sheath, or behind the artery; and that the inferior thyroid artery has been found in front of the carotid. On the inner side lie the pharynx and oesophagus, tra- chea and larynx, and the thyroid gland, which last somewhat overlaps the artery. On the outer side are chains of lymphatic glands. The left artery and the right differ in their origin, and in their rela- tions during the first part of their course. The left arises from the arch of the aorta, and rests at first on the side of the trachea, thoracic duct, and oesophagus, and behind the border of the manubrium and sterno-clavicular joint. Both terminate opposite the upper border of the thyroid cartilage by dividing into internal and external carotids. The left jugular vein lies rather in front of the left carotid, as it goes to empty itself into the left brachio-cephalic vein, which crosses the artery at its origin. The right carotid arises from the arteria innominata, and ascends rather more perpendicularly. The right internal jugular vein is more external than the left, and near its termination diverges somewhat from the artery. This makes a little difierence in tying these arteries low down. Each artery is covered by the sterno-mastoid, sterno-hyoid, and * Full information on the subject of this chapter will be found in Mr. Heath's work on Minor Surgery, Bandaging, &c. Lond. 1861.OPEEATIONS FOR TYING ARTERIES. 742 sterno-thyroid muscles, and is crossed by the omo-hyoid, generally about two inches above the clavicle. A dense fascia is connected with this muscle. In the upper part of its course, corresponding to the larynx, the sterno-mastoid leaves the carotid, which is then covered only with skin, platysraa, and fascia. Both common carotids termi- nate opposite the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, by dividing into internal and external carotids. The carotid artery, in the lower part of its course, may require to be tied for aneurysm in the upper part of the trunk. In the upper part, the operation may be necessary for haemorrhage or for erectile or other tumours about the face or orbit; moreover, it may be expedient, on Brasdor's principle, in aneurysm too low down to admit of a liga- ture between the disease and the heart. To tie the Carotid in its lower part.—The patient being placed on his back, with the shoulders raised, and with the head thrown back and slightly turned towards the opposite side, an incision three inches in length is made on the inner margin of the sterno-mastoid muscle. This incision should be carried through skin, platysma, and superficial fascia, and should extend from opposite the lower part of the thyroid cai tilage, to a quarter of an inch above the sternum. The head should now be turned to the side operated on, and be brought a little forwards, so as to relax the sterno-mastoid muscle, the edge of which is to be743 COMMON CAROTID ARTERY. exposed, and a vein that usually runs in this dii-ection to be looked for and avoided. With slight use of the finger or handle of the scalpel, the sterno-raastoid must be separated and drawn outwards, and the sterno- hyoid and thyroid muscles inwards. If it will at all make matters more easy, the lower and inner portion of the sterno-mastoid may be divided, and the same may be said of the omo-hyoid, which should now be sought for near the upper part of the incision. The dense fascia which unites this muscle to the sheath must now be scratched through, and the sheath will be seen, with the descendens noni upon it, which should be drawn to the inner side. The greatest care should be taken throughout, and more particulai ly now, to avoid the numerous thyroid and other veins to be met with. The sheath must be pinched up with forceps, and opened with a cautious touch of the knife, whose flat surface should be held towards the artery. The aperture is to be en- larged on a director, and an aneurysm needle,—a curved blunt needle with the eye near the point,—armed with a ligature, to be passedOPERATIONS FOR TYINQ ARTERIES. 744 round the vessel from without inwards, the point of the needle being kept close to the vessel in order to avoid the vagus nerve. When its point appears on the inner side, the surgeon seizes the ligature with forceps, and withdraws the needle ; ascertains that the uervus vagus is not included in the ligature, and then ties tightly a double l^not as re- presented at page 35. One end of the ligature may then be cut off close to the knot, and the other be left hanging out of the wound, which is to be closed with plaster when bleeding has ceased. The patient must be kept at perfect rest in bed till the ligature separates. As a rule, on the right side the ligature should be applied as high as possible : on this side too there may be no trouble with the internal jugular. On the left side, this vein will, in all probability, get in the way and require to be drawn outwards. On this side too the relation of the oesophagus internally, and of the thoracic duct posteriorly and externally must be remembered, as these parts must be avoided care- fully. To tie the Common Carotid in its upper part.—The patient is placed in the same position as before, but with the head more thrown back. An incision of three inches is made through skin and platysma, on the antei'ioi' edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle, from a little below the coi'ner of the lower jaw to opposite the cricoid cartilage. The deep fascia, here very dense, is to be pinched up, opened, and further divided on a director most carefully, in consequence of its intimate connection with the sheath of the artery and with the veins. The edges of the wound are now to be drawn asunder, the pulsation of the artery sought for, and the sheath opened over it, in the manner and with the precautions before described ; a small portion only of the vessel must be exposed, and the ligature passed as before directed. The jugular vein will be more difficult to avoid here than in the lower part of the neck. II. The External Carotid may, if wounded, require a ligature; or if any of its branches are wounded, and cannot be tied; but such an operation is very rarely, if ever, practised, ligature of the common carotid being preferable. An incision of the same length and direction as in the two preceding operations should be made through the skin, platysma, and sheath, so as to tie the vessel near its origin, below the part where it is crossed by the digastric muscle and ninth nerve. To tie the external carotid above the digastric muscle, before it has gained the parotid gland, the head should be well extended, and an in- cision made from the lobe of the ear to the great cornu of the os-hyoides, successively through the skin, platysma, and superficial fascia. The student must not expect to meet with the deeper parts in this situation disposed, as they appear in the dissecting-room, after they have been dissected, when in fact they are completely displaced and pulled down. The parotid gland first comes into view, by raising the border of which, the anterior edge of the sterno-mastoid is exposed, and also the posterior beUies of the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles. Along the upper edges of the latter the vessel may be found entering the parotid. Con-74-5 EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. siderable venous haemorrhage will be encountered in this operation, which is very difficult to execute well, even on the dead body. in. The Internal Carotid is sometimes wounded by gashes, stabs, or shot from without, or by punctures from within, as may happen when a person falls down with a tobacco-pipe in his mouth, and drives it through the back of the pharynx. In such cases, ligature of the common carotid is a very uncertain remedy, and Mr. Guthrie proposes (in compliance with the rule of always securing a wounded artery by two ligatures, one above and one below the wounded part) to reach the wounded vessel by operation. The leading feature of this operation is, the removal of the second molar tooth, and division of the lower jaw-bone, so that the angle of that bone may be everted, and room be given for reaching the vessel. Mr. Mayo once tied this artery, and in order to reach it cut through the styloid process of the temporal bone.* ly. The -Lingual Artery may be tied by making a transverse incision along the os hyoides, from a little below the symphysis of the jaw to near the border of the sterno-mnstoid muscle. The skin, pla- tysma, and fascia being divided, and the lower border of the sub- maxillary gland turned up, the artery must be looked for where it lies upon the greater cornu of the os hyoides, below the digastric muscle and ninth nerve. This artery has been tied in cases of tumours and wounds of the tongue; but, considering the depth at which it lies from the surface, the irregularity of its origin, and the important parts in its vicinity, it is much better*, as a general rule, to tie the external or common carotid. V, The Facial Artery may easily be tied by cutting through the skin and areolar tissue that cover it where it turns over the jaw, at the anterior border of the masseter; but such an operation can hardly ever be requisite. section II.—the innominata, subclavians, and arteries of the arm. I. The Arteria Innominata has been tied in cases of aneurysm of the right subclavian, extending inwards as far as the scalenus. The patient being placed on his back, with the shoulders raised and the head thrown back, one incision, two inches in length, is to be made along the inner margin of the sterno-mastoid muscle, terminating at the clavicle, and another across the origin of that muscle, meeting the former at a right angle. The flap of integument thus formed is to be turned up, and the sternal and part of the clavicular origin of the sterno-mastoid are to be divided on a director, which is to be passed behind the muscle, and kept as close to it as possible. The areolar tissue and fat which now appear, being turned aside, the sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles must be separately divided on a director. A * For further particulars of Mr. Guthrie's operation see Lancet, 1850, vol. ii., p. 143.746 OPERATIONS FOR TYING ARTERIES. strong fascia, which next appears, must be cautiously sci atched through, and the carotid be traced with the finger, down to its oiigin. Then the vena innominata being depressed, a ligatuie may be carried from without inwards, round the artery, close to its bifurcation, taking care to avoid the vagus, recurient, and cardiac nerves.* Jn Aneurysm of the Innominata it is impossible, or if possible fatal, to place a ligature between the tumour and the heart; and the ligature of the carotid or subclavian, or both, seemed the only resource, till Mr. Edwards, of Edinburgh, attempted to give relief by pressure. An unhealthy woman of 60 had a tumour the size of an apple situated between the sterno-mastoid muscle and the middle of the neck, pulsating violently, soft and compressible, feeling like a vul- canized india-rubber ball, which, though compressible, expands the moment pressure is withdrawn. Another pulsating tumour rose in front of the trachea: they were the evidently distinct bulgings of one aneuiysm, as pressure on one increased the size of the other. Thesf tumours wei e of two months' growth, increasing rapidly, and attended with great dyspncea. Brasdor's operation was contemplated, but abandoned because aneu- rysm of the aorta was suspected. Then Mr. Edwards determined to apply pressure to the carotid and subclavian artea ies. This was accomplished by two conical pads of cork ; one attached to an arc of steel in which the neck rested, and which was supported by an upright rod, attached to a very firm broad gii th round the chest; the other to a band over the shoulder. The instrument was so adjusted as to stop all pulsation in the branches of the external carotid, and of the wrist of the affected side. Every morning for the first two weeks, Mr. Edwards i-oughly manipulated the sac for the purpose of breaking up the fibrine. Foi-the first two days, the tumour seemed to become thinner, and the pulsation more violent; after that it became more solid ; and in three months the aneurysm of the innominata was viitually cured, whilst that in the aorta had made little piogress.f Dr. William Wright, of Montreal, has published an interesting ac- count of a case in which he prolonged a patient's life for a month, by ligature of the right carotid, when death was imminent from a bursting * This operation was first performed by Mott, at the New York Hospital, in 1818. The patient walked out on the 20th day, bleeding from the wound occurred on the 21st, and he died on the 26th. The arch of the aorta was extensively diseased. Dr. Graele performed it in 1822 at Berlin; the patient died of hiemorrhage on the 67 th day. See Cooper's Surgical Dictionary, Art. Aneurism; South's Chelius, vol. ii., contains details of half a dozen cases. The operation was successfttlly perfoimfd by Dr. A. W. Smith, of New Orleant-, in May and June, 1864. The innominata and right carotid were tied on May 15, and the vertebral artery on the 9th July. This last operation cut off the supply of blood from the sac; bleeding from the wound ceased, and the patient was well on the 19th. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. 24,1864, from American Medical Times. f Case of Mrs. Denmark, by Wardrop (ligature of subclavian), quoted in Cooper's Surg. Diet.; case by Mr. Evans, of Belper, in which the carotid was tied, ibid.; case in which Mr. William Wickham, of Winchester, tied the carotid and then the subclavian, Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xxiii.747 THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. aneurysm of the innominata ;—and shows that his operation is superior to the hgature of the subclavian in the third part of its course, inas- much as half the current of blood through the aneurysm is obstructed; whereas by tying the subclavian only one-sixth is obstructed, because its chief branches are given off on the near side of the ligature.* II. The Right Subclavian Artery, in the first part of its course, that is to say, between its origin from the innominata and the scalenus muscle, has been tied for aneurysm in the second and third parts of its course, by an operation almost precisely similar to the fore- going ; but it is the most difficult operation in surgery, and the most unsuccessful. III. The Subclavian Artery, in the third part of its course, is about an inch and a quarter long, and passes from the scaleni muscles downwards and outwards under the clavicle to the lower border of the first rib, where it takes the name of axillary. Its depth will depend on the greater or less curve of the clavicle, the length of the neck, and the width and position of the shoulder, whether high or sloping. Above is the omi-hyoid muscle (posterior belly). Behind is the scalenus medius, with the first dorsal nerve intervening, and below the upper surface of the rib. In front are the skin, platysma, supraclaivicular nerves and vessels, cervical fascia, and areolar tissue of varied density. The clavicle and the subclavius muscle are also before it. The subclavian vein is on a plane anterior, but inferior and internal, and nearly concealed by the clavicle. It is here joined by the external jugular, by the posterior scapular, and by other small veins from the shoulder and the side of the neck, which sometimes form a large and intricate plexus. The brachial nerves are above and behind. Some of the irregularities in the subclavian artery are of practical interest. The artery may perforate the anterior scalenus, or lie in front of it, close to the subclavian vein. The vein has been met with accompanying the artery in its usual course between the scaleni. On the right side the artery may come from the back part of the innomi- nata. Very frequently (in half the number of cases) the third part of * Cases of aneurysm near the aortic arch, in which pressure cannot be used, nor the vessel tied, are those in which (if any) it may be expedient lo try Mr. Moore's plan of tilling the sac with iron wire. It is necessary that there "be no strong current through the sac. His instruments are " a straight short canula of thin silver, sharply pointed at one end, expanded at the other, and with its tube somewhat larger than is sufficient to give ready passage to the wire;'' and a thicker wire, large enough to fill the canula, to serve as a probe. The aneurysm is' punctured in its side ; the sac explored with a probe; then yard after yard of fine iron wire, just stiff enough to pass the canula without bending, is pushed in (26 yards were pushed in during one hour in Mr. Moore and Dr. Murchison's case) ; whilst being pushed in the canula must be gently moved, so that it may be distributed fairly through every part of the sac; when the sac is filled, the wire is cut off, and the end of it pushed right through the canula into the sac, that it may not remain in the wound, which, lastly, is closed by collodion. The first effect in the case quoted was cessation of pulsation in the sac; but after twenty-four hours rigors came on, and the patient died after four other days of great agony. See supra, p. 315, for the distinction between active and passive clot in anemysms. Mr. Moore and Dr. Murchison's case, Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xlvii.OPERATIONS FOR TYING ARTERIES. 748 the subclavian artery gives origin to a branch of considerable size, which becomes the posterior scapular. When this arrangement is present, the main trunk must be secured on the cardiac side of the branch, or if that endangers the pleura by its contiguity the branch also must be tied. Both subclavians may rise higher in the neck, an inch or more above the usual position, which is just a little above the clavicle; and the right is the more subject to this variation. The vessel may readily be felt in the lower division of the posterior triangular space of the neck, immediately behind the clavicle ; and here it may be compressed by the fingers. The patient should be laid on a table, with the shoulder of the affected side drawn downwards and forwards as far as possible, and the head turned to the other side. An incision must then be made above and parallel with the clavicle, three or four inches in length. It should cut through the skin and platysma, and should extend from over the outer edge of the sterno-mastoid to the trapezius. The preliminary incision may be conveniently made by drawing down the skin, and cutting through it while it is steadied on the clavicle. The external jugular vein will probably now be seen, and should be drawn with a blunt hook, to whichever side is the more convenient, and if need be, tied with a double ligature, and cut. The clavicular portion of the mastoid muscle, if unusually broad, should be severed. Perhaps it will be best to do so in all cases. The knife must now be used very sparingly to divide the fascia, and if it can be dispensed with altogether, so much the better, and the dissection continued by tearing, scratching, and picking with directors and probes, some of which should have points like knitting-needles. The omo-hyoid muscle must be sought for and drawn up. Here, in a space bounded above and externally by this muscle, internally by the sterno-mastoid, and below by the clavicle, are the artery and the brachial plexus of nerves. The omo- hyoid varies in its position ; sometimes it runs close to and parallel with the clavicle, and then without great caution the dissection might be made above the muscle. It may have a partial attachment to the clavicle, or get its entire origin from this bone; or may be very high, or altogether absent. The supra-scapular, and even the transversalis colli arteries may be met with, and must be drawn aside. The great landmark, the anterior scalenus muscle, must be searched for with the forefinger, and be traced to its insertion in the rib, which is marked by a bony tubercle usually evident to the finger. The precise position of the artery will then be ascei tained, and the fascia and areolar tissue that cover it should be carefully torn through. It it is now that the use of dividing a portion of the sterno-mastoid is apparent. Some of the lower branches of the brachial plexus of nerves always appear first, and are very likely to be taken up instead of the vessel; but the peculiar aspect of the artery should be well looked for in order to avoid this mistake. Indeed the appearance of the artery and the cessation of the wrist pulse when it is pressed upon by the749 THE AXILLARY ARTERY. finger should alone be trusted to ; for sometimes when its coats are thickened, pulsation is not evident in the trunk itself. Venous haBmorrhage is often most ti'oublesome, and when pressure on the smaller veins does not readily stop it they must be tied. If the subclavian vein is wounded, pressure alone can be employed. The act of passing the needle under the artery has been attended with almost incredible difBculties, and so has the tying of the ligature, and many ingenious instruments have been devised to render both of these pro- ceedings more easy. IV. The Axillary Artery is that portii)n of the main trunk of the arm, which extends from the lower border of the first rib, to the lower edge of the tendons of the latissimus dorsi and teres major in the axilla. Its entire course is that of a gentle curve, with the convexity outwards and upwards. For surgical purposes it may be divided into two portions, the former being the upper part of its course, where it lies thickly covered by muscle, and the latter being the lower part, where it can be felt against the humerus in the axilla. In the upper part of its course the artery lies upon the first intercostal space, and on the second digitation of the serratus raagnus ; its vein lies internal, the brachial plexus is above and behind it; afterwards it en- circles the artery. It is in the case of wounds that an operation is likely to be attempted in this situation : or in the case of aneurysm, when the subclavian cannot be tied above the clavicle. See Symes' Operation, p. 349. In such cases, the dissection must be carried down to the arteiy, through any muscle that may be in the way, and according to the cir- cumstances of the case. But the following operation may be prac- tised in the dissecting-room. To tie the Axillary Artery m the upper part of its course.—The shoulder should be thrown back, and the arm drawn back, so as to put the pectoral muscle on the stretch. An assistant should be at hand to compress the subclavian artery if necessary. An incision four inches long should be made from the coracoid process inwards in a transverse depending curve half an inch below the clavicle, to the edge of the deltoid muscle; recollecting that the cephalic vein and thoracico- acromailis artery, which run in the interval between the pectoral and deltoid muscles, should not be injured. The pectoralis major should then be divided to the same extent. Now there may be a pause to check haemorrhage, which being accomplished, and the lower border of the wound being well drawn downwards, the areolar tissue is to be carefully cut through, and then the edge of the pectoralis minor will come into view, going upwards and outwards over the vessels and nerves to be inserted into the coracoid process. Any branches of the thoracic arteries that may be wounded should at once be tied. The next point is, to scratch through the costo-coracoid, or coraco-clavi- cular fascia: a dense fascia extending from the first rib to the coracoid process, and from the upper edge of the pectoralis minor muscle, to the subclavius. At this stage of the proceedings, the arm should be broughtOPERATIONS FOR TYING ARTERIES. 750 to the side, to relax the pectoraUs major. And now some touches with a blunt director will probably expose the axillary vein, which should be pressed inwards and there kept with a blunt hook. The heating of the artery must now be sought for, the vessel isolated, and an aneurysm needle be passed from without inwards, with all care not to include any of the nerves (which lie on the outside and behind), either along with the artery, or instead of it. It would be possible to tie the artery below the point where it is crossed by the pectoralis minor, by extending the incision downwards. To tie the Axillary Artery in the axilla.—The patient being placed on his back, the arm must be as widely as possible separated from the trunk, and the fore-arm supinated, and the whole limb rotated in the same direction. The surgeon will then make out the anterior and pos- terior boundaries of the axilla, the anterior constituted by the pectoralis major, the posterior by the latissimus dorsi and teres major, which go to their lespective insertions at the edges of the bicipital groove. Between these muscles the axillary vessels and nerves lie, and can be felt against the upper extremity of the humerus; with the upper part of the coraco-brachialis between the vessels and the pectoralis major. The surgeon will recollect the l elation of the nerves of the axillary plexus to the artery at this point. The external cutaneous nerve (which perforates the coraco-brachialis muscle) with the outer root of the median lie to the outer side; the inner root of the median, the ulnar and internal cuta- neous, on the inner side, and the circumflex and musculo-spiral behind. The operator makes an incision two or two and a half inches long, over and parallel with the upper extremity of the humerus, between the pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi, but I'ather nearer the latter. It should cut through the skin. Then a cautious dissection through fascia will reveal the axillary vein and median nerve,* the former of which should be drawn inwards, and the latter outwards, whilst the artery is cleared by careful scratches with probes of various degrees of bluutness, else the thoracic and subscapular veins may be wounded. The aneurysm needle is passed between the vein and ai'tery. There are frequent irregularities in the relation of this artery to the nerves and veins, the knowledge of which should make the surgeon careful. Instead of one vein, there may be two or three. There may also be ii-regularities in the course and distribution of the branches of the artery, the most important of which practically is a high separa- tion of the radial or ulna in the axillary space. There may be a double brachial; and the superior profunda may have a common ori- gin with the posterior circumflex, or even with the subscapular, and form a branch large enough to be mistaken for the brachial or axillary. When this is the case, it may be necessary to secure both, if it does not accomplish the end proposed. * In case of difficulty, find the inner border of tbe coraco-brachialis, between which and the arteiy lies the median nerve. Malgaigne, Operative Surgery, by Brittan, p. 130.751 THE BRACHIAL ARTERY. V. The Brachial Artery runs obliquely down the inner side of the humerus, to the middle of the bend of the elbow; it runs along the inner border of the coraco-brachialis and biceps respectively, which muscles successively overlap it a little, and form the best guides to it. Jts pulsations may be felt along the whole of its course, and it is covered only by skin and fascia, though from the thickness of these the ope- rator may not find it so superficial as he may imagine it to be. It is accompanied by two vense comites, wiiose numerous branches encircle it; and by the median nerve, which first lies on its outer side, between it and the coraco-brachialis, then crosses over it, so as to be quite internal to it at the elbow, where both become covered by the semi- lunar fascia of the biceps. There are several irregularities not very unusual, which the surgeon should be prepared for. The median nerve may run parallel with the artery, over it, under it, or on the outer side. The internal cutaneous nerve, instead of being superficial, may be deep ; and the basilic vein which lies beneath the skin, over and paj-allel with the artery, in its lower third, may ascend superficially up the arm. The radial artery may arise from the upper third of the brachial, or even from the axillary. The ulnar may also have a high origin, and run either super- ficially or deeply to the wrist. The siime may happen to the inter- osseous artery. To tie the brachial in its upper third.—The limb is to be drawn from the side and supinated. The surgeon makes out the coraco- brachiahs muscle, endeavours to ascertain tlie course of the basilic vein, and to feel the pulsation of the artery. Then he makes, carefully, an incision three inches in length over the artery, recollecting that the skin is here very thin, and taking care not to cut the internal cutaneous nerve. The fascia should next be divided to the same extent; and under it pi-ohably the basilic vein will be found, to the inner side of the artery. Now the fore-arm may be bent to relax the parts, and the coraco-brachialis be drawn outwards. Any veins or nerves in the way may be drawn aside with a blunt hook ; the sheath of the artery be opened, and the median nerve which comes into sight be drawn out-OPERATIONS FOR TYING ARTERIES. 752 wards. Now the operator must carefully identify the artery by its pulsation, or by the appearance of its coats; but it may not pulsate unless the muscles of the limb are relaxed. The needle must be passed in whatever direction the operator finds most convenient for avoiding the veins. Should a large branch be exposed, the trunk must be tied above and not below it. bhould two large arteries be found running parallel, it must be ascertained by pressure which of them communicates with the aneurysmal sac, or the wound, and that one tied ; but if no effect be produced, except both be compressed, then both must be secured. Should it happen when only one vessel is ap- parent, that compression on it does not check bleeding or pulsation be- low, seaich must be made for a second one. When the ligature is applied very high, the proximity of the origin of the superior profunda artery must not be forgotten. To tie the Brachial Artery in the middle of the arm, the incision should be along the inner side of the biceps. The basilic vein will probably be found passing from its superficial to its deeper course. The median nerve will, if regular, be seen lying over the vessel, and should be drawn either outwards or inwards, and the biceps be well relaxed. The ope- rator should be on his guard not to mistake the inferior profunda artery and the ulnar nerve, for the brachial and the median nerve, an error liable to be made if the profunda has be- come enlarged, and best avoided by dissecting towards the biceps, or rather towards the centre of the limb, and not getting too far inter- nally. The middle third of the artery should be tied, when such an operation is required for hasmorrhage from the hand, or from the inter- osseous vessels. To tie the Brachial Artery in its lou-er third. — This operation has been most frequently done for aneurysm, produced by careless vene- section, and there can be no doubt that in the large majority of smallBRACHIAL ARTERY. 753 circumscribed aneurysms, it will be sufficient to tie the artery just above the tumour, and as near it as possible. In the case of traumatic aneurysm, the difficulties of the surgeon will be increased by the infiltrated and swollen state of surrounding parts, and possibly the tumour may be the only guide to the vessel. An incision from two and a half inches long to three inches, should be made obliquely about half an inch internal to the tendon of the biceps, the position of which should of course be first ascertained. The basilic vein must be held aside if in the way, as well as any twigs of nerves. The fascial expansion of the biceps must not be needlessly cut, as contraction of the arm might ensue, or the healing of the wound become tedious. Should it be considered "necessary to tie the brachial very low down in consequence of the radial having been wounded, the vessel lies in a triangular space, bounded by the pronator radii teres internally, and by the supinator longus externally, having the median nerve, when regu- larly placed, on the inner side. Very great care should be taken to con- duct the operation with delicacy and despatch. It may be observed that when the artery is wounded in venesection, the surgeon has the choice of three measures:—1st. To enlarge the wound upwards and downwards, and tie the vessel above and below the injured part. 2ndly. To attempt cure by pressure ; placing a gra- duated compress on the wound : bandaging the whole limb : compressing the artery above, and so endeavouring to get the wound in the vessel closed, without traumatic aneurysm resulting. Should this aneurysm result, and he diffused, that is, without a sac, the wounded artery must be secui-ed. Should the traumatic aneurysm have a sac, either this tumour may be cut into and both ends of the vessel tied, which is usually the most advisable proceeding; or recourse may be had to, 3rdly, liga- ture of the lower part of the brachial. VI. The Radial Artery pursues a course corresponding with a line drawn from the middle of the bend of the elbow to the base of the metacarpal bone of the thumb. It winds over the external lateral liga- ment of the wrist joint to the dorsum, and between the first and second metacarpal bones sinks into the palm of the hand to complete the deep palmar arch. Although in the upper part of its course it lies deeply and is overlapped by muscle, it is not crossed by any. In the upper third it lies deeply between the pronator teres and supinator lono-us, and is ovei lapped by the latter. In the lower two-thirds it lies between the tendons of the supinator longus and flexor carpi radialis. It is accompanied and embraced by vense comites and their ramifications, and in the middle third by the radial nerve, which lies on the outer side and behind. It sometimes happens, as an irregularity, that the artery runs superficial to the supinator longus, or even to the fascia; and at the wrist may pass outside the extensor tendons. To tie it, the fore-arm must first of all be properly fixed by assistants on a table. Then an incision three inches in length must be made over its course. The superficial fascia should be divided; the deep fascia D 3 c754 OPERATIONS FOR TYING ARTERIES. must be slit up, the supinator longus turned aside ; and if the vessel is tied in the upper third, care must be taken to cut between the muscles without wounding them. To tie the Radial Artery on the outer side of the Wrist, an incision should be made through the skin, from opposite the styloid process of the radius, to the commencement of the first interosseous space. The tendon of the extensor secundi internodii pollicis, which crosses the artery just before it dips into the palm, is the best guide to it; and it will be easier to tie the vessel on the ulnar side of the tendon. VII. The Ulnar Artery, larger than the radial, passes from the middle of the bend of the elbow obliquely inwards, forming a slight curve with the concavity outwards, and then nearly vertically along the ulnar side of the fore-arm to the wrist; where it passes over the annular ligament on the radial side of the pisiform bone and enters the palm. In the upper half of the arm it is covered by the four super- ficial muscles which arise ft'om the internal condyle. In the lower half it is nearly superficial, and lies between the flexor digitorum sub- imis, and the flexor carpi ulnaris, the latter of which is on the ulnar755 SUPERFICIALIS VOL^. side. Except in very thin persons, the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris overlaps the artery, within two or three inches of the wrist, and so does the inner tendon with more or less of the muscular fibres of the flexor digitorum sublimis; so that, in fact, the vessel is not quite superficial. Like the radial it is accompanied by two veins. The median nerve lies first to the inner side separated by the ulnar origin of the pronator radii teres: it then crosses in front of the artery and descends along the middle of the limb. The ulnar nerve becomes attached to the artery at about the lower part of the upper third of the fore-arm, lying to the ulnar side. On the annular ligament, it lies next to the pisiform bone, and rather postei ior to the artery. When there is a high division of the ulnar, the vessel almost always passes superficial to the muscles, gene- rally under the fascia, sometimes above it. To tie the Ulnar AHery in the upper third of its course, a longi- tudinal incision, as shown in the woodcut, a quarter of the width of the arm from the inner edge, which will of course cross the artery, will be preferable to one more in the direction of the vessel; as the edges of the wound can be better separated, and what is of more con- sequence, the natural division that exists between the flexor carpi ulnaris and the next muscle, can be easily found. Should it be requisite to cut between the muscular mass more externally, the division should be made very low, and, if possible, between the tendons of the muscles, and car- ried upwards. The ulnar nerve should be looked for, as when seen it may serve as a guide to the artery. To tie the Ulnar Artery just above the vjrist, requires rather more care than to tie the radial. An incision, two inches long, should be made, and it should be about three-quarters of an inch from the inner edge of the limb. The operator should endeavour to feel the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris muscle, and when he can, to cut just external to it. If he cuts too internally, the muscular fibres of the lower part of this muscle will bulge, and perhaps perplex him. After the skin and fascia have been divided, the artery must be sought for, covered by the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, which is intei nal, and the inner tendon of the flexor digitorum sublimis, and the fibres of that muscle, which is external. The venae comites are to be separated. As the ulnar nerve lies to the inner side of the artery, the needle had better be passed from within outwards. VIII. The SUPERFICIALIS Vol^e, the artery which continues in the course of the radial, and goes to join the supei-ficial palmar arch, is usually small, but yet a frequent source of troublesome heemorrhage when the ball of the thumb is wounded. But it may be a very large artery and bleed profusely, and then must be tied at the seat of injury. Hcsmorrhage in the palm of the hand may, when practicable, be stopped by tying both ends of the bleeding vessel; yet it is seldom that this can be done, on account of the manner in which the vessels retract, and of the density of the surrounding parts. The propriety of enlarging the wound, with the object of effecting this, must depend on the circura-OPERATIONS FOR TYING ARTERIES. 756 stances of the case, and can rarely be admissible about the centre of the palm. Yet if the blood spirts out with a jet, the exploration may be jus- tifiable, as it would thus be shown that the bleeding orifice was near. Otherwise (following the practice of Mr, Pollock at St. George's) pressure should be made by a horse-shoe tourniquet on the brachial artery as for aneurysm, and the wound be left bare to the air. Or, see page 335. SECTION III.—THE AORTA, ILIACS, AND THEIR BRANCHES. I. The External Iliac Artery is not unfrequently tied for aneurysm, high up in the femoral. The process for tying it, as well as the internal or common iliac, is to cut threugh the ['abdomina). muscles and fascia transversalis, and to get behind the peritonaeum without wounding it, so as to reach the point desired. Before any of these operations, the bowels should be well cleared. The bifurcation of the aorta corresponds as nearly as possible with a spot a finger's breadth below and to the left of the navel. From this point, a line drawn to the middle of Poupart's ligament, wiW coincide with the course of the ihac; the upper third to the common, the lower two-thirds to the external iliac. The common iliac extends from the bifurcation of the aorta, on or about the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra, to the sacro-iliac syn- chondrosis. Its length may vary extremely in different subjects: it is usually two inches; but if the aorta bifurcates higher up than usual, or if the common iliac bifurcates lower than usual, its length may be inci'eased to 3*5 inches. Under the opposite conditions, it may be only .75 inch. Each common iliac is covered by peritouseura, and crossed near its bifurcation by the ureter ; each, too, is in close relation with its vein ; but in this respect there is a difference, for both left and right common iliac veins pass behind the right iliac artery to reach the cava, and the artery is closely connected to them both. Whereas the left common iliac artery has a slight space between it and its vein, which lies below and internal to it. The superior hsemorrhoidal artery also crosses the left common iliac artery. The external iliac artery runs in the course we have described, along the inner border of the psoas muscle, having its vein on the inner side and below. The genito-crural nerve, which pierces] the psoas, lies on it for a short distance, and there is a chain of lym- phatic glands surrounding both artery and vein, which, if enlarged, may give great trouble. This artery is invested by the peritonasura, and crossed high xip by the rectum on the left side, and by the ileum on the right, and occasionally by the ureter. Low down, near Poupart's ligament, it is crossed by the spermatic cord in the, male, and the round ligament in the female. In both, it is here crossed by the cir- cumflex iliac vein, and gives off the deep epigastric and circumflex iliac branches. Occasionally, the obturator branch arises from the epigastric or external iliac, and crosses down to the inner side of the latter to the thyroid hole.757 EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. To tie the External Iliac, the patient should lie flat on a table, in order that the abdominal muscles may be rendered rather tense. An incision, three and a half or four inches long, should be made above and parallel to Ponpart's ligament, beginning about half an inch outside the external abdominal ring. It should be carried through skin and the superficial fascia, and be completed so as to lay bare the external oblique tendon. If the external epigastric artery be divided, as is probable, it should be secured. The tendon of the external oblique should next be cut through to the same extent, either on a director, or not. The internal oblique and transversalis muscles are now to be similarly divided; and as they vary in thickness, and as the peritonaeum is close behind, this part of the opei-ation must be conducted with great delicacy. A portion of the muscle should be lifted with forceps, and be carefully cut through, to form an opening into which the finger, or a large blunt director may be insinuated, and upon which the muscle may be divided. The edges of the wound should now be gently drawn asunder by bent spatulse; the fascia transversalis be exposed and scratched through, and the opening be enlarged by tearing with the fingers. And next the peritonseum should be most delicately stripped off, from the walls of the abdomen and from the iliac fossa, till the finger reaches the artery, as it gradually rises from the pelvis. The sheath must be scratched through with the finger-nail or a director at the point selected, and the artery separated from the vein ; the aneurysm-needle should be passed between them, and the genito-cruralOPERATIONS FOR TYING ARTERIES. 758 nerve be excluded from tlie knot. The wound should be brought togetlier by sutures, the trunk be bent forwards to relax the muscles, and pressure be applied by means of a bandage and pads of cotton wool. Sir Astley Cooper, of whose method of operating the above is a mo- dification, separated the internal oblique and transversalis muscles from Poupart's ligament, instead of cutting through them rather higher up, as described above. The advantages of the latter plan are, that the epigastric and circumflexa ilii arteries, and the circumflexa ilii vein which crosses the artery low down, are not interfered with, neither is the spermatic cord, nor the abdominal ring. Moreover, if it should seem expedient to tie the vessel higher up, it might be done without much difficulty, by drawing up the upper edge of the wound. The circumflexa ilii and epigastric arteries ai'e of importance for the collateral circulation. But, on the other hand, it must be confessed that the peritonjeum is rather more interfered with. In the method of operating recommended by Abernethy, the incision is made in the course of the artery, instead of across it, as in Sir A. Cooper's method. It extends upwards and inwards about three inches, from an inch above the centre of Poupart's ligament, towards the umbilicus; being longer in proportion to the stoutness of the patient. The subsequent steps are those of Sir A. Cooper's plan. This operation is convenient for cases in which it is doubtful before- hand whether the external or the common iliac should be tied. Its disadvantages are, that the peritonaeum is very much disturbed, and that there is greater liability to hernia afterwards.* II. The Common Iliac Artery.—In order to tie this artery, an operation has been proposed similar to that of Cooper for the external iliac; but it would be vtry difficult in a thin patient, and almost im- possible in a fat one. It is better to make the formidable curved in- cision shown in the cut (p. 757). An incision is made from six to eight inches in length, the lower third being about an inch and a half or two inches above Poupart's ligament, and parallel with it. The muscles must be divided, and the transversalis fascia torn through, according to the rules given for exposing the external iliac artery. In fact, there is no practical sur- gical difference between them, except that the operation under considera- tion is more difficult, and requires more care and more assistants. The intestines are sure to bulge more or less into the wound directly that the fascia transversalis is divided, and here is the chief difficulty to be encountered. With the greatest gentleness they must be drawn up- wards, while the operator separates the peritonseum from the iliac fossa. There need be no apprehension about the fate of the ureter, as * This artery was tied by Mr. Partridge, in the King's College Hospital, in November, 1846, for aneurysm of the common femoral, in a patient only 23 years ■old. It was tied by Mr.Thomas Nunn, in January, 1849, for aneurysm of the common femoral, and by Mr. H. Smith, in August, 1850, for aneurysm of the superficial femoral high up. The ligature came away on the twenty-eighth day. All three patients did well. Mr. Smith has at different times tied the external iliac on one side, and the superficial femoral on the other, in the same patient.INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. 759 it is always raised along with the peritoneum, the two being closely united. Having gained the soft brim of the pelvis, the operator may seek the external iliac, and if not very much diseased, it will be readily found, and form a good guide to the common trunk. The sheath of the vessel must be opened just above the bifurcation, and the needle be passed, if possible, from within to without.* Another, or posterior operation, was proposed by Sir P. Crampton.t It has not yet been successful, but is certainly not without apparent merits. By it the peritoneum is very much less disturbed, and the vessel is fully exposed. The walls of the abdomen, too, are opened at a part where it is less likely that hernia will ensue. But further trial must determine its merit. The following is the manner in which it was performed by Mr. Stanley at St. Bartholomew's Hospital in 1846, as detailed by Mr. Si<ey. The patient, a middle-aged man, was placed on the operating-table, with his body inclined over to the right or sound side. The shoulders and trunk were bent a little forwards, for the purpose of rendering the lumbar integument tense. The line of the last false rib having been ascertained, an incision of three or four inches in length was made from its cartilage or nearly its point, in a line downwards, and somewhat forwards, to the crista ilii. The skin and fascia, then the external oblique, internal oblique, and ti'ansversalis muscles were singly and successively divided. The external incision was then carried along the line of the crista ilii, to the extent of about three inches more, and the division of the three muscles from the bone completed. There was but little blood lost. Returning to the situation of the first incision, Mr. Stanley then divided the transversalis fascia to the entire limit of the external wound. He then raised the mass of intestine enveloped in the peritonaeum, and pushed it inwards, bringing into view the psoas magnus, left ureter, and finally the common iliac artery, around which he passed a ligature, without apparent difficulty. III. The Internal Iliac Artery.—Of the seven cases in which this artery has been tied for disease of its branches four have recovered. The operation is necessarily attended with the greatest difficulty, on account of the position of surrounding parts. The internal iliac vein is closely in contact with the artery, each vein being a little posterior to the corresponding artery and to its right side, while each artery crosses the course of the external iliac vein. Then the internal iliac veins have their coats very thin, they lie loosely about the artery, and * The common iliac artery was tied by Mr. A. M. Edwards, of Edinburgh, in a case in which an aneurysm of the external iliac artery had burst internally, and the patient was bleeding to death. Mr. Edwards made the incisions de- scribed in the text, and with great difficulty reached the common iliac artery through a mass of clots, with his left forefinger. Having commanded the artery, the clots were turned out, and a ligature passed. Unluckily the patient died of secondary hemorrhage from the ruptured aneurysm. Possibly he might have recovered had a ligature been placed also below the aneurysm ; but at all events, imminent death was averted, and life prolonged for twentj'-four days. Edinburgh Med. Journal, Jan., 1858. t Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xvi.760 OPERATIONS FOR TYING ARTERIES. are joined by other veins of large size, so that no sharp instruments should be used in the latter part of the opei-ation. It has been found in old subjects that the peritonseum has not escaped lacei'ation, while being separated from its connections, even with the greatest care. Taking these circumstances into consideration, together with the fact that the artery may be shorter than usual, (it is very irregular), and that it may lie deep in the pelvis, several very excellent surgeons have expressed their conviction that under most circumstances it will be more prudent to tie the common iliac, although the direct supply of blood to the leg should be cut off. The artery and vein are covered by, or surrounded with, a proper sheath. The ureter is, in some subjects, closely connected with the artery; usually it is placed internal and a little posterior. The operation described for tying the common iliac is that by which this vessel may be the most readily reached, and it has the advantage of enabling the common trunk to be tied in case the operator should afterwards desire it. While the vessel is being secured, it should not be immoderately pulled, as the ilio-lumbar artery may be torn through. In all these operations the advantage of the patient being under the influence of chlorofoi-m, whereby respiration goes on tranquilly, and the descent of the intestines is to a great extent pre- vented, must be obvious. We may add, that the aorta may be reached by the same operation by which the common iliac is tied, should it be necessary to do so, and that, as Mr. Guthrie suggests, it may be possible to reach either common iliac from the opposite side of the pelvis, should the position and size of an aneurysm render it impossible to do so on the same side. (See p. 770.) IV. The Gluteal Artery may be tied by placing the patient on his face, with the toes turned inwards, and making an incision from an inch below the posterior spinous process of the ilium, and an inch from the sacrum, towards the great trochanter. This incision should be about four inches long. The fibres of the gluteus maximus having been cut through or separated to the like extent, and a strong fascia beneath having been cut through, the vessel will be found emerging from the upper part of the sciatic notch. The Sciatic artery may be found by making an incision through the same parts and for the same extent, but an inch and a half lower down. Both these operations are extremely difficult, from the great depth to which the dissection must be carried, the unyielding nature of the surrounding parts, and the haemorrhage from the numerous blood-vessels that must necessarily be wounded. They should be attempted, however, in case of woimds; but for aneurysms of these arteries, it is necessary to tie the internal or common iliac. SECTION IV.—THE FEMORAL AND ITS BRANCHES. I. The Femoral Artery extends from Poupart's ligament to the junction of the middle with the lower third of the thigh, where it passes761 FEMORAL ARTERY. through the adductor magnns muscle into the ham, and receives the name of popliteal. Its course is as nearly as possible indicated by a line drawn from the middle of Pou- part's ligament to the inner edge of the patella, supposing the knee to be bent and the thigh turned outwards. It is accompanied by its vein, which lies first to its inner side and then be- hind it, and still further down a little to its outer side. In its upper half it is covered by no muscle; in its lower half it is concealed by the sartorius, behind which it lies against the bone in a dense fibrous sheath, formed by an interweaving of the tendinous ex- pansion of the adductor with that of the vastus internus. The long sa- phenous nerve, a branch of the crural, enters this tendinous sheath, and lies on the outer side of the artery. The saphena, the great cutaneous vein of the leg, the homologue of the cephalic in the upper extremity, ascends the thigh in a course parallel to that of the artery, but internal to it, and enters at the saphenic opening two inches below Poupart's ligament. In the case of stabs in the thigh, it is well to bear in mind the possibility that the pro- funda may be the vessel injured.* It arises from the femoral, about two inches below Poupart's ligament, and runs down the thigh behind and a little to the outside of the superficial femoral, and separated fr6m it, first by the femoral vein, then by the ad- ductor longus tendon. Aneurysm of the profunda is not unknown. Nor must surgeons forget the possibility of varieties in the femoral artery, and that there may be two branches ot nearly equal size, instea<i of one trunk, or a large branch of the ex- ternal circumflex given off from it. The best place for the application of ligature, in cases of popliteal aneurysm, is the lowest part of the upper division of the artery, just before it is crossed by the sartorius. It is far enough from the aneu- rysm for the vessel to be healthy, and low enough to avoid embarrass- ment with the profunda. * See the cases at p. 332 and p. 338.762 OPERATIONS FOR TYIlsG ARTERIES. To tie the Femoral Artery in its upper division.—The course of the issel having been ascertained by its pulsation, an incision three or four inches in length should be made over it, about two or three inches below Poupart's ligament. The fat and superficial fascia must next be divided to the same extent. Some lymphatic glands will be met with here, and the saphena vein may be seen, but it generally lies much to the inner side of the in- cision. The fascia lata may now be divided to the same extent as the skin; the sartorius should be gently drawn outward (the sheath of this muscle should not be opened, as it would complicate the operation), and the pulsation of the artei-y felt for—its sheath should be opened at the lowest part of the wound suf- ficiently to admit the aneuiysm- needle. There is always a risk of transfixing the vein and passing the ligature through it—an accident liable to be followed by fatal pyae- mia. The best way of avoiding this accident, is to use a blunt aneurysm-needle, stiff enough not to bend; to pass it from the inner side, and to hold the inner cut edge of the sheath with forceps, and make it tense. Greater care will, of course, be necessary, if there has been an extension of inflammatory action to the sheath, with infil- tration or thickening.* To tie the Femoral Artery in the lower part of its course.—Turn the limb a little outwards, bend the knee, and raise the leg on a pillow. Make an incision three inches long, half in the middle third of the thigh, half in the lower, and in a direction midway between the front and back surfaces, through the skin and superficial fascia, taking all care to avoid the saphena vein. Divide the deep ffiscia on a director to the same extent. Now will be exposed the tendinous interweaving of the adductor muscles and vastus internus, that forms the tendinous sheath for the artery ; which is covered with more or less areolar * It tray be mentioned as a fact, that in two patients, in wLom Mr. Haynes Walton tied the femoral artery for popliteal aneurysm, after it had been sub- jected to pressure unsuccessfully,—in one instance for more than six weeks,— there were no structural changes in the parts that had been compressed.POSTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. 763 tissue. At the outer part of tlie wound lies the edge of the sartorius muscle ; this should be lifted and held outwards by a retractor. Then clear away the areolar tissue with care, and lifting up a portion of the aponeurotic sheath with the forceps divide it with the knife held hori- zontally. Introduce the director, and when the sheath is divided, the artery will very readily be found in a posterior position. The femoral vein is behind it. It is hardly necessary to allude to the possibility that the anastomotica mfigna might be taken up instead of the femoral artery : this branch arises from the trunk just before the latter per- forates the adductor magnus to become the popliteal. The ligature should be applied on the upper portion of the artery. II. The Popliteal Artery,—It is rarely necessary to tie this artery, but if called for it may be tied by cutting through the skin and fascia lata for the extent of three inches on the outer border of the ten- don of the semi-membranosus muscle, the patient being placed on his face, with his knees straight. On piessing that tendon inwards, the artery may be felt. Its vein, which lies superficial and rather external to it, must be cautiously separated and drawn outwards, and the needle passed between them. This operation is very seldom performed. The writer witnessed an accident in the person of his friend Dr. Norton, by which it would be very possible for the popliteal vessels to be wounded. In drawing a tight cork, by means of a common cork- screw, from a bottle held between the knees, the bottle was crushed, and the sharp edges driven between the inner hamstrings and the bone into the popliteal space. The patient was most kindly and skil- fully attended by Mr. Hodgson and Dr. E. Smith, and made a good recovery ; but the haemorrhage was immense, and the danger for a time great. III. The Posterior Tibial Artery.—As we have often said, a wounded artery should, if possible, be tied at the wounded part; and in most cases the wound may be enlarged, and its track pursued till the bleeding vessel is reached. Yet there are exceptions to this latter rule ; for example, the posterior tibial or peroneal artery may be wounded by a narrow instrument thrust through from the front of the leg; and to meet such cases, as well as others in which these vessels may require ligature for nsevus, the surgeon must be prepared to cut down upon them from the calf. To tie the Posterior Tibial in the upper part of the leg.—The course of the artery corresponds with a line drawn from the middle of the popliteal space to the middle of the space between the heel and inner ankle. The patient should lie on his back, with the injured limb resting on its outer side, the knee half bent, and the foot on a pillow, and the heel raised, in order to relax the muscles of the calf to the utmost. Supposing the leg to be divided into thirds, an incision four inches long, half in the upper, half in the middle third, and an inch from the inner edge of the tibia, should be made through the skin and supei ncial fascia. When the calf is very large, the cut should be taken more thanconverging branches of this vessel that were met with at the upper part of the wound. The deep fascia having been divided, and the muscles exposed, the edge of the gastrocnemius is to be drawn aside, in order to expose the soleus. The fibres of the soleus are next to be severed to the extent of the first incision, until the fascia covering its anterior surface is seen, and then this is to be pinched up, perforated, and divided on a director. The cellular fascia, which intervenes between the superficial and deep muscles of the calf, and surrounds the vessels, must now be torn through, and the artery will be exposed lying on the tibialis posticus. Its two veins, of uncertain size, are in very close con-765 POSTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. tact with it, and not unfrequently surround it by anastomoses. The nerve is superficial to, and sometimes a little on the outer side of the artery. If the artery is not readily found, and there should appear to be want of room to look for it, some of the fibres of the soleus may be cut across. Instead of directing the soleus to be cut, some operators have pro- posed to separate its tibial origin from the bone. If this he done, the first incision should be made higher up, and nearer to the tibia. The objections to it are, that in case of injury, when the muscles are swollen and infiltrated with blood, it would be very difficult to distinguish between the attachments of the soleus and those of the flexor longus digitorum and tibialis posticus ; so that all of the muscles of the leg might be detached, and the interosseous membrane reached, instead of the artery. Again, supposing the soleus to be correctly separated from the bone, it is no easy matter to draw the muscle sufficiently aside to expose the artery. This operation is considered by Mr. Guthrie to be so " painful, diffi- cult, bloody, tedious, and dangerous," that he proposes to reach the artery hj making a perpendicular incision six or seven inches in length, at the back of the leg, through the skin, gastrocnemius, plantaris, and soleus; then the fascia will be exposed with the artery beneath it, and the nerve to the outer side or lying directly over it. Perhaps this ope- ration cannot be spoken of in much more complimentary terms than the preceding one. To tie the Posterior Tibial in the middle of the leg.—An incision must be made three inches long, half in the middle third of the leg, half in766 OPERATIONS FOR TYING ARTERIES. the lower, and midway between the inner edge of the tibia and the inner border of the tendo Achillis. It is often impossible to avoid cutting through the internal saphena vein. The fascia covering the edge of the tendo Achillis must be divided on a director. A second fascia, the deep one of the tendo Achillis, is often met with, and must be treated in like manner. Whether one or two of these structures be seen, depends on the line of the incision, for at a little distance from the tibia, the two are, to use an anatomical expression, blended. The artery, surrounded more or less by fat, which is a peculiarity in this situation, will be found along the inner edge of the flexor longus digi- torum, accompanied by its two veins. The nerve is to the outer side. It must be remembered that, in the upper part of the leg, the posterior tibial nerve lies to the inner or tibial side of tlie artery ; it soon, how- ever, passes over, and inferioi ly lies to its outer or fibular side. To tie the Posterior Tibial at the ankle.—The vessel is here com- paratively superficial. An incision is made two and a half inches long, in the groove, midway between the anterior edge of the internal malle- olus and the extremity of the heel, commencing near the tendo Achillis. The superficial fascia having been divided, the strong and dense fascia which adheres to the sheaths of the tendons, and covers the vessels and nerves in this situation (which is, in fact, the internal annular liga- ment), must be very carefully divided on a director, as well as the origin of the abductor pollicis; and the artery should be looked for, sur- rounded by the vense comites. The following is the order of the muscles, vessels, and nerves in this situation :—The tendons of the tibi- alis posticus and flexor digitorum communis are close to the malleolus internus. At about a quarter of an inch external and a little more superficial, there is the posterior tibial artery, on each side of which is a vein; close outside is the posterior tibial nerve, and half an inch nearer to the heel is the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis. Much pains should be taken to avoid opening the bursse around the tendons of the tibialis posticus and flexor longus digitorum respectively, or in- terfering with the sheath of the flexor longus pollicis. The line of in- cision advised is, on this account, to be preferred to that in a circular form around the malleolus, or that parallel to the tendo Achillis. IV. The Peroneal Artery.—The trunk of this vessel is often absent, its place being supplied by branches from the posterior tibial artery. Sometimes, on the contrary, it is very large at the lower part of the leg, and supplies the place of the posterior tibial. To tie it, an :ncision should be made four inches long, almost in the centre of the leg, being about half an inch nearer the upper part, and an inch behind the external edge of the fibula. The border of the soleus is to be sought for and separated fjom the peronei which encircle the outer side of the fibula, and it may be requisite to detach a portion of this muscle from the fibula, to expose the flexor longus pollicis ; the fibres of which must be separated longitudinally, first with the director, then with the handle of the scalpel, and the artery sought for about the centre, where it will be near the edge of the fibula. At the lower portion of the in-767 ANTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. cision, the vessel Is covered by the bone. Directly that the flexor pro- prius poUicis is exposed, the great toe should be bent to tlie utmost, in order to relax the muscle and facilitate the separation of its fibres. If in the case of wound, with arterial haemorrhage, the posterior- tibial is cut down upon, and found intact, the incisioa^may be extended, so as to allow the peroneal to be reached, by separating the super- ficial from the deep muscles of the calf, and raising the flexor proprius pollicis. V. The Anterior Tibial Artery.—A line drawn from the head of the fibula to the base of the gi'eat toe will be parallel to the course of this artery.768 OPERATIONS FOR TYING ARTERIES. To tie the vessel in the upper part of the leg, an incision four inches long, or even longer, should be made through the skin, midway between the spine of the tibia and the external edge of the fibula, half of which should be in the upper third of the leg, and half in the middle. The intermuscular septa, between the tibialis anticus and extensor longus digitorum, must be sought for, raised on a director, and divided. It will facilitate the future steps of the operation to cut the fascia a little transversely at one or both extremities of the incision. The heel should be fully brought down, and the muscles then separated wit^ the finger, fi'om below upwards. It must not be forgotten that at the lower part of the incision, the extensor proprius pollicisis to be separated from the tibialis anticus, as about the centre of the leg it intervenes between the extensor communis digitorum and tibialis anticus. The rule is to keep close to the fibres of the tibialis anticus. The artery is deeply seated, lying on the inter- osseous membrane, accompanied by its two veins, and having the nerve in front and in close contact. The nerve is superficial in its entire course, and often changes its situation from one side to another. To tie it in the lower part of the leg.—An incision three inches in length, commencing at about the junction of the middle with the lower third of the leg, just half an inch external to the spine of the tibia, must ]be made obliquely upwards and outwards, as is shown in the second illustration (p. 769). The fascia covering the tibialis anticus must then be divided, and the artery will be found lying on the bone external to the lewer portion of this muscle or its tendon, surrounded by the vense comites, and with the nerve directly in front. At this place, in a muscular subject, the artery is apt to be covered by the muscular fibres of the extensor pro- prius pollicis, which crosses completely to its inner side a little below. ShouM it be found necessary to tie the artery lower down, the tendon of the extensor proprius pollicis had better be drawn to the outside, while that of the tibialis anticus is drawn in the contrary direction, and the connecting fascia divided. Here the vessel rests on the outer surface of the tibia. VI. The Dorsal Artery of the Foot can rarely require to be tied. This vessel, superficial though it be, is, from its diminutiveness and the tightness of the fascia on the dorsum of the foot, very difficult to be taken up even in the dead body. The posterior extremity of the inter- osseous space, between the first and second metatarsal bone, being found, an incision should be carried directly upwards for two inches or more. The fascia having been divided on a director, the tendon of the extensor longus pollicis and the inner tendon of the extensor brevis digitorum •will be exposed, between which the artery lies. The last-named tendon is a certain guide, as it is first external to the vessel. In wounds of the arteries in the sole of the foot (except perhaps of the external plantar, opposite the base of the little toe), before enlarging the wound with the view of securing the bleeding point, methodical pressure may be applied after the manner recommended at p. 335; ifnecessary. In wounds also of either of the tibial arteries inflicted on children in the operation of dividing the deep tendons for club foot, D 3 1)770 AMPUTATION OF THE THIGH. pressure should have a fair trial; or Mr. Pollock's plan of compressing the femoral, and leaving the wound open to the air (p. 756). We have described the various methods of acupressure (p. 333) pro- posed by Dr. Simpson as substitutes for the ligature. To these we ought to have added an account of Mr. Dix's wire compress.* Instead of pins he uses thin iron or silver wire passed by means of two straight needles round the artery, directly through the tissues of the flap to the surface of the skin, and then fastened over a cork by the ends twisted. Very little traction suffices to close the artery, and the wire can easily be withdrawn by cutting one end even with the skin, and making gentle traction upon the other end. Thread may be substi- tuted for wire. Mr. Wood has applied a double acupressure to the continuity of the smaller and superficial arteries to stop haemorrhage and cure aneurysms exactly in the same way and by the same means as he uses to obliterate varicose veins (see p. 362), and has found the process all that could be desired, saving much pain to the patient, and much time and trouble to the surgeon. It is to be hoped that surgeons will accept the fruit of Dr. Simpson's labours, and perfect the method of stopping the current of blood through arteries, whether in wounds, or in the continuity of the limb, by the simple means of thread, wire, and needles. Thus operations for exposing and tying arteries will be avoided ; wounds will not be kept open by ligatures; so soon as the artery is closed, the thread or wire will be withdrawn, the sloughing of the tied portion will be done away with, and tlie consequent risk of pyjemia, as well as all the tedious- ness of waiting for the separation of ligatures. Care must of course be taken that the needle or wire do not strangulate the enclosed tissues, and thus prevent adhesion at that part. We must lastly mention one of the greatest triumphs of modern medicine,—the cure of aneurysm of the abdominal aorta, by pressure kept up for five hours under chloroform. This, the first achievement of its kind, and the greatest, was the work of Dr. William Murray of Newcastle.! CHAPTEE VL AMPUTATIONS. I. Amputation op the Thigh.—It will be convenient to describe this amputation first; and to embody in the description of it such general precepts as are applicable to the other amputations. In the first place, the surgeon should have his tourniquets, ampu- * See Med. Times and Gaz., 24th Jan. 1863; also Professor Simpson's work on Acupressure, Edinburgh, 1864. f Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xlvii.AMPUTATION OF THE THIGH. 771 tating knives, saws, artery-forceps and tenacula, ligatures, bone-forceps, sponges, long needles for acupressure, and short needles threaded (or wired), close at hand on a tray, arranged in due order; and he should see with his own eyes that every requisite is at hand before he begins. In this, as in every other operation, it is necessary to place the patient in a convenient posture, so that the operator may not be obliged to stoop. For amputation of the thigh, the patient may be placed on a bed, or on a table covered with a folded blanket; the diseased leg should project sufficiently over the edge, and should be supported at the knee by an assistant, who sits on a low stool in front; and the sound limb may be se- cured to one of the legs of the table with a handkerchief. For amputation of the thigh, in an adult, the surgeon should have a long, straight, sharp- pointed knife. Instead of the common ampu- tating saw, he may, if he pleases, use the in- strument depicted below, and invented by Mr. Butcher of Dublin, al- though it is in excision of the ends of bones that it is most particu- larly useful. It will be seen that the blade, which is 8 inches long, and only •25 inch in breadth, is most tensely stretched between two upright bars, by a screw in the middle of the uppermost cross bar. The tension combined with the fineness of the teeth renders it a capital cutter, whilst from the outset of the teeth, and narrowness of the blade, it cannot well become locked. Moreover it can, when the screw is re- versed, be turned in any direction, and be there fixed, so as to cut backwards or sideways.* Then measures must be adopted for compressing the main ailery and preventing too great loss of blood. This may be done, either by pressure with the hand, or with the tourniquet. Pressure vnth the hand on the main arterial trunk, if eftected by a * The saw depicted on p. 772 differs in some respects from that described by Mr. Butcher, Dublin Journ. Med. Sc., Feb., 1855. Weiss has another modifica- tion of it, suggested by Mr. Busk.AMPUTATION OF THE THIGH. 772 steady assistant who can be trusted, is sufficient in most cases; and if the limb is amputated so high up that the tourniquet cannot be applied, there is of course no choice; the femoral artery must be compressed against the ramus of the pubes. Both hands should be used for this purpose. Either the thumbs, or else the tip of the fore, middle, and ring fingers in a line should compress the vessel, and when one hand relaxes a little, the other should press more firmly. The handle of a key covered with lint is sometimes used. The common tourniquet consists of three parts: a pad to compress the artery, which should be firm, narrow, and flattish ; a strong band which is buckled round the limb; and a bridge-like contrivance, over which the band passes, with a screw, by turning which the bridge is raised, and the band tightened. The pad should always be placed so as to compress the artery against the bone. Instead of a pad attached to the band, it is prefei-able to use a small, firm roller, about an inch thick; to put this lengthwise over the main artery, and secure it by a turn of bandage; and to apply the band of the tourniquet over this. The band should first of all be buckled tightly ; then by turning the screw a very powerful degree of force is exerted. The screw may be put over the pad, or on another part of the limb ; but it should always be put opposite the buckle of the band. The advantage of the tour- niquet is, that it compresses the smaller arteries as well as the principal trunk; its disadvantage is, that it arrests the venous circulation, and causes a greater loss of venous blood; wherefore it should never be constricted tightly until the incisions are just commencing. Amputations may be performed either, 1, by cutting from the skin towards the bone with a circular sweep of the knife, or with two oval semicircular sweeps; or, 2, by transfixion and cutting flaps outwards; or by a combination of either method. The advantages of the circular method are, a less surface of wound, a more clean and direct section of the vessels, and less liability to protrusion or uncovering of the end of the bone. Those of the flap are, its quicker performance (and with less pain when no anaesthetics are used), and the more perfect coaptation of the cut surface. The vessels, however, are apt to be cut or sliced obliquely, or opened in more places than one. The flap operation enables the surgeon to select a flap where he pleases, so that when theAMPUTATION OF THE THIGH. 773 flesh on one side of the limb is destroyed by disease or injury, the end of the stump may be covered with a flap taken almost entirely from the sound side, and greater length of limb may be preserved. But it is generally admitted that the circular produces better stumps. The surgeon must be careful to have skin enough to cover the flesh, and flesh enough to cover the bone. If the bone is inclined to project it should be shortened at once ; and the same with muscle or tendon, and especially with nerves, which should always be cut shoi^t if they project. Mr. Teale, of Leeds,* declares that the mortality after amputations of the thigh and leg is nearly one in three ; and that the stumps of those who escape are generally unsatisfactory, and unable to bear pressure. In order to diminish the mortality, and produce a more useful stump, he proposes to amputate by means of a long and a short rectangular flap. (See pp. 776, 781.) The long flap is to be formed out of such parts as do not contain the principal blood-vessels and nerves, and is to be long enough to fall easily over the end of the bone. Its length and breadth are equal to half the circumference of the limb: it is there- fore a perfect square. The short flap is one-fourth its length. The long flap is folded over the end of the bone, and united by suture, as shown at p. 776. No dressing is used by Mr. Teale ; and he orders the stump not to be lifted for many days. He believes the advantages of his plan to be, that tension is avoided by the ample size of the long flap; that this, folding over the end of the bone, soon acquires organic union with it, and seals up its veins; that the limb is not disturbed by lifting and dressing, and the veins consequently are early closed ; and that the end of the bone is covered by parts free from large vessels and nerves, and that the cicatrix does not adhere to it. In this, as in all other operations, we suppose the patient to be under the influence of chloroform ; unless there is some rare and special reason to the contrary. Amputation of the thigh. 1. Circular Method.—The surgeon stands on the outer side, and uses his left hand to grasp and steady the part which he is to amputate. The artery must be compressed by one of the methods before described, and an assistant must grasp the limb with both hands, so as to draw up the skin as high as possible. Then the surgeon commences by putting his arm under the limb, and makes an incision at one sweep, completely round the limb, through skin and fat down to the fascia. The knife of course cuts from heel to point. The assistant is now to draw the skin further up, the retraction being aided by a few touches with the knife ; and then the knife, being put close to the edge of the retracted skin, is to be made to divide everything down to the bone by another clean circular sweep. The next thing is, to separate the muscles from the bone for another inch or two with the point of a knife, especially those most intimately connected with the bone ; and then the periosteum having been divided by one more sweep, the muscles are to be well drawn up from the bone, either by the hands * On Amputation by a long and a shoit Rectangular Flap, Lend., 1858.AMPUTATION OF THE THIGH. 774 of the assistant or by the retractor, a piece of linen with a longitudinal slit in it. The saw must be used to divide the bone: it should be held perpendicularly or nearly so: it should be used very lightly, and the last few strokes should be excessively short and gentle, that the bone may not be splintered. If it is, the irregular part must be removed by the forceps. The femoral artery should now be tied (if ordinary liga- tures are used), its orifice being seized and slightly drawn out by forceps; and afterwards any large branches that appear in the muscular inter- stices. Then all compression should be suddenly ceased, so that any arteries that are liable to bleed may do so, and be tied at once. Haemorrhage from large veins is to be restrained by elevating the stump, and making compression for a short time with the finger. If, however, nothing else will do, they must be tied. Any obstinate oozing from small vessels should be restrained by sponging with cold water, or perhaps by a touch with arg. nitras. So soon as bleeding has ceased, a light baKdage may be passed round the limb above the stump, and the edges of the wound should be nicely adapted with sutures and a few long strips of plaster. The edges are to be brought together in a straight line, which may be made either perpendicular or horizontal, the latter, however, being the better plan. The patient should then be removed to bed, and the stump be sup- ported on a pillow covered with oil-cloth or gutta-percha. No other application will be needed save a good flake of fine wadding to exclude the air, and absorb discharge. Pain may be allayed by an opiate. The stump may remain as it is for some days, the cotton being changed, and the discharge wiped occasionally from its surface. But after from four to six days, sooner or later, according to the quantity of the discharge and the feelings of the patient, the dressings should be changed, the straps being taken off and replaced one by one, with care not to distui-b the ligatures, and the hands of an assistant being employed to support the edges, and prevent their falling asunder. At the subsequent dress- ings, the points to be attended to are, to renew the light bandage occa- sionally, which was passed round the stump soon after the operation, in order to support the muscles, and prevent their retraction—to bring together the edges of the wound with adhesive straps, to press gently out all collections of matter, and take care that there is no bagging ; —to use some antiseptic if need be—to remove the ligatures when loose—(that on the femoral artery should not be disturbed for a fort- night)—and to accelerate cicatrization by the nitrate of silver, or other stimulants, if the granulations appear languid. If the patient is very emaciated, the circular incision may be carried down to the bone at once without ceremony, because in such patients the muscles always retract greatly. Sir C. Bell recommended the skin not to be divided quite circularly, but the knife to be inclined a little, so as to make two oval flaps. The same may be done also in dividing the muscles. 2, Flap Operation.—The flaps may be made, either from the inner and outer, or from the anterior and posterior aspects of the limb. TheAMPUTATION OF THE THIGH. 775 former way is the more convenient if the amputation is low down; but the latter, if it is in the middle or upper third. In performing this operation in the latter way, the surgeon, standing as before, grasps the flesh on the anterior surface of the limb with his left hand, and lifts it * from the bone; then passes his knife horizontally through it—carries the point over the bone, pushes it through the other side of the limb as low as possible; then makes it cut its way out upwards and forwards, so as to make the anterior flap. In amputating the right thigh, the knife should be passed behind the saphena vein. It is again entered a little below the top of the first incision, passed behind the bone, brought out at the wound on the other side, and directed so as to make a pos- terior flap in the direction of the dotted line. Each of the flaps should be, in length, rather more than the semi-diameter of the limb at the point operated upon, and the posterior rather longer than the anterior to allow for the greater retraction of the hamstring muscles. Four inches is about the proper average length of the flaps from base to apex. Both flaps are now drawn back; the knife is swept round the bone to divide any remaining muscular fibres, and the bone is sawn through. In performing this operation Mr. Wood prefers to make the flaps oblique;—i. e. midway between the antero-posterior and lateral flaps, the/ro?^^ one being also a little external, and longer than the hinder flap. This secures a better drainage for the discharge, and insures that * This cut represents the surgeon as standing on the inner side; it is, how- ever, more convenient on the whole that he should stand on the outer side. The knife should be carried along close to the bone for an inch or more before it is made to cut the flap. Mr. Haynes Walton says that it is better to make the lower flap first, since thus, the integuments being relaxed, it is easier to shape out the upper flap accurately.AMPUTATION AT THE HIP-JOINT. 776 the cicatrix is behind the end of the bone, and therefore less liable to be galled in ^vall^ing. In the same manner flaps may be made from the inner and outer sides of the limb, the surgeon first grasping the flesh, and transfixing it, and cutting a flap on one side of the bone, then passing the knife close to the bone on the other side (without again piercing the skin), and making another flap. 3. Teale^s Operation.—The surgeon is recommended to begin by marking out the flaps with ink. Taking the circumference of the limb at the point where the bone is to be sawn, half of this wall be the length and breadth of the flap. One line is to be traced on the inner side, as near as may be to the femoral vessels, without including them in the flap; a similar parallel line on the outer side, and a line of equal length joining their lower extremities. A transverse line may then be drawn to show the place of the short flap, which should be one fourth the length of the long one. " The operator begins," says Mr. Teale, " by making the two lateral incisions of the long flap through the integuments only. The transverse incision of this flap, supposing it to run along the upper edge of the patella, is made by a free sweep of the knife, through the skin and tendinous structures, down to the femur." But should the lower transverse line fall across the patella, the skin must be dissected off, and the cut be carried down to the fiemur, above its upper edge. " This flap is completed by cutting the fleshy structures from below upwards, close to the bone." The pos- terior short flap, containing the large vessels and nerves, is made by one sweep of the knife down to the bone ; the soft parts being after- wards separated from the bone close to the periosteum, as far upwards as the intended place of sawing. * This cut, copied from Mr. Teale's book, shows the flaps put together by sutures.AMPUTATION AT THE HIP-JOINT. ' 777 SECTION II.—AMPUTATION AT THE HIP-JOINT. This operation is requisite in cases in which the upper extremity of the thigh-bone is smashed, and in which the soft parts are so injured that it is of no use to attempt excision. " No man," says Mr. Guthrie," should suffer amputation at the hip-joint when the thigh- bone is entire. It should never be done in cases of injury when the bone can be sawn through immediately behind the trochanter major, and sufficient flaps can be preserved to close the wound thus made. An injury warranting this operation should extend to the neck or head of the bone, and it may be possible, as I have proposed, even then to avoid it by removing the broken parts." * It is generally by flaps ; either anterior and posterior, or lateral. The writer saw it performed in the year 1835 by Mr. Herbert Mayo at the Middlesex Hospital in the following manner ;— The femoral artery was first tied immediately below Poupart's liga- ment. This was the rule of that day, but was quite unnecessary. The artery should be compressed during the operation, and its cut orifice be tied immediately afterwards. The patient bemg in the recumbent posture at the edge of the table, and the limb held out horizontally, a long knife was thrust through the limb immediately on the inner side of the joint, and carried for- wards and inwards, and made to cut the inner flap from the adductor muscles. This flap should be immediately grasped by an assistant, who should compress the femoral artery. In the next place, Mr. Mayo cut into the hip-joint with a short strong curved knife, and severed the ligamentum teres and the muscles attached to the digital fossa. Lastly, putting in the long knife over the trochanter, he cut downwards and outwards to make the outer flap. This amputation, excluding the preliminary tying of the femoral artery, was most brilliantly accomplished in twenty-eight seconds; yet would scarcely in the present day be justified, since it was performed upon a young woman to get rid of neuralgia from a stump, which had undergone two previous amputations. Of the method by anterior and posterior flaps, as practised by Mr. Listen, a very good example is afforded by a case of Mr. Tatum's at St. George's Hospital in July, 1855. The thigh having been slightly bent and abducted, the knife was entered at the outside at the junction of the upper and middle thirds of a line drawn from the anterior superior spine of the ilium to the great trochanter. It was carried obliquely inwards and downwards immediately in front of the joint, and brought out about two inches below the tuberosity of the ischium. "Cutting my way out," says Mr. Tatum, " I made a large anterior flap, which was at once firmly grasped, so as to prevent the possibility * Guthrie, Commentaries, 6th edit., p. 63.778 AMPUTATION OF THE LEG. of hasmoiThage, and drawn upwards. The anterior part of the capsular ligament being laid bare was easily divided ; the head of the bone was then partially dislocated by rotating the limb outwards and extending it backwards; the ligamentura teres was at once cut through, and the dislocation of the thigh-bone completed. The knife was then carried through the joint and over the trochanter, and the posterior flap was made. In doing this I took care to have this flap somewhat small and thin, well knowing by experience that a large posterior flap tends by its weight to drag the cut surfaces apart in the progress of healing. As I completed the posterior flap, dry sponges were stuffed into the wound by assistants, and thus all hsemorrhage was at once stopped." Plenty of ligatures securing every bleeding vessel including the femoral vein; sutures and plasters, completed the operation. The patient, a lad of 16, left the hospital in a month. In this case, as in one operated on by Mr. C. G. Guthrie, the entire thigh-bone was removed in order to give the patient a greater chance of security from the return of cancer than would have been given by amputation through the affected bone. In any such case, the sui-geon probably will be able to plan his lines of incision as he pleases ; and the limb can be moved in any direction, to facilitate his proceedings.. Not so in cases in which there is extensive destruction of soft parts and smashing of the neck of the bone. Here the surgeon must be guided by the direction in which he can secure the best covering of skin.* SECTION III.—AMPUTATION AT THE KNEE-JOINT. This opei'ation may be substituted for amputation in the lower third of the thigh, in cases in which excision of the knee-joint is impracti- cable. 1. Byrne's operation.—A semicircular incision is made through skin and fascia over the patella; next, the knife is thrust horizontally across immediately behind the joint, and is made to cut a long flap from the calf of the leg; next, the anterior flap being lifted up, the extensor muscles are severed from the upper border of the patella ; the remain- ing soft parts are divided, and the femur sawn through the condyles, immediately above the joint. 2. If circumstances permit it, an anterior flap may be made includ- ing the patella, by a semicircular incision through the tissues in front of the joint, beneath the patella from the posterior part of one condyle of the femur to the other. Then the ligamentum patellae is cut through, the patella lifted with the anterior flap, the joint opened by cutting through the lateral and crucial ligaments; and lastly, a sufficiency of under flap cut from the calf. The interarticular cartilages should always be removed, and the surface of the patella, or femur, if diseased. The popliteal artery should not be wounded above the part at which it * For details of other modes of performing this operation, see Guthrie's Com- mentaries and South's Chelius, vol. ii.AMPUTATION OF THE LEG. 779 is severed. The patella should be brought down over the end of the femur. SECTION IV.—AMPUTATION OF THE LEG. 1. Double flap Amputation at the upper fourth of the leg.—This useful operation, practised by Mr. Syme and the late Mr. Liston, is performed a little below the knee-ioint, the bones being sawn about two inches below the tubercle of the tibia. It makes the most useful kind of stump for the labouring man, who is best accommodated with a stiff wooden or peg leg, since the pressure is borne by the callous skin and bone of the front part of the tibial tuberosity with the knee bent as in kneeling. The stump being short, does not project behind beyond the socket of the leg, and is much less in the way than a longer stump. The operation is performed in the following way. * This diagram represents the lines of incision in the double flap and oval amputations. t Oval amputation, before the stump is put together.AMPUTATION OF THE LEG. 780 A stout bistoury, with a blade four to five inches long, and a broad saw, are the only cutting instruments required. The flaps are made of integuments only by cutting from the surface without transfixion, the point of the knife is entered on the side about two inches below the tibial tubercle, and carried across the front of the leg, describing a curved flap rather longer than the half diameter of the limb, and of the exact width of the semi-diameter. The flap is then dissected up close to the bones and deep fascia. A flap exactly similar is then made on the posterior aspect (see diagram), and the integu- ments composing it are raised^from the muscles. The latter, with the large vessels and nerves, are then divided transversely, direct to the bones. The bones are then equally sawn across. Mr. Syme usually commences by laying on the saw obliquely downwards to cut off the projecting corner of the tibia, and then reapplies it in a direct position. Mr. Liston occasionally excised the head of the fibula altogether at the same time; but this was found to open the knee-joint. 2. Oval Amputation through the calf.—An oval incision is made in the direction shown in the cut, through skin and fat; these are thoroughly drawn back; the incision is carried upwards obliquely through the gastrocnemius to the bones, so as to make a posterior flap; this being well pulled up, the remaining soft parts around and between the bones are divided ; lastly, the bones are sawn through. The inte- guments are brought together in a transverse line. The objection to this method is, that from retraction of the muscles in the posterior flap, the front edge of the cut tibia may be left bar-e, and become necrosed, or give rise to a tender stump. 3. The single flap operation is performed by Mr. Fergusson in an ele- gant and expeditious manner, thus:—He first places the heel of the knife on the side of the limb farthest from him, and di-aws it across the front of the limb, cutting a semilunar flap of skin ; when its point has arrived at the opposite side, it is at oirce made to transfix the limb: * Single flap amputation; tire limb transfixed.781 AMPUTATION OF THE LEG. * Teale's amputation of leg. this stage of the operation is represented in the figure below ; and then the posterior flap is cut. The surgeon must take care not to get his knife between the two bones. When the operation is performed high up, the popliteal artery will be divided instead of the two tibials. The tibia, however, should never be sawn higher than the tuberosity, or the joint will be laid open. The fleshy mass of the gastrocnemius may require to be cut out, to make the flap thinner. If low down, the tendo Achillis will require to be shortened after the flap is made. The flap is to be brought forwards, and confined by a stitch or two, the line of junction being horizontal. 4. Circular Method.—The artery being under command, as in amputations of the thigh, and the leg being placed horizontally, one assistant supporting it at the ankle, and another holding it at the knee and drawing up the skin, the surgeon makes a circular incision through the skin, four inches below the tuberosity of the tibia. The integuments are next to be dissected up for two inches, and turned back; and the muscles are to be divided down to the bone by a second circular in- cision. Then a long slender double-edged knife, called a cathne, is passed between the bones to divide the interosseous ligament and muscles, and both bones are sawn through together, the flesh being protected by a retractor, which should have three tails. The spine of the tibia, if it projects much, may be removed with a fine saw or bone nippers, and care should be taken not to leave the fibula longer than the tibia, or it will give much trouble. The anterior and posterior tibial and peronaeal arteries, and any others requiring it, being tied, the stump is to be treated as directed after amputation of the thigh. The integuments should be put together transversely. 5. Teak's Operation.—The length and breadth of the anterior flap are to be determined and marked out as before described, p. 776. The two lateral incisions are first made through the skin; and the transverse one down to the bone ; then the long flap is dissected up, and with it, all the tissues in front of the bones and iirterosseous membrane ; includ-AMPUTATION OF THE ARM. 782 * Teale's amputation of leg. ing the anterior tibial vessels, which are divided once only. The short posterior flap is then made by one cut down to the bones, and is to be dissected clean from the bones and interosseous membrane up to the point of sawing. The cuts are reduced from Mr. Teale's book. SECTION V.—AMPUTATION OF THE APtM. In amputations of the upper extremity, the flow of blood may be suf- ficiently commanded by compressing the artery above the clavicle, or in the arm. If it is thought proper, however, the tourniquet may be applied so as to compress the artery against the humerus.783 AMPUTATION AT THE SHOULDER. 1. Circular.—The arm being held out, and an assistant drawing up the skin, one circular incision is made through the integuments, which being forcibly retracted and detached from the deeper structures by a few touches of the point of the knife, and doubled back to the extent of an inch and three quarters, or more, according to the thickness of the arm, another is made down to the bone. These incisions should be made with slight divergences, so as to cut the skin and muscles rather longer in front and behind than at the sides. The subsequent steps are precisely similar to those in amputating the thigh. 2. Flaps.—The knife is entered at one side, carried down to the bone, turned over it, brought out at a point opposite (the vessels being left behind for the second flap), and then made to cut a neat rounded anterior flap two or three inches long. It is next carried behind the bone to make a posterior one of equal length; and is lastly swept round the bone, to divide any remaining fibres. The division of the bone, ligature of the arteries, and treatment of the stump as before. 3. It is occasionally advisable, in order to get as long a stump as possible, to amputate the upper arm with one long flap only, taken from the uninjured or healthy side. The method of doing this will vary with the case to be operated on, and may be left to the judgment of the surgeon. SECTION VI.—AMPUTATION AT THE SHOULDER. This may be performed in a great many ways. The most useful and the most usually employed are, 1. The patient being seated in a chair and well supported, or, which is better, being placed on a firm table, with the arm well raised, and projecting beyond its edge, and the subclavian artery being compressed, the surgeon enters a long, narrow, straight knife at the anterior margin of the deltoid muscle, an inch below the acromion. From this point he thrusts it through the muscle, across the outside of the joint, and brings out the knife at the posterior margin of the axilla. If the left side is operated on, the knife must be entered at the posterior margin of the axilla, and be brought out at the anterior margin of the deltoid muscle. Then, by cutting downwards and outwards, the external flap is made. The arm is then brought down to the side and forcibly adducted, the origins of the biceps and triceps, and insertions of the infra and supra spinatus are next cut through, and the joint is laid open. Finally, the blade of the knife being passed through the joint and placed on the inner side of the head of the bone, must be made to cut the inner flap. 2. The covering for the exposed part of the scapula in the preceding operation was obtained from the deltoid. But it may also be obtained from the muscles in front or behind, supposing the deltoid to be impli- cated in the disease or injury which demands the operation. One elUptical incision may be carried from beneath the middle of the acro- mion behind to the posterior border of the axilla, and another in front to the anterior border cutting through the deltoid down to the bone.AMPUTATION OF THE FORE-ARM. 784 These flaps being dissected up, the capsule of the joint may be opened, the head of the bone turned out of the socket, and the remaining soft parts be divided; or the bone may be sawn through just beneath its neck. An assistant should be directed to grasp the flap which con- tains the axillary artery just before it is divided, because the pressure above the clavicle is generally not sufficient to stop the circulation entirely. SECTION VII.—AMPUTATION AT THE ELBOW. This is performed by passing the knife through the muscles in front of the joint, and cutting upwards and forwai-ds, so as to make a flap from the fore-arm. Then the operator makes a transverse incision be- hind the joint. He next cuts through the external lateral ligament, and enters the joint between the head of the radius and external condyle, then divides the internal lateral ligament, and, lastly, saws through the olecranon^ the apex of which, attached to the triceps, may be left in the stump, or may be afterwards dissected out. SECTION VIII.—AMPUTATION OF THE FORE-ARM. This operation should always be performed as near the wrist as pos- sible. 1. Circular.—The limb being supported with the thumb uppermost, and an assistant drawing up the skm, a circular incision is made through it down to the fascia. When the integuments, assisted by a few touches of the knife, have been retracted as much as possible, and folded back all round for about an inch, the muscles are divided by aAMPUTATION AT THE WRIST. 785 second circular incision; the interosseous parts and the remaining fibres ai'e next cut through with a cathne; the flesh and the bones are then to be sawn througli togethei', the saw being worked perpendicularly. The radial, ulnar, and one or two interosseous arteries require ligatures. 2. Flaps.—The limb being placed in a state of pronation, the sur- geon makes a flap from the extensor side, just as is represented in the cut (p. 784) ; and he then transtixes the flexor side, and makes the other flap; taking care not to pass the knife between the bones whilst performing either transfixion. The interosseous parts are next divided, the flesh drawn upwards, and the bones sawn through. If the tendons project they must be shortened. Another way of performing the double flap operation at this point is to place the hand in a supine position and to cut the front flap first. Teale's operation is performed, mutatis mutandis, like that of the leg; and that of the upper arm like the thigh. SECTION IX.—AMPUTATION AT THE WRIST. 1. Circular.—The skin being pulled back, a circular incision is made a little below the level of the line that separates the fore-arm from the palm of the hand. Some little dissection will then be required to turn back the integuments as far as the line of the radio-carpal joint. The external lateral ligament is then cut through, and the knife carried across the joint, to divide the remaining attachments. Finally, the styloid processes of the radius and ulna had better be removed with the cutting forceps, and the integuments brought together with sutures. 2. Flaps.—A semilunar incision is made across the back of the wrist, its extremities being at the styloid processes, and its centre reach- ing down as far as the second row of carpal bones. This flap being dissected up, the joint is opened behind, the lateral ligaments are cut D 3 EAMPUTATIONS OF THE HAND. 786 through, and the knife, being placed between the carpus and bones of the fore-arm, is made to cut out a flap from the anterior surface of the palm, as represented in the figure (p. 785). The tendons must be short- ened, the styloid processes removed, and the skin brought together by sutures. The radial and ulnar, and sometimes an abnormal median artery, will require ligature after this operation. SECTION X.—AMPUTATIONS OF THE HAND. I. Amputation of the fingers or thumb at their last joint may be performed thus:—The surgeon holds the phalanx firmly between his finger and thumb, and bends it, so as to give prominence to the head of the middie phalanx. He then makes a straight incision across the head of the middle phalanx, so as to cut into the joint, and takes care to carry it deeply enough at the sides to divide the lateral ligaments. The joint being thoroughly opened, the bistoury is carried through it, and made to cut a flap from the palmar surface of the last phalanx, sufficient to cover the head of the bone; and it is better to leave too much than too little. If, however, the joint cannot be bent, this operation may be per- formed thus :—The surgeon holding the phalanx firmly, with its palmar surface upwards, first passes his knife horizontally across the front of the joint, the flat surface towards it, and cuts out the anterior flap; then divides the lateral ligaments and the remaining attachments with one sweep of the knife. II. Amputation at the second joint of the finger or thumb may be performed in the same manner. III. It is always expedient to save as much as possible of the fingers787 AMPUTATIONS OF THE HAND. and thumb; consequently, in cases admitting of it, flaps may be made from the soft parts wherever practicable, and then the bone cut with forceps, Teale's plan of making a flap from the dorsal surfece has been adopted by Mr. S. Hey, with great advantage. Jn many cases a circular operation will preserve a longer stump than a flap. IV. Amputation op a finger at the metacarpal joint may be effected thus:—The surgeon should make out accurately the situa- tion of the joint between the head of the metacarpal bone or knuckle and the base of the first phalanx. If he looks for the transverse lines on the palmar aspect, that mark the flexure of the joint and divide the finger from the palm, he may calculate that the metacarpo-phalangeal joint, at which he is to amputate, is about half an inch nearer to the wrist than this line is. Tlien he may begin by making a semilunar incision on one side of the prominence of the knuckle, a quarter of an inch beyond the joint, and should carry it round in front of the joint to the web on the other side, thus encircling two-thirds of the joint. The finger should now be drawn to the other side, the extensor tendon cut through, and the point of the bistoury passed into the joint, and made to divide its ligaments. This will allow the head of the bone to be turned out, so that the bistoury being placed behind it may cut through the remaining attachments and make another flap. This operation may also be performed by making an incision on one side of the joint (as in the method just described), and then bringing it across the palmar surface, and round the other side, to terminate where it began. The tendons and ligaments are now to be divided, and the head of the bone turned out. The digital arteries must be tied, and after bleeding has ceased, the wound may be closed by confining the adjoin- ing fingers together. In patients for whom it is desirable to save the hand from much evident deformity, the head of the metacarpal bone should be cut off with the bone forceps, either instead of cutting through the joint or after this has been done. This enables the other fingers to be brought closer together after the amputation, so that the loss of the digit is less observable. Since, however, some of the strength of the hand is thereby sacrificed, this should not be done on the hand of a labouring man. Mr. Wood performs this operation by making two separate deep cuts with the bistoury on each side of the joint, meeting each other at each end, from the palmar to the dorsal aspect, and then severing the tendons and bone or joint. V. Amputation of the metacarpal bone of the thumb may be performed thus:—The thumb being held out, a bistoury is in- serted near the metacarpo-phalangeal joint, its point is thrust between the bone and the muscles of the ball of the thumb, and as close to the bone as possible, and brought out just above the articulation with the trapezium. This step is shown in Fig. 1. Secondly, the bis- toury is made to cut its way outwards. Thirdly, an incision, begin- ning at the upper extremity of the last, is carried along the bone, and round and behind the metacarpo-phalangeal joint to meet the other in- cision at its commencement (see Fig. 2). Fourthly, the bistouryAMPUTATIONS OF THE HAND. 788 should be passed along the metacarpal bone to clear it from its re- maining attachments; and lastly, the bone should either be cut 1. through, or disarticulated. If the latter pioceeding is necessary, the bone must be forcibly abducted, and the ligaments on the inner side of the metacarpo-trapezial joint be cut through first. 2. When the metacarpal bone of the thumb alone is diseased, it should, Mr. Fergusson advises, be extirpated alone, and its phalanges should be preserved. The bone should be exposed by means of an incision along its radial margin ; then its articulation with the phalanges should be divided; and lastly, it may be turned out and separated from the tra-789 AMPUTATIONS OF THE FOOT. pezium; taking care not to wound the radial artery where it passes between the first and second metacarpal bones. VI. Amputation at the head of a metacarpal hone is effected by making an incision on each side of it (as in amputation of the fingers at the joint, but extending rather higher up), and then cutting through the bone with the cutting-forceps. Mr, Fei'gusson recommends the head of the metacarpal bone to be removed in almost every in- stance where the entire finger is abstracted, because the de- formity is much less. But the part need not be removed high enough up to divide the trans- verse ligament. Care must be taken during the cure to keep the fingers parallel, and prevent them from crossing at their tips. VII. Amputation of the metacarpal bone of the little FINGER is performed thus:—An incision is made along the ulnar bor- der of the dorsum of the bone, and is carried round the root of the little finger. The skin and flesh are dissected off, as closely as possible, and the bone divided or disarticulated. (See amputation of the meta- tarsal bone of the left toe.) If a part or the whole of the shaft of one or any of the metacarpal bones is to be removed also, an incision should be made along its dor- sum, to the point where the two former ones meet; and then the flesh being dissected away on either side, the bone may be cut through or disarticulated according to circumstances. In dividing the metacarpal bone in these amputations the forceps should have their handles in- clined backwards, so as to slope the cut surface of the bone obliquely, and prevent a prominent angle above. section XI.—AMf^UTATIONS OF THE FOOT. I, Amputation of the toes at any of their joints is performed in precisely the same manner as amputation of the fingers, in remov- ing a single toe from its metatarsal bone, the surgeon should take care first of all to ascertain the exact situation of the joint, which lies rather deeply. Moreover, he should not lemove the head of a metatarsal bone, if possible to avoid it, because it is important to preserve the entire breadth of the foot.* * Mr. Haynes AValton has favoured the writer with a vahiable note to the effect, that it is desirable to explore the real seat and amount of disease aboutAMPUTATIONS OF THE FOOT. 790 II. Amputation op all the toes at their metatarsal JOINTS—an operation which may be requisite in cases of frost-bite— is performed by first making a transverse incision along the dorsal aspect of the metatarsal bones, dividing the tendons and lateral liga- ments of each joint in succession ; and then, the phalanges being dislo- cated upwards, the knife is placed beneath their metatarsal extremities, and made to cut out a flap from the skin on the plantar surface, sufficient to cover the heads of the metatarsal bones. III. Amputation op the metatarsal bone of the great TOE is performed precisely like the operation for the removal of the metacarpal bone of the little finger. An incision down to the bone with a scalpel, is carried along its dorsum and round the root of the great toe, as shown in Fig. 1, Secondly, the knife, which must be kept as close to the bone as possible, is made to dissect it out from the sur- rounding parts ; thirdly, the bone is cut through with forceps, a part of the operation shown in Fig. 2. Vessels are to be tied, and the wound the tarsus, before performing amputation. For example, he had a case in which the head of the metatarsal bone of the great toe was suspected to be carious, and was condemned to be cut out; a serious operation, inasmuch as it takes away one of the three supports of the arch of the foot. But a free incision revealed disease in the fi.vst jjhalanx only. This was removed, and the patient recovered with the slightest possible limp.AMPUTATIONS OF THE FOOT. 791 brought together as shown in Fig. 3. It must be borne in mind that, in dividing the metatarsal bones of the great or little toes, or the me- 1. 3. tacarpal bones of the fore or little finger, care should be taken not to leave any prominent angle. IV. Amputation of all the metatarsal bones {Hey's ope- ration) is performed in the following manner:—^The exact situation ofAMPUTATIONS OF THE FOOT. 792 the articulation of the great toe to the inner cuneiform bone (to which the tendon of the tibialis anticus may serve as a guide) being ascer- tained, a semilunar incision, with the convexity forwards, is made down to the bone, across the instep, from a point just in front of the aforesaid articulation, to the outside of the tuberosity of the fifth metatarsal bone. The flap of skin thus formed being turned back, the bistoury is first to be passed straight across the tendons and vessels so as to cut them a little shorter than the integuments, then to be passed round behind the projection of the fifth metatarsal bone, so as to divide the external ligaments which connect it with the cuboid. The dorsal ligaments are next to be cut through, and then the remaining ones, the bones being depressed. The fourth and third metatarsal bones are to be disarticu- lated in a similar manner, dividing their ligaments with the point of the knife, and taking care not to let the instrument become locked be- tween the bones. The first metatarsal is next to be attacked, and lastly, the second, the extremity of which, being locked in between the three cuneiform, will be more difficult to dislodge. Perhaps it may be convenient to saw it across. When all the five bones are detached, the surgeon completes the division of their plantar ligaments, and slightly separates the textures which adhere to their under surface with the point of the knife, and then, the foot being placed horizontally, he puts the blade under the five bones, and carries it forwards along their \ inferior surface as far as the root of the toes, so as to form a flap from the sole of the foot sufficient to cover the denuded tarsal bones. V. Amputation through the tarsus, so as to remove the navicular and cuboid bones, with all the parts in front of them, is com- monly called Choparfs operation. In the first place, the articulation of the cuboid with the OS calcis (which lies about midway be- tween the external malleolus and the tuber- osity of the fifth metatarsal bone), and that of the navicular with the astragalus (which will be found just behind the prominence of the navicular bone in front of the inner ankle), must be sought for; and a semilunar incision be made from one to the other, as in the last-described operation. The flap of the skin being turned back, the internal and dorsal ligaments that connect the navicular to the astragalus, are to be divided with the point of the bistoury, recollecting the convex shape of the head of the latter bone. The liga- ments connecting the os calcis and cuboid are next divided, and, lastly, a flap is to be pro- cured from the sole of the foot. It may be expedient, after this opera- tion, to divide the tendo Achillis if the heel is drawn backwards.AMPUTATION AT THE ANKLE-JOINT. 793 In these amputations the dorsal artery of the foot, and the external plantar or digital branches usually require ligature. SECTION XII.—AMPUTATION AT THE ANKLE-JOINT. I. Syme's amputation.—The essence of this operation consists in the removal of the entire foot, and in preserving the integument of the heel as the most natural pad for the stump to rest upon. The incisions employed are different in the hands of various sui-geons. But that generally adopted is represented in the cut {Vig. 1). The knife is carried round down to the bone. The ankle-joint is laid open in front, and its * Syme's amputation. No. 1. The incision. No. 2. The flap after removal of the OS calcis.AMPUTATION AT THE ANKLE-JOINT. 794 lateral ligaments divided. The os calcis is then dissected out, in which process, which is not easy, the knife should be kept close to the bone, so as not to wound the plantar artei'ies if possible. The malleoli are cut 2. off smoothly, and if there is any disease of the ankle-joint, a thin layer of the end of the tibia should be removed; the posterior flap is then brought forward and retained by suture. The skin of the heel is rather Jiable to slough, and hence many surgeons make the incision more oblique, so as to preserve more skin from the dorsum of the foot, and less from the sole. II. PiRiGOFFS AMPUTATION is theoretically more perfect than Syme's, inasmuch as it is easier to perform, leaving a longer stump, better adapted to bear pressure; and does not disturb the tendo Achillis, nor, generally speaking, cause so much injury—nor is there the hollow flap. Instead of dissecting out the entire os calcis, this sur- geon removes the anterior part of the bone, which supports the astra- galus, and leaves the heel process, which forms a rounded, callous, and natural termination to the stump, and fits better into the heel of a shoe for the support of the body. M. Pivigoff began his first incision* close in front of the outer mal- leolus, and carried it straight down to, and transversely across the sole of the foot, then obliquely upwards and forwards to the front of the inner malleolus. It divides everything down to the bone; and the inci- sion is brought obliquely forwards on the inner side, in order not to cut the posterior tibial aitery before its division into its plantar * See a very good account of this operation by Mr. Spencer Wells, Med. Times, 20th March, 1858.795 STUMPS. branches. The ends of this incision are connected by a second semi- lunar one across it into the ankle-joint, which is to be held with the foot extended. When the front of the joint is thus laid open, the late- ral ligaments are divided ; and then the posterior part of the capsule. Now with a narrow saw (such as Butcher's, p. 771) the os calcis is sawn through, from behind forwards and downwards. Then the mal- leoli are separated from the anterior flap, and sawn off, and a thin slice of the tibia if diseased. Lastly, the cut surface of the os calcis is brought into contact with the tibia; and the wound united with sutures. A very handy method of doing this operation is described by Pirrie, of Aberdeen. After the transverse cut across the heel, the saw is at once applied, and the os calcis divided from below upwards and backwards. The anterior cross-cut is then made a little above the ankle-joint, and the malleoli sawn off without opening the joint. The two cuts are then connected at their posterior corner by dividing the tendinous and ligamentous structures behind the joint. A very neat stump may be thus made very expeditiously. SECTION XIII.—AFFECTIONS OF STUMPS. I. It sometimes happens that the flesh shrinks away from the end of the bone, which becomes white and dry, and finally exfoliates. The nitric acid lotion is the best application. II. Protrusion of the bone is a very awkward circumstance. It not only greatly retards the healing of the stump, but produces a cica- trix which is thin, red, constantly liable to ulcerate, and unable to bear the least pressure or friction. The cause of the conical stump, as it is technically called, is generally a want of skin and muscle sufficient to cover the end of the bone. Sometimes, however, it arises from spas- naodic retraction of the muscles, especially if they have not been properly supported by bandages during the cure. The remedy is simple; the bone must be shortened. This may be done in slight cases by making a longitudinal incision over the bone on the side opposite the vessels, and sawing off a sufficient portion of it, removing, at the same time, any diseased portion of the cicatrix. But if the projection is considerable the entire end of the stump must be amputated. III. Neuralgia of the stump is another very untoward event. It sometimes arises because the truncated extremities of the nerves (which after amputation always swell and become bulbous) adhere to the cica- trix, so as to be subject to constant compression and tension. Some- times, however, it is entirely independent of any morbid state of the extremities of the nerves, but arises from some irritation in their course, or from some irritation, centric or excentric, of the spinal cord. Some- times, again, no local cause whatever is detectable ; and the pain is evidently connected with an hysterical state of the system. In any case the symptoms are extreme irritability and tenderness, paroxysms of violent neuralgic pain, and spasms and twitchings of the muscles,EXCISION OF JOINTS. 796 which not unfrequently retract, and cause the bone to protrude, and the stump to become conical. Treatment.—1. Painting with tincture of aconite, or Scott's oint- ment, F. IGO, spread on lint, and worn as a plaster ; or the emplastrum saponis or plumbi, combined with a little belladonna or opium ; tonics and aperients, together with change of air, sometimes suffice to re- move the extreme sensitiveness of these as well as of other irregular cicatrices, 2. If the pain and tenderness are referred to one or two nerves only, their bulbous extremities should be cut down upon and removed. 3. If, however, the whole surface of the stump Is impli- cated, or if the stump is conical, a second amputation may be re- sorted to. CHAPTER VI. EXCISION OF BONES AND JOINTS. I. Excision of Bones.—We have already stated that bone when dead must be removed by operation, because nature seems not only to have provided no means of absorption, but the process of repair enve- lops the dead portion in a sheath of new bone that renders mechanical extrusion most improbable. We also intimated that bone when infil- trated with unhealthy lymph, and softened or carious, has but slow power of recovery, and that extirpation of the diseased part is ad- visable. Bone may also be invaded by cancer or other tumours, which render removal necessary. Accordingly there are very few bones in the extremities which have not been removed wholly or in part, and many in the trunk and head. Operations for this end are usually exceedingly difficult and laborious, and are anything but attractive to the lookers on. When the existence of a tumour, or of diseased or dead bone is ascertained, and its extent explored by probes, if there are sinuses which admit of it, a sufficient incision is made through the thickened parts ; and it must be made where the bone is nearest the surface, and where important vessels and nerves are not in the way. Then if there is a shell of new bone it must be bored with trephines, or cut with forceps, or chisel, or gouge; and when the diseased part is exposed, it must be removed as it best may. In cutting it out from any adherent tissues, the knife must be kept close to it. Of the removal of portions of the cramum, and of the upper and lower jaw, we have already spoken. The clavicle has been extirpated by Mr. Travers for a tumour; by Mr. Davie because it pressed on the trachea. (See pp. 248, 311.) The scapula was extirpated by Mr. W. Fergusson from a patient who had previously suffered amputation at the shoulder-joint, and by Mr, Jones, of Jersey, for caries, leaving the .arm still connected with the body, and forming a useful limb ; it has797 EXCISION OF JOINTS. also been extirpated by Mr. Syme for tumours. It is laid bare by a |— incision: the acromion sawn through, the levator anguli, trapezius, and serratus divided, the mass lifted, the neck of the bone sawn, and the deltoid and remaining muscles divided. The sternum is occasionally perforated, and removed piecemeal. The ribs when carious present no difficulty. The pleura is usually thickened, except in the case of tumours. Portions of the ossa innominata have been taken away. The coccyx may require to be cut out for disease, or for neuralgia; and for the latter malady it is sometimes necessary to make a subcuta- neous incision, so as to isolate the bone from all the surrounding tis- sues. Portions of each of the long bones are removed from time to time. Mr. Jones has removed the entire ulna ; the whole or greater portion of the fibula and radius, and considerable portions of the femur and tibia have also been taken away, in cases in which otherwise ampu- tation would have been the only resource. II. In like manner, in cases in which joints are hopelessly diseased, modern surgeons have substituted the cutting out the portions of diseased bone, for the cutting off the whole limb; and the results have been encouraging. It seems to be established, that excision is, on the whole, safer than amputation ; less violence is done to the body, fewer great arteries and nerves are injured, and fewer large veins are divided. Lastly, the patient is left with an imperfect limb, it is true, but with one, which, in most cases, is highly useful. What we say of excision for disease, applies with double force to excision for injury.* III. The elbow joint is one, the excision of which has been now for some years an established rule. The opei-ation is performed thus. The patient is on his back chloroformed, and the arm held out in a prone posture by two assistants, one of whom holds the upper arm, the other the fore-arm. An incision through skin and subjacent textures is then made on the ulnar side of the dorsum of the joint; its centre about the level of the olecranon ; its length from two to four inches ; and it should be so planned as not to go into the groove where the ulnar nerve lies. A second incision, parallel to this, is made on the radial side, and a third transversely, severing the triceps from the olecranon. The ulnar nerve is gently drawn inwards and protected, the lateral ligaments severed, the elbow forcibly bent, so as to turn out the ends of the bones. The olecranon may now be cut off with forceps, and then it will be seen clearly what other portions of bone * A grenadier before Sebastopol received a wound in the popliteal space. All that was to be seen was a small orifice with inverted edges. On introducing the finger, the direction of the wound was found to be immediately forwards; pain was felt in the inner side of the head of the tibia, the joint was half bent, and could scarcely be moved. Hence it was presumed that the ball had lodged in the joint. On the third day amputation was performed. The ball was found impacted in the semilunar cartilage over the inner head of the tibia. On the third day after the amputation, secondary haemorrhage from the femoral artery came on, and the patient quickly died. Dr. M'Cowan, who reports the case, says, very justly, that if excision had been performed as he himself had intended, at all events the immediate cause of the patient's death would have been avoided.—l/eciicai Times, and Gaz., March 1, 1856.798 EXCISION OF THE ELBOW-JOINT. are denuded, softened, or necrosed, and they may be cut off with forceps or saw. Mr. Fergusson's Lion Forceps, p. 483, will be of great service in steadying the extremity of ,^ bone which is being removed. As much I as is necessary, and no more, of the bra- chialis must be cleared from the coronoid process. The lower end of the humerus is next dealt with ; if it requires to be cleai-ed from the soft parts in front, the knife must be kept close to the bone ; then as much as necessary, and no more, may be cut off. Arteries are now to be tied, and so soon as bleeding has ceased, the wound is to be brought together by su- tures, and the arm laid in a half-bent pos- ture, either on an angular splint, well padded and covered with oiled silk, to which it is to be properly secured by bandages; or Mr, Butcher's box, with moveable sides, may be used ; or Mr. Christopher Heath's splint, which secui-es, in the greatest per- fection, the advantages of entire rest; the power of keeping the limb of any desired length, by means of the screws; the power of bending it to any angle by means of the central hinge; and the convenience of dressing the wound without disturbance. The cut explains itself.* When the reparative stage has fairly set in, the joint should be moved from time to time to insure the formation of a flexible uniting medium or false joint. There are many varieties in the plan of the incisions and the after steps of the operation which will readily suggest themselves. For in- stance, the incision may be a perpendicular one six inches or so in length—which is theoretically the best—or may be like X or j—, or * See Mr. Heath's paper, Lancet, 28tli Nov., 1857.EXCISION OF THE WEIST-JOINT. 799 a simple curved flap from side to side; or beginning with a single | the surgeon may enlarge it to \— or H as he sees occasion. Gouge forceps rnay be of service in these and other like operations. IV, The shoulder-joint may be exposed by making a perpen- dicular incision through the deltoid, three or four inches downwards from the acromion ; and another from the extremity of the first incision npwai-ds and backwards to the posterior border of the deltoid. The triangular flap, thus formed, is reflected upwards and backwards; the joint is laid open ; the capsular tendons divided; the head of the humerus turned out and sawn off; and the glenoid cavity of the scapula, if diseased, may be removed by the bone-nippers or gouge. But as this operation is most frequently required in cases of gun-shot wound, the surgeon may vary his incisions, according to the extent and situation of the wound; and may make them of a V or T shape, or may make a simple curved flap, by cutting from near the coracoid process to an inch behind and below the root of the acromion. V. Excision of the wrist-joint.—This is an excision which has always been considered one of the least promising, because of the excessive complexity of the joints surrounding the diseased bones. Yet the surgeon will always do wisely to make every effort to preserve any part of the hand; for the removal of diseased parts cannot make the patient's case much worse, and there is always amputation as a last resource. The incisions and other steps of the operation must be various in almost every case, according to the place and extent of the disease, whether, for example, the ends of the radius and ulna, or the carpal bones only are diseased: no precise rules, therefore, can be laid down. But the general principles should be those which guided Mr. Butcher of Dublin, during that operation on the carpus Avhich is deservedly called by his name.* In this case the wrist-joint was excessively swollen, with numerous discharging sinuses around; the radio-carpal articulation grated on motion; a probe introduced into almost any sinus came into contact with roughened, crumbling, and broken-down bone; but the metacarpal bones and phalanges, the flexors of the fingers, and all the powers of the thumb were unimpaired. Having determined on operating, the first step was to make a curved incision, beginning a little below the wrist, two lines on the ulnar side of the extensor secundi internodii poUicis tendon, going down close to the carpal exti-emity of the metacarpal bones, and then sweeping upwards so as to finish below the end of the ulna fully half an inch higher than the point where it began, " The flap thus marked out," says Mr. Butcher, " was rapidly dissected up, and consisted of the integu- ments, areolar tissue, and extensor tendons of the four fingers, together with large deposits of fibrine." By the elevation of these soft parts * On Excision of the Elbow and Wrist-Joints, and the Preservative Surgery of the Hand, by Richard G. H. Butcher, Esq., Surgeon to Mercer's Hospital, &c., Dublm, 1855, Also Eeports in Operative Surgery, 3rd Series, Dublin Quarterly Journ., Med, Sc., Feb., 1859,800 EXCISION OF THE HIP-JOINT. en masse the diseased bones were at oiice brought into view. In the next place, the soft parts were cautiously separated from the ends of the ulna and radius, including the second extensor tendon of the thumb, which was detached from its groove in the radius. Then the few ligamentous shreds which bound the diseased bones together were severed ; their carious ends were made to project by bending down the hand ; the soft parts in front were sufficiently detached by a few cautious touches with the knife, which was kept close to the bones so as not to injure the radial or ulnar artery ; after this the ends of the bones were easily removed by Mr. Butcher's saw. Then the diseased carpal bones were dissected out, except the trapezium, which was sound; some of the thickened soft parts were cut away, the flaps laid down and secured, and the hand and arm put upon a padded splint in the prone position. The advantage of Mr. Batcher's mode of operating is, that it leaves the extensor muscles of the thumb intact; so that although the fingers will be of necessity stifiened in a bent position, yet with the aid of the thumb they will be available for writing and many other purposes. In a recent paper he gives a specimen of the writing executed by a sightly and useful hand, which would formerly have been ampu- tated. Other modes of operating, consist of longitudinal incisions on one or both sides of the wrist-joint; or of incisions on the dorsal and palmar aspects so planned as to go between the tendons without di- viding them. No two cases are exactly alike. But the principles which should guide the surgeon are to take away nothing that can safely be left, and to leave the soft parts of thumb or finger, even if obliged to cut out joints or portions of bones. It is useful also to bear in mind the fact which Mr. Butcher has pointed out, of the inde- pendence of the muscles of the thumb from those of the fingers, so that either set may be hopelessly injured by disease, leaving the other almost unaffected. VI. Excision of the hip-joint.— We have spoken in a former page of the removal of the carious head of the thigh-bone after it has become dislocated by disease, and of more or less of the diseased acetabulum with it. Now for a few words on the much more formi- dable operation which has been performed in cases of injury. When the head or neck of the femur has been broken by a musket ball, the patient may be seen, says Mr. Guthrie, lying in bed, with a small hole in front or at the back of the thigh, with no bleeding, and no pain, and nothing but inability to move the limb and to stand upon it; and yet this man will die inevitably after a few weeks of pain and suffering, unless his thigh be amputated at the hip, or unless the splin- tered bones be cut out. Mr. Guthrie, in the Addenda to his Commentaries, tells us that this operation was performed at least six times before Sebastopol, in 1855, and although not one of the patients survived, yet there were plenty of causes besides the operation to account for their death. Mr. Blen-801 EXCISION OF THE KNEE-JOINT. kins, Mr. O'Leaiy, Mr. Crerar, Dr. Hyde, and Dr. MacAndrew were the operators. The surgeon may, according to circumstances, make a long, straight incision down the outer side of the limb, beginning a little below the anterior superior spine of the ilium, and going down over the tro- chanter. If room is not obtained by that incision, it may be enlarged by a transverse cut backwards either fioin the upper or lower end. The attachments of muscles having been severed from the trochanter, the bone is turned out of the wound by raising it at the knee, the shattei'ed parts are sawn off, and the neck and head of the bone, if necessary, dissected out of the acetabulum. Or, the incision, as re- commended by Mr. Guthrie, may be in the shape of a semilunar flap, beginning just over the inner edge of the tensor vagina femoris muscle, and curving downwards and outwards, so as to cross the bone at least an inch below the ti ochanter, whence it should turn upwards to the extent of about three inches. This flap, including skin, fascia lata, tensor vaginae femoris, and part of the glutasus maximus, should be turned up, the muscles attached to the injured parts be divided, and the remaining steps of the operation be as before. The experience of the American war is adverse to amputations for gunshot fracture, and very little more favourable to excision. Dr. Chisholm says he knows of two successful cases,* VII. Excision of the knee-joint was first performed in 1762 by Mr. Filken, of Northwich, in Cheshire ; it was subsequently performed twice by Mr. Park of Livei pool, twice by Sir Philip Crampton, and twice by Mr. Syme. One of Mr. Park's cases was eminently suc- cessful, so was one of Crampton's, Park's patient, who was a sailor, was able to go aloft and perform the usual duties of his calling. Altogether, there are records of 19 cases performed by British and continental sui'geons up to the year 1830. Of these 19 there were only about 8 recoveries; the remaining 11 died, but not all from the operation.! From 1830 to 1850 the operation was in abeyance, and almost universally condemned by teachers of surgery, until, in the latter year, it was revived by Mr. W. Fergusson. Next to Mr. Fergusson, the late Mr. Jones of Jersey, whose success in all departments of operative sur- gery were remarkable; Mr. Page of Carlisle; the late lamented Mac- kenzie of Edinburgh, who lost his life in the Crimea; Dr. Pritchard of Filey ; Mr. Evan Thomas of Manchester ; Dr. Cotton of Lynn ; Mr. Holt and Mr, Henry Smith, are entitled to the credit of having early performed this operation with success. Dr, Murray Humphry of Cam- bridge, and Mr. Butcher of Dublin, have also been frequent and suc- cessful operators. It is no disrespect to the living to add, that poor Price, had he been spared, might have excelled them all. The cases in which it ought to be performed are, generally speaking, * Manual of Military Surgery for the Use of Surgeons in the Con- federate States Army, Columbia, 1864. f Vide S. Cooper's Surgical Diet., art. Joints. D 3 F802 EXCISION OF THE KNEE-JOINT. such cases of injury or disease as would otherwise be submitted to amputation in order to save the patient's life, or enable him to en- joy ic. The object of the operation is to produce a firm and useful limb, slightly shortened, and with entire bony anchylosis, or fibrous union admitting of some small degree of motion at the situation of the joint. But all cases are not suitable for excision. And those cases are un- suitable, and better adapted for amputation, in which either the quan- tity of diseased bone requiring removal is very great—for then the case will probably not do well—or if it proceed to recovery, and the patient be young, the future growth of the limb may be prevented; or the quality of the disease may be such as experience has shown to be incompatible with the exudation of healthy material of repair. This last is a point which has been very clearly stated by Mr. Price.! If the "white sweUing" has begun with disease of the synovial membrane (see pp. 289, 298) or so-called ulceration of car- tilage, the diseased joint surfaces may be cut off, and the case * The above drawing represents a patient of Mr. Price's, a young woman set. 26, whose left knee was excised in October, 1856. The patella was retained; but was cut out after a year, because abscesses continued to form around it. " The hmb," says Mr. Price, August, 1859, " is most serviceable, and the girl in active employment." f Contributions to the Surgery of Diseased Joints, with especial reference to the Operation of Excision. No. 1. The Knee. By P. C. Price, Surgeon to the Great Northern Hospital, &c. &c., Lond., 1859.EXCISION OF THE KNEE-JOINT. 803 will do well; or if there be decayed scrofulous exudation, tubercular as it is called, into the bone structure, and it be in one or more circumscribed masses, bounded by a layer of lymph and healthy bone, these masses, when laid bare by the section of the bone, may be gouged out, as a dentist would deal with a carious tooth, and if sound bone be left the case will do well. Not so, if, as Mr. Price remarks, the scrofulous exudation be diffused throughout the cancellous tissue; if the whole area of the bone be enlarged and softened, with its cancelli filled with strumous deposit. and its periosteum thickened and separating. In such a case, the whole disease can scarcely be removed, and diseased bone is left, incapable of healthy exudation. Low inflammation, repeated abscesses, and fresh operations to remove carious or necrosed fragments will be the almost certain result, and if the patient do not die of exhaustion or pysemia, he must go through amputation at last. Here it may be observed, that since there are no absolute diagnostic marks of the various forms and degrees of joint disease, it may happen that the surgeon must sometimes come to a final decision after he has * This represents a boy, aged 9, whose knee was cut out by Mr. Price, July 20, 1856 : for a time he did well, but never had good use of the limb, which at the end of two years and three months presented the appearance shown above. The limb was then amputated, and he recovered. After the amputation, the ends of the bones which had suffered excision were macerated, and are repre- sented in the next cut. Evidently the causes of failure were the intensely strumous diathesis, the softened and unhealthy state of the bones, and the formation of numerous abscesses in the soft parts, which had been the seat of disease fcr four years before the excision. See Lancet, Nov. 27, 1858.EXCISION OF THE KNEE-JOINT. 804 laid th^ joint open, and has removed a slice of bone. This point is clearly laid down by Mr. Butcher.* The patient, whilst under chloro- form, suffers no prolonged shock ; and if the bones are found extensively diseased, am- putation should be performed at once. Mr. Feigusson has done this ; and Mr. Hutchin- son, a surgeon no less remark- able for his own successful operations, than for his zeal in collecting accurate statistics. The latest views of Mr. Fer- gusson, as expressed in his lec- tures at the Royal College of Surgeons, in June, 1864, in- cline, however, rather to re- excision (or re-section as be terms it) than to amputation, after unfavourable results from the first operation. In operat- ing on a case which appeared to be suitable for excision, Mr. Hutchinson found the car- tilage gone, the joint surfaces carious, deep ulcers excavated in the patella and tibia, the can- cellous structure of the femur infiltrated with yellow matter, and containing an ill-circum- scribed abscess; and a second slice revealed no better state of things. Amputation, therefore, was immediately performed. The patient had lost nothing by the attempt to save his Imib; and Pedantry only, complaining of such as " disturb her ancient melancholy reign," could object to the proceeding. ° The operation consists, first, of one or more incisions for laying bare the joint. Mr. Fergusson usually makes an H incision in front of the joint; the lateral lines about four inches long; the cross cut running below the patella. The lateral should, as Mr.^ Butcher says, be placed far enough back to allow the discharge to run out freely, and prevent pouching of matter in the ham. Other surgeons have made a single semicircular flap, running below the patella, with upward extensions * Second Memoir on Excision of the Knee-joint. Dublin Quart Jour Med Science, Feb., 1857.EXCISION OF THE KNEE-JOINT. 805 at its ends, or a straight cut across, close below the patella, dividing the lateral and anterior ligaments. The next point is to raise the flap, including the patella, bend the joint, sever the lateral ligaments, very cautiously lay bare the popliteal surface of the femur, and cut off the articular surface. Here Butcher's saw will be useful, cutting from behind forwards. The cut should be parallel with the natural surface of the condyles, and all obliquity should be avoided, so that the sawn surfaces of bone may rest flat and evenly against one another. Then any carious spots must be gouged out, or, if need be, another slice removed; and now, too, the surgeon may convert his operation into an amputation if the state of the bone seem irreparable. The tibia is then treated likewise. The patella, if healthy, may have its cartilage pared off: if ulcerated a little, the diseased surface may be cut out: if thoroughly soft and strumous, or even if doubtful, it should be removed. Perhaps it is the best plan always to do so. Then all diseased synovial membrane, and all thickened and infiltrated areolar tissue, should be trimmed off, so that the tissues which remain, both hard and soft, may be as healthy as possible. This is one of the points on which success depends. The next thing is to tie vessels and remove clots. Mr. Hutchinson recommends that an opening should always be made to the outer side of the vessels through the skin covering the popliteal space, to act as a drain to the suppuration which generally pockets in the popliteal cavity after this operation. The surgeon may then bring the limb into a straight position ; which is to be accomplished by extension, under chloroform, from the foot, whilst the thigh is held steadily; and as this may be a matter of some difficulty, it may, as Mr. Butcher observes, be facilitated by division of the biceps and other ham-string tendons. This will insure greater freedom from displacement and spasmodic jerking. The cut surfaces of bone should be accurately adapted to each other and here Mr. Butcher gives the caution to let no soft tissue be allowed to intrude be- tween them. The edges of the flaps are brought together with sutures, and covered with lint or cotton. In the next place the limb must be put up ; and it is upon the de- tails of this, and of the after-treatment, that the patient's safety will mainly depend. The wounded surfaces of bone must be in apposition, and at absolute rest; all possibility must be excluded of their slipping, starting, grating, jerking, or grinding against each other, or of the femur projecting. If they do, the exudation of repair must of necessity be destroyed and decomposed ; and fetid suppuration, and possibly purulent absorption, or caries, will result. It is universally agreed that the limb should be put up on the ope- rating table before removal to bed. The leg should be nicely bandaged, and the hollows above the ankle padded. The engraving will show the solid look of a limb, after this operation, done up in the box employed by Mr. Butcher. It is well padded with horsehair; the sides can beEXCISION OF THE KNEE-JOTNT. 806 let down by hinges, so as to give access to the wound: in other re- spects the cut explains itself.* Mr. Price, who with Mr. Parkinson and Mr. Heath, had great oppor- tunities ot perfecting the details of treatment in Mr. Fergusson's cases in the King's College Hospital, before he executed his own operations, used a Mclntyre's splint, of thin tinned iron, with a footboard. The length can be regulated. The portion corresponding to the popliteal space is slightly convex upwards, so as to keep the bones in their place: and is narrow, so that the wound can be got at. There is an inter- val between the leg plate and footboard, in order that nothing may press on the heel or tendo Achillis. The foot and leg are confined by rollers to this splint, previously v/ell padded with wool covered with oiled silk ; and with additional pads of the same, where needed, espe- cially behind the head of the tibia. A short splint should be laid on the front of the thigh, and compressed by a web and buckle. Then on the outside of this apparatus is used a long side splint, the central part of which is replaced by an iron hoop. It passes up the side, and is provided with a perineal band, as usual (p. 278). Lastly, the whole limb, so put up, may be swung in Salter's apparatus, as re- presented in the following drawing made from the life by Dr. West- macott, from a patient of Mr. Price's in the Great Northern Hospital. The wounded part is uncovered, and the side splint removed, and part of the swing undone to show it. The practical fact is, that the dress- ings had been duly attended to, that the limb had never been disturbed since the opei-ation, and was convalescent in the fifth week. Thedraw- * Case of Excision, Dublin Quarterly, Nov., 1857.807 EXCISION OF THE KNEE-JOIKT. ing shows a small pad placed on the femur, to keep the end of it from tilthig forwards. During the first few hours, the patient, as after every other opera- tion, should be watched by a surgeon, to guard against shock, vomit- ing, spasm, and haemorrhage. The end aimed at in the operation has been described ; the time which is required to produce it is uncertain; but after five or six weeks the limb may often be lifted, and the patient go on crutches, with the firm confidence that after some months he will have a strong and useful limb, adequate for any active employ- ment. To complain of the time required to rescue a patient from mu- tilation, and give him a useful leg, is absurd. Numerical Results.—From the revival in 1850 to December 1854, 31 cases had been collected by Mr. Butcher; from that time to De- cember 1856, when he published his second memoir, 51 additional cases; altogether 82; by the end of December 1858, Mr. Price had collected 79 besides, making 160 in all. Of the 160, 32, or 20 per cent, died; of whom 8 died of pyaemia, and 1 of erysipelas ; these are hospital causes. Exhaustion, irritation, and shock destroyed 15; acute phthisis, peritonitis, pneumonia, suppression of urine, and dysentery each destroyed 1 ; 1 died after amputation; 2 from unknown causes. In 18 cases, one of which was fatal, amputation was obliged to be resorted to, for non-union, abscess, and hectic. In at least 50 per cent, the operation resulted in a good useful limb. It must be added that since that time, Mr. Price collected particulars of nearly 250 cases by various operators, of which808 EXCISION OF THE ANKLE-JOINT. the fatal results have, in his estimation, been about at the same average as after the operation of amputation of the tliigh. But much of the mortality^ and' the necessity for amputation, depend upon causes which surgeons in time will think it a disgrace to let patients suffer from, especially hospital air. Out of 40 cases operated on by Mr. Fergusson at King's College Hospital, up ^to June 1864, no less than 15 terminated fatally,* chiefly from pya3mia and exhaustion. Of 30 cases published by Dr. Humphry of Cambridge, 6 died, of whom 3 suffered amputation, and 24 recovered, of whom 5 suffered amputation, leaving 19 recoveries from the excision simply.f VHI. Excision of the ankle-joint and tarsus.—In disease and injury of the ankle-joint and tarsus, the surgeon should still be guided by the principles upon which he acts in disease of the wrist; namely, that diseased parts should be extirpated, and that any sound parts that may even be partially useful should be left. The operation in every case must be planned according to the state of the parts ; and in most cases the surgeon will probably content himself with enlarging sinuses, denuding the diseased bones, and scooping them out piecemeal with the gouge, and repeating the operation if necessary until all the ca- rious parts are removed, instead of removing the whole at one coup. The OS calcis has been cut out by Mr. Hancock, Mr. Gay, Mr. Page of Carlisle, and other surgeons. Mr, Page began with an incision down to the bone, from half an inch below the inner ankle, directly under the sole of the foot to the outer ankle; intending to resort to Syme's operation if the state of things revealed by future dissection should render it necessary. The flap was dissected up from the heel; the tendo Achillis cut at its insertion; the joint between the os calcis and astragalus opened, the interosseous and other ligaments divided. The incision was then carried forwards along the sole, on each side, and a flap raised from the anterior part of the os calcis, up to its articulation with the cuboid, which was then divided, and the os calcis removed.J The cyboidhono. may be laid bare by a crucial or \-\ incision, and may be gouged out or separated from its connections by forceps and knife. The OS calcis and astragalus, with the cuboid and malleoli, were re- moved by Mr. Thomas Wakley in 1847.§ An incision was carried across the sole of the foot from one ankle to the other. A second and third at right angles to this along each side of the sole, so far forwards as the calcaneo-cuboid and astragalo-scaphoid joints respectively, so as to enable a flap of the sole about two inches long to be turned forwards. Then a last semicircular incision was made from one ankle to another behind the heel at the level of the insertion of the tendo Achillis, which was cut through. The flap made by this last incision was raised, and the OS calcis disarticulated from the astragalus and cuboid, and re- * Lectures at the Royal CoUege of Surgeons, July, 1864. f Address before the British Medical Association, August 5, 1864. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. 13, 1864. + Lancet, 1860, vol. i., p. 628. $ See report and drawings in Lancet, 1S48, vol. ii., p. 5; also in Guthrie's Gommeutaries.EXCISION OF , THE ANKLE-JOINT. 809 moved together with the integument covering it, which was included between the incisions. Then the astragalus was detached from the tibia and fibula, with great care not to wound the anterior tibial artery. The astragalus was next detached from the scaphoid, and the malleoli were removed with forceps. The posterior tibial artery was tied. The patient recovered, with a fair use of the foot. The front half of the cuboid, with the bases of the 4th and 5th me- tatarsal bones, were removed by Mr. Wood for caries of long standing in the summer of 1864, at King's College Hospital. The patient made an excellent and rapid recovery, with no deformity beyond a small scar, and with excellent use of the foot.810 APPENDIX OF FOKMUL^ * § 1. Tonics, Stimulants, Narcotics, Anodynes. F. 1. Cinchona with Acid. Light Tonic. R. Acidi sulphuric! diluti V(\y.—xv.; syrupi aurantii £353 ; infusi cascarillse {vel decocti cinchona), f3x. Misce, fiat haustus, ter die sumendus, ante cibum. For Children. R. Decocti cinchonse lancifolife f^iijss.; syrupi zinziberis f^ss. acidi sulphurici diluti TY\,xxx. Misce, sumatur pars quarta ter die. 2. Quinine Draught with Ammonia. R. Quinse disulphatis gr. ij.; tincturse opii TY\ij.—v.; spiritus aetheris compositi, spiritus ammonise aromatici aa f5ss.; decocti cin- chonse f3x. Misce, fiat haustus, ter vel quater die sumendus. In cases of great Debility, with Restlessness or low Delirium. 3. Quinine Draughts with Acid. R. Quinte disulphatis gr. ij.; acidi sulphurici diluti TY\,v.—xv.; tincturse aurantii, syrupi ejusdem, aa f3ss.; aquje f^jss. Misce, fiat haustus, ter die sumendus. R. Quinse disulphatis gr. ij.; acidi hydrochlorici TY\,x. ; camphors gr. ij.; spiritus astheris niti'ici f3j; tincturse cardamomi compositae f3j.; aquse menthae viridis f3x. Misce, fiat haustus, sexta quaque hora sumendus. A powerful stimulant and tonic. N.B. To make a clear quinine mixture with infusion of roses, the infusion must be made with nitric acid, as in F. 119.t {Squire.^ Quinine without Acid. R. Quinse disulphatis grana xxxij,; acacise pulveris gianalx. ; syrupi zingiberis fluiduncias iv. Misce. The quinine not being dissolved in acid has much less taste. One teaspoonful contains one grain of quinine. {Parrish.) See also F. 8. * The preparations are those of thelLondon Pharmacopoeia unless it is otherwise expressed. -j- N.B. The word Squire appended to a Formula indicates a quotation from Squire's ' Companion to the British Pharmacopoeia2nd edition. The word Farrish indicates quotation from Parrish's 'Treatise on Pharmacy.' Phila- delphia, 1864.APPENDIX OF FOKMUL^. 811 R, Quinas disulphatis grana xxx.; mucilaginis acacise, aquje singulo- rum fluiduncias tres. This is a good form lohen we desire to cincho- nize a patient. In syphilis (see p. 219), in any inflammation whatever when strength is failing and irritability increasing spite of antiphlo- gistic measures, and in all inflammations, rheumatisms, ^c. of malarious origin (see p, 414), five grains of quinine may he given every two, three, or four hours till the ears ring. Also in certain stages of phthisis, cancer, 4'C., when rapidly advancing with great pain. See Surgeon Major Hare's Paper on Malarious Fever, Med. Times and Gazette, vol. ii. 1864. Also Squire. Glycerine 3ij. may be added. Parrish's Quinine Pills. R. Quiuse disulphatis gr. xx.; acidi sulphurici aromatici minima duodecim. Drop the acid upon the quinine, mixing with a spatula; seize the moment when the mass is of proper consistency and divide into four pills ; each of which will contain five grains of quinine, and will not be too large. Sulphate of quinine may also be made into pills, by adding one grain of glacial phosphoric acid, or a \ gr. of tartaric acid, to each grain of quinine. 4. Liquor Cinchonce. R. Liquoris cinchonag flavse Battley V(\xx.; aquse pimentse f^j. Misce, fiat haustus quater die sumendus. In atonic erysipelatous diseases.—A prescription of Dr. Farre's. One fluid drachm of Battley's solution is said to be equal to an ounce of the finest bark. The infusum cinchonas spissatum of the London Pharmacopceia, or the extractum liquidum of the British Pharmacopceia, may be used instead ; but we see no reason why the names of Battley and Farre, who devised these preparations, should be let drop. 5. Bark with Ammonia. R. Decocti cinchonas flavse f^viiss.; ammoniae sesquicarbonatis 3ss.; syrupi zinziberis f^ss. Misce. Dosis, pars sexta, bis vel ter die. 6. Bark with Liquor Potasses. R. Decocti cinchona flavse f^viiss.; liquoris potassse f3ij. ; tinc- turse cinchonas compositse f3ij. Misce. Dosis, pars sexta, bis vel ter die. 7. Bark with Guaiacum, R. Tincture guaiaci ammoniat^, tincturse humuli aa f3ss.; decocti cinchona lancifolise f^ij. Misce, fiat haustus, ter die sumendus. In chronic rheumatism, chronic rheumatic sclerotitis, 4'C. R. Tincturse guaiaci ammoniatse, tincturse cinchonse composite sin- gularum f^j. Misce. Dosis, f3ij. bis die e cyatho lactis. In chronic rheumatism or constipation with debility.APPENDIX OF FORMULA. 812 8. Sympus Quince. R. Quinse citratis gr. iv.; syrupi simplicis fervefacti f^j. ; olei essentialis amygdalarum amarum gnttas ij. Misce. Dosis, fluid- drachma bis vel ter die. A vertj elegant preparation devised by the author. The flavour of the hitter almonds hides the hitter of the quinine. A few grains of tannin hide the hitterness of quinine. (^Parrish.') The various secondary alkaloids, produced from cinchona bark, as the amorphous quinine, the cinchonia, quinidine, &c., &c., are well deserving the attention of practitioners. See Clements R. Markham's Travels in Peru. 9. Sulphate of Zinc Mixture and Pill. R. Zinci sulphatis gr. vj.; acidi sulphuric! diluti TTl_xxx.; syrupi aurantii f^ss.; infusi aurantii f^vss. Misce, sumantur cochlearia duo ter die. R. Zinci sulphatis gr. xij.; extracti anthemidis 3ss. Misce, et divide in pilulas xij.; quarum sumatur una vel dugs ter die. A good tonic when steel is of doubtful propriety; and in oxaluria after pur- gation. Dr. Robert Dickson's Pills of Oxyde of Zinc. R. Zinci oxydi, grana quatuor: ext. gentianse, granum. Misce, fiat pilula ter die sumenda. Dr. R. Dickson has found this remedy of great service in the profuse perspirations of phthisis. Preparations of Iron. 10. Quevenne's " Per Reduit." R, Ferri redacti P.B. granum ; sacchari lactis granum ; fiat pulvis, linguae imponendus, inter cibum, ter die. Iron Filings. R. Ferri liraaturse pura granum ; mannse, saponis, theriacas, vel extracti glycyrrhiz^ quantum satis sit, utfiat pilula, ter die sumenda. When iron is administered slowly and gently in order to produce a gradual improvement of health, the metallic iron, in the form of iron filings, answers perfectly vjell. Or Quevenne's iron reduced by hydro- gen may be substituted as more refined, although it often becomes oxydized before it is swallowed. The old black steel wine from Apothecaries' Hall, and the various preparations of carbonate and oxyde, answer much the same purpose. Although iron improves the quality of the blood in the right (;ases, we are not warranted in sup- posing that this is due to absorption of the metal, but much more likely, to its action on the mucous membrane. Hence the practitioner, in choosing his preparation, should decide whether he chooses to give a rapidly acting and powerful styptic preparation, such as the chloride, or a mild one. The salts with vegetable acids, the phosphates, and lactates are shown by experience to be the least annoying. Dr. MunkAPPENDIX OF FOKMULiE. 813 told the writer that Sir H. Halford used to combine ginger or cap- sicum with steel, when it was " heavy " for the stomach. Ammonio-chloride. R. Ferri ammonio-chloridi gr. xx. ; tincturse zinziberis f5ij.; am- monise sesquicarbonatis ^j- 5 syrupi f^ss.; aquae destillatse f^vss. Misce. Dosis, f^j. tei- die. In debility, loith acidity and flatulence. The writer finds this the best preparation to allay the craving of drunkards. Mr. Newman Hall, father of the present eminent preacher, ascribes his reformation from intemperance to steel as a tonic. The ammonio-chloride, anciently Flores Martis, is not in the P. B. Citrate of Iron with Ammonia. R. Ferri ammonio-citratis (^m//ocA), 3ss.; ammoniac sesquicarbonatis jss.; tincturai cardamomi compositae, syrupi, singulorum f5iij, Aqute f^vj. Misce. Dosis, pars sexta ter die. In debility, vnth acidity and flatulence. Citrate of Iron for Children. R. Ferri citratis, gr, xij. (Bullock), syrupi aurantii, fluidrachmas duas; aquas destillataa f^iij. Misce. Dosis, f^ss. ter die. 13. Chloride of Iron Mixtm^es. R. Tincturse ferri sesquichloridi f5ij.; syrupi zinziberis ^j.; spiritus setheris nitrici f3ii.; aquas f^vij. Misce. Sumantur cochlearia duo magna bis die. There is no reason why medicine should be made more nauseous than is necessary; and patients describe the taste of the new solution and tincture of perchloride of iron in the P. B. as disgusting. On the contrary, the old muriated tincture of iron has a delicious ethereal perfume, and is the medicine to choose when an energetic and speedy action is desired. In cases of erysipelas and pyaemia, in which it is given in yery large doses, as fgj. every three or four hours, it passes through the alimentary canal, and completely deodorizes its contents. Bestucheff's nervous tiJicture, in which oxyde of iron, hydrochloric acid, and alcohol are exposed to the sun's rays and produce a solution of chloride of iron, ether, and alcohol, is the true type of this prepara- tion. Acetate of Iron. R. Liquoris ferri acetatis {Pharm. Dub.) fluidrachmam; aquse pimentas fluiduncias sex. Sumat ^ger partem sextam ter die. This is a mild and effective vegetable salt of iron, strongly recom- mended by Mr. Goddatxl of Christchurch. 14. Steel and Acid Mixture. R, Ferri sulphatis gr. xij.; acidi sulphuric! diluti f3j.: tincturas cardamomi composita) f^ss.; infusi rosa? compositi l'5vss. Misce, sumantur cochlearia duo magna bis vel ter die.APPENDIX OF FORMULA. 814 15. Steel, Ammonia, and Quassia. R. Infusi qnassise f^ss.; tincturse ferri ammoniati f^ss.; ammonise sesquicarbonatis gr. vj.; syrupi aurantii f3j. ; aquae destillatae f3vij. Misce, fiat liaustus, bis vel ter quotidie sumendus. For hysterical women (^Brodie.) Phosphate of Iron (Pharm. Brit). R. Ferri phosphatis gr. iij.; sacchari lactis, gr. iij.; fiat pulvis ter die sumendus. R. Syrupi ferri phosphatis P. B. f^ij. Sumatur cochleare parvum ter vel quater die. The American and French pharmaceutists seem to be successful in their preparations and combinations of phosphate of iron. There is a syrup of pyrophosphate of iron, much recommended by Haynes Walton, and made by Cooper, of Oxford Street; Parrish's compound syrup of phosphates of iron and lime, sometimes called chemical food, is an acid solution containing in one fluid drachm 2J gr. phosphate of lime, 1 gr. of phosphate of iron, with traces of phosphates of soda and potassa, and free hydrochloric and phosphoric acids. The lactate of iron has little solubility and little taste, and is often mixed with ferruginous chocolate, &c. Of the hypophosphites we know nothing, 16. Sulphate of Iron for Children. R. Ferri sulphatis gr. iij.; acidi sulphurici diluti TKXxij.; syrupi zinziberis f3iij.; aquse florum aurantii fgiij,; aquae destillatae f^ijss. Misce. Dosis, f^ss. ter die. 17. Sy7^up of Iodide of Iron {Pharm. Brit.) R. Syrupi ferri iodidi f^j.; sumar aeger guttas xx.—xl., bis die, e cyatho aquse, vel infusi zinziberis. {Dr. A. T. Thompson.) Iodide of Iron, with Sarsaparilla. R. Syrupi ferri iodidi, syrupi sarsse aa f3j. Misce. Sumat aeger cochleare parvum bis quotidie ex aqua. {Dr. Ferguson.) N.B. Blancard's pills of iodide of iron are a good form. 18, Mistura Ferri Aromatica, or Heherden's Ink. R, Corticis cinchonae lancifoliae contusi ^j, ; caryophyllorum contu- sorum Jij,; ferri ramentorum ^ss.; aquae menthae piperitae f^xv.; macera per dies tres in vase clauso, subinde agitans, dein cola, et adde tincturae cardamomi composite f^iij,; tincturae aurantii f5iij. Dosis, f^j.—iij- bis vel ter die. A most agreeable aromatic tonic. The Dublin Pharmacopoeia, from which this formula is taken, orders Jiij. of sliced calumba root ivith the bark : but the preparation is less nau- seous without it.815 APPENDIX OF FORMULiE. Iron with Quinine^ Amongst milder forms are the well-known " Citrate of iron and quinine" of Bullock. The following is convenient and energetic. R. Quin^ disulphatis ^j'; tincturas ferri muriatis f5iiss.; syrupi aurantii f3iv. aqu« fS^'^^' ^^'^ teaspoonful and upwards for a dose, mixed with water. [Farrish.) 19. Griffith's Mixture. R. Myrrhas contrite 3j.; potasses carbonatis jss.; aquae f^vss. ; ferri sulphatis gr. xij.; spiritus myristicge f^ss.; sacchari jiv. First dissolve the sulphate in two ounces of water, and put it into the bottle; then rub the other ingredients smoothly together, and add them. Dose, f^j.—-jss. thrice daily. The original prescription is to he seen in Dr. Moses Griffith's Practical Treatise on Hectic Fevers and Fulmonary Consumption, written at Colchester, 1776. New Ed. Lond. 1795. Dr. Griffith frequently varied the proportion of the in- gredients, and sometimes added tincture of hark, nitre, ^c. 20. Steel with Aloes. B^. Misturse ferri compositse, decocti aloes compositi partes equales. Dosis, f^j. ter die. In chlorosis, constipation with debility, SfC. R. Extracti aloes purificati gr. vj. ; ferri sulphatis gr. xij.; extracti glycyrrhizae gr. xij. Misce et divide in pilulas xij.; quarum sumatur una bis die, ante cibum. 21. Nux Vomica and Strychnia. 9. Tincturse nucis vomicae (Fharm. Brit.) f5j. ; acidi nitromuria- tici diluti f3ij.; tincturae zinziberis f5ij.; syrupi f^iij. ; aquae f^vss.; Misce. Dosis, pars sexta ter die. In any form of functional paralysis after all known causes are remedied. In obstinate debility, diabetes insipidus, alkaline urine, ^c. Nux vomica is the pleasantest hitter possible, and may be given alone or combined with acids, other tonics, or purgatives. Torpidity of the nervous system is the condition in which it is assumed to be useful. The writer assumes gr. -J^ of strychnia equal to \ gr. of ext. nucis vomiccB. R. Extracti nucis vomicae gr. ij.; mannae 3j« Misce et divide in pilulas viij. ; quarum sumatur una ter die. The extract, such as is prepared by Squire, is quite as efficacious a medicine as strychnia itself, and very much safer. Any mistake in dispensing strychnia might be fatal. The dose may be increased by degrees. If strychnine be preferred, use the Liquor StrychniaB Fharm.. Brit., of which Tlftx.^gi-. jL of the alkaloid. Fhosphoric Acid and Strychnia. R. Acidi phosphorici diluti fjiij.; tinctura) nucis vomicae f3ij.; syrupi zinziberis t'Svij. Misce. Dose, one teaspoonful thrice a day in aAPPENDIX OF FORMULA. 816 wine-glass of water. There is an idea prevalent that phosphoric acid has some specific virtues in restoring the nervous system. This is absurd; hut the acid is a good tonic notwithstanding. If digestion is feeble, a dessert-spoonful of pepsine wine may be taken with each dose. 22. Dilute Nitromuriatic Acid. R. Acidi nitrici fortissimi f3j.; acidi hydrochlorici fjij. Misce et serva per horas xxiv. subinde agitans. Dein adde, aquas destillatse fjxv. Dosis, T(\js..—XXX. ex aqua.* R. Acidi nitromuriatici diluti f3ij, ; spiritus astheris nitrici f^ij.; syrupi f^ss. ; aquae f^vijss. Misce. Sumatur pars sexta ter die. In dyspepsia, with nasty tongue and inactive liver. { With a dose of this it is often useful to give a pill containing a grain of sulphate of zinc with a little hitter extract, and in other cases a drachm of liquor taraxaci.) R. Acidi nitromuriatici diluti f3ij.; infusi chirettge f^vijss. Misce. f^iss. ter die. A bitter that is very grateful to irritable bowels. 23. Mtric Acid Mixture to relieve Thirst. K. Potassse nitratis jj.; acidi nitrici diluti f3ij. : syrupi f^ij.; aquae purae Oij.; Misce. Dosis, f^iv. pro re nata. Mr. Cole. Dilute Nitromuriatic Acid with Orange Peel. R. Acidi nitrici diluti, acidi muriatici diluti aa f3jss.; syrupi aurantii f^.; aquae florum aurantii f^j. ; aquae destillatae f^xiijss, Misce ; sumatur cyathus vinarius ter vel quater die. (Brodie.) Hope's Nitrous-Acid Mixture for Dysentery and Diarrhaia. ^. Aquae camphorae f^iv. ; acidi nitrosi TY^xxx.; tincturae opiiTl^xx. Misce. A table-spoonfui every two hours. Quoted hy Parrish from Ed. Med. and Surg. Journ., Jan. 1824. Hope was a surgeon at Chatham. P. says that this has a wide reputation in the United States. It is interesting as evidence of the true traditional method of treating diarrhoea in hot weather by acids. 24. Sulphuric Acid Mixture. R. Acidi sulphurici diluti f3ij.; syrupi aurantii f3vj.; aquse f^vijss. Misce. Sumatur pars sexta ter die. A grateful refrigerant and tonic in debility with profuse perspij^ation, in hot weather, ^c. 25. Sulphuric Acid and jEther, or Sutton's Punch. R. Acidi sulphurici diluti n\,xl.; spiritus aetheris sulphurici com- positi f3ij.; sacchari albi ^ss.; aquae menthae viridis t^vj. Misce. Sumatur pars quarta, quater die. An admirable restorative after ill- ness ; for delirium tremens, ^c. * This is very nearly the strength of the dilute nitro-hydrochloric acid of the P. B.APPENDIX OF FORMULJL. 817 26. Stimulating Mixtures. R. Spiritus setheris chlorici f5j.; pulveris acacise jj. ; aqu£e f^iv. Misce. Dosis, pars quarta subinde. R. AmmonifE sesquicai bonatis gr. xx. 5 spiritus astheris sulphurici f^j.; syrupi zinziberis f5iij.; aquae ariethi f^iijss. Misce. Dosis, pars quarta, subinde. In syncope, hysteria, tympanites, &c. Chloroform Mixture with Camphor. R. Chloroformi £3] ; camphorge gv. xxx.; ovi vitellum ; aquas f^vj. Tere simul, ut fiat mistura. Do.sis, f^j.—{United States Pharm.) Mistura quatuor Aromatum Vinosa, vulgo, Negus. ^. Cinnamomi, zinziberis, myristicse, caryophillorum singulorum contusorum sacchari albi ^^j. ; vini Claret dicti f^vj. (vel vini Hispanici, vel Lusitanici generosi, aquae ferventis aa f^vj.) Calefac simul in vase idoneo, super ignem, donee ebullitio incipisse videbitur, dein cola. Dosis, f^ij. In syncope, sinking, rigors, ^c. White Wine Whey. R. Vini Xerici (vulgo Sherry), vel vini ex Insulis Fortunatis devecti (vulgo Madeira), cj'-athum vinarium ; lactis recentis fervefacti octa- rium dimidium; coque simul donee caseum lactis coierit, dein cola per linteum. Egg Wine. R. Ovi recentis vitellum ; conquassa bene cum cochleari uno aquas frigidae. His infunde paulatim Vini Xerici cyathum, cum parte aequali aqu£e mistum et fervefactum. Adjice myristicse pauxillum. A Nightcap. Dissolve a quarter of an ounce of isinglass and two lumps of sugar in a small tumbler of boiling water. Add half a glass of brandy, or a glass of sherry, or two glasses of claret, and a bit of nutmeg or cinnamon. A capital thing for a patient who is afraid of cholera. 28. Strong Camphor Mixture. R. Camphorae gr. xxv.; amygdalas dulces decorticatas sex; sacchari puriticati 3iij.; optime contere dein adde gradatim, aquae menthae viridis f^vijss.; ut fiat mistura, cujus sumantur cochlearia tria magna quarta quaque hora. {Hooper.) In hysteric and various nervous and spasmodic affections. A modern essence of camphor (not spirit of camphor), freely miscible with water, is sold by most chemists. 29. Indian Hemp. R. Extracti cannabis Indicae (Squire) gr. iij. ; mannae grana duodecim. Misce, et divide in pilulas duodecim. Dose, one, two, or D 3 G818 APPENDIX OF FORMULJi;. more. An uncertain, hut very often efficacious narcotic in tetanus, neuralgia, and other painf ul maladies. R. Tincturse cannabis Indicse rn.x.; mucilaginis f3j.; aquge f3vij. Mise fiat haustus. 30. Compound Soothing Pills. R. Pulveris ipecacuanhae compositi, extiacti conii, singulovum ^j.; misce et divide in pilulas xxiv.; quarum sumantur una vel dua^ su- binde. In painful ulcers, chronic rheumatism, stricture, ^c. {C. Mayo.) R. Extracti hyoscyami, extracti conii, extiacti papaveris, siugulorum ^j. Misce et divide in pilulas xij. In similar cases. 31. Pulvis Sudorificus Salinus. R. Pulveris ipecacuanha; compositi grana quindecim; potassaj nitratis grana quindecim ; potassse bicarbonatis grana qninque. Misce, fiat pulvis, bora somni sumendus, e cyatho ptisanse.* 32. Compound Opiate Mixtures. R. Liquoris opii sedativi TY|^xx.; spiritus ammonise aromatici, spiritus setheris nitrici, singulorum fjiss.; syrupi f3ij.; misturae cam- phorse f^vss. Misce. Dosis, pars quaila, quartis horis. R. Morphise hydrochloratis gi'anum; acidi hydrochlorici diluti guttas duas; aquaj f^viiss.; syrupi zinziberis f^ss. Misce. Dosis, pars octava. R. Syrupi papaveris f3iv. ; magnesiae cavbonatis 3ss.; spiritus fctheris nitrici; tincturas hyoscyami, smgulorum f3ij.; misturae cam- phorae f^vij.; Misce. Dosis, pars sexta subinde. To tranquillize the system after injuries, operations, accouchements, hcemorrhage, violent mental excitement, ^c. {Dr. Gooch.) Mr. Cole's Stimulating Narcotic Draught for Delirium Tremens. R. Extracti opii (Hill) gr. ij. vel iij; aquae ferventis f^iv.; tere in mortario et adde brandy il^xss.; sacchari q. s. Misce. The patient should he allowed to sip this out of the tumbler, like a glass of grog. Cole's Mil. Surg., p. 59. * "We offer this as a substitute for the original Pulvis Doveri, the recipe for which is as follows:—" Take opium an ounce, saltpetre and tartar vitriolated each four ounces, ipecacuanha one ounce, liquorice one ounce. Put the saltpetre and tartar into a red-hot mortar, stirring them with a spoon till they have done flaming: then powder them very fine ; then slice in your opium, grind these to a powder, and mix the other powders with these. Dose from 40 to 60 or 70 grams in a glass of white yvine posset, going to bed; covering up wann, and drinking a quart or three pints of the posset-drink while sweating." Dr. Dover accounts for the largeness of the dose by saying, that the properties of the opium are mitigated by the other ingredients; but in the present day, four, six, or seven grains of opium would be a dangerous dose, spite of the other ingre- dients. But if this is a true copy of the recipe, it is very difficult to understand how the saltpetre and vitriolated tartar can Jlame when heated together. Possibly the cream of tartar was used, and not the sulphate of potass.—See 'The Ancient Physician's Legacy to his Country,' by Thomas Dover, M.B. Fifth edition. It33.819 APPENDIX OF FORMULA. Chlorodyne. This is a popular compound narcotic, said to be made of chloroform, muriate of morphia, oil of peppermint, Indian hemp, capsicum, sul- phuric ether, perchloric acid, and prussic acid, combined with recti- tied spirit, syrup, and treacle. There is nothing new in the prin- ciple of combining several soothing medicines in one prescription, as our own formulae, published for many years, amply testify ; and any prac- titioner who desires to economize opium, should combine a lesser dose of it, with small doses of coniura, henbane, camphor, Indian hemp, or some of them. Mr. JoUey, the eminent chemist, of Curzon Street, tells the writer that his predecessor made thirty years ago, and that he con- tinues to sell, a compound called Moody^s Anodyne, containing opium, syrup of poppies, the true old chloric ether (made by distilling alcohol and muriatic acid ;—not the modern solution of chloroform), and some aroma tics. Dr. W. E, Bowman, Editor of the Canada Lancet, gives the fol- lowing formula for chlorodyne in his Journal, Oct. 15th, 1864 :— '* Take of Chloroform half a fluid ounce. Sulphuric Ether ninety minims. Oil of Peppermint eight drops. Resin of Indian Hemp six grains. Capsicum, bruised two grains. Mix and let them stand a lew days, shaking occasionally. " Take of Muriate of Morphine sixteen grains. Water two drachms. " Solve in a test tube with heat, and, when cold, add Scheele's Hydrocyanic Acid .... sixty-four minims. Perchloric Acid one fluid drachm. Thick Treacle two fluid ounces. Mix all together, and add little by little, *' Treacle oi" Water, or both, until enough has been put in to make up the quantity of chlorodyne to four fluid ounces. " The treacle requires to be of the same specific gravity as the mixture of chloroform and ether. If too thick it will sink to the bottom of the bottle, and require the addition of a little water. But, if too thin, the treacle will float on the surface, and necessitate the addition ot more ether to farther reduce the density of the chlorodyne. " This chlorodyne dropped from the lip of an ordinary vial, gives 120 drops to the fluid drachm, and is readily miscible in pre- scriptions. " Each dose of half a drachm contains 4 m. of chloroform, 1J m. of ether, -^^ gr. extract of hemp, ^ gr. muriate of morphia, and 1 m. of Scheele's acid."APPENDIX OF FOKMUL^. 820 Remedies which, persuade Sleep. Orangeflower water is decidedly ranked by the French amongst the calmants ; and half a wine-glassful will often coax a patient to sleep ; so will valerian, musk, and castor ; amongst wines the Burgundy; amongst beers Guinness's Dublin stout; last, not least, the tincture of sumbul in doses of two drachms, given in a little orangeflower water. § II. Aperients. 33. Calomel R. Calomelanos, grana quinque; antimonii tartarizati grani |; fiat pilula. R. Calomelanos grana quatuor; extracti colocynthidi compositi grana sex ; fiant pilulse duse. 34. Black Draught. R. Sennfe foliorum 3vj.; zinziberis concisi 3ss. ; extracti glycyr- rhizse 3ij.; potassse carbonatis 3ss.; aquje ferventis f^ix. Post boras tres cola, et adde spiritiis ammonias aromatici f3ij.; magnesias sul- phatis ^ ; (vel potassaj tartratis ^j.) tincturse sennse, tincturse cardamomi compositse aa i^ss. Dosis f^jss.* Red Draught. R. Magnesise sulphatis 3ij.—iv.; syrupi zinziberis, tincturae carda- momi compositse, singulorum f3j.; infusi rosse compositi f3x. Misce. 35. Haustus Magnesice Sulphatis Acidus. R. Magnesise sulphatis 3.].—3iv.; syrupi aurantii f3ij,; acidi sul- phurici diluti TY^^x.; aquse f^j. Misce, fiat haustus. To this draught may be added one grain of sulphate of zinc, or of sulphate of iron, or two grains of quinine, or fifteen minims of tincture of nux vomica, in cases of debility, 36. Haustus Magnesice Albus. R. Magnesise sulphatis 3ij,; magnesise carbonatis ^j.; syrupi zinzi- beris f3jss.; aquse menthse viridis f3xj. Misce, fiat haustus. Thisdraught will often be retained by the stomach when almost every other is rejected. 37. Cordial Aperient Draught. R. Tincturse sennse f^ss.; tinctur£E rhei f^ss. Misce. 38. Rhubarb Draughts and Powders. R. Pulveris rhei, semiscrnpulum; sodse bicarbonatis, scrupulum ; sacchari albi, scrupulum ; olei lavandulae guttas quinque. Misce, fiat pulvis, e cochlearibus duobus aquai sumendus. This is the most perfect combination of rhubarb. The lavender hides its flavour completely. * This draught is greatly improved, both in flavour and eflacacy, by the addition of a fev? carraway seeds and cloves, one ounce of buclcthorn juice, one of tincture of jalap, and six of moist sugar.821 APPENDIX OF FORMULA. R, Pulveris rhei, bismuthi trisnitvatis, confectiouis aromaticae, aa 3ij.; aquae menthas piperitae t'^iv. Misce. Sumatur pars quavta bis die. In habitual constipation and flatulence. R. Rhei gr. xv. ; magnesia carbonatis '^ss.; spiritus ammoniae aromatici f5ss.; syrupi f'3j. ; aquae anethi f'^x. Misce. For cases of colic, diarrkcea, with acidity and indigestion, <^c. Rhubarb and Polychrest Salt. {Dr. William Fordyce.) R. Pulveris rhei, potassae sulphatis aa ^j.; pulveris zinziberis 3j. Misce. Dosis gr. x.—xl. A capital aperient for children; serving, in most cases, all the purposes of calomel: much lauded in scrofula^ especially if the upper lip be swelled. R. Rhei, potassae sulphatis aa ^j - ? spiritus lavandulae corapositi f5j.; aquas f^j. Misce, fiat haustus. A warm efficient purgative. 39. Saline Aperient Draughts. R. Soda3 potassio-tartratis 5iv. ; succi limonum f3ij.; syrupi zinzi- beris f3j.; spiritus myristicae f3ss. ; aquae f^ij. Misce, fiat haustus. A cooling purgative. R. Sodae potassio-tartratis 3ij. soda sesquicarbonatis ^j. > sacchari albi 3j. ; fiat pulvis, e cyatho aquae sumendus, cum cochleari magno succi limonis, vel cum acidi citrici granis quindecim. 40. Epsom Salts and Tartar Emetic. R. Magnesiae sulphatis ; antimonii tartarizati gr. j.; aqua' menthae f^x. Misce ; sumantur cocblearia magna tria, quarta quaque hora. An active nauseating aperient, fit for robust persons threatened with acute inflammation, (Sir A. Cooper.) 41. Saline Aperients with Tonics. R. Magnesiae sulphatis 3iv.; ferri sulphatis gr. viij.; quinae disul- phatis gr. xij. acidi sulphui-ici diluti f3jss.; syrupi zinziberis f^j.; tincturae ejusdem f3ij.; aquae f^viij. Misce. Dosis, pars octava bis die. R. Magnesiae sulphatis 3j. ; acidi sulphurici diluti f3j.; ferri sul- phatis gr. XV.; intusi gontianas composite t^iij.; tincturae aurantii f3iv.; infusi rosae t^vj. Misce. Dosis pars sexta bis quotidie. R. Ferri potassio-tartratis 3ij.; sodae potassio-tartratis ^^vj. Misce ; fiant pulveres sex. Sumatur una mane, ex cyatho aquse. Combinations of saline purgatives vnth tonics, so as to answer the double purpose of draining congested abdominal veins, and bracing the system, are of great efficacy in most chronic complaints. The second of these for^ mulce is a prescription of Dr. Jepltson's, who was famous for such com- binations.822 APPENDIX OF FORMULA. 42. Fulvis e quaiuor Salibus, or " German Fovcder." R. Sodii chloridi, sodse sulphatis, magnesiao sulphatis, potassae sul- phatis, singulorum partes sequales. Optim e misceantur, et desiccentur ante ignem. Dosis gj.—ij., ex oyatho aquae caiidse. An agreeable saline aperient. A grain of sulphate of iron or quinine may be added to each dose, with sugar or ginger, if agreeable. Some of the author's patients have named it German Ponder from its resemblance to the water of chalybeate aperient springs. 43. Hospital House Physic. R. Magnesise sulphatis ^ij. ; pulveris rhei, jalapse aa 3j.; aquse men- thse piperitai ',^vij. Misce. Dosis, pars sexta. 45. Castor Oil Mixture. There is nothing offensive in the taste of castor oil, but it is indi- gestible and creates unpleasant eructations. People of sense take it floated in a little brandy, or in an acid effervescing draught. They who want it disguised may adopt the following draught, the pi'oportions of which we copy from Parrish. R, Pulveris gummi acacise, sacchari albi, singulorum 3iij.; olei menthse piperitse guttas quatuor ; olei ricini f^j. Rub the gum, sugar, and mint into a powder ; add about 3vj. of water, then the castor oil by degrees, with a little more gum or a little more water as may be necessary to make a perfect emulsion. Tlien add water slowly to bring the quantity to ^iv. Dose ^ss.— Castor Oil and Turpentine Mixture. Substitute half an ounce of oil of turpentine, for half of the castor oil in the above. 46. Aperient Electuaries. Pulveris potassae supertartratis ^ss.; sulphuris precipitati 3ij.—iv. ; confectionis sennse ^.; syrupi zinziberis, quantum satis sit. 1^. Magnesias ustae, potassse supertartratis, pulveiis rhei, aa 3j.; pulveris zinziberis 3ss.; theriacas, quantum satis est. R. Mannae, confectionis sennse, aa ^.; sulphuris 3iij.; syrupi quan- tum satis sit. Dosis 3j.—iv., omni nocte hoia somni. For piles, ^c. 47. Pilules Cathartica;. R. Aloes ^ss.; pulveris colocynthidis, cambogiae aa 3j.; jalapae 3ij.; saponis 3j,; antimonii tartarizati ^ss. ; olei caryophillorum nr\^xx.; contuude simul, et divide in pilulas, pondere granorum quinque. A thorough but easy purge.823 APPENDIX OF FORMULAE. 48. Piluloe Catharticce cum Calomelane. R. Pilulae prsecedentis 3iv.; calomelanos jj. Misce et divide in pilulas Ix. PilulcB Hyperca' hariicce. R. Extract! colocynthidis compositi ^ij.; olei crotonis guttas duas. —Divide in pilulas octo, quarum sumautur duae. For threatened apo- plexy, oedema, giottidis, 4'c. Podophyllin, As prepared by Hudson of the Hayraavket, is a most efficient dras- tic purge applicable to cases of convulsions of children, &c. One grain is a large dose. But it is difficult to detect any superiority in podo- phyllin over good scammony. 49. Blue Pill and Colocynth. R. Pilulse hydrargyri "i^ss.; extracti colocynthidis compositi ^ijss. Misce, fiant pilulfe duodecim. 50. Sulphate of Iron with Aloes. R. Ferri sulphatis, aloes Barbadensis, aa3ij.; pulveris rhei 3j. Misce, et divide in pilulas Ix. Dosis, una vel duse hora somni. An ad- mirable aperient for weak constipated persons. 51. Pilulce Aloes Dilutee. ^. Extracti aquosi aloes Barbadensis, saponis, theriacse, extracti glycyrrhizse aa 5j. Solve leni caloi e in balneo; dein divide in pilulas xlvij. Dosis, una hoia somni. A capital eccoprotic aperient, un- loading the colon of scyhala, but rather irritating to the rectum. The aloes shoicld be of the best Barbadoes kind, purified by solution in water. The formula is attributed to Dr. Marshall Hall. 52. Ipecacuanha and Rhubarb Pills. Pulveris ipecacuanhse gr. xxiv.; pulveris rhei 3^^'5 saponis ^S3. Misce et divide in pilulas xxiv. ; quarum sumatur una ter die. A gentle aperient in piles and other congested conditions of the intes' tines. 1^. Ipecacuanhse gr. vj.; extracti aloes puriflcati gr. vj. ; extracti rhei gr. xxxvj.: olei cajnputi Tr\_iv. Misce et divide in pilulas xij.; sumatur una, hora ante piandium. A good dinner pill for constipated persons. Phubarb and Ginger Pills. R. Rhei 3j.; tincturae zinziberis fortissimse q. s., ut fiat massa in pilulas xij., dividenda.APPENDIX OF FORMULA. 824 53. Pills of Aloes and Sulphuric Acid. ^. Aloes Barbadensis gr. xxiv. ; acidi sulphurici fortissimi guttas vj. Misce et divide in pilulas vj.; quarum sumantur duo, quarta quaque hora. A very powerful aperient that often succeeds when almost everything else fails. The author is indebted for the prescrip- tion to his f riend Dr. IHckson. 54. Guaiacum and Jalap Fills. ^1. Guaiaci pulveris, extracti jalapse, extract! hyoscyami, aa ^j. ; cambogiae gr. iij. Misce et divide in pilulas duodecitn; quarum sumantur una vel dua3 hora somni. An active purge, not irritating to the rectum. {The late T. A. Stone.) 55. Gingerbread Electuary. R. Guaiaci pulveris 3ij. ; sulphuris, rhei, aa jj-j zinziberis 3j' Treacle quantum satis sit ut tiat electuarium. Dosis, pars sexta. {Said to be Sir C. Locock's.) 56. Guaiacum Electuaries. R. Pulveris guaiaci gr. v.; pulveris chinchonse ^j.; pulveris cin- namomi compositi ^^s. Misce, fiat pulvis bis die sumendus. R. Pulveris guaiaci 3ij. ; pulveris rhei 3ss.; sulphuris 3j.; pulveris myristicse 3ss.; theriacce quantum satis est ut fiat electuarium. Dosis, pars sexta omni nocte. In chronic rheumatic diseases. This is com- monly called the Chelsea Pensioner. 57. Sulphate of Manganese. R. Manganesii sulphatis ^j. J magnesiae sulphatis 3ij. ; syrupi zinzi- beris f3j.; aquas t^jss. Misce fiat haustus mane sumendus. In gouty cases, to produce a copious discharge of bile. ^. Manganesii sulphatis, pulveris rhei aa ^j.; spiritus lavandulse compositi t3j.; aquae t^jss. Misce fiat haustus. Preparations of man- ganese are very likely to excite vomiting. § III. Alterative and Febrifuge Medicines. 58. Saline Draughts. R'. Potassas nitratis ^'j- '■> ^^dse sesquicarbonatis ^j.; syrupi croci, spiritus setheris nitrici aa f3j,; aquai f^v. Misce. Dosis f^jss. quarta quaque hora. ^. Potassse nitratis gr. x,; sacchari ^j- Misce fiat pulvis, sumen- dus e cyatho vinario aquae menthae viridis. Green mint water and nitre form a very agreeable mixture, and produce a pungent cooling sensation on the tongue and palate. But the salt should only be dis-APPENDIX OP FORMULA. 825 solved at the moment of administration, and the mint water should be quite cool. Attention to these trifles makes a great difference to a patient who is parched with fever. Eff'ervescing with Potass. ^. Potassse bicarbonatis 9iv.; syrupi zinzibeiis f3ij.; aquse f^vss. Dosis f^'ss. quarta quaque hoi a, cum f^ss. succi limonum recentis. Effervescing with Ammonice. ^. Ammonise sesquicarbonatis '^'^j^s.; tincturas cardamomi rom- positse f^ss. ; aquae t^v. Misce. Dosis f^ss. quarta quaque hora, cum cochleari magno succi limonum, vel gr. xv. acidi citrici. In the early stage of erysipelas, and low fevers. Mindererus Draught. R. Liquoris ammonise acetatis f^ij.; spiritus getheris nitrici f^ss.; misturae camphorse fluiduncias quiiique cum semisse. Misce. Dosis, pars quarta, quarta quaque hora. Carbonate of Ammonia. R. Ammonise sesquicarbonatis 3ss.; spiritus aetheris nitn'ci f3"j'? misturae acacia ^3"j- I misturae camphorae t^vij. Misce. Dosis I'^iss. tertia vel quarta quaque hora. 59. Digitalis Draught. ^. Tinct. digitah's TTiw.; aceti destillati f3j.; syrupi f3j. ; aquae f^"ss. Misce ; iiat haustus ter die sumendus, ad duodecim vices. 60. Borax. Sodab biboratis 3j.; sodae sesquicarbonatis 3ss.; potassae nitratis 3ss. Misce et divide in pulveres sex ; quorum suraatur unus ter die e cyatho aquae. In lithic deposits, 61. Phosphate of Soda. R. Sodae phosphatis 3iij. Fiat pulvis, mane sumendus e cyatho aquse. As an aperient when the urine is red. R. Sodse phosphatis ^j.; infusi gentianae compositi f\j. Misce, fiat haustus bis die sumendus. 62. Calomel and Opium Pill. R. Calomelanos gr. j.—ij.; pulveris opii gr. \—\ ; extracti glycyr- rhizffi quantum sufficit ut tiat pilula, quartis—sextis horis sumenda. To mercurialize the system in acute inflammation. Calomel and Opium with Antimony. ^. Calomelanos gr.j.—ij.; pulveris opii gr. |—^; antimonii tarta- rizati gr. ^; extracti glyeyi rhizse quantum satis sit ut fiat pilula. This formula may be used when there is a considerable amount of sthenic inflammation.826 APPENDIX OF FORMULA. 63. Alterative Pill. R. Pilulas hydrargyri, granum dimidium ; extract! hyoscyami gr. ij. Mibce, fiant pilula bis vel ter die sumenda. 64. Alterative Powders. ^. Hydrargyri cum creta gr. iij.—vj.; pulveris Doveri gr. j.—v. Sodae sesquicarbonatis, saccbari albi aa ^j. Misce, fiat pulvis omni nocte sumendus. j^'. Hydrargyri cum creta gr. ij. ; pulveris rhei gr. v.; sacchari 3ss.; pulveris cinnamomi gr. v. Misce, fiat pulvis, omni nocte sumen- dus. As a gentle alterative in chronic diseases, when the secretion of bile and urine is scanty. 65. Calomel and ColcMcum. R. Calomelanos gr. iv.; extracti colcbici acetici gr. xij.; extracti colocynthidis compositi gr. xxiv.; extracti hyoscyami gr. xxiv. Misce, fiant pilulas duodecim, quarum sumat unam vel duas hora somni. In rheumatic and gouty inflammations. 66. Plummers Pill. R. Sulpburati aurati antimonii, calomel aa 3ij.; tere simul donee bene misceantur, dein adde pulveris resinse guaiaci 3iv. ;* balsami copaiba q. s. ut fiat massa pilularis ex cujus singulis drachmis for- mentur pilulse xij. Abridged from Dr. Andrew Plummers original paper in the " Medical Essays and Observations published by a Society in Edinburgh,^' vol. i., 1747. Dr. Plummer was Professor of Medicine in the University of Edinburgh at that time. 67. Tartar Emetic with Mercury. R. Antimonii potassio-tartratis gr.j.; hydrargyri cum creta gr. viij.; extracti conii gr. xvj. Misce et divide in pilulas octo ; quarum suma- tur una bis vel ter die. 68. Tartar Emetic. R. Antimonii tartarizati, granum ; aquae destillatse, fluidunciam. Sumatur cochleare parvum quarta quaqua hora. R. Antimonii potassio-tartratis gr. j.—ij.; syrupi papaveris f5ss. aquae destillatae t^vijss. Misce; sumantur cochlearia duo magna ter die.f * In the original, gummi guaiaci 5iij.; resinse guaiaci jj. f The inventor of the contraslimulant method of administering tartar emetic was Thomas Marryat, born ItSO, died 1792 ; practised at Bristol; a very eccen- tric person: author of " Therapeutics, or the Art of Healing," a work which passed through many editions, and was very popular with apothecaries at the beginning of the present century. The twenty-fourth edition was published inAPPENDIX OF FORMULA. 827 R. Antimonii potassio-tartratis gr. iij.; tincturae opii f3ss.; aquse f^vj. Misce. Dosis, cochleare unum omni semihoia, vel majori in- tervallo donee delirinra cessaverit. Tn certain cases of delirium tremens and fever in which depletion is inadmissible, and excitement great, and strength sufficient. See Dr. Graves's Clinical Medicine. 69. Colchicum Draughts, R. Vini radicis colchici f3ss.; syrupi f3ss. ; aquae f^j. Mi^ce, fiat haustus quartis—sextis horis sumendus. 70. Colchicum and Magnesia, R. Vini colchici f3ij.; solutionis magnesite* f^iss.; misturaj camphorae f^ivss. Misce; sumantur cochlearia duo quarta quaque hora. Et. Magnesise carbonatis, sodae sesquicarbonatis aa ^^s.; vini semi- num colchici TY\xv.; aqua3 piraentas t^jss. Misce, fiat haustus ter die sumendus. 71. White Purgative Draught with Colchicum. R, Aceti colchici f5j.; magnesiae sulphatis 3ij.; magnesiae carbo- natis 3j'; syrupi zinziberis f5j.; aquae anethi f3x. Misce. {Sir C. Scudaviore.) 72. Antilithic Pill. R. Extracti colchici acetic), hydrargyri cum creta aa gr. j.; extract! colocynthidis compositi gr. ij. Misce fiat pilula omni nocte sumenda. Sir A, Coopers Prescription for Chronic Gout and Pheumatism. R. Potassae bicarbonatis 3ss.; tincturae aurantii f3ij.; decocti aloes compositi t'^viij. Misce ; sumatur cyathus vinarius omni mane. 1816 by Sherwood. The author says, page 5, " Any fever may soon be extin- guished by the use of the following powders:—Take of tartarized antimony five grains; white sugar or nitre a drachm. Let them be well rubbed in a glass mortar, and be divided into six powders; one to be taken every three hours, notwithstanding the nausea the first may probably occasion. If they bring on a diarrhoea they should still be conthiued, and it will soon cease. If these are taken (which is most commonly the case) without any manifest inconvenience, let there be seven grains in the next six powders, and in the next, ten. Here I beg leave to retract what I said in some former editions of this work: viz., that till sickness and vomiting was excited, this noble medicine was not to be depended on. For 1 have seen many instances wherein a paper has been given every three hours (of which there have been ten grains in six powders), with- out the least sensible operation, either by sickness, stool, urine, or sweat, and though the patients had been unremittingly delirious for more than a week with subsultus tendinum, and all the other appearanc es of hastening death, they have perfectly recovered without any other medical aid, a clyster every other day excepted." * Made by Murray or Dinneford.828 APPENDIX OF FORMULA. 73. Colchicum and Rhubarb. ^. Infusi rhei f5x.; vini colchici VC\yix.; potassse bicarbonatis ^j.; tincturge cardamomi compositas f3j. Misce, fiat haustus hora somni sumendus. Dr. Marshall Hall. 14r. Turpentine in small Alterative Doses. R. Mucilaginis f^ss.; sodfe sesquicarbonatis ^ss. ; olei terebinthinae TY\^xv.—xl.; aqu£e destillatae f^^i. Misce, fiat haustus. In rheuma- tism, rhewmatic ophthalmia, iritis, passive hcemorrhage, Sfc. See F. 45. 75. .Lead Draught. Plumbi acetatis gr. iij. aceti destillati f3ij.; tinct. opii ni],—x. ; syrupi rheados f3j.; aquse destillatse t^vij. Misce ; fiat haustus quarta quaque hora sumendus, ad sex vices. Inactive hcemorrhage. 76. Tonic Aperient and Antacid Powders. ^, Sodse cavbonatis exsiccatai gr. v.; pulveris calumbse gr. x. ; pulveris rhei, zinziberis aa gr. ij. Misce ; fiat pulvis, quotidie ante prandium sumendus. ^. Ferri sesquioxydi ^j- j ^odee bicarbonatis gr. iij.; pulveris rhei gr. iij. Misce, fiat pulvis, ter die sumendus. 5. Pulveris chinchonas ^j. : sodse bicarbonatis gr. iij.; pulveris aro- matici gr. v. Misce, fiat pulvis, ter die sumendus. 77. Antacid and Carminative Mixtures. R. Magnesiae carbonatis ^j.; spiritus ammonise aromatici f3ss. ; sytupi aui'antii f3iij ; aqu£e calcis, aquge destiilatae aa f^iij. Misce, sumantur cochlearia duo magna ter die. After meals. R. Cretse preparat^ 3ss.; liquoris calcis f^iij.; aquae anethi f^iij. Misce, sumantur cochlearia duo magna ter die. R. Potassse bicarbonatis ^j.; infusi rhei f^ij.; syrupi zinziberis f3ij. > aquae menthse piperitae f^ij. Misce. Dosis f^j. bis die. The above prescriptions are intended fjr children with voracious appetites, red tongues, thirst, and loaded urine. Infusi caryophylorum f^vijss.; sodae bicarbonatis 3j. ; spiritus ammonias aromatici f3ij.; tincturae cardamomi compositae f^ss. Misce. Dosis f^jss. bis die. R'. Ammoniae sesquicarbonatis, potassas bicarbonatis aa 3ss.; aquae destiilatae f^vijss. Dosis f^jss. bis die. For adults labouring under dyspepsia, acidity, and turbid urine. To be taken after breakfast and at bed-time. 78. Liquor Potasses Mixtures. R. Liquoris potassae f3iij.; syrupi f3iij.; aqua destiilatae f^vij. Misce. Sumatur pars sexta ter die, post cibum.APrENDlX OF FORMULA. 829 R. Liquoris potassse; tincturse gentianse; syrupi zinziberis, spiritus aetheris nitrici aa f3iij.; aquae destillatge f^vjss. Mibce ; sumatur pars sexta bis vel ter die, post cibum. 79. Bismuth. ^. Bismuthi trisnitratis, diachmam ; pulveris acacise Jij. ; potassaj bicarbonatis 3j.; misturae camphoras fluiduncias sex. Misce. Dosis f^'ss. bis die. To he taken an hour after breakfast and dinner in cases of gastrodynia and pyrosis. To this mixture ten minims of Scheele's prussic acid may be added if there is much pain. Bismuthi trisnitratis 3!. ; magnesise carbonatis 335. ; pulveris acaciae 3ij.; aquae f^vj. Misce. Dosis f^jss. bis die. Pulvis Bismuthi Compositus. R. Bismuthi trisnitratis, pulveris acaciae, sodae bicarbonatis, singu- lorum ^j'j pulveris zinziberis gr. v. Misce, fiat pulvis hora post cibum sumendus, ter die. In all cases of irritable or chy^onic inflam- mation, attended with acidity, flatulence, and irritable stomachy these combinations of bismuth and alkali are most valuable, 80. Prussic Acid Mixtures R. Acidi hydrocyanici diluti {Pharm. Lond.) TY\iv.; potassae bicarbonatis gr. x.; syrupi zinziberis f3ss.; aquae anethi f^ss. Misce, fiat haustus bis die sumendus. In cases of irritable acid stomach. ^. Acidi hydrocyanici diluti (^Pharm. Pond.) Vf\\Y.; misturae cvetae f^ss.; sodae bicarbonatis gr. v. Misce, fiat haustus. In the same class of cases, v:ith irritable bowels. 81. Antilithic Powder. R. Magnesiae gr. vj.; potassae bicarbonatis gr. xij.; potassae tartratis gr. XV. Misce; fiat pulvis, omni vespere sumendus e cyatho parvo aquae. [Brodie.) 82. Sarsaparilla and Nitric Acid. Decocti sarsae compositi f^iv.; acidi nitrici diluti TTXxx.—x. ; tincturae hyoscyami £333, Misce, fiat haustus ter die sumendus. 83. Alkaline Infusion of Sarsaparilla. R. Sarsaparillae Jaraaicensis radicis, concisae et contusae ^ij. ; radicis glycyrrhizae concisae 3ij.; liquoris potassae TT^xl.—Ix. ; aquae destillatae ferventis f^x.; tincturae cardamomi compositae f^iij. Macera per horas viginti quatuor, et cola. Sumatur totum quotidie. (^Brodie.) Sarsaparilla with Iodide of Potassium. R. Potassii iodidi gr. xl.; extracti sarsae liquidi f5ij.; solve. Dosis 311. bis die, ex aquae.830 APPENDIX OF FORMULAE. 84. Sarsaparilla and Lime Water. R. Sarsaparillae ; glycyrrhizae 31].; liquoris calcis f^x. Macera per horas viginti quatuor, et cola. Sumatur totum indies. 85. Sarsaparilla Soup, To three ounces of sarsaparilla, sliced, add three pints of water; let them simmer on a slow fire until reduced to two pints; takeout the root, bruise it, and return it into the water with half a chicken, or half a pound of beef without fat; boil them for an hour slowly, and pour off the soup for use.—Dr. Cones's Lectures, vol. ii. p. 346. 86. Corrosive Sublimate Fills. R. Hydrargyri subliraati corrosivi, ammonise hydrochloratis aa gr. j.—ij. ; aquae destillatae guttam ; micae panis quantum satis est, ut fiant pilulse xij., quarum sumatur una ter die. Sir B. Brodie. 87. Corrosive Sublimate and Bark for Children, ^. Hydrargyri sublimati corrosivi gr. j. ; tincture cinchonae {vel tincturae rhei) ^ij. ; solve. Dosis f3j. ter die ex aqua. To he taken after meals. [Sir A. Cooper.) Corrosive Sublimate and Steel. R. Hydrargyri sublimati corrosivi grana duo ; tincturae ferri sesquichloridi fluidunciam. Solve. Dosis, mimina quindecim ter die, e cyatho aquae vel decocti hoi-die, vel sarsae, vel cerevisiae, vel siceetwort. Lodides of Lron, Potassium^ and Mercury. Potassii iodidi grana quadraginta ; hydrargyri corrosivi sub- limati granum unum ; syrupi ferri iodidi fluidrachmas quatuor, syrupi aurantii fluidrachmas sex ; aquae fiuiduncias sex—Dosis pars vigesima, ter die, e cyathao aquae. 88. Lodine Mixture."^ ^. lodinii gr. ^ ; potassii iodidi gr. j. ; aqua destillatae f^vj. Vel ^, Tincturae iodinii compositi (p. L.) TY\xx. ; aquae destillatae Yel R'. Liquoris potassii iodidi compositi (p. l.) f^ss. ; aqu£e de stillatae f^vss. Misce. Sumatur totum indies divisis dosibus. 89. Lodine Ointment. Iodinii gr. vij. ; potassii iodidi ^ij. adipis ^j. Misce. * These three formulas are of the same strength. The dose of iodine may be gradually increased to gr. 4-5ths, or gr. i. daily.APPENDIX OF FORMULA. 831 Iodine Paint Is composed of iodine with half its weight of iodide of potassium rubbed together with enough spirits of wine to make it of the con- sistence of paint. Used as a strong discutient for bubo, diseased joints, ^c. 90. Iodine Lotion. R. Liquoris potassii iodidi compositi f^j, ; aquae destillatse f^x. Misce. For Scrofulous Ulcers, FistulcB, Ophthalmia, ^c. 91. Rubefacient Solution of Iodine. R. lodinii, giv. ; potassii iodidi ^j. ; aquas destillatae f^vj. Misce. To touch very indolent sores, the edges of the eyelids, ozoena, ^c. 92. Caustic Solution of Iodine. ^. lodinii, 'potassii iodidi, aa ^j. ; aquae destillatae f^ij. Misce. To destroy weak granulations, ragged edges of sores, &c. 93, Iodine Bath Should contain, for children, half a grain of iodine to each quart of warm water ; and, for adults, one drachm to twenty-five gallons. The body may be immersed ten minutes.* 94. Iodide of Potassium with Bitters. R. Potassii iodidi gr. xij. ; extracti gentianae ^'j- Misce et divide in pilulas duodecim. R. Potassii iodidi ^j. ; infusi gentianae compositi {vel decocti cin- chonae) f^vss.; tincturae aurantii fjij. Misce. Dosis, pars sexta ter die. 95. Iodide of Potassium loith Alkali. R. Potassii iodidi gr. xij. ; potassae bicarbonatis 3j. ; (vel liquoris potassae fjij. ;) syrupi f^ss. ; aquae f^vss. Misce. Dosis f^j. bis die. 96, Iodide of Potassium with Colchicum. R. Potassii iodidi [^j.: potassae bicarbonatis 5j.; vini colchici f5jss.; syrupi f5ii. ; misturae camphorae f^viiss. Misce, Dosis, pars sexta, ter vel quater die, 97. Arsenical Mixtures. R. Liquoris arsenici chloridi f3j.; aquae destillatae f^vj. Dosis, pars sexta ter die, post cibum. 2his solution of arsenic was devised by Dr. De Valingen, an eminent physician who lived in Bishopsgate Street, at the beginyiing of the present century. The writer has had ample opportunities of verifying 3Ir. Hunt's * Vide Essays on the Effects of Iodine in Scrofulous Diseases, by Lugol. translated by O'Shauglmessy. London, 1831.APPENDIX OF FORMULA. 832 opinion, that it is more safe and efficacious than the Liquor potassce arsenitis, or Fowler's solution. R, Liquoris potassse arsenitis tY\xx.—xxx. ; syrupi f3iij. ; tincturae cardamomi f3iij. ; aquae destillatse f^vss. Misce. Dosis f^j. ter die, statim post cibum.* j § IV. Emetics. 98. Relaxing Emetics. R. Antimonii tartarizati gr. iij. ; aquae destillatse f^iij. Misce, sumatur cochleare magnum frequenter, donee vomitus supervenerit. R. Antimonii tartarizati gr. j. ; ipecacuanhse ^j. Misce, fiat pulvis. 99. Warm Emetics. R. Pulveris ipecacuanhse, ammonise sesquicarbonatis aa ^j* spiri- tiis lavandulse compositi V(\x.; aquse f^j. Misce, tiat haustus. Bibat aeger postea infusi anthemidis tepidi octarium. In the incipient stage of Erysipelas, Fever, ^c. R. Farinae sinapeos vulgaris cochleare magnum; salis vulgaris cochleare ; aquse tepidae octarium. Misce. 100. Zinc Emetic. R, Zinci sulphatis ^ij.; aquse f'^ij. Misce^ fiat haustus. § V. Enemata. 101. Opiate Enema, R, Decocti amyli f^iv. ; tincturse opii f5ss.—3j. Misce. (^Pharm. Lond.) Opiate Suppository. R. Pulveris opii gr. j.—iv. ; cetacei (vel sevi, i. e. tallow) gr. xx. ; misce. * Mr. Hunt, who has had probably greater experience in the use of arsenic than any other man living, gives the following rules for its administration. " It should never be given when there is any feverishness; never on an empty stomach; never in increasing doses, the largest dose ever required being Tn\ v. of Fowler's solution three times a day. The first effect to be loolsed for is an itching or smarting of the conjunctiva, and swelling and puiiiness of the lower eyelid; upon which the dose should be reduced to three minims. If the con- junctiva continues much inflamed, the dose should be again reduced; but it should be kept in a tender state throughout the course. The arsenical course should be continued for as many months after the disappearance of the skin disease, as it had existed years before." See Papers by Mr. Hunt, in Lancet for 1846, and his Treatise on Diseases of the Skin, Lond. 1847.APPENDIX OF FORMULA'. 833 102. Turpentine Enema. R. Olei terebinthinae f^j. ; vitelli ovi {yel mucilaginis acaciae) quantum satis sit; tere simul et adde, decocti hordei, vel decocti avenag, f^xix. 103. Tobacco Enema. R. Tabaci foliorum 3s?. ; aquae octarium dimidium ; macera per horae quartam partem, et cola. 104. Castor Oil Enema. R. Olei ricini f^iij. ; potassae carbonatis gr. xv.; saponis 5j. ; aquae ferveutis octarium ; tere simul donee bene misceantur. 105. Purgative Enemata. R. Magnesiae sulphatis ^ij. ; decocti aA^enae octarium. Misce. R. Salis vulgaris ^. ; decocti anthemidis octarium. Misce. R. Fellis bovini inspissati ^ss. ; saponis 3j. ; aquae ferventis octa- rium. Good for dissolving scybala. R. Extracti colocynthidis jj. ; aquas ferventis octarium. 106. Enemata for destroying Ascarides. R. Aloes, saponis aa ^j. ; aquae octarium. R. Aloes, saponis, assafoetidae aa ^j- j aquae octarium. Misce. ^. Infusi quassiae octarium ; ferri sulphatis gr. v. Misce. N.B. The dilute citrine ointment (one part of the ointment to 12 of hard fat) is a capital remedy. A small piece should be put within the sphincter. § VJ. Gargles. 107. Detergent Gargle. R. Liquoris sodse chlorinatae f3iv. ; mellis ; aquae destillatae f^iij. Misce. A tahlespoonful to be mixed with a glass of v:arm brandy and water, to be used as a gargle. 108. Cooling and Sialagogue Gargles. R. Mellis, confectionis rosae caninae aa 3ij.; aceti destillati f_^ss. ; acidi hydrochlorici Tiq^xxx. ; aquae i-osae f^j.; aquae puiae i'^^vj. Misce. R. Potassae nitrutis 3J, ; infusi rosae compositi f^viij. Misce, R. Oxymellis f^iij. ; misturss camphorae f^v. Misce. R. Boracis 3j. ; mellis ^. aquas rosa3 f^. ; aquae f5vj. Misce. 109. Astringent Gargles. R. Aluminis 3j. ; acidi sulphurici diluti TT^xx. ; tincturae myrrhae f3ij. ; decocti cinchonae f^vj, Misce. D 3 H834 APPENDIX OF FORMULA, R. Zinci sulphatis 3ss. ; aquae f^viij. Misce. R. Liquoris chloridi zinci [Sir W. Burnett's Disinfecting Solution) f5ss. ; aquee f^viij, Misce. An admirable wash for the mouth when the membrane is flabby and the secretion offensive. 110. Stimulating Gargles. R, Tincturse capsici fjij. ; oxyraellis f^ss.; aquee f^vijss. Misce. R. Tincturse pyrethri (F. 183) fjiij. ; aquae ^viij. Misce. 111. Tannin Gargle. R. Tannin ^j. ; brandy f^ss. ; mistuiae cainphoras f^vss. Misce. For salivation, spongy gums, relaxed throat, ^c. 112. Corrosive Sublimate Gargle. R. Hydrargyri sublimati conosivi gr. ij.; acidi hydroclilorici V(\\x. ; mellis^.; aquae destillatae f^vij. Misce. 113, Creosote Gargle. R. Creosoti guttas xx. ; aquae f^viij. Agita simul donee solvetur creosoton. Soothing Gargle. R. Extracti papaveris, drachmam ; boracis, drachmam ; aquse, fluiduncias octo, Misce. Glycerine is a capital soothing application, in diphtheria, &c., either painted on with a camel's-hair pencil, or in combination with either of the above gargles. (See p. 838.) § VII. Lotions, Injections, and Collyria. 114. Frigorific Mixture. , R. Sodii chloridi, potassae nitratis, ammoniae hydrochloratis, partes sequales ; aquae quantum satis sit ad solvendum. To be put into a bladder. 115. Spirit Lotion. ^. Spiritus vini rectificati f^".; aquae f^xv. Misce. 116. Goulard's Lotion, " This is made by putting two teaspoonfuls, or 200 drops of the extract of Saturn {Liq. Plumbi Diacetatis), to a quart of water, and four teaspoonfuls of brandy." From a Treatise on the eifects of Lead, &c.; from the French of Mr. Goulard, Surgeon-major to the Royal and Military Hospital of Montpellier, Lond. 1775. Dilute spirit of wine may be substituted for the brandy.APPENDIX OF FORMULA. 835 Nitrate of Lead. R. Plumbi nitvatis, drachmam; aquae destillatae, octarium. Fiat lotio. A capital deodorizing lotion for ulcers, cancers, ^c. (Dr. Ogier Ward.) 117. Zinc Lotions. R. Zinci sulphatis grana xx.; aquae octarium. Misce. Acetate of Zinc Lotion. Be, Liquoris plumbi diacetatis £333. ; zinci sulphatis 333.; aquae des- tillatae, octarium dimidium. Acetate of Zinc with Creosote Lotion. ^. Plumbi acetatis, zinci sulphatis aa 'j^ss. : creosoti guttam unam. Tere simul ut fiat pulvis, in aquae octario dimidio solvendus ut fiat lotio. The author learned this formula from Mr. Harvey. It may be supplied to patients in the form of powder, and is an excellent as- tringent, and corrective of fostor in otorrhoea and other fetid dis- charges. 118. Lotion of Chloride of Ammonium. T^. Ammoniae hydrochloratis ^^ss.; acidi acetici diluti, spiritus recti- ficati aa f^ss.; misturae camphorse f^xv. Misce, A discutient. 119. Nitric Acid Lotion. 9. Rosae petalorum ^j- j aquas ferventis f^viij.; acidi nitrici diluti f3ijss, Misce, et cola post horam. To clean foul ulcers. 120. Opiate Lotion. ^. Pulveris opii 333.; aquae destillatae ferventis f^viij. ; macera per horas duas, et cola. For irritable soi'es, phagedcena, <^c. 121. Foppy Lotion. J^. Extracti papaveris 3ij. ; aquae ferventis f^iv. Misce. The addition of a drachm of borax forms a capital lotion for itching erup- tions. 122. Conium Lotion. ^I. Extracti conii 3j.; aquae destillatae f^iij,; tere simul, et macera per horas duas; dein cola. For painful sores. 123. Belladonna Lotion, Extracti belladonnae 3j.; aquae f^iv. Misce, et cola. 124. Arsenical Lotion. ^. Liquoris arsenicalis f3j.; aquse destillatae f^. Misce.836 APPENDIX OF FOKMUL^. 125. Black Wasli. ^. Calomelanos 3j.; mucilaginis acacise f^ss. ; liquoris calcis f^vss. Misce. 126. Yellow Wash. ^. Hydrargyri sublimati corrosivi gi-. vj.—xij.; liquoris calcis f^vj. ^lisce. 127. Chloride of Zinc Lotion. R. Liquoris zinci chloridi {Sir W. Burnett's) £553.; aquae destillatse f5viij. Misce. The best lotion for cancer of the womb. 128. Iron Lotion. R. Ferri sulphatis gr. viij. ; aquae destillatae f^viij. Misce. See Mr. Vincent's Observations."/or use of this lotion in piles. Lotions of the chloride of iron may be made by adding two fluid drachms of tincture of steel to four ounces of water ; any other prepa- ration will probably do as well. A concentrated solution of sulphate of iron was much recommended by Velpeau in erysipelas. The citrate of iron, in the proportion of five grains to the ounce is a favourite lotion in phagedaenic sores. 129. Alum Lotion and Bath. ^. Aluminis 3j.; aquae destillatae octarium. Misce. For an alum bath, for leucorrhcea, prolapsus uteri, &c., add a table- spoonful of powdered alum to enough cold or tepid water to make a hip-bath ; it should be injected by means of an india-rubber syringe {Higginson's). 130. Blue Lotion. ^. Cupri sulphatis gr. viij. ; aquae f^viij. Misce. Ibl. Tannin Lotion, ^. Tannin Jss.; spiritus rectificati fjj. ; aquae destillatae f5iv. Misce. 132. Oakbark and Catechu Lotions, ley. Catechu 3j.; aquae ferventis fSviij. Macera per horam, et cola. R. Corticis quercus pj. ; aquae ferventis octarium ; coque ad con- sumptionem dimidii, et cola. 133. Borax Lotion. ^. Boracis 3j. ; aquae destillatae f^viij. Misce. 134. Nitrate of Silver Injection for the Urethra. R. Argenti nitratis (cri/si.) gr. ij.; aquae destillatae f^viij, Misce. (Eicord.) N.B. Nitrate of silver for solutions ought to be crystallized, and of a pure white colour, not darkened by expo&ure to light or contact with organic matter.APPENDIX OF FORMULA. 837 135. Sulphate of Zinc Injection. R. Zinci sulphatis gr. viij. ; aquae destillatse f^viij. Misce. 136. Acetate of Zinc Injection. Zinci sulphatis, gr. v.; liquoris plumbi diacetatis f5ss.; aquae rosae f^iv. Misce, fiat injectio. 137. Acetate of Copper Injection. ^. Cupri sulphatis gr, v.; liquoris plumbi diacetatis f5ss.; aquae rosas, f^iv. Misce, fiat injectio. 138. Ammoniuret of Copper Injection. 5. Liquoris cupri ammonio-sulphatis TT\,xx.; tincture opii f5ss. ; aquas rosse ^iv. Misce, fiat lotio. 139. Sulphate of Zinc with Opium. ^i. Pulveris opii ^ss.; aquae ferventis octarium dimidium; macera per horas duas, dein cola et adde zinci sulphatis ^ss. 140. Collyria. ^. Zinci sulphatis gr. j. ; vel aluminis gr. j.; vel cupri sulphatis gr. I; vel argenti nitratis gr. j.; vel zinci acetatis gr. j.; vel liq. plumbi diacetatis T1\v.; aquae destillatae f^. Misce. One part of good brandy to six of water makes an admirable colly- rium for most cases. 141. Corrosive Sublimate Collyrimn. R. Hydrargyri sublimati corrosivi gr. j.; aquae destillatae f^^iij. Misce. {Mackenzie.) 142. Op)iate Collyrium. 1^. Zinci sulphatis gr. xij. {yel liquoris plumbi diacetatis i^ss.) liquoris opii sedativi f3ij.; aquae destillatae f^xij. Misce. 143. Opodeldoch, vel Linimentum Saponis. ^. Spiritus vini rectificati libras iv.; saponis mollis libram unam ; digere in leni calore donee fiat solutio, cui adde camphoras uncias duas, olei rosmarini, origani aa semunciam. Misce, agitando.—Old Edin- burgh Fharm. 144. Stimulating Liniments. R. Liquoris ammoniae f3ij.; linimenti camphoras (■y^ninimenti cam- phorse compositi) f^'. Misce, fiat linimentum. R. Tincturae capsici f^ss. ; linimenti saponis f^ss. Misce. Dr. A. B. Granville's " Antidynic " Lotion is composed of strong liquor ammoniae, spirit of rosemary or eau de Cologne, and spirit of838 APPENDIX OF FORMULA. camphor, in the proportions of about 5, 3, and 1. It is much used as a blister ; a round piece of hnt the size of a penny being soaked in it, and covered with a round piece of pasteboard. In neuralgia. 145. Pearson's Liniment. R. Olei olivas f^jss.; olei terebinthinse f^ss.; acidi sulphurici fortis- simi fjjss. Misce gradatim. A painful irritant. 146. Chilblain Liniment. R. Tincturse cantharidis f3iij.; linimenti saponis f3ix. Misce, fiat linimentum. Wardrop. 147. Opiate Liniment. ^. Tincturse opii f^ss.; linimenti saponis f^j. Misce. 148. Conium Liniment, or Epithem. ^. Extracti conii ^j.; glycerine ^ss. Misce. In neuralgia and uterine irritation. 149. Belladonna Liniment. R. Extracti belladonnse scrupulum : glycerine fluidunciam dimidiam. Misce. Glycerine is the best vehicle for narcotic liniments, as it pene- trates the cuticle, and does not dry, and so renders absorption by the skin more easy. The extracts of opium and aconite may be used in like manner. Anodyne Camphor Liniment, ^i. Camphorse 3ij ; spiritus rectificati 3j.; glycerine ^. A capital soothing rubefacient for chronic rheumatism and neuralgia. 150. Mercurial Liniment. R. Unguenti hydrargyri fortioris; adipis aa ^iv.; camphorse ^.; spiritus rectificati f^j. ; liquoris ammonise f^iv. Misce. 151. Croton Oil Embrocation. R. Olei tiglii guttas xxx.; linimenti saponis f^ss. Misce. Glycerine. Glycerine was long ago recommended in this work as a vehicle for various medicines as local applications.—Ex gr. F. 148 and 149. Bismuth and Glycerine Liniment. ^. Bismutiii trisnitratis in pulverem subtilissimum redacti semi- unciam; glycerine quantum satis sit fiat linimentum. This was re- commended by the Author many years ago in a case of ulcerated epithelioma of the mouth, which he saw with his friend Mr. Hunt;839 APPENDIX OF FORMULAE. it is soothing and deodorizing. It has since been recommended by an eminent French surgeon. Glycerine has very many uses in surgeiy. In the first place it is, per se, a capital thing if applied by means of a camel's hair pencil to diy and irritable surfaces; to chafings, excoriations, burns, cracked nipples, itching patches, &c.—external and internal; for example, a dry, chapped tongue, or irritable throat, or irritated rectum or vulva. Secondly, it seems to have penetrating and antiseptic qualities which fit it well as an application to phagedaenic and diphtheritic surfaces, hospital gangrene, cancerous and other rebellious ulcers. For diphtheritic soie throat it is admirable. In the next place, as it dissolves freely water and alcohol, and essential oils (but not fixed oils, fats, and resins), and most saline substances, it is a good adjunct to most lotions, vsoothing or astringent, in the proportion of one-third or fourth, as a substitute for that pio- portion of water. Or the glycerine may be used as the sole vehicle for other ingre- dients, as in the following formulie, which aie, for the most part, borrowed from M. Demarquay's interesting Ti eatise " De la Glycerine et ses Applications k la Chirurgie et la Medecine," Paris, Asi^elin, 1863 ; an Enghsh translation of which has appeared from the pen of Dr. W. Abbotts Smith. It may be remai ked that the glycerine should he pure ; and that Pi-ice"s is considered the best. The French designate the liquid compound ghjcerolcs ; and the solid, glycerats. Chloroform Liniment with Glycerine. R. Glycerine 3vij.; chloroform 5j. Misce in mortario. For lum- bago, neuralgia, &c. Tannin with Glycerine. R. Glycerine 3xv.; tannin 5iij. Misce, In vaginitis. If diluted with twice the quantity of glycerine, it may be used as an injection in gleet, and as an application in suppurative conjunctivitis. Glycerine may be combined with tincture of iodine, creosote, borax, and almost any other liquid: but there remains the solid glycerat of starch which is a capital basis for ointments, and may be substituted for lard or other fat. It is more penetrating, and dries less ; and is a con- venient medium for calomel, red precipitate, and other mercurial salts. The writer learned its use from Mr. H. Lee. Glycerat of Starch. Heat together 6 parts by weight of starch and 30 of glycerine, in a porcelain vessel, over a water-bath, stirring till the starch is com- pletely gelatinized. Another formula is 85 parts of glycerine, 5 of starch, and 10 of water. The result ought to be transparent, gela- tinous, and soft.APPENDIX OF FORMULA. 840- § VIII. Poultices. N.B. Before applying any poultice, it is well to smear the skin with glycerine, in order to hinder particles of bread, linseed, mustard, &c., from sticking. 152. Bran Poultice. Make a linen or flannel bag of the size requisite to cover the part affected, and fill it loosely with bran. Pour boiling water on this till it is thoroughly moistened; put it into a coarse towel, and wring it dry ; then apply it so soon as it is cool enough. 153. Bread Poultice. " I shall now speak,"' says Mr. Abernethy, "of the bread and water poultice. The way in which I direct it to be made is the fol- lowing:—Put half a pint of hot waf er into a pint basin : add to this as much of the crumb of bread as the water will cover: then place a plate over the basin and let it remain about ten minutes; stir the bread about in the water, or, if necessary, chop it a little with the edge of the knife, and drain off the water by holding the knife on the top of the basin, but do not press the bread, ao is usually done ; then take it out lightly, and spread it about one-third of an inch thick on some soft linen, and lay it upon the part." A very admi) able soft poultice for parts that are excoriated, or that threaten to slough from pressure, during long illnesses, may be made by mixing equal parts of bread-crumbs and of mutton suet grated very fine, with a little boiling water, and stirring them in a saucepan over the fire till they are well incorporated. 154. Linseed Meal Poultice. The highest authority on poultices was Mr. Abernethy, who seemed to revel in the idea of them. " Scald your basin," he says, " by pour- ing a little hot water into it, then put a small quantity of finely-ground linseed meal into the basin, pour a little hot water on it, and stir it round briskly until you have well incorporated them; add a little more meal and a little more water, then stir it again. Do not let any lumps remain in the basin, but stir the poultice well, and do not be sparing of your trouble. If properly made, it is so well worked together, that you might throw it up to the ceiling, and it would come down again without falling in pieces; it is, in fact, like a pancake. What you do next, is to take as much of it out of the basin as you may re- quire, lay it on a piece of soft linen, let it be about a quarter of an inch thick, and so wide that it may cover the whole of the inflamed part." 155. Yeast Poultice, R. Farinse lb. j.; cerevisise fermenti f^. Misce, e.t calorem lenem adhibe donee intumeseant. (Pharm. Lond.)APPENDIX OF FORMULA. 841 150. Mustard Poultice. R. Lini seminum, sinapis, singuloram contiitorum libram dimi- diam ; aceti fervefacti, quantum satis sit; ut fiat cataplasmatis cras- situdo. Misce. (Pharm. Lond.) A far better poultice is made by merely mixing Hour of mustard with warm (not boiling) water. 157. Opiate Poultice. ^i. Micae panis, et lotionis op/ato supraprsesci iptse (F. 120), singulo- rum, quantum satis sit, 158. Conium Poultice. R, Cataplasmatis panis quantum satis sit; extracti conii 3j. Misce. These poultices are inferior to F. 147 and 148. 159. Carrot Poultice. Boil carrots till they are quite soft, then smash them into a smooth pulp. § IX, Ointments. N.B. The glycerat of starch, p. 839, or glycerine pure, may be sub- stituted for adeps in most of the following ointments with benefit. 160. Scott's Ointment. ^. Unguenti hydrargyii tbrtioris, cerati saponis aa ^j-? camphorse pulverizatse ^j. Misce. 161. Tartar Emetic Ointment. R. Antimonii potassio-tartratis 5j.; adipis ^^j. Misce. 162. Ointment for Piles. B. Pulveris gallse jj.; liquoris plumbi diacetatis TTXxv.; adipis ^• Misce. 9. Pulveris opii ^ss.; liquoris plumbi diacetatis guttas x.; adipis _^ss. Misce. 103. Creosote Ointment. ^. Creosoti guttas viginti; unguenti resinse, adipis singulorum uuciara. Misce. Peruvian Balsam Ointment. ^. Balsami Peruvian! ^j.; unguenti cetacei ^j. Misce. These, like the old elemi ointment, are good stimulating applications to indolent and sloughing ulcers; hut the creosote is a good deodorizer as well. It is good also for piles. 164. Chalk Ointment. ^. Cretae precipitatse ^j.; olei olivae 3iij.; adipis _^ss. Misce. For hums, excoriations with acrid discharge, &c.842 APPENDIX OP FORMULA. Bismuth Ointment. 1^. Bismuthi. trisnitratis jij.; adipis 3vj. Misce. A capital oint- ment for excoriations and irritable sores. 165. Magnesia Ointment. ^. Magnesise carbonatis3j.; adipis ^j. Misce. 166. Anodyne Bark Ointment. R. Extvacti vel pulveiis opii 3ij.; oamphorse jj.; pulveris cin- chonse ^ijss.; adipis vel cerati cetacei, ^v.; spiritus vini rect. q. s. misce fiat unguentum.—(Jfr. Cole.) 168. Veratria Ointment. R. Veratrise sr. iv.; spiritiis rectificati f3j.; adipis 3J. Misce. In neuralgia. A bit the size of a bean to be rubbed on the painf ul part. 163. Ointments for the Eyelids.* R. Unguenti citrini (Jiydrargyri nitratis) 3ss.; adi})is f^ss. Solve leni calore.f R. Unguenti citrini 3ss.; hydrargyri nitrico-oxydi in pulverem subtilissimum redacti gr. v. ; adipis 3iv. Misce bene. R. Liquoris plumbi diacetatis guttas x. ; morphise acetatis gr. iv. ; calomelanos gr. x. ; adipis ^ss. Misce. 169. Ointment of Nitrate of Silver. R. Argenti nitratis gr. iv.; adipis bene loti 3ss. Misce. 170. Calomel Ointment. R. Calomelanos 3ij.; adipis 3vij. Misce. In chancre, and con- dylomata, ^c. 171. Green, or Verdigris Ointment {Pharm. Ed.) R. Cupri acetatis 3j.; cerati resina3 ^. Misce. For flabby ulcers, warts, indolent eruptions, ^c. The writer learned the use of this from his friend Dr. R. Dickson. 172. Goulard's, or Compound Lead Cerate. R. Liquoris plumbi diacetatis f3iij.; cerse ^^iv.; olei olivse octarium dimidium ; camphorte 3ss. Melt the wax, and add gradually to it the * Singleton's Golden Ointment for the eyelids is said to be composed of equal parts of orpiment and lard. -j- The nitrate of mercury solidifies olive oil, and renders other oils green and rancid, so that it seems better to return to the old formula, and employ lard only, and not oil, in the preparation of the unguentum citrinum. Mr. Wilde speaks highly of a brown ointment of nitrate of mercury, prepared by the Dublin chemists, some of whom use rape oil, others fish oil.APPENDIX OF FORMULA. 843 oil, in which the camphor has been previously dissolved ; as they cool, add the liquor plumbi, stirring continually till well mixed. 173. Red Precipitate Ointment. R. Hydrargyri nitrico-oxydi, optime pulverizati 3j.; adipis Misce. Chloroform Ointment. 9. Chloroform 1 part; lard 2; blend quickly by trituration. Squire. See, also, chloroform liniment with glycerine, p. 839. In itching, as pruritus ani, Sj-c. § X. Miscellaneous Prescriptions for various Surgical Diseases. 174. Demulcent Mixtures for Gonorrhoea. Pulveris acacise Jij. ; sodse sesquicarbonatis jj.; tincturge opii TY\xx.; aquai f^vijss. Misce. Dosis f^ss. quater die. R. Liquoris potassse f3ij. ; liquoris opii sedativi f3ss.; raisturse amygdalae f^vj. Misce. Sumantur cochlearia duo quarta quaque bora. R. Potassse bicarbonatis 3ij.; tincturse hyoscyami f3ij.; tincturse conii f3iij. ; misturce acaciae f^.; aquae f^vij. Dosis pars sexta ter die. 175. Copaiba Mixture. R. Copaibse f3ij. ; mucilaginis acaciae f^j. ; spiritus aetheris nitrici, spiritus laA^andulae aa f3ij. ,* olei cinnamomi guttas ij.; aquae f^v. Misce. Dosis f^. ter die. 176. Copaiba and Oil of Cuhehs. R. Copaibse f3iij.; olei cubebae TTLxx.; liquoris potassae f3ij.; sp. myristicae f3iij.; misturae camphorse f^vj.; misturae acaciae f^*. Misce. Sumantur cochlearia duo magna ter die. Copaiba and Kino. R. Copaibse f^ss.; pulveris kino 3j.; mucilaginis acacias f^j.; spiritus lavandulae compositi f3iij. ,* aquae f^v. Misce. Sumantur cochlearia duo magna ter die. Copaiba and Catechu. I^. Copaibse f^ss.; tincturae catechu f3vj.; olei juniperi guttas duas ; mucilaginis f^.; aquae f^v. Misce. Sumantur cochlearia duo ter die.844 APPENDIX OF FORMULA. Turpentine and Copaiba. R. Olei terebinthinge f3ij.; copaibie f3vj. Misce ; sumantur guttae quadraginta ter die, e cyatho aquae. 177. Copaiba and Magnesia Pills. R. Copaibse f^ss,; magnesite carbonatis quantum satis sit ut fiat massa in pilulas dividenda. 178. Cubebs and Soda. R. Pulveris cubebse ^ij.; sodse sesquicarbonatis; potassse bitartratis aa ^ss. Misce; fiat pulvis, ter die sumendus. 179. Cantharides and Zinc. R. Zinci sulphatis gr. xxiv. | pulveris cantharidis gr. vj.; pulveris rhei 5j.; terebinthinse Venetiensis quantum satis sit, ut fiant pilulce vigiuti quatuor, quarum sumantur duse ter die. 180. Cantharides and Steel. R. Tincturse ferri sesquichloi'idi, tincturse cantharidis aa f5ij. ; tincturse capsici f'3j.; syrupi croci f3ij.; aquse pimentas f^vj. Misce; sumantur cochlearia duo ter die. N.B. The combination of quinine with tincture of steel, F. 18, and especially with VC\\. of tincture of nux vomica added to each dose, is a good formula for gleet. Cantharides should be used with much caution. 181. For Chronic Cystitis. R. Foliorum buchu, et uv« ursi aa 3ij.; aquae ferventis f^vj. Macera per horas duas; dein cola, et adde liquoris potassse f3j.; tincturse cinnamomi, f3iij. Misce ; sumantur cochlearia duo ter die. R, Pareirae ^j.; aquae destillatae octarium ; decoque ad dimidium ' dein adde decocti cinchonae flavae f^vj.; tincturse hyoscyami f3iij. 5 sodas sesquicarbonatis 3ss. Dosis f^iij. bis die. R. Decocti chimaphilse f^j.; syrupi zinziberis f3j. ; spiritus setheris nitrici f3j. Misce, fiat haustus bis die sumendus. 182. Benzoic Acid. R. Acidi benzoici, ammoniae sesquicarbonatis aa 3j.; syrupi tolu- tani f3ij.; aquse destillatse f^vj. Misce. Dosis f^j. ter die. R. Acidi benzoici, extracti papaveris aa 3ss. Misce et divide in pilulas xij.; quarum sumantur duse ter die. R. Acidi benzoici, sacchari albi aa gr. viij. Fiat pulvis, ter di® sumendus. In urinary disorders, chronic bronchitis and cystitis.APPENDIX OF FORMULA. 845 183. Antiodontalgic Remedies. Mastiches 3].; spiritiis rectificati (vel Fau de Cologne) ^^ss. Solve. Cotton imbued with this forms a good temporary plug for a carious tooth. The same purpose is answered by a solution of gum copal in aether; or by collodion, or by a solution of gutta percha in chloroform. See Tomes's Lectures. ethereal Tincture of Tannin. ^. Tannin 3j.; mastiches jj.; spiritus setheris sulphuric! ^j. Misce. Camphor with Chloroform. R. Camphorse 3j. ; chloroformi ^ss. Tincture of Pellitory. R. Radicis pyrethri concisi ^ss. ; spiritus rectificati ^iv. Macera per dies xiv., et cola. Half a teaspoonful mixed with a ivine-glassful of ivater forms a very agreeable wash in nervous and atonic toothache. 184. Eye Snuff. R. Pulveris asari partes tres; pulveris florum lavandulae partes duas. Misce. Vel R. Pulveris euphorbii partem unam, pulveris amyli partes septem. Misce. 3Iercurial Eye Snuff. R. Hydrargyri sub-sulphatis flavi 3ss.; pulveris glycyrrhizae 3ij. Misce intime. 185. Schmuckers Resolvent Pills. R. Sagapeni, galbani, saponis aa 3j. ; rhei 3jss.; antimonii potassio- tartratis gr. xv. ; succi glycyrrhizae 3j. Misce. Dosis, gr. xv. bis die. Richters Pills. R. Ammoniaci, assafcetidse, saponis, valerianic, arnicse aa 3ij. ; an- timonii potassio-tartratis gr. xviij.; syrupi quantum satis est ut fiat massa. Dosis, gr. xx.—xxx. ter die. In amaurosis. 186. Gallic Acid Mixture. R. Acidi gallici ^ij-; syrupi f3ij.; aquae destillatse f^v-iij. Misce. Dosis, pars sexta, tertia vel quarta quaque hora. In passive haemor- rhage. 187. Alum Mixtures. R. Aluminis 3j.; acidi sulphurici diluti f3jss, ; syrupi f^ss.; infusi rosse f^vijss. Misce. Dosis, pars sexta quarta quaque hora. In the same. R. Aluminis 3j. ; lactis Oj. ; corticis limonis ^j.; coque per quar- tam partem horse, et cola. To be drunk cold, ad libitum.APPENDIX OF FORMULA. 846 188. Resinous Lotion. R. Tincturae benzoes compositse 3j.; aquas f^ij. Misce. 189. Sir A. Cooper's Prescription for Cancer. R. Ammoniae sesquicarbonatis gr. v.; sodse sesquicarbonatis 3ss.; tincturae calumbae f5j. ; iiifusi gentianse compositi f^ss. Misce, fiat haustus bis die sumendus. 190. Arnica Montana. R. Foliorum arnicse 3ij.; aquas ferventis OiS.; macera per horam, et cola. Dosis ^. R. Florum arnica ^^'ss.; spiritus rectificati Oj.; macera per dies xiv., et cola; vel R. Foliorum arnicas ^ss.; spiritus tenuoris Oj.; macera per dies xiv., et cola. Dose TY^xv.—xxx. In nervous headache, atonic amau- rosis, tinnitus aurium, arid as a local application for muscular stiffness after bruises. See Wilde's Contributions to Aural Surgery, Dublin, 1848. Dr. Garrod has shown that the effect of tincture of arnica in causing absorption of a bruise is precisely that of the spirit contained in it, and no more. 191. Phosphorus Pills. R. Micse panis 3j.; aqu« destillatae quantum satis sit ut fiat massa idonese crassitudinis, dein adde phosphori gvanum unum. Misceantur bene et divide in pilulas xx. Dosis, una ter vel quater die. Di intense nervous debility. Of doubtful efficacy. 192. For Ulceration of the bowels, after fever, in Phthisis, ^c. R. Cupri sulphalis gr. iij. ; pulveris opii gr. jss.; extracti gly- cyrrhizse q. s., ut fiat massa in pilulas vj. dividenda. Sumat unam quartis horis. 193. To melt Nitrate of Silver for the purpose of coating a Probe, or Sound. " Some powdered lunar caustic, from six to twenty grains, is to be moistened with water in a little porphyry dish, boiled up over a spirit lamp, and constantly stirred with a silver knife till the water have evaporated, and the caustic remain fluid in its water of crystallization alone, which may be ascertained by its thin pap-like appearance, and the formation of the crystallization-film. This paste is now to be spread with the spatula on the slightly-heated groove of the caustic- holder, and, when it has cooled, any projection is to be removed with the spatula, or with pumice-stone. Whilst boiling, the caustic flies about smartly, and therefore it is necessary to put on a glove, so that the hand be not spotted with black."—South's Ghelius.847 APPENDIX OF FORMULA. 194. To make common Bougies. " A piece of fine linen, which has been ah'eady used, nine inches long and half an inch to an inch in width, according to the thickness of the bougie to be made, is to be dipped into melted plaster, and when a little cooled, spread flat and even with a spatula; it is then to be rolled together between the fingers, and afterwards between two plates of marble till it is quite firm and smooth. The bougie must be equally- thick throughout its whole length to about one inch from its point, from whence it should gradually taper, and terminate in a firm round point. Bougies are also made by dipping cotton-threads in melted wax till they have acquired sufficient size, after which they are rolled between marble plates."—South's Ghelius. This formula may he useful to surgeons on foreign stations. 195. Acid Nitrate of Mercury, Dissolve one part of mercury in two parts of strong nitric acid, and evaporate to three-fourths.—Paris Codex. 196. Essence of Beef. Take a pound of lean beef, free from skin, bone, and fat: chop it up; put it into a large earthen jar with cover; cement the edges with flour paste ; tie it up tightly in a cloth ; plunge it into a saucepan, and let it boil for two hours ; pour oft' the liquid essence from the coagulated muscle ; let it stand till cold ; skim off the fat. This essence is prepared for sale by Messrs. Brand of 11 Little Stanhope Street. See a communication by the author to the Obstetrical Society, Obst. Trans., a^oI. iii., p. 143, and a letter in the Medical Times and Gazette for 1861, vol i., pp. 536, 587, advocating the use of this essence as a substitute for brandy in cases of debility and nervous exhaustion. The writer must also mention in terms of high commen- dation, Gillou's Essence of Beef, Mutton, Chicken, &c., preserved in tins, and sold wholesale in London by J. Bell and Co., Oxford Street. Puree of Meat. Take any raw or underdone meat, chicken, or mutton by preference ; cut off" skin and fat, pound it in a mortar until it is a paste if raw, or a powder if cooked. Diffuse a tablespoonful of this through half a pint of good beef soup. Meat Custard. Take any cooked meat, pound it to a powder; separate sinew, fibre, &c. ; mix it with yolk of egg and milk, to make a custard: flavour with salt and a little marjoram ; gently cook it till it sets. These are " means of administering meat to patients too feeble to masticate, 197. Nitrate and Muriate of Ammonia. ^. Ammonise muriatis 3ij.; aquse destillate f^viij. Misce. Sumat partem sextam vel quartam ter die.APPENDIX OF FORMULA. 848 ^. Ammonise nitratis 353. ; aquse f^vss.; syrupi aurantii f3iv. Misce. Sumat cochlearia duo arnpla ter die. J)r. Egan. In rheu- matism and secondary syphilis. 198. Solution of Sulphate of Atropia. ^i. Atropiae sulphatis gr. ss.; aquae destillatse f^. Misce, fiat solutio. Except, in cases of cataract, Mr. Walton uses a weak solution like this. A stronger solution acts more quickly ; but the dilatation remains too long; and patients complain that the adjusting power of the sound eye is interfered with. 199. To make a Metallic Amalgam or Cement, to fill Decayed Teeth. Rub together in a mortar some silver, reduced to a fine powder by filing or by precipitation, with a few globules of mercury. When well mixed into a paste, knead it well with the fingers, and squeeze out any superfluous mercury. Then the cavity of the tooth having been properly scraped out and dried, fill it with the amalgam, making the surface of the metal smooth and even with that of the tooth. The patient must be desired not to use the teeth for some hours, till the amalgam has become hard. 200. Pills of Chian Turpentine. This substance may be made into pills each five grains in weight; which may be sent out in a phial of water, to prevent them from sticking together.—{C. R. Walsh.) In cystirrhwa, ^c. 201. Phosphate of Lime. This may be prepared by boiling about four ounces of ivory dust in water for ten minutes. This water should be strained olf and thrown away, to get rid of impurities. Then more water should be added, in which the dust should be stewed, till the jelly is extracted, and itself is soft enough to crunch between the teeth. Lemon-juice, wine, sugar, or other flavouring ingredients may be added; and the softened ivory dust be eaten with the jelly. Or, any quantity of ivory dust or bones may be calcined white, and diluted liydrochloric acid be saturated with it. The dissolved earth should be precipitated by ammonia, and washed; and dilute hydro- chloric acid be again saturated with it. This dose is from ten to thirty minims, in sugared water. This is prepared under the writer's direc- tions by Mr. Jolley, of Curzon Street, and Mr. Bullock, of Hanover Street, Hanover Square. Mr. Bullock tells the writer that he has known a patient take two_ fluid ounces daily of the dilute muriatic acid of the P. L. containing half an ounce of bone phosphate in solution.APPENDIX OF FORMULA. 849 202. The Eye Douche. The application of a continuous stream of cold or tepid water to the eyelids and adjacent parts is a favourite remedy with most oculists in cases of chronic, congestive, or weak diseases of that organ. There are many contrivances which may serve this purpose, such as the elastic syringe which we have recommended in diseases of the ear; tubes of gutta percha or vulcanized caoutchouc, leading from a small cistern placed at the proper height, and the eye douches of Savory and Moore, Matthews, &c. 203. Disinfectants. These are of three sorts: 1. Substances that hinder decomposition and preserve any given compound in statu quo; 2. Substances that hasten or complete oxydation, and reduce the decomposing body to a harmless state; 3. Such as absorb or neutralize gaseous emanations. Each has its uses. To the first class belong creosote, carbolic acid ; half a drachm of either of which, with an ounce of glycerat of starch, will make a good ointment for a gangrenous wound; also F. 117, 127. To the second class belong Condy's excellent Disinfecting Fluid, the permanganate of potass, and the chloride of lime, and of soda; which last is much less unpleasant than the chloride of lime. Also solution of chlorine (liquor chlori of the P. B.). Under the third head come bags of charcoal, lotions of nitrate of lead, F. ll(?,glycerate of bismuth, p, 838, together with fumigation of chlorine,nitrous acid, and of iodine. Iodine is the cheapest and most generally useful. A few grains may be put into pill boxes with perforated lids, which should be jjlaced in difierent parts of the ward, as recommended by Dr. B. W. Richardson ; or a cheap tincture of | oz. iodine to Oss. of methylated spirit may be used. F'umigations also of vinegar, pastiles, cascarilla bark, &c., have their uses, as they evolve tarry matters, which pui'ify tiie air, A very pure carbolic acid is made byMr. Rew, chemist, of 282, Regent Street. 204. Chlorate of Potass. This salt has been recommended on the ground of its containing six equivalents of oxygen, which it was supposed to part with in the blood and be converted into chloride. This hypothesis is quite unproved and very improbable; still the fact remains, as first propounded by Mr. Hunt, that it forms a useful local and general remedy in cachectic ulcers of the mouth and throat. It may be used as a lotion in the proportion of one drachm to an ounce of glycerine and three ounces of water. It may also be made into lozenges or tablets {Parrish). As an intei-nal remedy the dose is 10 to 30 grains in solution. Or a mixture may be made of two drachms chlorate of potass, half a drachm dilute hydro- chloric acid, three of syrup, and six ounces of water. Dose, a sixth part every four hours. In low putrid soi^e throat, and analogous diseases. D 3 IAPPENDIX OF FORMULAE. 850 205. Combinations of Mercury with Tonics. R. Pilulae hydrargyri ^ij. ; feiri sulphatis exsiccati ; extract! opii gr. V. Misce; and divide in pilulas xx. ; quarum sumantur dua liora somni et una mane.—Bumstead. R. Hydiargyii cum creta |^ij.; quinae disulphatis manna; quantum satis est ut fiat massa in pilulas xx. dividenda.—Ibid. Corrosive Sublimate uith Cod Liver Oil. R. Hydrargyri corrosivi sublimati gianum ; asthei is sulphurici 3ss. ; solve, and adds olei Jeooris Aselli f^^iij. Dosis, 5ij., ter die. Ibid. The bottle must be kept closely corked. 206. Ether and Camphor for Inhalation. R. Camphor3e3j.; astheris ^ss. ; Misce. A few drops to be inhaled from a handkerchief in violent nervous headache, neuralgia, colic, uterine spasms during pregnancy, dysmenorrhcea, <^c. 207. Other Antisyphilitic, Antistrumous, and Absorbefacient Be medics. Certain remedies which seem to have the power of causing atrophy of morbid cell-growth, are of use alike in chronic inflamma- tion, thickening, chronic rheumatism, some ulcers, scrofula, and some tumours, especially of bone and fibrous tissue. They are, 1st, W€r- cury, F. 63, 66, 87, &c. ; 2, liquor potassse ; 3, certain salts of potass and soda, as the chlorate; 4, certain salts of ammonia, as the carbo- nate, chloride, and nitrate (see pp. 41, 42, and F. 197) ; 5, compounds of iodine, F. 94, &c.; 6, the analogous compounds of bromine; 7, cer- tain other metals, as gold and platinum. The writer advises that in obstinate syphilis, in nervous diseases, epilepsy, &c. (see p. 214), tumours, &c., these remedies be given perseveringly in alternation or conjunction, with some nuti ient or tonic. Thus, of a grain of the chloride of gold and sodium, in a pill (with a glass of sarsnparilla) thrice dailv ;—or a drachm of iodide of potassium, half a di-achm of bromide, and half a drachm of chloride of ammonium, to a wine-bottle of dis- tilled water, which the patient should take in a week in divided doses. Seaweed and its ashes should be used ; and laver be eaten as a vege- table at table. 208. Lithia. This is a good remedy for gouty persons, to carry off lithic acid in solution. The best form is Savory and Moore's "granulating effer- vescino- carbonate," in bottles at one shilling per ounce, combined with other ingredients that make a palatable effervescing drink at meals.851 INDEX. Ahi)!)mkn, affections of, 532 gunshot injuries of, 153 Abscess, acute, 53 „ after wounds, 137 alveolar, 499 behind sternnm, 531 of abdominal parietes, 543 of the orbit, 449 in bone, 244 in the brain, 377 ia the chest, 528 chronic, 57 secondary, 64 diffused, 66 iliac, 385 in joints, 293 in kidney, 637 lumbar, 384 of prostate, 623 „ psoas, 385 psoas, diagnosis of, from her- nia, 581,'' near rectum, 597 scrofulous, 96 in testis, 667 „ urinary, 619 Acids, injuries from, 167 Acupuncture, 731 Acupressure, 330, 770 Adhesion, 48 Air in veins, 705 Albugo, 410 Alkalis, injuries from, 168 Allarton's operation, 660 Amaurosis, 441 Amputation for fracture, 257 for gangrene, »7 for gunshot wounds, 155 „ lor diseased joints, 301 primary or secondary, 146, 155 Amputations described, 770 Amussat's operation, 549 Anchylosis, 3u2 Ancyloblepharon, 399 Aneurysm, 341 „ by anastomosis, 351 diffused, 337 „ dissecting, 341 „ false, 338 in bone, 248 „ traumatic, 338 „ varicose, 339 Ankles, weak, (i98 Antimony, chloride of, 168 Antrum, diseases uf, 4 79 Anus, artificial, 546 „ ,, as a remedy for imper- forate anus, 549 ,. diseases of, 588 Aquo-capsulitis, 415 Arcus senilis, 413 Areolar tissue (see Cellular) Arseiiic, injuries from, 168 ,, as a caustic, 81 „ for onychia. 701 Arteries, wounds of, 328 „ inflammation of, 340 „ laceration of, by fracture, 257 „ operations for tying, 741 Arteriotomy, 72K Artery, intercostal, wounds of, 530 pal.Dar, wounds of, 33j, 755 „ aorta, 760 „ axill.iry, 7-^9 „ brachial, 751 „ carotid, 741 „ carotid internal, 74 5 „ subclavian, 74 7 „ dorsal of the foot, 768 „ lacial, 7 i5 ,, lemoral, 760 „ gluta'al, 760 „ iliac, 756 ,, lingual, 745 plantar, 768 „ radial, 753 „ tibial anterior, 767 „ tibial posterior, 763 „ ulnar, 754INDEX. 852 Artery, innominata, 745 „ peroneal, 7(36 profunda, 332 „ popliteal, 763 ,. sciatic, 760 Arthritis, rheumatic, 293 Ascites, 532 Asthenopia, 439 Atresia ani, 588 iridis, 418 Atrophy, 17 Atropia, 418 Balanitis, 195 Bandages, 734 „ for ankle, 72 lour-tailed, 259, 2t)0 „ clavicle, 261 „ many-tailed, 286 „ starched, 253 stellate, 260 „ gypsum or plaster of Paris, 251 Bathing, rules for, 94 Bees, sting of, 169 Biceps, tendon, rupture of, 315 Bed-sores, 88 Bladder, diseases of, 628 „ puncture of by rectum. 608 ,, „ bj? perinicuni, 616, 620 „ above pubes, 608 „ wounds of, 544 Blennorrhoea, 194, 6v2 Blood, buffed and cupppd, 29 „ transfusion of, 730 Bloodletting for inflammation, 39 „ operation of, 727 Boils, 228 Bone, atrophy of, 238 „ diseases of, 236 „ venereal diseases of, 212 „ inflammation ot, 241 „ tumours of, 2-i8 Bougie, urethra, 610 rectum, 601 Bowels, wounds of, 544 „ inflammation of, 545 rupture of, by blows, 542 obstruction of, 546, 557, 564 Brachial artery, 751 Brain, compression of, 371, 373, 377 „ concussion of, 368 ,, inflammation of, 377 „ softening of, 378 „ wounds of, 376 Brasdor's operation, 348 Breast, diseases of, 683 extirpation of, 690 Bronchoce]'\ 521 Brow ague 365 Bruises, 131 Bubo, 207 Bubonocele, 566 Bunion, 699 Burns, 160 Bursa', affections of, 233 Butcher's saw, 772 „ fracture box, 806 Calculus, lacteal 642 „ vide Stone Callus, 250 Cancer, 1I4 ,, chimney-sweepers', 110, 673 „ hsematoid, 118 „ melanic, 117 „ osteoid, 119 „ epithelial, 110 „ gelatiniform, 118 „ hard. 116 „ soft, 115 „ diagnosis of, 126 of breast, 688 „ of bladder, 632 „ of bone, 249 of brain, 381 „ of eye, 449 „ of jaw, 481 „ of lip, 471 „ of nose, 478 of orbit, 450 „ of penis, 663 „ of scrotum, 673 „ of skin, 228 „ of spine, 388 „ of tongue, 491 „ villous, 119 of rectum, 602 of pudenda, 682 Cancroid, 110 Cancrum oris, 473 Cannon balls, spent, 138 Carbuncle, 229 Carcinoma, vide Cancer. Caries, articular, 297 „ of bone, 247 „ of temporal bone, 461 of vertebrfe, 383 Cartilage, ulceration of, 297 Cartilages, loose, in joints, 295 „ „ in bursae, 235 „ in tunica vaginalis, 669 Castor oil, 812 Castration, 673 Cataract, 421 capsular, 423, 428 „ operation for, 424 „ in infants, 428 „ diagnosis from amaurosis, 438, 442 Catarrbus vesicas, 630853 INDEX. Caiheter, male, 603 female, 681 Caustics, 78, 81, 167 Caustic for Cancer, 123 Cautery, actual, 732 „ galvanic, 732 Cellular pathology, 20 „ tissue, suppuration in, 53 „ ,, diffuse inflammation of, 66 „ „ diseases and tumours of, 225 „ „ ulcer of, 80 „ around joints, inflam- mation of, 300 Chalk-stone, 233 Chancre, 203 diagnosis of, 205 Charbon, 79 Cheilo-plastic operations, 474 Cheloid tumours, 227 Chemosis, -105 Chest, wounds and affections of, 527 gun shot injuries of, 150 Chigoe, 172 Chilblains, 167 Chlorodyne, S19 Chloroform, 705 Chordee, 195, 199 Cholesterine, 533 Choroid, diseases of, 433, 437, 438 Cicatrices from burns, 163 „ nerves implicated in, 364, 795 ,, irritable, '95 tumours of, 226, 227 Cicatrization. 49 Cinchonism, 811 Circumcision, 062 Cirsocele, 671 Clavicle, extirpation of, 248 Clove hitch, 3i3 Club-foot, 691 Coccyx, neuralgia of. 797 Coecum, abscess of, 551 Cold, effects of, 165 „ as an anaesthetic, 723 Collodion, 134 Colloid disease, 118 ^ Compression of brain, 372 Concussion of brain, 36s „ of spine, 388 of retma, 393 Condyloma. 211 Congenital malformation, 15 Congestion, 19 Conjunctiva, diseases of, 403 granular, 405, 408 Contusion, 131 Convulsions, 14 Corectomia, 420 Coredialysis, 420 Coretomia, 419 Cornea, diseases of, 409 „ conical, 413 Corns. 226 Corroding ulcer, 81, 110 of the face, 473 „ of the oesophagus, 505 „ of vulva, 683 Con-osive sublimate, 830 Couching, 426 Crystalline lens, diseases of, 421 „ „ displacement of, .394 Cupping, 729 Cystic disease of testis, 672 of breast, 688 Cysticercus. 173, 415 Cystitis, cistirrhoea, 630 Cysts, 108 „ on the iris, 419 Deformity of limbs, 691 of spine, 381 Degeneration, fatty, 17 ,, senile, 18 Delirium trauniaticum, 3 Derbyshire neck, 521 Diplopia, 441 Dislocations, 309 Dislocation from disease, 298, 306 Dissection wounds, 174 Distichiasis. 396 Drainage tubes, 59 Dropsy, acute, 45 ,, of abdomen, 532 „ of antrum, 48;) of chest, 527 „ of pericardium, 529 „ ovarian, 534 „ gangrene, from, 87 Drowning, 519 Dura-mater, inflammation of, from otitis, 458, 377 „ wounds of, 37 6 Earache, 455, 4 58 Ear, affections of, 453 Ecchymosis, 131 Echinococcus, 172 Ecraseur, 727 Kcthyma, 211 Ectropion, 398 Eczema mercuriale, 217 Eczema of the ear, 457 Elbow-joint, excision of, 797 Electricity, 733 Elephantiasis, 125, 664, 683 Embolism, 340 Emphysema, from broken rib, 271, 52 Empyema, 528 Encanthis, 451 Enchondroma, 105, 128 ■ Entozoa, 172854 INDEX. Entropion, 397 f]piphora, 400 Epispadias, 633 Epistaxis, 475 Epitlielioma, 110 of bladder, 632 „ of larynx, 516 of lip, 471 of penis, 633 of scrotum, 673 „ of tongue, 491 „ of oesophagus, 505 Epulis, 500 Erethismus mercurialis, 217 Erysipelas. 60 Esthiomene, 682 Ether, inhalation of, 708, 722, 850 Eustachian tube, 464 Excision of joints, 796 Excoriation, nature of, 69 Exfoliation of bone, 245 Exostosis, 237 of toe, 702 Exudation, 20 Eye, affections of, 391 „ injuries of, 393 Eyeball, inflammation of, 393 protrusion of, 449, 523 „ extirpation of, 451 „ cancer of, 450 „ melanosis of, 451 „ rupture of, 394 Eyes, artificial, 452 Eyelids, diseases of, 395 „ operation for closing, 452 „ wounds of, 393 Eyebrow, wounds of, 393 Face, affections of, 467 „ gunshot injuries of, 147 Farcy, 184 FascijE, diseases of, 230, 699 Faity degeneration, 17 Fever, hectic, 56 symptomatic, 28 „ traumatic inflammatory, 28 intermittent, 56 Fibrine, 48 Fibro-plastic cells, 24 „ tumours, 103, 129 Fingers, contracted, 700 „ webbed, 700 Fistula, 75 „ in ano, 597 „ fjEcal, 546 ,. lachrymal, 401 ,, in perinaeo, 619 ,, recto-vaginal, 680 ,, salivary, 467 „ vesico-vaginal, 677 Forceps, artery, 726 Forceps, bull-dog, 726 „ lion, 48S long necked, 246 „ lithotomy, 652 urethra, 622, 623 ,, polypus, 456 tooth, 425 „ for excision of piles, 594 Fracture, 250 ,. compound, 257 „ non-union of, 255 of skull, 373 „ of spine, 3«8 „ of hyoid bone, 518 „ gunshot, 155 Frost-bite, 165 Fumigation, mecurial, 215 Fungus medullavis,h£ematodes, 117,118 Gall-bladder, wounds of, 544 Galvanic cautery, 732 Galvanism, 733 Galvano-puncture, 734 Ganglion, 233 Gangrene, 82 „ from embolism, 340 „ from cold, 166 „ from wound of artery, 257 hospital, 76 „ from oedema, 87 „ from pressure, 88 „ senile, 88 „ white, of skin, 89 Gastrotomy, 547, 551 Genitals, male affections of, 662 female, 676 Glanders, 184 Glands, vide Lymphatics Glandular tumours, 107 Glaucoma, 429 Gleet, 199 Glottis, scalds of, 519 ,. foreign bodies in, 509 Glutaial artery, 760 Glycerine, 838 Goitre, 521 „ aerienne, 525 Gonorrhoea, 194 Gonorrhceal rheumatism, 195, 200 Gonorrhoea 1 ovaratis, 201 Gouge for bone, 246 Gout, 44 Granular cells, 53 (iranulation, 49 Gravel, 638 Guinea-worm, 172 Gum-boll, 499 Gums, affections of, 499 „ lancing, 492 Gun-shot wounds, 138 ,. fracture, 155INDEX. 85 Hfcmatocole, 670 Haimaturia, 633, 637 Haamorrhage, active, 47 „ passive, 37 „ from wounds of artery, 328 ., from wound of vein, 357 from bladder, 637 from kidneys, 633 „ from urethra, 621 „ from nose, 475 „ from rectum, 595 ,, after extracting teeth, 498 ,, secondary, from wound of artery, 336 secondary, from gun-shot wound, 146 ,, intermediary, 146 Hajmorrhagic diathesis, 339 Haemorrhoids, 590 Hemothorax, 528 Hanging, 519 Hare-lip, 469 „ pins, 134 Head, gun-shot wounds of, 147 „ injuries of, S67 Heart, wounds of, 531 Hectic, 56 Hemicrania, 365 Hemiopia, 441 Hernia, 551 „ bronchalis, 525 cerebri, 376 „ conQ;enital, 567 „ corneas, 413 „ crural, 580 „ diaphragmatic, 587 ,, encysted, 567 femoral, 580 infantilis, 567 „ inguinal, 566 irreducible, 556 „ ischiatic, 587 obturator, 586 „ omental, 553 ,, pudendal, 586 „ perineal, 586 reducible, 553 strangulated, 557 „ thyroid, 586 ,, umbilical, 584 „ vaginal, 586 ventral, 585 Herpes preputials, 206 Hiccup, 3 Hip-joint, disease, 304 „ dislocation, 319 excision of 306, 800 Hordeolum, 895 Hospital gangrene, 76 Housemaid's knee, 234 Hydatid disease of breast, 685 of testicle, 672 Hydatids, 172, 249 Hydrargyria, 217 Hydrarthus, 291 Hydrocele, 668 „ diagnosis from hernia, 563 Hydrophobia, 177 Hydrophthalmia, 440 Hydrops pericardii, 529 Hydrorachitis, 385 Hydrothorax, 528 Hymen, imperforate, 682 Hypersemia, 18 Hyperinosis, 30 Hypinosis, 30 Hypermetropia, 446 Hypertrophy, 16 Hypochondriasis, 13 Hypospadias, 664 Hysteria, 11 Hysterical neuralgia, 11 „ tetanus, 11 Impotence, 674 Incisions, 703 Inflammation, 26 „ acute, 37 adhesive, 48 „ chronic, 42 diffused, 66 „ erysipelatous, 60 gouty, 44 ,, modified, 44 „ cedematous, 46 „ rheumatic, 44 scrofulous, 90 „ theory of, 36 Inhaler, 502 Injections for gonorrhoea, 198, 836 of bladder, 631 Innominata, aneurysm of, 746 Inoculation of chancre, 20], 224 Insects, poisons of, 109 Intra-uterine disease, 15 Intussusception of bowels, 547, 564 Iriddesis, 413, 420 Iridectomy, 430 Iris, prolapse of, 395 „ diseases of, 415 ,, excision of, 420 Iron, preparations of, 812 Issues, 731 Jaw, closure of, 489 „ necrosis of, 488 „ lower, tumours of, 487 ,, upper, tumours of, 481 Joints, diseases of, 289 „ excision of, 796 „ false, 255INDEX. 856 Joints, neuralgia of, 308 „ wounds of, 308 Keratinitis, 409 Keratonyxis, 427 Kidneys, diseases of, 632 „ wounds of, 544 Knee-joint, disease of, 269, 290, 297 excision of, 801 Labia pudendi, affections of, 682 Lachrymal apparatus, affections of, 400 Lagophthalmos, 398 Laryngotomy, 515 Larynx, foreign bodies in, 509 „ venereal disease of, 212 Laryngoscope, 507 Lateritious sediment, 639 Leech-bites, 40 Lepra syphilitica, 211 Leucoma, 410 Leucorrhoea, 197 Ligaments, affections of, 232, 296 Ligature, effects of, 33U Lip, diseases of, 469 Lipoma, 100 Lithectasy, 660 Lithic acid, 639, 642 l^itholysis, 646 Lithotomy, 652 lateral, 652 bi-lateral, 659 „ Allarton's operation, 660 Wood's, 660 ,, recto-vesical, 661 high, 661 Lithotrity, 646 Liver, wounds of, 544 Lung, wounds of, 530 Lupus, 81, 110,473 Luscitas, 447 Lymph, 24, 48 Lymphatic glands, scrofulous, 96 Lymphatics, affections of, 235 Macula Lutea, 433 Malformation, 15 Malgaigne's hooks, 285 Malignant disease, 98 „ pustule, 79 Marasmus, 97 Maxilla, superior, tumours of, 481 Melanosis, 113 Membrana tympani, 453, 458 Mercury in syphilis, 214 ill effects of, 216 bichloride of, 168, 218, 850 in inflammation, 41 Mesenteric disease, 97 Mesmerism, 724 Moles, 208 MolHties ossium, 240 MoUuscum, 228 Mortification, vide Gangrene, 82 Moxa, 733 Mucus, relation of, to pus, 52 Musc« volitantes, 441 Muscles, affections of, 230 Muscle, gangrenous inflammation of, 79 Musket-balls, course of, 140 Mycetoma, 174 Myeloid tumour, 103 Mydriasis, 418 Myocephalon, 412 Myopia, 445 Myosis, 418 Ntevus, 350 Nails, ulcers near, 701 Nebula, 410 Neck, affections of, 520 „ scrofulous abscesses in, 96 „ tumours of, 525 Necrosis, 245 Needles, 134, 678 Nephritis, 635 Nerves, affections of, 363 Nervous pain, 20 Neuralgia, 20, 363 „ hysterical, 11, 20 „ of bone, 241 of joints, 308 „ of stumps, 795 Neuroma, 364 Nipples, sore, 684 Nodes, 212, 243 Noli me tangere, 81 Noma, 676 Nose, affections of, 467, 475 „ venereal disease of, 213 Nostrils, imperforate, 479 Nyctalopia, 443 Ochlesis, 60 GLdema, 45 glottidis, 515 „ scroti, 673 CEsophagotomy, 506 OEsophagiis, affections of, 503 Onychia maligna, 701 Onyx, 411 Operations, 703 Ophthalmoscope, 431 Ophthalmia, 391 „ catarrhal, 403 „ catarrho-rheumatic, 415 „ gonorrhoeal, 405 „ purulent, 4o4 „ rheumatic, 414 „ , scrofulous, 407 „ tarsi, 395 „ traumatic, 392INDEX. 857 Optic Disk, 433, 434 Orchitis, 665 Osteo-aneurysm, 248 Osteo-sarcoma, 107 Otalgia, 462 Otitis, 458 Otorrhoea, 455 Ovarian dropsy, 532 Ovariotomy, 534 Oxalic acid diathesis, 639 „ stone, 643 Cfesena, 478 Pain, nervous, 20 Palate, fissure of, 482 Palm of the hand, wounds of, 755 Pannus, 410 Paracentesis abdominis, 532 „ capitis, 380 „ pericardii, 529 „ thoracis, 528 Paraphymosis, 663 Parasites, 172, 400 Paronychia, 701 Parotid, tumours of, 525 Paruhs, 499 I'atella, fracture of, 282 Pediculi palpebrarum, 400 Penis, affections of, 662 Pericardium, dropsy of, 529 Perinaeum, abscess in, 619 „ laceration of, 680 Perinaeal section, 618 Periosteum, inflammation of, 212, 241 Peritonaeum, inflammation of, 545 Peronseal artery, 766 Phagedsena, 76 „ sloughing, 76 „ venereal, 203 Pharynx, affections of, 503 Phlebitis, 357 Phlebolites, 362 Phlegmasia dolens, 67 Phlegmon, 53 Phosphatic gravel, 640 Phosphorus, disease from, 488 Phymosis, 662 „ with chancre, 206 Piles, 590 Pneumothorax, 527 Poisons of healthy animals, 169 ., of diseased animals, 177 „ mineral and vegetable, 167 „ putrid or septic, 174 Polypus, 477 „ of larynx, 517 „ of epiglottis, 517 „ nasal, 476 „ of ear, 456 „ of rectum, 602 Popliteal artery, 763 D Presbyopia, 445 Proctalgia, 590 Profunda artery, 332 Prolapsus ani, 598 „ „ internal, 600 Prostate, affections of, 623 Prostration, 1 Protrusion of eyeball, 451 Pruritus ani, 602 Psoriasis praeputii, 207 „ syphilitic, 211 Pterygium, 409 Ptosis, 398 Pupil, artificial, 419 Puriform fluid, 52 Pus, 51 „ absorption of, 56 Pustule, malignant, 79 Pyjemia, 64 Quinine, 810 RamoUissement, 53 Ranula, 489 Rattlesnake. 171 Reaction, 2 Rectum, affections of, 588 ,, prolapse of, 598 „ invagination of, 600 Repair, doctrine of, 23 Respiration; artificial, 520 Retention, see Urine Retina, healthy appearance of, 433 diseased, 435 Retinitis, 440 Rheumatism gonorrhoeal, 195, 200 „ of joints, 289, 293 Rhino-plastic operation, 467 Rhinorrhoea, 478 Rickets, 239, 382 Rupia, syphilitic, 211 Salivation, 216 Salter's swing, 807 Sarcoma. 103 Sarsaparilla, 95 Scabbing, 137 Scalds, 160 „ of the glottis, 519 Scalp, wounds of, 367 Schuft's operation, 428 Sclerotic, diseases of, 414 Schneiderian membrane, inflammation of, 478 Sciatic artery, 760 Scirrhus, see Cancer Scott's Ointment, 292 Scrofula, 90 Scrofulous diseases of bone, 242 of eye, 407, 409 „ of joints, 297 „ „ of lymphatics, 96 3 K858 Scrofulous diseases of skin, 96 of testicle, 667 Scrofulous ulcers, 96 Serocystic disease, 109, 686 Serpents, poisons of, 170 Serrefines, 726 Serum, effusion of, 45 Seton, 732 Strabismus, 447 Short sight, 445 Shoulder-joint, excision of, 799 Silver, nitrate of, injuries from, 168 Sinus, 75 Skin, diseases of, 225 „ scrofulous disease of, 96 „ tumours of, 225 Skull, fracture of, 373 Slings, 734 Snake-bites, 170 Softening, 53 Spectacles, 426, 445 Spermatocele, 671 Spermatorrhoea, 675 Sphacelus, 82 Sphincter ani, division of, 590, 597 Spiders, bite of, 169 Spina bifida, 385 „ ventosa, 300 Spine, affections of, 381 Spleen, \vounds of, 544 Splint (Heath's) for excision of elbow, 798 Splints, 253 Sprains, 232 Squinting, 447 Staphyloma, cornese, 412 „ Iridis, 412 „ scleroticag, 438 Staphyloraphy, 484 Stimulants, 81'' Stomach, wourds of, 543 Stomach-pump, 507 Stone, 642 „ in the kidney, 643 „ in bladder, 644 „ in prostate, 627 „ in urethra, 622 „ in woman, 661 Stricture of oesophagu!^, 504 „ of rectum, 600 „ of urethra, spasmodic, 605 „ of urethra, permanent, 60S Struma, 90 Stumps, affections of, 795 Strichnine, 815 Styptics, 335 Subcutaneous injuries, 26, 130 Suppuration, 50 Sutures, 135 Symblepharon, 399 Synchysis, 438 Syncope, 1 Synechia, 418 Synovial membrane, diseases of, 289 Syphilis, 187,203 Syphilophobia, 13 „ congenital, 220 Syphilization, 224 Tabes mesenterica, 97 Talipes. 691 Tarantula, bite of, 169 Tarsus, excision of, 808 Tartar on the teeth, 499 Taxis, 559 Teeth, affections of, 492 Telangeiectasis, 350 Tendons, affections of, 230 Testis, diseases of, 665 Tetanus, 4 ,, chronic, 10 „ hysterical, 11 „ infantile, 10 Throat, swabbing, 501 „ syphilitic sores in, 212 „ wounds of, 520 Thyroid gland, affections of, 521 Tic doloureux, 365 Toes, distortion of, 699 „ exostosis of, 702 Tongue, affections of, 439 „ ulceration of, 491 Tonsils, affections of, 501 'I'oothache, 493 Torsion, 334 Tourniquet, 771 Tracheotomy, 511 Transfusion of blood, 730 Trephining, 379 Trichiasis, 396 Trismus infantum, 10 Trusses, 555, 585 Tubercle, pathology of, 91 „ mucous, 211 Tuberculosis, 90 Tumours, 98 „ of 9,ntrum, 479 of gums, 500 „ of bone, 248 of bursse, 233 „ cartilaginous, 105 „ chalk-stone, 233 cheloid, 227 1 „ of cicatrices, 226 „ classification of, 98 ,, cystic, 108 of cheeks, 489 colloid, 105 ,, of conjunctiva, 409 „ of cranium, 381 ,, desmoid, 101 ; „ erectile, 360