HOUSEHOLD AND FANCY BREADS. 23 which it can only do through the soft under-side. Be sure the bread is perfectly cold before storing it in the bread- pan. The great point in bread making, as said before, lies first in the kneading and then in the firing. If the dough is not regularly and steadily kneaded it will be full of holes and hard lumps, in consequence of the fermentation being uneven. If, when rising, the air, much more a draught, gets at the dough, it will “ catch cold,” as bakers say, and form a crust on the top, which will arrest the fermentation, as will uneven, careless kneading. Before putting your bread into the oven, make up the fire so that it shall not need replenishing till the baking is done. If the oven is too cold when the bread is put into it the latter will con- tinue to rise, and will run all over the mould. If, on the contrary, the oven is too hot, the crust will form too soon and too quickly, and then either the outside will be badly burnt, or the inside will not be cooked. Please note that in baking, as in every other culinary operation, the very strictest cleanliness is indispensable. Many a batch of bread has been condemned owing, it was considered, to the inferiority of the yeast, or flour, or both, when the fault really lay with the careless, slovenly baker, who neglected the due cleansing of his utensils, and the thoroughness of his kneading. I have been thus particular in describing ordinary bread making because the same remarks apply to every kind of bread. It may be added that if the above recipe is carried out exactly as given, only using milk, or milk and water, instead of plain water, it produces an extremely good imitation of Vienna bread. Household Bread, with Potatoes.—Peel and boil 3lb. of potatoes and crush them through a masher or colander. Mix together half a pint of good sweet yeast with half a pint of barely tepid water, then mix this and the potato pulp to a batter and pour it into a bay in the centre of a peck of flour. Stir down a little of the flour from the sides.