112 BREAD, CAKES. AND BISCUITS. tine dried flour and caster sugar (for an average tin a table- spoonful each of sugar and flour sifted together, will be sufficient), then turn the mould upside down, and tap it to drive out the loose sugar, &c., leaving a smooth even white surface. No w fasten a strip of white buttei’ed paper, coated like the mould, round the top of the tin as for a souffle, and, when this is all firm, pour in enough cake mixture to half till the mould and bake as described above A sponge cake mould should always be got ready first, so that the moment the mixture is ready, it may at once be put into the mould, while the flour and sugar coating should be firm before the mould is filled up. The appearance of a sponge cake depends so much on the care with which the mould is prepared that care on this point is well repaid. Do not forget that till a sponge cake is perfectly set, it should never be moved from a warm corner as the slightest chill is enough to make it close and heavy at once. A quickly made sponge cake is prepared thus: Beat the yolks of three eggs separately till quite light, then beat them well (with a Dover egg beater for five to seven minutes, or twelve to fifteen minutes with a fork), then mixing in gradually and lightly the weight of the eggs (with their shells) of caster sugar, and beat for ten minutes or so longer ; then put in the white of the eggs whisked to a stiff froth, with a pinch of salt, in alternate spoonfuls, with the weight of the eggs in dried and sifted flour, as lightly and quickly as you can, and finish off as before. A Savoy Cake, used for tipsy cake and suchlike, is usually only a plainer, less sweetened form of sponge cake; lib. of eggs, 14oz. flour, and 12oz. of sugar is the usual average. These cakes, generally baked in a rather florid mould, need care, and a somewhat slower oven than sponge cake, which is generally baked in a plain tin. Cake Sultana.—Mix together &lb. of flour, a short tea- spoonful of baking powder, and a pinch of salt, then rub into it 4oz. of clarified dripping or butter. 4oz. moist or