BREAD. 15 Yeast, to Remove its Bitterness.—If you use brewer’s yeast, and it happens at any time to be bitter, put about half as much water as you have yeast, and strain the two through a hair sieve half full of bran. This may have to be repeated two or three times, but will in the end remove all bitterness. Baking powder, roughly speaking, consists of a mixture of tartaric acid, carbonate of soda, and flour of some kind. These are mixed dry into the other ingredients (indeed, their goodness depends on this dryness), and, when thus mixed for use with the bread or cake materials, will effer- vesce like a Siedlitz powder (which, indeed, I have known to be used in the Australian bush by a squatter anx ous for bread, or, as he called it, “ damper ”) ; the carbonic gas thus generated giving the required lightness to the dough or paste. Owing to this effervescence, bread or cakes made with baking powder must be “ fired ” at once, or the efferves- cence will go off, and leave the dough “ sad.” Care must be taken in choosing baking powder, for though that prepared by good makers such as Borwick, Cowan, &c., is thoroughly satisfactory, yet it is a melancholy fact that few things are more adulterated than the cheaper kinds of baking powder. Where it is not possible to get areally good form, it may be easily prepared at home thus : Measure out carefully two parts tartaric acid to three parts each of carbonate of soda and fine flour, creme de riz, or arrowroot, or, indeed, any fine kind of farinaceous preparation. You can make this in any quantities desired, only observing the proportions strictly; sift the ingredients well together and store them in perfectly dry, airtight bottles. Some people keep the chemicals separately, measuring and mixing them out as desired, but this is scarcely a good plan, for the success of baking powder depends fully as much on its exact proportions as on the purity of the materials. Another raising mixture is known as “ egg powder,” and for this the ingredients are as follows : Sift together IGoz.