54 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. the left; then with your well-floured hands make it up into a convenient cake. The fire should have been well heaped up before beginning the mixture. When everything is ready open a hole, large enough to hold the damper, in the fire by means of a shovel, and, after taking away from the bottom of this any outstanding pieces of coal, sprinkle the surface lightly with some cold ashes from the outside fire, and lay your cake gently on this ; then sprinkle a pint or so of fine ashes over the bread (according to the heat you consider your fire to possess), and cover it up all over with the fire. A beginner should not get his cake too thick; Bin. when it is put into the fire will be best, especially as when cooked it will be found to have risen fully an inch more. It is difficult to fix any time for the cooking of this bread, but, with a good fire, twenty to twenty-five minutes will probably be enough. It is a good plan when you think the damper is nearly done to open the fire and turn the cake over, for it will be found that the upper side gets more heat than the lower one. As you do so tap both sides of the cake with your finger. A well- cooked damper gives out a hollow, drumlike sound. Fadge.—Mix together 2oz. each of rye and ordinary brown flour, with a saltspoonful of salt; work into this 3oz. of butter and enough milk (about a gill) to get it all to a stiff paste. Bake for about an hour on the girdle or on the hot plate, but never in the oven. This must not be over-cooked or it will become a kind of piecrust. Another way is to dissolve 3oz. of butter over the fire in half a pint of milk ; mix together lib. wholemeal flour, oz. baking powder, and a saltspoonful of salt; mix this all to a stiff dough with the butter and milk, roll it out |in. thick, make it into scones, or fingers l^in. by 3in., and bake on the girdle or in a clean frying pan, turning the cakes from time to time to cook them evenly. Serve hot in a napkin, dusted with flour. If made up into a diamond shape these are often called “ wholemeal bannocks.”