4 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. exactly what you put into it. A little experience soon teaches one to discern the quality of flour. Of colour it is, of course, easy enough to judge, for brown flour argues the presence of some portion of the bran, and if this admixture is denied by the seller then the flour is made from inferior wheat. Prom these alternatives there is no getting away. To test its quality take a good pinch between your finger and thumb and press it well together. If the flour feels light and loose it is good. If there is the slightest touch of lumpiness or clamminess, reject it; it is not in good order. Remember flour should always be at least a week or two old before it is used, but longer if possible. Adulteration at one time was almost universal in bakery ; usually it must be conceded, however, that the foreign substances, added to increase the bulk and diminish the cost of bread production, were innocuous enough, their chief fault being that they reduced the nutritive value of the flour; and when eating, and paying for what we believe to be pure bread made from wheat flour, it is small consolation to know that the raw or cooked potato, beetroot, or turnip pulp, dextrine (potato starch), or rice added to it, are really harmless ingredients. Of alum, used largely at one time for whitening and improving (?) the keeping power o-f bread, one cannot say even so much. However, the law of adulteration, now generally and strictly enforced, lias rendered the use of these substances too costly in actual money, and too ruinous in reputation, for any decent miller or baker to adopt them, so that in dealing with an honest tradesman of good reputation one is fairly certain of obtaining bread made from flour, at all events. But in this, as in every case, fair value has to be paid for quality, and the housewife who gives herself up to the fetish of “ cheapness ” (at ail costs) must make up her mind to the fact that, if she will not pay with her purse she will with her person, or, worse still, the persons of her children and household.