187 CAKE DECORATION, Ac. use. The confectioner’s test of this glace, as it is techni- cally called, is to lift a little on the end of the wooden spoon or spatula used in beating it, and if on reversing the spoon the icing will stand up firmly without any sign of falling it is ready for use. If the icing is to be coloured, the colouring should be added when the paste is thick; whilst if it is to be used white, a drop or two of liquid blue, or a tiny dust of powder blue, will improve the colour wonderfully. Well-made rich cakes keep well, and, indeed, improve by keeping, but at the same time cooks are often troubled by a tendency to discolouration in the icing. The moisture of the inside of the cake sets up a sort of chemical action (a kind of ferment, in fact) on which the goodness and mellow- ness of the cake depends in great measure, and any attempt to stop this ferment, or ripening, by chemical means is pretty safe to involve the loss, or at any rate a partial loss, of aroma and flavour in the cake, but it is occasionally disastrous to the appearance of the icing. However, if a cake is to be stored, the icing should be applied as soon as possible after the cake is really cold, before the outer air has time to set up this fermentation very strongly. For this reason many confectioners cover the sides, as well as the top, of their richer cakes (such as bride or birthday cakes), with a thick coating of almond icing, as this delays the contact of the fruit juices in the cake with the sugar icing, and the consequent discolouration of the latter. Others, again, make a tasteless solution of gum or gelatine, in either alcohol or lemon juice, and brush the cake over with this before icing it, letting it dry thoroughly before finishing it off with almond and other icings. It should be remembered that all rich cakes, if yeast- made, are better and more mellow if stored for some time ; in some cases, such as bride and birthday cakes, this storage may last for months without inconvenience. Indeed, a well-known firm of cake bakers never consider