1o rr oi BISCUITS AND SMALL CAKES. but be careful to have the puree fairly stiff or it will overflow and make it. messy. Cakes, Tea.—Make a well in the centre of lib. of flour; mix loz. of German yeast with a gill of tepid milk, then stir in one whole well-beaten egg, and 3oz. fresh bxitter previously dissolved in a gill of warm water; pour this all into the well in the flour, gathering in lightly sufficient flour from the sides to produce a little pool of batter;, sprinkle a little fresh flour over this, cover the basin with a cloth and leave it for an hour in a warm corner to rise. Now knead the whole to a light dough, adding a little more milk if needed, then cut the dough across with a sharp knife, re-cover the pan, and let it rise again for half an hour. Next turn it out on a well-floured board or slab, roll it out lightly and quickly a full inch thick, cut it in rounds the size of a saucer, and set these on a floured tin near the fire to rise again for ten minutes; then brush them over with a little milk and caster sugar, and bake for twenty minutes in a moderate oven. They are then sliced, toasted lightly, buttered, put together into shape again, and served very hot. Some people add sultanas, carraway seeds, shred candied peel, &c., to this dough, in which case, when made up and baked, the cakes are simply split and buttered. If shaped into a long roll, baked, sliced, and these slices then browned and crisped in the oven, this recipe makes excellent rusks. Made with Baking Powder.— Sift together a small teaspoonful of baking powder and lib. of flour, rub 2oz. of butter or lard into this, with the well-beaten yolk of one egg, and a saltspoonful of salt; work this quickly to a light dough with a little warm milk, shape the dough into rounds, place on a well-floured baking tin, brush over with milk and sugar, and bake twenty to thirty minutes in a moderate oven. Delicious tea cakes can be made thus with the Hovis Lito flour, omitting the baking powder. Doughnuts.—Beat two eggs till light with Jib.