145 BISCUITS AND SMALL CAKES. and bake in a quick oven to a golden brown. When per- fectly cold, mask these cakes with a chocolate glace, placing on the centre of each, as the glace is setting, a square of any stiff, highly-coloured jelly, with a blanched nut of any kind fixed in this, and use plain or in tiny paper cases. (These add enormously to the value of such trifles, and cost but little if bought in quantities.) If preferred, this paste can be baked as in the preceding recipe, stamped out to taste, and finished as above. The flavouring, which should be added when beating it all up, may be varied : 2oz. freshly- ground almonds and loz. grated vanilla chocolate, or a good dessertspoonful of strong coffee or coffee extract, or any liqueur to taste being used. Genoises au Chocolat.—Put into a basin about a ^lb. of flour and ooz. of sugar well sifted and slightly flavoured with chocolate. Mix this thoroughly with a wooden spatula, add two whole eggs, the yolks of three more, 5oz. of butter, and 2oz. of almonds peeled and pounded in a mortar with the white of an egg. To this, when it is well mixed, add, if desired, a little chocolate essence, or chocolate dissolved and rubbed smooth in about one tablespoonful of water. When all these ingredients are thoroughly incorporated, put the paste into small paper cases, either square or round (the former are generally used), and bake them in a mode- rate oven. When done, remove the cases and put back the cakes to dry in the oven. They should be iced with choco- late icing. Sitot Faits.—Stir the yolks of six eggs first with fib. of finely pounded sugar; then add Alb. of pounded almonds, Jib- of grated chocolate, and, finally, the same quantity of flour. Work the paste thoroughly, and put in the whisked whites of the eggs. Butter some moulds of any desirable size, fill them with the mixture, bake them in the oven, and do not turn the biscuits out till nearly cold, so as to avoid breaking them. Cocurs au Chocolat.—Slightly beat up the yolks of eight L