51 ROLLS, &c. bake, divide at the marks, split with a fork, spread with clotted cream or creamed butter, and serve hot. Croissants.—These French rolls are simply made with French, milk, or Vienna dough; or any good household dough will do if made with half milk, half water, with a little butter rubbed up into the dough at the second kneading. About 3£oz. of butter to the quartern of dough is the right amount. When the dough has risen the second time, roll it out like pastry, about Rn. thick, cut it into even squares, and each across diagonally into two triangles ; take a corner at the ends of the longest side of the triangle in each hand, with the third point outside away from you, and roll it up evenly, lightly pressing the third point to make it adhere to the roll; then bend the two ends towards each other in a crescent, or croissant, shape (whence the name) ; bake ten to fifteen minutes in a rather quick oven. Brush each roll as you lift it out of the oven with egg yolk beaten up with a spoonful or two of milk. This makes them shiny, and prevents their hardening. After cutting out these croissants, gather up the trimmings of dough, break off little pieces, make these into egg shapes with your well-floured hands, cut each across once with a sharp knife, and bake as before. These make capital breakfast and dinner rolls. Another way of making up these rolls is to cut the dough into even strips, rolling these on the floured board till round; now put three strips together, keeping the centre one just a trifle above the others, and plait these three strands, allowing them to widen out in the centre, narrowing them again towards the lower tip ; then pinch the ends lightly together to make the plait firm, lay these twists on a buttered baking sheet, brush them over with beaten egg, and bake in a moderate oven, being careful not to let them colour too highly. These croissants are known in Austria as Kipfel, of which there are various kinds, chiefly differentiated by their seasonings, such as rough salt, aniseeds, carraway seeds, &c. e 2