172 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. Pfann Kuchen {Austrian).—Roll out some brioche paste- one-sixth of an inch thick, stamjTit out in rounds 3in. across* and spread on half of them some rich apricot marmalade* leaving a margin clear all round. Cover these rounds with the plain ones, pressing the moistened edges well together. Now flour a clean cloth, and set the cakelets on this, cover them lightly, and leave them in a warm place to rise for fifteen or twenty minutes. Then fry a light golden brown in butter, lift them out with a skimmer, drain, then drop- them one at a time in hot rum-flavoured syrup. Lift out, and serve very hot. Radonen Kuchen.—Warm half a pint of milk, and mix into- it Joz. of yeast. Put lib. of flour into a basin, make a hollow in the centre, and pour the yeast and milk into this, working it well into the flour, but keeping a dry ring of the> latter all round, then cover the basin, and leave this to rise. Meanwhile beat Jib. of butter to a cream, then work into it- five whole eggs, beating the mixture for fully twenty minutes ; now mix in Jib. of well washed and dried currants,, a few sultanas, a little sugar, and a pinch of salt. Work this all to a smooth dough with the flour, &c., butter a mould, strew it well with chopped almonds, flour, and caster sugar, pour in the mixture, and bake half an hour in a hot oven. hheinischer Bund.—-For this dish, which is a great favourite in many parts of Germany, the cook must be brisk over her work, as there should be no delay in the course of the preparations. Have ready to hand two tablespoonfuls of cornflour mixed with a little cold water (just enough to moisten it), the yolks of ten eggs, ^lb. of finely sifted sugar, the grated peel and the juice of one lemon, a sherry glassful of arrack or maraschino, and |lb. of macaroons with the wafers carefully scraped off. Bring the contents of one bottle of stillhock to a boil; as soon as it boils stir into it (over the fire) the cornfloui', the eggs, sugar, peel, and lemon juice. When the mixture becomes rather thick, like a custard, put in the maraschino. Pour this preparation into a deep dish