22 BREAD, OAKES, AND BISCUITS. size and the cross cuts are nearly invisible; this will take, for the quantities given, about an hour. Now turn it out on the board and re-knead it for a few minutes, then mould it. If you mean to bake it in tins have these ready buttered, and put in the dough, shaping it lightly to the tin, which must never be more than half full. If you wish for cottage loaves, make the piece of dough chosen into two bal ls, a large and a small one; put the little ball on the top of the big one. and with either your floured finger, or the h indie of a wooden spoon, make a hole right through the two balls, at the same time cutting down the sides of the larger ball all round to secure a crusty loaf. A very con- venient shape for kitchen use is what bakers call a Coburg loaf, which is simply an exaggerated edition of the half- penny dinner roll; for this you shape the dough into an oval, cutting it across the top rather deeply. Whatever way, however, you choose to shape your loaves, when so shaped they must be at once returned to a warm place to rise again. When they have become double their original size they must be at once put into the oven to bake, for if allowed to over-rise they will very likely drop in the baking and become sour and sad. Be sure the oven is right when you put in the loaves. The easiest way to test the oven is to throw in a teaspoonful of flour, or a piece of white kitchen paper; if the flour browns in five minutes, or the paper becomes the colour of deal in two or three, the oven is ready; if you happen to have a thermometei', you will find 350° Fahr. about right. The bread should be in the oven about ten minutes before it begins to brown, and this stops its rising, which it always does for a few minutes after entering the oven. If the above quantities are divided into two, the loaf will take one to one and a quarter hours to bake. If only made into one loaf, this will take from one and a half to two hours. Directly the bread is dine, and taken from the oven, turn the loaves upside down, or on their sides, to allow the steam to escape.