53 ROLLS, &c. milk, lifting it off the moment the butter is dissolved ; now let it cool a little, then add to it a well-beaten egg, a pinch of salt, and enough flour to produce a nice batter, pouring in at the last a gill of fresh yeast; cover, and let it stand in a warm place fifteen to twenty minutes, then bake lightly on a buttered plate in proper rings, either over the fire or in the oven. As soon as one side seems properly toasted, turn it over on to the other. The rings should only be half filled with the batter, as it rises a good deal in the baking. Crumpets.—Weigh ljlb. of flour, rub down half an ounce of German yeast with a little sugar and water, pour a pint of warm milk over it, anl let it stand to settle ; strain it into the flour, stir it well, and put in a warm place to rise. When well risen add another pint of milk, with a little salt and two well-beaten eggs; set it aside in a warm place to rise again. Heat the griddle or frying-pan, rub it with a piece of butter, and, when the batter has risen sufficiently, pour a teacupful of the batter into the pan without stirring the mixture. As soon as it is set turn it over quickly with a slice, lay them as soon as they are done on a clean cloth, and cover them with another. Toast them when wanted. Damper.—This Australian bread-stuff is much nicer than people at home give it credit for being. It should, properly, be bake I in the ashes of a wood fire, and that fire a large one, which should have burnt down to a fine, powdery ash, still retaining a large amount of heat; but, failing this, the dough can be cooked in a camp oven, drawing the fire well over, round, and under it. A strong fire is an essential for this cake, and it is wise for the beginner to make a small loaf of it for a very large amount of fire Put into a dish 2lb. of flour, sprinkling into this a teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda and half that amount of tartaric acid, with salt to taste. When this is all well mixed make a hollow in it, and with the right hand pour in sufficient water or milk to moisten the dough, keeping it mixed up all the time with