BISCUITS AND SMALL CAKES. 1-21 cream are moister and t ike longer to bake than the same cakes made with butter. Biscuits, Digestive.—Hub lib. of butter into 5lb. of wheat meal; make a hollow in the centre and pour into this four lightly beaten up eggs, with 4oz. sugar and ^oz. of car- bonate of soda; mix this all to a little pool of batter in the cent.e of the flour, then gradually draw down the latter from the sides with a circular motion of your fingers, moistening the dough thus produced with about one quart of water, added by degrees, till you get it all to a nice workable consistency. Take up one-third of this dough and roll it out to the thickness of a penny ; spread a clean cloth on the kitchen table, lift the dough on to the rolling pin and roll it out again on the cloth, then cut it into oval or round cakes, prick these, and place them in the oven. Finish off the rest of the dough in the same way. Fenloe.—Make a dough with equal parts of sifted flour, creamed butter (or a little less clotted cream), a little milk, and sugar. Use as little sweet milk as you can in mixing this. Roll the paste out rather thin, stamp out with a fluted cutter, and bake in a moderate oven till crisp and of a nice fawn tint. Filbert.—Blanch and pound 8oz. filberts and loz. of bitter almonds, adding a little egg white now and again to prevent their oiling. Beat the yolks of three eggs till light with 4oz. caster sugar, then beat in loz. dry flour, 4oz. more of caster sugar, the pounded nuts, a little finety grated lemon rind, and, at the last, the very stiffly whipped whites of six eggs. Pour this mixture into little paper caseq and bake in a moderate oven. Grandmother’ Mix together lib. dried and sifted flour, 2oz. rice flour, and a good pinch of salt. Cream together Jib. cf fresh butter and 4oz. caster sugar, then work in the flour, &c., by degrees, adding last of all one or two eggs to bind it, but no other liquid, and make it all up into a ball. Dust the pastry 1 oard or slab lightly with