155 FOREIGN CAKES. whipped whites of four eggs, and hake in a well-buttered fancy mould. The heat of the oven should be even and moderate, for if too hot the torte will be raw in the centre and hard outside. Leave it in the mould till nearly cold, then turn it out, and when perfectly cold ice with the following : Rub 12oz. of cane loaf sugar on the peel of an orange till it has absorbed all the yellow part, then pound and sift it, adding a very little more finely sifted sugar if it does not weigh quite 12oz.; put this sugar in a delicately clean pan with the juice of half a large orange, stirring it all well with a wooden spoon till the sugar dissolves, then add in gradually the rest of the orange juice, stirring it all the time over the fire, till it is of the proper icing consistency. Now lift off the pan, and keep the icing mixture stirred gently for half an hour. It is well worth this trouble, which makes it beautifully light and easy to spread. Mask the cake with it in the usual way, and set it away in a warm dry place to dry and stiffen before serving it. Christ-Stollen (Christmas Rolls).—Put 2lb. of flour into a pan and make a hollow in the centre of it, dissolve six spoonfuls of good yeast in a third of a pint of tepid milk, pour this into the bay in the flour, draw down sufficient of the flour to make a small pond of the batter, dust it with a little fresh flour, and leave it in a warm place to rise. When it has risen nicely add to it Jib. of creamed butter and a tea- spoonful of salt, working it all well together into a nice dough with the flour. When this is all thoroughly blended, stir in gradually lb. of sultanas or well washed and dx-ied currants. Jib. of caster sugar, 3oz. or 4oz. of blanched and finely shred almonds, and either a tiny pinch of pounded cloves or half the finely grated rind of a lemon, as you please, keeping up the kneading all the time. When everything is well mixed in and the dough is smooth, set it in a warm place and again let it rise; then divide it in half, shape each into a roll, and place it on a well