14’- BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. drop this mixture in small teaspoonfuls on a ptpered tin, and bake in a cool oven till hard, say, for about half an hour, though, if more convenient, these cake3 may be put into the oven the last thing and left till next day. Pralines.—Blanch and bake a full ^lb of almonds to a rich brown (be careful not to let them burn i, and pound them with loz. of candied orange flowers, moistening this with the whites of two eggs, beating it well together and working in gradually l()oz. of caster sugar. Lay this in oval cakes on wafer paper, and bake in a moderate oven till fairly crisp. Garnish if liked with crystallized orange flowers. Petits Fonts.—This is the generic name for all kinds of small cakes, usually much decorated with icings, crystal- lised fruits, bonbons, &c., and nowadays in much request as much for their appearance as for their flavour. A very easy form of these is produced by slicing down more or less thinly any kind of nice cake, such as Madeira, sponge, orange, chocolate, &c. These slices, if thick, are then stamped out in diamonds or rounds, covered smoothly with any delicate glace to taste, a bonbon, crystallised fruit, or flower, or even a cube of bright-coloured jelly being placed on each as a garnish. If sliced thinly, half the slices are spread with sieved jam, jam and cream, clotted or whipped cream, nut filling (royal icing into which you mix as many blanched and chopped nuts of any kind as it will take up), almond paste (2£lb. freshly ground almonds and 3|lb. of cane icing sugar worked to a stiff dry paste with the whites (unbeaten) of seven or eight eggs, a teaspoonful of essence of vanilla, and a sherry-glassful of brandy, rum, or liqueur as you please', or heat a small pot of apricot or other good jam with one or two spoonfuls of rum, brandjq liqueur, or any flavouring to taste, and when warm and thick spread it generously on the cake. Cover these slices with the rest of the cake, sandwich fashion, pressing them lightly together, then when firm trim to any shape desired, and ice with