127 BISCUITS AND SMALL CAKES. hours. Kub the butter into the rest of the flour with the fruit and about ^oz. mixed spice (this is a matter of taste',, make it all into a weak, light dough, handling it as little as is consistent with well mixing, then cover and let it rise for an hour at least, till it is as light as you can get it; then weigh up in 21b. 2oz. pieces, make these up into twelve buns from each, set them on a buttered baking sheet not too close together, and set aside in a warm place till half risen ; then cut the cross in pretty deep (if not it will disappear when fully risen), let them finish rising, and when nice and light bake in a good but not a fierce oven (a cold oven will quite spoil the bun). When baked, wash over with an egg beaten up in a little milk. (This is a trade recipe.) Buns, Lemon.—4lb. flour, gib. butter or lard, Jjlb. sugar, four eggs, one pint milk, three-quarters of a pint water,. 2oz. yeast, a few drops essence of lemon, and a very little turmeric. Mix in the usual way for buns, and, when well risen, make the dough up into buns, brush over with milk,, dust with coarsely crushed sugar, place a strip of candied lemon peel on each, again let them rise, and bake ten minutes in a moderate oven. This should make fifty buns. Plain (A confectioner’s recipe).—For fifty buns. take 4lb. of flour, ilb. of butter or lard, Jib. of common sugar, 2oz. of yeast, a quart of milk, lib. of well-washed and dried currants, a few drops of essence of lemon, and four eggs. The leaven for these buns should be set to rise over- night, as then the sponge will be ready by the early morn- ing, and will be bright and clear. Mix, weigh them off on the tins, brush them over with beaten egg, try them, and bake about ten minutes in a steady oven. Raspberry.—Make a soft dough with fib. sugar, Mb. butter, 4lb. fine sifted flour, four eggs, and Joz. baking powder, with enough milk to moisten it. Foil out in jound 2oz. pieces, put a dab of raspberry jam on each, pinch the dough up round to cover it, wash the tops over with milk, dip in caster sugar, and bake in a good