8 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. same rule applies to ordinary cooking. An earthen or stoneware bread pan should form part of every well set-up kitchen, concerning which article, by the way, there are a few points that deserve more attention than they obtain. (A bread pan should be emptied out daily, and care- fully wiped all over; once a week it should be thoroughly scalded out, and well dried before the bread is returned to it; then hot fresh bread should never be shut into the bread pan unless the latter has some provision for the escape of the steam from such loaves, and even so the hot bread should not be put in if there are other loaves in the pan. Bread put hot into the bread pan and covered down will always deteriorate. Again, the bread pan must not be kept either in a warm cupboard, which renders its contents stale and hard, or in a cold damp larder, where they will infallibly become mildewy and soft.) Besides this pan, one or more baking sheets or tins, one or two large pans or basins (or later on a wooden trough) for mixing the dough in, one or more wooden spoons for mixing, a set of scales for weighing the ingredients, a measuring glass or cup marked up to a pint (this is not absolutely necessary, but saves a lot of trouble), and a few various sized and shaped loaf and roll moulds or tins are required, together with a rasp. The latter also is not indispensable, but -where bread is regularly baked it is a convenience, for, in spite of the greatest care, it is not always possible to prevent loaves and rolls from “catching ” or burning, and the black, hard surface is best and most appetisingly removed by this rasp, -which well repays its small cost. With regard to loaf moulds, these are a matter of taste. The weight of the quartern or half quartern loaf is fixed by law, and any deviation in its weight is con- sequently punishable, but the weights of the so-called “ fancy ” loaves are only “ reputed,” and by no means invariable. The next point to consider is the measurement of the flour. To be in thoroughly good condition, flour should be