BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. 182 you wish to produce. If properly done the tartlets will, when ready, look as if thickly frosted with rime. Cooks differ as to whether this icing should be applied before or after baking. Roughly speaking, if the pastry to be iced is small and the oven moderate, these may be iced before baking. But with a hot oven, or with large tarts or pies, it is best to three parts cook them before icing. When iced first, attention must be paid to the baking, for the sugar is very apt to catch and brown, in which case its appearance is spoilt; on the other hand if you take the tarts out to ice them before the paste is fully set, bringing them into the cooler air often makes them fall and sadden. Cakes, however, and suchlike things are iced on a dif- ferent plan. It is comparatively easy, with a little care, to ice a cake plainly, i.e., to cover it all over with any icing to taste. The difficulty comes in when ambition prompts one to garnish this smooth surface with designs and orna- ments in other kinds and coloured icings. Still, this difficulty is not insuperable. To begin, however, with the plain surface icing. First see that your cake is steady. If you are addic'ed to cake making you will find it a comfort to invest in a cake-drum as it is called, i.e., a block of smooth wood, mounted on a swivel fastened securely to a firm base, on which, when the cake is placed, it can be turned round and round, as the exigencies of icing require. These cake-drums can be procured from any maker of con- fectionery utensils. Failing this, however, cake icing may be very satisfactorily managed by mounting the cake on a plain round cake, or Charlotte mould turned wrong side up, being careful to choose a mould somewhat smaller than the cake you intend to ice, so as to allow the knife, used in applying the icing, to go freely round the cake. Having fixed yoiir cake to your mind, pile on the top of it as much of the icing as you judge sufficient to cover the top, or the sides as well; then, with a palette knife long