50 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. described in making captain biscuits ; the dough should be smooth and spongy; knead it well, then roll it out one-fifth of an inch thick, stamp it out with round, oval, or leaf- shaped cutters, prick each cake well, and leave them out as flat as possible for a minute or two; now lift each biscuit separately in your left hand, pressing them into a cup shape with your right thumb, dropping each into boiling water as done (keep a fish kettle or bain marie pan at hand on the hob, full of boiling water, which must be kept at boiling point) ; in about a minute the biscuits will rise to the surface, when they must be lifted out with a skimmer and dropped at once into a pan of cold water; cover this pan and leave the cracknells in this for three or four hours. Now drain them well, wash them over with a little white of egg, set them on buttered baking sheets, and bake for about twelve minutes in a hot oven. See they are thoroughly baked, but mind they do not burn. Biscuits, Oatmeal.—Put into a basin |lb. coarse oatmeal, 4oz. flour, 4oz. sugar, rub 4oz. of butter thoroughly into it all, and make it all into a stiff paste with a whole egg mixed with half a gill of water. Dust a board lightly with fine oatmeal or a little flour, roll the paste out very thinly, prick with a steel fork, stamp out with a round cutter, and bake fifteen to twenty minutes in a moderate oven. Water.—Mix together lib. of flour, the yolk of an egg, and enough water to make it all a stiff paste ; work it well till perfectly smooth, then roll it out as thin as possible, and stamp it out with a plain round cutter; prick these rounds with a fork, and bake in a slack oven for twelve to fifteen minutes. A nicer form of these is made by using milk instead of water. Cornish Splits.—Mix together 12oz. flour, 8oz. butter (or well clarified dripping), a teaspoonful of sugar, and, if liked, 8oz. well washed and dried currants, moisten with buttermilk or water, work it to a nice smooth paste, roll it out I|in. thick, mark it out in rounds or squares.