BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. 40 and half fill some well buttered square tin moulds with the mixture ; let it rise a little in the tins, and bake in a sharp oven till done. Almost every baker has his pet recipe for this bread, some omitting the sugar, others, again, using an egg for each pound of flour, &c. This dough is also used to make the various twists, and rolls, and shapes of different kinds so much used abroad. Wholemeal Bread.—Cream together well 2oz. of German yeast and a good teaspoonful of caster sugar; in another basin sift together 4lb. finely ground, wheatmeal, and a dessertspoonful of salt; make a " bay ” in the centre of this, and pour into it one and a half pints tepid water and the yeast, draw a little flour down from the sides on to this, strew a little more over the tiny pond thus formed, cover the basin with a double cloth, and let it rise for forty minutes in front of the fire. Now work this all up into a dough, and again let it rise for two hours, when it must be re-kneaded and divided up into loaves; bake for about an hour, placing the bread in the hottest part of a very hot oven first, then draw it down to the cooler end. If preferred, a pint and a half of milk, in which loz. of butter has been dissolved, may be used in precisely the same way, when tepid, to mix the dough with. Another way, you mix togetherJ4lb. fine wheat- meal, 2oz. of sugar, and a little salt; make a “bay” in the centre, and pour in 2oz. of German yeast, previously creamed with a teaspoonful of sugar, a pint of tepid water, and half a pint of milk. Add to this two or three well- beaten eggs, work it all to a dough, then cover, and let it rise before the fire for two hours, keeping the pan well covered. Now divide it into two, and bake in two tins f6r an hour. This can be varied by using different propor- tions of wholemeal and flour to suit different people’s taste and digestion. Take equal quantities of meal and flour— say, one gallon of each; work it as for bread with 2ioz.