CAKES. 75 creamy ; now beat in the sugar, and then the yolks of the eggs, one or two at a time, for if mixed in too many at once they are liable to thin the mixing suddenly, and to curdle it. When these are all thoroughly amalgamated, work in the dry ingredients, adding the flour (into which, when used, the baking powder should be sifted) at the last—the reason for this is that directly the baking powder is put in, the cake should be turned into the tin and baked as soon as possible, as the moment the powder is moistened it begins to effervesce, and it is on this effervescence the lightness of the cake depends, so that if it has passed off before the cake gets into the oven, the latter will be heavy. When baking powder is not used, and whites of eggs are, these latter should be beaten as stiff as possible, and mixed in at the last quickly and lightly, alternately with the flour. Cakes made with yeast are, on the contrary, all the better for being allowed to rise a little before baking. Mixing cannot be too carefully done, for it has a great deal to say to the success of the cake. See that your ingredients are the best you can afford, in good condition, and ready at hand in the quantities required. In cold weather, when the butter is hard, it may be lightly warmed to make it easier to work, but on no account melt it. If you do, your cake will inevitably be heavy. Unless the butter is thoroughly beaten into the rest of the ingredients, the cake when baked will be streaky, with greasy smears through it where there has been an unmixed lump of butter. This is the reason why good cake-makers always beat their butter to a cream, as this ensures the due mixing of the materials. With regard to pastry butter, theoretically, it should be the best and freshest; practically butter that is not fit for table use from its tastelessness, &c., is, as long as it is not rancid, perfectly good for pastry and cakes. Indeed, dripping, lard, and, last and best, beef marrow, will all make excellent cakes, &c. In fact, for household and nursery use, well clarified dripping should always be used, both for puddings