BREAD, CAKES. AND BISCUITS. 32 gluten to make a soft batter. Cover the pan, stand it in a warm corner, and let it rise well; then knead in sufficient gluten to produce a soft dough, kneading this very thoroughly. Now shape it into four loaves, let it rise again, then bake for an hour. Remember gluten bread takes both less yeast and less time to rise than ordinary bread. It may be observed that a cake of compressed yeast is considered equal to half a pint of liquid yeast. Gluten Bread.—Another way of making this bread is to make a sponge with fib. of wholemeal flour, three-quarters of a pint of water, and half a yeast cake. Let this stand for about two and a half to three hours, then work in 5 lb. more meal and about three-quarters of a pint of water, a teaspoon- ful of salt, and two tablespoonfuls of molasses, kneading this well to a soft, smooth dough, and using in the process 2oz. or so more of the flour. Let this rise till the next morning, when you make it up into two loaves ; again let these rise till double their original size, and bake fifty minutes in a moderate oven. These are American recipes. Greek Bread.—Sift and warm 6lb. fine flour, then mix it with 3oz. of yeast, worked up with a little caster sugar, :?oz. salt, and a little water, adding gradually enough tepid milk and water to make it all into a not too stiff dough. Knead it well, cover with a cloth, and leave it for three hours in a warm place to rise, after which divide it into eight parts, set each in a buttered tin, and bake in a very hot oven. When nearly done turn them out of the moulds, and set them in the oven on tins to colour the crust nicely. This takes a very few minutes. Roll them up at once in flannel. Hovis Bread.—This bread is made with a specially pre- pared flour, patented by Mr Richard Smith. By this pro- cess the germ of the wheat and really the most nourishing part, is retained, though it has hitherto been rejected owing to its injurious action on the other constituents of the flour. By the Hovis process this germ, after special treatment.