BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. 82 quartern of flour and one and a half pints of milk. As soon as this is amalgamated put the mixture into well- buttered tins and bake at once, or the effervescence will subside and the cake become heavy. This cake does not keep long. If preferred, lib. sultanas, £lb. of currants, a tiny pinch of mixed spice, and loz. or 2oz. finely shred candied peel may be used instead of the seeds, adding as above, before putting in the flour. Cake, Birthday.—Beat lib. of fresh butter to a cream with lib. of caster sugar, then work in five eggs singly, mixing each well into the butter, &c., before adding the next; now stir in lflb. of mixed candied peel, shred as fine as possible (this peel is most indigestible, so requires careful shredding), 21b. well washed and dried currants (many persons prefer sultanas as being more wholesome), and lib. of ground almonds; when all these are thoroughly worked together, mix in lib. of best flour, previously sifted with loz. mixed ground spice, and pour in a glassful of French brandy, when the cake will be ready for firing Bake, in a well-papered hoop, on a baking tin strewn with bran or sawdust to keep the cake from burning. It requires a hot, steady oven. It is not possible always to give the exact time these cakes will take to bake, so the best way is always to test them. Like all rich fruit cakes, this one should be kept for some time before cutting, and may be served either plain, glazed with a little sugar, or coated with almond and royal icing, or any glace preferred, and garnished with sweets, dried fruits, &c. Bordeaux.—Beat a pound of fresh butter to a cream with a pound of caster sugar, then work in, one or two at a time, eight large or nine small eggs, and, lastly, lib. 4oz. of sifted flour, with a few drops of essence of lemon, colouring it with a little tincture of saffron prepai'ed as for a baba. Bake in a moderate oven, in square or oblong tins three inches deep. When cold, slice the cakes, and spread the shoes with apricot or any other nice jam beaten