129 BISCUITS AND SMALL CAKES. paste into pretty little buttered moulds (previously dusted with equal parts of flour and sugar), and bake in a rather hot oven. Cakes, Almond and Chocolate.—Mix together Jib. each of freshly-ground sweet almonds aixd caster sugar, Joz. of powdered cinnamon, and 4oz. powdered chocolate, and when these are all well mixed to a smooth powder add in gradually the stiffly-whisked whites of six eggs, and directly this is all blended put it by spoonfuls at a time on to a buttered baking sheet, and bake at once. ■— Almond Shortcake.—Rub lOoz. of fresh butter into lib. of finely sifted Vienna flour, then work in 4oz. potato flour (fecule de pommes de terre), ooz. ground almonds, and 7oz. caster sugar. Now mix this to a paste with one large or two small eggs and a full tablespoonful of thick cream. Shape this paste into oval cakes half an inch thick, brush the tops with beaten egg-white, lay a thin shred of angelica or candied peel and some blanched and shred or chopped almonds on each, slip them very carefully on to a baking sheet, and bake a pale golden brown in a gentle oven, being careful not to lift the cakes from the tin till they are perfectly cold. Boston Cream.—Put 4oz. of butter and half a pint of milk into a saucepan, and stir a little while it comes to boiling point. Sift Ooz. of flour, and put it all into the satxcepan at once; stir vigorously until it is smooth and thick, and has been so for two or three minutes ; then remove from the fire and allow it to get cool. Drop in the yolks of four eggs one by one, stirring each thoroughly; beat up the four whites very stiffly, stir them in gently,but thoroughly ; put the mixture on a greased oven shelf in dessertspoonfuls, put into a moderately hot oven, and do not open the door for ten minutes. They take nearly fifteen or twenty minutes, and ought to rise very much and be baked quite firmly all over. Allow them to cool. Whip up half a pint of double cream, add to it one dessertspoonful of sugar and K