HOUSEHOLD AND FANCY BREADS. 37 eggs till light, then add them to one and a quarter pints of milk; now beat into this rather more than lOoz. of Indian corn meal, about 6oz. or 7oz. of cold boiled rice, a tea- spoonful of salt, and loz. of warm but not oiled butter; when this is thoroughly beaten sprinkle into it two even dessertspoonfuls of baking powder, and mix in very quickly; have ready buttered some round shallow pans, turn the mixture into these, bake at once in a hot oven for thirty minutes, and serve very hot. Or, cook Jib. of rice in hot water till tender enough to sieve, then pour off the water and stir the rice into 2lb. of ordinary flour; mix three dessertspoonfuls of yeast and one teaspoonful of salt with enough of the warm rice water to make it all a smooth dough ; let this rise in a warm place, shape it into loaves, and bake from one to one and three-quarter hours, accord- ing to size. This recipe may be varied according to cir- cumstances, as it was originally introduced at a time when flour was very dear. If the rice is cooked in water and drained off it is always wise to use this water in mixing the bread, as this increases its nutritive value ; if the rice has absorbed the water in which it was cooked, naturally fresh hot water must be used, but at the same time this kind of bread does not require as much moisture as the ordinary kinds. In America, where this bread is much liked for its keeping powers, a little maize meal is mixed with the ordinary flour, or a boiled and mashed potato is added as recommended for potato bread, and milk or milk and water is used instead of plain water. Rye Bread.— Scald a pint of milk and dissolve in it a teaspoonful each of butter and salt; when cool, work .in half a cake of compressed yeast, with enough fine flour to make a thick batter, and beat this well till the batter is full of air bubbles; now cover it, and let it stand in a warm place until morning. Next morning work in lightly enough rye flour to make a soft dough, and, when sufficiently kneaded, divide this dough into two loaves; shape them.