BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. 38 place in greased bread-pans, cover, and let them stand in a warm place to rise again. When light, bake in a moderate oven (300° Falir.) for one hour. Remember that rye bread must never be as stiff as white bread, nor does it require so much kneading. Formerly the sponge for rye bread was set with barley meal, which may perhaps account for its loss of general favour. Salt Bread.—Make a thick batter with fine flour and a pint of scalding water, then add half a teaspoonful of salt, and beat it till quite smooth and full of air bubbles. Now cover it closely, stand it in a pan of warm water, and keep it in a warm place till the next morning. Next day scald a pint of milk, and set it aside until it is tepid, then add a teaspoonful of salt and enough flour to make a batter that will drop, but not pour, from the spoon. The salted batter prepared the previous night should now be very light, and have acquired a decidedly disagreeable smell; beat these two batters thoroughly and steadily together for quite three minutes, then cover with a cloth, stand the basin in a pan of warm water, and set it to rise in a very warm place till light (about two hours); now work in enough flour to make a nice dough, knead thoroughly until it is a perfectly smooth and springy mass, then divide it up, shape it into loaves, place these in a buttered pan, cover with a towel, and when very light bake in a moderate oven (300° Fahr.) for an hour. This dough must be kept very much warmer than ordinary yeast dough, or it will not rise properly; but when carefully made it is said to be more digestible than any other kind of bread. This dough mikes very nice Grissini, or “ salt sticks,” if divided up into strips lOin. or 12in. long by lin. wide, rolled into sticks with your well-floured hands, and baked. Sandwich Bread.—This tread, when prepared by bakers, is usually baked in special tins, some called sandwich tins having sliding lids, whilst double or box tins are constantly used for this purpose. The following, however, makes a