58 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. eggs whisked to the stiffest possible froth with a pinch of salt (he sure jou have removed the “speck” from the eggs!), and drop this batter by spoonfuls into a pan of boiling friture (butter, dripping, ghee, oil, or any fat may be used), and cook over a good, steady fire. When these cakes look like English crumpets, lift them out with a skimmer, drain for a moment, and serve very hot, spread with butter or honey. The fat should have a strong pale blue vapour over it when you drop in the cake3. Another form of these cakes (known in France as galette de sarrasin) is made thus : Add one and a half tablespoonfuls of yeast and a pinch or two of salt to a quart of pure buckwheat flour (mind no rye, &c., is mixed with it), and pour it all into a deep basin with enough cold water to make it all into a nice smooth batter; then set this to rise in a warm (but not too hot) place till the next morning. When well risen, shape into rather thin cakes and bake on a hot girdle. Make them only the last thing at night, for if left to rise too long these cakes sometimes “sour.” Serve spread with butter or honey. Indian Corn Calces.—Mix together to a stiff paste Jib. of corn meal, one egg, |lb. of brown sugar, golden syrup, molasses, or treacle, as you choose, and a pinch of salt. At the last stir in quickly two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, pour the mixture into well-buttered tins, and bake twenty minutes in a sharp oven. Rice Cakes.—Boil a pint of rice till quite tender, when you add to it a teacupful of cornflour, two well-beaten eggs, a pinch of salt, and enough milk to make it all into a nice batter, then stir in quickly a tablespoonful of liquefied butter or lard, and bake on a hot girdle. Slim Cakes.—One pound of flour, two well-beaten eggs, loz. butter, one teaspoonful of salt, and as much warm (not hot) milk as will make it all into a paste. Knead this all well together, let it stand before the fire for half an hour to lighten, then roll it out, cut it into squares, dust these with