13 BREAD. a cupful (a short half a pint) of warm water. The usual reckoning is that a cake of German yeast equals half a pint of liquid yeast. Potato Yeast.—Boil lib. of potatoes and mash them, then mix with them 4oz. of raw sugar and a teaspoonful of salt, add a quart of tepid water, and let it all stand for twenty-four hours in a warm place ; now boil a small handful of hops in half a pint of water for ten minutes, then strain and add this liquid to the potatoes, &c. Let it stand for another twenty-four hours, then if it does not work of itself add a little brewer’s yeast, and let it work for twenty-four hours more, when it is tit for use directly it is strained. When cold put this yeast into stone bottles, with the corks tightly tied down, and keep it in a cool place till wanted. About a tumblerful (or half a pint) of this yeast is required for 71b. of flour. Always reserve a cupful of this yeast to start another brew of it. Yeast for Hot Climates.—The following directions for yeast making abroad were given in the Queen by a lady who has written a very clever little book on “ Leavened Bread at Home, inthe Jungle, and the Colonies,” which, however, is not easily procured, or so well known as it should be in this country: Mash two small and thoroughly ripe bananas or plantains, and mix with them one heaped tablespoonful of moist sugar, a dessertspoonful of flour, and about a gill of luke-warm water When these ingredients are thoroughly mixed pour them into an old-fashioned soda-water bottle, cork and tie this down securely, and put it away for forty- eight hours till its contents are foamy and creamy and ready for use. The cork will fly when opened, like a champagne cork. Other recipes given by the same lady are as follows: Mash and boil two medium-sized potatoes, and add to them a tablespoonful of raw sugar, a dessertspoonful of flour, a gill of warm water (80°), and a tea- spoonful of soaked dried peas or lentils; mix all these as. before, and finish as in the previous recipe. This also will