HOUSEHOLD AND FANCY BREADS. 33 is mixed with a certain proportion of fine wheat flour, and is all sifted together through silken sieves till the resulting meal, of a brownish colour, is entirely free from any irritating substance, pleasant in flavour, and possesses a very large percentage of bone-forming phosphates, which Of course renders it a specially suitable bread for children. To make it, mix 3|lb. of Hovis flour with as much warm water (90°) as will bring it all to a smooth batter, then add to it l£oz. of yeast, previously dissolved in half a gill of warm water, and work this all well together. When well worked add in as much more water, at the same tem- perature (90°), as will make up a quart of water altogether, and mix it well in. Now divide up the dough, lightly shaping it on the board, place these loaves in tins, and set them to rise in a warm, even temperature for ten to fifteen minutes; then bake in a moderate oven, allowing from fifteen to twenty minutes longer than for ordinary bread. Use no salt in making this bread. This recipe was given me by the manager of the Hovis Bread Co. Lapland Bread.—Put a pint of flour in a basin with a pint of cream or new milk, and mix it all well with the well- beaten yolks of six eggs, then at the last stir in quickly and lightly the stiffly-whipped whites of the eggs, pour the mixture in well-buttered tins dusted with flour, and bake in a moderate oven. Malt Bread.—Steep ^lb. of freshly ground pale malt in tepid water for twelve hours, then strain through a napkin. Mix a small handful of salt into 21b. of flour (which may be white or wholemeal flour, or half and half as you please, only remember whatever you use must be dry, free from lumps, and well warmed) ; put this all into a pan and stir into it the infusion of malt, which in summer should be tepid, though rather warmer (but not too hot) in winter. Having mixed this all well, add 2oz. of yeast, previously dissolved in half a gill of warm water, and knead it all to a stiff dough, then cover an 1 leave it t< rise in a warm place; D