ROLLS, &c. 69 spoil the next baking. Before use wipe the girdle well with a cloth, set it on the fire till thoroughly hot, when it is rubbed over either with a piece of fat or butter, when it is ready for use. Some scones can only be baked on the girdle, others can be baked in the oven. Scones.—Sift together lib. of flour and two good tea- spoonfuls of baking powder, then crumble into this about 3oz. of butter, till it is all like fine bread-crumbs (this must be done with the tips of the fingers as lightly as possible, or the scones will be heavy). Take half a pint of cold milk (or dissolve a teaspoonful of Swiss milk in half a pint of cold water) and work this by degrees into the flour, &c., till it is a firm dough; halve this dough, and knead each into a flat round cake about the size of a cheese plate; cut it across into quarters, brush it over with a little milk and water. Rub a baking tin with flour (or flour, but do not grease, the girdle', and cook the cakes on this for half an hour. If you use the frying pan for these cakes instead of a girdle, put a couple of bricks, one on each side the opening of the range, and place the frying pan on these so that it does not actually rest on the fire. These are not as good baked in the oven as on the girdle. New York.—Beat together %oz. bicarbonate of soda and -{oz. of salt to three pints of milk, then add in five whole eggs; stir this all into 2|lb. of fine flour; butter some small patty tins, put a good tablespoonful of the mixture into each, and bake in a good oven. Brownmeal.—Mix together thoroughly 4oz. each of flour and fine oatmeal, a quarter of a teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, half a teaspoonful of cream of tartar, and the same of salt; now work into it enough skim milk or milk and water (about half a pint) to bring it all to a smooth elastic dough. Knead this lightly till it neither sticks to your hands nor to the basin, then roll it out, not too thick, and stamp it out with a cutter (a tumbler or a saucepan lid will do) according to the size you wish your