149 BISCUITS AND SMALL CAKES. with 6oz. of finely sifted sugar and l|oz. of vanilla-flavoured chocolate, grated very fine. Beat up these ingredients together for half an hour, then add 6oz. of good dry flour, and work the mixture again ; whip the whites of the eggs to a froth, and mix them with the paste, stirring very lightly with a wooden spatula. Take up the mixture in spoonfuls and drop it on to sheets of buttered paper, or put it into small paper moulds; sprinkle them with powdered sugar, and bake them in a moderate oven. Chocolate Wafers.—Mix 4oz. grated vanilla chocolate, ^lb. caster sugar, and the stiffly whipped whites of two eggs with ju3t enough fine flour to form a smooth paste. Now roll this paste out as thin as a penny, stamp it out into little rounds with a plain or fluted cutter, lay these on the baking tin, and bake twelve to fifteen minutes in a slow oven. When cooked, slip a palette knife under them to detach them fi-om the tin, and set them for a minute or so in the oven mouth to dry them. If preferred these may be rolled out into 3in. or 4in. cakes, and then, when lifted from the tin, roll each quickly round the finger or the handle of a wooden spoon, and dry as before. Bushs.—These cakes, known in Germany as Zwieback (twice baked), are primarily made of any light rich cake dough, rolled out into a long bolster shape, baked to a light brown, and when somewhat cool sliced fairly thinly and set in the oven to crisp and colour. The dough used for milk (or, as we call it, Vienna) bread, if enriched with an egg or two, some caster sugar, and a generous grate of lemon rind, well mixed in, together with an ounce or two of butter, then allowed to rise once more for a little, shaped into a long roll, and baked a light brown, makes delicious tea rusks. Or : Mix in a large basin or pan 4lb. of fine flour, 2oz. of sugar, 6oz. of butter, and one quart of milk to a smooth dough; then add to this a tablespoonful of thick yeast, dissolved in half a gill of warm milk, and work it all thoroughly together. Then cover the pan, and leave it in a