HOUSEHOLD AND FANCY BREADS. 39 very nice loaf for the purpose: Mix together three table- spoonfuls each of milk and water, and when this is just tepid stirjinto it loz. of German yeast, loz. of butter, and a saltspoonful of salt. Put l£lb. of flour into a basin, make a hole in the centre, pour the yeast mixture into this, draw a little of the flour from the sides down over it, cover the basin with a cloth, and let it stand in a warm place for three hours ; now knead it to a light dough with one and a half gills of tepid milk and water, cover the dough again, and allow it to rise for half an hour more; now turn out the dough, make it up into loaf shapes, set these in oblong baking tins, previously well floured, stand them by the fire for ten minutes to “prove ” or rise, then bake in a moderate oven for fifteen or twenty minutes. The time of baking must necessarily depend on the size of the loaf. Sandwich bread should |never be used fresh, as it does not cut to advantage in that condition. Vienna, Bread.—This is very often made precisely like household bread, only using milk and water instead of plain water, and dissolving a little butter in the water. The great difference is that the very finest Hungarian flour being used instead of ordinary flour, more liquid is required than for household bread. An easy way of making it is to rub 2oz. of butter into 2lb. of warmed and sifted flour; now rub together a teaspoonful of sugar and an ounce of yeast till it creams, mixing in with it a pint of tepid milk, then pour it on to the flour and butter, adding in a teaspoonful of salt, and mix it all to a good dough; when it can be lifted out of the basin in a firm smooth mass, leaving the sides of the basin quite clear, put the dough back into the basin which you have previously lightly floured, cut it across and across with a sharp knife, and let it rise in a waiun place for about an hour. When it has risen well it will be twice its original size, the cross cuts on the top will be almost invisible, and on touching it the dough will feel quite distended and ’el astic. Again turn it out, re-knead it lightly.