135 BISCUITS AND SMALL CAKES. Cakes, Scotch, or “ Petticoat Tails.”—There are two derivations for this favourite Scotch dish (said to have been introduced from France by Mary Queen of Scots), petites gatelles, or petits gateaux tallies, from the cake being baked in one and afterwards cut up. Cream 4«z. butter with 2oz. caster sugar, then work in 8oz. fine sifted flour; make it up into a ball, then roll it out into a round the size of a large plate. Pinch up the edges all round, marking these edges lightly like shortbread, of which it is a variety, then stamp a round in the centre with a wine glass, and mark it out into eight spokes like a wheel, and bake on a girdle. Cut out by the divisions before serving. If an egg is used to mix this paste, and it is cut into squares, it is often called Tantallon cakes, whilst if made up into diamonds, exactly like shortbread, only much thinner and smaller, it is known by many cooks as Shrewsbury cakes. Plum, or “ Plum Heavies.”—Into lib. flour rub about 6oz. clarified dripping (beef preferred), sugar to taste, and Jib. currants or raisins ; moisten with water. Poll out, cut into rounds about half an inch thick, and bake in a brisk oven until slightly browned underneath. Potato Flour.—2oz. of butter beaten to a cream, 3oz. of potato flour, 4oz. of powdered loaf sugar, one large egg beaten with a tablespoonful of cream, and two table- spoonfuls of well-washed and dried currants or finely chopped raisins. Mix these ingredients together and beat the mixture till it is quite light. Put it into small buttered tins, and bake in a quick oven for ten or twelve minutes. To be eaten hot or cold, but they are not so good when stale. Or: lib. of potato flour, Jib. of fresh butter, Goz. of finely powdered sugar, two eggs, any essence liked. Beat the butter to a cream, add flour and eggs, and beat all together for twenty minutes. Bake in a moderate oven. Cheese biscuits made with potato flour instead of American flour are delicious. Sponge (" one a penny —Brush the little