BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. 64 half an hour, then stir to it a cupful cf liquefied butter (say from 4oz. to 6oz.), and when well blended pour this batter into rings previously set on a hot baking sheet and bake lightly on both sides. To use them toast them on both sides, being careful they do not burn, butter them gene- rously, cut them across, and serve hot and hot, on a very hot dish. Rolls {Kipfeln).—'These are a form of Austrian roll allied to the croissants, already given, In fact, in Germany the latter are usually known as Milch Kipfeln. If, when made up either into crescents or a kind of slender torpedo shape, these rolls are dipped in coarse table salt and carraway seeds, after brushing them over with milk, they are, when baked, known as Saltz Kipfeln. Kaiser semmel are made of the same dough as the other rolls (only remembering that for this purpose a teaspoonful of caster sugar and loz. more butter should be allowed to the pound of dough, as it needs to be a good deal firmer than if to be used in loaf making), shaped in little round rolls or cakes, which are then cut diagonally from the centre to the circumference five times, at equal distances, and baked in the usual way. Stillroom Rolls.—Just at bedtime set a sponge with one quart of half milk half water, as hot as you can comfortably bear the back of your hand in, not quite 2oz. of yeast creamed with a teaspoonful of sugar, and just enough fine sifted flour to make a nice batter. Now stir it up well, cover the pan (which should be a large one), and leave it in a warm corner till the next day. As soon as you come down in the morning powder loz. of fine salt and strew it over the top of the sponge, add half a pint of warm water, and rub 2oz. or 3oz. of butter and an egg into sufficient flour (about 81b.) to bring the sponge to a firm smooth dough ; work it all well together, and when of the right consistency cover the pan and again let the dough rise ; when well risen divide it into loz. or 2oz. pieces, shape these as you choose, set them on floured tins to rise for a few minutes, and bake in a hot