88 BREAD. CAKES, AND BISCUITS. floured board, and work into it vigorously the butter, eggs, sugar, spice, and water, rubbing it all in smoothly, breaking and tearing up the dough to get it evenly mixed, and at the last mix in the fruit lightly, without any rubbing this time as it breaks the fruit and makes the cake unsightly. When perfectly mixed three-quarter fill buttered tins with the mixture, let it rise for twenty minutes or so in a warm place, then bake in a cool oven. The secret of success in these cakes lies entirely in the mixing. If a richer cake is desired use Vienna dough, cherries, and elace fruit, &c. Cake, Dripping.—Sift together lib. of flour and one tea- spoonful of baking powder; then rub well into it Jib. of nice clarified dripping, and next mix in a teacupful of moist sugar, loz. carraway seeds, and ilb. well-washed and dried currants. When these are mixed in, whip three eggs with about half a pint of milk, and beat this mixture very thoroughly into the cake dough; bake at once in a well- buttered tin for one and a half to two hours. Dry.—Soak lib. of butter overnight in either orange flower or rose water, then rub it into lib. of fine flour mixed with lib. of caster sugar; beat the yolks of six eggs with a little brandy, and mix these into the flour, &c., adding, if liked, fib. of well washed and dried currants to the mixture (this is optional), and, lastly, mix in the whites of eight- eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Bake half an hour in well- buttered tins, in a sharp, but not scorching, oven. This cake will keep for six months. Dundee.—Cream together 6oz. each of butter and caster sugar; sieve together ^lb. of fine flour and half a teaspoonful of baking powder (or use Coomb’s Eureka or the Paisley Flour), and mix with it the finely-grated rind of a lemon ; then stir this all into the creamed butter, &c., alternately with four well-whisked eggs. When this is all well blended, stir in 3oz. or 4oz. each of picked sultanas (or seeded raisins) and washed and dried currants, loz. or 2oz. of shred candied peel, and loz. or 2oz. of blanched and