108 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. the old people had words over this; one said it must be baked, the other said it should be boiled; and they continued arguing for some time, until one of them, which the legend sayeth not, tired of the discussion, suggested a compromise; and so the cake was first boiled and then baked, and received the name of Sim (short for Simon) and Nell’s cake, other- wise Simnel cake. I fear I do not know if this legend may be credited; I can only give it as the explanation given to me in my childhood, and I have seen it referred to often since then. 12oz. each of butter and of caster sugar, lib. of flour, lib. of eggs (weigh these), 4oz. candied peel, 12oz. currants, and a few drops of essence of lemon. Beat the butter to a cream with the sugar, then work the eggs in,, one or two at a time, and when these are all used add the other ingredients quickly and lightly. Prepare some almond icing thus : Rub together 12oz. caster sugar and 6oz. ground almonds, and work this to a stiff paste with two small eggs or one large one. Roll this paste out, dusting it and the board with a little rice flour ; butter and paper a cake hoop, and put into it a layer of the cake mixture and then one of the almond icing, then a second layer of the cake, and bake in a moderate oven. A lib. cake will take fifty minutes, a 21b. one seventy-five minutes. Or: beat 6oz. each of butter and caster sugar to a cream, work in four eggs, then mix in 12oz. sifted flour, mixed with half a teaspoonful baking powder, one teaspoonful mixed spice, half a teaspoonful of cinnamon, half a teaspoonful ground ginger, |lb. washed and dried currants, -Jib. each of sultanas and raisins stoned and chopped, and 4oz. shred candied peel. Half a gill of milk may be required to get the dough nicely workable. Line a cake mould with several folds of buttered paper, pour in the mixture, smooth it over the top, and sprinkle the top with a little water, then with sugar, sweetmeats, and shred almonds, and bake one and a half hours in a moderate oven, protecting it above and below from burning. This cake should properly be kept four months. By the bye, you will