178 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. anything else. But it is quite easy to make. Take four tablespoonfuls of yeast and flour together, each one well heaped, and with nearly three-quarters of a pint of lukewarm milk work it into a paste, and let it rise. Meantime, beat Jib. of fresh butter to a froth, stir in six eggs, 2oz. respec- tively of finely-chopped orange and lemon peel, the grated rind of half a lemon, Jib. caster sugar, salt to taste, and a little aniseed if desired. Put in the risen dough, work it together, and add as much flour as will be required to make a firm dough, such as is used for rolls, fine bread, &c. After having made the dough thoroughly smooth as above, pull it about and roll it out finger thick, certainly not thinner; have ready a long well-buttered tin, cut out rounds of dough with a small tumbler till the whole is disposed of (a few should be smaller than the rest and some a trifle larger) ; now with these rounds (beginning with the largest) form a thick bx-ead plait. This is done by standing the rounds on the tin, bent nearly double, and placed edges downwards. Proceed in the same way down the length of the tin, keeping the pieces of dough close together, and finishing off with the smallest ones; support it on each side if necessary with something heavy to keep it together, until the pieces have adhei’ed sufficiently to stand alone. Remove the weight befoi-e baking, and brush the cake with yolk of egg; sprinkle it with sugar, make a deep furrow down the middle length- wise with the handle of a spoon, to accentuate the plaited appearance, and bake quickly in a hot oven. This could also be made with currants or sultanas. Zwieback.—This word, as understood abroad, comprises a very large variety of cakes and biscuits prepared from more or less delicate ingredients. Here are some recipes for more uncommon kinds: Take 31b. of well-dried floui’, work into it a heaped tablespoonful of yeast previously dissolved in a little warm watei', and half a pint of fresh milk. When the paste is formed set it in a basin, cover it up, and let it rise. Have ready three-quarters of a pint of thick cream.