124 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. thick, stamp out in any shapes to taste, and bake in a hot oven till lightly coloured. Brandy Snaj)S.—Mix together lib. of flour, Jib. of coarse brown sugar, 4oz. butter, a dessertspoonful of all- spice, two dessertspoonfuls of ground ginger, the grated rind of half and the strained juice of one lemon, and Jib. of treacle. Beat this all well together, spread the paste thinly on buttered baking sheets, and bake in a rather slow oven till well coloured. When baked cut it in rounds or squares, roll each round your Anger, or the handle of a wooden spoon, as you lift it from the tin, and store in airtight tins. Buns.—Bath Buns.—Rub lib. fine sieved flour with Jib. of butter, then add to this loz. of German yeast dissolved in a gill of warm milk, and four large, or five small, eggs, and work the whole up together to a smooth, light dough. Let this rise in a warm place for one and a half hours, then work into this 5oz. caster sugar and either loz. carraway seeds or a little finely shred citron peel, a little essence of lemon, and half a nutmeg grated. Flour a baking tin, drop the mixture on to this in spoonfuls (this should make from twelve to fourteen buns), let them rise for a few minutes, then brush them over with beaten egg, strew them with roughly crushed loaf sugar, and bake for twenty to twenty-five minutes in a rather sharp oven. —- Chelsea.—Dissolve 2oz. sugar and Joz. yeast in a pint of warm milk (90°), then add three eggs and about 4oz. of flour to make a sponge, and leave it in a warm place for twro hours. When it settles it is ready. Now rub 6oz. of butter into lflb. fine flour, make it into a light dough with the sponge, adding in the sugar with a few drops of saffron and any flavouring to taste. Let this stand again to rise, then roll it out lightly with the rolling pin, and roll into it about fib. of puff paste. When blended, cut into squares, fold the corners into the centre, set it on buttered baking sheets, brush over with caster sugar (one or two spoonfuls