166 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. cake upside down, and cover the side that was underneath with good royal icing made either with lemon or orange juice, and when this is nearly dry cut it in fingers 2^in. long and lin. broad. Mandelkrdnzchen (German).—Mix together about lOoz. of flour, ^lb. of fresh butter, 6oz. of sugar thoroughly well sifted, and one egg. Wl.on the ingredients are well incorporated, work the dough to the desired consistency, shape it into ■circles, and brush them over with white of egg. If desired, sprinkle them with coarsely crushed sugar, and, at any rate, with finely chopped almonds (these should be laid on rather thickly). Put them on to buttered tins (not too closely packed), and bake in a fairly quick oven. Or take the following ingredients : About lilb. of fine dry flour, lib. of butter, nearly 2oz. of yeast, not quite three-quarters of a pint of warm milk, and the yolks of two eggs. Break up the butter into small lumps, mix it gradually with the largest part of the flour, dissolve the yeast in a little milk and sugar, and pour it with the rest of the milk and the eggs into the middle of the flour. Work the whole into a dough, adding the rest of the flour as it is needed. The paste should not be allowed to become moist enough to adhere to the fingers. When all has been thoroughly well kneaded, pull off small quantities of the dough, roll it out with the hand, twist them into circles, and press them on both sides in a mixture, previously prepared, of about Goz. of chopped almonds, the whites of two eggs, some sugar to taste, and a little cinnamon. When the cakes are well covered with this mixture, lay them on buttered tins, put them in a fairly warm place to rise, after which bake them a dark yellow in a fairly brisk oven. The above quantity will make five or six dozen cakes, and they keep very well in tins. Or, try the following ingredients: About lib. of flour, the same quantity of butter, 4oz. of sugar, the yolks of six hard-boiled eggs, and half a teacupful of arrack or rum (the former being preferable). Rub the hard yolks