120 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. work it all to a stiff paste. Roll this out evenly, cut it into quarters, and roll these out again; then break off small pieces, roll these out into fingers 3in. or 4in. long, and not very thick, place them on a well-buttered baking sheet, brush them over with egg, and bake in a slack oven till lightly coloured; then lift them out and set them in the screen till crisp. Biscuits, Chocolate.—Mix lightly into the stiffly whisked whites of six eggs sufficient best grated vanilla chocolate to colour and rather strongly flavour them; now add sufficient sifted sugar and fine flour to pro luce a light, workable paste; shape these biscuits, put them on paper- covered baking sheets, and b ike them in a gentle oven. In France chocolate biscuits are made by cutting a very thin sheet of Genoa pastry (or Swiss roll paste) into rounds, crescents, &c., and dipping them singly into the following: Dissolve l|oz. best vanilla chocolate with a very little water, then add about tln’ee spoonfuls of icing sugar and a few drops essence of vanilla, and keep it all stirred over a slow fire till sufficiently thick to coat, but not run off, the biscuits. Any icing may manifestly be used for them. The biscuits are ready when the icing is set and hard. Cream.—Mix together 12oz. each of fine sifted flour and cornflour with a saltspoonful of salt and loz. of caster sugar ; work this all to a smooth paste with clotted cream, using as little of this as possible. A gill may be put in first, adding more by spoonfuls till you get a dough stiff enough to roll with difficulty. Now beat ihis dough well with the rolling-pin, then roll it out pretty thin, cut it into squares, rounds, &c., prick these all with a fork, and bake in a steady oven. If the sugar is omitted and cayenne and a little more salt used instead, these make nice savoury biscuits that keep well. Remember that thick clotted cream may always be used where directions say “ cream the butter,” but be careful in this case not to get your dough too wet, and bear in mind that cakes made with