109 CAKES. find that 9oz. of ordinary flour and 3oz. of the new “ Paisley ” flour, instead of the baking powder, will be a great improve- ment. The next is a modernised but very nice version. Make a dough with Alb. of flour and Joz. dried yeast, dissolved in a gill of lukewarm milk, with a spoonful of sugar; let this rise for an hour, then work into it two eggs, lOoz. of currants, 4oz. of shred candied peel, 4oz. fresh butter creamed, with 4oz. of caster sugar (less the quantity you add to the yeast), and about a teaspoonful of mixed spice. When this has all been well mixed in leave it to rise (covered) again for an hour. Now line a tin with a sheet or two of buttered paper, put in half the mixture, then cover this with a layer of almond icing jin. to lin. thick, and add the rest of the dough. Bake this in a steady oven for two to two and a half hours, then turn it out, and let it cool. When cold have ready some almond paste, rolled out half inch thick, coat the cake entirely with this, and leave it to set. This cake is better for being kept some time before cutting. The almond icing in the centre should be rather softer than that used for the outer casing. Cake, Sister’s.—Put Jib. of milk roll or bun dough in a pan before the fire to warm, then work into this three well- beaten eggs, 4oz. ground almonds, a pinch of salt, and Jib. of butter beaten to a cream, and beat it all together with a little milk for an hour. Butter a plain round mould, and put in it a layer of this dough, then a layer of candied peel shred very tine, and repeat these layers till the mould is full. Put it into a sharp but not fierce oven at once, and bake for an hour. It will rise a great deal. When it is nearly baked prepare a syrup by boiling lib. of loaf sugar in half a pint of water till it is frothy, then add a wine- glassful of orange flower water, and pour this syrup hot, but not boiling, on to the cake directly it is taken out of the oven. Sprinkle “ hundreds and thousands ” over it, and when cold turn it out on to a glass dish.