BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. 78 paper is indispensable to the cake. By the bye, one way in which cooks sometimes spoil their cakes is this: In their anxiety to have the oven right they overheat it; then the cake begins to burn; they rush to the oven, lift out the cake, and set it on the floor, when the sudden change of temperature at once causes the cake to fall, never to rise properly again. It is wonderful on what minutiae success in cake-making depends—almost enough to make one share most cooks’ belief that the oven is possessed by a spirit, on whose whims the baking depends. The real spirit, however, is the cook’s temperament and the state of the weather. It is not always easy, or even advisable, in many cases to give the exact time cakes will take to bake, as this will vary from many causes; therefore, the best way is always to test yoiar cake before removing it from the oven. For this purpose take a long thin wooden skewer, and run it down right to the centre of the cake. If it comes out dry and clean the cake is done; if, on the contrary, it sticks and is wet, the cake needs longer baking. Some people use a knife for this purpose, but this is not to be recommended, as with some cakes the mei’e touch of the knife is sufficient to “ sadden ” them. There is one more point to be considered about cakes, and that is their decoration. For ordinary purposes a little caster sugar lightly dusted over the top is plenty, but at other times a little beaten white of egg may be brushed over them, and the surface, thus moistened, sprinkled with chopped almonds or cocoanut, or roughly crushed sugar. Besides these garnishes there are the icings and glaces. The difference between these two lies in the fact that the first is raw, while the latter is cooked. Of icing, there are two kinds, the one known as “royal icing,” sometimes called “ French cream,” and the “ Vienna icing.” The first is made of finest icing sugar, mixed with unbeaten white of egg and strained lemon juice, in the proportion of fifteen