126 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. then knead it once more and make up in small balls with your floured hands. Put these balls on a buttered baking sheet, flatten slightly with the palm of your hand, butter the edges a little in case they touch, and again let them rise for an hour. Bake twenty minutes in a quick oven, brush the top over with sugar syrup, and dust well with coarsely crushed sugar. Buns, Ginger.—Cream |lb. of butter with ^lb. of sugar, then add half a nutmeg (grated) and a tablespoonful of ground ginger; when this is thoroughly mixed, beat in two eggs, then lib. of flour, and sufficient milk to make it a nice workable paste. Roll it out about Jin. thick, cut it into buns, sprinkle the tops with roughly crushed suga”, set them on a baking sheet, and bake in a quick oven. Hot Cross.—Rub Jib. of butter, or clarified dripping, into 21b. of flour, then work in Jib. of sugar and Joz. of ground cinnamon, and the same of mace, if liked; now mix up 2oz. German yeast, with rather more than a pint of tepid milk, and two whole raw eggs lightly beaten together. When well mixed, add this to the flour, &c., and knead it all to a light dough ; put this into a basin, cover with a clean cloth doubled, and set the pan in a warm place for two hours till the dough has risen well. Now add, if liked, 4oz. well washed and dried currants, shape the dough into I'ound buns, put them on a buttered tin, mark them with a knife in a cross, and again let them rise for ten or fifteen minutes, when you brush them over with milk, and bake in a sharp oven for fifteen to twenty minutes. Plain buns are made in the same way, only omitting the spice and the cross mark. If preferred, Joz. mixed spice may be used instead of the cinnamon and mace. Half pint water, three-quarters pint milk, two eggs, ljlb. currants or sultanas, |lb. butter, lib. sugar, 3oz. French yeast, 51b. flour. Make a sponge with the milk and water (heated to S0J), eggs, yeast, sugar, and about 4cz. of flour, cover up, and leave in a warm place for two to thiee