154 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. lightly together. Now spread a clean cloth in a basin, dust it with Hour, lay in the ball of paste, dust this also with flour, fold the ends of the cloth over it all, and set it in a cool place this time, but one free from any draughts, and leave it till the next morning. Next day flour your pastry board, turn out the brioche on to it, dust more flour over it, and fold the paste over five or six times, always pressing it down again each time with your knuckles. Now put it back into the cloth, fold the latter over it, and leave it for three hours, when the kneading and knuckling should be repeated. Then butter a mould or a baking sheet, and either half fill the former, or shape the dough into little rolls and set them on the latter, brush them well over with egg, and make a little round hole in the top of each, then bake twenty to twenty-five minutes for the small things, and about an hour for the mould. If the dough is rightly made it will look full of little air bubbles, and will resist a touch as a lump of indiarubber would. A very nice savoury may be made of this by working into the paste at the last about 4oz. grated Parmesan, and baking it in little rolls, which are served sprinkled with freshly grated cheese, minced parsley, and coralline pepper. If these rolls are made very small they make also a delicious garnish for soup. Brot Torte.—Blanch and pound Jib. of sweet almonds, moistening them in the mortar as you pound them with a few drops of water to prevent their stiffening ; then work into them first Jib. finely sifted sugar, adding gradually (keeping it stirred all the time) the grated rind of a lemon, a pinch of cinnamon, and two or three cloves pounded (or mixed spice to taste); moisten about 6oz. crumb of brown (in Austria it is of course the local black) bread, with a full tablespoonful of Tokay or Spanish wine, stir this into the mixture, and then beat in two whole eggs and the yolks of six more; beat this all together till it is quite light and rothy (this will take half an hour), then add the stiffly-