174 BREAD. CAKES, AND BISCUITS. Spice Cake.—Dissolve a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda in a tablespoonful of boiling water, and stir it into a full gill of molasses, then add to this half a pint thick sour cream, about 6oz. brown sugar, and rather less than lib. of flour ; beat it all well together, then add a table- spoonful each of allspice and powdered cinnamon, and lib. of stoned, minced, and floured raisins. Bake one hour in a moderate oven. (American.) Strenzel Kuchen.—Make a sponge as for bread with ljlb. of flour, 2oz. yeast, half a pint lukewarm milk, and 4oz. each of sugar and butter. Let this rise for twenty minutes, then knead well, roll it out fairly thinly on a buttered baking sheet, prick it all over, brush it over with two-thirds of an ounce of liquefied butter, cover the top with “ strenzel,” again let it rise, and bake for half an hour in a hot oven. For the “ strenzel,” mix together rather more than 5£oz. flour, 3^oz. sugar, and rub this into 31oz. of softened butter till like crumbs. Or, make a sponge with Jib. flour, not quite 3joz. yeast, and enough tepid milk to mix it, and let it rise. Meanwhile work to a stiff dough 1 lib. flour, four to six eggs, 5oz. to 6oz. sugar, a pinch each of salt and mace, the grated rind of a lemon, and tepid milk to mix. Now beat into this Jib. of butter, then the sponge, when well risen, kneading it well; roll out thinly on a floured baking sheet, and let it rise ; then brush with liquid butter, and strew it evenly and thickly with “ strenzel,” made thus : Work together 2loz. each of flour, butter, and sugar, and a teaspoonful ground cinnamon : dust with equal parts dry flour and sugar, chop into pea or dice shapes with a knife, and use. Tote—Beat the yolks of eight eggs with 12oz. of caster sugar till light, then stir in Jib. grated chocolate, fib. ground almonds, Jib. finely shred citron peel, half a tea- spoonful each of cinnamon and cloves pounded fine, a quarter of a teaspoonful of cardamoms, half a gill of brandy, and the juice and grated rind of a lemon. Stir this all well