146 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUIT eggs, and stir in, as briskly as possible, lib. of pounded almonds, Jib. of sifted sugar, 2oz. of grated chocolate (not the sweet make), and Joz. of grated or pounded cinnamon. When well mixed work into this paste the whites of two eggs whipped to a froth. Cut this pastry with fancy heart- shaped moulds, after having rolled it out lightly; bake them on tins, and ice them or not when they are taken out of the oven. Fcinchonettes. — A generic name for a kind of French tartlet, of which there are many sorts. The usual way is to line some small plain or fancy patty pans with thinly rolled puff pastry, then fill them with any nice pastry cream, or custard to taste, and bake in a quick oven for about twenty minutes. They are then covered with a stiff meringue (made with three egg whites, 3joz. of caster sugar, and a drop or two of flavouring) in a rather high dome shape, and returned to the oven till crisp, and, if liked, slightly coloured. Some cooks further garnish them with coloured jelly, icing, glace, fruit, &c. If liked, any rich jam may be used with, or instead of, the cream, with the addition of sultanas, shred almonds, &c. In short, they are of the same class as the English character. Feuillantines.—Roll out some rich puff paste a quarter of an inch (or less) thick, and cut or stamp it out in rounds or fingers ; put half of these on a buttered tin, allowing a good space between them, spread them with warmed and sieved jam, creme patissiere, &c., as you choose, then cover these with the rest of the pastry, pressing them lightly together, and bake quickly in a very sharp oven. If preferred, roll the paste out into two circles the size of a dinner plate, spread with any filling to taste, and cover with the second circle, then mark it out in segments with the back of a knife and bake. When ready, cut through at these marks. Some cooks dust these cakes with white of egg and caster sugar just at the last, before taking them from the oven. Petits Fours Milanais.—Beat 12oz. fresh butter to a