24 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. and dust a, little more over the top of the little pool of batter thus formed. Cover the pan with a thick cloth, and leave its contents to rise by the fire for about an hour. At the end of this time, if the “ sponge,” as this batter is technically called, is properly fermented, work it all into a dough with the flour, adding in 2oz. of salt and four and a half to five pints of tepid water. Remember to add this water very gradually, according to the advice given above. Let this dough rise in a covered pan in a. warm place for about two hours ; now knead it into loaves, let these rise as before, and bake them in a good oven from one and a quarter to two hours, according to size. To know if bread is properly baked tap the underside with your knuckles, and it will give a sort of hollow sound, whilst the texture will feel firm yet elastic. As soon as the loaf is lifted out of the oven turn it on its side, or support it so that the air will get all round it. Otherwise the side resting on the table gets soft, and if placed flat on the side that was underneath in the oven this will become wet and blistered, as the steam in the loaf cannot escape. Let the loaves get thoroughly cold before putting them in the bread pan, and wipe this out well before they are placed in it. It cannot be too often repeated that the most scrupulous cleanliness is an indis- pensable factor in successful bread-making. Adirondack Bread.—Warm 2oz. of butter, being careful not to let it oil in the least, or cream it with your hand or a wooden spoon, as you please; beat the yolks of five eggs till light, then whisk them into a pint of milk, adding in gradually from 5oz. to Goz. of Indian corn meal and 4oz. to 5oz. of whe it flour, and beat it altogether till smooth ; now mix in the softened batter, working it well in, and finally mix in a full tablespoonful of sugar, a heaped teaspoonful of baking powder, and the whites of the eggs whisked to a stiff froth. Stir these all together as quickly and lightly as possible, and p( nr the mixture into a wrell-buttered tin