160 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. in North Germany; in the southern parts it is generally called 7lippen Jcuchen. Clarify Jib. of butter, and, when cold, rub or beat it to a cream. Have ready seven egg3 and lib. finely sifted sugar, and add them to the butter-, stirring briskly all the time, and putting in first an egg, then some sugar, and so on till both ingredients are disposed of. Keep up stirring (always in the same direc- tion) for some moments, then put in Joz., of powdered cinnamon and the finely grated rind of a lemon; lastly, work in lib. of flour, previously well sifted and dried. This being a kind of waffle, it must be baked in the ordinax-y closing waffle-irons sold for the purpose. Heat it thoroughly over a charcoal fire, place in the centre of the ii*on a tablespoonful of the mixture, shut down the iron slowly, hold it over the glowing chax-coal for a few minutes, turn it over and brown it the same on both sides; after which roll the kuchen on a round piece of wood as it is removed from the iron. Ease the cake gently off the roller, and serve or store in well-closing tins. It is a good thing to prepare the paste for all these sorts of cakes on the day before. In this case the iron need not be bxxttered. The above quantities will make about sixty cakes. Or, dissolve Jib. of crushed coarse sugar-candy in a little less than one pint of boiling water; let it cool, add nearly Jib. of clarified butter, lib. of fine flour, cinnamon and grated lemon rind as above, and one egg. Stir it long and thoi-oughly as before, and, if possible, let it stand till the next day. Have ready a moderate char- coal fire and butter the iron ; put in the same quantity of paste, and proceed in the same way. These cakes must be kept in a warm, dry room, and the tins must, above all, be well tied down or the contents wrill become flabby at once.—This method really only varies in the quantities —lib. of flour, of sugar, and of butter respectively, eight eggs, cinnamon and lemon rind as above. Prepare the butter as already shown, and add in turn eggs, sugar, and