67 ROLLS, &c. •well, then add two more eggs, and again knead these in, repeating the eggs and the kneading once more. Then beat it well for ten minutes till it is a smooth batter, and mix in the sponge when enough risen; knead it in well, and let it all stand for two hours till it is quite twice its original size. Take off a piece of this dough (about one quarter), and shape the rest into eight or ten balls, flattening each with the palm of your hand, and making a slight hollow in the top; make the rest of the dough up into smaller balls the size of a marble, and set one on each of the others (like a miniature cottage loaf), fixing it with a little water. Put these tiny loaves on a buttered baking sheet, sprinkle with a little water, and set them aside in a warm place to rise again. Now brush them over with whole beaten egg, and bake about half an hour in a moderate oven. Dust with vanilla sugar or with salt, according to what you want them for, and serve cold. These rolls soon get dry, so they should be made fresh and fresh. It is worth knowing that if half ordinary fine flour and half Coomb’s Eureka (self-raising) flour is used no yeast is needed. Sally Lunn’s Teacakes.-—Mix together 14oz. flour (one pint), the yolks of two eggs, a large table-poonful of yeast (or not quite $oz. German yeast), a pinch of salt, and as much warm milk (in which you have dissolved oz. butter) as will work it to a nice dough. Let it stand for an hour by the fire to rise (it must be very light), shape it into rounds, and bake in rings on a baking tin for fifteen to twenty minutes in a slow oven. Slice whilst hot, and butter generously with warmed butter. Before baking, glaze with the following: Put a spoonful or two of moist sugar in a basin, and pour over it enough boiling milk to dissolve it; or use egg. Proper Sally Lunns have no sugar. Mix a pinch of salt with l^lb. of flour in a bowl, and rub 4oz. of butter into it. Dissolve loz. of fresh German yeast in half a pint of tepid milk, and stir this and a little