ROLLS, &c. 59 flour, and bake in the oven or on a girdle. Serve hot and buttered. Sly Calces.—Make a smooth paste with fib. flour, l£oz. caster sugar, a pinch of salt, a good pinch of spice, and enough cold water to work it all to a smooth, stiff paste, then roll it out three times, spreading loz. to 2oz. of fat on it each time, as in making puff pastry. Finally roll it out fairly thin, and cut it in squares or rounds. Cover half these with well-washed and dried currants that have been previously moistened with a little rum (a tablespoonful of rum for 4oz. of currants), cover with the rest of the pieces, press these lightly together sandwich fashion, brush them over with a tablespoonful of sugar dissolved with foz. of butter in two tablespoonfuls of milk (used whilst hot), and bake in a sharp oven. IJse hot or cold. Velvet Calces.—Dissolve 4oz. of butter and loz. of yeast in a quart of warm milk, stir into this six eggs, and work in enough fine flour to make a soft dough; let it rise in a warm place for two hours, shape the dough into round buns or cakes, flatten lightly on top with the palm of your hand, and set them on a well-buttered tin to rise again for a little, then bake in a quick oven. Muffins.—Sieve 4lb. of good flour; in about a quart of tepid half milk, half water, dissolve 2oz. German yeast, loz. sugar, and foz. of salt; when this is perfectly dissolved, work it into the flour to a thoroughly smooth batter, or soft dough, work it all together for about ten minutes longer, then set it to rise in a large pan. When it is nearly double its original size beat it up again for ten minutes, then let it rise again till ready. You will know when it is ready by the risen dough beginning to fall, when it must be at once taken up in small pieces, and formed into muffin shapes with your floured hands, then set these cakes in rows on a heavily floured hoard. Cover lightly with a blanket and leave in a warm corner to “ prove ” or rise, i.e.f until the top is risen in a kind of dome shape. Now