106 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. a school treat or tea, but should be kept two days at least before being cut, as, like many other cakes, it improves by keeping. To each pound of flour allow jib. of mixed fruit, currants, raisins, and sultanas, 5oz. of butter or well clarified dripping or lard, 4oz. brown sugar, 2oz. very finely shred candied peel, one and a half teaspoonfuls of baking powder, and just enough milk to mix it nicely. No eggs are needed. Make up in large cakes (these cut to best advantage), and bake two hours or more. If seed cake is preferred, use half a teaspoonful of carraway seeds and 2oz. more sugar instead of the fruit. If used for tea, when bread and butter, jam, &c., is given, you reckon from 5oz. to 6oz. a head, but given alone it is safer to count on 9oz. to lOoz. per child. Cake, Scotch (New Year's) Bun.—Put 4lb. of hour into a pan, reserving a little to work it up with, hollow this out in the centre, and put in jib. of butter broken up ; mix together one and a half gills of yeast with half a pint of warm water, and work this with the flour and butter to a smooth dough. If not moist enough, a little more water may be used, but be careful about this, as at the best this cake is distinctly solid. Set aside one-third of the dough for a cover ; now mix together joz. powdered cinnamon, joz. powdered cloves, and loz. ground ginger ; then mix separately 1 jib. stoned raisins, ljlb, washed and dried currants, 4oz. shred almonds, and 8oz. very finely shred candied peel. Spread out the larger portion of dough, lay the fruit on it, and strew it thickly with the mixed spice ; now mix it all well together, kneading it thoroughly and steadily. Then roll out the cover, lay the bun on it, cover it neatly in a square, cutting the corners, and after pricking it all over with a fork, binding it into shape with bands of stiff buttered paper, bake in a pretty sharp oven, and glaze it with a beaten egg just before taking it out of the oven. This is only a modified edition of Meg Dod’s famous recipe, which, as it is largely made in Scotland, is