116 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. ice with white glace or a fondant icing, placing some half walnuts dipped in the icing all around. Cocoanut cake is made in the sime way, but the cream should be mixed with a small quantity of grated cocoanut, and when the icing is nearly dry a thick sprinkling of the cocoanut is placed on it. A different cake, but a vex-y good one, is made in this way: Take a pint of shelled walnuts and pound them (or grind them in a nut-mill, which can be purchased for a shilling or two), beat up the yolks of nine eggs, add to them gradually £lb. of caster sugar and the nuts. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a very stiff froth, mix them in lightly, and bake in a large, well-buttered tin. When cold, divide the cake, spread one half of it with the whipped cream, place it together again, ice, and decox-ate with half walnuts. Cake, Wedding.—Beat 2glb. of butter to a cream with 2jlb of caster sugar (this butter may be slightly warmed to make it work more easily, but this must be carefully done, for if the least overheated the butter will oil and spoil the whole mixing). When the butter and sugar is in a thick cream, work in, two or three at a time (never more, for fear of thinning the mixture too suddenly, and thus making it curdle in the beating up), 31b. of eggs (this means about twenty-four or twenty-six, but it is wisest to weigh them) ; when these are thoroughly mixed, wox-k in gradually 21b. of ground almonds, 41b. to olb of very finely shredded mixed candied peel, 51b. well washed and dried currants, 3lb. of cai-efully stoned x’aisixxs, not quite 31b. of fine floui1, previously sifted with loz. of mixed spice, and lastly a glass of brandy. Paper a hoop well with buttered paper, and put a layer of bran or dry sawdust on the baking sheet under the paper to keep it from burning. Pour in the mixture, and bake for quite seven hours in a slow, soaking oven. Then let it stand till perfectly cold. Next day trim the cake, smoothing the top over, if necessary, with a knife, and spi'ead it quite an inch thick with almond icing