BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. 34 then make up into loaves, let these rise again a little, and bake in a good oven. Another way : Mix together 3^1b. to 41b. of flour, loz. salt, and 3oz. malt flour; cream together loz. dried yeast, and a teaspoonful of moist sugar, moisten- ing it with onejand a half pints of tepid water, then turn the sieved flour into a pan or large basin, make a “ bay ” in the centre, and pour the yeast, &c., into this, drawing down a little flour from the sides till you have a pool of batter in the] hollow, and let it rise well; then mix it all thoroughly, but without kneading it at all. Now with a sharp knife cut the dough across and across like a hot cross bun, cover the pan with a cloth, and’set the dough to rise in a warm but not hot place, well out of any chance of draughts, and leave it till it has risen to fully twice its original size; then turn it out, knead it a very little, put this quantity into two buttered loaf tins, andjbake one hour. With these loaves (as indeed with all bread) it is impossible to be perfectly accurate as to the quantities of flour or water, so it is well to be cautious in adding the latter. The flour used for this recipe may, as in the preceding one, be of wholemeal, wheat flour, or half and half, as you please. Mannheim Bread.—Make a firm dough with two whole eggs, 6oz. of fine flour, 2oz. caster sugar, and £oz. powdered anise seed. When well mixed, divide the dough, rolling these pieces into long rolls 12in. or so long and 2in. or 3in. across; lay these rolls on a buttered tin, score them down their length with a knife, brush them over with the yolk of an egg, and bake in a hot oven. They may be servedtwhole, or sliced and lightly dried in the oven, as rusks. Milk Bread.—This is a particularly nice American bread, and well worth the little trouble it entails. Set a sponge (or ferment) thus : Pour a full half-pint of boiling water on to six hops, and let it stand till lukewarm, then strain off the water, squeezing the hops well, and add to it as much more water as will produce exactly three-quarters of a pint