62 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. into it with your hands a large teaspoonful of butter or lard; have ready mixed in a jug half a pint each of milk and water, and pour this gradually on to the flour, &c., working it all the time till it is a very stiff dough (be careful not to get it too wet or soft) ; knead this all well together for five minutes, then put it on a firm table or block, and beat it well with a rolling pin for half an hour, till it becomes brittle ; then form it into small round cakes half an inch thick, prick these with a fork, and bake in a quick oven for about twenty minutes. When ready they should be browned on the top, scarcely coloured at the sides, perfectly snow-white inside, and slightly cracked round the sides. Flannel Cake.—Rub 2oz. of butter smoothly into a quart of flour, then add a teaspoonful of salt, the well-beaten yolks of three eggs, and one and a half pints of milk; beat this all vigorously into the flour till smooth, when you mix in the stiffly-whipped whites of the eggs and two teaspoon- fuls of baking powder. Bake quickly on a hot girdle. Or, dissolve over the fire two full tablespoonfuls of butter in a pint of sweet milk, and, when it is all dissolved, add in, off the fire, a pint of cold milk, the well-beaten yolks of four eggs, a teaspoonful of salt, four tablespoonfuls of potato yeast, and enough flour to make it all a stiff batter. Set it in a warm place to rise, for three hours; then add the well- whisked whites of the eggs, and bake on a hot greased girdle. The batter at the last should be just stiff enough to drop neatly from the spoon. “ Gems ” (Corn).—These derive their name chiefly from the small round moulds in which they are made, but tiny patty pans practically answer quite as well. Put into a basin ten full ounces of Indian cornmeal, make a bay in this, and put into it 2oz. fresh butter, pouring over it half a pint of abso- lutely boiling milk; stir it well together, then add half a pint of cold milk, three well-beaten eggs, a level (small) teaspoonful of salt, and 4oz. wheat flour. Beat this all well