164 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. generally made in rather large quantities. It is merely a loaf of leavened dough pi'epared thus: Take 61b. of dry, warm flour (or a smaller weight suitably proportioned to the rest of the ingredients), stir into this three to four pints of lukewarm milk and 2oz. of yeast previously dissolved in a little milk or water ; set this aside to rise; add the yolks of eight or ten eggs, then five whole eggs, about lib. of butter melted, a little more than this quantity of pounded sugar, half a table- spoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful of saffron dissolved in a little rum (about half a wineglassful), lib. of picked raisins, and nearly as much of pounded almonds. Knead the dough long and thoroughly, and set it to rise again in a warm place for two hours or rather more. Form this into one or more loaves; place on the top a cross made of rolled dough; let it set in a warm oven for a few moments ; brush it over with yolk of egg, strew it with chopped almonds, pounded zwiebaclc (or biscuit), coarsely pounded sugar and currants, and bake a light brown in a moderately heated oven. Koulourakia (Greek tea-cakes).—Mix together lib. of fine flour, one teaspoonful of baking powder, a pinch of salt, and a small teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon or the same of grated lemon rind ; cream together 4oz. fresh butter and two large tablespoonfuls of caster sugar, and mix these with the flour, &c., working it all to a dough with half a pint of tepid milk, being careful to knead it as little as may be; make it up in small round buns or in muffin rings, place them a little apart on a baking tin, brush them over with whole beaten egg, and bake at once in a hot oven. Lemon Jelly Cake (American).—Take half a cup of butter, two cups of sugar, one cup of milk, three eggs, three and a half cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, and one teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. Beat the butter to a cream, add the sugar, and then the beaten yolk's of the eggs. Dissolve the soda in the milk, and stir into