148 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. sticks, brush them over with beaten egg, place them on a buttered baking sheet, and bake in a cool oven. If liked, these cakes may be brushed over with any nice fruit jelly, rolled in caster sugar, and dried in the oven. Croqv.cintes a la St. James.—Mix thoroughly together equal parts of freshly-ground sweet almonds and caster sugar, with just enough white of egg to get it all to a stiff paste, adding any flavouring to taste (vanilla, orange flower water, liqueur, or liqueur syrup, &c.), then roll it out very thinly, stamp it out with a plain round cutter, and bake on a buttered paper in a slow oven. Dimples.—Beat to a stiff meringue the whites of three eggs and 41b. of sugar ; now stir into this fib. of blanched and finely shred almonds till it is all a stiff mixture, and drop it in drops about the size of a penny on a baking sheet covered with white paper, and bake in a slack oven.— Trifles : Beat the yolks of three fresh eggs with a salt- spoonful of salt, then sift in enough fine potato flour to make it all a stiff paste; roll this out very thin, stamp it oirt in thin rounds, fry in boiling lard, and serve sprinkled with either sugar or coralline pepper. Petits flows cmx Pistaches.—Take lib. of fine pistachios, 2oz. of sweet almonds, the whites of ten eggs, the yolks of six, 2oz. of flour, and lib. of sugar ; blanch the nuts, stand them in cold water for a few minutes, drain off the moisture, and dry them in a cloth. Pound them in a mortar, adding from time to time some white of egg, not taken from the above-mentioned quantity. The eggs should be whipped, the whites and the yolks separately, the latter being mixed with half the sugar and a little grated lemon zest. Mix the flour and sugar in a strainer ; whip the whites and yolks together, sprinkling the while with the contents of the strainer; when they are used up, the paste should be of the necessary consistency; put it into small cases, glaze them on the top, and bake in a moderate oven. Chocolate Cases.—Stir the yolks of six eggs in a basin