F. W JORDAN’LIFE OF JOSEPH JORDAN.Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2016 https://archive.org/details/b28035410JOSEPH JORDANLife of Joseph Jordan SURGEON AND AN ACCOUNT OF THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF MEDICAL SCHOOLS IN MANCHESTER WITH SOME PARTICULARS OF THE Life of Dr. Edward Stephens F. VV. IORDAN, M.D. SHERRATT A- HUGHES 65 Long Acre London W.C. 27 St. Ann Street Manchester 1904ROYAL COLLEGE CF PHYOIOI/vNS Library CLAE- <$bi A COM. fSSit . OOURCE PATH 1 nr ■ &9J&-52—,DEDICATED TO THE MEMORY OF JOHN DURHAM BIRD, M.B. OF HEATON NORRIS PARTNER AND FAST FRIEND OF THE AUTHORPREFACE. In putting forth this tribute of admiration for the originality, industry, and perseverance of a Manchester Worthy, whose work was the germ of provincial medical schools, I am actuated by two motives; a desire to give the present generation some idea of the early days of medical education in this city, and a wish to place on record some particulars of the life of him who initiated it. As regards the former it has never been adequately dealt with, the only work bearing on the matter being The Memoirs of Thomas Turner, which deals with the subject only after the important movement had been in operation some years; and, as regards Mr. Jordan’s share in it, many of his friends have considered that his merits have not been sufficiently recognised. Mr. Walter Whitehead is the first public speaker I have known who hus done his memory justice, and this he did in a most generous manner in his Presidential Address to The British Medical Association iu Manchester in 1902. No apology, I trust, is needed for recalling the portrait of an old world type of character, and I regret that I am not able to give a fuller account of his private life, or a more representative selection from his correspondence. The frontispiece, by Alfred Brothers, gives a good idea of Mr. Jordan as he appeared in 1853; the other photograph, too, and the bust in the Infirmary are excellent likenesses of him at an earlier date, as is also the portrait in the library of the Owens College.PREFACE I feel, in a manner, qualified to undertake a work of this nature, from the fact that I was brought into frequent association with Mr. Jordan, during the time that I was apprentice to his nephew, James Stephens. Also I have in my possession a number of papers written by Edward Stephens, in 1859, for the purpose of supplying George Wilson, Mark Philips, M.P., and Milner Gibson, M.P., with the informa- tion necessary in their endeavour to obtain some mark of Her Majesty’s favour for Mr. Jordan. These papers were confided to me by Mrs. Wilson, and they have proved of the utmost value in the preparation of this work. I have pleasure in hereby expressing my thanks to the following ladies and gentlemen, who have kindly supplied me with much useful information, and for access to records, etc.: F. Renaud, M.D., F.S.A.; F. A. Southam, M.A. (Oxon.), F.R.C.S.; William Bale, Esq., M.R.C.S.; Thomas Knox (Mr. Jordan’s coachman); Thomas Pinder, Esq., M.R.C.S.; Edward Stone, Esq.; the Editor of The Lancet; the Author of The Life and Times of Thomas Wakley; Francis Fowke, Esq., Secretary of the British Medical Association; J. Fawcett, M.D., Dean of Guy’s Hospital Medical School, for his spontaneous loan of the History of that Institution; Munro Scott, Esq., Warden of the London Hospital Medical College; Walter Whitehead, Esq., F.R.C.S. (Edin.), F.R.S.E., late President of the British Medical Association; D. Lloyd Roberts, M.D., F.R.C.P., F.R.S.E.; Herbert Renshaw, M.D.; R. G, Gornall, Esq., M.R.C.S.; Thomas Platt, Esq., M.R.C.S.; John Jordan, Esq., of Buxton; Miss Jordan, of Sale; J. Joseph Jordan, Esq., of Heaton Norris; T. L. Jordan, Esq., M.R.C.S. (my late brother), of whose notes of conversations he had with James Stephens and others I have made full use; G. Ruddle, Esq., Secretary of the Salford Royal Hospital; and W. L. Saunder, Esq., Secretary of the Manchester Royal Infirmary.PREFACE I have derived much help also from I'he Memoirs of Thomas Turner, F.R.C.S., F.L.S., and from Mrs. Hibbert Ware’s Life and Correspondence of the late Samuel Hibbert Ware, M.D. I tender my thanks to John H. Nodal, Esq., Editor of The Manchester City News, for suggestions in the arrange- ment of the materials placed at my disposal; and to F. Bennett Smith, Esq., F.R.I.B.A. (of Messrs. Darbyshire and Smith), for his drawing of The Pine Street School, made from information supplied by Edward Stone, Esq.; and especially to Mr. Sherratt for the kind assistance he has rendered in preparing my work for publication. F. W. Jordan. Astley House, Heaton Chapel, Manchester, 190b.CONTENTS. Chaptrr I. Early history of the Jordan family. Establishment of William Jordan in Manchester as a calico-printer. Joseph Jordan’s birth and education, apprenticeship, career as surgeon to the Militia 17—23 Chapter II. Joseph Jordan commences practice; opens a school of Anatomy; description of the school. Foundation of the Lock Hospital. Unsuccessful application for official recognition of his lectures. Consent of the Apothe- caries’ Company to receive his certificates. Recognition by The Royal College of Surgeons. Supply of subjects for dissection, with magistrates’ views thereon. Passing of the Anatomy Act. Southey's poem, The Surgeon's Warning. Establishment of the Mount Street School. Opening of the Pine Street School. Unsuccessful candidature for the Royal Infirmary. Dissolution of the Mount Street School. Dinner to Mr. Jordan and presentation of testimonial. Election to the Royal Infirmary, 1835. Joins the Pine Street School as co-lecturer in surgery. Resigns his lectureship. Presides at the distribution of prizes at the Chatham Street School 27—58CONTENTS Chapter III. Mr. Jordan’s claim of being the founder of provincial medical schools. Ilis system of teaching. The grounds on which his claim is based. Duties of an apprentice. The celebrated bye-law of the Royal College of Surgeons of 1824. The recognised metropolitan hospitals. The anatomical schools. The Lancet's views. Mr. Jordan strictly adheres to the regulations of the Royal College of Surgeons. Sir Astley Cooper separates the teaching of Anatomy from that of Surgery. The Apothecaries’ Act of 1815. Growth of the Manchester Medical School. Mr. Turner’s favourable reference to Mr. Jordan’s teaching. Mr. Turner’s preparatory subjects; his idea of a typical medical education, and his views of apprenticeship. Mr. Turner’s early training, and its bearing on his future career. Comparison of methods of teaching in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries. Difference of method and respective shares of Mr. Jordan and Mr. Turner in the development of medical education. Museum at the Pine Street School ... 61—73 Chapter IV. Mr. Jordan’s tenacity of purpose, personal appearance, disposition and habits; testimony of an old student; his household arrangements; style of lecturing, retire- ment from Infirmary 1866, enthusiasm in his work, interview with Sir Astley Cooper, testimonial, his literary tastes, his individuality, his connection with learned societies. Curious letter from Mr. Harland. The Millenium. The end. Appreciations 77—94CONTENTS Appendix. Establishment of the Bridge Street School, 1814. Various private courses of lectures. Pine Street School opened 1824. Recognition of Mr. Turner’s lectures by the Edinburgh College of Surgeons. Medical clinical lectures established 1834. Mount Street School opened 1826. Description of the Pine Street School and its splendid museum. Mr. Turner’s election to the Infirmary. Marsden Street School opened 1829, and its closure 1839. Royal Patronage conferred on the Pine Street School. Establishment of the Chatham Street School 1850; its description. Opening of the Amalgamated Medical School 1856; removal to Faulkner Street 1861. Paper contributed by Mr. Jordan'to The Medico-Chirurgical Society 1816. Inven- tion of the ear-speculum by Charles Jordan 1845... 97—123 Edward Stephens. Apprenticeship. Insanitary state of Manchester in 1868. Student at Joshua Brook's School of Anatomy in London in 1824. Letter descriptive of conferment of degrees at Leyden University in 1827. Appointed to St. Mary's Hospital 1830. Manchester and Salford Hospital for Skin Diseases established 1835. Special constable 1842. Surgeon to the Zoological Gardens, Higher Broughton. Lecturer to the Pine Street School 1834 and retires 1850. Serious illness. Appreciation by Mr. Turner. Cholera in Manchester in 1832. Anticipation of modern legislation respecting the practice of midwives. Character and abilities. Appreciation by Dr. Lloyd Koberts 127—135 James Stephens 139CONTENTS List of Illustrations. Portrait of Mr. Jordan (Frontispiece). Letter to Dr. Hull from the Royal College of Surgeons ... 32 The Mount Street School 42 Heading of one of Mr. Jordan’s Certificates 42 Portrait of Mr. Jordan 77 Group of Rosicrucians 87 Heading of the Summons to a Chapter of the Rosicrucians 88 Hook-plate 94 The Pine Street School of Medicine, otherwise called the Manchester Royal School of Medicine 109 Arms of the Manchester Royal School of Medicine 120 Portrait of Edward Stephens 127CHAPTER I. Ancestry, Parentage, and Early Years. B*CHAPTER I. Ancestry, Parentage and Early Years. The Jordan family, according to tradition, came from Holland in the fourteenth century, and landing at Hull, part went to Monmouth and the central districts of England, and another branch went to Carlisle, where a William Jordan, who married a Miss Blacklock, was established as a calico printer at the beginning of the eighteenth century. His son William came to Manchester in 1745 and was established as a “ linen and cotton printer ” in St. Mary’s churchyard, in 1772, or as is stated in the Directory of the year following, in “ Blackfriars.” It is an interesting circumstance that this William Jordan came to Manchester in company with his cousin Blacklock, the progenitor of the firm of Messrs. Bradshaw, Blacklock and Co., of railway-guide celebrity. In the early baptismal registers of the Manchester Cathedral is the following entry: — “ 1763, Sept. 4, John, son of Wm. Jordan, callique printer, of Little Green.” William Jordan was what was called a blue printer on calico. Little Green, where he resided, is now the district of Collyhurst on the Irk. Proctor in his “ Memorials of Manchester Streets” says:—“ So far as the registers are concerned, this is the earliest mention of calico printing in the neighbourhood of Manchester.” William Jordan afterwards sold the Little Green Estate and bought a property in Cross Lane, near where the18 LIFE OF JOSEPH JORDAN Salford Cattle Market now stands, occupying a house called Oak Hall.* lie appears to have been a man of varied interests, lie had a logwood mill at Little Green and later at Knott Mill. In 1760, in conjunction with Jonathan Yarley, drysalter, he took up a patent for making cast-iron wheels. He was also the inventor of a method of printing whites on calicoes. In 1750 he was married at the Collegiate Church, Manchester, to Elizabeth Astley, a descendant of the Astleys of Stakes, Lancashire, and through them, of the Prestons of Preston, and of the Stanley (Derby) family. He had issue two sons, William and Thomas, besides the one already referred to as having been baptized at the Collegiate Church.t Of these sons William married a Mary Moors, of Gorton, and had issue four sons and two daughters, the youngest child being Joseph, the subject of this memoir. Joseph Jordan was born on March 3rd, 1787, at 116, Water Street, and was baptised at St. Ann’s Church. After a preliminary education at home he was sent to the Itev. J. Birchall’s school, No. 11, Charles Street, near St. John’s Church. Though a diligent student at school his habitual hilarity led him into many scrapes, which in after years he was wont to describe with glee, and for which he was not ashamed to confess that he had had many a good * Oak Hall was built in 1683 by a Mr. Hague, of Wigan, for his own residence. t William Jordan is mentioned as having subscribed ten pounds towards the cost (£10,771. 3s. 6d.) of the improvements made in 1775 in the approach to St. Ann’s Square from the Market Place. The entrance to it previously had been by a passage called the “ Dark Entry,” wide enough for only one carriage.—Vide “Chetham Society’s Manchester Collectanea,” old series, Vol. lxxii., p. 229.19 EARLY YEARS thrashing, or had been kept locked up in school without dinner. On one of these occasions his investigation into the anatomy of the school clock led to the sudden termina- tion of his studies under Mr. Birchall. At the age of fifteen he was apprenticed to Mr. John Bill, a surgeon to the Manchester Infirmary. But, finding that his whole time was expended in pill and plaster making, wielding the pestle and mortar, and washing bottles in a cold cellar, which left few if any opportunities for study, his mother very properly removed him, and placed him under the care of Mr. Simmons of Princess Street, also a surgeon to the Infirmary, with whom he remained until he reached the age of nineteen. Mr. Simmons soon perceived the excellent qualities of his pupil. A sincere attachment and mutual respect sprang up between them, which lasted through life. Mr. Jordan became his amanuensis and assistant. This position was quite congenial to his tastes, as it gave him for several years the run of the Infirmary, where he witnessed the practice in all its departments. Indeed, the greater pari of his time was spent in that institution. He took full advantage of the opportunities for pathological research and dissection therein afforded. Here it was that he laid the foundation of his superior abilities as a surgeon and anatomist, here it was that he spent the happiest years of his life. He completed his studies in Edinburgh under Sir Charles Bell and the celebrated Monro. There is still in existence a certificate of qualification in midwifery, given him by Dr. James Murdoch, Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians of Edinburgh, and Physician- Accoucheur to the Edinburgh New Town Dispensary. At this time there being a great demand for surgeons in the Militia, Mr. Jordan joined the Royal Lancashire20 LIFE OF JOSEPH JORDAN Regiment, first as Ensign in 1806, becoming Assistant- Surgeon in the following year. His appointment as Ensign to the 1st Battalion of the Royal Lancashire Militia force is dated December 12th, 1806, and is signed by the Earl of Derby, Lord Lieutenant of the County; his appointment as Assistant-Surgeon to the same regiment being signed by Col. Thomas Stanley, April 8th, 1807. The following is an extract from a letter to his mother: Frankfort Hospital, April 6, 1807. Dear Mother,— I have the pleasure to inform you we remove from this place to-morrow morning to go to Exeter. Of course, I come to my Assistant-Surgeoncy. I shall be with a detachment at Topham, about seventeen miles from headquarters. Mr. Wright is going into the Dragoons. Of course, I shall be first Assistant, and the Surgeon lias hinted that he will not remain more than two years at most. If I stay in the Army I have no doubt I shall succeed him—his pay is twelve shillings and sixpence per day—I wish I may, as it will afford me an opportunity of being of some assistance to you. The life of a soldier is not that to be wished by a young man who intends to get well forward in this life. You continually see miserable beings before you from drinking, a thing which with us requires great exertion to avoid. We had a party to mess with us a few days ago; I suppose we were about a hundred and twenty. There were General England, General Colnaft, Admiral Young and a number of other first-rate characters. The room was splendidly decorated. There is now a vacancy of an Assistant-Surgeoncy in our regiment, which I have offered to Goodlad. I know not whether he will accept it. I shall write to you again toEARLY YEARS 21 inform you of my Quarters. I expect after we have been at Exeter for a week we shall go on to Bristol—a thing I much desire. . . . You cannot think how much I should like to be amongst you; though everything is as I could wish, and my reception more than I could expect, still my thoughts will be amongst you. I have got a few French coins which have most excellent impressions of Bonaparte’s head upon them. I shall send them the first convenient opportunity. I received a very flattering letter from Mr. Simmons. Excuse the paper, etc., it is the best this Hospital can produce. Good-bye, dear Mother, I will write to you again soon.— I am, Your affectionate Son, J. Jordan. lie want to Milford Haven and to Kidderminster with liis regiment, was at Bristol in 1809 and at Bewdley in 1810. In a letter written to his mother from here he says:—“ I have received fees of from two to five guineas, which is very pleasing to a young man.”* In 1811 his regiment marched to Worcester and Nottingham, and afterwards to Hull, York, Berwick and Haddington, thence to Dalkeith in 1812 to guard French prisoners. In a letter from Yrork dated March 12th, 1811, Lieut. Samuel llibbert refers to Mr. Jordan inoculating his child. His next child, however, was vaccinated. Mr. llibbert’s words with reference to this operation are :—“ I am myself fully persuaded of the efficiency of vaccination, and no prejudice of mine shall, by the adoption of the old * At Kidderminster he operated for Cataract, with complete success, on an old gentleman who had been blind for twenty years. The patient was so pleased with the result that he rewarded the Surgeon with a handsome present and gave a dinner to the whole regiment.LIFE OF JOSEPH JORDAN 22 inoculation, contribute to protract the existence of such a curse on mankind as the small-pox.” The following is the communication Mr. Jordan received from Mr. Simmons, referred to in his letter to his mother : Dear Sir,— It will always give me true pleasure to hear of your welfare, and therefore I need not say how glad I was to hear from you. Your flattering and grateful expressions are more than equivalent to any opportunities of instruction I may have thrown in your way; and that they have redounded to your comfort or advantage in life will always yield me consolation. Go on in the same line of diligence and integrity, and the conclusion will be alike honourable, as the outset has been commendable. The novelty of your situation will wear off by degrees, and then if not fond of a military life you will at least become reconciled to it. Recluse life is hardly suited to the habits of a professional man, and in the Army the best knowledge of mankind is to be acquired. We live by the world, and to know it we must mix with the world. I am sorry you are so long kept out of the Assistant- Surgeoncy; meanwhile, however, you will be making some progress in military tactics, and eventually may become a general officer. Of you, it may be truly said that you fight with a two-edged sword—the lancet, the symbol of safety and of life, and that foul instrument of destruction by which so many have fallen to rise no more. Thus fortified what shall appal you? Nothing particular has occurred here since you left us; in quietude, however, it would be unnatural for us to remain long. . . . Mrs. Simmons desires to be remembered to youEARLY YEARS 23 as well as your young friends. ... I beg my best respects to Captain Levy and Mr. Wright. And with best wishes for your success, Believe me, Dear Sir, Very truly Yours, etc., W. Simmons. Manchester, 2^th March, 1807. Ensign Jordan, First Royal Lancashire Militia, Plymouth. There is not much to be said about Mr. Jordan's military life. He found it agreeable enough, and he made many acquaintances in the different towns visited by his regi- ment. A brother officer, the Lieut. Samuel Hibbert before referred to (afterwards Dr. Hibbert Ware) became his life- long friend. He also made the acquaintance of Sir James MacGrigor, Director General of the Army Medical Depart- ment. His regimental duties, it is well to observe, did not prevent him continuing his professional studies, especially in anatomy. The pursuit of this subject compelled him to beat a precipitate retreat from Kidderminster on account of the body of a child, wffiich he had obtained for dissec- tion, being discovered in his possession by the parents. He did not stay many years in the Militia, for he used jocosely to say he had no opportunity of being in action; the only service he saw was in the Nottingham riots. Feeling that a military life led to nothing except a pension he retired. In 1811 Mr. Jordan went to London for the purpose of continuing his studies before settling down to the pro- fession of a gentleman in private practice.CHAPTER II. Professional Carcci'.CHAPTER II. Professional Career. Mr. Jordan commenced practice in 1812, joining Mr. Stewart who was already well established in “ Four Yards,” a narrow street oft’ Back King Street. The title of the firm being Bancks, Stewart and Jordan. Apparently the junior partner soon retired, for we find him advertising in “ Wheeler’s Chronicle,” Sept. 14th, 1814, as follows : — To Students of Anatomy. Mr. Jordan will open rooms for the study of Anatomy on the 1st of October. Bridge Street. In the advertisement for 1815 the word “ re-open ” is used, and the address given is 69 Bridge Street; the dissecting- room being apparently in Back Queen Street, off Deans- gate, a few minutes’ walk from the house.* * With reference to this it seems proper to mention that at the distribution of prizes at the Chatham Street School of Medicine, in 1854, Mr. Brigham said :—“I attended his opening lecture (Mr. Jordan's) when we only mustered a dozen, Anatomy and Surgery being at that time the prinripal pursuits and the principal sources of study.” On the same occasion Mr. Wilson, senior 8urgeon to the Infirmary, said :— “ I was an early participator in the benefits conferred by Mr. Jordan on the whole profession. Indeed, I might almost say I have been a student under Mr. Jordan myself. I do not know any man except Mr. Jordan who would have sacrificed the time, the ease, and every- thing else, even his own advancement, for the purpose of affording his professional brethren an opportunity of following their medical studies. I remember Mr. Abemethy telling me that when he began lecturing on Anatomy he had only four pupils in a small room in Bartholomew Close; and I remember the time when Mr. Jordan taught Anatomy in a small place in Back Queen Street. If I were to attempt to give the students present the beau-ideal of a medical man (for remember the medical man is not a student merely in his younger days, but he continues to study through life) it would be Mr. Jordan.”28 LIFE OF JOSEPH JORDAN There are no particulars to he found relating to the place in Back Queen Street, except the reference to it in the foregoing note. No allusion is made to it in the adver- tisements, and Dr. Edward Stephens, who was apprenticed to Mr. Jordan in 1819, whose notes I am using, does not mention it. Evidently its occupancy was only temporary, for we find that Mr. Jordan removed to more convenient premises on the opposite side of Bridge Street which afforded space for a dissecting-room. In the advertisement of 1816 the address is given 4 Bridge Street. The only other difference is that the words “Anatomical demonstrations ” are substituted for “Study of Anatomy.” In 1817 the wording of his adver- tisement runs : “ in his house 4 Bridge Street.” It is curious to note that he was a yearly tenant of this house (which ultimately became No. 70) until his retirement from practice in 1871. The dissecting-room at No. 4 was a fairly large room on the first floor, and was reached from the yard by a ladder; the subjects for dissection being taken up in like manner. Later on the accommodation was improved. Mr. Jordan rented the next house, afterwards No. 68, and the upper part of No. 66. The school premises as I knew them in 1868 were exactly as they were in the early days; they formed the top floor of the three houses, and were entered from the inside by an enclosed staircase by which they w’ere shut off from the bedrooms. They comprised two large and lofty rooms, one of which was set apart as a dissecting-room, fitted with marble-topped tables; and I recollect it was provided with a cupboard containing a heap of discoloured and crumbling bones. The other served as the museum, which still contained a number of fine anatomical specimens, one of which, I remember, was29 PROFESSIONAL CAREER a dried varnished dissection of the neck and thorax, showing the heart, vessels and nerves; another was the cast of a case of Elephantiasis. I should say that in those days of small things the provision here for anatomical study was admir- able. This part of the house was looked upon by the servants as haunted, and they would on no account approach it at night. In this respect it was the cause of a good deal of domestic trouble for the servants were con- tinually leaving. In 1819 Mr. Jordan along with Dr. Hull, Messrs. Simmons, Brigham and Stewart established the Lock Hospital for unfortunate women, to which Mr. Jordan was appointed surgeon. He had observed that the poor wretches were left to die in the streets; and, in the natural goodness of his heart, thought something should be done for them. A small house was first taken in Cumberland Street, and appeals were made for subscriptions. Public feeling did not take kindly to the idea, and there was at first a good deal of opposition from certain sections of the community. In spite of this, however, the hospital was a success, and before long larger premises were required.* Mr. Jordan set his face entirely against the mercurial treatment, as he had observed it to cause so much damage to the constitution. He used iodide of potassium instead. It is related that on one occasion at dinner Mr. James Stephens asked him if he might prescribe small doses of mercury for a gentleman who was suffering from syphilis, * The name Lock is supposed to be derived from the following circumstance. The particular class of patients for whom the hospital was intended were considered such disgusting objects, especially after they had been salivated by mercury, that they were “ locked up ” to prevent them being seen by any but those in immediate attendance upon them.30 LIFE OF JOSEPH JORDAN and who was not improving under the treatment that was being adopted. Mr. Jordan at once put down his knife and fork and said : “ You big fool! I have been trying to teach you a knowledge of your profession for the last twenty years and here you propose such a remedy.” On resigning his position as surgeon in 1835 he was the recipient of the following communication: — Manchester and Salford Lock Hospital, Board Room, January 13th, 1835. Resolved unanimously— “ That the Board deeply regrets the retirement of Mr. Jordan from the Charity, whose unwearied exertions and eminent professional services have contributed so much to its reputable support, and whose purse, in the midst of the most trying difficulties with which the Charity has had to contend, has ever been open for its assistance. On behalf of the Board, David Holt, Chairman.” In the same year in which the Lock Hospital was established Mr. Jordan was joined by Mr. Blundstone, who continued to be his partner until the marriage of the latter in 1829, when they separated. It was in these days (181G) that Mr. Jordan, impressed with the low state of medical education, and the moral and social dangers by which the student, at the most impressionable period of his life, was assailed, during his enforced attendance on lectures in London, conceived the idea of providing, so far as was possible, for his educational requirements at home. He considered too, that as expense would thus be saved, and that the student’s work wouldPROFESSIONAL CAREER 31 bo properly directed, the number of qualified medical men would increase to the advantage of the country towns. Finding that his school was flourishing and that it met the wants of the time, Mr. Jordan applied to Apothecaries Hall,* and the Colleges of London and Edinburgh, to have his certificates accepted. He was encouraged in so doing by the fact that in a few instances they were in courtesy received, the candidates being found proficient in anatomy; but he was at first unsuccessful. In spite of this discouragement Mr. Jordan persevered, giving as he had always done from the first courses of lectures precisely according to the requirements of the Hall and College, viz., 140 in each course, with demonstra- tions and dissections from October 1st to the end of April. A still more forcible appeal was afterwards made in which Dr. Hull was eminently useful, and in the year 1817 The Apothecaries’ Company took an enlightened view of the subject, and formally notified Mr. Jordan that his certifi- cates would in future be accepted by the Board of Examiners as in every way equivalent to those given by Metropolitan teachers. This was a very important event in the history of provincial Medical Schools, for the license of this Society was the one essential portal to the profession, * I may note in passing that The Apothecaries' Company was incor- porated in 1606, and was united with the Company of Grocers; their authority did not extend beyond the Metropolis and its immediate neighbourhood. But in 1815 an Act was passed which placed the Society in a new position, by giving the Court of Examiners, composed of twelve members of the Society of not less than ten years standing, the sole right of examining and licensing Apothecaries throughout England and Wales. The Act provided that the Examiners should be appointed by the Master, Wardens and Assistants of the Society, and that candidates for examination should have attained the age of twenty-one years, and have served an apprenticeship of at least five years with an Apothecary.32 LIFE OF JOSEPH JORDAN .and enabled the possessor of it to legally charge for medicines. All honour is therefore due to this Society for the liberal view it took of Mr. Jordan’s teaching, and the medical profession owes a considerable debt of gratitude for the concession. Much credit is due also to Dr. Hull for his persevering efforts with the College authorities in urging the import- ance of the matter. Nothing could have appeared more hopeless than the task which Mr. Jordan had set himself to perform, the destruction of the monopoly held by the London schools and the establishment of provincial medical education. The teaching of Anatomy and Surgery was entirely engrossed by the Metropolitan schools, and it must be remembered that many teachers were also examiners, so it was of course to their interest to retain the monopoly of teaching entirely in their own hands. It may be very easily perceived therefore that they were loth to share with others a privilege which was so profitable to themselves. Their large and lucrative fees would be re- duced, besides the power and authority, almost autocratic, which year after year they held over students and the profession. The first and most important privilege was now obtained and Mr. Jordan received the reward of all his labours. Ilis satisfaction was rendered complete when Dr. null received a letter dated April 24th, 1821, from the Royal College of Surgeons of London, recognising Mr. Jordan’s lectures. It is here given in facsimile.* The recognition by the College was not of vital import- ance after the Apothecaries’ Hall had been so generous, because the diploma of the former was simply optional, The original is now in the Owens College.,4f f/le OVCr-efvA erf^ar^is <zd&--$-c*' oy^ /^Lt^ yS^ cH^i frisu^ys <rz£*£^* *6 s*^, di ^.w sc«< ' //?7by i+^ i -t^+ys _- . X x rt*- &~++ / X • On Urv/s of y*+4A> j£*orr a*ut ^ A*e*«~* to/Lt^L^^ 7^>f. yf c/W^v ^ a-y/u*y$<^ £3CZ&t~ y*° >- -’/fx ayA^ryvy, _ il/trV <y/^^Ovris'l /ictst t+i*?6oc^c^j6 ,^^n- ^As *fyy /^aS- tfCay Ccrc^/ 'Xe* C&v£y&JiZcL* (/S//ul, 1*1 S^ cy/^/t^yA^c^r U fi-r/x- A'Ld ^ /n a /*/ it***. £ c**S S'f*' <f**yu' i^/ .*!'/ /fa-ffA’ '-^&F¥Ffr^i*yoif • Q.S a. ^>-2 ^tvt/;- ’ L^ynt^. 4triS/i >£l ~tyirx-<*\ sr y*y y&pv-c $r.PROFESSIONAL CAREER 33 and was looked upon as a proof of a more highly finished education, much in the same way that the Fellowship is regarded at the present time. That the diploma was thus regarded is proved by the fact that in Mr. Jordan’s adver- tisements qualification for Apothecaries’ Hall is alone mentioned though he had the right in 1821 of mentioning also the Royal College of Surgeons. The College of Surgeons has always been very tenacious of its privileges.* Mr. Jordan’s application was frequently considered before it was finally granted. There was much opposition in the discussions at the Council meetings from men of the old school, who were opposed to any form of change, and this cunnot be regarded os very creditable to their memories. They retarded the development of medical education merely for their own selfish purposes, being afraid the numbers of students in their own schools would be diminished, and feeling that they themselves would be injured by the increased importance of country surgeons. One special advantage which the Manchester school offered to students of Anatomy was that subjects for dis- section could be very easily procured.t Hence it was * Witness its objection, even at the present time, to admit Members of the College to any share in its government. t The schools of London and Edinburgh were supplied from Manchester. Dr. Stephens records that Mr. Jordan used to supply Dr. Knox, of Edinburgh, and the University, with bodies at ten pounds each. Dr. Stephens states that "Ten or twelve bodies, packed in barrels, were discovered and stopped in transit. They had been delivered to a carrier to be forwarded to Edinburgh, but he had left them too long in his warehouse, and owing to decomposition they were discovered. This led to a great outcry, crowds collected in Bridge Street and gave vent to their feelings by smashing Mr. Jordan’s windows. He himself was unable to venture out of his house for several days.”LIFE OF JOSEPH JORDAN .34 readily perceived by the examiners in London that students from Manchester were particularly well equipped in Anatomical knowledge. During the whole time that Mr. Jordan lectured on Anatomy (upwards of twenty years) he never had a student rejected in this subject. This point was alluded to in the House of Commons in the arguments and discussions on the necessity of passing an Act of Parliament to legalize the prosecution of Anatomy, occasioned by the discovery of the horrible murders com- mitted in Edinburgh by Burke and Hare in 1828, as a means of obtaining bodies for dissection. That the same system was carried out in London was made manifest by the discovery in the dissection-room of an itinerant Italian boy whose features were well known. Many stories have been told me in Bridge Street of hair- breadth escapes with bodies; on one occasion the body of a man was completely dressed and set up in a gig between two persons and driven homewards. Being stopped at a turnpike for the purpose of paying toll, the party were for a short time in a great state of trepidation for fear of being discovered with their ghastly charge but they managed to escape without detection. Once Mr. Jordan was fined twenty pounds by the magistrates, reluctantly as they admitted, and his resurrectionist was condemned to undergo twelve months imprisonment and to pay a fine for rifling a grave. I use the term reluctantly advisedly because the magistrates admitted that a medical student was compelled to dissect in order to obtain his qualification to practice, and the law stated that bodies should not be used for the purpose of dissection. The medical student of the present day can hardly realize the very hard work, danger, ingenuity and skill required in obtaining subjects for dissection. Graves were rifled in the night time and the bodies carried away in35 PROFESSIONAL CAREER sacks which exposed the bearers to much danger if detected. Frequent references to this practice are to be found in the literature of the period, perhaps the most notable being Southey’s poem “The Surgeon’s Warning,” and Thomas Hood’s “ The Dead Robbery.” In 1832, however, The Anatomy Act was passed. It provided a legal means whereby the necessary supply of bodies might be obtained by the medical schools. While the Bill was under discussion Sir Robert Peel, the Premier, said : “ For my part I shall give my vote in favour of the Bill; for, you may depend upon it, if you do not allow the doctors to dissect the dead, they will mangle the living.” Tub Surgbon’s Warning. The Doctor whisper’d to the Nurse, * And the Surgeon knew what he said; And he grew pale at the Doctor’s tale, And trembled in his sick bed. “ Now fetch me my brethren, and fetch them with speed,” The Surgeon affrighted said, “ The Parson and the Undertaker, Let them hasten or I shall be dead.” The Parson and the Undertaker, They hastily came complying, And the Surgeon’s ’Prentices ran up stairs When they heard that their Master was dying. The ’Prentices all they enter’d the room, By one, by two, by three; With a sly grin came Joseph in, First of the company. The Surgeon swore as they enter’d his door— Twas fearful his oaths to hear— “ Now send these scoundrels out of my sight, I beseech ye, my brethren dear.”36 LIFE OF JOSEPH JORDAN He foam’d at the mouth with the rage he felt, And he wrinkled his black eye brow, “That rascal Joe would be at me, I know, But zounds, let him spare me now! ” Then out they sent the ’Prentices— The fit it left him weak;— He look’d at his brothers with ghastly eyes, And faintly struggled to speak. “All kinds of carcases I have cut up, And now my turn will be; But, brothers, I took care of you, So pray take care of me. “And my ’Prentices now will surely come And carve me bone from bone; And I who have rifled the dead man’s grave Shall never have rest in my own. “Bury me in lead when I am dead, My brethren I entreat; And see the coffin weigh'd, I beg, Lest the plumber should be a cheat. “And let it be solder’d closely down, Strong as strong can be, I implore; And put it in a patent coffin, That I may rise no more. “If they carry me off in the patent coffin, Their labour will be in vain; Let the Undertaker see it bought of the maker, Who lives by St. Martin’s Lane. “And bury me in my brother’s church, For that will safer be; And I implore, lock the church door, And pray take care of the key.PROFESSIONAL CAREER 37 “And all night long let three stout men The vestry watch within; To each man give a gallon of beer And a keg of Holland’s gin, “ Powder and ball and blunderbuss, To save me if he can, And eke five guineas if he shoot A Resurrection Man. “And let them watch me for three weeks, My wretched corpse to save; For then I think that I may stink Enough to rest in my grave.” They put him in lead when he was dead, And with precaution meet; First they the leaden coffin weigh, • Lest the plumber should be a cheat. They had it solder’d closely down, And examined it o’er and o’er, And they put it in a patent coffin, That he might rise no more. For to carry him off in a patent coffin, Would, they thought, be but labour in vain, So the Undertaker saw it bought of the Maker, Who lives by St. Martin's Lane. In his brother’s church they buried him, That safer he might be; They lock’d the door, and would not trust The Sexton with the key. And three men in the vestry watch, To save him if they can. And should he come there, to shoot they swear A Resurrection Man.LIFE OF JOSEPH JORDAN 38 And the first night by lanthorn light, Through the churchyard as they went, A guinea of gold, the Sexton shew’d, That Mister Joseph sent. But conscience was tough, it was not enough, And their honesty never swerved; And they bade him go with Mister Joe To the devil as he deserved. So all night long by the vestry fire They quaff’d their gin and ale, And they did drink, as you may think, And told full many a tale. The cock he crew cock-a-doodle-doo, Past five! the watchman said; And they went away, for while it was day, They might safely leave the dead. The second night, by lanthorn light, Through the churchyard as they went, He whisper’d anew, and shew’d them two, That Mister Joseph sent. The guineas were bright and attracted their sight, They looked so heavy and new, And their fingers itch’d, as they were bewitch’d, And they knew not what to do. But they waver’d not long, for conscience was strong, And they thought they might get more, And they refused the gold, but not So rudely as before. So all night long by the vestry fire, They quaffed their gin and ale, And they did drink, as you may think, And told full many a tale.39 PROFESSIONAL CAREER The third night as by lanthorn light, Through the churchyard they went, He bade them see, and shew’d them three, That Mister Joseph sent. They look'd askance with greedy glance, For the guineas they shone bright, For the Sexton on the yellow gold, Let fall his lanthorn light. And he look'd sly with his roguish eye, And gave a well-timed wink; And they could not stand the sound in his hand, For he made the guineas chink. And conscience, late that had such weight, All in a moment fails, For well they knew that it was true * A dead man tells no tales. And they gave all their powder and ball, And took the gold so bright; And they drank their beer and made good cheer Till now it was midnight. Then, though the key of the church door Was left with the Parson his brother, It open’d at the Sexton’s touch, Because he had another. And in they go with that villian Joe, To fetch the body by night, And all the church looked dismally, By his dark lanthorn light. They laid the pick-axe to the stones, And they moved them soon asunder; They shovell’d away the hard-prest clay, And came to the coffin under.LIFE OF JOSEPH JORDAN 40 They burst the patent coffin first, And they cut through the lead; And they laugh’d aloud when they saw the shroud, Because they had got at the dead. And they allow’d the Sexton the shroud, And they put the coffin back; And nose and knees they then did squeeze The Surgeon in a sack. The watchmen as they past along Full four yards off could smell, And a curse bestow’d upon the load So disagreeable. So they carried the sack a-pick-a-back, And they carved him bone from bone, But what became of the Surgeon’s soul Was never to mortal known. But to return to the Bridge Street School. Having obtained official recognition by Apothecaries’ Hall, Hr. Jordan continued his lectures, with the assistance in 1821—22 of Mr. Wilson, who gave in that Session a course of lectures on Surgery, until the end of the Session 1825—26. In the meantime a more extensive and com- modious building had been erected in Mount Street, and it was opened on October 9th, 1826, with an introductory lecture by Dr. Frekleton. The advertisement stating that it is an extension of the School of Anatomy founded by Mr. Jordan. Dr. Stephens’ description of the Manchester Medical Institution, Mount Street, is as follows: — “ During the year 1825 Mr. Jordan bought a plot of land in Mount Street (the site of the present offices of the ScottishPROFESSIONAL CAREER 41 Widows’ Fund Life Assurance Society) from Mr. Pooley, of Hulme, the ground rent of which was £28 per annum, and thereupon he built his excellent medical school. “It was built for the express purpose of teaching Anatomy, Surgery, Medicine, Chemistry, and other branches of Medical Science. “ The theatre was capacious and particularly well lighted from the roof, and the benches were arranged in the shape of a horse-shoe. There was a large well lighted room for the Museum, which Mr. Jordan had been collecting for many years. It contained all the parts necessary for showing the healthy structures of the human body and of animals; it was rich in morbid specimens illustrating pathology. There must have been from two thousand to three thousand specimens. The dissecting rooms were admirable, well lightod by skylights, well ventilated, and communicated with the theatre for the conveyance of parts for demonstration and lecture. “ There were five or six marble-topped tables and a good supply of water and basins for lavatory purposes. It was the best dissecting room I have seen either in this country or on the Continent. “ There were also private dissecting rooms for medical practitioners.* “ The supply of subjects was always abundant, even greater than was required. “ There was an excellent Chemical Laboratory, which Mr. Davies fitted with every requisite for teaching chemistry practically. “A great deal more might be said of the place, but having been built regardless of expense, it may be said that it was perfect for its purpose.” * Thus initiating post-graduate study.42 LIFE OF JOSEPH JORDAN The accompanying engraving of the Mount Street School formed the heading of some of Mr. Jordan’s certificates. The following bold figure drawn by Dr. Brigham and engraved by Jas. Bottomley is taken from one of Mr. Jordan’s certificates. The success attending Mr. Jordan’s school in Bridge Street led to the opening of a rival establishment in Pine Street. It was opened as a school by Mr. Turner in 1824 and dissections were commenced twelve months after- wards, but it was not until October, 1826, that it attained the dignity of being recognised as a School cf Medicine by Apothecaries’ Hall. Mr. Turner’s own certificates in Anatomy, and those of some of the lecturers were accepted by the College of Surgeons of London, after some hesita- tion, in 1827. Mr. Jordan received these honours in 1817 and 1821 respectively; he had been teaching Anatomy in a practical way eleven years before Mr. Turner com- menced. The Pine Street School seems to have been a very small place. Mr. Turner, in his introductory address in 1840, said:—“Some of you will remember that the original Pine Street School occupied only one-half of the site of the present building, and was entered by the street behind.” This enlargement took place in 1832. In the advertisement for that year the entrance to the lecture- room is stated to be in Faulkner Street. Anatomy and Surgery were the subjects of greatest importance in medical education, and that is no doubt the reason why Mr. Jordan was so long satisfied with the admirable accommodation in his own house. Doubtless, if he had been compelled to seek other premises, earlierThe Mount Street School.Heading of one of Mr. Jordan’s Certificates.PROFESSIONAL CAREER 43 provision would have been made for the teaching of the subsidiary subjects. Mr. Jordan’s success no doubt stimulated Mr. Turner to excel in the arrangements he made for a complete school; and probably the association of other lecturers with Mr. Turner led Mr. Jordan to erect a fully-equipped building to provide for the development of his own school. The two schools were therefore launched in a more perfect state about the same time, but Mr. Jordan’s was evidently the more complete; he had the advantage of long experi- ence, and knew exactly what was required for successful teaching. This excellent school of Mr. Jordan’s, however, did not continue in the perfect state which has been described, for more than two years, 1826—28. It broke up on account- of petty jealousies of the lecturers, and par- ticularly on account of the envious feelings manifested by them towards Mr. Jordan. They intrigued and opposed his efforts to get into the Infirmary; they objected to Dr. Stephens being associated with him in the Anatomical lectures, besides raising other difficulties in the working of the institution. Thereafter Mr. Jordan conducted the lecturing himself, with the help of Dr. Stephens, until the year 1834. That the school was in a prosperous condition is proved by a statement of Mr. Dlackmore, a well-known surgeon of Manchester, who was a student at Mount Street, that at the time of its dissolution there were from sixty to seventy students. In May, 1833, Mr. Jordan was a candidate for the post of Surgeon to the Infirmary. Mr. John Brooks proposed him and Mr. David liolt seconded the nomination. The other candidates were Mr. Wlmtton and Mr. Lacy; but owing largely to the opposition above referred to he failed44 LIFE OF JOSEPH JOED AN to secure his election. The votes were:—Whatton 419, Jordan 277, Lacy 3G. In the following year a proposal was made that Mr. Jordan should give up his school and transfer his students to Pine Street. If this suggestion were acceded to it was promised that all opposition to his being elected on the staff of the Infirmary should cease, and indeed, that he should be assisted in his canvass, and that Dr. Stephens should have the lectureship of Pathology and Morbid Anatomy. Mr. Jordan accepted this compromise, and in doing so lie made a great sacrifice, for his heart and soul were enwrapped in his splendidly appointed Anatomical School, in which all his interests were centred and upon which he had expended a considerable amount of money, and he, in the poigancy of his grief was continually saying:—- “Othello’s occupation is gone.”* Accordingly at the end of the Session (April, 1834), Mr. Jordan resigned, and the Mount Street building was shortly demolished to make room for warehouse property. The retirement of Mr. Jordan from the position which he had held with so much credit to himself and advantage to the medical student for a period of twenty years, was thought a fitting occasion to offer him some mark of the high estimation in which he was held. It was therefore decided that a dinner should be given in his honour, together with some other memorial of the high respect entertained for his abilities and character.! Mr. Jordan having accepted the invitation, about one * “And I believe he shed many tears.”—Edwd. Stephens. + A lengthy report, of the proceedings appeared in the Manchester Guardian for October 18th, 1834.PROFESSIONAL CAREER 45 hundred and thirty gentlemen sat down to dinner in the large room of Hayward’s Hotel, Bridge Street. Dr. Holme presided; on his right were Mr. Jordan and Dr. James Lomax Bardsley (a lecturer at the Pine Street School) and on his left Dr. Lyon and Mr. John Davies, lecturer on Chemistry at the Pine Street School. The vice-presidents were Mr. Robert Thorpe and Mr. Ainsworth, After the cloth had been drawn, and the usual loyal toast9 had been drunk with due honours, the chairman said :—“ Having been requested by the Committee to take the chair, he felt that he should be wanting in due respect to the gentlemen with whom the meeting had originated, and above all, if he were capable of affording any testi- mony, however feeble, to the genius and talents of his friend Mr. Jordan, if he had declined, or even hesitated, to accept the honourable office they had assigned to him. They would expect from him no laboured encomium, no studied panegyric on the merits of their friend. He con- gratulated all, and especially those to whom the merit of associating them together belonged, but above all he congratulated the young men now pursuing their studies in our medical schools, on the spectacle which that day afforded, when they were met to celebrate the success of one who had attained to fame and eminence, not by court- ing the patronage of the wealthy, but by toilsome labour and unwearied assiduity in the pursuit of science, and by undeviating perseverance in the path of integrity and honour. He was sure all would join him in drinking ‘ health, prosperity, and happiness to our worthy friend, Mr. Jordan.’ ” The toast was received with loud and prolonged cheers. Mr. Hunt, one of the lecturers at the Pine Street School, and Mr. Nursaw (both former pupils of Mr. Jordan) thenLIFE OF JOSEPH JORDAN 46 advanced to the head of the table, and made the presenta- tion, which took the form of a large, elegant and massive silver vase and salver, purchased by the subscriptions of medical gentlemen of this town and neighbourhood, and of the former and more recent pupils of Mr. Jordan. In the course of his remarks Mr. Hunt said:—“Wo meet to-night to celebrate the progress of science; for I ask how can we so well celebrate the progress of science as by showing the public and the country at large the estimation in which those are held who, like Mr. Jordan, have devoted their time and their talents to its advance- ment. It would be doing more than I am capable of to enter into a full detail of the progress, and, I may now say, the successful termination of Mr. Jordan’s labours as an Anatomical lecturer. They are too well-known to require any enlargement from myself; but as one of his pupils, I cannot refrain from reminding all those who have had the pleasure of listening to his instructions, of his manner of communicating information, of the indelible impression which that manner conveyed, and of the practical nature of the information which was enforced. If there is any one circumstance connected with the present occasion which better conveys our feelings, or which if I were Mr. Jordan, would impress me with higher feelings of satisfaction than another, it is to see the unanimity of the profession in thus honouring him. I see around me, gentlemen, rival lecturers from every other medical school in Manchester, and I ask if such a tribute would have been afforded had it not been deserved.” Addressing Mr. Jordan, the speaker further said: — “Allow me then, sir, in the name of those who have formerly been your pupils, in the name of those who were your pupils last Winter, and who deeply regret that theyPROFESSIONAL CAREER 47 can no longer continue under your teaching, and also in the name of the numerous friends who meet you this night, to present you with this tribute of our respect, which is inscribed as ‘ Presented to Joseph Jordan, Esq., By his pupils and friends, on his retiring from the office of Lecturer of Anatomy, in testimony of the high opinion they have ever entertained of his abilities and of his excellent public and private character.’ ” Mr. Jordan rose to reply in deep emotion. He said that though he might have been happy in teaching, his students knew that he never was eloquent, and he there- fore begged that they would not, in fact they could not after what had passed, attribute his imperfect attempts to thank them, to anything but his want of power to address them in terms adequate to the expression of his feelings. Indeed, he should address them with feelings of much greater embarrassment, were it not that he knew it was impossible for words to express what he felt; and it was therefore a considerable support for him to know that he should do that inadequately, which he did not think it possible for any human being to do well. If he estimated himself as a teacher by the success and merits of his pupils, he should not consider the high honours they were now conferring upon him (great as they were, and ungrateful as he should be, if he were not more than satisfied with them), as greater than he deserved. But though he could not so estimate himself, it was a great consolation to him to know that in retiring from the chair of Anatomy, he quitted it amidst the regrets, and followed by the gratitude, of his pupils. Of his pupils he dared DLIFE OF JOSEPH JORDAN 48 not, under liis present excited feelings, venture to say much, but whether in Manchester or in the surrounding towns, he felt sure they would be found men reflecting credit on themselves and ranking high in their profession. To the profession in that assembly he would say, that they displayed the same zeal and liberality, which had raised those of this town to the high station they held in public opinion. He had been deeply indebted to them for that liberality and zeal which had supported and cheered him during the whole course of his lectureship; and he would ask what could a single individual do if he were not thus supported? He was not surprised to see the Chair and the Vice-chairs filled as they were at that moment, for it was only another example of that liberality which had so long supported him, and at last brought him to his present enviable situation. After thanking the Chairman for honouring the meeting with his presence, and acknowledg- ing his obligations to the medical gentlemen present, Mr. Jordan sat down amidst loud cheers, declaring that it was the proudest moment of his existence. There were thirty toasts which were shared in by Dr. Holme, Mr. Harper, Dr. Lyon, Mr. Turner, Dr. Stephens, Mr. Stott, Mr. Robert Thorpe, Mr. Cooper, Dr. Bardsley, Dr. J. L. Bardsley, Mr. Partington, Dr. Ilardie, Dr. Alexander, Mr. Hunt, Mr. John Davies, Mr. John Dalton, Dr. J. P. Kay, Dr. Ainsworth, Mr. Owen, Mr. Rowntree, Mr. Fawcitt, Dr. Murray, Mr. Sudlow, Mr. Scott and Mr. Joseph A. Smith. The presence at this dinner of Mr. Turner and other members of the staff of the Pine Street School, the prominent part taken in it by them, and the enthusiasm that prevailed, show the good feeling which now existed between those who had hitherto been rivals. Dr. Bardsley, formerly physician to the Infirmary, was49 PROFESSIONAL CAREER uncle to Dr., afterwards Sir, .Tames Lomax Bardsley. It is interesting to note that the Baronet’s grandfather was one of the first to recommend Cod-liver oil for Chronic Rheumatism. Dr. J. P. Kay became Sir James Philips Kay-Shuttleworth on his marriage, in 1842, with Janet, daughter of Robert Shuttleworth. Mr. Walter Barton Stott, who was a demonstrator at Mount Sreet, and surgeon to the New Bailey Prison, was one of the founders of the Children’s Hospital, along with Dr. Alexander, in 1831.* In 1835, owing to the sudden death of Mr. Whatton, the post of Surgeon to the Royal Infirmary again became vacant, and Mr. Jordan renewed his candidature. The election took place on December 31st, 1835, in the large room of the Town Hall, at one of the most largely attended meetings of Governors ever assembled, and on the motion of Mr. Ednrund Buckley, Mr. John Bradshaw, the treasurer of the Institution, was called to the chair. Mark Philips, Esq., M.P., in proposing Mr. Joseph Jordan as in every way qualified to fill the vacant office, expressed his regret for the bereavement which the Institution had suffered in the death of Mr. Whatton, in whom they had lost, not merely a townsman, highly talented and gifted, not merely a scholar and a gentleman, but, in connection with that Institution they had lost a most valuable public officer; and nothing could have in- duced him (Mr. Philips) to come forward to propose an individual to fill that vacancy which the death of Mr. Whatton had created, if he had not felt satisfied that he was supporting the claims of one who had a full right and title to their best consideration as an eminent professional * See Manchester Guardian for April 13th, 1878, for obituary notice of Mr. Stott.LIFE OF JOSEPH JORDAN no man, and one calculated to do honour to the post about to bo filled Mr. Jordan, it was well known, had been connected with the town many years. He commenced his career in that valuable Institution, and about 1813 first practised in Manchester; and about 1814 began those courses of lectures which laid the foundation of a School of Anatomy which had distinguished this town in no ordinary degree. John Brooks, Esq., seconded the nomination of Mr. Jordan, who he said had been thrice a candidate, the first time having only eight or ten votes; the second time running a good second on the poll, and he hoped that this time he would be placed at its head. He exonerated Mr. Fawdington and his committee from all share in the canvass which had been commenced before the death of Mr. Whatton on an unfounded report of his decease, and also from taking any part in the publication of an anony- mous letter which appeared in the newspapers of Saturday last. Mr. It. C. Sharp, in nominating Mr. Joseph Atkinson Itansome, said:—“On the part of his committee he had been authorized to say that the anonymous letter adverted to by Mr. Brooks had not emanated from them.” A poll having been demanded on the part of the can- didates, it immediately commenced in the TWn Hall, and, for ladies, in the Matron’s room of the Infirmary, and at its close at two o’clock the numbers were: — Mr. Jordan Mr. Fawdington . Mr. Itansome Mr. Heath . 46G 350 54 30 Mr. Jordan was accordingly declared duly elected.51 PROFESSIONAL CAREER With reference to the anonymous letter mentioned by Mr. Brooks, the committee of Mr. Jordan published after the election a circular addressed to the Trustees, of which a few extracts are here given: — The object of the letter, published at a time which precluded the possibility of an answer through the same medium before the election, was manifestly to disparage Mr. Jordan in your estimation. It attempted to show by an extract from a work published by Dr. Carbutt, that as Mr. White, Mr. Gibson, Dr. Roget, and Messrs. Ransome and Ainsworth, had given lectures in anatomy, surgery, etc., in Manchester, previously to Mr. Jordan, Mr. Jordan could not therefore be truly regarded as the founder of medical schools in this town. The statement of the following facts will, it is conceived, restore Mr. Jordan to his proper position:—(1) Mr. Jordan’s lectures were recognised in the year 1817 by the Apothecaries’ Hall, and subsequently by the Royal College of Surgeons; they constituted the first course ever delivered in Manchester, and as far as Mr. Jordan’s Committee can ascertain, the first ever delivered in the provinces of which the London Institutions admitted the certificates to supersede, as far as they extended, an attendance upon similar metropolitan lectures. (2) The other lecturers referred to iu the anonymous letter were isolated under- takings unconnected with the London Institutions, and the certificates for which could not supersede a single course required to be attended in London . . . etc. (3) The peculiar characteristics of Mr. Jordan’s courses, in reference to any by which they had been preceded, were, that the education of the medical student could be carried on at home with a very considerable diminution of the heavyLIFE OF JOSEPH JORDAN 52 expenses previously incurred, while the student himself was thus protected for two sessions at least, during the most perilous period of his life, from the possession of a freedom, which long experience has shown to be dangerous, and from temptations to which many promising young men had been the victims. John Brooks, Chairman. Mosley Arms, Manchester, Dec. 29, 1825. The following anecdote is given on the authority of Mrs. Ilibbert Ware. On the important day which decided the victory in favour of Mr. Jordan, two old friends, whilom brother officers in the 1st Lancashires, of the newly elected Surgeon, were seated with him in his dining-room congratulating him on his success. These two officers were Dr. Ilibbert and Captain Edward Jones. Elated with victory Mr. Jordan exclaimed in exultant tones: — “ I have now reached the height of my ambition, I will retire from practice, enjoy mine ease, and keep my carriage. My dear Doctor, pray tell me what motto I shall take for my coat of arms ? ” “ Perge, Perge,” replied the Doctor, pronouncing the letter “e” rather like “u,” so as to give the word somewhat of the sound of “purge,” and then he added laughingly: “Go on my dear fellow, go on, and get higher still’ ; for well he knew that it was not in the nature of his friend Jordan ever to be idle and give up practice. The election cost Mr. Jordan about £690. The expenses consisted chiefly in hiring vehicles to bring voters from the neighbouring towns. The excitement was intense, andPROFESSIONAL CAREER 53 resembled that of a parliamentary election. A contrast to the present mode of electing members of the staff.* The election of Mr. Jordan as Surgeon to the Royal Infirmary was the acme of all his aspirations. He now stood in the same proud position which had been occupied by his old friend and master, William Simmons. The appointment was also some consolation for the loss of his Medical School, and finally healed the soreness which had existed for so many years amongst his rivals. In the Session 1838-9 Mr. Jordan, after repeated requests, joined the Pine Street School as co-lecturer on Surgery with Mr. Ransome, junior, and afterwards by Dr. Stephens’ persuasion, he transferred the contents of his Museum to the new Museum of the School, erected in 1842. He lectured for one session only, Mr. Ransome continuing alone until 1850, when by the request of the School, Mr. Jordan resumed his lectures for this and the following year, when he retired altogether from school work, and confined himself to Clinical lectures at the Infirmary, Mr. Covency succeeding him. Mr. Jordan presided at the distribution of prizes at the Chatham Street School of Medicine at the close of the Session 1853-4, and as the proceedings are interesting the most important parts of the Report are here given. Mr. Southam, the Registrar, addressing Mr. Jordan, said: — * I may say here that at that time it was customary for the members of the staff to visit Infirmary patients at their own homes, as there were no paid officers to do this work. Sometimes Mr. Jordan would delegate this duty to an advanced student. Each member of the staff had his own pupils and retained the fees paid by them. This was the cause of much jealousy, as the more popular men had the greater number of pupils.LIFE OF JOSEPH JORDAN 54 “ Indeed it is through your exertions that Manchester can claim the honour of being the first provincial town to which the medical corporations conceded the right of medical instruction, the Apothecaries’ Society having first granted this privilege to you in 1817, by recognising certificates of attendance on the lectures which you had been delivering for some years previously. We have satisfactory proofs of the excellent results which followed your efforts in the unsolicited testimony of a member of one of the Examining Hoards, who in 1834 stated before a committee of the House of Commons ‘that no class of pupils is better prepared than those who have been educated solely in Manchester.’ “ It was with a view to carry out the system of instruction so well begun by yourself that this School was established. . . . You will, doubtless be pleased to hear that this School continues to prosper. Though it has been established but four years the number of students, I believe, is equal to, if not greater than, that of any other provincial school, the entries this year being 57. Of this number 54 are perpetual pupils, 19 being third-year’s students, 14 second-year’s, the remaining 21 having commenced their Btudies during the present year.” Mr. Jordan then addressed the students. . . . . “You saw me,” he said, “ listen quietly to all that was said by Mr. Southam, because I received with great satisfaction, perhaps with a little conceit, the praises which he bestowed on me. Gentlemen, I receive them because I believe I have deserved them. The establishment of provincial Medical Schools was one of national importance, and was one of the movements of the age. Indeed, there has not been so great a movement since the College of Surgeons was established. Young men can now receive the principles of55 PROFESSIONAL CAREER medical education in almost every part of the kingdom, though it must be admitted that they might receive a higher polish in London. “ When I came to Manchester I found there were no lectures given, and no medical school established. I therefore founded one, which was supported by some of the leading men of the town, in particular by Dr. Hull and the father of my friend who sits next to me (Mr. Brigham). Dr. Hull was a regular attendant on my lectures, and so satisfied was he with them that without my knowledge he applied for their recognition, and one morning brought me unexpectedly an acknowledgement of their reception in London. “ For a time I went on alone, but I was afterwards joined by my early friend, Mr. Wilson, and some others. “ It might appear a very simple thing to establish a school now, but the circumstances of those days were different. “ You have heard of body snatching, but you have not been behind the scenes. The students in my time were obliged to steal bodies themselves, and I am not ashamed to say that I was one of the very parties. “ You were required to understand your profession, but you were utterly forbidden to dissect, you had no means of obtaining subjects, you were prosecuted if you robbed the church-yards. Here you were: the public and the Legislature demanding from you a knowledge of your profession, and yet the law utterly prevented you obtaining that knowledge. The melancholy and disgraceful affairs at Edinburgh broke through all this; and the profession was placed on a proper basis. It would have been as well if this had been done before. “ The Society of Apothecaries then opened the way to further improvements in medical education; and, in my56 LIFE OF JOSEPH JORDAN opinion, the Apothecaries have been the most useful body of men in the profession. As for the College of Surgeons, it has been asleep for the last twenty years. But the new blood which has been transfused among its members has roused it from its slumbers. We may praise them now, for two laws have emanated from them which will be of real use. “ There was first the division between the Fellows and the Members. This, of course, has been the source of heart- burnings, and no doubt great injustice has been done; but this it was almost impossible to avoid. It was, however, a wholesome measure, as it will enable the student to aspire to a higher rank in his profession, especially if it is attained by examination. “ Another measure has emanated from the College for which we ought to feel grateful. Dr. Wilkinson, Dr. Bell and myself were appointed by the Committee of our Infirmary to draw up a Report respecting the organisation of Hospitals; and the very plan we recommended has recently been adopted by the College. “ The medical officers of hospitals are now obliged to give a clinical lecture upon their cases. This tests a man, and in future, when the plan is well organised, it will no doubt be beneficial. “ It was a misfortune that the public had the appointment of medical officers to the hospitals. They did not ask what a man’s talent was, but what was his religion, what were his politics, or whom did he marry, and so on. It is now placed on a more wholesome footing. A man is now obliged to give a dissertation, or his diagnosis of a case to show his knowledge of it; and he will generally find the students pretty well alive to see if he understands what he is talking about. Therefore it will be a wdiolesome and true test, andPROFESSIONAL CAREER 57 at any rate it will keep the ill-informed from accepting hospital appointments, unless they are very daring indeed. “ Only think of the College legislating for this vast and immense population. If you place a compass on Manchester and draw a line of thirty miles, you will have a population equal to London. It is an enormous mass, and I firmly believe the College of Surgeons did not know what was going on in the provinces, or they would not have left us unsupported in the manner they have done. I congratulate the Registrar on the taste he has displayed in his remarks on the present state of medical education, and I thank him for having so kindly referred to my labours, for, though it may appear of little importance to you, it is gratifying to me to know that my early exertions in the formation of provincial medical schools will at length be faithfully recorded.” After distributing the prizes Mr. Jordan continued: — “ I have a few words to say to the students. I very much question if the unsuccessful students are not the best off, because of the incentive to eiertion which remained with them. It was by struggling that they would gain strength, and, while prosperity bad its dangers, adversity had none. I would not give a pin for a man who has not to go through certain annoyances and vexations in life, because they add much to his comfort and happiness afterwards. . . . When giving advice to the young students, it will be expected that I should say something more than that they should behave well and be attentive to their studies; this lesson they have no doubt already had. I would say when you have entered upon your studies, if you do not feel a delight- ful ardour, if you do not feel penetrated with the exquisite beauty of the human body—almost a poetic impulse—ILIFE OF JOSEPH JORDAN 58 mean that state of mind which led Galen, in dissecting parts of the human body, to exclaim ‘ I feel while I am describing these things as if I were singing a hymn of praise to the Deity who made them,’ depend upon it you will never become eminent in your profession. “ In looking about in this great city you are struck with wonderful specimens of art, you admire the ingenuity and are astonished at the art of man. But you are studying Nature, and what is Nature but the Art of the Creator. Here, therefore, you are studying the perfection of art. If I were asked which part of the body is the most beautiful, I would say, that which you study the most, for the more you study it, the more you will be sensible of its beauties. Nor can you imagine anything so perfect. Unless you are impressed with these feelings, depend upon it, you have chosen a wrong profession, and I would advise you to leave it, for I consider a respectable shoemaker a much happier man than an ignorant surgeon, and whether you succeed or do not succeed in the world you will be equally unhappy.”CHATTER III. Methods oj Teaching.CHAPTER III. Methods of Teaching. At the beginning of the nineteenth century and for a considerable time afterwards, medical education in this country was entirely in the hands of London teachers. As we have seen Mr. Jordan’s Anatomical School altered this state of things. This was his claim, and I think we may concede that the School, after its recognition by the authorities, was a medical school in the fullest acceptation of the term, and was thus the first established Provincial Medical School, or, as Mr. Walter Whitehead expressed it in his excellent historical address to the British Medical Association in 1902:—“We must, I think, assign to Mr. Jordan the honour of being the real father of the Man- chester Medical School.” When Mr. Jordan began practice in 1812, it was with the intention of obtaining the means whereby he might, by teaching anatomy, break down the monopoly of the London Schools, and at the same time gratify his taste for his favourite pursuit. (This is tdiown by opening a dissecting-room so early in his career, for we find him advertising his Anatomical-rooms in 1814). His system was essentially practical, and was recognised as such.* He taught Anatomy by lectures and demonstra- tions, and superintended his pupils in their dissections. His advertisements show that his lectures were intended * See Mr. Southam’s remarks in the report of the Chatham Street School, for Session 1853-54.LIFE OF JOSEPH JORDAN 62 for students other than his own apprentices, and special mention is made of practitioners renewing their Anatomical knowledge. The teaching of Anatomy was associated, as was custom- ary, with that of Surgery and Physiology, the latter of which at the time I am writing of was in its earliest infancy. The regulations for examination at the College of Surgeons would, with the exception of hospital practice, be met entirely by the course of study at Mr. Jordan’s school, combined with an apprenticeship for a period of five years; or according to the regulations of 1824, six years spent in the acquisition of professional knowledge.* For the benefit of his students Mr. Jordan used to induce poor patients, surgical cases, I presume, who otherwise would have gone to the Infirmary, to come to his house for treatment. Students would thus be well prepared in a practical manner for examination. But as it was only the lectures on Anatomy that were recognised, students * An apprentice was taught how to dispense medicine and to make preparations from crude drugs, of which there was a large collection, for there were, at that time, no wholesale druggists from whom pills, plasters, tinctures, decoctions, and infusions could be obtained. These had to be made in the surgery by the apprentice and the assistant. I remember well the first time a traveller brought machine-made pills, not coated, to the surgery. They were viewed with some interest, and were admired for their uniformity in size and appearance; especially by the apprentice whose duty it was to wield the pestle. Some years afterwards this same apprentice was shown by a patient, an interesting box of pills which had been sent by an old practitioner; they excelled, in pill making, anything of which the apprentice had ever been guilty; truly there was a variety in both shape and size, a family box in fact. The apprentice became familiar with roots, dried plants, and chemical salts. He assisted in the routine of general practice, and he learnt the therapeutic properties of materies medicae. The principal books to guide him in his work were, besides the “ Pharmacopoeia Domestica,” which was written in Latin, “ Gregory’s Conspectus,” and “ Pharmacopoeia63 METHODS OF TEACHING would have to go elsewhere for lectures on other subjects which were required by Apothecaries’ IIall. From the fact that Mr. Jordan always had it in his mind to minimize for the student the risks of a Metropolitan life (see the writings of Albert Smith), and from internal evidence I am inclined to think that his school met the requirements of the Examining Boards to a greater extent than is apparent merely from what is stated in his advertisements. Mr. Jordan’s lectures, apart from their practical value, would not have been of much use to a student as regards shortening his sojourn in London, if thereby he was relieved only of his Anatomical studies, for he could easily have attended to these along with his other subjects. I question whether the regulations as regards attendance on lectures were strictly enforced, because, for instance, it was exceptional for the College of Surgeons to have recognised Mr. Jordan’s lectures on Anatomy, and to have continued the recognition after the celebrated bye-law Londinenses ”; the reading of the last and of physician’s prescriptions being the Latin test at Apothecaries’ Hall. His preliminary education supplied his knowledge of the Classics, for they were regarded as the foundation of all education worthy of the name. He was instructed in the bones, and in midwifery, and was encouraged to become thoroughly familiar with these branches of knowledge. Some of his work would be looked upon by the modern student as drudgery, and payment of a fee of three hundred to five hundred guineas made no difference in his duties. He had to wash bottles, keep the shelves, bottles and drawers clean, post the books, attend to the door, show the patients out, and to make himself generally useful; and on vaccination days he had to assist by keeping babies quiet and by making things pleasant for the mothers while the doctor punctured the arms with the lancet. All this did no harm and was nothing of which the apprentice need be ashamed. He learnt to be orderly, neat and handy, and if his master happened to be of an exacting turn of mind his wits were sharpened. This drudgery diminished with the arrival of a new apprentice or when he became of use as an assistant.LIFE OF JOSEPH JORDAN G4 was promulgated in 1824. It is therein stated that certificates of attendance at lectures on Anatomy, Physiology, the theory and practice of Surgery, and of the performance of Dissections be not received by the Court except from the appointed Professors of Anatomy and Surgery in the Universities of Dublin, Edinburgh, Glasgow and Aberdeen, or from persons teaching in a school acknowledged by the medical establishments of one of the recognised hospitals, or from persons being physicians or surgeons to any of those hospitals. The recognised hospitals were the United Borough Hospitals of Guy’s and St. Thomas’, St. Bartholomew’s and The London. There is no such regulation of the Apothecaries’ Company to be found defining the proper persons to give certificates of lectures. The Act of 1815 merely states that the person .... shall have been examined by the Court of Examiners; and that such person shall have served an apprenticeship of not less than five years to an apothecary, and shall produce testimonials to the satisfac- tion of the said Court of Examiners, of a sufficient medical education, and of a good moral conduct. At any rate the regulations of the College of Surgeons of 1811 rendered it quite possible that all the required instruction, with the exception of hospital attendance, might have been acquired by students at the so-called Anatomical Schools; and from the persistent way Mr. Jordan in his advertisements stated that his lectures qualify for Apothecaries’ Hall, it is probable that to a considerable extent the same possibility holds good with regard also to that institution even after the Act was In writing of Medical Schools, it may be noted that the only complete establishments of the kind were the hospital65 METHODS OF TEACHING Medical Schools, because they supplied, in addition to lectures, practical experience in medicine and surgery. No doubt it was a desire for completeness and to fix responsibility that animated the College of Surgeons to issue the celebrated ordinance of 1824, which has already been quoted, though unfortunately the proceeding bore another complexion, and was unjust to the Anatomical Schools which had been of excellent service in the education of the medical student. All the early volumes of The Lancet go to show that the teachers in the Medical Schools who formed the officers of the Corporations, viewed the teachers in the private schools with jealousy. There was really no occasion whatever for this jealousy if the Anatomical Schools were not regarded as Medical Schools, except on account of the selfish reason that they attracted students •who otherwise would have attended the privileged hospital schools. But the condition of completeness of medical education varies according to the development of knowledge. There- fore what was complete in 1811 could hardly be considered so in 1824. To my thinking, a Medical School in all its branches ought to be conducted under one roof. The only schools that complied with this condition in England which were recognised were the four hospital schools in London—viz., the united borough hospitals of Guy’s and St. Thomas’, St. Bartholomew’s and The London. Previous to the ordinance of 1824, the College of Surgeons had made in 1823 a bye-law, to the effect that certificates only of the winter course of dissections would be accepted. This was directed against the Anatomical Schools, where the teaching of Anatomy was continuous summer and winter, and so the education of the student was cheapened, as less time had to be spent in London.LIFE OF JOSEPH JORDAN 66 Mr. Jordan’s School was on a somewhat different footing from other private undertakings, for he, ever desiring to conform to the regulations of the College and Hall, had held his courses of dissection only in the winter. To show how the vario\is subjects of education were mixed, and that a certain course of lectures might include more lhan its title would lead one to infer, it is to be mentioned, that at Guy’s Hospital Medical School the teaching of Physiology, or the laws of the Animal Economy as it was termed, at first combined with that of Midwifery, was afterwards, and until 184G, combined with that of Anatomy; and, as an instance of a step in the right direction, we know that Sir Astley Cooper separated Anatomy and Surgery, and then appointed assistants to superintend the students in the dissecting room, instead of, as hitherto, the lecturer accompanying his students thither, and repeating there what he had just been telling them in the lecture theatre. Before the passing of the Apothecaries Act in 1815 students had not the benefit of a prescribed course of study, and the facilities for teaching were very imperfect. The only requirements of the College of Surgeons were certificates of attendance on one course of Anatomy, and one course of Surgery, to which was added, in 1813, a certificate of one year’s attendance on the surgical practice of a hospital. At that time medical education was in a very lax condition, and medical students were at liberty until March 19, 1824, to obtain their training how they pleased so long as they were able to pass their examination. Hospital attendance, too, was on an indifferent basis. I contend therefore that the schools of Anatomy whose certificates were recognised by the College of Surgeons were practically Medical Schools.67 METHODS OF TEACHING The bye-law of 1824 was unjust to Mr. Jordan’s School, if it ever were applied in his case, because no evidence was adduced of inefficiency, and it at once put a stop to medical education in Manchester; for it practically compelled all medical students to attend the lectures of some five, or at any rate very few, persons in London. Notwithstanding this regulation, however, Mr. Jordan continued to lecture as usual, and Mr. Turner even had the temerity to start another school which, from the point of view of the College of Surgeons, could only be regarded as a preparatory school, so long as the objectionable bye-law remained in force. That public medical opinion was against it is proved by the fact that Mr. Turner’s school was recognised some years afterwards. Medical schools of those days are not to be judged by the standard of the present time; medical teaching was in its infancy, and every change that occurred was merely a step in advance. Mr. Jordan's School was complete (except as regards hospital attedance) for the period that it served, and so were the other schools; then came the Chatham Street School with a larger staff and more commodious premises; and finally came the amalgamated school, which was the outcome of the experience gained in the develop- ment of the earlier institutions of the kind. Each new school stimulated the older ones to increased exertion to keep pace with the requirements of advancing knowledge.* •The following remarks, though applied to other matters, are quite applicable to the early medical schools. Sir James Paget, in his intro- duction to the Memorials of the Craft of Surgery in England by Sir John Flint South says “A more careful reading will show that the strange things were usually fitted to the times and the circumstances in which they happened; and that like the organs and the changes in an embryo, and in spite of many errors and defects of human manage- ment, they were in the progress towards better things . . . .”68 LIFE OF JOSEPH JOIIDAN In a pamphlet on Medical Education, published in 1825, Mr. Turner says: — “ It is scarcely to be expected that all the objects of the school will be immediately carried into effect, but they must be begun. Indeed, they have been put to the test of experiment on a small scale, and for the beneficial effects which have resulted from them I will venture to appeal to some of the rising members of the profession who have been educated in this neighbourhood.” I think there can be no doubt that these words refer to Mr. Jordan’s School. Referring to what Mr. Turner calls preparatory subjects, he says, in his address previous to the opening of his School of Medicine in 1825 : — “ The plans which I proposed last winter, with a view to supply the advantages of preparatory education, and to avert the evils inseparable from the want of it, consisted in the delivery of lectures on Anatomy, Physiology, Chemistry, Midwifery, and the auxiliary branches of Medicine and Surgery.” With the exception of Chemistry, Mr. Jordan’s students were already being initiated in these so-called preparatory subjects. Mr. Turner’s preparatory lectures were no doubt excellent of their kind, but they were not, on his own admission, of the technical order. But he is deserving of credit for this attempt at systematising the teaching of these subjects. In an address in 1840 he says : — “ Another and a better way of dignifying the medical profession is to place within the reach of students a good education. If I were to draw up a code of laws for the regulation of such education I would make every student69 METHODS OF TEACHING undergo a preliminary examination before he entered the profession as to his scholastic and general attainments . . . and if found eligible he should be admitted into the ranks of medical students. He should again undergo examination when he had attained a knowledge of what might be termed the fundamental principles of his profession after the lapse of two or three years, and then he should have a final examination or two, which should be a test of his competency.” Here lies, I think, Mr. Turner’s chief merit to considera- tion, in his prescience of what is required of the student at the present day, and he very properly alters his term “ preparatory ” as applied to Anatomy, etc., to the word “ fundamental.” Mr. Turner also takes a right view of apprenticeship: — “ That it is the most important period of a student’s education and that the whole of it should not be devoted to the art of dispensing medicine and attendance on cases that an apprentice is not qualified to treat nor to profit from.” But he was of opinion that it should be partly spent in preparatory subjects, though he includes amongst these some that are obviously of a professional character. Of course this aspect of the question depends on the class of apprenticeship. Mr. Jordan himself was first apprenticed to a man who was not a teacher, and who therefore made his pupil into a mere drudge; he, fortunately perceiving however, before it was too late, that this sort of thing would not meet his aspirations, was transferred to Mr. Simmons, with most advantageous results to himself. By his personal aspirations, and the development of his70 LIFE OF JOSEPH JORDAN early training, Mr. Jordan was evidently fitted for tlie career of a medical teacher. An apprenticeship with him was therefore something to be desired in those days, and was very different from an apprenticeship with a mere practitioner. It would to some considerable extent supply the needs of Mr. Turner’s idea of a preparatory education, and it supplied the knowledge the student required to enable him to pass his examinations. It must be remembered that at the beginning of the nineteenth century apprenticeship was the only means of acquiring professional knowledge, and to improve the system would be the first consideration of the reformer. Improvement in medical training is one benefit that resulted from the establishment of provincial Medical Schools, though, with their development during the last thirty years to the present high degree of excellence, apprenticeship has, with doubtful advantage, been abolished. Mr. Turner must have spent his own pupilage to some purpose, for he left Bristol in the autumn of 1815, and entered as a student at Guy’s, under Sir Astley Cooper. He passed his College of Surgeons and Apothecaries’ Hall examinations in 1816, and in the summer of that year wrent to Paris for further studies, lie therefore did remarkably well, and must evidently have received an excellent preparatory education to enable him to pass his examinations in so short a period after his arrival in London. There is no doubt that his experience as an apprentice was as valuable to him in shaping his future career as Mr. Jordan’s experience and observations were to him, though the final development of their plans differed materially. Mr. Turner had theory and lectures in view, Mr. Jordan a practical or experimental method, and in thisMETHODS OF TEACHING 71 respect was in advance of liis time in the provinces, and even in advance of the hospital Medical Schools of London, and so foreshadowed the method of teaching of modern times. The writer of the History of Guy’s Hospital, published in 1892, on page 472, says : — “ In comparing the teaching of the medical schools of to-day with that of its predecessor in the last century, the changes which we recognise seem to be chiefly due to two causes—firstly, the institution of examining corporations from which legal qualifications to practise, or it may be degrees, can only be obtained by the fulfilment of certain requirements; and, secondly, the tendency to supplement professional teaching of any branch of science by practical demonstration of the methods employed in its investigation. “ The multiplicity of classes and demonstrations which now form so large a Bhare of the curriculum of any medical school is partly the result of the former cause, but is mostly due to the discovery that scientific instruction can be more readily conveyed by actual work at the subject than by the older and decaying method of formal lectures upon it.” When Mr. Jordan started his school there was no legal qualification to practise required, and therefore no curri- culum. These were first instituted in 1815. Therefore Mr. Jordan’s teaching was founded on his own experience of the wants of the time, and on observations of the defects he had perceived in his contemporaries. In his application for recognition to the lloyal Colleges of Surgeons of London and Edinburgh, and to the Army Medical authorities, Mr. Turner makes no reference to Mr. Jordan’s School. The wording of his letters seems toLIFE OF JOSEPH JORDAN imply that Manchester students had not yet been recognised. Turner viewed Jordan’s School with envy, and started in opposition with a scheme which was more ambitious, for it included the systematic study of subjects which were then regarded as somewhat of the extraneous order—viz., Materia Medica, Therapeutics and Botany. Mr. Jordan’s School afforded seeds for development which might have been taken as the germ of such a medical institution as Mr. Turner conceived when he took so much pains to establish his rival school. Here was an opportunity for Mr. Turner to gratify his ambition in establishing a school worthy of this important city by approaching Mr. Jordan on the subject, for he admits that rising members of the profession have been educated in this neighbourhood. As events have occurred, though undoubtedly Mr. Turner was the founder of the Pine Street School, and had a large share in the development of medical teaching in Manchester, yet there is no gainsaying the fact that Mr. Jordan, to take a wider view, was the real founder of provincial medical teaching in a systematic and regular form, and thereby broke down the monopoly of the London institutions. Credit is due to Mr. Turner for improving the facilities for medical training then in existence. But it must not be forgotten Mr. Jordan was the real pioneer of the movement. Therefore both teachers are entitled to equal honour. In conclusion, let me say that, in the transference of the Museum from the Pine Street School to The Owens College, it has been apparently forgotten, that a con- siderable portion of the specimens belonged to Mr. Jordan. They were deposited by him in the Museum of that SchoolMETHODS OF TEACHING 73 after he gave up the Mount Street School. The catalogues of the Museums of the two schools still exist, and can be seen in the Pathological Department of The Owens College. Mr. Jordan also gave a large number of specimens to the Peter Street Natural History Museum now forming part of that of the College. The view, that the term School of Anatomy has a wider significance than seems to be apparent, derives some support from the advertisement of a school in Dublin, which is to be found in Wheeler's (Manchester) Chronicle of September 24th, 1825. It runs thus: — “ School of Surgery. “ Under the direction of the Court of Examiners of The Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland.” Then follows a list of lectures and lecturers. Here the place is called a School of Surgery, though it includes in its curriculum, besides Surgery, Anatomy, Medicine, and Midwifery.\CHAPTER IF. Personal Characteristics.JOSEPH JORDAN.CHAPTER IY. Personal Characteristics. Mr. Jordan deserved much credit for his perseverance under the discouraging circumstances of his early education, and in perfecting himself for his profession; while the attainment of his hopes, in the foundation of recognised provincial medical teaching, in the establish- ment of the Lock Hospital, and in securing his election to the Infirmary, proves the strong determination of his mind. There was no wavering. He decided on a certain end and doggedly pursued the course that would lead up to it, no matter . how great the difficulties. Opposition which delayed or prevented the fulfilment of his purpose excited his wrath, when he might perhaps have succeeded more readily by the exercise of a little tact or diplomacy, con- formably with his motto, arte non vi, which he employed in his surgical methods. Rut he was strong in his own opinions, and these were based on what he had learnt in the hard school of experience. This fact perhaps led to narrowness of view, which prevented him in later years from falling in with more progressive ideas. During his regimental life and for years afterwards he was absorbed in his work of gaining practical knowledge, and after he opened his school his life must have been one continual round of toil. The habits acquired during these periods seem to have left an indelible impress on his character. He had no time to dally with sentiment, and it was not till many years afterwards that he was at liberty to indulge in recreative pursuits. His professional workLIFE OF JOSEPn JORDAN 78 filled his life, and he had no leisure for anything else. Everything which did not directly influence his calling had to be set aside. lie was enthusiastic in his Infirmary work, and always considered it of more moment than his private practice. No patient, however wealthy, would have precedence on his attention, if he felt it his duty to go to the Infirmary first. He visited the institution most days when I knew him, which was towards the close of his career as hospital surgeon, and he was always ready at unusual times to attend there in cases of emergency. In appearance Mr. Jordan was tall and spare, lie had a commanding, dignified presence, with characteristic features. He possessed a buoyant and happy disposition,* was quick at repartee, and had a merry laugh which was quite infectious. He was popular with all classes of society, and especially with students as a clinical teacher. He was the subject of a parodied version of The Fine Old English Gentleman. He and his yellow carriage were well known objects in Manchester. One of Mr. Jordan’s intimate friends was Dr. Hull, celebrated for his advocacy of the Caesarian operation (he was a very busy man, and was possessed of great endurance and hardiness. He use to rise at six o’clock, and it was no uncommon occurrence for him to ride to Lancaster or Buxton or other distant place). I am informed that Dr. Hull often sought Mr. Jordan’s advice for surgical cases, and that it was not an unusual circumstance for the doctor to call for him at four o’clock in the morning, Jordan meanwhile growling * One day, in his old age, when he was in a merry mood, he proposed that he and I should go to Knott Mill Fair, which had been for many years an annual institution in the city. I remember he trudged along in quite an independent way, and thoroughly enjoyed threading his way through the crowds of people and seeing the shows.PERSONAL CHARACTERISTICS 79 as he came downstairs at the untimely hour and the sleepless energy of the physician, but was all smiles and politeness when he drove off with his friend. He was distinctly methodical in his habits. Rising at a quarter to eight, he went out at half-past nine, and woe betide the coachman if he were late with the carriage. He returned for dinner at half-past one, and would go out again at three o’clock. He was a most abstemious man, and for many years he would never allow stimulants on his dinner- table. At a later date, when he gave dinner parties, he would join in the wine to a slight extent, but directly the guests had departed he would say to his nephew, James Stephens, “ Put those glasses and decanters out of my sight.” His nephew Edward Stephens lived next door, but the two houses intercommunicated. James lived with his uncle, and Edward dined with them every Sunday, bringing with him a bottle of beer for his own consump- tion, as no intoxicants were provided. Mr. Jordan did not smoke, but he was an inveterate snuff-taker. I have known him, when his supply was run out, to have a cigar pounded up in a mortar as a substitute. He had a collection of valuable snuff-boxes which had been presented to him by patients and friends. His favourite was a large one, oblong in shape, made of platinum, engraved with an Arabesque design. This snuff-box was given him by Robert Thorpe,* whose name was on the inside of the lid, and is shown in the accompanying photograph of Rosicrucians. So pronounced was his habit of snuff-taking that he would often pause during an operation to take a pinch, and I am told that to facilitate * Robert Thorpe was Surgeon to the Infirmary and was the first in Lancashire to tie the Subclavian Artery.80 LIFE OF JOSEPH JORDAN matters he would carry the snuff loose in his waistcoat pocket, lie admitted that such slavery was anything hut beneficial, and he tried to break himself of the habit by buying his snuff in small quantities in paper. He would put this package on the sideboard at the far end of the room, and was thus compelled to rise from his chair every time he wanted a pinch, but soon tiring of this labour, he carried his paper to the table, then changed the paper for a common snuff-box, and would finally return to his favourite. The snuff he used was called Wilson’s S.P. The maker’s name was Wilson, but the brand was a joke, referring to George Wilson, Chairman of the Anti-Corn Law League, and his inseparable companion, S. P. Robinson, the Secretary. It is with pleasuro that I am able to record some words of an old student at the Chatham Street School, which throws further light on the quaint idiosyncrasies of my subject: — “ Mr. Jordan was a very active and popular surgeon, willing to praise any good work, and desirous of imparting instruction to students. Prompt to repress hypercritical opinions. On one occasion he answered what a student presumed to be a poser, by asking him to describe the branches of the femoral artery, much to the confusion of the man. If a foreign celebrity introduced any practical novelty we soon knew what Langenbeck and Bonnet thought of it, these men being his great ideals at that time. When he came home from his annual trip to Paris he announced the fact for a month afterwards by mounting a tricolour over his cravat. Sometimes foreign guests were entertained at his house, when for a time the most modern furniture was introduced, to be returned to the makers on their departure.”81 PERSONAL CHARACTERISTICS The last remark alludes to Mr. Jordan’s personal indifference to appearances. His professional rooms were anything but comfortable, and as a lifelong bachelor the lack of a wife’s presence about the house was evident. His sitting-room was the only apartment that wore any approach to comfort, and was filled with old-fashioned furniture, the walls being adorned with portraits, two of which, by William Bradley, were of Edward and James Stephens.* Adjoining this room was a well-stocked library, which contained many valuable anatomical works. His bedroom was a very curious place. The chief article of furniture was a simple camp-bed. The walls were covered with book-shelves, and there were books on the floor and books on the chairs. They were piled about so that he could easily reach them when in bed, and he would not allow anyone to disturb them. There was hardly room to stir. The only time that thorough cleaning operations could take place was when Mr. Jordan was away in Paris, and on his return he would complain that he could not find any book he wanted. It is related of Mr. Jordan by Mr. Whitehead, that a medical friend, who called upon him when he was ill, espied a set of bones under the bed, which Mr. Jordan said he found convenient to keep at hand that he might distract himself by their study. A former house-surgeon of the Infirmary says of Mr. Jordan. “ He was a good clinician, a cool operator, was trusted and looked up to by students as a sound teacher and a man of original thought.” Mr. Jordan prided himself on the steadiness of his hand. In the portrait The latter of these two portraits is now in St. Mary's Hospital, and the former in the Owens College.LIFE OF JOSEPH JORDAN 82 taken by Mr. Brothers in 1850, a copy of which forms the frontispiece of this work, he is represented holding the letter from the College of Surgeons recognising his lectures. The text in the original photograph can he made out with a magnifying glass. Dr. Stephens, in writing of Mr. Jordan, says : — “ He adopted a plain style in lecturing, preferring, as he said, pure English words to their scientific synonyms, in order that his remarks might be quite lucid and under- standable. His manner of teaching is peculiar, essentially his own, much in the Abernethian style, mixing dry details of anatomical description with anecdote and jokes, sweeten- ing with interesting physiological views. Nothing so dry and dull, but he would make it interesting. He was always eminently successful in forming first>rate ardent students, who ultimately became excellent practical surgeons, as the present generation (1861) of medical men, especially surgeons, in this and neighbouring counties testify. “ No man ever carried with him more than Mr. Jordan the attachment and respect of his pupils. His class at the Infirmary was always the most largely attended. “ Speaking constitutionally of Mr. Jordan one may very properly say of him, as The Lancet says of our Premier, “ he is a physiological phenomenon ”; he enjoys all the juvenile energy, pleasantry and alacrity for business that belong to men in middle life, alive to all that is new, enjoy- ing a keen appetite for any improvement in our art, which he immediately puts to the test of trial, and adoption if good, rejection and condemnation if otherwise. He had a cheerful disposition, a sound condition of body, a good digestion waiting on appetite, and, withal, temperance both in eating and drinking.PERSONAL CHARACTERISTICS 83 “ His mental faculties are perfect, vigorous and clear. It is astonishing to see him operate with his perfectly steady hand.” He retired from the Infirmary in 1866, having held his appointment for thirty-one years, and was placed on the Consulting Staff. A testimonial was presented to him on his retirement, which was expressed in unusually cordial terms, and was signed by the whole of the Staff. He had been always glad to be called in to accidents. It was on one of these occasions, late in the evening, that I went with him to the Infirmary, and saw my first operation. He examined the case, a crushed foot, and then for a few minutes marched up and down the ward in his shirt-sleeves. He decided on amputation, and operated there and then, with the light of a single candle, which was given me to hold. I did not let it fall, and it was only the fear of the old man’s wrath which kept me from fainting. In order to keep pace with surgical progress he used to go to the Manchester Union Workhouse and there perform operations on the dead body. At that time his friend George Bowring was Visiting Surgeon, and Mr. Coveney was the Resident Medical Officer. A favourite subject of Mr. Jordan’s was Hernia; he was always ready to discuss its Anatomy, and this generally led him to speak of Sir Astley Cooper, for whom he had a great admiration.* He said the expression of his face indicated happiness to live and to do good to his fellow creatures. In his early professional career he once called upon Sir Astley at his house in London. He was on the * Sir Astley Cooper once called on Mr. Jordan in Bridge Street and suggested he should take up his residence in London.LIFE OF JOSEPH JORDAN 84 point of going out, but be immediately turned round, re-entered his house and showed him the Anatomical specimens which he had prepared himself for the purpose of his forthcoming work on Diseases of the Testis. In 1859 it was proposed that some mark of Her Majesty’s favour should be solicited for Mr. Jordan. Mark Philips, M.P., Milner Gibson, M.P., Richard Cobden, M.P., and George Wilson actively exerted themselves in the matter; but Mr. Jordan’s modesty shrank from this distinction, and at his instance the movement was stopped. In 1862 Mr. Jordan was the recipient of an illuminated address at the Royal School of Medicine. The lamented S. Messenger Bradley, a favourite with Mr. Jordan, made the presentation. In its report the Examiner and Times newspaper says: “ We are informed that this Testimonial was shared in by all the students of the institution, of whom there was a full attendance at the presentation. There were also present Dr. Brown, Dr. Deville, Mr. Stone, Mr. Ransom, and Mr. Lund.” In 1869 Mr. Jordan was, as a mark of honour, appointed Consulting Surgeon Extraordinary to the Salford Royal Hospital. In 1860, on his annual visit to Paris, he published, with the assistance of Prof. Nelaton (who in 1856 had introduced Jordan’s operation to his pupils) and Dr. Beraud, a monograph entitled Traitement des Pseudar- thoses par Vautoplastie piriostique. This and a paper published in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions in 1816, of which an extract is given in the appendix (page 121), are his only contributions to medical literature that I can find. Mr. Jordan, so far as his leisure allowed, was an extensive reader, not simply of medical works, but moiePERSONAL CHARACTERISTICS 83 especially of the classical authors, and the best works of general literature. He was an unwearied book-worm, and not merely a collector. Shakespeare was his favourite author, and he was not a little proud of his Shakespearean collection, which contained several specimens of the early editions. Yandenhoff, when in Manchester, was a frequent visitor at Mr. Jordan’s house. He would come after the performance at the theatre was over, or would join the Sunday dinner. On these occasions he would delight his hearers by reciting passages from Shakespeare or the Bible, calling attention to the grand simplicity yet, nobility, of language employed by the best authors. But Mr. Jordan did not devote himself entirely to English authors. He had a considerable acquaintance with the Latin classics, his favourite authors being Horace, Virgil and Cicero. Even within a few weeks of his death he had them read to him by a friend. His knowledge of Latin, too, was of great value to him in reading Italian. In order to keep up his knowledge of French he instituted among his friends conversation classes, which were held in his house. He was sufficiently well versed in the classics as to be able to converse in Latin. Such, too, was his activity of mind that even in his old age he interested himself in Algebra and Mathematics. At one time he contemplated writing a treatise on the human physiognomy; he held, for instance, some rather pronounced views on the formation of the nose, but his increasing years and the many calls upon his time prevented the work ever being put into definite shape. He greatly enjoyed the society of young men, which probably accounts to some extent for his success as a teacher; and he once surprised me by saying that he did not approve of young men being musical, because, he said,LIFE OF JOSEPH JORDAN 86 they were easily led away from their studies to consort with people whose company was dangerous. I again venture to draw upon the words of an old student who has supplied me with an interesting description of the man:—“As a student, I have very pleasant recollections of him, for he took notice of me, was glad to be questioned, and was always ready to help by answering anyone in his wish for information; he had a strong individuality not to be easily forgotten, old-fashioned in dress which never varied, a long brown coat often snuffy, a deep neckcloth or stock, and so so linen, giving the impression that he lacked a wife to look after him; the contrast between him and his well-groomed friend Mr. Turner was very marked. As a surgeon he was a close observer, kind and considerate to patients, especially to women and children, and soon arrived at his diagnosis. It was a treat to stand by him at such times, and be taught by him. Speaking to him about the difficulty of gaining all I wanted because little children could not describe their ailments, he replied, ‘There was one advantage, they can tell no lies.’ I am proud to have known and been cheered in my studies by so good a type of the surgeon of the middle of the last century as the late Joseph Jordan.” Mr. Jordan was one of the founders of the Chetham Society in 1848. He was elected a member of the Manchester Literary and Philosophical Society in 1821, was a member of the Natural History Society; and in 1857 was elected a Vice-President of the Manchester Royal Institution. Mr. Jordan, together with other gentlemen, formed an Antiquarian Society, which they called The Order of Rosicrucians or Brotherhood of the Holy Cross. The first meeting was held at John Leigh’s house, 26, St. John. Langton. W. W. Whitaker Chas. Bradbury. Thomas Jones, B.A. John Harland. Joseph Jordan.PERSONAL CHARACTERISTICS 87 Street, when the following gentlemen were made prime brethren of the Order: — Ner Gardiner, Superintendent Registrar of Deaths, etc. John Harland, Editor of the Manchester Guardian. Thomas Jones, B.A., Librarian of Chetham’s College. Joseph Jordan. John Just, Grammar School, Bury. William Langton. John Leigh, afterwards the first Medical Officer of Health for Manchester. Frank Renaud, M.D., F.S.A. William W. Whitaker, architect. Honorary members were subsequently elected, who were promoted to full membership as vacancies arose. Among these were : — William Mercer, of Newton-le-Willows, estate agent to Thomas Leigh of Lyme, Esq. Charles Bradbury, collector of curios. Dixon Robinson, of Clitheroe Castle. James Beardoe. Captain Jones. Thomas Garnett, of Low Moor, Mayor of Clitheroe. M. Dawes, of Westbrook, Bolton-le-Moors. William Beamont, F.S.A., Warrington. The president of the evening was called the Prior. Mr. Gardiner was the laureate of the Order, and wrote two poems, one of an amusing character excusing his absence from one of the meetings, and the other a paean of the Order. Dr. Renaud, the only member who is still among us, has written a history of the Manchester Royal Infirmary, and also a history of the parish of Prestbury,LIFE OF JOSEPH JORDAN 88 and other works of an antiquarian nature. The transac- tions of the Society were published in the Manchester Guardian, and are well worth perusal. It is curious to note that the names of the readers of communications are not given. The journal of the Society, with the newspaper extracts neatly pasted in, is to be found in the Chetham Library. The accompanying drawing by Brother Langton was placed at the head of the circular summoning a meeting of the Society. In the original the cross has a red margin. Mr. Jordan and his friend Dr. Ed. Holme sometimes took a holiday together, visiting the Cathedrals. On one occasion they went to Stonehenge, and as they approached the ruins they closed their eyes, as they declared that nothing should distract their attention from the wonderful monument, the object of their pilgrimage. The following amusing letter was sent by John Uarland to Mr. Jordan. At the top was the drawing of a vault with a collection of bones:— Bone House, Iiipon Cathedral, Wednesday Morning, April 30th, 1856. Mon cher Pere et Frfere,—Isn’t this a queer place to write from. But I know you will not object, though it does smell of the shop. It is part of a crypt beneath the Cathedral, and besides the piles of bones, seven or eight feet high and six feet thick, there is a stratum three feet deep buried beneath the floor. The guide, who is sexton, has a few choice specimens of osseous structure upon a table, and he goes behind and gives one quite an anatomical lecture. He says “ here’s a thigh bone, Sir, they call it properly a fibby, twenty-two inches long; if this man had been all( Heading of the Summons to a Chapter of the Rosicrucians.89 PERSONAL CHARACTERISTICS in proportion he would have been seven foot, maybe more. He shows one skull, in which the plates on both sides, about the parietal region, are thin as a wafer and quite translucent, and in which the parietal suture never closed. A third in which two fractures had been made murderously by some instrument like a pick-axe. A fourth full of holes from venereal disease. Two others, one of massive size, a fine Saxon skull; and the other a very small idiotic one. The last skull received into the bone-house is that of a Frenchman who taught his language some years in Ripon and died here. He was an emigre, and escaped to England at the first Revolution. He was probably one of the bishops of that period; my guide assures me he wa6 Bishop of France. Another skull is shown which had been stolen from the bone-house years ago by an enterprising Leeds barber, who took it home with him, sawed it in two, using the coronal half as a lather-box to shave his customers; but outraged mortality asserted its claims to respect, the barber could not sleep, was haunted, and forced to make a pilgrimage to Ripon, and smuggle the two divided hemispheres of the caput back into their resting place. He then felt relieved in his mind, repaired to a public-house, and took such powerful refreshers that, what he had done being upper- most, he let the cat out of the bag and told the whole story. The bone-house was visited, the divided skull found, and the story is now told as a caution to skull snatchers. Two very remarkable thigh bones are shown which have been broken and re-united by Nature’s Vis Medicatrix. Then the Sexton lectures on the pelvis and os sacrum, shows how the thigh bones play in their sockets, ditto as to collar bone and shoulder joint, and demonstrates to his own satisfaction, at least, that “ nobody ivver brock hisLIFE OF JOSEPH JORDAN 90 neck i’ this world. Nothing is brockken, Sir, nobbut this bone slipt out on its place, what they call dethlocated, and then the man dies if nobody can shove it back again.” I longed for you to be with me, to have had a lesson in anatomy, without going so far as Paris for it. The Cathedral is a splendid place. But I have spent three hours at Fountain’s Abbey with still more delight, and could fill sheets with mere notes of its beauties. But I have scrawled as much as you will read with patience. Commend me to the brethren. I start directly for Rich- mond, Thirsk, Scarborough, Whitby, etc., and shall be at home again in Whit-week. Bon voyage, mon p6re et agreez ma haute consideration. Adieu, J. Hauland. On one occasion, when, I suppose, Mr. Jordan must have been indisposed, Mr. Ilarland sent him the following suppositious prescription : — R. Lactis spuma Devonieusis quantum sufficit jam satis Misce. Sumendus statim, ad libitum. J. Hakland, Joseph Jordan, Esq. Doctor Dulcissimus, etc., etc. During the medical session Mr. Jordan used to give monthly dinners to his friends, and they had whist parties together, finishing with a sausage supper. Of the anecdotes he used to tell one was of a clergyman who dined every Sunday with the squire of the parish. Rabbits were always placed on the table. He apparently became tired of this dish, and returned thanks as follows : —PERSONAL CHARACTERISTICS 91 Of rabbits hot, of rabbits cold, Of rabbits young, of rabbits old, Of rabbits tender, of rabbits tough, Of these, good Lord, we’ve had enough. Most of the diagrams used by Mr. Jordan in his lectures were drawn by Captain Edward Jones, of the Line, formerly an officer in the Militia. There was always a room at his disposal in Bridge Street, and when staying there he employed his time in drawing pictures in oils and sepia of interesting pathological specimens. He painted a life-like portrait of a woman wearing a tracheotomy tube which Dr. Stephens had inserted, a rare operation in those days. Captain Jones was a friend of Charles Waterton, the squire of Walton Hall, in Yorkshire, whose volumes of essays were in part illustrated by him. There is an amusing story told of Captain Jones, lie used sometimes to accompany his medical friends in their professional visits, and on one occasion when he was with Dr. Ainsworth he sympathised with one of the patients, and told him he would soon get better. At his next visit Dr. Ainsworth found the man in low spirits and taciturn. On asking the reason, the patient replied : “ Well, to be plain with you, doctor, I would much rather have seen your father instead of you.” The Captain, writing from Lancaster in 1813 to Lieutenant Hibbert, says of Mr. Jordan, who had then commenced practice: “ My best wishes to Jordan; that is to say, may pestilence, plague and rich pockets, along with lingering long diarrhoeas, and every other profitable disease afflict the patients of Manchester! How can he have my best wishes without me wishing all this?” Dr. Hibbert Ware, formerly Lieut. Samuel Hibbert, of92 LIFE OF JOSEPH JORDAN the 1st Royal Lancashire Militia, on whose memoirs I have drawn for some particulars of this regiment, was at the beginning of the nineteenth centuiy influenced by his friend Dr. John Mitchell, of Lever Street, and afterwards of Mile End, Stockport, to such an extent as to become convinced that the millenium was approaching. His faith was, however, put to a crucial test by Mr. Jordan : — “ \ou believe that the millenium is within two or three years? Tell me candidly.” “ Certainly, I do.” “ And then will come the thousand years’ reign of the saints upon earth?” “ Certainly.” “ All things will be held in common by all men; there will be no such word as property, and that within the next two years.” “ Most certainly.” “ Then, Hibbert, I will give you, at this moment, five years’ purchase of all your property.” The offer, it is needless to say, was not accepted. Another intimate friend and pupil of Mr. Jordan’s was Thomas Bellot, surgeon R.N., brother of Henry Bellot, Surgeon to the Stockport Infirmary. He translated the remaining portion of “ Galen on the Hand,” which Mr. Jordan had commenced. He translated also the Aphorisms of Hippocrates, and wrote a treatise intending to prove the Sanscrit origin of the English language. In the copy he presented to Mr. Jordan he inserted this address: — “ Josepho Jordan, illustri medico, hunc librum honoris et observantiae causti dono dedit vetus amicus auctor editorque. Thomas Bellot, R.N. Kalendis Martiis. MDCCCLVI.”93 PERSONAL CHARACTERISTICS Mr. Jordan’s correspondence was extensive, though he did not write many letters himself. Ilis papers were lost or destroyed after his death. On one occasion during his lifetime one of his assistants, Dr. Hatton, in burning a heap of letters and other papers, noticed one that was only slightly injured. Picking it up he found it was an unopened envelope, and contained a ten-pound note. In 1836 when, what is now the British Medical Associa- tion met for the first time in Manchester, Mr. Jordan was appointed on a committee to consider the advisableness of amalgamating with the Eastern Provincial Medical Association, and he was also added to the Council of the Association. On that occasion the Society dined together at the Exchange room, Dr. Holme, the President, in the chair, the Vice-Presidents being Dr. Bardsley, Mr. Wilson, Mr. Jordan and Mr. Turner. After living sixty years in Bridge Street, Manchester, Mr. Jordan’s health began to fail, and he conceived the idea that the air of the city did not agree with him. He first purchased a house in High Street, Salford, to which he removed before it was vacated by the tenants, much to their inconvenience. However, he meant to stay, and stay he did. He soon removed to Stroud, and after remaining there only a short time, he finally took up his residence at Hampstead for the purpose of being near his old friend Gay, of the Great Northern Hospital, who attended him in his last illness. Mr. Jordan died on March 31, 1873, aged eighty-six years. He had been accustomed to attend St. Mary’s Church, Manchester, where he owned two pews which he bought from the Kev. —. Sargent. If spoken to on the subject of religion he would refer his interlocutor to the sixth chapter of St. Matthew’s Gospel. In closing this brief memoir I venture to quote some94 LIFE OF JOSEPH JORDAN words from a notice which appeared in the Manchester Guardian for April 2, 187-3 : — “ Mr. Jordan’s nature was most simple and gentle, and yet he was possessed of perfect coolness and determination. Without ever being a brilliant surgeon, he was to the last a thoroughly large-minded and large-hearted medical man. Never prejudiced against a project because it was new, nor bigoted in its favour because it was old. Indeed, of him it might truly be said, * Both gladlie would he learne and gladlie teache.’ ” The Lancet of May 31, 1873, says of him: — “ In his private practice, extending over fifty years, Mr. Jordan ever showed a special devotion to the relief of the sickness and suffering of the poor. His great professional skill often unpaid, and even supplemented by a liberal purse, and that genuine kindred feeling which ever doubles the value of a gift, won for him the blessing of thousands.”CHAPTER J Appendix.CHAPTER V. Appendix. Wheeler's Chronicle, Sept. 17, 1814. To Students of Anatomy. Mr. Jordan will open rooms for the study of Anatomy on the 1st of October. Bridge Street. Ibid., Dec. 30, 1815. Lectures on Anatomy and Physiology. Messrs. Ransome and Ainsworth will commence their Course of Lectures at the Literary and Philosophical Rooms on Wednesday, January 3, 1816, at 7 p.m. Admittance £2. 2s., or one guinea to those who have attended the former Courses; gentlemen desirous of attending the above lectures are requested to leave their names at Messrs. Clarke’s, booksellers, or at Mr. E. Thomson’s, Market Street. Dr. Stephens says: — “ There is a marked difference between this notice and Mr. Jordan’s. He at once opens a place or school for dissections, combined with lectures, given at the legitimate time, viz., October 1st, this date being the customary time for commencing the medical session at all the Colleges and Apothecaries’ Hall. Messrs. Ransome and Ainsworth began their lectures in January, and therefore could not give the proper98 LIFE OF JOSEPH JORDAN number, which is 140, by the end of the session in April. The lectures were given at a place where dissections could not be provided for, and where there was no anatomical museum. I do not think they ever intended these lectures to qualify, the hour at which they were given (7 p.m.) was on impossible one to teach Anatomy properly. Mr. Jordan lectured from 12 to 1, and always conformed to the requirements of the Colleges. “ No doubt this fact, together with that that his students were well prepared, caused his lectures to be accepted, although there was as yet no official recognition of them. At that time no provincial lectures were recognised by the examining authorities. Charles White in 178G, and also Dr. Itoget, who was secretary to the Literary and Philosophical Society, had already given lectures on Anatomy, but they were not systematic, and had no pretensions to recognition; probably they were of a popular character.” Mr. Jordan, in continuation of previous notices, advertises in Wheeler’s Chronicle, Saturday, Sept. 2, 1820, and again in 1821, as follows: — Anatomical Lectures. Mr. Jordan will commence his Anatomical Course of Lectures on the first Monday in October. Certificates of these lectures qualify for examination at Apothecaries’ Hall. No. 4, Bridge Street. In 1821-2 Mr. Wilson delivered a course of lectures on surgery here. Ibid., Sept. 20, 1823. School of Anatomy. Mr. Jordan will commence his autumnal course of99 APPENDIX lectures on Anatomy and Physiology the first Monday in October. Hours of attendance, 12 to 1. Dissections as usual. Certificates of these lectures qualify for examination at Apothecaries’ Hall. 4, Bridge Street. In Wheeler's Chronicle for Oct. 12, 1822, appears the announcement of Mr. Turner’s first lectures in Manchester as follows: — Lectures on Anatomy, Physiology, and Surgery. Mr. T. Turner will deliver his introductory' lecture to his course at the lecture-room of the Literary and Philosophical Society, Georges (tic) Street on Friday, the 1st, and Monday, the 4th of November, beginning precisely at 12 o’clock. For outlines of the course, terms of attendance, apply at his house, N O. Piccadilly. Manchester, Oct. 11, 1822. Ibul., Sept. Id, 1823. Lectures on the Animal (Economy. Mr. Thomas Turner will deliver during the ensuing winter a course of lectures on the Animal (Economy and the application of Anatomy and Physiology7 to the Sciences of Medicine and Surgery. Manchester, 22, Piccadilly, Sept. 12. On Oct. 4 this notice is amplified: — Lectures on Anatomy, Physiology and Pathology. Mr. Thomas Turner, member of the Royal College of Surgeons of London, will deliver the introductory lecture to his course at the lecture-room of the Literary and100 LIFE OF JOSEPH JORDAN Philosophical Society, George Street, on Monday, the 13th, at 7 p.m. The course will consist of two parts. The first part will embrace the functions of the Animal (Economy, illustrated by preparations and drawings. The second will consist of the application of Anatomy and Physiology to the science of Pathology. It is intended by the arrangement to accommodate the general as w'ell as the professional student. Apply 22, Piccadilly. These announcements are very different from Mr. Jordan’s, whose lectures were obviously systematic and professional. Mr. Turner’s, I should imagine, were of a popular character of a high order, for he lacked the means of giving systematic instruction, and he practically said so himself, both in the above advertisement, and in a speech which he made at the Albion Hotel (see page 76 of his Memoirs) at the conclusion of his first course: — “ Secondly, to do away with the idle prejudice that Anatomy and Physiology are exclusively professional studies .... that they are branches of general know- ledge, and not limited in their utility to the extension and improvement of the healing art.” Ibid., Oct. 2, 1824. School of Anatomy. Mr. Jordan will commence his Anatomical course of lectures on Anatomy and Physiology on Monday, Oct. 4. Hours of attendance, 12 to 1. Dissections as usual. Certificates of these lectures qualify for examination at Apothecaries’ Hall. 4, Bridge Street.101 APPENDIX Ibid., Sept. 25 and Oct. 2, 1824. Lectures on Anatomy, Physiology and Pathology. Mr. Thomas Turner will commence his course on the structure, functions and diseases of the human body, on Monday, 1st of November. Manchester, 22, Piccadilly. Ibid., Oct. 23, 1824. Lectures on Anatomy, Physiology, etc. Mr. Turner respectfully informs gentlemen of his class that in consequence of unavoidable circumstances he is obliged to postpone the commencement of his course. Instead therefore of beginning on the 1st November (as previously advertised) he will deliver the introductory lecture at his new Theatre, Pine Street, immediately behind the Infirmary, on Monday, 8th November, at 7 p.m. For syllabus of course apply at his house. 22, Piccadilly. Dr. Stephens says: “This was the beginning of what in 1825, but especially in 1826, became a complete school.” Mr. Jordan advertises as usual on September 24, 1825. Wheeler's Chronicle, Sept. 24, 1825. School of Anatomy. w Mr. Jordan, Surgeon, will commence his Autumnal Course of Lectures on Anatomy and Physiology, on Monday, the 3rd October. Hours of attendance from twelve to one o’clock. Dissections as usual. Certificates of these Lectures qualify for examination at Apothecaries’ Hall. 4, Bridge Street. In a letter from the President of the Itoyal College of Surgeons, Edinburgh, to Mr. Turner, dated March 7, 1825, Dr. Hay states that attendance for twelve months at the Hospital at Manchester with three months of Clinical Lectures on the surgical cases given by a Fellow of one of102 LIFE OF JOSEPH JORDAN the established Colleges shall qualify for examination .... and that Mr. Turner’s own lectures shall be received as a course of Anatomy qualifying for their Diploma. The other lectures were not recognised till later (see Mr. Turner’s memoirs). Clinical lectures at the Infirmary would, of course, be open to medical students from schools other than Mr. Turner’s. It may be noted here that medical clinical lectures were first given in the Infirmary in 1834 by Dr. Carbutt in the operating theatre. (See Dr. Carbutt’s clinical lectures.) Wheeler's Chronicle, Sept. 10, 1825. Manchester School of Medicine and Surgery, Pine Street (behind the Infirmary) Mr. Turner will commence his lectures on the structure, functions and diseases of the human body, on Tuesday, October 4. Dissections, Examinations, etc., as usual; for particulars apply at his house. 22, Piccadilly. The address for inquiries is given at his house, not the school. From these advertisements it appears that the Pine Street premises were opened as a school on November 8, 1824, though the teaching of Anatomy was not complete until the following October, as it is in the announcement of this course in 1825 that dissection is first mentioned. In the same paper is a separate notice, as follows: — Mr. Kinder Wood, member of the Royal College of Surgeons, London, and midwife (sic) to the Lying-in Hospital, Manchester, will give a course of lectures on the theory and practice of Midwifery early in November,103 APPENDIX in the Anatomical lecture-room, Pine Street, behind the Infirmary. Syllabus of the course may be had at the room, Lying-in Hospital or Xo. 11, King Street. Another notice states that: — Mr. Dalton will give early in the session a course of Pharmaceutical Chemistry at the lecture-room, Pine Street. Dr. Stephens says of the Pine Street School: — “ There was no chemical laboratory, no museum, and no notice of qualification. Dalton’s course, I remember, was a very short one, and began late in the session. “ The official London programme of medical study was not followed nor established. And as the school did not open for over a month past the regulation date the.correct number of lectures could not be given.” Mr. Blackinore, who attended Dalton’s lectures, says that he commenced at seven p.m. and would continue to lecture until nine or even ten p.m., quite regardless of time, until, hearing the Infirmary bell ringing, the students would creep out to get their supper. Manchester Gazette, Oct. 1, 1825. “ In a few days will be published an Address to the Inhabitants of Lancashire and the adjoining counties on the present State of the Medical Profession, with remarks on the elementary education of the student and the best means of its acquirement, intending to show the practicability and importance of establishing a school on a more extended scale in Manchester for the cultivation of medical and surgical knowledge, by I homas I urner, member of the College of Surgeons, London, etc.”LIFE OF JOSEPH JORDAN 104 Ibid., Dee. 24, 1825. School of Medicine and Surgery, Pine Street (behind the Infirmary). The business of this school will recommence on Thursday, January 5th, 1826. 1. Lectures in Anatomy, Physiology, and Pathology by Mr. Turner, M.R.C.S. 2. Demonstrations of Anatomy, Mr. Richard II. Thorpe, M.R.C.S. 3. Lectures in Midwifery, Mr. Kinder Wood, M.R.C.S. 4. John Dalton, F.R.S., President of the Literary and Philosophical Society will commence his course on Pharmaceutical Chemistry at the Anatomical Room on Thursday. 5. Mr. W. Thomson, M.A., will commence a course on Botany early in March, of which further particulars will be given.* 6. During the Summer Session, 1826, lectures will be delivered on the Theory of Medicine, by Henry Hardie, M.D. 7. On the practice of Medicine and the Materia Medica, and clinical remarks on cases derived from hospital practice, by James Lomax Bardsley, M.D. Mr. Turner, Surgeon, will deliver his introductory lecture to his lectures on the principles of Medical Education and the Minutite of Anatomy in their application to Medicine and Surgery, on Monday, January 10th, at 7 p.m. * Medical Botany was this year included in the Syllabus prescribed by the Apothecaries’ Company.APPENDIX 105 Ibid.., Jan. 7, 1826. School of Anatomy, Session 1825-6. Mr. Jordan, Surgeon, will recommence his lectures on Anatomy and Physiology on January 11th, 1826. Hours 12 to 1. Demonstrations as usual. Certificates of these lectures qualify for examination at Apothecaries’ Hall. Mr. Jordan takes this opportunity of acquainting his class that against the ensuing winter a commodious theatre will be erected where, in addition to the usual lectures and demonstrations, a course on the Theory and Practice of Midwifery will be delivered by Mr. ltadford, surgeon to the Lying-in Hospital; on Pathology by Mr. Boutfiower and Mr. Fawdington; and on the Principles and Practice of Surgery, by Mr. Wilson and Mr. Jordan. (one concern) The following notice appears in the Manchester Guardian, Oct. 7, 1826: — Manchester Medical Institution, Mount Street. It is respectfully announced to the medical public that this Institution, which is an extension of the School of Anatomy, founded by Mr. Jordan, will be opened on the 9th of October, at 12 a.m., when a general introductory lecture will be given by G. Frekleton, M.D., Trinity College, Cambridge, late senior Physician to the Liverpool General Dispensary. The following lectures will be given during the ensuing winter session: — 1. On Anatomy and Physiology, by Mr. Jordan, every Monday, Wednesday and Friday, at 12 a.m. 2. Anatomical Demonstrations every morning, 8 to 9, by II. Pritchard llulme and Mr. Blundstone, surgeon.106 LIFE OF JOSEPH JORDAN 3. Theory and Practice of Midwifery, by Mr. Radford, Surgeon to the Lying-in Hospital. 4. Principles and Practice of Surgery, by Mr. Wilson, Surgeon to the Ophthalmic Institution, and Mr. Jordan, Surgeon to the Lock Hospital. 5. General and Pharmaceutical Chemistry, by Mr. Davies, M.W.S. 6. Practical Chemistry in the Laboratory.* These lectures will be particularly directed to the objects of the medical student, who may also have the advantage of pursuing the subjects practically in the laboratory. In the Spring Session, which commences in April: 7. Practice of Physic, by George Frekleton, M.D., etc. 8. Botany and Materia Medica, by George Frekleton, M.D. 9. On the Anatomy and Disease of Texture, by Mr. Boutflower, surgeon, and Mr. Fawdington. In the Manchester Gazette, Sept. 2 and 2G, 1826, is the following notice: — Manchester School of Medicine and Surgery, Pine Street (behind the Infirmary). The Winter Session commences in October, and terminates in April, and comprehends the following courses: 1. Anatomy, Physiology and Pathology, by Thomas Turner, M.R.C.S., Surgeon to the Deaf and Dumb Institution. Introductory Lecture October 3, at 12 a.m., continued Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. * Davies was a pupil of the illustrious Dalton, and had the Laboratory all to himself.APPENDIX 107 2. Anatomical Demonstrations, by Mr. Turner daily, 8 to 9 a.m. 3. Principles and Practice of Physic, by James Lomax Bardsley, M.D., Physician to the Infirmary. Introduc- tory Lecture Wednesday, 11th October, at 6 p.m., and continued Wednesday and Saturday. 4. Materia Medica, by Dr. Bardsley. 5. Surgery and the Operations, by J. A. Kansome. Friday, 13th October, and on Tuesdays and Fridays, 7 p.m. 6. Mr. Kinder Wood, Surgeon, on Midwifery. 7. Chemistry, by John Dalton, F.R.S., etc. During the summer months a course of Botany will be given by W. Thomson, A.M. Certificates of the above lectures will qualify for the College of Surgeons, Edinburgh, and Apothecaries’ Hall. There was no museum and no laboratory, and the summer course was inferior to that of the Mount Street School. In the newspapers of September, 1827, the Mount Street School has the same long notice as in 182G with Dr. Stephens added to the list of lecturers, and with this important addition:—“ Students attending these lectures will have the privilege of witnessing the practice of the Ophthalmic Institution and Lock Hospital where clinical lectures on the cases will be given.” The Pine Street School advertises as usual but rather more conspicuously. Mr. Turner says his lectures qualify for the College of Surgeons, Edinburgh, and Apothecaries’ Hall. Dr. Bardsley says his lectures qualify for Apothecaries’ Hall. Mr. Kansome says his lectures qualify for the College ofManchester Royal School of Medicine, Faulkner Street.109 APPENDIX tory. Each lecturer had to send to his own house for such preparations as were wanted to illustrate his lecture, and afterwards to convey them home again; even the most simple things such as bones, etc. “ This wretched state of things continued even for some years after I jointed the staff of the Pine Street School, which was in the Session 1834-5. I was con- tinually, at our meetings, urging the necessity of building a room for a museum, because the preparations were seriously damaged by carrying them backwards and forwards. “ Both Mr. Turner and I went to considerable expense to provide large cupboards to lock-up and preserve the preparations. “ The valuable plates and paintings were injured and torn by being rolled up and stored away. “ At length it was determined, I forget in what year (probably in 1842, F.W.J.), to expend about £400 in making an addition to the building for a museum. It was a fine room, but was overtopped by high ware- houses, which obscured the light. Indeed, the Pine Street School, especially in its Theatre and Dissecting- room, was totally unfitted for a School of Anatomy. (It was a dirty, gloomy place even in the writer’s time, 1868, though, it must be confessed, the students were quite happy and thoroughly enjoyed themselves.) “ lhe students, even in mid-day, were generally obliged to dissect by gas-light. I was much disgusted, but by the urgent entreaties of the lecturers I demon- strated every morning from eight to nine for seven years. “ After the museum was built I persuaded Mr. Jordan to allow his valuable specimens to be depositedLIFE OF JOSEPH JORDAN 110 therein, and they are still in the possession of the Pine Street School.” In the Manchester Guardian, for October 4th, 1843, is a report of the proceedings of the opening of the Winter Session of the Pine Street School, when Mr. Heath gave the introductory address. The reporter states: — “ That the splendid and extensive museum which was removed last year to the spacious gallery erected for its reception within the walls of the Institution, etc. . . . The gallery in which it is now arranged, in most beautiful order, extends the whole length of the building, from Faulkner Street to Pine Street, and is 73 feet in length by 23 feet 5 inches in width. If we except the museum of the Itoyal College of Surgeons . . . we believe the museum of the Manchester Royal School of Medicine is the largest and richest medical, anatomical and surgical museum in England.” Manchester Guardian, Sept. 20, 1828. Anatomical Lectures. The lectures by Mr. Jordan and Mr. Stephens will be postponed until Monday, October 6, at 1^-0 precisely, on account of the approaching Manchester Musical Festival. It is the object of these lectures to teach Anatomy from the subject itself, with such observations in Physiology and Surgery as will illustrate the practical application of that Science to Medicine. Anatomical Demonstrations, by Mr. Blundstone and Mr. Jeffs at 8 a.m., with weekly examinations. The student will have every opportunity of dissecting and studying Anatomy practically; he will be superintendedAPPENDIX 111 in his dissections, and will have constant reference to the extensive museum of the School. Separate rooms for professional gentlemen who wish to renew their Anatomical knowledge. These lectures qualify for Apothecaries’ Hall. In 1829 and 1830 Dr. Stephens and Mr. Jeffs were the Demonstrators of Anatomy, and Mr. Davies taught Chemistry. Just below, in the same paper, is the advertisement of the Pine Street School, as usual, with the addition that young Mr. Henry gives a separate course of Physiology. In 1830 both schools state that the lectures qualify for the College of Surgeons of London. This is the first time that this statement is made of the Pine Street School.' In 1831 this statement is made more emphatically. In 1830 Mr. Turner was elected to the Infirmary after the death of William Simmons. In 1832 Jordan and Stephens advertise as usual, with this addition: — N.B.—It is important that those students who are commencing their studies should enter their names at the commencement of the course in the Register sent down from Apothecaries’ Hall. The Pine Street School also inserts its usual announce- ment in the same paper of September 8, 1832. In 1833 Mr. Partington has become associated with Mr. Radford in Midwifery. The Mount Street School advertises in the Manchester Guardian for August 31, 1833, with Mr. Stephens and Mr. Stott as Demonstrators in Anatomy. HLIFE OF JOSEPH JORDAN 112 In 1829 (see Manchester Guardian, Sept. 5th and 12th) a new school had come into existence and advertised as follows: — Theatre of Anatomy and Medicine, Marsden Street. The winter course of lectures will commence as follows: Principles and Practice of Physic, by George Frekleton, M.D., F.R.C.P. (Lond.). Botany and Materia Medica, George Shaw, M.D. Midwifery and Diseases of Women and Children, by Mr. Radford. Surgical Anatomy and Pathology, Mr. Fawdington and Mr. J. Boutflower. Anatomical Demonstrations, Mr. Hunt (in 1830 Mr. Clough as well as Mr. Hunt). In 1831 the address of the school is given as No. 6, late No. 9, Marsden Street, with Chemistry by Dr. Shaw, and the intention of having lectures on Jurisprudence, and in 1832 it is stated that the certificates of this school are received by the Royal College of Surgeons and the Apothecaries’ Company, and in 1834 the Syllabus is as follows: — 1. Anatomy and Physiology, Messrs. Boutflower and Fawdington. 2. Anatomical Demonstrations, Mr. Clough and Mr. Marsden. 3. Physic, by Dr. Shaw. 4. Materia Medica, Dr. Shaw. 5. Midwifery, by Mr. Roberton. 0. Surgery and Operations, Mr. Fawdington.113 APPENDIX 7. Medical Jurisprudence, Dr. Pendlebury, Surgeon to the Infirmary. 8. Chemistry, John Davies. A note at the bottom of the announcement referring to pupils of Drs. Shaw and Pendlebury shows that these gentlemen had been lecturing on their own account. This school came to an end in 1839, the library being presented to Pine Street. Marsden Street School was the first of the medical schools in Manchester to introduce Medical Jurisprudence into the curriculum, though the subject was not required by Apothecaries’ Hall until 18-36. It was introduced into the Pine Street syllabus in 1833. The students at the various schools seem to have been on very good terms with each other, as I read in Dr. Stephens’ notes of students from other schools visiting Mount Street on interesting occasions. With regard to the lecturers, it is interesting to note that Mr. Radford, who had been lecturer at Mount Street, took Midwifery at the Marsden Street School at its open- ing. He was soon succeeded by Mr. Roberton (who was called “ Old Mortality,” from his having published a work on infantile mortality). In 1833 Mr. Radford was associated with Mr. Partington at the Pine Street School on the retirement of Kinder Wood. Mr. Davies was lecturer on Chemistry at both these schools simultaneously. In 1834 the Pine Street School advertised extensively in view of the competition of its rival, the Marsden Street School. Additional lecturers were appointed. 1. Anatomy, Mr. Turner, daily at 12.114 LIFE OF JOSEPH JORDAN 2. Anatomical Demonstrations, William Guest and Mr. Stephens, daily at 8. 3. Anatomical Superintendence, Mr. Newbold and Mr. R. F. Ainsworth. 4. Physic, Dr. Bardsley. 5. Materia Medica, Dr. Bardsley. 6. Surgery, Mr. Ransome, Senior Surgeon to the Royal Infirmary. 7. Midwifery, Mr. Radford, Surgeon to the Lying-in Hospital, Chorlton Lying-in Charity, and Senior Surgeon Chorlton-on-Medlock Dispensary; and by Mr. Partington. 8. Chemistry, Mr. Davies. Organic Chemistry, Mr. J. Ransome, Senior Surgeon to the Ancoats Dispensary. 9. Medical Jurisprudence, Mr. Henry Ollier, Surgeon to the New Bailey Prison and to the Police. 10. The Eye, Mr. R. T. Hunt, M.R.C.S., Surgeon to the Lying-in Hospital, Assistant Surgeon to the Eye Institution. 11. Botany, Mr. Just. 12. Morbid Anatomy and Pathology, Mr. Stephens. This course is given in accordance with the recom- mendation of the Apothecaries’ Company that students should avail themselves of lectures on Morbid Anatomy. Mr. Jordan’s perpetual pupils will be received as perpetual pupils of the school. The lecturers have much pleasure in stating that since the last Winter Session Mr. Stephens (nephew of Mr. Jordan) has become connected with the Pine Street School. They cannot but feel that this association, by securing the abilities and exertions of Mr. Stephens, and the influence of Mr. Jordan, whose character and talents as an anatomical lecturer have for many yearsAPPENDIX 115 been fully known and appreciated, will still further promote the utility of this establishment as a medical school. The Winter Session of this Institution commenced on Wednesday last, when the Introductory Lecture was given by Mr. Turner to as large an auditory as perhaps was ever assembled in the theatre of the establishment. Mr. Thorpe, Mr. Ainsworth and other lecturers of the Pine Street and Marsden Street Schools were present. The lecturer commenced by stating “ that he had been requested by his colleagues to deliver an address embracing the importance and nature of the medical profession, and the means which that Institution afforded for the acquisition of sound medical and chirurgical knowledge “ During the recess the lecturers had not been idle, but had endeavoured to make such arrangements as they deemed likely to be advantageous to the students and to the prosperity of the School. “ Amongst the alterations with regard to the lecturers and lectureships, had been the appointment of Mr. Stephens to the Demonstratorship of Anatomy, and to the Lectureship of Pathology. “ Mr. Stephens, as they all knew, had been long engaged in the Anatomical branch of his profession, and had showrn himself at various times an excellent Pathologist.” In 1835 a few changes are noticeable: — Pine Street Medical School. Anatomical Demonstrations by Mr. Stephens and Mr. Stott.116 LIFE OF JOSEPH JORDAN Dissecting, Superintendence in, Mr. Smith (nephew of Mr. Turner) and Mr. R. F. Ainsworth. Physic, as usual, by Dr. Bardsley. Materia Medica by Dr. Bardsley and Dr. Phillips, M.D. (Cantab.), Physician to the Infirmary. Surgery by Dr. ltansome. Midwifery by Mr. Radford and Mr. Partington. Inorganic Chemistry, Mr. Davies. Organic Chemistry, Joseph A. Ransome. Medical Jurisprudence, Mr. Ollier. Anatomy, Physiology, and Pathology of the Eye, Mr. Hunt. Botany by John Just. Pathology, Mr. Stephens. Connected are extensive Museums, Chemical Labora- tory and a Library. All the certificates qualify for the College of Surgeons and Apothecaries’ Hall. In 1835, in consequence of Mr. Turner’s persistent efforts, the six months’ attendance at a London Hospital, on the part of the student who had otherwise completed his medical training, was abolished, and similar attend- ance at a provincial hospital was recognised. In 1836 the honour of the Royal patronage was con- ferred on the school. In this year also the Marsdeu Street School advertises with increased strength. In addition to the schools several private courses of lectures were given. Those of Dr. Shaw and Dr. Pendle- bury have already been mentioned. In October, 1832, Blackmore began to give lectures and demonstrations in Anatomy, Physiology and Pathology at his house, 5T, Piccadilly, stating that his certificates are117 APPENDIX received by the Royal College of Surgeons. At the same time lectures on the Principles and Practice of Midwifery and Diseases of Women and Children were given by Radford and Hunt at their rooms, 90, King Street. In September, 1835, Mr. Lacy advertises lectures on Midwifery at 88, King Street, stating that his certificates are received at Apothecaries’ Hall. On September 23, 1835, Dr. Carbutt announces “ Lectures on Medicine which he has given for the past ten years. These lectures are admitted in London as qualifying for examination. Candidates to apply to Dr. Carbutt at the Infirmary, or at 10, Brazennose Street.” On Sept. 12, 1840, is this advertisement: — Lectures on Pathological Anatomy. Mr. Whitehead, 133, Oxford Street, gives lectures on Mucous Membranes, particularly of the Digestive Organs; they are a continuation of those he gave at the Marsden Street School in the summer of 1839. In 1853 the Medical Committee and Board of Manage- ment of St. Mary's Hospital contemplated forming a Medical School in connection with the institution. The letter referring to this matter is signed by J. Cumming for Thomas Southam, LL.D., Hon. Sec. In 1850 the Chatham Street School was established with the following large staff of lecturers : — Practical and Surgical Anatomy, A. W. Dumville, M.R.C.S. General Anatomy and Physiology, J. Stuart Wilkinson, M.D., and John Lomas, M.D., D.C.(Berlin). Anatomical Demonstrations, Henry Reid, M.D., and James Bower Harrison, M.R.C.S.118 LIFE OF JOSEPH JORDAN The Principles and Practice of Medicine, Thomas H. Watts, M.D. Clinical Medicine, M. A. Eason Wilkinson, M.D. Materia Medica and Therapeutics, D. J. F. Francis, M.D. The Principles and Practice of Surgery, Geo. Southam, M.Il.C.S. The Principles and Practice of Obstetric Medicine, Thomas Dorrington, M.Il.C.S., who gave the Inaugural Address. The Diseases of Females and Children, James Whitehead, M.D., F.R.C.S. Pathology, S. B. Bennett, M.D. Forensic Medicine, J. Aikenhead, M.D. Chemistry, Henry Day, M.Il.C.S. Botany, William Jepson, M.D. Demonstrations on Regional Anatomy, James Whitehead, M.D., F.R.C.S. (This course was given in the summer to qualified medical men.) Many of these lecturers were connected with the Infirmary and the Ardwick and Ancoats Dispensary. Next year, 1851-2, Messrs. Todd (brother of Bentley Todd), Stone (Chemistry), Somers, Merel, Shepherd Fletcher, Ogden Fletcher, and Murphy, and in 1855-6 Mr. (afterwards Professor) Williamson joined the staff. An old student of the Chatham Street School says: — “ We had a brand new museum quite up-to-date, a good working laboratory under Stone, the Chemist, and a commodious well supplied dissecting room. In my last year Dr. (afterwards Sir) William Roberts was lecturer on Physiology; he had been for some years House Surgeon to the Infirmary.”119 APPENDIX In the prospectus of the school a feature is made of the presence of demonstrators in the dissecting room to direct the students in their work; and of the opportunity of private dissection by medical practitioners. These were special features of Mr. Jordan s school. (In fact, Mr. Southam stated in his report for the Session 1853-4 that the school was established in order to carry on the system of instruction so well begun by Mr. Jordan.) While the elaborate courses on Microscopy and Chemistry show that the lecturers were determined to take full advantage of advancing knowledge. Another old student tells me that in 1856 there were about eighty students, and that this school was a formidable competitor of the Pine Street School; the lecturers made strong efforts and spared neither time nor labour to make it a success. Dr.-Stephens says:—“ The school became so perfect, and the premises were so commodious and well lighted, that it soon began to supersede the old dark building in Pine Street, and it would probably have done so altogether, but an amalgamation took place in 1856. So now there is only one school as it was in the beginning of Mr. Jordan’s time.” The last advertisement of the Chatham Street School was for the Session 1855-6, and the next announcement of the Pine Street School being: — Manchester Royal School of Medicine, being the amalgamated medical schools of Manchester. Session 1856-57. The winter term will commence this day, October 1st, at 12 o’clock, when the introductory address will be delivered by Mr. Turner at the school, Grosvener Street, Piccadilly.120 LIFE OF JOSEPH JORDAN Winter Lectures. General and Microscopic Anatomy and Physiology, by Mr. Turner, Mr. Smith and Dr. Roberts. Descriptive Anatomy and Dissections, by Mr. Lund. Chemistry, by Mr. Stone. Principles and Practice of Medicine, by Dr. Watts and Dr. Brown. Principles and Practice of Surgery, by Mr. Dumville and Mr. Southam. For Session 1857-58 the notice is repeated with the same address. Mr. Greaves giving the introductory lecture. For Sessions 1858-59, 1859-60, 1860-61 again the same locality of the school appears. The addition to the title of the school shows that the union of the two schools was on a different footing from those amalgamations that had previously occurred. This fact and the change of address rather favour the view that the Pine Street School became amalgamated with that of Chatham Street, and not vice versa. The alteration of the address from Chatham Street to Grosvener Street was more apparent than real, for the building was at the corner of the two streets named, a new entrance being made in Grosvener Street. After occupying these premises five years the school removes to Faulkner Street, where considerable altera- tions had taken place. Part of the museum was taken away, and the space added to the lecture theatre beneath to increase its height. What was left of the museum was still a large room with a roof light at one end. The dissecting room on the top storey still extended from Faulkner Street to Pine Street.Arms of the Manchester Royal School of Medicine.121 APPENDIX Mr. Turner was anxious to retain the name Pine Street as the title of the school, as he considered it had attained to an honourable position under that title. The advertisement for the Session 1861—2 is thus worded . Manchester Royal School of Medicine and Surgery, Faulkner Street, behind the Infirmary. No explanation is given of the change of locality. The introductory lecture is given by Mr. Morley Harrison. The following is an extract from the Medico-Chirurgical transactions: — Win. Goodlad, M.R.C.S., Bury. Communicated by Abernethy, read Feb. 6, 1816. “ I was disappointed in not having Mr. Killer’s valuable assistance (he was surgeon to the Manchester Infirmary), but his place was kindly supplied by my ingenious friend, Mr. Jordan, of Manchester, who, with accurate anatomical knowledge, combines great coolness and dexterity, and in the presence of Messrs. Brigham, Woodcock, Morris, Bingham and several other gentlemen the operation was performed in the following manner .... (removal of a large tumour occupying the left side of the face and neck which involved ligature of the carotid artery). . . . But these operations (tying the principal blood-vessels for aneurism), always delicate, may be much facilitated by improvements in the instruments with which they were performed. The great variety used shows that some of them are well calculated for accomplishing the principal objects of the operation, for if strong enough to be directed and passed under the vessel the instrument has to be turned in the wound, and the property which rendered it valuable in122 LIFE OF JOSEPH JORDAN the first stage of the operation becomes now a great disadvantage. “ I am happy to present an instrument invented by Mr. Jordan possessing both these properties by a contrivance which displays great ingenuity. An extract from Mr. Jordan’s letter explains it ... . which, with a needle on this principle, I beg leave to submit to the Society. “ When an aneurism needle is passed under an artery and turned in the wound the length of the needle is the diameter of a circle, a segment of which must be formed or the parts forced from their natural position; and, although the diameter may be diminished by increasing the curve of the instrument, to do this with the common aneurism needle requires more force than it is desirable to use. When the instrument is passed under the vessel its shape is worse than useless. But if we could convert the shaft into an elastic substance its flexibility would render the turning of the instrument easy. With this view I have formed the enclosed needle. “ Cut off about five-sixths of the shaft of a common aneurism needle, and to the curved portion join a piece of elastic steel of a convenient length, in the upper part of which is an eye for the passage of a ligature. To give this the necessary firmness I have a small silver sheath which slides upon the steel and covers it except at the superior part where the eye is formed. This sheath opens laterally, and may be taken off when the firmness of the needle is no longer necessary.” The following account of the invention of the Ear Speculum is of interest:—“In 1845 Charles Jordan, a clever mechanic and inventor, and a nephew of Joseph123 APPENDIX Jordan, devised an instrument for examining the ear, for which his name deserves to be remembered, as the modern otoscope is merely an adaptation of it. He showed the instrument to his uncle, who immediately examined the inventor’s ear, and exclaimed, ‘By God! I can see the membrana tympani, which has never been seen before.’ ” Charles Jordan invented also an eye speculum, an electric barometer, an endoscope for examining the bladder, a photometer for the use of Sir H. Roscoe when Professor of Chemistry at the Owens College, and a variety of other instruments.EDWARD STEPHENS.EDWARD STEPHENS.EDWARD STEPHENS, L.S.A., M.R.C.S. (Eng.), F.R.C.S. (Lond. Examination), M.D. (Leyden), Ch.D. (Berlin). Edward Stephens was born in 1804, died on September 14th, I860, in his fifty-ninth year, and was buried at Ardwick Cemetery, Manchester. He and his brother .Tames were sons of Mary, the sister of Joseph Jordan; she died on December 17th, 1817, aged 33. Edward Stephens was brought up by his uncle, William Jordan, and was by him apprenticed to Joseph Jordan in 1819, who is described in the indenture as Surgeon, Apothecary and Man-Midwife. Mr. Stephens’ name appeared on the door of 68, Bridge Street in succession to that of Mr. Blundstone in 1829. The house was practically one with Mr. Jordan’s; there was but one yard, and the library formed the connecting link upstairs. The top storey of the two houses being the dissecting room and museum. The sanitary arrangements in these premises in 1868, in common with those of many of the houses in the city, can only be described as terrible. The writer spent five years here, was hard worked and happy, but in the light of modern discoveries it is a wonder he survived to tell the tale. There were no baths, washing arrangements were so so, all water had to be carried up from the cellar kitchen, windows would not open; the dispensary had two windows, one of which, a small one, could be opened half way, and for fresh air there were emanations from a large ashpit which was immediately underneath. There was one small privy for the use of the two houses, iEDWARD STEPHENS 128 no water closet, and next to the back-door there was a large slaughter-house. Edward Stephens was probably educated at Mr. Clarke’s school, which many members of the Jordan family attended. He appears to have had a good education, and he no doubt improved himself after he left school in association with his uncle, whom he soon began to assist in his teaching. In 1822 and 1824 he attended two courses of lectures on Physiology and Pathology delivered by Edward Carbutt, M.D., in the rooms of the Literary and Philosophical Society. In 1824 he was a student at Joshua Brooks’ school of Anatomy, in London, and demonstrated there chiefly on the brain and nervous system. In his application for the appointment of “ Demonstrator of Anatomy to your noble university ” (the name is not mentioned in the draft), in 1828, he says:—“I have a competent know- ledge of the Latin and French and a moderate one of the Greek languages.” He took out his diploma of the Apothecaries’ Company on May 26th, 1825, and that of the Royal College of Surgeons on February 10th, 1826. He seems to have enjoyed examinations. Edward Stephens and James Whitehead, of Mosley Street, were among the first to pass the examination for the Fellowship of the College. He had gone away for a holiday, and presented himself for examination without preparation; in answer to his brother’s fears regarding the result he said he was not afraid of facing any examining Board in Europe. He used to spend a month or more each year on the Continent, visiting the schools of medicine. It was on occasions of this kind that he obtained his Leyden degree of Doctor of Medicine on October 15th, 1827, and that of Doctor ofEDWARD STEPHENS 129 Surgery of Berlin on August 14th, 1828. He was the first Englishman, I believe, to pass this examination; it was conducted entirely in Latin. A copy of his Thesis for the Leyden degree is still in existence; it is entitled ‘‘ Disser- tatio Medica Inauguralis de Amaurosi Functionale.” The following letter, addressed to Mr. Jordan, 4, Bridge Street, is interesting : — Dear Uncle,— .... I have undergone a very strict and very severe examination this morning by Professor Sandifort in private. I can assure you it does them honour; they give a very strict, a very proper examination. Not a word was spoken in any language but Latin, and it lasted from eleven to one precisely. I did not expect so much as this, but I can assure you it is no joke passing at Leyden. I have three other public examinations to undergo, and to defend my Thesis in Latin for an hour in the Grand Hall of the University, where I shall be obliged to mount the rostrum, dressed in a black suit, black silk stockings, and a sword by my side. The day before the Thesis is defended it is the custom for the student to ride up and down the town in a carriage with his two Parnnymphs, as they are called, and leave a dissertation with each of the Professors. But I shall endeavour to avoid this if possible, being a stranger, but Paranymphs one is obliged to have; they are young men who are to support you in defending the Thesis, all which is conducted in Latin. After this, against the following morning, you have to prepare some anatomical dissection, such as the radial nerve and its branches. I am not afraid, I can assure you. I had no trouble with my examination with Professor Sandifort,EDWARD STEPHENS 130 although it was a very severe one for one who had not studied as he ought to have done. After the whole is finished it is the custom to give the Paranymplis and other friends a dinner or coffee. If I am successful I shall do the latter. I shall do every- thing as cheap as possible. If you have not already put the letter in the post I shall be very glad if you would send me forty pounds instead of thirty. . . . I am, dear Uncle, Your affectionate nephew, Ed. Stephens. The Professor said when he had finished the examina- tion that if I answered as well at the public examination as I had done to him he had no doubt of my success. Lest there should be any mistake with regard to where I lodge I will again insert. At L. C. Smits, le lodgement nomme l’Hotel de Ville d’Amsterdam pres de la Porte Blanche, a Leiden, Holland. Post mark is E. P. 0. S.E. 22. 1827. In the year 1830 he was elected surgeon to St. Mary’s Lying-in Hospital and he remained on the staff up to the time of his death. On November lGth, 1835, the Manchester and Salford Hospital for the Treatment of Diseases of the Skin was opened. It was situated in Piccadilly. Dr. J. L. Bardsley was the Physician, and Dr. Edward Stephens and Mr. George Plant were the Surgeons. It had only a short existence.131 EDWARD STEPHENS On the 13th August, 1842, Edward Stephens was appointed a special constable for the Borough of Man- chester. The notice is number 13 and is signed by the magistrates, J. Kershaw and W. R. Callinder. This was on account of alarming riots arising from want of employ- ment and dearness of food. In 1845 he gave the introductory lecture at the Pine Street School of Medicine, an address full of learning and of the fruits of practical observation, and enunciating doctrines which are as applicable to the present day as they were when they were promulgated. He was Surgeon to the Zoological Gardens in Higher Broughton, Manchester, and he appears to have made good use of his opportunities for studying Comparative Anatomy. These gardens were abolished on the petition of the neighbours as being a nuisance. llis position here tvas by no means a sinecure; he once opened an abscess in a lion’s mouth by tying his knife to the end of a long stick, the animal being bound down by ropes. On another occasion an emu was poisoned by halfpennies which had been swallowed. The coins were found in the stomach much corroded. He used to dissect the animals that died, and of one of them, a chimpanzee, he made a permanent preparation of the skeleton. Edward Stephens' name first appears in print in the notice of the Mount Street School for Session 1827-28, though no doubt he had assisted Mr. Jordan before this time. After the dissolution of that institution he was appointed to the Pine Street School as Demonstrator of Anatomy and Lecturer in Pathology and Morbid Anatomy. The demonstrations were given at 8 a.m., which after a time was altered to 9.30 to meet the convenience of132 EDWARD STEPHENS students. Ilia brother James frequently rose from bed at 4 a.m. to prepare specimens for the class. After this was over the students would repair to the accident room of the Infirmary, go round the wards till noon, and then return to the school for the Anatomical lecture. At the end of the Session 1840—41 Dr. Stephens resigned the demonstratorship, Mr. Stott and Mr. Wm. Smith succeeding him. He retained the lectureship of Pathology until 1850-51 when he retired altogether from teaching, being succeeded by Dr. Renaud. Dr. Stephen’s health was much shattered by a dissec- tion wound from which I do not think he ever thoroughly recovered. He was twenty-five weeks in bed, he had five large abscesses in the arm and over the chest, and with all this a horrid malignant fever. He lost all hope of recovery. On his retirement he received a letter of regret from his colleagues which contained this resolu- tion : — “ That they have received with much satisfaction the intimation from Mr. Edward Stephens that Mr. Jordan will continue to lecture on Surgery during the ensuing session, and that Mr. Edward Stephens will lecture for Mr. Jordan whenever indisposition or engagements will prevent Mr. Jordan from meeting his surgical class.” Dr. Stephens says:—“When Messrs. Jordan and liansome resigned the lectureship of Surgery it was offered to me, but I declined it on account of ill-health and the great labour ataehed to it.” In a cordially expressed letter to him Mr. Turner says : —“ For although ill-health prevents you from acting as a teacher in the school we never fail to regard you as our colleague.”133 EDWARD STEPHENS He had been a teacher twenty-five years, viz., eight years at Mount Street and seventeen at Pine Street.” He found in one of the bodies at Mount Street an obliterated aorta, which he dissected out, and his brother James made a permanent preparation of it; it is now in the Owens College Museum. The case was reported in the North of England Medical Journal, August, 1830,* and a series of drawings of it were made by Mr. James, the artist. In the same museum there is another specimen made by Dr. Stephens showing the tanned skin of the neck with the mark of the rope with which the subject was hanged, along with the trachea and oesophagus. When the cholera raged in Manchester in 1832 Edward Stephens had the first case that occurred, and he was appointed one of the medical officers in connection with the epidemic. A warehouse in Jordan Street, Knott Mill, was taken and fitted up as a hospital for cholera patients. The doctor would go at 8.30 a.m., see the patients, and on his second visit at 11.30 would perhaps find the wards empty, the patients having died. The sadness of it all so affected him that he was taken ill himself. He had a very sensitive disposition. Another hospital was an old police-station next door to the Iiising Sun Inn, Shudeliill. The medical officer there wished to have a certain part of the body for dissection, and so he decapitated one of the dead, but the friends of the patient, wishing to see the body, opened the coffin; the absence of the head so enraged them, that crowds of people collected in a hostile manner, and pulled down the building. The doctor had to flee. •Quoted by The Lancet in 1830. Vol. 2, p. 732.EDWARD STEPHENS 134 In consequence of the death of a woman under the care of a midwife, Dr. Stephens drafted a letter to the Coroner suggesting that a petition should he presented to Parliament from the Coroner’s Court to the effect that a clause be introduced into the Medical Reform Bill now before the House to regulate the practice of midwives and requiring them to take out a licence after examina- tion; thus anticipating recent legislation. This letter was never sent, because the midwife implicated expressed great regret, and promised not to interfere again in such desperate cases. Dr. Stephens was an original thinker, a scientific observer, and took broad views of practice; he was the highest qualified of all his colleagues, and probably the most learned. lie took notes of the temperature of patients long before anything was published of the iise of the clinical thermometer. His attention was drawn to the subject by the great heat of the body of one of his cases, and, being curious to know more about it, he made subsequent observations. I once saw a bundle of manuscripts which on examination turned out to be an intended work on the Practice of Medicine, also physio- logical charts and diagrams of the nervous system. These papers are now lost, lie was a voluminous note-taker, and was very industrious and painstaking, and kept himself abreast of advancing knowledge, as is shown by his capabilities as a lecturer. In the Library of the Manchester Medical Society there are two volumes of manuscript lectures of Sir Benjamin Brodie’s taken down by Edward Stephens as they were delivered in 1824-5. Dr. Lloyd Roberts says of him in an address before the British Medical Association at Manchester in 1902: —EDWARD STEPHENS 135 “ He was one of the most dexterous men in the use of the forceps, and in all midwifery operations I have met with; he had an extensive knowledge of Gynaecology, especially of the diagnosis of abdominal and pelvic tumours .... he had great aptitude for teaching, and was a learned man in every branch of his profession.” Edward Stephens generally acted as locum-tenens for his colleagues in their absence. He continued Mr. Turner’s lectures when that gentleman was ill; also the lectures on Medicine after the death of Dr. Howard; and Mr. Heath’s lectures on Midwifery on various occasions. Even after his retirement Mr. Turner and Mr. Smith used to send him the students’ papers for examination. He is stated by Herbert Renshaw to have been “ a very gentle and polite surgeon.” The portrait here given of him is taken from a photographic copy of the painting by William Bradley, now in the Owens College. The following letter is interesting in connection with a once celebrated club in Manchester: — My Dear Sir,— Let me remind you that the members of John Shaw’s Club dine together to-night at the Star, at six o’clock. It is a half-crown dinner with extra for punch. You and your brother will be expected, and will have to pay the half-crown whether you attend or not. Yours truly, John Leigh. Thursday morning (1855 probably.—F. W. J.). James Stephens, Esq.tJAMES STEPHENS.JAMES STEPHENS, L.S.A., M.R.C.S., F.R.C.S., Was surgeon to St. Mary’s Hospital, having been appointed in 1841. He resigned in 1848. He was a clever and cautious obstetrician, and invented an instrument for replacing the prolapsed funis. He published a report of thirty-three successful cases in The Lancet. He died on December 1st, 1887, aged 72. At the time of his death he was the oldest practitioner in Manchester except John Boutflower. James Stephens must have been a hard worker, as may be gleaned from what has been stated in connection with his brother and his uncle. He did not become famous in any way, owing probably to his domestic ties and his extensive private practice; yet he had abilities which unfortunately lacked direction, and he had no ambition, otherwise his opportunities for advancement were such as fall to the lot of few men. He was, however, of great service in enabling his distinguished relatives to devote so much of their attention to the educational part of medical science by attending to their interests at home, and for this I think he deserves to be remembered. He had a lively disposition and cheerful temperament, was gentle, thoughful, kind, and free from the impulsiveness of his uncle; in his later years he was quiet and fond of reading. He had a retentive memory and could i-eadily quote poetry. One of his favourite books was Abercrombie on the Intellectual Faculties. His profes- sional favourites were Watson, Graves and Trousseau.INDEX.INDEX. Aberxethy Aikenhead. Dr Ainsworth, Dr Albion Hotel Alexander, Dr Amalgamated Medical Schools ... Anatomical Schools „ Demonstrators Anatomy Act Anatomy. Summer Courses of ... Aorta, obliterated Apothecaries’ Act „ Hall Apprenticeship Ardwick and Ancoats Dispensary Army Medical Department Astley, Elizabeth Back Queen Street Bancks, Mr. Bardsley, Dr Bardsley, Dr. J. L. Bartholomew Close Beamont, William ... . Beardoe. James ... . Bell. Dr Bell, Sir Charles Bellot. Thomas. R. N". . Bellot, Henry Bennett, Dr Beraud. Dr Berlin Berwick Bewdlt^- Bill, John, Surgeon Birchall, Rev. J J PAGE 121 118 45, 51, 91 100 ... 48, 49 119 65. 66. 67 119 35 65 133 31 ... 31, 64 ... 62, 69 118 ... 23, 108 18 ... 27 ... 27 ... 48 45. 49 ... 27 87 ... 87 56 ... 19 92 ... 92 ... 118 ... 84 ... 129 ... 21 ... 21 ... 19 1811 INDEX PAGE Blacklock, printer 17 Black friars 17 Blackmore, Surgeon 43, 116 Blue-printer 17 Blundstone, Surgeon 30,105, 110, 127 Body snatching 34, 55 Bonaparte 21 Bonnet, Dr 80 Bottomley, James 42 Boutflower, John 106, 112, 139 Bowring, George 83 Bradbury, Charles 87 Bradley, S. M 84 Bradley, William 81 Bradshaw, John 49 Bradshaw, Blacklock and Co 17 Bridge Street School 27, 40, 97 Brigham, Mr. 27, 29, 42 Bristol 21 British Medical Association 61, 93 Brodie, Sir Benjamin 134 Brooks, John 43, 50 Brooks, Joshua 128 Brothers, A 82 Browne, Dr. Henry 84, 120 Buckley, Edmund 49 Burke and Hare 34 Calico printing 17 Callinder, W. R 131 Callique-printer 17 Carbutt, Dr 61, 102, 128 Cast-iron wheels 1® Cataract 21 Charles Street 1® Chatham Street School 27, 53, 117, 119 Chetham Library ®® ,, Society ®6 Children’s Hospital 49 Cholera ^ Clarke’s School 12®in INDEX Clinical Lectures Clough, Surgeon Cobden, Richard, M.P. Cod Liver Oil Collegiate Church Colnaft, General Complete Medical Schools Cooper, Surgeon Cooper, Sir Astley Coveney, Surgeon Cumberland Street Dalkeith Dalton, John, F.R.S. Dark Entry ... ... Davies, John Dawes, M Day, Surgeon Dead Robbery, The Derby, Earl of Deville, Dr Dinner to Mr. Jordan Disease of Texture Dorrington, Surgeon Dumville. Mr. Ear-speculum, Invention of Eastern Provincial Medical Association. Elephantiasis England, General Exeter Faulkner Street ... Fawcitt, Surgeon ... Fawdington, Surgeon Fellows of the Royal Fletcher, Ogden ... Fletcher, Shepherd Fountains Abbey ... College of Surgeons PAGE 102 112 84 49 18 20 65 48 66, 83 53, 83 29 21 ... 48, 103 18 41, 45, 113 ... 87 ... 118 ... ... 35 ... 18, 20 ... 84 ... ... 45 ... ... 106 ... ... 118 ... 117, 120 122 93 ... 29 ... 20 20, 21 42, 121 ... ... 48 50, 106, 112 ... ... 56 ... ... 118 ... ... 118 90INDEX IV Four Yards ... Francis, Dr. ... Frekleton, Dr. PAGE 27 118 40 Gale*>' 58, 92 Gardiner, Mr. Ner 87 Garnett, Thomas 87 Gay, Surgeon 93 Gibson, Milner, M.P 84 Gibson, Surgeon 5] Goodlad, Surgeon 20, 121 Greaves, Mr 120 Grosvener Street 120 Haddington Hague, Mr Hampstead Hardie, Dr Harland, John Harper, Surgeon Harrison, James Bower Hatton, Surgeon Hay, Dr Hayward’s Hotel Heath, Surgeon Henry, Mr Hibbert, Lieut. Samuel Hibbert-Ware, Mrs. Hippocrates Holme, Dr Holt, David Hood, Thomas House of Commons Hospital, Children’s ,, Frankfort ,, Great Northern ,, Lock ,, Salford Royal ,, Skin Diseases ,, St. Mary’s ... 21 23 87, 52 45, 30. 34, 29, 21 18 93 48 88 48 117 93 101 45 50 111 91 52 92 88 43 35 54 49 20 93 30 84 130 117 81INDEX V Hospitals. The Recognised Hull ... Hull, Dr Hunt, Surgeon Inoculation Jeffs, Mr Jepson, Dr John Shaw’s Club... Jones, Capt. Edward Jones, Thomas, B.A. Jordan, Charles Jordan, William ... Jordan, Thomas ... Just, John Kay, Surgeon. J.P. Kershaw, J Kidderminster Killer, Mr. ... Kinder Wood, Surgeon Knott Mill „ „ Fair Knox, Dr Lacy, Dr " Lancet,” The Langenbeck, Dr Langton, William Leigh. John Letter from Royal College of Surgeons Levy, Captain Leyden University Examination Literary and Philosophical Society ... Little Green Lock Hospital Lomas. John. Dr. Lund. Edward Lyon, Dr PAGE 64 21 ), 31, 32, 78 112, 114, 117 21 ... 111 ... 118 135 52, 87, 91 87 122 ... 17, 18 ... ... 18 ... 87, 114 ... 48, 49 ... ... 131 ... 21, 23 121 102, 104, 107 ... 18 78 33 ... 43. 117 , 82. <M. 133 ... ... 80 87 86, 87. 133 ... 32 ... 23 ... ... 129 ... 86 17 ... 29, 30 117 ... 84, 120 ... 45, 48VI INDEX McGrigor, Sir Janies Magistrates and Dissection Manchester Medical Institution ,, Musical Festival ,, Royal Institution ,, Royal School of Medicine ,, Union Workhouse Marsden, Surgeon Marsden Street School Medical Botany ,, Jurisprudence ,, Schools, complete ,, Training Medico-Chirurgical Transactions Memorials of Manchester Streets ,, ,, the Craft of Surgery ... Mercer, William Mercurial Treatment Merel, Mr Midwifery Legislation Milford Haven Militia, Royal Lancashire ,, ,, ,, Stations of Mitchell, Dr. John Monopoly of the London Schools ... Monro, Surgeon Moors, Mary Mosley Arms Mount Street School Murdoch, Dr. James Murphy, Mr Murray, Dr Museum of Natural History ,, ,, the Pine Street School PAGE 23, 108 34 40, 105 110 86 119 83 112 112 104 112, 113 65 68, 69 84, 121 17 67 87 29 118 134 21 20 21 92 32, 61, 72 19 18 52 40, 105 19 118 48 73 ... 53, 72, 109, 110 Natural History Society ... Nelation, Prof New Bailey Prison Newbold, Mr Nottingham Nui’saw, Mr 86 84 49 114 21 45INDEX vii PAGE Oak Hall 18 Ophthalmic Institution 106, 107 Owens College 72, 73 Owen, Mr 48 Paget, Sir James 67 Paranymphs 129 Partington, Surgeon 48, 114, 116 Peel, Sir Robert 35 Pendlebury, Dr v 113, 116 Philips, Mark, M.P 49, 84 Photometer 123 Pine Street School 42, 53 Plymouth 23 Pooley. Mr 41 Post-graduate Study 41 Preparatory Subjects 68 Prestbury.. 87 Preston 18 Private Courses of Lectures 113, 116, 117 Proctor, Mr. ... 17 Provincial Hospitals Recognised ... 116 Radfobd 105, 106, 111, 112, 113. 114, 117 Ransome 50, 51, 53, 84. 114 Recognised Hospitals 64 Regulations of the Royal College of Surgeons 62, 64. 65 Reid, Henry, Dr ... 117 Renaud, Dr 87 Resurrectionist, The 34 Ripon Cathedral 88 Roberton, Dr 112, 113 Roberts, Lloyd, M.D. ... .„ 134 Roberts, Sir William 118 Robinson, Dixon 87 Robinson, S. P 80 Roget, Dr 51, 98 Rosicrucians, The 86V111 INDEX Rowntree Royal College of Surgeons Bye-law, 1823 n ,, ,, ,» 1824 ,, ,, ,, Regulations ... Royal Infirmary „ Institution ,, Patronage ,, School of Medicine PAUE 48 65 63 62, 64, 65 ... 43, 49 86 116 119 Salford Cattle Market Sandifort, Prof Sanitary Condition of Manchester Sargent, The Rev Sausage Suppers Scott, Mr Separation of Subjects of Lectures Shakspeare ... Sharpe, R. C Shaw, Dr Shaw, John, Club Shuttleworth, Sir J. P. Kay ... Simmons, William Small-pox Smith, Joseph A Smith, William Snuff Boxes Society of Apothecaries Somers, Alexander Southam, George Southey Special Constable St. Ann’s Church „ ,, Square John’s Church ,, Mary’s Church Stakes, Lancashire Stanley ,, Col. Thomas Stephens, Dr. E Stephens, James 28 4 112, 19, 21, 53, 120, ... 53, 118, 17, 79, 107, 114. ...132, 133, 18 129 127 93 90 48 66 85 50 116 135 49 111 22 48 132 79 31 118 119 35 131 18 18 18 93 18 18 20 127 138INDEX ix PAGE Stewart 27 Stone, Chemist 84. 118, 120 Stonehenge 88 Stott, Walter Barton 48, 49 Stroud 93 Subjects for Dissection 33 Sudlow 48 Surgeon’s Warning, The 35 Teaching of Anatomy, Surgery, and Physiology 62 Thorpe. Robert 35, 45, 79 Thorpe, Richard H 104 Todd 118 Topham 20 Town Hall 49, 50 Traitement des Pseudarthroses 84 Turner, Thomas ... 42, 43, 68, 72 Turner, Thomas, Election to the Infirmary Ill Vaccination • •• . . . . .. ... ... 21 Varley, Jonathan ... ... ... ... ... ... 18 Vandenhoff .* • ... ... 85 Walton Hall ... ... ... ,M ,)t M% 91 Ware. Mrs. Hibbert 52 Ware, Dr. Hibbert 91 Water ton, Charles ... ... ... 91 Watts. T. H., M.D 118, 120 Whatton 43, 49 Whitaker. Wm. W. 87 White. Charles 51, 98 White-printer on Calico 18 Whitehead 117 Whitehead, Dr. James 118, 128 Whitehead, Walter 61, 81 Wilkinson, Dr. Eason 56, 118X INDEX Wilkinson, J. Stuart PAGE 117 Williamson, Prof. ,», ... ,.. ... ... ... 118 Wilson, Surgeon 27. 40, 55 Wilson, George 84 Wilson’s S. P. Snuff ... .<• ... ... ... 80 Wood, Kinder 102, 104, 107 Worcester ... , 21 Wright, Surgeon 20, 23 York 21 Young, Admiral 20 Zoological Gardens 131SHERRATT AND HUGHES PRINTERS AND PUBLISHERS LONDON : 65 LONG ACRE VV MANCHESTER: 27 ST ANN STREET<