552 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. ^ form therein a network of capillaries near the circumference, hepatic The hepatic vein occupies the centre of the lobule, and its vein, . . radicles communicate with the portal plexus; it issues from and^biie the basc of the lobule as the intralobular vein. The radicles of the hile duct are supposed to form a plexus in the lobule; connected with these are the secretory hepatic or biliary cells that produce the bile. The roots of the bile duct leave the lobule at its circumference, and are joined in an inter- lobular plexus outside it, like the portal vessels. Use of From the facts above stated respecting the arrangement seis.^^^" of the vessels, it appears that the portal capillaries conduct the blood from which bile is secreted; that the hepatic vein carries back the superfluous blood; and that the secreted bile is conveyed away by the branches of the biliary duct. Arrange. VESSELS OF THE LiVER. TwO SCtS of VCSSCls ramify in ment of „ i«i vessels the livcr : — One set, concerned m the secretion and the in the . . p , liver, nutrition 01 the organ, enters the transverse fissure, and is directed transversely in spaces named portal canals, where it is enveloped by areolar tissue, the capsule of Glisson. The other set, or the hepatic veins, is without a sheath, and runs from the anterior to the posterior border of the liver: it conveys to the vena cava the blood that has been circu- lated through the organ. The ramifications of these difie- rent vessels are to be traced in the liver. Capsule The capsule of Glisson is a layer of areolar tissue, that son, with envelopes the vessels entering the liver through the trans- in trans- vcrsc fissurc. In this sheath the vessels ramify, and in it fissure: they are minutely divided before their termination in the invest- lobules. Proccsscs of the sheath accompany the small in- sheath terlobular vessels, and join the covering of the lobules. If to the a transverse section is made of a portal canal, the vessels will retract somewhat into the loose surrounding tissue. Vena The vena portce ramifies in the liver like an artery, and the porta yood is circulated through it in the same manner, viz. from trunk occupies to branches. After entering the transverse fissure the vein divides canafs, into primary [^branches; these lie in the portal canals or spaces with offsets of the hepatic artery, the hepatic duct, and the nerves and and lymphatics. The same division is repeated again and again; and vaginal* the resulting vessels give off* minute lateral branches, some of which, vaginal^ ramify in the loose sheath before their final dis- tribution to the hepatic substance, whilst others pass to the lobules and in- without previous anastomosis. Finally, the last branches of the