43 DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. Section IV. DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. Directions, —The orbit should be dissected on that side on which the muscles of the face have been seen. Position, — In the examination of the orbit, the head is Position placed in the same position as in the dissection of the sinuses body, of the base of the skull. Dissection. — In order that the contents of the orbit How to . open may be seen, it will be necessary to take away the bones the^ forming the roof of the space in the following manner : — Two cuts should be made with a saw through the margin of the orbit, one being placed at the outer, the other near the inner angle of the cavity; and these should be con- tinued backwards with a chisel, along the roof of the orbit, nearly to the optic foramen. The piece of bone included in the incisions may now be tilted forwards, but is not to be taken away. Afterwards all the rest of the roof of the orbit is to be cut away with the bone forceps, except a ring of bone around the optic foramen; and any overhanging bone on the outer side, that may interfere with the dissection, may likewise be got rid of. The dissector should take care that all the wadding is removed from the eyelids, and that the eye is pulled gently forwards. The periosteum, detached from the bone, surrounds the contents of the orbital cavity. The periosteum of the orbit is continuous with the dura Penos- mater of the brain through the sphenoidal fissure. It incases orbk. the contents of the orbit like a sac, and adheres but loosely to the bones. Apertures exist posteriorly in the membrane Aper- for the entrance of the different nerves and vessels ; and on it. the sides prolongations of the membrane accompany the vessels and nerves that leave the cavity. Dissection. — The periosteum is next to be divided along open the middle of the orbit, and to be cut away. After the teum!" removal of a little fat, the following nerves, vessels, and muscles come into view : — The frontal nerve and vessels lie in the centre, the lachry- Position mal nerve and vessels close to the outer wall of the cavity; in \he^ and the small fourth nerve at the back of the orbit: all these nerves enter the orbit above the muscles. The superior