434 DISSECTION OF THE SPINAL CORD. is larger terior, and are formed by larger and more numerous fibrils, terior: Tliej are attached to the side of the cord between the pos- terior and lateral columns or pieces, in a straight line, which forms they keep even to the last nerve. In their course to the two ^ bundles, trunk of the nerve, the fibrils of the root pass outwards, con- verging to an aperture in the dura mater opposite the inter- ter th ^^^^^^^^1 foramen; as they approach that aperture they are gf.n- collected into two bundles which, lyinor side by side, receive a sheath from the dura mater, and enter the intervertebral ganglion. Anterior The anterior or aganglionic roots arise from the side of without the cord by filaments that are attached irregularly — not in ' a straight line, and approach inferiorly the centre of the has front of the cord. Takino; the same direction as the poste- a sepa- rate rior root to the intervertebral foramen, the fibrils enter a openmg in dura distiuct Opening in, and have a separate sheath of the dura mater, . . mater : in their further course to the trunk of the nerve, and joins they pass over the ganglion of the other root, without join- postenor .^^ .^^ finally the two roots are blended beyond the gfngiion. ganglion to form one trunk. Charac- Characters of the roots, — Besides the relative size be- roots!* tween the two roots, the following characters are to be noted: — Some set Uniofi of the fibrils, — The fibrils of the posterior root of fibrils n ^ ' Ti . -r. join. never join those oi the anterior ; and the opposite. JBut the anterior root of one nerve may receive offsets from the cor- responding root of the nerve above, and the same may occur in the posterior roots, poste- Relative size of the roots, — The posterior root is larger larges^tf than the anterior, except in the suboccipital nerve ; and the number of the fibrils is also greater. Further, the posterior t oSy proportionally larger in the cervical than in any other largest get of the ucrvcs ; in the dorsal nerves there is but a very in neck. slight difference in favour of the hinder root. Roots Size of the roots along the cord. — Both roots are larger above where the nerves for the limbs arise, than at other parts of the cord, and greater in the nerves to the lower than in those except to the upper limbs ; so that the nerve roots increase in size and' from above down, except at the lower extremity of the cord, ^^^^^ * and in the dorsal region where they are of much the same size from the second to the last.