276 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LBIB. merus. humerus. The muscle is concealed by the trapezius and the uons"^^" ^c^o^ion process ; and it rests upon the scapula, the shoulder joint, and the suprascapular vessels and nerves. Its tendon joins that of the infraspinatus at the attachment to the humerus. Dissec- Dissection.—The vessels and nerves on the dorsum of supra- the scapula will be traced by separating the supra and vessels!' infraspinatus muscles from the bone. In the supraspinal fossa are the suprascapular vessels and nerve, which are to be followed beneath the acromion to the infraspinal fossa; and entering the infraspinal fossa, beneath the teres minor muscle, is the dorsal branch of the subscapular artery. The anastomosis between the vessels should be carefully cleaned. Supra- The suprascapular artery is derived from the subclavian scapular ' ^ ^ ^ artery truuk, and is one of the branches into which the thyroid axis subdivides (p. 74.). After a short course in the neck it crosses over the ligament at the superior costa, and enters gives a beneath the supraspinatus muscle. In that position it fur- spin?i nishes a supraspinal branch for the supply of the muscle, ' the bone, and the shoulder ioint; and it ends in the infra- and ends ... in infra- spinal fossa, whcrc it ffives offsets to the infraspinatus muscle spmaius. ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ and the scapula, anastomosing with the dorsal branch of the subscapular, and with the posterior scapular artery of the subclavian (p. 74.). Vein. The companion vein of the suprascapular artery joins the external jugular vein. Supra- The suprascapular nerve is a branch of the brachial nerve plexus (p. 77.)' When it reaches the costa of the scapula, it has mu8- J- ^J- ^ « i cuiar enters the supraspinal fossa beneath the posterior proper branches tip • • ^ like ar. ligament. In the fossa it supplies two branches to the su- praspinatus ; and the nerve is then continued beneath a fibrous band to the infraspinatus muscle, in which it ends. and ar- The ucrve gives some articular filaments to the shoulder ticuiar. j^-j^^ other offsets to the scapula. Dorsal The dorsal branch of the subscapular artery (p. 261.) turns of sub- backwards below the inferior costa of the scapula, through artery!'^ the postcrior of the two spaces between the teres muscles. Entering the infraspinal fossa beneath the teres minor, it supplies that muscle and the infraspinatus, and anastomoses with the ending of the suprascapular artery. This artery