DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. 50 anterior ophthalmic, and pierce the sclerotic coat near the cornea : in the ciliary. i n , eyeball they anastomose with the posterior ciliary. See the dis- section of the eyeball for the ending of these vessels. Museu- e. The muscular branches are furnished from the artery in its course, and those to the lower muscles often arise together. Eth- ^ f. The ethmoidal branches are two, anterior and posterior, which branch- pass through the two foramina in the inner wall of the orbit. The posterior is the smaller of the two, and furnishes small meningeal Poste- offsets (anterior) to the dura mater of the base of the skull. The nor and , ^ . i • im • anterior, anterior branch accompanies the nasal nerve, and gives likewise small meningeal offsets to the dura mater. Both send branches to the nose through the apertures in the cribriform plate of the eth- moid bone. Branch- g. The palpebral branches^ one for each eyelid, generally arise eyeHds. together opposite the pulley of the superior oblique muscle, and then separate from one another. The arches they form have been dissected with the eyelids (p. 37.). G C0{ '^^'^'^^^ nasal is one of the last branches of the ophthalmic, and ^ - is4^;^sWbuted to the side of the nose, on which it anastomoses with the nas^l and angular branches of the facial artery. i. The frontal branch turns round the margin of the orbit, and is distributed on the forehead (p. 6.). The ophthalmic vein corresponds in its course and most of its branches to the artery of the same name. It begins at the inner angle of the orbit, where it joins the facial vein, and receives tributary branches in its progress to the back of the cavity. Posteriorly, it leaves the artery, and escapes cavernt ^^^^ orbit by the sphenoidal fissure, betv^een the heads ous si- Qf external rectus. It ends in the cavernous sinus. nus. Optic The OPTIC NERVE can now be seen to extend from the "^^''^ optic foramen to the back of the eyeball. As the nerve enters the foramen, it is surrounded by the recti muscles; and beyond that spot, as far as the eyeball, the ciliary ar- teries and nerves entwine around it. It terminates in the retinal expansion of the eye. Dissec- \ Dissection.—Take away the ophthalmic artery, and divide the optic nerve about its middle, together with the small ciliary vessels and nerves. Turn forwards the eyeball, and fasten it in that position with hooks. On removing some fat, the three recti muscles — inner, outer, and inferior; and the lower branch of the third nerve will appear. The lower branch of the third nerve supplies three muscles ends in retina. tion,