NERVES OF THE ARM. 285 vessel carried farther Into tbe limb before it bifurcated, and in that example the point of division was *' between two and three inches" beyond the elbow joint. In the origin of the arteries of the forearm, — The arteries o"ugj,!j\" the forearm, viz. radial, ulnar, and interosseous, may be carried arteries ♦ -I 1 'M of tbre- backwards, along the parent trunk, to any pomt between the axilla arm. and the common source at the elbow; but this unusual origin is not seated with equal frequency on every part of the humeral trunk, for it is most common in the upper third, and least frequent in the middle third where a ligature may be applied. When one of the vessels referred to thus deviates from the ordinary condition, there would be two large arteries in the arm in the place of one; and these commonly lie close together, though sometimes one of them, viz. the trunk that is to supply the front of the forearm and the palm of the hand, will lie close to the intermuscular septum, with the median nerve, like the trunk of the brachial artery. In some few cases the brachial artery has been observed to Unustuii divide into three instead of two branches (radial, ulnar, and inter- ing. osseous) at some little distance above the elbow, so that three trunks would be present in a given part of the arm. In one case the three arteries of the forearm sprang from the end of the brachial below the elbow, a condition resembling the origin of the arteries of the lower limb from the end of the popliteal trunk. In aberrant branches. — Occasional long slender vessels, vasa in aber- aberrantia," connect the brachial or the axillary trunk with one of branch- the arteries of the forearm, or with a branch of them. These ^^*' accessory vessels very rarely end in the ulnar artery. In muscular covering.— In some bodies the humeral artery is in mus. covered by an additional slip of origin of the biceps or the bra- vering.' chialis anticus muscle. And sometimes a slip of the brachialis may conceal, in cases of high origin of the radial, the remainder of the arterial trunk that continues to the forearm, Nerves of the Arm. — The nerves on the front of the Nerves on front arm are derived from the terminal cords of the brachial of arm- plexus. Few of them furnish offsets to the arm, but they are continued, for the most part without branching, to the forearm and the hand. The cutaneous branches of some of them have been referred to (p. 279.). The median nerve arises from the brachial plexus by two Med inn nerve in roots, one from the outer, and the other from the inner cord the arm of the nerves (p. 262.); its destination is the palm of the the ar- liand, and it accompanies the brachial artery to the forearm. Commencing on the outer side of the artery, the nerve crosses over or under the vessel about the middle of the arm