TRIANGULAR PERINEAL LIGAMENT. 455 from the crus of the penis. The same steps may be repeated on the right side, if it is thought desirable ; but the dissector should observe, before cutting away the mus- cles, the branches of the nerve to them: one nerve is also to be traced to the urethra. Next, the crus penis is to be de- tached from the bone on the left side; but this must be done with care so as not to cut at the same time the triangular ligament, and not to injure near the pubes the terminal parts of the pudic artery and nerve to the penis. The triangular ligament of the urethra (perinasal aponeu- xrian. rosis) occupies the anterior part of the pubic arch, and sup- fjglf/ ports the urethral canal. The ligament is of a triangular form, urethr^f. with the apex above and the base below ; and is about one Extent ... inch and a half in depth. On the sides it is fixed to the form, subpubic arch, beneath the crura penis. Its apex is con- nected with the symphysis pubis. Its base is turned towards the rectum, and is partly attached and partly free; — in the Attach- middle line it is connected with the central point of the perinseum, whilst laterally it is sloped towards the bone, so that it is less deep at the centre than at the sides : connected with the lower border, is a thin fascia which covers the Parts surface of the levator ani muscle in the ischio-rectal fossa. Superficial to it are the muscles in the anterior half of the perinaeal space, and the superficial fascia is united to it near the lower border. Perforating the ligament about one inch Aper- below the symphysis pubis is the canal of the urethra, but in it for the margin of the opening giving passage to the tube is ' blended by means of fibres with the tissue of the corpus spongiosum urethras. About midway between the preceding for dor- opening and the symphysis pubis, is the aperture for the dorsal Ind vein of the penis; and external to the last, near the bone on Ind^'^ each side, the terminal parts of the pudic nerve and artery to the penis perforate the ligament. The triangular liga- consists ment is composed of two layers of fibrous membrane (an- terior and posterior) which are united only below, and protect the membranous part of the urethra. The posterior layer is derived from the pelvic fascia; the anterior is a separate structure, and consists chiefly of transverse fibres, but it is so thin as to allow the vessels and the muscular fibres to be seen through it. Between the layers of the parts ligament are the membranous part of the urethra, with its