FOURTH VENTRICLE. 239 bellum, the structure of the central uniting part, as well as the boundaries of the fourth ventricle, may be observed. Structure of the vermiform 'process. —The vermiform pro- Vermi- cesses (upper and lower) of the cerebellum are united in one process central part; and this connects together the hemispheres, other Internally, the structure of this connecting piece is the same as that of the rest of the cerebellum, viz. a central white portion with lateral offsets for the laminge. Here the branch- ing appearance of a tree (arbor vitse) is best seen, in con- sequence of the central parts being longer, and the laminae more divided. The FOURTH VENTRICLE (fossa rhomboidalis) is a space Fourth between the cerebellum and the posterior aspect of the cie. medulla oblongata and pons. It has the form of a lozenge, with the points placed upwards and downwards. The upper Form angle reaches as high as the upper border of the pons; and tent, the lower, to a level with the inferior part of the olivary body. Its greatest breadth is at the spot where the pedun- breadth, cular offsets of the cerebellum are connected with the medulla and pons ; and a transverse line in this situation would divide the hollow into two triangular portionsupper and lower. The lower half has been named the calamus scrip- calamus torius, from its resemblance to a writing pen. torius. The lateral boundaries are more marked at the upper than Lateral at the lower part. For about half way down, the cavity is ry. limited on each side by the superior peduncle of the cere- bellum, which projects over it, forming part as well of the roof; and along the lower half lies the eminence of the resti- form body on each side. The roof of the space is somewhat arched, and is formed Roof, above by the valve of Vieussens, and the under part of the vermiform process ; and, towards the lower part, by the thin nervous stratum of the ligula (p. 202.), and by the reflection of the pia mater from the spinal cord to the surface of the vermiform process. The floor of the ventricle corresponds to the posterior Floor, surfaces of the medulla oblongata and pons, and is grayish in colour. Along its centre is a median groove, that ends Parts in below, at the point of the calamus and within the swollen median part of the posterior pyramid, in a minute hole,—the remains