LIGAMENTS OF THE TRUNK. 397 Section II. LIGAMENTS OF THE TRUNK. The ligaments connecting the vertebrse, those uniting the Enume- ribs to the spinal column and the sternum, and the pieces the of the sternum one to another, are described in this section. Articulation of the Ribs. — The sternal rib is united a rib is united to the vertebrae on the one side, and to the sternum on the with the vertebras other, by three sets of ligaments, viz. one between the head and the PI sternum. of the bone and the bodies of the vertebrae ; a second from its neck and tubercle to the transverse processes of the vertebrae; and a third between its cartilage and the sternum. The asternal ribs will want the last articula- tion. Dissection,—For the purpose of examining the ligaments To see between the head and neck of the rib and the vertebrae, take ments a piece of the spinal column with three or four ribs attached, verte- After removing the intercostal muscles and the fibrous tissue from the surface of the bones^ the student will be able to define the following under-mentioned ligaments passing to the spinal column and the transverse processes. The ligaments attaching the costal cartilage to the rib and To rib the sternum are to be dissected on the part of the anterior num. wall of the thorax that was removed in opening the thoracic cavity. A. Ligaments from the head of the rib.—The head of the Liga- rib is received into a hollow on the side of the bodies of of head two contiguous vertebrae, except in the first, eleventh, and are twelfth ribs; and the articulation is provided with two re- taining ligaments—costo-vertebral and interarticular, and two synovial sacs. The costo-vertebral ligament, which is also named stellate costo- from its form, is composed of radiating fibres, and fixes the brai or ribs to the vertebrae. In those ribs that touch two vertebrae it consists of three sets of fibres: — the upper set, the largest, is attached to the body of the vertebra above the rib ; the lower one descends to the inferior of the two ver- tebrae with which the head articulates ; and the central part is united with the fibro-cartilage between those vertebrae, differs in Where the rib is articulated with one vertebra, as in the