184 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. to the sides of the spine; their upper fibres are short and almost horizontal, and the lower are longer and oblique. With a Between the lateral bands there is a central odontoid liga- band, merit, that connects the tip of the odontoid process to the margin of the basilar process of the occipital bone. To fix b. Union of the atlas with the axis.—The transverse liga- proceTs^ ment of the atlas is a flat, strong, arched band behind the is odontoid process, which is attached on each side to a tubercle below the inner part of the articular process of the atlas, trans-^ This ligament is widest in the centre, and at this spot it has gament, a band of longitudinal fibres connected with its upper and lower margins, so as to produce a cruciform appearance: of these bands, the upper one is inserted into the basilar pro- cess, and the lower one into the body of the second vertebra. Its surface towards the cord is concealed by the occipito- axoid ligament. This ligament fixes firmly the odontoid process of the second vertebra against the body of the atlas, confining it in a ring, articular When the transverse and check ligaments have been cut ' through, the tip of the odontoid process will be seen to have two cartilaginous surfaces; one in front where it touches the atlas, the other at the opposite aspect, where it is in contact and two with the transverse ligament. Two synovial membranes synovial r» i i • i i • mem- facilitate the movements oi the odontoid process, one being for the joint between the piece of bone and the atlas, and the other for that between it and the transverse ligament. Capsule Union of the articular surfaces, — a. The articular sur- noviai" faccs of the occipital bone and atlas are surrounded by a ?rti-^ capsular ligament of scattered fibres, which is strongest ex- surfaces, ternally and in front. When the joint is opened, the condyle of the occipital bone will be seen to look somewhat outwards, whilst the hollowed surface of the atlas has an opposite direction. A synovial membrane is present on each side. b. The articular surfaces of the first two vertebrae are en- closed on each side by a capsule, which is stronger in front than behind. On opening the joint, the surfaces of the bones may be perceived to be almost horizontal. On each side there is a separate loose synovial membrane. Joint at Sterno-clavicular Articulation. — The internal end end of of the clavicle is received on a fibro-cartilage, and is re- tained in position by a capsular ligament, by a band to the