CUTANEOUS NERVES. 405 D D 3 taneous fatty layer. Small cutaneous arteries accompany cuta- the nerves, and guide the student to their position. These ne?ves. nerves vary much in size in the different parts of the back, and their number is also irregular: as a general rule, there is one corresponding to each vertebra. In the neck and opposite the upper part of the thorax, the nerves will be found near the spines of the vertebrae, and beneath the superficial fat; but over the lower part of the thorax, and in the loins, they issue in a line with the angles of the ribs. The cutaneous branches of the sacral nerves come into the dissection of the lower limb. * Cutaneous Nerves.—The tegumentary nerves of the cuta- back are derived from the posterior primary branches of nerves the spinal nerves ; these subdivide amongst the deep parts rived, into two branches^ inner and outer, and the cutaneous offsets are derived at one spot from the external, and at another from the internal branch. Small arteries accompany the greater number of the nerves; these bifurcate like the nerves, and the cutaneous offsets are derived in the same way from the one or the other branch. Cervical nerves. — In the neck the nerves are derived from the in the inner of the two branches into which the primary trunks bifurcate: they perforate the trapezius, and supply the neck and the back of the head. They are four in number, viz. one from each nerve, ex- cept the first and the three last. The hranch of the second nerve is named large occipital, and accompanies the occipital artery to the back of the head (p. 9.). The hranch of the third cervical nerve supplies a transverse offset to the neck, and then bends upwards to the lower part of the head, where it is united with the great occi- pital nerve, and is distributed internal to it. * Dorsal nerves, — These are obtained from both the inner and in the the outer branches of the primary trunks—the upper six from the region, former, and the lower six from the latter. On the surface they are directed outwards in the integument over the trapezius and latis- simus dorsi muscles. The upper six nerves perforate the trapezius near the spines of the vertebrse; and the branch of the second, which is larger than the rest, reaches as far as the scapula. The lower six nerves pierce the latissimus dorsi mostly in a line with the angles of the ribs; these are oftentimes uncertain in number. * Lumbar nerves. — In the loins the nerves are derived from in the the outer branches of the primary trunks, and only from the first three; they perforate the latissimus dorsi muscle in a line with the