124 DISSECTION OP THE NECK. Section X, DISSECTION OF THE LEFT SIDE OF THE NECK. differf ^ In repeating the dissection of the left half of the neck, the light. ^i^e^ences observable between it and the right side are spe- cially to be studied. When the description of the right side will suffice, reference will be made to it. Dissec- Directions.—After the neck has been made tense over a tion of anterior narrow block, the anterior triangle and the anterior part of triangle ® ^ of neck, the neck are to be prepared as on the opposite side. The description of the right side (p. 63.) is to be used for both those regions, for the sterno-mastoideus, and for the de- pressor muscles of the hyoid bone. of sea- Next the scaleni muscles and the subclavian vessels are lleni and subcia- to be taken. The dissection and description of those parts vian ar- ^ ^ tery. on the right side (p. 69.), will serve for these on the left, except that the student will meet on the left side with the thoracic duct. This little tube will be seen in connection with the part of the artery internal to the scalenus muscle, and crossing in front of the scalenus to join the subclavian vein. On this side, too, the clavicle may remain arti- culated. subcia- The LEFT SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY ariscs from the arch of the tery^"^" aorta, instead of from the innominate trunk, and ascends thence, over the first rib, in its course to the upper limb, differs With this difference on the two sides in the origin of the much 11. 1 1 1 • • • 1 from subclavian,— the one vessel beginning opposite the sterno- subcia- clavicular articulation, the other in the thorax,— it is evi- vian dent that the length and connections of the part of the artery on the inner side of the scalenus must vary much on opposite sides. in the First part. —The part of the artery internal to the ante- of its^e^x- rior scalenus is much longer on the left than the right side, and is almost vertical in direction, instead of being horizon- tal like its fellow. Moreover, after it leaves the chest it is deeply placed in the neck, near the spine and the oesophagus, and does not rise so high above the first rib as the right connec- subclavian. Between the artery and the surface are the tions n ' 1 with sur-same parts as are superficial to the risrht vessel, viz. the round- ^ 1 T P . . 1 1 ing common teguments and deep lascia, with the sterno-mastoid, parts. o JT ; 7