236 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 1 tach- in front of the transverse furrowed band. In front of the nodule the pieces of opposite sides are united, and form the membranous velum. Cere- INTERIOR OF THE CEREBELLUM. — In the Cerebellum there soiidhi-^ is not any cavity or ventricle enclosed as in the cerebrum, ternaiiy. interior there is a large white centre, corresponding with that of the cerebrum, which furnishes offsets to the laminae, and to other parts of the encephalon. The space of the fourth ventricle is between the cerebellum and the me- dulla oblongata. Dissec- Dissection,—For the purpose of seeing the structure of lamina, the laminss, an incision may be made across them on the upper surface of the left hemisphere. ofcentre, And the medullary centre, with its contained corpus den- tatum, may be seen on the right side by removing all the lamina3 from the upper surface. This proceeding may be accomplished by placing the scalpel in the horizontal fissure, at the circumference, and then carrying it inwards as far as the upper vermiform process, so as to detach the cortical and cor- stratum. If the corpus dentatum does not at first appear, pus den- , . , i mi • • tatum. thin slices may be made till it is reached. A lami- Structure of the lamince, — Each lamina consists of a white in- white internal, and a gray external substance. The white ' part is derived from the central medullary mass, and dividing, like the branching of a tree, ends in small lateral offsets, that enter the subdivisions of the laminas. coiia- Besides the white stalk of the lamina, which is derived white from the central mass, there are other white fibres that pass from one lamina to another. fibres; and gray The Stratum of gray matter, that envelops the white sub- ^* stance, resembles somewhat the cortical covering of the con- volutions of the cerebrum. It is constructed of two strata, inner and outer, that can be distinguished by the difference in their colour. The superficial stratum is gray, and about equal to the other in thickness; but the deeper one is of a rust-colour, and is generally thickest in the hollows between the laminae. . white^^ Medullary Centre. — In the centre of each cerebellar cere- hemisphere is a large white mass which contains in its