DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 554 beyond the margin of tlie liver; whilst the smaller end, or the neck, is turned in the opposite direction, and bends size; downwards to end in the cystic duct by a zigzag part. In length the gall-bladder measures three or four inches, and in breadth rather more than an inch at the fundus, or the widest connec. part. It liolds rather more than an ounce. By one surface the sac is in contact with the liver, and on the opposite it is covered by peritoneum. The larger end touches the abdo- minal wall opposite the tip of the cartilage of the tenth rib, and is contiguous to the transverse colon ; and the small end touches the duodenum. struc. Structure, — The wall of the gall-bladder has a peritoneal, wall. a fibrous and muscular, and a mucous coat, with thin inter- vening layers of connective tissue. Serous The serous coat is stretched over the under or free aspect coat. ^ of the gall-bladder, and surrounds the large end when the viscus is distended. Fibrous The muscular coat^ which has not great strength, gives a muscu. complete covering to the sac, and has much areolar tissue stratum, intermixed with it. Mucous The mucous coat is marked internally by numerous ridges is^areo- and intervening depressions, which give an areolar or honey- surface, comb appearance to the surface. On laying open the gall- bladder this condition will be seen, with the aid of a lens, to be most developed about the centre of the sac, and to dimi- nish towards each extremity. In the larger hollows, there and CO- are other smaller depressions which lead to mucous follicles. vered by a coium. The surface of the mucous membrane is covered by a colum- nar epi- . theiiura. nar epithelium. Projec- Where the gall-bladder is bent, at its junction with the tions of i • T , •, • , • 1 • , • 1 • • i the wall, cystic duct, its coats project into the interior, and give rise to ridges that resemble the parietal septa in the sacculated large intestine. Duct of The cystic duct joins the hepatic duct at an acute angle, bladder, to form the ductus communis choledochus. It is about an inch and a half long, and is distended and somewhat saccu- lated near the gall-bladder, struc Structure,— The coats of the duct are the same as those ture same as of the sac from which it leads, but the muscular fibres are sac, and is very few. The mucous lining is provided with branched with'^^'^ glands, as in the hepatic and common bile ducts (p. 539.)» glands.