DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. 146 towards the anterior palatine fossa. By cutting through the fore part of the membrane that has been detached from the septum, other branches of the olfactory nerve may be traced along the outer wall of the nasal fossa, oifac- The OLFACTORY NERVE forms a bulb on the cribriform tory nerve plate of the ethmoid bone, and sends branches to the olfactory region of the nose through the apertures in the roof. These branches are about twenty in number, and are divisible is distri- into three sets. An inner set descend in the grooves on buted to ^ third of the septum nasi, and then branching, extend over the upper the roof, third. A middle set is confined to the roof of the nose. «pongy^ And an external set is distributed on the two upper spongy bones, boucs, and on the flat surface of the ethmoid bone in front of them. As the branches of the olfactory nerve leave the skull, they receive tubes from the dura mater and pia mater, which are lost in the tissue to which the nerves are distributed. The nerves ramify in the pituitary mem- brane, and form tufts of filaments that communicate freely with the contiguous twigs, forming a network, but their mode of termination in the tissue is unknown, struc- The olfactory nerve differs in structure from the other cranial nerves ; its branches are deficient in the white sub- stance of Schwann, are not divisible into fibrillse, and are nucleated and granular in texture. They resemble the gelatinous fibres, and seem to be formed of an extension of the nervous matter of the olfactory bulb. — (Todd and Bow- man.) The other branches of the nerves, together with the vessels which are found in the nose^ will be described in the following section* ture. Section XIV. SPHENO-PALATINE AND OTIC GANGLIA, FACIAL AND NASAL NERVES, AND BRANCHES OF THE INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. Branch- Branches of MecheVs ganglion, — From the ganglion of | Seekers Mcckcl in the spheno-maxillary fossa, branches are furnished | fuon; to the nose through the spheno-palatine foramen, to the j palate through the canals of the same name, and to the facial j