EXTERNAL PTERYGOID MUSCLE. 89 detached from the subjacent bone with the handle of the scalpel, and the deep temporal vessels and nerves to be sought in its fibres. A piece of the ramus of the jaw is next to be removed, but without injuring the vessels and nerves in contact with its inner surface, by sawing across the bone close to the condyle, and again close above the dental fora- men ; and to make the dental vessels and nerve secure from injury, the handle of the scalpel may be inserted close be- neath the bone and carried downwards to their entrance into the foramen. The masseteric artery and nerve are liable to be cut in sawing the bone ; should these be divided, turn them upwards for the present, and afterwards tie together the ends. After the loose piece of bone has been removed, and the subjacent parts freed from fat, the ptery- goid muscles will appear, — the external being directed out- wards to the condyle of the jaw, and the internal, which is parallel in direction to the masseter, being inclined to the angle of the jaw. In removing the fatty tissue, the student must be careful not to take away the thin fascia of the in- ternal lateral ligament, which is beneath the ramus. Many vessels and nerves will be found in this region, Position with the following position to other parts. Crossing inwards parts, over the external pterygoid muscle, is the internal maxillary artery, which distributes offsets upwards and downwards; sometimes this artery will be placed beneath the muscle. Escaping from beneath the lower border of the same muscle are the large dental and gustatory nerves, the latter being the more internal of the two; and appearing between the upper border of the muscle and the cranium, are the mas- seteric and deep temporal nerves. The buccal branch of nerve perforates the fibres of the external pterygoid near its inner attachment. Branches of the above-mentioned artery accompany these nerves. At the front of the space now dissected, coursing along the posterior part of the upper jaw, is the small posterior dental nerve with an artery. Between the jaws is the whitish narrow band of the inter- pterygo-maxillary ligament, to which the buccinator and lary superior constrictor muscles are connected. The EXTERNAL PTERYGOID MUSCLE cxtcuds almost hori- External zontally from the zygomatic fossa to the condyle of the lower goid^' jaw. Its origin is from the surface of bone corresponding to zontai."