622 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. by the age and sex, and by the habits of the person. Ordi- narily the bladder holds about a pint, and as a general rule it is larger in the female than in the male. Coats of Structure. — A muscular and a mucous coat, with an the . . ^, bladder, intervening fibrous layer, exist in the wall of the bladder: at parts the peritoneum may be also enumerated as a con- stituent of the wall. The vessels and nerves are large. ^erito. The imperfect covering peritoneum has been described (p. 594.), and has been removed. iar"hTs' muscular coat is formed of thin strata of unstriated snSa- ^^scular fibres, viz. an external or longitudinal, a middle or circular, and an internal or submucous. of\ongf ^' ^^^^ longitudinal fibres form a continuous covering, tudina!, -^vith the usual plexiform disposition of the bundles of mus- cular fibres, and extend from the apex to the base : above some are connected with the urachus, and others are inserted into the peritoneum; and below they are attached chiefly to the fascia covering the prostate, with the exception of an attach- anterior fasciculus on each side, which is united to the back raents ' of the pubes, through the anterior true ligament of the bladder. On the front and back of the bladder the mus- cular layer is stronger, and its fibres more vertical, than on forms the lateral parts. Sometimes this outer layer of fibres has urins; bccu Called detrusor urince^ from its action in the expulsion of the urine. internal The Circular fibres are thin, and scattered on the body ?ar gTves* of the bladder; but around the cervix they are collected sphinc- into a thick bundle, called the sphincter vesiccB, and are then continu- contiuuous with the fibres of the prostate. In some instances prostate^j the fibres are hypertrophied, and project into the interior of the organ, forming the fasciculated bladder; and in other bodies the mucous coat may be forced outwards here and there, between the fibres, in the form of sacs, producing the sacculated bladder, sub- c. The submucous stratum forms a continuous layer over SyS"^ the lower half of the bladder, but becomes scattered above. Extent. In the lower third of the bladder the fibres are longitudinal, Fibres, and continuous with the fibres around the urethra, but they j Addi- become oblique above that point. At the back of the bladder I toTt. the layer is increased in strength by the longitudinal fibres