383 STRUCTURE OF THE LUNG. it into pieces. These several parts are examined more in detail below. Serous and subserous coverings. — The coat derived from serous and the pleura is thin and transparent, and forms an entire cap- sule for the lung, except at the root, where the vessels enter. The subserous layer contains fibres of elastic tissue, and not subse- only covers the surface, but extends inwards, establishing cover- the division of the mass into lobules: where it separates the lobules it is named interlobular connective tissue, and is there free from fat. Bronchial branches in the lung. — When a bronchus is pivi- followed into the pulmonary structure, it is found to divide of the generally in a binary order, and to diminish in size at each in the subdivision, until one terminal offset appertains to a lobule. In the lobule, the tube has a diameter of -^^ to 3^ of an inch. When this last degree of diminution is arrived at, tiu they the tubes give origin to the air cells. ceiis. The larger bronchial branches have the same constituent Differ- ^ ence in parts as the trachea, only these are somewhat differently ^^^^^^"^ arranged ; and they are round in the lung, instead of being tu^jis in hemispherical as in the trachea. The smallest branches, and ti^re the air cells, want some of the common structures; and those form" from, which the cells spring are irregular in shape, appearing to be spaces amongst the cells rather than tubes with con- tinuous walls. Changes in the elements of the bronchi. — The modifi- Consti- cations which the elementary pieces of the air tube undergo the air in the bronchial divisions and in the air cells are the follow- the lung, ing: — l^liQ pieces of cartilage, which are regularly arranged in a line in the trachea, become broken up in the bronchial tubes, and scattered over the wall as irregular fragments. Becoming thinner and smaller as the subdivision of the air Pieces ot tube proceeds, they at last disappear, and are absent from lage. the terminal branches. The fibrous and elastic tissues of Fibrous and elas- the bronchial tubes are continued even to the air cells; but <^ic tis- sue. in the small cell-bearing branches, the bundles of elastic tissue are diffused, and the two textures, much diminished in strength, are blended together to form the parietal struc- ture. The muscular fibres, that exist only at the back of Mus- ^ ^ .> cuJar the trachea, are diffused over the inner surface of the bron- fibres, chi, where they have an annular arrangement, and extend