768 DISSECTION OF THE EYE. tion on humour, it deflects the rays of liffht transmitted to the eye, the rays t i > n i ofiight. and thus influences by its greater or smaller convexity the different degrees of sight at a distance. After death it be- comes flaccid from the transudation of the aqueous humour; or if it is immersed in water it is rendered opaque by infil- tration of the tissue by that fluid. Has not Structure. — The cornea is laminar in texture. In the blood- vessels, healthy condition bloodvessels do not permeate its structure, Nerves, hut ccasc in Capillary loops at its circumference. Nerves pSed of great abundance (Schlemm). It is constructed layers, of a spccial, thick part called cornea proper: in front of this is a thin elastic layer with an epithelial stratum; and be- hind it is another fine elastic membrane covered by an epi- thelium. The two structures in front of the proper cornea constitute the conjunctiva: and the two behind, the mem- brane of Demours. Cornea The comca proper (lamellated cornea) is made up of a proper is, ii i . formed scrics of supcrposcd layers, about sixty in number in a ' section at a given spot, which join one another at numerous with in- points, and cannot therefore be detached for any distance.* betvTeen. Tliis structuro posscsscs great toughness; and its trans- parency depends upon the parallelism of the different strata, and their distance from one another being duly maintained, for, if they are disarranged by compression or other means, Its tissue the translucency is destroyed. The laminae of the cornea ed into' are formed of fibrous tissue, continuous with that of the the sclerotic coat, and containing also similar ramified nucleated tic. " cells, but here flattened into membranous layers, and ar- ranged one over another. Layer The membrane at the back of the cornea — membrane of Demours — consists of a basement layer (posterior elastic lamina. Bowman) covered by epithelium. Poste- The posterior elastic layer may be peeled off* after a cut elastic has bccu made across the cornea. It is a thin, but dense and hard membrane, -g-^^^^th to inoh. in thick- ness, which tears readily when an attempt is made to detach it, and curls up with the attached surface innermost when behind nor elas1 layer: * The facts stated in this, and in many other places in the description, are obtained from Mr. Bowman's Lectures on the Eye, and from the Physiological Anatomy, part third, 1847, of Dr. Todd and Mr. Bowman.