DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. 460 muscu- Muscular branches. — One turns outwards to enter the under sets?^' surface of the erector penis ; others pass beneath the transversalis, supplying it and the accelerator urinse; and one or two other slender filaments pierce the triangular ligament, and supply the muscles beneath it. Nerve The nerve of the bulb is a long slender branch that supplies, like buib.^ the artery, the spongy structure investing the canal of the urethra. Some of its filaments run for a great distance on the surface before entering the corpus spongiosum urethrae. Parts Parts cut in the lateral operation of lithotomy, — A review lYtho- of the relative position of the parts in the perinseum will toray. in(jiQate those that must be injured in reaching the bladder, and those that are to be avoided. In cut- In making the external incisions the knife is entered in from the middle line of the perinasum, one inch in front of the face to anus, and is drawn backwards, on the left side, to midway ' between the ischial tuberosity and the anus. In this pro- ceeding the skin and the superficial fascia, and the inferior hgemorrhoidal vessels and nerves lying across the ischio- rectal fossa would be cut; and the transverse perinaeal muscle and artery, with, possibly, the superficial perinaeal vessels and nerves may be then divided. In the subsequent attempt to reach the staff, when the knife is introduced into the anterior part of the wound, the lower part of the tri- angular ligament, the deep transverse urethral muscle, and and in the forc part of the levator ani will be divided ; and when knife " the knife is placed within the groove of the staff, the mem- stafflnto branous part of the urethra, with the muscular fibre about bladder. ^ it, will be cut. Lastly, as the knife is pushed along the staff into the bladder, it incises in its progress the mem- branous division of the urethra, and part of the prostate with the large veins around it. Partsjo The several parts to be avoided in the stages of the ope- ed are ration are the following : —In the first incisions in the ischio- rectum, ° rectal fossa, the rectum may be cut if the knife is turned inwards across the intestine, instep®?: being kept parallel with it, and if the gut is not kept but of the way with the pudic fore finger of the left hand. The pudic .vessels on^the outer vessels, . , ^'i wall of the ischio-rectal fossa may be wounded n^mT the an- terior part of that hollovv^, where they approach the margin of the triangular ligament; but, posteriorly, they are very securely lodged . inside the projection of the tuber ischii.