THIRD NERVE. 47 by fibrous tissue to the depression of the frontal bone at the inner angle of the orbit. A fibrous prolongation is con- tinued from the anterior margin of the pulley on the tendon as far as the eyeball; and a synovial membrane lines the ring, to facilitate the movement of the tendon through it. To see the synovial membrane and the tendon, this pro- longation must be cut away. Dissection.—The superior rectus muscle is next to be Dissec- divided about the middle, and turned backwards, when a branch of the third nerve to its under surface will be found. The nasal nerve and the ophthalmic artery and vein will be now seen crossing inwards above the optic nerve: these should be traced forwards to the inner angle, and backwards to the posterior part of the orbit. By taking away some of To find the fat between the optic nerve and the external rectus, at cuiar the back of the orbit, the small lenticular ganglion and its gnon. branches will be discovered : the student will find the ciliary branches, that lie along the side of the optic nerve, the best guide to the situation of the ganglion. The dissector should then find the branches from the nasal and third nerves to the ganglion. And, lastly, he should separate from one another the nasal, third, and sixth nerves, as they enter the orbit between the heads of the external rectus muscle. The THIRD NERVE is placed highest in the wall of the Third cavernous sinus ; but at the sphenoidal fissure it descends "^^^^ below the fourth, and two branches (frontal and lachrymal) of the ophthalmic nerve. The nerve enters the orbit as it between the heads of the outer rectus, having previously orb?t? divided into two parts. The upper piece, the smallest in size, ends in the under its upper surface of the levator palpebrae and superior rectus muscles. The lower part supplies some of the other muscles, and Lower will be dissected afterwards (p. 50.). branch. The nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve enters the orbit Nasai between the heads of the rectus, and lies between the two parts of the third nerve. In the orbit the nerve is directed obliquely inwards, to reach the anterior of the two foramina in the inner wall. Passing through this aperture, the nerve General appears in the cranium, at the outer margin of the cribriform the face? plate of the ethmoid bone. Finally, it enters the nasal cavity by an aperture at the front of the cribriform plate: