FORM OF THE KIDNEY. 555 But in the hepatic ducts the glands are arranged in a row on each side. Valve of the gall-bladder. — On slitting open the duct the Mucous T . , n • p •! coat like mucous membrane is seen to lorm a series oi semilunar pro- a screw, jections (from nine to twenty), which are arranged obliquely around the tube, like the thread of a screw, and increase in size towards the gall-bladder. This structure is best seen on a gall-bladder that has been inflated and dried; as in this state the parts of the bladder between the folds are most dis- tended, giving rise to the sacculated appearance. Bloodvessels and nerves.—The vessels of the ffall-bladder are Artery, named cystic ; the artery is a branch of the hepatic, and the vein vein, opens into the vena porta3 near the liver. The nerves are derived nerves, from the hepatic plexus, and entwine around the vessels. The lymph- lymphatics follow the cystic duct, and join the deep lymphatics on the spinal column. THE KIDNEY AND THE URETER. The organ for the secretion of urine has a characteristic Use and form : flattened on the sides, it is larger at the upper than form, at the lower extremity, and is hollowed out at the inner part of its circumference. For the purpose of distinguishing Todis- between th6 right and left kidneys, let the excavated margin right*^^ be supposed to be turned to the spinal column, whilst the left^ ureter, or the excretory tube, is kept more posterior than the other vessels ; and let that end be directed downwards, towards which the ureter is naturally inclined. With the special form above mentioned, the kidney is of colour, a deep red colour, and presents an even surface. Its average size, length is about four inches, its breadth two, and its thickness about one inch ; but the left is commonly longer and more slender than the right kidney. The usual weight of this and body is about five ounces and a half in the male, and rather less in the female. The upper extremity of the kidney is rounded, is thicker ^xtre- than the lower, and is surmounted by the suprarenal body ; the lower end is flat, and more pointed. The relative posi- tion with respect to the spinal column has been before detailed (p. 506.). On its anterior aspect the kidney IS surfaces; convex, but on the opposite surface it is flattened. The borders, outer border is convex ; but the inner is excavated, and is