CUTANEOUS NERVES OF THE BUTTOCK. 693 Nerves from the lumbar plexus.— Parts of two nerves from the From lumbar plexus, viz. ilio-hypogastric and external cutaneous, are JJiSofs^ spent in the integument of this region. The iliac branch of the through ilio-hypogastric nerve crosses the iliac crest in front of the branches piga's-" from the lumbar nerves, and extends only a short distance below ^^^^'^"^^ the crest: this branch is very variable in size, or it may be wanting. Offsets of the external cutaneous nerve of the thigh bend backwards external to the integument above the great trochanter, and cross the divi- ous. sions of the branch of the last dorsal nerve. Nerves from the sacral plexus. — Only one nerve of this plexus, From the small sciatic, sends superficial branches to the buttock. Its piexus, cutaneous offsets appear along the lower border of the gluteus through maximus ; two or three ascend round the edge of the muscle, and sciatic, are lost in the integument over the lower part; the remaining branches descend to the thigh, and will be afterwards noticed on it. The last dorsal nerve supplies the buttock by means of its lateral From cutaneous branch (p. 468.). This offset perforates the muscles of dorsal the abdomen, and crosses the anterior part of the iliac crest to be distributed over the fore part of the gluteal region, as low as the great trochanter. Dissection. — In the dissection of this region, the thin and clean unimportant deep fascia may be disregarded, in order that maxl-" the great gluteal muscle which is the most difficult in the body to make clean, may be well displayed. Supposing the student desirous to lay bare the muscle at once, let him turn aside the cutaneous nerves, and draw away and rotate in- wards the limb, to make tense the muscular fibres. Having Mode of cut through the fat and fascia down to the muscle, let him Fng.^^^^' carry the scalpel along one bundle of fibres at a time in the direction of a line from the sacrum to the femur, until all the coarse fasciculi are cleaned. If it is the right limb, the dissection may be begun at the upper border ; but if the left, at the lower margin of the muscle. The fascia of the buttock is a prolongation of that enve- Fascia loping the thigh, and is fixed to the crest of the hip bone, and buttock to the sacrum and coccyx. It is much thicker in front of than LVdun. on the gluteus maximus, and gives attachment anteriorly to ant.°^^" the gluteus medius which it covers. At the edge of the gluteus maximus the fascia is slit to incase it. The GLUTEUS MAXIMUS is the most superficial muscle of Gluteus the buttock, and reaches from the pelvis to the upper part of mus. the femur. Its origin from the pelvis is partly osseous and T Y 3