271 THE DELTOID MUSCLE. It arises from nearly all the lower edge of the spine of the Origin, scapula, from the anterior border of the acromion, and from the outer half or third of the clavicle. Its fibres converge to a tendon, and are inserted by means of it into a triangular inser- impression, above the middle of the outer surface of the humerus, which is three inches long, and three quarters wide above. The anterior border is contiguous to the pectoralis Adjacent parts. major muscle and the cephalic vein ; and the posterior rests on the infraspinatus and triceps muscles. The origin of the muscle corresponds to the attachment of the trapezius to the bones of the shoulder; the insertion is united with the tendon of the pectoralis major, and has a fasciculus of the brachialis anticus on each side of it. Dissection. — The deltoid is to be divided near its orio;in, Dissec- and thrown down as much as the circumflex vessels and detach nerve will permit. As the muscle is raised a large thick bursa between it and the nead of the humerus comes into sight. The loose tissue and fat are to be taken away from the circumflex vessels and nerve, and the remains of the bursa are to be removed. The insertion of the muscle should be also examined. Parts covered by deltoid. — The deltoid conceals the head Parts ^ and the upper part of the humerus, and those parts of the by the dorsal scapular muscles that are fixed to the great tuberosity of the bone. Below the head of the bone are the circumflex vessels and nerve, and the upper part of the biceps muscle; and in front of the humerus is the coracoid process with its muscles. A large bursa, sometimes divided into small sacs, intervenes between the convex end of the bone, and the under surfaces of the deltoid muscle and the acromion process. Dissection.—By following back the circumflex vessels and pissec- nerve through a space between the humerus and the long circum- head of the triceps, their origin from the axillary trunks seis. will be arrived at. In taking the fat from that space care must be taken of a branch of nerve to the teres minor muscle. Arching backwards, in front of the neck of the humerus, is the small anterior circumflex artery. The circumflex arteries are the last branches of the axil- Two cir- lary trunk, and arise near its termination (p. 261.). They arteries I