688 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. that the blood finds its way to the lower part of the limb when the tube of the chief artery is obliterated either above or below the origin of the profunda. The branches to the adductor muscles are unnamed. The named branches are these : — external circumflex to the extensor muscles of the knee; internal circumflex round the inner side of the femur to the back of the thigh; and perforating arteries through the adductors to the back of the limb and the extensor muscle of the knee. external The external circumflex artery has been described in the dissec-' flex'; " tion of the muscles of the front of the thigh (p. 680.). internal The internal circumflex branch arises from the inner and posterior flex^"^" part of the profunda, and turns backwards between the psoas and pectineus, but above the border of the adductor brevis, along the ends on side of the tendon of the external obturator muscle. Havino* back of thigh, reached the back of the thigh, it ends in two branches, which will be seen in the dissection of the buttock. It supplies the under- suppiies mentioned branches to the inner side of the thigh :—An articular hijj^joint enters the hip joint through the notch in the acetabulum, muscles. At the border of the adductor brevis two muscular branches arise: one ascends to the obturator and the superficial adductor muscles; the other, which is larger, descends beneath the adductor brevis, and ends in this and the largest adductor. Origin" Peculiarities in origin. — The origin of the internal circumflex is variable. ^^^^ variable. In one body it may be from the femoral artery above the profunda; in another from the external iliac artery, or from its branches — the epigastric and circumflex iliac. Three The perforating branches are usually three in number, and pierce rSg the tendons of some of the adductor muscles close to the linea branch. g^gpgj.a of the femur. The first is opposite the lower border of the second pectineus, and perforates the short and large adductors. The fiutTi- second branch arises lower down, and passes through the same artery i^i^scles as the preceding : from it a nutritious artery is supplied to the femur. The third artery springs from the deep femoral trunk below the adductor brevis, and is transmitted through the adductor and the magnus. The terminal branch of the profunda (fourth perforating) of pro- pierces the adductor magnus. These several arteries supply the aXurth. muscles on the back and the outer part of the thigh; and anasto- mose above with branches of the internal iliac, and below with those of the popliteal artery. Pro- The profunda vein results from the union of the diflerent vein branches corresponding with those of its companion artery. It closely accompanies the artery of the same name, to which The named branch- es are —-'