632 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. some of which near the anus are longitudinal. But there some are other three or four permanent folds, described by Mr. manent. Houston, which are half an inch or less in width, and con- tain some of the circular fibres of the gut.* The most con- stant of these is about three inches from the anus, on the front of the rectum, opposite the base of the bladder ; another is found on the right side of the intestine near the top; and the third is on the left side, midway between the other two: occasionally there is a fourth on the back of the rectum, about an inch from the anus. These folds will be seen by laying open the gut along the side, provided it is tolerably fresh. struc- The mucous membrane has the same general structure as in the colon, but towards the anus the secretory apparatus gradually disappears. Arteries. Bloodvessels.— The arteries are supplied from three different sources: they are, superior hsemorrhoidal, from the inferior me- senteric ; middle haamorrhoidal, from the internal iliac artery; and arrange- inferior hsemorrhoidal, from the internal pudic. All three sets ment of ^ superior anastomose on the lower end of the gut, and only the upper hasmor- rhoidai. rhoidal, which is the largest, requires further notice. The branches of this artery (p. 516.) about six in number pierce the muscular coat three inches from the anus, and descend between the mucous and muscular coats as far as the internal sphincter, where they end in loops like the veins, which pass from branch to branch just within Veins the anus, and form circular arterial rinajs. The veins are deficient are with- . , . out in valves, and communicate freely around the lower end of the gut. Above, they join the inferior mesenteric vein, and, through it, reach the vena portas; and, posteriorly, they pour some blood into the internal iliac vein by branches corresponding with the middle haemorrhoidal artery. Nerves; Nerves and lymphatics. — The nerves for the intestine are ob- tained from the sympathetic, and those for the sphincter, from the lymph- spinal system. The lymphatics terminate in the chain of glands on atics. the sacrum. Section YL anatomy of the viscera of the female. Viscera The visccra of the female pelvis consist of those common pelvis, to both sexes, viz. the bladder and the urethra, with the * Vol. V. of the Dublin Hospital Reports, " Observations on the Mucous Membrane of the Rectum."