THE LARYNX. 163 of the caliciform papillae, where they project into the mus- cular substance. Some ducts open on the surface, and others into the hollows around the large papillse, or even into the foramen ceecum. Opposite the papillae vallatae, at the ayhe margin of the tongue, is another small collection of sub- mucous glands. Under the tip of the tongue, on each side be- of the frsenum, is a collection of the same kind of glands, tip. from which several ducts issue. Nerves. — There are three nerves distributed in each Nerves half of the tongue, viz. the gustatory, the hypoglossal, and three ./ ./j-tj sources, the glosso-pharyngeal. The gustatory nerve gives upwards filaments to the muscular gusta- substance, and to the two smallest sets of papillas, conical and fungi- ^^^J"' form; It joins also the hypoglossal nerve. The hypoglossal nerve hypo- is spent in long slender filaments that are furnished to the mus- cular substance of the tongue. The glosso-pharyngeal nerve and gios- divides into two branches near the border of the tongue :—One ry'tfgeai. turns to the dorsum, and ends in the mucous membrane behind the foramen csecum. The other passes beneath the side of the tongue, and divides into filaments that enter the muscular substance; it supplies the papillae caliciformes, as well as the mucous membrane covering the lateral part of the tongue. Vessels. — The arteries are derived chiefly from the lingual Arteriea artery of each side; these, together with the veins, have been vefns. examined (p. 102.). After supplying the muscular substance the vessels enter the papillee, and end in loops as before said. Section XVI. DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. The LARYNX is the upper dilated part of the air tube, in outiitie which the voice is produced. This organ of the voice is rynx" constructed of several cartilages, which are united together by ligamentous bands ; of muscles for the movement of the cartilages; and of vessels and nerves. The whole is lined by mucous membrane* Dissection.—The tongue may be now removed from the Dissec- larynx by cutting through its root, but this is to be done without injuring the epiglottis. The parts that are to be described would be much better seen on a fresh larynx. Occupying the middle line of the neck, the larynx is situa- M 2