GLANDS OF THE SMALL INTESTINE. 537 tine are included the crypts of Lieberkiihn, some solitary kinds of glands, and Peyer's and Brunner's glands. The crypts of Lieberkuhn are minute simple tubes, similar simple tubes as to those in the stomach, though not so closely aggregated, in the mi stomach, and are found throughout the small intestine. Ihey open but not ^ ^ ^^ • n SOClosej on the surface of the mucous membrane by small orinces between the villi, and around the larger glands; but at the opposite end they are closed, and project into the submucous layer. Their length is from y^^h to g^th of an inch, and their their diameter is 5^0*^ inch. They are filled with a ^nd fluid that contains granules, and are lined by a columnar '^^^^^^^^s- epithelium. The solitary qlands are roundish white eminences, about solitary . . simple the size of mustard seed, if distended, which are scattered glands; size and along the small intestine, but in greatest numbers in the sjtua- jejunum. Placed on any side of the intestine, or even on or between the valvulae conniventes, these bodies are covered by the villi of the mucous membrane, and have around them the apertures of the crypts of Lieberkiihn. These glands closed are small sacs, which contain an opaque whitish granular fluid, but are not provided with an aperture into the in- testine. The glands of Peyer (glandulae agminatae) are found Glands chiefly in the ileum, in the form of oval patches, which mea- sure from half an inch to two inches or more in length, size; and about half an inch in width. These glands are situate situa- on the part of the intestine opposite to the attachment of the mesentery, and their direction is longitudinal in the gut. Usually they are from twenty to thirty in number. In the number; lower part of the ileum the patches are largest and most pecu- . . liarities; numerous ; but they decrease m number and size upwards from that spot, till at the lower part of the jejunum they become irregular in form, and may consist only of small roundish masses. A patch, when examined with the microscope, appears to compo- be but a collection of the solitary glands, for it consists of a a giand number of small flattened vesicles or sacs, which are round or oval in form, and are covered by the mucous membrane. Like the sflands referred to, the vesicles contain a whitish same as n ' ^ 1 . ^^^^ consistent fluid, and are commonly without any aperture, the soU- though they have been found with openings into the intes- glands.