DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 420 the mus- ing branches radiate from the extremity of the nerve : — One enters the under surface of the complexus near the cranial attachment. A slender branch is furnished to each of the small muscles that bound the space in which the nerve is contained, viz. the rectus major and minor, and the superior and inferior oblique : the offset to the last muscle often joins the inner branch of the second cervical nerve. occa- Occasionally this nerve gives a cutaneous branch to the sionally . a cu- occiput. J offset. The suboccipital nerve and the internal branches of the next riofcer- cervical nerves are sometimes connected by offsets beneath ^}^^^ the complexus: when such an intercommunication exists, it forms plexus. . . the " posterior cervical plexus " of M. Cruveilhier. Twelve * In the dorsal region.—The posterior primary branches nerves of the dorsal nerves are tw^elve in number, and appear into^ between the transverse processes. Each nerve soon divides a"nd ^ into an internal and an external branch, which are distributed bmnch- after the same plan as those in the neck. Cutaneous offsets are furnished from the one or the other set of branches, but not commonly from both branches of the same nerve. Outer * a. The external branches increase in size from the first of upper to the last, and are differently distributed above and below. in^mus- The upper six or eight pass beneath the longissimus and its cervical prolongation, as far as to the interval between the longissimus and the ilio-costalis, and end by supplying these butthose muscles and the levatores costarum. The lower six or four of lower . •! , T . six give have a similar arrangement and distribution with respect to neous the muscles; but, after reaching the interval between the offsets. ilio-costalis and the longissimus dorsi, they are continued to the surface through the serratus and latissimus muscles, in a line with the angles of the ribs. Inner * b. The internal branches decrease in size from above of upper^ downwards. The upper six are directed inwards between cuta^^^^ the semispinalis dorsi and multifidus spinas muscles, and be- offsets. come cutaneous along the side of the spinous processes, by perforating the rhomboideus and trapezius muscles. Offsets are supplied to the muscles between which they are placed. Lower The lower six are small in size, and end in the multifidus spinas muscle. Lumbar * Jn the loi?is. — The posterior primary branches of the six not. nerves f See notr to p. 139. of the first edition of this work.