83 EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. G 2 internal maxillary and temporal branches, near tlie condyle of the law. In this course the artery lies at first to the course ^ and di- inner side of the internal carotid, but it afterwards becomes rection. superficial to this vessel; and its direction is somewhat arched forwards, though the position would be marked suffi- ciently by a line from the front of the meatus of the ear to the cricoid cartilaoje. At first the external carotid is com- Parts su- , perficial paratively superficial, and easily reached from the surface, to it, being overlaid only by the sterno-mastoideus and the com- mon coverings of the anterior triangular space, viz. the skin, the superficial and deep fasciae with the platysma, and the superficial nerves. But above the situation of a line ex- tended from the mastoid process to the hyoid bone, the carotid artery is crossed by the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles with the hypoglossal nerve; and still higher it enters the substance of the parotid gland, where it lies beneath the facial nerve and the external jugular vein. The external carotid is also crossed by the facial and lingual branches of veins joining the internal jugular trunk. At beneath first the artery is situate over the superior laryngeal nerve, and is unsupported by muscular fibre, though it rests against the pharynx; but above the angle of the jaw it is placed over the styloid process and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, which separate it from the internal carotid. To the inner and on side of the vessel at first is the pharynx, and still higher are side, the ramus of the jaw and the stylo-maxillary ligament. In certain conditions a companion vein from the temporal and internal maxillary (p. 32.) will accompany the arterial trunk. The branches of the external carotid are numerous, and branch- are classed into an anterior, posterior, and ascending set. es are The anterior set comprise branches to the thyroid body, the anterior, tongue, and the face, viz. superior thyroid, lingual, and facial arteries ; in the posterior set are the occipital and posterior poste- auricular branches; and the ascending set include the ascend- ng: ascending pharyngeal, temporal, and internal maxillary ? arteries. Besides these, the carotid gives other branches to the sterno-mastoid muscle and the parotid gland. The regular origin of the branches, as this will be described f,^^"rf5n below, may be departed from by means of the closer aggre- gation of the branches on the trunk of the carotid. And and in further, the usual number may be diminished by two or more