VELUM PENDULUM PALATI. 135 The aperture of the larynx is wide in front, where it is Upper bounded bj the epiglottis, and pointed behind between the oria-"^ arjtaenoid cartilages. The sides are sloped from before back, ' and are formed by folds of the mucous membrane extending between the arjtsenoid cartilages and the epiglottis. During respiration this aperture is unobstructed, but during the act of deglutition it is closed by the epiglottis. The opening into the oesophagus is the narrowest part of Begin- the pharynx, and is opposite the cricoid cartilage, or the resolha- fifth cervical vertebra. Internally, the mucous membrane in the oesophagus is paler than in the pharynx; and exter- nally, the point at which the pharynx ends is marked^ by a slight contraction, and by a change in the direction of the muscular fibres. The SOFT PALATE (vclum pendulum palati) is a moveable soft pa- structure between the mouth and the pharynx, which can Lade of ^ either close the isthmus of the fauces, or cut off the passage ""^"'^ » to the nose, according as it is depressed or elevated. In tho usual position of the soft palate (the state of relaxation) the anterior surface is somewhat curved, and is continuous with surfaces, the roof of the mouth, whilst the opposite surface is convex and turned to the pharynx. The upper border is fixed to borders; the posterior margin of the hard palate; and each lateral part joins the pharynx. The lower border is free, and pre- from it sents in the centre a conical pendulous part — the uvula, Svufa^. Along the middle line is a slight prominence, indicative of the original separation into two halves. Springing from the lower part of the soft palate, near to Arches the uvula, are two folds on each side, containing muscular pliiars; fibres, which are directed downwards on the sides of the isthmus faucium. These are named arches or pillars of the palate, and are distinguished from one another by their relative position. The anterior one reaches the side of the anterior, tongue near its root; and the posterior, longer than the other, is continued to the side of the pharynx. As they r\ot^ diverge from their origin to their insertion, they limit a triangular space, in which the tonsil lies. The velum consists of an aponeurosis, together with Eie- muscles, vessels and nerves, and mucous glands ; and the veium, whole is enveloped by the mucous membrane. K 4