KADIAL ARTERY AND BRANCHES. 301 vessel is smaller than the ulnar artery, though it appears in direction to be the continuation of the brachial trunk. In all its extent the radial artery is quite superficial, being Coniiec- 1111 • 1 tions covered only by the common tegumentary investments, and with the deep fascia, and during life it can be felt beating as ote\^\t, the pulse near the wrist. Its connections with the surround- ing muscles and the radius are these: — in the upper half of gj^gg'^ the forearm the artery is placed between the supinator longus externally and the pronator teres internally, the former somewhat overlapping it; but below that point it lies between the tendons of the supinator longus and flexor carpi radialis. At first the vessel is on the inner side of the behind ^ ^ ^ and with radius, but afterwards over that bone : it is placed succes- the ■ , radius. sively over the following parts, viz. the fleshy supinator brevis, the tendon of the pronator teres, the thin radial origin of the flexor sublimis, some muscles of the deep layer, viz. flexor pollicis longus and pronator quadratus, and lastly on the end of the radius. The usual venas comites are found veins on the sides of the artery. The radial nerve is on the outer nerve side of, though not in contact with the vessel, in the upper two thirds of the forearm, or until it passes backwards be- neath the tendon of the supinator longus, and becomes cu- taneous. Branches, — The radial artery furnishes many unnamed Branch- 111 1. esboth muscular and nutrient branches to the surrounding parts : muscu- , , - . . _ ^ ^ ' lar and and three named branches, viz. recurrent radial, superficial anasto- . ^ motic. volar, and anterior carpal. a. The radial recurrent is the first branch of the artery, and Radial supplies the muscles of the outer side of the limb. Its course is rent.' almost transverse to the supinator longus muscle, beneath which it terminates in muscular ramifications. One offset ascends beneath the supinator, and anastomoses with the superior profunda branch of the brachial artery. h. The superficial volar branch usually arises near the lower Super- end of the radius, but its exact place of origin is uncertain. It is volar, directed towards the palm of the hand, across or through the mass of muscles in the ball of the thumb, and it either ends in those muscles, or joins the superficial palmar arch. c. The anterior carpal branch is very inconsiderable in size, and Anterior will be seen in the examination of the deep layer of muscles. Arising rather above the lower end of the radius, this artery passes transversely beneath the muscles, and anastomoses with a similar