DISSECTION OF THE EAK. 796 face of bone forming the promontory of the tympanum; or this may be done on another piece of bone in which the semicircular canals are not laid bare. The horizontal direc- tion of this body will be best seen by cutting away the bone above it. To dissect the same parts in the recent state, a recent ^ ' bone. softened bone should be used. Form The cochlea is conical in form, and is placed almost hori- tuation; zoutally in front of the vestibular space. The base of this body is turned to the meatus auditorius internus, and is perforated by small apertures ; whilst the apex is directed to the upper and anterior part of the inner wall of the tym- panum, opposite the canal for the tensor tympani muscle, size.] Its length is about a quarter of an inch, and its width at the Resem- base is about the same. Kesemblinsr a snail-shell in con- bles a ^ , ^ snail- struction, the cochlea consists of a tube wound spirally round shell in ' ^ ^ r J some a central part or axis ; but it differs from a shell in the fact respects. ^ ^ of the tube being subdivided into two by a partition, and in the circumstance of the central part or axis being much thicker. Parts of In the description of the cochlea it will be necessary to cochlea, notice separately the axis or centre, the spiral tube, and the partition with the two passages. A spiral The spiral tube forms two turns and a half around the tube ^ closed at axis^ and terminates above in a closed extremity, named the one end . forms 2i cupola. When measured alono; the outer side, the tube is turns J / . « . . 11. about one inch and a half long; its diameter at the begin- measure- ^ing is about ouc tenth of an inch, but it gradually dimi- nishes to half that size towards the opposite end. Of the turns that the tube makes, the first is much the largest; this projects at its commencement into the tympanum, and gives rise to the eminence of the promontory on the inner wall of that cavity. The second turn is included within the first. The last half turn bends sharply round, and presents a free is di^ semilunar margin (the edge of the axis) at one side. In the into two. recent bone the tube is divided into two passages (scalae) by a septum: in the dry bone a remnant of this partition is seen in the form of a thin plate of bone (lamina spiralis); and on the outer wall, opposite this ridge of bone, is a slight groove. Acen- The axis or modiolus (columella) consists of the bony sub- laror stauce iucludcd within the coils of the spiral tube: it is axis