DISSECTION OF THE BUTTOCK. 696 communication, and pierce the j&bres of the gluteus maximus to be distributed on the surface (p. 693.). medius^ '^^^ GLUTEUS MEDius is triangular in form, with its base at the innominate bone, and its apex at the femur. It arises aviscs from the outer surface of the hip bone, between the from hip . bone, crest and the superior curved line, except where the gluteus, maximus is attached behind ; and from the strong fascia covering its anterior part. The fibres of origin converge to and in. a tcudou whicli is inserted into an impression across the serted into tro- outcr surfacc of the great trochanter, extendinoj from the tip chanter. ^ ' & r behind to the root in front. The superficial surface is con- connec ccalcd in part by the gluteus maximus ; and the deep is in tions. .1-11 contact with the gluteus minimus, and the gluteal vessels and nerve. The anterior border lies over the gluteus minimus, and the posterior is contiguous to the pyriformis, only the gluteal artery intervening. A small bursa is between the tendon of insertion and the trochanter. Detach Dissection, — When the gluteus medius is detached from medius the pclvis, and partly separated from the gluteus minimus gluteal beneath, the gluteal vessels and nerve will come into view. vessels The two chief branches of the artery and nerve,— one being near the iliac crest, and the other lower down, — are to be traced through the fleshy fibres as the reflection of the gluteus and is proceeded with; and the lower part of the nerve is to be followed on at the same time to the tensor vaginaB femoris muscle. A branch of the artery to the gluteus maximus has necessarily been cut in removing that muscle. Gluteal The qluteal artery is the largest branch of the internal artery is . . ^ ° iliac (p. 608.), and issues from the pelvis above the pyri- formis muscle. On the dorsum of the hip bone it ends in divided offsets that supply the gluteal muscles and the bone, and "^^^^^^* anastomose with the other branches in this situation. Its named branches are superficial and deep : — superfi- a. The superficial branch sends inwards a few twif^s over the cialand -. n . i i • , • , . sacrum, and ends m the gluteus maximus, which it penetrates on the under surface. deep h. The deep branch is the continuation of the artery, and lies branch. "j^gj-^ggj^ smaller gluteal muscles : it subdivides into two pieces. One (superior) courses along the origin of the gluteus this has minimus, with a branch of the nerve, to the front of the iliac an upper ^^^^^^ where it anastomoses with the ascending branches of the and a external circumflex artery. The other division (inferior) is