DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 474 where it crosses the corresponding piece of the opposite side Outer —that of the riojht muscle beinor superficial. The outer mar- margin. , ^ . 7 . gin is the strongest, and is not straight like the inner, but is bent around the spermatic cord, so as to form a kind of groove for it. This margin is continuous with Poupart's ligament, and is attached below to the pubic spine or tube- A fascia rositj. A thin membrane (intercolumnar or spermatic fas- ed from cia) obscurcs the sides of the opening, and is derived from opening, somo intcrmargiual or intercolumnar fibres on the surface The of the aponeurosis. The ring gives passage in the male to male, the spcrmatic cord, and in the female to the round ligament; in each case the transmitted part lies on the outer or lower and her ^^^g^^ pillar as it passes through, and obtains a covering niai pro. from the intercolumnar fibres. Through the same aperture trusion ^ ^ pass the inguinal hernia protrudes from the wall of the abdomen. through. ^ ^ Inter- The intercolumnar fihres form a layer over the aponeu- nar"™" rosis, and bind together its parallel fibres, so as to construct Attach ^ I'esisting membrane. Inferiorlj it is strongest, and there ment in- a buudlc of the fibrcs is connected with the outer third of teriorly. Poupart's ligament, and is extended back to the crista ilii. They At the external abdominal rin^ they stretch from side to cross . . . \ upper ^ side (hence the origin of their name), and, becoming stronger ring* and aggregated together, close the upper part of that open- andpro- ing. Morcover they are prolonged on the cord from the twn^i?-^ margin of the ring, and give rise to the membrane named lumnar intercolumnar fascia. On the left side, where the fascia is fascia, gjj^jpg^ j^j^jg \)^YCL covering will be manifest on the surface of the cord, or on the round ligament in the female. To see DissBction, — To SCO the attachments and connections of insertion ^ » t • .n t ofPou- Pouparts ligament, it will be necessary to reflect, on both gament;' sidcs of the body, the lower part of the aponeurosis towards the thigh. For this purpose an incision is to be carried through the aponeurosis from the front of the iliac crest Throw nearly to the linea alba. The aponeurosis is to be detached piece of from the subjacent parts with the handle of the scalpel; and oWi^uS^ when it cannot be separated farther from the tendons be- neath, near the middle line, it is to be cut in the direction of a vertical line to the symphysis pubis. After the trian- gular piece of the aponeurosis has been thrown towards the thigh, the cord is to be dislodged from the surface of the ligament, to see the insertion of this band into the pubes.