DISSECTION OF THE UPPEK LIMB. 264 lodges the lower border of the scapula and tlie teres major muscle. Dissec. Dissection,— To lay bare the serratus muscle, which tion of theser- passcs from the chest to the base of the scapula, the arm ratus. must be drawn from the trunk, so as to separate the scapula from the thorax. The nerves of the brachial plexus should then be cut through opposite or below the second rib, and the fat and the connective tissue should be cleaned from the surface of the muscle. Serratus The SERRATUS MAGNUS MUSCLE cxtcnds between the base is attach- of the scapula and the thorax. It arises from the outer sur- ribs and facc and the lower border of the eight upper ribs, about two inches from their cartilages, by pointed processes, which are nine in number in consequence of the second rib having two. The fibres converge towards the base and the angles of the scapula, but from a difference in their direction, the fib?es^ muscle appears to consist of three parts. The upper part is seem to attached internally to the first two ribs and to an aponeurotic form , ^ three arcli between them ; and externally, to an impression on the ventral surface of the upper angle of the scapula. A middle part, which is very thin, extends from the next two ribs (third and fourth) to the base of the shoulder bone. And a lower part, which is the strongest, is connected on the one side with four ribs (fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth), where it digitates with like processes of origin of the ex- ternal oblique muscle; and, on the other side, it is fixed into the rough surface of bone on the costal aspect of the connec- lower angle of the scapula. The muscle is applied against the mus- the ribs and the intercostal muscles, and is partly concealed by the pectoral muscles and the axillary vessels and nerves : in the ordinary position of the arm, the scapula and the sub- scapularis muscle are in contact with it. Dissec- Dissection.— The intercostal muscles will be brou2rht into tion , , ^ ^ ^ pf^tjje view by detaching the processes of origin of the serratus costal from the ribs, and takiner away the loose tissue on the sur- muscles. ^ o » face. Towards the front of the chest the thin aponeurosis, that is continued forwards from the external fleshy stratum to the sternum, is to be retained. Some of the lateral cuta- neous nerves should be preserved. Inter- The INTERCOSTAL MUSCLES are named from their position costal muscles between the ribs. There are two layers in each space ; but