494 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. internal hernia (superior) projects through the part of the area of the triangular space, where only the fascia transversalis is is farther found. Its cxistcnce is dependent upon the position of the out than , . the pre- obliterated hypogastric artery behind the wall of the abdo- ceding ^ a o j in the men (p. 495.). If this hernia existed, it is evident that it tnangu- . . larspace, would picrcc the abdominal wall close to the epigastric artery, and would descend along nearly the whole of the and is insruinal canal to reach the external abdominal ring ; conse- oblique ^ . . ' in^direc- qucutly the term direct will not apply strictly to the form of internal hernia now under consideration. Cover- Coverings, — As this internal hernia traverses nearly same as the wholc of the iuguiual canal, it has exactly the same in exter- 11.1^ • i t t > ^ nai her- number and kind ot coverings as the external hernia that accompanies the spermatic cord, viz. the skin and the super- ficial fascia, the spermatic and cremasteric fasciae, the fascia trans versalis, and the subperitoneal fat and the peritoneum. stricture Seat of Stricture, — The constriction of the intestine will at same ^ ^ . i i i • spots, take place at the same spots as m the external hernia; and from the inability always to decide, in the living body, whether the kind of hernia is internal or external, the rule Division obscrvcd in dividing the deep stricture is to cut directly upwards, as in the other kinds of inguinal hernia. umbiii- Umbilical Heenia, or exomphalos, is a protrusion of the nia. intestine either through or by the side of the umbilicus. It Course, is very variable in size, and its course is straight through the abdominal wall. Cover- Coverings. — The coverings of the intestine in a small hernia are thin, and few in number, viz. the skin and the superficial fascia, a prolongation from the tendinous margin of the abdominal opening, together with the remaining common coverings of the fascia transversalis, the subperi- toneal fat and the peritoneum. If the hernia is suddenly produced, it may want the investment that otherwise is derived from the tendon of the external oblique muscle. become Over the end of the tumour the fat of the superficial fascia united , ^ , over the disappears, and this coverino^ becomes blended with the tumour. ^ . ^ other contiguous structures, stric- Seat of stricture. —The stricture on the intestine is gene- rally found at the margin of the tendinous opening in the abdominal wall; and it should be remembered that this opening is at the upper part, not in the centre of the swell- ture,