616 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. below, coccyx bv means of a loop, on which is situate a single where •/ v a o there is median ganglion {gang, impar). Each cord is marked by gUon. ganglia at intervals, the number varying from three to five. Offsets From the ganglia branches of communication pass to the ganglia spiual ucrvcs, and some filaments are directed inwards in front of the sacrum, to the The connecting branches are two to each ganglion, gray nerves; and whitc, and are very short; but, like those of the lum- bar ganglia, they may enter two sacral nerves instead of one. The gray connecting cord unites the ganglion and the spinal nerve, but the white one is continued over the gan- glion to the plexuses for the viscera.* to the The internal branches are smaller than those of other hypo^as. p^^^g ^£ ^j^^ cord, and communicate in front of the sacrum, and the and around the middle sacral artery, with branches from the opposite side. From the first, or first two ganglia, some fila- ments are furnished to the hypogastric plexus ; and from the terminal connecting branches and the ganglion impar, in front of the coccyx, offsets descend over that bone. Plexuses The visceral or pelvic plexuses (lateral inferior hypogas- sympa- tric) are two in number, a riffht and a left, and are con- thetic: . ^ . i , -. \ -T - n \ ^ tmuous with the lateral prolongations oi the hypogastric situa- plexus (p. 518.). Each is situate by the side of the bladder and the rectum, or the side of the vagina in the female, and how is united with offsets from the third and fourth sacral nerves, formed. constitute the above-named plexus. Numerous gangha are found in the plexus, especially at the points of union of the spinal and sympathetic nerves. Offsets From each plexus offsets are furnished to the viscera of tothe viscera the pclvis, and to the genital organs, along the branches of male, the internal iliac artery. These different secondary plexuses have the same name as the vessels on which they are placed ; but as they may not be seen in the dissection, a mere enu- meration of them will be sufficient, to the The inferior hcemorrhoidal plexus is an offset to the rectum from ' the back of the plexus, and joins the sympathetic on the superior hagmorrhoidal artery. to the The vesical plexus contains large offsets, with many white fibred bladder; ' i=> -> J ' or spinal nerves, and passes forwards to the side, and the lower * See a Paper on the " Nerves of the Uterus," by Dr. T. S. Beck, in the Philosophical Transactions for 1846.