LIGAMENTS OF THE PELVIS. 645 T T 3 this muscle may now be studied in the interior of the pelvis, muscle. The muscle is described at p. 591. ARTICULATIONS OF THE PELVIS. The several bones of the pelvis have the following articu- outline ^ . ^. ofthe lations with one another. The sacrum is joined by its base nrticuia- tions. to the last lumbar vertebra, and by its apex to the coccyx, by special ligaments. Laterally, this central bone is united with the two innominate bones. And the innominate bones are connected together in front, as well as to the sacrum and the spinal column posteriorly. Sacro-vertebral Articulation. — The base of the union oi sacrum sacrum is articulated with the last lumbar vertebra by liffa- with last ° rertebra, ments similar to those uniting one vertebra to another (p. 400.) ; and by one special ligament — the sacro-vertebral. Dissection. — For the best manner of bringing these dif- Dissec- ferent ligaments into view, the dissector must consult the directions that have been given respecting the dissection of the ligaments of the vertebrae (p. 400.). The common ligaments between the bodies of the two By liga- , . , . . , . . ments as bones are an anterior and a posterior, with an intervening in the fibro-cartilaginous substance. Between the neural arches brse, are the ligamenta subflava; between the spines, the supra and interspinous bands ; and between the articular processes are capsular ligaments and synovial membranes. The sacro-vertebral ligament is a stronsr bundle of fibres, and by a ° ° ' special which reaches from the under aspect of the tip of the trans- band, ^ ^ sacro- verse process of the last lumbar vertebra, to the lateral part J^rte- of the base of the sacrum. Widening as it descends, the i hgament spreads, and joins the fibres in front of the lateral ' articulation between the sacrum and the innominate bone. Sacro-cocctgeal Articulation.—The sacrum and the union of coccyx are united by a fibre-cartilage, and by an anterior and and a posterior common ligament. coccyx. Dissection^ — Little dissection is necessary for these liga- ments. When the connective tissue has been removed altogether from the bones, the ligaments will be apparent. The anterior ligament (sacro-coccygeal) consists of a few ^?ior^"