593 CONNECTIONS OF THE VISCERA IN THE MALE. lateral vesical ligament. And still farther back it reaches the side of the rectum. The fascia does not cease, where it gives . sheaths it meets the viscera, by becoming blended with their coats, to the but is continued downwards around the prostate and the ree- state and ^ rectum, tum, so as to form sheaths for those viscera below the level of its attachment to them. The sheath that is prolonged on the gut becomes thin towards the anus ; whilst that on the prostate is separated from its viscus by a plexus of veins (prostatic), and sends an offset backwards to incase the vesiculse seminales. The recto-vesical fascia forms a par- and . . '.1 /» .1 forms tition, like that of the levatores ani muscles, across the part of / . the floor pelvis, which is perforated by the prostate and the rectum; of the but in the case of the fascia the viscera receive sheaths from the membrane as they pass through it. In the female the fascia has much the same arrangement Fasda as in the male ; but the vagina, instead of the prostate, per- female, forates the membrane, and receives a tube from it. The true ligaments of the bladder are two on each side. Pieces of anterior and lateral, and are derived from the recto-vesical fascia fascia. a. The anterior reaches from the posterior aspect of the form the anterior pubes to the upper surface of the prostate, and the neck of the bladder : it is a narrow white band, and encloses some muscular fibres of the bladder. Between the ligaments of opposite sides, the recto-vesical fascia dips down to reach the apex of the prostate, h. The lateral ligament is a piece of the same fascia, which and is fixed to the lateral part of the prostate gland, at the upper iiga- border, and to the side of the bladder on the same level. of the There are other ligaments of the bladder (false ligaments), p^ise which are derived from the peritoneum investing it, and will J^^ems of be seen in the following section., bladder. Section II. CONNECTIONS OF THE VISCERA IN THE MALE. Directions, — If the student should be dissecting a female Jfon of" I pelvis, he will find the description of it at page 601. ^Xff Contents and position, — The viscera in the cavity of the Con. I male pelvis are the lower end of the large intestine (rectum) ; the pel. ' ^ vis. Q Q