DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. 174 the arytasnoid cartilage; but in front of that spot the border is sloped obliquely downwards to the middle line. At the middle line behind there is a slight excavation in each border. Arytffi- The arytcBfioid cartilages are two in number, one on each tiiages. side of the middle line, and are placed on the upper border situa- ^ of the cricoid cartilage, at the back of the larynx. Each lorm. cartilage is pyramidal in shape, and offers for examination a base and apex, and three surfaces. Base, The base has a slightly hollowed surface posteriorly for articulation with the cricoid cartilage, and is elongated an- teriorly by means of a process which gives attachment to Apex, the vocal cord. The apex is directed backwards and some- what inwards, and is surmounted by the cartilage of San- Three torini. The inner surface is narrow, especially above, and surfaces. . -, . i , . , flat; but the outer is wide and irregular: on this last surface there is a smaller projection that receives the inser- tion of some of the muscles. At the posterior aspect the cartilage is concave and smooth. Two Cartilages of Santorini, — Attached to the apex of each lages'of arytsenoid cartilage is the small, conical fibro-cartilaginous rhii!^" body of Santorini (corniculum-capitulum Santorini), which is bent inwards towards the one of the opposite side. The arytaeno-epiglottidean fold is connected with it. Two cu- Cuneiform cartilages*— Two other small fibre-cartilagi- carti- nous bodics, one on each side, which are contained in the ^^^^** arytaeno-epiglottidean folds, have received this name. Each is somewhat elongated and circular in form, like a grain of rice; it is situate obliquely in front of the capitulum of the arytsenoid cartilage, and its place in the fold of the mucous membrane is marked by a slight whitish projection. Epigiot- The epiglottis is the largest of the pieces of yellow carti- Form ^^E^' In form it resembles a leaf, with the stalk below, and sition°' lamina or expanded part above. Its position is behind the tongue, and in front of the orifice of the larynx. During respiration it is placed vertically, but during deglutition it assumes a horizontal direction, so as to close the opening of the larynx. sur- The anterior surface is bent forwards to the tongue, to which it is connected by three folds of mucous membrane; and the posterior surface is hollowed from side to side, but