296 DISSECTION OF THE FRONT OF THE FOREARM. from the ulnar nerve. The posterior branch continues along the back of the forearm (ulnar side) to rather below the middle, musculo The cutaneous part of the musculo-cutaneous nerve is continued tirnai from. the arm, and courses along the radial border of the limb as neous • the ball of the thumb, on which it terminates in cutaneous offsets. I^'ear the wrist the nerve is placed over the radial artery, and some twigs pierce the fascia to ramify on the vessel. A little above the middle of the forearm the nerve gives backwards a branch to the integument on the posterior aspect, that reaches nearly to the wrist, and communicates with the radial nerve as well as with the following cutaneous nerve, external The external cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral nerve, after ous of passing the elbow, turns to the posterior aspect of the forearm, and io"spirai. reaches as far as the wrist. Near its termination it joins the pre- ceding cutaneous nerve. Ending The 7'adial nerve is distributed to the integument of the back of radial the hand, and to that of the thumb and the next two fingers. It ^^^^^ becomes cutaneous at the outer border of the forearm in the lower third, and after giving backwards some filaments to the posterior aspect of the limb, divides into two branches : — byexter- a. One (external) is joined by the musculo-cutaneous nerve, internal and is distributed to the radial border and the ball of the thumb. ' b. The other branch (internal) supplies the remaining side of the thumb, both sides of the next two digits, and half the ring finger ; so that the radial nerve supplies the same number of digital branches on the dorsal aspect as the median nerve furnishes on the which palmar aspect. This division of the radial nerve communicates the fin- with the musculo- cutaneous and ulnar nerves; and the offset, which is distributed to the contiguous sides of the ring and middle fingers, is joined by a twig from the dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve. Termi- Qn the sides of the finojers each of these dorsal digital nerves is nation. . . ® ... united with an offset from the corresponding digital nerve on the palmar surface, and then extends to the tip of the finger, o/uinar '^^^ dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve furnishes offsets to the rest nerve to of the fingers and to the back of the hand. Appearing by the handand Styloid proccss of the ulna, this branch joins in an arch across the back of the hand with the radial nerve, and is then distributed to fingers, both sides of the little finger, and to the contiguous side of the ring finger : moreover, it communicates with the part of the radial nerve that supplies the space between the ring and middle fingers. The ulnar nerve will be afterwards seen to supply branches to the same number of digits on the palmar surface. Deep The aponeurosis of the forearm is continuous with a fascia of the fore^ similar investment of the arm ; it furnishes the muscle?