273 DORSAL SCAPULAR MUSCLES. the tendons of the supraspinatus and teres minor muscles. The greater part of the muscle is subcutaneous, and the is partly fibres that arise from the spine of the scapula overlay the by dei- others and the tendon : the upper part is concealed by the deltoid, and the lower end. by the latissimus dorsi. The other ^ ^ connec- lower border is parallel to the teres minor, with which it is tions. sometimes united. The muscle lies on the scapula and the humero-scapular articulation, but it is separated from the last by a small bursa. The TERES MINOR is a narrow fleshy slip, which is often Teres T 11 1 minor is inseparably united with the preceding muscle, along whose on back lower border it lies. It arises on the dorsum of the scapula, scapula, from a special surface along the two upper thirds of the in- ferior costa of the bone, and from the investing fascia; and it is inserted by a tendon into the lowest of the three marks inser. . n 1 /I tion with on the sfreat tuberosity oi the humerus, as well as by fleshy the 1 former. fibres into the humerus below that spot — about an inch altogether. This muscle is partly covered by the deltoid; Parts and it rests on the long head of the triceps and the shoulder it. joint. Underneath it the dorsal branch of the subscapular artery turns. The TERES MAJOR musclc is extended from the inferior Teres angle of the scapula to the humerus. Its origin is from the reaches rough surface on the dorsum of the scapula at the inferior lower angle, from the inferior costa of the bone for some distance, scapula and from the fascia covering the teres minor. The fibres to the . . hume- end in a tendon which is inserted into the inner edge of the rus. bicipital groove of the humerus. This muscle forms part of the posterior fold of the axilla, and is situate beneath the axillary vessels and nerves near the humerus. At its origin Adjacent it is covered by the latissimus dorsi. The upper border is contiguous to the subscapularis muscle, and the lower is received into a hollow formed by the fibres of the latissimus dorsi. At the humerus the tendon of the muscle is about Tendon two inches wide, and lies behind that of the latissimus; bursa. I above, the two are separated by a bursa; but below they are I united, and an expansion is sent from them to the fascia of the arm. A second bursa is behind the tendon between it and the bone. Below the scapula (inferior costa), where the teres muscles Two separate from one another, is a triangular interval, which tS between