558 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. to the apex of that body, where they open by somewhat fewer in dilated oHfices. In the pyramid the tubes lie close together, number i p , -,. and ves- and havo but few vessels between them; they lurther dimi- nish in number, from base to apex, by repeated unions, and open are enveloped by a uniting or parenchymatous structure. inferior- Qu a scction of oue of the pyramids, near the lower end, the number of tubes was estimated by Krause at a hundred in a square line. struc- Structure and ending of the tubes, — The tubes consist of the^vaii a thin special membrane; and they are lined by an epithe- hnie^' lium of the spheroidal kind, which forms three-fourths of the thickness of the wall, except in the pyramid, where it is special thinner, and the cells smaller and flatter. At the termi- brane natiou of the tubes in free extremities each tube presents a theiiura". dilated or saccular part, which contains a small vascular Malpighian body, and is perforated by the two vessels con- nected with that body.* Into this little sac the epithelial lining extends, and becomes very delicate and translucent. Dilatations for the lodgment of the Malpighian bodies are connected with the sides, as well as the ends of the tubes. Corpus- The Malpighian corpuscles (glomeruli of Ruysch) are t!fe small, rounded or oblong vascular bodies, which are contained tubules. dilated sacs of the uriniferal tubes. Each little vas- size; cular tuft has commonly a diameter of inch, and compos. IS formed by the capillary ramifications of two small vessels vessels, that perforate the end of the containing tube. One vessel (afferent) is a small twig of the renal artery, which forms the exterior of the tuft by its branchings; the other (efferent) occupies the centre of the tuft, and issuing from the tube ends in the plexus on a neighbouring uriniferal tube. This capillary body is free in the cavity of the tube that secretes the urine, but it is covered by some nucleated scales. Blood- Bloodvessels.—The artery and vein that are distributed Ire^^^ to the kidney are very large in proportion to the size of the inTar ^^g^^ ^^^7 uourish ; and some small arterial branches have Irepecu ^ Peculiar disposition in the Malpighian bodies before they liar. become capillary, and end in the veins. * See a Paper in the Philosophical Transactions for 1842, Part I., On the Structure and Use of the Malpighian P>odies of the Kidney, by W. Bowman, r.R.S.