562 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. THE TESTES. Testes The testes are two glandular organs for the secretion of situated -i i i • i -r^ i • in the the semen, and are lodged m the scrotum. Each is suspended scrotum . . , . and en. bj the spcrmatic cord and its coverings (p. 483 ), but the by a left is usually lower than the right; and each is provided serous t t f» sac. with an excretory duct named vas deferens. A serous sac surrounds partly each organ. To see Dissection. — For the purpose of examining the serous serous covcring of the testicle (tunica vaginalis), make an aperture into it and inflate it. The surface of both the sac and the spermatic cord are then to be cleaned, and the vessels of the latter are to be followed to their entrance into the testicle. Serous The tuTiica vaginalis is a serous bag, which is continuous with the peritoneal lining of the abdomen in the foetus, but becomes subsequently a distinct sac, in consequence of the partly obliteration of the tube that connected the two. It invests the tes- the testicle after the manner of other serous membranes; for and lines tcsticlc is placcd behind it, so as to be partly enveloped scrotum, by it^ and yet not in the enclosed cavity. The sac, however, is larger than is necessary for covering the testicle, and pro- jects some distance above it. Like other serous membranes, it has an external rough, and an internal secerning smooth ill surface; and like them it has a visceral and a parietal part. «| To examine its disposition the sac should be opened. Its vis. The visceral layer (tunica vagin. testis) covers the testicle, part, except posteriorly where the vessels enter or leave it, and is inseparably united with the special fibrous coat of the viscus. On the outer side it extends farther back than on the inner, and passes between the testis and the arched body (epi- didymis) that lies on this aspect of the organ.J and pa- The parietal part of the sac (tunic, vagin. scroti) is more | extensive than the piece covering the testicle, and lines the | immediately contiguous layer of the scrotum. Testicle Form and position of the testis. — The testicle is oval in shape, with a smooth surface, and is flattened on the sides. Margins. The anterior margin is convex ; and the posterior, which is flatter, is pierced by the spermatic vessels and nerves. ! Bodies Stretchinsf like an arch alone: the outer part of the testis is on the ... testicle, the epididymis, or the convoluted part of the excretory duct i