DISSECTION OF THE FACE. 28 pressor musclcs, but the greater number are continued into the de- of angle, p^^^gg^j. g^j^g^^j Qj-jg cJ^^Yld the lowor lip. Depres- The DEPRESSOR LABii iNFERiORis is opposito the elevator lower lip of the upper lip, and has much yellow fat mixed with its fibres. The muscle takes its origin from a depression on the front of the lower jaw, reaching backwards from near the symphysis to a little beyond the hole for the labial vessels and nerve; ascending thence it is blended with the is in the orbicularis in the lower lip. Its inner border joins the of chin, muscle of the opposite side, and its outer is overlapped by the depressor anguli oris. Depjes- The DEPRESSOR ANOULi ORIS is triangular in shape, and angle passcs from the oblique line on the outer surface of the lower jaw to the angle of the mouth, where its fibres are continued is a into the elevators of the angle. This muscle conceals the mmie. labial branch of the inferior dental vessels and nerve. At its origin the depressor is united with the platysma myoides, and at its insertion with the risorius muscle. Elevator The LEVATOR LABII iNFERiORis is a Small muscle on the side of the frsenum of the lower lip, which is opposite to the depressor of the ala of the nose in the upper lip. When is seen the mucous membrane has been removed, this muscle will mouth, be seen to arise from a fossa near the symphysis of the lower jaw, and to descend to its insertion into the integu- ment of the chin. Its position is internal to the depressor of the lip, and the attachment of the orbicularis, zygo- The ZYGOMATIC MUSCLES are directed obliquely from the muscles; arch of the same name towards the angle of the mouth. One is longer and larger than the other; hence the names major and minor, large The zygomaticus major arises from the outer part of the malar bone at the union with the temporal, and is inserted into the angle of the mouth, and The zygomaticus minor is attached to the malar bone anterior to the other, and blends with the fibres of the special elevator of the upper lip. Riso- The RISORIUS MUSCLE (Santorini) is a thin and narrow Smscie bundle of fibres, sometimes divided into two or more parts, is almost which ariscs externally from the fascia over the masseter v?rse" muscle, and is connected internally with theT apex of the depressor anguli oris.