INTERIOR OF THE LARYNX. 167 M 4 Dissection.—For the purpose of displaying the vocal ap- pissec- paratus, let the tube of the larynx be divided along the expose posterior part; and in cutting through the arytaenoid mus- cle, let the incision be rather to the right of the middle line, so as to avoid the nerves that enter it. On looking into the larynx a hollow (ventricle) will be seen on each side; and if a probe be passed into the hollow or ventricle it may be made to enter a small pouch by an aperture in the anterior and upper part. The dissector should fill the pouch on the right side by introducing very small and round bits of cotton wool into it. Bounding the ventricle above and below are the bands of the vocal cords. The laryngeal space reaches from the aperture behind space the epiglottis to the lower border of the cricoid cartilage, mied^^ At the upper part, the space that corresponds to the large interval between the alas of the thyroid cartilage is much diminished in size by the thyro-arytaenoid muscles and the produc- vocal cords, and only a narrow interval, the glottis, is left us! at one spot. At the lower part, however, the space remains The rest of the same shape and size as the cricoid cartilage, and is therefore circular, and larger than the narrow part before alluded to. The upper orifice of the larynx will be seen by placing upper in contact the surfaces of the cut along the posterior part. It is triangular in shape, with the base in front and the apex shape, behind, and its sides are sloped obliquely downwards in the antero-posterior direction. Its boundaries are, — the epi- and glottis in front, the arytaenoid muscle and cartilages behind, ^I'es"'^^" and the arytaeno-epiglottidean fold of mucous membrane on each side. This aperture is closed by the epiglottis during deglutition. The glottis, or rima glottidis, is the interval between the Glottis, lower vocal cords; it is placed on a level with the base of position, the arytaenoid cartilages, and is the narrowest part of the laryngeal cavity. In the state of rest it is a narrow fissure enlarged a little and rounded behind, but when dilated it is triangular in form, like the upper orifice, though its wider form, part is turned backwards to the arytaenoid muscle. Its sides con- struc- are not constructed wholly of a yielding material, but partly tion, of ligament and partly of cartilage:—thus, for about the two anterior thirds is the elastic vocal cord, whilst, at the