635 THE VAGINA. much in size. In the child and in the virgin it is partly- closed below by a thin semilunar fold of mucous membrane named the hymen. After the destruction of the membrane Hymen and ca- small irregularly-shaped projections, carunculce myrtiformes, nmcuia?. exist around the opening of the vagina. The internal generative organs are the uterus and the vagina, and the ovaries with the Fallopian tubes. Dissection.— The viscera are now to be separated, so that separate ^ vagina the bladder and the urethra may be together, and the vagina ^na^^^ and the uterus remain united. The bladder is to be set aside for subsequent use, and the other organs may be first learnt. The surface of the vagina, and of the lower part of the uterus should be cleaned, but the peritoneal investment of the latter is to be left untouched for the present. THE VAGINA. The vaojina is a dilatable tube, which is connected with the Vagina: ^ ' ^ extent uterus at one end, and terminates in the vulva at the other. It has a curved course between the two points mentioned : and curved and the anterior and posterior surfaces of the tube are not course, equal in length, for whilst the former measures about four inches, the latter is about five or six in extent. In its position in the body the vagina is flattened from Form above downwards, so that the opposite surfaces may be in contact, but the upper end is rounded where it is joined to the uterus. Its size varies at different spots: thus the ex-and size* ternal orifice which is surrounded by the constrictor vaginae muscle is the narrowest part, the middle portion is the largest, and the upper end is intermediate in dimensions between the other two. After the vagina has been laid open by an incision along interior the upper wall, the position of the uterus in that wall, in- stead of at the extremity, may be remarked; and further, the tube can be seen to extend higher on the posterior than the anterior aspect of the cervix uteri. On the inner surface, towards the lower part, is a slight longitudinal ridge both in front and behind, named columns of the vagina. Before the has ° columns tissue of the vaorina has been distended, other transverse and rugae. ridges or rugcB may be seen passing between the columns.