DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 686 pubic border of the bone close to and outside the gracilis; but it reaches upwards rather higher, viz. to the adductor longus, and not quite so low as the muscle with which it is and wide conioined. It is inserted behind the pectineus into the whole at the . . inser- of the line leading from the linea aspera towards the small Parts in trochanter. In front of the muscle are the pectineus and front, adductor longus ; but it is gradually uncovered by the latter below, and the contiguous borders of the two are side by side at their insertion into the femur : on this aspect, too, are the superficial piece of the obturator nerve, and the pro- behind, funda artery. Behind the muscle is the adductor magnus, and at with the dccp piece of the obturator nerve. In contact with border, the Upper border is the obturator externus, and the internal circumflex artery passes between the two. obtura- The OBTURATOR NERVE is a branch of the lumbar plexus nerve (p. 585.), and supplies the adductor muscles of the thi^^h, as well as the hip and knee joints. The nerve issues from the pelvis through the aperture in the upper part of the thyroid isdivid- foramen; and it divides in that opening into two parts, two: which are named superficial and deep from their position with respect to the adductor brevis muscle, thesu- The anterior or superficial part of the nerve joins the part"^^ plexus of the internal cutaneous and saphenous nerves at the inner aspect of the thigh (p. 681.). The nerve is directed over the adductor brevis, but beneath the pectineus and the joins' adductor longus. At the lower border of the last muscle it in the furnishes an olfset to join in the interlacement of the nerves, ends on remainder of it is continued to the femoral artery, arteryf which it is distributed. In addition to the branches be- fore mentioned, the nerve receives (sometimes) the commu- nicating twig from its accessory branch, and supplies the hip joint, and some of the surrounding muscles. Branch- Branches.— Near the pelvis or in the aperture of exit, es are to hip this division of the nerve sends outwards an articular twig Muscu. l^ip joint, with the artery to the same part. Muscular smne^ad- branclics are furnished to the adductor longus, the adductor ductors. ]3j,gyis^ ^ud the gracilis. Unusual condition of the nerve.—In some bodies this superficial part may division of the nerve is of large size, and extends beyond the plexus be larger.^ the middle of the thigh. In such instances the nerve joins freely in the plexus, and gives cutaneous offsets to the integument