ROOTS OF THE NERVES. 433 The arachnoid is sparingly supplied with vessels like serous membranes in general, and proof of its containing nerves is yet wanting. The ma mater has a network of vessels in its substance, thou(]jh of pia ^ P mater, these are much less marked than in the membrane on the brain, and from them offsets enter the cord. In its substance are many nerves; these were supposed by Purkinje to be derived from the sympathetic, but Remak has shown that their chief source is from the posterior roots of the spinal nerves. Dissection.—The arachnoid membrane is next to be taken Dissec- tion of from the fibrils of the roots of a nerve ; and the roots of roots of nerves. the nerve are to be traced outwards to their transmission through two apertures in the dura mater. One or more of the lower offsets of the dura mater, that have been cut of some length, are to be laid open to show the contained ganglion. The student should define the ganglion, and should trace the roots of the nerve to their union beyond the ganglion. Spinal Nerves. — The spinal nerves are thirty one in Trunks number. The trunks are constructed by the blending nerves.^ together of two roots (anterior and posterior) in the inter- vertebral foramina. They are divided into groups corre- ^^^^^^ spondinff to the rec^ional subdivisions of the spinal column, vange- . , ^ ment in viz. cervical, dorsal, lumbar, sacral, and coccygeal. In each groups, group the nerves are equal to the number of the vertebrse, except in the cervical region of the spine, where there are eight, and in the coccygeal region, where there is only one. In consequence of the cervical nerves exceedinor the number Last . ^ nerve of of the vertebrse, the last is placed below the seventh verte- a group below bra; and thus the lowest nerve of each group will be below its corresponding vertebra. Each nerve divides into two, viz. anterior and posterior primary branches; the former of these is distributed to the front of the body and the limbs, and the latter is confined to the hinder part of the trunk. Roots of the Nerves.—Two roots or bundles of fibrils Each nerve (anterior and posterior) attach the nerve to the spinal cord; ^^^^^'^ and these blend toorether to form the trunk of the nerve anterior ° and pos- either in the intervertebral foramen, or, it may be, in the terior. spinal canal. The posterior root is marked by a ganglion, but the anterior root is aganglionic. The posterior or qanqlionic roots surpass in size the an- ^'cste- J. 1/ 1/ J. nor TOO*-