384 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. along the air tube beyond the limit of the pieces of cartilage, Mucous but they cease where the cells be^in to be formed. The mem- , . brane. mucous membrane becomes thinner as it extends onwards along the air tube, and is finally continued to the cells, where it is transparent. Its ciliated columnar epithelium is changed for nucleated scaly or pavemental in the air cells. Lobules, Lobules and lobes.— A lobule is a cluster of air cells formed, arourud a terminal branch of the air tube. Varying in size and shape, the lobule is invested by connective tissue, and possesses its own offset of the air tube, as well as distinct Lobes, branches of vessels and nerves. The larger masses of the lung, viz. lobes, are produced by the aggregation of the lobules. Nature The air cells are the little sacs or dilatations in which the of the air smallest branches of the air tube terminate. They are poly- hedral in form, except on the surface, and are distinct one from another, save through the channel of the air passage, position The cells are clustered in groups around the terminal divi- on air ^ ^ tubes, sion of the air tube, and are situate both along the sides and at the extremity of the passage, with which they com- size. municate by large orifices. In size, these small cells vary from -^i^ to y^^th of an inch across, but they are larger on the surface and at the edges than in the deeper parts of the struc- lunsc. The cell wall is formed by fibrous tissue, with some ture. ^ , o 1 -, scattered fibres of elastic tissue, and is lined by a trans- parent mucous membrane possessing scaly epithelium.* Beneath the mucous lining is a network of the pulmonary vessels. Vessels Vessels of the lung.— Two sets of vessels are furnished to fung are the lung, onc being concerned in its function, the other in tio"nai its uutrition. The vessels that convey blood to the lung to nutrient, be aerated, or that carry the same away after it has been subjected to the respiratory process, are named pulmonary; whilst the vessels connected with the nutrition of the struc- ture are called bronchial, puirao- «. The pulmonary artery after entering the lung, divides hke the artery bronchus which it accompanies to the lobule. At the lobule the arterial branch is minutely subdivided, and its ramifications, enter- ing the interlobular fissures, end in a capillary network in the * Some excellent observers deny the existence of an epithelial mucous lining to the cells.