DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 362 left ven- conical in shape than that of the opposite ventricle, and on a transverse section of the heart it appears oval or almost circular. Apex. The apex of the cavity reaches into the apex of the heart, Base ^ for the fibres of the left ventricle alone form this part. The open- base is turned towards the auricle, and is sloped slightly in a direction opposite to that of the right ventricle. In this part are the openings into the aorta and the left auricle. Walls. The walls of this ventricle are the thickest, and the ante- rior boundary is formed by the septum ventriculorum. Inner Its surface is irregular, like that of the right ventricle, in has consequence of the projections of the fleshy columns, or the cofumns, camss columnaB; but near the great artery (aorta) that leads but some from the cavity the surface is smooth. Three sets of fleshy Tifrge. columns are seen in this as in the right ventricle, but the set that projects into the cavity and receives the small tendi- nous threads of the valve is the most marked. The musculi papillares spring from the front and back of the parietes, and are collected, for the most part, into two large muscular projections. Left au- The aperture into the left auricle (auriculo-ventricular) is ventHcu. placcd ou the left of the orifice of the aorta, and close to it, lar aper- ^^^^ ^ ^j^.^ fibrous band intervening between the two. This Form opening is rather smaller than the corresponding aperture of size. the right side, and is longest like it in the transverse direc- Position. tion: its position is beneath the right auriculo-ventricular it^has opening, opposite the centre of the sternum. It is furnished valve with a membranous valve that projects into the ventricle ; but this is stronger and of greater length than the tricuspid, and has also firmer and more tendinous cords. Attached to a fibrous ring around the aperture, the valve is divided below by a notch on each side, into two instead of three pieces; its segments lie one before another, having their edges directed to the sides, and their surfaces towards the front and back of the cavity. From a fancied resemblance named of jt to a mitre it has been called the mitral valve. The mitral. anterior tongue of the valve intervenes between the auricular and aortic openings, and is attached above to the fibrous band in that position; it is larger and looser than the poste- rior segment. Vlxvf -^^^ mitral resembles the tricuspid valve in its structure