GLOSSO-PHARYNGEAL NERVE. 115 I 2 After the nerve has quitted the foramen, it comes forwards in the between the jugular vein and the carotid artery, and crossing inwards over the artery, reaches the lower border of the stylo-pharyngeus muscle. At this spot, the nerve becomes courses almost transverse in direction in its course to the pha- tongue rynx; it passes over the stylo^pharyng eus, and forms an arch rynx. across the side of the neck (p. 66.), above the superior laryn- geal nerve. Finally the nerve enters beneath the hyo-glossus muscle, and ends in branches to the pharynx, the tongue, and the tonsil. The branches of the glosso-pharyngeal may be classed ^g'"^^^^" into those connecting it with other nerves at the base of the join skull, and those that are distributed in the neck. Connectinq branches. — These arise chiefly from the pe- with T , . , . . , . Others, trosal ganglion, and m this set is the tympanic nerve, ^iz. 1. * A filament ascends from the sympathetic nerve in the neck sympa- to join the petrosal ganglion. Sometimes there is a filament given and va- ; from this ganglion to the auricular branch of the vagus, as well as to the upper ganglion of that nerve. 2. * The tympanic branch (nerve of Jacobson) enters the aper- facial ture in the ridge of bone between the jugular and the carotid pathS' foramen, and ascends by a special canal to the inner wall of the branch, tympanum, where it ends in branches. Its distribution is given with the anatomy of the tympanum of the ear. 3. Connecting branch of the facial nerve. — This pierces the ^^d^ digastric muscle, and joins the trunk of the glosso-pharyngeal, ciai^ below the petrosal ganglion : it is not always present. Branches for Distribution.—In the neck the branches are ^j^^^g^^o furnished chiefly to the tongue and the pharynx, but they are also united with other nerves. 1. Carotid branches surround the artery of that name, and com- carotid . artery, municate on it with the pharyngeal branch of the vagus, and with the sympathetic nerve. 2. Some muscular branches enter the stylo-pharynojeus, whilst styio- , . . . , , J tr J o ■> pharyn- the nerve is in contact with it. geus, 3. Branches to the pharyrix form the pharyngeal plexus by and pha- uniting with nerves from the sympathetic and vagus. plexus, 4. The tonsillitic branches supply the tonsil and the arches of the the ton- soft palate. On the former they end in a kind of plexus — circulus tonsillaris. 5. Lingual branches,—The terminal branches of the nerve sup- and the 11 1-1 tongue. ply the root and the posterior part of the tongue, as well as the