421 VESSELS OF THE BACK. lumbar nerves are five in number, and appear between the are di- erector and multifidus spinas. In their mode of dividing and into two. general arrangement they resemble the dorsal nerves. Cu- taneous offsets are furnished only by the external set of branches. * a. The external branches enter the fibres of the erector External T 1 • T 1 n • branches spinas, and supply it and the small intertransverse muscles, give The first three pierce the erector spinas, and become cuta- ncous neous after perforating the aponeurosis of the latissimus. first The outer branch of the last nerve is connected with the corresponding part of the first sacral nerve by an offset which lies near the bones. * h. The internal branches are supplied to the multifidus internal spinas muscle. Near their origin they are difiicult to find, end in PI. . T . , the mus- m consequence oi being contained m grooves close to the cies. articular processes of the vertebras. * Vessels in the Back.—The vessels that are now dis- The ves- sected are the occipital and the deep cervical artery ; part of ^^^^^^ the vertebral artery ; and the posterior branches of the in- tercostal and lumbar arteries of the aorta. Veins accompany the arteries for the most part. In the neck. — The vessels in the neck are the occipital, the vertebral^ and the deep cervical. The occipital artery may be seen coursing along the occi- Part of pital bone. Appearing from beneath the digastric muscle, cipitai" the vessel is directed backwards beneath the sterno-mas- toideus, the splenius, and sometimes the trachelo-mastoideus, but over the obliquus superior and complexus muscles. Near the middle line of the body it perforates the trapezius and ascends to the occiput, on which it is distributed (p. 6.). It supplies the surrounding muscles, and furnishes the fol- which lowing branch to the neck: — ^^^^^ ^ The cervical hranch (r. princeps cervicalis) distributes twigs to cervical the under part of the trapezius, and then passing beneath the • complexus, anastomoses with the vertebral and deep cervical arteries. The vertebral artery lies on the posterior arch of the first part of vertebra, behind the articulating process of that bone; and tebrl^' appears in the interval between the straight and oblique ^"^^^^ muscles, as it passes beneath the ligament between the atlas and the occipital bone on its way to the skull. Small