282 i DISSECTION OF THE ARM. each tendinous head of origin, and are blended about the middle of the arm in one fleshy mass; the belly of the muscle thus formed, is somewhat flattened from before back, Insertion and is inserted by a tendon into the tubercle of the radius. di'us. The muscle is superficial except at the extremities : at its coverinc^ uppcr part the biceps is concealed by the pectoralis major and deltoid muscles ; and at the lower end the tendon dips into the hollow in front of the elbow, having previously and be- givcu an ofl*set to the fascia of the arm. Beneath the biceps are the brachialis anticus muscle, the musculo-cutaneous Inner ncrve, and the upper part of the humerus. Its inner border border is . guWe to is the guide to the brachial artery below the middle of tlie tery. humerus, but between it and the vessel above that spot the coraco-brachialis muscle intervenes. The connection of the long head of the biceps with the shoulder joint, and the in- sertion of the muscle into the radius will be afterwards dis- sected. coraco- The CORACO-BRACHIALIS is a musclc of a roundish form, brachia- iis is and is named from its bony attachments. Its oriqin is fleshy named ^ j from the from the tip of the coracoid process, and from the tendinous attach- ments. ghort head of the biceps. Its fibres end below in a tendon, which is inserted into a ridge on the inner side of the hu- merus, that separates the anterior and posterior surfaces, and below the attachment of the deltoid muscle on the outer aspect; from its tendon of insertion an aponeurotic slip is Connec- continued upwards to the head of the humerus. Part of the tions of I'l ii sur- muscle IS beneath the pectoralis major, and lorms a promi- round- • i 'n i i • • i ing nence m the axilla ; but the rest is superficial, except at the ^'^^ ^' insertion where it is covered by the brachial vessels and the median nerve. The coraco-brachialis conceals the subsca- pular muscle, the anterior circumflex artery, and the tendons of the latissimus and teres. Along the inner border is the large artery of the limb with its nerves. Perforating it is the musculo-cutaneous nerve. Brachial The BRACHIAL ARTERY is a Continuation of the axillary extends trunk, and supplies vessels to the upper limb. It begins at toe ow. iQ^er border of the teres major muscle, and ends rather below the bend of the elbow, or " opposite the neck of the radius," in two branches — radial and ulnar, for the forearm. Position In the upper part of its course the vessel is internal to the to bone, a x x .