366 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. Vessels Great Yessels OF THE Heart. — The arteries that take of the heart, origin from the heart are the pulmonary artery and the aorta. The large veins entering the heart, besides the coro- nary, are the superior and the inferior cava, and the pulmo- nary veins. The pui- The PULMONARY ARTERY is a short tliick trunk that con- artery^ veys the dark or impure blood from the right side of the heart to the lungs. From its commencement in the right ventricle, the vessel is directed upwards on the left of the is a aorta; and at a distance of an inch and a half or two inches trunk, from its origin, divides into two branches of nearly equal vides " size for the lungs. Near the bifurcation of the artery is a for°the^ small ligaiqaeutous cord, the remnant of the arterial duct, which passes from the left branch of the vessel to the arch of the aorta, and is named ligamentum ductus arteriosi. connec- The truuk of the pulmonary artery is contained in the peri- cardium ; and beneath it is the beginning of the aorta, to- gether with the left auricle. On each side are the coronary artery and the auricula. Right The right branch is longer than the left. In its course to longest.'^ the lung it lies beneath the aorta and the vena cava supe- rior, and rests on the bronchus or the division of the air tube: and as it passes outwards, it is above the level of the right auricle of the heart. At the lung the artery divides into three primary branches, one for each lobe, which enter the pulmonic substance. Lea The left branch is rather smaller than the right; it is branch, ^jj-g^j^^g^j frout of the descending aorta and the left bronchus to the fissure of the root of the lung, where it divides into two branches corresponding to the number of the pulmonic lobes. Space at right and left branches of the pulmonary artery furca-" P^ss outwards, they cross the divisions of the air tube, and enclose with these a lozenge-shaped space which contains some bronchial glands. Condi- Ductus arteriosus, — In the fetus, the part of the pul- tliTar- monary artery which ^s now ligamentous, was the continua- the tion of the trunk of the vessel, and was larger than either branch to the lung. At that period the vessel above referred to receives the name arterial canal or duct (ductus arte- riosus, Botalli), and opens into the aorta rather beyond the