410 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. the inner part of the aponeurosis two prolongations reach the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebraB, and enclose has two the quadratus lumborum. The more superficial of the two offsets . , . , , , . . , . behind, is the Strongest; it passes beneath the erector spinas m tins one to position of the body, and is connected to the apices of the transverse processes, but it also fills the intervals between those pieces of bone. The deeper or anterior prolonga- the tion passes on the abdominal surface of the quadratus other to , -, i n i root of lumborum, to be fixed to the roots oi the transverse pro- trans- verse ccsscs, and to the bodies of the vertebrae. Thus the pro- pro- cesses; lon^ations of the fascia contain the quadratus lumborum in which . . forrn^ a shcath. In like manner the erector spinas lies in for another sheath, which is formed by the vertebral aponeurosis muscles. t and the tendons oi the latissimus and serratus on the one side, and by the posterior of the two prolongations of the fascia lumborum on the other. Second * Second Later of Muscles.—This stratum contains lar layer, the elevator of the angle of the scapula, and the large and small rhomboid muscles. Besides these, there will be found in the neck the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle, with some vessels and nerves that turn backwards towards the scapula. Elevator * The LEYATOR ANGULi SCAPULA ariscs by tcudinous slips ofs?f-^ from the tips of the transverse processes (diapophyses) of the three or four upper cervical vertebrae. The fibres form rather a roundish muscle, and are inserted into the base of Attach, the scapula between the spine and the superior angle. At and con- its Origin the muscle is beneath the sterno-mastoideus, and nections. ... at its insertion, beneath the trapezius ; the rest of the muscle appears in the posterior triangular space of the neck. Beneath it are some of the other cervical muscles (splenius colli and cervicalis ascendens). Rhom- * Rhomboidei Muscles. — The thin muscular layer of muscles the rhomboidei, that is attached to the base of the scapula, are wo. ^^j^gjg^g picccs, large and small, separated by a slight interval. Small * The rhomboideus minor is a small narrow band, that arises from the spinous processes of the seventh cervical and first dorsal vertebrae, and from the ligamentum nuchas; Attach- it is inserted into the base of the scapula, opposite the smooth surface at the root of the spine of that bone.