189 ARTERIES or THE BRAIN. halves by a median fissure, and each half will be subsequently seen to be subdivided into lobes. The cerebrum, or the large brain, is also divided into two cere- halves by a longitudinal fissure in the middle line. Each half is further subdivided into anterior, middle, and posterior lobes. Between the anterior and the middle lobe is a sul- and its great di cus, — the fissure of Sylvius ; but the limit between the visions, middle and the posterior is indicated by a line corresponding to the anterior part of the small brain. In the centre of the cerebrum, between the hemispheres and in front of the pons, are several small bodies that will be afterwards enu- merated. Arteries of the Brain. — The brain is supplied with Arteries blood by the two vertebral, and the two internal carotid brain, arteries. The vertebral artery is a branch of the subclavian trunk, verte- and enters the spinal canal beneath the membrane between the atlas and the occipital bone. Ascending then to the ends in brain round the side of the medulla oblongata, the artery enters the skull through the foramen magnum, and is blended with its fellow in one trunk (basilar) at the lower border of the pons. As the vessel winds round the upper part of the winds cord, it lies between the roots of the hypoglossal and sub- meduUa. occipital nerves; but it is afterwards internal to the former. Branches. — Between its entrance into the spinal canal Branch- and its termination, each artery furnishes offsets to the spinal cord, to the dura mater, and to the cerebellum. a. The posterior spinal branch is of inconsiderable size, to spinal and arises opposite the posterior part of the medulla: it descends along the side of the cord, behind the nerves, anterior anastomosing with its fellow, and with branches that enter by the intervertebral foramina. b. The anterior spinal branch is as small as the preceding, poste- and springs from the artery opposite the front of the spinal cord. This small branch joins the corresponding twig of the opposite side, and the resulting vessel is continued along the middle of the cord on its anterior aspect. c. The posterior meningeal artery leaves the vertebral of dura trunk opposite the foramen magnum, and ramifies in the dura mater lining the fossae of the occipital bone.