FOURTH VENTRICLE. 241 and the upper, that of the glosso-pharyngeal. Running into kIosso- the vagus nucleus below, is the nucleus of the accessory part geai, of the spinal accessory nerve, which begins at the point of ^P'n^^i the fourth ventricle, close to the middle line, and extends sory. upwards and outwards. In the upper half of the space some other nerves take their J^,J?pp^^ origin from nuclei, but there is only one projection. This is situate over the common nucleus of the sixth and the fa- of the sixth and cial nerve: it is a half globular elevation on the outer part f'lciai. of the eminentia teres, about a line above the white cross strias on the floor, and close to the lower end of the fovea anterior. The fourth ventricle communicates at the upper part with open- . ings of the third ventricle through the Sylvian aqueduct; and with the ven- the subarachnoid space of the cord and brain, through an aperture in the pia mater of the roof that intervenes between the medulla and the cerebellum : laterally, the ventricular space is extended for a short distance between the cerebellum and the side of the medulla oblongata. The lining of the and its other ventricles is prolonged into this by the aperture of communication with the third. In this ventricle is a vascular fold, or a choroid plexus, on choroid each side, similar to the body of the same name in the other the ca- ventricles. It is attached to the inner surface of the mem- brane (pia mater), that closes the ventricle between the medulla and the cerebellum, and it extends upwards on the side. Its vessels are supplied by the inferior cerebellar artery. Gray matter of fourth ventricle, — The gray matter in Gray connection with the floor of the fourth ventricle exists in the two no in • kinds. lorm 01 masses, and as a suriace-covering. The special collections, at least those that are to be de- Special tected by surface marks, have been already referred to ; and those that are deeper placed are described with the origin of the nerves from them. The surface-coverinsr forms a toler- surface , . stratum. ably thick stratum, that is continuous below with the central gray matter of the cord, and extends upwards to the aque- duct of Sylvius. (See also p. 206.) R