DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 370 clavicular articulation, into right carotid and subclavian ar- teries. The artery is crossed by the left innominate vein, and is behind the upper piece of the sternum, and the origin Length of the hvoid and thyroid muscles. At first the innominate and con- '' nections. artery rests on the trachea, but as it ascends it is placed on the right of the air tube. On its right is the innominate vein of the sam.e side, with the phrenic nerve. Usually no lateral branch arises from the artery. Length Peculiarities. — The length of the artery may exceed two inches, Stered; or it may be only one inch or less : in these different states the place of bifurcation will be altered, being in the one case beyond, and in the other below the level of the upper border of the clavicle. branches Branches. — The left carotid is frequently joined with this artery at its origin. Or a branch to the thyroid body (art. thyroidea ima), or to the thymic body, or to the root of the lung, may arise from the innominate. Position. Position. — The innominate artery is directed to the left side of the neck in cases of transposition of the arch. (See p. 369.) Left Left common carotid artery. —The common carotid artery carotid of the left sido of the neck springs from the arch of the from aorta, and is therefore longer than the right by the distance arch of iii ni o./ aorta, bctw^cen the arch and the top of the sternum. Connec- In the thorax the artery ascends obliquely to the left tions in i.i , i/> the tho. sterno-clavicular articulation, but not close to the first piece of the sternum and the origin of the depres&or mu&cles of the hyoid bone and larynx. In that course it crosses be- neath the left innominate vein, and the remains of the thymus gland; at first it lies on the trachea, but it afterwards crosses to the left of that tube, so as to be placed over the oesophagus and the thoracic duct. To its outer side is the left pneumo-gastric nerve, with one or more cardiac branches of the sympathetic nerve. In the neck, the connections of the vessels of opposite sides are the same (p. 79.). recu- Peculiarities in origin.— The most frequent change in this vessel i'n its^^^ consists in alteration in its origin. The carotid is sometimes united \ with the innominate artery; or, should the innominate artery be j absent, the common carotids, right and left, arise usually by one I trunk. Its junction with the left subclavian is rare, except with | transposition of the arch. | In posi- In position. — It seldom changes its relative position with respect to the other branches of the arch, but if this is altered it tends j generally towards the right. I tion.