61 FEONT OF THE NECK. of that bone; and the posterior (acromial) turns over the lar, attachment of the trapezius to the acromion. All are distri- acro- ^ mial. buted to the integuments of the chest and shoulder. The lymphatic glands (glandulae concatenatae) that lie Lymph- alone: the sterno-mastoid muscle, are continuous at the lower glands of neck. part of the neck with the glands in the cavity of the thorax. There is also a superficial chain along the external jugular vein. Dissection. — The dissection of the posterior triangle Djssec- should be repeated on the left side of the neck, in order that the difference in the vessels may be observed. Afterwards the reflected parts are to be replaced and carefully fastened in their natural position with a few stitches, preservative fluid having been previously applied with strips of calico. Directions. — It is supposed that the body will now be The turned on its fore part for the dissection of the back. ?o be During the period allotted for this position the student amined is to learn the posterior part of the neck. After the "°^* completion of the dissection of the back the student should take out the spinal cord, and then return to the examination of the front of the neck. FRONT OF THE NECK. Directions.—When the body has been again turned, the ex. dissector should continue with the remainder of the right JJ^^fj"^ side of the neck. The head and neck may be detached from ned!^^ the trunk, supposing the thorax to be finished, by dividing the spinal column between the second and third dorsal vertebrae. By this step the student obtains the clavicles and the first ribs, and preserves the natural position of the parts at the root of the neck: he should moreover be careful to take the arch of the aorta. Position.—After the part has been detached, the face is position to be turned to the left away from the dissector, and a small ^^p^"^^' narrow block is to be placed beneath the neck; the neck is to be made tense by means of hooks, the chin being well raised at the same time. Dissection. — An incision along the base of the jaw will Dissec- readily allow the piece of integument in front of the sterno-