DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 670 with the adductor longus muscle. Bounding the hollow on the outer side are the conjoined psoas and iliacus, for about two inches, and below these is the sartorius; on the inner side are the pectineus and adductor longus muscles, and between and behind them near the femur, is a small part of the adductor brevis. Contents. In this spaco are contained the femoral artery and vein, and the anterior crural nerve, and some of their branches, Femoral with a Considerable quantity of fat. The femoral artery * runs through the centre of the hollow, and supplies some small cutaneous branches, as well as a large deep offset, the and their profunda: a small offset (superficial pudic) is directed from es. it to the pubes across the inner boundary. On the inner side of the artery is the vein which is here joined by the Anterior saphenous and profunda branches. Nearly half an inch ex- nerve, ternal to the vessel is the large anterior crural nerve, which lies deeply at first between the iliacus and psoas, but after- wards becomes more superficial and divides into branches. Femoral Femoral Artery. — This vcsscl is a Continuation of the external iliac artery of the abdomen, and retains the term femoral only for a given distance in the thigh. It reaches extent; from the lower border of Poupart's ligament to the margin of the opening in the adductor magnus muscle; and it occupies the front and the inner part of the thigh for only two-thirds of the length, for at the spot mentioned it turns course, backwards into the ham, and takes the name popliteal. The course of the vessel will be indicated, during rotation out- wards of the limb, by a line drawn to the inner side of the internal condyle of the femur, from a point midway between Position the symphysis pubis and the anterior iliac spine. In the femur, upper part of its course the artery lies rather internal Division to the head of the femur, and is comparatively superficial, parts, being uncovered by muscle; but, in the lower part, it is placed along the inner side of the shaft of the femur, and is beneath the sartorius muscle. This difference in its con- nections allows of a division of the arterial trunk into two parts; viz. one in the upper, and one in the middle third of the thigh. The The artery in the upper third of the thigh is contained parTof chiefly in Scarpa's triangular space, where it is enveloped