446 DISSECTION OF THE PERINJEUM. that oa cular fibres when following the vessels and nerves. If the side! student begins at the outer border of the sphincter, he will vessels" find the inferior haemorrhoidai vessels and nerve, which he nerves, may trace outwards to their trunks (pudic vessels and nerve): some branches of the nerve are to be followed for- wards to their junction with two other nerves, the superficial perinseal and inferior pudendal. In the posterior angle of the space there is a small offset of the fourth sacral nerve; and sometimes, external to it, one or more branches of the sciatic nerve and artery are found turning round the border of the gluteus. Near the front of the fossa is a superficial perinaeal artery and nerve (of the pudic); and the last, after communicating with the haemorrhoidai nerve, leaves the fossa in front. The trunks of the pudic vessels and nerve may be laid bare on the outer wall, situa- The ischio-recfal fossa is the space intervening between the fossa, the rcctum and the ischial part of the innominate bone. On Form, 2i vertical section the interval would appear to be triangular, Dimen- w'ith its apcx abovo and its base towards the surface. Its sions. width is about one inch at the base, and its depth about two inches ; but it is larger behind than before. It is filled Bound- by a soft granular fat. The inner side of the space is very oblique, and is bounded by the levator ani and coccygeus muscles, and slightly by the sphincter; but the outer side is straight, and corresponds to the obturator muscle and the fascia covering it. In front it is limited by the triangular ligament (to be afterwards seen); and behind by the great sacro-sciatic ligament and the largest gluteal muscle. Pudic Position of vessels. — Along the outer wall are the pudic on the; vcsscls and ucrvo; these lie in a tube of fascia, being one outer wall, inch and a half from the margin of the ischial tuberosity, but towards the front of the space they approach near the and edge of the pubic arch. Crossing the centre of the space inVhe are the inferior haemorrhoidai vessels and nerve,—branches i^pace. ^1^^ pudic. At the anterior part, for a short distance, is one superficial perinaeal nerve (of the pudic); and at the posterior part is a small branch of the fourth sacral nerve. First cut Into this space the surgeon sinks his knife in the first in- tomy^°" cisions in the lateral operation of lithotomy; and as he ear- th is^'^ ries the knife from before backwards, he will divide the superficial haemorrhoidai vessels and nerve.