564 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. diasti. into the gland for the distance of a few lines with the blood- and" vessels. It is situate at the back of the testis, extending from the upper nearly to the lower part, and is larger and deeper above than below. When cut across it will be seen to be formed of two lateral pieces, which are united anteriorly at an acute angle : to its front and sides the finer septal processes are connected; and in its interior are contained the bloodvessels, and a network of seminal ducts forming the rete testis. finer Qf t\iQ finer processes of the tunica albuginea, which enter the testis, there are two kinds : those of one set are round, cord-like, but of different lengths, are fixed posteriorly to the mediastinum, and serve to maintain the shape of the testis ; those of the other, form delicate membranous septa, which divide the seminal tubes into masses named lobes, and are continued, like the rest, to join the mediastinum. A vas- Tunica vasculosa.—W\i\\m the tunica albuginea is a thin i?yeJ. vascular layer, which has been named as above by Sir A. . (tuSca Cooper. It lines the fibrous coat, covering the different | losa)!" septa in the interior of the gland ; and is formed of the ' ramifications of the bloodvessels united by areolar tissue, | like the pia mater of the brain. In it the arteries are sub- | divided before they are distributed on the secerning tubes, and the veins in the interior are supported by it. Seminal Form and length of the seminal tubes (tubuli seminiferi). j tubes J ___rj.j^ggg secerning tubes are the minute branched extremities * appear, f ^^^t or vas deferens. They are very wavy, and are ance and . . -, but slightly held together by fine connective tissue and sur- rounding bloodvessels, so that they may be readily drawn i length; out of the tcstis for some distance. Their length is said by , Monro to be sixteen feet, but by Lauth to be only two fee* and a quarter. The size and the characters of the minute tubules can be learned only with the aid of the microscope, j Ending, size and structure. — Towards the circumference j of the testis, the tubes have for the most part distinct closed coramu- extremities; but some communicate, forming loops or arches, tTons"; and others are united deeper in the gland. The diameter of size; the tubulcs varics from -^^^th. to yi,^th of an inch. Tiie wall struc- tubuli, formed of connective tissue, is thin, but it has considerable strength : lining the interior is a nucleated