DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 250 of the in- there are two sets: — one, the lateral cutaneous nerves of nerves the thorax, arise from the trunks of the nerves about mid- are^in -yvay between the spine and the sternum; the other set, the rows, anterior cutaneous nerves of the thorax, are the terminations of the same intercostal trunks at the middle line of the body. One The anterior cutaneous nerves, after piercing the pectoral raSe muscle, are directed outwards in the integuments in the form of slender filaments. The offset of the second nerve joins a cutaneous branch of the cervical plexus ; and the others supply the mammary gland and the integuments. Small cutaneous branches of the internal mammary vessels are found with these nerves. The The lateral cutaneous nerves come between the digitations side^o?" of the serratus muscle, and divide immediately into an These anterior and a posterior branch. There is not usually any ^^^^ lateral cutaneous nerve to the first intercostal trunk ; and that of the second intercostal trunk wants commonly the anterior of the two offsets, into which the other lateral cutaneous nerves bifurcate, anterior The anterior offsets bend forwards over the pectoral muscle, and end in the mammary gland and the integuments. The lowest also give twigs to the digitations of the external oblique muscle, posterior The posterior offsets are distributed to the integuments over the ,branch. j^^^ggij^^g (Jorsi muscle and the back of the scapula. The branch from the second intercostal nerve is larger than the rest, and, per- One or forating the fascia of the axilla, supplies the integument of the arm this^se^t (p. 280.), from which circumstance it is named intercosto-humeral. the arm. it crosses the axilla it is divided into two or more pieces, and is connected to the nerve of Wrisberg by a filament of variable size. The branch of the third intercostal also gives filaments to the arm- pit and the inner part of the arm. Office of The MAMMA, or the breast, is the gland for the secretion breast, of the milk, and is situate on the front of the chest, though somewhat towards the lateral aspect. Form The gland is hemispherical in form, and is placed over andposi- great pectoral muscle, but it is rather most prominent with its at the inner and the lower part. Its dimensions and weight sions. vary greatly. In a breast that is not enlarged by lactation, the mamma measures commonly about four inches across ; and extends longitudinally from the third to the sixth or