754 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. and im- surface, and to the upper part of the astragalus near the arti- perfect. ^^j^^-^j^ ^-^jj^ scaphoid boue. The ligament is not usually a continuous membrane, for in it are some rounded intervals and apertures for vessels- On the sides it joins the lateral ligaments. Poste- The posterior ligamentis thinner internally than externally; ment.^^" and it is inserted into the tibia and the astragalus, close to the articular surfaces. Towards the outer part is a bundle of transverse fibres w^hich is attached to the hollow on the inner surface of the external malleolus. Internal The internal lateral or deltoid ligament is attached by its toid; upper or pointed part to the inner malleolus, and by its base menu' astragalus, the os calcis, and the scaphoid bone. From its upper attachment the fibres radiate to their insertion be- low in this manner ; — the posterior are directed to the hinder part of the inner surface of the astragalus; the middle pass vertically to the side of the sustentaculum tali of the os calcis; and the anterior which are thin and oblique, join the inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament, and the inner side of the scaphoid bone. The tendons of the tibialis posticus and flexor longus digitorum are in contact with this ligament. External The external lateral ligament consists of three separate parts^^^^pieces, anterior, middle, and posterior: two of these (antsrior and posterior) are attached to the astragalus, and the other anterior, to the OS calcis. The anterior piece is a short flat band, which is directed from the fore part of the malleolus to the astragalus, in front of the lateral articular surface. The middle, middle portion is flattened, and descends from the tip of the malleolus to the outer surface of the os calcis, about the and pos- middle. The posterior part is the strongest, and is almost horizontal in direction ; it is connected externally to the pit on the inner surface of the malleolus, and is inserted into the posterior part of the astragalus behind the articular surface extending to the groove for the flexor proprius pollicis Connec- tcndou. The posterior and middle fasciculi are in contact with the peronei muscles. The middle part is but slightly in contact above with the synovial membrane of the ankle joint; and both it and the under surface of the posterior piece touch the synovial membrane between the astragalus and the OS calcis. Open the Dissection,—Dividing the ligaments of the ankle joint,