DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 628 to be made up of two masses of spongy and vascular tissue incased in fibrous coverings — one constituting the corpora cavernosa, the other the corpus spongiosum urethrae. Cavern- Covpova cavemosa. — Each corpus cavernosum is con- ous ma- terial; structed of a firm tunic, which encloses a cavernous or tra- the ' struc- becular structure, and contains a plexus of vessels in the tures of . . which it intervals of the spongy mass. An incomplete median septum exists along the body of the penis between the corpora cavernosa. A case The fibrous case of the corpus cavernosum is a white, strong, elastic covering, from half a line to a line in thick- that ness. Along the middle line of the penis a septal process is process" scnt inwards from it; and numerous other finer bands or trabeculas of the spongy structure are connected with its Fibres inner surface. It is formed of white shining fibres that are form strata: disposcd in two layers, outer and inner. The outer stratum is formed of longitudinal fibres arranged as involuntary inner muscular tissuc, with close meshes. The inner stratum con- septum, sists of circular fibres, with a like plexiform arrangement; and the circular fibres of each cavernous body meeting in the middle line give rise to the septum penis.* Both strata are inseparably united by communicating bundles, as in the intestine. One The septal process extends along the body of the penis, piece, and is thicker and more perfect behind than in front. At the point of junction of the crura of the penis, this partition separates the enclosed cavity of the organ into two parts; which is but as it rcachcs forwards it becomes less strong, and is imper- , ... feet J pierced by elongated apertures, which give it the appearance of a comb, whence the name septum pectiniforme. Through the intervals in the septum the vascular tissue of one corpus cavernosum communicates with that of the other. It is how formed, as above said, by the circular fibres of the cavernous formed; , _. bodies. and nu- The cavemous or trabecular structure is a network of merous bands fine cords, which fills the interior of the corpora cavernosa, cords to The processes are thinner towards the centre than at the^ form a ^ network, circumference of the fibrous case; and the areolar spaces are larger in the centre and at the fore part of the contained ^ Paper in the Med. Chir. Transact,