DISSECTION OF THE LEG. 742 con nee- In the upper part of the leg the artery lies between the with tibialis anticiis and the extensor longus digitorum; and in around, the lower two thirds between the tibial muscle and the extensor proprius pollicis, but towards the lower end of the vessel, this last muscle becomes superficial, and crosses to its inner side. The artery rests on the interosseous mem- brane in two thirds of its extent, and is overlapped by the iieshy bellies of the contiguous muscles, so that it is at a great depth from the surface ; but it is in front of the tibia and the ankle joint in the lower third, and is comparatively superficial, for it here lies between only the tendons of the muscles. Position Yenae comites entwine around the artery, covering it of veins i i • i i i t rr^^ very closely with cross branches on the upper part, ihe and anterior tibial nerve approaches the tibial vessels about tht3 nerve. ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ middle third of the leg, and continues with them, crossing once or twice. At the lower end of the artery the nerve is on the outer side. Branch. Branches.—In the leg the anterior tibial artery furnishes mostly muscular offsets, but near the knee and ankle joints other named branches take origin, and a cutaneous branch accompanies the musculo-cutaneous nerve. Recur- A recurrent branch leaves the trunk as soon as this appears above the interosseous membrane, and ascends in the tibialis anticus muscle to the knee joint. On the joint it anastomoses with the other articular arteries. LMaiie- Malleolar arteries (internal and external) arise near the ankle joint, and, as their name expresses, are distributed over the ends inner of the tibia and fibula. The internal is the least regular in size and and origin ; the external anastomoses with the anterior peroneal artery. Articu- Some small articular h^ancJies are supplied from the lower end of the artery to the ankle joint. Dorsal The DORSAL ARTERY of the foot is the Continuation of eStent' the anterior tibial, and extends from the front of the ankle course; joiut to the postcrior part of the first interosseous space ; at this interval it passes downwards between the heads of the interosseous muscle, to end in the sole as before described (p. 734.). connec- The artery is supported by the inner row of the tarsus, viz. the astragalus and the scaphoid and cuneiform bones; and is covered by the integuments and the deep fascia, but