697 GLUTEUS 3HINIMUS. directed forwards over the middle of the smallest gluteal muscle, lower towards the anterior lower iliac spine and the great trochanter, and communicates also with the external circumflex branches; some offsets from it pierce the muscle t» supply the hip-joint. Vein, — The companion vein of this artery enters the Gluteal : pelvis, and ends in the internal iliac vein. The superior gluteal nerve is a branch of the lumbo-sacral superior cord (p. 583.). It accompanies the gluteal artery, and di- nerlT^ vides, like it, into two branches for the supply of the two is mus- smallest gluteal muscles ; the lower branch may be traced forwards into the tensor vaginse femoris. The GLUTEUS MINIMUS is likewise conical in shape, and Gluteus ^ mini- j arises from the dorsum of the hip bone between the superior ^^s. and inferior curved lines on the bone.* The fibres are col- Attach- ments. lected on a tendon, which is inserted into an oblique impres- sion along the fore part of the great trochanter, and is united inferiorly with the gluteus medius. One surface is is next in contact with the gluteus medius, and the gluteal vessels and nerve ; the other with the hip joint and the bone, and the outer head of the rectus femoris muscle. The anterior and is border lies by the side of the other gluteus; and the pos- with^ terior touches the pyriformis muscle. A bursa is between fn|!^^'^' the tendon and the bone. Dissection. — The smallest gluteal muscle should be cut Divide through near the innominate bone, and the tendinous part of ghSeus! the rectus femoris defined close above the hip joint. Whilst detaching the gluteus from the parts beneath, the student cannot fail to notice the connection between its tendon and tlie capsule of the joint. The deep vessels to the articula- tion may be observed and followed after the muscle is re- moved. The outer head of the rectus femoris is a slip of tendon outer about two inches long, which reaches outwards, almost hori- the rec- zontally, above the margin of the acetabulum. In front it where joins the other tendinous piece of the rectus, which is at- tached to the anterior inferior iliac spine; and below it is connected by fibres with the capsule of the hip joint. The PYRIFORMIS arises in the pelvis from the front of the Origin of sacrum (p. 643.), and comes from that cavity through the f'oVmis in the pelvis. * Its extent is larger than that given usually to the muscle. For the limit of the lower line see Quain's Anatomy, vol. L p. 138.