255 LYMPHATIC GLANDS OF AXILLA. nerve to the outside; the ulnar, and the small nerve of Wrisbergto the inner side; the internal cutaneous generally in front of, and the musculo-spiral nerve behind it. This part of the artery gives branches to the side of the chest and to the shoulder. The vein likewise receives some branches in this spot. Position of the branches of the vessels and nerves, — The situa- *^ tion of several branches of the large vessels and nerves have the branches ^ . of vessels undermentioned position with respect to the boundaries, and Close to the anterior fold, and rather concealed by it, the long thoracic artery extends to the side of the chest; and taking the same direction, though nearer the middle of the arm-pit, are a small artery and vein (external mammary). Extending along the posterior fold, within its lower margin and in contact with the edge of the subscapularis muscle, are the subscapular vessels and nerves; and near the humeral end of the subscapularis the posterior circumflex vessels and nerve bend backwards beneath the large axillary trunks. On the inner boundary, near the upper part, are a few inconsiderable branches of the superior thoracic artery, which ramify on the serratus muscle ; but these are com- monly so unimportant, that this part of the axillary space may be considered free from vessels in respect of any surgical operation. Lying on the surface of the serratus magnus, is the nerve to that muscle ; and perforating the inner boundary of the space, are the lateral cutaneous nerves of the thorax,—two or more offsets of which are directed across the axilla to the arm, and receive the name intercosto-humeral. The lymphatic glands occupy principally the lower and Lymph- hinder parts of the axilla, and lie nearer the chest than the gfands of arm. Commonly they are ten or twelve in number ; but in axuia this particular, as well as in size, they vary much. By their lower ends the glands receive the lymphatic vessels of the arm, of the fore part of the thorax, and of the posterior surface of the back, as well as some of those of the mamma: their efferent ducts unite to form a trunk, which opens into the lymphatic duct of the same side in the neck, or into the end in subclavian vein by a separate tube. Small vascular twigs phllk"" from the branches of the axillary vessels are furnished to '^"^^^ the glands.