LEFT SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. 371 B B 2 The left subclavian artery arises from the arch of the aorta, Left suu- and ascends to the lower part of the neck through the upper artery.' aperture of the thorax. Beyond the first rib the vessels of opposite sides are alike (p. 71.). The left subclavian trunk is directed almost vertically from Course ; *^ and con- the arch of the aorta to the inner margin of the first rib. nections, ^ ^ in the In the thorax the vessel lies deeply, resting at first on the thorax, side of the oesophagus, and afterwards on the vertebral co- lumn and the longus colli muscle ; it is invested by the left pleural bag in all its extent. On its inner side are the trachea and the oesophagus, with the thoracic duct. Some- what anterior to the level of the artery, though running in the same direction, are the vagus nerve and some of the cardiac nerves. Peculiarities in origin. — The left subclavian is subjected less Varia- frequently than the other branches of the arch to variations from its origin its ordinary arrangement. Occasionally it arises in common with quent!" the left carotid when the arch has its usual direction. Should there be transposition of the arch, the subclavian arises usually from an innominate trunk ; but this is not a constant rule, for the subclavian, in such a condition of the vessels, may be the last on the arch, like the right vessel, and cross the front of the spinal column to take its place in the neck: or it may take origin, though rarely, from a dilatation connected with the remains of the arterial duct. 'Riglit artery from the arch. — In some instances the right sub- Right clavian arises from the arch of the aorta, and when this peculiarity t"ian ^" exists, the vessel may be placed first, second, or third, though most ^fj^ frequently it is last on the arch. To reach the inner margin of the first rib of the right side, when it is last on the arch (most to the left), the artery is directed between the oesophagus and the ver- tebral column, or it may be, as in one case, between the trachea and the oesophagus. The right subclavian may be also connected with a pouch, — the previous part of the ductus arteriosus, in the same way as the left subclavian. (See the work of Mr. Quain, p. 159.) Veins of the Heart. — These are, as before said, the veins of superior and the inferior cava, and the pulmonary veins: heart are the former are the great systemic veins that return impure blood to the right auricle; and the latter convey pure blood from the lungs into the left auricle.