DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 380 nerve may be seen entering the left side of the deep cardiac plexus, for oftentimes the middle cardiac throws itself into the lower cardiac nerve. THE TRACHEA AND THE LUNG. To see Dissection.— To see the bronchi, or the divisions of the the trachea air tuDe in the root of the lung, it will be necessary to divi- remove the pulmonary artery and its branches, together with sions, the pulmonary veins. When the transverse part of the arch of the aorta, which has been already cut through, is turned to one side, the dissector will be able to clear away the bronchial glands, the nerves, and the fibrous tissue from the part of the trachea in the thorax, and from the branches into which it bifurcates. Trachea The TRACHEA, or the air tube, reaches from the larynx to lies in the luno^s, and lies on the front of the spinal column. The the neck, ° ' r» i i tube begins at the lower part of the larynx, opposite the fifth cervical vertebra; and ends at the third dorsal ver- and in tobra *, by dividing into two pieces (bronchi), one for each thorax, luug. Its conncctious in the neck are described at p. 127., ends in and its structuro at p. 176. The part in the thorax remains bronchi. _ t i to be studied. Its con- In the thorax the trachea is situate, with the great vessels, in the in the space between the pleural bags. Here it is covered by the arch of the aorta, by the innominate and left carotid arteries, and by the cardiac plexus of nerves; and super- ficial to the last arteries is the left innominate vein. Behind the air tube is the oesophagus, which is slightly inclined to the left near the arch of the aorta. On the right side are the vagus, and the innominate artery for a short distance after this has passed over the trachea; and on the left side is the vagus with its recurrent branch. ;||||| Bronchi The broncM, or the divisions of the air tube, are con- roots of tained in the root of the lung, where they are surrounded lungs; by vessels, glands, and nerves. Near the lung each is divided into as many primary pieces as there are lobes to are like that orffan. In their structure and form the bronchi resemble the ° trachea tho wiudpipc, for they are round and cartilaginous in front, * The place of its bifurcation is sometimes opposite the fifth dorsal vertebra.