CUTANEOUS NERVES OF THE THORAX. 249 left attached to the body, in order that they may be after- wards used for the preservation of the part. The subcutaneous fascia of the thorax resembles the same Fascia, structure in other parts of the body; but in this locality super- the superficial layer does not contain much fat. Beneath the subcutaneous layer is a deeper and stronger deep. special fascia that closely invests the muscles, and is con- tinuous with the deep fascia of the arm. It is thin on the side of the chest, but becomes much thicker where it is stretched across the axilla. An incision through it, over the arm-pit, will render evident its increased strength in this situation, and its connections with the muscular folds of the axilla which it incases; and if the fore finger be introduced through the opening, some idea will be gained of its capa- bility of confining an abscess in that hollow. Dissection,—The cutaneous nerves of the side of the Dissec- tion of chest are to be next sought in the fat. Some of these (from cuta- , , neous the cervical plexus) will be found crossing the clavicle at nerves of . the the middle, and at the inner part; others (anterior cutaneous chest, of the thorax) appear at the side of the sternum,—one from each intercostal space ; and others (lateral cutaneous of the thorax) should be looked for along the side of the chest, about one inch below the anterior fold of the axilla, there being one from each intercostal space except the first. As soon as the last mentioned nerves appear through the muscles, they are divided into an anterior and a posterior branch: in the highest two nerves the posterior branches are larger than in the rest; they are to be followed across the arm-pit, and a junction is there to be found with a branch (nerve of Wrisberg) of the brachial plexus. Cutaneous nerves of the cervical plexus. — These cross Descend- the clavicle, and are distributed to the integuments over the taLou's pectoral muscle. The most internal branch (sternal) lies cervicli^ near the inner end of the bone, and reaches but a short dis- tance below it. Other branches (clavicular), two or miore in number, and of larger size, cross the centre of the clavicle, and extend to near the lower border of the pectoralismajor; these join one or more of the anterior cutaneous nerves of the thorax. The cutaneous nerves of the thorax are derived from the cutane- trunks of the intercostal nerves between the ribs. Of these branches