DISSECTION OF THE EXTERIOR OF THE HEAD. 2 Dissec- Dissection, — When the ear has been drawn down by the up- hooks, the position of the two upper muscles will be indi- cies^"^" eated by a slight prominence between it and the head; and the muscular fibres will be laid bare by means of the two following incisions, made no deeper than the skin. One of these is to be carried upwards along the cutaneous ridge before mentioned and the side of the head, for about three inches; and the other is to be directed from before back- wards close above the ear, for nearly the same distance, so that the two may join at a right angle in the middle of the last. On carefully raising the flaps of skin from below upwards, and removing a little subjacent tissue, the thin muscular fibres will come into view — the more anterior constituting the attrahens, and the posterior the attollens aurem muscle, ofpos- On drawing forwards the ear, a ridge marks, in like muscle, manner, the situation of the posterior muscle. To remove the integuments, let the scalpel be drawn down, about an inch behind the ear^ from the transverse cut above as far as to a level with the lobule of the ear, and then forwards below the lobule. After the piece of skin included by these cuts has been reflected towards the ear, the retrahent muscle will be easily found beneath the subcutaneous tissue, for it is stronger though deeper than the others. Attra. The ATTRAHENS AUREM is a Small fau-shapcd muscle that aurem avises ffom the fore part of the aponeurosis of the occipito- muscie fpQj^^^i^g^ j^g fibres are directed backwards, and are inserted into a projection on the front of the rim of the ear. This is united muscle is united with the following at its origin, but a Text. cellular interval exists between them near their insertion. Beneath it are the temporal vessels. Attoi- The ATTOLLENS AUREM has the same form as the preced- lens . ^ aurem insT, though its fibres are longer and better marked. Aris- muscle. o7 o o ing also from the tendon of the occipito-frontalis, the fibres converge to their insertion into the inner or cranial surface of the pinna of the ear, — into an eminence corresponding to a fossa (that of the anti-helix) on the opposite aspect. Ketra- The RETRAHENS AUREM (musculi rctrahentcs, Alb.) con- Jurem sists of two or three roundish, but separate bundles of fibres, of two or which are stronger than those of the other muscles. The bundles, buudlcs urisc from the root of the mastoid process, and pass almost transversely forwards to be inserted by aponeurotic