165 MUSCLES OF THE LARYNX. M 3 from the middle line ; also, for a sliort distance (a line), into the inner surface of that cartilage. The muscle rests on the crico-thyroid membrane, and is concealed by the sterno- thyroid muscle. The CRICO-ARYT^OIDEUS POSTICUS MUSCLE licS On the Crico- posterior part of the cricoid cartilage. Its origin is from noideus posticus the depression on the side of the vertical ridge at the pos- terior aspect of that cartilage. From this oriojin the fibres is on 11^1 ^^^^ are directed outwards, and converge to be inserted, by fleshy cricoid and tendinous fibres, into a projection at the outer part of lage. the base of the arytaenoid cartilage. The ARYTuENOiDEUS is a single muscle in the middle line, Arytje- and is placed in the concavity on the posterior aspect of the ^ ^" ' arytaenoid cartilages. Two sets of fibres with different directions, viz. superficial and deep, are present in the muscle. The deep fibres are transverse; they are inserted into the deep outer border and the posterior surface of the cartilages, and vers?"^" close the interval between the cartilages. The superficial fibres consist of two oblique fasciculi, which cross like the o^uqu? parts of the letter X, each passing from the base of one cartilage to the apex of the other. A few of the oblique fibres of the muscle are usually continued round the carti- lage to join the thyro-arytaenoid muscle, or to blend with the fibres in the arytaeno-epiglottidean fold of mucous mem- brane. Dissection, — To bring into view the remaining muscles, russec- which are somewhat concealed by the thyroid cartilage, it internal will be necessary to remove the right half of the thyroid, "^"^^ by cutting through it near the middle line, after its small cornu has been detached from the cricoid cartilage. By the removal of a little connective tissue, the dissector will de- fine inferiorly the lateral crico-arytaenoid muscle; above it, the thyro-arytaenoideus muscle; and still higher, the thin muscular fibres (depressor of the epiglottis) in the fold of mucous membrane between the epiglottis and the arytsenoid cartilage. The CRICO-ARYT^NOIDEUS LATERALIS is a Small lengthened Lateral band, which arises from the lateral part of the upper border arytae- P -I . . T . , noideus 01 the cricoid cartilage ; its fibres are directed backwards to be inserted, with the thyro-arytaenoid muscle, into a pro- jection on the outer side of the base of the arytaenoid carti-