58 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. trapezius, is the upper part of the serratus magnus. Co- vering the space, are the structures already examined, viz. the skin and superficial fascia, the platjsma over the lower is di- half or more, and the deep fascia. The small omo-hyoid by omo- musclc crosscs the lower part of the space, so as to subdivide eus. it into two,—a lower or clavicular, and an upper or occipital. Part The clavicular part is small in size and close to the cla- near cla- ^ ^ vicie. vicle, and contains the subclavian artery. It is triangular in form, with its base directed forwards ; and is bounded in front by the sterno-mastoid, above by the omo-hyoid muscle, and below by the clavicle. This small space measures commonly about one inch and a half from before backwards, and somewhat less in front at its base. Vessels Crossing the area of this part of the space, rather above nerves the Icvcl of the claviclc, is the trunk of the subclavian in this part, artery (the third part), which issues from beneath the ante- rior scalenus muscle, and is directed over the first rib to the axilla. Above the artery are the large cords of the brachial plexus, which accompany the vessel, and become closely ap- and their plied to it beneath the clavicle. Beneath the artery and relative ^ ^ ^ position the nerves are the middle scalenus muscle and the first rib. Along the clavicular side of the space, and rather beneath the clavicle, are the supra-scapular vessels ; and crossing the upper angle, at the meeting of the omo-hyoid and sterno- mastoid muscles, are the transverse cervical vessels. En- tering the space from above is the external jugular vein, which descends over or under the omo-hyoideus near the anterior part, and opens into the subclavian vein ; in this spot the vein receives the supra-scapular and transverse cervical branches, and sometimes a small vein, over the clavicle, from the cephalic vein of the arm. varia- The sizc of the clavicular part of the posterior triangular the size spacc is influenced by the extent of the attachment of the of the ^ space; trapezius and sterno-mastoid muscles along the clavicle, since in some bodies these muscles occupy nearly the whole length of the bone. The space may be farther increased or diminished by the position of the omo-hyoideus in the neck ; for this muscle may lie close to the clavicle, being attached thereto, or it may be distant one inch and a half from that also in bonc. In depth the space varies naturally ; and in a short depth, thick neck, with a prominent clavicle, the artery is farther