221 VENTRICLE OF THE SEPTUM. the lower border is joined in part to the fornix, but in front of this body it is connected with the under or prolonged portion (rostrum) of the corpus callosum. The septum struc- consists of two layers, which enclose a space — the fifth ventricle; and each layer is formed of white substance, with an external coating of gray matter. Dissection. — The space of the fifth ventricle will come Dissec- into view by cutting through the part of the corpus callo- sum that remains in the middle line, and by detaching the anterior half from the septum lucidum, so that it can be raised forwards. The ventricle of the septum or the fifth ventricle exists in Fifth ^ ^ ven- the anterior part of the ventricular partition, where the tricie. depth is greatest. Like the septum that contains it, its largest part is in front. In the adult it is a closed space, but in the foetus it opens inferiorly into the third ventricle between the pillars of the fornix. Its surface has an epi- thelial covering like that in the lateral ventricles. Dissection. — The fornix should be next examined. To Dissec- tion. lay bare this body the posterior part of the corpus callosum should be detached with care from it, and thrown back- wards ; and the septum lucidum should also be removed from its upper surface. The fornix, or arch, is a thin white horizontal stratum Fornix; beneath the corpus callosum, which, projecting on each side and^'°" into the lateral ventricle, forms part of the floor of that cavity. It is triangular in shape, with the base turned backwards, and is continuous with the rest of the brain only by its apex and base, where it gives off processes or crura, both before and behind. At its posterior part or base, the fornix has the following Poste- arrangement: — In the middle line it joins the corpus cal- losum, whilst on each side it sends off a small riband-like band—taenia hippocampi, along the concave margin of the hippocampus major. At the anterior part, or apex, it is anterior arched over the foramen of Monro, opposite the front of the optic thalamus, and ends likewise in two processes or crura, which will be afterwards followed to the corpora albicantia and the optic thalami (p. 228.). To the upper surface, along Upper the middle line, the septum lucidum is attached. Each bor- and bor- der is free in the corresponding lateral ventricle, where it