630 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. Spongy^ Corpus spougiosum urethrcE, — This constituent part of of the the penis surrounds the urethra, and forms behind the bulb and in front the glans penis (p. 601.). The urethra is not enveloped equally on all sides by this tissue, for, at the bulb, only a thin stratum is above the canal. Posteriorly an offset of the corpus spongiosum is continued beyond the bulb, around the urethra, its Structure, — The tissue of the corpus spongiosum is ture like similar to that of the corpus cavernosum ; thus it consists of ous. " a fibrous tunic, enclosing a trabecular structure and a plexi- form arrangement of the bloodvessels. The The fibrous covering is less dense and strong than in the cSe."* corpora cavernosa, and consists only of circular fibres. A i^per- piece projects inwards from it in the middle line, opposite septum, the tube of the urethra: this is best marked for- a short dis- tance in front of the bulb, and assists in dividing that body into two lobes. The trabecular bands are much finer, and more uniform in size, than those of the corpora cavernosa. Blood- Bloodvessels, — The terminal arrangement of the blood- likewise vcssols in the erectile structure of the corpus spongiosum is almost identical with that in the corpora cavernosa; but the and he- hclicine terminations of the arteries are absent from the licine. glans penis, where the veins form a very close and regular plexus. Source The arteries are derived from the pudic on each side; ries. they are the artery of the bulb, and offsets from the dorsal artery, and enter the spongy structure — the first behind, and the latter in front at the glans where they most abound. Kobelt describes another branch to the bulb, at the upper aspect. Termi- Most of the veifis, including those of the glans, end in the nation o ^^^^^ dorsal vciu of the penis, and some communicate with veins, those of the cavernous body; others issue from the bulb, and terminate in the pudic vein and the prostatic plexus. • Nerves. Nerves and lymphatics. — The nerves of the penis are larore and are furnished by both the spinal and sympathetic nerves (p. 460 —-617.) : on the bulb of the urethra and the glans. penis, they end Lymph- in Pacinian bodies. — Fick. The superficial lymphatics join the inguinal glands; the deep accompany the veins beneath the arch of the pubes, to end in the glands in the pelvis.