SCALENI MUSCLES. 69 muscle lie the omo-hjoideus and sterno-hyoideus; and be- neath it are the superior laryngeal nerve and vessels. This is sometimes considered one of the special muscles of the larynx. Direction, — The remaining parts included in this section are the scaleni muscles and the subclavian blood-vessels, and the cervical nerves and the carotid blood-vessels. The stu- dent may examine these in the order here given. Dissection. — Supposing the sterno-mastoid to be cut, the Dissec- fat and fascia are to be taken away from the lovy^er part of lll^e sub- the neck, so as to prepare the scaleni muscles, w^ith the sub- artery" clavian vessels and their branches. By means of a little dis- section the anterior scalenus muscle will be seen ascending from the first rib to the neck, having the phrenic nerve and subclavian vein in front of it, the latter being near the rib. The part of the subclavian artery that is on the inner side of the scalenus is then to be cleaned, care being taken not only of its branches, but of the branches of the sympathetic nerve which course from the neck to the chest. This dissection will be facilitated by the removal of a part or the whole of the clavicle. All the branches of the artery are in general and easily found, except the superior intercostal, which is to be es. sought in the thorax in front of the neck of the first rib. On the branch (inferior thyroid) ascending to the thyroid body, or near it, is the middle cervical ganglion of the sym- pathetic, and the dissector should follow downwards from it the small nerves to the thorax. Only the origin and first part of the course of the vascular branches can now be seen ; their termination is met with in other stages of this dissec- tion, or in the dissection of other parts of the body. In this stage the student should seek the small right lymphatic duct that opens into the subclavian vein near its junction ofiym- with the jugular. A notice of it will be given with the ductl^ lymphatics of the thorax. The outer part of the subclavian artery having been of already prepared, let the dissector remove more completely plexus, the connective tissue from the nerves of the cervical and brachial plexuses. From the brachial plexus trace the small subclavian branch; and the branches to the rhomboid and serratus muscles, which pierce the middle scalenus. If it p 3