516 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. wished by it to the descending colon and the sigmoid flexure. Left The left colic artery ascends in front of the left kidney, branch and dividos into ascending and descending branches for the descend. Supply of the descending colon. By the ascending offset it cofon. anastomoses with the middle colic branch of the superior mesenteric artery. Sigmoid The sigmoid artery is distributed to the sigmoid flexure. Passing almost transversely outwards, it divides into branches, which anastomose above with the preceding colic branch, to sig. and below with the hgemorrhoidal. Here, as in the rest of flexure, the intestinal tube, arches are formed by the arteries destined for the supply of the intestine. Branch The supcrior hcemorrhoidal artery enters between the turn. layers of the meso-rectum, and is distributed to the lower part of the great intestine : it will be described in the dis- section of the pelvis. Inferior The inferior mesenteric vein begins in the part of the inesen- teric great intestine to which its companion artery is distributed, and ascends along the psoas muscle, away from the artery, to open into the splenic vein beneath the pancreas. Occa- sionally it joins the superior mesenteric vein. Veins of The mesenteric veins are without valves, and may be in- without jected from the trunk to the branches like an artery. valves. Lymph- Lymphatic glands are found by the side of the descending glands, colon and the sigmoid flexure. The lymphatics from those parts, after passing through the glands, enter the left lumbar lymphatic glands. Some Sympathetic Nerve. — The following plexuses of the onhe^^^ sympathetic, which are derived from the solar plexus be- thetFc" neath the stomach, are in connection with the vessels that viscera, are now dissected, viz. superior mesenteric, aortic, spermatic, inferior mesenteric, and hypogastric. The remaining portion of the sympathetic nerve in the abdomen will be subse- | quently referred to. j Dissec- Dissection.— On the two mesenteric arteries the dissector ! aortic will havo made out already the plexuses of nerves that are j distributed to the intestinal tube beyond the duodenum : and i he has now to trace, on the aorta itself, the connecting nerves between the mesenteric plexuses. By taking the peritoneum from the aorta between the mesenteric vessels,