DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 668 Femoral Femoral Hernia. — Tliis kind of hernia consists in a pro- trusion of the intestine into the thigh beneath Poupart's i^efini- ligament. In this affection the gut descends always in the crural sheath, and commonly on the inner side of the vein, though occasionally it may be situate on the outer side of the artery. Course; Course, — At first the intestine takes a vertical direction first ver- in its progrcss from the abdomen to the surface of the body, and passes through the crural ring, and along the crural next canal as far as the saphenous opening. At this spot it for- changes its course, and is directed forwards ; and should the and then gut protrudc Still farther the hernia again alters its direction upwards. asccuds towards the abdomen, in consequence of the ascent being easier than the descent on the front of the thigh. The winding course of the hernia must suggest to the dissector the direction in which attempts should be made By what to replace the intestine in the abdominal cavity. With the is to be view of making the bowel retrace its course, it will be neces- back. sary first to press it down towards the saphenous opening, and afterwards backwards and upwards towards the crural canal and ring. The previous dissection will have demon- strated the necessity of raising the limb, and rotating it inwards during the manipulation to return the displaced in- testine to its cavity, in order that the margin of the saphe- nous opening, and the other tissues may be relaxed. Cover- Coverings, — As the intestine takes the course above ings for the gut^^ specified it is clothed by the following structures, which are elongated and pushed before it: they are here enumerated from within outwards, in the order in which they are re- ceived. First is a covering of the peritoneum lining the perito- abdomen ; next one from the crural septum across the crural crural; ring ; after this comes a stratum from the crural sheath, crural'' uulcss the hernia bursts through an aperture in the side ; cribri-' ^^^^ farther out is a layer of the cribriform fascia ; and, fasda, lastly, there is an investment of the superficial fat or fascia, s'kin'^^ together with the skin. From without inwards the order of The CO- the different strata will be reversed. The coverings may may"be Vary, or be conjoined in different degrees according to the condition of the hernia. In some instances, as above ex- plained, the prolongation from the crural sheath is wanting; and in an old hernia the covering derived from the septum