FASCIA OF THE ILIACUS AND PSOAS. 581 forms the thickened band called ligamentum arcuatum ex- lig. arc. extern. ternum. Fascia of the iliacus and psoas, — This fascia covers the niac . . . . fascia two muscles, and extends in different directions as far as their attachments. Over the iliacus muscle the membrane joined by is thickest; and a strong accession is received from theotsmaii tendon of the small psoas, when that miascle is present. Its auach- disposition at Poupart's ligament, and the part that it takes beiow; in the formation of the crural sheath, have been before explained (p. 497.). When traced inwards over the psoas, j^^^JJ'j^^- the membrane will be found to be inserted into the hip bone to pelvis near the brim of the pelvis; and when followed upwards it will be seen to become thin, to be fixed on the one side to the lumbar vertebrae and the ligamentum arcuatum inter- num, and to be blended on the other with the fascia on the quadratus ; at its attachment to the vertebrae it has the the . . . . verte- same digitate and arched condition as the psoas. The fascia brae, should be divided over the psoas on the left side, and re- flected towards the brim of the pelvis. Dissection The student is now to clean the lymphatic Trace glands that lie along the vertebrae^ and to trace upwards lymph- some lymphatic vessels to the thoracic duct. To show the commencement of the duct the diaphragm is to be divided over the aorta, and its pillars thrown to each side ; then a piece may be cut out of the aorta opposite the first lumbar vertebra. The beginning of the duct (chyli receptaculum) and the and of the vena azygos may be well seen now, and may be tacuium, followed upwards into the thorax. vefn^^ On the left side the student may trace the splanchnic spianch. nerves and the small vena azygos through the pillar of the nerves, diaphragm, and show the trunk of the sympathetic nerve entering the abdomen beneath the arch over the psoas muscle. Lymphatic glands.—A chain of glands is placed along Lumbar the side of the external iliac artery, and along the front and atics of sides of the lumbar vertebras ; these are connected by short domeu tubes, which increase in size and diminish in number until at the upper part of the lumbar vertebrse only three trunks end in remain to form the common thoracic duct. Into these glands the lymphatics of the lower limb, those of the viscera Lym- P P 3 P^'""