FIRST LAYER OF MUSCLES. 407 traced. A small artery to the trapezius (art. superficialis colli) accompanies the nerve. The spinal accessory nerve, one of the trunks of the eighth spinai nair of the cranial nerves (p. 118.), having crossed the pos- sory ^ , T , , . T nerve in terior triangle of the neck, enters beneath the trapezius, and trape- forms a plexiform arrangement with branches of the third and fourth nerves of the cervical plexus. The nerve is dis- tributed to the muscle, and its filaments reach nearly to the lower border. * Dissection. — To see the parts that are covered by the Dissec- trapezius, this muscle is to be divided longitudinally, internal reflect to the position of the spinal accessory nerve, and the two zius; parts are to be thrown inwards and outwards. * The dissector of the upper limb should clean the fibres to clean of the rhomboidei and levator anguli scapula? muscles, muscles; which are fixed to the base of the scapula ; and whilst this is being done, the scapula is to be drawn away from the trunk to make tense the fibres. The dissector of the neck should define the parts beneath to dissect parts in the clavicle, viz. the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle the neck, with the suprascapular nerve and artery; the transverse cervical vessels ; and the small branches of nerves to the levator anguli scapulae, and the rhomboid muscles. If the trapezius be detached in the neck, the ligamentum nuchae, from which it takes origin, will be brought into view. * Parts covered by the trapezius,—The trapezius conceals Parts' covered in the neck the splenius and a small part of the complexus, by tra- pezius. with the levator anguli scapulae ; and in the dorsal region it covers the following muscles — the rhomboidei, the erector spinae, and the latissimus dorsi. As it reaches the scapula it lies over the supraspinatus muscle. The ligamentum nuchce is a narrow fibrous band, that Liga- extends from the spinous process of the seventh cervical nuch^. vertebra to the occipital protuberance. This structure serves as a partition between the muscles of opposite sides of the neck; and from the under part processes are sent down to be attached to the spines of the six lower cervical vertebrae. In man it is not formed of elastic tissue. * The LATISSIMUS DORSI is thin, and is the widest muscle Latissi- in the back ; it is pointed and fleshy towards the humerus, dorsi is , ^ . named but aponeurotic at its inner attachment or origin. It from its shape. D D 4