THE TRICEPS MUSCLE. 289 contiguous intermuscular septum, and the inner portion or half of the posterior surface of the bone. From these pro- cesses of origin the fibres are directed to a common tendon of insertion at the lower part, with different degrees of inser- inclination : — those of the middle head are directed verti- cally, but those of the inner and outer heads pass inwards and downwards to the sides and the under part of the tendon, fibres. The muscle is inserted inferiorly into the end of the olecra- non process of the ulna, and gives an expansion to the aponeurosis of the forearm : between the tip of the olecranon and the tendon is a small bursa. The triceps is superficial, except at the upper part where {^^n^ec- it is overlapped by the deltoid muscle. It lies on the hu- the . , muscle. merus, and conceals the musculo-spiral nerve, the superior profunda vessels, and the articulation of the elbow. On the sides the muscle is united to the intermuscular septa, and the lower fibres of the outer head are continuous with the anconeus — one of the muscles of the forearm. Suhanconeus muscle, — This is a thin fleshy stratum sub- in i«i 1 1 anconeal beneath the triceps near the elbow, which may be seen by slip, cutting through that muscle at the lower part. It consists of two fasciculi, inner and outer: these are attached above the fossa for the olecranon, and end in the capsule of the joint. A corresponding muscle is placed beneath the ex- tensor of the knee joint. The intermuscular septa are processes of fibrous struc- Two in- . , , . . • r» -I tennus- ture, continuous with the investing aponeurosis oi the arm, cuiar which are fixed to the ridges leading to the condyles of the ^^^'^ humerus: they intervene between the muscles on the front attached and back of the lower half of the arm, and give attachment of hu?^^ to the fleshy fibres. The internal is the strongest, and reaches as high as the coraco-brachialis muscle, from which and it receives some tendinous fibres: the brachialis anticus is attached to it in front, and the triceps behind; and the ulnar nerve and the inferior profunda and anastomotic arteries pierce it. The external septum is thinner, and ceases at outer, the deltoid muscle. Behind it is the triceps ; and in front of it are the brachialis anticus, and the muscles of the fore- arm that arise above the condyle of the humerus (supinator longus and extensor carpi radialis longus) : it is pierced by the musculo-spiral nerve. u