422 DISSECTION OF THE BACK. branclies are supplied by the vessel to the surrounding parts. Beneath the artery is the suboccipital nerve. Deep The deep cervical artery is a branch of the superior inter- cervical jr jr artery, costal (of the Subclavian, p. 75.), and resembles the posterior branches of the other intercostal arteries. Passing back- wards between the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra, and the neck of the first rib, the vessel appears in this dissection between the complexus and semispinalis muscles. Finally, the artery ascends as high as the upper border of the semispinalis muscle, and anastomoses with the cervical branch of the occipital artery. The contiguous muscles receive branches from the deep cervical artery, and anastomoses are formed between its offsets and those of the vertebral artery. Inter- * l7i the dorsol region. — The posterior branches of the arteries iutcrcostal vcsscls accompauy the nerves between the ver- fnto^^'^*^ tebrge and the anterior costo-transverse ligaments. In the back they are divided like the nerves into inner and outer branches. inner * a. The inner branches end in the fleshy mass of the multifidus spinas and semispinalis muscles, and furnish small offsets with those nerves which reach the surface, outer * The external branches cross beneath the longissimus es, ' dorsi, and supply it and the erector spinse. Like the nerves, the lowest branches of this set are the largest, because they extend to the surface, and give As the dorsal branch of the intercostal artery passes by the in- to spinal tervertebral foramen, it furnishes a small intraspinal artery to the cord and its membranes, as well as other twigs to the vertebrae. Lumbar * Jn the loins. — The posterior branches of the lumbar arteries arteries divide, like the intercostal, into internal and external pieces, as soon as they reach the interval between the lon- divided g^^^^^^s dorsi and multifidus spinai. They give also a spinal into branch to the spinal canal, and the cord with the investing membranes. inner * a. The internal branches are small, and end in the mul- tifidus spinse muscle, outer * b. The external branches supply the erector spinse, and branch- g^^^ contiuucd ouwards, with the nerves, to the integu- ments. Veins Veins. — With the deep cervical artery is a large vein,