576 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Two Two large branches^ epigastric and circumflex iliac, arise es: from the artery a few lines from its end, and are distributed to the wall of the abdomen (p. 486.) : but the number of the branches may be altered by the epigastric being transferred from it, or by the other being divided into two. Some small unnamed twigs are given by it to the psoas muscle and the lymphatic glands, origin Peculiarities. — In position of usual branches. — The epigastric and circumflex branches may wander over the part of the artery between Poupart's ligament and one inch and a half, or two inches and a half above that band; of the two the epigastric arises highest. Occa- In unusual branches. — Though the trunk of the vessel is com- brarfches uionly free from any unusual branch, it may be occupied between from It. ^j^^ middle by the obturator artery, or by the in- ternal circumflex artery of the thigh. Veins of Veins.— The vcius of the abdomen correspond so closely domen, with tlic artcrics, both in the number, extent, and connections veria^^ of the truuks, as to render unnecessary the same detail as in portae. description of the arteries. Further, as the veins in- crease in size from the circumference towards the centre of the body, those most distant from the heart will be first described, Anato. The external iliac continues the femoral vein to the ab- ex^ernal domen beneath Poupart's ligament. It has an extent like that of the artery of the same name, and ends by uniting with the vein from the pelvis (internal iliac) to form the Position common iliac vein. On the pubes it is on the same level to artery. artery, and lies inside it between the psoas and pec- tineus muscles ; but this position is not retained throughout, for, though the left vein remains internal to, the right slips beneath its artery. Branch- The veins that open into it are the epigastric and circumflex iliac (p. 487. and 488.). Com- The common iliac vein ascends by the side of its com- iiiaS pan ion artery, the right almost vertically, and the left form obliquely, to the right side of the body of the fifth lumbar vertebra (the upper part), where the two are blended in one Differ- trunk — the vena cava. The right vein is the shortest, and ie"ngt!r is at first behind, but afterwards outside the artery of the nection"' samc sidc. The left is altogether below the artery of its own side, and moreover crosses beneath the right common iliac artery.