STRUCTURE OF THE TRACHEA. 177 terval between the cartilages at the back of the tube is closed by fibrous membrane, and by muscular fibres and muciparous glands ; and the trachea is lined bj mucous membrane with subjacent elastic tissue. Cartilages.— The pieces of cartilage vary in number from Carti. sixteen to twenty. Each forms an incomplete ring, which occupies about three fourths of a circle ; and each is convex Form, forwards, forming the front and sides of the air tube. At PecuUa- the extremities of the trachea, both above and below, these cartilaginous pieces are least constant in size and form; for towards the larynx they increase in depth, whilst the lowest piece of cartilage is shaped like the letter Y: at the ex- tremes also of the tube, the cartilages may be slit at their ends, or may be blended together. A fibrous tissue IS con- are con- tinued from one to another on both aspects, though in fibrous"* greatest quantity externally, so as to incase and unite them, and is extended across the posterior part of the air tube. Dissection. — On removing the fibrous membrane and the Dissec- muciparous glands from between the cartilages at the back of the trachea, the muscular fibres will appear. After the muscular fibres have been examined, they may be cut through to see the elastic tissue and the mucous membrane. Muscular fibres.— Between the ends of the cartilages is Muscu. a continuous layer of transverse unstriated fibres, which are ciose^^^^ attached to the truncated ends and the inner surface of the behind, cartilages. By the one surface the fibres are in contact with the fibrous membrane and the glands, and by the other with the next structure. Some longitudinal fibres are superficial to the transverse (Kramer)*; they are arranged in scattered bundles, and are attached to the fibrous tissue. The elastic tissue forms a complete lining beneath the Elastic mucous membrane to the tracheal tube ; though at the pos- linls^ terior part, where the cartilages are deficient, it is gathered into strong longitudinal folds. This layer is closely connected with the mucous membrane covering it. The mucous membrane of the trachea lines the tube, and Mucous resembles that of the larynx, with which it is continuous, m brane, being furnished with a columnar ciliated epithelium. Con- \mm^ nected with this membrane are numerous muciparous com- glands. * See Kdlliker's Anatomie, p. 305. (Zweiter Band). N