OLFACTORY REGION. 145 plate; but the apertures that lead to the sinuses and the others orbit are only somewhat diminished by the lining they jshed by receive: the membrane is partly stretched over the opening of the ductus ad nasum, but in it is a small aperture. From the close connection of the mucous membrane with the pe- riosteum, the lining membrane of the nose is sometimes called a fibro-mucous structure. The surface is covered by the apertures of muciparous Aper- /» . tures of glands, which are in greatest abundance, and of largest size, giand about the middle and posterior parts of the nasal fossa. In theiium. the lower part of the nose, and in the sinuses, its epithelium is of the columnar ciliated kind, which becomes laminated or scaly near the nostrils; but has special characters in the upper part of the cavity. Olfactory region.'^— This is the part of the nose in which pifac- the olfactory nerve is distributed, and is therefore the seat of region.: the sense of smell. In this spot the mucous lining differs from that in the lower portion of the nose. This region is situate at the top of the nasal cavity, and Limits, is confined to the surface of the roof formed by the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone; to a portion of the outer wall constructed by the upper, and part of the middle spongy bone; and to a corresponding extent of the septum, viz. about one third. The epithelium of the mucous membrane covering this Epithe- region is of a brownish tint, is laminar, and is composed of many strata. The glands of the part resemble further those glands, of ordinary sweat glands in their position, and in the length and condition of the excretory tubes. Dissection.—By the time the student has arrived at this Dissec- stage of the dissection, little will be seen of the distribution nerves of the olfactory nerve. If the septum nasi be removed, so seis. as to leave entire the membrane covering it on the opposite side (the left), the filaments of the nerve will appear on the surface, near the cribriform plate. On the membrane too, near the front of the septum, is a branch of the nasal nerve. At the same time the naso-palatine nerve and artery may be seen lower down, being directed from behind forwards, * This region has been specially described in the third part of the Physiological Anatomy of Dr. Todd and Mr. Bowman.