758 DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. and the 5. In the avticulation with the os cuhoides there is a dorsal bone oblique band of fibres ; a plantar transverse band, which is concealed by the tendon of the tibialis posticus ; and a strong interosseous ligament between the contiguous surfaces of the bones. When the bones touch the surfaces are tipped with cartilage, and furnished with a prolongation from the common synovial membrane of the tarsus. Union ARTICULATIONS OF THE CUNEIFORM BONES.—TheSC bonCS of the cunei- are united to one another by cross bands ; and the ex- form . ' bones tcmal onc articulates with the os cuboides after a similar manner. one with a. The three cuneiform bones are connected together by short transverse dorsal bands between the upper surfaces. Similar plantar ligaments are wanting, except between the two innermost. There are also interosseous ligaments be- tween the contiguous surfaces of the bones. and with b. Where the external cuneiform touches the cuboid bone the cuboid the surfaces are covered with cartilage, and are furnished : with either a prolongation of the common tarsal synovial membrane, or a distinct synovial sac. A dorsal ligament i passes transversely between the two, and a plantar ligament takes a similar direction. Between the bones there is also an interosseous ligament. Synovial The Synovial membrane of the articulations of the cunei- I form bones is common to many of the bones of the tarsus. Placed between the scaphoid and the three cuneiform bones, it sends a prolongation forwards between the inner two cuneiforms to the joints of the second and third metatarsal bones; another outwards to the articulation of the scaphoid with the cuboid bone; and sometimes a third to that of the I external cuneiform with the os cuboides. Union Articulation of the metatarsal bones.—The bases meta- of the metatarsal bones, except the first, are connected toge- by ' ther by dorsal, plantar, and interosseous ligaments; and i where their contiguous parts touch they are covered with cartilage, and have part of a synovial sac. | dorsal. The dorsal ligaments are small transverse bands that pass j from the base of one metatarsal bone to that of the next, on plantar, the uppor surfacc, in the outer four toes. The plantar liga- ments are similar to the dorsal, between the same bones, andin- The intcrosseous ligaments are short, transverse fibres be- teros- ; A