667 THE CRURAL CANAL. Crural canal. — This term is applied to the innermost The in- space in the interior of the crural sheath. Its extent is from the three a quarter to half an inch, for it reaches only from the base the cru.^ of Gimbernat's ligament to the upper cornu of the saphenous opening. Anterior to the sheath at this part, and conse- ^^''^^^'^^^^^ quently to the space, are Poupart's ligament and the upper around end of the falciform margin of the saphenous opening ; whilst behind it is the pectineus muscle, covered by fascia lata. On the outer side is the femoral vein. The aperture by which it communicates above with the cavity of the abdomen is named the crural ring. Through this canal or space the intestine in femoral hernia passes from the ab- domen. Some writers apply the term crural canal to the whole of the P^^"?: , tion of space included in the funnel-shaped sheath, and describe therefore term^ . the femoral vessels as being in the crural canal; but the appellation canal crural caual is here confined, as above stated, to the space in the pioyed. " sheath internal to the vessels. The crural or femoral ring is the upper opening of the Crurai crural canal towards the abdominal cavity.* It is on a level situa- with the base of Gimbernat's ligament, and is larger in the fo?mf"^ female than in the male. It is oval in shape ; and its greatest measurement is from side to side, in which direction it equals about half an inch. The structures that surround struc- T . . tures the opening, outside the crural sheath, are nearly similar to around, those bounding the crural canal, viz. in front the crural arch with the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament in the female; behind, the pubes covered by fascia lata; on the inside Gimbernat's ligament; and on the outside the femoral vein within the sheath. The position of the several sides of the ring is stated at p. 498. Septum crurale, — The part of the subperitoneal layer of Crurai . . . . septum; fat, which is placed over the opening of the crural ring, has been named crural septum (Cloquet) from its position po^i^^^" between the thigh and the abdomen. The situation of the how ... • •! 1 1 • 1 • T • formed. partition is now visible, but its characters are ascertained in the dissection of the abdomen (p. 497.). * Gimbernat used the name crural ring, and Mr. Lawrence proposes to call it femoral aperture. Might not the nomenclature employed be made more to resemble that used in describing inguinal hernia, by caUing this the internal crural aperture, and the saphenous opening the external crural aperture ?