SCIATIC AND PUDIC NEKVES. 699 is very slender, and enters the substance of the nerve near the sciatic . . . . nerve. ; pelvis; it extends in the nerve along the thigh, supplying offsets to it. c. The branch to the quadratus passes with the nerve of the Branch same name beneath the gemelli and obturator internus, and gives quadra- branches to the hip joint and the inferior gemellus before it termi- nates in its muscle. The pudic artery belongs to the perinaeum and the geni- Pudic tal organs: it is less than the sciatic, and internal to it. Only a small part of the vessel is seen on the back of the pelvis, for, after winding over the ischial spine, it enters the l^^^l^^ perinaeal space through the small sacro-sciatic notch, and is chiai ^ y o ' spine. there distributed (p. 458.). It supplies a small branch over the back of the sacrum, which anastomoses with the gluteal and sciatic vessels; and a twig from it accompanies the nerve to the obturator internus muscle. The veins with the sciatic and pudic arteries receive con- Veins, i tributing twigs corresponding with the branches of those arteries, and open into the internal iliac vein. Sciatic and Pudic Nerves. — The nerves appearing at Nerves the back of the pelvis, below the pyriformis, are branches of from^ the sacral plexus to the lower limb, and mostly to parts plexus, beyond the gluteal region (p. 614.). Some small muscular branches are present at the same spot. The small sciatic may be considered a cutaneous nerve of smaii ' sciatic the back of the thiffh, for it supplies only one muscle — the nerve . ^ P , n is chiefly gluteus maximus; it springs from the lower part of the a cuta. 11 11 1 1 . "^'^"s sacral plexus, generally by two parts that remain sepa- nerve j rate. The nerve takes the course of the sciatic artery as far as the lower border of the great gluteus, where it gives many cutaneous branches upwards and downwards: much diminished in size at that spot, the nerve is continued along the back of the thigh, beneath the fascia, and ends in the ends in integument of the posterior part of the leg. The branches which are distributed on or near the buttock are muscular and cutaneous. a. The muscular branches (inferior gluteal) enter the under sur- gives face of the gluteus maximus near the lower border. A separate es to offset of the sacral plexus is usually furnished to the upper part of maxi. gluteus the muscle. b. The cutaneous branches are directed either upwards or down- Cutane- wards at the border of the gluteus. The upper set are distributed nerves