617 ANATOMY OF THE VISCERA IN THE MALE. part of the bladder. It gives one plexus to the vesicula seminalis, and another to the vas deferens. TYiQ prostatic plexus leaves the lower part of the pelvic plexus to the and is distributed to the substance of the prostate gland. At the giam? ^ front of the prostate an offset (cavernous) is continued onwards penis to the dorsum of the penis, to supply the cavernous structure. On the penis the cavernous nerves join the pudic nerve. In the female there are the following additional plexuses, offsets for the supply of the viscera peculiar to that sex: — female: Ovarian plexus. — The principal nerves to the ovary are derived to the from the renal and aortic plexuses, and accompany the artery to that body; but the uterine nerves supply also some filaments to it- Vacrinal plexus. — The nerves to the vaccina are of laraje size, and to the . . o ^ o 5 vagina ; are not plexiform, but consist in greater part of spinal nerve fibres ; they end in the lower part of the tube. The uterine nerves are furnished to the uterus without direct ad- ^^"d to the mixture with the spinal nerves. The nerves ascend along the side uterus: of the uterus, and are, for the most part, long slender filaments, without ganglia or communications as far as their termination no gan. in the substance of the viscus. The Fallopian tube receives its branches from the uterine nerves. Some few nerves that surround the arteries of the uterus are Nerves . on ves- plexiform and ganglionic. — Beck. seis gangli- The lymphatic glands of the pelvis form a chain in front of the sacrum, and along the internal iliac artery. The effer- glands in ent ducts of these bodies join the lumbar glands. Into these ^^^^^^' glands the deep lymphatics of the penis, those of the genital lympha- organs in the female, and the lymphatics of the viscera and tSng" ^ the wall of the pelvis are collected. ^ Section V. ANATOMY OF THE VISCEKA OF THE MALE. Directions,— The bladder and the parts at its base, viz. the vesiculae seminales and the prostate gland, are to be taken first for examination.* Dissection, — To study the form and structure of the Take ^ out the viscera, it will be necessary to remove them from the cavity viscera, of the pelvis. For this purpose the student should carry the scalpel around the pelvic outlet, close to the osseous * The anatomy of the viscera of the female is contained in Section YI. p. 631.