ARTICULATIONS OF THE TARSUS. 757 d. The OS calcis with the cuboid bone.—The ligaments in Oscaiois this articulation are plantar and dorsal, the former being bold much the strongest; and there is also an internal or inter- osseous band. The dorsal ligament (superior calcaneo-cuboid) is a thin dorsal fasciculus of fibres, which is attached to the upper surfaces of the contiguous ends of the os calcis and the cuboid bone, and is divided into one or two parts. At the inner side of the OS cuboides is the rather strong internal or inter- osseous band from the os calcis : this is attached behind to the upper part of the os calcis, external to the outer band to the scaphoid bone, and in front to the contiguous inner part of the os cuboides. The inferior calcaneo-cuboid liga- and infe- ment in the sole of the foot is the strongest, and is divided gament into a superficial and a deep part:—The superficial portion (liqamentum lonqum plantce) is attached to the under surface The last ^ ^ C7 x- / , ^ isstrong- of the OS calcis from near the tuberosities to the tubercle in est, and . . divided front, and its fibres pass forwards to be connected with the into two parts„ , ridge on the under part of the cuboid bone ; whilst some of its inner fibres are prolonged over the tendon of the pe- roneus longus muscle, assisting to form its sheath, and are attached to the bases of the third and fourth metatarsal bones. The deep piece of the ligament will be seen, on division of the superficial, to extend from the tubercle and the pit in front of it on the fore part of the under surface of the OS calcis, to the portion of the cuboid bone internal to the ridge. A single synovial membrane belongs to the synovial articulation. Dissection.—The interosseous ligament uniting the astra- pissec- galus and the os calcis is now to be cut through to demon- strate the articular surfaces, the synovial sacs, and the attachment of the ligament. Articulations of the scaphoid bone.—The scaphoid union bone articulates in front with the three cuneiform bones, and scaphoid laterally with the os cuboides, by dorsal and plantar bands. a. In the articulation with the cuneiform bones there are to the cunei- three small dorsal ligaments, one to each bone, but the inner- form most is the strongest. The place of plantar bands is sup- plied by processes of the tendon of the tibialis posticus. A synovial membrane lines the articulation, and sends forwards prolongations between the cuneiform bones. 3 e 3