786 DISSECTION OF THE EAR. Fenestra vexity placed upwards, and is named fenestra ovalis: to- wards tlie vestibular cavity (part of the labyrinth) it has a sharp, prominent margin ; and over it, in the recent state, the inner bone (stapes) of the osseous chain is fixed. The fenestra lower aperture, named fenestra rotunda, is rather irregular * or triangular in shape, and leads into the cochlea: it is situate within a funnel-shaped hollow, somewhat oval in form on the surface. In the recent state it is closed by a thin membrane, the secondare/ membrane of the tympanum. In outer The outer boundary of the cavity is formed by the mem- ary, " braua tympani, and by a small part of the surrounding bone, brana Abovc the membrane and in front of it, is the Glasserian or and^ glenoid fissure, which is occupied, in the fresh condition of rian * the body, by the long process of one of the small bones (mal- fissure. j^^g^^ ^ small musclc (laxator tympani). Crossing the membrane towards the upper part is the chorda tympani nerve, which passes through an aperture internal to or in the Glasserian fissure, circum- The circumference of the tympanum is circular, and in ' some parts it is rough and uneven on the surface. In pass- ing around the cavity, the student may observe the following points in its anatomy, roof; The roof is wide and flattened, and consists of a thin osseous plate which separates the cranial and tympanic floor. cavities. The floor is narrow, and curved over the sub- jacent jugular fossa; it presents in the dry bone more or less of an areolar or spongy texture, as well as some small , apertures that open into that fossa. At back, At the posterior part of the circumference, towards the roof, is one large and other smaller apertures leading into the opening mastoid cells. Below this aperture, but near the inner of mas- toid wall and on a level with the narrowed part of the promontory, pyra- is a small conical projection, named the pyramid: this is perforated by an aperture, and contains the stapedius muscle. A minute canal connects the hollow in this projection with the aqueduct of Fallopius. Attaching generally the pyramid to the above-mentioned part of the promontory, is a small aque- rouud spiculum of bone. In a line with the pyramid, and of Faiio- arching upwards from it above the fenestra ovalis, is a ridge of bone marking the situation of the aqueduct of Fallopius. In front The front of the tympanic cavity corresponds with the