791 VESSELS AND NERVES OF THE TYMPANUM. tained in a sheath, is reflected over the end of the cochleari- form process as over a pulley, and is inserted into the inner and is border of the handle of the malleus, near its base. It re- intomai- ceives a special nerve from the otic ganglion. The stapedius is lodged in the canal hollowed in the in- stapedi- terior of the pyramid. Arising from the circumference of thepy- the tube, the muscle ends superiorly in a small tendon; this issues from the pyramid, and, incased in a sheath, is inserted attached into the neck of the stapes at the posterior part. to stapes. Laxator tympani (external muscle of the malleus).—It is Laxator ^ tympani connected externally with the spinous process of the sphenoid arises . ^ . outside bone ; and its tendon, passing through the Glasserian fissure, cavity, is attached to the neck of the malleus above the processus gracilis. Mucous membrane of the tympanum.—The mucous lining ^^^^^^ of the tympanic cavity adheres closely to the wall, and is panum continuous with that of the pharynx through the Eustachian tube : it assists to form part of the membrana tympani, and of the fenestra rotunda, and is moreover continued into the mastoid cells through the aperture leading into them. It is reflected also over the chain of bones and the muscles and ligaments. Its surface is covered with a ciliated epithelium, Epithe- A layer of epithelium can be detached from the inner surface of the membrana tympani, in the same manner as a cuticular stratum may be separated on the outer side. Bloodvessels. — The arteries of the tympanum are fur- Arteries nished from the following branches of the external carotid, branches viz., internal maxillary, posterior auricular, ascending pha- tid. ryngeal; and some offsets come also from the internal carotid, whilst it is contained in the temporal bone. The veins'^oin veins, the middle meningeal and pharyngeal trunks. a. The internal maxillary artery supplies a tympanic From branch (inferior), which is distributed to the membrane of ISaxu- the tympanum; it gives also an offset to the cavity from the petrosal branch of the middle meningeal artery; this enters the temporal bone by the hiatus Fallopii. b. The stylo-mastoid branch of the posterior auricular Posteri. artery, entering the lower end of the aqueduct of Fallopius, cuian"' gives twigs to the back of the cavity, and the mastoid cells. One of this set, superior tympanic, anastomoses with the tympanic branch of the internal maxillary artery, and forms 3 c: 4