26 DISSECTION OF THE FACE. next one — the common elevator of the ala of the nose and the upper lip. of wing"^ The LEVATOR LABII SUPERIORIS AL^QUE NASI is placed hj of nose the side of the nose, and arises from the nasal process of the upper maxillary bone, internal to the attachment of the orbi- cularis. As the fibres descend from the inner part of the orbit, the most internal are attached by a narrow slip to the is part wing of the nose, whilst the rest are blended inferiorly with of upper those of the orbicularis oris. Near its origin the muscle is partly concealed by the orbicularis palpebrarum, but in the rest of its extent it is subcutaneous; its outer border joins the elevator of the upper lip. Dilator Dilatator Naris,—In the dense tissue on the outer side of trii. ' the nostril, are found a few muscular fibres both at the fore and back part of that aperture, to which the above name has been given by Theile: they are seldom visible without anterior a Icus. The anterior slip passes from the cartilage of the aperture to the integument of the margin of the nostril; and posterior the arises from the upper jawbone and the small sesamoid cartilages and ends in the integuments of the nostril. Depres- The DEPRESSOR AL^ NASI is fouud beneath the mucous wing is membrane on the side of the fraenum of the upper lip. It froin^ arises below the nose from a depression of the upper jaw- bone before the roots of the second incisor and canine teeth; and ascends to be inserted into the septum and the posterior part of the ala of the nose. Muscles Muscles of the Mouth.— The muscles that act on the mouth, aperture of the mouth consist of a sphincter ; an elevator of the upper lip, and of the angle of the mouth; depressors of the lower lip, and of the angle of the mouth, with an elevator of the lower lip ; together with other small muscles that act on the corner, viz. zygomatici and risorius of Santorini, Lastly, the buccinator muscle may be reckoned in this set, as it acts indirectly on the corner of the mouth, sphinc The ORBICULARIS ORIS MUSCLE surrounds the external mouth opening of the mouth, and is constructed for the most part by the fibres of the several muscles acting on that aperture, consists : It consists of two parts, inner and outer, which differ much parts, in the appearance and arrangement of the fibres.