414 DISSECTION OF THE BACK. fleshy fibres ascend and are inserted by a thin tendon into the apex and outer surface of the mastoid process, and into the bone behind it for about an inch and a half. Their The splcnius colli is smaller than the splenius capitis, and connec- , ± ± tions its fibres are more oblique. These muscles are beneath the with , ^ other trapezius, the rhomboidei, and the serratus superior; and muscles. the insertion into the occipital bone is beneath the sterno- mastoideus. The complexus muscle can be seen above the upper border of the splenius capitis. Dissec- * Dissection, — To lay bare the fourth layer of muscles, fourth the splenii must be detached from the spinous processes, and thrown outwards. The serratus inferior is also to be detached in the same way with the vertebral aponeurosis, and the connective tissue is to be cleaned from the surface of the large mass of the erector spinse, that now comes into view. sacro- * Opposite the last rib is the beginning of an intermus- irs'^nd cular interval, which divides the erector spinse into an outer fory** piece or the sacro-lumbalis, and an inner piece or the lon- gissimus dorsi. By sinking the knife into this interval the sacro-lumbalis may be turned outwards, so as to uncover the fleshy slips of its accessory muscle, which are fixed to the Offset angles of the ribs. A thin narrow muscle, the cervicalis neck^ ascendens, which is continued from the sacro-lumbalis beyond the ribs, should be separated in the neck from the muscles around by the dissector of that part. Vessels * j^^ preparing the sacro-lumbalis muscle, the external nerves, j^ranchcs of the dorsal nerves with their accompanying arteries will be found. iimS^' * Before the longissimus can be displayed, it will be dorsi needful to raise towards the spinous processes the thin and pro- ^ ^ longa-, muscular fasciculus of the spinalis dorsi, which lies between tions. ^ that muscle and the spines of the vertebrae in the dorsal region. Then the attachments of the longissimus dorsi are to be traced out. Externally it has thin muscular processes of insertion into about the eight lower ribs. Internally it is inserted into the transverse processes of the lumbar and dorsal vertebrae by rounded tendons; and for the purpose of seeing these tendons, the longissimus must be drawn away from the spinous processes, and its superficial apo- neurosis must be cut through below the ribs, in the line of