781 LENS AND ITS CAPSULE. the hyaloid membrane of the vitreous bodj. The anterior part of the capsule is four or five times thicker than the posterior, as far outwards as to the attachment of the sus- pensory ligament, and supports itself after the removal of the lens; it is firm and quite transparent, being structureless, and remains clear for some time when immersed in spirit, acids, and boiling water, like the elastic layers of the cornea. The posterior part of the capsule is thin and membranous, f^fn^jj^d and decreases in thickness towards the centre. fibrous. In the adult human eye the capsule of the lens is not ^^^f^^^^ supplied with bloodvessels; but in the fetus a branch of the central artery of the retina passes through the vitreous body to supply it on the posterior aspect. Dissection.— The lens will be obtained by cutting across open the thin membranous capsule in which it is enclosed, of lens. The lens. — When the lens is removed from its capsule, it surfaces A ' are is a solid and transparent doubly convex body; but the y^gquai. curves are unequal on the two surfaces, the posterior being > greater than the anterior. Its margin is somewhat rounded. The density increases from the circumference to the centre; density; for the superficial part rubs off easily with the finger; but the deeper portion is hard and firm, and is named the nucleus. Its measurement from side to side is from one third to half ^.i"*^"- sions ; an inch, and from before back about one fourth of an inch. On each surface are three lines diverging from the centre, lines on . ^ ^ 'the sur- and reaching towards the margin ; they are the edges of faces, planes or septa, and are so situate that those on one side are intermediate in position to those on the other. In the human eye they are not distinctly seen, because they bifur- cate repeatedly as they extend outwards. Covering the surface of the lens, and connecting it with a layer the capsule, is a layer of very transparent nucleated cells, joins it which can be recognised only in a fresh eye. After a little capsule, time these cells absorb moisture from the aqueous humour, and breaking down form the fluid that has been called aqua 3Iorgagni; but naturally there is not any fluid between the lens and its capsule. Structure.—After the lens has been hardened by spirit or Lens is boiling, it may be demonstrated to consist of a series of layers arranged one within another, like those in an onion. Under the microscope each layer may be seen to be con-