127 THYROID BODY AND TRACHEA. projects into the substance and divides this into masses. It has a granular texture. The substance of the gland consists of spherical or Consists elongated vesicles, which vary in size, some being as large cies^r^" as the head of a small pin, and others only g^^th of an inch. These vesicles are simple sacs, distinct from one another, and contain a yellow fluid, with nuclear-like bodies; in the yeiiow wall of the vesicles is found a thin proper membrane with a nucleated epithelial lining. Capillary vessels and con- and nective tissue unite the vesicles together into small irre- bodied gular masses or lobules, of the size of the little finger nail. On cutting into the gland a viscid yellowish fluid escapes. Bloodvessels.— The arteries to the thyroid body are two on each Blood- side — superior and inferior thyroid; and occasionally there is an additional branch — lowest thyroid, from the innominate artery. The branches of the external carotid (superior thyroid) ramify Supe- chiefly on the anterior aspect; while those from the subclavian ferfor,"" (inferior thyroid) pierce the under surface of the thyroid body, esuhy^" A very free communication is established between all the arteries; [edes^" * and in the substance of the thyroid body the arteries form a fine network around the vesicles, and so pass into the capillary radicles of the veins. The veins are also large and numerous; they are superior, Veins, middle, and inferior thyroid on each side. The first two have been traced to the internal jugular vein (p. 111.). The inferior thyroid inferior veins^ two in number, issue from the lower part of the thyroid p'le^us body, and descend on the trachea, the two forming a plexus on t"achea. that tube beneath the sterno-thyroid muscles; each finally enters the innominate vein of its own side. The TRACHEA, or air tube, is continued from the larynx to Trachea the thorax, and ends by dividing into two tubes (bronchi), one for each lun^. It occupies the middle line of the bodv, '^^^ ^" ° -^^ neck and and extends commonly from the fifth cervical to the third thorax, dorsal vertebra, measuring about four inches and a half in length, and nearly one in breadth. The front of the trachea Form, is rounded in consequence of the existence of firm carti- laginous bands in the anterior wall, but at the posterior aspect the cartilages are absent, and the tube is flat and muscular. Its cavity remains pervious in health, under all conditions. The cervical part of the trachea is very moveable, and cervical has the following relative position to the surrounding parts. amJngst