310 DISSECTION OF THE HAND. pieces of tendons, which is fixed to the ligament connecting together the ends of the metacarpal bones, as well as to the borders of a metacarpal bone for a short distance. The same dis- position exists in each of the processes. Liga- The, transverse ligament of the fingers is a thin fibrous the fin-^ band, which stretches across the roots of the fingers, and is contained in the fold of skin forming the rudiment of a web between them. Beneath it the digital nerves and vessels are continued onwards to their terminations. Sheath Sheath of the flexor tendons.— Along each finger the tendons fiexor tcudous are retained in position against the phalanges varies in by a fibrous shcath. Opposite the middle of each of the two ness. nearest phalanges, the sheath is formed by a strong fibrous band (ligamentum vaginale), which is almost tendinous in consistence ; but opposite the joints of the fingers it consists of scattered and oblique fibres that form a thin membrane. Has a If the sheath be opened, it will be found to be lined by a sac. synovial membrane that. lubricates the tendons, and forms long and slender vascular folds (vincula vasculosa) between the tendons and the bones. Dissec- Dissection. — The palmar fascia, and the thinner parts of the sheaths of the tendons opposite the joints of the fingers, may be now taken away. On the removal of the fascia, the palmar arch of arteries and the median and ulnar nerves become apparent, superfi-^ Palmar Part of the Ulnar Artery. — In the palm of mar ' the hand the ulnar artery is directed outwards towards the muscles of the thumb, where it communicates with two off- sets of the radial artery, viz. the superficial volar branch, and the branch to the radial side of the fore finger. The curved part of the artery, which lies across the hand, is named the Position superficial palmar arch. Its convexity is turned towards hand and the fingers, and its position in the palm would be marked nearly by a line across the hand from the cleft of the thumb, connec- The arch is comparatively superficial; it is covered in greater part only by the integuments and the palmar fascia, but at the inner border of the hand the palmaris brevis muscle overlies it. Beneath it are the flexor tendons and the branches of the ulnar and median nerves. Branch- Branches.— From the convexity of the arch proceed the digital arteries, and from the concavity, some small offsets