DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 192 Anterior 1. The anterior cerebral artery supplies the inner part of supplies the cerebral hemisphere. The vessel of each side is directed part of forwards to the median fissure between the halves of the sphere; large brain ; and as the two are about to enter it, they are commu- . T 1 n 1 • 1 1 • • • nicating united by a short thick artery, the anterior communicating, artery, jg^^j^ artery then runs forwards in the fissure, and bends round the anterior part of the corpus callosum, so as to be placed on the upper aspect in the natural position of the brain. Still continuing backwards nearly to the posterior extremity of the hemisphere, the vessel gives off numerous branches, which anastomose with the other cerebral arteries. It supplies other branches, thus : — its off- Near its commencement the artery furnishes many small branches to the part of the brain contiguous to the inner end of the fissure of Sylvius (anterior perforated space); and it distributes some branches to the under part of the anterior lobe. Middle 2. The middle cerebral artery is the largest offset of the arter^yf^ internal carotid, and supplies the outer side of the hemi- sphere. Passing outwards in the fissure of Sylvius, the artery divides in it into many large branches that issue at ends in the outcr end of that groove, and spreading over the ex- pan of ternal surface of the hemisphere of the cerebrum, inosculate sphere, with the othcr two cerebral arteries at the front, the back, and the upper part of the brain. Only a few fine offsets require notice: Offsets. A set of small branches arises at the inner end of the fissure of Sylvius, and enters the cerebral substance through the part called substantia perforata antica. Poste- 3. The posterior communicatinq artery is a small twiff riorcom- , . ^ ^ , , , , f , . . ^ munica- that IS directed backwards parallel to, and on the inner side ing. . , , , of the third nerve, to join the posterior cerebral artery (of the basilar) near the pons. Choroid 4. The choroid artery (anterior) is small in size, and arises either from the trunk of the carotid, or from the middle cerebral artery. It passes backwards on the outer side of the preceding, and finds its way between the hemi- sphere and the crus cerebri to the choroid plexus of the lateral ventricle. Circle of Circle of Willis,—This term has been applied to the chain ^'"^^' of communications between the arteries at the base of the brain; for the vessels of the brain are united freely both on