108 DISSECTION OP THE NECK. Section IX. DEEP VESSELS AND NERVES OF THE NECK. Parts in In this Section are included the deepest styloid muscle, the tion. internal carotid and ascending pharyngeal arteries, and the eighth, ninth, and sympathetic nerves. Position. Position. — The position of the part is to remain still the same, viz. the neck is to be fixed over a small block. Dissec- Dissection. — To see the remaining styloid muscle, the the sty- posterior belly of the digastric, and the stylo-hyoid muscle ryngeus. should bc dctachcd from their origin, and throv^n down. At this stage, a filament of the facial nerve may be sometimes seen to perforate the digastric muscle, and join the glosso- pharyngeal nerve beneath. The trunk of the external carotid artery is to be removed by cutting it through where the hypoglossal nerve crosses it, and by dividing those branches that have been already examined, as well as, if it is ^haryri ^^^^^^^^7? vcius accompauyiug the arteries. In cleaning nerve Surface of the stylo-pharyngeus muscle, the glosso-pha- ryngeal nerve and its branches may be prepared. The side of the jaw is still to remain turned upwards, as in the dissec- tion of the submaxillary region. Stylo- The STYLO-PHARYNGEUS MUSCLE rcscmblcs the other sty- geus.^"* loid muscles in its elongated form. The fibres arise from Origin, the root of the styloid process on the inner surface, and descend, between the superior and middle constrictors, to be inser- inserted partly into the pharynx, and partly into the upper Is be ^oi'^^^ of the thyroid cartilage. The muscle lies below the tween stvlo-sflossus, and between the carotid arteries ; and the carotid ./ o arteries, glosso-pharyugcal ncrve turns over the lower part of its fleshy belly. stylo- The stylo-hyoid ligament is a fibrous band, that extends gament' from the tip of the styloid process to the small cornu of the lies by OS hyoidcs. Its position is between the stylo-glossus and pm;ed- stylo-pharyngeus muscles, and over the internal carotid artery, whilst the lower end is beneath the hyo-glossus muscle. To the posterior border the middle constrictor muscle is attached. It is frequently cartilaginous or osseous in part of, or in all its extent.