DISSECTION OF THE FOREARM. 226 and in- that muscle, and becomes blended with it in the expansion with it. on the first phalanx of the fore finger. Until this muscle has passed the ligament it is covered by the superficial layer but afterwards it is subaponeurotic. t?on of" Dissection,— To lay bare the supinator brevis, it will be nator nccessary to detach the anconeus from the external condyle brevis. of the humcrus, and to cut through the supinator longus and the radial extensors of the wrist. After those muscles have been divided, its fibres are to be followed forwards to their insertion into the radius; and that part of the origin of the flexor profundus digitorum, which lies on the outer side of the insertion of the brachialis anticus, is to be removed. Origin ^ The SUPINATOR BREVIS ariscs from the orbicular ligament supina- of the radius and the external lateral ligament of the elbow joint; from a depression below the small sigmoid cavity of the ulna; and from the external margin of the ulna below that depression for about two inches. From this origin the and in. fibrcs pass outwards, and are inserted into the upper third sertion , ,« . i • into the or half of the radius except at the inner part, reaching radius. , i p downwards to the insertion of the pronator teres, and lor- Oyer- wards to the hollowed anterior surface. This supinator is ^^"^^ altogether concealed at the posterior and external aspects of the limb by the muscles of the superficial layer; and an- and con- tcriorlv the radial artery and nerve lie over it. The lower tigUOUS , *' . • IT • parts, border is contiguous to the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, only the posterior interosseous artery intervening. Through the substance of the muscle the posterior interosseous nerve winds to the back of the limb. The upper part of the radius is surrounded by the fleshy fibres of the muscle, except at the tubercle and along a slip of bone beneath it. The posterior interosseous artery is an ofiset from the common interosseous trunk (p. 304.), and reaches the back artery Qf ^hc forcarm above the ligament between the bones. Passing between the contiguous borders of the supinator brevis and the extensor ossis metacarpi, the artery descends is be- between the superficial and deep layers of muscles nearly to Poste- rior in- teros- seous the two the wrist, where it ends by anastomosing with the carpal layersof ' . *^ . _ . muscles, and anterior interosseous arteries. It furnishes many mus- cular ofisets, and the following recurrent branch: — its re- The recurrent branch springs from the artery near its