726 DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. Arched' these bones to another. Where the processes separate from over ves. each Other, the digital vessels and nerves and the lum- bricales muscles become superficial, and transverse fibres arch over the intervals between them. Inner The lateral parts of the fascia are thinner than the central the piece. On the inner margin of the foot the fascia has but fascia • little strength, and is continued to the dorsum ; but on the outer outer side it is increased in thickness, and presents a strong band between the os calcis and the projection of the fifth metatarsal bone. Expose Dissection. —To examine the septa, a longitudinal incision may be made along the centre of the foot, and a transverse one near the calcaneum. On detaching the fascia from the subjacent flexor brevis digitorum, by carrying the scalpel from before backwards, the septal processes will appear on the sides of that muscle. Two The intermuscular septa pass down on the sides of the inter- ' ... muscu- flexor brevis diffitorum, and thus isolate the central muscle lar , r> y septa; in the Superficial layer of the sole of the foot. The inner inner . one lies between the short flexor and the abductor pollicis, and is perforated by the internal plantar nerve, and by the and tendon of the flexor pollicis lonjjus. The outer one, between outer. . . the short flexor and the abductor minimi digiti, is pierced by the digital nerve and artery for the outer side of the little toe. A piece of fascia reaches across the foot from the one septum to the other, beneath the short flexor. Trans- The transvcrsc ligament crosses the roots of the toes, and ligament Contained in the skin forming the rudimentary web of the toe?.^ foot. It is a band of fibres which is attached at the ex- tremities to the great and little toes, and is connected with each of the others, as it passes over. Beneath it are the digital nerves and vessels. Sheaths shcaths of the flexor tendons are similar to those of tendon^ fiugcrs, though not so distinct, and serve to confine the tendons against the grooved bones. The sheath is weak opposite the articulations between the phalanges, but is strengthened by a band opposite the centre of both the meta- tarsal and the next phalanx. Each is lubricated by a syno- vial membrane, and contains tendons of the long and short flexor muscles. Pissect Dissection. — In the sole of the foot the muscles are