171 BLOODVESSELS OF THE LARYNX. brane of tlie pharynx, which joins with filaments from the upper larynefeal nerve. The nerve then passes beneath the ala of the supplies ; J G ^ special thyroid cartilage, and ends in branches for all the special muscles muscles , of the larynx, except the crico-thyroideus. Its small muscular o^e?^'' branches are easily followed, but that to the arytenoid muscle passes beneath the crico-arytsenoideus posticus. Beneath the thyroid cartilage this nerve is joined by a long offset of the upper laryngeal nerve. h. The superior laryngeal nerve pierces the thyro-hyoid liga- ment, and gives offsets to the mucous membrane covering the geai nervG back of the larynx; it furnishes also a long branch, beneath the ala of the thyroid cartilage, to communicate with the recurrent j.°ij^^s^J^^- nerve. The trunk of the nerve then terminates in many branches for the supply of the mucous membrane: — Some of these ascend in ends the arytaeno-epiglottidean fold of that membrane to the epiglottis, cous and the root of the tongue. The others, which are the largest, brane. descend on the inner side of the ventricular pouch, and supply the lining membrane of the larynx as low as the vocal cords. One nerve of this set pierces the arytaenoid muscle, and appears (?) to supply it. Vessels. — The arteries of the interior of the larynx are Arteries furnished from the superior and inferior thyroid branches (p. 84, 75.). a. The laryngeal branch of the superior thyroid artery enters from su- the larynx with the superior laryngeal nerve, and divides like it thyroid; into ascending and descending branches; some of these enter the muscles, but the rest supply the mucous membrane of the epi- glottis, and that of the root of the tongue and the interior of the larynx. It anastomoses with the following artery both beneath the ala of the thyroid cartilage, and in the mucous membrane of the pharynx. h. The laryngeal branch of the inferior thyroid artery ascends from in- on the back of the cricoid cartilage, and supplies the mucous thyroid membrane of the pharynx and the muscles of the larynx, like the nerve. c. Some other twigs from the inferior thyroid artery perforate two the crico-thyroid membrane, and end in the mucous lining of the interior of the larynx at the lower part. Veins, — The vein that accompanies the branch of artery veins from the superior thyroid, joins the internal jugular or the fefentfy. superior thyroid vein; whilst the vein corresponding to the other artery opens into the plexus connected with the in- ferior thyroid veins (p. 84, 127.).