472 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. To de- On the right side, the margin of the external abdominal fine ab- . i t r> i dominai ring may be denned to show the cord passing through it; and on the left side, a thin fascia (intercolumnar), which is connected with the margin of that opening, is to be pre- served. Lastly, the dissector should make evident the free margin of the external oblique muscle between the last rib and the crest of the ilium. On^s^de Muscles of the abdominal wall. — On the side of the abdo- cies"""^" three large flat muscles, which are named from their position to one another, and from the direction of their fibres. The most superficial muscle is the external oblique, the next one the internal oblique, and the last is the trans- and their vcrsalis. Along the middle line the muscles have a vertical aponeu- t n roses in. direction. In front are the rectus and pyramidalis, and be- three hind the quadratus lumborum; these are incased by sheaths vertical *' ones. derived from the aponeuroses oi the lateral muscles. External The EXTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE is flcshv ou the side, and oblique ' muscle is aponeurotic on the fore part of the abdomen. It arises by Origin fleshy points or digitations from the eight lower ribs ; the riSr highest five pieces, which are attached to the outer surface and the borders of the ribs, alternate with similar parts of the serratus magnus; and the lowest three, connected with the costal margins, interdigitate with the processes of origin of the latissimus dorsi muscle. From the attachment to the ribs, the fibres are directed over the side of the abdomen in the following manner: — the lower fibres descend almost inser- vertically to be inserted into the anterior half or more of tioninto , , • i -i i pelvis the iliac crest, at the outer margin; whilst the upper and alba. middle fibres are continued forwards, the one set horizontally, the other obliquely, to the aponeurosis on the front of the belly. Aponeu- The aponeurosis of the muscle occupies the anterior part themus- of the abdomcn, in front of a line from the eighth rib to the cle .. covers crista ilii, and is rather narrower about the centre, than the belly, either above or below. Along the middle line of the body this expansion ends in the linea alba, — the common point Disposi- of union of the aponeuroses of opposite sides. Above, it is above thin, and is continued on the rectus muscle to the pectoralis fow.^^' major and the ribs. Below, the fibres of the aponeurosis are stronger and more separate than above, and are directed ' obliquely downwards and inwards to the pelvis: some of