605 THE VAGINA AND BLADDER. c. The ovary is placed nearly horizontally, and bulges at and the the posterior aspect of the broad ligament; it is connected to and"^^ the uterus at the inner end by a special fibrous band, ligament "^^^^^ of the ovary. Its form is oval, and its margins are turned forwards and backwards. Its size is very variable. The Vagina is the tube by which the uterus communicates vagina: extent with the exterior of the body. It is somewhat cylindrical in and shape, though flattened on the front and back; audits length • • length * is from four to five inches. The vagina is slightly curved as it follows the bend of the rectum, and its axis therefore cor- axis ; responds at first with the centre of the outlet, but higher up with that of the cavity of the pelvis. In front the vagina is in contact with the base of the bladder, and the urethra ; and beneath or below it is the rectum. To the side is attached the recto-vesical fascia, which sends a sheath along the lower connec- half of the tube. The upper end receives the neck of the uterus by an aperture in the anterior or upper wall; and the lower end is the narrowest part of the canal, and is sur- rounded by the sphincter vaginas muscle. In children, and Lower in the virgin, the external aperture is closed by the hymen, partly The vagina is surrounded by a large plexus of veins. The Bladder is placed at the anterior part of the pelvis. Bladder above the vagina and in contact with the back of the pubes. Its form, position^ and connections so closely resemble those resem- of the bladder in the male body, as to render unnecessary of the the repetition of them (see p. 597.). The chief differences in ' " the bladder of the two sexes are the following: — In the female the bladder is larger than in the male, and DifFer- its transverse exceeds its vertical measurement. The base in^th^e is of less extent; it is in contact with the vagina and the sexes. • lower part of the uterus ; and it does piot project below the level of the urethra, so as to form a pouch as in the male. On the side of the viscus there is not any vas deferens; and the prostate is absent from the neck. The ureter has a longer course in the pelvis of the female "^^e- than in that of the male, before it reaches the bladder, ^^r. After crossing the internal iliac vessels, it passes by the neck of the uterus ere it arrives at its destination. The urethra is a small narrow tube about one inch and a Urethra; length half long, which curves slightly below the symphysis pubis, the concavity being upwards. Its situation is above the