STRUCTUKE OF THE EYELIDS. 35 palpebrarum. Externally and internally they are united by a commissure or canthus. The free margin is thicker than the rest of the lid, and is shape of semilunar in form for the greater part; but towards the inner side, or about a quarter of an inch from the commissure, it becomes straight. At the spot where these differently shaped parts join is a small white eminence, in which is the Punc- punctum lachrymale^ or the opening of the canal for the ^"""* tears. This margin is provided anteriorly with the eye- where lashes, and posteriorly with the openings of the Meibomian glands: but both the cilia and the Meibomian glands are tJfes. absent from the part of the lid which is internal to the open- ing of the lachrymal canal. The eyelashes (cilia) are two or more rows of long hairs. Eye which are fixed into the anterior edge of the free border of the lid; they are largest in the upper lid, and diminish in length from the centre towards the sides. The cilia are so arranged as to be convex towards one another. Structure of the Eyelids. — Each lid consists funda- Differ- mentally of a piece of cartilage attached to the bones by fn lyi^^^ ligaments. Superficial to this framework is the integument, with a layer of fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum, and beneath it a mucous lining of the conjunctiva. The upper lid has also in it the tendon of the levator palpebrae. Vessels and nerves are furnished to these parts. Dissection, — The student may continue with the structure Examine of the lids on the left side, on which the muscles are dissected, rure^of Let the bit of tow or wool remain beneath the lids, and let the palpebral part of the orbicularis palpebrarum be thrown inwards by means of an incision around the margin of the orbit. In raising the muscle, care must be taken of the palpebral ligament, and of the vessels and nerves of the lid. Orbicularis palpebrarum. — The palpebral and ciliary Layer of fibres of this muscle form the thin pale layer that occupies laris. " the eyelids. A thin stratum of connective tissue, without fat, unites the muscle with the skin. The palpebral ligament is a stratum of fibrous membrane, a fi- ^ that is continued from the margin of the orbit to join the laye"^ lower free edge of the tarsal cartilage. At the inner part of the orbit the ligament is thin and loose, but at the outer part it is much thicker and stronger.