DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 646 fibres that pass between the bones in front of the fibro- cartilage. a poste- The posterior ligament is wide at its attachment to the rior liga- . . ment, lowor margin of the orifice of the sacral canal, but narrows as it descends to be inserted into the coccyx, fibro^. The fibro'cartilage resembles that between the vertebrae, carti- amj is attached to the surfaces of the bones. lage. Union Whilst the several pieces of the coccyx remain separate, pieces they are connected together by anterior and posterior bands, coccyx, and by intervening thin Jibro-cartilages. But in the male adult the bones are generally joined by ossific matter. Union Sacro-iliac ARTICULATION. — The irrcffular surfaces by between , , ° the sa- which the sacrum and the innominate bone touch, are united crum hipbone Cartilage, and maintained m contact by anterior and pos- terior sacro-iliac ligaments. Inferiorly the bones are further connected, without being in contact, by the strong sacro- sciatic ligaments. To dis- Dissection, — To see the posterior ligaments, the mass of sect the i « . liga- muscle at the back of the sacrum is to be removed on the ments. i • i i • • i Side on which the innominate bone remains ; but the anterior bands will be visible on the removal of some connective tissue. The great sacro-sciatic ligament is dissected with the lower limb, and the small ligament will be brought into view by removing the coccygeus. Anterior The anterior sacro-iliac ligament consists of a few thin scattered fibres, which are attached to the sacrum and the hip bone near their articular surfaces. andpos- The posterior ligaments (sacro-iliac) are much stronger gaments; than the anterior^ and the fibres are collected into bundles. These ligaments pass from the rough inner surface at the posterior extremity of the innominate bone to the first two one more pieccs of the sacrum. One bundle, which is distinct from distinct rest" others, and more superficial, is named the oblique or long posterior ligament; it is attached to the posterior superior iliac spinous process, and descends almost vertically to the third piece of the sacrum, with ar- Articular cartilage, — Between the irregular surfaces of carti-the bones in this articulation (sacro-iliac symphysis) is a thin uneven layer of cartilage. In it there is sometimes a hollow with irregular surfaces like that in the cartilage of the sym- physis pubis. On separating the bones, after the other liga-