166 DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. lage, as well as into the contiguous part of the cartilage on neath anterior or outer aspect. This muscle is concealed by thyroid the crico-thyroideus, and its upper border is contiguous to lage. the succeeding muscle. Thyro- The THYRO-ARYT^NOiDEUS MUSCLE extends backwards in arytee- noideus. the interior of the larynx from the thyroid to the arytsenoid cartilage; :it is thick below, but thin and expanded above. The muscle arises from the thyroid cartilage near the middle line, for about the lower half of the depth, and from the Some crico-thyroid ligament. The fibres are directed backwards, cen^to"" with different inclinations;—the external ascend somewhat, and are inserted into the upper part of the arytsenoid carti- others lago ou the anterior and outer aspect; the internal and lower base°of fibrcs are transverse, and form a thick bundle, which is mfilf" inserted into the fore part of the base of that cartilage, as lage." well as into the outer surface; and some fibres are attached connec- to the vocal cord. By its outer aspect the muscle is in tions. ^ contact with the thyroid cartilage; and the inner surface rests on the vocal cords, and on the ventricle of the larynx and its pouch. Depres- The DEPRESSOR OF THE EPIGLOTTIS (reflcctOr Cpiglottidis, epigiot- thyro-arytaeno-epiglottideus) is the thin muscular layer, which is contained in the fold of mucous membrane bounding double laterally the upper opening of the larynx. Its fibres arise, posteriorly, from the front and upper part of the arytsenoid cartilage, some being continuous with the oblique fibres of the arytsenoid muscle; and a fasciculus (thyro-epiglottideus) is attached, anteriorly, to the inner surface of the thyroid cartilage. From this origin the fibres turn upwards with very different directions, and are inserted into the border of tion'^' epiglottis. The strength of this muscle varies much in different bodies. Some of the lower fibres of this muscle, that cover the top of the laryngeal pouch, have been described by Mr. Hilton* as a separate muscle, and named compressor sacculi laryngis. Parts Parts inside the Larynx. — The laryngeal cartilages are larynx. SO arranged as to enclose a space, and defend the parts more immediately concerned in the production of the voice, viz. the vocal cords, the glottis, and the ventricle of the larynx and its pouch. * See No. 5. of Guy's Hospital Reports.