46 DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. 3. The nasal nerve is not visible at this stage of the dis- section : it will be noticed afterwards at p. 47. Dissec- Dissection,— Divide the frontal nerve about its middle, tion. and throw the ends forwards and backwards : by raising the posterior part of the nerve, the distinct origin of the nasal branch from the ophthalmic trunk will be seen. The lachrymal nerve may remain uncut. Elevator The LEVATOR PALPEBR^ SUPERIORIS is the most Superficial of upper eyelid musclc, and is attached posteriorly to the roof of the orbit in front of the optic foramen. The muscle widens as it ex- tends forwards, and in front of the eyeball it turns down- 3s at- wards, and is inserted by a wide tendon into the fore part of to tarsal the tarsal cartilage. By one surface the muscle is in con- [age[ tact with the frontal nerve and the periosteum ; and by the is high- other, with the superior rectus muscle. If it is cut across cie in"^' about the centre, a small branch of the third nerve will be seen entering the under surface. Upper The RECTUS SUPERIOR is the upper of the four muscles muscle: that lie around the globe of the eye. It arises from the Origin, uppcr part of the optic foramen, and is connected with the other recti muscles around the optic nerve. Near the front inser- of the eye the fleshy fibres end in a tendon, which is inserted, like the other recti, into the sclerotic coat behind the union Position of this with the cornea. The under surface of the muscle par^t?^^ is in contact with the globe of the eye, and some vessels and nerves to be afterwards seen; the other surface is covered by the preceding muscle. Upper The SUPERIOR OBLIQUE MUSCLE is thin and narrow, and musc'ie passes through a fibrous loop at the inner angle of the orbit, before reaching the eyeball. The muscle arises from the inner part of the optic foramen, and ends anteriorly in a enters a rouudcd tcudon, which, after passing through the loop before referred to, is reflected backwards and outwards between the Inser- Superior rectus and the globe of the eye, and is inserted into the sclerotic coat behind the middle of the eyeball. The Connec- fourth ncrvc is supplied to the orbital surface of the muscle, and the nasal nerve lies below it. The thin insertion of the muscle lies between the superior and the external rectus, and near the tendon of the inferior oblique, pulley The loop, or pulley, or trochlea, is a fibro-cartilaginous musde. ^^^g about two lines and a half in length, which is attached