THE SPINAL CORD. 437 elongated part of the cerebro-spinal centre that is enclosed tion within the spinal canal. Invested by the membranes before cordf examined, the medulla occupies about two thirds of the length of the canal formed by the vertebrte, and is much smaller than the bony case that surrounds it. The extent of the cord is from the level of the atlas to the J^^^^^- lower border of the first lumbar vertebra, but its termination inferiorly may be a little higher or lower than that spot. Jj^j'i^ Its length is usually about sixteen or seventeen inches. Length. Superiorly the cord joins the medulla oblongata; and infe- J"jf^^°^ riorly it becomes pointed, being sometimes marked by one ^^^^ or two swellings, and ends in the fibrous prolongation of the ^duit pia mater named the central ligament of the cord. In the and in ^ ^ the em- embryo, before the third month, the medulla reaches all the ^ryo. length of the spinal canal, but it gradually recedes afterwards from below, as the surrounding bones increase in size, until it takes the position it has in the adult. The size of the spinal cord is much increased opposite the its size origin of the nerves for the supply of the limbs. There are creased where therefore two enlargements on it : — one corresponds to the the nerves lower cervical vertebras, reaching as high as the third; the of the other is smaller, and is on a level with the last dorsal verte- are at- bra. In the cervical enlargement, the greatest thickness is from side to side; but in the inferior swelling the measure- ment of the cord is greatest from before back. Whilst the pia mater remains on the cord, the anterior Anterior surface is distinguished from the posterior by the central dE- fibrous band and the anterior spinal artery ; and by the from ' irregular line of the anterior roots, which approaches the rSr: centre towards the lower end. Dissection. — For the examination of the structure the Dissec- student should possess a piece of the cord which has been see con- hardened in spirit, for that which is obtained from the spinal of cord, canal, at this period, is not fitted for the purpose of dissec- tion. Supposing the pia mater removed from the surface of the cord, without the roots of the nerves being detached, the student will be able to observe the following divisions in it: — Fissures of the Cord. — On both the anterior and pos- Fissures terior aspects of the cord is a median longitudinal cleft, the cord are, anterior and posterior median fissures, which mark its divi- r r 3