485 DEEP CRURAL ARCH. I I 3 the spermatic artery. The lymphatics begin in the testis, Lymph- and ascend along the cord through the internal abdominal ring, to end in the lumbar glands. The Vas deferens reaches from the testicle to the urethra, Vasdefe- and is placed behind the other constituents of the cord; it ^. *■ ^ Situa- will be easily recognised by its resemblance in feel to a piece ^io" of whipcord, when it is taken between the finger and the thumb. As it enters the abdomen through the opening in and the fascia transversalis (internal ring), it lies on the inner side of the vessels of the testicle; and as it begins its descent to the pelvis, it winds behind the epigastric artery. Dissection. — A fibrous band below Poupart's ligament, pissec- which has been named the deep crural arch, will be found by deep cutting through the cord near the external ring, and raising it towards the inner abdominal ring : this thin band passes inwards to the pubes, and is to be defined with care. The remaining vessels of the abdominal wall, viz., the epi- and of gastric and circumflex iliac, and the ending of the internal vessels, mammary artery, are to be next dissected: the epigastric and mammary arteries will be seen, on turning up the outer edge of the rectus, one above and the other below ; and the epigastric with its earliest branches may be traced further, by removing the fascia transversalis from it near Poupart's ligament. The circumflex iliac artery lies behind the outer half of Poupart's ligament, and should be pursued along the iliac crest. Deep crural arch. — Below the level of Poupart's liga- Deep ment is a thin band of fibres, which lies over the femoral arch, vessels, and has received the name of deep crural arch from its position, and resemblance to Poupart's ligament or the superficial crural ^rch. This fasciculus of fibres beginning externally about the centre of the ligament, is prolonged inwards to the pubes, where it is widened, and is inserted into the pectineal line at the abdominal aspect of the con- joined tendon of the broad muscles of the abdomen.* This * Sometimes this structure is a firm distinct band, and is joined, as it would seem, by some of the lower fibres of the aponeurosis of the external obhque. At other times, and this is the most common arrange- ment, it is only a thickening of the fascia transversalis with fibres added from the tendon of the transversalis muscle. In six bodies, both male