DISSECTION OF THE FACE. 42 outer part of the orbit, witli the small subcutaneous malar branch of the superior maxillary nerve. Infra- The infra-Orbital branches are laro^er than the rest, and orbital p • , branch- are lumished to the muscles and the integument between lost be- the eye and mouth. Close to the orbit, and beneath the twGen eye and clcvator of the uppcr lip, a remarkable communication, — infra-orbital plexus, is found between these nerves and the infra-orbital branches of the superior maxillary. After crossing the branches of the fifth nerve, some small offsets of the facial nerve pass inwards to the side of the nose, and others upwards to the inner angle of the orbit, to join the nasal and infra-trochlear branches of the ophthalmic nerve. Lower The CERvico-FACiAL is Smaller than the other trunk, and supplies nerves to the lower part of the face and to the upper part of the neck. Its highest branches join the lowest offsets of the temporo-facial nerve, and thus complete also the network on the face. This trunk, whilst in the parotid, three givcs twigs to the gland, and is united with the great sets of branch- auricular nerve. The terminal branches that are distributed from it are, buccal, supra-maxillary, and infra-maxillary. Buccal The buccal branches pass forwards to the angle of the es to mouth, supplying the buccinator muscle, and they terminate mouth, in the orbicularis oris. On the buccinator they join the branch of the inferior maxillary nerve to that muscle. Supra- The supra-maxillary branches course inwards above the larybe- basc of the lowcr jaw to the middle line of the chin, and mouth supply the muscles and the integument between the chin ' and mouth. Beneath the depressor anguli oris the branches of the facial join offsets of the labial branch of the inferior dental nerve, in the same manner as the junction is made below the orbit; and the branches of the facial cross those of the fifth nerve in their course onwards to the middle line. Infra- The infra-maxUlary branches are placed below the jaw, laryto and are distributed to the upper part of the neck. The anatomy of these nerves will be given with the dissection of the anterior triangle of the neck (p. 62.).