775 CILIARY VESSELS AND NERVES. 3 D 4 one lies rather above, and the inner rather below the level of the middle of the ball. The anterior ciliary arteries are smaller than the pos- Anterior terior, and arise at the front of the orbit, chiefly from at the muscular branches; they pierce the sclerotic coat about a line behind the cornea, and join the arterial circle of the long ciliary vessels before they end in the iris. In inflam- mation of the iris these vessels are enlarged, and form a ring around the cornea. The veins leaving the choroid coat are commonly four in Veins number, and the branches entering these trunks form arches vasa (vasa vorticosa) on the surface : they perforate the sclerotic cosa, end layer at separate points, midway between the cornea and the ophthai- optic nerve, and end in the ophthalmic vein. The ciliary nerves are derived from the lenticular gang- ciUary lion, and from the nasal nerve (p. 49.). Entering the back "^^^"^^^ of the eyeball with the arteries, they are continued forwards with the vessels between the sclerotic and choroid coats nearly as far as the ciliary muscle: at this spot the nerves send end in offsets to the cornea and then pierce the fibres of the ciliary ciliary muscle, and enter the iris, but their manner of ending is unknown. Offsets from the nerves supply the ciliary muscle. Chamber of the Aqueous Humour. — The space be- space tween the cornea in front and the lens behind, in which the aqSlous iris is suspended, contains a clear fluid named the aqueous ^^^^^^^'^^ humour. In the fetus this interval is separated into two distinct parts by the iris and the pupillary membrane, but in the adult it is only partly divided, for the two commu- is partly nicate through the pupil. The boundaries of the two filto^wo chambers may be seen in the eye on which a vertical section l^r^^^ has been made. The anterior chamber is the larger part of the space Anterior before mentioned ; it is limited in front by the cornea, but ^^^^' behind by the iris and the ciliary ligament. The posterior posteri- chamber is less than half the size of the anterior. In front its' it is bounded by the iris ; behind by the lens and a piece of aries.' the membrane (suspensory ligament of the lens) on the front of the vitreous humour; and at the circumference by the ciliary processes. The aqueous humour is quite transparent, and consists Aqueous nearly of pure water. A small quantity of chloride of