678 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. tendon is most extensive on the posterior aspect, or towards the subjacent muscles. Cut the Dissection. — To see the remainins: muscles, cut across the rectus rectus near its lower end, and raise it without injuring the branches of vessels and nerves beneath it. The muscular mass on the front of the femur is to be divided into two along the situation of some descending vessels and nerves, and The muscle external to those vessels is the vastus externus, separate the ex- and the laro^er mass, internal to them, is composed of the tensor . . muscles, vastus intcrnus and crureus : the last two muscles are in- separably united, but if the student wishes to make two dis- tinct parts, he may carry the scalpel through the fibres in a line with the inner border of the patella. Vastus The VASTUS EXTERNUS is onc of the parts of the strong externus extensor muscle oi the leg, and its attachment to the lemur is very narrow in comparison with its size and thickness, is^thin It has a lengthened origiji externally, which is, for the most origin; part, from a quarter to half an inch thick. Thus, beginning above, it arises from the root of the neck of the femur ; from the fore part and the outer surface of the root of the great trochanter ; from the line connecting the trochanter with the linea aspera; from the outer margin of the linea aspera ; from two-thirds of the line extending downwards to the outer condyle; and, lastly, from the external intermuscular septum. Inferiorly the fibres of the muscle end in an aponeurosis ; but is i and this blends with the tendons of the rectus and vastus thicker below, internus to form a common tendon. The muscle is pointed at its in- sertion, at the upper part, but enlarged below, where it produces the Parts in prominence on the outer side of the thigh. Its cutaneous contact „ . . , ^ . , , with the surlace IS aponeurotic at the upper part, and is covered by the rectus, tensor vaginae femoris, and gluteus muscles; but the deep surface rests on the vastus internus and crureus, and on branches of the external circumflex artery and anterior crural nerve. Vastus The VASTUS INTERNUS and CRUREUS are inseparably united, internus ^ *' and cru. and will be here described as one muscle. The fleshy mass reus. ^ One arises from the anterior and lateral surfaces of the femur, the^front cxccpt at the cnds, and its limits may be thus indicated: — femur. 1^ rcachcs upwards as far as the anterior intertrochanteric Its ori- line; downwards, to about two inches from the articular end of the femur; outwards, to the vastus externus; and