388 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. a small spinal branch to the vertebrae and the spinal cord. — (See Vessels of the Spinal Cord.) Inter- The intercostol vein closely resembles the artery in its vQin. course and branching. Near the head of the rib it receives a contributing dorsal branch, and then joins an azygos vein. Sigerior The Superior intercostal artery of the subclavian trunk is costal referred to in the dissection of the neck (p. 75.). Descending artery \x / O from over the neck of the first rib, external to the ffanfflion of the subcla- o o vian. sympathetic, it supplies a branch to the first intercostal one o^r^^ spacc \ Continuing to the second space, which it may supply gp°j.gg in like manner, it ends by anastomosing with the upper aortic branch. Each intercostal offset from it divides into an anterior and a posterior branch, like the arteries from the aorta. The The vein corresponding to the right artery opens into the innominate vein. On the left side the superior intercostal on the , , ^ right vein is formed by branches from the two or three highest and on *' ^ leftside, spaccs; it is joined by the left bronchial vein, and ends in the left innominate vein, after crossing the arch of the aorta. Two or The PREVERTEBRAL OR AZYGOS VEINS are One or two in azygos number on the left side, and one on the right, and receive branches corresponding to the offsets furnished by the de- scending part of the thoracic aorta. By means of the larger or right vein, the inferior cava communicates with the su- perior, so that blood may reach the heart from the lower part of the body or vice versa, if one of the cavse should be obliterated. Large The larger or right azygos vein begins in the lumbar i'f o?i°^ veins on the right side of the spine, and its origin is de- side of scribed with the vessels of the abdomen. It enters the thorax through the aortic opening of the diaphragm, and ascends on the right side of the thoracic duct, over the inter- andjoins costal artcries and the bodies of the vertebrse. Opposite the cava. third intercostal space, the vein arches forwards above the root of the right lung, and enters the superior cava as this vessel pierces the pericardium. Its valves are very incom- plete, so that the intraspinal and intercostal veins may be injected through it. Branch- Branches. — In this vein are collected the intercostals of Sg?t"" the right side below the upper two spaces; some of the intercostals of the left side of the thorax, by means of the