DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 492 is usually placed at one or another of the rings, though most commonly at the inner. Whilst efforts are being made to force back the piece of protruded intestine, the direction of the canal and the situation of the internal abdominal ring To free sliould bo borne in mind. Supposing; the stricture to be in it, direc- , , ^ , ^ ^ ^ , tion of the neck oi tne sac, so as to render necessary the opening cision. of the sac and the division of the strictured part from within, the incision should be made directly upwards. Terms Designations. — This kind of hernia has other names applied . t t • i t • i to the sometimes applied to it by surgeons, according as it has hernia passcd Certain points in the wall of the abdomen. If the from its protrusion remains in the inejuinal canal, the term bubonocele position. ^ ^ is applied to the swelling ; but if it has extended into the scrotum, the appellation of scrotal rupture, or oscheocele^ is given to it. Two va- Varieties of the hernia, — There are two varieties of the oblique inguinal hernia, which are distinguished by the con- dition of the peritoneal covering. For, if the piece of the peritoneum, which accompanies the testicle from the abdo- men in the fetus, remains unobliterated, so that the intestine descends in it without protruding any fresh piece of the from serous membrane, the hernia is called congenital: and should ture"of the prolongation of the peritoneum be only partly obliterated, toneai"" Say in the inguinal canal, so that the descending intestine, invested by a separate peritoneal covering, projects into or behind the unobliterated sac, like a viscus into a serous membrane, the hernia is named infantile. Internal The INTERNAL Or DiRECT InGUINAL HeRNIA paSSCS thrOUgh combes the wall of the abdomen internal to the epigastric artery, external ^ud has a straight course through the abdominal parietes and the external abdominal ring. Its situation and cover- ings, and the seat of stricture, will be better comprehended after the examination of the part of the abdominal wall through which the hernia passes. It passes Anatomy, — At the lower part of the abdominal wall is a ^trian!^ Small triangular space between the epigastric artery on one spice, side, the outer edge of the rectus muscle on the other, and which is the inner half of Poupart's ligament below. Over the inner enedfn" two thirds of the area of the space the conjoined tendon of conjoin- the internal oblique and transversalis is stretched, as it don. descends to its insertion into the pectineal line ; but at the