722 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. the up. concealed by two muscles of the calf, viz. the gastrocnemius per and i i i i i lower I and soleus ; but below that spot, as it lies between the tendo Achillis and the inner edge of the tibia, it is covered only by the integuments and the deep fascia. At its termination it Parts is beneath the annular ligament. For the greatest part of it. its extent the arterial trunk lies over the tibialis posticus, but afterwards on the flexor digitorum, and on the lower end of the tibia and the ankle joint. Veins. Yeuas comites (posterior tibial veins) closely surround Nerve, the vcsscl. The posterior tibial nerve is at first internal to the artery, but at the distance of one inch and a half it crosses to the outer side, and retains that position throughout. Branch- This artery supplies branches to the muscles and the tibia, and a large peroneal trunk to the outer side of the leg. Muscu- Muscular branches enter the deep layer of muscles and the soleus; an offset from a branch to the latter muscle pierces the fleshy attachment to the tibia, and ascends to the knee joint. Nutri. A nutritious artery of the tibia is uncertain in its place of origin: tibia. passing through the tibialis, it enters the canal on the posterior surface of the bone, and ramifies in the interior. Commu- A communicating branch to the peroneal arises opposite the lower mcating. ^j^g tibia, and passes outwards beneath the flexor pollicis, to unite in an arch with a corresponding offset of the peroneal artery. Pgj.Q. The peroneal artery is often as large as the posterior artery tibial, and arises from that vessel about one inch and a half from the beginning. It takes the fibula as its guide, and is con. lying close to the bone in the fibres of the flexor pollicis, fl'exor reaches the lower part of the interosseous membrane. At poihcis. ^j^.^ ^^^^ sends forwards a branch to the front of the leg (anterior peroneal), and continues over the articulation be- tween the tibia and fibula to the outer side of the foot, where Termu it terminates in branches, and anastomoses with the tarsal nation. external plantar arteries. Two companion veins sur- round the artery. Branch- Branches,—Besides the anterior peroneal, it furnishes muscular, nutritious, and communicating offsets. Muscu- Muscular branches are distributed to the soleus and the deep flexors, and some turn round the fibula to the peronei muscles. Nutri- The nutritious artery is smaller than that to the tibia, and is fibula*^ transmitted through the tibialis posticus to the aperture about the middle of the fibula.