603 LIGAMENTS OF THE UTERUS AND THE BLADDER, abdomen, it will be found to cover the posterior surface of the bladder, and the part on each side behind the position of the obliterated hypogastric artery. In the female the pouch between the rectum and the bladder can scarcely be said to exist, because the vagina intervenes between the two, and arrests, so to express it, the passing forwards of the perito- neum. In the pelvis the serous membrane forms the follow- Folds or liga- ing ligaments for the uterus and bladder: — ments The broad ligament of the uterus passes from the side of broad the uterus to the wall of the abdomen, and supports that mint organ in the cavity of the pelvis. By its position across thcu terus, pelvis, it divides the cavity into an anterior and a posterior part: in the former are placed the bladder, urethra, and vagina ; in the latter the upper part of the rectum, and the which is small intestine when it reaches the pelvis. Each ligament ^"^^^^^ shows traces of a subdivision into three pieces, corresponding three with the bodies contained between its two layers: thus there is a posterior piece that belongs to the ovary and its ligament; an anterior, near the upper part, which is appropriated to the round ligament; and a middle piece, the highest of all, that surrounds the Fallopian tube. It is at the free extrem- ity of the Fallopian tube that the peritoneum is continuous with a mucous membrane. Between the neck of the uterus and the back of the and an- bladder is a small fold on each side, which is sometimes de- liga- scribed as the anterior ligament of the uterus. The false ligaments of the bladder are the same as in the Five li- ■1 -I • 1 • • 11 gaments male, and are five m number, viz. two posterior, two lateral, of the and a superior: they are all blended in one large piece of peritoneum that reaches from the bladder to the side and the front of the pelvis. In the female the posterior ligament, containing the ureter and the vessels of the bladder, is less marked than in the male, because the uterus intervenes and pushes aside the vessels. The RECTUM is not so curved in the female as in the male, connec- and is generally larger. Descending along the middle of the the rec- sacrum and coccyx to the anus, the intestine is divided into three parts : — The first part extends to the third piece of the sacrum, of upper, and is enveloped by the peritoneum, except posteriorly : its connections are similar to those of the rectum in the male.