DISSECTION OF THE SPINAL CORD. 436 Two the root; so that it might be said to possess two small gan- gangha. ^^.^^ ^^^^ bundle of fibrils, which are joined together at their outer ends, usifai "^^^^ ganglia are situate commonly in the intervertebral t'on^" foramina, but where the regular position of those apertures is wanting, as at the upper and lower extremities of the Excep- spinal canal, they have the following position: — In the neck, first two ucrvcs they lie on the arches of the first and second an^^ic- v^^tebrse. In the sacral nerves they are contained in the cygeai. spinal canal. In the coccygeal nerve the ganglion is also within the canal, and about the middle of the long posterior root (Schlemm). Arteries VESSELS OF THE Spinal Cord. — The arteries on the are^^'^^ surfacc of the cord are anterior and posterior spinal. Anterior The anterior spinal artery occupies the middle line of the cord a^singie beneath the fibrous band before alluded to in that position. It artery, commences at the medulla oblongata by the union of two small and is branches of the vertebral artery (p. 189.); and it is continued to nued'by lower part of the cord by a series of anastomotic branches, which anasto- derived from the vertebral and ascendino^ cervical arteries in motic ^ ° ^ ^ branch- the neck, and from the intercostal and lumbar arteries in the es. . . ... back and loins. The branches of this artery ramify m the pia mater, and are then distributed to the substance of the cord, some entering the median fissures. Inferiorly it supplies the roots of Termi- the nerves forming the cauda equina, and ends on the central fibrous prolongation of the cord. Poste- The posterior spinal arteries^ one on each side, are continued arteries from the upper to the lower part of the cord, behind the roots of are two; nerves. Dividing into small branches, the vessels of opposite sides of sides form a free anastomosis around the posterior roots, and some cord; offsets enter the fissure of the cord. These vessels begin supe- are con- riorly by offsets from the vertebral ai'tery, and their continuity is along maintained by a series of anastomotic branches, which enter the itke an- canal along the spinal nerves, and are furnished from the same tenor. gQurcc as the twigs that reinforce the anterior spinal artery. Veins. The veins of the spinal cord are very tortuous, and form a plexus on the surface. At intervals, larger trunks arise, which accompany the spinal nerves to the intervertebral foramina, and end in the veins outside the spinal canal. Near the top of the Termi- cord the vcins are united into two or more small branches; these nation at . . , . ^ . , . . , . top of termmate m the mierior cerebellar, or m the petrosal smuses, atter communicating with the vertebral veins. situa- The spinal cord (medulla spinalis) is the cylindrical