DISSECTION OF THE INTERIOR OF THE HEAD. 20 glion is closely united to the dura mater, and presents a semi-lunar elevation, whose convexity looks forwards. Some filaments from the plexus of the sympathetic on the carotid artery enter its inner side, gives Branches.— From the front of the ganglion proceed the branch- three following trunks : — The ophthalmic nerve is the first and highest, and is destined for the orbit and face. Next in order is the superior maxillary nerve, which leaves the skull by the foramen rotundum, and ends in the face below the orbit. And the last, or the inferior maxillary nerve, passes downwards through the foramen ovale to reach the lower jaw, the lower part of the face, and the tongue. If the gan- glion be raised, the small root will be seen passing beyond it to enter the trunk of the inferior maxillary nerve. Differ- In consequcncc of this partial blending of the roots, those the branches of the ganglion that are unconnected with the es. " smaller or motor root, viz. the ophthalmic and superior maxil- lary, are solely nerves of sensibility ; but the inferior maxil- lary, which is compounded of both, is a nerve of sensibility and motion, like a spinal nerve. It is not, however, the whole of the inferior maxillary nerve that has this double function, for the motor root is mixed almost exclusively with the part of the trunk which supplies the muscles of the lower jaw ; and it is, therefore, only that small part of the nerve which possesses a twofold action, and resembles a spinal nerve. Oph- The ophthalmic nerve is the only one of the three trunks nerveof that uccds a morc special notice in this stage of the dissec- enterr" tiou. It cutcrs the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure, and ' is continued through that space to the forehead. In form it is a flat band ; and in its course to the orbit the nerve is con- tained in the wall of the cavernous sinus, where it lies be- supplies neath the third and fourth nerves. In this situation it is nlater. j oincd by filaments of the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic, and gives a small recurrent filament to that part of the dura mater which forms the tentorium cerebelli (Arnold). Near the orbit it divides into three branches. (See p. 45.) Abdu- The SIXTH NERVE enters the orbit through the sphenoidal nerve fissurc, and supplies one of the orbital muscles. It pierces cavern- the dura mater behind the body of the sphenoid bone, and ous si- p ... nus. crosses the space oi the cavernous smus in its course to the