DISSECTION OF THE NOSE. 142 Dissec- ^ Dissection, — Before making the necessary sawing of the fore saw-bone, the loose part of the lower jaw on the right side ing bone. should be taken away; further, the tongue, hyoid bone, and larynx, all united, may be detached from the opposite half of the lower jaw, and laid aside till the dissector is ready to use them. Cut The saw being placed on the right side of the crista galli tbeTone ^f the ethmoid bone, is to be carried vertically through the frontal and nasal bones, the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, and part of the body of the sphenoid bone. Now the roof of the mouth is to be turned upwards, and the soft parts are to be divided on the right of the median line, opposite the cut in the roof of the nose; and the saw is then to be carried through the hard palate on the right side of the septum nasi, and through the body of the sphenoid bone, in such a direction as to make the cut join the incision from above. The piece of the skull is now easily separated into two parts, right and left; and by proceeding as above directed, the delicate bones of the nose are less injured than they would be by sawing continuously in one direction. The right half will serve for the examination of the meatuses, and the left will show the septum nasi, situa. The CAVITY OF THE NOSE is placed in the centre of the riose.^^ bones of the face, being situate above the mouth, and between the orbits and the sinuses of the superior maxillary Division bones. This space is divided into two parts—nasal fossae, into two. ^ vertical partition. Form, Each fossa is larger below than above; and is flattened in form, so that the measurement from before back or above Open- down, exceeds much that from within out. It communicates with both the face and the pharynx by apertures named nares, and has also apertures of communication with the sinuses in the surrounding bones, viz. frontal, ethmoid, sphenoid, and superior maxillary. In each fossa are a roof and floor, an inner and an outer wall, and an anterior and a posterior opening, which are to be examined. Koof. The roof is somewhat arched, and is formed by the cribri- form plate of the ethmoid bone in the centre; by the frontal and nasal bones and the cartilages in front; and by the body of the sphenoid, the sphenoidal spongy bone, and part of the palate bone at the posterior part. Many apertures exist in