333 LIGAMENTS OF THE WRIST. is divided by a prominent line into an external triangular, and an internal square impression. The three bones of the fi»-st ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ row of first carpal row constitute a convex eminence, which is re- carp.i ^ bones. ceived into the hollow before mentioned, and the different surfaces of both touch in this way; — the scaphoid bone cor- responds to the external mark of the radius, the semilunar bone to the square impression, and the cuneiform bone is in contact with the triangular fibro-cartilage. The synovial membrane has the arrangement common to Synovial simple joints. This joint sometimes communicates with the lower radio-ulnar articulation by means of an aperture in the fibro-cartilage separating the two. Lower Eadio-ulnar Articulation. — In this articula- Lower ends of tion the convexity of the end of the ulna is received into a radius ^ and ulna concavity on the radius ; — an arrangement just the opposite joined by to that which exists between the upper ends of the bones. The chief bond of union between the bones is a strong fibro- cartilage ; but a kind of capsule, consisting of scattered capsuii fibres, surrounds loosely the end of the ulna. The triangular fibro-cartilage is placed transversely be- trian- neath the end of the ulna, and is thickest at its margins and fibro.; apex. By its base the cartilage is fixed to the ridge which lage. separates the carpal from the ulnar articulating surface of Attach- the radius ; and by its apex to the styloid process of the ulna, and to the depression at the root of that process. Its mar- ^nd con- , , ^ ^ ^ nections. gins are united with the contiguous anterior and posterior ligaments of the wrist joint; and its surfaces enter into the construction of different joints, viz. those of the wrist and lower radio-ulnar articulation. Occasionally it is perforated by an aperture. The synovial membrane (membrana sacciformis) is very synovial loose, from which circumstance it has received its name, and brl^e. ^ascends between the radius and the ulna: it is separated from that of the wrist joint by the triangular fibro-car- tilage. Dissection, — The articulation of the carpal bones will be Dissec- ^ tion uf prepared by taking away all the tendons from the hand, and carpal cleaning carefully the surface of the connecting ligamen- tous bands between the several bones. To the pisiform bone there are distinct ligaments. At the same time, the ligamentous bands uniting the meta- and me-