168 DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. posterior third is the smooth inner surface of the arytaenoid differs cartilage. The size of the interval differs in the two sexes: In the male it measures from before back nearly an inch (less a line), and across at the base when dilated, about a third of the other measurement. In the female the dimen- sions will be less by two or three lines. Changes Alterations in the size and form affect the interval where ^ ' it is bounded by the cartilages, as well as where it is limited in two ]jj the ligament. In the former part, the changes are occasioned mostly by the rotation of the arytaenoid carti- lages around their axis ; but in the latter they are due to the lengthening or shortening of the bands, or to their Action yielding, as in the passage of an instrument. In the living muscles, body the muscles are constantly producing alterations in the fissure, some acting more immediately on the cartilages so as to be dilators or contractors of its base ; and others acting on the ligaments, and thereby elongating and shortening on base, the sides. The base is enlarged, and the interval rendered triangular by the posterior crico-arytaenoid; and is dimi- nished by the arytaenoid, and the lateral crico-arytsenoid. on sides. And the sides are elongated and made tense by the crico- thyroid ; but shortened by the thyro-aryt^enoid. In inspi- ration the fissure is slightly larger than in expiration, ventri- The Ventricle of the larynx is the oval hollow, on each situa between the vocal cords. The upper margin of the tion. opening is semilunar, and the lower is straight. On the outer surface are the fibres of the thyro-arytaenoid muscle, around anterior part is the aperture into the laryngeal pouch. pjouch of The laryngeal pouch (sacculus laryngis) will be best seen larynx. , , »> o / by removing, still on the right side, the thyro-arytaenoid Form muscle, and some fibrous tissue that covers it. It is a small and po- sition, membranous sac, half an inch deep and cylindrical in form, which projects upwards between the thyro-arytaenoid muscle and the upper vocal cord, and reaches sometimes as liigh as the upper border of the thyroid cartilage. Its cavity com- municates with the front of the ventricle by a narrow aperture, provided mostly with two folds of mucous mem- sur- brane. On the outer surface are numerous small glands, ing " whose ducts are transmitted through the coats of the sac to the inside. Numerous nerves are distributed over the sac.