237 PEDUNCLES OF THE CEREBELLUM. substance a dentate body. From its surface offsets are fur- gives . . offsets nished to the different laminae; and from the anterior part viz. proceed three large processes or peduncles — superior, middle, and inferior. a. The superior peduncle (processus ad cerebrum) is superior directed forwards towards the corpora quadrigemina (testis), d^""" It is rather flattened in shape, and forms part of the roof of the fourth ventricle: between the peduncles of opposite sides the valve of Vieussens is situate. Continuous behind with is above the inferior vermiform process, its fibres receive an offset ventri- from the interior of the corpus dentatum, and then pass beneath the band of the fillet, and beneath the pair of the corpora quadrigemina of the same side, to enter the crus cerebri and the optic thalamus. Beneath the corpora quadrigemina the internal fibres of Its fibres this peduncle are directed inwards, through those continued decui from the fasciculus teres, and cross the corresponding fibres of the other side, forming thus a decussation like that of the pyramids * (p. 204.). In this way the fibres of each peduncle end partly in the same, and partly in the opposite hemisphere of the cerebrum. Between the superior peduncles is the thin, translucent, vaive of white layer, — the valve of Vieussens (velum medullare an- sens terius), which forms part of the roof of the fourth ventricle, the two. It is thin and pointed anteriorly, but widens behind, where it is connected with the under part of the vermiform process. IS ear the corpora quadrigemina the fourth nerve is attached to the upper aspect of the valve, the nerves of opposite sides being united; and near the lower part, the upper surface is marked by some gray transverse ridges. h. The middle peduncle (processus ad pontem) is com- Middle monly named crus cerebelli, and is the largest of the three d^""" peduncular processes. Its fibres begin in the lateral part of the cerebellum, and are directed forwards to the pons, of which they form the transverse fibres, and in which they unite with the fibres of the peduncle of the opposite side. This peduncle is supposed to perform for the cerebellum, is the commis- * This intercommunication was known to Eeil, and was named "ansa " by him, but the decussation has been noticed more recently by Stilling, Ueber den Bau des Hirnknotens: 1846.