698 DISSECTION OF THE BUTTOCK. great sacro-sciatic notch. Outside the pelvis it ends in a inser- tendon, and is inserted into the upper border of the great tioninto ' . ^ the trochanter, in front of the srluteus medius, where it is corn- femur; ' ^ ' . monly united with the tendon of the obturator internus. lies in As the muscle passes through the sacro-sciatic notch it di- Sacro- . sciatic vides that space into two parts: the upper oi these gives passage to the gluteal vessels and nerve, and the lower to the Position sciatic and pudic vessels and nerves. Its upper border is parts, contiguous to the gluteus medius, and its lower edge to the gemellus superior. Like the other rotator muscles in this situation, it is covered by the gluteus maximus, and rests on the hip joint. Dissect Dissection. — The pyriformis may be cut across, and vessels raiscd towards the sacrum, to allow the dissector to trace nervls,^ upwards the sciatic and pudic vessels, and the corresponding nerves to the lower part of the sacral plexus. Some small offsets to the gemellus superior and the hip joint are to be sought at the lower part of the plexus. A branch to the inferior gemellus and the quadratus will be found by raising the trunk of the great sciatic nerve; but it will be followed to its termination afterwards, since it passes beneath those muscles. The Sciatic and Pudic Vessels. — The vessels on the back come of the pelvis, below the pyriformis muscle, are branches of from the r ? rj ? iliac. the internal iliac, like the gluteal artery (p. 610.), Sciatic The sciatic artery supplies the buttock. After escaping from the pelvis below the pyriformis, it descends over the course gemclli and obturator muscles, in the interval between the tuber ischii and the trochanter, as far as the quadratus ending ^'^^^^'is 5 lnQVQ the artery ends in branches for the supply of Branches ^^1^ surrouuding parts, and anastomoses with the internal ind°'"' circumflex branch of the profunda artery. In this course muscles. furnishes muscular offsets to the great gluteus and the rotator muscles, and some articular branches to the hip joint; some cutaneous offsets bend round the margin of the gluteus (p. 448.). It supplies also the following named branches : — Coccy- a. The coccygeal branchy arising close to the pelvis, perforates the branch, gi'eat sacro-sciatic ligament and the gluteus maximus, and ramifies in this muscle, and on the back of the sacrum. Branch Xhe branch to the great sciatic nerve (comes nervi ischiadici) to the ° ^ ^