123 INFERIOR CERVICAL GANGLION. usually on or near the inferior thyroid artery. It is of a situa- roundish shape, and ]ies beneath the great cervical vessels. Its branches are the following : — Connecting branches with the spinal nerves pass outwards, and is joined sink between the borders of the longus colli and anterior scalenus nervesf' to join the fifth and sixth cervical nerves. Branches for Distribution. —These consist of nerves to the and thyroid body, together with the middle cardiac nerve. offsets, viz. 1. The thyroid branches ramify around the inferior thyroid thyroid artery, and end in the thyroid body; they join the external laryn- gg^"^^" geal and recurrent laryngeal nerves. 2. The middle or great cardiac nerve descends to the thorax and a across the subclavian artery ; its termination in the cardiac plexus nerv^e.*^ will be seen in the chest. In the neck it communicates with the upper cardiac and recurrent laryngeal nerves. The INFERIOR CERVICAL GANGLION is irregular in shape, inferior and occupies the interval between the first rib and the trans- ^^"^^^^'^ verse process of the last cervical vertebra, its position being internal to the superior intercostal artery. Oftentimes it is on extends in front of the neck of the rib, and joins the first first rib, swelling of the knotted cord in the thorax. One or two Branch- filaments around the trunk of the subclavian artery likewise biood- connect these ganglia, and supply filaments to that blood- " vessel. Its branches are very similar to those of the other ganglia. Connecting branches join the last two cervical nerves. Other and nerves accompany the vertebral artery in its canal, forming a nerves, plexus — vertebral, around it, and communicate with the spinal nerves as high as the fourth. Only one branch for distribution, the inferior cardiac nerve, and one issues from the lower ganglion. It lies beneath the subclavian cardiac artery, joining in that position the recurrent laryngeal nerve, and P^^^"^' then enters the thorax to terminate in the deep cardiac plexus behind the arch of the aorta. Directions. — The right half of the head and neck should now be carefully preserved during the time occupied in the examination of the left half.