DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 470 the dorsum of the penis, and thrown to each side ; and the skin of the scrotum is then to be reflected by means of a vertical incision on the left side, mentary Cutaueous covevings of the penis and scrotum, — The penis ing of attached to the front of the pubes by a suspensory liga- penis xnent, and is provided with a tegumentary covering with vessels and nerves, an?^^'* On the penis the tegumentary covering is continuous with without that of the abdomen, but the superficial fascia loses the fat that it possesses in most other parts of the body, and acquires special characters. — Around the end of the penis it forms the loose sheath of the prepuce in the following way: — when the skin has reached the extremity, it is reflected backwards forms as far as to the base of the glans, constituting thus the double layer of the prepuce; it is afterwards continued over the glans, and joins the mucous membrane of the urethra at the orifice on the surface. At the under part of the glans, and behind the aperture of the urethra, the integument forms a and fr£e- small triangular fold, frcenum prceputii. Where the integu- ment covers the glans it is very thin, assuming in some sebace- cascs the character of a mucous membrane ; and behind the glands, glans are somQ sebaceous follicles—glandulce odoriferce, Tegu- In the scrotum. — The superficial fascia becomes thin, and scrotum, of a rcddish colour. If it is cut through, the student will perceive that the prolongation sent around the cord on one side, does not communicate with that on the other side ; and that the two pouches come in contact in the middle line, and form the septum scroti. Muscu- The superficial fascia in the scrotum and penis, and in the lar na-^ , ture of front of the perinaeum contains involuntary muscular fibres, fascia. ^ . p , . . . . to which the corrugation of the skin is owing. This con- tractile structure is named the tunica dartos, Dissec- Dissection. — By removing the superficial fascia from the vessels root of the penis and the front of the symphysis pubis, the nerves, suspcusory ligament will be defined. And the dorsal arteries, nerves, and vein of the penis, which are seen in the preced- ing step, are to be followed forwards in the superficial fascia, suspen- The suspensory ligament of the penis is a rather deep band of fibrous tissue, of a triangular form, which is attached by its apex to the front of the symphysis pubis near the ments. lower part. Widening as it descends, the ligament divides sory li- gament of penis. Attach-