SPLANCHNIC NERVES. 393 nerve fibres are combined ; but one consists almost entirely of white, and the other nearly altogether of sympathetic nerve fibres. The internal branches differ in size and distribution, aC- to supply cording as they are derived from the upper or the low^er six ganglia. The branches of the upper six are very small, and are in the distributed to the aorta, and the vertebras and their lig a- six gan- ments. Mr. Swan describes a plexus in front of the spine, fets are as formed by the union of the branches of opposite sides. From the third and fourth ganglia offsets enter the posterior pulmonary plexus. The branches of the lower six ganglia are larger and in the much whiter than the others, and are united together to six, ^ form visceral nerves (splanchnic) of the abdomen. These whue, splanchnic nerves are three in number (large, small, and three nerves. smallest), and pierce the diaphragm to end in the solar and renal plexuses. a. The great splanchnic nerve is a large white cord, which Great arises by roots apparently from only four or five ganglia n^J^"^^' (sixth to the tenth), but its fibres may be traced upwards on the knotted cord as high as the third ganglion. The which nerve descends on the bodies of the vertebrae, pierces the semi- fibres of the crus of the diaphragm, and ends in the semi- gan- lunar ganglion of the abdomen.—(See Nerves of the Abdomen.) At the lower part of the thorax the nerve may be divided into large bundles ; and it may present a ganglion, or more than one, on its different bundles. b. The small splanchnic nerve is formed by roots from the smaii tenth and eleventh ganglia, or their intervening cord: and in the thorax it communicates sometimes with the great splanchnic nerve. It is transmitted inferiorly through the joins crus of the diaphragm, and enters the part of the solar pi^xus. plexus by the side of the coeliac artery. c. The smallest splanchnic nerve besjins in the last ffan- smallest ^ ^ ^ splanch- glion, and accompanies the other nerves through the dia- nic ends phragm. In the abdomen it ends in the renal plexus. When plexus, this nerve is absent, its place is taken by a branch of the preceding nerve. Parts in the upper aperture of the thorax. — The relative ^^^^'^^^