MUSCLES IN FRONT OF THE THIGH. 677 notch between this and the inferior spine, as far as the attachment of the sartorius. Its fibres form a fleshy belly about two inches wide, and are inserted into the fascia lata ends in about three inches below the great trochanter of the femur, lata.',^ and rather in front of it. At its origin the muscle is situate between the sartorius and the gluteus medius. Beneath it Parts . around, are the ascending branches of the external circumflex artery, and a branch of the superior gluteal nerve that enters it at the under aspect. A strong sheath of fascia surrounds the muscle. Dissection, — After the muscle has been learnt, the slip of Cut fascia extending from it to the knee may be cut through ; the last muscle. and the tensor of the fascia lata being detached from the muscles around, the head of the rectus muscle may be fol- lowed to the pelvis. The TRICEPS EXTENSOR of the leaf consists of three parts, outline ^ , ^ ofmus- which may be described as three muscles with a common in- cies on / , front of sertion, viz. rectus, vastus externus, and vastus internus and thigh., crureus. Or, like the extensor of the arm, the muscle may be considered single below and attached by a common tendon ; but divided into three heads above, which are in- serted into separate points of bone. The RECTUS FEMORis forms a fleshy prominence on the Rectus . has an^ front of the thigh, and reaches from the pelvis to the common insertion. At its origin from the pelvis the muscle has two tendinous processes or heads: — one arises from the anterior pelvis, . p . .7 which IS inferior iliac spinous process; the other (to be afterwards double, seen) is fixed into a depression on the back of the hip bone, close above the brim of the acetabulum. Fleshy fibres succeed to tendon ; and they end inferiorly in another ten- don, which joins the tendinous parts of the muscles beneath, and is inserted with them into the head of the tibia. The ^nd an insertion rectus IS larger at the middle than at the ends; and its the . head of fibres are directed from the centre to the sides, like the the tibia, feather of a quill, giving rise to that condition called pen- The .7 ^ muscle nitorm. It is subcutaneous, except above where it is ispen- ^ ., , , . , . niform, overlaid by the sartorius ; but it conceals branches of the and su- 1 ' n 11 ' perficial, external circumflex artery and the anterior crural nerve, and except _ above. rests on the muscular mass of the vastus and crureus. The upper tendon of the muscle reaches farthest on the anterior surface, where the sartorius lies on it; whilst the lower