456 DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. muscles, vessels and glands, and the bloodvessels and nerves of the penis, as the subsequent dissection will show. Dissec- Dissection. — The muscles connected with the urethra tion. between the layers of the ligament will be reached by cutting through with care, on the left side, the superficial stratum near its attachment to the bone, and raising and turning inwards that piece of membrane. By a little cautious dis- section, and the removal of some veins, the following objects will come into view with the undermentioned position: — Parts Parts between the layers of the ligament, — Near the base trian- of the ligament is a narrow transverse muscle, which is directed to the bulb of the urethra. Coming inwards to the urethra, from behind the pubic arch, is the fasciculus of fibres of the compressor urethras muscle, which surrounds the membranous part of the urethra. And below the urethra are the glands of Cowper. Beneath the bone (pubic arch) are the pudic vessels and nerve, the former giving its branch to the bulb; and below the pubes is the subpubic liga- ment. Deeper than all, the student will be able to recog- nise the posterior layer of the ligament, continuous with the pelvic fascia which separates these parts from the cavity of the pelvis. Musdes Muscles. — The muscles between the layers of the tri- thra. angular ligament, which are connected with the membranous part of the urethra, are two in number, viz. a deep trans- verse muscle, and a constrictor of the urethral passage. Deep The deep transverse muscle of the perinasum (elevator verse, urcthr^e, Santorini) is a thin flat band, on a level with the Origin, basc of the triangular ligament. It arises externally from the pubic arch of the innominate bone, and is directed in- wards below the tip of the bulb and the membranous part Termi. of the urctlira ; it ioins (sometimes bv a tendon) the muscle nation. . . . - c of the opposite side, and is inserted into the central point or the perinaeum. This muscle conceals Cowper's gland near the bulb, and is frequently placed over the artery of the bulb. Con. The constrictor muscle of the urethra (constrictor stricter ... , of ure- isthmi urethralis) encloses the membranous part of that tube, thral ^ ^ pavsage from the bulb to the prostate gland. It consists of trans- parts, verse fibres, both above and below the urethra, which are connected on each side to the subpubic arch. Internal to