DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 196 whether it receives filaments from one or both of those bodies is uncertain. Its com- The commissure (chiasma) of the optic nerves is somewhat missure- \ / x of a square shape, and lies on the olivary eminence of the sphenoid bone, within the circle of Willis. It is placed in front of the tuber cinereum ; and passing beneath it (in this Situa- position of the brain) is the thin lamina cinerea. In the struc- commissure there is a partial crossing of the fibres of the ^"^^* nerves after this manner: — the outer fibres of each tract,. Arrange, few in number, are continued straight to the eyeball of the ment of . t i i n t t fibres, samc Side; but the greater part oi the others decussate, — those of the right nerve being continued to the left, and vice versa, so as to enter the eye of the opposite side. At the front and back of the commissure are some transverse fibres: — the posterior are continued through the optic tracts back to the brain, without entering the eyes ; and the anterior are prolonged to the eyeballs, through the part of the nerve in front of the commissure, but have not any con- nection with the brain. Origin The origin of the nerve will be afterwards seen to come cerS from two of the corpora quadrigemina (nates and testis of one side), and from the optic thalamus and the corpora geni- culata. ongin^ The THIRD NERVE, muscular nerve of the eyeball, is round nerve is and firm, and is attached to the inner surface of the cerebral peduncle, near the locus perforatus, and close in front of the pons Varolii. deep in Deep origin,— The fibres of the nerve pierce the peduncle, cerebri, passing through the locus niger, and enter a mass of gray substance in the floor of the aqueduct of Sylvius.* Origin The FOURTH Or TROCHLEAR NERVE Canuot bc folloWCd of fourth ...T-'i nerve bacKwards, at present, to its origin. It is the smallest of the cerebei- Cranial nerves, and springs from the valve of Vieussens over the fourth ventricle. The nerve appears between the cere- brum and the cerebellum, on the side of the crus cerebri, and is then directed forwards to enter an aperture in the tentorium cerebelli, near the posterior clinoid process. * The origin of this nerve, and of the others as far as the eighth, is tiiken from the following work of Stilling, Untersuchungen iiber den JBau lies Hirnknotens. \