104 DISSECTION OF THE SUBMAXILLARY REGION. the gustatory. And its sympathetic branch comes from the nerves around the facial artery. Branch- Branches.— From the lower part of the ganglion five or six branches descend to the substance of the submaxillary gland ; and from the anterior part other filaments are furnished to the mucous membrane of the mouth and to the Whartonian duct. Ninth The HYPO-GLOSSAL or NINTH NERVE, after crossing the side between of the neck and the anterior triangle (p. 82.), enters betv^een andhy- the Small muscles of the submaxillary region. Here the nerve lies on the hyo-glossus muscle, being concealed by the mylo-hyoideus: but at the inner border of the hyo-glossus it enters the fibres of the genio-hyo-glossus, and is continued is lost in alonff the middle line of the tongue to the apex. The iniddleof .° , . . ^ ^ tongue, position of the ninth nerve is in the centre of the tongue, whilst the gustatory lies near the margin : the ninth supplies branches to the muscular structure, and the gustatory ends chiefly in the papillae. Its Branches. — On the hyo-glossus the ninth nerve furnishes suppfy branches to the muscles of the submaxillary region, except the muscles mylo-hyoid and the digastric, viz., to the hyo-glossus, stylo-glossus, genio-hyoideus, and genio-hyo-glossus. Further, some offsets as- cend on the hyo-glossus to communicate with the gustatory nerve. Along the middle of the tongue the nerve sends upwards long filaments with the branches of the ranine artery, that supply the and the Structure of the tongue, and communicate with the gustatory tongue. nerve. whar- The duct of the suhmaxillary gland, or Wharton's duct, duct issues from the deep part of the glandular mass that turns round the border of the mylo-hyoid muscle. It is about two inches in length, and is directed upwards on the hyo-glossus opens by muscle, and beneath the gustatory nerve, to open on the side linguae, of the frseuum linguae in the centre of an eminence. The duct consists of three coats, — an external thin and fibrous, a struc- middle or muscular, and an internal or mucous; and its ture. ' ^ ' opening in the mouth will be seen if a bristle be passed along it. This is the only salivary duct, according to Professor KoUiker, that possesses a stratum of muscular fibre. The deep part of the submaxillary gland extends, in some instances, even to the sublingual gland, subiin- The sublingual gland is somewhat of the shape of an fiand almond, and the longest measurement, which is about one