DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 508 to the right colon, which it encircles like the left, and along the wall of the abdomen to the umbilicus. The membrane that fixes the colon on each side to the abdominal wall, is named meso-colon, and that attaching the small intestine is the mesentery. Con- Vertical circle or from above downwards.—Beginning at the liver, oTthe^ the student may perceive that the peritoneum covering it is pro- meiru lodged from the under surface of that viscus on the vessels. From fronf liver it may be followed along those vessels, one piece before above and the other behind them, forming the small omentum, to the down J ' upper border of the stomach. At the stomach the two pieces en- closing the vessels separate, one going before, and the other behind it; but beyond that viscus, they are applied to one another to form the great omentum or epiploon. After descending in con- tact in that fold to the lower part of the abdomen, they may be traced in it backwards and upwards, and may be seen to separate to enclose the transverse colon like the stomach, and then to continue to the spine, giving rise to the transverse meso-colon. At the attachment of the transverse meso-colon to the spine, the two companion pieces will be found to separate,^— one passing up- wards, the other downwards, forms ^* '^^^ ascending piece is continued in front of the pancreas and omen piUars of the diaphragm, and blends with the peritoneum on turn, the posterior aspect of the liver : in its ascent it forms the posterior part of a pouch, which is behind the stomach, and de- ^- The descending piece or layer may be followed from the trans- over^the "^^^^c meso-colon along the middle line of the spine, over the duo- to^the"^ denum and the great vessels on the spine (aorta and cava), till it pelvis, meets with the artery to the small intestine, along which it is continued to form the mesentery, as before explained in tracing the peritoneum in a circular direction. From the root of the mesen- teric artery the peritoneum descends to the pelvis, and partly covers the viscera in that cavity. Thus it surrounds the upper part of the rectum, and attaches this viscus to the abdominal wall by the meso-rectum ; next, it is continued forwards between the rectum and the bladder, or between the rectum and the uterus, where it forms a pouch; thence it passes from the pelvis over the back and sides of the bladder. Lastly, the serous membrane is continued to the inguinal region, where it presents the pouches before alluded to (p. 495.); and it can be traced upwards on the wall of the abdomen and the diaphragm to the rest of the membrane on the upper surface of the liver. Chief Folds of the peritoneum. — After tracing the continuity of thepe°/i- the scrous sac over the viscera, the student is to examine the toneum. ^o\^i^ ov proccsscs of the membrane in connection vrith tbe alimentary tube. The pieces of the peritoneum that fix