p p 2 THE DEEP MUSCLES. \:^[ • ">^9. V^\C the femur, and is situate partly in the abdomen ancf** partly situa^ , ^ / ' in the thigh. The muscle arises from the front oN transverse processes (parapophyses) of the lumbar vertebrge^ from the bodies of the last dorsal and all the lumbar vertebrae by five processes, each process being connected w^ith the intervertebral substance, and the upper and lower borders of the two contiguous vertebrae; and opposite the middle of the bodies of the vertebrae from tendinous bands over the bloodvessels. The fibres are directed downwards, and give Direc- rise to a roundish muscle, which gradually diminishes the towards Poupart's ligament. Inferiorly the muscle ends in a tendon on the outer aspect, which receives the fibres of the iliacus, and passes beneath Poupart's ligament to be inserted into the small trochanter of the femur, and the con- inser- tiguous part of the bone. The abdominal part of the muscle has the following con- Connec nections: ■— in front of it are the internal arch of the dia- in front, phragm, the kidney with its vessels and duct, the spermatic vessels and the genito-crural nerve, and, near Poupart's ligament, the ending of the external iliac artery. Poste-behind; riorly the muscle is in contact with the transverse processes, with part of the quadratus lumborum, and with the innomi- nate bone. The outer border touches the quadratus and of outer border, iliacus, and branches of the lumbar plexus issue from be- neath it. The inner border is partly connected to the ver- of inner , . border; tebrae, and is partly free along the margin of the pelvis : — along the vertebral part of this border lie the sympathetic along nerve and some lumbar glands, with the cava on the right, and the aorta on the left side; along the pelvic part are the external iliac artery and vein, and the obturator nerve below. It has been before said that the muscle is connected only and ver. tebral with the margins of the vertebras; whilst opposite the centre part, of each bone, the fibres are attached to a tendinous arch over the lumbar vessels. The PSOAS PARVUS is a small muscle with a loner and flat ps^^s ° parvus; tendon, which is placed on the front of the large psoas, but is rarely present. Its fibres arise from the bodies of the origin; last dorsal and first lumbar vertebrae, and their intervening fibro-cartilage, like the large psoas. Its tendon becomes broader inferiorly, and is inserted into the ilio-pectineal