505 CONNECTIONS OF THE LIVER. pieces of peritoneum, containing fat, the appendices epi- ploicae, are fixed along it. The descending colon commences below the spleen, and Descend, reaches to the left iliac fossa. At first it is deeply placed in ion.^'^ the left hypochondriac region, and in its whole course it is deeper than the right colon. In front of it are the convolu- situa- tions of the small intestine ; and behind are the diaphragm, the outer part of the kidney, and the quadratus lumborum. This part of the intestine is smaller than either the right or ^d^^y^"^' the transverse portion; and it is less surrounded usually by t^fiie"" the peritoneum attaching it to the abdominal wall. The siqmoid flexure of the colon is situate in the left iliac sigmoid flexure fossa, to which it is attached by a fold of the peritoneum, the sigmoid meso-colon, but it often extends partly into the cavity of the pelvis. The intestine makes two turns like the letter S, and has obtained its name from that circumstance. It is concealed by the small intestine, which is directed more is in left ^ iliac foa- to the left than to the right side. The extent of this part of sa. the colon is from the crest of the hip bone to the junction of the same bone with the sacrum, where it ends in the rectum. The rectum is the termination of the large intestine, which Rectum, is contained in the pelvis : it will be seen in the dissection of that cavity. The liver. — The liver is situate in the right hypochon- Positjon driac, and epigastric regions, and reaches slightly into the uver. left hypochondriac. Folds of peritoneum (ligaments) retain it in place. The upper surface is convex, and turned to the vault of surfaces, the diaphragm, and is divided into two parts by the suspen- sory ligament; the right half, more prominent than the left, reaches to the level of the fifth intercostal space. The under surface is in contact with the stomach and the duodenum, with the ascending colon, and with the right kidney and the suprarenal body. Attached to this surface is a fold of the peritoneum (small omentum) that contains the hepatic vessels. The anterior border is thin, and is constantly varying its Borders, position to the wall of the thorax according to the distension of the stomach, and the position of the body and the dia- phragm. This edge, except a small part near the xiphoid cartilage, lies in adult males usually within the margin of