62 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. mastoideus to be raised towards the middle line. Beneath the skin is the superficial fascia, containing the ramifications of the superficial cervical nerve. The nerve is to be fol- lowed forwards from its trunk, and the fat is to be taken away from the platjsma muscle, piatys- Plattsma Myoides. — The anterior part of the platjsma, dein^"^' viz. from the sterno-mastoid muscle to the lower jaw, covers %lrno- the greater portion of the anterior triangular space. The mastoid. £|jpgg have the same appearance in this as in the lower inser- half of the muscle, but thej are rather stronger. At the jaw. base of the jaw they are inserted between the symphysis and the masseter muscle, while other and more posterior fibres are continued over the face, joining the depressor anguli oris and risorius, as far as the fascia covering the parotid gland, or the cheek bone. Below the chin the fibres of opposite muscles cross for the distance of about an inch, but those that are superficial do not belong always to the same side. This part of the muscle is superficial, and conceals the following nerves: — Superfi- The superficial cervical nerve has been traced from its vicai^^"^ origin in the cervical plexus to its position superficial to the ^^'^^^' fascia of the neck (p. 60.); and the nerve may arise from the plexus by two pieces. Beneath the platysma it divides into an ascending and a descending branch, and is dis- tributed on the front of the neck, branch-The ascending branch perforates the platysma, and ends in the fnte- integuments over the anterior triangle, about half way down the fnd^pia-^ neck, as well as in the platysma. Whilst this branch is beneath oFneck platysma it joins with the facial nerve. The descending branch likewise passes through the platysma, and is distributed below the preceding, reaching as low as the sternum. Dissec- Dissection. — Raise the platysma to the base of the jaw, and dissect out the cervical branches of the facial nerve that are beneath it. Clean also the deep fascia of the neck. Branch- The infra-maxUlary branches of the facial or seventh faclL cranial nerve (rami subcutanei colli) (p. 42.) pierce the theneck. deep cervical fascia, and pass forwards beneath the platysma, forming arches across the side of the neck, which reach as low as the hyoid bone. Most of the branches end in the platysma, but a few filaments perforate it and supply the integument. Beneath the muscle there is a communication