365 STRUCTURE OF THE HEART. of involuntary muscles, and yet they are marked with trans- verse striae. a. In the wall of the auricles the fibres are mostly trans- Disposi- tion in verse, and are best marked at the lower part, though they the au- form here but a thin layer; and some of these fibres dip into the septum between the auricular cavities. Besides this where they ar© set, there are annular fibres around the appendages of the trans- auricles, and the openings of the different veins. Lastly, a annular few oblique fibres pass upwards over the auricles, and are and ob- attached below, both in front and behind, to the fibrous rings surrounding the auriculo-ventricular orifices. h. In the wall of the ventricles the fibres are disposed in in the ventri- layers, which pass spirally downwards from the base towards cies tiiey the smaller part of the heart, where they make a sudden From bend, and are reflected upwards with a straighter direction apex, and a deeper position, to form the inner surface of the ven- tricular cavity. To allow of this turning inwards of the fibres, the deepest layers extend the shortest distance from the base of the ventricle. Each ventricle has, for the most The fibres of part, its own formative fibres, which assist in constructing [J^.^j^^"" the septum between the cavities; but some bands are con- are mostly cerned in the production of the wall of both ventricles on separate, the anterior and posterior aspects of the heart, near the base of the ventricles, where the fibres are nearly, circular in direction, and cross the interventricular grooves. When but some '-^ common these intercommunicating fibres are divided, the ventricles to both. may be detached from one another.* Endocardium. — Lining the interior of the cavities of the L'ning 1 • 1 • mem- heart IS a thin membrane, which is continuous on the one b^ane of . the hand with the lining of the "veins, and on the other with that heart of the arteries. This membrane is so named in opposition to the external investment or pericardium. Where the ?r?^. ^ folds m membrane passes from an auricle to a ventricle, or from ••• ' tenor a ventricle to an artery, it forms duplicatures or valves, in f^^^^^^"' which fibrous tissue is enclosed. In the ventricle it also fibrous tissue. covers the tendinous cords of the valves, and the projecting muscular bundles. The thickness of, the membrane is less in the auricles than in the ventricles. * Eor fuller detail concerning the structure of the heart, the student may refer to the article " Heart" in the Cyclopcedia of Anatomy and Physiology.