225 VELUM INTERPOSITUM. mater passes into the brain, and forms the velum inter- base of positum and the plexus choroides. Where the pia mater p^^'"' . projects into the lateral ventricle, beneath the edge of the ^^^^^^ fornix, it receives a prolongation from the lining structure of the cavity, and thus the interval through which it enters is closed. Parts in the Middle Line. — The student is now to parts return to the examination of the parts in the centre of the mmie brain, viz. the fold of pia mater and its vessels; the third ^^^'"* ventricle, and the parts connected with it. At the same time the optic thalamus is to be seen. The velum interpositum is the central part of the fold of veium, the pia mater that enters the brain by the great transverse of pia fissure. Triangular in shape, the membrane has the same extent as the body of the fornix, and reaches in front to the foramen of Monro. The upper surface is in contact with is over the fornix, to which it supplies vessels; and the lower sur- ven- face looks to the third ventricle, and covers the pineal body, and a part of each optic thalamus. Along each side is a its late- vascular roll of the membrane (choroid plexus). ^^'^^ The choroid plexus is the red, somewhat round, and frinsred is the n n ' . -I ' n choroid margin of the fold of pia mater m the interior of the brain, piexus of ^ . . the late. Its lower end is larger than the upper, and each is described jai ven- as extending from the foramen of Monro to the extremity of the descending cornu. On its surface the choroid plexus is villous; and the villi are minutely subdivided, and covered by laminated (? ciliated) nucleated epithelium, like that on the surface of the ventricle. Vessels of the velum. — Some small arteries have been ^^^^seis alreadv traced to the velum and the choroid plexus from the veium. Arteries- cerebral and cerebellar arteries (p. 191.). These supply veins; branches to the surrounding cerebral substance. The veins of the choroid plexus receive branches from the ventricle, and end in the following. Along the centre of the velum are two large veins, veins with of Galen, which begin at the foramen of Monro, by the Gaien. union of branches from the corpus striatum and the choroid plexus. Lying side by side, these veins are usually united at the posterior part of the velum into one, which opens into the straight sinus. Dissection, — When the velum interpositum has been Pj,'^^^-