THE PANCREAS. 543 the tubules. These follicular glands are simple sacs with a and dilated cavity and a narrow neck opening into the intestine, being in form something like a small rounded fruit with a stalk. The epithelium is of the columnar kind, as it is in the Epithe- small intestine, and enters the tubules. Vessels. — The distribution of the vessels in the wall of vessels and the larsre intestine is the same as in the smaller bowel. The "^r^eso ..... ^'"'^ absorbent vessels, after leaving the intestine, join the lymph- atic glands along the side of the colon. THE PANCREAS. The pancreas is a narrow flattened gland about seven Form inches in length, which has some resemblance to a dog's length; tongue. It is larger at the right than at the left end; and sions, is divided into a head, tail, and body. The head, or the right extremity, occupies the concavity p^J^'^ of the duodenum ; whilst the left extremity, or the tail, is ^ the rounded, and touches the spleen. The body of the gland is of the narrowest a little to the riffht of the vertebral column, and and of , . . the body. IS thickest at the upper border ; it measures about one inch and a half in breadth, and from half an inch to an inch in thickness. Its connections with surrounding parts are described at p. 521. Dissection. —Let the pancreas be placed on the anterior Trace « T , T . , . . , out the surtace, and the excretory duct contained m its substance rfuct. be traced posteriorly from right to left. The duct will be recognised by its white colour. Structure. — The pancreas is a compound gland, and is it is a provided with a special duct. It is destitute of a distinct pound , . gland, capsule, but it is surrounded by connective tissue, which pro- without . ' ^ ^ a distinct jects into the interior, and connects together the lobules, capsule. The fluid secreted by it assists in the digestion of the ali- ment. The glandular structure is soft and loose in texture, and Texture . . . . ^""^ is of a reddish, or grayish white colour. It consists of colour; lobules, which are united into larger masses by connective tissue, vessels, and ducts. In analvsino^ a lobule it will be consti. ' ' JO tution found to consist ultimately, as in the parotid, of the branch- ^^'^^^^^the ings of the excretory duct, Avhich end in closed vesicular glands, extremities, and are surrounded by a plexus of vessels.