500 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Is oval, downwards, so that it measures more in the vertical than the transverse direction ; and it is much wider superiorly than inferiorlj. Above Boundaries.— Above it is limited by the diaphragm ; and dia- below by the levatores ani. and the structures that close the phragm; below outlet of the pelvis : both these boundaries are in part fleshy, levator ^ , ^ *' ani. and concave towards the contents of the cavity, so that the viscera will be acted on by their contraction and flattening. In front In front and on the sides the parietes are partly osseous and and on ^ , ^ ^ ^ ^ / . . sides, partly muscular : thus towards the upper and lower limits is andmus. bouy framcwork of the body, viz. the ribs in one direc- tion and the pelvis in the other ; but in the centre are the Behind musclcs of the abdominal wall. Behind is the spinal column IS spine. ^.^1^ ^Y^^ muscles contiguous to it, viz. the psoas and the quadratus lumborum. Depth is Alterations in size.— The dimensions of the cavity are in- by action fluciiced by the varying conditions of the boundaries. The phragm depth is diminished by the contraction and descent of the and leva- ^. , tor ani. diaphragm, and the contraction and ascent oi the levatores ani; and is restored to its former dimensions by the relaxation Width of those muscles. The width is lessened by the contraction cierin^' of the abdominal muscles; and is enlarged during their re- abdo- laxation by the action of the diaphragm and the levatores men. How excreta expelled, ani driving outwards the viscera. The greatest diminution of the space is effected by the simultaneous contraction of all the muscular boundaries, as in the expulsion of the excreta. Division Divisions of the space.— An arbitrary division has been ^^^P^^^- j^ade of the space into that of the pelvis and that of the abdomen proper. Pelvic The pelvic portion is situate below the brim of the pelvis, portion. contains chiefly the generative and urinary organs. Abdo- The abdominal portion reaches from the diaphragm to the proper, brim of the pelvis, and lodges the alimentary tube and its appendages, together with the kidneys—the secretory organs of the urine. A serous membrane, the peritoneum, lines the cavity, and covers the viscera. Abdo- The followinsf description concerns the part of the cavity men pro- per here bctwecn the diaphragm and the brim of the pelvis. Towards scribed, the end of the dissection of the abdomen, the cavity of the Tfter ^ pelvis will receive a separate notice.