DISSECTION OF THE HAND. 312 gitai cleft between the riner and little finsrers, where it bifurcates for little supply of their opposed sides. In the palm of the anThaif hand this last branch is connected with an offset from the "^^^ median nerve. Along the sides of the fingers the digital branches have the same arrangement as those of the median nerve. Median Palmar Part OF THE Median Nerve. — As soon as the the hand median nerve issues from beneath the annular ligament into muscles the palm of the hand, it becomes enlarged and somewhat fingers, flattened, and is divided into two nearly equal parts: from these divisions the digital nerves to the thumb, and to the remaining two fingers and a half are derived. The more external of the two portions furnishes likewise a small mus- cular branch to the ball of the thumb. The trunk of the nerve and its branches are covered in the hand by the pabnar fascia; and beneath them are the tendons of the flexor muscles. Branch Xhc branch to the muscles of the thumb supplies the outer to the ^ muscles, half of the short flexor, and ends in the abductor and oppo- nens pollicis muscles. ?Jr^vef "^^^ digital nerves are five in number. Three of them, and^^^' which are distributed to the sides of the thumb and the thumb i*2;dial side of the fore finger, are undivided, and are fur- fingerT ^^i^hed by the external of the two parts into which the trunk ha?f^ of the median divides; the other two spring from the inner branch resulting from the division of that nerve, and are bifurcated to supply the opposed sides of the middle and fore, and the middle and ring fingers. First The first two nerves belong to the thumb, one being on each side, and the most external communicates with branches of the radial third, nerve. The third is directed to the radial side of the index finger, and gives a branch to the most external lumbrical muscle. The fourth, fourth furnishes a nerve to the second lumbrical muscle, and divides to supply the contiguous sides of the fore and middle fingers. The fifl^'i ^^^^ fourth, is distributed by two branches to the opposed sides of the middle and ring jSngers : it is joined by a branch from the ulnar nerve. Termi- Qn the fingers. — On the sides of the fingers the nerves are superficial to the arteries, and reach to the last phalanx, where they end in filaments over the ball on the front of the finger, and for the pulp beneath the nail. In their course