DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 82 lary and deeper still the muscles between the chin and the hyoid glands. bone. stylo- The STYLO-HTOiD MUSCLE is thin and slender, and has the ul^^^^' same position as the posterior belly of the digastric. It Origin, avises from the outer aspect of the styloid process, near the inser- basc Or about the middle, and is inserted into the body of sur- the OS hyoides. The muscle has the same connections as digastric the posterior belly of the digastric: and its fleshy fibres are usually perforated by the tendon of that muscle. In many bodies the stylo-hyoid muscle is absent. Ninth The HYPOGLOSSAL NERVE (ninth cranial) may now be the ante- examined, at least that part of it which is seen in the anterior angie!^' triangle of the neck. Appearing at the lower edge of the digastric muscle, the nerve hooks round the occipital artery; it is then directed forwards below the digastric, and disap- pears in front beneath the mylo-hyoid muscle. As the nerve crosses the neck, it lies over the carotid vessels; and near the cornu of the os hyoides it crosses the lingual artery, so as to become highest of the two. Its Branches, —In this part of its course the nerve gives the here ar? desccndons noui branch and a small muscular offset to the muscu- , T 1 • J lar. thyro-hyoiaeus. Branch The descending branch (ram. descend, noni) arises from the hyoid^'^ trunk of the hypoglossal on the outer side of the carotid artery, muscles ^nd descends on the front, or in the sheath of the vessel, to about the middle of the neck, where it is joined by the communicating is joined branches of the cervical nerves. After the union of the spinal wi^thcer- jjgj,^gg offsets are supplied to the lower hyoid muscles, viz. omo- nerves \^yQ\^ (both bellies), sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid. Some- times another offset is continued to the thorax, where it joins the by inter- phrenic and cardiac nerves. The connection between the descen- r^Sting dens noni and the spinal nerves is formed by two or more cross fibres, filaments, so as to construct an arch with the concavity upwards; and an interchange of filaments between the two nerves has been described. External The EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY Springs from the bifur- vessei. cation of the common carotid at the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, and furnishes branches to the face, the neck, and the outer parts of the head. Extent. From the place of origin the vessel ascends to the interval between the jaw and the mastoid process, and ends in the