178 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. pound glands of variable size. The largest set are found at the back of the trachea, in the interval between the carti- lages, where some are placed beneath the mucous membrane with the muscular fibres, and others outside the fibrous tissue: the ducts of the last pass forwards between the muscular fibres to the surface of the mucous membrane. Other smaller glands occupy the front and sides of the trachea, being situate on and in the fibrous tissue connect- ing the cartilaginous rings. Section XYIII. prevertebral muscles and vertebral vessels. Deep Directions.—On the part of the spinal column that was laid muscles ^ . of spine, asidc after the separation of the pharynx from it, the student is to dissect the deep muscles on the front of the vertebrae. Dissec- Dissection.—To dissect those muscles, it will be necessary tion. , . to remove the connective tissue. The muscles are three m number on each side, and are easily distinguished. The largest one, nearest the middle line, is the longus colli; the muscle external to this, which reaches to the head, is the rectus capitis anticus major; and the small muscle, external to the last and close to the skull, the rectus capitis anticus minor. The smaller rectus muscle is usually injured in cutting through the basilar process of the occipital bone. Longus The LONGUS COLLI MUSCLE is situatc on the bodies of the cervical and upper dorsal vertebr^]e, and is pointed above, Origin but larger below. It consists of two parts—internal and external, the former being vertical, and the latter oblique by two in direction. The internal part arises by fleshy and tendi- pieces. ^^^^ processes from the bodies of the two upper dorsal, and two lower cervical vertebrae; and the external piece takes origin from the upper border of the transverse processes (parapophyses) of four cervical vertebrae (sixth, fifth, fourth, and third). Both parts of the muscle are blended above, inser- and the whole is inserted by four slips into the lower border of the bodies of the four upper cervical vertebrae. Some of I the lowest fibres of the muscle, those which sometimes ex- tend out as far as the head of the first rib, are attached separately by tendon to the transverse processes of one or |