604 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 1 middle. The middle part reaches to the tip of the coccyx, and has the vagina above and in contact with it. The peritoneum covers the front for a very short distance, and The lower part curves to the anus away from the vagina part. so as to Icavc between the two a space which corresponds, on the surface of the body, to the part of the perinaeum between the anus and the vulva. The levatores ani are on the sides, and unite below it, and the sphincter muscles surround the extremity. Uterus; The UTERUS is somcwhat of a conical shape, and is flat- and situ- tened from before backwards. It is situate in the pelvis ation. ^ between the bladder and the rectum, and is retained in place by the broad ligaments. Its wider end is free and placed upwards, and the lower end communicates with the vagina: Position unless enlarged, it lies below the brim of the pelvis. This brim of viscus is tilted forwards, so that its position is oblique in pelvis. the cavity of the pelvis; and a line through the centre of Axis, the organ would correspond with the axis of the inlet of the pelvic cavity, but not with that of the vagina. Surfaces. The anterior surface is covered by peritoneum, except in the lower fourth, where it is in contact with the bladder. The posterior surface is altogether invested by the serous membrane. Extre- The upper end (fundus vel basis uteri) is the largest part mities, n ^ \ . . • i i . . 01 the organ, and is m contact with the small intestine. The lower end, or the neck (cervix uteri) is received into the vagina. On the To cach sidc are attached the broad ligament with the Fallopian tube, the round ligament, and the ovary. Faiio. a. The Fallopian tube is contained in the free border of tube, the ligament; one end is connected to the upper angle of the uterus, whilst the other is loose in the cavity of the pelvis. At its attachment to the uterus the tube is of small size, but at the opposite extremity it is dilated, like the end of a trumpet, and fringed, forming the corpus fimbriatum. round b. The Tound or suspensory ligament is a fibrous cord, nfent, which is directed outwards through the internal abdominal ring and the inguinal canal to the groin. This cord lies over the obliterated hypogastric, and the external iliac artery; and is surrounded by the peritoneum, which accompanies it a short way into the canal.