INTERCOSTAL NERVES. 395 that are situate on the inner surface of the ribs, where the position, internal intercostals cease. Apparently part of the inner attach- intercostals, they arise from the inner surface of one rib, and are attached below to the upper border and internal surface of the rib next succeeding. They are uncertain in number, irregu- larities but there may be ten : they are smaller above than below, and the upper and lower may pass over more than one space. External intercostal muscle, — Between the posterior outer n . * . layer border of the internal muscle and the spine, when the fascia and the muscles above referred to have been removed, the external intercostal muscle will be seen. Its attachments extends back to are connected above and below with the margins of two con- head of ^ the rib. tiguous ribs, and its fibres cross those of the internal mus- cular layer. Whilst this muscle extends backwards to the tubercle of the rib, it does not reach farther forwards than the rib cartilages, as before seen (p. 265.). Dissection. — In a few spaces the internal intercostal Trace nerves, muscle may be cut through, and the intercostal nerve and artery traced outwards. The INTERCOSTAL NERVES are the anterior primary branches inter- costal of the dorsal nerves. In distribution they differ from the nerves are not other spinal nerves of the body, inasmuch as they course joined in forwards almost horizontally to the middle line without being united in a plexus. Twelve in number, they occupy the intercostal spaces, except the last which is below the twelfth rib. The following difference obtains between the Upper upper and the lower nerves, viz. that the upper six lie in the between the ribs in all their extent, and are confined to the iJwerVix wall of the thorax, whilst the lower six are contained in them in part in the abdominal wall in front of the line where the ribs cease. At the posterior part of the chest the nerves are seen to Connec- lie at first between the pleura and the external intercostal with . . mus- muscle, with an artery and vein ; but they soon enter be- cies; tween the two strata of the intercostal muscles, and extend forwards to the middle line of the body, as before said. Near the head of the rib each nerve is joined by filaments with the from the sympathetic. In its course it supplies branches to thS" the intercostal muscles of the ribs ; as well as cutaneous offsets, offsets to the surface, which are described in the dissec-