DISSECTION OF THE FACE. 30 the branclies are furnished to the muscles and integuments, some branch- ^ , . • i i ^ . es. of which anastomose with the transverse facial arter j. From the inner side are given the following branches : — Inferior 1. The inferior labial hranch runs inwards beneath the depressor anguli oris muscle, and is distributed between the lower Hp and chin; it communicates with the inferior coronary, and with the labial branch of the inferior dental artery. Two CO- 2. Coronary branches^—There is one for each lip (superior and ronary -^^^^.j^^^^ which arise together or separately from the facial, and form an are directed inwards between the orbicular muscle and the mucous the ]ip. membrane of the lip, till they inosculate with the corresponding Branch branches of the opposite side. From the arterial arches thus formed, offsets are supplied to the lips and labial glands. From the arch in the upper lip a branch is given to the septum of the nose,— arter?/ of the septum. nafa^^^ 3. The lateral nasal branch arises opposite the ala of the nose, branch, and passes beneath the levator labii superioris al^eque nasi, to be distributed on the side of the nose, where it anastomoses with the nasal branch of the ophthalmic artery. Angular 4. The angular branch is the terminal twig of the facial artery * at the inner angle of the orbit, and joins with a branch of the ophthalmic artery. Facial The facial vein commences at the root of the nose by a vein , small vein named angular (p. 7.). It then crosses over the is away elcvator of the upper lip, and separating from the artery artery; courscs bcncath the large zygomatic muscle to the side of the jaw. Afterwards it has a short course in the neck to join the internal jugular vein, is joined Branches.—At the inner side of the orbit it receives veins from branch- the lower eyelid (inferior palpebral) and the side of the nose. Below the orbit it is joined by the infra-orbital vein, also by a large branch that comes from the pterygoid region (anterior in- ternal maxillary) ; and thence to its termination by veins corre- sponding to the branches of the artery both in the face and neck. Trans- The transverse facial is a branch of the temporal artery, fada^i and appears in the face at the anterior border of the parotid ^^^^^Y- It lies by the side of the parotid duct, with branches of the facial nerve, and distributes offsets to the muscles and integuments; some branches anastomose with the facial artery. Lay bare Dissection. — The parotid gland may next be displayed, rotid.^". To see the gland, raise the skin from its surface towards the