DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 520 of the sigmoid flexure of the colon, and the gut is to be cut through at the points at which it is tied. The detached piece of the intestinal tube can be taken away by cutting through the vessels and the peritoneum that connect it to the wall of the abdomen; after it has been separated, it is to be set aside for examination whilst the body is turned, to see To fit the remaining viscera for examination, the student denum," should moderately inflate the stomach and duodenum from the cut extremity of the latter; and whilst cleaning them, he should be careful of the vessels and nerves. On turning up- and pan- wards the stomach he will be able to trace the pancreas from creas. ^j^^ spleen on the one hand to the duodenum on the other ; and on raising the duodenum, to find the common bile duct between it and the head of the pancreas. Extent Duodenum.— The first part of the small intestine, or the denum; duodcuum, bcgius at the small end of the stomach, and, crossing the spinal column, ends on the left side of the course socoud lumbar vertebra. It makes a curve arouild the head ation!^^' of the paucrcas, and occupies the right hypochondriac, right lumbar, and umbilical regions of the abdomen : its peritoneal covering is incomplete and peculiar (p. 511.). From its s?on^' winding course around the pancreas it is divided into three parts —superior transverse, vertical, and inferior transverse. First The superior transverse part is free and moveable, like part IS ^ ^ , , shortest, the stomach ; it measures about two inches in length, and is and is o ^ move- directed from the pylorus to the neck of the gall bladder, ascending slightly in its progress from the one point to the other. In front it is overlapped by the liver, as well as by the gall bladder when this is distended; and behind it are the bile duct and the vena portae. Second The vertical part is fixed almost immoveably by the peri- part is /■ . 11.1. fixed, toneum and the pancreas. It is nearly three inches m length, and descends from the gall bladder as far as the third lumbar vertebra. Superficial to this part is the right bend and rests of the colou, and beneath it are the kidney and its vessels ; kidney, whilst on its inner side is the head of the pancreas, with the common bile duct. The ducts of the pancreas and liver pour their contents into this piece of the duodenum. The The inferior transverse part is the longest of the three, third ^ . . ^ ^ .11 -, . 1 partis and IS continued across the spinal column to end m the est, " jejunal portion of the small intestine. As it crosses the