DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 116 lateral surface. The distribution of these is described with the tongue {Section 15.). Vagus The PNEUMO-GASTRic NERVE (vagus n^rve) is the largest of the three trunks of the eighth cranial nerve (Willis), and occupies the same sheath of dura mater as the spinal acces- in fora- sorj in the jugular foramen. In the foramen it has a dis- guiare, tiuct gangliou (gang, of the root), to which the smaller part of the spinal accessory nerve is connected. and in When the nerve has escaped from the foramen, it receives the neck, ^ \ the small part of the spinal accessory, and swells into a large ganglion (gang, of the trunk). Here the nerve lies between the carotid artery and the jugular vein, and communicates with the several nerves at this part. To reach tho thorax, courses the vaffus descends, almost vertically, between the internal to the . . . , ^ . ^ thorax, jugular vcin and the internal and common carotid arteries, and enters that cavity, on the right side, by crossing over the subclavian artery. ^an<-ii Gctnglia,—The ganglion of the root (gang, superius) is of in fo- a greyish colour, and in texture is like the ganglion on the large root of the fifth nerve. The small branches of the vagus in the foramen jugulare come from this ganglion. The ganglion of the trunh (ga^g. inferius) is cylindrical in another form, is rcddish in colour, and is nearly an inch in length. It communicates with the hypoglossal, spinal, and sympa- thetic nerves. All the intrinsic fibres of the trunk of the nerve are surrounded by the ganglionic substance^ but those derived from the spinal accessory nerve pass by the ganglion without being inclosed in it. Branch- The samc arrangement may be made of the branches of the pneumo-gastric in the neck, as was adopted for the branches of the glosso-pharyngeal, viz. into those uniting it with other nerves, and those that are distributed to the parts around. to unite Connecting Branches.— Branches of communication arise others; from both the ganglion of the root and that of the trunk of the nerve. spinal * ^- From the ganglion of the root.— One or two short filaments ry^sym' "^^^^^ ganglion with the spinal accessory nerve, and a branch of path^etic, the sympathetic nerve in the neck enters the ganglion. Occa- pharyn- sionally there is an offset to join the lower (petrosal) ganglion of ^^^^' the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. Its chief branch is the following.