327 RADIAL ARTERY AT THE WRIST. commencement, and ascends through some fibres of the current supinator, but beneath the anconeus, to supply the elbow joint, and to anastomose with a long branch of the superior profunda artery in the last named muscle. The posterior interosseous nerve takes its origin from the interos- musculo-spiral trunk in front of the outer condyle of the nerve, humerus, and winds backwards through the fibres of the supinator brevis. Escaped from the supinator, the nerve is Position placed between the superficial and deep layers of the muscles cics. as far as the middle of the forearm. Much reduced in size at that spot, it sinks beneath the extensor of the second phalanx of the thumb, and runs on the interosseous mem- brane to the back of the carpus. Finally, the nerve en- Termin- larges beneath the tendons of the extensor communis digi- on back torum, and terminates in filaments to the ligaments and the carpus, articulations of the carpus. Branches. — This nerve furnishes offsets to all the muscles its i^us- of the deep layer; and to those of the superficial layer with sets, the exception of these three, viz. the anconeus, the supinator longus, and the extensor carpi radialis longior. Radial Artery at the Wrist.^— At the wrist the radial Radial artery winds below the end of the radius to the back of the back of carpus, and enters the palm of the hand at the first inter- osseous space, between the heads of origin of the first dorsal interosseous muscle. At first the vessel lies deeply on the Connec- external lateral ligament of the wrist joint, and is beneath with the tendons of the extensors of the metacarpal bone and first aroLnd. phalanx of the thumb ; but afterwards it is more superficial and is crossed by the tendon of the extensor of the second phalanx of the thumb. Offsets of the external cutaneous nerve entwine around the artery. Its branches are nume- Branch- rous, but inconsiderable in size. smau! a. The dorsal carpal branch passes transversely beneath the To back extensor tendons, and forms an arch with the corresponding offset pusf"^ of the ulnar artery. From this arch branches descend to the third and fourth interosseous spaces, and constitute the dorsal in- terosseous arteries. h. The metacarpal or Jirst dorsal interosseous branch reaches the Meta- space between the second and third metacarpal bones, and anas- branch, tomoses, like the corresponding arteries of the other spaces, with a perforating branch of the deep palmar arch. Finally, it is con- tinued to the cleft of the fingers, where it ends by joining the Y 4