733 THIRD LAYER OF MUSCLES. third and fourth metatarsal bones. Anteriorly the muscle is united with the outer head of the short flexor, and is in- outer serted with it into the base of the metatarsal phalanx of the head of /■ short great toe. To the inner side is the flexor brevis ; and beneath flexor, the outer border the external plantar artery and nerve are piamar directed inwards. The TRANSYERSALis PEDIS is placed transversely over the Trans, heads of the metatarsal bones. Its origin is by fleshy pedif bundles from the four outer bones and their phalangeal articulations (frequently not from the little toe) ; and its in- sertion is united with that of the adductor pollicis. The attached to ends cutaneous surface is covered by the tendons, and the vessels of the ^ ' ^ ^ toes. and nerves of the toes ; and the opposite surface is in con- tact with the interossei muscles. This muscle is sometimes described as a part of the adductor pollicis. The FLEXOR BREVIS MiNim DiGiTi is a small narrow riexor muscle ; it lies on the metatarsal bone of the little toe, and dlguna resembles one of the interossei. Attached to the metatarsal inter, bone, and slightly to the sheath of the peroneus long us, it is inserted into the outer side of the base of the metatarsal pha- lanx of the same toe, and into the inferior ligament of the metatarso-phalangeal articulation. Dissection, — In order that the deep vessels and nerves Dissect ^ ^ the deep mav be seen, the flexor brevis and adductor pollicis are to be vessels cut through at their posterior part, and thrown towards the nerves, toes, but the nerves supplying them are to be preserved. Beneath the adductor is the plantar arch, and the external plantar nerve, with their branches ; and in the first inter- osseous space is the part of the dorsal artery of the foot that enters the sole. All these vessels and nerves require careful cleaning. The muscles projecting between the metatarsal bones are the interossei. The plantar arch is the part of the external plantar artery ^'"^^^ that extends obliquely from the base of the metatarsal bone p^f^^ar ^ artery. of the little toe to the back of the first interosseous space (p. 728.): internally the arch is completed by a communi- cating branch from the dorsal artery of the foot. It is placed Extent across the tarsal ends of the metatarsal bones in contact with nections with the interossei, being between the third and fourth layers of "muscles. muscles in the foot. From the front or convexity of the arch the digital branches are supplied, and from the opposite ^^^anch.