DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 234 A fissure The UNDER SURFACE is convex, being received into the sent fossae of the skull, and is divided into hemispheres by a median hollow (vallecula), which is The central sulcus, or the vallecula, receives the medulla called . . . valley, oblongata, and is wider at the middle than at either the and con- anterior or the posterior part. In the bottom of the sulcus tainsver- . i • p • i • i miform IS a mass named mierior vermiform process, which corre- process. ^^^^^^ with the central part connecting the halves of the cerebellum on the upper surface; the two together consti- tute the general commissure of the halves of the cerebellum. Consti- Constituents of vermiform process. — Enterine; into the tuentsof . . p V . r> . -p p vermi- constitution of the inferior vermiform process are the follow- form process, ing eminences, which may be easily separated from one another with the handle of the scalpel:—Most anteriorly is Uvula, a narrow body, the uvula, which is named from its resem- blance to the same part in the throat; it is longer from before backwards than from side to side, and is divided into nodule, laminae. Its anterior projection into the fourth ventricle is named nodule, or laminated tubercle; and on its side is a furrowed ridge of gray matter, the furrowed hand, which is notched on the surface and unites it with the almond-like lobe of the hemisphere. Connected with the nodule is a thin white layer velum, on each side, — the medullary velum; but this and the fur- rowed band will be seen in a subsequent dissection (p. 235.). pyramid, Behind the uvula is a tongue-shaped body, named pyramid, which is elongated from side to side, and is marked by and com. trausversc laminae. Still farther back are certain transverse sures. pieces extending between the posterior lobes of the hemi- spheres, of which they were considered by Keil to be the commissures. Seven LoBES OF THE HEMISPHERE. — Each hemisphere is sub- each divided into lobes on both the upper and the under aspect; sphere, and issuing from its anterior part is a large stalk-like process, which is subdivided into three pieces, and connects the cere- thrte l^^llum with othcr parts, viz. an upper offset to the cere- pedun- brum, a middle one to the pons, and an inferior one to the medulla oblongata. Two On the upper surface there are two lobes, anterior and upper°" posterior, which are separated by a sulcus, but the interval surface, jj^^^^ggj^ them is not well marked. The anterior or square