619 THE PROSTATE GLAND. are separated only by the hollow on the under surface ; they two form the chief part of the prostate, and are prolonged back, on each side, beyond the notch in the base. The middle and a . .11 1 • 1 .1 central. lobe Will be- brought into view by detaching the vesiculas seminales and the ejaculatory ducts from the bladder : it is a small piece of the gland between the neck of the bladder and the ejaculatory ducts, which extends transversely be- tween the lateral lobes. Oftentimes this middle lobe is enlarged in old people, and projects upwards into the bladder, so as to interfere with the flow of the urine from that viscus, or the passage of a catheter into it. The urethra and the two common ejaculatory ducts are Giand contained in the substance of the prostate: the former is three transmitted through the gland from base to apex ; and the latter perforate it obliquely to terminate in the urethral canal. Structure, — On a section the gland appears reddish in struc- colour, is very firm to the feel, and is scarcely lacerable. It is made up of a mass of fibrous and involuntary muscular tissue with interspersed glandular structure ; and the whole is enveloped by a fibrous coat. Fibrous covering.— This forms a thin investment for the Fibrous gland, and sends ofisets into the interior. It is quite dis- distinct tinct from the dense capsule derived from the pelvic fascia, pelvic and is separated from that by the plexus of veins. Muscular tissue. — The firm fibrous looking ^art of the muscu- gland consists of involuntary muscular fibres, intermixed fibrous with elastic and connective tissues. The muscular fibres are ^^^^' arranged circularly around the tube of the urethra : they arrang- are continuous behind with the annular fibres of the bladder, and in front with a layer of circular fibres around the mem- branous part of the urethra. At the lower and outer parts of the gland the texture is looser and more spongy, especially where the glands are situate and where the larger vessels enter.* This arrangement will be better seen afterwards when the urethra has been opened. Glandular structure.— This element, forming but about oiands one third of the whole gland, is in greatest abundance towards the circumference and in the part called middle lobe. The * See a Paper by the Author in vol. xxxix. of the Med. Chir. Trans.^ 1856.