368 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. semilunar valve, in the situation of the sinuses of Valsalva; and there is sometimes another dilatation along the right Gives side, which is named the ffreat sinus of the aorta. The origin to ^ ^ ^ coronary two coronarv artorios arise close to the swellings first al- arteries. *' ^ luded to. Second The second or transverse piece recedes from the sternum, part is trans- and rcachcs from the second right costal cartilage to the left side of the body of the second dorsal vertebra. It rests upon the trachea above its bifurcation, as well as over the oeso- Connec- phagus and the thoracic duct. Lying in front of this part of the artery are the pneumo-gastric, phrenic, and superjQcial cardiac nerves of the left side; and the first nerve sends Gives backwards its recurrent branch beneath the vessel. Alons: origin to large the Upper border is the left innominate vein ; and to the vessels. ^ ^ lower border, near its termination, the remnant of the arte- rial duct is attached. From this part arise the three great vessels of the head and the upper limbs. Third The third or descending part of the arch is very short, ^;tthout extending only from the second, to the lower part of the third dorsal vertebra. It lies against the third dorsal ver- tebra, and the fibro-cartilage between this and the second; and it is covered by the pleura of the left side of the chest. Parts In the concavity of the arch of the aorta are contained the con ined in left auriclc of the heart, the root of the left lung, the branch- ' ing of the pulmonary artery with its arterial duct, and the left recurrent nerve. Deeper than these bodies, will be found the oesophagus and the thoracic duct, with some lymphatic glands. Five The branches of the arch of the aorta are five in number; branches of the two come from the ascending, and three from the transverse two part. The first two are the coronary arteries of the heart, nary^ which havc bccu already noticed (p. 353.). The other three are much larger in size, and supply the neck, the head, and inno- the upper limbs. Yirst on the riffht is the lar^e trunk of the minate, . carotid, innominate artery ; close to it is the left carotid; and last of subcia- all is the left subclavian, which is distant a small space from vian. T 1 the preceding vessel. Pecuii- Peculiarities. — The exceptions to the usual condition of the anties. ^^^^ aorta, that the student may expect to find, concern the height and direction of the arch, and the position and number of its branches.