DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 6C0 its divi- out. The canal is divided into three parts, prostatic, mem- sions. - branous, and spongy. ^^o-^ The prostatic part is contained in the prostate gland, and receives its name from that circumstance. Its length and connections are the same as those of the gland (p. 598.). Mem- The membranous part is nearly an inch lonsr. and inter- branous ; ^ ^' venes between the apex of the prostate and the front of the perineeal triangular ligament. It is somewhat curved up- wards, and the bulb of the next portion of the urethral tube is directed backwards below it, so that the under part appears tSris^^' measure less than the upper. Surrounding it are the muscular fibres of the constrictor urethrae ; close below it are Cowper's glands, and beneath or behind it is the rectum. This division of the urethra is the weakest; but it is sup- ported by the triangular ligament. Spongy. The spongi/ part is so named from its being surrounded by a cellular and vascular structure. It is applied to the body of the penis assisting to form this, and terminates an- teriorly in the orifice named meatus urinarius in the end of the glans. It is the longest part of the urethra, and measures about five inches. At its commencement this division of the excretory canal is surrounded by the ejaculator uringe muscle. D^ssec Dissection,— All the tegumentary covering of the penis may be removed, to see the component parts of that body: and after its removal the spongy part of the urethra will be better seen. Con- The PENIS is a cylindrical body, which is attached to the stituents '' ^ and fore part of the pelvis, and depends from it in front of the situation ^ ± 7 x of the scrotum. It is constructed of two firm fibrous bodies named penis. ^ • corpora cavernosa, which form the principal part of the organ ; and below these is a soft spongy substance (corpus spongiosum) that surrounds the urethra, and forms the head or the glans penis. A tegumentary investment covers the whole, and is supplied with vessels and nerves; these are noticed at p. 470. Corpora The corpora cavernosa form the bulk of the penis, and caver- J- ' fbrm dense, fibrous, almost cylindrical tubes, which are body of filled with a vascular texture. Each is fixed posteriorly to penis, ^ the upper part of the pubic arch for about an inch by a thick pointed process, the crus penis; and after a distance of an inch and a half it is blended with its fellow in the