DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 568 Vessels Vessels of the vas deferens.— A special bloodvessel, the artery of ductf '^^^ deferens^ is furnished to the excretory duct from the upper vesical artery; and some veins from the epididymis enter the sper- matic veins. Section Y. aorta and vena cava, and the deep muscles. Dissect Directions, — After the body is replaced in its former posi- vesseis tioii OH the back, the student should prepare first for exa- muscies. mination the diaphragm, next the large vessels and their branches, and then the remaining deep muscles of the abdo- men. To see DissectioTi.—For the dissection of the diaphragm it will phragm. ^6 ncccssary to remove the peritoneum from the under sur- face of that muscle, defining especially the central tendinous part, and the fleshy processes or pillars which are fixed to the lumbar vertebrae. Whilst cleaning the surface the student should be careful of the vessels and the nerves on or towards the pillars. On the right side two aponeurotic bands or arches, which give attachment to the muscular fibres, should be dissected out: — one curves over the psoas muscle ; and the other extends from the transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra to the last rib. Dia- The DIAPHRAGM forms the vaulted moveable partition situa- ^ between the thorax and the abdomen ; it is fleshy externally, form, where it is attached to the surrounding ribs and the spinal Origin column, and has its tendon in the centre. The origin of the circum- musclc is at the circumference, and is similar on each side of the middle line. Thus, beginning in front and passing backwards, the diaphragm is connected by fleshy fibres with the posterior part of the xiphoid cartilage, and with the inner aspect of the six lower ribs ; with two aponeurotic arches between the last rib and the vertebrae, — one being placed over thequadratus lumborum, and the other over the psoas muscle ; and, lastly, it is connected with the lumbar inser- vcrtcbrae by a thick muscular part or pillar. From this of fibres extensive origin externally, the fibres are directed inwards, central with different degrees of obliquity and length, to the central tendon, j^g^j^^^ tcndon, but some have a peculiar disposition in the pillars which will be afterwards noted.