DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 592 middle fibres blend with the side of the rectum ; whilst the posterior meet the opposite muscle behind the gut, and are attached in part to the side of the coccyx, as before described in the dissection of the perinseum (p. 447.). The anterior fibres of the levator are in contact with the fascia that closes the pelvic cavity below the pubes, and the posterior are parallel to the coccygeus muscle. The upper surface is con- tiguous to the recto-vesical fascia, and the viscera of the pelvis ; and the under surface looks to the perinaeum (ischio- rectal fossa). The two muscles, by their union, form a fleshy layer or diaphragm across the outlet of the pelvis, similar to that which separates the abdomen from the chest: this partition is convex below and concave above, and gives passage to the rectum. In front there is an interval between the anterior fibres, which allows the urethra, together with the vagina in the female, to pass from the pelvis. Anterior Tlic anterior part of the muscle that descends by the side fibres ... named of the prostatc, and unites with its fellow below the mem- pros- branous part of the urethra, thus supporting that canal as in a sling, has been named levator seu compressor prostatce. Dissec- Dissection. — The recto-vesical fascia will be seen by de- the taching the fleshy fibres of the levator ani at their origin, vesical and the coccygeus muscle from the ischial spine, and throw- ing both downwards. Below the spot at which the fascia reaches the side of the prostate gland and the rectum, it gives sheaths to those viscera ; and to demonstrate these sheaths one incision is to be made along the prostate, and another along the lower end of the rectum, below the attach- ment of the fascia. Recto- The recto-vesical fascia is derived from the pelvic fascia, fascia and supports and partly invests the viscera of the pelvis, arises Arising, as before said, on a level with the band that ex- from &7 7 . pelvic tends from the pubes to the ischial spine, the fascia is fascia, , . , ^ directed inwards on the levator ani, and has the following and is disposition on the viscera : — In the middle line in front it is reflected on ro the continued from the back of the pubes to the apex and the viscera support- upper surface of the prostate ; here it closes the pelvis be- them. fore the levatores ani, and forms on each side of the middle line a roundish band, the anterior ligament of the bladder. More to the side, the fascia is attached to the lateral part of the prostate and to the side of the bladder, giving rise to the