DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 334 john?^^ carpal with the carpal bones and with one another, should be dissected. Bones Union OF THE Carpal Bones. — The scvcral bones of the fohied carpus are united into two rows by dorsal, palmar and inter- rows!^° osseous bauds; and the two rows are connected one to ano- ther by separate ligaments. How Bones of the first row, — The os semilunare is united first . . row is to the contififuous bones, viz. the scaphoid and cuneiform, formed. , , , , , by a dorsal and a palmar transverse band, as well as by an interosseous ligament at the upper part of the contiguous Separate surfaccs. The pisiform bone is articulated to the front of liga- ^ ments of the cunciform bone by a distinct capsule and a synovial pisiform ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ foone. membrane : it has further two special ligaments ; — one of these is attached to the process of the unciform bone, and the other to the base of the fifth metacarpal bone. Second The bones of the second row are connected together in the like first, same way as those of the first row, viz. by a dorsal and a palmar band of fibres from one bone to another. Between the contiguous rough surfaces of the several bones are inter- osseous ligaments, one to each interval. The two One row with another,— The two rows of carpal bones joinedby are Connected by an anterior and posterior, and two lateral ligaments. anterior, The anterior ligament consists of irregular fibres, and intervenes between the two rows on the palmar aspect. The ?jo?^" posterior ligament, which is longer and looser, and the greater number of whose fibres are transverse, has a corresponding and attachment on the dorsal aspect of the bones. Of the lateral lateral ^ ^ liga- liqaments, the external is the best marked, and extends be- ments. . tween the os trapezium and the scaphoid bone ; whilst the internal ligament passes between the cuneiform and unciform bones. Dissec- Dissection, — After the division of the lateral and pos- terior ligaments, the one row of bones may be separated from the other, so as to allow the articular surfaces to be seen. Surface Articular surfaces. — The first row of carpal bones forms of each row in an arch, whose hollow is turned towards the other. In the contact. 1 • r» second row, the os magnum and os unciforme present a con- dyloid projection, which is received into the arch before mentioned: whilst the two outer bones are much below the