391 THORACIC DUCT. Besides these, the large thoracic duct traverses the thorax in its course from the abdomen to the neck. a. Lymphatic glands. — Along the course of the internal several mammarj^ artery is a chain of sternal or mediastinal glands, grinds, which receive lymphatics from the front of the chest, the lvb?ch thymus gland, the pericardium, and the upper surfaces of lymph- the diaphragm and liver. On each side of the spine, near fo\\lcu the heads of the ribs as well as between the intercostal mus- cles, is a set of z/z^erco^to/glands, that receives the lymphatics of the posterior wall of the thorax. At the division, and along the side of the trachea are numerous bronchial glands, through which the lymphatics of the lung pass. And be- neath the arch of the aorta are a few cardiac glands, which receive the lymphatics of the heart. Along the side of the aorta and oesophagus is a chain of (esophageal glands, which are joined by the lymphatics of the oesophagus, and commu- nicate with those of the lungs. b. The thoracic duct is the great channel by which the Thoracic lymphatic and lacteal fluid of all the lower half of the body, and that of the left side of the upper half of the body, is conveyed into the blood. The duct begins in the abdomen begins in in an enlargement (chyli receptaculum), and ends in the left domen" subclavian vein of the neck. It is from eighteen to twenty in neck, inches in length, and is contained in the thorax, except at its origin and termination. It has the undermentioned connec- connections:—Entering the cavity on the right side of the in the aorta and through the same opening, the duct ascends on the right of that vessel, between it and the vena azygos, as high as the arch. Opposite the second dorsal vertebra it passes beneath the arch of the aorta and the left subclavian artery, and is applied to the left side of the oesophagus, by which it is conducted to the neck. Lastly, at the lower part of the neck, the duct arches outwards, as before described (p. 125.), to open into the left subclavian vein. In this course the May be tube is oftentimes divided in two, which unite again, or its divisions may even form a plexus ; and near its termina- tion it is generally branched. It is provided with valves is fur- at intervals, like a vein, and these are in greater number wuh^' at the upper than at the lower part. Occasionally the duct may be found on the left instead of the right side of the aorta.