214 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. anterior commissure, where it presents a well-marked con- ends in- cave margin, to which the lamina cinerea is joined. A white feriorly in two band, fillet or peduncle of the corpus callosum, is continued onwards, on each side, from the line of termination before alluded to, to the anterior perforated spot. To the anterior bend of the corpus callosum the term knee (genu) is applied, and to the prolonged central part the appellation beak (ros- and ex- trum) has been given. Laterally the corpus callosum teraiiy ' rcachcs iuto the anterior lobe, and bounds the lateral ven- hemi- triclc in the same direction, so that an incision through it Its con- would open that cavity. In contact with this now denuded volution, gurface of the corpus callosum is the convolution named gyrus fornicatus, which may be seen to begin by a narrow part in front of the anterior perforated spot, substan- Anterior perforated spot (substantia perforata antica) is a forata spaco near the inner end of the fissure of Sylvius, which is antica. ^ ^ situate between the anterior and middle lobes of the cere- brum, and in front of the optic tract. On the inner side it is continuous with the lamina cinerea, and crossing it, from within outwards, is the fillet of the corpus callosum. This space is gray on the surface ; it corresponds with the corpus striatum in the interior of the brain, and is perforated by numerous vessels for that body. Position Position of the part.— Now the base of the cerebrum has to ex- been dissected, the brain should be turned over for the ex- upper amination of the upper part. After the brain has been turned something should be placed beneath the anterior lobes, in order that they may be raised to the same level as the posterior; and a rolled up cloth should encircle the whole, to support the hemispheres. Cere- IJppER SuRFACE OF THE Cerebrum.— On the Upper sur- brum iS- > ^ convex faco the cerebrum, taken as a whole, is oval m lorm, with above, . , . ,. . and di- the larger end backwards, and is convex in its outline, in vided into two. accordance with the shape of the skull. The cerebral mass is only partly separated into two portions or hemispheres by a median longitudinal fissure ; for the corpus callosum extends from one hemisphere to another, and interrupts the depth of the fissure at the middle part, but before and behind that connecting piece its separation into two halves is complete. haif^' Each hemisphere is smaller in front than behind. Its