745 EXTERNAL MUSCLES OF THE LEG. course of the artery of the same name through the tibialis anticus muscle to the knee joint. The musculo'cutaneous nerve is beneath the fascia in the Muscu- lo-cuta. first part of its course, and is continued between the extensor "eous longus digitorum and the peronei muscles to the lower third of the leg, where it pierces the fascia, and is distributed to the dorsum of the foot and the toes (p. 738.). Before the supplies nerve becomes cutaneous, it furnishes branches to the two larger peronei muscles. The anterior tibial nerve (interosseous) is directed inwards interior ^ ^ tibial IS beneath the extensor longus digitorum, and reaches the with the ^ <=> ^ artery. artery of the same name about the middle of the leg. From this spot it takes the course of the vessel along the foot to the first interosseous space, in which it ends on the surface (see p. 738.). In the leg it crosses the anterior tibial artery once or more, but its position on the foot is external to the dorsal artery. Branches, — In the leg the nerve supplies the anterior ^J"^^^^- tibial muscle and the extensor of the toes. On the dorsum muscles, of the foot it gives a considerable branch to the short ex- tensor; this becomes enlarged, and gives offsets to the articulations of the foot. Muscles on the outer part of the leg.— Only two External *^ muscles muscles are found in this situation: they are named peronei of the from their attachment to the fibula, and are distinguished by terms (longus and brevis) expressive of their relative length. Intermuscular processes of fascia, which are attached to the fibula, isolate these muscles from others, viz. from the soleus and flexor pollicis behind, and from the extensor longus digitorum in front. The PERONEUS longus is the more superficial of the two ^1^^°]^,. muscles, and passes round the outer border of the foot into g"^- the sole to end in the cuneiform and metatarsal bones. It arises from the head of the fibula; from the outer surface of the shaft of the bone for two thirds of its length, but still JJ^^'^^e farther from the posterior border: and from the fascia and fit)uia5 the intermuscular septa. Inferiorly it ends in a tendon which is contained, with that of the peroneus brevis, in the groove at the back of the external malleolus, and the sheath of the external annular ligament. Afterwards the tendon is continued in a separate sheath, below that of the peroneus