TRIANGULAR SPACE OF SCARPA. 669 crurale is usually united with that from the crural sheath, so as to form one layer, the fascia propria (Cooper). In The general, in an operation for the relief of the strangulated does not bowel, the suro^eon, after dividing the subcutaneous fat, can many as f, . T 1 the ana- recognise but little of the coverings enumerated hj ana- tomist. tomists until he meets with that of the subperitoneal fat or septum crurale. Seat of stricture. —The stransrulation of a femoral hernia Place of ^ ^ ^ , stric- may be situate either at the crural ring, or at the saphenous ture. opening. If the constriction is at the latter spot and outside How it ^ ^ , is to be the neck of the sac, it will be removed by cutting through remov- the upper part of the falciform margin of the saphenous opening, together with any other subjacent fibrous band which arches over the hernia. If it is deep in the neck of Suppo- ^ sing the the sac, it will be relieved by opening the sac and making ^^^^^^ an incision into that structure, of a few lines in extent, with the knife directed horizontally inwards. The several vessels that may be wounded in attempting to relieve the deep stricture are enumerated at page 498. Dissection, — The triangular space at the top of the thigh clean will be prepared by removing the fascia lata from the hollow Scarpa's near Poupart's ligament, and cleaning the parts that then lar^"^"" come into view. The muscular boundaries on the sides may be first dissected; then the remains of the crural sheath are to be taken away, and the femoral vessels to be followed downwards as far as the sartorius muscle. On the outer side of the vessels the divisions of the anterior crural nerve are to be sought, together with the branches of an artery (profunda) which are buried in the fat. All the fat is to be cleared out of the space ; and in removing it from beneath the femoral artery, the student is to look for one or two small nerves to the pectineus muscle. The TRIANGULAR SPACE OF SCARPA is situate at the Trian- gular upper part of the thigh, and is beneath the hollow observ- space^at able on the anterior aspect, near Poupart's ligament. It the ^ corresponds with the axillary space in the upper limb. Com- monly its extent is somewhat less than that of the upper third of the thigh ; but its length varies according to the extent; breadth of the sartorius, and the height at which this muscle crosses inwards. The base of the space is at Poupart's ligament, and the apex at the meeting of the sartorius