u 3 SURFACE-MARKING OF THE FOREARM. 298 capsule. At the aperture on the inner side of the capsule it mem- is continued beneath the subscapularis muscle. The mem- brane is further reflected around the tendon of the biceps, and lines the bicipital groove of the humerus. Section IV. THE FRONT OF THE FOREARM. Position,— The limb is to be placed with the palm of the Position 1 . (* p ^^^^^ hand uppermost; and the marking of the surface, and the limb. projections of bone, are first to be noted. Surface-marking, — On the anterior aspect of the fore- ^"[J^^^ arm are two depressions, corresponding to the position of the fo^- chief vessels. The external one is placed over the radial artery, and inclines towards the middle of the limb as it ap- proaches the elbow. The internal one is evident only beyond the middle of the forearm, and points out the part of the ulnar artery that is uncovered by muscle. The bones (radius and ulna) are sufficiently near the surface to be traced in their whole length: each ends below in a point, — the styloid process, and that of the radius is the lowest. The articulation of the wrist is about an inch above the trans- verse marking that separates the forearm from the hand. On each side of the palm of the hand is a lateral projec- surface tion ; the external of these is formed by the muscles of the of the" thumb, and the internal by the muscles of the little finger. Between those projections is a hollow, which is pointed towards the wrist. The superficial palmar arch of arteries extends forwards a little way into the hollow, and its posi- tion may be marked by a line drawn across the palm from the root of the thumb, when that digit is placed at a right angle to the hand. Two transverse lines are seen in the palm, but neither reaches completely across it: the anterior one serves to direct to the line of the articulations between the metacarpus and the phalanges, and is about a quarter of an inch behind those joints, when the fingers are extended, except in the case of the fore finger. Transverse lines are seen on both aspects of the ioints of Surface the thumb and the fingers. The lines on the palmar surface fingers,