128 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. muscles Covering it in front are tlie small muscles reaching from the sternum to the hyoid bone, with the deep cervical fascia : beneath the muscles is the inferior thyroid plexus of veins; and near the larynx is the isthmus of the thyroid body. Behind the tube is the oesophagus, with the recurrent nerves. and On each side are the common carotid artery and the thyroid vessels. body. The structure of the trachea is described at p. 176. CEso- The (ESOPHAGUS, or gullet, reaches from the pharynx to phagus ^^^^ stomach. It commences, like the trachea, opposite the occupies fifth cervical vertebra, and ends opposite the tenth dorsal thorax, vcrtcbra. In length it measures about nine inches. This tube reaches through part of the neck, and through the whole of the thorax, and occupies for the most part the middle line of the body. Position In the neck its position is behind the trachea, till near the mnec ^j^^j.^^^ whcro it projccts to the left side beyond the air tube, and comes into connection with the thyroid body and and con- the thoracic duct. Behind the oesophagus is the longus colli nections. i • - ^ muscle. On each side is the common carotid artery, the proximity of the left being greatest, because of the projection of the oesophagus towards the same side. The structure of the oesophagus will be examined in the dissection of the thorax. Muscles Directions.— The dissector may learn next the digastric nerves and stylo-hyoid muscles, with the hypoglossal nerve; and tedor afterwards, the trunk of the external carotid, with the fol- ' lowing branches,— superior thyroid, facial, occipital, pos- terior auricular, and superficial temporal. The description of the right side (p. 79.) may be used for these parts, pterygo- The disscctor is not to examine the pterygo-maxillary or maxi^ua" Submaxillary regions on this (the left) side of the neck, gUns'to because such a proceeding would interfere with subsequent be^omit- (dissections. Before learning the pharynx he should lay bare, on this side, the middle and inferior ganglia of the sympa- thetic with their branches. Dissec- Dissection.—For the dissection of the two lower ganglia sy^mpa^. of the Sympathetic and their branches, it will be necessary thetic, across the common carotid artery at the lower part of the neck, and the external and internal carotid where these are crossed by the digastric muscle. In removing the ves-