DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. 724 Cuta- A cutaneous nerve of the sole of the foot pierces the internal an- the foot, nular ligament, and ends in the integument of the inner and under part of the heel; this nerve will be followed to its termination in the dissection of the foot. Internal The internal annular liqament is placed between the lieel annular . x liga- and the inner ankle, and serves to confine the tendons of the deep flexor muscles of the foot and toes. Attached by Attach- a pointed part to the internal malleolus, the fibres diverge from it, and are inserted into the os calcis. One border (upper) is continuous with the fascia of the leg ; and the op- posite gives attachment to the abductor poliicis muscle of Pro- the foot. Beneath it are sheaths for the tendons, which are cesses of it sepa- formed by the fascia stretched over the subiacent osseous rate the tendons, g^roovcs. Wlicn the sheaths are opened, the innermost will forming ^ ^ .... t^heathsj be fouud to Contain the tibialis posticus, which is lodged their po- in a groovo in the malleolus : immediately behind this is another space for the flexor digitorum; and about three quarters of an inch nearer the os calcis, is the interval in lined by which the flcxor poliicis lies, contained in a groove in the mem- astragalus. Each sheath is lined by a synovial membrane. Tibial Vessels beneath the ligament, — The posterior tibial vessels' Ind^^^ in passing beneath the ligament lie between the tendons of beneath the flcxor polHcis and flexor digitorum, but rather nearer the ' ment.^^" latter. The artery supplies here small offsets to the tarsus, and the ankle joint. Occasionally the artery divides beneath or even above the ligament. The nerve is nearer than the i artery to the os calcis ; but it is sometimes bifurcated beneath the ligament, so that a nerve may lie on each side of the tibial vessels. Section Y. THE sole of the FOOT. Position Position. — The foot is to be placed over a block of somei par?^ thickness with the sole towards the dissector, and the part is to be made tense by fastening down, and separating the toes. Raise Dissection. — The skin is to be raised as two flaps, inner and outer, by means of one incision along the centre of the sole from the heel to the anterior part, and by another across the foot at the root of the toes. Afterwards the skin is tO; be removed from each toe, and the lateral digital vessels and