PART OF WALL OF THE THORAX. 427 fifth between the sacrum and the coccvx. The first three aredif- T • • • • T 1 Icrcntly have the common division into inner and outer branches, ^istri. buted. like the other spinal nerves, but the last two are un- divided, t * The first three nerves are covered by the multifidus First spina?, and divide regularly. The inner branches of these have nerves end in the multifidus. The outer branches are and larger in size, and have communicating ofisets from one to brHncii- another on the back of the sacrum: the outer branch of the ' first nerve is further connected with the corresponding part of the last lumbar; and that of the third nerve joins in a similar manner the sacral nerve next below. After this the last looping, the nerves pass outwards to the surface of the great Sneous" sacro-sciatic ligament, where they join a second time, and then become cutaneous.— (See Dissection of the But- tock.) * Last two nerves.— These nerves, which are below the Last two 1 • r» 1 T 1 ^'^^ undi- multmdus, are much smaller than the preceding, and want vided. the regular branching of the others: they are connected one with another, and with the coccygeal nerve, on the back of the sacrum. A few filaments are distributed to the back of the sacrum and the coccyx. * The coccygeal nerve issues through the lower aperture Coccy- of the spinal canal, and may be recognised with care by the nerve, side of the coccyx. It is joined by the last sacral nerve, and ends on the posterior aspect of the coccyx. *' Small sacral arteries leave the spinal canal with the smaii sacral sacral nerves; they supply the muscular mass of the erector arteries, spin^, and the structures on the back of the sacrum. Ana- stomoses take place between these vessels and the branches on the sacrum from the gluteal and sciatic arteries. * Dissection. — The examination of the posterior part of pissec. the wall of the thorax may be made before the body is again inter- costal turned. By the removal of the ilio-costalis and lons-issimus ^t^uc- , . \ ^ tures. ciorsi, opposite the ribs, the small levatores costarum will be uncovered. The hinder part of the external intercostal muscle will be denuded at the same time. * The levatores costarum are twelve small fan-shaped Leva- tores t See a paper on the mode of branching of the spinal nerves, in the Lond. Med. Gazette of Feb. 10., 1843.