487 VESSELS OF THE WALL OF THE ABDOMEN. close to the edge of the rectus. The branches of the artery Branch- are numerous but inconsiderable in size ; — a. The pubic branch is a small transverse artery, which runs be- Pubic hind Poupart's ligament to the posterior aspect of the pubes, and tumor" anastomoses with a similar branch from the opposite side. Behind ^Jg^" the pubes it communicates with a small olFset from the obturator artery : the size of this anastomosis varies much, but its situation is internal to the crural ring. b. A cremasteric branch is furnished to the coverings of the cord Cremas- as before mentioned. c. Muscular branches are s^iven from the outer side of the artery Muscu- . . lar to supply the abdominal wall, and to anastomose with the inter- costal arteries. Other branches enter the rectus. d. Some cutaneous offsets pierce the rectus, and ramify in the in- Cutane- tegument with the anterior cutaneous nerves. Tv^o veins are found with the epigastric artery; these Epigas- join finally into one, and open into the external iliac vein. veins. Peculiarities. — The position of this artery on the trunk of the Pecuiia- external iUac may be gradually shifted upwards, from the level of origfn."* Poupart's ligament, as far as two inches and a half above it; or the origin of the vessel may be below the ligament, it being trans- ferred to the superficial or the deep femoral artery. Union with branches. — Frequently the epigastric furnishes the May obturator artery to the pelvis; in such cases the small communi- obtura- cating offset, which is ordinarily given to join the obturator, may be supposed to be enlarged. Or the epigastric may arise from the obturator — this having its usual course. The circumflex iliac artery arises from the outer side of Circum- the external iliac, opposite the epigastriC;, and then courses outwards around the iliac crest, as the name expresses. Having pierced the tube of membrane that surrounds the ^^^^^^^^^ upper part of the femoral vessels, the artery lies at first be- men, low Poupart's ligament, but it passes next beneath the trans- versalis muscle to the middle of the crest of the hip bone. Here the vessel pierces the transversalis, and is continued and anasto-. backwards, between this and the internal oblique, to anas- moses ^ ' withilio- tomose with the ilio-lumbar branch of the internal iliac lumbar, artery. Its branches are muscular and anastomotic. jSTear the front of the iliac crest a small branch ascends between Muscu- the internal oblique and transversalis muscles, supplying them, and sets, anastomoses with the epigastric and lumbar arteries. As the vessel extends backwards it gives lateral offsets, which supply the neigh- I I 4