465 SURFACE-IVIARKING OF THE ABDOMEN. to the crest of the innominate bone, it will detect the firm andPou. band of Poupart's ligament, and sometimes a few inguinal gameut." Sflands. Eather above and to the outside of the pubes, the Abdo- minal opening of the external abdominal ring may be felt, and the rings, prominence of the spermatic cord descending through it to the testicle may be perceived. The internal abdominal ring is still to the outer side, though it cannot, usually, be recognised on the surface by the finger ; but its position may be ascertained by taking a point midway between the symphysis pubis and the crest of the innominate bone, and a little above Poupart's ligament. Attached to the front of the symphysis pubis in the male are the penis and the scrotum. Dissection.—The incisions requisite to raise the skin from f^^^^^^^ the sides and front of the belly are the following : —One cut is to extend outwards over the side of the chest from the ensiform cartilage to about midway between the sternum and the spine, if this has not been already made by the dis- sector of the upper limb. A second incision is to be begun in the middle line midway between the umbilicus and the pubes, and to be carried outwards to the iliac crest, and along the crest till it ends opposite the first cut; lastly, the hinder extremities of those two incisions are to be connected along the side of the chest and the belly. The piece of skin thus marked out is to be raised towards the middle line, and the cutaneous vessels and nerves are to be sought in the fat at the undermentioned spots : — Alonsr the side of the abdomen are the lateral cutaneous Position ° , . ofcuta- nerves, five or six in number, which are in a line with the "eous nerves, corresponding nerves of the thorax; they give offsets back- wards, and are then directed forwards with small cutaneous on the arteries. On the iliac crest, near the front, is the branch from the last dorsal nerve; and still farther back on the crest, is the cutaneous branch of the ilio-hypogastric nerve. Near the middle line the small anterior cutaneous nerves front will be found; these are uncertain in number and size, and are directed outwards in the integuments. The piece of skin that covers the lower part of the abdo- J-^^l^:^^ men or the ffroin is next to be thrown downwards, on both from the . , . groin. Sides, by means of an incision along the middle line to the root of the penis. After its reflection, the cutaneous vessels H H