639 STRUCTURE OF THE UTERUS. the exterior is the peritoneum, and liniug the interior is a thin mucous membrane. The muscular fibres can be demonstrated at the full period There are three of gestation to form three strata in the wall of the uterus, strata viz. external, internal, and middle. The external layer con- external, tains fibres which are mostly transverse; but at the fundus and at the sides they are oblique, and there they are more marked than along the middle of the organ. Externally the fibres converge towards the broad ligament; some are in- serted into that membrane; whilst others are prolonged on the Fallopian tube, the round ligament, and the ligament of the ovary. The internal fibres describe circles around the internal, openings of the Fallopian tubes, and spread from these till they meet at the middle line of the uterus. At the neck they become transverse in direction. The middle or inter- and . . T ^ middle. venmg set oi fibres are more indistinct than the otners, and have a less determinate direction. The mucous lining is continued into the vaccina at one Mucous , ^ lining is end of the uterus, and into the Fallopian tubes at the other. In the interior of the uterus it is thin, smooth, and adherent, but without papillse. Like the mucous membrane of the intestine, it possesses tubular glands^ which may be either ^^y^^^ straight and simple, or may be twisted or branched; the aper- glands, tures of these are scattered over the surface. In the cervix Fouicies in the uteri, between the rugee, mucous follicles and glands are col- neck, lected, and near the outer opening are filiform papillae. The epithelial covering of the mucous membrane is co- Epithe- lumnar and ciliated as low as the middle of the cavity of the neck, but laminar beyond that point. The bloodvessels of the uterus are large and tortuous; and the Vessels veins occupy canals in the uterine substance, in which they com- large, municate freely together. The arteries are furnished from the Arteries; uterine and ovarian branches; the veins correspond with the arteries veins; in name and number. The nerves are derived from the sympa- nerves, tbetic, and are very small in proportion to the size of the uterus: they are not enlarged in pregnancy.—Beck.* Round ligament of the uterus. — This firm cord supports Round the uterus, and is contained partly in the broad ligament , ends in and partly in the inguinal canal (p. 482.). It is about four ^ ° " or five inches in length, and is attached to the upper part of * See a Paper in the Philosophical Transactions for 1846.