DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 206 some continu- ous with cupied by the inner transverse fibres that cross from the one half to the other of the medulla. Gray Gray matter of medulla oblongata, — In the medulla 'ob- matter, j^j^gg^^g^ there is the continuation of the gray matter in the two interior of the spinal cord, and there are also some special deposits. Cross sections would be required to see com- pletely its arrangement. In the lower part of the medulla the gray substance has the same arrangement as lower down in the cord, viz. a central trans- cord verse part with a crescentic piece on each side, but it gradually loses that regular arrangement above, and becomes blended with the white substance. Thus the part corresponding to the central or transverse commissure of the cord is laid bare behind, in the fourth ventricle, in consequence of the restiform bodies being re- moved from the middle line ; there it forms a stratum for the floor of that space and is continued chiefly amongst the fibres of the lateral tracts. The crescentic half of the gray matter of the cord, more especially its hinder part, comes to occupy the restiform body, and then to be continued upwards amongst the fibres. In the restiform body it reaches the surface as a gray streak (gray tubercle of Eolando). Special The special deposits are at the fore and hinder parts : — Those sks°" behind are chiefly nerve nuclei, and will be noticed with the fourth behind, yentricle (p. 240.) ; those in front are in connection with the an- before. ^^^j^^ pyramids, or with fibres derived from these — Firstly, there is the thin wavy stratum, that forms the corpus dentatum in the olivary body (p. 204.). Next, outside this, and towards its upper and outer end, is another small collection (Olivennebenkern, StiL), which appears as a flattened yellow streak, and has the same struc- ture as the dark stratum of the olivary body. Lastly, Stilling de- scribes one collection in the anterior pyramid, near the olivary body; and another, external to the nucleus by the side of the olivary body, in the fibres that are continued from the pyramid around the olivary body. PONS VAROLII. Pons. The PONS, or annular protuberance (pons Varolii, no- dus encephali), is situate above the medulla oblongata, and position, between the hemispheres of the cerebellum. In its natural position in the skull it fills the hollow in front of the tento- form TiVim cerebelH. It is nearly of a square shape, though it is rather widest from side to side, and measures two inches in surfaces the last direction. The anterior surface is grooved along