DISSECTION OF THE FOREAHM. 322 surface to the bone, but in the forearm the muscle is flattened over the others, and its edges have an opposite direction, Is super- viz. from before backwards. Near its insertion the supi- ficial, ^ fnd nator is covered by two extensors of the thumb. Along its limits ^ , ^ hollow inner border, below the elbow, is the radial artery ; and in front ' . . of the above the ioint, it is in contact with the brachialis anticus. elbow. o 7 ^ . Beneath this muscle are found the extensors of the wrist, the radial nerve, and the radius. Exten- The EXTENSOR CARPI RADiALis LONGiOR ariscs from the ]ongus^^ lower third of the outer condyloid ridge of the humerus, and as"ong^ from the front of the contiguous intermuscular septum, preced- The musclc dcsccuds on the short radial extensor ; and its tendon passes beneath the extensors of the thumb, and inser- throu2:h the annular ligament, to be inserted into the base of tion. ^ ^ ' the metacarpal bone of the index finger. Along its outer border is the radial nerve. Exten- The EXTENSOR CARPI RADIALIS BREViOR is attached to the bTevir^^ orbicular ligament of the radius; and to the outer condyle of tained in the humcrus, by a tendon common to it and the three foUow- arm. ing musclcs, viz. the common extensor of the fingers, the extensor of the little finger, and the ulnar extensor of the wrist: it also takes origin from aponeuroses on its under and inner sides. The tendon of the muscle is closely con- nected with the preceding, and after passing with it through Inser- the samo compartment of the annular ligament, is inserted into me- into the base of the metacarpal bone of the middle fino^er. ta.carpa.1 bone. Concealed by the two preceding muscles, this extensor rests on the radius and on some of the muscles attached to it, Has a that is to Say, on the supinator brevis, and the pronator teres, origin Aloug the inner side is the common extensor of the fingers; three and the extensors of the thumb come out between the two. follow- ing Both the radial extensors of the carpus have usually a bursa at their insertion. Common The EXTENSOR COMMUNIS DiGiTORUM is siuffle at its Origin, extensor . . . . « p muscle, but is divided inferiorly into four tendons. It arises from the^fore- the common tendon, from aponeurotic septa between it and the muscles around, and from the aponeurosis of the limb. Near the lower part of the forearm the muscle ends in three tendons, which pass through a compartment of the annular ligament with the indicator muscle. Escaping from the ligament, the most internal tendon divides into two, and all arm.