STRUCTURE OF THE STOMACH. 531 M M 2 Extremities, — The left end or tuberosity (fundus ventri- Left end culi) is the largest part of the stomach, and projects about three inches to the left of the opening of the oesophagus. The right or pyloric end is much smaller than the other, is and cylindrical, and forms the apex of the cone, to which the stomach is likened. Openings. —The left opening (cardiac), which communi- cardiac cates with the oesophagus, is at the highest part of the stomach, and is funnel-shaped towards the cavity of the organ. The right or inferior orifice (pylorus) opens into ^^^^p'' the duodenum, and is guarded internally by a valve : at the ?pen- same spot the stomach is slightly constricted externally, ]as°t has where a firm circular ring may be felt. ^ ^^^^^* Surfaces. — The surfaces are somewhat flattened when Surfaces the stomach is empty, but rounded when it is distended, o^flat!^ The parts in contact with the sides have been referred to (p. 502.). Borders. — The upper border, or small curve of the Upper stomach, is concave towards the left opening, but convex at the opposite end ; and the lower border, or large curve, is lower convex, except near the right end where it is concave: — the concavity of the one border corresponds with the con- differ- vexity of the other. An arterial arch and a fold of perito- outline, neum (omentum) extend along each border. Structure. — In the wall of the stomach are four layers Four or coats, viz. a serous, a muscular, a fibrous, and a mucous; are in- together with vessels, nerves, and lymphatics. mach. 1. Serous coat. — The peritoneum gives a covering to the The se- stomach, and is adherent to the surface except at the margins, u thin where an interval exists corresponding with the attachment herent" of the small and the large omentum. In this space are con- tained the vessels, nerves, and lymphatics of the stomach. During distension of the stomach, the space above mentioned is much diminished. 2. The muscular coat will be laid bare by the removal of The muscu- the serous coverino^. It consists of three sets of muscular i r coat ^ IS made fibres, viz. longitudinal, circular, and oblique, which lie from up of without inwards in the order mentioned: the fibres are in- voluntary or non-striated. a. The longitudinal fibres are derived from those of the ^^^^^l^' oesophagus; they spread over the surfaces, without entirely