752 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. a slightly hollowed part between. The articular surface on the external condyle extends highest and is the widest. Each condyloid half of the bone has the following differ- ences in its surface : altogether in front is a trochlea or pulley-like surface formed by both ; at the posterior part each is rounded and convex, but the inner one most so; whilst the intervening part of each is flattened, tibia. On the head of the tibia are two articular surfaces, but the inner one is deepest, and has the greatest extent, and pa The surfacc of the patella is divided into two parts, but unequally, by a vertical ridge, so that the outer, which cor- responds with the wider face on the externar condyle of the femur, is the largest in size. Articu- Peroneo-tibial ARTICULATIONS. — The tibia and fibula of t?bia are united by ligamentous bands at the ends, where they and fibu- ^q^^]^^ ^^^^ intcrosscous ligament between the shafts of the bones. The surfaces in contact are tipped with car- tilage, and provided with a synovial membrane. Dissec- Dissection, — The muscles are to be taken away from the thTiiga- front and the back of the interosseous ligament; and the loose tissue is to be removed from a small band in front of, and behind both the upper and lower articulations between the tibia and fibula. After the examination of the ankle joint, a strong interosseous ligament may be seen at the lower part of the leg by forcibly tearing the bones from each other. Upper «• The upper articulation, like the lower, is almost im- S^i"^^" movable, and therefore the structures between the ends of the bones are slight and simple. Only two small bands, anterior and posterior, are present here, by an- The anterior ligament extends before the joint from the ^""^'^ outer tuberosity of the tibia, to the head of the fibula. The and pos- postcrior ligament, thinner than the anterior, is attached to hlni. corresponding parts of the bones behind the joint, and is covered by the tendon of the popliteus muscle. A synovial membrane lines the articulation, and projects upwards so as to touch that of the knee joint. Lower ^* lowcr articulation possesses an anterior and a pos- tion hS terior band, together with an inferior ligament between the lower ends of the bones, anterior. The anterior ligament reaches obliquely from the lower