MUSCLES OF THE PERINEUM. 453 rate branch, and beneath the transversalis is the offset that supplies the other two muscles and the urethra. Muscles. — Superficial to the triangular ligament, in the ^J^f^^^ anterior half of the peringeal space, are three muscles, viz. ^^PJ^^^^ the erector penis, the accelerator urinae, and the transver- lar Uga. f ment. salis perinsei. Other muscles of the urethra are between the layers of the triangular ligament and will be subse- quently seen. Central point of the perinceum, — Between the urethra Central and the rectum is a white fibrous spot, to which this term has been applied. It occupies the middle line, being, as the name expresses, nearly in the centre of the peringeum: in it where ^ ^ muscles most of the muscles acting on the rectum and the urethra join- are united; and it serves as a common point of support to the space. The ERECTOR PENIS is the most external of the three Erector muscles, and is narrower at each end than in the middle. It covers the crus penis, and its fibres arise from the inner origin, surface of the ischial tuberosity farther back than the at- tachment of the crus of the penis, and from the bone on each side of the crus.. Superiorly the muscle ends in an aponeu- rosis, and is inserted into the inner and outer surfaces of the inser- crus penis. The muscle rests on the crus of the penis and the bone. The ACCELERATOR URiN-^ musclc lics on the urethra along Acceie- the middle line of the perinaeum. The muscles of opposite urins. sides join through the interposition of a median tendon. Each muscle is attached to the common tendon along the origin middle line, and to the central point of the perinseum. The dieTne. fibres are directed outwards, curving around the convexity of the urethra, and give rise to a thin muscle, which has the following insertion: — The most posterior fibres are lost on inser- the anterior surface of the triangular ligament. The ante- three' rior fibres, which are the longest and best marked, turn ^''^^'** round the penis to be inserted on its outer aspect anterior to the erector ; and, according to Kobelt *, they send a ten- dinous expansion over the dorsal vessels of the penis. Whilst the middle or intervening fibres turn round the urethra, passing between the spongy and cavernous bodies of the * Die Mdnnlichen und Weiblichen WoUust-Organe, von G. L. Kobelt, 1844. GG 3