480 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. joined in a similar manner witli that behind, is the aponeu- its ex- rosis of the transversalis. The sheath is deficient behind, both above and below. Above, the muscle rests on the ribs, without the intervention of the sheath which is fixed to the margin of the thorax. Below, midway between the umbilicus and the pubes, the internal oblique ceases to incase the rectus, and passes altogether in front of it with the other aponeu- Defi- roses ; at the spot where the sheath is wanting inferiorly ferioriy. is a whitc, and sometimes well-defined margin (the fold of Douglas), when the outer edge of the muscle is raised. Where the sheath is deficient, the rectus is in contact with the fascia transversalis. Lines The UfiecB transverscB are the tendinous intersections that vers£e cross the surface of the rectus. There are usually three of are three thcsc liucs at the following spots: one is opposite the umbi- sima- licus, another at the ensiform cartilage, and the third mid- way between the other two. If there is a greater number, the additional one will be below the umbilicus. These markings seldom extend the whole breadth or depth of the muscular fibres, more particularly above and below. Linea Linea semilunaris, — This line which was before alluded ]um!ris to with the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, is at edge corresponds with the outer edge of the rectus, and reaches tus!^^" from the eighth rib to the outer part of the pubic crest of the hip bone : it marks above the line of division of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique muscle, pyrami- The PTRAMiDALis MUSCLE is triangular in form, and is muscle, placed in front of the rectus near the pelvis. The muscle Attach, arises by its base from the front of the pubes, and is pubes inserted by tendon into the linea alba, about midway be- a'lba/"^^ tween the umbilicus and the pubes. This small muscle is often absent. i Nerves Nerves.—Between the internal oblique and transversalis \ m wall 1 1 • ' ofab- muscles are the intercostal nerves ; and near the pelvis are i domen. ^ ^ n the two branches of the lumbar plexus. Some arteries ac- | company the intercostal nerves, but they will be referred to \ with the vessels of the abdominal wall (p. 486.). I Inter- The lower six intercostal nerves fp. 395.) enter the nerves Wall of the abdomeii at the anterior part of the intercostal are be- spaccs. Pkccd bctweeii the two dccpcst lateral musclcs, the obfique nerves are directed forwards to the edge of the rectus, and j then through this muscle to the surface along the front of