79 COMMON CAROTID ARTERY. 3. Muscular hranches are furnished to the recti muscles; these Branch- arise from the loop between the first two nerves, and from the recu trunks of the other nerves close to the intervertebral foramina. 4. Some connecting hranches pass from the loop between the first Branch- two nerves to the sympathetic, and to the cranial nerves near the other base of the skull: these will be afterwards described. nerves. B. External or Posterior Series.—1. Muscular branches are Branch- given from the second nerve to the sterno-mastoideus; from the muscles, third nerve to the levator anguli scapulae; and from the third and fourth nerves to the trapezius. Further, some small branches supply the substance of the middle scalenus. 2. Connecting hranches vnth the spinal accessory nerve.—-TheBranch- communications between this cranial and the spinal nerves are nu- ing spi- merous. First, in the sterno-mastoid muscle; next, in the postei 'lOr cessory. triangular space ; and, lastly, beneath the trapezius. The union with those branches that are distributed to the trapezius has the appearance of a plexus. The COMMON CAROTID ARTERY is the leading vessel for the Common supply of blood to the neck and bead, and is remarkable in artery, not furnishing collateral branches. The origin of the vessel is different on opposite sides of the body, being on the right, at the lower part of the neck, and on the left side, in the thorax. The vessel of the right side commences opposite the origin, sterno-clavicular articulation at the bifurcation of the inno- minate artery, and ends at the upper border of the thyroid cartilage by dividing into the two trunks before seen, viz., external and internal carotid. The course of the artery is course, along the side of the trachea and larynx, gradually diverg- ing from the vessel on the opposite side in consequence of the increasing size of the larynx; and its position will be situa- marked by a line from the sterno-clavicular articulation to a point midway between the angle of the jaw and the mastoid process. Contained in a sheath of cervical fascia, with the internal jugular vein to the outside, and the pneumo- gastric nerve between the two, the carotid artery has the following connections with the surrounding parts:—As high Tarts co- as the cricoid cartilage the vessel is deeply placed, and is concealed by the common coverings of the skin, platysma and fasciae, and by the muscles at the lower part of the neck, viz., sterno-mastoid (sternal origin), sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid.