STRUCTURE OF THE TESTIS. 565 granular epithelium, with polygonal cells, and on the ex- terior is a plexus of bloodvessels. Names from the arrangement of the tubes. — The names Tubes of the several parts of the testis are derived from the dis- their° position of the seminal tubes in the interior. Thus, where the tubules are collected into separate masses, they form the lobes of the testis ; as they enter the fibrous mediastinum they become straight and are named tubuli recti; where they communicate in the mediastinum, they produce the rete testis ; and, lastly, as they leave the upper part of the gland, and become convoluted, they are called coni vasculosi, or vasa eiferentia. The lobes of the testis are formed, as above explained, by They bundles of the seminiferal tubes, and are situate in the inter- lobes, vals between the processes sent inwards from the tunica albuginea. The number of these is differently stated: ac- Number cording to one authority (Berres) they are 250: but according "^^^'^^^» to another (Krause), 400 or more. They are conical in form, form, with the base of each turned to the circumference, and the apex to the mediastinum testis. Each is made up of one, Tubes in two, or more tortuous seminal tubules; and the tubes in one arrange- lobe are sometimes united with those in the neighbouring lobes. Towards the apex of each lobe the tubules become less bent, and are united together ; and the tubuli of the several lobes are further joined at the same spot into larger canals that form the tubuli recti. Tubuli recti.— The seminal tubes that issue from the Tubes several lobes unite together, becoming larger in size and come^^" straighter in direction, and are named tubuli recti or vasa (tubui!^ recta: they are about twenty in number, and pierce the ^^^^^^' fibrous mediastinum, entering into its interior. Rete testis. — In the substance of the mediastinum the tubes lose their former name, and are directed to the upper end of the testis. They are situate in the anterior part of after- that fibrous process, in front of the bloodvessels, and freely join to- communicate, so as to form a network, the rete testis. frete Vasa efferentia. — About twelve or twenty seminal tubes issue from the top of the rete testis, and leave the upper part of the testicle as the vasa efferentia. These are larger and then leave the than the tubes of which they are the continuation, and end giand , (vasa m tJae common excretory duct. Though straight at first efferen. o o 3