381 PHYSICAL CHARACTERS OF THE LUNG. but flat, and muscular and membranous behind. Their position behind the other pulmonary vessels has been de- scribed at page 348., but the characters of each are now to be noticed. The W^A^ branch is about an inch in length, and is larger The than the left; it passes outwards on a level with the fourth ditfers from the dorsal vertebra, and is placed above the right pulmonary left ^ artery: the vena azvffos arches over it. The left branch in 1 .11 T • T 1 1 1. 1 1 length, is about two inches long, it is directed obliquely down- wards through the arch of the aorta, and joins the root of the left lung, at a spot a vertebra lower than on the oppo- site side. In this course the tube lies on the oesophagus course, and con- and the thoracic duct, and on the descending aorta; it nections. is at first below the level of the corresponding pulmonary artery. Dissection, — The luners are next to be removed from the Remove . the body in order that their physical characters and the structure lungs to 11 1 .11 1 1 1 examine may be learnt: they will be separate as soon as the vessels them, of the root are cut through. Next, the remains of the heart and pericardium are to be taken away. To effect their re- moval the inferior cava is to be divided, and the pericardium to be detached from the surface of the diaphragm; and in doing this, some care should be taken by the dissector not to injure the parts contained in the interpleural space in front of the spine. Physical Characters of the Lung. — The surface of surface the lung is smooth and shining, in consequence of its pleural smooth; investment. Through the serous covering the mass of the is mark- lung may be seen to be divided by septa, and by dark spots lobuies or sometimes lines, into small irregularly-sized pieces or lobules. On looking closely at the pulmonary substance, especially at a thin margin, the texture will be perceived to and be spongy, or composed of minute cells. cSL The tint of the lung varies with age. In infancy the colour colour is a pale red; but in the adult the texture becomes with" grayish in colour, and presents here and there dark gray spots or lines, whose colour deepens with increasing age, and becomes even black in old people. From the position Acoiden- of the body after death, the colour of the posterior border lour. may be of a bluish black shade. To the touch the lung is soft and yielding, and on a sec- consist-