402 DISSECTION OP THE THOKAX. the parts of the letter X. This disposition of the fibres will be best seen on the discs between the lumbar vertebrae; and it may be rendered evident by dissecting layer after layer. Inner The Central portion of the disc is very soft and elastic, and projects when two vertebrae and the interposed mass without are sawn through. It has a yellowish colour, and is deficient marked , • n . i . strata; in the stratiiorm arrangement so conspicuous at the circum- ference. Towards the confines of the two portions of the con-^ intervertebral substance, there is still an alternating arrange- tion. ment of fibrous tissue and fibro-cartilage, though the former is gradually diminishing; but towards the centre a loose fibro-cartilaginous material preponderates, and amongst it are spaces containing much fluid. Carti- The surfaces of the vertebrae in contact with the discs, vel-ing' have a cartilaginous covering. This may be seen by cutting bones. intervertebral substance from the bone. Over the centre of the osseous surface it forms a continuous layer, but towards the circumference it consists of separate pieces. Several B. Ligaments of the processes of the vertehrce, — The ments of scvcral proccsscs of the vertebrae have special uniting liga- tebrai mcuts I — thus the articular processes are joined by a cap - cesses, sular ligament and a synovial membrane ; the neural arches are connected by yellow ligaments; the spinous processes have one band along the tip and another between their borders; and the transverse processes are provided with intervening bands of fibres. To the Ligaments of the articular processes. — Between the far)a"e articulatiug processes there is a moveable joint. The bones and^sac. covercd with cartilage, and are surrounded by a loose capsular ligament of scattered fibres enclosing a synovial membrane. In the cervical region of the spine the capsular ligaments are larger and looser than in the dorsal or lumbar part. Those b. Ligaments of the arches, — The ligamenta subflava, so arches named from their colour, are situate between the neural to each archcs of the vertebrae, and close the spinal canal behind, space, interval between the arches of two contiguous verte- brae are two somewhat square ligaments, one for each half of the arch, which approach one another along the middle Attach- line. Each consists of elastic yellow tissue, and is attached ments. above to the inner surface of the one arch, but below to the