CONNECTIONS OF THE INTESTINE. 503 K K 4 and to turn upwards that surface which is directed forwards at other times. The position and the connections of the stomach may be ^^^Jf/^- also changed by an alteration in the size of any of the sur- Pp^^^^^n rounding organs, or by accumulation of fluid in the chest, or ease, in the belly. The stomach may be likewise dragged down by the great omentum entering a hernial sac, or it may be forced down towards the pelvis by the pressure of tight stays. In all these different changes in its position, the right end moves more than the left, because it is attached only by pe- ritoneum to the parts around. The small intestine. — The smaller part of the intestinal smaii tube (intestinum tenue) reaches from the stomach to the right iliac region, where it ends in the large intestine. It situation is divided into three parts, duodenum (twelve fingers intes- sions!^^^' tine), jejunum, and ileum; of the last two, one receives its name from its empty condition, and the other from its nu- merous coils. The duodenum cannot be satisfactorily seen at present, Duode- and it will be examined afterwards. """^^ The jejunum and ileum begin on the left side of the Jejunum second lumbar vertebra, without any distinct mark of sepa- ileum, ration from the duodenum. Two-fifths of the intestine are given to the jejunum, and the remaining three-fifths to the ileum. This part of the intestinal tube forms many convo- situa. lutions in the umbilical, hypogastric, lumbar, and iliac re- gions of the abdomen; and it descends oftentimes in the female into the cavity of the pelvis. In front of the convo- lutions is the great omentum; and posteriorly the small in- connec- testine (beyond the duodenum) is fixed to the spine by a fold of peritoneum named the mesentery, which contains the vessels and nerves. Surrounding the jejunum and ileum is the large intestine or colon ; but on the left side of the body the large is concealed by the small intestine. The large intestine, — The large gut or the colon is sac- Large culated, and is less moveable than the small intestine. It how dis. begins in the right iliac region in a dilated part or head ed. (caput caecum coli), and ascends to the liver through the right iliac, lumbar, and hypochondriac regions. Then cross- course . ing the abdomen below the stomach, it reaches the left hypo- chondriac region ; and it lies in this transverse part of its