317 RADIAL ARTERY AND BRANCHES. abductor muscle by the deep branches of the ulnar artery p^ece- and nerve. The ADDUCTOR vel OPPONENS MINIMI DiGiTi resombles the oppo- opponens pollicis in being attached to all the length of the metacarpal bone. Its origin is from the process of the unci- form bone, and from the lower part of the annular ligament: its insertion is fixed into the ulnar margin of the metacarpal is fixed ^ •'■to me- bone of the little finger. This is partly overlaid by the ^^^^^"^^^ preceding muscles ; and beneath it the deep branches of the ulnar artery and nerve pass. Dissection. — The radial artery comes into the palm of the Dissec- hand between the first two metacarpal bones ; and to lay it d'eep"^ bare, it will be requisite to detach the inner head of the ^'''^^"^ flexor brevis pollicis at the origin. The deep palmar arch, and the branch of the ulnar nerve that accompanies it, together with their offsets, are to be dissected out. A fascia, inter- which covers the interossei muscles, is to be removed, when muscles, the dissector has observed its connection with the transverse ligament uniting the heads of the metacarpal bones. Eadial Artery In the Hand.— The radial artery enters Radial the palm of the hand at the first interosseous space, between hand^ the heads of the abductor indicis muscle: and after fur- nishing one branch to the thumb, and another to the index finger, turns across the hand towards the ulnar side, and thus forms the deep palmar arch. The deep palmar arch extends from the interosseous forms space to the base of the metacarpal bone of the little finger, arch where it joins the communicating branch (profunda) of the ulnar artery. Its convexity, which is but slight, is directed which forwards, and its position is more posterior, or nearer the carpar"^ carpal bones, than that of the superficial arch. The arch has a deep position in the hand, and lies on the metacarpal bones and the interossei muscles ; it is covered by the long and be- flexor tendons, and in part by the inner head of the flexor anmus. brevis pollicis. The branches of the deep palmar arch are Brlnch- the following : — Vxch^^'^ a. Recurrent branches pass from the concavity of the arch to the Recur- front of the carpus ; these supply the bones, and anastomose with the other carpal arteries. Z>. Three perforating arteries pierce the Perfo- interossei muscles, and communicate with the interosseous arteries on the back of the hand. c. Usually there are three palmar inter- inter-