710 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. on back the knee. They extend from the pelvis to the bones of the leg, and are named hamstrings from their cord-like appear- ance on the sides of the ham: they are three in number, situa- yi^;. biceps, semitendinosus, and semimembranosus; the first of these lies on the outer, and the others on the inner side of the popliteal space. Biceps The BICEPS has two heads of origin, lonff and short, which arises by ^7 ? o 7 a long are attached to the pelvis and the femur. The long head arises from an impression on the back of the ischial tubero- sity, in common with the semitendinosus muscle; the short short head is fixed to the femur below the gluteus maximus, head: yiz, to the Hnca aspera, to nearly the whole of the line leading inferiorly to the outer condyle, and to the external intermuscular septum. The fibres from these sources are collected together to form the belly of the muscle, and end ed\"nto^'" i^^'Sriorly in a tendon, which is inserted into the head of lalnd"" fibula by two processes that embrace the external lateral tibia. ligament, and slightly into the head of the tibia. The muscle is superficial, except at the origin, where it is covered by Sons of gluteus ; and it rests on the upper part of the semimem- branosus, on the srreat sciatic nerve, and on the adductor muscle. ^ ^ maofnus muscle. On the inner side is the semitendinosus o muscle as far as the ham. Its tendon gives ofi*sets to the deep fascia of the limb. Semi- The SEMITENDINOSUS is a slcudcr muscle, and receives its tendi- t • p i i • p nosus is name from its appearance. It arises from the tuberosity of attached p , . to pelvis the hip bone with the long head of the biceps, and by fleshy tibia. fibres from the tendon of that muscle; and inferiorly it is in- serted into the inner surface of the tibia, close below the gracilis, and for about the same distance. This muscle, like the biceps, is partly covered by the gluteus maximus; it rests on the semimembranosus, and on the internal lateral ligament of the knee joint. A tendinous intersection is to sur- be observed about its middle. The outer border is in con- rounding . -1 ^ -i • n i ti parts in tact With the Diccps as lar as the popliteal space. As the contact ^ p , . . . . . with it. tendon turns lorwards to its insertion, an expansion is con- tinued from it to the fascia of the leg. The tendon and that of the gracilis are attached below the level of the tubercle of the tibia, and are separated from the tendon of the sarto- rius by the bursa before referred to (p. 674.). Semi. The SEMIMEMBRANOSUS muscle is tendinous at both ends