CAVITIES OF THE HEART. 355 the ventricles ; and one, larger than the rest, lies over the septum ventriculorum: they enter the coronary sinus by separate valved openings. c. Smallest cardiac,—A third set of veins (veins of The- smallest • . \T«i 1 PIT I. cardiac. besius, venaB minimse) lie in the substance ot the heart: these are noticed in the description of the right auricle. Cardiac nerves,— The nerves for the supply of the heart cardiae ^ *^ nerves. are derived from a large plexus (cardiac) around the roots of the aorta and the pulmonary artery. Part of this plexus is superficial to the pulmonary artery, and part beneath it; and from each an offset is sent with a coronary artery. Only the superficial part can be now seen. The small superficial cardiac plexus is placed by the side of the Super- . ductus arteriosus, and below the arch of the aorta. The nerves piexus that join it are the left superficial cardiac nerve of the sympa- thetic, the small (cervical) cardiac branch of the left vagus (p. 117.), and a considerable bundle of nerves that comes forwards to it from the deep cardiac plexus. A small ganglionic mass is some- times seen in the plexus. Inferiorly the plexus ends in nerves to ends in the heart, that accompany the right coronary artery. A few fila- coro- ments pass on the left division of the pulmonary artery to the front of the root of the lung of the same side. a. The anterior or right coronary plexus passes downwards from Anterior the plexus above described, to reach the right coronary artery, and SfTeart. receives near the heart a communicating offset from the right half of the deep cardiac plexus. h. The posterior or left plexus is derived, as will be subsequently Poste- seen, from the deep cardiac plexus, and accompanies the left coro- plexus. nary artery to the heart. On the heart the nerves at first surround the arteries, but they Accom- soon leave the vessels, and becoming smaller by subdivision, are arteries? lost in the muscular substance of the ventricles. On and in the substance of the heart the nerves are marked by small ganglia. The CAVITIES OF THE HEART may be examined in the Four order in which the current of the blood passes through them, of the viz., first right auricle and ventricle, and afterwards left auricle and ventricle. Dissection. — In the examination of its cavities the heart Dissec. is not to be removed from the body. To open the right open auricle, an incision may be made in it, near the free border, auricle, and from the superior cava nearly to the inferior cava; from the centre of that incision the knife is to be carried across A A 2