540 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Defini- The C^CUM, or the head of the colon (caput caecum coh\ tion of . ^ / nil . . I • 1 • . caecum; is the rouuded part oi the large intestine which projects, m the form of a pouch, below the junction of the ileum with it. length measures about two inches and a half in len2:th, and, and ^ ' width; though gradually narrowing inferiorly, the caecum is the iieum^^ widest part of the colon,—hence the name caput coli. At pendlx' inner side it is joined by the small intestine ; and still lower there is a small worm-like projection—the vermiform appendix. vermi- Appendix vermiformis.— This little convoluted projection pendix ; is attached to the lower and posterior part of the caecum, of mentwhich it was the direct continuation at one period in the dimen- growth of the embryo. From three to six inches in length, sions, ^1^^ appendix is rather larger than a goose-quill, and is con- nected to the inner part of the caecum by a fold of perito- jt is neum. It is hollow, and has an aperture of communication hollow, ^ith the intestine. In structure it resembles the rest of the colon. Dry the Dissectiou. — To study the interior of the CEecum, and the csecura, . and open valvc betwccn it and the small intestine, the specimen now the under examination should be dried. After the caecum has valves. been dried the following cuts should be made into it: — One oval piece is to be taken from the ileum near its termination; another from the side of the caecum, opposite the entrance of the small intestine ; and lastly the end of the colon in- cluded in the ligature is to be cut off. Situation Ileo-ccBcal valve.— On looking into the intestine, the ileo- vaive; caecal valve will be seen at the entrance of the ileum into two the caecum. It is composed of two pieces, each with a dif- formit; fcrcnt inclination, which project into the interior of the caecum, and bound a narrow, nearly transverse aperture of communication between the two differently-sized parts of one iieo- the alimentary canal. The upper piece of the valve (ileo- colic) projects vertically into the large intestine, opposite the other the junction of the ileum with the colon : and the lower cfficai. piece (ileo-caecal), which is the larger of the two, has a hori- These zontal direction between the ileum and the csecum. At each ed\\°th"e extremity of the opening the pieces of the valve are blended together, and the resulting folds extend transversely for and form somc distaucc Oil the intestine, forming the frcena or reti- frsena. ^ ° *^ ^ Opening nacula of the valve. The size of the opening in the valve