702 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. femur, above the attachment of the great adductor to the parts same line. By one surface it is in contact with the sciatic above and be. vcsscls and ncrvcs and the gluteus ; and by the other surface neath it, ^ o ' j it rests on the obturator externus, the internal circumflex artery, and the small branches of both the nerve and artery and at that Supply it. Between its lower border and the adductor lower 1 i ./ border, maguus One of the terminal branches of the internal cir- cumflex artery issues. Between it and the small trochanter is a bursa, which is common also to the upper part of the adductor magnus. Dissect Dissection, — The quadratus and the sremelli muscles may circum- x o .a flex now be cut across, so that the obturator externus, the ending artery. / ? » of the internal circumflex artery, and the small nerve and artery to the same muscles, may be dissected out. Internal The internal circumflex branch of the profunda artery circum- 637,^ divides finally into two parts. One ascends beneath ^^^^^^ the quadratus, in this position of the body, to the pit of the troclianter, where it anastomoses with the gluteal artery, and ends in supplics the bouc. The other passes between the quadratus branch- and adductor magnus to the hamstring muscles, and commu- nicates likewise with the sciatic artery. Obtura. The OBTURATOR EXTERNUS has been dissected at its orisrin tor ex-' ternus in the front of the thigh (p. 690.). In the part of its course now laid bare, the muscle winds backwards below the hip is insert, ioint, and ascends from that position to be inserted into the ed into ^ ^ a the tro- pit at the root of the orreat trochanter. On the back of the chanter, ^ , ^ . connec P^l'^is obturator externus is covered by the quadratus, tions. except near the femur, where the upper border is in contact with the inferior gemellus, sacro- The SACRO-SCIATIC LIGAMENTS pass from the innominate liga- bone to the sacrum and the coccyx ; they are two in number, and are named large and small, ment?" '^^^ large or 'posterior ligament is attached internally to la^rge^ the posterior lower iliac spine, and to the side of the sacrum o"^- and coccyx ; and externally it is inserted into an impression Form; on the inner and anterior part of the ischial tuberosity. It is wide next the sacrum, but is contracted towards the gi^gg a middle, and is expanded again at the tuberosity; from its gation." outer attachment it sends upwards a prolongation along the pubic arch. On the cutaneous surface are the branches of