EXTRINSIC LINGUAL MUSCLES. 159 by having only their termination in the tongue; and the Two latter, by having both origin and insertion within the organ, — that is to say springing from one part, and ending at another. A. The extrinsic muscles are the following, viz., palato Extrin- and stylo-glossus, hyo and genio-hyo-glossus, and pharyngeo- number, glossus. Only the lingual endings of these are now to be noticed, for the origin from the bones around have been before made out. Dissection,—After the tongue has been firmly fastened on Dissec- its left side, the extrinsic muscles may be dissected on the right half. Three of these muscles, viz., palato, stylo, and palato- ] hyo-glossus, come together to the side of the tongue, at the stj^io- junction of the middle and posterior third; and, to follow ^^°^^"®* their radiating fibres forwards, it will be necessary to remove the mucous membrane from the dorsum and the under sur- face, between the tip and the point at which they come in contact with the border. On the dorsum of the tongue a thin muscular stratum, that is superficial to these fibres, is to be taken away with the mucous membrane ; and beneath the tip, a junction between the stylo-glossus muscles of opposite sides is to be traced. Only the two parts of the hyo-glossus (basio and cerato- of hyo- glossus, p. 101.), that arise from the body and great wing of the hyoid bone, are referred to above. To lay bare its third part, or the chondro-glossus, the other two portions of the muscle must be cut through with the lingual vessels, and raised and shown entering the tongue. The origin of this small muscular slip, two to three lines in width, can now be seen close to the small cornu of the os hyoides, but it is con- cealed farther by some fibres of the genio-hyo-glossus that ascend to the upper constrictor ; and its radiation, near the upper surface of the tongue, will be prepared by taking the mucous membrane, and the thin underlying muscular stra- tum, from the remaining third of the dorsum. The part of the constrictor muscle that is attached to the or con- tongue, and the ending of the genio-hyo-glossus, come into muscle, view through the division of the hyo-glossus. The palato and stylo-glossus are partly combined at theircom- attachment to the lateral part of the tongue, and form, palato together with the following muscle, an expansion that covers sty?o-