STRUCTURE OF THE COLON. 541 depends upon the distension of the intestine; for when the in the cascum is enlarged, so as to stretch the frcena^ the margins of the opening are approximated, and may be made to touch. Each piece of the valve is formed by the circular muscular The . . *' valve a fibres of the intestinal tube, covered by mucous membrane; prolon- gation of as if the ileum was thrust obliquely through the wall of the caecum, after being deprived of its peritoneal coat and its gut. layer of longitudinal fibres. The arrangement above re- ferred to is easily seen, on a fresh specimen, by dividing the peritoneum and the longitudinal fibres, and then gently drawing out the ileum. The opening of the appendix into the caecum is placed Appen- below that of the ileum. A small fold of mucous membrane into^^^'^^ partly closes the aperture, and acts as a valve. Folds or ridges are directed transversely in the interior of f^\f^^ the gut, and correspond with the depressions on the outer sur- caecum; face between the sacculi. These eminences result from the how doubling of the wall of the intestine, and the largest enclose vessels. Structure of the Colon.—The coats of the large intes- Four tine are the same in number and kind as in the small gut, thJwaii viz. a serous, muscular, fibrous, and mucous: their relative gut!^^ position to one another is also the same. 1. Serous coat.—The peritoneum does not cover the large serous intestine throughout in the same degree. It covers the front differs of the caecum, and the front and sides of the ascending and the in- descending colon; but in neither does it reach commonly the posterior aspect (p. 510.). The transverse colon is incased like the stomach, and has an interval along both the anterior and the posterior border, at the attachments of the transverse meso-colon and the great omentum. 2. The muscular coat is formed by longitudinal and cir- Two cular fibres, as in the small intestine, but the former are fibres arranged in bands. a. The lonaitudinal set of fibres may be traced in the longitu- ^ ^ dinal in caecum as a thin layer over all the surface, but they are col- three . . . bands: lected for the most part into three longitudinal bands, each being about half an inch in width. On the vermiform ap- which pendix the longitudinal fibres form a uniform layer ; and spread 1 . -, n 11 Til o"ton they are continued thence along the caecum and colon to the appendix and rec- rectum, where they are diffused over the surface without tum;