DISSECTION OF THE EYE. 778 optic nerve (p. 49.). When the nerve becomes membrani- form the artery divides into four or five branches; these pierce the stratum of fibres, and end in a network of capil- laries amongst the nerve cells outside them, like the vessels in the gray substance of the encephalon, and without form- ing a separate layer. In animals a marginal vessel runs circularly round the ball at the anterior termination (ora serrata) of the retina. The larger branches of the artery keep clear of the axis of the eyeball, and only capillaries occupy the yellow spot. In the fetus a branch of the artery is distributed to the back of the lens. Outer b. The outer stratum or columnar layer of the retina special (Jacob's membrane) consists of two different elements — v^^^^-i Yodi^ and cones, which are arranged in a single stratum, and with their ends directed inwards and outwards. Rods. The rods are elongated solid particles, which are pointed at the inner end, and are the more numerous of the two Cones, kinds of bodies. The cones are shaped like a flask with a long neck, and have the larger end turned inwards : they do not project so far out as the rods. When viewed on the outer surface, the cones form larger isolated swellings amongst the ends of the rods, and at a deeper level. By their inner ends both bodies are joined to the fibres of Miiller. charac- In the frosh state both are clear and homogeneous, with a glistening appearance, but these characters are soon de- stroyed by water and other fluids. Granu- c. The granular layer consists of innumerable rounded or lajr^uyer. ^^g^^|gj^ bodics, collcctcd iuto two scts, with an intervening granules, fine molecular material. The intervening portion has a material Striated appcaraucc, from the passage of the fibres of Miiller between, through it. Fibres of The fibres of Miiller * pass vertically through the sub- stance of the retina from the bodies in the columnar layer, Position to the limiting membrane on the inner surface. They are tentf^" extremely fine threads, and are supposed to be connected with the bodies in the granular layer. Mem. The limiting membrane is a very delicate layer on the brane ^ . .... lining, inner surface of the retina, which is joined by the fibres of retina. ' ♦ See the Zeitschrift of Siebold and KolHker, 1851.