VOCAL CORDS OF THE LARYNX. 169 Its upper part is covered by the muscular slip before referred to (p. 166.). Dissection. — The mucous membrane should be removed pissec- on the right side from the two whitish bands of the vocal cords (thyro-arytaenoid ligaments), that bound the ventricle of the larynx above and below. Then the lateral crico- arytasnoid muscle, and any fibres that may remain of the thyro-arytaenoideus should be taken away. The ihyro-arytcenoid ligaments^ or the vocal cords, are Thyro- two bands on each side, which are extended from the angle nmdT of the thyroid to the arytaenoid cartilage,—one forming the ilfents. upper, the other the lower margin of the ventricle; they are about seven lines long in man, and two less in the woman. a. The inferior ligament (chorda vocalis) is a band of fine infen-ior elastic tissue, which is almost transverse in direction. At- cord tached in front to the angle of the thyroid cartilage, about half way down below the notch, the fibres of the ligament are directed backwards parallel to one another, and are in- serted into the anterior prominence at the base of the arytae- noid cartilage. Internally this band is covered only by thin has these mucous membrane, and projects towards its fellow into the tions. cavity of the larynx, the interval between it and the opposite one being the glottis; externally it is connected with the thyro-aryt£enoid muscle ; and inferiorly it is continuous with the crico-thyroid membrane. The edge that bounds the ventricle is straight and well defined, and vibrates to pro- duce sounds. h. The upper ligament (false vocal cord) is semilunar upper in form, and is much weaker than the preceding one. It is ^^s^™*^"^ fixed in front to the angle of the thyroid cartilage, near the attachment of the epiglottis; and behind to the rough outer surface of the arytaenoid cartilage. This ligament con- is a very tains chiefly fibrous tissue in its interior, which is con- band! tinuous with that in the arytseno-epiglottidean fold of mucous membrane. The mucous membrane of the larynx is derived from that Mucous investing the pharynx, and is prolonged to the lungs through brine, the trachea. When entering the larynx it is stretched be- tween the epiglottis and the tip of the arytaenoid cartilage, forming the arytaeno-epiglottidean fold on each side of the