LIGAMENTS OF THE HAND. 335 level of the others, and form a slight hollow for the reception of the outer part of the scaphoid bone. One synovial membrane serves for the articulation of all One sy. ^ , novial the carpal bones, except that of the pisiform with ^^^'"^ ^^j. cuneiform bone. Serving for the joint between the two rows aii the carpal of the carpus, the membrane sends upwards and downwards bones, prolongations between the individual bones. The offsets upwards are two, and they sometimes join the synovial mem- brane of the wrist joint; but the offsets in the opposite di- ^^tlT"^ rection are three, and may be continued to all, or only some meta- of the articulations between the four inner metacarpal with their carpal bones. Union of the Metacarpal Bones. — The metacarpal Meta- carpal bones of the four finsrers are connected at their bases by the bones are c\ .1 7 7 joined by following ligaments : — Superficial dorsal and palmar fasci- t^heir culi of fibres pass transversely from one bone to that next it; and those in the palm are the strongest. Besides, there are short interosseous bands between the contiguous rough surfaces of the bones. At their anterior extremities the metacarpal bones are and by bound together by the transverse ligament, which has been heads, examined in the dissection of the hand (p. 318.). Union between the Metacarpal and Carpal Bones. Joint — Most of the metacarpal bones of the fingers are articulated carpal with the carpal bones after one plan. The bone of the taca^pai thumb has a separate joint with a synovial membrane. a. The metacarpal bone of the thumb articulates with the that of OS trapezium ; and the ends of the bones are encased in a thumb; separate capsular ligament. The joint is supplied with a synovial membrane, which is simple in its arrangement. b. The metacarpal bones of the fingers receive longitu-those of dinal bands from the carpal bones on both aspects, thus : — fingers The dorsal ligaments are two to each of the four, except through that of the little finger. The bands to the metacarpal bone of the fore finger come from the os trapezium and os trape- zoides ; those to the third bone are from the os magnum and os trapezoides ; those to the bone of the ring finger from the OS magnum and os unciforme ; and to the fifth metacarpal bone there is but one band from the unciform bone. The and "palmar ligaments are weaker and less constant than the dor- bands sal. There is one to each metacarpal bone, except that of