73 VERTEBRAL ARTERY. branclies to the subclavian artery. Three of these arise es of subcla- from the first part of the arterial trunk;—one (vertebral) vianar- ascends to the head; another (internal mamnaary) descends to the chest; and the remaining one (thyroid axis) is a short thick trunk, which furnishes branches inwards and outwards. These arise commonly near the scalenus muscle, ^p^"^ so as to leave an interval at the origin free from offsets, branch- This interval varies in length, being from half an inch to an inch in the greater number of cases ; and its extremes range from somewhat less .than half an inch to an inch and three quarters. But in some instances the branches are scattered over the whole extent of this part of the artery (Quain).* The fourth branch (superior intercostal) arises from the second part of the artery, viz. that beneath the anterior scalenus, and gives off the deep cervical branch. If there is a branch present on the third part of the artery, it is commonly the posterior scapular : if more than one, the internal mammary, and some offsets belonging usually to the thyroid axis will be added. 1. The vertebral artery is generally the first and largest vene- branch of the subclavian, and arises from the upper and teryin' posterior part of that vessel. Ascending between the con- tiguous borders of the scalenus and longus colli muscles, this branch enters the aperture between the transverse processes of the sixth cervical vertebra, and is continued upwards to the skull through the chain of foramina in the transverse processes of the other cervical vertebrae. Before the artery enters the transverse process it is partly concealed by the internal jugular vein, and passes beneath the thyroid artery ; it is accompanied by branches of the sympathetic nerve, and supplies small muscular offsets. Its course and distribution smaii will be given afterwards. esf"^ " On the left side the commencement of the vertebral artery on left is crossed by the thoracic duct. The origin of the vertebral may vary in its position along the Differ- first part of the trunk of the subclavian; or it may be transferred p"acVof to the arch of the aorta, especially on the left side; or to the right o^^s^"- * The student is referred for fuller information respecting the pecu- liarities of the vessels, and the practical applications to be deduced from them, to the original and valuable work on the Anatomy of the Arteries of the Human Body, by Richard Quain, F.R.S,