714 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. faces not completely covered with cartilage. In the head of the bones, femur is a pit into which the round ligament is inserted. In the bottom of the acetabulum is a space free from cartilage, in which a reddish fatty mass is lodged: this is sometimes Synovial called the synovial gland. Beneath the transverse ligament an artery and a nerve enter the joint to supply the fat. Section IV. THE BACK OF THE LEG. Examine Directions,—Before the dissection of the leff is begun, the thesur- . , . . face. student should make himself acquainted, as in the thigh, with the prominences of bone and muscle on the surface, and with the markings that lead to the position of the subjacent vessels. In the Prominences on the surface,—The bones of the leer can leg the . . . tibia and bc traccd bcncath the skin from the knee to the ankle joint, are su- Qu the iuucr side of the limb is the tibia, which is subcu- perticial. taneous in all its extent, and is limited in front and behind by a sharp ridge. Above, it presents in front a prominent tubercle into which the ligament of the patella is inserted; and below, it ends on the inner side of the ankle in the inter- nal maleolar projection. On the outer side of the leg the lower half of the fibula may be felt with ease, but the upper half with more difficulty, in consequence of the prominence of the muscles of the calf. The head of this bone may be recognised below the knee ; and the lower end forms the pro- jection (malleolus) on the outer side of the ankle joint. Behind On the postcrior aspect of the leg is the projection of the is calf of • the leg, calf: this is formed by the superficial muscles, and from it tendo descends the firm band of the tendo Achillis, by which those Achil- lis, and muscles are connected with the heel. Between the tendon vessels, and the edge of the tibia, but nearest the former, is the Before, superficial part of the posterior tibial artery. In front, be- tibiai tween the tibia and fibula, are the extensor muscles of the foot and toes, amongst which the anterior tibial artery lies deeply ; the position of the vessel will be indicated by a line from the centre of the ankle joint, to the inner side of the head of the fibula. Ankle On the sides of the ankle joint are the prominent malleoli;