DISSECTION OF THE PERINuEUM. 452 crosses wards with tlie artery of the same name to the back of the scro- foSa turn. Whilst in the fossa, the nerve gives inwards an offset to the scrotum i^^teguments in front of the anus, and this communicates with the inferior hsemorrhoidal nerve, and an- ^- The anterior branchy appearing somewhat farther forwards than has^ame Other, passes either over or under the transverse muscle, and anatomy accompanies the posterior branch to the scrotum. At its orijr'm as poste- r jr ^ ^ o rior; muscular offsets are furnished to the levator ani muscle, muscu- Other muscular branches arise from the pudic nerve at the same branch- spot as the preceding nerve, but these will be afterwards ex- ^®' amined. both are The Superficial perinseal branches communicate with one inddis- another, and the posterior one is joined by the inferior toscro- pudendal nerve. At the scrotum they are distributed by penis!'^ long slcudcr filaments, some of which reach as far as the under surface of the penis. In the female these nerves supply the labia pudendi. Inferior The inferior pudendal nerve is a branch of the small daf^"" sciatic : it pierces the fascia lata about one inch in front of ^^^''^ the ischial tuberosity, and coursing forwards along the inner part of the thigh, enters beneath the superficial fascia of the perinagum; finally, it passes forwards with the superficial ends in pcrinseal nerves, and ends in the outer part and front of Tnd joins the scrotum. A communication takes place between this cmTpe-" nerve and the posterior of the two superficial perinaeal nnsai. i^j^anclies. In the female the inferior pudendal nerve is dis** tributed to the labium, offset's of surface of the thigh some other offsets (internal sSatic Ibi'anches) of the small sciatic nerve may be observed. Dissec- Dissection.—For the dissection of the muscles, the super- inuscles ficial fascia, as well as the vessels and nerves that have urethra been examined, must be taken away from the anterior half penis, of the perinaeal space : it will be also necessary to remove a thin subjacent aponeurotic layer from the muscles. The muscle in the middle line is the accelerator urinse ; and in cleaning it the student is to follow two fasciculi of fibres, which are prolonged from it, one in front, the other behind. On the outer side of the space is the erector penis; and behind, passing horizontally between the other two, is the transverse muscle. Of The student should seek, on the right side, the branches of nerves to the muscles : to the erector penis there is a sepa- nerves.