CARDIAC NERVES. 379 and the cardiac offsets of its recurrent branch. The offsets of Branch- this half of the plexus are distributed mostly to the right side of distru the heart. From its lower end cardiac nerves pass downwards be- th^^eart fore and behind the right branch of the pulmonary artery. Those in front of that vessel run on the trunk of the pulmonary artery nearly to the heart, where they send a few twigs behind the vessel, to join the plexus on the posterior coronary artery; and lastly, in the they appear between the aorta and the pulmonary artery, and end coronary in the anterior coronary plexus (p. 355.). The other nerves, those ^'^^^^^^^ that are behind the branch of the pulmonary artery, supply the J"oot right auricle of the heart. Offsets are also sent laterally on the ° " branch of that artery to the nerves of the root of the lung. 1). The left half of the plexus is close to the ligamentum arterio- Left sura, and rather on the left of the trachea. In it are collected the nerves cardiac nerves of the sympathetic cord of the left side of the neck, ing n. except the highest, and in addition it has numerous and large branches of the left recurrent nerve of the vaorus. Nerves descend o descend from it around the left branch of the pulmonary artery to the to left I'll • 1 11 coronary trunk of that vessel, on which they are contmued to the heart; plexus and after supplying nerves to the left auricle, they terminate in the bundle of nerves of the posterior coronary plexus (p. 355.). A considerable offset is directed forwards to the superficial cardiac plexus by the side of the ligamentum arteriosum ; and some nerves and to reach the left anterior pulmonary plexus by passing along the branch [ung.^^ of the pulmonary artery to the lung. The cardiac branches of the gangliated cord of the sym- other pathetic nerve in the neck (p. 122.), are now seen at their nerves ... 1 1 ri^i 11 from the termination m the thorax, ine nerves enter the chest on neck, each side, over or beneath the subclavian artery, and join in the deep cardiac plexus, with one exception in the left superficial cardiac branch. On the right side. — Though usually three in number, aii on there may be but two cardiac nerves on this side, for the side highest nerve is sometimes blended with one of the other deep plexus. two. The middle and inferior nerves pass beneath the sub- clavian artery to the right half of the deep cardiac plexus. All three communicate with the branches of the recurrent laryngeal nerve of the vagus at the root of the neck, or in the upper part of the thorax, as well as with one another. On the left side the superficial or highest cardiac nerve on left passes for the most part over the arch of the aorta, and ends enters ^ super- in the superficial cardiac plexus, but it may give a branch ficjau beneath the arch to the deep plexus. Only one other large deep^^