240 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. fascicu- of the canal of the cord. On each side of the groove is a ' spindle-shaped elevation, the fasciculus s. eminentia teres. This eminence reaches the whole length of the floor, and is pointed and little marked inferiorly, where it is covered by gray substance ; but it becomes whiter and more pro- minent superiorly, and its widest point is opposite the attach- ment of the crus cerebelli. It is formed by the fibres of the medulla oblongata derived from the lateral tract and the restiform body, which ascend to the cerebrum. The outer border of the eminence is limited externally by a slight groove, which (in some bodies well marked) will point out fovea, the position of two fossae (fovea anterior et posterior). The poste- posterior fossa is below near the beginning of the groove, anterior; and the anterior is opposite the crus cerebelli. At the top of the anterior fossa is a collection of very dark gray sub- stance " which has a bluish appearance as it is seen through locus the thin stratum covering it, and is named locus cceruleus^^ leus; and a bluish streak (tasnia violacea) is continued upwards from it, at the outer edge of the eminentia teres, to the opening in the top of the fourth ventricle. Crossing the floor on each side, opposite the lower border of the pons^ white are some white streaks, that vary much in their arrange- ment, and sometimes are not to be recognised: they issue from the central median fissure, and enter the crus cerebelli and the auditory nerve (p. 205.); but one may oftentimes be seen to enter the locus caeruleus. Erai- Besides the objects above mentioned, there are other nerv?° eminences in the floor of the ventricle, that have been re- ""^^ ferred to by Stilling as indicating the position of the nuclei of origin of certain nerves. In lower In the lower half of the ventricle—the part called cala- mus scriptorius, are three somewhat triangular eminences on of each side for the eighth and ninth nerves : — One of these, ' viz. that for the ninth nerve, is close to the middle line, and corresponds to the lower pointed part of the fascic. teres. The other two are outside that fasciculus, and are placed in a line one above another, but separated by a well-marked of vagus, groove; the lower of the two is the nucleus of the vagus, * The term locus caeruleus seems to be applied to the spot, for the dark vesicular matter in it has been named substantia ferruginea.