DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. 728 Abduc- The ABDUCTOR MINIMI DiGiTi has a wide origin behind little toe. from the outer and inner tubercles of the os calcis, and from the plantar fascia and the external intermuscular septum. Origin It cuds anteriorly in a tendon which is inserted, with the and in- sertion, short flexor of the little toe, into the outer side of the base of the metatarsal phalanx of that toe. The muscle lies along isat the outer border of the foot, and conceals the flexor acces- side of ^ ' the foot, sorius, and the tendon of the peroneus longus. On its inner side are the external plantar vessels and nerve. Dissect Dissection. — To^ bring into view the second layer of vessel^ .muscles and the plantar vessels and nerves, the muscles al- nerves. rcadj examined must be reflected. Cut through the flexor brevis at the os calcis, and as it is raised, notice a branch of nerve and artery to it; divide the abductor minimi digiti near its origin, and turning it to the outer side of the foot, seek a small nerve and vessel to it close to the bone. The abductor pollicis can be drawn aside if it is necessary, but it may remain uncut till afterwards. Now the plantar vessels and nerves are to be followed forwards to their termination, and backwards to their origin ; and the tendons of the long flexors of the toes, the accessory muscle, and the small lum- bricales, should be freed from loose tissue. Two The PLANTAR ARTERIES are the terminal branches of the plantar arteries: posterior tibial trunk. They are two in number, and are named external and internal from their relative position in inner the sole of the foot. Of the two the external is the larger ; and , , outer, and it forms the plantar arch of arteries, from which digital branches are furnished to the toes, sraau"^^ The internal artery is commonly inconsiderable in size, and is directed forwards, under cover of the abductor pollicis, ends on to the root of the s-reat toe : here it ends either in small side of ^ the foot, branches to the side of the foot, or in digital branches to the inner two toes which anastomose with the external plantar artery. External The external artery has an arched course in the foot, with hlr^ the concavity of the arch turned inwards, and supplies course; branches to the toes. Starting from the inner part of the foot, the vessel is first directed outwards across the sole, and then obliquely forwards towards the root of the great toe, or to the side on which it began, so that the vessel crosses twice the foot. In the first half of its extent, the artery is com-