INTERNAL PELVIC MUSCLES. 643 The muscular coat extends the whole length of the tube, muscu- Its fibres are circular, and continuous behind with the middle oTcirTu- layer of the bladder. This covering is between the con- stricter urethrae and submucous layer, as in the male (p. 4o7.) and the part nearest the bladder will correspond with the prostatic enlargement in the other sex. The mucous coat is pale except near the outer orifice. It Mucous is marked by longitudinal folds ; and one of these, in the floor of the canal, resembles the median crest in the male a fold in urethra (p. 625.). Around the outer orifice are some mucous follicles ; and towards the inner end are some tubular mucous FoUicies glands, whose apertures are arranged in lines between the gSlds. folds of the membrane, and are turned towards the bladder. A laminar epithelium is spread over the surface, which be- ^f^^' comes irregular in form (spheroidal) at the bladder. A submucous stratum of longitudinal elastic and muscular sub- tissues lies, as in the male, close to the mucous membrane, tissue. Rectum.—The structure of the rectum is so similar in the Rectum two sexes that the student may use the description given for of the ^ that tube in the Section on the anatomy of the viscera of the ""^ ^ male pelvis (p. 631.). Dissection,-~The rectum may be prepared for examination Prepara. by distending it with air, and removing the peritoneal cover- rectum, ing and the areolar tissue from it. Section VII. internal muscles and the ligaments of the pelvis. Muscles.—The two following muscles, pyriformis and Two obturator internus, have their origin within the cavity of the pelvis. The PYRIFORMIS MUSCLE is wide and fleshy within the pyrifor- pelvis, and is directed outwards through the great sacro- silua- sciatic notch to be inserted into the great trochanter of the femur. Narrowing in its progress, the muscle has received its name from its form. In the pelvis the pyriformis is attached by three slips to origin the second, third, and fourth pieces of the sacrum, both peWis. between, and external to the anterior apertures; as it passes from the pelvis, it takes origin also from the surface