THE GALL-BLADDER. 553 vein penetrate between the lobules, around which they form a teriobu- circle, and then end in the interior as before explained: where If/anch- these twigs lie between the lobules they are named interlobular. Hepatic duct. — The commencement of the duct within the Bile lobules is uncertain; but probably the duct has a reticular arrange- ment amongst the portal vessels, its radicles corresponding to the spaces between the rows of cells, and being lined by a thin membrane. On leaving the lobules the branches form a plexus, interlobular, between them; and the small ducts soon unite into larger vaginal branches, that lie in the portal canals with the other vessels. Lastly, the ducts are collected into a right and a left trunk, which leave the liver at the transverse fissure as before described. Ducts have been found in the left lateral ligament of the liver, Some between the layers of the peritoneum; they anastomose together in the and are accompanied by branches of the vessels of the liver, viz. \igll^^ vena portae, hepatic artery, and hepatic vein. "^^"^ The hepatic artery is consumed in the nutrition of the structure Hepatic of the liver. Whilst surrounded by the capsule of Glisson it fur- nouSh- nishes vaginal branches to that sheath, which ramify in it and give ffygr^ it a red appearance in a well injected liver; it supplies other twigs and joins to the coats of the vena portas and the biliary duct. From the p^^^^ • vaginal branches some few offsets are sent to the lobules to supply their structure. This artery is supposed by Mr. Kiernan to ter- minate in venous capillaries that communicate with the branches of the vena portae. The hepatic veins (venae cavae hepaticse) begin by a plexus in the Hepatic interior of each lobule, and from it an intralobular vein issues at without the base; these join together and form still larger or sublobular ^^^^^^^ branches. The next sized branches cease to receive any intra- lobular twigs, and merely unite with neighbouring branches to produce larger veins. Finally, the hepatic veins are collected into begia large trunks, that are directed from before backwards to the vena lobules, cava inferior, into which they open by large orifices. The venae and end cavae hepaticse may be said to be without a sheath, for this is very vena^ slight only in the larger trunks : so that when they are cut across the ends remain patent in consequence of their close connection Avith the hepatic structure. THE GALL-BLADDEK. The gall-bladder is the receptacle of the bile, and is situate use and in a depression on the under surface of the right lobe of the liver, to the right of the square lobe. Conical in form, or ^^^^. pear-shaped, its larger end (fundus) is directed forwards