MEDULLA OBLONGATA. 205 and is about a quarter of an incli in length. In it will be found three or four bundles of fibres from each side. The restiform bodij is divided between the cerebrum and Resti- ... . . form the cerebellum. Inferiorly, it is continuous with the poste- body rior column of the cord; and accessory fibres are continued to it, in front, from the anterior pyramid, and from the lateral column. Superiorly its fibres are continued to both enters ^ *' cere- the large and the small brain in the following manner: — brum The wedge-shaped part (funic, cuneatus) divides into two rather above the point of the fourth ventricle; the external offset bends outwards to the cerebellum without enterinsr f^ere- ^ bellum. the pons, whilst the inner one is continued with the slender fasciculus (funic, gracilis, p. 202.) or posterior pyramid, along the floor of the fourth ventricle, joining the fasciculus teres of the same side, into the peduncular fibres of the cerebrum (p. 211.). Arched or commissural fibres of the medulla.— In each Commis- sural half of the medulla oblongata are fibres directed almost hori- fibres, zontally from behind forwards, both on its exterior, and through its substance. And in the middle line the same system of fibres forms a septum or raphe between the oppo- site halves. The transverse fibres, both the outer and inner, seem to be origin, derived from the restiform body and the crus cerebelli:— the ex^ Arrange ternal set more or less marked in different bodies cross, on the front "^^"^ outer set of the medulla, the olivary and pyramidal bodies, and some may be seen entering the median fissure; below the olivary body they often form a band, the fibrce arciformes of Rolando. At the back of the medulla some may be seen issuing from the median fissure, and crossing that part, to enter the auditory nerve and the crus cere- belli. The internal set can be seen only on sections of the hardened and in- and prepared medulla: they penetrate all the fibres of the medulla, ^^** except the anterior pyramid, and end at the middle line; in their course they perforate the gray capsule of the olivary body as well as its contiguous deposit, and are said by Stilling to constitute the white substance of the former. The septum consists of both antero-posterior and transverse fibres, septal The antero-posterior reach from the one median fissure to the other, and^ consist of two strata, one casing each half of the medulla. These fibres are continuous with the external set, but some of the inner transverse seem to be added to them. Between the two strata of antero-posterior fibres is a slight interval, which is oc-