DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 408 Origin is arises along the middle line from the spinous processes of nous the six lower dorsal, from those of all the lumbar, and from from those of the upper two sacral vertebrae, as well as from some . T , , • -I 1 ribs. the supraspinous ligament; along the outer side, by aponeurosis from the outer edge of the posterior half of the iliac crest, and by three or four fleshy processes from as many of the lower ribs, which digitate with pieces of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen; and between the outer and inner attachments it is inseparably blended below with the subjacent tendon of the multifidus spin^e. All the fibres converge to the inferior angle of the scapula, and after crossing that point of bone are continued forwards to be inser- inserted, by means of a tendon, into the bottom of the bi- tioninto ^ ' hume- cipital groove of the humerus (p. 263.). The muscle is sub- Connec- cutancous, cxccpt a small part of the upper border which is covered by the trapezius ; near the scapula there is a space between the two muscles, in which the ribs and the inter- costal and rhomboid muscles are seen. The lower or an- terior border overlays the edge of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen except a small part below, in the interval between the last rib and the crest of the ilium. Frequently the latissimus has a distinct fleshy slip from the inferior angle of the scapula. Dissec- * Dissection,—The latissimus is to be divided about mid- reflect wav bctwcen the spines of the vertebrae and the angle of the latissi- ^ _ , ■, n -. . T 1 1 T mus. scapula, and is to be reflected inwards and outwards. In raising the inner part of the muscle, care must be taken not to destroy the thin lower serratus with which it is united, and the aponeurosis continued upwards from the serratus. In the interval between the last rib and the iliac crest the latissimus is adherent to the aponeurosis of the transversalis abdominis muscle, and should not be detached from it. Parts * Parts covered by the latissimus. — The latissimus dorsi covered , *^ by the musclc Hes on the erector spin^e, on the serratus posticus simus. inferior, and on the lower ribs with their intercostal muscles. As it rests on the angle of the scapula, it conceals the teres major, and a part of the rhomboid muscle. Its relation to the teres is worthy of note : at the angle of the scapula it is in contact with the posterior surface of the teres, but nearer the humerus it turns round the muscle, and is inserted in Forms frout of it. Betwceu the angle of the scapula and the