DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 212 texture, and are directed upwards radiating to the cerebrum. . The portion of the crus, which is composed of these fibres, is called the fasciculated portion, or the crust, fibres ^* -^^^ deeper fibres are also prolonged to the cerebrum. Thej are derived chiefly from the lateral and posterior tracts or columns of the medulla oblongata, and from the olivary fasciculus (p. 204.). Some of the fibres of the lateral tract of one side cross offsets from the corresponding tract of the sateand ®^ there is a decussation, like that in the pyramids, across the middle line ; and the peduncle consequently con- tains fibres that are continued from both sides of the medulla oblongata.* In addition to the longitudinal fibres derived from the medulla oblongata, are others coming from the cerebellum, which mix with the former: some of these decussate also across the middle line (see p. 238.). The fibres obtained from these sources are situate beneath (as now seen) the gray matter: besides being deeper, they are finer than the superficial set, and are interspersed with gray form teg- matter. The deeper part of the crus, viz. that at the cere- mentura. bral aspect, is constructed by these fibres, and is named tegmentum. The gray c. The gray matter (locus niger) of the crus, is nearer the inner than the outer margin of that body, and is convex towards the free surface, but concave in the opposite direc- tion. Locus The posterior perforated spot (pons Tarini) is situate tus. ' between the peduncles of the cerebrum ; grayish matter is present at this spot, and into it numerous vessels enter. This structure corresponds to part of the floor of the third ventricle. Corpora The corpora albicantia (corp. mamillaria) are two small, tia. white bodies, about the size of peas, which are formed in greater part, as it will afterwards appear, by the crus of the fornix. If one, say the left, is cut across, it will be found to contain gray matter. In front of them is a mass of gray substance ; and behind they are connected together by white brain substance. * This is part of the median commissure of M. Foville, which reaches through the medulla oblongata, pons, and cerebral peduncles. See the work of M. Foville, entitled: Traite complet de VAnatomie, ^c, du Sj/s- teme Nerveux cerehro-spinal, p. 323.