DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 650 dinai fissure are the remains of a vessel which, has the undermen- fissure in the tioned arraiifirement in the foetus. Before birth the larere foetus . . . . umbilical vein occupies the longitudinal fissure, and opens posteriorly into the vena cava; and the part of the vessel beyond the transverse fissure receives the name ductus venosus. Branches are supplied from the vein at that period to both lobes of the liver, and a large one, which is directed to the right lobe, is continuous with the left divi- sion of the vena portse. condi- After birth the anterior part of the umbilical vein is birth. closed, and becomes eventually the round ligament: and the posterior part, or the ductus venosus, is also obliterated, only a thin cord remaining in its place ; whilst the lateral branches, which are in a line with those of the vena portae, remain open, and subsequently form part of the portal system of vessels. Occasionally the ductus venosus is found more or less pervious. Glandu- Structure of the Liver.— The substance of the liver ture i^" consists of a collection of small secreting bodies, called by^two lobules or acini; together with a large proportion of vessels, which are concerned both in the production of the secretion and in the nutrition of the organ. The whole is surrounded by a fibrous and a serous coat. Serous 1. Scrous coat — The peritoneum invests the liver almost coat, completely, and adheres closely to the subjacent coat. At where certain spots, intervals exist between the two, viz. in the deficient, i i pi fissures occupied by vessels, at the lines of attachment of the ligaments, and at the surface covered by the gall-bladder. Where the right lateral ligament is inserted the space is the largest. Fibrous 2. The fihrous coverinq is very thin, but it is rather covering . . . . i -x is stronger where the peritoneum is not m contact with it. edio" he 1^ iuvosts the liver, and is continuous at the transverse j .nterior. gggypg M^it]i the fibrous shcath (capsule of Glisson) surround-! ing the vessels in the interior of the hepatic mass. When | the membrane is torn from the surface, it is found to be connected with fine slireds, that dip between the lobules or | the glandular structure of the liver. Lobules Size and form of the lobules, — The lobules constitute the liver; proper hepatic substance, and can be seen either on the ex- terior of the liver, or on a cut surface, or by means of a rent