DISSECTION OP THE TONGUE. 160 glossus the three anterior fourths of the dorsum, beneath the super- position j5 -r and ficial Imguans. In this muscular stratum the fibres radiate extent. Fibres. ^^^^ point of contact of the muscles with the tongue, — some passing almost horizontally inwards to the centre, and others obliquely forwards to the tip of the organ. Rest of A great portion of the stylo-glossus is directed along the giossus side of the tongue, and some fibres are inclined in front of the ieUow ^JO'gl^ssus, to the under surface, to join those of the oppo- site muscle beneath the tip. Hyo- Hyo-glossus. — The two superficial parts of the muscle glossus J (basio and cerato-glossus, p. 101.) enter the under surface of l^per. i\^Q tongue, between the stylo-glossus and the lingualis. parts; After entering that surface by separate bundles, they are Sding^^ bent round the margin of the tongue, and then form, with the two preceding muscles, a stratum on the dorsum, whose disposition and extent have been before stated. Deeper The third part of the muscle, or the chondro-qlossus, is part or « ... . o chondro- distiuct from the rest at its origin, and is separated from glossus, , , them higher up by a slip of the genio-hyo-glossus, and by the lingual vessels. About two or three lines wide at its origin. Origin from the root of the small cornu, and from part of the connec- body of the OS hyoides, the muscle is directed upwards and forwards to the root of the tongue beneath the hinder fibres ending of the gcuio-hyo-glossus. In entering the tongue the fibres tongue, spread out beneath the upper lingualis, passing obliquely in- wards and forwards over the posterior third of the dorsum, and extend as far as the hyo-glossus, with which they be- come blended. Muscu- Cortex of the tongue, — The muscles above described, to- cortex of gethcr with the superficial lingualis, constitute a cortical layer of oblique and longitudinal fibres, that covers the tongue, except below where some muscles are placed, and resembles " a slipper turned upside down."* This stratum is pierced by the deeper fibres. Ar- The genio-hyo-glossus enters the tongue vertically on the ment in side of the scptum, and perforates the cortical covering to tongue; end in the submucous tissue. In the tongue the fibres * This apt simile has been used by Mr. Zaglas in an accurate paper on the muscular structure of the tongue. See Annals of Anatomy and Physiology, Part L, by Mr. Goodsir. Edin. 1850.