313 FLEXOR TENDONS OF THE FINGERS. forwards, the nerves supply chiefly tegumentary branches : one of these is directed backwards by the side of the meta- carpal phalanx, and after uniting with the digital nerve on the back of the finger (p. 296.), is continued to the dorsum of the last phalanx. Dissection. — The tendons of the flexor muscles may be Dissec followed next to their termination. 1^ or that purpose the deep ulnar artery should be cut through below the origin of the profunda branch; and the small superficial volar branch (of the radial) having been also divided, the arch is to be thrown forwards to the fingers. The ulnar and median nerves are then to be cut below the annular ligament, and turned for- wards. A longitudinal incision is to be made through the centre of the annular ligament, without injuring the small muscles that arise from it, and the pieces of the ligament are to be thrown to the sides. Finally the sheaths of the fingers may be opened for the purpose of observing the insertion of the tendons. Flexor tendons. — Beneath the annular ligament the Synovial tendons of the deep and superficial flexors are surrounded by rounds a large and loose synovial membrane, which projects upwards into the forearm and downwards into the hand, and sends an offset into the digital sheath of both the thumb and the little finger. In the hand the tendons of the deep flexor give attachment to the small lumbrical muscles. Tendons of the fiexor suhlimis.—The tendons of the flexor Tendons sublimis are superficial to those of the deep flexor beneath ficfai^^^ the ligament; and the four tendons are nearly on the same level, instead of being arranged in pairs as in the forearm. Crossing the palm of the hand, the tendons enter the sheaths m the of the fingers, and are inserted by two processes into the i^ser!. margins of the middle phalanx, about the centre. When first entering the digital sheath, the tendon of the flexor sublimis conceals that of the flexor profundus; but near the Are siit front of the first phalanx it is slit for the passage of the deep tendon of the latter muscle. Dissec- Dissection. — To see the tendons of the deep flexor and the lumbrical muscles, the flexor sublimis must be cut through above the wrist, and thrown towards the fingers. A little connective tissue must be taken away. Tendons of the flexor profundus,—At the lower border of Tendons