DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 334 the fibres, and of certain fibrous rings wbich serve as fixed points fibrous for their attachment. These structures must be studied on cuia™"^" a separate heart; or on that of the ox or sheep, in which the fibres have been hardened and the connective tissue de- stroyed by boiling, so that the fibres can be separated. The description of the structure of the heart may therefore be omitted till a fit preparation of the fibres can be made. Fibrous The fibrous structure forms rino;s around the auriculo- bands ^ ^ , ® ventricular and arterial orifices, and sends prolongations into the valves connected with those openings, form a. The auriculo-ventricular rings give attachment to the aroSnd muscular fibres both of the auricles and ventricles, as well ventri- " as to the framcwork of fibrous tissue in the tricuspid and open- mitral valves. These bands are distinct from those encircling the arterial mouths, except at the right part of the left auriculo-ventricular opening, where the auricular and the arterial circles are blended. a"ound ^* arterial ring surrounds each large artery (aorta arterial and pulmonarv), fixing those vessels, and giving attachment open- ^ y o cj c ings. to the muscular fibres and the semilunar valves. Each is a circular band, with an uninterrupted margin towards the ventricle, and a toothed or wavy margin towards the artery. To these This last marsfiu has three notches, which are filled by last the . . ^ . ^^^moid corresponding projections of the artery, and give attach- ment, internally, to the sigmoid valves along their semilunar edges. and mid- The artery is connected with the band of fibrous tissue in of the the following manner; — The middle coat presents three a^e^^^ projecting convex pieces, that are received into and con- nected with the notches of the fibrous ring, but most inti- mately with the points; and the union between the two is strengthened externally by the parts around the vessel, and internally by the endocardium. Muscu- The muscular substance forms concentric bands of fibres, stance of which are arranged mostly in a circular or spiral direction, jg^jg/ and enclose the different cardiac cavities. In the wall of the ail^rkks 3;uricles the fibres are quite distinct from those in the ven- tr"icie?"" ti'icles, though both sets are attached to the fibrous circles around the cardiac orifices, as to a common point of origin or insertion. Some of the fibres enter the bases of the auriculo-ventricular valves. The fibres belong to the class