DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 582 entering and Wall of the abdomen, and those of the genital organs and testicle are received. Begin- Receptaculum chyli.— The thoracic duct begins in the the1;ho. abdomcn, by the union of three or four large lymphatic ves- duct, sels. Its commencement is marked by a considerable dila- tation, which is named receptaculum chyli, and is placed on on right the riffht side of the aorta, about opposite the second lumbar of aorta, ^ J ir at second Vertebra. The duct then enters the thorax by passing lumbar . ./ r o ver- through the diaphragm with the aorta. Large Beginning of the azygos veins. — The right vein (vena veinT azygos major) begins opposite the first or second lumbar vertebra by a small branch, which is continuous with a lumbar vein, or, it may be, with the vena cava or the renal entrance vein. Howcvcr formed, the vein enters the thorax with the into ^ ^ thorax, thoracic duct and the aorta, to the right of which it lies ; but it may pierce the crus of the diaphragm, as it leaves the Small abdomen. The left or small azygos vein begins on the left vein. side of the spine, joining here one of the lumbar veins or the renal vein, and passes through the pillar of the diaphragm, or through the aortic opening. The anatomy of these veins is given in the description of the thorax, p. 388. Section VI. LUMBAR SPINAL NERVES AND THE CORD OP THE SYMPATHETIC. The spinal nerves of the loins resemble those in the lower part of the neck, in being united in a plexus, and supplying a limb and the parts of the trunk contiguous to it. Dissec- Dissection. — The lumbar nerves and their plexus are to the lum. be seen on the left side, and to bring them into view, the plexus dissector should scrape away the left psoas. For the most side, part the fleshy fibres may be removed freely; but a small branch (accessory of the obturator) should be looked for at first at the inner border of the muscle. In the substance of the quadratus lumborum a communication may be sometimes found between the last dorsal and the first lumbar nerv e.