767 CORNEA. tenth of an inch), the optic nerve is transmitted through an aperture in it: this opening decreases in size from without inwards, and is cribriform when the nerve is drawn out — the lattice-like condition being due to the union with its margin of the bundles of fibrous tissue between the funiculi of the nerve. Other smaller apertures for the passage of the nutritive vessels and nerves are situate around that for the optic nerve. In front is the large rounded hole into and in ^ . . ^ front. which the cornea is received: it measures about half an inch transversely, and rather less from above down. On Outer ' ' 1 1 , and the outer surface this coat is smooth, except where the inner muscles are attached ; but on the inner aspect it is covered with flocculi, and with the ends of ruptured vessels and nerves, and is of a dark colour. The sclerotic covering is thickest at the back of the eyeball, but it becomes thinner xhick- and whiter towards the cornea, where it is visible as the " white of the eye ; " where it joins the cornea it becomes again somewhat thickened. Structure. — The sclerotic coat is formed of layers of Formed 1 . 1 n of white white fibrous tissue, mixed with yellow or elastic fibres, and yei- . low together with ramified anastomosing stellate or spindle- fibrous shaped cells with nuclei. Though interlaced with one with ^' another, the fibres have rather a longitudinal direction to- cells, wards the back of the ball, and a transverse one at the outer surface near the cornea. Only a few vessels ramify vessels in the membrane. The existence of nerves in it is doubtful, nerves Cornea. — This firm transparent membrane (cornea pel- Cornea": lucida) fits into the front of the eyeball, of which it forms about one sixth. Its shape is circular, though, when viewed extent in front, particularly in the ox, it appears largest in the form, transverse direction in consequence of the opaque sclerotic structure reaching further on it above and below than on the sides. It is smooth and soft to the touch, is convex ante- Curve, riorly, but concave posteriorly, and is of equal thickness throughout. Its anterior is of rather less extent than its surface, posterior surface. At the circumference it is blended with the sclerotic coat by continuity of tissue. This clear and diaphanous structure, resembling in appear- situation ance the glass of a watch, bounds the anterior chamber of of the" the eyeball, and gives passage to the rays of light entering the organ. When the cornea is supported by the aqueous its ac-