509 FOLDS OF THE PERITONEUM. the liver will be examined afterwards : and tlie folds on the viscera of the pelvis will be learnt with the dissection of that cavity. Folds on the stomach.—The processes of the serous mem- On the stomach brane in connection with the stomach are named omenta, omenta. They are three in number: — one, small omentum, is at- tached to the upper curve; another, great omentum, to the lower curve; and the third, splenic omentum, is fixed to the great end of the viscus. The small or gastro-hepatic omentum is stretched between smaii the under surface of the liver and the upper border of the tum. stomach, and contains the vessels and nerves of the liver. It Jj^"^- ' tion. is formed by two pieces of peritoneum, as before explained, and presents a free border on the right side. Behind it is the space called foramen of Winslow. Its lower border is Attach- . ments. fixed to the small curve oi the stomach; whilst its upper border is attached to the transverse fissure, as well as to the posterior half of the longitudinal fissure of the liver, be- coming blended with the left lateral ligament of that viscus. The gastro-colic or great omentum is the largest fold of Great , . T • p • 1 • omen- the peritoneum, and consists oi two pieces or layers, contmu- tum. ous with those on the front and back of the stomach. It is Attach. meats. attached to the spleen, and the lower border of the stomach where the pieces are separated by vessels, and then descends in front of the intestine, but lower on the left than the right side of the body. At the lower part of the abdomen Forms the fold is bent backwards, and returns towards the spine, fn^front the pieces of which it is composed separating and enclosing TnteT.^" the transverse colon as before seen. Between the layers of ' the peritoneum are contained some fat, and some vessels and nerves; and the power of separating the one from the other diminishes with the increase of the distance from the stomach, until at last they are not to be separated, and the membrane they form is thin and net-like. The anterior consists part of the omentum is separated from the posterior by a ?ajSs. space (bag of the omentum), that extends a varying distance. a. Cavity or hag of the great omentum. — When an opening is Bag of made through the great omentum, near the stomach, and this viscus omen- is raised, a large space is seen to extend upwards to the liver, and downwards into the omentum. This is the omental sac. In front Bound- the space is bounded hy the small omentum, the stomach, and the anterior part of the great omentum. Behind it are the posterior