SUPERFICIAL FLEXOR MUSCLES. 299' the flexor sublimis digitorum. The deep layer will be met with in a future dissection. The PRONATOR RADII TERES arisos from the inner condyle Pronator teres. of the humerus by the common tendon, and by fleshy fibres from the ridge above the condyle; from the inner part of the coronoid process by a second tendinous slip; and from origin. the fascia and the intermuscular septum between it and the next muscle. It is inserted by a rather flat tendon into an inser- impression, an inch in length, on the outer surface of the middle of the radius. The muscle is superficial except at its insertion where it is crossed by the radial artery, and is concealed by one of the outer set of muscles (supinator longus). The pronator forms the outer boundary of the K ^ >vA triangular space in front of the elbow; and its inner border is contiguous to the flexor carpi radialis. By gently sepa- connec- rating the muscle from the rest, it will be found to lie on the brachialis anticus, on the flexor sublimis digitorum, and on the ulnar artery and the median nerve. The second small head of origin is directed inwards between the artery and the nerve. The FLEXOR CARPI RADIALIS takes its origin from the Radial common tendon, from the aponeurosis of the limb, and from the wrist the intermuscular septum on each side. The tendon of the muscle, becoming free from fleshy fibres about the middle of the forearm, passes through a groove in the os trapezium, outside the arch of the anterior annular ligament, and is inserted into the base of the metacarpal bones of the index and middle fingers. This muscle rests chiefly on the flexor is super- sublimis digitorum; but near its origin it is in contact with ' ' the ulnar artery and the median nerve, and near the wrist it lies over the flexor longus poUicis, — a muscle of the deep layer. As low as the middle of the forearm the muscle is the corresponds externally to the pronator teres, and below that the ra-^ point to the radial artery, to which its tendon is taken as tery. the guide. The ulnar border is at first in contact with the palmaris longus muscle^ and then with the median nerve for about two inches above the wrist.* The PALMARIS LONGUS is oftcn absent; or it may present Long 1 • • 1 • 1 • _<3 1 J pahnar great irregularity m the proportion between its nesny and muscle * In one body, that of a woman, and well developed, the muscle was absent on both sides. .