SUBMAXILLARY REGION. 98 DISSECTION OF THE SUBMAXILLARY REGION. no In all this extent of tlie nerve there is not any branch dis- iTef] tributed to the parts around, but the following commu- nicating branch (chorda tympani) is received by it. but is The chorda tympani is a branch of the facial nerve, and 'chordi"^ is distributed to the tongue. The origin of this nerve, and its course across the tympanum to its position beneath the external pterygoid, are described in Section 14. After issuing from the tympanum by an aperture near the Glas- serian fissure, this small nerve is applied to the gustatory nerve at an acute angle. At the point of junction some fibres communicate with the gustatory, but the greater part of the chorda tympani is conducted along that nerve to the lingualis muscle. An offset is furnished from it to the sub- maxillary ganglion : see the subsequent Section. Section VII. Parts oc. The term submaxillary region is applied to the part between theT/ the lower jaw and the hyoid bone. In it will be found the small muscles acting on the os hyoides, the jaw, and the tongue; the vessels and nerves of the tongue; and the sub- lingual and submaxillary glands, posi. Position, —In this dissection the position of the neck is ^ th^ same as that for the examination of the anterior tri- angle. Di«sec- i>^55ec^^o^^. —Directions for the cleaning of this region ti^ngiven with the dissection of the anterior triangular space; but if any connective tissue has been left on the submaxillary gland, or on the mylo-hyoid muscle, let it be taken away. situa- The submaxillar!/ gland lies below the j aw in the anterior ^^'^' part of the space limited by that bone and the digastric muscle. Its shape is irregular, and the facial artery winds and con. ovcr the surfacc. The gland rests on the mylo-hyoideus, and sends a process round the posterior or free border of that muscle. In froi^t of it is the anterior belly of the of sub- digastric; and behind it is the stylo-maxillary ligament sepa- rTgt'nd. rating it from the parotid. Occupying a position somewhat beneath the side of the jaw, the gland is very near the sur- I