144 DISSECTION OF THE NASAL CAVITY. the outer wall, so is the extent of the spaces determined by them. Upper The upper one is the smallest of the three meatuses, and or mea- occupies about the posterior half of the outer boundary: into it the posterior ethmoidal sinuses open at the front; and at its posterior part, in the dried bone, is the spheno-palatine foramen, by which the nerves and vessels enter the nose. middle. The middle meatus is longer than the preceding, and reaches about two-thirds of the length of the outer wall. It com- municates anteriorly by a funnel-shaped passage (infundibu- lum) with the frontal sinus and the anterior ethmoidal cells; and near its middle is a small oblique aperture, about the size of a crow-quill^ that leads into the cavity of the upper jaw. lower. The inferior meatus equals in length four-fifths of the outer wall of the nasal fossa; in its front is the opening of the ductus ad nasum, and nearly on a level with but behind it, the Eustachian tube may be seen. Nares. The nares. In the recent condition of the nose, each fossa has a distinct anterior opening in the face, and another in the pharynx; but in the skeleton there is only one com- mon opening, in front, for both sides. These apertures, and the parts bounding them, have been before described (p. 33 and 134.) Mucous The mucous membrane that lines the nasal fossa is called oTthI the pituitary or Schneiderian membrane. It is continuous with the integument at the nostrils, and with the membrane lining the pharynx through the posterior opening: more- over, it is also continuous, by means of the openings into the meatuses, with that of the tympanum and the eyeball, and that of the different sinuses, viz. frontal, ethmoidal, sphenoidal, and maxillary. Differs lu the lowcr region of the nose, where the air chiefly gy bones passes to the lungs, the membrane is thick, and closely sinuses. United to the subjacent periosteum and perichondrium, and on the margins of the spongy bones it is projected somewhat by the large submucous vessels, so as to increase the extent of surface; but in the canals and sinuses it is very thin. Near the nostril it is furnished with papillas, and small hairs Some fo- (vibrissas). The foramina in the dry bones, that transmit cfosedf nerves or vessels, are entirely closed by the membrane, viz. incisor, spheno-palatine, and the holes in the cribriform