FIFTH LAYER OF MUSCLES. 425 * In the dorsal region the muscles are rudimentary, and exist only between the first, or the first two pairs of the ver- tebrae; and between the pair above the lowest dorsal, as well as between this and the first lumbar vertebra. * In the lumbar region, as in the cervical, there is a pair in the in each interspinous space. Here they are thin flat muscles, which reach all the length of the spines. * The INTERTRANSVERSE MUSCLES lie between the trans- inter, verse processes of the vertebrae ; but only those in the loins verse and the back are now dissected. In the neck they are double, like the interspinal muscles in the of the same vertebras (p. 179.). * In the dorsal region they are single rounded bundles, in and are found only between the lower processes: their region, number varies from three to six. Between the upper pro- cesses tendinous bands take their place. * In the lumbar region the anterior set form four thin in loins, and fleshy muscular planes between the bony processes. The posterior set are rounded fasciculi, which are attached to the accessory processes at the roots of the transverse: they have been named interaccessorii. * Dissection,—The multifidus spinse muscle, which fills the Dissec- hoUow by the side of the spinous processes, may be now muiti. dissected. Over the sacrum it will be necessary to remove spin«. from it, after examination, the thick aponeurosis that covers it and the erector spinse. In the neck, and in the dorsal region the muscle will appear on detaching the semispinalis from the spines, and turning it aside. * The MULTIFIDUS spiN^ muscle extends from the sacrum Muiti- to the second vertebra, and is much larger towards the pelvis ^plnL than in the neck. It takes its origin inferiorly from the exten" aponeurosis covering the surface; from the back of the odgin. sacrum between the central and external row of processes, as low as the fourth aperture; from the inner surface of the posterior superior iliac spine of the innominate bone, and from the ligaments connecting this bone to the sacrum. Along the side of the spine, the muscle arises diflerently in the several regions: — Thus in the loins it arises by large fasciculi from the accessory and the articular processes of the lumbar vertebrae; in the dorsal region, from the trans- verse processes of the corresponding vertebrae; and in the