634 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. Clitoris : Clitoris and nymphcB,—Beneath the upper commissure of the labia majora is the projection of the clitoris, with the njmphag or smaller labia descending from it. dissec- Dissection.— To see the clitoris, the integument forming see it. the upper commissure must be removed, and, after the body of the organ has been laid bare, the crura are to be followed outwards one to each side. It is like The clitoris is a small erectile body, and is the representa- penis; tivc of the pcuis; it has the same anatomy as that organ, with the exception that the urethra and the spongy envelop- has a ing substance are not continued below it. Its anterior ex- prepucef trcmity is terminated by a rounded part or glans, and is covered by a fold of the skin, corresponding to the prepuce of the male, which is provided with sebaceous glands. In its composition this organ resembles the penis in the foUow- corpora mg particulars: — it consists of corpora cavernosa, which nosa, are attached by crura (one on each side) to the pubic arch, and are then blended to form one body with an imperfect pectiniform septum; and further, it possesses a corpus spongiosum, but this structure is limited to the glans clito- ridis, which it forms, and Structure. — The outer casing and the septum are alike tissue, in both penis and clitoris ; and in the interior of the clitoris is an erectile tissue, like that of the male (p. 629.). Labia The nymphcB (labia minora) are two folds of mucous descend membrane that descend from the end of the clitoris, one on, prepuce, eacli sidc of the orifice of the vagina : they are continuous above with the preputial covering of the clitoris, and ex- tend down about one inch and a half. The inner surface is continuous with the lining of the vestibular space and the vagina; and the outer, with the covering of the external labium. Bloodvessels are contained in each fold, vesti- Vestibule and orifice of the urethra.—Within the nymphae, between the clitoris above and the vagina below, is an an- gular interval, about one inch and a half deep, which is called Opening the vestihule. In the middle line of the vestibular space is of the 1 n urethra, the rouud orificc of the urethra, which is placed m an eminence about one inch below the clitoris, and near the aperture of the vagina. Aperture Qrificc of the Vagina and the hymen.— The aperture of vagina, the vagina is close below the meatus urinarius, and varies