197 ORIGIN OF THE CRANIAL NERVES. o 3 Deep origin.— In entering the valve of Vieussens, the nerves and of opposite sides cross. Each then divides into two parts: one (an- aque-^" terior) enters a nucleus of gray matter on the side of the aqueduct of Sylvius; the other (posterior), a nucleus (upper trigeminal) near the top of the fourth ventricle, and in front of the prolonga- tion of the gray matter of the locus cseruleus. The FIFTH or trigeminal nerve is the largest cranial Fifth nerve, and consists of two parts, large and small. This liartwa nerve resembles a spinal nerve in possessing two roots, ganglionic or sensory, and aganglionic or motor, which are blended beyond the ganglion. The nerve is attached to the side of the pons Varolii, origin nearer the upper than the lov^er border. The small or pons, aganglionic root is highest, and is separated from the other by two or three of the transverse fibres of the pons. Both roots pass outwards, through an aperture in the dura mater, above the petrous part of the temporal bone, and are blended in the peculiar manner stated in p. 20. Deep origin.— Both roots penetrate the fibres of the pons, and near are connected with nuclei near the floor of the fourth ventricle. fourth The large root divides into two parts near the mass of gray cfe"*^"' matter called locus cagruleus (p. 240.). One of these bends down- begin- wards to the restiform body. The other, which is smaller, arises SfThe from the locus cagruleus, and from the gray matter near it (upper trigeminal nucleus) which the lower part of the trochlear nerve enters; also from the gray substance in the floor of the fourth ven- tricle, near the hypoglossal nucleus; and from a deeper nucleus, lower trigeminal, opposite the lower border of the pons, within the fibres continued from the lateral tract of the medulla. The small root begins with the fourth nerve in the upper tri- and of geminal nucleus, which is in front of the prolongation upwards s"^^'^- from the locus caeruleus, and anterior to the floor of the fourth ventricle. The sixth nerve, abducent nerve of the eyeball, springs origin from the pyramidal body, close to the pons, and sometimes Serve!^ from the lower part of the pons. Deep origin.— The fibres of the nerve bend backwards, through from the medulla oblongata, to a nucleus in the floor of the fourth ven- ien'tru tricle, whose position is on the outer part of the fasciculus teres, and on a level with the anterior fossa. See Anatomy of Fourth Ventricle (p. 241.). The seventh cranial nerve (Willis) appears at the seventh