560 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. obliterated hypogastric artery. About the middle of the psoas this excretory tube is crossed by the spermatic ves- Some. gels. Sometimes the ureter is found divided into two for times double, a certain distance. Ureter Part in the kidney,—Near the kidney the ureter is dilated near the into a pouch, named pelvis^ in the hilum; and when traced upwards into the viscus^ it is found to begin by a set of cup- caiices, shaped tubes, named calices, or infundibula, which vary in which number from seven to thirteen. Each cup-shaped part em- pyra- braccs the rounded end of a pyramidal mass, and receives the urine that flows through the apertures in that projection ; and sometimes a calyx surrounds two or more papillse. The several calices are united together to form two or three larger tubes; and these are finally blended in the excretory duct or the ureter. Two Structure, —The ureter consists of an external or muscu- coats m ureter, Ja^^ and an internal or mucous coat. The muscular covering iTr is composed of an external or longitudinal, and an internal mucous. circular stratum. The mucous coat is thrown into longi- tudinal folds during the contracted state of the ureter, and is lined by an epithelium of the spheroidal form. The ca. The caliccs resemble the rest of the duct in having a mus- two^ cular and a mucous coat. Around the pyramid the enve- loping tunic of the kidney is continuous with the calyx ; and at the apex of that body, the mucous lining is prolonged into the uriniferal tubes through the small openings in the papilla. THE SUPRARENAL CAPSULE. Useun. This Small body, whose use is unknown, has received its known. ^ . . . ^ name from its position m the abdomen. Its vessels and nerves are numerous, but it is not provided with any excre- No duct, tory duct. situa- It is situate, one on each side, on the front of the upper extremity of the kidney; and without care it may be re- moved with the surrounding fat, which it resembles. Its form and colour is ycUowish ; and its form resembles that of a cocked colour, hat. The upper part is convex, but the base or lower part size and is hollowcd, whcrc it touches the kidney. Its size in the adult is about one inch and a half in depth, and rather less