54 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. The sac is situate in the hollow formed by the os unguis and nasal process of the superior maxillary bone. Externally, it is crossed by the ligament or tendon of the eyelids, and is covered by an expansion, derived from that tendon, which is fixed to the margins of the bony groove. If the aponeu- rotic covering be removed, the mucous membrane lining the interior will be seen. Into the outer side of the sac the lachrymal canals open. The duct (ductus ad nasum) is the narrowed part of the tube, that reaches to the nose. It is entirely encased by bone ; and in length, size, and direction, it corresponds with the passage of the same name in the dried skull. In the nasal cavity it opens into the front of the inferior meatus, and a bent probe introduced through the nostril may be readily passed into it from that meatus. Ana- The examination of the eyeball must be made on the eyebau frcsh cyc of either the ox or the sheep; but this part may be wards. Omitted with more advantage to the student till the dissection of the head and neck has been completed. The eyeball is described at the end of the book. Section V. DISSECTION OF THE NECK. Position Position, — For the dissection of the right side of the neck part. let the head be supported at a moderate height, and let the face be turned to the left side, and fastened in that position with hooks. To obtain a good view of the neck, the right arm should be drawn under the body, so that the point of the shoulder may be depressed, and the parts put on the stretch. Bounda- Surface-marking.—The side of the neck presents a some- theside what Square outline, and is limited in the following way : — Inferiorly is the prominence of the clavicle, and superiorly is the base of the lower jaw with the skull. In front its boundary is marked by a line from the chin to the sternum, and behind, by another line from the occiput to the acromial Division ^nd of the clavicle. The part thus marked out is divided triangles i^to two triangular spaces (anterior and posterior) by masS? the diagonal position of the sterno-mastoid muscle. In Situa- tion of the sac, or di- lated part. Canal leading to the nose.