DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 68 tions. Sterno- puia, the scapula, and the connections of the posterior part, are and ends to be Studied in the dissection of the back. From the in- at hyoid bone. tervening tendon, the anterior fleshy part is directed for- wards along the border of the sterno-hyoid muscle, and is inserted into the lower part of the body of the hyoid bone, Connec closc to the great cornu. The anterior belly of the muscle is in contact with the fascia, after escaping from beneath the sterno-mastoid; and rests on the sterno-thyroid muscle. This muscle crosses the common carotid artery on a level with the cricoid cartilage. The STERNO-HYOiD MUSCLE is a flat thin band nearer the muscle lii^® ^^^^ preceding. It arises from the posterior aspect of the sternum and the cartilage of the first rib, and sometimes also from the clavicle. From this spot the fibres named asccud, and are inserted into the lower border of the body of attach? the OS hyoidcs, internal to the preceding muscle. One surface is in contact with the fascia, and is often marked by Parts a tendinous intersection near the clavicle. When the muscle and^be- IS divided and turned aside, the deep surface will be found neath. ^^^^ ^-j^^ stcmo-thyroideus and its continuation (thyro- hyoid), also on the superior thyroid vessels. The muscles of opposite sides are separated by a cellular interval which is largest below. The origin of the muscle varies much. thyrSid The STERNO-THYROID MUSCLE is wider and shorter than S nTmed stcmo-hyoid, beneath which it lies. Like the other attach? hyoid muscle, it arises from the posterior surface of the sternum, from the cartilage of the first rib below the former, and sometimes from the cartilage of the second rib; and is inserted into the oblique line on the side of the thyroid cartilage, where it is continuous with the thyro-hyoid Parts muscle. The inner border corresponds to the middle line of above ^ and be- the ucck and to the thyroid veins, whilst the outer reaches the carotid artery. The superficial surface is concealed by the preceding hyoid muscles; and the opposite surface is in contact with the lower part of the carotid artery, the trachea, and the larynx and thyroid body. A transverse tendinous line crosses the muscle near the sternum. Thvro- The THYRO-HYOiDEUS is a Continuation of the last muscle, contfnu- Beginning on the side of the thyroid cartilage, the fibres preced^-^ asceud to the inner half of the great cornu of the os hyoides, iTyoides' and to the outer part of the body of the bone. On the