THE INTEROSSEI MUSCLES. 319 there is only one, and they are inserted into the first phalanx of the fingers. They are divided into palmar and dorsal in- divided terossei; but all the small muscles are evident in the palm pahnar of the hand, though some project more than the others. sai. The palmar muscles are three in number, and are smaller Number ^ and oi 1- than the dorsal set, although they are most prominent in the ^/JJ^^^j. palm of the hand. Undivided at the posterior part, they arise from the palmar surface of the metacarpal bones of the fingers on which they act, viz. those of the fore, ring, and little fingers ; and are inserted into the ulnar side of the fore, and the radial side of the other two digits (supposing the hand supine): their attachments may be kept in mind by attach- considering them adductors oi the fingers beiore mentioned to the middle line of the second. The dorsal interossei extend farther back than the palmar Dorsal set, and arise by a double head from the lateral surfaces of the two metacarpal bones between which they lie. The dorsal muscles are thus allotted to the digits :— two belong Number, to the middle finger, one is connected with the radial side of Attach- the fore, and one with the ulnar side of the ring finger. They may be considered abductors from the middle line of the second finger : thus the two muscles attached to the fore and ring fingers will draw those digits from the middle one ; and ac- and those that are connected with the middle finger will carry this to the right and left of a line passing through its centre. The first muscle of this set is noticed separately below, under the name abductor indicis. Both sets of muscles have a similar termination: — the Com- fibres end in a tendon, which is inserted into the side of the ^nion' first or metacarpal phalanx, and sends an expansion to join sets." the aponeurotic covering on the dorsum of that bone. The abductor indicis^ or the first dorsal interosseous First muscle, arises from nearly the whole of the metacarpal bone fmcSs- of the index finger, and from the upper half of that of ^^^^^ the thumb ; and is inserted into the radial side of the first phalanx of the fore finger. By the palmar surface the is a large 1 • • • 1 1 1 T T distinct muscle is in contact with the adductor and flexor brevis muscle pollicis ; and by the opposite surface it is subcutaneous. ^^^^^ The radial artery perforates it to enter the palm. rad'iai^^ Dissection. — The attachments of the annular ligament to artery, the carpal bones on each side may be next dissected out. t7o?r^'