709 POPLITEAL NERVES. The external popliteal nerve (peroneal) lies along the External outer boundary of the ham, and follows the biceps muscle to nerve, the head of the fibula. Below the head of that bone the nerve enters the fibres of the peroneus longus muscle, and divides beneath it into two,—musculo-cutaneous and anterior tibial. Its branches whilst in the popliteal space are cuta- Branch, neous and articular. The articular nerve runs with the upper external artery to the one ar. outer side of the knee, where it sends a twig along the lower arti- cular artery ; both enter the joint. The peroneal communicatinsr branch (ram. communlcans fibu- a com- , . . . . municat- laris) IS a cutaneous nerve, and joins the external saphenous ing branch of the internal pophteal about the middle of the leg. It ' arises near the head of the fibula, and soon pierces the deep fascia; cutaneous offsets are given by it to the back of the leg. One or two other cutaneous offsets are furnished by the external cutane. popUteal to the integument on the outer part of the leg in the sets, upper half. The articular branch of the obturator nerve perforates the Articu- adductor magnus, and is conducted by the popliteal artery to the nerve of back of the knee joint. After supplying filaments to the vessel, Curator, the nerve enters the articulation through the posterior ligament. The lymphatic glands of the popliteal space are situate Lymph- around the large arterial trunk; two or three are ranged on glands the sides, whilst one is superficial to, and another beneath the the vessel: they are joined by the deep lymphatic vessels of^*^'^^^" the lower limb, as well as by the superficial set accompany- ing the saphenous vein. 4 Dissectio7i. — Now the anatomy of the popliteal space has p^^-^^'^^j^ been learnt, the student may proceed with the dissection of of the the back of the thigh. The piece of skin therefore that re- mains between the buttock and the popliteal space, should be divided and reflected to the sides. In the fat on the sides of the limb offsets of the internal seek out cutane- and external cutaneous nerves of the front of the thiofh may ous ^ nerves. be found, and along the middle line, some filaments from the small sciatic nerve. Lastly, remove the deep fascia of the limb, taking care of ciean the small sciatic nerve ; and then clean the hamstring and ' muscles, and trace into them branches of the great sciatic nerve. The MUSCLES ON THE BACK OF THE THIGH act aS fleXOrS of ^u^cfgg