DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 704 Seek the In the Superficial fascia some small cutaneous nerves may ous be found, viz. one or two twigs in the middle line of the limb from the small sciatic nerve beneath the fascia; and some offsets of the internal cutaneous towards the inner part. Fascia Fascia lata,—After the fat is removed, the special fascia ofthe . . . ? r limb of the limb will be brought into view. Where it covers the over the . . . ham. popliteal space it is strengthened by transverse fibres, par- ticularly on the outer side ; and at each side it is connected with the tendons bounding that interval. The short saphe- nous vein perforates it sometimes opposite the knee, but usually at a spot lower down. Remove Dissectiou, — The fascia over the ham is now to be re- fascia, moved without injuring the small sciatic nerve and the short and take saphenous vcin, which are beneath it. A large quantity of from the fat may be next taken out of the space, and the several vessels and nerves looked for. After the ham has been cleaned, the sartorius and the gracilis are to be replaced on the inner side. Seek the In the middle line the student will first come upon the nerves m ^ ^ ^ ^ the large internal popliteal nerve, and nearer the outer side, on space, the external popliteal; both give branches, and their offsets will be recognised more certainly by tracing them from above down along the trunk of the nerve, than by proceeding in the opposite direction. In fat bodies the small nerves to the knee joint are difficult to find. Under cover of the outer boundary, and deep in the space, is an articular nerve (ex- ternal), which sometimes arises from the great sciatic, and In the bottom of the space are the popliteal vessels, and clean the ^ ^ ^ vessels, the vciu is more superficial than the artery. The student is to seek an articular branch (superior), on each side, close above the condyle of the femur. Numerous other branches of the vessels to the muscles around, especially below, are to withob. be cleaned. On the upper part of the artery, the branch of nerve, ncrvc from the obturator to the knee joint may be found. The The POPLITEAL SPACE, or the ham, is the hollow behind j the knee which allows of the free flexion of the joint. In it situa. the large vessels of the limb are contained. When dissected, extent, this interval has the form of a lozenge, and extends upwards along one third of the femur, and downwards along one sixth ! of the tibia; but in the natural condition of the parts the l