607 INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. downwards, as far as the sacro-sciatic notch, the artery ter- J^^^J^^;. minates in two large branches, from which the several offsets are furnished. From the extremity a partly oblite- rated vessel (hypogastric) extends forwards to the bladder. In entering the pelvis the artery lies in front of the lumbo-1^'^^^. sacral nerve and the pyriformis muscle, and is contained in connec. the fold of peritoneum forming the posterior ligament of the bladder. It is accompanied by the internal iliac vein, which is posterior to it, and somewhat on the outer part on the right side. The branches of the artery are numerous, and arise ^l^^^^' usually in the following manner: — from the posterior divi- sion of the trunk arise the ilio-lumbar, lateral sacral, and gluteal branches; and from the anterior division come the vesical (upper and lower) obturator, sciatic, and pudic ; and, in the female, the uterine and vaginal branches. Artery in the foetus, — In the foetus the internal iliac be- f^on^of comes the hypogastric artery^ and leaves the abdomen by {eryTn the umbilicus. At that time it is larger than the external fj]g iliac artery; and, entering but slightly into the cavity of the pelvis, it is directed forwards to the back of the bladder, and then upwards along the side of that viscus to the apex. Be- yond the bladder the vessel ascends along the posterior aspect of the abdominal wall with the urachus, converging to its fellow; at the umbilicus the vessels of opposite sides come into contact with the umbilical vein, and, passing from the abdomen through the aperture at that spot, enter into the placental cord, and receive the name umhilicaL In the foetus, as in the adult, similar branches are furnished by the artery, though their relative size at the two periods is very different. Change to adult state, —When uterine life has ceased the t"ansfor. hypogastric artery diminishes in consequence of the arrest ^to'that of the current of blood through it, and finally becomes obli- ^^^^l terated more or less completely as far back as an inch and a half of its commencement, only a cord remaining in the posi- tion of the former vessel. Commonly, the cord remains per- vious by means of a very small canal as far as the upper part of the bladder, and gives origin to the vesical arteries. Peculiarities.—The length of the internal iliac artery varies from Trunk 1 . , , . vanes in nail an inch to three inches, its extreme measurements; but in two length.