DISSECTION OF THE BUTTOCK. 700 over the in the Superficial fascia over the lower part of the muscle. The buttock 1 ^ ' n y • ' ^ n i and to lower sct supplj the integument of the inner side of the thigh at thigh ; the posterior aspect. One of these branches, which is larger than one of the others, is distributed to the genital organs, and is named inferior the last 7 7 7 / . X . 1 . . . , set pudendal (p. 4d2.) ; as it courses to the permseum, it turns below pude^n- the ischial tuberosity, and perforates the fascia lata only when it has nearly reached the perina3al space. Sometimes the inferior pudendal is a distinct branch of the plexus. Great The great sciatic is the largest nerve in the body, and is nerve; the source of all the muscular, and nciost of the cutaneous outline branches beyond the knee, as well as of the muscular branches at the back of the thigh. At its origin it appears to be a prolongation of the interlacement of the nerves of the sacral and end- plexus. After leaving the pelvis, it is directed through the region of the buttock to the posterior part of the thigh, course where it divides into branches for the leg. In the part of buttock, its course now dissected, viz., to the lower border of the gluteus maximus, it lies in the hollow between the tuber ischii and the great trochanter, and rests on the external rotator muscles below the pyriformis. Oftentimes the nerve is divided into two large trunks at its origin, and one of them pierces the fibres of the pyriformis muscle. Corn- No monly it does not supply any branch to the buttock, but it branch . .. m ^ i • • > in this may give origin to one or two filaments to the hip joint. Pudic The pudic nerve winds over the ischial spine of the hip bone with its companion artery and the nerve to the ob- turator internus muscle, and is distributed with the vessel to the perinaeum and the genital organs (p. 459.). No branch is supplied by it to the buttock. other The remaining muscular and articular branches are derived branches of the from the lower part of the sacral plexus. plexus. Nerves Some ncrvcs to the hip joint perforate the back of the Ji^!*^ capsular ligament, and supply the articulation, to su- A nerve to the superior geinellus is a very small twig, and gemei- ariscs separately from the lower part of the plexus. Nerve to A ncrvc to tlic inferior gemellus and the quadratus is a fuTlnd slender branch ; it passes with a companion artery beneath tus^^^^' the gemelli and the obturator internus, and ends in the two muscles from which it receives its designation. This nerve will be more fully seen in a subsequent dissection, when articular filaments from it to the hip joint may be recog- nised.