489 OBLIQUE INGUINAL HERNIA. border of the transversalis muscle, is the epigastric artery, which lies close to the inner side of the internal abdominal ring, but beneath the fascia transversalis : a small piece of the fiiscia should be cut away to show the vessel on the side of the abdominal ring. Inguinal Hernia. — A protrusion of intestine through situa-^ the lower part of the abdominal wall above Poupart's liga- inguinal hernia, ment, — the part corresponding to the inguinal region, is named an inguinal hernia. The escape of the intestine in this region is predisposed to by the deficiency in the mus- '^^^.f^'^ cular strata, by the passage of the spermatic cord through naturai- the abdominal parietes, and by the existence of fossse on the inner surface of the wall. The gut, in leaving the abdomen, course either passes through the internal abdominal ring with the io4l" cord, or is projected through the part of the abdominal wall between the epigastric artery and the edge of the rectus muscle. The hernia of this region is distinguished by names (ex- Two ternal and internal), derived from its position to the epi- external gastric artery ; and by the terms oblique and direct, from lique; its position in the abdominal wall; so that the hernia that comes through the internal abdominal ring with the cord is called synonymously external and oblique, whilst the hernia between the edge of the rectus and the epigastric artery is named, in like manner, internal and direct. External or Oblique Inguinal Hernia leaves the ab- External or ob- domen with the spermatic cord, and traversing the inguinal i^q^e. canal, makes its exit from the wall of the abdomen by the external abdominal ring. Anatomy/, — To acquire a knowledge of the anatomy of Ana- this hernia it will be necessary to study the space in which parts it lies (inguinal canal), the apertures by which it enters and earned, leaves the wall of the abdomen (abdominal rings), and the coverings that it receives in its progress to the surface of the body. The inguinal canal is the interval between the flat mus- inguinal ^ ^ canal. cles of the abdominal wall, which contains the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament in the female. Its oirec- ^ ° tion. direction is oblique downwards and inwards, being nearly parallel to Poupart's ligament; and its length is about one Length, inch and a half. Superiorly it communicates with the cavity open-