INTRINSIC LINGUAL MUSCLES. 161 spread like the ribs of a fan from apex to base, and are col- lected into laminae as they pass through the transversalis. The most posterior fibres end on the hyo-glossal membrane its poste- and the hyoid bone ; and a slip is continued from them, fibres, beneath the hyo-glossus, to the upper constrictor of the pharynx. A vertical section at a future stage will show the radiation of its fibres. The pharyngeo-glossus (glosso-pharyngeus), or the part of con- the upper constrictor attached to the side of the tongue, at the'^ passes amongst fibres of the sj;ylo and hyo-glossus, and en- tering into the lingual substance, is continued with the how ends. transverse muscle to the septum. B. The intrinsic muscles are three in number in each half Number of the tongue, viz. transversalis, with a superior and an in- names p . ^ ^ of these. lerior Imgualis. Dissection, — To complete the preparation of the inferior First lingualis, on the right side, the fibres of the stylo-glossus piete covering it in front, and those of the genio-hyo-glossus over it behind, are to be cut through. The superior lingualis then may be shown, on the left side, by taking only the mucous \m-^^^^ membrane from the upper surface from tip to base. The then^* transversalis may be laid bare, on the right side, by cutting versal away, on the upper aspect, the stratum of the extrinsic muscles already seen; and on the lower aspect, the inferior lingualis and the genio-hyo-glossus. The nerves for the supply of the tongue should be traced Trace on the left half as well as the part will admit; but a sepa- nerves, rate recent specimen would be required to follow these satis- factorily. The transversalis muscle forms an almost horizontal layer This is in the substance of the tongue from base to apex. The Jontai. fibres are attached internally to the side of the septum, and Attach- ments are thence directed outwards, the posterior being somewhat curved, to their insertion into the side of the tongue. Its Fibres, fibres are collected into vertical plates, so as to allow the passage between them of the ascending fibres. The superior lingualis (noto-glossus of Zaglas *) is a thin This is layer of oblique and longitudinal fibres close beneath the ficiai. * The description given by this author I find more correct than that of others. M