504 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. course between the epigastric and umbilical regions, or alto- and ex- getlicr in the latter. Finally, it descends on the left side ' through the regions corresponding with those it occupied on the right, forms a remarkable bend (sigmoid flexure) in the left iliac fossa, and enters the pelvis to end on the surface of the bodj. It takes an arched course around the small in- Divi. testine, and is divided into six parts, viz. csecum, ascending colon, transverse colon, descending colon, sigmoid flexure, and rectum. Csecum, The ccBcum (caput csecum), or the commencement of the of colon, colon, is placed in the right iliac fossa, in which it is fixed Situation peritoneum stretched over it. In front usually are the convolutions of the small intestine, but when it is and con. distcndcd it touches the abdominal wall. Behind, it rests nections. .^.^^ fascia, Only fatty and connective tissues inter- vening. On the inner side it is joined by the small intes- tine; and it presents inferiorly a worm-like piece — the vermiform appendix. Sometimes the peritoneum surrounds the caecum, and attaches it by a fold to the abdominal wall. Ascend- The asceudhig colon reaches from the csecum to the under ion.^°" surface of the liver, on the right of the gall bladder. It lies against the quadratus lumborum inferiorly, but higher up Parts it is placed in front of the kidney. The peritoneum fixes it around, ^ ^ . immoveably to the wall of the abdomen; and surrounds commonly about two-thirds of the circumference, but it may be found to encircle the tube, and form a fold behind, as in the csecum. To its inner side are the convolutions of the small intestine, connec- The trausverse colon passes obliquely upwards and to the fhT^ left, along the curvature of the stomach, as far as the spleen; ve^rse'co. in this coursc it is deeper at each end than in the middle, '^*"' and, by being thus bent, forms the arch of the colon. In this extent it has above it the liver and the gall bladder, the stomach and the spleen; and below it the small intestine. In front is the great omentum; and behind is a fold of peritoneum, the transverse meso-colon, which attaches it to the back of the abdominal wall, and contains its vessels and isTOost nerves. The transverse colon is more moveable than any able ' other part of the large intestine, its peritoneal fold allowing largli^n- it to bc raised and placed on the margin of the ribs. Small testine.