715 SUPERFICIAL VEINS. and when the joint is extended, the head of the astragalus projects below the border of the tibia. At the inner border of the foot, about an inch from the inner border of internal malleolus, is the prominent scaphoid bone pointing the foot, out the spot at which an amputation (that of Chopart) is practised; whilst farther forwards, by about one inch and a half, is a slight depression that marks the articulation be- tween the internal cuneiform bone and the metatarsal bone of the great toe. About the centre of the outer border of Outer the foot is the eminence of the tarsal end of the fifth meta- tarsal bone. A line over the dorsum of the foot, from the Dorsal centre of the ankle joint to the interval between the inner two toes, will be over the position of the artery of this part. Position.—For the dissection of the back of the leg the Position limb is to be placed on its front, with the foot over the side part, of the dissecting-table, and the muscles of the calf are to be put on the stretch by fastening the foot. Dissection,—For the removal of the skin, one cut may be Take ^ away the made along the middle of the leg to the sole of the foot, skin, where a transverse incision is to be carried over the heel. The two resulting flaps of skin may be raised; the outer one is to be detached as far as the fibula, and the other as far as the inner margin of the tibia. In the superficial fascia the cutaneous nerves and vessels seek cu- are to be followed. On the inner side, close to the tibia, is nerves the internal saphenous vein with the nerve of the same fat. name, together with twigs of the internal cutaneous near the knee. In the centre is the external saphenous vein, with the small sciatic nerve above, and the external saphenous vein below the middle of the leg. On the outer side are the cutaneous offsets of the external popliteal nerve. The superficial fascia or the fatty layer of the back of the super- leg is least thick over the tibia. Over the line of the super- fascia, ficial vessels it may be separated into two layers as in the thigh. Superficial Veins.—Two veins appear in the dissection Jjg^^^- of the back of the leg, which are named saphenous — inner veins, and outer. The internal saphenous vein begins in an arch on the internal dorsum of the foot; it ascends along the leg in front of the nous.