374 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. lobes, and the inferior vein is formed by branches of the lower lobe. Left. The left veins cross in front of the descending aorta ; and one springs from each lobe of the lung. Their Peculiarities in number. — The number of the pulmonary veins varies^'^ '^^y be altered by the union of those of the left side into one; or by the want of union on the right side, from which three trunks result, corresponding to the three lobes of the lung. But other pe- culiarities may be found as to number, for six or seven veins, taking both sides together, have been met with; and a bronchial vein has been found opening into one of the left veins. Join In the ending, — The veins of the right side have been observed cava. . 1 1 • 1 to open m an adult into the vena cava. NERVES OF THE THORAX. Nerves The pncumo-gastric and the sympathetic nerves supply the thorax, visccra of the thorax. Some other nerves (intercostal) which are contained in the wall of the thorax, will be afterwards dissected. In the cavity of the thorax is the phrenic nerve, but this only courses through it to the diaphragm. To trace Dissectiou.— The phrenic nerve is sufficiently denuded for nerves, its examination ; but the student should trace the vagus far\y^^ ucrvc through the cavity of the thorax. The vagus is to be followed, on both sides, behind the root of the lung, and its large plexus in that position is to be dissected out: some filaments of the gangliated cord of the sympathetic, that come forwards to the plexus, must be looked for. In front of the root, the nerve supplies a few pulmonary filaments, especially on the left side. From the root of the lung the vagus is to be pursued along the oesophagus, by raising the lung and removing the pleura. Phrenic The PHRENIC NERVE (internal respiratory) is a muscular nerve is pi • x j / derived branch from the cervical plexus to the diaphragm (p. 78.). cervical In its coursc through the thorax, it lies alono: the side of the plexus, , . . pericardium, and at a little distance from the root of the and lung, with a small companion artery. When near the dia- through phragm each is divided into branches that perforate the to the fleshy fibres, and are distributed on the under surface. The phragm. ncrves of opposite sides differ in length, and in their con- nections above the root of the lung.