DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 348 situa- The root is situate at the inner surface, about midway be- tween the base and apex, and about a third of the breadth of Connec- that surface from the posterior border of the lung. In front tions. root, on both sides, are the phrenic nerve and the anterior pulmonic nerves, the former being at some little distance from it; and anterior to the right root is the descending cava. Behind, on both sides, is the posterior pulmonic plexus; and on the left side there is, in addition, the descending aorta. Above, on the right side, is the vena azygos, and on the left side the arch of the aorta. Below each root is the fold of pleura called ligamentum latum pulmonis. Consti- In the root of the lung are found the vessels connected tuents of ^ ... theroot jwith the fuuctiou of respiration, viz. a division of the air tube (bronchus), a branch of the pulmonary artery, and two pub^nary veins; together with small nutritive bronchial arteries and veins, and some nerves and lymphatics. These different bodies have the following position to one an- other : — their Qn both sidcs the bronchus is most posterior, the pul- relative , x ^ x position, monary veins most anterior, and the pulmonary artery between the other two. In the direction from above down- wards the position on the right side is, bronchus, pulmonary artery, and pulmonary veins ; but on the left side there is a slight difference, owing to the bronchus and artery having changed places ; consequently the relative position will there be, artery, bronchus, and veins. This difference in the two sides may be accounted for by the fact of the left branch of the air tube being at a lower level than the right one. THE PERICARDIUM. Situa- The bag that contains the heart is named the pericardium. It is situate in the middle of the thorax, in the interval be- tween the pleurae of opposite sides. Before proceeding with the anatomy of this sac, the following dissection should be undertaken : — Clean Dissection.— Supposing the surface of the pericardium to vessels of heart bc already cleaned, the student should next dissect out the and seek . , . n • i tt small large arteries and veins connected with the heart. He nerves crossing should afterwards seek carefully the following nerves of the