PERINEUM OF THE FE3IALE. 461 Whilst making the deeper incisions to reach the staff, the bulb and bulb and its artery lie immediately in front of the knife, tery^ and will be entered if the incisions are made too far forward; but the artery must necessarily be cut, when it arises farther back than usual, and crosses the front of the ischio-rectal fossa in its course to the bulb of the urethra. In dividing ejacuia- the prostate gland the edge of the knife is to be turned duct, outwards and downwards, in the direction of a line from the urethra through the left lateral lobe of that body, and so as not to injure the ejaculatory duct below. The upper part capsuie of the prostate and its fibrous capsule are not to be cut prostate through, otherwise the urine may be effused beneath the peritoneum, and the vessels on the exterior may be divided. Directions. — When the dissection of the perinseum is Direc- completed, the flaps of skin are to be fastened together, after some preservative fluid has been used, and the limbs are to be put down. Section II. PERINEUM OF THE FEMALE. In the female the perinseum differs from the like region in Peri-' the male more in the external form than the internal ana- "em^e^^ tomy; but it has special parts distinguishing it, viz. the has spe- aperture of the vagina surrounded by its sphincter, and the parts, aperture of the vulva with the labia. Surface-marking, — On the surface of the perinseal space Along J.1 • 1 n T 1 . middle, m the middle line, there are two apertures, viz. those of the aper. -11 1 ' t in tures of anus and vulva, which are separated from one another bv ^"'^ . vulva. an interval of about an inch ; the former is situate relatively rather farther back than in the male, and the vulva is in the situation of the scrotum of the other sex. Bounding the vulva are the labia majora, one on each side. Within the Parts vulva, at the upper part, is the clitoris, with two small mem- ^uiva? branous folds, labia minora, extending downwards from it. Below the clitoris is the small aperture of the urethra; and still lower down is the vagina, whose opening is sometimes partly closed by a thin piece of membrane, the hymen. Beep boundaries,—The deep boundaries of the perinaeum ^^^^'^^