738 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. Exter. The external saphenous vein begins on the outside of the phenous. little toe and the foot, as well as in the venous arch; it is then continued below the outer ankle to the back of the leg (p. 716.). Source CuTANEOUS Nerves. — All the Superficial nerves on the cutane- frout of the leg and foot are derived from branches of the ous , nerves, popliteal trunks, viz., from the musculo-cutaneous and ante- rior tibial nerves of the external popliteal, and from the external saphenous nerve of the internal popliteal. Some inconsiderable offsets to the sides of the leg from the internal and external saphenous do not require separate notice. Muscu- The musculo'cutaneous nerve has a cutaneous termination, and its neous' place of destination is the dorsum of the foot and toes. Perfora- certa'in^ ting the fascia in the lower third of the leg, it divides into two toes; principal branches (inner and outer), which give digital nerves to the sides of all the toes, except the outer part of the little toe and divides the Contiguous sides of the great toe and the next. The digital branches may be traced in the integument as far as the end of the last phalanx. inner The inner hranch communicates with the internal saphenous ^"^ nerve, and supplies the inner side of the foot and great toe : it joins also the anterior tibial nerve, outer h. The outer hranch divides into three nerves, which lie over the outer three interosseous spaces, and bifurcate at the web of the foot for the supply of the contiguous sides of the four toes cor- responding with those spaces : it joins the external saphenous nerve on the outer part of the foot. Anterior The anterior tibial nerve becomes cutaneous in the first inter- where osseous space, and is distributed to the opposed sides of the great found. next. The musculo-cutaneous nerve joins it, and sometimes assists in supplying the same toes. External The external saphenous uerve comes from the back of the leg nous. below the outer ankle, and is continued along the foot to the out- side of the little toe. Occasionally it supplies both sides of the little toe, and part or more of the next. Deep The fascia of the front of the leg is thickest near the knee the leg; joint, whore it gives origin to muscles. It is fixed internally attach, and externally to the tibia and fibula. Intermuscular septa are prolonged from the deep surface, and one of these, which is attached to the fibula, separates the muscles on the front from those on the outer side of the leg. Superiorly the fascia is connected to the heads of the bones, but inferiorlj it is continued to the dorsum of the foot. Above and below