DISSECTION OF THE EYE. where the vessels form a close plexus, the pigment cells are wanting in it. In the inner layer the vessels form a net- but very work of capillaries with meshes smaller than elsewhere, ternaiiy. whosc intersticcs are rather less towards the back than the front of the eyeball: this part of the choroidal coat is some- times described as a separate layer {tunica Ruyschiand), struc- In the ciliary processes there is also a texture of ramified ciliary^ bloodvessels though with larger capillary meshes ; and the cesses, intermixed pigment cells lose their colouring matter to- wards the tips of the folds. Pigmen- The pigmentary membrane (choroidal epithelium). — On layer the inner surface of the choroid coat and ciliary processes of cells is a pisrmentary lining. This structure is easilv detached; that con- . ^.."^ /-.".-.i tain the it cousists in great part oi a single stratum of six-sided nu- cleated cells with granular contents, which are applied to each other by their edges. It has this constitution as far forwards as the ciliary processes, but in front of that line it is several layers deep, and the cells are rounded. In the eye occa- of the ox the colouring matter is absent from the cells in the pigment bottom of the eye, and allows some fibrous tissue of the cho- roid {tapeturri) to shine through it; and in the albino the pigment is altogether deficient in the cells, so that the vessels give a red appearance to the interior of the eye. This dark layer absorbs the superabundant rays of light entering the eyeball. Ciliary CiLiART LiGAMENT AND MusCLE.—In the cve from wliich liga- . ment. the sclcrotic coat has been removed, the white band of the ciliary ligament (annulus alhidus\ with the muscle close behind it, may be seen in its natural position outside the part of the choroid coat that is reflected inwards to form the ciliary processes, situa- Ciliary ligament, — This narrow circle (about 4-o^th of an inch thick) is situate in the ball of the eye nearly opposite the junction of the cornea with the sclerotic tunic, and serves the purpose of uniting the other coats at the fore part connec- of the cyc. Externally it is closely connected with the with sclerotic, but a small interval the sinus circularis iridis exists parts, between the two. Its fibres are circular; they are stiff. Fibres. rcsemblc those of elastic tissue in their properties. Ciliary The ciUary muscle consists of unstriated fibres, and forms a grayish layer, about ^th of an inch wide, on the surface muscle.