DISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. 129 sels with the internal jugular vein, care must be taken of the sympathetic beneath them. The upper end of the sternum with its attached clavicle is next to be taken away, bj cutting through the middle of the first rib ; and the piece of bone thus obtained is to be put aside for the subsequent examination of the sterno-clavicular articulation. The viz. middle middle ganglion must be soucrht in the connective tissue and low- . . . . . gan- near the inferior thyroid artery; and the inferior one will giia. be seen on the neck of the first rib, after a piece of the sub- clavian artery has been cut out. The upper cardiac nerve will be found descending beneath the carotid sheath. The middle and inferior cervical ganglia of the sympathetic Ganglia nerve are so similar to the corresponding ganglia of the right pathetic side, that the same description will sufiice (p. 122.). The cardiac nerves are three in number on the left, as on Cardiac the right side, viz. superior, middle, and inferior, but they present some peculiarities. The superior cardiac nerve has on both sides a similar course in Upper, the neck; but the left in entering the chest is between the carotid and subclavian arteries, and parallel to them. The middle cardiac nerve frequently unites with the next nerve, Middle, and passes beneath the subclavian artery to the deep cardiac plexus. The inferior cardiac nerve is generally a small branch that enters Lower, the thorax conjoined with the preceding, and ends in the cardiac plexus. Section XL DISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. The pharynx, or the commencement of the alimentary passage, can be examined only when it has been separated from the rest of the body; and it will therefore be necessary to cut through the base of the skull in the manner mentioned below, so as to have the anterior half, with the pharynx connected to it, detached from the posterior half. Dissection,—Preparatory to sawing the skull certain other To de- steps are needed. In the first place, the block being re- pharynx moved from beneath the neck, the head is to be placed down- wards, so that it may stand on the cut surface of the skull. Next the trachea and oesophagus, together with the vagus K