CAVITY OF THE MOUTH. the larynx through the upper opening. Inferiorly, it is continued hj the oesophagus to the stomach. The mucous membrane is thicker, redder, and better pro- Supe- vided with elands in the upper, than in the lower part of has co- ^ lumnar, the pharynx ; and its character, near the different apertures, jjjf^j^^''- resembles that of the membrane lining the cavities openinsj epithe- into the pharynx. Its epithelium is scaly below the palate, that is to say, in the part through which the food passes; but columnar and ciliated above that spot, where only the air is transmitted. Beginning of the oesophagus,— In addition to what has Begin- been said of the commencement of the oesophagus, and its oesopha- gus. connections in the neck, it may be remarked, that the size of this tube is less than that of the pharynx, and that the walls are flaccid. On dissection the tube will be found to consist of two Formed of two layers of muscular fibres, with a lining of mucous mem- layers of , *^ ' ° fibres; brane. The external layer is formed of longitudinal fibres; these outer or begin opposite the cricoid cartilage by three bundles, ante- dinlu^ rior and two lateral;—the former is attached to the ridge at the back of the cartilage, and the others join the inferior constrictor. The internal layer, on the other hand, is formed and in- . . ner or of circular fibres, which are continuous with those of the circular, constrictor. The structure of the oesophagus is described more fully in the dissection of the thorax. Section XII. CAVITY OF THE MOUTH. The cheeks, the lips, and the teeth, are to be examined with the mouth, as all may be considered accessory parts. The Mouth. — The cavity of the mouth is situate below Mouth, that of the nose, and extends from the lips in front to the isthmus of the fauces behind. Its boundaries are partly situa- . tion, osseous and partly muscular, and its size depends upon the position of the lower jaw. When the lower jaw is moder- form, ately removed from the upper one, the mouth is an oval cavity with the following boundaries. The roof is concave, and