458 DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. duct in the ordinary state of the parts does not admit a bristle. These bodies are sometimes so small as to escape detection, and they appear to decrease in size with advancing age. Dissec- Dissection, — The student may complete the examination tionof . . 1 . the pu- 01 the perinasum by tracing out the pudic vessels and nerve, seis and and their remaining branches. From the point of its divi- nerve. sion into two branches (dorsal branch of the penis, and branch of the corpus cavernosum) beneath the crus, the artery is to be followed backwards along the outer wall of the right ischio-rectal fossa. The pudic nerve will be ex- posed at the same time, and should any of the branches be already cut away, the corresponding ones may be sought on the opposite side. Pudic The pudic artery is a branch of the internal iliac; it enters artery perinasal space through the small sacro-ischiatic notch, and is distributed to the perinseum and the genital organs, courses Entering the posterior part of the ischio-rectal fossa, the pubic artery extends forwards alonff the outer wall about one inch arch ^ and a half above the ischial tuberosity, and is contained in an aponeurotic canal which attaches it to the fascia covering the obturator muscle: but at the base of the triangular ligament the vessel is much nearer the margin of the pubic arch. It then ascends between the layers of the triangular ligament, and along the pubic arch nearly to the subpubic and ends ligament, where it perforates the superficial part of the tri- on penis. ^ ... angular ligament, and divides into the artery of the body, and that of the dorsum of the penis. Branch- The branches of the vessel in the perinseal space are nume- yetseen rous. The Superficial offsets, viz. inferior haemorrhoidal, transverse perinseal, and superficial perinasal, have been ex- amined : the remaining, for the supply of the penis and the urethra, are subjoined: — Artery The artery of the bulb of the urethra is a branch of considerable between size, and arises near the base of the triangular ligament. Passing larTif^- almost transversely inwards between the layers of the ligament, ment. g^^j ^bout half an inch from its base, the artery reaches the bulb of the urethra, and enters the spongy structure. Near the urethra it furnishes a small branch to Cowper's gland. Its situ- The distance of this branch from the base of the ligament de- varies, pends upon its origin at a point nearer the front or back of the perinseal space. If the vessel arises farther behind than usual, it