DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 180 posterior tubercles on the tips of the conjoined transverse processes (diapophyses and parapophyses). Between the muscles, except in the first two spaces, is the anterior primary branch of a cervical nerve ; and beneath the pos- terior muscle is the other primary branch of the same nerve. Pecuiia- In the upper intertransverse space the posterior muscle is often wanting; and, in the lowest space, the muscle of the anterior set is smaller than the others, or it may be absent. Cervical Cevvical nevves at their exit from the spinal canal. — The thdr^fo- cervical nerves issue from the spinal canal through the inter- g^™'"^ vertebral foramina, with two exceptions, and bifurcate into an anterior and a posterior trunk, anterior The anterior primary branch passes outwards between the intertransverse muscles, and joins in plexuses in the neck (p. 76.). and pos- The posterior primary branch turns to the back beneath trunks, the postcrior intertransverse muscle, and the other muscles attached to the posterior transverse processes (diapophyses) ; it lies close to the bone between the articular processes of the vertebra. First two Peculiarities in the first two, — The first two nerves leave differ^ the spinal canal above the neural arches of the first two ver- tebrae, and divide at the back of the neck into anterior and posterior trunks. in both The anterior primary branch of the first or suboccipital anterior ^^pyg ]^g^g j^g^^j g-j^g^j^^j^g^ ^p^ 120.). The anterior branch of the second nerve, after perforating the membrane between the neural arches of the first and second vertebrae, is directed forwards outside the vertebral artery, and beneath the inter- transverse muscle of the first space, to join the cervical plexus. posterior The posterior primary branches of the first two nerves trunks. dcscribcd in the dissection of the back. Verte- The vertebral artery has been seen at its origin in the tery in HCck (p. 73.); and its termination will be described with the iamfna vcsscls of the brain. Entering the foramen between the cawSl' transverse processes of the sixth cervical vertebra (usually), tebr^. artery ascends vertically through the corresponding fora- mina of the other vertebrae; and having passed through the aperture of the atlas, the vessel turns backwards on the neural arch of that bone^ and enters the skull through the