33 CARTILAGES OF THE NOSE. auricular nerve pierce the gland at the lower part, and join the facial. The structure of the parotid resembles that of the other salivary The glands. The glandular mass is divided into numerous small forHfed lobules by intervening processes of fascia ; and each lobule consists ^-^aJ-'^^ of a set of the closed saccular extremities of the excretory duct, of the ducts, surrounded by capillary vessels. The size of these little sacs, which by their aggregation form the mass of the lobule, is about -j^QQ of an inch in diameter. From the lobules issue small ducts, which unite to form larger tubes, and finally all the ducts of the gland are collected into one. An examination of the common duct (duct of Stenson) will show and the it to be composed of an external thick fibrous coat, and of 3;n two internal mucous coat which is covered with columnar epithelium. The parotid receives its arteries from the external carotid; Vessels and its nerves from the sympathetic, auriculo-temporal of nerves, the fifth, facial, and great auricular. Its lymphatics join those of the neck. Two or three small molar glands lie along the origin of the Molar buccinator, and open into the mouth near the last molar tooth by separate ducts. CARTiLAaES OF THE NosE.—These close the anterior nasal Nasai carti- aperture in the skeleton, and form part of the outer nose ^ages. and the septum. They are five in number, two on each side — lateral cartilage and cartilage of the aperture; to- gether with a central one, or the cartilage of the septum of the nose. Only the lateral cartilages are seen in this stage of the dissection. Dissection, — The lateral cartilages will be seen when all Take away the muscular and fibrous structure of the left side of the tissue from nose, and the skin of the lower part of the nostril of the same surface, side have been taken away. By passing the knife deeply in the middle line, the cartilage of the septum will be rendered apparent between the lateral cartilages of each side. The upper lateral cartilage is flattened, and is somewhat The triangular in form. Posteriorly it is attached to the nasal Siiage 1 • •^t 1 -I . , . , touches and superior maxillary bones ; and anteriorly it meets the jts fei- one of the opposite side for a short distance above, but the the mid- two are separated below by an interval, in which the carti- lage of the septum appears. Inferiorly the lateral cartilage is contiguous to the cartilage of the aperture, and is con- nected to it by fibrous tissue. D