510 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. part of the great omentum, with the transverse colon, and the transverse meso-colon with its ascending layer. Above is the Opens liver: and below is the doublino^ of the arreat omentum. This ba^ into . . . . general communicates with the rest of the peritoneal cavity, through the foramen^ space (foramen of Winslow), behind the small omentum. If the iow\^"^^' t>ag of the omentum were perfect, it could be inflated througli the foramen ; or if it were detached from the surrounding parts, it could be drawn through the same hole into the general bag of the peritoneum. Supposing it to be detached and drawn out, the fol- lowing parts would have peritoneum taken from them, viz. the small omentum (posterior piece), the posterior part of the stomach, the great omentum (inner piece), the upper surface of the trans- verse colon, the pancreas and the spine, and the posterior part of the liver. Should this piece of peritoneum be removed, there is not any hindrance to the vessels reaching the dilFerent viscera; and it may be readily conceived how the detached membrane could be replaced over the viscera, and around the vessels without being perforated by them. Foramen ^. The/omme/i of Winslow is the space behind the small omen- lowi^^"^' t^^^? through which the bag of the omentum opens into the general cavity of the peritoneum. In front of it is the small omentum, and behind are the vena cava and the spine. Above it is the liver (lobulus Spigelii), and below is the duodenum. Should this hole be closed by inflammation, there might be a dropsical collection in either the bag of the omentum, or the general bag of the peri- toneum. Splenic The splenic omentum reaches froni tlie erreat end of the omen- ^ turn. stomach to the concave surface of the spleen, and does not consist usually of two strata or pieces, like the other omenta. It covers the vessels passing betvs^een the two viscera, and is continued inferiorly into the great omentum. Perito. Folds on the large intestine. — The lar^e intestine is con- neum ^ *^ attach- nected to the wall of the abdomen by folds of the peritoneum ing large , n, . . intestine (mcso-colic), which are formed of two pieces, as the other processes. Each part of the colon has a separate meso-colon attaching it: thus there is an ascending, a transverse, a de- scending, and a sigmoid meso-colon: the caecum is also fixed by a meso-csecum, and the rectum by a meso-rectum. Meso- a. The meso-ccecum attaches the caecum to the right iliac fossa. Usually the peritoneum does not surround the caecum so as to form a fold behind it, but in some bodies the serous membrane does give a suspensory band to that part of the intestine. caecum.