556 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. marked by a longitudinal fissure, hilum. In the interior of the kidney is a hollow, named sinus, into which the hilum leads, and in which the vessels and the duct are contained before they pierce the renal substance. Contents In the fissure of the kidney the several vessels are thus fissure : placod with rcspcct to one another: — The divisions of the their: renal vein are in front, the ureter is behind, and the branches position. artery lie between the other two. On the vessels the nerves and lymphatics ramify, and connective tissue and fat surround the whole. Open the Dissection, — To examine the interior it will be necessary and"^^' to cut through the kidney from the inner to the outer vessels, bordcr, and to remove the loose tissue from the vessels, and the divisions of the excretory duct that enter the hilum. The hollow, or sinus, that contains the bloodvessels^ now comes into view. Renal The interior of the kidney appears on a section to consist stance of two difiereut materials, viz. of an external granular or into cor- cortical part I and of internal, darker coloured, pyramidal pyrami- masscs, which couvcrgc towards the centre, and are con- nected with the divisions of the excretory duct. But it will subsequently appear that each of these parts is constructed of the same elements, though somewhat difierently arranged. Extent The cortical substance, or the external part, forms about tical sub- three-fourths of the kidney ; it covers the pyramidal masses with a layer about two lines in thickness, and sends prolon- coiour; gatious between the same nearly to their extremities. Its colour is of a light red, unless the kidney is blanched ; and consist^ its consistence is so slight that the mass gives way beneath ^"^^' the finger. This layer is formed of a congeries of convo- compo. luted uriniferal tubes, surrounded by vascular plexuses; and, sition. . . . ' . ... I in a well-injected specimen, red points (Malpighian bodies) are scattered here and there through its texture. Pyra- The pyramidal masses (pyramids of Malpighi, medullary number ^ubstance,) are twelve or eighteen in number, and converge form, ' to sinus of the kidney. Each mass is conical in form: rection \i2i^Q turned towards the circumference of the organ, where it is surrounded by the cortical substance ; and the apex, which is free from cortical covering, directed to the hollow at the inner part of the kidney. At this last spot it end in euds in a smooth, rounded part, named mamilla or papilla, papilla. '