DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 60 plexus . fications of the cervical nerves in the plexus of the same name, and superficial branches are furnished from these both upwards and downwards. that as- A. The ASCENDING SET are three in number, viz. small cendjViz. ... occipital, great auricular, and superficial cervical. Small 1. The small occipital branch comes from the second occipital. . , . cervical nerve, and is directed upwards to the head along the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle. At first the nerve is-beneath the fascia; but near the occiput it becomes cutaneous, and is distributed between the ear and the great occipital nerve (p. 9.). Occasionally there is a second cutaneous nerve to the head. Great 2. The great auricular nerve is a branch of that part of lar. the plexus which is formed bj the second and third cervical nerves. Perforating the deep fascia at the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, the nerve is then directed upwards beneath the platysma to the lobule of the ear, where it ends in the following branches ; — supplies The facial branches are sent forwards to the integument over facial, . . ° the parotid, and a few slender filaments pass through the gland to join the facial nerve, auricu- The auricular branches ascend to the external ear, and are lar: . . . . . chiefly distributed on its cranial aspect; one or more reach the opposite surface by piercing the pinna. On the ear thej commu- nicate with the branches furnished from the facial and pneumo- gastric nerves. and The mastoid branch is directed backwards to the inteojument mastoid . branch- between the ear and the mastoid process; and it joins the posterior auricular branch of the facial nerve (p. 8.). Super- 3. The superficial cervical nerve springs from the same cervical sourco as the preceding, and turns forwards round the sterno-mastoid muscle about the middle. Afterwards it pierces the fascia, and ramifies over the anterior triangular space beneath the platysma myoides (see p. 62.). There may be more than one branch to represent this nerve, that^de ^' "^^^ DESCENDING SET of branches (supra-clavicular) scend are derived from the third and fourth nerves of the plexus, are ^ ' and are directed towards the clavicle over the lower part of the posterior triangular space. Their number is somewhat uncertain, but usually there are about three on the clavicle, sternal, The most internal branch (sternal) crosses the clavicle davku- near its inner end; the middle branch lies about the middle