19 NERVES AT THE BASE OF THE SKULL. c 2 eyeball, is seen entering the orbit through the optic fora- enters men: accompanying the nerve is the ophthalmic artery. ^ Dissection,—The third, fourth, and the ophthalmic trunk Dissec- • ^ ^ ^ tion of of the fifth nerve lie in the outer wall of the cavernous third and sinus; and it will be necessary, in order to see them, to fourth ' . nerves; remove the sheaths of the dura mater that they receive. Afterwards the student should follow outwards the roots of fifth of the fifth nerve into the middle fossa of the skull, and take away the dura mater from the surface of the large Gasserian ganglion which lies on the point of the petrous part of the temporal bone. And the two large trunks that leave the front of the ganglion, viz. superior and inferior maxillary, should be traced to their apertures of exit from the skull. The THIRD NERVE is destined for the muscles of the orbit. Motor-? T 1 n r» 1 • 1 • OCUli It enters the wall oi the cavernous sinus near the anterior nerve clinoid process, and is deprived at that spot of its tube of arachnoid membrane. In the wall of the sinus it is placed above the other nerves ; but when it is about to enter the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure, it lies below the fourth and part of the fifth, and divides into two branches. Near passes to . . orbit. the orbit this nerve is joined by one or two delicate fila- ments of the cavernous plexus (p. 22.). The FOURTH NERVE courses forwards, like the preceding, Troch- to one muscle in the orbit. It is the smallest of the nerves nerve in the wall of the sinus, and lies below the third; but as it is about to pass through the sphenoidal fissure it becomes higher than all the other nerves. In the wall of the sinus in the the fourth nerve is joined by twigs of the sympathetic, and cavern-i it is sometimes united with the ophthalmic trunk of the fifth. Snus. Fifth Nerve. — This nerve is distributed to the face and Trifacial head, and consists of two parts or roots — a large or sensory, has^two and a small or motory. The two roots of the nerve pass together through an aperture in the dura mater, into the middle fossa of the base of the skull. Immediately after- wards the larger root enters into the Gasserian ganglion, their whilst the smaller root passes beneath the ganglion, without communicating with it, and joins only one of the three trunks derived from the ganglion. The ganglion of the root of the fifth nerve (Gasserian Gasse- ganglion) is placed in a depression on the point of the petrous gan-^ part of the temporal bone. The upper surface of the gan- iarge ,