DISSECTION OF THE SPINAL CORD. 432 FibroTis rough. Along its front is a central, anterior fibrous band are con- (linea splendens, Haller); and on each side another fibrous with it. band, the ligamentum denticulatum, is attached to it. Scat- tered through the fibrous membrane are branched yellow or brown pigment cells, which in the neck are so numerous as to give it a darkish appearance. tnds Where the medulla spinalis ceases, viz. about the lower in^e- . part of the body of the first lumbar vertebra, the investing riorly in - ^ o a fibrous tube of the pia mater is suddenly reduced in size, and has piece, X J 7 the appearance of a round fibrous cord. This cord-like part. reaches towards tlie end of the spinal canal: it is unprovided with nervous substance, except for a short distance, and is blended with a central impervious prolongation of the dura which is mater, on a level with the upper part of the sacrum. It central scrvcs to fix the lowcr end of the medulla, and has been liga- ment, named, from that circumstance, the central ligament of the cord. A vein and artery accompany this fibrous piece, and thus mark it out from the surrounding nerves. The den- The liqamentum denticulatum is the white fibrous band on tateliga- ^ ^ ment, each side of the spinal cord, that is so named from its serrated which is ^ fixed on appearance: it has the same structure as the dura mater, ex- one side ^ ^ ^ to cord, cept that it wants an epithelial covering. Situate between the anterior and posterior roots of the nerves, the band reaches upwards to the medulla oblongata, and ends inferiorly on the lower pointed extremity of the cord. Internally it is united to the pia mater. Externally it ends in a series of triangular or tooth-like projections, which are fixed at and on intervals along the dura mater, each being about midway dura between the apertures of transmission of the roots of the points, spinal nerves. There are twenty or twenty-one of these denticulations, of which the first is attached to the dura Number mater opposite the margin of the occipital foramen, between tach- the vertebral artery and the hypoglossal nerve ; and the last these, is inserted opposite the last dorsal or the first lumbar vertebra. This fibrous band supports the spinal cord, and has been called a ligament from that circumstance. Vessels mid nerves of the memhi^anes. — The dura mater of the cord has but few vessels in comparison with that in the skull, for of dura j^-g office is different: nerves have not yet been traced into it, mater, though they have been found on the vessels that supply the cord and ff3 membranes. and nerves