ADDUCTOR MUSCLES. 683 nus, and is distributed over the synovial membrane of the front of branch the articulation : this small nerve accompanies the deep branch of'° the anastomotic artery. A branch of nerve to the tensor vagince femoris is de- Nerve of, rived from the superior gluteal (p. 697.)? and enters the vagince. under surface of the muscle. In the fibres it extends nearly to the lower end. Directions, —After the examination of the muscles of the Take , p next the front of the thigh with the vessels and nerves that are tur- adduc- nished to them, the student is next to learn the adductor muscles and their vessels and nerves. Dissection, — To prepare the muscles, the investing tissue Dissec- is to be taken from them, and the superficial adductors are adductor to be separated one from another. Let the student be careful "^^^^ of the branches of the obturator nerve in connection with the muscles, viz. those offsets entering the muscular fibres, and the plexus on the inner side of the thigh. Lastly, should any fat and veins be left with the profunda and its branches, the whole must be cleared away. DEEP PARTS ON THE INNER SIDE OF THE THIGH. The muscles in this position are the three adductors. The ad- longus, brevis, and magnus, with the gracilis and the pec- muscles tineus ; these have the under-mentioned position with respect to one another. Internal to all and the longest, is the gra- and their cilis. Superficial to the others, are the pectineus and the adductor longus ; and beneath those two are the short ad- ductor and the adductor magnus. In connection with these muscles, and supplying them, are vessels, the profunda artery (of the femoral) and its branches, with the accompanying vein. The obturator nerve lies amongst the adductor muscles, Nerve, and furnishes branches to them. The GRACILIS reaches from the pelvis to the tibia, and is Gracilis fleshy and riband-like above, but tendinous below. The muscle arises by an aponeurosis, two or three inches in takes ' depth, from the lower or pubic border of the hip bone close frShe to the margin, viz. opposite the lower half of the symphysis, and the upper part of the pubic arch close to the inner margin. Inferiorly it is inserted by a flat tendon, about half ^yj"-^