795 SEMICIRCULAR CANALS. hemispherica by a continuation of the crista before men- tioned on the inner wall. The SEMICIRCULAR CANALS are three osseous tubes, which Three ' canals j are situate behind the vestibule, and are named from their form. Dissection, — These small canals will be easily brouorht prepara- o tion of into view by the removal of the surrounding bone by means ^hem. of a file or some cutting instrument. Two may be seen opening near the aperture made in the vestibule, and may be followed thence ; but the third is altogether towards the pos- terior aspect of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. The canals are of unequal lengths, but each forms more Length; o ^ termina- than half a circle: they communicate at each end with the tion by *' five vestibule, and the contiguous ends of two are blended to- ?pen- gether so as to give but five openings into that cavity. Each is marked by one dilated extremity which is called the one end „ , . dilated; ampulla. When a tube is cut across it is not circular, but is compressed laterally, and measures about -^^ih. of an inch, form and though in the ampulla the size is as large again. From a difference in the direction taken by the tubes. They are they have been named superior and posterior vertical, "^"^^^ and horizontal. The superior vertical canal crosses the superior upper border of the petrous part of the temporal bone, where it forms a projection. Its extremities are more dis- tant than in the other tubes: its outer end is marked by the ampulla, whilst the inner is joined with the following. Tiie posterior vertical tube is directed backwards from its JUnC- posterior tion with the preceding towards the posterior surface of the ^^^^'^^'» temporal bone ; the upper end is united with the superior vertical canal in a common tube, and the lower end is free and dilated. The horizontal canal has separate apertures, and ho- and is the shortest of the three. Deeper in position than the "^^^^ superior vertical, it lies in the substance of the bone nearly on a level with the fenestra ovalis ; its dilated end is at the outer side close above that aperture. Cochlea. — This part of the osseous labyrinth has a po- cochiea. sition anterior to the vestibule, and has received its name from its resemblance to a snail's shell. Dissection.— To obtain a view of the cochlea in the dried Dissec- in 1 tion for bone, it will be needful to cut or file away gradually on the it in dry preparation before used for displaying the vestibule, the sur-