POSITION OF THE HEART. 351 three quarters in length, three inches and a half in width, and two inches and a half in thickness. Position and direction.— The heart lies beneath the lower situation two thirds of the sternum, and projects on each side of it, chesty but more on the left than the riarht side. The axis is not line of its axis parallel to that of the body, but is inclined obliquely across it; and its left margin is undermost, whilst the right is foremost. The heart has not a vertical direction in the chest, with placed almost the base upwards and the apex down, but almost a hori- horizou- zontal one, so that the base is directed backwards to the right, and the apex forwards to the left side. Limits. — The limits of the whole heart are the follow- Limits ing: — The base is opposite the spinal column, and corresponds of base to the interval between the fifth and the eighth dorsal ver- tebrae. The apex strikes the wall of the thorax during life and just below the fifth rib, near its junction with the cartilage, and at a spot on the surface, " two inches below the nipple and one on the sternal side " (Williams). The upper limit would be a line across the sternum on a of "pp^^" , margin, level with the upper border of the third costal cartilage. And the lower limit, a line across the sternum at the junc- tion of the xiphoid cartilage, from the articulations of the sixth and seventh cartilages of the right side to the spot where the apex touches. Its lateral limits are the following. On the right it pro- lower jects from one to one inch and a half beyond the middle line of the sternum, and its increase in this direction is con- stantly varying with the degree of distension of the right half of the heart. On the left side the heart projects three inches to three inches and a half from the centre of the sternum. Position to wall. — In consequence of the direction of the oniy heart in the thorax, only some parts can be near, or in con- parts tact with the parietes in front: thus the base must be the waii. directed away from the sternum and the costal cartilages ; and the left half will be undermost and deep in the cavity, whilst the right half will be forwards and in contact largely with the anterior wall.* * If the dissector wishes for farther information respecting the cor-