802 ENDING OF AUDITORY NERVE. Professor Kolliker states that the nerves end on the vestibular surface of the membranous part of the septum, in the form of uni- polar ganglion cells, and that before they terminate they lose their dark outline. vestibu- b. The vestibular branch ends in three nerves for the lar branch membranous labyrinth : these pierce the cribriform plate in into the bottom of the meatus, and are thus distributed: — one ' appertains to the utricle, and to the enlargements on the tubes contained in the superior vertical and horizontal semi- circular canals; a second ends in the saccule; and the third belongs to the ampuUary swelling on the tube of the posterior vertical semicircular canal, theirter- Termination of the vestibular nerves. — The ending of the mina- «^ o tion. nerve fibres on the sacs and on the ampullary enlargements is different. On the On the membranous sacs the nerve divides, and its fila- sacs they ments separate ; some filaments passing through the otolith and others outside it. Those w^hich pass outside the calca- reous matter, spread out on the inner surface ; and meeting lose with the lining of nucleated cells, the tubules lose the white ^b-^ substance of Schwann, and probably end in a " fibrous stance, that of the inner stratum of the nervous layer of the retina (Todd and Bowman). The same authors state and end that the tubulcs surrouudcd by the otolith appear to termi- in fibres , , , , rr inside, natc in free points, without losing their white substance. In the In the ampullary enlargement of the tubes of the semi- arched r ^ tubes circular canals the nerve enters the concave side, where it they . . \ form a forms a forked eminence (Steifensand), corresponding with tion, and the pro]ection in the interior. The nerve tubules do not' end in ^ ^ loops spread out as in the sacs, but are confined to the swelling, in therein, . . ^ which they end in a series of loops (Wagner). Some of the nerve fibres are said to terminate in free extremities as well as in loops.