570 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN, Two The pillars (crura, appendices) are two large muscular pillars, ^ ^ ' rr , . , p , , -, . and tendinous processes, one on each side oi the abdominal with aorta. They are pointed and tendinous below^ where tliey resem- are attached to the upper lumbar vertebrse, but large and fleshy above ; and between them is a tendinous arch over Arrange- the aorta. In each pillar the fleshy fibres succeed to a ment of i. ^ fibres in pointed tcudou, and pass upwards and forwards, diverging from each other. The greater number join the central as they toudou without intermixing. But the internal fibres of to the opposite sides cross one another in the following manner: those of the right side, for instance, ascend by the side of the aorta, and pass to the left of the middle line, decussating between that vessel and the opening of the oesophagus with their fellows ; having changed sides, these fibres are directed upwards to the central tendon around the cesophagean open- ing, which they limit on the left. The fibres of the other crus may be traced in the same way, to form the right half of the oesophagean opening. In the decussation between the aorta and the oesophagus the fasciculus of fibres from the right crus is generally larger than that from the left, and commonly anterior to it. Differ. The piUars differ somewhat on opposite sides. The right the pil- IS the larger of the two, and is fixed by tendinous processes to the front of the bodies of the first three lumbar vertebra?, as well as their intervertebral substance, reaching to the in- tervertebral disc between the third and fourth vertebrae. The left pillar *, which is situate more on the side of the spine, is partly concealed by the aorta, and does not reach so far as the right by the depth of a vertebra, or of an in- tervertebral substance. Two The arches (ligamenta arcuata) are two fibrous bands over the quadratus lumborum and psoas muscles on each side, internal The arch over the psoas (lig. arcuat. internum) is the strongest, and is connected by the one end to the tendinous part of the pillar of the diaphragm, and by the other end to the transverse process of the first or the second lumbar ver- andex. tcbra. The external arch over the quadratus lumborum faisS^ muscle (lig. arcuat. externum) is only a thickened part of the fascia covering that muscle, and extends from the same * Not very unfrequently this pillar may be found wanting.