DISSECTION OF THE BUTTOCK. 692 through in the time appointed for the body to lie in its present position. Take-up Dissection, — The integument is to be raised from the buttock by means of the following incisions : — One is to be made along the iliac crest of the hip bone and to be con- tinued in the middle line of the sacrum to the tip of the coccyx ; another is to be begun where the first terminates, and is to be carried outwards and downwards on the thigh till it is about six inches below the great trochanter. The flap of skin thus marked out above and below is to be thrown down. Cutane- Several of the cutaneous nerves of this region will be nerves found in the fat, or beneath it, along the line of the iliac above, crest. Beginning in front, the student will meet first with where found, branches of the external cutaneous rather below the crest Crossing the crest, near its front, is an offset of the last dorsal nerve, and, farther back, another from the ilio-hypo- i gastric nerve; whilst in a line with the outer border of the j erector spinas are two or three branches of the lumbar ? nerves. By the side of the sacrum and coccyx are two or three offsets of the sacral nerves. Other The remaining cutaneous nerves are derived from the | nerves of I small small sciatic, and must be sought, beneath the fat, along the line of the lower incision, where they come from underneath J. the gluteus maximus ; some turn upwards over that muscle, ? and others are directed down to the thigh. \ Sources CuTANEOUS Nerves. — The nervcs distributed in the in- j cutane- tcgumcut of the buttock are small but numerous, and are i nerves, derived from the spinal nerves (posterior primary branches), from the branches of the lumbar and sacral plexuses, and from the last dorsal nerve. From Branches from the lumbar and sacral nerves.—The offsets from lumbar . the posterior primary branches of the lumbar nerves are two or • i three in number, and cross the crest of the hip bone at the place of attachment of the erector spin33 : they ramify in the integument covering the gluteus muscle, and some branches may be traced i and nearly to the trochanter major. The branches of the sacral nerves nenfes. perforate the gluteus maximus near its origin, and are then directed outwards for a short distance in the integument over it. These offsets are usually three in number; the largest is opposite the lower end of the sacrum, another is near the iliac crest, and the other by the side of the coccyx.