789 OSSICLES OF THE TYMPANUM. witllin outwards : to its outer margin the membrana tjmpani is connected. The processes of the bone are two in number, short long and short: — The short one springs from the root of the process, handle on the outer side, and is connected with the mem- brane of the tympanum. The long process—processus gra- cilis, is a flattened slender piece of bone, which is connected with the neck of the malleus at the anterior aspect, and ex- tends into the Grlasserian fissure : in the adult this process is joined with the surrounding bone, and cannot be separated from it. The incus is a flattened bone, and consists of a body and incus, two processes. The bod?/ is hollowed at the upper and an- its body j terior part to articulate with the malleus. The two pro- pro- cesses (long and short) extend from the side opposite to the short ' , articulation : — the shorter process is somewhat conical, and long, is received into the aperture of the mastoid cells : the long process decreases towards the extremity, where it curves and ends in a rounded and convex point, the orbicular with or- bicular process. point. The stapes has, like a stirrup, a base or wider part, and stapes; two sides or crura that are blended at the opposite end in a head. The base is formed by a thin osseous plate, which is base; convex at one margin and almost flat at the other, corre- sponding with the shape of the fenestra ovalis ; the surface that is turned to the vestibule is convex, whilst the opposite is excavated. The head is marked by a superficial depres- head; sion, which receives the orbicular process of the incus ; and below it is a constricted part, the neck of the bone. The crura extend from the base to the neck, and are grooved, crura, like the base, on the inner surface: the anterior crus is shorter and straighter than the other. Position of the ossicles. — The malleus is placed vertically position in the tympanum, with the head upwards, and the articular maiieus, surface turned backwards to be connected with the incus : its handle is attached externally to the membrana tympani; and its long process is directed forwards into the Glasserian fissure. The incus is so placed that the long process is ver- of the tical, and the short one horizontal. Externally it is united with the malleus, and its processes are thus disposed: — the short one is received into the aperture of the mastoid cells; and the long process descends, like the handle of the malleus,