DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 666 turned upwards; and tlie narrow part ceases about two n"ction"s" ^^^^^^ below Poupart's ligament, by blending with the common areolar sheath of the bloodvessels. Its outer border is nearly straight, and is perforated by the genito- crural nerve. Its inner border is oblique, and is pierced by the lymphatics and the saphenous vein; this part of the sheath appears in the saphenous opening, and is connected to the falciform margin and the superficial fascia. In front of the crural sheath and behind it is the fascia lata of the how thiffh. This tube of membrane is continuous with the formed. ... fasciae lining the abdomen in this way; the anterior part is prolonged beneath Poupart's ligament into the fascia transversalis, and the posterior half is continued into the fascia iliaca (p. 497.). Deep Crossing the front of the crural sheath below the arch of arch. Poupart's ligament, is a thickened fibrous band, which has been named the deep crural arch. This band is supposed to occasion sometimes the stricture of the subjacent intestine in a femoral hernia. A notice of it is given with the description of the fascia transversalis (p. 485.). Open Dissection, — The student may open the sheath by an crural incisiou across the front, and raise the loose anterior part with hooks. A piece of the areolar investment of the femoral vessels is to be cut out over the situation of both the artery and the vein. When this has been done two thin partitions may be defined; one is on the inner side of the vein separating it from a gland, the other is between the vein and the artery. A fatty stratum may be seen over the upper aperture of the sheath, closing the tube towards the abdomen. Contents The interior of the crural sheath is occupied by the ofthe 1. sheath, femoral vessels, and is divided into three compartments by two partitions. The position of those septa has been before referred to, — one being internal to the femoral vein, and the Space other between the two large vessels. In the outer compart- into ment is the femoral artery, lying close to the side of the parts. sheath ; in the middle one is the femoral vein; and in the inner one (crural canal) is only a lymphatic gland. The femoral vessels are surrounded by a common covering of areolar tissue, which is distinct from the crural sheath now described.