THE URETER. 559 Renal artery,— As the artery enters the kidney it divides into branch- four or five branches, which are invested by sheaths of the fibrous artery capsule, and are transmitted to the cortical substance between the pyramidal masses. Some of the offsets of a chief branch enter the reach pyramidal mass, and ramify on the tubes, forming anastomotic loops parallel with those tubes, whilst the continuation of the supply trunk is distributed in the cortex around the pyramid. The ter- and form minal twigs of the artery end either in the Malpighian bodies or in a vascular plexus around the uriniferal tubes. Benal vein. — This vein begins in the capillary plexuses on the Veins convoluted urine tubes, and its larger branches are directed to the around centre of the kidney, where they communicate around the pyra- midal masses. From this spot the divisions of the vein accom- pany those of the artery, and are united finally into one trunk that and end opens into the vena cava. Some of the small roots of the vein Sva!"^ may be seen to form an arborescent appearance on the surface of the kidney. The URETER is the tube by which the fluid secreted in the Ureter;; kidney is conveyed to the bladder. Its relative anatomy must be studied afterwards, when the body is in a suitable position. Between its origin and termination the duct length. ; measures from sixteen to eighteen inches in length. Its size size corresponds commonly with that of a large quill; but near the kidney it is dilated into a funnel-shaped part, named pelvis, and near the bladder it is again somewhat dilated, though the lower aperture, by which it terminates, is the narrowest part of the tube. In its course from one viscus to another, the ureter is close course beneath the peritoneum, and is directed obliquely downwards and inwards along the posterior wall of the abdomen as far as the pelvis, where it becomes almost horizontal in direction in the posterior false ligament of the bladder. At first the and con- ureter is placed over the psoas muscle, inclining on the right side towards the inferior vena cava; and then it lies over the common or the external iliac artery *, being situate be- tween the vessel and the sigmoid flexure on the left side, and between that artery and the end of the ileum on the right side. Lastly, it will be subsequently seen to lie in the posterior ligament of the bladder, below the level of the * In a dozen uninfected bodies that were examined for me by Mr. S. r; Statham, the ureter was found as frequently over the one as the other of the two vessels mentioned.