REFLECTIONS OF THE PERITONEUM. 507 peritoneum and the colon ; and behind it are the quadratus front, lumborum and psoas muscles, with the diaphragm and the ' last rib. Above each kidney and resting on it, is the supra- above, renal capsule ; and below each is the iliac crest. The inner beiow, border looks to the spine and receives the vessels; whilst inside, the outer border projects towards the side of the abdominal wall. Sometimes the two are united in front of the aorta, and form the horse-shoe kidney. Difference on opposite sides, — The right kidney is placed Right rather lower than the left; it reaches as high as the lower border of the last rib but one, whilst its fellow is opposite the upper border of the corresponding rib. In front of the Different right, in addition to the common connections before specified, before is the duodenum ; and before the left one is the lower end of the spleen. Above the riffht is the liver, and above the left and ^ ® ' above. the spleen. The connections of the pancreas may be omitted for the Pan- creas. present. THE PERITONEUM. This is the largest serous membrane in the body. Like Perito.' other membranes of the kind it is a closed sac, except in the female, in whom its cavity is continuous with the canals of the Fallopian tubes. One part of it lines the wall of the consists abdomen (parietal layer), and another is reflected over the rfetar' different viscera (visceral layer), except where the vessels cerai^*' enter. The inner surface is smooth; but the outer is rough, when it is detached from the surfaces with which it is naturally in contact. The membrane forms folds as it passes and from viscus to viscus along the vessels; these attach the foWs on viscera to the abdominal wall, and consist for the most part of two layers, one on each side of the vessels. The continuity of the sac may be traced in both a hori- zontal and a vertical direction. Horizontal circle around the abdomen.—If the membrane be fol- ^^Ij^^'^^ lowed outwards from the umbilicus, it will be found partly to en- the close the large intestine, and to fix it to the abdominal wall. From brane the colon it may be traced over the kidney as far as the middle thebody, line, where it is reflected along the vessels going to the small in- ^^^^l^^ testine, then over the intestine, and finally back to the spine along cus. the other aspect of the vessels. Lastly it may be pursued outwards