cular struc ture. 642 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. passage to a fine bristle ; towards tlie outer end it increases a little, but it is again rather diminished in diameter at the outer aperture. Amus. Structure. — This excretory tube has the same structure as the uterus with which it is connected, viz. a muscular tunic, which is covered externally by peritoneum, and lined by mucous membrane. Fibres The muscular coat is formed of an external or longitu- Stom dinal, and of an internal or circular layer; both these are continuous with similar strata in the wall of the uterus. Mucous The mucous membrane forms some longitudinal folds, particularly at the outer end. At the inner extremity of the canal it joins the mucous lining of the uterus, but at the is con. outer end it is continuous with the peritoneal covering. A wZpe. columnar ciliated epithelium covers the surface, as in the ritone- . um. uterus. Vessels. The bloodvessels and nerves are furnished from those that supply the uterus and the ovary. THE BLADDER, URETHRA, AND RECTUM. Ana-^ Bladder.—The peculiarities in the form and size of the onhe female bladder have been noticed in the description of the connections of the viscera of the female pelvis (p. 605.). For a notice of its structure, the anatomy of the male bladder is to be referred to (p. 621.) Prepara. DissectioTi. — To prepare the bladder, distend it with air, and remove the peritoneal covering and the loose tissue from the muscular fibres. The urethra is to be slit open along the upper part with the bladder, after their external anatomy has been learnt. Length Urethra.—The length and the connections of this ex- ?hr"'r cretory tube are given in page 605. size; The average diameter of the tube is rather more than a quarter of an inch, and the canal is enlarged and funnel- shaped towards the neck of the bladder. Near the external | it can be apcrturc there is a hollow in the floor of the tube. In' dieted, consequence of not being surrounded by such resistant structures, the urethra is much more dilatable than the corresponding passage in the male. Tube Structure,—This tube, like the urethra of the male, con- In tVe^' sists of a mucous coat, which is enveloped by a plexus of bloodvessels, and by muscular fibre. bladder, given before,