DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 112 at the lower part of the neck it receives the middle thyroid vein. Near its junction with the subclavian below are two Valves, valves.* Sometimes the term internal cephalic is appUed to the vein between the skull and the hyoid bone; whilst that of internal jugular is given to the part below the bone, and the junction of the large branches at that spot. Ascend- The ascending pharyngeal artery is a long slender branch iryngeal of the external carotid, which arises near the commencement artery ^^^^ vcssel. Directed upwards on the spinal column, be- tween the internal carotid and the pharynx, the artery be- comes tortuous near the skull, and divides into branches for ends the pharynx and the cranium. In the neck the artery gives Tkuii, in some small offsets to the surrounding parts, viz. the mus- cles on the vertebrae, the nerves, and the lymphatic glands; and other ^branches anastomose with the ascending cervical artery. a branch The meningeal branch enters the cranium through the foramen ninges, laccrum (basis cranii), and is distributed on the meninges of the middle fossa of the skull, and an- The pharyngeal branchy which is larger than the preceding, phTrynx turns inwards to the pharynx, and dividing into several twigs, pafate Supplies the muscular structure of the pharynx, the soft palate, and the Eustachian tube. The size of the palatine branch depends upon that of the] inferior palatine branch of the facial artery: it courses above the upper constrictor, and ends in branches that are distributed on the front and back of the soft palate, beneath the mucous membrane. Its vein. The Vein corresponding with the pharyngeal artery re- ceives branches from the cranium and the pharynx, and ends in the internal jugular vein. Direc- Dissection of the eighth nerve, — By the time the student concern- has arrived at this stage of the dissection, it will not be e?|hth possible for him to trace the very minute filaments of the eighth nerve in the foramen jugulare of the skull. The student is therefore recommended to omit, for the present, all the paragraphs marked with an asterisk. Afterwards, if a fresh piece of the skull can be obtained, in which the nerves * Anatomical and Physiological Observations by John Struthers, M.D. Edinburgh, 1854.