70 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. is thought necessary, the anterior scalenus may be cut through after the artery has been studied. Of From the cervical plexus, besides muscular branches, the cervical plexus, student should seek small twigs to join the descendens noni; and should define the roots of the phrenic nerve. Lastly, let the surface of the middle scalenus muscle be cleaned, as it lies beneath the cervical nerves. Number The SCALENI musclcs are usually described as three in of sea- n 1 • 1 • leni number, and are named, from their relative position, anterior, * middle, and posterior: they extend from the first two ribs to the transverse processes of certain cervical vertebrae. Scalenus The SCALENUS ANTicus extends from the first rib to the anticus. i^^gj, cervical vertebras, and is somewhat conical in shape. Origin It is attached by its apex to the inner border and the upper first rib; surfacc of the first rib, so as to surround the rough surface or projection on this aspect of the bone ; and by its base it i^nser- is inserted into the anterior transverse processes (parapo- physes) of four of the cervical vertebrae, viz. sixth, fifth, connec- fourth, and third. More deeply seated below than above, with the muscle is concealed by the clavicle and the subjacent muscles, j^^g^j^ (subclavius), and by the clavicular part of the sterno- mastoid: the phrenic nerve lies along the cutaneous surface vessels, of the musclc, and the subclavian vein crosses over it near the rib. Along the inner border is the internal jugular and vein. Beneath the scalenus are the pleura, the subclavian nerves, ^y,^^^^^ ^^^^ ucrvcs of the brachial plexus. The insertion into the vertebrse corresponds to the origin of the rectus capitis anticus major muscle. Scalenus The SCALENUS MEDius MUSCLE is larger than the anterior, or^'in!" and extends farthest of all on the vertebrae. Inferiorly it is attached to the inner border of the first rib ; and to a groove on the upper surface, which extends obliquely forwards for one inch and a half from the tubercle to the anterior border, inser- The muscle ascends behind the spinal nerves, and is inserted into the tips of the posterior transverse processes (diapo- Partsin physcs) of the six lower cervical vertebrae. In contact with it. with the anterior surface are the subclavian artery and the spinal nerves, together with the sterno-mastoid muscle ; whilst the posterior surface touches the posterior scalenus, and the deep lateral muscles of the back of the neck. The