ORIGIN OF THE CRANIAL NERVES. 193 their own side and across the middle line, and give rise to an arterial circle. On each side this circle is formed by the vessels trunk of the internal carotid giving forwards the anterior a share cerebral, and backwards the posterior communicating artery. In front it is constructed by the converging anterior cere- bral, and the anterior communicating artery; and behind, by the bifurcation of the basilar trunk into the two poste- rior cerebral arteries. In the area of the circle lie the several parts of the brain that correspond to the floor of the third ventricle. The complete inosculation between the and the cranial vessels, in the circle of Willis, allows at all times a euiation free circulation of blood through the brain, even though a them, large vessel on one side should be obstructed. The VEINS of the brain enter the sinuses of the dura veins of the mater, instead of uniting into trunks that are companions to brain, the arteries. Dissection,—The pia mater and the vessels are now to be J^^^^^^^' stripped from the brain, and the origin of the cranial nerves to be defined. Over the greater part of the cerebrum, the pons, and the medulla, the pia mater can be detached with tolerable facility by using two pairs of forceps; but over the cerebellum the membrane adheres so closely that it will require some care to remove it without tearing the substance of the brain. In clearing out the fissure between the halves care to of the cerebellum on the under surface, the membrane that in re- bounds on each side the opening of the fourth ventricle will pSrmT- probably be taken away. The student should therefore ob- serve now the position and size of that opening between the back of the medulla oblongata and the inferior vermiform process. When the surface has been cleaned, the brain is to be replaced in the spirit till it is hardened. Section II. ORIGIN OF the cranial NERVES. The cranial nerves take origin from the encephalon, with origin one exception (spinal accessory), and pass from it through apertures in the skull. The origin of a nerve is not determined by the place at '^^^^^^^^ which it appears on the surface of the brain, for fibres or real, o