DISSECTION OF THE TONGUE. 156 into two equal parts by a median groove, which ends a little in front of a hollow named foramen caecum. This surface is rough and covered with papillae over the anterior two thirds ; but is smoother at the posterior third, though even here the surface is irregular, in consequence of projecting muciparous Under glauds. The under surface, free only in part, gives attach- ment to the mucous membrane, and to the different lingual muscles that are connected with the hyoid bone and the jaw ; and in front of these muscles is the fold of the mucous Borders, membrane named fraenum linguae. The borders of the tongue are thick and round at the base of the organ, where they are marked by vertical ridges and furrows, but gradually become thinner near the apex. Kj^dsof Papillce,—On the dorsum of the tongue are the following ' kinds of papillae; the conical and filiform, the fungiform, and the caliciform. conical The conical and filiform papillae are the numerous small form, " projections, like the villi on the mucous membrane of the small intestine, that cover the anterior two thirds of the situation dorsum of the tongue. Some of the papillae (conical) are die of wider at their attached than at their free end, and these tongue • are most developed over the central part of the tongue. Others become longer (filiform), especially towards the sides of the tongue. These small papillae are covered with second- ary minute hair-like processes; and towards their limit be- hind, as well as on the side of the tongue, they have a linear arrangement, fungi- The fungiform papillae are less numerous but larger than the preceding set, amongst which they are scattered. They are wider at the free end than at the part fixed to the mostly tongue, and they project beyond the other set; they are and^ mostly situate at the tip and sides of the tongue. The free sides; larger end is covered with small filamentous projections, caiici- The caliciform (papillae vallatae) are fewer in number and near' larger than the others, and are placed at the junction of the tongue i anterior with the posterior third of the tongue. Their number varies from eight to ten. These papillae extend across the tongue in a line resembling the letter Y. Each form; papilla consists of a central truncated part of a conical form, which is surrounded by a fold of the mucous membrane: its wider part or base projects above the surface, whilst the form