PONS VAROLn. 20T the middle line, and is received into the basilar hollow in the base of the skull. By the opposite surface the pons enters, into the fourth ventricle, forming part of the floor of that soace. The upper border is lonojest and most curved, and and -.1-11 111 11 borders*, arches over the cerebral peduncles; and the lower border overlays the prolongations of the medulla oblongata. On each side is the crus cerebelli, whose fibres radiate over the surface. Structure, — In the pons are alternating strata of trans- it is verse and longitudinal fibres: the transverse set arecontinu- by ionBi- ous with the fibres of the crus cerebelli, and are interspersed and ^ with much gray matter: the longitudinal are prolonged verse f from the constituent bodies of the medulla oblongata. Dissection. — The transverse fibres of the pons may be Dissec- tion to divided along the line of the pyramidal body of the left side, expose and turned outwards, so as to denude the longitudinal fibres fibres, of the pyramid. In like manner a second mass of transverse fibres, which lie below those of the pyramid (first longitu- dinal set) may be cut through outside the pyramidal; and the deep fibres of the lateral and posterior columns of the cord (second longitudinal set) will appear. Amongst this last set of longitudinal fibres is the fillet of the corpus olivare, which the dissector should attempt to trace up- wards from that body. The superficial fibres of the pons can be seen on the side that is untouched. The transverse fibres of the annular protuberance are The collected chiefly into two strata — a superficial and deep^ verse which are united in the middle line: they serve as commis- form a sural fibres of the cerebellum, and are derived from the crus or middle peduncle of that body. There are a few other transverse, that will be described with the septum. The superficial set are mostly horizontal, but some from superfi- the lower part of the crus ascend obliquely over the others to reach the upper margin of the pons. The deep layer is thickest, and contains much gray matter a deep between its fibres. The longitudinal fibres consist of three sets, viz. one from Three^ the anterior pyramidal body ; another from the lateral and fonfjtu- posterior columns of the cord; and a third from the corpus fibres, olivare. These are not simply continued through the pons, but are increased in number by the addition of special fibres