DISSECTION OF THE PALM OF THE HAND. 308 Its Branches, — Numerous offsets are given to the contiguous chiefly muscles. One long branch, median, accompanies the median iar.^^"" nerve, supplying it, and either ends in the flexor sublimis, or Median: extcnds beneath the annular ligament to the hand. About to the the middle of the forearm two nutrient vessels of the bones bones. arise from the artery. Where it is about to turn backwards, it furnishes twigs to the pronator quadratus, and one branch is continued beneath that muscle to anastomose with the anterior carpal arteries. Anterior The anterior interosseous nerve is derived from the median seouT'" (p. 306.), and accompanies the artery of the same name to endlln the pronator quadratus muscle, on the under surface of tor"^" which it ends. Some lateral branches are distributed by it to the deep flexor muscles. Section V. THE PALM OF THE HAND. Dissec- Dissection. — Without any change in the position of the Seek the skin is to be reflected from the palm by means of neous incisions. One is to be carried along the centre of the hand from the wrist to the fingers ; and the other is to be made from side to side, at the termination of the first. In raising the inner flap, the small palmaris brevis muscle will be recognised at the inner margin of the hand, near the wrist. In the fat the ramiflcations of the small branches (palmar) of the median and ulnar nerves are to be found. neous nerves, Define The Student should remove the fat from the small muscle, the pal- ' mar fas- and from the strong palmar fascia in the centre of the cia, hand, and should be careful not to destroy a thin transverse band of tissue (transverse ligament), that passes across the roots of the fingers. When cleaning the fat from the palmar fascia he will recognise the digital vessels and nerves, and must be especially careful of two : — viz. those of the inner side of the little finger and outer side of the index finger, which appear farther back than the rest, and are most likely to be injured. and ex- Lastly, the skin and the fat may be reflected from the djftai thumb and the fingers by an incision along each, so that the sheaths of the tendons with the collateral vessels and nerves may be laid bare.