736 DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. tendons to those of the extensors on the dorsum of the inserted P^^^^^g^^ ' ^^^^ posterior perforating arteries pierce the into. hinder extremities of the muscles. These small muscles will be partly seen on the dorsum of the foot. oAhe" "^^^ attachment of the dorsal muscles to the toes may be muscles, remembered by considering them abductors as in the hand (p. 319.) from the middle line of the second digit: the outer two muscles will draw their respective toes from the rest, and the two connected with the second digit will move it to the right or the left of the line referred to. Trace Dlssection. — Follow the tendon of the tibialis posticus deep muscle from its position behind the inner malleolus to its insertion into the scaphoid bone, and trace the numerous processes that it sends forwards and outwards. Open also the fibrous sheath of the tendon of the peroneus longus, which crosses from the outer to the inner side of the foot. Insertion The tcudou of the TIBIALIS POSTICUS, after leaving the often. , , , ' ^ don of groove in the inner malleolus, is continued forwards over tibialis ^ . . posticus, the internal lateral ligament of the ankle joint, and over the articulation between the astragalus and the os scaphoides, and is inserted into the prominence of the latter bone. From its insertion processes are continued to many of the other bones of the foot. One is directed backwards to the margin of the groove in the os calcis for the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis. Two offsets are directed forwards: — one is prolonged to the internal cuneiform bone ; the other, much the largest, is attached to the middle and outer cuneiform, to the OS cuboides, and to the bases of the second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones. Where the tendon is placed be- neath the articulation of the astragalus, it contains a sesa- moid bone, or a fibro-cartilage. inser.^ The tcndon of the peroneus longus muscle turns round tendon the cuboid bone, and placed in the groove on the under sur- neus face, is continued inwards to be inserted into the internal cuneiform bone, and the base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe; it sends a process also to the base of the second metatarsal bone. In the sole of the foot it is contained in a sheath which is formed, for the most part, by the fibres of the long plantar ligament prolonged to the tarsal ends of the third and fourth metatarsal bones. A separate synovial membrane lubricates the sheath. Where the tendon turns