478 DISSECTION or THE ABDOMEN. Parts Parts covered by the oblique. — The internal oblique con- covBrcd bj' inter- ceals the transversalis muscle, and the vessels and nerves lique.' between the two. Near Poupart's ligament it lies on the spermatic cord and the fascia transversalis. The rectus muscle is concealed by its aponeurosis, and partly incased by it. Trans. The TRANSVERSALIS MUSCLE forms the third stratum in the muscle, wall of the abdomen. Like the former muscle, it is attached on all sides except where the spermatic cord lies, and takes origin from the pelvis, the chest, and the lumbar vertebras : Origin it has both an anterior and a posterior aponeurosis. At the chest, pelvis it rises along the outer third of Poupart's ligament, and ' and the anterior two thirds of the iliac crest. At the chest it takes origin from the lower six ribs, viz. by tendon from the lowest two, and by fleshy processes from the under surface of the cartilages of the following four: and it is connected also with the lumbar vertebras between the chest and the pelvis, by means of the posterior aponeurosis of the Fibres fascia lumborum. Most of the fibres are directed trans- aponeu- vcrscly to tlic apoucurosis in front; but the lower arch rosis. downwards above the spot at which the cord leaves the Lowest ^ Y'^^'^ , abdomen, and end in the aponeurosis internal to that aper- down to ' ^ pubes. ture. aponeu- aponcurosis is widest inferiorly, as in the most external ^^^'^ muscle. It is continued to the linea alba beneath the rectus, beneath exccpt midway between the umbilicus and the pubes, where to linea it passcs in front of that muscle to reach the middle line, cept'in- Its attachment below to the pelvis is nearly the same as that of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique, for it is fixed to the front of the pubes, and to the pectineal line for about an inch, but beneath the insertion of the oblique muscle. Fibres At the insertion into the pubes, some of the fibres are spent versaiis ou the trausvcrsalis fascia, and are connected with a thick- ened band of that fascia beneath Poupart's ligament, which is called the deep crural arch. At pel- Conjoined tendon. — The aponeuroses of the internal ob- that of lique and transversalis muscles are united more or less near internal ^ > t -t t oblique thoir attachment to the bone, and thus give origin to the joined conjoincd tendon ; but it may be observed that the tendon of the oblique muscle seldom extends more than half an inch along the pectineal line, whilst that of the transversalis