18 DISSECTION OF THE INTERIOR OF THE HEAD. Poste- The posterior meningeal branches are likewise small, and ningeai are fumished by the occipital and vertebral arteries. from Those from the occipital, one on each side, enter the skull occipital ^ ^ ' W the luffular foramen; and those from the vertebral arise verte- j o ^ opposite the foramen magnum. Both sets ramify in the posterior fossa of the skull. Nerves MENINGEAL Nerves. —The sourco of the ncrvcs of the mater, dura matcr is very uncertain. Offsets to it are derived from both the cranial and sympathetic nerves. To make these nerves apparent, it would be necessary to steep the dura mater in diluted nitric acid.* Cranial Cranial Nerves. — The Cranial nerves pass from the nerves in base of euccphalon through apertures in the base of the skull. As each leaves the cranium it is invested by processes of the membranes of the brain, which are thus disposed:—those of the dura mater and pia mater are lost on the nerve ; whilst that of the arachnoid membrane is reflected back, after a short distance, to the interior of the skull. Some of the nerves, those in the middle fossa of the skull for instance, are received into sheaths of the dura mater before they approach the foramina of transmission. For the present the nerves will be referred to as nine in number, but notice will be subsequently taken of a different mode of enumerat- ing them. only ^ Only part of the course of each nerve will be now seen, seen/ the rcst must be learnt in the dissection of the base of the brain. oifac- The FIRST NERVE cuds anteriorly in the enlargement of nerve, the olfactory bulb. This swelling lies on the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, and supplies about twenty ends in filamcuts to the nose through the small foramina in the * subjacent bone. These delicate nerves are surrounded by prolongations of the membranes of the brain, whose dis- position will be noticed in the dissection of the nose. Optic The SECOND nerve diverffinff from its commissure to the nerve I ^ ° * Many of the cranial nerves are said to supply the dura mater; and the student who is desirous for further information may consult Professor Kolliker's Mikroskopische Anatomie, p. 495,