526 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. inch and a half long. At its termination it receives the duct of the gall bladder, and by the union of the two the common bile duct is formed. Common The commofi bile duct (ductus communis choledochus), bile duct; i.i.n i i > i ' t -i .-■ which IS formed as above said, is about three inches long : length it descends almost vertically beneath the upper transverse course, portion of the duodenum, then between the pancreas and the vertical piece of the duodenum, and opens into this last part of the intestine at the inner side, and above the middle. Termi- Before piercing the coats of the intestine it is joined com- monly by the pancreatic duct, but the two may enter the duodenum separately. Whilst in the small omentum, the duct lies to the right of the hepatic artery, and somewhat before the portal vein. SYMPATHETIC AND VAGUS NERVES. General SYMPATHETIC Nerve. — In the abdomcu the sympathetic tion in nerve consists, as in the thorax, of a gangliated cord on each domen. side of the vertebral column; and of prevertebral centres or plexuses, which furnish branches to the viscera. Two Two prevertebral plexuses are found in the abdomen, centres. One of thcsc is the solar or epigastric plexus, which is placed behind the stomach, and supplies nerves to all the viscera and hy- abovo the cavity of the pelvis. The other, or the hypogas- tric, trie plexus, is situate in the pelvis, and distributes nerves to the pelvic viscera. The offsets or the secondary plexuses of these centres accompany the bloodvessels to their destina- tion. Part to The visceral part of the sympathetic nerve that remains in the to be seen, consists of the great epigastric centre, viz. the men. solar plcxus and the semilunar ganglia, with their offsets. How to Dissection. — To denude the great prevertebral centre solar above mentioned, the following dissection is to be made : — plexus. ^1^^ ^.^ l^^g heen let out of the stomach and the duo- denum, the portal vein, the common bile duct, and the gas- tro-epiploic artery are to be cut through behind the pylo- rus ; and the stomach, the duodenum, and the pancreas are to be drawn over to the left side. On raising the liver, and taking away some fatty tissue, the vena cava appears: the vein is to be cut across above the junction of the renal