130 DISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. and sympathetic nerves, are to be cut near the first rib (should these be still uncut), and all are to be separated from the spine as high as the basilar process of the occipital bone, but without disturbing, on the left side, the vessels and nerves near the skull, partly For the division of the skull, let the dissector chisel through divide ■ . . ^ base^of^ the basilar process of the occipital bone, betv^een the attach- ternaiiy, mcuts of the pharjux and the muscles of the spinal column, the cut being directed backwards. Turning upwards then the inner surface of the base of the skull, the dissector will make the following incisions in the posterior fossa. On the and cut rii^ht sidc, a cut with a chisel is to be carried alonoj the line the re- mainder of uuiou of the pctrous part of the temporal with the occipital side, bone, as far inwards as the incision across the basilar pro- cess. On the left side, another cut with the chisel is to be made in the same direction, but through the occipital bone, internal to the foramen jugulare and the inferior petrosal sinus: this is to begin rather behind the foramen, and to end opposite the one on the other side. Lastly, the side of the skull is to be sawn through close behind the mastoid part of the temporal bone, so that the incision shall meet the and then outcr end of the cut made with the chisel. The base of the cut soft , • . . parts, skull is uow divided into two parts; one having the pharynx attached to it, the other articulating with the spine, — which can be readily separated with a scalpel. Preserve The spinal column, with the piece of the occipital bone spine."^ connected with it, should be set aside, and kept for after examination. Fasten Dissectiou of the pharyux.—Let the student take the an- Fn posil^ terior part of the divided skull, and, after moderately filling | *^°"* the pharynx with tow, fasten it with hooks on a block, so i that the oesophagus may be pendent and towards him. - Dissect On the left side of the pharynx a view may be obtained of j on7eft the eighth, ninth, and sympathetic nerves near the skull, | when some loose connective tissue, and the styloid process I with its muscles have been removed. . j and m us- Afterwards, on one side, say the right, the dissector may i the^op- proceed to remove the fascia from the constrictor muscles in | posite. direction of their fibres, these radiating from the side to \' the middle line. The margins of the two lower constrictor ;i muscles (middle and inferior) are to be defined. Beneath {;