DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 426 neck, from the articular processes of the four or five lower cervical vertebrge. From this origin the fibres are directed obliquely inwards, some extending more than the length of inser- one Vertebra, to be inserted into the spines and the laminse tion. ' . of all the vertebrae between the first cervical and last sacral, connec- This musclc fills chiefly the vertebral groove, and is con- tions. . ... cealed by the erector spin^e and the semispinalis. The in- ternal branches of the vessels and nerves of the back lie along its outer border. The following small muscles may be said to be parts of the multifidus. Rota- * Rotatores spince. — These are eleven small muscles tores ^ spinas bcueath the multifidus spinse in the dorsal region, and are are parts ^ o ? Mus"^^^' s^P^^^*^^^ from that muscle by connective tissue. Each is attached on the one hand to the tip and the upper edge of a transverse process, and on the other to the lower border of the lamina of the vertebra next above. The first springs from the transverse process of the second vertebra. Aponeu- * The aponeurosis common to the multifidus and erector rosis of ^ ^ Muf' spinse is fixed firmly to the surrounding bones, and furnishes attachment to the muscular fibres. In the middle line it is connected with the spines of the lower lumbar vertebras, and with those of the sacrum. On the outer side it is at- tached to the posterior part of the iliac crest, and to the outer row of tubercles on the back of the sacrum, being at the last spot connected with the great sacro-sciatic ligament. Above, it is continued some way on the surface of the erector spinse, but further on the longissimus dorsi than on the ilio-costal portion. Blending with the cutaneous surface below is the vertebral aponeurosis (p. 413.). Dissec- * Dissection,— To find the branches of the sacral nerves, sa°cra^i it will bc ucccssary to remove the part of the multifidus nerves, g^-j^gg which covcrs the sacrum. These nerves are very fine, but they may be detected by following inwards the external branches that lie on the great sacro-sciatic liga- ment. The lowest two nerves must be sought on the back of the sacrum, below the extent of the multifidus spinae muscle: the fourth comes through its aperture, and the fifth between the sacrum and coccyx. Five Sacral Nerves. — The posterior primary branches of the nerves: sacral ncrvcs are five in number: four issue from the spinal canal by the apertures in the back of the sacrum, and the