CUTANEOUS NERVES OF THt ARM. 279 the internal cutaneous nerve lie beneath it, and some twigs of the same nerve are placed over it. The median basilic is the vein on which the operation of vene- bloodletting is commonly practised. It is selected in COnse- is prac. quence of its usually larger size and its more superficial th?s position, and the facility with which it may be compressed; but from the close proximity of the vein to the brachial vessels, the spot chosen for the venesection should not be immediately over the trunk of the artery. The basilic vein, commencino; near the inner condvle of basilic ^ o J vein on the humerus in the manner before said, ascends near the 'r*"^'^^. side of inner border of the biceps muscle to the middle of the arm, ^^"^ where it passes beneath the deep fascia and is continuous with the axillary vein. In this course it lies over, or to the inner side of the brachial artery. The cephalic vein is derived chiefly from the external Cephalic branch of the median, for the radial vein is oftentimes very outer small. It is continued to the shoulder along the outer side the arm of the biceps, and sinks between the deltoid and pectoral muscles, near the clavicle, to open into the axillary vein. The superficial lymphatics of the arm lie for the most ^^V^^- part along the basilic vein, and enter into the glands of the lympha- axilla. A few lymphatics accompany the cephalic vein, and passing between the pectoral and deltoid muscles, end as the others in the axillary glands. A lymphatic gland is com- monly found as^low in the limb as the elbow, where it lies in front of the inner condyle of the humerus. Cutaneous Nerves.— The superficial nerves of the arm Thesu- appear on the inner and outer sides, and spread so as to Serves^^ cover the circumference of the limb. All with one exception rived (intercosto-humeral) are derived from the brachial plexus, brachial either as distinct branches, or as offsets of other nerves, exc^ept' one. On the outer side of the limb are branches of the musculo- spiral and musculo-cutaneous nerves; on the inner side are two internal cutaneous nerves direct from the plexus (large and small), a third internal cutaneous from the musculo- spiral, together with the intercosto-humeral nerve. External cutaneous Nerves. — The external cutaneous Two ex- branches of the musculo-spiral nerve are two in number, and ap- ciua-^ pear at the outer side of the limb in the spot before mentioned, ^^ig. The upper one turns forwards with the cephalic vein, and reaches ^uio^-^ T 4