EXTERNAL OK OBLIQUE INGUINAL HERNIA. 491 abdomen. The external hernia leaves likewise the abdomen parts at the same spot. All the protruding parts receive as a mitted covering the prolongation of the fascia from the margin of It'^^"^'^ the opening. The external abdominal ring is the outlet of the inguinal ^^^^^j^- canaL and through it the cord, or the ino-uinal hernia, dominai reaches the surface of the body. This aperture is placed in skua- the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, near the crest of the pubes; and from the margin a prolongation is sent on the parts passing through it (see p. 473.). Course and coverings of the hernia, — A piece of intestine The in- leaving the abdomen with the cord, and continuing with follow-' this through the inguinal canal to the surface of the body, course of will obtain the same coverings as the cord, viz. one from every structure in the lateral part of the wall of the abdo- men, except from the transversalis muscle. It receives its has co- investments in this order : — As the intestine is first thrust of th?^ outwards, it carries before it the peritoneum and the sub- ileum peritoneal fat, and enters the tube of the fascia transversalis fascia ' (infundibuliform fascia) that surrounds the cord. Still in- versaLs, creasing in size the piece of gut is forced downwards to the lower border of the internal oblique muscle, where it will have the cremasteric fascia or covering applied to it. The intestine is afterwards directed along the front of the cord to the external abdominal ring, and in passing through that openino; receives the investment of the intercolumnar sperma- tic fas- or spermatic fascia. Lastly^ as the hernia descends to the cia, scrotum, it has the additional coverings of the superficial ciai fas- fascia and the skin. So that in a hernia which has passed skin, the external abdominal ring, the coverings from without in- wards are the following: the skin and the superficial fascia, the spermatic and cremasteric fasciaB, the fascia transversalis, the subperitoneal fat, and the peritoneum or sac. These '^^^^^^^^ different laminas become much thickened in a hernia that abdomi- ^ ^ ^ nal wall. has existed for some time. Should a piece of intestine re- main in the inguinal canal the layers that invest it will depend upon the spot to which it has extended. Seat of stricture, — The protruded intestine may be con- stricture stricted in the internal abdominal ring by the neck of the where sac, in the inguinal canal by the fleshy internal oblique muscle, or at the external abdominal ring : and the stricture