314 DISSECTION OF THE HAND. of deep the annular ligament the tendinous mass of the flexor pro- fundus is divided into four pieces; whilst in the forearm only one tendon, that of the fore finger, is distinct from the cross the rest. From the ligament the four tendons are directed ' through the hand to the fingers. At the root of the finger each enters the digital sheath with a tendon of the flexor to their sublimis, and having passed through that tendon, is inserted i"onr into the base of the last phalanx. Short Between both flexor tendons and the bones are small mem- both branous folds (ligamenta brevia), one for each. Bj means tendons. ^his fold cacli tcudon is connected with the fore part of the phalanx, and the capsule of the joint, immediately be- hind the bone into which it is inserted.* Lumbri- '^^^ lumhricoles muscles are four small fleshy slips that etes^Lre conncctcd with the tendons of the deep flexor. They t"deep^ ame from the side of the tendons near the annular liga- flexor, jjientj and are directed to the radial side of the fingers, one for each, to be inserted into an aponeurotic expansion on and first dorsal aspcct of the first or metacarpal phalanx. These phalanx, j^^g^es are concealed for the most part by the tendons and Differ- vessels that have been removed; but tney are subcutaneous origin" for a short distance in the hand between the processes of the palmar fascia. The outer two arise from single tendons, but each of the others is connected with two tendons. Tendon Tendon of the flexor pollicis longus, — Beneath the an- flUoI-^of nular ligament this tendon is external to those of the flexor thumb, pJ,Qf^J^(J^g . turns outwards between the heads of the to its in- flexor brevis pollicis, and is inserted into the last phalanx sertion. thumb. The common synovial membrane surrounds it beneath the annular ligament, and sends a prolongation, as before said, into its digital sheath. Dissec- Dissection, — The deep palmar arch of the radial artery n^uscies and the interossei muscles will come into view if the flexor of tiiumb pj.Qfjjj^(j^g ig Q^yj^i above the wrist, and thrown with the lum- bricales muscles towards the fingers; but in raising the ten- * In the hgament to the long flexor tendon Mr. Marshall finds two thin bands of elastic tissue, which he names the vincula suhflava. Ha assigns to those bands the office of drawing down the long tendons after bending of the fingers. — On certain Elastic Structures connected with the Deep Flexor Tendons of the Fingers and Toes. By John Marshall^ F.KC.S. —Mec/.-C/iir. Review, Jan. 1853.