479 TRANSVERSALIS AND RECTUS MUSCLES. reaches an inch along the bony ridge, and forms the greater part of the conjoined tendon. The posterior aponeurosis of the transversalis, or the Poste- -* rior apo- fascia lumborum, is described in the dissection of the back neurosis, (p. 409.). Connections of the muscle. — Superficial to the transver- connec- ^ . . . tions of salis are the two muscles before examined ; and beneath it is trans. versalis the thin fascia transversalis, which separates it from the muscle, peritoneum. Its fleshy attachments to the ribs digitate with like processes of the diaphragm. The lower border is fleshy in the outer, but tendinous in the inner half, and is arched above the internal abdominal ring. Occasionally the muscle arises from Poupart's ligament as low down as the internal oblique, with which, and with the cremaster, it is then inse- parably united. Dissection. — To remove the aponeurotic layer from the To ex- pose rec- rectus muscle^ make a longitudinal incision through thetusand tendinous sheath, and turn it to each side. In this proceeding daiis. a small muscle, the pyramidalis, will be exposed near the pubes. The dissector should take care of the nerves enter- ing the outer border of the rectus. The RECTUS MUSCLE extends along the front of the abdo- Rectus men from the pelvis to the chest. The muscle is narrowest inferiorly, and is attached to the pubes by two tendinous Attach- processes;—one, internal to the other and the smallest, arises pubes. from the front of the symphysis, where it joins that of the opposite side; and the external process is attached to the pubic crest. Becoming wider towards the thorax, the insertion muscle is inserted by three large fleshy processes into the cartilages of the last three true ribs; and the highest slip, which is also external, is attached to both the bone and the cartilage of its rib. The muscle is contained in an aponeu- rotic sheath, except above and below; and its fibres are Has cross interrupted at intervals by irregular tendinous lines, the ^" inscriptiones tendinece. Sheath of the rectus. —The aponeurotic casing of the rec- its^^^^ tus muscle is derived from the splitting of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique, one of the pieces passing before, the how ^ other under the muscle ; and the two unite at the inner border. Inseparably blended with the stratum in front of the muscle is the aponeurosis of the external oblique ; and