THE VITREOUS BODY. 779 Miiller, and resembles the elastic layers of the cornea in its properties. In the yellow spot the nerve cells of the inner stratum consti- ^ ^ ^ tuents form a continuous layer; whilst the nerve fibres extend of retina , at yellow only into the circumference, and the molecular material of spot, the same layer is absent over the fovea centralis. Only the conical elements of Jacob's membrane are found in this spot. The granular layer and the fibres of Miiller are absent over the central fossa. Capillary vessels occupy the spot, v^^hilst the larger branches pass around. Vitreous Body. — A transparent mass fills the greater J'^it^eous part of the space within the coats of the eyeball, which has been named vitreous body from its resemblance to glass ; it consists of a clear aqueous fluid, contained in a translucent membrane, and has the consistence of jelly. Dissection,—The vitreous body may be seen on the eye Toob- on which the retina was dissected, by taking away the retina, view the ciliary ligament and processes, and the iris. To obtain a view of its anterior part with the lens in situation, an eye- ball should be pinned upright on wax; the sclerotic and choroid coats should be cut through about a quarter of an inch behind the cornea (p. 766.); and on removing carefully the cornea, the ciliary ligament, and the ciliary processes, the vitreous body will become apparent. The vitreous body is globular in form, and fills four Part of fifths of the ball of the eye, reaching forwards nearly to the giobe iris. In front the vitreous body is slightly hollowed, and u"^^ receives the lens with its capsule, to which it is closely united. The fluid of the vitreous body has nearly the same com- composition as the aqueous humour. Enveloping the whole Tfluid"^ is a thin membrane named hyaloid, menf- The hyaloid membrane is the fine transparent covering of Hyaloid the vitreous body. It passes continuously over the surface ^^ane". of that mass; and in the fetus it is connected with fibres connec- that penetrate the vitreous body. On the inner aspect are ^'°"^* a few delicate nuclei. At the fore part it is closely united with the membrane supporting the lens, and ends by joining the back of the capsule of the lens. At the bottom of the eyeball, opposite the optic nerve, the membrane is closely process • connected to the parts around; and at that spot in the fetus ^"[reous it was reflected inwards, through the centre of the vitreous ^