685 ADDUCTOR BREVIS. femoral artery. Aponeurotic bands connect the tendon of the muscle at its insertion with the tendons of the adductor magnus and vastus internus. Dissection, — Some of the deeper muscles, with the obtu- Dissec- rator nerve and the profunda vessels, will be arrived at by reflecting the two last muscles. On cutting through the pectineus near the pubes, and obtura- throwing it down, the dissector may occasionally find the nerve small accessory nerve of the obturator which turns beneath the outer border; if this is present, its branches to the hip joint and the obturator nerve are to be traced out. The adductor longus is then to be divided near its origin, and raised with care, so as not to destroy the branches of the obturator nerve beneath; its tendon is also to be detached from that of the adductor magnus to see the branches of the profunda artery. Now, the adductor brevis will be laid and ad- bare ; with a part of the obturator nerve crossing over it to brevis. enter the plexus at the inner side of the thigh, and with a deeper part of the same nerve beneath it; the muscle should be separated from the subjacent adductor magnus, where the lower branch of the nerve and an artery issue. In this last Articu- ^ lar ner>''( step of the dissection the student should seek a small articular to knee ^ ^ joint. branch of the obturator nerve, which descends on and in the fibres of the adductor magnus to the knee joint. The accessory obturator nerve^ (Schmidt) is derived from Acces- the trunk of the obturator near the lumbar plexus (p. 585.), turator" and passes from the abdomen over the brim of the pelvis. In the thigh this branch turns beneath the pectineus and joins the superficial part of the obturator nerve : at the same is often spot it supplies an offset to the under surface of the pecti- neus, and another to the hip joint with the articular artery. When the nerve is small, one or more of these offsets are wanting. The ADDUCTOR BREVIS has a thin fleshy and aponeurotic Adduc- attachment about two inches in depth to the front of the brevis hip bone with the gracilis. The muscle arises from the at the origin * This small nerve is often absent ; it was found only four or five times in nine or ten bodies which were examined by its discoverer. The name given to it by Schmidt refers to this irregularity, viz. nerv. ad obturatorem accessorius inconstans. — Commentarius de Nervis Lumba- libus.