DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. 52 Origin, of parallel to the axis of the orbit. It arises from the superior maxillary bone, between the margin of the orbit Course, and the groove for the lachrymal sac. From this spot the muscle passes outwards beneath the inferior rectus, and inser- between the eyeball and the external rectus, to be in- serted into the sclerotic coat, between the last muscle and the superior rectus. The borders of the muscle look forwards and backwards, and the posterior receives the connec- branch of the third nerve. The tendon of insertion is near that of the superior oblique muscle, but rather closer to the optic nerve. Seek Dissection, — To expose the small tensor tarsi muscle, the tarsi. palpebral ligament attaching the eyelids to the margin of the orbit must be cut through, where this has not been done; but the lids must be left connected at the inner commissure by means of the tendo palpebrarum. By look- ing to the posterior aspect of the tendinous band attaching the tarsal cartilages, after the lids have been placed across the nose, the pale fibres of the tensor tarsi will be seen. Tensor The TENSOR TARSI MUSCLE arises from the ridge on the muscle, unguis, and slightly from the bone behind the ridge. Its fibres are pale, and form a very small flat band, behind the ligamentum palpebrarum, which divides like that structure Inser, into a slip for each eyelid. In each eyelid the slip lies on the lachrymal canal, and blends with the other muscular fibres at the free margin of the tarsal cartilage. Trace Dissection.—A. small nerve, the orbital branch of the su- superior pcrior maxillary trunk, lies in the outer angle of the floor lary^' of tho orbit, and will come into view by the removal of the ^^^"^ eyeball and its muscles. This nerve is very soft and easily broken. Two branches, temporal and malar, are to be traced forwards from it: and a filament of the lachrymal nerve is to be followed to its junction with the former. The outer wall of the orbit may be cut away, bit by bit, to follow the tem- poral branch through to the surface of the head. Orbital The orMtal branch of the superior maxillary nerve arises of supe- in the spheno-maxillary fossa, and enters the orbit by the maxii- fissure of the same name. At the back of the orbit the nerve; ncrve dividcs into malar and temporal branches, which ramify in the face and the side of the head, its malar a. The malar branch (r. subcutaneus malse) is directed forwards