DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 202 inclined backwards above, as if it was puslied out of the straight line by the projecting olivary body. Sdy^'^^ The olivary body (corpus olivare) is the oval projection close to the anterior pyramid. A shallow groove separates it from the pyramid, and a deeper and wider one is between •does not it and the restiform body. This eminence is shorter than pons, the pyramid, and does not reach to the pons: its upper end Some is most prominent, and arching round the lower end or some- arched , ^ ^ , / 1 • ^bres. times over the surface, are some white fibres (fibrae arci- formes). Resti- c. Restiform body posterior pyramid.—ThQ restiform ijody is body (restis, a rope) forms the largest prominence on the half the larg- mcdulla oblongata, and cannot be seen satisfactorily except on a distinct preparation. This body is posterior to the lateral tract, and projects laterally, so as to give the greater width to the upper part of the medulla oblongata. ^J^^^^at The restiform swelling is continuous inferiorly with the consists, posterior column of the spinal cord; and superiorly it appears to be continued into the pons, like the other seg- ments of the medulla oblongata, but the disposition of its fibres at this spot will be subsequently referred to. Below the level of the olivary body it is divided into two parts by a distinct groove on the surface; one of these, the smaller and posterior of the two, is the funiculus gracilis, or the posterior pyramid; and the anterior and larger part has been named funiculus cuneatus (Burdacli). Between the resti- form bodies is the space of the fourth ventricle at the back Poste- of the medulla. The posterior pyramid (funic, gracilis) is a ramuHs continuation of that part of the spinal cord which is close posterior to tho postcrior median fissure. By drawing forwards the fissure, medulla, or using a separate piece of hardened medulla, the pyramid will be seen to be slightly enlarged (clava) at the apex of the fourth ventricle, where the restiform bodies diverge, and then to become gradually indistinct on the surface of the corpus restiforme. Obex. Where the posterior pyramidal bodies separate they are con- nected by an intervening band or cross piece (obex, Kiegel of the Germans), that closes behind the point of the fourth ventricle- A little higher on each side is a thin lamina of nervous substance Taenia (tsBnia, ligula), which is about a line in width, and forms part of iniSr^' the roof of the fourth ventricle; this membranous piece is at-