DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. ,328 digital artery of the superficial palmar arch, and giving small ' dorsal branches to the index and middle fingers. Dorsal c. Two Small dorsal arteries of the thumb arise opposite the me- of the tacarpal bone, along which they extend, one on each border, to be thumb (jistributed on its posterior aspect. and fore d. The dorsal branch of the index fimer is distributed on the finger. . . . radial edge of the metacarpal bone of that digit. Sheaths The different compartments of the annular ligament may annular be now seen more completely by dividing the sheaths of the llfcn't ligament over the different tendons passing beneath. There are six different spaces^ v^hich are lubricated by synovial Position membranes. The most external one lodges the'first two without extensors of the thumb; the next is a large hollov^^ for the inwards. radial extensors of the wrist; and a very small space for the extensor of the second phalanx of the thumb follows on the ulnar side. Still to the inner side is the common sheath for the extensor of the fingers, and that of the fore finger ; and there is a separate internal compartment for the extensor of the little finger. Internal to all is the space for Bones the cxtcusor carpi ulnaris. The last muscle grooves the hyihe^ ulna ; but all the others, with the exception of the extensor ' minimi digiti which is between the bones, lie in hollows in the radius in the order mentioned above. To see Dissection, — If the supinator brevis be divided by a ver- supina- ^ ^ *' tor bre- tical iucision, and raised from the radius, its attachment to vis, ' ' the bone will be better seen, interos- The postcrior interosseous nerve, and the offsets from its nerve, gangliform enlargement, may be more completely traced after the tendons of the extensor of the fingers and indicator muscle have been cut at the wrist, and in- The dorsal surface of the posterior interossei muscles of terossei • • j muscles, the hand may be cleaned, so that their double origin, and their insertion into the side and dorsum of the phalanges may be observed. Appearing between the heads of origin of these muscles are the posterior perforating arteries. Section VIL ligaments of the elbow, wrist, and hand. Direc- Directions.—The ligaments of the remaining articulations of the limb may be examined at once if they are still moist,