280 DISSECTION OF THE ARM. to the front of the elbow, supplying the anterior part of the arm. The lower pierces the fascia somewhat farther down, viz. about the middle of the outer surface of the arm, and after supplying some cutaneous filaments to that part of the limb, is continued to the forearm. and one The cutaneous part of the musculo-cutaneous nerve pierces the culo-cu- fascia in front of the elbow, and at the outer side of the tendon of taneous. ^j^^ biceps^'muscle. It lies beneath the median cephalic vein, and divides into branches for the forearm. Two in- Internal cutaneous Nerves. — The larger internal cutaneous cuta-^ werwe perforates the fascia in two parts, or as one trunk that di- brachiaf ^^^^^ almost directly afterwards into two. Its external branch plexus, lies beneath the median basilic vein, and is directed to the front of Large ^ the forearm; but the internal branch winds to the back of the forearm, over the prominence of the inner condyle of the hu- merus. A cutaneous offset of this nerve pierces the fascia near the axilla, and reaches as far, or nearly as far as the elbow: it supplies the integuments over the inner part of the biceps muscle, and The small internal cutaneous nerve (Wrisberg) appears below the preceding, and extends to the interval between the olecranon and the inner condyle of the humerus, where it ends in filaments over the back of the olecranon. The nerve gives offsets to the posterior surface of the lower third of the arm, and joins, above the elbow, the inner branch of the larger internal cutaneous nerve. Cuta. The internal cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral nerve, after musculo- it becomes subcutaneous (in the upper third), winds to the back of spiral, ^jjg Sivm^ and extends nearly as far as the olecranon. Inter- The intercosto-humeral branch of the second intercostal nerve humeral, (p. 250.) perforates the fascia near the axilla, and furnishes fila- ments to the inner side and the posterior surface of the arm, in the upper half But the size, and even the distribution of the nerve, will depend upon the development and extent of the small internal cutaneous, and the offset of the musculo-spiral nerve. Deep The aponeurosis of the arm is a white shining membrane the arm that envelops the limb, and sends inw^ards processes between the muscles. Over the biceps muscle it is thinner than elsewhere. At certain points it receives accessory fibres from the subjacent tendons:—thus in front of the elbow there is an ofifset from the tendon of the biceps, and near the axilla the tendons of the pectoralis major, latissimus dorsi, and teres, send prolongations to the fascia. At the upper part of the limb the fascia is continuous with that of the axilla, and is prolonged over the deltoid and pectoral muscles