720 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. part parallel to the bones of the leg, and a tendinous part beneath the tarsus. Popii- The POPLiTEUS arises within the capsule of the knee teus . , ^ w\u!fn j^^"*' attached by a tendon to the fore part of an knee oblonp* dcprcssion on the outer surface of the external joint. ° ^ condyle of the femur, below the external lateral ligament. External to the capsule of the joint some fleshy fibres arise from the posterior ligament, and the tendon gives origin to other fibres which radiate from it; all are inserted into the tibia above the oblique line on the posterior surface. The Inserted musclc lics ou the tibia, and is covered by a fascia, derived into . . tibia. in great part from the tendon of the semimembranosus muscle. On it lie the popliteal vessels and nerve, with the around gastrocnemius and plantaris. Along the upper border are the lower articular vessels and nerve of the inner side of the knee. The insertion of the muscle corresponds with the attachment of the soleus on the tibia; and the origin will be seen with the dissection of the ligaments of the knee joint. Flexor The FLEXOR LONGUS POLLicis PEDIS ariscs bclow the soleus poufds . from the lower half or two thirds of the posterior surface of tiched ?: the fibula except an inch inferiorly, from the intermuscular to fibu. ggpi^yjj^ between it and the peronei muscles, and from the apo- neurosis over the tibialis. Inferiorly the tendon of the muscle enters a groove in the astragalus, and afterwards crosses the is partly solc of the foot to rcach the ffreat toe. In part the muscle super- , ..... ficiaL IS covered by the soleus ; but in part it is superficial, and is in contact with the fascia. It rests on the fibula and the lov/er end of the tibia, and conceals the peroneal vessels. Muscles Along the inner side are the posterior tibial nerve and vessels vcsscls ; and contiguous to the outer margin, but separated on sides. fascia, are the peronei muscles. Flexor • The FLEXOR LONGUS DiGiTORUM PEDIS (flexor perforans) digko! is attached to the posterior surface of the tibia, extending on tibia : from the popliteus to about three inches from the lower extremity, and it takes origin also from the aponeurosis in the covcriug the tibialis posticus. Its tendon enters a partition mentj in the annular ligament, which is superficial in this position to the sheath of the tibialis; and escaped from the ligament divides in the sole of the foot into tendons for the four outer part is toes. The muscle is narrow and pointed superiorly and ia Sr placed beneath the soleus ; but in the lower half it is in con-