173 CARTILAGES OF THE LARYNX. roundish piece (cuneiform) in the arytseno-epiglottidean fold of mucous membrane. The thyroid cartilage is the largest of all: it forms the Thvmid n , ■• -. t 1 cartilage upper part oi the larynx, and protects the vocal apparatus as with a shield. The upper part of this cartilage is consider- is con- ably wider than the lower, and in consequence of this the from, form of the larynx somewhat resembles a funnel. The an- terior part is prominent in the middle line, forming the sub- cutaneous swelline: named pomum Adami; but the cartilage concave , , . , , T . , behind. is concave behind, at the same spot, and gives attachment to the epiglottis and the thyro-arytsenoid muscles and ligaments. The upper border is notched in the centre. The cartilage consists of two square parts or halves, which Formed are united in the middle line. Posteriorly each half of the halves, cartilage has a thick border, which terminates upwards and having downwards in a rounded projection or cornu, both of which ^^^1^. are bent slightly inwards : of the two, the upper cornu is the longest; but the lower cornu is thicker than the other, and articulates with the cricoid cartilage. The inner surface of each half is smooth; but the outer is marked by an oblique line, that extends from a tubercle near the root of the upper cornu, nearly to the middle of the lower border. The cricoid cartilage is stronger though smaller than the Cricoid thyroid ; it is partly concealed by the shield-like cartilage, lage!" below which it is placed, and encircles the cavity of the larynx. It is very unequal in depth before and behind, the Form, posterior part being three times deeper than the anterior, something like a signet ring. The outer surface is rough, and gives attachment to surfaces, muscles. At the back of the cartilage there is a flat and rather square surface, which is marked by a median ridge between two contiguous muscular depressions ; and on each side immediately in front of the square surface, is a slight articular mark, which receives the lower cornu of the thyroid cartilage. The inner surface is smooth, and is covered by mucous membrane. The lower border is almost straight, and is united to the Borders, first ring of the trachea by fibrous membrane. But the the up- ,.. .. , . ^ per most upper border is irregular m its outline: it is nearly straight uneven, posteriorly, opposite the deep part of the cartilage, and this portion is limited on each side by an articular mark for