STRUCTURE OF THE CHOROID COAT. 3 D 2 front, by the ciliary ligament. Posteriorly it is pierced by Open, a round aperture for the passage of the optic nerve ; and anteriorly is the large opening within the ring of folds called ciliary processes. The outer surface is flocculent, and is Outer! , surface covered by the remnants of a pigmentary areolar tissue rough; (membrana fusca) between it and the sclerotic coat; on it may be seen small veins arranged in parallel arches as they open into larger trunks, and lying on its surface are the ciliary vessels and nerves. The inner surface is smooth, inner I. • •1T11 / 1 smooth. and IS lined by a thin pigmentary epithelial layer (membrana pigmenti), though in the eye of the ox it shines through that layer with a metallic lustre. The ciliary processes^ or the folds or plaits by which the ciUary choroidal coat terminates in front, are arranged around the cesses, lens, like the many petals of a flower, forming a circle (cor- I'^sition. pus ciliare). These processes, about 85 in number, lie side by side, and consist of larger and smaller folds, but the Two differently sized folds do not regularly alternate; at their inner extremities they are united by loops or transverse ridges. The folds are thin externally at the commencement, and but increase in deptli internally, becoming hemispherical in form, and project inwards around the lens. By their free ends they bound circumferentially the space (posterior cham- ber) behind the iris. Behind, the ciliary processes are Connec- . tions closely connected with the membrane (suspensory ligament) with on the front of the vitreous humour, and fit into hollows be- around, tween folds on the anterior aspect of that membrane. In front they correspond with the back of the iris, but are separated from it by pigment. Structure. — The choroid coat and its ciliary processes Parts are formed principally of bloodvessels, whose branches are into its so arranged as to form an outer and an inner layer. Ramified ture. pigment cells make up the rest of the coat. In the outer layer the larger branches of both arteries and a plexus • 1 T 1 . P n 1 , ofblood- veins are contained, and the veins lorm parallel curves {vasa vessels vorticosd) as they end in four or five chief efferent trunks. J^j.*^^^ In the interspaces of the vessels towards the outer surface "^^^^^^ there are ramified irregular pigment cells, which contain a pigment nucleus and molecular grains of dark brown colouring exter- matter. The offsets of these unite together, and form the fibrous web of this tunic, but towards the inner surface,