DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. 164 tionand placed in front of the pharynx, and between the carotid conriGC- tions. vessels. It is pyramidal in form. Its base is turned up- wards, and is attached to the hyoid bone, and to it the epi- glottis is connected; whilst its apex is directed downwards, and is continuous with the trachea. The front is prominent along the middle line of the neck; and the posterior surface move^^ is covered by the mucous membrane of the pharynx. The able. larynx is very moveable, and during deglutition is elevated and depressed by the different extrinsic muscles that are connected with it and the hyoid bone. Six spe- Muscles. — The special muscles of the larynx pass from cialmus- t/^ii . .i ciesof one cartilage to another, and modiiy by their action the larynx. n t i ^ i • state 01 the vocal apparatus. Commonly six muscles are described, but the number is stated differently by anatomists. Three are outside the cartilages, and three are more or less concealed by the thyroid cartilage; most of them are in pairs, and alike on the two sides of the body. Directions.—On one side of the larynx, say the right, the muscles may be dissected, and on the opposite side the nerves and vessels ; and those superficial muscles are to be first learnt, that do not require the cartilages to be cut. Dissec- Dissection. — The larynx should be first extended, and tiou . . . when it has been fastened in that state with pins, the dis- sector may clear away from the os hyoides and the thyroid cartilage the following extrinsic muscles that are inserted into tliem, viz. the constrictor, sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, of the and thyro-hyoid. In front, between the thyroid and cricoid set of cartilages, one of the three small external muscles, — crico- * thyroid, will be seen. The other two external muscles are situate at the posterior aspect of the larynx: to denude them it will be necessary to turn over the larynx, and to remove the mucous membrane covering it. On the back of the cricoid cartilage the dissector will find the crico-arytasnoi- deus posticus muscle ; and above it, on the posterior part of the arytaenoid cartilages, the arytsenoid muscle will appear, crico- The €Rico-thyroideus muscle is triangular in form, and deus°^" is separated by an interval from the one of the opposite side. It arises from the front and the lateral part of the cricoid , cartilage, and its fibres ascend, diverging from one another, is small, to be inserted into the small cornu, and the lower border of the thyroid cartilage as far forwards as a quarter of an inch