343 CAPACITY OF THE THORAX. z 4 windpipe, bloodvessels, &c. lie ; but is prolonged on each side for an inch or an inch and a half above the first rib, so that the apex may be said to be bifid. Each point is bifid, proiects between the scaleni muscles, and touches the sub - how . ^ . bounded. clavian bloodvessels. In the interval between the apices are the several parts that pass between the neck and the thorax. Dimensions.—The hollow of the thoracic cavity does not size of chest not correspond to the visible size of the thorax ; for about the that of . . cavity ; lower half of the space included by the ribs is occupied by the abdominal viscera, and, above, it reaches beyond the ribs into the neck. In consequence of the arched condition of the diaphragm depth the depth of the space must vary greatly at difierent points. At the centre, where the depth is least, it measures about before; seven inches, but at the back as much again; and the other behind; vertical measurements can be estimated by means of the data on sides, given with respect to the correspondence of the base to parts of the wall of the thorax. Alterations in capacity,— The size of the thoracic cavity size is altered is constantly varying during life with the condition of the in life; ribs and the diaphragm in breathing. It is increased in the horizontal measurements in inspira- in trans- ^ verse tion, when the ribs are raised and separated from one dimen- . . . sions by another; and is diminished in expiration as the ribs approach "bs; one another, and the sternum sinks. An alteration in depth is due to the condition of the dia- in depth phragm in respiration ; for the muscle descends when air is dL-^*^ taken into the lungs, thus increasing the cavity; and ascends p*^^*^^^"' when the air is expelled from those organs, so as to restore the previous size of the space, or in violent efforts to dimi- nish it. But the movement of the diaphragm is not equal but un- throughout, and some parts of the cavity will be increased proportionally more than others. For instance the central tendinous piece is joined to the heart case, and moves but slightly; but the lateral, bulging,fleshy halves descend freely, and add greatly to the size of the lateral part of the chest by their separation from the thoracic parietes. It is evident that the thoracic cavity may be diminished thorax , ./ ./ lessened by the base being pushed upwards by enlargement, either addu temporary or permanent, of the viscera in the upper part of abdo.