662 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. branches over the patella; its ramifications communicate with offsets from the external and middle cutaneous, and the trunk of forms a the saphenous nerve, and form an interlacement (plexus patellce) wkh"^ over the joint. When this branch is small its place is taken by the internal cutaneous nerve. Clean Dissectiofi. — Let the fat and the inguinal glands be now face^of' removed from the surface of the fascia lata, without however cia^ala, destroying the cutaneous nerves. At the upper part of the thigh the student is to define the inner margin of the-^saphe- and de- uous Opening, by detaching the superficial fascia. The saphe- outer border is blended with the subjacent crural sheath as opening, well as with the superficial fascia; but it is only after the uniting fibrous bands are broken or cut through, that the outer semilunar margin of the saphenous opening comes into view, and the student must not expect to find it so defined as it is represented in drawings. Fascia The fascitt lata is the deep aponeurosis of the thigh. It rounds^' surrounds the limb, giving a firm sheath to it, and sends ' inwards septa between the different muscles. This mem- branous investment is of a bluish white colour, and very strength Variable thickness, though it is always stronger on the outer varies. •/ <—' than on the inner aspect of the limb, in consequence of the insertion into it of the tensor vaginse femoris and gluteus maximus muscles. In fat bodies it is sometimes so slight as to be taken away with the superficial fascia. Aper- Numerous apertures exist in the fascia for the trans- turesin ^ ^ ^ it. mission of the cutaneous nerves and vessels, and the largest of these is near Poupart's ligament, for the passage of the Pro- internal saphenous vein. The processes prolonged from cesses x x o between the Under surface form septa between, and fibrous sheaths themus- ^ cies. for the several muscles. Some of these are larger than the rest, and are named specially the intermuscular septa of the thigh: thus two, outer and inner, are fixed to the femur, so as to limit on the sides the extensors of the leg; and a third intervenes between the adductors and the flexors of the leg. The position of these partitions is marked on the surface by white lines. Con- At the upper part of the thigh the fascia is fixed to the with prominent borders of the pelvis. Taking the circumference upper of the limb, the student will find the fascia connected ex- thigh" ternally with the iliac crest; in the middle line behind with