DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 78 scapular It arises near the subclavian branch from the same cord of the nerve, pj^xus, viz., that formed by the fifth and sixth nerves. Its desti- nation is the dorsum of the scapula, on which it will be dissected with the arm. Cervical The CERVICAL PLEXUS is formed bj the anterior primary plexus IS j|^j.^j^^]^gg ^Yie first four cervical nerves. Situate at the upper part of the neck, it lies beneath the sterno-mastoid muscle, and on the middle scalenus and the levator anguli scapulae. Its appearance differs much from that of the brachial plexus, for it resembles a network^ more than a formed bundle of large cords. The follov^^ing is the general ar- branch- rangcmeut of the nerves in the plexus: — each nerve, except the° the first, divides into an ascending and descending branch, nerves. and these unite w^ith similar parts of the contiguous nerves, so as to give rise to a series of arches. From these loops or arches the different branches arise. Its Branches. — The branches of the plexus are both super- aSsu- ficial and deep. The superficial set are described v^ith the perficiai, ^j^jg^j^g^jg^j. gpace of the neck, as consisting of ascending and descending nerves (p. 60.). In this stage of the dissection the ascending branches are seen to spring from the union of the second and third nerves, and the descending ones to come from the loop between the third and fourth nerves, and deep. The deep set of branches remain nov^ to be examined. Deep The DEEP BRANCHES OF THE PLEXUS are both muscular are: and Communicating, and may be arranged into an internal and an external series. Phrenic INTERNAL Series.— 1. The phrenic or muscular nerve of nerve, , , , ^ the diaphragm is derived from the fourth, or third and fourth nerves of the plexus, and it may be joined by a fasciculus from the fifth cervical nerve. Descending obliquely on the surface of the anterior scalenus, from the outer to the inner edge, it enters the chest in front of the internal mammary artery, but behind the sub- clavian vein, and traverses that cavity to reach the diaphragm. At the lower part of the neck the phrenic nerve is joined by a filament of the sympathetic, and sometimes by an offset of the nerve to the subclavian muscle. Nerves 2. The branches communicating with the descendens noni are two descend- number. One of these arises from the second, and the other ens noni, fj-Qm the third cervical nerve; they are directed inwards either over or under the internal jugular vein, and communicate with the descending muscular branch (descendens noni) of the hypo- glossal nerve.