DISSECTION OF THE FKONT OF THE FOREARM. 304 the outer side. About the middle of the forearm, the ulnar nerve approaches the artery, and continues thence on the inner side. A small branch of the ulnar nerve descends on its lower part to the palm of the hand. Position On the annular ligament of the wrist, the artery lies close annular to the pisiform bone, and is crossed by a band of fibres pro- ment. lougcd from the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris to that ligament. The ulnar nerve still accompanies the vessel, having the same position, viz. on the inner side. Its Branches,—The greater number of the collateral branches branches t-i-i i i-r-» besides 01 the artery are distributed to the muscles. But the lar are branches which are named are the following: — anterior The anterior ulnar recurrent branch arises generally in com- ^"^ mon with the next, and turns upwards on the brachialis anticus muscle, to inosculate with the small anastomotic artery beneath the pronator radii teres. It gives offsets to the contiguous muscles, posterior Z>. The posterior ulnar recurrent branch, of larger size than the rent,^" anterior, is directed inwards beneath the flexor sublimis muscle to the interval between the inner condyle and the olecranon. Here it passes with the ulnar nerve between the attachments of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and joins the ramifications of the inferior profunda and anastomotic arteries on the inner side of the elbow joint. Some of its offsets enter the muscles, and others supply the articulation and the ulnar nerve, inter- c. The interosseous branch is a short, thick trunk, about an inch osseous, iQj^g^ which is directed backwards towards the interosseous mem- brane, and divides into anterior and posterior interosseous arteries: these branches will be afterwards followed, meta- d. The metacarpal branch arises from the artery near the lower carpal, ulna, and turns back along the metacarpal bone of the little finger, of which it forms a dorsal branch, and e. The carpal branches (anterior and posterior) ramify on the carpal, ^^.^j^^ r^j^^ back of the carpus, on which they anastomose with cor- responding offsets of the radial artery, and form arches across the wrist. The ori- Peculiarities of the ulnar artery.—The place of origin of the ulnar artery has a tendency to approach the trunk of the body, and it may therefore be changed to any point of the vessel in the arm, or even to that in the axilla; but this deviation is much less frequent in it than in the radial artery. Once the origin was found between two and three inches below the elbow. (Quain.) and Its position in the forearm, when the vessel is irregular, is more the ar-^^ frequently changed than that of the radial under similar circum-