735 FOURTH LAYER OF MUSCLES. salis pedis muscle, to see a ligamentous band across the heads of the metatarsal bones. The transverse metatarsal ligament is a strong fibrous Trans- band, like that in the hand (p. 318.), which connects together meta- the anterior extremities of all the metatarsal bones. A thin gam en t. fascia covering the interossei muscles is connected to its hinder part. It is concealed by the transversalis pedis, and bj the tendons, vessels, and nerves of the toes. Dissection, — To complete the dissection of the last layer Dissect ^ •'the last of muscles, the flexor brevis minimi dio^iti may be detached layer of . . themus- and thrown forwards. Then the metatarsal ligament is to cies. be divided between the bones, the knife being carried directly backwards in the centre of each interosseous space except the first, in order that the two interossei muscles may be separated one from another. The fascia covering these muscles should be taken away, and the branches of the external plantar nerve to them are to be dissected out. All the interossei are visible in the sole of the foot. Fourth layer of muscles.—In the fourth and last layer Fourth of the foot are contained the interossei muscles, and the muscles, tendons of the tibialis posticus and peroneus longus muscles. The INTEROSSEI muscles are situate in the intervals be- interos- tween the metatarsal bones : their arrangement corresponds ^"^^ closely with that of the interossei in the hand, consisting like these of two sets, plantar and dorsal. Seven in number, plantar there are three plantar and four dorsal; and two are found sai. in each space, except in the internal one. The plantar interossei belong to the outer three meta- Three tarsal bones : they arise from the under and inner surfaces fdrtiTree of those bones, and are inserted into the tibial side of the t^oes!"^ base of the metatarsal phalanx of the same toes; and an expansion is continued from each to the extensor tendon on the dorsum of the phalanx. These muscles are smaller than the dorsal, and are placed more in the sole of the foot. The dorsal interossei, one in each space, arise from the Four lateral surfaces of the two bones between which they lie, and He'^be- are inserted into a particular side of the metatarsal phalanx th^" of certain toes;—Thus, the internal two muscles are attached to the second toe, one to each side ; the next to the outer side of the third toe, and the remaining one to the outer side of the fourth toe. An expansion is continued from the