ARTICULATION OF THE ANKLE. 7o3 end of the tibia to that of the fibula ; and the posterior has posteri. attachments behind the joint, similar to those of the band in front. The inferior ligament closes the space between the Jj"^}"g^^- contiguous ends of the tibia and fibula, and consists of ment. transverse yellowish fibres. It is distinct from the posterior ligament, and is fixed on one side to the end of the fibula above the pit, and on the other to the contiguous surface of the tibia, as well as to part of the posterior edge of the ar- ticular surface, so as to assist in deepening the hollow into which the astragalus is received. The interosseous liqament is an aponeurotic partition be- ^nter- ^ osseous tween the muscles on the front and the back of the lea:. Its ligament , p ^ between fibres are for the most part directed downwards from the the . . bones, outer border of the tibia to the ridge on the anterior or inner surface of the fibula; but some few cross in the opposite direction. Both superiorly and inferiorly is an aperture which transmits vessels, viz. the anterior tibial at the one spot, and the anterior peroneal at the other. Some strong irresrular bundles of fibres, which constitute the inferior in- inferior ^ liga- terosseous ligament, extend between the bones below the ment. aperture for the anterior peroneal artery; these take differ- ent directions, like the fibres of the rest of the interosseous membrane. Articulation of the ankle. — Like the knee the ankle Bones is a ginglymoid or hinge joint. In this instance the upper ankie surface of the astragalus is received into an arch formed by ""^^"^ the lower ends of the tibia and fibula, and the four ligaments belonging to this kind of articulation connect together the bones. Dissection.—To make the dissection required for the liga- pissec. ments of the ankle joint, the fibrous tissue and vessels must the an- be removed from the front and back of that articulation. ^""^"^^ For the purpose of defining the lateral ligaments, the limb must be placed first on one side and then on the other: the internal ligament is wide and strong, and is beneath the tendon of the tibialis posticus ; the external is divided into three separate pieces, and to find these the peronei muscles, and the remains of the annular ligament below the outer malleolus should be taken away. The anterior or tibio-tarsal ligament is a thin fibrous Anterior membrane, which is attached to the tibia close to the articular Is^lSr^ 3 c