EXTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE. 473 them are fixed to the front of the pubes; whilst the rest are collected into a firm band between the pubes and the iliae crest, which is named Poupart's ligament. Connections. — The muscle is subcutaneous. Its posterior Connec border is usually free between the last rib and the iliac crest, but it is commonly overlaid by the edge of the latis- simus dorsi, except a small part below. Appearing through Lines on the aponeurosis, external to the linea alba, is a white line, neurSL. the linea semilunaris, corresponding to the outer edge of the rectus muscle; and crossing between the two are three or four whitish marks, the linese transversas. Numerous small Aper- T 1 . . T T tures in apertures m the tendon give exit to cutaneous vessels and it. nerves; and near the pubes is the large opening of the ex- ternal abdominal ring, which gives passage to the cord in Abdomi. the male, and the round ligament in the female. Parts of the aponeurosis. — Besides the general arrange- objects ment of the aponeurosis over the front of the abdomen, the aponeu- student is to examine more minutely the linea alba in the middle line; the external abdominal ring with the fascia prolonged from its margin ; and the rounded border named Poupart's ligament. Linea alba. — This is the central line of union of the in the aponeuroses of opposite sides on the front of the abdomen, alba the It extends from the xiphoid cartilage to the pubes, and roses are serves as a ligament between those parts. Its breadth is ""l^^^* wider above than below, and it is perforated here and there by small apertures, that allow masses of fat to protrude in some bodies. A little below the centre is the umbilicus; in its this projects now beyond the surface, though before the skin umblit^^ was removed there was a hollow corresponding to it; through it a piece of intestine may protrude from the abdomen. External abdominal ring. — This opening may be said to External be an interval between the fibres of the aponeurosis as these nai nng. diverge, near the pubes, to their attachment to two points of bone at a little distance from one another. It is somewhat Form triangular in form, with the base at the crest of the pubes, tuatSn. and the apex pointing upwards and outwards. The long size, measurement of the aperture is about an inch, and the trans- verse about half an inch. Its margins are named pillars, and differ in strength: — the inner one is thin and straight, inner and is attached below to the front of the symphysis pubis, piiian'^,