454 DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. penis, and join in a central tendon with the muscle of the Covers oppositc side. The accelerator muscle covers the bulb, and thra, and the urethra for two inches in front of the triangular liga- rou'nds mcut. If the muscle be cut through on the right side, and siing.^" ^ turned off the urethra, the junction with its fellow above that tube will be apparent. Com- Some of the deeper fibres, that immediately surround the ouhT bulb, have been described as a separate stratum by Kobelt. These are separated from the superficial by thin connective tissue, and join the corresponding part of the opposite side by a small tendon above the urethra. The name com- pressor hemisphcErium bulbi has been proposed for it by that anatomist. Trans- The TRANSVERSALis PEKiN^i is a Small thin muscle, which perinsi. lics across the perinaeum opposite the base of the triangular Origin, ligament. Arising by a tendon from the inner aspect of the pubic arch near the ischial tuberosity, the fibres run Ends in inwards, and join in the central point of the perinseum with poii^r^ the muscle of the opposite side, and with the sphincter ani nLum!" and the accelerator urin^e. Behind this muscle the super- ficial fascia dips down to join the triangular ligament. Acces- Sometimes there is a second small muscular slip anterior t?ans- to the transversalis, which has been named transversalis alter ; this throws itself into the accelerator muscle. A trian- Nowthc tlircc musclcs above described have been separated space from one another by the dissection, they may be seen to en- the^^^" close a triangular space, of which the accelerator uringe forms muscles the inner boundary, the erector penis the outer side, and the scribed, transversalis perinsei muscle the base. In the area of this interval is the triangular ligament of the urethra, with the The superficial perinseal vessels and nerves. Into the posterior may part of tliis space the knife may enter during the deeper this in incisions in the operations of lithotomy ; and as the instru- tomy. ment is carried backwards in the direction of the external incision, it will cut the transverse muscle and artery, and probably the superficial perinseal vessels and nerves. Dissec- Dissection. — For the display of the trianorular ligament, tion to _ _ /. ^ ' ' 1 1 1 see the structures that are superficial to it, viz. the muscles and guiar the crus penis, are to be detached in the following way: — On ment. the left side the accelerator urinae is to be removed com- pletely from the front of the ligament, and the erector muscle