396 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. tions of the upper limb (p. 250.) and the wall of the ab- domen. Excep. There are some deviations in the first and second nerves tions in first two. from the general arrangement above specified. First The first nerve ascends in front of the neck of the upper nerve ^ ^ ^ enters rib, and ends in the brachial plexus. Before it leaves the brachial ^ plexus, chest, it supplies a small branch to the first intercostal space ; this extends forwards furnishing muscular offsets, Has not, and becomes cutaneous by the side of the sternum. But usually, cutane- there is not any lateral cutaneous branch from this nerve, ous ... branch, exccpt in thosc cascs in which the next nerve is not as large as usual. Second The second nerve may extend a considerable way on the "^'^^^^ wall of the chest before entering between the intercostal muscles, and may ascend even to the first space. It is re- markable in having a very large lateral cutaneous branch (p. 250.). In front it ends like the others. Form of Upper surface of the diaphragm, — The anatomy of the sifrfece diaphragmatic partition between the thorax and the abdomen phragm. wiU be Specially described with the deep muscles of the latter cavity. The arch of the muscle towards the thorax has been before referred to (p. 342.): the centre of the arch is Parts in tcndiuous, but the sides are fleshy. In contact with the with-it. upper surface are the lungs, one on each side, and the Aper- pericardium in the middle. In the muscle are the fol- tures in j^^j^^g apertures : —one for the oesophagus and the pneumo- gastric nerves, another for the vena cava, and a third for the aorta with the thoracic duct and the vena azygos. The phrenic vessels and nerves enter the upper surface, external to the pericardium; and the splanchnic nerves are trans- mitted to the abdomen through the posterior part, whilst the sympathetic passes beneath it. The dis- Directions.—The dissector of the thorax now waits while onhe" the dissection of the back is made. Afterwards he is to now examine the ligaments of the ribs, and those of the spine : a notice of these will be found in the following section.