DISSECTION OF THE FRONT OF THE FOREAEM. 306 Supplies a. Muscular offsets leave the trunk of the nerve near the elbow, des™^"" distributed to all the muscles of the superficial layer except oneTnd flexor carpi ulnaris; in addition, the nerve supplies the deep a half, layer through the following branch (interosseous), except a part, viz. the inner half of the flexor profundus digitorum. in both h. The anterior interosseous nerve.— By means of thig nerve, the layers. j.gj3j^jjjjjjg niuscles of the deep layer are supplied, with the excep- tion above specified. It accompanies the anterior interosseous artery, and will be dissected with that vessel. A cuta- c. The cutaneous palmar branch arises at the lower part of the branch forearm; it pierces the fascia near the annular ligament, and crosses of han"d. ligament to reach the palm of the hand. Radial The RADIAL NERVE is the larger of the two branches into nerve in which the musculo-spiral divides in front of the outer con- dyle of the humerus. This nerve is placed along the outer ^h^fore- border of the limb, under cover of the supinator longus, and on the outer side of the radial artery till within three inches of the wrist, where it becomes cutaneous at the posterior | ends on part of the tendon of the supinator. On the surface of the | thehand. limb it divides into two branches, which are distributed on \ the dorsum of the hand, and on the thumb and the next | two fingers (p. 296.). No offset is furnished by the part of the nerve beneath the aponeurosis. Dissec- Dissection.— To examine the deep layer of muscles it will ! tion of . . deep be necessary to draw well over to the radial side of the fore- = layer of *' muscles, arm the pronator teres and flexor sublimis muscles ; or if it i is thought necessary, these muscles may be divided. The " connective tissue is to be taken from the muscular fibres; ; and the anterior interosseous vessels and nerve, which lie . on the interosseous membrane and are concealed by the ' muscles, are to be traced out. j Three Deep LAYER OF MUSCLES. — Only three muscles are 'ji in^'Se^^ present in the deep layer on the front of the forearm. One layer. Hes ou the ulua, and is the deep flexor of the fingers; another covers the radius, — the long flexor of the thumb ; , and the third is the pronator quadratus, which is beneath the other two, near the lower end of the bones. Deep The FLEXOR DIGITORUM PROFUNDUS vel PERFORANS arisCS fingeJs?^ from the anterior and inner surfaces of the ulna for three Origin, fourths of the length of the bone, and from the inner half of the interosseous ligament for the same distance; from the inner part of the olecranon ; and from an aponeurosis common