352 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. The Component parts.— The heart is a double organ, and is double, made up of two similar halves, right and left. In each half are two hollow portions, an auricle and a ventricle; these communicate, and are provided with vessels for the entrance each and exit of the blood. The ri2:ht half receives black blood half ° having by the systemic veins, and sends the same to the lungs ricie and by mcaus of the pulmonary artery ; but the left half is sup- tricie. plied with red blood from the lungs by the pulmonary veins, and distributes this over the body through the aorta. Grooves On the surface of the heart are certain grooves, indicatory position of this composition. Thus passing circularly round the heart, nearer the base than the apex, is a groove which cuts off, as it were, the thin auricular, from the fleshy ventricular auricles part. The auricular portion is placed at the base of the organ, and is subdivided into two halves (right and left) by and ven. a median partition. In like manner the ventricular portion tricles • is parted into right and left ventricles by a septum. The situation of the median partition between the ventricles is and par- recos^nised bv a longitudinal sulcus on the surface: this tition ° ^ , . ^ . - - between sulcus docs uot occupy the mid space either on the anterior or the posterior aspect, but is nearer the left border of the heart, in front, and the right border behind; so that most right of the anterior surface is formed by the right, and the f?ont.^" greater part of the posterior surface by the left ventricle. Number The auricles are two (right and left), as before said, and ation of are placed so deeply at the base of the heart, behind the aorta auricles, and the pulmonary artery, that only the tip of the right one comes forwards to the sternum. They receive their appella- tion from the resemblance that the tips or appendices, that project forwards on the sides of the arteries, bear to the Veins dog's cars. The auricles are much thinner than the ven- their tricles, and are recipients of blood from large veins. Of the Sght!^ two, the right is rather the larger and the more anterior ; it is joined by the upper and the lower cava, and by veins Left. from the substance of the heart. The left auricle receives the two pulmonary veins of each side. The ven- The ventricles constitute the fleshy part of the heart, and tricles respondence of the different portions of the heart to points of the wall of the thorax, he may refer to the Papers by Dr. Sibson, in vol. xii. of the Trans, of the Provincial Med. and Surg. Association.