DISSECTION OF THE SUBMAXILLARY REGION. 102 and tlie base at the tongue, and is in contact along the middle line with the corresponding muscle of the other side. It takes origin from the upper tubercle behind the symphysis con- of the jaw. From this spot the fibres radiate, the posterior with passing downwards to their insertion into the body of the hyoid hyoid bone, the anterior forwards to the tip of the tongue, and ' and the intermediate to the whole length of the tongue, from tongue, ^^^^ point. Lying along the middle of the tongue, it is contigu- in contact with its fellow; whilst the lower border of the ous parts, muscle corresponds to the genio-hyoideus, and the upper to the fraenum linguae. On its outer side are the ranine vessels, and the hyo-glossus muscle ; and the hypoglossal nerve perforates the posterior fibres. Lingual The linquol artery is one of the anterior branches of the artery ^ external carotid, and arises between the superior thyroid and ascends facial branches. At first it is directed inwards above the os tongue hyoides, but is afterwards inclined slightly upwards beneath hyo- the hyo-glossus to the under part of the tongue, and ends at the anterior border of that muscle in the sublingual and ranine branches. Before reaching the hyo-glossus the artery is superficial, though it is crossed near that muscle by the ninth nerve, and by the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles. Beneath the hyo-glossus, the vessel rests on the middle con- strictor and genio-hyo-glossus muscles, and is situate below Its the level of the fflosso-pharyn^eal nerve. Its branches are branches , b r J to are — thcse: to hyoid A small JiyGid branch is distributed on the upper border of the ^^^^' OS hyoides, where it anastomoses with the one of the opposite side, and with the hyoid branch of the superior thyroid artery, to back A branch to the dorsum of the tongue arises beneath the hyo- tongue; glossus muscle, and ascends to supply the substance of that organ. The fibres of the hyo-glossus must be divided to see it. to the The sublingual branch springs from the final division of the guai artery at the edge of the hyo-glossus, and is then directed out- giand, ^i^Q gland from which it takes its name. Some off*sets supply the gums and the mylo-hyoid muscle, and one continues behind the incisor teeth to join a similar artery from the other side. to the The ranine branch is the terminal part of the lingual stance of artery, and extends forwards along the outer side of the tongue. ggjjjQ.jjyQ.g^QSSUg ^]^q ^ip Qf tonguc whcrc it ends: it