DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 330 the coronoid process and the orbicular ligament. The bra- chialis anticus muscle covers it. Posie. The posterior ligament is thinner than the anterior, and is menus^" Completely covered hj the triceps muscle. Superiorly it is weakest. liumcrus abovc the fossa for the olecranon, and inferiorly it is inserted into the olecranon. Some few fibres are transverse between the margins of the fossa before mentioned. Dissec- Dissection, — Open the joint by an incision across the front, near the humerus, and disarticulate the bones, in order that the form of the articular surfaces may be seen. Synovial The synoviol membrane lines the joint, and can be traced S^a^e. from one bone to another along the inner surface of the con- necting ligaments. It projects between the radius and the orbicular ligament, and serves for the articulation of the head of that bone with the small sigmoid cavity of the ulna. Lower Articular surfaces of the hones, — The humerus presents the hu- inferiorly two distinct articular surfaces for the bones of the ^^''"s. fQpg^pjjj^ 'pj^Q Qj^Q fQj. radius is on the outer side, and One sur- face for consists of a rounded eminence (capitellum) on the front of radius, ^ ^ ^ the bone, which is covered with cartilage only on the an- terior aspect: between it and the surface that corresponds to another the ulna is a slight hollow. The surface in contact with the ulnar ulna is limited internally and externally by a prominent ridge, and is hollowed out in the centre like a pulley (trochlea): the external ridge corresponds to the interval also for between the heads of the radius and ulna. On the front of procesT^ the humerus, above the articular surface, are two depressions radius receive the coronoid process and the head of the radius and ole- during flexure of the joint; and on the posterior aspect is a cranon. 1^^^^^ fossa for the rcccption of the olecranon in extension of the forearm. End of On the end of the ulna there is a large excavation named the ulna. g*gj^Q*^| cavity, which is narrow in the centre, but expanded in front and behind. A slightly raised line extends from front to back through the cavity, which is received into the hollow of the trochlea of the humerus in the motions of the joint. In the bottom of the cavity the cartilage is wanting completely, or for a greater or smaller distance across the articular hollow. End of The end of the radius presents a circular depression with