415 FOURTH LAYER OF MUSCLES. separation between this muscle and the multifidus spinas on its inner side. Between the longissimus and the multifidus vessels spinge are the internal branches of the dorsal and lumbar nerves, nerves, and those of the intercostal and lumbar arteries. The dissector of the neck should trace upwards a fleshy Offsets prolongation of the longissimus beyond the ribs: this is neck, blended at first with the fibres of the longissimus ; but it is afterwards divided like the splenius into a cranial part (tra- chelo-mastoid) and a cervical part (transversalis colli). * Fourth Layer.— In this layer are included the spinalis Fourth dorsi; the erector spinse, with its divisions and its accessory muscles muscles to the neck; and the complexus muscle. Most of the vessels and nerves of the back are in connection with consists of this layer of muscles. * The SPINALIS DORSI is found only by the sides of the spinalis spines of the dorsal vertebrae, and is united with the lon- gissimus dorsi. Inferiorly it arises by tendinous processes from the spines of the last two dorsal and the first two lumbar vertebrae, and from the contiguous tendon of the lon- gissimus. From this origin the fibres ascend forming arches, only whose concavity looks inwards, and are connected by ten- the dor-' dinous processes to the spines of the dorsal vertebrae, as low tlhx^.' as the eighth or ninth, or only for half that extent. * The ERECTOR SPiN-^ is the muscular mass on the side of Erector the spine in the lumbar region. It is single and pointed K^gie below; and its cutaneous surface is covered near the sacrum origin, by a wide and strong tendon, which is common to it and the multifidus spinae. The muscle arises below from about the Attach- posterior fifth of the crest of the innominate bone, at the inner aspect, and many fibres take origin from the superficial tendon : in the lumbar region the fibres are also connected deeply by fleshy and tendinous processes to the whole length of each transverse process, to the tubercle (process, acces- sorius) at the root of the same, and to the layer of the fascia lumborum external to those processes. Opposite the last Divides rib it divides into sacro-lumbalis and longissimus dorsi. The fast rib attachment on the inner aspect of the innominate bone cor- ^ responds in greater part to the origin of the gluteus maximus on the outer side. * The SACRO-LUMBALIS Or ILIO-COSTALIS is the smallest of Sacro- ii . . „ lumbalis tne two pieces resulting from the division of the erector