336 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. the little finger : they may be oblique in direction ; and a band may be divided between two bones, as in the case of the ligament that is attached to the os trapezium and the second and third metacarpals. Sometimes one or more may be wanting. Lateral On the uluar side of the metacarpal bone of the middle finger is a longitudinal or lateral band, which is attached above to the os magnum and os unciforme, and below to the rough ulnar side of the base of the above-mentioned meta- carpal bone. Sometimes this band isolates the articulation of the last two metacarpals with the unciform bone from the remaining carpo-metacarpal joint; but more frequently it is divided into two parts, and does not form a complete partition between those joints. How This band may be seen by opening the articulation be- tween the unciform and the last two metacarpal bones; and then cutting through, with care, the transverse ligaments joining the third and fourth bones, so as to allow the separa- tion of the fourth from the third metacarpal. Dissec- Dissection. — The articulating surfaces of the bones in the carpo-metacarpal articulation may be seen by cutting through the rest of the ligaments on the posterior aspect of the hand. Surface Articular surfaces, — The metacarpal bone of the fore- ends of finger presents a hollowed articular surface, which receives bones, the prominence of the os trapezoides, and articulates late- rally with the OS trapezium and os magnum. That of the middle finger articulates with the os magnum. But the metacarpal bones of the ring and little finger are opposed to the unciform bone, and do not reach so far back as the other two. Synovial Synovial membranes. — Usually two synovial membranes two are interposed between the carpal and metacarpal bones, viz. a separate one for the bone of the thumb, and ofisets of the or three, common Carpal synovial sac (p. 335.) for the others. Some- times there is a distinct sac for the articulation of the osun- ciforme with its metacarpals. Inter- Intcrosscous Ugamcnts. — The interosseous ligaments bc- liga- tween the bases of the metacarpal bones maybe demonstrated meta- by dctachiug one bone from another. On forcibly separating bonSl the carpal bones, their strong interosseous ligaments will also