22 DISSECTION OF THE INTERIOR OF THE HEAD. interi^ai The INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY appears in the base of artery, the skull at the apex of the petrous part of the temporal bone. In its ascent to the brain the vessel lies in the space of the cavernous sinus, along the side of the body of the winds sphenoid bone, and makes two remarkable bends, so as to cavern, look like the letter S reclined. On entering the sinus, the nus. artery ascends, at first, to the posterior clinoid process ; it is then directed forwards to the root of the anterior process of the same name; and lastly, it turns upwards internal to this point of bone, perforates the dura mater bounding the sinus, and divides into cerebral arteries at the base of the brain. In this course the artery is enveloped by nerves derived from the sympathetic in the neck. The The branches of this part of the artery are few. In the branches . . z . tn n are to smus there are some small arteries (arterige receptaculi) lor mater the supply of the dura mater and the bone, the nerves, and and or- . . , . , . t.t bit. the pituitary body; and opposite the anterior clmoid process the ophthalmic branch arises. The terminal branches of the carotid will be seen in the dissection of the base of the brain. syrapa- SYMPATHETIC Nerve.— Arouud the carotid artery is a caroUd°" prolongation of the sympathetic nerve of the neck, which ^^"^^^ forms the following plexuses : — carotid The carotid plexus is situate on the outer side of the vessel, at plexus, entrance into the cavernous sinus, and communicates with the sixth nerve, and with the Gasserian ganglion, cavern- The cavemous plexus is placed below the bend of the artery, ouspiex- ^i^j^i^ .g close to the root of the anterior clinoid process. This small plexus is more immediately connected with the offset of the upper cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, that courses along the Union inner side of the carotid artery. Filaments are given from this cranial plexus to unite with the third, fourth, and ophthalmic nerves, nerves, filament is also furnished to the lenticular ganglion, either se- parately from, or in conjunction with the nasal nerve. Distri. After forming these plexuses, the nerves surround the trunk of the carotid, and are lost in the cerebral membranes. Two pe- Petrosal nerves.— Beneath the Gasserian ganglion is the large Serves in superji cialpetrosalnerve^ entering the hiatus Fallopii to join the skiTiL^ facial nerve. External to this is occasionally seen another small petrosal nerve (nervus petrosus superficialis tertius, Bidder), which springs from the sympathetic on the middle meningeal artery, and enters the bone to join the facial nerve with the preceding. A