DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 566 thej soon become convoluted; whence the name coni vascu- losis that has been given to them. When they are unravelled, they are from six to eight inches long ; and they will be found to join the excretory duct at intervals of about three inches. Excre- The EXCRETORY DUCT of the testis rcceivcs the vasa effe- tory duct rentia from the upper part of the gland, and extends thence to the urethra. Its first part, which is in contact with the j testis, is very flexuous, and forms the epididymis; but the remainder is straight, and is named vas deferens. is bent The epididmnis extends in the form of an arch, along: the on the f P . ^ ' o testicle outcr Side 01 the testis, from the upper to the lower end, and forming . . p • • • • i ! epidi- receives its name irom its situation. Opposite the upper part of the testicle it presents an enlarged portion or head, I the globus 7najor, and at the lower part of that organ it \ becomes more pointed or tail-like — globus minor^ before .{ how ^ ending in the vas deferens. The intervening narrow part i' of the epididymis is called the body. Its head is attached to ; the testis by the vasa efferentia that open into it; and its I tail or lower part is fixed to the tunica albuginea by some fibrous tissue, and by the reflection of the tunica vaginalis. : is but a After the removal of the serous membrane and some fibrous i single ^ ^ ! tube; tissue, the epididymis may be seen to be formed of a single j tube, bent into a zigzag form, whose bends are united into ij length one mass by fibrous tissue. This part of the tube, when un- | ravelled, measures twenty feet in length. The diameter of i' its canal is about -j^th. of an inch ; but there is a slight i , diminution in size towards the globus minor. i Where The vas deferens begins opposite the lower end of the 11 straight testis, at the termination of the globus minor of the epidi- j vasde. dymis. At first this part of the excretory duct is slightly ' wavy, but afterwards it becomes for the most part a firm round tube. In its course.to the urethra, it ascends on the inner side of the testicle to reach the bloodvessels of the this spermatic cord, with which it enters the internal abdominal mro"the ring ; it is then directed along the side of the bladder, and ' through the prostate, to open on the inner surface of the length latter (see Pelvic Viscera, p. 599.). The length of this part and size. excrctory duct is about two feet, and the width of its canal about ^V^^ inch. Near its termination the vas