663 SAPHENOUS OPENING IN THE FASCIA LATA. u u 4 the lower end of the sacrum and the coccyx ; internally with the pubes and the pubic arch; and in front with Poupart's ligament, between the pubes and the iliac crest. At the Differ-" lower part of the thigh, behind the knee joint, it passes lower uninterruptedly to the leg; but in front of the articulation it is blended with an expansion from the extensor muscles, and is continued over the patella, though separated from the bone by a bursa, to be inserted into the heads of the tibia and fibula. Directions. — The flaps of skin that were removed from Cover ^ the the front of the thio-h, to follow the cutaneous vessels and fascia ^ except nerves, are now to be replaced, and the saphenous opening above, is to be learnt. The saphenous opening in the fascia lata receives its ap- Saphe- pellation from transmitting the saphenous vein. This aper- ^p^^^"s; ture is oval in form, and is situate rather to the inner side of tion, form, the middle line of the thigh ; it measures about half an inch and size, in width and one inch and a half in length. Its upper ex- tremity (superior cornu) is at Poupart's ligament ; and its lower extremity (inferior cornu) is distant from that struc- ture about one inch and a half, and presents a well defined margin. The inner side of the openinsr is posterior to the level i""er ^ o 1. margin of the femoral vessels; it is deficient above in a prominent sharp ; edge, for the fascia constructing it is stretched over a flat subjacent muscle (pectineus), but it is marked below by a firm and sharp border. The outer boundary is much stronger, and has, when detached, a semilunar border, whose concavity is turned downwards and inwards: this is named from its shape, yb/cz/brm border or margin of the saphenous outer is opening (falciform process of Burns); it is superficial to the semi- femoral vessels, and is connected by fibrous bands to the crural sheath, and to the deep layer of the superficial fascia. If the outer ed^e be traced upwards, it will be found to arch and arches to to the inner side of the femoral vein, and to blend with the join, ' Gimber- base of Gimbernat's ligament (part of the insertion of Pou- nat's n- " ... garaent. part's ligament): the upper end of this border, where it is in- ternal to the vessels, has been known as the /emomZ ligament. The rigidity of the margin of the saphenous opening is Tense- much influenced by the position of the limb ; for if the finger the^ ° be placed beneath the upper part of the falciform border, depends