664 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. on the whilst the limb is moved in different directions, the dissector position . 1 . 1 n . of the Will perceive that this band is most unyielding when the limb is extended and rotated outwards, and most relaxed when the thigh is flexed and turned in the opposite direction, francs- Through the lower part of the opening the saphenous trough ducts of the inguinal glands are transmitted: opening through the upper part, close to the falciform edge, a femoral hernia would project, ciatur^ Sometimes terms are applied to the fascia on opposite ffsSf at ^^^^^ saphenous opening, as if there was a distinct thej^op piece in each spot; thus the piece on the outer side of the thigh, opening is called iliac part of the fascia lata, from its at- tachment to the iliac crest; whilst that on the inner side, which is fixed to the pubes, is named in like manner the pubic part of the fascia lata. Anato- Parts concerned in Femoral Hernia. — Besides the my of parts saphenous openins::, the dissector has to study the under- concern- i x ./ edina mentioned parts, to obtain a knowledsre of the structures femoral ^ ^ hernia, amongst which the hernial protrusion is situate; viz. the crural arch and Gimbernat's ligament, the crural sheath, the crural canal and the crural ring, together with a membranous partition (septum crurale) between the thigh and the ab- domen. Dissec- Dissection. — To examine Poupart's lie^ament and a loose tion to i o see a shcath of membrane that surrounds the femoral vessels, the sheath . ^ . . , around piecc of the fascia lata outside the saphenous opening is to be vessels, reflected by the following incisions. One cut may be begun near the edge of the falciform border, and be carried outwards for one inch and a half, parallel and close to Poupart's liga- ment ; another is to be directed obliquely downwards from the termination of the first, towards and a little below the inferior cornu of the opening. When the fascia has been turned inwards and some fat removed, the tube of membrane (crural sheath) will be brought into vievv^ as it descends beneath Poupart's ligament. sheath With the handle of the scalpel the sheath is to be sepa- rated carefully from the fascia lata beneath, and from the ligament in front of it; and Gimbernat's ligament on the inner side of the sheath, to which the upper end of the falci-^ form border is united, is to be defined. mirai Poupart's ligament^ or the crural arch, is a firm band, de-