399 ARTICULATION OF THE VERTEBRA. two ribs, where the tubercle and the transverse process do not touch. C. Ligaments from the cartilages of the ribs.—The costal union cartilages of the true ribs are united to the sternum by costal anterior and posterior ligaments, which cover a synovial lages" membrane; and they are further joined externally to the bony part of the rib. Some of the lower cartilages touch each other, and are connected together by fibrous bands and synovial membrane. a. In the chondro-sternal articulation^ the cartilages of with the the true ribs are received into the depressions on the side of num; the sternum, and are fixed in their position by surrounding fibres, but chiefly in front and behind, where these give rise to an anterior and a 'posterior ligament. Between the car- tilage and the articular surface of the bone is a synovial membrane. A separate band of fibres passes between the cartilage of the seventh rib and the xiphoid cartilage, and is named costo-xiphoid ligament b. Costal cartilage with the rib. — The bony part of the with the rib is hollowed to receive the costal cartilage, and the only investing membrane between the two is that of the perios- teum of the rib. c. One costal cartilage to another, — The contiguous sur- with one faces of the costal cartilages, from the sixth to the ninth, are ^ connected by ligamentous fibres, and the articulations are provided with synovial membranes. Articulation of the Pieces of the Sternum.—The union of « T . Till pieces of upper piece oi the sternum is connected to the lower by an- sternum, terior and posterior longitudinal fibres, and between them is an intervening cartilage. Articulation of the Vertebra. — The several sepa- Two sets rate vertebrae composing the spinal column are united to- men^s gether by two sets of ligaments — one between the bodies the ver- and the other between the processes of the bones. These ligaments have a general resemblance along the spinal column, and one description will suffice for all except for those between the first two vertebrae and the head, and those between the bones of the pelvis. The description of the special ligaments, thus excepted, will be found in the dissection of the neck (p. 182.) and in that of the ligaments of the pelvis.