261 THE BRACHIAL PLEXUS. s 3 4. The lon^ thoracic branch (external mammary) is directed Long . 1 • 1 / 1 1 thoracic. along the border of the pectoralis minor to the side oi the chest, on which it extends to about the sixth intercostal space; it supplies the pectoral and serratus muscles, and anastomoses, like the other branches, with the intercostal and thoracic arteries. In the female it gives branches to the mammary gland. A second external mammary artery is not unfrequently met a second with, especially in the female; its position is nearer the middle of ^^^^^y- the axilla with a companion vein. 5. The subscapular branch courses with a nerve of the same Subsca- name along the subscapular muscle, as far as the lower angle of the ^^"^^^ ^^^^ scapula, where it ends in branches for the serratus magnus and the latissimus dorsi and teres muscles. Near its origin the artery sends backwards a considerable branch round the edge of the sub- scapular muscle : this darsal branch ffives an offset, infrascapular^ a dorsal 1 1 n A 111 11 branch, to the ventral aspect oi the scapula, and then turns to the dorsum and in- of that bone, where it will be afterwards dissected. The subsca- puiar!" pular artery is frequently combined at its origin with other branches of the axillary, or with branches of the brachial artery. 6. The circumflex branches (anterior and posterior) arise near Two the border of the subscapular muscle. One turns in front of, and gex""^" the other behind the humerus. They will be dissected in the ex- amination of the arm. The axillary vein continues upwards the basilic vein of Axiiiary , . vein, the arm, and has the same extent and connections as the axillary artery. It lies to the thoracic side of its arterj, extent and receives thoracic and subscapular branches. Opposite nections. the subscapular muscle it is joined, externally, by a large ^Z"^"^^" vein, v^hich is formed by the venas comites of the brachial artery; and near the clavicle the cephalic vein opens into it. Dissection. — In order that the branches of the brachial Dissec- plexus may be followed out, the pectoralis minor is to be cut brachial through near its insertion into the coracoid process, and to be turned towards the chest, but without injuring the thoracic nerves in contact with it. The axillary vessels are then to be cut across opposite or below the second rib *, and to be drawn down with hooks ; and their thoracic branches may be likewise removed. A dense fascia is to be cleared away from the large nerves of the plexus. The BRACHIAL PLEXUS rcsults from the union of the an- Nerves entering * The student must be careful not to cut the vessels higher than the spot mentioned, otherwise he will injure the dissection of the neck,