DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Vein in In the female this vein (ovarian) has the same ending as female, in the male, and it forms a plexus in the broad ligament of the uterus. Renal The renal or emulgent vein is of large size, and joins the vena cava at a right angle. It commences by many branches in the kidney; and the trunk resulting from their union is differ, superficial to the renal artery. The right is the shortest, IZ and joins the cava higher up than tlie other. The left vein crosses the aorta close to the origin of the superior mesen- Branch. teric artery : it receives separate branches from the spermatic and suprarenal veins of the same side, supra- The suprarenal vein is of considerable size when it is S'dif- compared with that of the body from which it comes On the right side it opens into the cava, and on the left side into side. , , the renal vein. The diaphragmatic veins (inferior), two for each artery, spring from the under surface of the diaphragm. They join the cava either as one trunk or two. Hepatic The hepatic veins enter the cava where it is m contact Se with the liver. These veins are described in the dissection noticed. ^ft^,eii,.er (p. 553.). Vena Peculiarities of the vena cava,--In position. ^ When trans- Tair^osition of the viscera exists, the vena cava is found on the lett ^^^^ of the spine. But without that transposition the vem may be «ff" on the left side of the aorta as high as the renal vein, before it crosses that vessel to take its usual place, or may In ending. - Instead of opening into the heart, the lower cava ?h"e izy- may be found entering the upper cava; and in these rare mstances it finds its way to that vessel through therchannel of the mtercostal or azycTos vein. In this condition the inferior cava is wanting at the heart and the blood from the lower part of the body is then trans- mitted to the heart by the superior cava. Should this deviation exist, the hepatic veins would form a separate trunk, and open into the rio-ht auricle in the situation of the inferior cava. Phrenic veins. psoas magnus; THE DEEP MUSCLES. The deep muscles in the interior of the abdomen, which re- main to be learnt, are the psoas, iliacus, and quadratus lum- borum. Some fasciae are also to be seen in connection with the muscles. . -u i.^ The PSOAS MAGNUS reaches from the lumbar vertebrae to