DISSECTION OF THE PTERYGOID REGION. 88 the jaw. covers the ramus of the jaw, and the masseteric branches of nerve and artery that enter it at the under surface. To see Dissectiou.—To lay bare the temporal muscle to its inser- of tern- tion, the following dissection may be made : — The temporal muscle, fascia is to be detached from the upper border of the zygo- matic arch, and removed from the surface of the muscle. Next, the arch is to be sawn through, in front and behind, so as to include its whole length; and to be thrown down (without being cut off) with the masseter muscle still at- tached to it, by separating the fibres of the muscle from the upper part of the ramus of the jaw. In detaching the mas- seter muscle, the nerve and artery to it, that appear through the sigmoid notch, will be found. The surface and insertion of the temporal muscle may then be cleaned, jnsor- Afterwards, to see the insertion and extent of origin of the muscle, let the coronoid process be sawn off by a cut passing from the centre of the sigmoid notch nearly to the last molar tooth, so as to include the whole of the insertion of the muscle; and in this proceeding let the student be careful of the buccal artery and nerve issuing from beneath it. Lastly, the coronoid process should be raised in order that the extent of the lower fibres of the temporal muscle, and their contiguity to the external pterygoid, close below them, may be observed. Origin of The temporal muscle has been before seen to occupy the muscle ^PP^^ P^^^ temporal fossa (p. 4.) ; and by the previous dissection the lower part has been laid bare. The origin of the muscle is the following: — It occupies the whole of the temporal fossa, reaching up to the semicircular line on the side of the skull, and downwards to the crest on the outer aspect of the great wing of the sphenoid bone. From this extensive origin, as well as from the fascia over it, the fibres inser- convcrgo to a superficial tendon, which is inserted into all the inner surface of the coronoid process, from the apex to near the last molar tooth. Behind the posterior border of the tendon are the masseteric vessels and nerve, and in front of it the buccal vessels and nerve : the last nerve occasionally perforates some of the fibres of the muscle. To Dissection. — For the display of the pterygoid muscles, it t^tery- will bc ncccssary to remove a piece of the ramus of the jaw. But first, the greater part of the temporal muscle is to be