DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. thigh. Other cutane- ous ar- teries. Cuta- neous nerves. Ilio-in- guinal Genito- crural is on front of thigh as far as the middle. External cutane- ous is spent on the outer part of the thigh by two branch- es. ies in that situation, viz. superficial pudic, epigastric, umflex iliac, terminate in it. Towards the upper the limb the veins of the inner side and the back of % thigh are most frequently united into one branch, which enters the trunk near the aperture in the fascia lata; and sometimes those on the outer side of the thigh are collected together in a similar way, so as to produce three large veins on the front of the thigh near the saphenous opening. On the side of the knee the vein generally receives a deep branch from the joint. Some unnamed cutaneous arteries are distributed to the integuments along with the nerves ; and the superficial branch of the anastomotic artery (p. 675.) accompanies the saphenous nerve near the knee. Cutaneous Nerves. — The numerous cutaneous nerves of the thigh are derived from branches of the lumbar plexus (p. 583.), and are distributed in greater abundance on the inner than the outer margin of the limb. Hio-inguinal. — This nerve (p. 583.) is small in size, and reaches the surface by passing through the external abdominal ring; it suppHes the scrotum, and ends in the contiguous part of the thigh, internal to the saphenous vein. GenitO'crural.—The crural branch of this nerve (p. 584.) pierces the fascia lata near Poupart's ligament, rather external to the line of the femoral artery. After the nerve has become superficial, it communicates with the middle cutaneous nerve, and extends on the anterior aspect of the thigh as far as midway between the knee and the pelvis. Occasionally this branch is of large size, and, reaching the outer side of the limb, takes the place of branches of the external cutaneous nerve. The external cutaneous nerve (p. 584.) is distributed on the outer aspect of the limb. At first it is contained in a prominent ridge of the fascia lata on the outer margin of the thigh, where it divides into an anterior and a posterior branch. The posterior branch is soon subdivided into two or three others, which arch backwards, supplying the integuments of the outer part of the thigh as low as the middle, and the highest offsets are crossed by branches of the last dorsal nerve. The anterior branch extends to the lower half | of the thigh. It appears on the surface of the fascia lata, about j four inches from Poupart's ligament; and as it is continued to the | knee, it distributes branches laterally, but those towards the outer ( and posterior surfaces are the most numerous, and the largest in j size. Near the knee it communicates sometimes with the branch i of the great saphenous nerve.