444 DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. of the anus, which is posterior to a line extended from the the anus, anterior part of the one ischial tuberosity to the other. In front of the anus the surface is slightly convex over the a raphe, urethra, and presents a longitudinal prominent line or raphe, hollow which divides this part of the space into two halves. Be- on side ^ ^ of anus, tween the anus and the tuberosity of the hip-bone the surface is somewhat depressed, especially in emaciated bodies, and corresponds to the hollow of the subjacent iscliio-rectal fossa. and folds The margin of the anal aperture possesses numerous con- and veins ^ ^ ^ that"'^ verging folds, but these are more or less obliterated by the opening, position of the body and the distension of the rectum ; and projecting oftentimes through and around the opening are some dilated heemorrhoidal veins (haemorrhoids). Bound- Deep boundaries. — The deep boundaries of the perinaeal ing parts r x. around, gpaco will be ascertained, in the pro2fress of the dissection, same as ? jr o 7 outilt^o^f correspond with the inferior aperture or the outlet of the pelvis, pelvis. The limits may be made out by referring to a dry or prepared pelvis, on which the ligaments remain entire; and the student should trace on the body, the individual boundaries with his finger. In front is the arch of the pubes ; and at the posterior part is the tip of the coccyx. On each side, from before backwards, is that portion of the innominate bone which forms the pubic arch, viz. from the pubes to the ischial tuberosity; and still farther back is the great sacro-sciatic ligament extending from the tuber ischii to the tip of the coccyx, of thl Form, — The space included within these boundaries has space, the form of a lozenge, and measures about four inches from mea- before backwards, and three inches between the ischial sure- ^ ^ ^ ments. tuberosities. A line from the front of the tuberosity of one 4tween ^^^^ Corresponding point on the other, will divide the rosities^" perinaeal space into two triangular parts. The anterior ftini? (urethral) half contains the penis and the urethra, with their muscles and accessory parts. The posterior (rectal) half is occupied by the lower end of the large intestine, with its muscles, &c. i^epth Depth, — The depth of the perinaeum from the surface to space, the bladder may be said to be generally about three inches, but this measurement varies much in different bodies.