EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. 575 of the position of the aorta on the left side of the spine. To its outer side at first is the vena cava, and near its termina- tion is the psoas muscle. The companion vein is at first beneath, but external to the artery at the upper part, where it enters the vena cava in that position ; and beneath the rifflit artery also is the left common iliac vein. The left . . . . . vessel. artery is crossed by the continuation of the inferior mesen- teric artery, and the corresponding vein is situate below it. Peculiarities. — The place of origin changes with that of the Place of bifurcation of the aorta. ongm, The length ranges from less than half an inch (In one case) to length; four inches and a half; but in the majority of instances, it varies between one inch and a half and three inches (Quain). The place of division oscillates between the middle of the last place of lumbar vertebra, and the upper border of the sacrum, but occa- sionally it will be above or below those points. Generally the left artery divides lower than the right. The EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY is the Commencement of the Externa leading vessel of the lower limb, and is contained in the leads to cavity of the abdomen. Its extent is from the bifurcation of umb. the common iliac to the lower border of Poupart's ligament, ^i^d dl^ where it becomes femoral ; and its direction would be indi- ^^^tion. cated, on the surface of the abdomen, by a line from the left of the umbilicus to the middle of the space between the symphysis pubis and the front of the iliac crest. The vessel lies above the brim of the pelvis, in its course to Poupart's wjth ^ ligament, and is covered closely by the peritoneum and the around, subperitoneal layer in all its extent. Near its origin it is crossed sometimes by the ureter ; and near Poupart's liga- ment the spermatic vessels, and part of the genito-crural nerve, lie on it for a short distance, whilst the circumflex iliac vein crosses it, and the vas deferens bends down along its inner side. To the outer side of the vessel is the psoas, I except at its termination under Poupart's ligament, where that muscle lies beneath it. A chain of lymphatic glands is placed along the front and the inner side of the artery. The ^"fn^^^^ position of the external iliac vein is not the same on both sides. On the left side the vein is altogether internal to the artery; whilst on the right side the vein, though internal in position on the pubes, afterwards lies beneath the arterial trunk.