780 DISSECTION OF THE EYE. mass, along the bloodvessels supplying tlie back of tbe lens. This membrane and the vitreous mass are extra-vascular, and receive their nutritive material from the vessels of the ciliary processes and retina. Suspen- Suspensory ligament of the lens (Retzius). — This is the gament, transparent membranous structure, situate around the lens extent,; at the front of the hyaloid membrane, which intervenes be- tween the anterior termination (ora serrata) of the retina and the lens capsule. After the ciliary processes of the choroid coat are detached from it, dark lines of pigment is^mark- covcr the surfacc; and when these are washed away plaits or folds folds, ciliary processes, come into view, which resemble the that are proccsscs of the choroid coat, but are less prominent and between longer : these two sets of folds are dovetailed together, the pro-^^ prominences of one membrane being received into hollows Nature Other. In this membrane are stiff longitudinal and elastic fibres. Canal of Canal of Petit. — Around the margin of the lens is a small canal, about one tenth of an inch across, which has situa- received the above name. It is situate between the plaited ' part of the suspensory ligament and the front of the hyaloid membrane — being the interval of separation between the anterior two. When the canal has been opened and distended with part sac- ... cuiated. air, it is sacculated at regular intervals, like the large intes- tine, in consequence of the inflation of the plaits of the an- terior boundary. The margin of the capsule of the lens projects into the space. Lens of Crystalline lens and its capsule. — The crystalline bau.^^^' lens is situate behind the pupil of the eye, and acts in bring- ing to a focus on the retina the rays of light passing through that aperture. Capsule; The capsule is a firm and very elastic transparent case, lens; which is permeable to fluid, and closely surrounds the lens, uon and scatcd in a hollow on the front of the vitreous body: connec- the anterior part projecting towards the iris and the pupil; whilst the posterior is received in the vitreous body, to which it is inseparably united. The circumference of the Its ante- casc corrcspouds with the canal of Petit. Its anterior sur- is firm face is free in the posterior chamber of the eye, and gives tr"ans- attachment towards the circumference (y^^h of an inch off) parent; ^|^^ suspcnsory ligament; its posterior surface is joined by