151 FACIAL NERVE IN THE BONE. 1. The superior or descending palatine is the largest branch of PJ^^*;ij® the artery in the fossa, and accompanies the large palatine nerve in its canal. Arrived at the palate, the vessel is directed forwards in the roof of the mouth, and anastomoses, behind the incisor teeth, with the artery of the opposite side, and with a branch that descends from the nose through the anterior palatine fossa. In its course the artery supplies branches to the other palatine canals, which pass with the contained nerves to the soft palate and tonsil ; and some offsets are furnished to the lining membrane of the nose. In the roof of the mouth the mucous membrane, glands, and gums, receive their vessels from this artery. 2. The nasal or spheno-palatine artery enters the nose through nasal the spheno-palatine foramen, and divides into branches : — Some esf of these are distributed on the spongy bones and the outer wall of the nasal fossa, and supply offsets to the membrane lining the pos- terior ethmoidal cells. One long branch, artery of the septum (art. one to naso-palatina), runs on the partition between the nasal fossge to the nasi^^"^ anterior palatine canal, through which it anastomoses with the superior palatine in the roof of the mouth. This branch accom- panies the naso-palatine nerve, and covers the septum with nu- merous ramifications. 3. The pterygo-palatine is a very small branch which, passing pterygo- backwards through the canal of the same name, is distributed to branchf the Eustachian tube and the lining membrane of the pharynx. 4. The vidian or pterygoid branch is contained in the vidian vidian canal with the nerve of the same name, and ends on the upper part ^'^^"^^^ of the Eustachian tube and the pharynx after escaping from its canal. Some other small nasal arteries are furnished to the roof of the other nasal fossa by the anterior and posterior ethmoidal branches of the arteries, ophthalmic (p. 50.) ; and near to the nostril by the facial artery. Veins.— The veins corresponding to the terminal branches Veins; of the internal maxillary artery unite in the spheno-maxil- lary fossa in the alveolar plexus. Into this plexus offsets alveolar are received from the pterygoid plexus and the infraorbital vein ; and from it a large trunk (alveolar, anterior internal maxillary vein) is directed forwards below the malar bone to join the facial vein (p. 30.). Beneath the mucous membrane of the nose these vessels have a plexiform arrangement^ which is particularly large over the free margin of the spongy bones. Facial nerve in the temporal bone.—-This nerve Facial winds through the petrous part of the temporal bone, and it' is followed with difficulty, in consequence of the extreme L 4 nerve.