DISSECTION OF THE ARM. 288 and con- digitorum. The inner border touches the intermuscular nections. •n»i it i it. septum m all its length ; but the outer border is m contact with the external intermuscular septum only above, for about one inch and a half, and is separated from it lower down by two muscles of the forearm (supinator longus and extensor carpi radialis longior), which extend upwards on the humerus. The tendon of insertion will be seen in the dissection of the forearm. BACK OF THE ARM. Posit'on Position,—During; the examination of the back of the of the . . ^ part. arm the limb is to be turned over, and raised into a semi- flexed position by means of a block of moderate thickness beneath the elbow. The scapula is to be drawn away, till it is nearly in a line with the humerus, so as to tighten the muscular fibres; and it is then to be fastened with hooks in that position. How to Dissection, — On the back of the arm there is only one lay bare ... triceps, musclc, the triceps, with the superior profunda nerve and artery beneath it. The muscle will be readily laid bare, for it is covered only by fascia — the skin having been before reflected, if the directions before given have been followed by the dissector. To take away the fascia, an incision is to be carried along the limb to rather below the elbow; and in reflecting it the subfascial loose tissue should be removed at the same time. Triceps The TRICEPS musclc is divided superiorly into three parts ; muscle ^ ... three ^ conscquence, three heads of origin to it, — inner, heads, outcr, and middle, have been described. Two of these are attached to the humerus, and one to the scapula. Origin The middle piece, or head, is the lono-est, and has a ten- ofmid- . . , . . ^ ' die head, diuous oHgin, about an inch wide, from the inferior costa oi the scapula close to the glenoid cavity, where it is con- of outer nected with the capsule of the shoulder joint. The external head reaches from the outer condyle of the humerus to the insertion of the teres minor muscle, and is attached to the outer portion of the posterior surface of that bone, between the points mentioned, as well as to the intermuscular septum and of of the same side. The internal head reaches from the inner head! cond^e to the upper border of the tendon of insertion of the - teres major into the bicipital groove, and arises from the