DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. < 606 vagina, and its external opening is placed within tlie vulva. In its course to the surface it is imbedded in the tissue of the vaginal wall, and perforates the triangular ligament of the perinaeum ; but before reaching the last structure it is sur- rounded by the muscular fibres of the constrictor and orbi- cularis urethras (p. 463.). A plexus of veins surrounds the urethra as well as the vagina. Section IY. vessels and nerves of the pelvis. This section is to be used by the dissectors of both the male and the female pelvis. Vessels: In the pelvis are the internal iliac vessels, and their and ^ . ' nerves brauchcs to the viscera ; the sacral nerves and the sacral of the pelvis, plexus ; and the sympathetic nerve, consisting of both a gangliated cord, and offsets of the hypogastric plexus. Directions. — The internal iliac vessels are to be dissected on the right side. But the air should be previously let out of the bladder, and this viscus and the rectum, together with the uterus and the vagina in the female, should be drawn from their situation in the centre of the pelvis. To dis- Dissection. — The peritoneum and the loose tissue and fat vSsefs^ are to be removed from the viscera and the trunks of the pelvis, vessels, as well as from the branches that leave the pelvis or supply the viscera ; and the obliterated cord of the artery is to be traced on the bladder to the umbilicus. With the Nerves, vcsscls are offsets of the hypogastric plexus of nerves, but, in the present state of the body, these will probably not be seen; and in dissecting the vessels to the bladder and the rectum, branches of the spinal sacral nerves will come into Veins, vicw. The veins in a general dissection may be removed to make clean the arteries. When the vessels are quite pre- pared the bladder may be again distended, and the viscera replaced. Destina- The INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY is onc of the trunks resulting internal from the divisiou of the common iliac vessel, and furnishes artery; branches to the viscera and the wall of the pelvis, to the generative organs, and to the thigh. In the adult the vessel is a short trunk, of large capacity, size and ^ . - lengthj which mcasurcs about an inch and a half in length. Directed connec- tions with parts around.