655 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. trunk may be ascertained by a line on the surface from the over •I'll lemoral centre of the interval between the symphysis pubis and the artery, crest of the hip bone, to the inner condyle of the femur. On the outer side of the thigh, about four inches below the iliac ^^^^^'^^ crest and the same distance from the anterior spine, the {^^^^^an. student will be able to recognise the well-marked projection of the great trochanter of the femur. In a thin body the H^^^of head of the femur may be felt by rotating the limb inwards femur, and outwards, whilst the thumb of one hand is placed in the hollow below Poupart's ligament, and the fingers behind the great trochanter. At the knee the outline of the several bones that enter Bony into the formation of the joint may be traced with ease, nenceof Thus, in front of the joint, when it is half bent, the rounded prominent patella may be perceived; this is firmly fixed Pateiia. whilst the limb is kept in the same position, but is moved with great freedom when the joint is extended so as to relax the muscles that are inserted into it. On each side of the con. dyles of patella is the projection of the condyle of the femur, but that on the inner side is the largest. If the fingers are passed along the sides of the patella whilst the joint is half bent, they will be conducted by the condyles of the femur to the tuberosities of the head of the tibia, and to a slight hollow Tubero- between the bones. Behind the joint is a slight depression the tibia, over the situation of the ham or popliteal space; and on its Jimnd"^ sides are firm boundaries, formed chiefly by the tendons (hamstrings) of the flexor muscles of the leg. Dissection,—With the position of the limb the same as pissec- before directed, the student begins the dissection with the examination of the subcutaneous fatty tissue with its nerves and vessels. At first the integument is to be reflected only from the ™^^Vp hollow on the front of the thiffh close below Poupart's ligra- at the ^ ' ^ ' ... , topofthe ment. lo raise the skm trom this part an incision about thigh, four inches in length, and only skin deep, is to be made from the pubes along the inner border of the thigh: at its lower end another cut is to be directed outwards across the front of the limb to the outer aspect ; and at its upper end the knife is to be carried along the line of Pou- part's ligament as far as the crest of the hip bone. The piece of skin included by these incisions is to be raised