DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. 462 ing space are alike in both sexes ; but in the female the outlet of the are same . . . . in both pelvis, Corresponding to the perinseum, is larger than that of the male. In this sex the perinseum is not so deep. Take Dissectiofi. The steps of the dissection are much the ischio- same in both sexes, and the same description will serve, rectal fossa, generally, for the perinasum of both the male and the female. First, the dissection of the ischio-rectal fossa is to be made; and afterwards the muscles, vessels, and nerves of the pos- terior half of the perin^eal space are to be examined. (See description of the Male Perineum, p. 445.) Then Ncxt the skin is to be taken from the anterior half of the anterior peringeal space, as in the male ; and the transverse incision peri- in front is to be made at the anterior part of the vulva. The attachments of the superficial fascia are then to be looked to, and the cutaneous vessels and nerves are to be traced beneath it (p. 449.). superfi. Superficial fascia, — The description of this structure in fascia, the male will serve for the like part in the female with these modifications ; that in this sex it is less perfect and of less extent, in consequence of the aperture of the vulva; and that it is continued forwards through the labia majora (the representative of the scrotum) to the inguinal region. Dissec. Dissection. — The labia and the superficial fascia are to the mus. be rcmovcd, to follow the sphincter muscle around the opening of the vagina. The two other muscles that are exposed at the same time (transversalis perinsei and erector clitoridis) resemble those in the male. Sphinc. The SPHINCTER VAGINA is an orbicular muscle around ter vaginse. the orificc of the vagina, and corresponds to the ejaculator Origin, urin^e in the male. Posteriorly it is attached to the central point of the perinasum, where it mixes with the sphincter inser- ani and transversalis muscles ; and its fibres are directed forwards, some on each side of the vagina, to be inserted into the body of the clitoris. Erector The ERECTOR CLITORIDIS rcsemblcs the erector of the penis ridis? in the male, though it is much smaller. Trans- The TRANSVERSALIS is similar to the same muscle in the versahs. ^^^^ 'pj^g description will sufiice for these parts in both sexes (p. 454.). To ex- Dissection,—To see the triangular ligament of the urethra, angular' the erector and the crus clitoridis are to be detached from