268 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. branches of tlie internal mammary artery. A small cuta- neous offset is distributed with the lateral cutaneous nerve of the thorax. • i At this The dissector of the upper limb now waits the appointed tSx ^ time for the examination of the thorax. But as soon as the ai-e^dis-^ body is tumcd for the dissection of the back, he is to proceed with the parts marked for him in Chapter V. p. 404. After the back is finished, the limb is to be detached from the trunk by sawing the clavicle about the middle, and cutting through the soft parts connected with the scapula. Section II. SCAPULAR MUSCLES, VESSELS, NERVES, AND LIGAMENTS. Position. Position.—After the limb has been separated from the trunk, it is to be placed with the subscapularis uppermost. Dissec Dissection.— The different muscles that have been traced tion of muscles, to the scapula in the dissection of the front of the thorax and the back, are now to be cleaned, and followed to their in- sertion into the bone. A small part of each, about an inch in length, should be left for the purpose of ascertaining more exactly the osseous attachment. Muscles The borders and the angles of the scapula have the fol- lowing muscles connected with them: — into the The Upper margin of the scapula has but one muscle, the S-The"'' omo-hyoid, attached to it. At its origin that muscle is about scapula, j^^^^ wido, and is connected to the edge of the bone behind the notch, but sometimes to the ligament (posterior special) which converts the notch into a foramen. The lower margin, or costa, gives origin to the long head of the triceps, and to some fibres of the teres major; but these attachments to the bone will be ascertained in the progress of the dissection, nto the The base of the bone has many muscles inserted into it. Between the superior angle and the spine, the levator anguli scapulae is inserted. Opposite the spine, the rhomboideus minor is fixed; and between the spine and the inferior angle the rhomboideus major is attached: the upper fibres of the last muscle often end in an aponeurotic arch, and