794 DISSECTION OF THE EAR. Consti- A. The osseous labyrinth consists of three parts, viz. the of the vestibule, the semicircular canals, and the cochlea ; these osseous . n . 1 1 T • Ti part. communicate externally with the tympanum, and internally with the meatus internus that transmits the auditory nerve. vesti- The VESTIBULE is the common central cavity of the osseous labyrinth, and is placed behind the cochlea but in front of the semicircular canals. Dissec- Dissection.—This cavity may be seen on the dry bone see it. that has been used for the preparation of the tympanum. The bone is to be sawn through vertically close to the inner wall of the tympanum, so as to lay bare this wall and the fenestra ovalis leading into the vestibule : in this section one of the semicircular canals (horizontal) may be laid open just above the fenestra ovalis. By enlarging the fenestra ovalis a very little in a direction upwards and forwards, the end of the superior semicircular canal and the vestibular space will appear. Other views of the cavity may be obtained by sections of other bones in different directions, according to the skill and the knowledge of the dissector. Form; The Vestibular space is somewhat oval in form, the extre- mities of the oval being placed forwards and backwards, and the under part or floor is more narrowed than the upper part dimen- or roof. It mcasurcs about ith of an inch in different direc- sions. , tions, but it is narrowest from without inwards. The follow- ing objects are to be noted on the boundaries of the space. Aper- In front, close to the outer wall, is a large aperture leading fore and iuto the coclilca ; and behind are five round openings of the the three semicircular canals. Outer The outer wall corresponds with the tympanic cavity, and an ap^ert aperture of the fenestra ovalis, ture. inner wall, nearer the front than the back of the inner cavity, is a vertical ridge or crista. In front of the ridge is fossa in ^ ^^^^^ circular depression,/bi;m hemispherica, which pre- front of sents anteriorly some minute apertures for nerves, and cor- responds with the bottom of the meatus auditorius internus. and an Behind the crest of bone, near the common opening of two ducr of the semicircular canals, is the opening of the aqueduct of behind. vestibulc, whicli ends on the posterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. Roof has On the roof is a slight transversely oval depression,/6»i;ea semi-elliptica, which is separated internally from the fovea