716 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. inner ankle, and then behind the inner edge of the tibia, to reach the thigh, where it has been already noticed (p. 659.). In the leg the vein is joined by superficial branches, and by deep roots from the tibial veins. External '^he external saphenous vein begins at the outer end of saphe- ^ nous. arch on the dorsum of the foot, and appears below the outer ankle. The vein then courses along the back of the leg to the ham, where it ends in the popliteal vein. It receives large branches about the heel, and others on the back of the leg. Cutane- CuTANEOUS Nerves. — The ncrvcs in the superficial fascia nerves, of the back of the leg are prolongations of branches already examined in part, viz. the internal and external saphenous, cutaneous ofi*sets of the external popliteal, the small sciatic nerve, and offsets of the internal cutaneous of the thigh. Internal The internal saphenous nerve, which has been traced before to nous in the knee (p. 681.), accompanies the vein of the same name in the the leg. J ^ terminates at the middle of the inner border of the foot. Termi- °' nation. In the leg the nerve gives off lateral cutaneous offsets, and the outer of these turn over the tibia to the anterior aspect. External The external saphenous nerve is a branch of the internal popliteal ifous^" (p. 708.) ; perforating the deep fascia about the middle of the leg, the foot • it is continued with the external saphenous vein below the outer ankle, and is distributed to the outer side of the foot and little toe. branches As soon as the nerve appears it is joined by the communicating leg. branch of the external popliteal, and near the heel it gives large long branches to the integuments of that part. Branch- Cutaueous uerves of the external popliteal.— One branch of the of the external popliteal trunk (r. communicans fibularis, p. 709.) joins popliteal, external saphenous nerve, usually, about the middle of the leg*; niSthig uncommon to find this branch extend as a distinct nerve, unconnected with the other, as far as the heel. The other and cu- Small cutaneous offsets of the external popliteal terminate over the taneous. ^^^^^ ^j^^ ^j^^ j^^^ Termi- The small sciatic nerve perforates the fascia near the popliteal sma?" space, and reaches with the external saphenous vein to about the sciatic, i^icldle of the leg: it ramifies in the integuments, and joins the external saphenous nerve. Termi- Offsets of the internal cutaneous. — Behind the internal saphenous hfternai^ nerve, near the knee, are the terminal branches of the inner divi- cutane^ siou of the internal cutaneous nerve of the thiijh (p. 680.) : these ous. o vr / ' * Occasionally the junction may take place in or near the popliteal space.