DISSECTION OF THE NOSE. 141 The LIPS surround the opening of the mouth; they consist Lips, of the fleshy part of the orbicularis oris muscle, covered ex- formed ternallj by integument, and internallj by mucous membrane, cuiaris; The lower lip is the larger and more moveable of the two. Between the muscular structure and the mucous covering are the labial glands ; and in the substance of the lip, nearer the inner than the outer surface, and at the line of junction of contains the two parts of the orbicularis, is the arch of the coronary arter"y^/^ artery. Teeth.—In the adult there are sixteen teeth in each jaw, Teeth, which are set in the alveolar border of the maxilla, in the number and ar- form of an arch, and are surrounded by the o^ums. Each range- . , n mentin dental arch has its convexity turned forwards; and, commonly, jaw; the arch in the upper overhangs that in the lower maxilla when the jaws are in contact. The teeth are similar in the half of each jaw, and have received the following names: — the most anterior two are incisors, and the one next behind different is the canine tooth; two, still farther back, are the bicus- pids, and the last three are molar teeth. Moreover, the last molar tooth has been also called " dens sapientiae," from the late period of its appearance. The names applied to the Use m teeth indicate very nearly the part they perform in masti- ^io"- cation; thus the incisor and canine teeth act as dividers of the food, whilst the bicuspid and molar teeth serve to grind the aliment. The several parts of the teeth, viz. the crown, fane:, and F^iiev 11 •11 n notice neck; the general and special characters of these parts, and else, of the different groups of the teeth ; and the structure of the different components of a tooth, must be referred to else- where.* Section XIII. DISSECTION OF THE NOSE. To obtain a view of the interior of the nose, it will be ne- Direc- cessary to make a longitudinal section through the base of the skull. Whilst the student is examining the boundaries of the nose, he should be provided with a vertical section of a skull. * For this information the student naay refer to the account of the teeth that has been given by Dr. Sharpej, in Quain's Anatomy.