COMMON LIGAMENTS OF VERTEBRAS. 181 foramen magnum, after passing beneath the ligament joining the atlas and the occipital bone. In its course through the Position foramina, the artery lies in front of the anterior trunks of nerves. the cervical nerves, except those of the first and second,— the former of vi^hich crosses on its inner, and the latter on its outer side. The vessel is accompanied by a vein, and a ^J^"^ plexus of nerves of the same name. In its course the artery »erves . , ^ are with furnishes small twigs to the surrounding muscles, and to the it. spinal canal and the contained cord. The vertebral vein commences by small radicles in the oc- Verte- bral vein ciput, and in the muscles of the back of the neck, and enters the aperture of the atlas, where it sometimes receives a vein through the posterior condyloid foramen of the occipital bone. Accompanying the artery, the vein traverses the ends in 11 T 1 • 1 subcla- apertures between the transverse processes, and ends m the vian. subclavian vein. In its course it receives branches from Brancii- the internal and external spinal veins; its other branches are described at p. 74. The vertebral plexus of nerves is derived from the inferior Plexus cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. The plexus surrounds nerves, the artery, and communicates with the spinal nerves as high as the third or fourth. Section XIX. LIGAMENTS OF THE VERTEBRA AND CLAVICLE. Directions* — On the remaining part of the spine, the liga- Direc- ments that connect the cervical vertebras one to another and to the occipital bone are to be examined. Dissection. — Separate the cervical from the dorsal ver- Dissec- tebrae by disarticulation. Then remove altogether the muscles, vessels, nerves, and loose connective tissue and fat from the vertebrae. By sawing through the occipital bone, so as to leave only an osseous ring bounding posteriorly the foramen magnum, the ligaments between the atlas and the occipital bone can be more easily cleaned. The COMMON LIGAMENTS attaching together the cervical common vertebras are similar to those unitiner the vertebrae in other ments of /» . . ^ verte- parts of the spine, viz. an anterior and a posterior strong bra. ligament; bands between the laminae and spines; capsular N 3