734 DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. side small muscular branclies arise. From the under part Poste. are given off three small arteries, ih.Q posterior perforating; foratmg. these pass to the dorsum of the foot through the outer three intermetatarsal spaces, and anastomose with the interosseous branches of the anterior tibial artery. Digital The digital branches are four in number, and supply both branches ^ ? i i ^ to three sidcs of the outcr three toes, and half of the next. The one outer toes and to the outcr sido of the little toe is single; the others lie in half the . next. the outer three metatarsal spaces, and bifurcate in front to Anterior supplj the coutiguous sides of two toes. Where they divide, mg^off-^ they send small communicating branches — anterior perfo- rating, to the interosseous arteries on the dorsum of the foot. Distri. On the toes, — On the sides of the toes the disposition of bution. ••Tii'iiT the arteries is like that m the hand : — they extend to the last phalanx, where they unite in an arch, and give offsets to the ball of the toe; and near the front of both the metatarsal and the next phalanx, they form anastomotic loops beneath the tendons, from which the phalangeal articulations are supplied. Ending The dorsttl artery of the foot enters the sole at the pos- dorsai ^ tcrior part of the first (inner) intermetatarsal space, and the foot; suppUcs digital offsets to both sides of the great toe and to half the next, in the same manner as the radial artery in the hand is distributed to one digit and a half. Besides these, it furnishes a communicating branch to join the plantar arch. itsdi- The digital branch (art. magna pollicis) extends to the branch, froiit of the first interosseous space, and divides into col- lateral branches for the great toe and the next. Near the front of the metatarsal bone it sends inwards previously, beneath the flexor muscles, the digital branch for the inner side of the great toe. on the These arteries have the same arrangement along the toes as the other digital branches. External The deep branch of the external plantar nerve passes with nerve the arch of the artery, and ends internally in the adductor the deep pollicis. It furnishes branches to all the interossei, one or muscles. external space excepted; to the transversalis pedis; and to the external two lumbrical muscles. Dissec. Dissection. —It will be needful to remove the transver- tion.