DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 534 receive branches from the muscular coat, and deliver their blood lymph- into the portal system. Two layers of lymphatics^ superficial and and ' deep, are found in the stomach. The nerves are derived from the nerves, pneumo-gastric and sympathetic, as before said, p. 529. SMALL INTESTINE. ch^arac- The three parts into which the small intestine is divided, viz. duodenum, jejunum, and ileum, have the following differences in their characters : — Length The duodenum measures about as much as the breadth of and fix- ^ • i edness. twelvo fingers, VIZ. about ten inches, and is more fixed than Width the rest of the intestinal tube. It is wider in capacity than thick, either the ieiunum or the ileum, and its muscular coat is ness. . . j)uj,tg also thicker. Into it the common bile duct and the pancre- entenng ^^^^ pour their contonts. Length. The jejuniim and the ileum together are about twenty feet long, and are connected to the mesentery by one border. There is not any perceptible difference between the termi- Division nation of the one and the commencement of the other, but trary. two-fifths of tlio length are assigned to the jejunum, and Differ- thrco-fifths to the ileum. At their ends, however, a marked the ends, difference may be observed; for the upper part of the jejunum is thicker and more vascular than the lower part of the ileum, and its width is also greater. Wall has Structure.—In the small intestine the wall is formed strata as by the samo number of layers as in the stomach, viz. serous, mach. muscular, fibrous, and mucous; and these have the same position from within outwards. The different structures are to be examined on pieces taken from the duodenum, from the upper part of the jejunum, from the lower end of the ileum, and from the middle of the small intestine. After the pieces of intestine have been cut off, they are to be dis- tended with air. Serous 1. serous coat IS closely connected with the subjacent muscular layer. To the greater part of the small intestine (jejunum and ileum) it furnishes a covering, except at the like that attached part where the vessels enter: at this spot a space stomach, exists, resembling that at the borders of the stomach, where the peritoneum is reflected off to form the mesentery. The except peritoneum surrounds the duodenum only partly ; this pecu- duode- liarity has been described at p. 511. coat