DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 518 Inferior The inferior mesenteric plexus surrounds the trunk and mesen- teric branches of the artery of the same name, and is supplied to the same part of the intestinal tube as the artery is dis- tributed to. This plexus is furnished from the left part of the aortic plexus; and the nerves composing it are whiter and larger than in either of the preceding offsets of the sym- Nerves pathetic. Near the intestine (sigmoid flexure) the branching like the of the ncrves, and the union of contiguous twisrs are well vessels. o o marked. se- The foUowinj? secondary plexuses are named from the condary ^ J sr plexuses, arteries they accompany, and are distributed like them to the intestine, viz. the left colic, the sigmoid, and the superior hgemorrhoidal plexus. Union intestinal tube the nerves of one plexus join those neJves auothcr. Thus the superior mesenteric joins by one end f"Jg^_^ the nerves to the duodenum, and by the other the nerves to J[JJfg the large intestine from the inferior mesenteric plexus. And the inferior mesenteric plexus communicates below with branches to the rectum from the pelvic centre. Hypo- The hypogastric plexus, or the large prevertebral centre pfexus. supply of sympathetic nerves to the viscera of the situa P^^^is, is situate in front of the upper part of the sacrum and tion. beneath the peritoneum. It is developed more on each side than in the centre; and the nerves, which are large and flat, have a plexiform arrangement, but without any ganglionic In it masses on them. By its upper part the plexus receives on plexus each side the termination of the aortic plexus; and it is joined by some filaments from one or two of the upper sacral and ganglia. Inferiorly the plexus ends in two parts, right and off™ts* 1^^^ last being the largest, which are continued forwards to peivi^: ^i*^ branches of the internal iliac artery to the pelvic viscera, piexuscs and the viscera. Parts Connections of the Aorta and Vena Cava.—The con- aor?I'^ sections of the abdominal aorta and of the vena cava may ^"'^ be next looked to, before the viscera are removed from the body. Dissec- Dissection. — The part of the abdominal aorta below the see" *° origin of the superior mesenteric artery has been laid bare them. ^j^g previous dissection. To see it higher up, it will be necessary to detach the great omentum from the stomach, without injuring the gastro-epiploic artery, and after raising cava.