729 PLANTAE VESSELS AND NERVES. paratively superficial, and extends from the inner side of the paniy calcaneum to the base of the metatarsal bone of the little iScS^" toe ; in the other half it lies deeply in the foot, in contact partly with the interosseous muscles, and forms the plantar arch between the little and the great toe. Only the first part of the artery is now laid bare; the re- super- : maining part, that supplying the digital branches, will be part, noticed after the examination of the third layer of muscles (p. 733.). As far as the metatarsal bone of the little toe, connec- the vessel is concealed by the abductor pollicis and the flexor brevis digitorum, but for a short distance near its termination • it lies in the interval between the last muscle and the abductor minimi digiti. In this extent it is placed on the veins OS calcis, and the flexor accessorius ; and it is accompanied nerve, by venoe comites, and the external plantar nerve. It sup- plies offsets to the muscles between which it lies, and some Branch- . . es. branches to the outer side of the foot for anastomosis with the peroneal artery. The PLANTAR NERVES are derived from the bifurcation of Plantar nerves the posterior tibial nerve behind the inner ankle. They are also two, two in number, like the arteries, and have the same con- nections as those vessels, for each accompanies a plantar artery; but the larger nerve is found with the smaller but the ^ inner is bloodvessel. largest. The internal plantar nerve courses with its artery be- internal nerve to tween the short flexor and the abductor pollicis, and divides three . toes and into lour digital branches for the supply of both sides of the a half. ^ inner three toes, and half the fourth; it thus resembles the median nerve in the hand in the number and distribution of its digital branches. Offsets are given by it to the short other flexor and the abductor pollicis, and a few superficial twigs es. perforate the fascia. The digital nerves have a numerical designation, and the Digital y, . . nerves first is nearest the inner border of the foot. The branch to aredi- , . •in vided ex- the inner side ot the great toe is undivided, but the others cept first • are bifurcated at the clefts between the toes. Muscular ' , muscular branches are furnished by the nerves before they reach the branch- toes ; thus, the first (most internal) supplies the flexor brevis pollicis ; the second, the inner lumbrical muscle; and the third, the next lumbrical muscle. On the toes, — Each of the outer three nerves, bein^ give cu- ° taneous