287 BRACHIALIS ANTICUS. The musculO'Cutaneous nerve (nerv. perforans, Casserii) Muscu- 1 • 1 T 1 T • lo-cuta- is SO named from supplying both muscles and integument: neous it ends on the surface of the forearm, and supplies offsets to the arm. the flexors of the elbow joint whilst it is passing through the upper arm. It leaves the outer cord of the brachial plexus opposite the lower border of the pectoralis minor, and perforates directly the coraco-brachialis : it is then di- rected obliquely to the outer side of the limb, between the biceps and brachialis anticus muscles. Near the elbow, its continuation has been seen to become a cutaneous nerve of the forearm. The nerve furnishes branches to the muscles in front of JJf,^"^' the humerus, viz. to the coraco-brachialis, as it passes gg^"^^" through the fibres, and to the biceps and brachialis anticus muscles where it lies between them. Before perforating the coraco-brachialis, the nerve gives usually a separate twig to that muscle and the short head of the biceps; and sometimes there is a large branch of communication with the median nerve after it has pierced the muscle. Dissection, — The brachialis anticus muscle will be brought P'^^sec- ^ tion. into view by cutting through the tendon of the biceps near the elbow, and turning upwards this muscle. The fascia and connective tissue should be taken from the surface, and the lateral extent of the muscle defined; so as to show that the brachialis reaches the intermuscular septum largely on the inner side, but only for a short distance above, on the outer side. The BRACHIALIS ANTICUS covcrs the elbow joint, and the Brachia- lower half of the front of the humerus. It arises from all cni the anterior surface of the humerus below the insertion of Origin, the deltoid muscle, and from the intermuscular septa on the sides, though in very unequal proportions, viz. from all the inner, but from only the upper part of the outer one. The fleshy fibres converge to a tendon, which is inserted into the inser- impression on the ulna before the coronoid process. This muscle is concealed by the biceps, by the brachial artery, and by the median, and the musculo-cutaneous and musculo- spiral nerves; and it lies on the humerus and the articula- tion of the elbow. Its origin embraces by two parts the Position , PITT. -I attacnment oi the deltoid, and its insertion is placed between eibow two corresponding fleshy pieces of the flexor profundus