GLUTEUS MAXIMUS. 695 The vessels, nerves, and muscles to be made out in this region, are noticed below in the enumeration of the parts beneath the gluteus. Lastly, the origin of the muscle is to be removed; and Dissect the sacral nerves, beiner dissected out of it, are to be fol- sacrai . nerves. lowed to the surface of the great sacro-sciatic ligament, where they are united, and concealed by some aponeurotic fibres. Parts beneath the qluteus, — At its orisrin the gluteus Parts 11. -. 1 P 1 1 . covered maximus rests on the pelvis, and conceals part oi the nip by giu- bone, sacrum, and coccyx; above, the muscle covers also its ori- the ischial tuberosity, the origin of the hamstring muscles, aftd the great sacro-sciatic ligament. At its insertion it covers the upper end of the femur with the great trochanter, and the origin of the vastus externus. Between the muscle and each prominence of bone (tuberosity and trochanter) is a large, loose synovial membrane ; and between it and the vastus externus is another synovial sac. In the hollow between the pelvis and the femur the mus- and by ^ the in- cle conceals, from above downwards, the undermentioned terven- ing part parts : — First is a portion of the gluteus medius ; and below of the X o muscle. it is the pyriformis, with the superficial branch of the gluteal artery between them. Coming from beneath the pyriformis are the sciatic vessels, and the sciatic nerves (large and small), which descend to the back of the thigh between the great trochanter and the ischial tuberosity; with these are the pudic vessels and nerve, and the nerve to the obturator internus muscle, which are directed inwards through the small sacro-sciatic notch. Still lower down is the tendon of the obturator internus muscle, with a fleshy fasciculus (gemellus) above and below it. Next follow the thin quad- ratus femoris muscle, and the upper part of the adductor magnus ; at the upper border of the quadratus is the tendon of the obturator externus, and at the lower border, between it and the adductor, is one of the terminal branches of the internal circumflex artery. Sacral nerves* — The external branches of the posterior The ex- divisions of the first three sacral nerves, after passing out- branches wards beneath the multifidus spinas (p. 427.), are joined by nerves^^ loops on the surface of the great sacro-sciatic ligament, united Two or three cutaneous offsets are derived from this inter- gfmeusl