DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 226 raised and thrown backwards, the third ventricle will be visible. In reflecting the piece of pia mater, the student must be careful of the pineal body, which would otherwise be detached. On the under surface of the velum are the choroid plexuses of the third ventricle, other The choroid plexuses of the third ventricle are two fringed plexuses, bodies beneath the velum, which resemble the like parts in the lateral ventricle. Third The third ventricle is an interval between the optic tha- ventricle . ^ . . . lami, and reaches to the base oi the brain, its situation is is near in the middle line of the cerebrum, and below the level of brain, the othcr vcntriclcs, with which it communicates. Its boundaries and communications are given below: — Roof. The roof is formed by the velum interpositum and the Floor, fornix. The floor is very oblique from behind forwards, so that the depth of the cavity is greater in front than behind: corresponding with the floor are the parts at the base of the brain, which lie between the crura cerebri and the anterior longitudinal fissure, viz. locus perforatus, corpora albicantia, tuber cinereum, commissure of the optic nerves, and lamina Parts cinerea. On the sides of the cavity the optic thalami are sides, situate. In front of the space are the descending pillars of in front, fomix, with part of the anterior commissure of the cere- and^be- brum in the interval between them. Behind, are the posterior commissure and the pineal body. Crossing the centre of the space, from one optic thalamus to another, is a band of gray matter — the soft commissure. Opening This spaco communicates with the other ventricles of the other brain in the following way: — In front it joins each lateral ventri- <-» cies. ventricle through the foramen of Monro, and opens into the fifth ventricle in the fetus. Behind is an opening into the fourth ventricle, beneath the posterior commissure, which is named aqueduct of Sylvius. At the lower part, in front, there is a depression opposite the infundibulum (iter ad in- fundibulum). The lining of the ventricle is continued into the neighbouring cavities through the difierent apertures of communication, and closes the iter ad infundibulum. Gray Gray matter of the ventricle.—A stratum of gray matter of the is seen to cover most of the surface of the ventricle. At the lower part of each optic thalamus it envelops the crus of the fornix, and ascends to the septum lucidum j and in the floor