VENA PORTiE AND BILE DUCTS. 525 Veins.—The veins of the viscera of this part of the abdo- Three men are three in number, viz. the superior coronary, the vfz.H* splenic, and the portal vein. The superior coronary vein lies along the upper border of coronary the stomach. It begins in the oesophagus and the left part stomach; of the stomach, and joins the vena portae at the pylorus. The splenic vein is of large size, and is formed by the ^p'^"'^^^^ union of branches that issue from the spleen. It takes much spleen, the same course as the artery, but is lower than it, and runs beneath the pancreas to the front of the vena cava, where it joins the superior mesenteric vein to form the vena portse. Between its origin and termination it receives branches stomach, corresponding to the following arteries: vasa brevia, left crea&r" gastro-epiploic, and pancreatic ; it is also joined by the infe- rior mesenteric vein about the middle of its length. The vena portce conveys to the liver the blood that has vena been circulated through the following chylo-poietic viscera, resem- Til mi • ^^^^ VIZ. the alimentary canal, the pancreas, and the spleen. This artery in vein commences by roots in the viscera above mentioned, branch- . ing. like any other vein; but it is deficient in valves, and ramifies through the structure of the liver in the same manner as an artery. Its radicles communicate with small systemic veins on some parts of the intestinal tube, more particularly on the rectum. The vein is formed by the union of the splenic and supe- ^^ ori- rior mesenteric veins (p. 515.); and its origin is placed in front of the vena cava, but beneath the pancreas and about two inches from the right end. This vessel is about four length, inches long, and is directed upwards in the small omentum, andter- behind the bile duct and the hepatic artery, to the transverse uon?" fissure of the liver, where it divides into a right and a left branch. In its course it is joined by the coronary or gastric vein, Acces- and by the cystic vein near the liver. branch- The right branch is sometimes joined by the cystic vein, Termi- and enters the transverse fissure to ramify in the liver. Eranch- The left branch is distributed to the left part of the liver, and fe^ft. and gives a small branch to the Spigelian lobe of that viscus. Bile Ducts. — Two ducts issue at the transverse fissure Common of the liver, one from each lobe, and unite to form the com- liucf;^ mon hepatic duct: the excretory tube, thus formed, is an ^.^^^^