DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 182 ligaments and synovial membranes for the articulating pro- cesses ; and an interarticular ligament between the bodies of the bones. These Directions.—These ligaments are first to be learnt: their hga- ^ o ments preparation and description will be found with the dissection descnb- ^ ^ r where^" ligaments of the spine, at the end of the thorax. But in opening the spinal canal, to see the ligaments inside it, the arches of the three highest vertebrae should for the pre- sent be left untouched. Special SPECIAL LIGAMENTS Unite the first two ccrvical vertebrae liga- ments to each other and to the occipital bone: some of these are external to, and others within the spinal canal, between The ligaments outside the spinal canal are thin fibrous vertebrae mcmbrancs, that connect the bodies and arches of the first cipitai two vertebrae in front and behind, and join the atlas with the occipital bone at the same aspects. Capsular ligaments surround the articular surfaces of all the bones, but these will be examined more conveniently after the spinal canal has been opened. posterior a. Union of the atlas icith the axis.—1. The posterior liga^ ment (atlo-axoid) is a thin loose membrane, which is attached by the one margin to the neural arch of the atlas, and by the other to the corresponding arch of the axis. Below the superficial layer are some deeper and stronger fibres. The anterior sccoud norvo picrccs it. 2. The anterior ligament unites atlo-ax- , , ^. ^ , ^ 1.1 oid; the bodies of the first two vertebrae m the same manner as the preceding ligament connects their arches. It is thickest in the middle. and an- b. Union of the atlas with the occipital bone. — 1. The terior , ^ . anterior ligament (occipito-atloid) is thin and wide, and passes from the basilar process of the occipital bone, in front of the foramen magnum, to the body of the atlas. The middle part of the ligament, which is fixed to the tubercle on and pos- the front of the atlas, is much the thickest. 2. The posterior tenor ^ ^ occi_pito- ligament is fixed to the occipital bone behind the foramen magnum, and to the neural arch of the atlas. It is thin; and at its attachment to the bone below, the vertebral artery and the posterior primary branch of the suboccipital nerve pass beneath it. Liga- The ligaments inside the spinal canal are peculiar in inents in- . ^ ternaiiy form, and assist to retain the skull in position during the