844 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. the abdomen; or by the existence of fluid in the latter cavity. THE PLEURA. Sac of The pleurse are two serous membranes, or closed sacs, pleura, wliich are reflected around the lungs in the cavity of the thorax. One occupies the right, and the other the left half of the cavity ; each is restricted to its own side, but it approaches its fellow along the middle line of the body, forming a thoracic partition, though the two do not com- municate. Form. Taking the form of the thorax, each pleura is a sac of a conical shape, whose apex projects into the neck above the first rib, and whose base is in contact with the diaphragm. Outer Its outer surface is rou^^h, and is connected to the luner and surface. ° ^ ^ the wall of the chest by connective tissue, but its inner Inner surfaco is smooth and secernins:. Surrounding the lunff, and surface. ^ & to? Disposi- lining the interior of one half of the cavity, the serous mem- thorax. brauc consists of a parietal part or the pleura costalis, and of a visceral part, the pleura pulmonalis. The bags of the pleurae approach one another in the middle line, as before said, and form a partition called mediastinum between the two sides of the cavity of the chest. Differ- There are some diflerences in the shape and the extent of sac of the two pleural bags. On the right side the bag is wider and aifd left shorter than on the left; and the latter is narrowed by the Side. projection of the heart to the left side. The sac The continuity of the bag of the pleura over the lung, and tinuous along the wall of the chest, may be traced circularly from a lung. given point to the same, in the following manner: — The con- Supposiug the membrane to be followed outwards from tinuity is here the stcmum, it may be perceived on the walls of the chest as traced. far as the spinal column ; here it is directed forwards fco tlie root of the lung, and is reflected over the lung, covering its surface, and connecting together its diflerent lobules. From the front of the root of the lung, the pleura may be seen to course over the side of the pericardium to the sternum. If the serous sac be traced above the root of the lung, it will be found to describe a circle without deflection over the viscus. Below the root the pleura gives rise to a thin fold, the ligamentum latum pulmonis, which intervenes between