527 SYMPATHETIC AND VAGUS NERVES. vein with it, and the lower end is to be drawn down with hooks. Beneath the vein the dissector will find the large reddish semi. lunar semilunar ganglion of the right side. From its inner part ganglia, he should trace the numerous nerves which form the solar plexus around the coeliac and superior mesenteric arteries ; and should unravel the offsets around those arteries, with their secondary plexuses. From the outer part of the gan- glion branches are to be traced to the kidney, the suprarenal body, and the diaphragmatic arteries. At its upper part the student may observe the large splanchnic nerve; and deeper than'it, one or two other smaller splanchnic nerves, which throw themselves into the solar and renal plexuses. Mixed up with the nerves of the solar plexus are numerous lymphatic glands and a dense tissue, which require to be removed with care. The student should then trace the ending of the pneumo- Follow gastric nerves on the stomach. The left nerve will be found ing of the in front near the upper border ; and the right nerve will ntfves. be seen at a corresponding point on the opposite aspect. Branches are to be traced from the right nerve to the plexus of the sympathetic by the side of the coeliac axis, and from the left to the hepatic plexus. The EPIGASTRIC or solar plexus is the largest of the soiar prevertebral plexuses of the sympathetic, and furnishes ^'^^"^» nerves to all the viscera of the abdomen above the pelvis. It is a large network of nerves and ganglia, which lies in appear- front of the aorta and the pillars of the diaphragm, and ex- tends from the suprarenal capsule of one side to that of the other. It surrounds the coeliac axis and the superior me- extent; senteric artery, and extends downwards to the pancreas. The plexus is connected on each side with the large and small splanchnic nerves, and it is joined also by some twigs from the right pneumo-gastric nerve. Large offsets are fur- gives ' nished to the different viscera along the vessels. onbiood The semilunar ganglia of the solar plexus, one on each g^^j, side, are the largest ganglia in the body. Each is situate at g^ngua; the upper and outer part of the plexus, close to the supra- renal capsule, and on the side of the pillar of the diaphragm, situa- The ganglion on the right side is beneath the vena cava. ^^^^^ Irregular in shape, the mass is sometimes oval, and at other