528 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. times divided into smaller ganglia. From the outer side Nerves nerves are directed to the kidney and the suprarenal cap- edwith" sule, and to the inner side the cords of the solar plexus are * connected. At the upper end it is joined by the great splanchnic nerve. Several Offsets of the plexus, — The nerves supplied to the viscera the are conveyed on the branches of the aorta, forming plexuses plexus, ^j,^^^^ them; thus there are coeliac, mesenteric, renal, sper- matic, and other plexuses. The diaphragmatic artery has also a separate plexus on it. Plexus Diaphragmatic plexus.—The nerves that form this plexus dia- come from the upper and outer part of the semilunar phragm They are placed at first on the phrenic artery, but they soon leave it to enter the substance of the diaphragm. A communication takes place between the phrenic nerve of the cervical plexus and these branches of the sympathetic, has a On the under surface of the diaphragm is a small ganglion where on"right this offset of the plexus joins the spinal nerve, and from it filaments are supplied to the vena cava and the suprarenal body. The ganglion is absent on the left side. — (Swan). Supra- The suprarenal nerves are very large and numerous, in nerves. Comparison with the mass supplied, and are directed almost horizontally outwards to the suprarenal body, which they enter at the upper part. One of the splanchnic nerves com- municates with this plexus, plexus renal plexus is derived from the semilunar ganglion, and the outer part of the solar plexus, and it is further joined by one of the two smallest splanchnic nerves. The nerves surround the renal artery, having small ganglia on joins them, and enter the kidney with the vessels. An offset is atfc."*' given from the renal nerves to the spermatic plexus (p. 517.). Coeliac The cceliac plexus is a direct continuation forwards of the plexus solar plexus around the artery named coeliac axis. It is further joined by the small splanchnic nerve on each side, and by an offset from the right pneumo-gastric nerve. The divides plexus surrouuds the artery, and divides, like it, into three artery,^ parts — corouary, splenic, and hepatic. into CO ^" ^^^^ coronary plexus accompanies the coronary artery to the ronary, upper border of the stomach which it supplies. It communicates with the left vagus nerve, and with the sympathetic on the pyloric artery.