DEEP LAYEE OF MUSCLES. 721 tact with the fascia, and the posterior tibial nerve and vessels below lie on it. The deep surface rests on the tibia and the tibialis ^ posticus. The TIBIALIS POSTICUS occupies superiorly the interval Tibialis covers between the bones of the leg, but it crosses inferiorly beneath interos- the long flexor of the toes to reach the inner side of the foot. mem. The muscle arises from the aponeurosis covering it, and from the posterior surface of the interosseous membrane, except about two inches below; from an impression along the outer border of the tibia, contiguous to the interosseous membrane, which reaches from the head of the bone to rather beyond the lower attachment of the flexor longus digitorum; and from the adjacent inner surface of the fibula for the middle three fifths of its length. In the lower crosses ° beneath fourth of the lear this muscle is directed beneath the flexor t^e . . . . flexor of digitorum ; and its tendon entering the inner space in the ^oes. annular ligament, reaches the inner side of the foot to be inserted into the scaphoid and other bones. The tibialis is Muscles and ves- concealed by the aponeurosis before mentioned, and is seis in . . connec- overlapped by the neighbouring muscles, but in the lower ti°^ ^^^^ fourth of the leg it is placed between the tibia and the long flexor of the toes. On the muscle are the posterior tibial vessels and nerve. The upper part presents two pointed processes of attachment to the bones — that to the tibia being the highest, between which the anterior tibial vessels are directed forwards. The aponeurosis coverins; the tibialis is attached laterally The Jr ^ J musc'e to the bones, but has a defined border inferiorly over the covered ^ by an muscle. By one surface it ffives origin to the flexors of the aponeu- o o rosis. toes, and by the other to the tibialis. The POSTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY is One of the branches Posterior tibial resulting from the bifurcation of the popliteal trunk. The artery, artery extends from the lower border of the popliteus Extent, muscle to the lower part of the internal annular ligament, where it ends in two plantar branches for the sole of the foot. At its origin the artery lies midway between the tibia Course, and fibula, but as it approaches the lower part of the leg it gradually inclines inwards; and at its termination it is placed below the tibia, in the centre of the hollow between the heel and the inner ankle. As far as the middle (in length) of the leg the vessel is ^^^^^ \ <=> y o covering 3 A