137 MUSCLES OF THE PALATE. pharynx above the superior constrictor, and then spread out in the soft palate, where they join along the middle line with those of the muscle of the opposite side. Outside the ^J^^^is pharynx this muscle rests against the Eustachian tube. In ^eium. the palate it forms a stratum that reaches the whole depth of that structure, and is embraced by the two planes of fibres of the palato-pharyngeus. The TENSOR vel circumflexus palati arises like the pre- Tensor ^ jnuscle ceding outside the palate and pharynx: it is a thin, riband- like band, which is tendinous at its deep border, and is situate between the internal pterygoid plate and the ptery- goid muscle. The muscle is about one inch and a half arises ^ ^ ^ ^ . outside wide at its origin, and is attached to the slight depression pharynx, (scaphoid fossa) at the root of the internal pterygoid plate, to the outer part of the Eustachian tube, and still farther out to the spinous process of the sphenoid, and to the front of the vaginal (tympanic) process of the temporal bone. Inferiorly the fleshy fibres end in a tendon, which is reflected turns around round the hamular process, and is mserted into about half ^amuiar ^ process, an inch of the posterior border of the palate, viz. from the central spine to a projecting point; whilst inferiorly the tendon joins the aponeurosis of the velum. As the tendon and ends .in apo- winds round the bone, it is thrown into folds ; and in the neurosis; soft palate it lies beneath the levator muscle. The Eus- is deeper 1-T 1 * 1-1 1 ' t T than the tachian tube is directed inwards between this muscle and other, the preceding one. Between the tendon and the hamular process is a small bursa. The PALATO-GLOSSUS muscle (constrictor isthmi faucium) Paiato- . . . . glossus. IS a small, fleshy band of fibres, which is contained in the anterior arch of the soft palate, and reaches to the side of the tongue. The muscles of opposite sides narrow the opening between the mouth and fauces, hence the name that has been applied to them. It is connected inferiorly with the lateral Attach. . ments. surface and the dorsum of the tongue; from this spot the fibres ascend before the tonsil, to the anterior aspect of the soft palate, where they form a thin muscular stratum, and join those of the fellow muscle along the middle line. At its origin the muscle is blended with the glossal muscles, and at its insertion it is placed before the tensor palati. The PALATO-PHARYNGEUS is much larger in size than the Paiato- T n 1 pharyn- preceding muscle; it gives rise to the eminence of the pos- geus,