DISSECTION OF THE AEM. 292 Capsular The capsulav ligament surrounds the articular ends of the ment. bouos, and receives some fibres from the contiguous tendons. At the upper part it is fixed around the neck of the scapula, where it is connected with the long head of the triceps. Attach- At the lower part the li2:ament is attached to the humerus ments.. ^ ^ close to the hemispherical articular surface ; but its conti- nuity is interrupted between the tuberosities of that bone by the tendon of the biceps muscle. On the inner side, below the coracoid process, there is generally an aperture in the capsule through which the synovial membrane of the joint is continuous with the bursa beneath the tendon of the sub- Muscics scapularis. The following muscles surround the articula- around. . ^ . i n i tion: — superiorly are the tendons oi the supraspmatus, in- fraspinatus, and teres minor ; inferiorly the capsule is only partly covered by the subscapularis : and internally it is well supported by the last named muscle. Acces- On the front of the capsule is a rather thick band of band, fibres, — the coraco-kumeral or accessory ligament, which springs from the base of the coracoid process of the scapula, and ends in the great tuberosity of the humerus. i Dissec- Dissection,—The articulation is to be opened by cutting ; ^^°"* through the capsule near the scapula. When this has been I done, the attachment of the capsule to the bones, the glenoid i ligament, and the tendon of the biceps will be fully seen. \ Tendon The tcndon of the biceps muscle arches over the head of bicepl the humerus, and serves the purpose of a ligament in re- j' straining the upward movements of that bone. It is attached to the upper part of the glenoid fossa of the scapula, and is j connected on each side with the glenoid ligament. As it is \ directed outwards, it becomes round, and is received into the | groove between the tuberosities of the humerus, in which it | is covered by a prolongation from the tendon of the pecto- j ralis major muscle, and surrounded by the synovial mem- li brane. Glenoid The glenoid ligament is a firm, fibrous band, that surrounds ment. the fossa of the same name, deepening it for the reception of ': the head of the humerus. It is about two lines in depth, I and is connected in part with the sides of the tendon of the biceps ; but some of its fibres are fixed separately to the I edge of the glenoid fossa. Synovial The Synovial membrane lines the articular surface of the ■■