81 DIGASTRIC MUSCLE. origin to the superior thyroid, the inferior thyroid, or the vertebral branch- artery. Dissection, — The dissector may next trace out completely J^^^^^c- the trunk of the external carotid, and follow its branches until they disappear beneath different parts. Afterwards he may separate from one another the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, which cross the carotid, and define their origin and insertion. The DIGASTRIC MUSCLE consists of two fleshy bellies, Digas- trie united by an intervenino^ tendon, whence its name. The muscle ^ has two posterior belly, the larger of the two, arises from the groove beiiies, beneath the mastoid process, whilst the anterior belly takes origin from the base of the lower jaw, on the side of the symphysis. From these places of origin the fibres are directed to the intervening tendon: — those of the posterior belly are the longest, and are inclined obliquely forwards, and those of the anterior belly pass more vertically down- wards. The tendon of the muscle is surrounded by fibres which of the stylo-hyoideus ; and it is attached to its fellow and to ed\^y'a" the OS hyoides by means of an aponeurotic expansion, that keeps in position the arch of the muscle, and is inserted below into the body, and a part of the great cornu of the hyoid bone. The arch formed by the digastric is superficial, Position except at the outer part, where it is beneath the sterno- and parts, trachelo-mastoid muscles. The posterior belly crosses the carotid vessels and the accompanying veins and nerves; and is placed across the anterior triangular space of the neck in the position of a line from the mastoid process to a little above the hyoid bone; along its lower border will be found the occipital artery and the hypoglossal nerve, the former passing backwards, the latter forwards. The anterior belly rests on the mylo-hyoid muscle. The digastric muscle describes an arch across the side of The the neck, and forms the lower boundary of a space that bo'unds a reaches upwards to the jaw and the mastoid process, and to "^^^^ the base of the skull in front of the ear. This space is divided into two parts by the stylo-maxillary ligament, In the posterior portion are contained the parotid gland and that con- the vessels and nerves in connection with it (p. 31.); in the ToSaIua anterior are the submaxillary gland and the facial vessels, maxii- a