64 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. nlfves ^^^^^ vessels, between the hjoid bone and the thyroid cartilage, the dissector will find the superior laryn- geal nerve; and with the descending part of the superior thyroid artery, its small external laryngeal branch. Clean Lastly, clean the submaxillary gland close to the base of feek^' j^w; and on partly dislodging it from the surface of the J^^yYo! mylo-hyoid muscle, the student will expose the small branch hyoid. nerve to that muscle with the submental artery. The interval between the jaw and the mastoid process is supposed to be cleaned by the removal of the parotid gland in the dissection of the facial nerve. ANTERIOR TRIANGULAR SPACE. Trian- This spacB coutaius the carotid vessels and their branches, spice in with many nerves, and corresponds with the hollow on the neck. surface of the neck in front of the sterno-mastoid muscle. Bounda- Its limits are the following: — behind is the sterno-mastoid muscle; and in front a line, from the chin to the sternum, along the middle of the neck. Above, at the base of the space, would be the lower jaw, with a line prolonged from it to the sterno-mastoideus; and below, at the apex, is the sternum. Over this space are placed the skin and super- ficial fascia, the platysma, the deep fascia, and the ramifica- tions of the facial and superficial cervical nerves. In the area of the triangular interval, as it is above defined, are seen the larynx, and many muscles converging towards the hyoid bone as a centre, some being above and some below it. Below are the depressors of that bone, viz. omo-hyoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid; and above, the elevators of the bone, viz. mylo-hyoid, and digastric and stylo-hyoid. Connected with the back of the hyoid bone and the larynx are some of the constrictor muscles of the gullet. Carotid The carotid blood-vessels occupy the hinder and deeper artery in ii.ini space, part 01 the space along the side oi the sterno-mastoid muscle, Course, and their course would be marked on the surface by a line from the sterno-clavicular articulation to a point midway Cover- between the angle of the jaw and the mastoid process. As high as the level of the cricoid cartilage, the vessels are co- vered by the depressor muscles of the os hyoides ; but beyond that they are concealed by the common coverings of the space, and by the sterno-mastoid muscle which, before the