THE SUPRARENAL CAPSULE. 561 in width; and its weight is between one and two drachms, but the left is commonly larger than the right capsule. Some areolar tissue attaches the suprarenal body to the f?^^^^^- kidnej, and large vessels and nerves retain it in situation. The connections with the surrounding parts are the same as those of the upper end of the kidney. Thus this body rests on the diaphragm on both sides ; whilst above the right one is the liver, and above the left the pancreas and the spleen. On the inner side of the right capsule is the vena cava, with part of the solar plexus ; and internal to the left is the aorta, with the same plexus of nerves. Structure.— By means of a perpendicular section, the a cap. ^ ^ ^ ^ sule sur- suprarenal body will be seen to be formed of a firm external rounds or cortical part, and of an internal soft and dark material. The whole is surrounded by a thin fibrous capsule, that sends processes into the interior and along the bloodvessels. Twodif- With the aid of a microscope, the nature of the two materials struc- above noticed will be found to be as below stated : — viz.— The cortical part is yellowish in colour and striated. Its a corti- ' stroma is formed of fine connective tissue which builds up which spaces elongated from without inwards for the lodgment of oftu. the special structure. Its ultimate elements consist, ac- cording to Mr. Simon, of very small closed bodies or tubes, about y^th of an inch in diameter, which are arranged ver- tically around the central part, and surrounded by blood- vessels. In these fine microscopic tubes there are contained bodies like nuclei, together with nucleated granular cells, granules, and particles of oil. The central soft part is of a grayish colour, or rather red, and a or of a black or dark brown hue from bloodvessels; it is vascSar formed chiefly of a plexus of minute veins with some ele- ments similar to those in the cortical part. In the interior of the mass there is a space, apparently from breaking down of the interior parts. Bloodvessels.—Numerous branches of arteries are furnished to Arteries, the suprarenal body from the diaphragmatic and renal arteries, and from the aorta. In the interior of this body the arteries end in capillary plexuses 'that surround the small tubes above described. The veins originate in the plexuses on the tubes, and the several Veins, branches are collected into a trunk which opens on the right side mto the vena cava, and on the left, into the renal vein. O O