DISSECTION OF THE FACE. 23 c 4 third petrosal nerve is contained in the substance of the temporal bone. The source and the connections of these small nerves will be afterwards learnt. It will suffice now for the student to note them, and to see that they are kept moist and preserved fit for ex- amination at a future time. Directions. — Now the base of the skull has been ex- For pre- amined, a preservative fluid should be applied, and the flaps tion of of integuments should be stitched together over all. Section III. DISSECTION OF THE FACE. Directions. — The left side of the face may be used for Direc. the muscles and vessels, and the right side is to be reserved for the nerves. Position.—previous position of the body for the ex- position amination of the base of the skull will require to be changed. The head is to be lowered, and the side of the face to be dis- sected is to be placed upwards. Dissection.—As a preparatory step, the muscular fibres Dissec- of the eyelids, lips, and side of the nose, are to be slightly stretched by inserting a small quantity of tow or cotton wool into the difierent apertures ; and the margins of the eyelids and lips are then to be fastened with a few sutures. The integument is to be removed from the left side of the How to face by means of the following incisions:—one is to be sSrT made in front of the ear, from above the zygoma to the angle of the jaw; and another is to be continued from the last point along the base of the jaw to the chin. The flap of skin is to be raised from behind forwards, and left adherent along the middle line. Much care must be taken in detach- from ing the skin from the thin, and oftentimes pale fibres of the of eyeiid, orbicular muscle of the eyelids, otherwise these will be cut away in consequence of the little connective tissue that in- tervenes between the two. On the side of the nose the skin side of is closely united to the subjacent parts, and must be detached with caution. Around the mouth are also many fleshy slips and that extend both upwards and downwards from the orbicular mouth, muscle, but they are all marked so distinctly as to escape