DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 620 ducts are branched as in other glands; and when they are nature traced into the interior from the urethra, the final radicles and end- ing; will be found to be surrounded by small sessile vesicles, on ducts which open into them. On the exterior of the vesicles and are ves- seis. the ducts the bloodvessels ramify; and lining the interior of the tubes is an epithelium of the columnar kind, which becomes laminar in the vesicles. The ducts of the gland are not collected into one excretory tube, but vary in number Ducts from twelve to twenty, and open into the prostatic part of into the urethra (p. 625.) urethra. ^ Arteries. Bloodvessels. — The arteries are unimportant, and are furnished Veins by the vesical and hasmorrhoidal (p. 609.). The veins form a plexus, plexus around the gland, which communicates in front with the dorsal vein of the penis, and behind with a plexus of veins at the base of the bladder. In old men this vascular communication gives rise to considerable haemorrhage in the operation of lithotomy. Seminal Yesicul^ Seminales. — Thcsc vesiclcs are two membra- Defini-* ^^us sacs, that are supposed to serve as reservoirs for the tion. secreted semen. They are placed on the under part of the tion. bladder behind the prostate, and diverge from one another so as to limit laterally a triangular surface at this aspect of the viscus: their form and connections have been already saccu- described (p. 599.). Though sacculated behind, the vesicula latea. i^ecomes Straight and somewhat narrowed in front; and at the base of the prostate it is blended with the vas deferens to form the common ejaculatory duct. Formed The vcsicula seminalis consists, like the epididymis, of a coifed tube bent into a zigzag form, so as to produce lateral sacs or pouches, which are bound together by fibrous tissue; this cellular structure will be shown by means of a cut into it. When the bends of the vesicle are undone, its formative Length, tube, which is about the size of a quill, measures from four to six inches, and ends posteriorly in a closed extremity: connected with the tube, at intervals, are some lateral caecal appendages. End of End of vas deferens. — Opposite the vesicula the vas deferens, deferens is increased in capacity, and is rather sacculated like the contiguous vesicle; but before it joins with the tube of that body to form the common ejaculatory duct, it diminishes in size, and becomes straight. haTa^^ Structure, — The seminal vesicle has the same number of