DISSECTION OF THE INTERIOR OF THE HEAD. 12 nected with the rest of the dura mater. For the division of the nerves of the brain, a sharp scalpel will be necessary; and the nerves are to be cut longer on the one side than on the other. Mode of Removal of the brain, — Besrin the removal of the brain proceed- ing and bj gcutlj raising with the fingers the anterior lobes and the cut in olfactory bulbs. Next cut through the internal carotid artery succes- o sion. and the second and third nerves, which first present them- selves to the dissector; the large second nerve is on the inner, and the round third nerve on the outer side of the artery. A small branch of artery to the orbit should like- wise be divided at this time. The brain is now to be sup- ported in the left hand, and the pituitary body to be dislodged with the knife from the hollow in the centre of the sphenoid bone. Afterwards a strong horizontal process of the dura mater (tentorium cerebelli) comes into view; and along its free margin will be seen the small fourth nerve, which is to be cut at this stage of the proceeding. Next make an in- cision through the tentorium on each side, close to its at- tachment to the temporal bone, without injuring the parts underneath. The following nerves, which now appear, are to be divided in succession. Near the inner margin of the tentorium is the fifth nerve, consisting of a large and small root; whilst towards the middle line of the head is the long slender sixth nerve. Below the fifth, and somewhat external to it, is the seventh nerve with its facial and auditory parts, the former being anterior and the smaller of the two. Di- rectly below the seventh are the three trunks of the eighth nerve in one line: — of these, the upper small piece is the glosso-pharyngeal; the flat band next below, the pneumo- gastric; and the long round nerve ascending from the spinal canal, the spinal accessory. The remaining nerve is the ninth, which consists of two small pieces. After dividing the nerves, cut through the vertebral arteries as they wind round the upper part of the spinal cord. Lastly, cut across the spinal cord as low as possible, as well as the roots of the spinal nerves that are attached on each side. By placing the right first two fingers in the spinal canal, the cord may be raised, and the whole brain may then be taken readily from the skull in the left hand. Reserve "^^"^ preservation, — The brain may be immersed in spirit