681 ANTERIOR CRURAL NERVE. may spring from either of the two femoral trunks: or these mny be branch- derived from both trunks — one piece being obtained from each: this .'ast arrangement is most frequently found. The ANTERIOR CRURAL NERVE is derived from the lumbar Nerve ot plexus (p. 584.), and supplies the muscles and the integument of the of the front of the thigh, and the integument of the inner side of the leg. Soon after the trunk of the nerve leaves is di. vided. the abdomen it is flattened, and is divided into a superficial or cutaneous, and a deep or muscular part. A. The superficial part of the nerve ends in these three From^its branches: the internal and the middle cutaneous of the thigh, ciai part arise — and the great saphenous. The middle cutaneous nerve perforates the fascia lata, middle sometimes also the sartorius, about three inches below Pou- ous; part's ligament, and extends on the surface of the thigh to the knee. Its cutaneous distribution is described at page 661. The internal cutaneous nerve sends two or more small internal cutane- twigs through the fascia lata to the integument of the upper ous; third of the thigh, and then divides in front of the femoral artery, or on the inner side, into the two following branches, anterior and inner.* Sometimes these branches, in which the nerve ordinarily ends, arise from the anterior crural trunk Jj'^hich at separate spots. The anterior branch is directed to the inner side of the knee anterior joint. As far as the middle of the thigh it lies over the sartorius, but it then pierces the fascia lata, and ramifies in the integument as before said (p. 661.). The inner branch is distributed in the integument of the inner inner side of the leg, just below the knee, but it remains beneath the fascia lata as far as the knee (p. 661.). Whilst underneath the fascia the nerve lies along the inner border of the sartorius, and joins in a plexus, about the middle of the thigh, with offsets of the obturator and internal saphenous nerves. When this branch is small it ends in the plexus just mentioned, and in twigs to the inner part of the thigh, instead of being continued onwards to the leg. The internal saphenous nerve is the largest of the three internal saphe- superficial branches; it becomes cutaneous on the inner side nous of the knee, and accompanies the vein of the same name to * This is the arrangement that is most commonly met with. — See foot note to the Second Edition, p. 624.