DI3SECTI0N OF THE UPPER LIMB. 274 the bounded in front by the shaft of the humerus, and above and teres and i i , , , rm . . t . t , . head of below Dj the teres muscles. 1 ms space is divided into two triceps, by the long head of the triceps. Through the anterior part, Anterior which IS of a quadrilateral shape, the posterior circumflex po^.- vessels and the circumflex nerve pass to the outer side of the tenor. ^ limb; and through the posterior smaller triangular part, the dorsal branch of the subscapular artery turns to be dis- tributed. Dissec- Dissection. — In order that the acromion process may be ]iga.°^ sawn through to expose the supraspinatus muscle, the liga- J5ie"da-^ ments of the scapula and clavicle, which would be injured vicie -j^j such a proceeding, should be next dissected. These liga- ments will be recognised by removing the connective tissue at the spots specified. One ligament (coraco-clavicular) passes from the coracoid process to the under part of the clavicle. A capsular ligament, connecting the outer end of the clavicle with the acromion, will be seen by taking away pS?a^^^' the fibres of the trapezius and deltoid muscles. Another strong band (coraco-acromial) passes transversely between the acromion and the coracoid process ; and lastly a small fasciculus (posterior proper ligament) is placed over the notch in the superior costa. Union of Ligaments of the Clavicle and Scapula. — The the cla- vicle and clavicle is connected to the scapula by a distinct ioint with scapula. . . the acromion, and by a strong ligament (coraco-clavicular) between it and the coracoid process, coraco- The coraco-clavicular ligament consists of two parts, each lar, " having a different direction and designation. The posterior conical piccc, Called conoid from its shape, is fixed by its apex to the posterior and inner part of the coracoid process, and by its base to the tubercle and the under surface of the clavicle, at the junction of the outer with the middle third of the bone. The anterior part, trapezoid ligament, is external to the and a couoid piccc: it is connected inferiorly to the inner border square ^ ^ piece, of the coracoid process, and superiorly to the line on the under surface of the clavicle, which extends outwards from the tubercle before mentioned. The two parts of the liga- ment are united posteriorly, but are separated by an interval in front. wilh the Acromio'clavicular articulation, — The articular surface*