718 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. popliteal space: and the fleshy part of the inner descends lower than that of the outer. In the tendon of the outer head is a piece of fibro-cartilage, or a sesamoid bone. Detach Dissectiofi,—To see the soleus, the remaining head of the part of ? o gastro- prastrocnemius is to be reflected by cutting across it, as well cnemius. ° ./ o 5 as the vessels and nerves it receives. After the muscle has been thrown down, the soleus and the plantaris must be cleaned. Soleus The SOLEUS is a large flat muscle, which is attached to both bones of the leg, and terminates, like the gastrocnemius, teched strong common tendon. It arises from the head, and bones^of uppcr third or half of the posterior surface of the shaft the leg, Qf the fibula; from the oblique line across the tibia, and from the posterior edge of this bone in the middle third; and between the bones, from an aponeurotic arch over the large below bloodvessels. Its fibres are directed downwards to the don*^^"' l^^'^^^ tendon. The superficial part of the soleus is in contact with the gastrocnemius; and the opposed surfaces of the two are aponeurotic. Beneath the muscle are the bones of the leg, the deep layer of flexors, and the vessels and nerves. Tendo The commofi tendon of the gastrocnemius and soleus ' (tendo Achillis) is the strongest in the body. It is wide Extent above, and commences about the middle of the leg, though it receives fleshy fibres on the under surface nearly to the and in- lower end: it is inserted by a narrow and rounded bundle sertion. ^ ^ ^ into the lower part of the os calcis at the posterior aspect. A bursa intervenes between it and the upper part of the calcaneum. The tendon is close beneath the fascia; and lying along its outer side, but superficial to it, is the external saphenous vein. Plan- The PLANTARTS is remarkable in having the longest tendon in the body, which takes the appearance of a riband when it arises^^ is strctclicd laterally. The fibres of the muscle arise from outer the line above the outer condyle of the femur, and from the posterior ligament of the knee joint, and soon end in the tendon which is inserted into the os calcis with or by the side of the tendo Achillis, or into the fascia of the leg. The belly of the muscle, which is about three inches in and joins length, is concealed by the gastrocnemius, but the tendon tendon, appears on the inner side of the tendo Achillis about the