337 LIGAMENTS OF THE FINaERS. appear, viz. one on each side of the os semilunare in the first carpal, row, and between all in the second row. Lateral union. — Where the metacarpal bones touch they sido union. are covered by articular cartilage, and the surfaces are fur- nished with prolongations of the same synovial membrane that serves for their articulation with the carpus. Dissection. — For the examination of the ioint between the Di^sec- tion of head of the metacarpal bone and the first phalanx of the finger joints. finger, it will be requisite that the tendons and the tendinous expansion around it should be cleared away. A lateral ligament on each side, and an inferior thick band are to be defined. Another joint may be opened to see the articular surfaces. The same dissection may be made for the articulations between the phalanges of the finger. Union between the Metacarpal Bones and the First Meta- Phalanges.—In these joints the convex head of the meta- bones carpal bone is received into the glenoid fossa of the phalanx, pha- langes. and the two are retained in contact by the extensor and flexor tendons, and the following ligaments: — The lateral ligaments are the same on both sides of the Lateral joint. Each is triangular in form ; it is attached by its ments. upper part to the tubercle on the side of the head of the metacarpal bone, and ends below by being inserted into the side of the phalanx and the inferior ligament. The inferior Inferior ligament is a longitudinal band, which is fixed firmly to the mem. phalanx, but loosely to the metacarpal bone. It is fibro- cartilaginous in texture, and is grooved for the flexor ten- don : to its sides the lateral ligaments are attached. Covering the upper part of the joint is the extensor Capsule, tendon; this takes the place of a superior ligament, and sends down an expansion on each side which serves as a capsule to the joint. The synovial mQmhv^uQ of the joint is synovial mem- a simple sac. brane. In the articulation of the thumb two sesamoid bones are Joint of connected with the inferior ligament, and receive most of the fibres of the lateral ligaments. Union of the PnALANaES. — The ligaments of the first Joints of joint are similar to those in the metacarpo-phalangeal arti- langW culation, viz. two lateral and an inferior.