502 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. ceals the intestine : in some bodies the omentum is raised into the left hypochondriac region, and leaves the small in- testine uncovered. If the bladder is distended, a small part of it may come into view just above the pelvis. CONNECTIONS OF THE VISCERA. Connec- Before the natural position of the viscera is disturbed, viscera their connections with the surrounding parts, and their situa- seen^ tiou in the different regions of the abdomen should be ex- amined. Position The stomach. — The stomach intervenes between the iTiach. gullet and the small intestine, and is retained in position partly by folds of the serous membrane. It is somewhat of a conical form, with the larger end to the left side; and it occupies the left hypochondriac, the epigastric, and part of the right hypochondriac region. Extre- At the left end it receives the oesophagus, and it is firmly large' fixcd by this tube to the diaphragm. This end lies beneath the ribs, and is in contact with the spleen, to which it is connected by a fold of peritoneum (splenic omentum): when this part of the stomach is distended it pushes up the dia- phragm, and encroaches on the space for the heart and the small ^^^^ lung. The right extremity ends in the small intestine, and reaches towards the gall bladder; it is in contact with the wall of the abdomen and the under surface of the liver. Surfaces. The anterior surface is in contact, from left to right, with the diaphragm, the abdominal wall, and the under part of the liver; and the posterior surface corresponds with the pancreas, the pillars of the diaphragm and the aorta, and the solar plexus. Borders. The upper border is connected to the liver by a fold of peritoneum, the small omentum ; and the lower border gives attachment to another peritoneal fold, the great omentum or epiploon, which floats freely over the intestine. Connec- The conncctions with the surrounding parts will be in- pend on fluenced by the condition of the stomach: for when this dition. viscus is empty its surfaces look forwards and backwards, and its borders upwards and downwards ; but when it is dis- tended, it becomes somewhat circular, and makes a rotatory movement, so as to bring forwards the border usually lowest,