719 DEEP LAYER OF MUSCLES. middle of the leg. This little muscle crosses the popliteal vessels, and lies on the soleus. Dissection. — The soleus is to be detached from the bones Detach soleus, of the leg, and the vessels and nerves it receives are to be divided ; but in raising it the student should take care not to injure the deep fascia and the vessels and nerves. The superficial muscles may be next removed by cutting through their tendons near the os calcis. The piece of fascia between the muscles of the superficial ^j"^^^ ^.^^^ and deep layer is then to be cleaned ; and the integuments ^^^^^^ between the inner ankle and the heel are to be taken away to lay bare the annular ligament, but a cutaneous nerve to the sole of the foot in this spot is not to be destroyed. Lastly the student should*open the bursa between the tendo Achillis and the os calcis, if this has not been done. Deep part of the fascia. — This intermuscular layer of Deep the fascia of the leg is fixed to the tibia and fibula, and theficia binds down the deep layer of flexor muscles. Beneath the feg. ^ soleus it is thin and indistinct; but below that muscle it is much stronger, and is marked by some transverse fibres near the malleoli, which give it the appearance and office of an annular ligament in that situation. Inferiorly it joins the annular ligament between the heel and the inner ankle. Dissection. — The deep layer of muscles, and the trunks clean , , the deep i and offsets of the posterior tibial and peroneal vessels, and muscles, the posterior tibial nerve, will be made ready for examination by the removal of the fascia and the areolar tissue. A muscle between the bones (tibialis posticus) is partly con- cealed by an aponeurosis which gives origin to the muscles on its sides, and will not fully appear till after this has been divided. Deep latek of muscles. — The deep flexor muscles at Four the back of the leg are four in number, viz. popliteus, flexor SThe^^ longus pollicis, flexor longus digitorum, and tibialis posticus. fayTr. The first of these is close to the knee joint; it crosses the bones, and is covered by a special aponeurosis. The flexors lie on the bones, that of the great toe being on the fibula, Position and that of the other toes on the tibia. And the last muscle covers the interosseous membrane. With the exception of the popliteus, all enter the sole of the foot, and have a fleshy ?fon!"^'