DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 56 arises at from the top of the shoulder to the face. Its fibres take der s origin from the clavicle and the acromion, and below these bones from the fascia covering the pectoral and deltoid muscles ; and then ascend over the side of the neck, to be inserted inserted into the jaw. The lower part of the muscle is "^^^J^^' more closely united to the skin than the upper, and covers the external jugular vein as well as the lower part of the covers postcrior triangle. At first the fibres of the muscle are thin triangle. i i i • and scattered, but they increase in strength as they ascend. The oblique direction of the fibres should be noted, because in venesection in the external jugular vein the incision is to be so made as to divide them across. Dissec- Dissection.—The platysma is now to be cut across near the clavicle, and to be reflected upwards as far as the inci- sion over the sterno-mastoid muscle, but it is here to be left attached. In raising the muscle the student must be careful of the deep fascia of the neck ; and should dissect out the external jugular vein, and the superficial descending branches of the cervical plexus, which are close beneath it. Exter- The external jugular vein commences in the parotid iSHein" gland (p. 32.), and is directed backwards between the pla- tysma and the deep fascia to the lower part of the neck, where it pierces the fascia to open into the subclavian vein, crosses Its coursc dowu the neck will be marked by a line from the neck to angle of the jaw to the middle of the clavicle. The part of vTanl^ the vein now seen is joined by small superficial branches, and an ofi'set connects it with the anterior jugular vein. Its size, and the height at which it crosses the sterno-mastoid muscle, are very uncertain. Cervical The deep cervical fascia consists, like the aponeuroses in fascia, ^^i^gp regions of the body, of a superficial layer that sur- rounds the part continuously, and of processes that are pro- longed inwards between the muscles. In some bodies this fascia is thin and indistinct. In its extent round the neck the membrane incases the sterno-mastoideus, and presents a Part be- difierent disposition before and behind that muscle. As now sterno- sccu passing backwards from the muscle, the fascia continues muscle, over the posterior triangular space, and then encloses the trapezius, in its progress to the spines of the vertebrae. At the lower part of the neck the fascia is attached to the clavicle, and is perforated by the external jugular vein, and