DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 406 outer border of the erector 'spinse, and crossing the iliac crest of the innominate bone, are distributed in the integuments of the buttock. Dissec- * Dissection.—The superiSicial fascia is now to be taken from the trapezius and latissimus dorsi in the direction of the fibres of each, viz. from the shoulder to the spinal column; and the upper limb is to be carried backwards or forwards according as it may be necessary to put on the stretch the different portions of the muscles. Some of the cutaneous nerves may be left, in order that they may be traced afterwards through the muscles to their origin. Two * First Layer of Muscles.—Two muscles, the trapezius muscles in^first and the latissimus dorsi, are present in this layer. Trape- * The TRAPEZIUS MUSCLE is triangular in shape, with the base towards the spine, but the two muscles taken together have a trapezoid form. The muscle has an extensive apo- origin neurotic origin along the middle line, from the head to the roticf" loins, viz. from the spines of the dorsal vertebrae and their supraspinous ligament; from the spinous process of the seventh cervical vertebra; from the ligamentum nuchas between the last point and the head; and lastly from the inner third of the superior transverse ridge of the occipital bone. From this origin the fibres are directed outwards, inser- Converging to the shoulder, and are inserted into the outer fleshy, third of the clavicle, at its posterior aspect; into the pos- terior border of the acromion ; and into the upper edge of the spine of the scapula as far as to an inch of the root of that process, as well as into a rough impression on the Connec- surface of the spine at the hinder part. The muscle is sub- cutaneous. At its origin it is tendinous between the sixth cervical and the third dorsal vertebra, as well as at its attach- ment to the head; and at the outer side the lowest fleshy fibres end in a small triangular tendon, that glides over the smooth surface at the root of the spine of the scapula. The anterior border bounds behind the posterior triangular space of the side of the neck. By its insertion the trapezius cor- responds to the origin of the deltoid muscle. Trace * Dissectlon.—The fibres of the trapezius are to be divided Icces- near the scapula, and over the spinal accessory nerve, so ^^^^* that the ramifications of that nerve in the muscle, and its junction with the branches of the cervical plexus may be