706 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. The part In the ham the vessel is inclined obliquely from the inner spaee' side of the limb to the interval between the condyles of the course femur, and is then directed along the middle of the space necttons. Q^gj. ^he knee joint. In this course it is overlaid at first by the belly of the semimembranosus muscle, but thence on- wards to the gastrocnemius it is covered only by the fat, the fascia lata, and the integuments. Beneath it is the lower part of the posterior surface of the femur, together with the , Posirion posterior ligament of the knee joint. In contact with the °'vessel, and somewhat on its outer side, lies the popliteal vein, so thit, on looking into the space, the arterial trunk is almost covered by it; but, lower down, in the interval be- tween the heads of the gastrocnemius, the vein and its branches altogether conceal the artery. More superficial than the large vessels, and slightly external to them m posi- andof tion, is placed the internal popliteal nerve, which however, nerve, like the vciu, lies ovcr the artery between the heads of the. gastrocnemius. Cut the Dissection. - To see the artery beneath the gastrocnemius fhe gal the inner head of this muscle should be cut through, and miu"" raised from the subjacent parts. On removing the areolar tissue the vessels and nerves will appear. Tlie lower arti- cular branches of the vessels and nerves are now brought into view;-the inner artery is below the head of the tibia, and the outer higher up between the tibia and fibula, each with a vein and a nerve, connec- Whilst the artery is beneath the gastrocnemius it sinks ^he"°' deeply into the limb, and is crossed by a small muscle, the ?Sr plantaris. It is placed on the popliteus muscle. Both the Position vein and the nerve (internal popliteal) change their position lif" to the artery, and gradually cross over it, so as to he on its inner side at the lower border of the popliteus. Branch. Branches are furnished by the artery to the surroundmg muscles, and to the articulation; those that enter the joint are five in number, and are called articular, viz. two superior, inner and outer; two inferior, also inner and outer ; and a central or azygos branch. Muscu The muscular branches have not received separate names, feanch- with the exception of those to the gastrocnemius and soleus ?.t?„l which are called sural arteries. One superficial or cutaneous ous.