DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 120 verse of the transverse process of the atlas ; and is inserted into the jugular eminence of the occipital bone. On the anterior surface rests the jugular vein; and in contact with the posterior is the vertebral artery. To the inner side is the anterior primary branch of the first cervical nerve. Dissee- Dissection. — For the purpose of tracing backwards the first anterior branch of the first cervical nerve to its san- nerve. glion, divide the rectus lateralis muscle, observing the branch of nerve to it; then cut off the end of the trans- verse process of the atlas, and remove the vertebral artery, so as to bring into view the nerve as it lies on the first vertebra. Sub- The anterior primary branch of the Jirsf, or suboc cipital n^rve^^^ nerve, is slender in size^ and arises from the common trunk lies on on the neural arch of the atlas. From that origin it is atlas, ° directed forwards on the arch, beneath the vertebral artery, to the inner side of the rectus lateralis. Here the nerve bends down in front of the transverse process, and forms a forms a loop by Uniting with the second cervical nerve. Branches with pass between this loop and the vagus, hypoglossal, and sympathetic nerves. As the nerve passes forwards it sup- Eranch- plies the rcctus lateralis muscle, and sends a filament along the side of the vertebral artery. syrapa- SYMPATHETIC Nerve.— In the ncck the sympathetic nerve in nerve consists, on each side, of a gangliated cord, which lies close to the vertebral column, and is continuous with the has three similar cord in the thorax. On this part of the nerve are ganglia, ^YiYee ganglia : — one near the skull, another on the neck of the first rib, and a third midway between the two ; these are named respectively superior, inferior, and middle ganglion. From the ganglia proceed some branches that are connected with the spinal and most of the cranial nerves, and other branches that are distributed to viscera, other Besides the ganglia above mentioned, there are other ITilth ganglionic masses in the head and neck, in connection with nerve. the three trunks of the fifth nerve. Dissec- Dissection, — To dissect the branches of the sympathetic tion of j^gpy^ requires greater care than is necessary in following the upper white-fibred nerves, for they are softer, more easily torn, and ghon. generally of smaller size. In the neck the ganglia and their