g44 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. of the hip bone which forms the upper part of the large sacro-sciatic notch, and from the great sacro-sciatic liga- ment. From this origin the fibres converge to the tendon inser. of insertion into the trochanter. (See Dissection of the Buttock.) The anterior surface is in contact with the Its con- rectum, with the sacral plexus, and with the sciatic and pudic wuh°" branches of the internal iliac vessels; whilst the opposite Knd. surface rests on the sacrum, and is covered by the great gluteal muscle outside the pelvis. The upper border is near the hip bone, but between them are the gluteal vessels and the superior gluteal nerve ; and the lower is contiguous to the coccygeus muscle, only the sciatic and pudic vessels and nerves intervening. Obtura- The OBTURATOR INTERNUS MUSCLE, like the preceding, muscle has its Origin in the pelvis, and its insertion out of the cavity at the great trochanter of the femur; but the part is beat outside is almost parallel in direction with that inside the over T '^ pelvis. pelvis. Origin The muscle arises by a broad fleshy attachment trom the pe¥s inner surface of the obturator membrane, and from the fibrous arch bounding the canal containing the obturator vessels and nerve ; slightly from the surface of bone internal to the membrane; and from all the smooth surface of the hip bone behind the thyroid hole, reaching upwards to the brim, downwards to the outlet, and backwards to the great Arching sacro-sciatic notch of the pelvis. The fibres are directed tendons backwards and somewhat downwards, and end in four or hTpSone! five tendinous pieces, which turn over the sharp pulley-hke surface at the back of the bone corresponding with the space of the small sacro-sciatic notch. Outside the pelvis these inser- tcudous are blended into one, which is fixed into the great trochanter, and is met with in the dissection of the buttock. Part of The pelvic portion of the muscle is in contact by one side Sif' with the wall of the pelvis and the obturator membrane; Sv^ty, by the other side with the fascia lining the pelvic wall, and towards its lower border with the pudic vessels and nerve, part in Abovc the Icvcl of the levator ani, viz. from the lower partj l^c^^ of the symphysis pubis to the ischial spine, the muscle corre- sponds with the cavity of the pelvis, but below that line, with the ischio-rectal fossa. i « coccy- Coccygeus muscle. — The position and the connections ot geus