450 DISSECTION OF THE PERINJEUM. inferior should Seek the inferior pudendal nerve, which pierces the daf^"' fascia lata about one inch anterior to the tuber ischii, and the same distance from the margin of the pubic arch; and should trace its junction with'the inferior h^emorrhoidal nerve in the fat. Afterwards this nerve is to be followed for- wards to where it enters beneath the superficial fascia in the middle line. Super fi- The superficial fascia of the anterior half of the perinseum is continuous with that of the contiguous regions ; and its depth, and the quantity of fat in it will vary with the con- dition of the body. It resembles the superficial fascia of both the groin and the upper part of the thigh, in having bles that two strata; — one is a subcutaneous fatty stratum, conti- ofgrom, j^y^^g with that in other parts of the body, which loses its twoTay- fat towards the fore part, and contains involuntary muscular cial faS' cia. Its thick iiess va- ers, fibres ; and the other is a deeper membranous layer, which is of limited extent, and is connected with the firm subjacent structures. (>^^j^g^_ An examination of the deep or membranous stratum will de^p show it to have the following attachments : — On the outer layer, g-^^ 'g ;Qxed to the pubic arch of the hip-bone, external to the line of the crus penis and its muscle, extending as low as the ischial tuberosity. Posteriorly the stratum bends down to join the triangular ligament of the perinseum ; but in front it is unattached, and is continued to the scrotum Forms and the penis. By means of similar connections on both op^en^in' sidcs, a pouch is formed over the anterior half of the peri- ^J^^"^' naeal space underneath the superficial fascia. From the dmded under surface of this part of the fascia a septum dips down- septum, wards in the middle line, and divides the subjacent space posteriorly into two parts ; but anteriorly this partition is less perfect or disappears. Air blown beneath the fascia has been seen to pass only forwards to the scrotum ; and this direction is given to it by the connections of the Course dccp layer with the parts around. Should urine be effused fused beneath the membranous part of the fascia, the fluid will necessarily be directed forwards, like the air, through the scrotum, to the penis and the front of the abdomen. Dissec Dissection. — The superficial vessels and nerves are to be nerves traced beneath the superficial fascia, on the right side of the seis on" perinseum, by cutting through that structure in the same