155 THE TONGUE. the tympanic nerve by means of the small superficial petrosal nerve, and tym- that joins the posterior part. nerves. * h. Branches to muscles.— Two muscles receive their nerves other^ from the otic ganglion, viz. tensor tympani and circumflexus palati. enter The nerve to the tensor tympani is directed backwards, and enters the bony canal that contains that muscle. The branch for the circumflexus, arising from the front of the ganglion, may be sup- posed to be derived from the internal pterygoid nerve. The nerve of the internal pterygoid muscle is a long slen- Nerve ot der branch, that arises from the inner side of the inferior ptery- maxillarj nerve near the skull, and is directed dovrnwards to the deep surface of the muscle. This nerve is joined by a fasciculus from the motor part of the fifth nerve. Directions.—The remainder of the left ptery go-maxillary region may be examined on this side of the body. Section XY. dissection of the tongue. Directions.—The tongue and larynx are to remain con- Direc nected v^ith each other v^hilst the student learns the general form, and the structure of the first. Dissection The ends of the extrinsic lingual muscles Dissec-: that have been detached, may be cut off, but enough of each should be left to trace it afterwards into the substance of the tongue. The TONGUE occupies the floor of the mouth, and is rather Tongue, ovoidal in shape, with the larger end turned backwards. It is free over the greater part of the surface; but at the situa- ' hinder part, and at the posterior two-thirds of the under form^"'^ surface, it gives attachment to the muscles and the mucous membrane that fix it to the parts around. The apex or tip of the tongue is in contact with the incisor connec- teeth; and the base, which looks towards the pharynx, is apex, attached to the hyoid bone, and is likewise connected with the epiglottis by three folds of mucous membrane—a central and two lateral. The upper surface or dorsum of the tongue upper is somewhat convex, and is received into the hollow of the roof of the mouth ; in the anterior two thirds it is divided