FEMORAL HERNIA. 497 The subperitoneal fat extends as a continuous layer be- subpe- neath the peritoneum, though it is thickest and most fibrous lat'"^^^ at the lower part of the abdomen, where the vessels pass under Poupart's ligament. At that spot it extends over the upper opening of the sheath of the vessels, instead of descend- ing around the vessels; and internal to the vein, it covers a space named crural ring, as well as a lymphatic gland which occupies that space. The piece of the layer that stretches forms over the crural ring is named by M. Cloquet septum crurale, cruraie. and is described by him as being concave towards the abdo- men, and convex towards the thigh ; some apertures exist in it for the ducts of the inguinal glands, and one gland is generally attached to its under surface. The fascia transversalis has been before described Fascia (p. 482.). When traced down to Poupart's ligament, it may Imaiis. be seen to join the iliac fascia external to the situation of the large iliac artery; but internal to that spot it is con- tinued downwards to the thigh, in front of the femoral vessels, and forms the anterior part of the crural sheath. The iliac fascia covers the iliacus muscle, and lies beneath fas- the iliac vessels. At Poupart's ligament its disposition is found to resemble that of the transversalis fascia; for ex- ternal to the iliac vessels it joins that fascia along the line of the ligament; but, internal to the spot mentioned, it is prolonged behind the vessels into the posterior part of the crural sheath. The crural or femoral sheath is the loose membrane that sheaih encloses the femoral vessels as these enter the thigh: it is rai ves- derived from the membranes that line the abdomen — its formed anterior half being continuous with the fascia transversalis, of pre- • , ceding. and its posterior half with the fascia iliaca. The whole of the upper part of the sheath is not filled by the vessels, for a space (crural ring) exists on the inner side of the vein, Avhich contains a gland, and through which the intestine descends in femoral hernia. The crural ring is partly described in the dissection of the a space thigh, but its boundaries are better seen now in the exami- side of • the ves- nation of the abdomen. It is the interval in the sheath, at seis is the inner side of the femoral vein ; it is about half an inch rai ring, wide, and is filled by a lymphatic gland. Close to the sheath, size and bounding it internally, are Gimbernat's ligament and the rics. K K