99 MTLO-HYOID MUSCLE. face, being covered only by the integuments and platysma, and by the deep fascia. In structure, the submaxillary resembles the parotid gland (p. 33.) ; and its duct — duct of Wharton, extends beneath the mylo-hyoid muscle to the mouth. Dissection,—The mylo-hyoid muscle may be seen by de- Dissec- taching the anterior belly of the digastric from the jaw, and by dislodging, without injury, the submaxillary gland from its position under the maxilla. The MYLO-HYOID MUSCLE is triangular in shape, with the Myio-. ° ^ ^ ^ hyoideas base at the jaw and the apex at the hyoid bone, and unites alone: the middle line with its fellow of the opposite side. It arises ° , from arises from the mylo-hyoid ridge on the inner surface of jaw; the lower jaw as far back as the last molar tooth, and is m- inserted serted into the middle of the body of the hyoid bone, as well hyoid as into a central tendinous band between the jaw and that bone. On the cutaneous surface are the digastric muscle, the submaxillary gland, the facial artery with the submental offset, and its own branch of nerve and artery. Its fibres are frequently deficient near the jaw, and allow the next Parts muscle to be seen. Only the posterior border is unattached, u.^"" and round it a piece of the submaxillary gland winds. The parts in contact with the deep surface of the muscle will be perceived after the following dissection has been made. Dissection, — To bring into view the muscles beneath the Dissec- mylo-hyoid, and to trace the vessels and nerves to the sub- detach^ stance of the tongue, the student should first cut through the iT/oid. facial vessels on the jaw, and remove them with the super- ficial part of the submaxillary gland, but should be careful to leave the deep part of the gland that turns beneath the mylo-hyoideus. Next he should cut through the small branches of vessels and nerve on the surface of the mylo- hyoideus ; and detaching that muscle from the jaw and its fellow, should throw it down to the os hyoides, but without injuring the genio-hyoid muscle beneath it. Afterwards the soft parts covering the lower jaw are to be To see divided, and the bone is to be sawn through rather on the muscles right side of the symphysis. The side of the jaw, which will then be loose (for the ramus of the bone has been previously cut), is to be raised to see the parts beneath; but it should neither be taken away, nor be detached from the mucous