349 THE PEKICARDIUM. left side, that cross the arch of the aorta : — the nerve most arch of to the left, and the largest, is the vagus ; that to the right of the vagus, the next largest in size, is the phrenic nerve. Betv^reen the preceding, and close to tho coats of the artery, are the two following small nerves, the left superficial cardiac nerve of the sympathetic, and the cardiac branch of the left vagus ; of the two, the last is the smallest, and to the right of the other. The two cardiac nerves from the left vasrus and the sym- Dissect puperti- pathetic are to be followed onwards to a small plexus (super- ciai ficial cardiac) in the concavity of the aorta. An offset of the in arcii • 1 1 T 1 1 1 1 of aorta. plexus IS to be traced downwards between the pulmonary artery and the aorta, towards the anterior coronary artery of the heart; and another prolongation is to be found coming forwards by the side of the arterial duct, from the deep cardiac plexus, to join the superficial one. When the peri- cardium is opened, the nerves will be followed on the heart, but their dissection is difficult, and will require some care. Oftentimes these small nerves are destroyed in inject- ing the body. The pericardium is larger than the viscus it contains. Connect Occupying the interpleural space, it is situate behind the the'peri- sternum, and projects below on each side of that bone, but much more towards the left than the right side. Some- what conical in form, the wider part of the bag is turned towards the diaphragm, and the narrower part upwards towards the large vessels of the heart. Laterally, the peri- cardium is covered by the pleura, and the phrenic nerve and vessels lie in contact with it. Its anterior and posterior surfaces correspond to the objects contained in the fore and hinder part of the interpleural space; and on the anterior aspect the bag is partly covered by the margins of the lungs, especially the left, in the manner stated. This envelope of Fibro- the heart consists of a fibrous structure, which is lined m- case, ternally by a serous membrane. The fibrous part surrounds the heart entirely, and is Fibrous pierced by the different vessels entering that organ. ItgfvL gives prolongations around the vessels that pass through it, to ves- and the strongest of these sheaths is that on the aorta. In- feriorly it is united by fibres to the central tendon of the joins diaphragm; but on the left side it extends beyond the limit phragm