101 HYO-GLOSSUS MUSCLE. H 3 the outer side of the last muscle lie the ranine vessels ; and a sublingual branch for the gland of the same name springs from the lingual artery at the inner border of the hjo-glossus. On the under aspect of the tongue, near the margin, lies the gustatory nerve; and in the fibres of the genio-hyo- glossus, the hypoglossal nerve. The HYO-GLOSSUS MUSCLE is thin and somewhat square in Hyo- glossus shape. The muscle arises from the lateral part of the body of the OS hyoides (basio-glossus), from all the great cornu of the same bone (cerato-glossus), and separately from the small cornu (chondro-glossus). The two first parts form a thin sheet, and enter the back part and side of the tongue* ; they will be after seen to mingle with fibres of the palato- and stylo-glossus. The parts in contact with one surface of the J?.^^^^ hyo-glossus have been already enumerated ; and those be- ^^^c^^" neath the muscle are portions of both the genio hyo-glossus, and the middle constrictor, together with the lingual vessels. Along the anterior border is the genio-hyo-glossus muscle ; in con. , , , , . , y ^ , . tact with and beneath the posterior pass the ungual artery, the glosso- many pharyngeal nerve, and the stylo-hyoid ligament. The STYLO-GLOSSUS is a slender muscle, whose attachments styio- are expressed by its name. Arising from the styloid process near the apex, and from the stylo-maxillary ligament, the muscle is continued forwards to the side of the tongue, comes to sid6 of Here it gives fibres to the dorsum, and crossing the pre- tongue, ceding turns to the under surface, and extends to the tip of the tongue. Beneath the jaw this muscle is crossed by the gustatory nerve. The GENio-HYOiD MUSCLE arises from the lower of the two Genio- lateral tubercles on the inner aspect of the symphysis Qf ^^^^^^"^ the jaw, and is inserted into the middle of the hyoid bone, along Covered by the mylo-hyoideus, this muscle rests on the genio- line of hyo-glossus. The inner border is close to its fellow of the opposite side, and the two are often united. The GENio-HYO-GLOSSUS is the largest muscle of this Genio- region; it has a triangular form, the apex being at the jaw, giossus * The third part (chondro-glossus) is distinct from the others, and ends on the upper surface of the tongue near the root; but for further detail respecting the anatomy of this and the other lingual muscles, re- ference is to be made to the dissection of the tongue, Section 15.