DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 376 Right The right nerve is posterior to the left in its position. As vagus , , above the norve appears in the thorax, it lies between the sub- ofthe clavian artery and the right innominate vein, and sends backwards a recurrent branch round the former. At first it is directed obliquely backwards, over the side of the trachea, to the interval between that tube and the oesophagus; and thus supported, the nerve reaches the posterior aspect of the root of the lung, where it forms the posterior pulmonary and on plexus. From the plexus two laro^e offsets are continued to the back j. o of the the oesophagus, and unite into one near the diaphragm: the gmbe- trunk thus formed, lies behind the gullet, and passes along * i t to the posterior surface of the stomach. Left The left nerve enters the thorax behind the left innominate above vcin, and to the outer side of the left common carotid artery, of thr* Lying between the left subclavian and common carotid arteries, the nerve courses over the arch of the aorta, then beneath the root of the lung, and forms there a larger plexus and on than ou the right side. From the pulmonic plexus one or of the two branches pass to the front of the oesophagus, and join giis°^^^ with the corresponding branches of the right nerve in a plexus on that tube. Finally, the divisions of the nerve are collected into one trunk, which is continued on the front of the oesophagus to the anterior part of the stomach. Branch- The brauches of the pneumo-gastric nerve in the thorax es are, are the followinoj: — recur- 1. The recurrent or inferior laryngeal nerve is the first branch ryngeai i^ the thorax. Arising on the right side on a level with the sub- thorax ; <^l^vian artery, and on the left at the lower border of the arch of the aorta, the nerve bends backwards to the trachea, along which it ascends to the larynx. On each side this branch is freely con- nected with the cervical cardiac branches of the sympathetic nerve, especially on the left side beneath the arch of the aorta, cardiac 2. Cardiac branches (thoracic). — Besides the cardiac branches in the furnished by the vagus in the neck, there are other offsets in front thorax; trachea to communicate with the cardiac plexus. These branches come from the trunk and the recurrent branch of the nerve on the right side, but they are supplied by the recurrent nerve alone on the left side, lower Xhe termination of the lower cervical cardiac branch of each branch nerve (p. 117.) may be now seen. The branch of the right vagus neck ; Hes by the side of the innominate artery, and joins a cardiac nerve of the sympathetic from the neck; but the branch of the left va^us