121 GANGLION OF THE SYMPATHETIC NERVE. branches are already partly prepared, and will therefore require only the following additional dissection to bring them into view: — the carotid artery and jugular vein having been already cut through, the upper ganglion will be seen by raising the trunks of the eighth and ninth nerves, and cutting through the branches that unite these to the loop of the atlas. If it is thought necessary, the two cranial nerves may be cut across close to the skull. The several branches of the ganglion should be traced upwards, inwards, and outwards. The dissector has already seen the middle ganglion on or Middle . near the inferior thyroid artery, and has now to trace out its branches. To obtain a view of the inferior ganglion, the greater part i of the first rib is to be taken away, and a part of the sub- gan- clavian artery is to be removed, without however destroy- ing the fine nerves that pass over it. Of course the clavicle is supposed not to be in position. The ganglion is placed on the neck of the first rib ; its branches are large, and are easily followed to the vertebral artery, the spinal nerves, and the thorax. The SUPERIOR CERVICAL GANGLION is the largest of the superior cervical ganglia, and is of a reddish grey colour. Of a fusi- glion is form shape, it is as long as two cervical vertebras (second skuii, and third), and is placed on the rectus capitis anticus major muscle, beneath the carotid artery and the cranial nerves beneath . , carotid. in connection with it. Branches connect the ganglion with other nerves, and some are distributed to the bloodvessels, the pharynx, and the heart. Connecting branches unite the sympathetic with both the Branch- spinal and the cranial nerves. With the spinal nerves. — The four highest spinal nerves have with branches of communication with the upper ganglion of the sym- nerves, pathetic; but the branch to the fourth spinal nerve may come from the cord connecting the upper to the next ganglion. With the cranial nerves.—Near the skull the trunks of the vagus with (its lower ganglion) and hypoglossal nerves are joined by branches ^^^"'^ of the sympathetic. In the foramen jugulare also, both the petrosal ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal and the ganglion of the root of outside the vagus receive small filaments, one to each, from an ascending offset of the ganglion. Communications are formed with other cranial nerves by means and with