291 SHOULDER JOINT. u 2 which it divides into the radial and posterior interosseous nerves. In this extent the nerve gives muscular branches, and cutaneous offsets to both the inner and outer parts of the arm. a. The internal cutaneous branch of the arm is of small size, and internal cuta- arises in the axillary space, in common with the branch to the inner neous ...... , ' ^ t „ branch. head of the triceps ; it is directed across the posterior boundary ot the axilla to the inner side of the arm, where it becomes cutaneous in the upper third, and is distributed as before said (p. 280.). h. The muscular branches to the triceps are numerous, and sup- plj all the three heads. One slender offset, that is distributed to triceps, the inner head, arises in common with the preceding cutaneous branch, and lies close to the ulnar nerve, till it enters the muscu- lar fibres at the lower third of the arm. And a long slender branch behind the humerus, that appears as if it ended in the triceps, can be followed downwards to the anconeus muscle. On the outer brachi- part of the limb the musculo-spiral nerve supplies the brachialis muscles anticus, and two muscles of the forearm, viz. supinator longus and arm."^^" extensor carpi radialis longior. c. The external cutaneous branches are two in number: they Two) perforate the outer head of the triceps at its attachment to the cuta-"^ humerus, and are distributed in the integument of the arm and forearm (p. 279.). Dissection, — Now the dissection of the arm has been Dissec- tion of completed as far as the elbow, it will be advisable to examine the ^ . , ' , shoulder next the shoulder joint. For this purpose the tendons of the joint, surrounding muscles, viz. those of the subscapularis, supra- and infraspinatus, and teres minor, must be detached from the joint. On the removal of the connective and some loose fibrous tissue, the articular capsule, with a thickened band on the fore part, will be prepared. Shoulder Joint.—The joint is formed between the head shoulder of the humerus and the glenoid fossa of the scapula, these outline parts being inclosed in a fibrous capsule lined by a synovial membrane. A ligamentous band (glenoid ligament) deepens the shallow cavity for the reception of the large head of the humerus. This articulation has great extent of movement; and the bones entering into its formation are but slightly bound together by ligamentous bands, for, on the removal of the muscles, the articular surface of the humerus may be drawn from the other with great readiness.