671 FEMORAL ARTERY. by the crural sheath for about two inches, and is covered thear. only bj the skin and the superficial fascia, and by the fascia lu^erl lata and some inguinal glands. At first the artery rests on p^J;^ the psoas muscle; and it is subsequently placed over the ^^^''""^ pectineus, though at some distance from it in this position of the limb, and is separated from it by fat, and by the pro- funda vessels and the femoral vein. Its companion vein and the anterior crural nerve have the following position with respect to it: — the femoral vein is on the inner side and Position close to it at the pubes, but lower down it is placed behind an^" the artery; the anterior crural nerve is on the outer side, ' being distant nearly half an inch near Poupart's ligament, and some of the branches of the nerve approach the artery near the apex of the containing space. The branches of this part of the artery are the superficial branch, epigastric and circumflex iliac, two superficial pudic, and p^^f the deep femoral branch; the cutaneous offsets have been ^^enf ^ seen (p. 657.), with the exception of tlie following, which is beneath the fascia lata. The inferior superficial pudic artery arises separately one su- from, or in common with the other pudic branch (superior) pud^c!'^ (p. 657.). The course of this artery is inwards over the benelth pectineus muscle to the scrotum or the labium pudendi, ac- fa'cia, cording to the sex: it perforates the fascia lata at the inner border of the thigh to reach its place of destination. In the integument it anastomoses with branches of the superficial peringeal artery. The deep femoral branch, or the profunda, is the largest ^^dthe offset of the femoral artery* and arises from the outer part d"'""" of that vessel, one inch to two inches (Quain) below Pou^ part's ligament. This branch is consumed in the muscles Origin of the thigh, and its distribution will be afterwards ascer- tained. In the present dissection it is seen to be placed ^"dpo- over the iliacus muscle, where it gives the external cir- sca?pa" cumflex artery to the outer part of the thigh ; and then to be directed, with a large vein, beneath the trunks of the femoral vessels to the inner side of the limb. * Some anatomists apply the term common femoral to the part of the vessel above the origin of the profunda, and give the names super- facial and deep femoral to the nearly equal parts into which it divides