DISSECTION OF THE PERINJEUM. 448 of the branch of the pudic artery that is now dissected. Some space. Qj.]^QY gj^all branches of the pudic and sciatic are also seen. Inferior The inferior hcemorrhoidal artery arises from the trunk rhoidai of the pudic, internal to the ischial tuberosity ; it divides into branches that pass inwards across the ischio-rectal ends on fossa, and end in the skin, and the sphincter and levator rectum ^ and in its ani muscles. On the rectum this artery anastomoses with muscles. ^ *^ the upper hasmorrhoidal branch, and with the artery of the opposite side. In a well-injected body, some cutaneous branches may be seen to run forwards to the anterior part of the perinseum, and to communicate with the superficial Branch periuaeal branch. Veins accompany the artery, other Other small muscular branches of the pudic artery cross pudt^!^^ the front of the ischio-rectal fossa, and supply the anterior part of the levator ani muscle. Branch- Branches of the sciatic artery appear on the inner aspect sciatic, of the glutcus maximus at the back of the fossa; some end in that muscle, and others are continued round its border to the surface. Nerves. Nerves.—The branches of nerves are the inferior haemor- rhoidal; an oifset of the fourth sacral nerve ; and some branches of the small sciatic nerve. Inferior The inferior hcemorrhoidal nerve is most frequently a hsemor- , tii» i •• rhoidai branch oi the pudic, though it may have a separate origin artery of from the sacral plexus. Accompanying the artery of the same name, samc name across the ischio-rectal fossa, it reaches the Termin- margin of the anus, where it terminates in offsets to the integument and the sphincter muscle. Other cutaneous offsets of the nerve turn forwards over the fossa, and com- municate with the superficial perinseal nerve, and with the inferior pudendal (of the small sciatic) on the margin of the thigh. Branch The hemorrhoidal branch of the fourth sacral nerve of sacral , *^ nerve reaches the ischio-rectal fossa by piercing the fibres of the coccygeus, or by passing between that muscle and the levator ani. Appearing in the posterior part of the fossa, close to supplies the coccyx, the nerve ends by supplying the external sphinc- ter, ter, and the integument behind the anus. Offsets One or two cutaneous branches of the small sciatic nerve of small sciatic, turn rouud the lower border of the gluteus, in their course to the teguments on its surface.