DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 548 face is the gall-bladder; and a longitudinal fissure divides it into a right and a left lobe. Anterior Borders, —The anterior border is thin, and is marked by border is ^ , *^ thin and two notches *. One is opposite the fissure on the under surface notched, ^ before alluded to, and the other corresponds with the edge posterior of the gall-bladder. The posterior border is much thicker er, at the right end than at the left, and in that part it touches notched! the kidney and the diaphragm. Opposite the vertebral column is a hollow in this border ; and the vena cava is partly imbedded in the substance of the liver on the right of that spot. Extra- Extremities, — The right part of the liver is thick and rounded, but the left is thin and flattened. Lobes Lobes, — On the under surface the liver is divided pri- are on ^ "urface ^^^^^7 ^^^^ lobcs, a right and a left, by the longitudinal and are fissure that passcs from before backwards ; and connected nve, VIZ, ^ with the right lobe, on its under surface, are three others, viz. the square lobe, the Spigelian lobe, and the caudate lobe, left. The left lobe is smaller and thinner than the right, and has a slight depression inferiorly where it touches the stomach. right; The right lobe forms the greater part of the liver, and is luvided" separated from the left by the longitudinal fissure on the into aspect, and by the suspensory ligament on the other. To it the gall-bladder is attached; and the following lobes are projections on its under surface, square. The Square lobe (lobulus quadratus) is situate between the gall-bladder and the longitudinal fissure. It reaches anteriorly to the margin of the liver, and posteriorly to the fissure (transverse) by which the vessels enter the interior of the viscus. spige- The Spigelian lobe lies behind the transverse fissure, and forms a roundish projection on the surface. On its left side is the longitudinal fissure, and on its right, the vena cava inferior. and cau- The caudate lobe is a slight elongated eminence, which is lobe. directed from the Spigelian lobe behind the transverse fissure, so as to form the posterior boundary of that sulcus. Where the fissure terminates, this projection subsides in the right lobe. Three] Fissures.—Extending horizontally half across the right.