DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 400 SeThe Dissection, — After the dissection of the ligaments of the hir^^ ribs, the same piece of the spinal column will serve for the ments. ligaments of the bodies and articular processes of the verte- brae. It is supposed that the spinal canal has been opened to examine th^e spinal cord, and that the posterior ligament of the bodies of the vertebrae is therefore laid bare, but if the canal should not be opened, the arches of the vertebrae must be sawn through close to the articular processes. The anterior ligament of the bodies will be prepared with verj little trouble, by only removing the connective tissue. The remaining ligaments between the neural arches and the spines of the bones may be defined on those pieces that have been taken away in opening the spinal canal. The A. Ligaments of the bodies of the vertebrcB. — The bodies bodies _ . . t i are 01 the vcrtcbras that remain separate are united by an an- united . . n i . by: tenor and a posterior common ligament, and by intervening pieces of fibro-cartilage. Anterior The anterior common ligament is white and strong, and cmnmon j^^^^jj^^g fj.Qjj^ atlas to the sacrum: it is widest opposite varies in the lumbar vertebrae, and becomes narrower as it is traced ' upwards. Its fibres are longitudinal in direction, and con- len^gth, sist of a Superficial and a deep layer: by detaching parts of tach- ^ the ligament, the superficial fibres will be seen to reach the its fibres, length of three or more vertebrae, whilst the deep reach from bone to bone. A greater number of the fibres are attached to the intervertebral fibro-cartilages than to the bones ; and more are fixed to the margins than to the centre of the body of a vertebra. Its outline is uneven, for it is broader over the bodies of the vertebrae than on the intervertebral and substance: and if the ligament be cut across at intervals iiess^^^^"* it will be found to be thickest opposite the hollow part of v the body of the vertebra. Pos. The posterior common liqament is contained in the spinal terior ^ . . common canal, lying on the posterior aspect of the bodies of the ver- ment tcbrae, and extends from the sacrum to the occipital bone. is wide at parts; This ligament is wide above, and diminishes in size down- wards, just the opposite of the anterior: in the neck it is loose, and extends all across the bodies of the vertebrae, whilst in the loins it is only a thin narrow band. Opposite the dorsal and lumbar intervertebral substance it is wider than at the centre of the bodies of the vertebrae, and sends off