284 DISSECTION OF THE ARM. inferior h. The inferior profunda branch arises opposite the coraco- fuiida, brachialis muscle, and accompanies the ulnar nerve to the interval between the olecranon and the inner condyle of the humerus. In the spot mentioned, it anastomoses with the posterior ulnar recur- rent and anastomotic branches, and supplies the triceps. It often arises in common with the superior profunda artery, nutrient c. A uutritious artery to the bone is given off near the preceding bonef branch, and enters the large aperture about the middle of the hu- merus ; it is distributed to the osseous substance, and to the mem- brane lining the medullary canal, and anas- d. The anastomotic branch arises from one to two inches above the elbow, and courses transversely inwards, through the inter- muscular septum, to the hollow between the olecranon and the inner condyle of the humerus. Here the artery inosculates with the inferior profunda and the posterior ulnar recurrent branch, and gives some branches to the triceps muscle: one of the muscular offsets forms an arch across the back of the humerus, with a branch of the superior profunda, near the articulation of the elbow. The anastomotic branch likewise sends an offset in front of the elbow joint, which joins with the anterior ulnar recurrent, and supplies the pronator teres muscle. Veins The bvacMal veins are placed along the artery, one on the each side, and have branches of communication across that axillary, ^^g^^j , they recoivo contributing veins, which correspond to the branches of the arteries. Superiorly they join the ax- illary vein near the subscapular muscle. Devia- Peculiarities of the artery in position, — The brachial trunk may position, leave the inner border of the biceps in the lower half of the arm, and course along the inner intermuscular septum, with or without the median nerve*, to the inner condyle of the humerus. At this spot the vessel is directed to its ordinary position in front of the elbow, either through or beneath the fibres of the pronator teres, which has then a wide origin. In this unusual course the artery is often found to lie behind a projecting bony point in the hu- merus. In place In the division. — Occasionally the artery is split for a short dis- sion^^' tance at its upper part, like the main vessel in the lower limb. And the terminal bifurcation of the vessel may be short of the ordinary spot, or beyond it:—the former condition is much the most frequent; for only in one instance did Mr. Quain find the * I have seen the nerve in this unusual position without its com- panion artery, being accompanied by an offset from the superior pro- funda.