THE FACIAL NERVE. 39 ear, in the depression between the antihelix and the convexity of muscle the surface. It arises from the convexity of the cartilage that of t^on^ forms the concha, and is inserted into the back of the antihelix. The muscle is mixed with much fibrous tissue, but it is well seen when this is removed. Dissection.—The pinna may now be detached by cutting ciean it as close as possible to the bone. When the integuments tiiag?."^' are entirely taken off, the cartilage of the pinna will be ap- parent ; but in removing the integuments, the lobule of the ear, which consists only of skin and fat, will disappear. The cartilage of the pinna resembles much the external carti- ear in form, and presents for notice nearly the same parts, forms The rim of the helix, however, subsides posteriorly in the of^Jx?er- antihelix about the middle of the pinna; whilst anteriorly a small piece projects from it, and a fissure will be found oefi- near that projection. The antihelix is divided posteriorly ferroriy" into two pieces ; one of these is pointed, and is joined by the helix, the other is continued into the antitragus. Inferiorly the cartilage is fixed to the margin of the external auditory and at aperture in the temporal bone, and forms the outer part of p^JTof . . . . meatus. the meatus auditorius, but it does not give rise to a complete tube, for the upper and posterior part of that canal is closed by fibrous tissue. On the posterior aspect of the concha is a strong vertical process of cartilage. In the piece of cartilage that forms the under-part of the its fis- meatus are two fissures (Santorini); one is at the base of the tragus, the other passes from before backwards. Ligaments connect the pinna with the head, but others Liga- pass from one point of the cartilage to another. "^^"^^ * The external ligaments are the condensed bands of fibrous ex- tissue that extend between the same points as the external muscles (p. 2.), though commonly only an anterior and pos- terior are described. The chief special ligament crosses special, the interval between the tragus and the beginning of the helix, and completes the tube of the meatus. The FACIAL NERVE (portio dura) is a part of the seventh outline cranial nerve, and confers motor power on the muscles of ne^ve.^^ the face. Numerous communications take place between it and the fifth nerve, and the chief of these are found above and below the orbit, and over the side of the lower jaw. i> 4