DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 586 nerve is last dorsal nerve resembles the other intercostal nerves in its inter- distribution, but differs from them in not being contained in an intercostal space. Lying below the last rib, the nerve is directed outwards across the upper part of the quadratus Course lumborum, and beneath the fascia covering that muscle. At of the the outer border of the quadratus it pierces the posterior men. aponeurosis of the transversalis abdominis (fascia lumborum), enters the wall of the abdomen, and ends in an abdominal and a cutaneous branch (p. 468.). Near the spine it fur- nishes a small branch to the quadratus muscle ; and it may communicate by means of this with the first lumbar nerve. An offset from the first lumbar artery accompanies the nerve. Lumbar The LUMBAR ARTERIES are somc of the parietal branches fivTin^ of the aorta (p. 572.), and are furnished to the spinal canal on each and the wall of the abdomen: they resemble the aortic inter- like the costal branches in their course and distribution. Commonly costal ^^'^ number on each side, these arteries arise opposite the centre of the vertebrae, and the vessels of opposite sides are Course sometimes joined in a common trunk : they then pass back- wards along the fore part of the vertebrae, beneath the pillar andter- of the diaphragm and the psoas, to reach the intervals be- mina- i , it. i tion in twccn the trausvcrse processes, where each ends m an ab- dominal and a dorsal branch. The arteries of the right side pass beneath the vena cava. a branch a. The dovsol branch continues onwards to the back be- to the back, tween the transverse processes, and supplies an offset to the spinal canal. The distribution of the artery is described with the vessels of the back and spinal cord (p. 422. 436.). and a ^- The abdominal branches are directed outwards beneath tolhe^ the quadratus lumborum, the first being the largest, and tife ab^ enter the posterior part of the abdominal wall, where they domen. ^n^stomose with the lower intercostal, the circumflex iliac, and the ilio-lumbar arteries : these branches supply the psoas and quadratus muscles. The branch of the first, and sometimes that of the last artery, is superficial to the quad- ratus ; and the size of the last two varies with that of the ilio-lumbar offset of the internal iliac artery. The The LUMBAR VEINS are the same in number, and have the sembie samc courso as the arteries. Commencing by the union of riel^^ " a dorsal and an abdominal branch at the root of the trans-