DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 532 covering tliem, and are continued onwards to the pylorus and the small intestine. These fibres are most marked along the borders, particularly the smaller one ; and at the pylorus they are much stronger than in the centre of the stomach, circular, b» The circular fibres form the middle stratum of the mus- cular coat, and will be best seen by removing the longitu- dinal fibres near the pylorus. They reach from the cardiac to the pyloric end of the stomach ; but at the latter part they are most numerous and strongest, and form a firm ring around the pyloric opening, and Ob- c. The ohUqite fibres are continuous with the circular or fibres, deep layer of the oesophagus, and form only part of a layer in the gastric wall. On the left of the cardiac orifice they are seen to arch over the great end of the stomach, and then to spread out on the anterior and posterior surfaces, gra- dually disappearing on them. The fi- 3. Fibrous or submucous coat, — By removing the mus- coat is cular laver over a small spot, the fibrous coat will appear as thin, but , . , . . , , -r^ , ^ , rr ^ firm. a white shining stratum. Jb ormed oi areolar or connective tissue, this coat gives strength to the stomach, and serves as a bed in which the larger vessels and nerves ramify before their distribution to the mucous coat. If a small opening is made in this membrane, the mucous coat will project through it, supposing the stomach to be distended with air. Mucous 4. The mucous coat will come into view on cutting open the stomach, but the appearances about to be described can be seen only in a recent stomach. feel. This coat is a thickish layer, smooth and soft to the touch, which, in the natural and healthy condition, is found colour, of a pale rose colour soon after death. In infancy the na- tural redness is greater than in childhood or old age; but in the empty state of the stomach the membrane is less vas- cular than during digestion. When the stomach is con- foids, tracted, the membrane is thrown into numerous wavy lines or rugcB, which are longitudinal along the great curve, j thick- towards the pylorus. The thickness of the mucous membrane ( "^^' is greatest near the pylorus; and at that spot it forms a fold, j opposite the muscular ring, which assists in closing the open- j disposi- ing. If this membrane audits submucous layer are removed pylorus, from the pyloric part of the stomach, the ring of muscular j fibres (sphincter of the pylorus) will be more perfectly seen. |