80 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. and omo-hyoid; and beneath the muscles by the middle thy- roid vein. But above the cricoid cartilage to its termination the artery is covered only by the sterno-mastoid and the common investments of the part; superficial to it here is the descendens noni nerve, and crossing the upper part are offsets of the superior thyroid artery with the accompany- beneath ing vein. The vessel rests mostly on the longus colli muscle, but close to its ending on the rectus capitis anticus major; on the sympathetic nerve and its branches ; and on and on the recurrent nerve and the inferior thyroid artery. To its sides, ^j^^ inner side of the carotid lie the trachea and larynx, with the oesophagus and the thyroid body, the last over- hanging the vessel by the side of the larynx. Along the outer side of the carotid sheath is a chain of lymphatic glands. Internal INTERNAL JUGULAR VEIN. This VCin OXtCuds Upwards tO iein^^"^ the base of the skull by the side of the carotid blood-vessels, but only the part of it that accompanies the common carotid artery is now seen. Placed behind or posterior to its artery, the vein ends below by uniting with the subclavian in the j^igs innominate vein. Its proximity to the carotid is not equally sideVf*' close in all the extent of this vessel, for at the lower part of artery, ^|^^ ncck the vciu inclincs backwards, leaving a space except between it and the artery, in which the vagus nerve is seen about midway between the two. Sometimes the vein is Branch- Superficial to the artery as on the left side. In this part of its course the vein receives the superior and middle thyroid branches. Differ- Peculiarities.— Some of the followinG: peculiarities of the com- orf^V" carotid may be met with. Its origin on the right side may be above or below the point above stated; or it may be transferred to tbe arch of the aorta, or to the left carotid in the thorax. Men- tion has been made of the difference in the place of bifurcation, and of the fact that, occasionally, the common carotid artery is not divided into two. (See page 65.) in num- Instead of one there may be two trunks issuing from beneath the hyoid muscles, for the common carotid has been found divided in one case after an extent of one inch and a half. As an ex- tremely rare occurrence its usual terminal branches, the external and internal carotids, may arise as distinct arteries from the arch of the aorta. Its Usually the common carotid is without branch, but it may give