119 HYPOGLOSSAL NERVE. The spinal part is much larger, is round and cord-like, spinai and is connected with the smaller piece, whilst it is passing foramen, through the foramen jugulare. Beyond the foramen the nerve takes a backward course in the through the sterno-mastoid muscle, and across the side of the ^^^^'^^^ neck to the trapezius muscle. At first it is somewhat con- J^^p^^ cealed by the jugular vein, but it then passes either over or under that vessel, to take the course above indicated. The connections of the nerve beyond the sterno-mastoideus have been already examined (p. 59.). This nerve furnishes muscular offsets to the sterno-mas- supplies toideus and the trapezius. The HYPOGLOSSAL NERVE (ninth of Willis), after pass- Ninth ing from the cranium by the anterior condyloid foramen, ^^^""^ lies deeply beneath the internal carotid artery and the jugular vein. It then comes forwards between the vein and the artery, turning round the outer side of the vagus, to which it is intimately united. The nerve next descends m crosses the neck, and becomes superficial below the digastric muscle J"^^*^^^ in the anterior triangular space. From this spot the nerve is directed inwards to the tongue and its muscles. The branches of this nerve are furnished to the muscles Branch- on the fore part of the neck, and to the muscular substance with ^ * of the tongue ; but there are also some branches joining it with other nerves near the skull, to be now considered. Connecting hranches. — Near the skull the hypoglossal is con- the va- nected by branches with the vagus nerve, the two being almost in- separably united. Rather lower down the nerve has connectino' offsets with the sympa- . thetic sympathetic, and with the loop of the first two spinal nerves. and spi- nal ; The hranches for distribution to parts around are included and f, , , supplies in the description of the dissections of the neck, submaxillary muscles, region, and tongue. Dissection, — The small rectus capitis lateralis muscle, Dissec- between the transverse process of the a tlas and the base of rectus lateralis, the skull, is now to be more completely cleaned. At its inner border the anterior branch of the first cervical nerve, which joins in the loop of the atlas, is to be found. The RECTUS CAPITIS LATERALIS is a Small thin muscle, Rectus which is the representative of an intertransverse muscle. It arises from the anterior root (parapophysis), and the tip jj^er- 14