411 SCAPULAR VESSELS AND NERVES. * The rhomboideus maior is larger than the preceding by Large „ , . -r^ ' muscle. the width of three or more spinous processes, it arises origin, from the spines of the four or five upper dorsal vertebrae below the rhomboideus minor, and from the supraspinous ligament; and its fibres are directed outwards to be fixed to the base of the scapula between the spine and the lower angle. Sometimes all the fibres do not reach directly the inser- scapula, but some end on a tendinous arch near the bone. These muscles are covered chiefly by the trapezius and the connec- latissimus, but a portion of the larger rhomboid muscle is subcutaneous near the angle of the scapula. The OMO-HYOiD MUSCLE consists of two fleshy bellies, Poste- anterior and posterior, which are united by an intervening beiiy of tendon (p. 67.). Only the posterior half is now seen. The hyoid- muscle arises from the upper border of the scapula, behind ^"^.'^.^ the notch, and from the ligament that converts the notch into a foramen. The fibres form a thin riband-like muscle, and which is directed forwards across the lower part of the neck, natTon. and ends anteriorly in the tendon beneath the sterno-mastoi- deus. The fleshy belly of the muscle is placed partly be- Connec- ^ . tions. neath the trapezius; and is partly superficial m the pos- terior triangular space of the neck, where it lies above the clavicle and the subclavian artery. It lies on the brachial plexus, and, near the scapula, on the suprascapular vessels and nerve. The suprascapular artery is a branch of the subclavian supra- trunk (p. 74.), and is directed almost horizontally outwards artery across the lower part of the neck to the back of the scapula, subcia- The vessel lies behind the clavicle, and courses along that bone, with the suprascapular nerve, but beneath the trapezius and omo-hyoid muscles, to the supraspinal fossa of the sea- ends on pula. Before entering the fossa it furnishes a small branch scapula, (supraacromial) to the upper surface of the acromion. The suprascapular nerve is an offset of the brachial plexus supra- (p. 77.), and is inclined backwards to the superior costa of nerve'^"^ the scapula. It passes through the notch in the superior costa of the bone, and beneath the supraspinatus muscle; its termination in the muscles on the dorsum of the scapula accom- will be seen in the*dissection of the arm (p. 276.). artery. The transverse cervical artery is also a branch of the sub- Trans- , . verse clavian, and has the same direction as the suprascapular cervical ^ artery of