BRANCHES OF INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. 93 Two branches, viz. the inferior dental and middle menin- Those geal, leave the internal maxillary artery, whilst it is in con- jawf^ nection with the ramus of the jaw. 1 The inferior dental branch descends between the internal late- inferior . dental; ral ligament and the jaw, and enters the foramen on the inner surface of the ramus, along with the dental nerve., to supply the teeth. As this artery is about to enter the foramen it furnishes a small ^^l^^^ twio", mylo-hvoid branch, to the muscle of that name; this is con- to myio- 1 . n n ^ 1 • hyoid ducted by a groove on the mner surface of the bone, in company muscle; with a branch from the dental nerve, to the superficial surface of the mylo-hyoid muscle, where it anastomoses with the submental artery. 2. The middle or srreat menins^eal artery is the largest branch. Middle 1 T X Till menin- and arises opposite the preceding one. It ascends beneath the ex- geal ar- ternal pterygoid muscle, crossing the internal lateral ligament, and enters the skull through the foramen spinosum of the sphenoid bone. When in the skull the artery ends in branches which ^^^^y" ascend to the vertex of the head, and supply the bone and the dura mater (p. 17.). Before the meningeal artery enters the but gives, skull, it furnishes the two following small branches. The tympanic branch enters the tympanum through the Glasse- branch rian fissure, and is distributed in that cavity, anastomosing with panum, the other arterial branches of the part. The small meningeal branch arises near the skull, and passes to me- through the foramen ovale with the inferior maxillary nerve; it supplies the dura mater in the middle fossa of the skull. The branches from the second part of the artery, viz. Branch- whilst it is between the muscles, are altoo^ether muscular in second ... ^ part are their destination, and are named temporal, masseteric, buccal, and pterygoid. 1, The deep temporal arteries are two in number (anterior and to the posterior), and each occupies the part of the temporal fossa indi- muscle; cated by its name. They ascend beneath the temporal muscle, and anastomose with the superficial temporal artery. The anterior also communicates, through the malar bone, with branches of the lachrymal artery. When the parent trunk has the unusual posi- tion beneath the pterygoid, the anterior branch is beneath that muscle, instead of over it. 2. The masseteric artery is directed outwards with the nerve of to the the same name behind the tendon of the temporal muscle; andter; passing through the sigmoid notch, enters the under surface of the masseter muscle. Its branches anastomose with the other branches to the muscle from the external carotid trunk.