150 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. men lacerum (basis cranii), and is directed backwards in a groove on the surface of the petrous part of the temporal bone, where it takes the name of large superficial petrosal nerve. Lastly it is con- tinued through the hiatus Fallopii, to join the gangliform enlarge- ment on the facial nerve. Whilst in the temporal bone, the vidian receives a twig from the tympanic nerve. Vidian The vidian nerve may be considered to consist of motor and pound sympathetic fibres in the same sheath, these being combined here nerve. same manner as in the connecting branches between the sympathetic and spinal nerves. Directions. — The student may nov^ direct his attention to the remaining nerves and vessels that are distributed in the nasal cavity. Seek Dissection, — The nasal nerve is to be sought in the nose nerves behind the nasal bone, by gently detaching the lining mem- seis of brane, after having cut off the projecting bone. A branch is given from the nerve to the septum nasi, but probably this and the trunk of the nerve vrill be seen but imperfectly in the present condition of the part. The terminal branches of the internal maxillary artery with its veins in the spheno- maxillary fossa are to be completely traced out. Nasal The nasal nerve (of the ophthalmic) has been already seen in the orbit and skull, and at its termination in the face (p. 47.) ; and the part that connects the two through the lies be- nose is now to be learned. Entering the nasal fossa by an nasal apcrturc at the front of the ethmoid bone, the nerve gives a gives' branch to the membrane of the septum of the nose, and is then continued in a groove behind the os nasi to the lower margin of this bone, where it escapes to the surface of the nose. branch Branches.— The branch to the septum divides into filaments that tum^ ramify on the anterior part of that partition, and reach nearly to the lower border. and to One or two filaments are likewise furnished by the nerve to the wall. mucous membrane of the fore part of the outer wall of the nasal fossa; these extend as low as the inferior spongy bone. B^ranch- Terminal branches of the internal maxillary artery, — internal The brauchcs of the artery in the spheno-maxillary fossa, lary ar- which havc not been hitherto seen, are the following: — tery are . , . superior palatine, naso-palatme, pterygo-palatine, and vi- dian.