TEMPOKO-MAXILLARY ARTICULATION. 91 is attached above to the tubercle at the root of the zygoma, lateral and below to the outer side of the neck of the inferior maxilla. The internal lateral ligament is a long, thin, membranous internal band, which is not in contact with the joint. Superiorly it liga- is connected by a pointed piece to the spinous process of the sphenoid, and the vaginal process of the temporal bone; and inferiorly it is inserted into the orifice of the dental canal in the lower jaw. This ligament lies beneath the ramus of the jaw, between it and the internal pterygoid muscle, and its origin is concealed by the external pterygoid muscle. Be- tween the ligament and the jaw is the internal maxillary artery. Besides these ligaments there are some scattered fibres Capsuie surrounding the articulation, which serve the purpose of a capsular membrane. Dissection. — After the external lateral ligament and the Dissec- capsule of the joint have been removed, an interarticular fibro-cartilage, with a synovial membrane above and below it, will be exposed. The interarticular Jibro-cartilage is adapted to the sur- Fibro- faces of the bones. It is elongated transversely, is thin-iage; ner in the centre than at the margins, and an aperture is sometimes present in the middle. The upper surface fits its form into the glenoid fossa, being concavo-convex from before backwards, and the lower is moulded to the convexity of the condyle of the law. Externally it is connected with the and attach- capsule and the external lateral ligament; and in front the ments. external pterygoid muscle is attached to it. Two synovial membranes are present in the articulation— Two sy- one above, and one below the fibro-cartilage. The lower mem- one is the smaller of the two ; and, besides investing the interior of the capsule, it extends from this to the surface of the jaw. Another structure—the stylo-maxillary ligament — is styio- described as a uniting band to this articulation. This is a i^ry liga- process of the deep cervical fascia, which extends from the styloid process to the hinder part of the ramus of the jaw. The piece of fascia here referred to, gives attachment to the stylo-glossus muscle, and separates the parotid and sub- maxillary glands.