545 STRUCTURE OF THE SPLEEN. ness. Its weight lies between four and ten ounces, and is and rather less in the female than in the male. '''''^^^ Small masses or accessory spleens (splenculi) are often some- found near the fissure of the spleen, in the gastro-splenic ac'^S- omentum, or in the great omentum. Varying in size from spiJens. a bean to a moderate sized plum, these bodies are commonly- one or two in number; but they may be. many more. In one instance they exceeded even a score. Structure.— Enveloping the spleen are two coverings, Two a serous and a fibrous. The mass of the spleen is formed and' by a network of fibrous tissue, which contains in its meshes mSLi- the proper splenic substance, and the Malpighian cor-spleen, puscles. Throughout the whole mass the bloodvessels and the nerves ramify. No duct exists in connection with this organ. 1. The serous or peritoneal coat incases the spleen, cover- serous ing the surface, except at the hilus and the posterior border nefriy of the viscus. It is closely connected to the subjacent fibrous piiTe" coat. 2. The fibrous coat (tunica albuginea) gives strength to Fibrous the organ, and forms a complete case for it. At the fissure Ss on the inner surface, this investment enters the interior of prr'*^' the spleen with the vessels, to which it furnishes sheaths. If an attempt is made to detach this coat, numerous fibrous processes will be seen to be connected with the inner surface. Its colour is whitish; and its structure is made up of con- Fibres nective and elastic tissues. In certain animals some muscular form it. fibres are said to be present in it. Dissection. — The spongy structure will come into view, interior by washing and squeezing a piece of fresh (bullock's) spleen spleen, under water, so as to remove the grumous looking material. The trabecular tissue forms a network through the whole and dis- interior of the spleen, similar to that of a sponge, which is joined on the one hand to the external casing and on the tisJuek other to the sheaths around the vessels. The fibrous pro- cesses are white, flattened or cylindrical, and average from TnlxlZ x^o th to ^Lth of an inch: they consist of fibrous and elastic ture!'"^' tissues. In animals muscular fibres are described as exist- ing in the processes (Kolliker). The interstices between the fibres communicate freely together, and contain the proper substance of the spleen, and the vessels. N N