MEMBRANOUS LABYRINTH. 799 of the vestibule it assists in closing the fenestra rotunda opening into the tympanic cavity. The outer surface of the membrane is adherent to the bone; but the inner is covered has an by a single layer of epithelium, like that on serous mem- fSmLd branes, and secretes a thin serous fluid, liquor Cotunnii, or a fluid perilymph. This fluid in the interior fills the scalae of the cochlea, cochlea, and surrounds the membranous labyrinth. B. The MEMBRANOUS LABYRINTH is constituted of sacs Two sacs containing fluid, over which the auditory nerve is expanded. Autd of The sacs are two in number, viz. the utricle and the saccule, rtnth. and have the general form of the surrounding bony parts; they are confined to the vestibule and the semicircular canals, and are surrounded by the perilymph. Dissection. — The delicate internal parts of the ear, with Dissec- . . - , r^. tion of their vessels and nerves, cannot be dissected except on a them in temporal bone, which has been put in spirit, and afterwards bone, softened in acid. The previous instructions for the dissec- tion of the osseous labyrinth will guide the student to the situation of the membranous structures within it, but the surrounding softened material must be removed with great care. A lens and a microscope will be needed for the com- plete examination of the sacs. For the display of the blood- vessels a minute injection will be necessary. The utricle, or the common sinus, is the larger of the two ^^^^^^. sacs, and is situate at the posterior and upper part of the situation vestibule, opposite the fovea semi-elliptica in the roof It and^ is transversely oval in form, and connected with it posteriorly are three looped tubes, which are prolonged into the semi- circular canals. The sac and its offsets are filled with a contains clear fluid, like water, which is named endolymph ; and in ^^^^^ the wall of the sac is a small calcareous deposit (otolith) and opposite the entrance of the nerve into it. The prolongations into the semicircular canals are smaller Tubes than the osseous tubes, being only one third of their diame- fntoThe ter ; and the interval between the bone and the membrane is Snais^; filled by the perilymph. In form they resemble the bony cases, for they are marked at one end by a dilatation corre- they are spending with the ampulla of the osseous tubes, and, further, means of the small process that Hnes the aqueduct of the vestibule. — JRecherches Anatomiques et Physiologiques.