514 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. duo-^ size, and after giving twigs to the pancreas, extends from left to right along the concavity of the duodenum, and ana- stomoses with the other duodenal branches. Branch- The intestinal branches to the jejunum and the ileum, are small about twelve in number, and pass from the left side of the une!" artery, between the layers of the mesentery, to their desti- Number nation. About two inches from their origin, or sooner, the range-' branches bifurcate, and the resulting branches unite with arches!*^ similar offsets from the collateral arteries so as to form a series of arches. From the convexity of those arches other branches take origin, which divide and unite in the same way. This process is repeated four or five times between the origin and the distribution of the arteries, but at each Distri- branching the size of the vessels diminishes. From the last bution ^ ^ on^the set of archcs, twigs are sent to the intestine ; these pass on both aspects of the tube, and anastomose round it, supplying its structure. ofVa^rg? ^^^^ branches to the large intestine are three in number, g"^- ileo-colic, right colic, and middle colic arteries. iieo-coiic a. The ileo-colic artery arises from the risrht side of the branch . , -, t . -, mesenteric trunk; it descends to the caecum, and divides into branches that encircle the head of the colon, as in the tube of the small intestine. A descending offset is dis- ends on tributcd to the lower part of the ileum, and to the caecum caecum. vcrmiform appendix; whilst an ascending offset supplies the beginning of the ascending colon, and ana- stomoses with the right colic artery. Right b. The right colic artery is commonly an offset of the pre- branch Ceding, instead of a separate branch from the trunk. Its supplies . , . , . ! ascend- coursc IS to the right or ascending colon : near this it \\ ing ... . I colon, divides into an ascending and a descending piece, and ana- | stomoses with the ileo-colic artery on the one side, and the middle colic on the other. This artery gives ramifications to the ascending colon. Middle c. The middle colic branch arises from the upper part of colic , . . . branch the supcrior mesenteric artery, opposite the transverse meso- to?rans- colon. Entering between the layers of that fold of the peri- coion. toneum, the vessel divides into two large diverging branches: — the right branch anastomoses with the artery to the! ascending colon, and the left inosculates on the descending colon with a branch (left colic) of the inferior mesenteric