DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 610 the epigastric artery. There may be more than one branch to the pubes. Its ori- Peculiarities. — The obturator artery may arise at the front of epiga^s^"^ the pelvis, from the epigastric instead of the internal iliac, and turn OTiiiac, down almost vertically to the thyroid aperture. Or, it may arise or from by two roots, one from the epigastric, another from the internal iliac, the roots varying in size in different instances: thus they may be nearly equal in size; that from the internal iliac may be the larger of the two; or that from the epigastric may be the largest. The position of the obturator to the internal crural ring, in the in- stances of its origin from the epigastric, has been before alluded to (p. 498.). From In some bodies, the obturator may be found to take origin from fifac^"^^ the external iliac artery. Fre- An account of the frequency with which these different pecu- of the^ liarities occur, will be found in Mr, Quain's work on the " Ana- oriJnT^ tomy of the Arteries." Suffice it to say here, that the origin from the internal iliac is the most frequent; that from the epigastric next; and the origin from the two sources, or from the external iliac artery, the least frequent. Sciatic 4. The sciatic artery is the next largest branch to the artery , -g (distributed to the buttock, and may be con- sidered the oifset by which the internal iliac artery ter- in the minates. The artery is continued over the pyriformis pelvis, jj^^g^ig ^YiQ sacral plexus to the lower part of the sacro- sciatic notch, where it leaves the pelvis between the pyri- and out- formis and the coccysreus. External to the pelvis it divides side it. into branches beneath the gluteus maximus muscle. In the pelvis it supplies the pyriformis and coccygeus muscles. Pudic 5. The pudic artery supplies the perinasum and the genital fn^he organs, and has nearly the same connections in the pelvis as \ pelvis, the sciatic, from which it often springs. If the artery arises j by a separate trunk from the internal iliac, it accompanies ! the sciatic, though external to it, and leaves the pelvis be- tween the pyriformis and coccygeus. At the back of the pelvis it winds over the ischial spine of the hip bone, and i enters the perinseum. (See p. 458.) Some In the pelvic part of its course the artery gives some offsets, unimportant branches, and frequently the middle haemor- rhoidal branch arises from it. When Peculiarities,—The pudic artery is sometimes smaller than usual, thTn and fails to supply some of its ordinary perinaeal branches, espe- anTcces- ^^^^^7 terminal for the penis. In those cases the deficient