BASE OF THE CEREBRUM. 213 p 3 The tuher cinereum, or the mass of gray matter behind Tuber the optic commissure, forms part of the floor of the third reum ventricle, and is continuous with the gray substance in that cavity. In front of it is the optic nerve, and from its centre projects the following: — The infundibulum (funnel) is a and^in- conically-shaped tube, that reaches to the upper part of the buium. posterior lobe of the pituitary body. In the foetus this tube is open between the third ventricle and the pituitary body, but in the adult it is closed inferiorly. It consists of a layer of gray matter, surrounded by the pia mater, and is lined by the membrane of the third ventricle as far as it is pervious. The pituitary body will be very imperfectly seen when it pitui- has been dislodged from its resting-place: therefore it should body, be sometimes examined in the base of the skull, by removing the surrounding bone. Its use is unknown. This body is situate in the hollow in the centre of the situa- sphenoid bone (the sella Turcica), and consists of two lobes, anterior and posterior. The anterior is the largest, and is hollowed out behind, where it receives the posterior lobe. In the adult this mass is firm and solid in texture, and red- dish in colour; but in the foetus it is hollow, and opens into the third ventricle through the infundibulum. This structure is firm and reddish externally, but softer s^ruc- and yellowish internally. In it are large vesicular nucleated bodies, which are embedded in a granular matrix. Dissection. — To see the lamina cinerea and the anterior Digsec- termination of the corpus callosum, the convolutions of the anterior lobe of the cerebrum may be removed on the left side, where they overlie those parts. The convolution (gyrus fornicatus) in contact with the corpus callosum may be divided, and its ends turned forwards and backwards. The lamina cinerea is a thin layer of gray substance, that Gray extends backwards from the anterior termination of the ^^""'"^ corpus callosum to the tuber cinereum. This stratum closes the anterior part of the third ventricle, and is continuous laterally with the anterior perforated spot. In consequence of its great thinness, this structure is often broken through in removing the brain. The corpus callosum is now seen to be bent in front, and corpus then to be extended horizontally backwards in the longi- ^^^^^^""^ tudinal fissure to a spot within a quarter of an inch of the