657 SUPERFICIAL VESSELS. one set (artery and vein) is directed inwards to the pubes, the su. and named external pudic ; another, superficial epigastric, ^esSsf upwards over Poupart's ligament; and the third, or the superficial circumflex iliac, appears at the outer border of the limb. The large vein in the middle line of the thigh to which the branches converge, is the internal saphenous. Some of the small lymphatic vessels may be traced from one lympha- inguinal gland to another. A small nerve, the ilio-inguinal, is to be sought on the and inner side of the saphenous vein, and close to the pubes; and one of the terminal branches of the genito-crural nerve may be found a little outside the vein. Superficial Vessels. — The small cutaneous arteries at The the top of the thigh are the highest branches of the femoral from the artery, and are furnished by that trunk as soon as it enters the thigh. They pierce the deep fascia of the limb (fascia lata), and 79^^^^ are distributed in the integuments and the fflands of the saphe- . , nous. groin. A vein accompanies each artery, having the sairie name as its companion vessel, and ends in the upper part of the saphenous vein ; but the description of these veins will be given in a subsequent page (659.). The external pudic artery (superior) crosses the spermatic One ex» cord in its course inwards, and ends in the integument of pudic the penis and scrotum, where it anastomoses with offsets q^^^^^^^' the internal pudic artery. Another external pudic branch another . P • • beneath (inferior) pierces the fascia lata at the inner border of the thigh, and ramifies also in the scrotum. In the female these branches supply the labium pudendi. The superficial epigastric artery passes over Poupart's super- ligament to the lower part of the abdomen (p. 469.), and gastric? communicates with branches of the deep epigastric artery. The superficial circumflex iliac artery is the smallest of the three branches; and appearing on the outer border ofi^i^c. the thigh near the iliac crest, is distributed in the integu- ment. The superficial inguinal glands are arranged in two lines ; inguinal one set lies across the thigh, near Poupart's ligament, and two sets, the other along the side of the saphenous vein. In the lower or longitudinal collection the glands are larger than which in the upper, and receive the lymphatic vessels from the different u u