152 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. density of the bone, and the absence of marks on the surface to indicate its position. To render this dissection easier, the student should be provided with a temporal bone, in which the course of the facial nerve and the cavity of the tympanum are displayed. Dissec. Dissection, — The examination of the nerve is to be beffun tion of . " nerve in at the stylo-mastoid foramen, and to be traced inwards from bone, that point. With this view, the side of the skull should be sawn through between the meatus externus and the anterior border of the mastoid process, so as to open the posterior part of the aqueduct of Fallopius. The nerve will then be seen entering deeply into the substance of the temporal bone; and it will be readily followed if the dissector cuts away with the bone forceps all the bone projecting above it. In this last step, the cavity of the tympanum will be more or less opened, and the chain of bones in it laid bare. The nerve is now to be traced onwards along the inner side of the tympanum, till it becomes enlarged, and bends suddenly inwards to the meatus auditorius internus. The surround- ing bone is to be removed from the enlargement on the nerve, so as to trace to it the petrosal nerves ; and then the meatus auditorius is to be laid open, to see the facial and auditory nerves in that hollow, of The course of the chorda tympani nerve (branch of the tympa^. facial) across the tympanum will be seen by the removal of the central ear bone, the incus. The nerve may also be traced through the wall of the cavity behind, as well as out of the cavity in front, and The remaining branches of the facial nerve in the bone branch- are vcry minute, and are not to be seen, unless on a fresh piece of the skull which has been softened in acid. The student may therefore omit all the paragraphs marked with an asterisk, till he is able to obtain a part on which a careful examination can be made. Facial The facial nerve enters the internal auditory meatus with "^^^^ the auditory nerve. It is then received into the aqueduct of winds Fallopius at the bottom of the meatus, and is conducted temporal through the temporal bone to the stylo-mastoid foramen and the face (p. 40.). In its serpentine course through the bone, the nerve is first directed outwards to the inner wall of the tympanum: at that spot it suddenly bends backwards, and