REMARKS ON THE ABOVE CASE. 32 March 8.—The splints were removed for the purpose of exami- nation : the leg was much firmer, but a small portion of integu- ment on the inner side was inflamed and somewhat pushed out. A loose portion of bone can be felt beneath, close to the surface. The leg was again placed on the double incline; the bandages were omitted above and below the seat of the fracture, so far as to allow of the application of dressings ; the thigh was firmly secured to the apparatus by means of the belt belonging to the pullies, and this, by means of its rings, was connected to the bed- stead on either side, the whole apparatus preventing any other than wilful displacement. March 11.—The limb is retained in good position; but a small speck of ulceration is apparent on the inner side of the leg. March 14.—The ulcerated spot on the inside of the leg is nearly healed, and the portion which was lying loose beneath can scarcely be felt. The shape of the leg is good. March 21.—The limb continues in good position and acquires considerable firmness ; the wound on the inside of the leg is quite healed. March 25.—The wounds are quite healed and the limb appears sound, no detached portions of bone being now discoverable; there is, however, a good deal of thickening about the ancle. Several layers of starched bandage were applied. April 7th.—The starched bandage has been retained until now. On its removal the leg was found firm and of good shape, pre- senting very little irregularity of the bone; a simple bandage was applied, and soap liniment ordered to be used night and morning. April 24.—Discharged cured ; she walks well, and is gradually recovering the motions of the ancle joint. REMARKS ON THE ABOVE CASE. Prognosis unfavourable.—The extensive comminution, the age of the patient, and the well-known intemperance of her class, led to an unfavourable opinion as to the result of the case. The prognosis was rendered still more doubtful by her extreme rest- lessness, which made it necessary to have recourse to powerful coercive means. The progress of the case was, however, unex- pectedly favourable, well illustrating the “ vis medicatrix naturse.” Rapib Absorption of Loose Portions of Bone.—An extra- ordinary feature in the case was the rapid absorption of a portion of bone, about an inch in length, which appeared to be on the point of perforating the integuments. As soon as pressure was