CASE OF JOHN BISHOP. 44 as to appear almost accidental, but in both instances, cause and effect were so intimately allied, as to leave their mutual relation beyond the possibility of doubt. Necessity of Statistical Records.—It is much to be wished that such cases as the preceding should be recorded, as a means of affording rational data on which to found our opinions in a matter so important. The consideration of such cases impresses the necessity of using vigilance in the examination of the effects of treatment even of ulcerated legs, which are apt to be but superficially examined by the surgeon, and spurned contemptuously by the student, as cases devoid of interest. CASE XVIII. JOHN BISHOP, set. 24, boatman, Worcester, admitted with- out note, at 12^ p.m., May 5th, 1844, with retention of urine, under the care of Mr. Sands Cox. History of Case.—The patient stated that twelve months since he became a patient of the Worcester Infirmary, in consequence of stricture of the urethra; that an attempt was made to cure him by the topical application of caustic, but that this treatment caused a fistulous opening in the urethra, through which his urine passed for about two months, and has continued to do so at intervals since. He has also at times suffered from retention of urine, which he has generally relieved by gin and water and laudanum. He has now suffered retention of urine since yesterday morning. Present Symptoms.—The bladder is much distended, extend- ing nearly to the umbilicus. He has extreme pain; the pulse is quick and irritable, and the skin hot and dry. Treatment.—An attempt was made to introduce catheters of various sizes, but without success. Under the use of opium pur- gative enemata, leeches to the perineum, and the hot bath, he was speedily relieved, and was discharged on the 9th of the month, at his own request. REMARKS UPON TREATMENT. The treatment adopted in the case, of which the above account gives a brief summary, is that which is invariably pursued in the practice of the Queen’s Hospital, when moderate perseverance has