11EMARKS ON THE FOREGOING CASES. 51 and mobile, and on the patient bringing into action either* the flexors or extensors of the thumb, the base of the phalanx is immediately thrown backwards upon the trapezium, producing a veiy evident tumour upon the back of the car- pus, the thumb being at the same time shortened and drawn slightly over the palm. Crepitation.—There is an indistinct sense of crepitation, such as is produced by the mo- tion of tendons in the thecae, where synovial fluid has been effused. There is some intu- mescence of the joint. Reduction Easy.—The dislocation is most readily reduced and reproduced, causing very little or no pain. Treatment.—A back splint was applied, ex- tending above the wrist, to which the thumb was secured by bandages. Jan. 27.—The patient complained that the splintwas not sufficient to retain the joint in place, for that frequently, on moving the arm, he felt the dislocation recur. Some strips of strength- ening plaister were now placed over the joint, and extending above the wrist, the splint being afterwards applied. Feb. 14.—The use of the plaister was continued until the present time. It was to-day removed, and the joint found to be still unnaturally lax. There is yet a slight prominence of the base of the phalanx. The dressings, as before, were repeated. Feb. 19.—On removing the dressings, the joint was found firm, and its motions perfect. A slight prominence, however, being still perceptible, simple bandaging, with the use of the soap liniment daily, was now ordered. The patient continued hi the hospital for the treatment of hydro- cele, of which he was the subject. REMARKS ON THE FOREGOING CASES. Sir Astley Cooper does not mention this Dislocation.— fn Sir Astley Cooper’s work on Dislocations and Fractures of the Joints, he writes, under the head of “ Dislocation of the Metacar- pal Bone from the Trapezium,”—“ In cases which 1 have seen of this accident, the metacarpal bone lias been thrown inwards, be- * See “ Effects o ' Muscular Action,” p. 14.