REMARKS ON THE ABOVE CASE. 59 Sept. 17.—The granulations look rather flabby. No pulsation can be felt along the whole course of the radial artery. The wound was dressed with lint soaked in a solution of sulphate of zinc, con- taining one grain to the ounce of water, covered with oiled silk and a bandage. It progressed favorably, and on the 25th of Sep- tember the patient was discharged cured. Sept. 30.—The patient attended this morning. There is no pul- sation perceptible along the course of the radial artery, above the ligatured part; below the late site of the sac, however, a faint beating is felt under the finger. REMARKS ON THE ABOVE CASE. Cause of the Formation of Aneurism.—The history of the case leads to the conclusion, that the radial artery -was wounded by the knife which was the cause of the accident. The probability is that the wound of the artery was closed by a coagulum, formed during the temporary state of syncope resulting from loss of blood, and that this sufficed to prevent further hemorrhage, as long as the arm was rested; that by the use which it was subjected to on the 30th of August, the arterial circulation was rendered more energetic, and that the augmented impulse of the arterial current displaced the coagulum, when hemorrhage neces- sarily followed. The cellular tissue around thus became infiltrated and a false aneurism formed. Matico was used experimentally, to test its styptic powers, a bandage only being moderately but firmly applied in addition, and a raised posture observed. As far as the trial extended, it was certainly successful. Operation.—With respect to the operation and its result. Pulsation in the tumour instantly ceased on the tightening of the ligature above it, therefore it was that none was placed below, and that compression alone was trusted to. There was once after the operation a disposition to hemorrhage, which was restrained by increasing for a tune the pressure exercised by the tourniquet upon the brachial artery. After this, no unpleasant symptom occurred. Sloughing of the sac of an aneurism, after ligature of the artery supplying it, does not usually take place. In the pre- sent instance, however, this may be readily accounted for by its recent formation, and consequently deficient organization and disposition to ulceration, evinced by repeated hemorrhage, and lividity of the integument covering it. Obliteration of the Radial Artery.—That the artery above the ligature should become obliterated, even to its origin, may be explained by the small calibre of the branches situated interme- diately between these two points. The inosculations between the