case ok John Thompson. •2-1 little finger. There is some oedema of the ulnar dorsal aspect of the hand. 1 he brachial artery, in its course down the upper arm, is very superficial, until it pierces the semilunar fascia, beneath which it dips, just above the joint. It feels under the finger like a cord, its coats appearing to be thickened; its course is extremely tor- tuous; at the. joint it may be felt deeply pulsating beneath the semilunar facia on the inner side of the tendon of the biceps muscle,, which separates it from the tumour. The radial artery, almost immediately below the joint, becomes superficial and tor- tuous, pulsating and thrilling strongly. Cardiac Symptoms.—He states that he has been occasionally subject to palpitation and shortness of breath, which sometimes kept him awake at nights; but he thought that indigestion, from which he suffers greatly, was the cause of these inconveniences. He can- not lie in bed without his head being much raised. On percussing the cardiac region, dulness is found to extend from the third to below the sixth rib; the integument covering the space between which and the seventh is distinctly raised at each pulsation. Dul- ness also extends to the right of the sternum. Auscultation.—Auscultation discovers a distinct bruit with the first sound, most perceptible at the base of the heart. The head, resting on the stethoscope, applied to the chest, is slowly but much raised by the heart’s impulse. The pulse is strong, and of large volume, much protracted, and accompanied by a distinct vibration. The countenance is somewhat expressive of anxiety, sallow, and occasionally inclined to lividity; the lips constantly possess a livid tinge. Ordinary diet. He was ordered calomel, four grains ; compound rhubarb pill, four grains : two pills to be taken at bed time. Two ounces of the ward mixture every morning. Feb. 24.—From this date to the 24th he merely took an occa- sional purgative dose ; but on this day he complained of a violent throbbing pain in the head, increased by the recumbent posture, with tinnitus aurium and depression of spirits. Bowels rather confined; pulse full and incompressible. He was ordered potas- sio-tartrate of antimony, one grain and a half; spirits of nitric tether, tincture of hyocyamus, of each two drachms; water, eight ounces: one ounce to be taken every six hours. Calomel and rhubarb pills to be repeated. Feb. 25.—Much better; pain of the head gone; pulse more moderate. To continue the mixture. Operation.—March 1.—On this day the tumour was removed by operation.*. An incision was made longitudinally over the tumour, of about an inch and a half in extent, through the integu- ments, thus exposing the fascia; this was next divided, and the tumour came into view. The brachial artery being now held aside, the tumour was carefully dissected out. A small jet of arterial * The arm being laid supine upon a table