REMARKS ON THE ABOVE CASE. Feb. 15.—The dressings being loose, were replaced; he has had no pain, and there is but slight swelling. Feb. 19. Perfectly comfortable; bandages reapplied. Feb. 23.—Going on well. Feb. 26.—The ulna can now be traced throughout, and the broken ends appear to be tolerably firmly united ; the appearance of the forearm is perfectly natural. A starched bandage was applied. March 4.—Bandage changed; the position good, and strength increased. March 17.—The patient again appeared at the Hospital. He has been, contrary to orders, working at his trade, and the uhia is much bowed, the convexity looking backwards, the concavity forwards. There is no protrusion of the interosseous muscles. The forearm was again put up with splints. March 21.—Deformity diminished; treatment continued. The patient did not appear again. REMARKS ON THE ABOVE CASE. Fracture of the Ulna generally dependent on the appli- cation of Direct Force.—Fracture of the ulna only, almost in- variably, as it was in this case, is the result of the application of direct violence to the fractured part. Characteristic Symptoms.—The increased posterior dia- meter, and some degree of diminution of the lateral diameter, are highly characteristic of this injury. These depend upon the contraction of the “pronator quadratus,” drawing outwards the lower portion of the ulna, which diminishes the space between the radius and ulna, and of course causes protrusion of the muscles lying therein, both anteriorly and posteriorly. The upper portion of the fractured bone is retained in its natural position by the bra- cliialis anticus. Position, Semi-prone generally used ;—Supine Posture, its Applicability.—The position generally recommended for the treatment of this fracture is the semi-prone ; but the supine posture appears equally admissible. Care is only re- quired, to prevent the approximation of the bones inferiorly, by well compressing, before and behind, the interosseous muscles. In one respect it appeal’s more efficacious than even the semi-prone, position, inasmuch as in the latter, the radius having lost its prin- cipal support, the ulna, in consequence of its fracture, is de- pressed and drawn towards that bone by the weight of the hand; while this inconvenience is certainly remedied by the supine position, which was successfully adopted in the present instance.