40 CASE OF HENRY CROOK. him under more strict surveillance. He was ordered broth diet and a blister behind the left ear. March 7.—A blister at the back of the neck. March 9.—The blister rose well; opacity diminished. March 11.—Can discern minute objects clearly. On the inside of the lower lid is a small, vascular, warty-looking tumour, of about the size of a swan-shot, attached to the mucous membrane bv a narrow pedicle ; this was removed by a ligature. March 16.—Opacity of cornea much diminished; pupil of the left, still much larger than that of the right eye, with some, though very slight, irregularity of the pupillary margin. March 20.—Vision perfectly natural; corneal opacity gone; little or no irregularity of iris, but the left pupil still comparatively much larger than the right. Discharged cured. REMARKS ON THE PRECEDING CASE. Unusual Nature of the Accident.—Laceration of the iris, or rather its rupture, would seem to be of unusual occurrence, with- out simultaneous laceration of the superjacent parts. In the case herein detailed, a corresponding wound of the lower eyelid Avas perceptible, but not the slightest trace of injury to the cornea. The chasm produced Avas gradually filled up by the deposition of new matter; but at the time of his dismissal, the pupil of the injured organ was considerably larger than its fellow. Double Vision—Probable Dependence.—Double vision, too, was an unfrequent and apparently formidable symptom. It Avas evidently not the result of concussion, or it Avould have been earlier complained of. From its temporary character it Avould rather appear to have depended upon transitory congestion, or inflammation of the retina. —♦— CASE XVI. HENRY CROOK, get. 9, pin-maker. Bow-street, Avas admit- ted as a casualty, Jan. 18, 1844, Avith phlegmonous erysipelas, following puncture, under the care of Mr. Sands Cox. Jan. 19.—On a post mortem examination of the body of this child, who (admitted Avhen in articulo mortis) died in twelve hours after admission, the folloAving appearances were observed, viz.:— cellular tissue of right arm and forearm much infiltrated Avith