20 REMARKS ON THE FOREGOING CASE. Feb. 2.—A rapid improvement again took place; and the eyes became perfectly clear. Feb. 5.—The use of the mercury was persisted in until this day, and it was now discontinued. The pupils are rather unnaturally di- lated, but regular, a narrow yellowish-brown belt surrounding them; they answer perfectly to light; the sight is stated to be as good as ever; and exposure to the atmosphere produces no uneasiness. The cervical glands of the right side are still much enlarged. He was ordered iodide of potass, one drachm; camphor mixture, eight ounces: one ounce to be taken three times a day. The ointment of iodide of potassium to be rubbed on the' neck night and morning. Two ounces of ward mixture occasionally. Feb. 7.—Discharged. Feb. 22.—He attended the Hospital. The eyes are' perfectly clear; the glandular enlargements have disappeared. N.B.—A green shade to protect the eyes has been worn throughout. REMARKS ON THE FOREGOING CASE. Opinions as to whether Iritis may be a result of Sy- philis or not.—“Syphilitic Iritis,” says Copland,* “is perhaps the most common variety of this disease.” Wardropf states that the iris is more liable to syphilitic inflammation than any other part of the eye. Gregory writes, f—“For the most part, syphilitic ophthalmia assumes the form of inflammation of the iris.” In Hooper’s Medical Dictionary § we find,—“It has been supposed by some that this peculiar variety of iritis is caused, not by syphilis, but by the mercuiy used for the cure of that disease; but this idea is now known to be incorrect, as syphilitic iritis has been observed in many cases where no mercury has been taken.” On the other hand, Sir A. Cooper writes,||—“I have never met with a case of iritis after syphilis, but where mercuiy had been pre- viously given, and therefore I cannot say whether the inflammation of the his has been the effect of the mercury, or of the original disease for which it was given.” Liston does not venture an opi- nion, he only says,**—“Iritis often occurs during the exhibition of mercury in undue quantities, and is said also to be a symptom of syphilitic taint.” Dr. Graves, in his Clinical Medicine, says,f f —“You are all aware that persons who have taken mercury for * Dictionary of Practical Medicine; part 3, p. 874. + Wardrop’s Essays on the Morbid Anatomy of the Eye; vol. ii. p. 30. $ Elements of Theory and Practice of Medicine, p. 736. § Under the head of “ Ophthalmia," p. 961. II Lectures on the Principles and Practice of Surgery, p. 266. ** Liston's Elements of Surgery, p. 313. ++ Graves's Clinical Medicine, p. 066.