REMARKS ON THE PRECEDING CASE. 53 Reduction.—The patient being placed on the margin of the bed on his right side, and the pelvis being firmly fixed by means of a roller towel, and the leg being flexed upon the thigh, and the thigh upon the pelvis, extension was made by an assistant below the knee,* whilst the femur being firmly grasped above, the knee was simultaneously depressed and rotated inwards. After ex- tension had been kept up for about five minutes in the manner above described, the thigh was suddenly rotated outwards, and the joint was found to have recovered its natural motions, and the limb its natural shape and length. The pain entirely ceased. Though the patient stated himself to have felt the bone return to its place, no noise was perceptible, as usual, to the assistants and students present. After-treatment.—After the reduction, extension was kept up by means of MTntyre’s splint; but being productive of much pain, this was removed, and perfect rest enjoined. Result of Case.—The patient was discharged at the end of a month; the motions of the joint were perfect; he could stand perfectly upright, the limbs being of equal length ; and he felt no pain nor inconvenience in walking. REMARKS ON THE PRECEDING CASE. Symptoms Indicative of Dislocation of the Hip.—The inability to place the foot to the ground, and the impaired mobi- lity of the hip joint immediately succeeding the application of direct force, together with the deformity and absence of crepitus, were highly diagnostic of dislocation. Symptoms Peculiar to Dislocation into the Sciatic Notch.—The nature of the deformity; pain along the course of the sciatic nerve; and lastly, but most surely, the discovery of the head of the femur in the sciatic notch were certainly characteristic of this species of dislocation. Simplicity of the Means Employed for Reduction.—The simple means practised for the purpose of effecting reduction in the above case, were employed experimentally and with little idea of success. A case is recorded hi the Provincial Medical Journal, for Dec. 9, 1843, in which the same mode of treatment was effectually applied to the reduction of a dislocation on the “ dorsum ilii.” Of the practice here adopted, Fergusson writes—“Then by using the femur as a lever, and moving the limb in all directions, the reduc- tion, during some fortunate chance, is accomplished.”—Fergusson’s Practical Surgery, p. 276. * Extension was made across the middle of the other thigh. Beyond this point the left thigh could not be raised. H