CAS 15 OF JOHN THOMPSON. 26 March 4; mane.—The head-ache is less; pain of arm entirely gone; bowels open; heart’s action more moderate. 4 p.m. : '1 he arm above the incision is hot, tense and painful; there is also great tenderness of the upper arm and axilla; the tongue is covered with white fur; pulse 128, easily compressible. The patient comjdains of great debility, and has experienced seve- ral times a sensation of chilliness. He was ordered Calomel, twelve grains; extract of hemlock, nine grains : to make six pills, one to be taken every three hours. Citric acid, 3 iss; water, eight ounces: one ounce to be taken with one ounce of the following mixture, in a state of effervescence, after each dose of the pills:—Sesquicarbo- nate of soda, two drachms and a half; water, eight ounces. Twelve leeches to be applied to the arm and armpit. March 5.—Extreme debility and anxiety of countenance; bowels open, secretions healthy; the fur on the tongue has acquired a brownish tinge ; pulse 130, weak. On examining the arm, the veins generally appear much distended, the upper arm is much swollen, and there is an inflammatory blush extending up its inner side. On exposing the wound, its edges offer a flabby, unhealthy appearance, and on pressing upwards, along the course of the veins of the forearm, a sanious discharge issues therefrom. The leeches bled well last evening and afforded temporary relief, but the ten- sion and pain of the upper arm and axilla are again urgent. A lin- seed poultice to be applied. To continue the effervescing mix- tures, and to omit the pills. Vespere : The arm somewhat less painful; pulse improved; tongue still much furred and dry; skin hot and dry; some flatulence and pain of the bowels. To take immediately castor oil and peppermint water, of each half an ounce; to continue the effervescing mixture. March 6 ; mane.—The bowels have been thrice open, affording relief; the arm is less swollen and not so painful; pulse rather fuller; countenance improved. 3 p.m.: Arm as at last report; griping pain in the bowels, but no tenderness upon pressure. To add to each dose of the effervescing mixture twenty minims of tincture of henbane. 10 p.m.: An evident improvement; coun- tenance less anxious ; pulse firmer and less frequent; tongue less furred and moist at the edges ; skin still rather hot, but possessing a slight moisture ; pain and tension of arm diminished; griping pain of bowels gone. March 7; 9 a.m.—Feels much better this morning; the tongue is much cleaner, with moist edges; swelling of arm dimi- nished, but redness is still perceived up its inner side; axilla quite free; some reddish purulent discharge issued from the wound. 10 p.m.: Still improves; complains only of “shivering* pain * An inquiry hud been made in the morning if he had had shivering, and the reply was in the negutive.