45 CASE OF JOHN LANE. failed to pass the catheter, which, when much resistance to its pas- sage is offered, even if successful at the time, increases the liability to future attacks. Liston, however, in his “ Elements of Surgery,” deprecates this treatment. He writes thus:—“ The system may be drained of blood, and the body parboiled, without the patient being relieved.” And further :—“ By gentle insinuation, and per- severance in moderate pressure, properly directed, the obstacle can always be overcome, and that without the infliction of any injury to the parts. It may here be observed, that I have never yet been foiled in passing the catheter, though very many severe and diffi- cult cases have fallen to my lot.” This paragraph but badly ac- cords with one contained in the next page, viz.—“Yet circum- stances may soon occur to me, in which the introduction of an instrument along the urethra shall be impossible; he who pretends to invariable success must be either a knave or a fool.” The discrepancy of the above statements is manifest; it would have been well if the former, with respect to the universal possibility of passing the catheter, had been omitted, as its ten- dency is certainly such as to incite young practitioners to a dan- gerous perseverance in their attempts, when palliative remedies would have sufficed, without leading to unpleasant results. CASE XIX. JOHN LANE, eet. 21, brickmaker, Deritend, was admitted February 29tli, 1844, with orchitis epididymitis, under the care of Mr. Sands Cox. Patient’s Statement—Its Untruth.—Feb. 29.—He states that he has taken cold, which has settled in his testes. He denies having, or having had, any urethral discharge. Upon compressing the urethra, however, some yellowish-white matter issued from its orifice ; and upon a closer cross-examination, the patient admitted that he had contracted gonorrhoea about a fortnight since, and had been under treatment of a druggist up to the present time. About three days since, the discharge still continuing, he was directed to use an injection, which almost instantly restrained the discharge, but on the following morning the testes began to swell. Micturition is painful. Appearances and Symptoms.—The testes and epidymis of either, but especially of the right side, are much enlarged; the scrotum is swollen, tense, and red, and extremely tender to the touch ; its veins also are much enlarged and distended. The a