CASE OF JOHN THOMPSON. 23 ding. Wine and ammonia were administered at short intervals, but he gradually sunk, and expired at 6.50 the same evening. Autopsy.—On a post mortem examination, all the cavities of the heart were found to contain black fluid blood; the aortic valves and parietes were of a beautiful roseate tint; the lungs, poste- riorly, were much congested; the large veins generally were un- usually empty. The pneumo-gastric nerves were carefully traced, but no lesion detected.* —♦— CASE VIII. JOHN THOMPSON, ret. 39, jeweller, admitted for operation, February 14th, 1844, with a fatty tumour at the bend of the elbow, under the care of Mr. Sands Cox. History of the Case—Patient’s Statement.—Feb. 14.— Two years back he first discovered a small tumour, of the size of a horse bean in the bend of the elbow of the right arm. It was not productive of either pain or inconvenience until August last, in which month he struck his arm against a wheel-barrow. The blow caused much pain down the outer side of the forearm, and swel- ling of the hand ; since then the tumour has gradually increased. Present Appearances.—There is now apparent a small elastic tumour, f about the size of a cob-nut, ly- ing beneath the integuments in the trian- gular space between the median cephalic and median basilic veins. It is readily mo- bile from side to side, and this motion pro- duces no pain ; neither does pressing to- gether the sides of the tumour; but direct pressure over it causes a sharp twin- ging pain down the radial side of the forearm as far as the wrist. Neither moderate extension, flexion, nor rota- tion of the joint, produces inconve- nience ; but continued flexion and ex- tension cause pain down the outer side of the forearm. He does not complain of numbness of any portion of the hand or forearm; but cannot fully extend the * In five cases of death from burns, the post mortem appearances of which have been carefully noted, no lesion of the pneumo-gastric nerves has been perceptible. The brain has been universally congested ; in three cases the venous system generally has been con- gested ; in one the veins have been unusually empty. + The etching will convey a tolerably accurate idea of the situation of the tumour, with the relative position of the brachial artery.