REMARKS ON CASE OF ELIZABETH L>. 7 REMARKS ON THE ABOVE CASE. Symptoms.—Of this case, as generally happens, irregular men- struation was the first symptom. The pallid countenance and blanched lips, with palpitation and cedematus tendency here pre- sent, were strongly characteristic of hemorrhage long continued ; as also were the constant head-ache and “ hammering” sound, by Dr. Marshall Hall particularly noticed as diagnostic of anaemia, the result of hemorrhage. Absence of usual Symptoms.—The usual concomitant of the presence of polypus uteri, viz., a painful dragging sensation in the uterine region, was here wanting. Species of Ligature.—The ligature used (i. e. common unbleached whip-cord) has been strongly recommended by Mr. Wahie, on account of its increasing in thickness and diminishing in length when moistened; thus, instead of becoming loose after its application, gradually increasing the power of its grasp upon the tumour. Absence of Hemorrhage and Pain after Operation.— No hemorrhage, as is usually the case, occurred after the operation, and no inconvenience, further than mechanical, resulted from it. The absence of pain, after the tightening of the ligature, proved that none of the uterine fibres were included therein. Time of Separation.—The separation of a polypus from the uterus, after being ligatured, is stated by Churchill to occur from six days to three weeks. In this instance it took place on the fifth day, which may probably be referred to the size of the pedicle, which was in both instances small. Mode of Expulsion.—The canula fell loose in the vagina, and the polypus required manual extraction. This is the usual course of events. Occurrence of Menstruation.—Menstruation, it will be seen, occurred naturally on the 16th day after the separation of the tumour, and lasted three days. Progress of the Case.—The progress of the case after the operation was most satisfactory ; no bad symptom occurred, and, considering the length of time during which the patient had suf- ficed from hemorrhage, a speedy convalescence was the result. This, though a general, is by no means an invariable result. Sometimes Fatal.—Cases of death, from irritation and fever, after this operation are on record. Dupuytren* met with eight or ten fatal cases, presenting all the symptoms which arise from the absorption of pus into the system. * Churchill on the Principal Diseases of Females.