56 REMARKS ON THE PRECEDING CASE. could be effected. On the 6tli of June he was supplied with an instrument so constructed as to keep the patella in situ, or as nearly so as possible. This instrument, made of leather, was strengthened by a longitudinal bar of iron, posteriorly connected with which was a spring, allowing of the heel being sufficiently raised to enable it to clear the ground: with the assistance of this instrument he walks with tolerable ease. Sept. 27.—The patient states that his knee gets stronger, and that he can walk longer distances. The patella is found, though still veiy mobile, to be less so than formerly. Though the rough extremity of the lower portion of the ruptured ligament can still be distinctly felt, yet there is an increased power of extending the leg; and during extension, between the divided portions of the ligament, can be clearly detected by the finger, a membrane, becoming more tense as the process of extending the leg is con- tinued. REMARKS ON THE PRECEDING CASE. Cause of the Accident.—The cause of Reeve’s accident was doubtless to be attributed to violent contraction of the rectus muscle, in the attempt of the patient to save himself from falling, though more frequently the patella is thus fractured transversely. It seems that for two or three days after his accident. Reeves was able to walk, but it was with difficulty that he did so. Inflamma- tion then came on, with swelling, which, coupled with the fact that progression had been performed after the accident, most pro- bably prevented an accurate diagnosis. Treatment.—When the man became a Hospital patient, (as soon as the oedema was got rid of,) the patella was dislocated from its semi-naturalized locality, and prevented from returning as much as possible, but no adhesive process was established. An instrument was then devised, which retained the parts nearly in apposition, allowing only a slight degree of flexion, to admit of the heel being raised. This he has continued to wear, and a pro- cess of thickening of the parts covering the joint is gradually taking place, though still the ruptured ends of the ligament are distinct. The power of extension is, however, increased.