52 CASE OF JOHN HEMMING. CASE XXIII. JOHN HEMMING, set. 31, labourer, Selly Oak, was admitted, without note, July 27, 1844, with dislocation of femur, (into is- chiatic notch), under the care of Mr. Sands Cox. Admission.—The patient was brought to the Hospital, from Selly Oak, in a cart, and admitted about a quarter to twelve p.m. As he moved across the hall, supported by a man on either side, it was observed that his left foot was dragged along, the toes touch- ing the ground, and the heel raised therefrom, the knee being somewhat flexed; the foot was pointed forwards, with a very slight inclination outwards. History of the Case.—He states that about six p.m. the same day he fell from a plank into a canal boat, the force of the fall being principally centered upon the left hip, but he cannot tell in what position the thigh was placed with respect to the pelvis ; that he was unable to rise, and after being raised, that he was un- able to put his foot to the ground; that, immediately upon the occurrence of the accident, he felt severe pain in the hip-joint, and along the outer and posterior part of the leg. When stripped and laid on his back in bed, the appearances presented by the left in- ferior extremity were as follow; viz :— Appearance of the Limb.—The heel was raised about an inch above its fellow; the inner side of the great toe rested against that of the right foot, below which its distal extremity' proceeded; the knee was somewhat advanced, and, with the foot, had a slight inclination inwards; the anterior and upper part of the thigh was flattened, the prominence of the trochanter major being situated more posteriorly than natural, and anteriorly to this was an ab- normal depression. Evidences of the Dislocation Ascertainable by Manual Examination.—By measure, the trochanter was found to be ap- proximated to the extent of half an inch to the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, placed more posteriorly than that of the right side. Lying deep in the ischiatic notch, the head of the bone could be felt, which by rotating the thigh inwards, was ren- dered more perceptible. The limb admitted of very little rotatory motion, either outwards or inwards. It could not be extended, and flexion upon the pelvis was much limited. The patient, though of hardy appearance and conformation, was thin. His pulse was weak, and he complained of feeling feeble, probably from pain, which he stated to have been excessive.