14 CASE OF PETER CURTIS. Avas immediately restored to its natural position by eAren gentle traction. Effect of Muscular Action.—The attempts of the patient, either to flex or extend the thumb again, instantly dislodged it. 1 here was no crepitation. Treatment.—Gentle extension being kept up, the joint was retamed in situ by means of strips of emplastrum roborans, and firmly bandaging the forearm afterwards. The man was directed to come to the Hospital on the following morning, but ne\'er ap- peared again. —-♦— CASE IV. PETER CURTIS, policeman, aet. 26, was admitted Jan. 25th, 1844, with dislocation (backAvards) of the thumb, under the care of Mr. Sands Cox. History of Case given by the Patient, who is of leuco- phlegmatic temperament, with a strumous tendency. Jan. 25.—He stated that on Saturday last, Jan. 20th, he fell on the back part of the thumb of the right hand, the thumb being at the time flexed upon the palm of the hand. Great swelling of the neighbouring parts immediately foIloAved. He applied for advice at the General Hospital. The swelling, however, was so great, that the nature of the injury could not then be ascertained, and he was directed to use poultices and fomentations. On the following Tuesday, the swel- ling having subsided, the house surgeon informed him that the thumb Avas dislocated, and reduced it, securing it with splints. Afpearances now present.—The articulation between the trapezium and first phalanx* of the thumb is excessively loose Bell’s Anatomy and Physiology of the Human Body, p. 98, -we find—“The first bone of the thumb resembles the metacarpal bones in size and strength, but it differs widely in being set upon the carpus with a large strong head; in being set off from the line of the fingers, standing out on one side, and directly opposed to them. It rolls widely and freely : it is opposed to the other fingers on grasping, and, from its very superior strength, the thumb is named pollex, from pollere ; and the peculiar shape of the articu- lating extremities, and the lateral processes or condyles, are, as it were, better characterised than in the bones of the fingers ” So Bransby Cooper says, in his edition of Sir A. Cooper's work:—“ It is quite unanatomical to consider the first bone of the thumb as a metacarpal bone, as in every respect it resembles a phalanx. The muscles which are inserted move the thumb upon the os trapezium, instead of the wrist joint, as all the muscles inserted into the metacarpus are destined to do; and the very distribution of the blood-vessels to the thumb is similar in arrangement to the blood-vessels of the phalanges ; so that, whether anatomically or physiologically considered, it must be maintained that the thumb is devoid of a metacarpal bone. The very circumstance of a dislocation of this bone occurring, is a further proof of the propriety of its being considered as a phalanx, rather than .as one of the metacarpal bones, which are scarcely obnoxious to this accident." * See notes in last case.