39 CASE OF JOHN BLUNT. there was no discolouration of the skin. At the margin of the lower lid, and at the junction of the middle and inner third, was a small triangular laceration, from which a trifling hemorrhage oc- curred. Some punctures were made with the point of a lancet into the swollen parts, from which issued some bloody serum, and air; the lids could now be a little separated, and considerable che- mosis was visible. He was ordered low diet; and compound colo- cynth pill, six grains, with calomel, two grains, to be taken directly. Two ounces of aperient mixture eveiy two hours. The eye to be covered with a poultice. Feb. 15.—The distension of the eyelids much diminished ; con- siderable chemosis ; much pain in the eyeball complained of, but no frontal pain nor head-ache ; pupil much dilated, and at the inferior and inner margin, a laceration of the iris, with no corres- ponding wound of the cornea, of which there is, however, some general opacity; bowels open. Eight leeches to be applied. He was ordered four grains of calomel, to be taken directly. A lotion of dilute diacetate of lead to be applied. Feb. 16.—Inflammation much lessened ; cannot raise the upper eyelid ; vision tolerably perfect; pu- pil still much dilated; no increased deposit of lymph ; bowels confined ; tongue clean and moist. Feb. 18.—Still slight conjuncti- vitis ; no pain; vision perfect; pu- pil still excessively dilated; bowels open. To continue the lotion. Feb. 20.—The pupil somewhat more contracted, and the rent of the iris less perceptible ; still some conjunctival inflammation and opacity of cornea; bowels confined. Ordered to continue the lotion and repeat the powder. Blister behind the left ear; to be kept open with savine ointment. Feb. 23.—Vision natural with either eye singly; but on looking at any object with both simultaneously, it appeal's double. He has now no pain, and the appearance of inflammation has much decreased; laceration of iris diminishes; pupil smaller, and answers slightly to light. To continue the medicine. Feb. 27.—Double vision still complained of; but the appear- ance of the eye improves. March 1.—Pupil more contracted, and answers well to light. The irregularity of the iris is now but little perceived; but its pupillary margin, especially at the lower and inner portion, is somewhat inverted. The sight is now natural. To continue the medicines. March 5.—Vision tolerably perfect and inflammation apparently subdued; but as some opacity of the cornea remained, it was considered ’advisable to bring him into the Hospital, so as to have