CASE OF NICHOLAS IlEEVES. 54 Anatomical Examination Shows the Rationality of the Above Means of Reduction.—The examination of the relative situations of the head of the femur and the pelvis in this dislo- cation, will show the reasonable nature of the mode of treatment detailed in the above case. By depressing the distal extremity of the shaft of the femur, and making the other thigh a fulcrum on which this may exert its leverage, the head of the bone is thrown outwards ; and this direction of the head is still further increased by the simultaneous rotation of the thigh inwards, and by extension at the knee. By these means it is at length brought to the outer margin of the acetabulum. Extension being still maintained, and the limb rotated outwards, the trochanter is directed towards the outer part of the limb, and the head of the bone towards the cotyloid cavity, into which it is drawn by the rotator muscles of the joint. Although it is not intended to be stated that all dislo- cations of the hip are capable of being reduced by the simple means above recorded, yet, from the facility with which it was accomplished in the present case, it seems not very improbable that in most cases it would succeed. CASE XXIV. NICHOLAS REEVES, eet. 50, No. 87, Batli-row, was admit- ted as an out patient, Feb. 13, 1844, with dislocation of the patella upwards, under the care of Mr. Sands Cox. History of the Case.—Feb 13.—The patient states that two years since, whilst suddenly turning round, he struck his knee against the corner of a chair, and he instantly fainted and fell. For the next two or three days he was able to walk, but motion of the joint produced extreme pain. Inflammation and swelling of the 'knee now came on, and he was obliged to take to his bed. He now called in a surgeon, who enjoined perfect rest, and ordered leeches, followed by cold lotions, and, after a time, prescribed repeated blistering; but his knee continued in such a state as to prohibit walking. He was now attended by the surgeon of his club, who, the patient states, treated the knee by cupping at inter- vals, and afterwards directed him to have daily recourse to walking exercise, as he wished to avoid a stiff joint; he accordingly used to walk daily, although the practice was productive of intense pain. On the 4th of February he was supplied with an instrument to strengthen the knee, and at the same time allow of motion of the joint. The leg now commenced swelling, and has continued swollen and painful ever since.