CASE OF ANN VAUGHAN. 57 CASE XXV. ANN VAUGHAN, eet. 34, housewife, was admitted August 30, 1844, at 6 p.m., with aneurism of the radial artery, under the care of Mr. Sands Cox. History of the Case.—On Tuesday week last,- this patient came to the Hospital, having received an accidental wound from a caning knife. On examination, about an inch above the wrist johit, a transverse wound, on the anterior and outer part of the forearm, about an inch in length, and extending across the course of the radial artery, appeared; there was extensive hemorrhage, the blood being florid, but not ejected “ per salturn,” and it was easily restrained by pressure. Upon sponging the wound, the fascia was seen to be divided, exposing the muscles beneath, which were not apparently injured. Treatment.—The edges of the wound were brought together by two sutures, and by intermediate longitudinal strips of plaister secured above and below by transverse strips; a compress of lint was then placed over the wound, and the forearm firmly bandaged. Towards the close of the dressing the patient became faint; a draught containing ammonia was administered, and she was laid upon a bed in the lower ward. She soon revived, and in the course of the afternoon, as there was no symptom of hemorrhage, she was allowed to leave. Since then she has attended daily. The wound healed by the “ first intentand this morning a mere speck remained ununited in the centre, no hemorrhage having occurred since her first appearance at the Hospital. This after- noon she was brought to the Hospital in a car, faint and covered with blood. She states that this morning, having used the affected arm in her household duties, she “felt jumping pain all up it,” but more particularly about the wound. Just before her admission hemorrhage suddenly came on, and continued until a gentleman tied a handkerchief tightly around her arm above the elbow. Appearances and Symptoms.—Upon removing the dressings, a swelling of the size of a small walnut was seen to occupy the site of the original wound. Pulsation was, visibly and dis- tinctly perceptible hi it. The integument covering the tumour was of a livid colour; the cicatrix appeared to have been ruptured, but there was no hemorrhage. Some moistened “ matico ” leaves were placed over the tumour and the forearm bandaged, without placing a pad over the course of the radial artery; hemorrhage did not recur during the day. The patient had been placed in bed with the arm raised.