REMARKS ON THE PRECEDING CASE. 51 toms; bowels regular; urine still scanty. To add to the creosote mixture one grain of acetate of morphia: to be taken as before. March 18.—The epigastric pain and nausea are relieved, and occur now only by night. There is now a copious flow of limpid urine. No fresh collection of fluid within the tunica vaginalis of either side. March 27.—He was discharged to-day, cured of his hydrocele ; the gastric symptoms too were somewhat alleviated. REMARKS ON THE PRECEDING CASE. The iodine injection as used in the above case has gained much celebrity, as a cure of hydrocele, from the reported success of its employment by Mr. Martin, Surgeon of the Native Hospital, Cal- cutta. According to his account, it is uniformly successful, and free from danger. It hardly appears necessary to leave a portion of the injection within the sac, as its presence would seem to be rather detrimental than otherwise, by preventing adhesion of the inflamed surfaces, as would any other foreign body. The statement that the iodine injection does not cure by causing adhesion, but by exciting a new kind of action in the secreting surfaces, requires to be substantia- ted by dissection; no account of which has yet been published. The statement too, that it is void of danger even if infiltrated into the cellular tissue of the scrotum, requires corroborative evidence. It is by exciting inflammation that its good effects are produced, and this curative process it is known sometimes extends so far, as to require powerful antiphlogistic treatment to remedy it. Why should the stimulating effects of iodine, topically applied, be con- fined to serous membranes ? and why should inflammation excited by this one stimulant, stop as soon as it reaches the curative point P It would seem probable that the success which has attended the use of iodine injections, is owing to the greater delicacy of the in- struments now employed, compared with those formerly in use, and to the greater care to avoid infiltration which is evinced at the present day.* * Holland again entered the Hospital on June 3rd, having suffered a recurrence of his old gastric complaint. Fluid has once more formed in the left scrotal cavity. It will be seen, by reference to the account of the operation, p. 49, that a poTtion of the injected fluid escaped. This was owing to the introduction of a little air, contained in the apparatus employed.