REMARKS ON THE FOREGOING CASE. *21 syphilis, without being entirely cured, are very liable to get iritis on slight exposures. Some persons attribute this entirely to the mercury; but mercury, in such cases, merely acts by rendering the patient more liable to* cold; so that when iritis occurs in a patient who has been under a mercurial course, it is not in consequence of the direct operation of mercury, but by its increasing his inabi- lity to be affected by impressions from cold.” Cause of Affection apparent in the foregoing Case.— The immediate cause of iritis in the preceding case would appear to be syphilis, primary symptoms being present at the time of its occurrence. The employment of the patient was one likely to act as a predisposing cause. The patient had been for some time taking pills from a druggist, by which his mouth had been unaf- fected, saving an occasional unpleasant taste in the mouth. Possibility of Mercury having been concerned in its Production.—As it was desirable to ascertain whether there was any chance of mercury having been the cause of the affection, the patient procured some of the pills ; they were found to contain a large proportion of mercury*, so that it is possible that mercury might have been the “ causa mali.” Unanimity of Authors as to Treatment.—However authors may disagree as to the immediate cause of this affection, all agree as to the necessity of mercurialization forming a principal means of treatment, to be assisted by blood-letting, seclusion from light, and purgatives, according as the peculiar symptoms of the case, or constitution of the patient, may require. The topical appli- cation of extract, belladonnse is also universally admitted to be beneficial, to prevent the establishment of adhesions between the iris and capsule of the lens, or, when recently established, to destroy them. Marshall Hall’s Opinion of the Action of Mercury in Iritis.—As regards the action of mercury. Dr. Marshall Hall speaks of it as being directly opposed to adhesive inflammation, of which he considers iritis a pure example, for says lief—“If the case be left to nature, such is its tendency and termination.” The Foregoing Case Illustrative of the Specific Effects of Mercury.—Unwin’s case well manifests the beneficial effects of mercury in iritis. A considerable deposit of lymph had taken place, changing the colour of the iris from light grey, its natural colour, to a yellowish brown. As the mercurial action became * First—By heating a portion of a pill in a glass tube, with dried carbonate of soda, when globules of mercury were deposited on its sides. Secondly—By digesting a portion in dilute nitro-muriatic acid, placing a drop of the resulting solution on the inside of a watch-case, and touching the moistened surface with a pen-knife, a white amalgam was instantly formed. Thirdly—By adding to the solution, prepared as in the last instance, a small quantity of a solution of iodide of potassium, wrhcn biniodide of mercury was deposited. + Principles of Theory and Practice of Medicine, p. 97. D