CASE OF NOAII SIIAW. 0*0 lower portion of the artery anil the ulnar and interosseous arteries, effected more particularly by the anterior and posterior carpal and the superficialis voice, will also easily explain why this part should have remained permeable. ♦ CASE XXVI. NOAH SHAW, cet. 40, gate-keeper. Old Swinford, was ad- mitted October 5th, 1843, under the care of Mr. Sands Cox. Bodily Conformation.—The patient is the subject of curvi- ture of the spine and dislocation of the head of the femur of the right side, both the effects of scrofula ; the outlet of the pelvis is also much abridged by the approximation of the tubera iscliii. History of the Case.—He states that he was first attacked with gravel about fifteen months back, since which time he has occasionally suffered from it. About three months ago, micturi- tion became extremely painful, and was often suddenly retarded and as suddenly recurred; which symptoms have gradually in- creased to the present time. He feels a pricking sensation at the neck of the bladder; exercise is usually followed by hcematuria; and on some few occasions, he states, that “ thick whitish corrup- tion ” has been voided with his water. His general health is good; he has never been sounded; he has no hereditary ten- dency to calculus, although it is frequent in the neighbourhood in which he lives ; the urine was found - to be highly charged with lithic acid. He was sounded, and a stone detected. A good deal of irritability of the urethra and bladder followed the introduction of the instrument, and no catheter could be passed* for some months. Small pieces of calculus, of the size of millet seed, were passed at intervals ; these were found to consist of oxalic acid. A bougie was at length passed, and its use repeated daily, the size of the instrument being gradually in- creased ; by this means the urethra was so much dilated as to admit of the passing of Weiss’s lithotrite. Aug. 19.—The stone was grasped and readily crushed by the screw. The small portion of calculus which came away with the instrument was found on analysis to consist of lithic acid and oxalate of lime. The bladder was injected twice during the day, * Apparently owing to the existence of a false passage on the left side of the urethra at its membranous passage.