31 CASE OF JANE ADAMS. slightly inflamed. Upon pressure, a small quantity of purulent matter came from the wound. The leg was now secured above and below the wound, and a poultice placed over the wound and surrounding parts which were inflamed. The general health continues good. Feb. 17.—Suppuration still goes on; general symptoms good. Feb. 19.—In consequence of the patient’s restlessness, it was determined to place the leg upon the double inclined plane. The leg, previously well washed, was carefully raised up on the incline, previously padded, and on which a many-tailed bandage had been arranged. The leg was now carefully secured to the splint above and below the wound, extension being maintained by means of the foot-piece, and a pad of lint placed over the upper and pro- jecting portion of the tibia: over the wound, wet lint was applied, and covered with oiled silk. The bowels being confined, a dose of castor oil was ordered. Feb. 21.—Until now the patient had maintained the limb in a tolerably good position; this morning, however, the dressings were “ confusion worse confoundedthe leg was much bowed outwards, and there was considerable inflammation around the wound; the thigh was nearly off the incline. The leg was now put upon an inside splint, having a foot- piece, and on the outside a splint ha- ving a portion cut out corresponding with the position of the wound, to admit of the application of dressings. The splints being well secured by bandages,* were fastened in various directions to the bars of the bedstead, by means of strong tapes nailed to them. A poultice was afterwards applied over the wound. During the change of apparatus there was a considerable discharge of ichorous matter. Ordinary diet. Feb. 23.—The leg has been kept in good place since last report; the integuments around the wound are more healthy; the dis- charge is not extensive, but sanious; the leg feels quite easy; bowels confined. Feb. 25.—The discharge is still of an unhealthy character; general symptoms good. Anteriorly, the tibia appears now per- fect, but a large piece of bone is still felt loose on its inner side. Ordered half a pint of ale for dinner daily. March 1.—The discharge but little improved in quality; very small in quantity ; no pain ; general health good. * The bandages had been previously smeared with powdered starch.