30 CASE OF JANE ADAMS. the leg is held, the foot falls at a right angle to it. On the outer side of the leg, about an inch and a half above the malleolus, is a small wound, from which there is but slight hemorrhage. Upon manual examination, the tibia is found to be broken obliquely, about an inch and a half above the malleolus; above this were two large pieces of bone loose and easily moveable ; the fi- bula is much comminuted, to the extent of about an inch or more, commencing about an inch above the joint. There is no tumefaction, but much local pain; there is no protrusion of the bone. She states her general health to be good. Ireatment.—The leg being semi-flexed upon the thigh, exten- sion and counter extension were made at the knee and foot, and the fractured parts adapted as well as possible with the hand. The leg was now placed upon an outer splint, well padded, in a semi-flexed state, and secured thereto, above and below the wound, by means of bandages and tapes. Cold applications were ordered to be kept constantly applied to the leg, and the bowels being stated to be costive, a mixture as follows was prescribed, -viz.:—one ounce of sulphate of magnesia; saline mixture, eight ounces : one ounce three times a day. Broth diet. Vespere: The leg has been tolerably easy during the day; there is some little gene- ral swelling of the leg, and a slight blush of inflammation over the seat of fracture ; oozing to some little extent has occurred. Feb. 10.—Passed a good night; some oedema; little or no oozing; bowels open ; tongue clean and moist. To continue the medicine. Feb. 13.—No bad symptom has occurred, and the limb has not been disturbed; the general symptoms are good ; the bowels were not acted on either yesterday or the day before. To take half an ounce of castor oil. Feb. 14.—The bowels have been freely moved ; the heat of the limb is now little more than natural; no pain. Feb. 15.—A well padded leg splint, with foot-piece, to which strips of bandage had been previously attached, being applied to the inside of the leg, the patient was turned on her right side, and the leg, supported by the splint, laid on a bolster, and the outer splint being now removed, the wound was found to be nearly closed; but the integuments for two or three inches round were