63 POST MORTEM EXAMINATION. tible ; the temporal artery beating but feebly; respiration short, but not painful; the tongue densely coated; crepitation distinctly heard on the left side of the thorax. The integument of the right forearm, which was livid, had a quaggy feel. He was ordered spirit of sulphuric {Ether, forty minims; camphor mixture, one ounce and a half: to form a draught to be taken immediately. Bottles of warm water to be applied to the feet. At about 111 p.m. the state of the patient became still worse. A dose of saline effervescing mixture, containing ammonia, was ordered to be exhibited at such intervals as might be deemed necessary. The patient suddenly expired about five minutes before twelve. POST MORTEM EXAMINATION. September 24th, 8 a.m. The Cranium.—Meninges of the brain congested posteriorly, and slightly so anteriorly ; the substance of the brain healthy ; about 3 i. of reddish serum in the two lateral ventricles. Thorax.—Extensive old pleuritic adhesions on both sides, more particularly on the left; the lungs were of a healthy structure, but congested, the right only posteriorly, the left generally. The heart was of natural size, but much flattened in its posterior diameter; the different cavities and orifices normal; springing from the corpora arentii of two of the aortic valves were slight vegetations; the ascending aorta was copiously studded with punctse of atheromatous deposit. Abdomen—Kidneys.—The right contained in its substance, beneath the peritoneal coat, a cyst, the walls of which were formed by a double membrane, containing about a drachm of brownish viscid fluid; no communication between this cyst and the pel- vis of the kidney could be detected; the cortical portion en- croached upon towards its centre by a deposit of yellowish grey matter. The left kidney had on its surface, beneath the perito- neal coat, several small cysts, presenting the same characters, and containing fluid of the same appearance as that found in the right. Upon one occasion some fluid obtained from these cysts having been left to evaporate spontaneously, and afterwards sub- jected to the microscope, crystals of the triple phosphate were dis- tinctly visible. This would probably depend upon urine having passed from the tubuli uriniferi into the cysts by endosmosis. Scattered about its cortical substance were numerous small punctee of earthy deposit. Pelvis—Bladder.—This viscus, together with the penis, having been removed, the urethra was cut through longitudinally, as were