CASE OF JOHN WOODWARD. 41 serum; an extensive abscess, containing dark-coloured pus, com- municating with the shoulder joint, the capsular ligament of which was nearly destroyed; the coraco-brachialis, brachialo anticus, biceps, and deltoid muscles, extensively disintegrated. Beneath the inferior edge of the pectoralis major of the right side, was a circumscribed cavity, of the size of a walnut, contain- ing dark-coloured pus. Thorax.—Pleura generally adherent; surface of lungs gene- rally studded with gangrenous spots ; both lungs excessively con- gested ; pericardium containing about J vi. of serum, the right side and anterior part extensively inflamed, posteriorly and on the left side it was thickly covered with a coating of lymph, be- tween which and that covering the heart, adhesion had commenced. The heart was generally covered by a lymphy deposit, presenting a rugous appearance; as were the aorta and pulmonary artery, where lying within the pericardiac cavity. The substance of the heart and its valves were healthy. Abdomen.—No diseased appearance, except in the kidneys, which were much congested. ♦ CASE XVII. JOHN WOODWARD, set. 36, collier, was admitted Jan. 26, 1844, with varicose ulcers of the leg—apoplexy, under the care of Mr. Sands Cox. History of the Case.—Jan. 26.—The patient was afflicted with varicose ulcers of the left leg, from which he has suffered at times during the past three years. Ulceration was first caused by the fall of some coal, while he was working in the pit. Pie was an in-patient of the Hospital during the month of September last. Symptoms of apoplexy supervened upon the healing of the ulcers, for which it was found necessary to have recourse to bleeding and other anti-phlogistic treatment. Under this he recovered, and left the Hospital, cured, Nov. 1st. He has since enjoyed good health; but about Christmas his leg again broke out. Appearances and Symptoms.—There are now, on the anterior and inner part of the middle and the lower third of the left leg, several ulcers, the largest being about the size of a shilling; the edges are rounded and smooth; the granulations, lying deeply below the surface, are indolent; the integuments everywhere sur- rounding the sore are livid and congested; the discharge he states to be inconsiderable ; the ulcers are extremely painful.