43 REMARKS ON THE PRECEDING CASE. complained of; the bowels regular; the appetite improved. A seton was placed in the back of the neck. March 22.—Cerebral symptoms not yet relieved. March 2o.—The seton "now discharges freely ; the head is bet- ter, the appetite improved, but he still feels feeble. March 27.—Discharged cured. REMARKS ON THE PRECEDING CASE. Admonitory Tendency of the Preceding Case.—The oc- currence of apoplexy twice in the person of the same patient, within twelve months, each attack immediately succeeding the healing of ulcers of the leg, leads to the consideration of the kinds of ulcers which may with propriety be healed. Sir E. Home con- siders that cures should not be attempted,—1. If the ulcer be evi- dently connected with the gout, having regular attacks of pain, re- turning at stated periods; and those attacks similar to what the patient has experienced in other parts.—2. If an ulcer habitually occur whenever the constitution is disordered.—3. If the patient be very infirm or old. Neither of these rules were applicable in the case of Woodward. Of middle age, good general health, not of full habit of body, and without hereditary predisposition to apo- plexy,* it would scarcely have been supposed that danger should accrue to him; nevertheless, in both instances, we find the disease immediately supervening upon, or rather immediately preceding, the healing of ulcers of three years standing. Asthenic Nature of Apoplectic Attack.—The attack was asthenic; appearing to depend more upon an irregular distribu- tion of, rather than an excess of blood circulating in the system. The treatment, therefore, (in the latter attack, which was more immediately brought to my notice), was restricted to derivative re- medies and counter-irritants, by which the symptoms were imme- diately relieved; but uneasy sensations continued until the seton, which was instituted, began to discharge. Similar Case, occurrence of in the Hospital last Year. —A death occurred in the Hospital in the Session of 1842-3, when the patient, a robust man of middle age, was seized with apoplexy immediately upon the healing of some ulcers of the leg. A large clot was found in the right hemisphere of the brain. Propportion of Cases in which Apoplexy has supervened on Healing of Ulcers.—These two cases have occurred out of 82 which have been cured in the Hospital during the two years in which they happened. The proportion one in forty-one is so small. * The discharge too being moderate.