36 CASE OF THOMAS DAWES. Appearances.—The left leg is wasted and the knee bent, the forepart of the foot only resting upon the ground ; and in progres- sion too, the forepart of the metatarsus only touches the floor. The heel is raised more than an inch. Operation.—Feb. 15.—This morning the " tendo-Achillis” was divided with Fergusson’s knife, (represented at p. 234 of his "Practical Surgery.”) The heel having been forcibly brought down, thereby rendering the tendon tense, the knife was passed before the tendon, and gradually and carefully directed backwards through it. The division of its fibres caused a grating sensation, and when perfectly accomplished, an audible snap was produced. The divided portions receded from each other nearly an inch and a half. Very little pain was experienced from the operation, during which not more than one drop of blood escaped. Extension was kept up by means of Liston’s apparatus. A, Iron foot-piece, to which the foot is secured by means of tapes passed through the holes in its sides. BB, The steel sides, which extend as far as the tuberosity of the tibia, terminating in a padded strap C, which encircles the limb. D, A padded strap to press on the instep, to be looped on the brass studs E. Feb. 16.—The cuticle on the dorsum of the foot was found to be abraded to some extent by the tapes, which could not be now used. Ex- tension was now kept up by the strap over the instep, and a tape carried from the anterior portion of the-foot-piece, on either side, to the upper circular strap. The abrasion on the foot was dressed with simple cerate. The same treatment was continued until the 26th; the restlessness of the patient scarcely ever allowing the instrument to remain on through the day, it was now entirely removed. The divided por- tions of the “tendo-Achillis are still as far removed as they weie immediately after the operation. A bandage only was applied, and the patient directed to walk daily. March 11.—He can now put his foot well to the ground, and his walk is considerably improved; but in progression lie does not bend his knee at all. The inner side ol the foot is slightly drawn upwards, by a trifling degree of contraction of the ti- bialis anticus. The cut extremities of the "tendo-Achillis can