CASK OF JOHN THOMPSON. 27 down his arm.” Half an ounce of castor oil to be taken every morning. March 8.—Considers himself better; there is but little pain or tenderness of the forearm. By pressing downwards, in the course of the external and internal brachial veins, a purulent discharge of a brownish colour issues from the wound; this produces much pain. The tongue is much cleaner and moist; pulse 90, soft and compressible. Ordered to continue the mixtures and the castor oil. March 9.—He still complains of a shivering pain in the arm, but states himself to be in other respects better; the redness on the inner side of the upper arm has disappeared but is still visible on the outer; the quantity and quality of discharge are unaltered. To continue the remedies. March 10.—Still improving; less pain and redness; discharge healthier in character; countenance much less anxious; pulse calm; skin cool and moist. March 11.—No appearance of inflammation; little or no pain; suppuration healthy; heart’s action moderate; tongue clean and moist; improved appetite. He was ordered a mutton chop daily. March 12.—The arm has recovered its natural size and appear- ance ; suppuration from the wound at the elbow joint still extensive, but healthy; bowels regular; pulse rather weak, and of moderate frequency. He was ordered disulphate of quina, twelve grains; dilute sulphuric acid, one drachm ; tincture of henbane, two drachms ; infusion of roses, eight ounces : one ounce to be taken three times a day. March 14.—Much better; arm free from pain and swelling; less discharge, but it is rather thin ; general symptoms improved. The aim to be bandaged from the hand to the elbow, and from the shoulder downwards. The wound to be covered with water dressing. March 16.—Suppuration diminishes; great general improve- ment. March 18.—Going on well; passive motion of elbow joint to be daily used. To continue the remedies. March 21.—Still improving; walks out daily. March 25.—Suppuration noAv very slight; no pain; strength much increased; the arm can be well extended. 1 rom this time no symptom of consequence appeared; the state ol the arm and of the general health daily improved; and on the 10th of April he was discharged, cured.