04 POST MORTEM EXAMINATION. also the anterior parietes of the bladder; the coats of the latter, winch could have contained from eight to nine ounces of fluid, were not unnaturally thickened, and presented no trace of inflammation ; there were, however, two or three congested spots. The urethra was capacious, with no trace of rupture or abscess. On the left ot the “ caput gallinaginis,” was a valvular prolongation of the 1mmg membrane, about a quarter of an inch in length, of semi- lunar form, the free margin being directed forwards.* The abdo- minal viscera not specially mentioned above, were healthy. The integument of the right forearm was extensively infiltrated with serum, but no disorganisation of the substance had occurred ; there was no radial artery. The calculus, an exact representation of which, drawn by Mr. Bradley, a student of the College, is here given, weighed 96 grains. The nucleus was formed of lithic acid, surrounded bv lithate of ammonia ; ex- ternal to this was a layer of oxalate of lime, and upon this was deposited a thin lamina of lithic acid, tuberculated externally. Lithotomy Inadmissible.—Lithotomy in the case of Shaw, was inapplicable, owing to the extreme diminutiveness of the out- let of the pelvis; the only means, therefore, of relieving the pa- tient of his tormenting malady, was the employment of lithotrity. Lithotrity, the Case well Adapted for.—The case was one in which there appeared to be a fair probability of a success- ful result. The stone was ascertained to be of moderate size, the urethra capacious, and the patient not of irritable habit. The first three operations were borne extremely well, little more irritability following than would have been caused by the use of a common full-sized catheter. The extraction, “ per urethram,” of a large piece of calculus from the bladder, on the 23rd of September, was followed by violent rigors, which, however, readily succumbed to the treatment. The pain gradually increased in intensity, with- out inflammatory symptoms to account for it: the patient fre- quently stated that lie thought the pain would kill him. Cause of Death Obscure.—Much obscurity attaches appa- rently to the cause of death. “Bright’s disease” was supposed to be a likely cause of his sudden demise. It was certainly present, but not in a sufficiently advanced stage to account for death. And, more- over, though full half of the brain was subjected to analysis, not a trace of urea could be procured, f The limited erisypelatous inflam- * The outlet of the pelvis was so contracted as not to admit of the passage of two fingers. + It was hardly to be expected that urea should have been found, as the disease was in an early stage, and the symptoms were not such as would have been induced by it. In two cases of sudden death which have lately occurred in the Hospital, and in which extensive granular degeneration of the kidneys was discovered post mortem, urea was found in the cerebral substance, in the one case, which was the subject of judicial enquiry.