6 CASE OF ELIZABETH D. situation. The tumour was insensible. She was directed to con- tinue the medicine. Nov.. 6. She continues to suffer from hemorrhage; symptoms otherwise as before. The following mixture was prescribed:— Disulphate of quinine, grains ten; dilute sulphhuric acid, one drachm; infusion of roses, eight ounces: two ounces to be taken three times a day. She continued under this treatment until the 24th of November, when it was proposed to remove the tumour by ligature. Nov. 24.—The neck of the tumour was constricted by means of Gooch’s Canula (here represented), armed with common unbleached whip-cord of moderate thick- ness. The operation was unproductive of pain. Towards evening, however, there was some irrita- bility of the bladder, for which she was ordered to take directly ten grains of the compound ipeca- culiana powder. No unpleasant symptom super- vened, the patient voiding her urine naturally, and not suffering from hemorrhage until the afternoon of Nov. 29, when the pedicle gave way; but the os uteri grasped the tumour so tightly that it was necessary to remove it manually. Appearance of the Tumour.—The tumourwasof a firm consistence and globular in shape. When cut into, it appeared to be composed of a fibrous sub- stance, the peripheral structure being more dense than the central portion, thus giving it the resemblance of an encysted tumour. The pedicle was remarkably small, not more than one-sixth of an inch in diame- ter. The size of the polypus was about that of a small orange. Her pulse has improved and the beating sound in her head has much diminished after the operation. The medicine was continued. Dec. 2—Complains of depressed spirits, great general debility, and violent pain and throbbing in the head. Bowels regular. The following mixture was prescribed:—Disulphate of quinine, eighteen grains ; dilute sulphuric acid, twenty drops ; water, eight ounces : to take an ounce three times a day. Extra diet. Dec. 6.—The liead-ache much relieved; no vaginal discharge ; improves in strength daily. The mixture was continued. Dec. 8.—Walked out yesterday and to-day. The countenance is less sallow. Dec. 14.—Catamenia came on to-day, accompanied by pain in the loins and lower part of the abdomen. She gradually improved in health and strength, and left the Hospital cured on the 23rd. Jan. 12, 1844.—She visited the Hospital and was in the enjoy- ment of good health.