CASE OF JAMES ROBINS. 9 be taken directly; one ounce of the ward mixture to be given every two hours. 9£ a.m.: Has slept tolerably well through the night; has passed urine of a healthy character; the bowels have not yet been acted upon. Much tension of abdomen generally, but the pain is principally referred to the right liypogastrium, of which there is extreme tenderness; percussion emits a clear sound over the whole abdominal surface; the countenance is still much col- lapsed; pulse 110, small and weak; skin moderately warm, but dry. The lad appears perfectly sensible; but immediately upon being left to himself, drops off into a lethargic state. Twenty leeches to be applied to the abdomen; half an ounce of castor oil to be taken directly. Broth diet. 3 p.m.: The bowels have acted copiously, voiding matter of healthy appearance ; and the leeches have bled freely. No alteration in the other symptoms since the last report. The lad having somewhat rallied, a more minute ex- amination was instituted : he could raise his thighs without pain ; no fracture of the pelvis or ribs could be detected. 10£ p.m.: Less pain ; pulse quick, small and soft. Warm chamomile flowers to be applied to the bowels. Jan. 25 ; 9 a.m.—The patient appears better. Directed castor oil to be administered as required, and to take an ounce of the simple saline fever mixture every four hours. 5 p.m.: The knees are drawn up; general tenderness of abdomen increased in cor- responding ratio with increase of pressure ; clear sound, on percus- sion, over the whole abdomen ; pulse 140, small and sharp ; tongue somewhat coated; countenance anxious. Calomel, one grain, opium, one-eighth of a grain, to be given every four hours. Fif- teen leeches to be applied to the abdomen. p.m.: Abdominal tenderness (though still great) diminished. The abdomen to be protected from pressure by means of a rack. To continue the fomentations with chamomile flowers. 11 p.m.: The patient complains of sharp pain on the left side of the thorax, which is increased by inspiration; it often causes him to scream -violently. There is dulness, on percussion, of the inferior portion of the left pleural cavity. Egophony and “ tintement metaflique ” are heard opposite the inferior angle of the left scapula (the patient being raised up hi bed). The heart’s action tumultuous, a distinct “ bruit de soufflet” accompanying its first sound ; abdominal ten- derness somewhat decreased. To continue the medicine. Jan. 26 ; 1 a.m.—Hemorrhage from leech bites continues ; abdo- minal tenderness still diminished; pain in the chest not now com- plained of; pulse 140, small and jerking, but compressible ; coun- tenance still blanched, as noticed on his first admission. 11 a.m.: Pain of abdomen lessened ; occasional pain in the cardiac region. 5 p.m. .- Dulness over the cardiac region is unnaturally extended; percussion painful; on pressing the finger into the interspace of the fifth and sixth ribs, great pain is produced, as is also by