REMARKS ON THE PRECEDING CASE. 37 still be distinctly felt, although the space between them is in a great measure filled up. March 14.—He walks still better, bending his knee well, and walking much straighter; his foot can now be placed quite flat upon the ground, and the tension of the tendon of the tibialis anticus is much less. March 20.—Discharged, cured. REMARKS ON THE PRECEDING CASE. Degree of Extension Employed after the Division OF THE TeNDO-AcHILLIS GENERALLY UNNECESSARY. After carefully watching the preceding case, it would appear that the degree of extension generally employed after the division of the “ tendo-Achillis,” where little or no lateral deformity is present, is unnecessarily severe and long continued; the extension here used was, after the day succeeding the operation, compara- tively trifling, and, from the restlessness of the patient, would have been quite inefficient, had there been any tendency to con- traction. This moderate and inconstant extension was discon- tinued after the 12th day, and the patient allowed to walk about “ ad libitum.” No Disposition to Contraction of Newly-formed Mat- ter.—He remained in the Hospital after this nearly a month, and there was no disposition to re contraction; the deformity daily decreasing, and a slight contraction of the tendon of the tibialis anticus being eventually got rid of, the patient left the Hospital. A good example of the benefit derivable from that great improve- ment in modern surgery, the subcutaneous incision, which has been of late years so safely, extensively, and successfully prac- tised by Stromyer, Duffenbach, Dr. Little, Fergusson, and others. In the treatment of such a case, it is better to keep up mode- rate* extension only, for a few days succeeding the operation, until all fear of producing inflammation has subsided, and then to direct as much walking exercise as possible; this appearing to be the most effectual way of preventing contraction of the newly- formed niter-tendinous structure. Description of Instrument represented at Page 36.—The steel sides of the instrument represented at page 36 act as levers of the first class, the fulcrum being at the instep, the weight at the toes, and the power at the top. * For this purpose MTntyre’s splint seems best adapted. T