CASE OF SAMUEL UNWIN. 19 • progress of cicatrization, and another on the prepuce, near the “ corona glandis,” in the same stage ; no hardness remaining in either. He says that he has not been salivated, but has had a had taste in his mouth. Pulse small and weak. He was ordered calomel, grains twelve; opium, a grain and a half; confection of roses, sufficient to make six pills: one to be taken ever)- four hours. Blisters to be applied behind both ears. Dec. 30.—The right eye in much the same condition. The left has also become affected, a slight yellowish deposit having taken place upon the iris; there are also contraction of the pupil and ir- regularity of its margin, the cornea being surrounded by a well- defined pink zone. He was ordered to continue the calomel and opium; to rub in mercurial ointment. Extract of belladona to be applied over each brow and around the orbits. Dec. 31.—The pupils are well dilated, with irregular edges; the degree of inflammation the same as at last report; bowels regular; mouth and gums unaffected. He was ordered calomel, 24 grains; powdered opium, one grain and a half; confection of roses suffi- cient to form twelve pills: one to be taken every three hours. Jan. 2.—The mouth is slightly affected; no alteration percepti- ble in the appearance of the eyes. To continue the pills. Jan. 4.—The mouth is very sore, and there is much foetor of the breath; the inflammatory zone is diminished in both eyes, pupils still irregular, but the lymph is partially absorbed. To omit the calomel and opium; the chloride of lime gargle to be used; to take two ounces of purging mixture. Jan. 6.—The mouth is nearly well; an indistinct zone is still present around the margin of either cornea; bowels open. To take, night and morning, five grains of blue pill. From this time until the 20th of the same month the patient continued to improve, when [Jan. 20] the appearance of the eyes was nearly natural, a deposit still remaining on the iris. There is some little soreness of the gums; the bowels are regular; the ge- neral health good; the cervical glands on the right side are be- come enlarged. To omit the mercury. He was ordered iodide of potass, one drachm; camphor mixture, eight ounces: one ounce to be taken three times a day. Ordinary diet. The effused lymph, under this treatment, became gradually absorbed, a narrow, indistinct, yellowish-brown margin alone remaining on the inner margin of either iris. Jan. 25.—The patient carelessly subjected himself to the influ- ence of cold, and he suffered a relapse, and the zone around either cornea again appeared, worse on the right than on the left eye ; a trifling deposit, with some irregularity of the pupillary margin of the his, being again visible. He was ordered a calomel and opium pill as before prescribed; to be taken three times a day.