10 CASE OF JAMES ROBINS. pressing upwards the fingers beneath the cartilages of the ribs on the left side ; “ bruit de soufflet” still heard, with the first sound distinctly over the base of the heart, muffled towards its apex; pulse still small, quick, and feeble. A blister to be applied over the chest, and the calomel and opium continued every three hours. 10£ p.m.: Is sleeping; there is a marked inprovement in the pulse, which numbers, in the minute, 104, is fuller and soft. Jan. 27; mane.—Sleeping; pulse 110, soft, and of moderate volume; shrinks but little from pressure over abdomen; bowels open, secretions natural. Vespere:—Pulse 120, smaller than in the morning; surface disposed to coldness; tongue furred, but moist; some thirst; no tenderness of the abdomen, (which is much less tympanitic) excepting in the left hypochondriac region; pressure between the ribs and percussion over the cardiac region, are still productive of pain; the bowels have been twice acted upon during the day; in the stool last voided, some membraneous flakes are perceptible; urine deposits a copious lateritious sedi- ment; the soporific tendency continues unabated. To continue the medicine. Jan. 28; mane.—Abdominal tenderness entirely disappeared, excepting in left hypochrondriac region; percussion over the cardiac region still painful; bellows sound still distinct; over the whole right side of thorax, as also over the superior portion of the left, the respiratory murmur is natural; egophony perceptible on a line with the inferior angle of the left scapula, not at all heard on the right side; pulse 120, thrilling; tongue still furred; no mercurial erethysm. Vespere.—Sleeping, apparently easily; bowels have been twice acted upon during the day; no membraneous flakes perceived. To continue the medicines. Jan. 29 ; mane.—No alteration of symptoms. The countenance still bears a blanched and somewhat anxious character; slight mercurial action manifested; the use of the mercury to be per- sisted in, and also eight leeches to be applied to the left hypo- chondrium. Vespere : Tenderness of left kypochondrium dimi- nished; other symptoms unchanged. To continue the medicines. Jan. 30 ; mane.—His countenance bears rather a more anxious expression than usual, and his pulse is smaller and more hurried than yesterday; the mouth is much affected by the calomel. (He has just been raised in a sitting posture : this may probably account for his apparently augmented debility.) To omit the calomel; to continue the saline fever mixture. Jan. 31 ; mane.—Countenance improved; considers himself bet- ter ; hypochondriac tenderness much diminished, though not dis- sipated entirely ; bowels open; tongue slightly furred; mouth very sore ; pulse fuller and soft; the cardiac pain has disappeared; bellows sound still present; states that he has always been sub-