CASK OF JOHN LANE. 46 pulse Is quick and full; the tongue slightly furred; the bowels stated to be free. The patient is of plethoric habit. Treatment.—Several of the distended veins of the scrotum were opened by means of the lancet. They bled freely, and the hemorrhage was directed to be encouraged by the use of hot fomentations. He Avas ordered wine of potassio-tartrate of anti- mony, two drachms ; sulphate of magnesia, one ounce ; pepper- mint Avater, eight ounces: one ounce of the mixture to be taken three times a day. Broth diet. March 1.—The swelling of the scrotum on the right side is much diminished; the left side is in much the same state as it Avas yesterday. Much pain is complained of in the course of the left spermatic cord, which is extremely tender; the vas deferens is considerably thickened. Hot fomentations having been pre- mised for about half an hour, several of the scrotal veins Avere again opened, and they bled tolerably copiously. To continue the mixture. March 2.—The swelling and pain of the scrotum are dimi- nished, but shooting pain in the loins is complained of; the bowels are moderately open; the pulse is less frequent and full; the tongue still slightly furred. Ordered to continue the mixture, and calomel, four grains ; poAvdered opium, one grain : to be taken at bed-time. Lotion of diacetate of lead to be applied to the part affected. March 3.—The swelling of the testes and epididymis on both sides is again decreased; there is also less local heat; but the scrotum is tense and painful, in consequence of extensive infil- tration into the cellular tissue. Some punctures were made Avith a lancet, from Avhicla much serum issued. The general symptoms are improved. To continue the remedies. March 4.—The tension and pain are much diminished; the vas deferens is still enlarged on the left side. To continue tho remedies. March 5.—The swelling of the right side now' depends solely upon cellular infiltration; the epididymis of the left side is still bulky and tender to the touch; the enlargement of the corres- ponding testis is scarcely perceptible ; the boAvels are regular and general symptoms good. To continue the remedies. March 6.—There is still some infiltration of the right side of the scrotum. On the left side the testis is now of natural size ; but the epididymis and vas deferens are yet somewhat enlarged. There is a slight return of the discharge from the urethra. To continue the remedies. March 7.—The patient feels much better. The left epididymis is still enlarged, but it is a little tender; the cellular tissue of the scrotum is yet infiltrated. To continue the mixture, and ointment of iodide of potass to be rubbed in night and morning.