42 CASE OV JOHN WOODWARD. Jan. 26.—Under the application of water dressing, and regular, but moderated compression by bandaging, the appearance of the ulcers improved. March 1.—On March 1st, when the cicatrization of the ulcers was nearly complete, he complained of diarrhoea, for which he was ordered the following :—blue pill, compound rhubarb pill, of each five grains ; powdered opium, half a grain : to be taken directly. March 2.—Purging continues ; pulse weak; tongue clean and moist. lie was ordered confection of opium, one drachm ; chalk mixture, eight ounces: one ounce to be taken every four hours. March 3.—Diarrhoea has ceased; he complains now of much liead-ache ; the pulse is extremely small and feeble; tongue clean and moist; pupils natural. There have been griping pains of the bowels since the cessation of the diarrhoea; his manner is much confused. Mustard poultices to the feet. Cupping glasses to be applied at the back of the neck. He was ordered castor oil, half an ounce ; tincture of rhubarb, half an ounce : to be taken immediately. Vespere: Symptoms somewhat improved ; the bowels have been freely acted upon. March 4.—Still some cerebral pain and confusion of manner; bowels quite open and free from pain ; the pupils answer but im- perfectly to light; the pulse is still extremely feeble. A large blister to be applied behind the neck, and he was ordered car- bonate of magnesia, two drachms; compound decoction of aloes, eight ounces : one ounce to be taken every four hours. March 5.—The blister rose well; the head is relieved, but a constant dizziness is complained of. March 6.—Feels much better ; the ulcers are nearly healed; the blister discharges freely; bowels open. March 7.—Bowels freely open : dizziness diminished. To con- tinue the mixture three tunes a day. March 9.—Head quite free from pain; pulse extremely feeble; the patient complains of lowness of spirits and great debility. To add to each dose of the mixture, five grains of carbonate of ammonia. March 11.—The blister is healed; bowels are open; confusion of intellect and vision is complained of on attempting to assume the recumbent posture. A large blister behind the neck. To continue the mixture. March 12.—Allowed, at his own request, milk. March 14.—Again complains of pain in the head, with beating of the temporal arteries; bowels quite open; pulse still weak. Mustard poultices to the feet. March 15. Head-ache and throbbing relieved. To continue the mixture. . ... March 18. Continues to improve. To continue the mixture. March 21. The ulcers have healed; constant dizziness again