CASE OF WILLIAM HOLLAND. 49 CASE XXII. WILLIAM HOLLAND, lamplighter, set. 50, was admitted November 23, 1844, with double hydrocele, under the care of Mr. Sands Cox. Cause of Admission.—This patient was admitted under the senior physician, suffering from an obscure gastric affection, sup- posed, from his “ organic countenance” and characteristic symp- toms, to be carcinomatous, but no tumour or hardness could be detected through the abdominal parietes. He has occasionally improved under treatment, and has now received benefit from the trisnitrate of bismuth. He states that hydrocele first came on about four years since after a fall. Both sacs were emptied at the General Hospital, with a small trocar : and on the reaccumulation of fluid at the expiration of four months, it was again drawn off. The sacs have been since repeatedly distended, and the patient has regularly evacuated then contents by acupuncturation. The last time he operated upon himself was about three months since. Symptoms.—Both sides of the scrotum are now much dis- tended ; the tumour is pyriform in shape, the base placed infe- riorly, and perfectly translucent; the testicles are placed supe- riorly and posteriorly. March 1.—This day the operation for radical cure was per- formed. Operation.—A middle-sized trocar was plunged first into the right sac, and about twelve oimces of light straw-coloured serum were drawn off; an injection, composed of tincture of iodine, one drachm, and water, three drachms, was thrown into the sac by means of an elastic bottle, and the canula immediately removed, leaving the injected fluid within the sac. The same course of proceeding was now adopted with respect to the left sac, but only from eight to ten ounces of serum flowed from the cavity, and a small portion of the injection escaped. The patient suffered much from faintness after the operation, and complained of much pain in the scrotum itself, in the course of the cord, and in the loins ; he also experienced considerable nausea. He was ordered as fol- lows :—Citric acid, one drachm and a half; water, eight ounces : to take one ounce every four hours. Bicarbonate of potass, two drachms; tincture of henbane, two drachms; water, eight ounces: to take one ounce every four hours with the acid mixture in a state of effervescence. Vespere : The sickness is relieved, but the pains, especially in the loins, are very violent; the tongue clean ; the pulse natural; the bowels have been lately regular, they are