CASE OF MARY BESTON. 17 vable by extension of the thumb and the inclination of the thumb across the palm. Reduction easily accomplished.—The reduction is easily effected. There is, however, great difficulty* in retaining the bone, after reduction, in its due position, contraction of the extensors or flexors equally readily reproducing it; that of the former, (especially of the extensor primi internodii,) directly, by drawing backwards and upwards the base of the phalanx, and that of the latter, indi- rectly, by drawing inwards the distal extremity, the carpal end ne- cessarily falling backwards. Treatment in the Case of Curtis—its effects.—The splint and bandage, though carefully applied in the case of Curtis, were insufficient to maintain the reduced bone in its place, the patient complaining that, on moving his hand, he frequently felt it moving about. Afterwards, when the joint was secured by plaister, a splint, and bandagingf, this sensation was not complained of; nevertheless, when, at the expiration of a month, the joint had re-acquired its natural firmness, there was still an unnatural pro- jection of the base of the phalanx. The motions of the joint were, however, tolerably perfect. Shaw’s Case, why Recorded.—The result of the case of Shaw is not known, but the details of the case have been inserted, as far as they were known, for the purpose of illustrating the causes and symptoms of the dislocation of which it was an example. CASE V. MARY BESTON, set. 15, servant, admitted as an out-patient, Jan. 18th, with dislocation of ulna, backwards, under the care of Mr. Sands Cox. History of the Case.—About six or seven weeks since, she experienced weakness of the left wrist, and three weeks ago, whilst heaving a tub of water, she suddenly felt severe pain in the joint, which has, more or less, continued ever since, and which is increased by motion. Symptoms. The carpal extremity of the ulna is thrown back- wards, forming a considerable protuberance. When the fore-arm * Sec " Fergusson’s Practical Surgery," p. 154.—Sec also the case of Peter Curtis, p. 15. + Continued up to the elbow. This appeared to be essential to restrain the action of the long extensor muscles.