CASE OF JAMES ROBINS. 8 Insufficiency of Torsion in the above Case.—Notwith- standing the small size of the pedicle, torsion would most pro- bably not have sufficed for the removal of this tumour, on account of its firm fibrous structure ; and it is doubtful, if such a means of getting rid of it would have been successful. Excision, whether practicable—Whether the operation of excision would have been practicable is doubtful, as the pedicle was situated, as well as a portion of the body, within the cavity of the uterus. It would have been exceedingly difficult, as well as painful, sufficiently to have detracted the tumour to admit of the use of the knife. Insensibility as a Diagnostic Mark.—Alack of sensibility, as seenf in this case, is, by most writers, given as a valuable diagnostic symptom. It is not, however, invariably to be depended upon. Dr. Johnson J details a case in which an uterine polypus was acutely sensible; and Dr. Lever* even goes so far as to state that he has “ found as many uterine polvpi which are sensible as insensible.” CASE II. JAMES ROBINS, set. 16, errand boy, Fazeley-street; was admitted into Victoria Ward 1, 6.45 o’clock, p.m., Jan. 23, 1844, under the care of Mr. Sands Cox. History of the Case. Jan. 23.—About half-past six,p.m., he fell under the wheels of a car, when attempting to dismount from it whilst in motion, and the wheels passed over him. He was taken into a public house immediately after the accident. He was nearly pulseless, his countenance exsanguine, and skin cold and clammy. He stated, as did the bystanders, that the wheels had passed over the abdomen, which was tense and tender to the touch; but no external mark of injury was present; and the tenderness was prin- cipally complained of in the right iliac region. He was taken immediately to the hospital; hot fomentations were applied con- stantly to the abdomen, and a hot water jar to the feet; but he could not or would not take anything in the form of medicine. At 9 p.m. his pulse was slightly improved and the skin was somewhat warmer; but the pain and tenderness were undiminished. Jan. 24 ; 12J a.m.—Pulse 85, small and weak; temperature of surface rather inci’eased; tenderness continues; pain stated to extend to the shoulders. Compound rhubarb pill, grains ten, to * See Report of Nov. 3. + Dublin Hospital Reports, vol. 3. t Practical Treatise on Organic Diseases of the Uterus, by Dr. Lever, p 86.