CASK OF HENRY BERRY. 22 perceptible, the inflammation decreased, and absorption of the effused lymph was rapidly effected. Bleeding was not had re- course to, the natural conformation of the patient being slight, and his condition much debilitated at the time of his admission. The eyes being on the 20th in nearly a normal condition, iodine was then substituted for mercury, and the small deposit yet remaining disappeared under its use. The imprudence of the patient now subjected him to a recurrence of the affection, the symptoms being nearly as well marked as at first. He was again placed under the influence of mercuiy, and again the iritis succumbed to its action without the assistance of other remedies, a slight and almost imperceptible discolouration of the pupillary margin of the iris being the only abnormal appearance remaining. Enlargement of the Cervical Glands.—The superficial chain of cervical lymphatic glands on the right side became swollen on the first developement of mercurial erethysm, and is doubtless to be attributed to irritation, produced by the administration of mercury. Cure.—The enlargement, however, disappeared under the use of iodine, and the patient was perfectly cured. Another case of iritis, following syphilis, has been treated, since the above, by the senior physician, by leeching, blistering the tem- ples, and by iodide of potassium internally. The patient, a policeman, progressed favourably, and was discharged cured on June 20th, having been in the hospital a month. He had been under medical treatment before his admission, but had not been salivated, though, as in the case above related, mercury was found to form the principal constituent of the pills he had been taking, of which he produced a specimen. —♦— CASE VII. HENRY BERRY, set. 7, admitted, without note, 2£ p.m., October 28th, 1843, burnt; under the care of Mr. Sands Cox. History of Case and Symptoms.—He is stated to have been accidentally burnt by his clothes catching fire. The skin of the whole body, besides that of the right leg from the knee down- wards, and the back part of the head and thighs, is destroyed, being of a dark brown colour and of coriaceous texture. The child is in a state of extreme collapse. Treatment.—The face was kept moist with linseed oil and lime water, and the remaining burnt surfaces enveloped in wad-