CASE OF JAMES ROBINS. 12 Symptoms on which diagnosis is founded.—Nevertheless, lrom the urgency of the primary symptoms, and the strictly lo- calised tenderness and pain in the early stage of the case,* it is extremely probable that rupture had occurred. Causes preventing extravasation.—Mr. Travers has shown that wounds of the intestines, and even of the stomach, when limited in extent, are not necessarily followed by extravasation into the cavity of the peritoneum. He proves that this may be prevented, first, by the mucous membrane protruding through the muscular coat, and thus closing the aperture; and secondly, by the equable pressure of all the abdominal viscera against each other, lymph being effused, and glueing together the adjacent parts and obliterating the rent. Progress of Case.—The progress of the case was extraor- dinary. That peritonitis, as it did, should supervene upon such ail accident, was not at all to be wondered at; but concomitant with this were pleuritisf proceeding to effusion and pericar- ditis ; j the sympathetic occurrence of which affections with peri- tonitis is unusual; it may probably be accounted for by the ana- tomical relation which the diaphragmatic pleura has to the peri- toneum^ Bleeding, why not instituted.—The continued|| state of collapse forbad the institution of general bleeding. Remedies employed—their effects.—The treatment was re- stricted to topical detraction of blood and the administration of mer- cury, the benefit derived from which was most marked. Relief from the more acute and urgent symptoms followed each application of the leeches ; but it was not until mercurial erethysm was established, that the tenderness entirely disappeared; its dissipation was then nearly instantaneous, and recovery speedily followed. As a topical application in peritonitis, the chamomile poultice is extremely useful after leeches, being most grateful to the patient’s feelings, retaining warmth well, and possessing the advantage of lightness. The same may be said of hop poultices. Tintement Metallique.—Marshall Hall** limits the exis- tence of this symptom to two cases:—“ 1. In that of effusion into the pleura with pneumothorax, and a communication with the bronchi. 2. In that of avast cavity in the lung only partially filled with thin * Vide first report of case. + Vide note of Jan. 25, 11 p m. t Vide note of Jan. 26, 5 p.m § Thus described by Bourgerie, vol. iv., Des Poumons. “ Plevre diaphragmatique.— Elle adhere beaucoup plus fortment que la plevre costale. En l'elevent avec des pinces, il cst facile de voir que sa surface extericure se degagent nu tr&s grand nombre de lamelles, qui traversent les {jeartemens de fibres du diaphragme, auquel elles servent de gaines, et vont sur la face opposee se confondre avec la surface adherente du peritoine." II An extremely blanched condition of countenance, with excessive debility, continued to near the time of his discharge from the hospital. ** Principles of the Theory and Practice of Medicine, p. 315.