58 CASE OF ANN VAUGHAN. August 31.—No further hemorrhage; a “beating pain” felt in the tumour; this sensation extends up the arm. Pulsation can be felt in the tumour through the dressings; a bruit is also heard in it. September 1.—Having soaked the dressings with cold water, they were carefully removed. Immediately upon taking away the matico leaves, a jet of arterial blood issued from the ruptured cicatrix. The humeral artery was compressed whilst the wound was dressed with a compress and bandage. Not more than a drachm of blood was lost. A tourniquet was placed over the humeral artery, and the patient directed how to tighten it if required. No further hemorrhage occurred during the day. Sept. 2; 10 a.m.—The artery this morning was secured in the following manner:—an incision was made of about an inch and a half in length along the course of the radial artery down to the tu- mour, through the integuments and fascia, and the artery being exposed, was secured with a double ligature. The pulsation in the tumour instantly ceased, and on removing pressure from the hume- ral artery, no hemorrhage took place. The edges of the wound were brought together by strips of adhesive plaister, a compress placed over the sac and along the course of the radial artery above it, the whole forearm equably bandaged, and a tourniquet again placed over the humeral artery. 2 p.m.: The nurse reported that “ the arm was again bleeding.” The bandage was found to be tinged with florid blood just around the wound, but the patient having herself tightened the tourniquet, no hemorrhage of consequence had happened. Vespere : No further hemorrhage ; the arm feels quite easy. Sept. 3 ; vespere.—The arm remained quite easy during the day and no fresh hemorrhage happened; the bowels are rather con- fined. To take two calomel and colocynth pills at bed-time, and two ounces of ward mixture in the morning. Sept. 4.—The humeral artery being previously compressed, the wound was denuded of its coverings. It was found to have nearly healed by the first intention, but there was a slight purulent ooz- ing from around the ligatures. A black slough in the situation of the aneurismal sac was seen to be separating. No attempt was made to remove the ligatures. The fine of incision was again se- cured by strips of plaister, and the whole covered with water dress- ing, after which the hand and forearm were firmly bandaged. No hemorrhage. Sept. 5.—The wound was again dressed; it looked healthy; the slough has not yet separated. Sept. 9.—The wound has been dressed daily. To day the slough is found to have separated, leaving a healthy surface beneath. The arm feels perfectly easy. Sept. 12,—Both ligatures came away; the wound looks well.