48 CASE OF SUSAN DUTHAN. outwards over the external surface of the malar bones. It is firm and elastic, but fluctuation can be distinctly felt. Iodine having been topically applied without benefit, on the 22nd of April it was punctured with a small trocar, and about 3 ss of yellowish viscid fluid escaped; the anterior wall of the antrum was now found to be absorbed. The tumour having again filled, on the 24th of May it was again punctured: about l i. of fatty fluid came away, floating in which were numerous flat quadrangular crystalline plates, presenting to view, under the microscope, the prismatic colours. Having evaporated the whole to dryness in a steam bath, the diy residium was digested in aether and strained; to the filtered matter of the aetherial solution (dried) was added dilute No£; this was also strained, and both solutions set aside to evaporate spontaneously. The aetherial solution yielded bright pearly quadrangular scales of cholesterine; the" dilute No£, afforded no crystals. CASE XXI. SUSAN DUTHAN, set. 2 years, Bishopsgate-street, was ad- mitted, March 25, 1844, with partial dislocation of the humerus forwards, under the care of Mr. Sands Cox. The Child’s Mother’s Statement.—The patient’s mother states that yesterday, on moving her from one arm to the other, the child screamed violently, complaining of being hurt in her shoulder, which has continued extremely painful unto the present time, the motions of the arm being at the same time much limited. Appearances of the Shoulder.—The right shoulder appears flattened, and external to the situation of the coracoid process is perceptible a distinct prominence ; the elbow is thrown slightly backwards and outwards, the forearm being flexed upon the upper arm at an angle of about 45 degrees; the attempt to draw up- wards and outwards the arm is productive of much pain, and motion in this direction is much limited; the head of the hume- rus is felt thrown forwards on the anterior border of the glenoid cavity. Reduction.—By gently extending the arm and bringing the elbow gradually across the chest, the head of the humerus was restored to its natural locality, with a slight crackling sound; the shoulder was now of normal appearance, but the joint unnaturally mobile. After-treatment.—The arm was supported by means of a sling, and bound to the side; in this situation it was retained for about a week, when it appeared to be much stronger.