REMARKS ON CASE OF JAMES ROBINS. 11 ject to palpitation on any hurry or unusual exertion. Blister to be applied to the chest; chloride of lime gargle to be used fre- quently. Feb. 1.—Still improving; the blister has risen well. To con- tinue the saline fever mixture, and half an ounce of castor oil when necessary is to be given. Feb. 2.—Tenderness diminished; pulse feeble; tongue nearly clean, and moist; soreness of mouth relieved; bowels once acted on by castor oil; secretions natural. To continue the medicines. Feb. 3—Tenderness nearly, but not quite gone. To continue the medicines. Feb. 4.—Can rise in bed without assistance and without incon- venience ; but there is still slight tenderness. Respiratory mur- mur perfect over the whole chest; dulness on percussion of left side gone; bellows sound still present. To continue the medicines. Light pudding for dinner. Feb. 7.—Tenderness entirely disappeared; bowels regular ; tongue slightly furred; much soreness of the teeth and gums; pulse fuller; bellows sound still present. The following gargle was prescribed :—Tannine,ten grains; rectified spirits of wine, half an ounce ; water, eight ounces ; to gargle the mouth frequently. Feb. 8.—Soreness of mouth better; no abdominal tenderness; bowels regular; feels altogether better, and is able to get up. Spirit of ammonia, spirit of nitric aether, of each two drachms; infusion of cascarilla bark, seven ounces and a half; to take one ounce three times a day. A mutton chop for dinner daily. Feb. 10.—Gains strength; walked out to-day. There is still a degree of pallor of countenance. Feb. 14.—Improves rapidly. From this time he gradually con- tinued to improve, and left on the 21st of the month cured. The “ bruit de soufflet” remained. REMARKS ON THE ABOVE CASE. Probable Nature of Injury.—The pinched expression of countenance, together with extreme general collapse, tympa- nitic distension, and circumscribed pain of abdomen,* strongly indicated rupture of some or other of its viscera. The improve- ment,-)- however, slight though it was, which three hours produced, tended to render this doubtful. No extravasation into the peri- toneal cavity took place, j as the uniform clear sound produced by percussion proves. * Immediately following severe injury. + Vide report of 23rd, 9 p.m. Except of air, which might have occurred, as there was some tympanitis from the first.