13 CASE OF JOHN SHAW. pus neither of which were, I am confident, hi this case present. The pulmonary* * * * § sounds, on percussion and auscultation of the chest, were, on his discharge, perfectly normal. Dr. Watsonf says of it, “ Almost always—hut that is not indispensable— the cavity communicates with the external air, either through the walls of the chest or through the bronchi.” LaennecJ ad- mits that it may occur where no communication exists between the bronchi and the pleurae. In the present instance there can be no doubt but that the ah’, evidently present, was secreted by the pleural membrane; a pos- sible occurrence, as proved by cases detailed by Dr. Graves.§ Dr. Williams || admits, although inclined to a contrary opinion, that the void caused by the absorption of liquid effused into the pleural cavity, may be “ sometimes filled with ah' secreted by the membranes.” CASE III. JOHN SHAW, set. 29, copper brazier. Nelson-street, ad- mitted, under the care of Mr. Sands Cox, January 22, 1844, with dislocation (backwards) of the thumb. Jan. 22.—On the evening of this day he applied at the hospital, having just sustained an injury to the hand from a fall. He was slightly inebriated. Patient’s Statement.—He states that, having stumbled, he put out his right hand, the thumb being bent upon the palm, to save himself. He pointed out the back part of the arti- culation between the first and second phalanges as the part on which the weight .of his body had been received. Symptoms.—Upon examination a considerable tumour was seen upon the back of the radial side of the carpus of the right hand, the thumb being at the same time shortened and drawn slightly across the palm. Manipulation detected the base of the first phalanx** lying upon the dorsal aspect of the trapezium : it * See report of Feb. 4th. + Principles and Practice of Physic; vol. 11, p. 122. i De L’Auscultation Mediate; tom. ], p. 110, § System of Clinical Medicine, pp-; 784 and 70S. II Library of Medicine; vol. iii., p. i30. It has been much disputed whether this bone be metacarpal or phalangeal, the analogy between it and the phalanges appearing greater than that it offers to the metacarpal bones. 1 his would appear to have been perceived even in Winslow's time, who writes—“ Alors ou comptoit cinq os du metacarp et ou ne donnoit que deux phalanges au pouce."—Expo- fihon Analomique de la Structure clu Corps Humain, MDCC'XXXII, page 89. In