28 REMARKS ON THE PRECEDING CASE. REMARKS ON THE PRECEDING CASE. Necessity for Operation.—Though the tumour was small and productive of comparatively little inconvenience, yet its situa- tion and progressive increase threatened unpleasant consequences, and of course augmented hulk would have increased the difficulty and danger of an operation ; it was, therefore, resolved to remove the tumour at once. The countenance, pulse and general symp- toms were, however, such as to lead to the suspicion of cardiac disease, which percussion and auscultation rendered evident; and it was therefore considered advisable to ameliorate the cachectic habit of the patient by a preliminary alterative course of treatment; which was accordingly exhibited. Division of Median Cephalic Vein during the Opera- tion.— During the operation, the median cephalic vein, which was in close apposition with the outer portion of the tumour, was opened. To this circumstance must, doubtless, be attributed the phlebitis which occurred on the third day after the operation. Symptoms indicating Phlebitis.—The attack of the dis- ease was ushered in by chilliness, (it could not be ascertained that any decided rigors had been felt) followed by pain, tender- ness, redness and swelling, particularly manifested in the course of the great veins of the arm and forearm; there were also ex- treme depression of spirits and anxiety of countenance; augmented volume of the veins of the arm and forearm was also present. Treatment adopted anti-phlogistic.—The cachectic habit of the patient precluded the use of the lancet; and mercury, at first prescribed, was discontinued for the same reason. The topical treatment was confined to leeching, fomentations and poultices. The general treatment throughout was mildly anti-phlogistic, and the gratifying progress and result of the case, when compared with the severity of the primary symptoms, prove clearly the pro- priety of its adoption. Use of Tonics.—When all the symptoms of active disease had disappeared, and not until then, tonics were administered, and re- covery was rapid. Present condition of the Patient.—The patient has now the perfect use of the arm ; the motions of the elbow joint can be well accomplished; the finger can be extended, and the oedema has disappeared. The general health is decidedly better than it was previous to the operation.