47 CASK OF DANIEL GRIFFITHS. March 9 —The swelling gradually decreases; there is little or no pain; a slight urethral discharge continues. To continue the remedies. March 11.—The scrotum is nearly of natural size ; the dis- charge increases. To continue the remedies. March 14,—The swelling has entirely disappeared; but the gonorrhoeal discharge still on the increase. To omit the mixture. He was ordered balsam of copaiba and solution of potass, one drachm of each; spirit of nitric aether, two drachms; camphor mixture, eight ounces: one ounce to be taken three times a day. March lb.—The discharge lessens ; the testes and scrotum are of natural size and free from pain. To repeat the mixture. March 18.—The discharge decreases. The patient applied to be allowed meat, and was placed upon ordinary diet. March 26.—The discharge has ceased, and the testes continue of natural size; the urine is copious and is voided in a full stream. March 27.—The patient was discharged cured. REMARKS ON THE PRECEDING CASE. Treatment, Antiphlogistic.—The powerful antiphlogistic treatment adopted in the case above detailed was most efficacious. Bleeding from the scrotal veins appears to be equally as effec- tive as the employment of leeches. In the present instance it was of great service in relieving tension and pain. It is well worthy of consideration in an economical point of view. Metastitis oe Symptoms.—It wall be seen, from the record of the preceding case, that the gonorrhoea, which had been repressed by the use of injections, returned gradually as the inflammation of the testes diminished, and was afterwards cured by copaiba. CASE XX. DANIEL GRIFFITHS, set. 43, Bromsgrove-street, was ad- mitted April 8th, 1844, with an encysted tumour of the cheek, under the care of Mr. Sands Cox. History of the Case.—The patient states that about eighteen months since a painful tumour appeared upon the right cheek, and it has progressively increased. The tumour, which is now about the size ol a pigeon’s egg, fills the right canine fossa, and extends