Cl CASE OF NOAH SHAW. I # but not more than two grains of solid matter came away. Hot fomentations were ordered to the perineum, and at night, there being some slight irritability, five grains of compound soap pill were ordered to be taken. Aug. 20.—He has passed a comfortable night; the stone was again crushed, and the bladder twice injected during the day. To repeat the pill. Aug. 21.—Several small bits of stone passed; the bladder was injected as usual. To repeat the pill. Aug. 22.—The stone was crushed thrice, and by the scoop a large quantity of it was brought away; some two or three pieces were of the size of sweet pea seeds and consisted of lithic acid. Vesper e: The bladder was twice injected ; the bowels were rather confined. To repeat the pill; to take in the morning six drachms of castor oil. Aug. 23; 8 p.m.—The bladder having been previously injected, a portion of stone was grasped by Weiss’s scoop, and became im- pacted between the blades; a stillette was passed down the tube, but it could not be forced back into the bladder ; the piece, weigh- ing six grains, was ultimately extracted. Hot fomentations were applied. p.m.: Violent rigors have come on ; his extremities are cold and clammy; the pulse* is extremely feeble ; he has passed another bit of calculus, weighing four grains. He was ordered tincture of opium, twenty-five minims; compound spirit of ammonia, half a drachm; camphor mixture, one ounce : to be taken directly. Bottles of warm water to be applied to the feet. 10 p.m.: Rigors less frequent and violent; surface covered with a warm perspiration. 12 p.m.: He again feels better. To repeat the opiate draught. Aug. 24.—Has retained his urine all night, which he has not before done for months ; some blood voided from the urethra last night; the bowels are costive. He was ordered sulphate of magnesia, one ounce; saline mixture, eight ounces : to take one ounce every four hours. Beef tea twice a day. Aug. 25 ; vespere.—Three small bits of calculus passed; slight pain during micturition ; occasional chilliness; bowels freely opened; no swelling in the course of the urethra. To continue the mixture every six hours. Aug. 26.—The urine contains a little mucus, but no blood; smarting pain at the neck of the bladder; the bowels quite free; the tongue slightly furred, but moist; pulse weak. He was or- dered two mutton chops for dinner daily; and disulphate of quina, extract of henbane, of each two grains, to be taken twice a day. A full-sized catheter was passed without pain or difficulty. Aug. 27.—Pain and tenderness of perineum; pulse weak; * Felt on the ulnar side of the forearm. No radial pulsation has been perceptible in either arm since his admission.