CASE OF NOAH SHAW. 62 the tongue moist; great debility; the urine contains much mu- cus; the bowels are open. Six leeches were ordered to be applied to the perineum; and to take the bark and henbane pills every six hours. Aug. 28.—Pain in the urethra, followed by chilliness, which were, however, relieved by a draught, containing tincture of opium, spirit of nitric sether, twenty-five minims of each. Aug. 30; 5 p.m.—Immediately consequent upon a painful at- tempt at micturition, rigors and syncope supervened. He was ordered tincture of opium, spirit of nitric aether, of each half a drachm ; camphor mixture, one oimce. The draught produced profuse perspiration and afforded relief. Sept. 1.—He passed, “ per vias naturales,” two pieces of cal- culus ; the largest weighs six grains, the smaller one grain; he had much pain in passing them, but now feels comfortable. To continue the bark and henbane pills. Sept. 6.—The bladder being previously injected, the stone was again grasped and crushed by the screw. The part seized was of the diameter of half an inch; the operation was very painful. From this date until the 18th there was much irritability; there was a copious deposit of mucus in the urine ; almost constant pain at the neck of the bladder, though little, if any, tenderness; occasional slight heematuria, and the debility was much augmented. Quinine was continued, and occasional opiates were administered; the bowels were regulated by castor oil ; no instrument was intro- duced. Sept. 19.—The irritability of the bladder continuing, he was ordered bicarbonate of potass, two drachms; tincture of henbane, two drachms; decoction of pareira brava, eight ounces: one ounce to be taken three times a day. Sept. 21; mane.—Irritability much diminished; debility still greater. Vespere: Complains of having had “ chilly feels,” but the surface is rather hot; the tongue is coated with a thick white fur; bowels confined. Broth diet. He was ordered calomel, James’s powder, four grains of each to be taken directly. Sept. 22.—Feels “ bad all over him;” no augmentation of vesi- cal symptoms; the skin hot and harsh; the tongue is still more thickly coated; the bowels have been acted upon; pulse quick and sharp ; there was some redness of the anterior part of the right forearm; it was dissipated by pressure ; this, he said, was the result of a bum from the flame of a candle, two or three days since. He was ordered mercury, with chalk and powdered rhu- barb, of each four grains : to be taken every four hours. Wine of potassio-tartrate of antimony, two drachms; saline mixture, eight ounces: one ounce to be taken with each dose of the pills. 10 p.m.: Much worse ; the countenance pallid and lips disposed to Avidity; the extremities cold ; the pulse at the wrist impercep-