1(> REMARKS ON THE FOREGOING CASES. tween the trapenium and the root of the metacarpal bone support- ing the fore finger.” From this quotation it is evident that the displacement back- wards was practically unknown to him. He does not, moreover, mention the occurrence of any other dislocation. On the other hand, Fergusson, hi his “ Practical Surgery,” with reference to Sir Astley’s statement, says—“ I have not met with any example of this kind, but have seen several where the end had slipped back- wards.” Heister, nearly a century back, writes thus :—“ Lastly, the bones of the fingers to which we join those of the thumbs*, are liable to luxation at each of then1 articulations, and that in several directions; but these accidents are both very easy to dis- cover and cure.” Now the reduction of the dislocation into the palm of the hand being so notoriously difficult, it must be clear that the dislocation to which he refers cannot be this ; the expression, “ easy to discover and cure,” would rather lead us to suppose that the dislocation backwards was that only (of the first phalanx) with which he was acquainted. Cause general of Dislocation of first Phalanx of Thumb.—Dislocation of the first phalanx is generally caused by falls, the arm having been extended to break the force thereof. Whether Backwards or Inwards.—Whether the luxation be backwards or inwards would seem to depend upon the state of the thumb, as to flexion or extension at the time of the accident. Former Luxation, how Produced.—If the thumb be then extended, the application of force will still more powerfully throw backwards and outwards the distal extremity of the bone, its base being consequently driven inwards, and rupturing the capsular ligament. If the force be continued, it will impel the bone further inwards, between the trapezium and the base of the meta- carpal bone supporting the index finger, from which position it is difficult to dislodge it, in consequence of the great power of the flexor and adductor muscles. Latter, how Caused.—If, on the other hand, the thumb be flexed, and the force be applied to its posterior aspect, the distal extremity will be powerfully forced inwards across the palm, and the base driven backwards and outwards, rupturing the capsular ligament in this situation; and it will be subsequently drawn upon the trapezium, and there retained by the contraction of the “ ex- tensor primi internodii pollicis,” by some called “ extensor meta- carpi pollicis.” Appearance Produced by this Luxation.—The appearances produced by the luxation, the subject of the foregoing cases, are well marked, viz., shortening of the thumb, a considerable pro- minence on the back and outer part of the carpus, easily remo- * lie has just before mentioned the four bones of the mctacarp.