CASE OF WILLIAM HOLLAND. 50 generally costive, but have been got into tolerable order by a pre- paratory alterative course of treatment. He was ordered acetate of morphia, half a grain; extract of henbane, five grains: to be taken immediately. March 2. The pain in the loins is much relieved; but the testes are much swollen and painful; nausea diminished. To con- tinue the mixture. The scrotum to be supported by a suspensory bandage. March 3.—The testes are very much swollen and extremely tender; an inflammatory blush is spread over the whole scrotal surface ; the lumbar pains are now scarcely felt. To continue the remedies. March 4.—The tension and pain of both sides the scrotum, but especially of the right, are much diminished; the bowels are con- fined. Ordered two colocynth and calomel pills, to be taken at bed time. To continue the mixtures. March 5.—The left testis still swollen and hard, but little pain- ful ; the bowels have been opened. March 6.—He has passed no urine this morning; the bowels are confined and uncomfortable; there is much pain produced by pressure over the left kidney; the left testis is still tense and painful. To add to the alkaline mixture, spirit of nitric aether, half an ounce; sulphate of magnesia, one ounce : to be taken as before. March 7.—The swelling diminishes; the bowels are still con- fined ; lumbar pain still continues; the urine is yet scanty. To continue the mixture. March 8.—The bowels are much confined and painful; the patient is otherwise much the same. March 9.—The bowels have been freely relieved; the left testis is still swoln, hard, and painful; quantity of urine still small. To continue the mixture without the sulphate of magnesia- March 10.—The inflammatory appearance of the scrotum is gone ; the left testis now decreases in size; the secretion of urine is still scanty. March 13.—Both testes are now but slightly enlarged; an un- natural hardness still remains, but is accompanied by but little ten- derness; the bowels are regular. The patient complains of heart- burn and sense of weight at the epigastrium, also of nausea after food. The epigastrium is tender to the touch; the tongue is clean and moist. Ordered to take creosote, ten drops; rectified spirit of wine, one drachm; water, eight ounces: one ounce to be taken three times a day. March 14.—Gastric symptoms relieved by the first dose of the mixture. In other respects the patient progresses favorably. March 16.—The testes are of natural size and quite free from pain. The patient again suffers from a recurrence of gastric symp-