CASE OF JOHN THOMPSON. 25 blood, which issued from the surface of the tumour, led some of the bystanders to consider it aneurismal, but this resulted merely from the division of a small artery passing in front of the tumour. Above, it was found to be free and unattached. During the divi- sion of some cellular adhesions at the lower part, the median cephalic vein was opened, from which the blood flowed in a for- midable stream. The hemorrhage was restrained by pressure with the finger, the wound being repeatedly cleansed by means of a wet sponge. The tumour was then separated from the cellular tissue on its inner side by means of the handle of the scalpel, and the tendon of the biceps was exposed, under which a por- tion of the tumour lay, and to which it was intimately attached by condensed cellular tissue. The tumour being now raised,the tissue was divided by one sweep of the knife, and the tumour removed. The edges of the wound were now brought into apposition, and so retained by strips of adhesive plaister, these being covered by a bandage, which was ordered to be kept wet with a lotion com- posed as follows :—rectified spirit of wine, one ounce ; solution of acetate of ammonia, three ounces ; water, twelve ounces. Po- tassio-tartrate of antimony, one grain; sulphate of magnesia, one ounce ; peppermint water, seven ounces : two ounces to be taken three times a day. Nature of Tumour.—The tumour was about the size of a small walnut deprived of the husk, of a fatty nature, its substance being here and there intersected by bands of condensed cellular tissue. The patient was now placed in bed, with his arm laid on a pil- low, the forearm being slightly raised. Vespere: Since the opera- tion, he has felt a slight degree of numbness down the outer side of the forearm. No hemorrhage has occurred; the pulse is quiet. March 2.—The patient complains of nausea and heartburn, with slight pain in the head; the bowels are regular; tongue clean and moist; skin moist; pulse disposed to hardness; the arm is perfectly easy and comfortable. He was ordered dilute hydrocyanic acid, twenty-four drops ; bicarbonate of potass, two drachms; infusion of columba root, eight ounces: one ounce to be taken three times a day. March 3; mane.—Head-ache and nausea gone ; pulse softer ; bowels regular; the numbness of the forearm diminishes. 2 p.m. : Complains of pain in the upper arm, which is much swollen : it was found to be much constricted by the sleeve of his flannel waistcoat; this was, therefore, divided. The edges of the wound are slightly retracted. During the dressing of the wound a slight sanious discharge took place. Vespere : Complains again of much head-ache; the heart’s action is strong, pulse 120; the arm is now comfortable. He was ordered potassio-tartrate of antimony, one-fourth of a gram ; calomel, four grains ; extract of henbane, two grains; to be taken immediately.