457 OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. The deep popliteal glands, four or five in number, are of small size; they surround the popliteal vessels, imbedded in the cellular tissue and fat of the popliteal space. The deep inguinal glands are placed beneath the deep fascia around the femoral artery and vein. They are of small size, and communicate with the superficial inguinal glands through the saphenous opening. The gluteal and ischiatic glands are placed the former above, the latter below the Pyriformis muscle, resting on their corresponding vessels as they pass through the great sacro-sciatic foramen. The Lymphatics of the lower extre- mity, like the veins, may be divided into two sets, superficial and deep. The superficial lymphatics are placed between the integument and superficial fascia, and are divisible into two groups, an internal group, which follow the course of the internal saphenous vein; and an external group, which accompany the external saphenous. The internal group, the largest, com- mence on the inner side and dorsum of the foot; they pass, some in front, and some behind the inner ankle, ascend the leg with the internal saphenous vein, pass with it behind the inner condyle of the femur, and accompany it to the groin, where they terminate in the group of in- guinal glands which surround the saphe- nous opening. Some of the efferent vessels from these glands pierce the cribriform fascia and sheath of the femoral vessels, and terminate in a lymphatic gland contained in the femoral canal, thus establishing a communication between the lymphatics of the lower extremity and those of the trunk; others pierce the fascia lata, and join the deep inguinal glands. The external group arise from the outer side of the foot, ascend in front of the leg, and, just below the knee, cross the tibia from without inwards, to join the lym- phatics on the inner side of the thigh. Others commence on the outer side of the foot, pass behind the outer malleolus, and accompany the external saphenous vein along the back of the leg, where they enter the popliteal glands. The deep lymphatics of the lower ex- tremity are few in number, and accompany 51.—The Superficial Lymphatics and Glands of the Lower Extremity.