ARTERIES. 328 connective tissue, and elastic fibres. It is very thin in the largest arteries; but in those of medium size, and iu small arteries, is as thick, or thicker, than the middle coat. In small arteries, this coat consists of connective tissue, and fine elastic fibres. In arteries just above the capillaries, the elastic fibres are wanting; the connective tissue composing the coat becoming, the nearer it approaches the capil- laries, more homogeneous, being gradually reduced to a thin membranous envelope which finally disappears. In arteries of medium size, this coat is composed of two distinct layers, an inner composed of elastic tissue; the outer, composed of connective tissue, containing elastic networks irregularly connected with each other. The inner elastic layer is very distinct in the carotid, femoral, brachial, profunda, mesenteric, and coeliac arteries, the elastic fibres being often arranged in lamellae. Some arteries have extremely thin coats in proportion to their size; this is especially the case in those situated in the cavity of the cranium and spinal canal, the difference depending upon the greater thinness of the external and middle coats. :1 The arteries, in their distribution throughout the body, are included in a thin areolo-fibrous investment, which forms what is called their sheath. In the limbs, this is usually formed by a prolongation of the deep fascia; in the upper part of the thigh, it consists of a continuation downwards of the transversalis and iliac fascias of the abdomen; in the neck, of a prolongation of the deep cervical fascia. The included vessel is loosely connected with its sheath by a delicate areolar tissue; and the sheath usually encloses the accompanying veins, and sometimes a nerve. Some arteries, as those in the cranium, are not included in sheaths. All the larger arteries are supplied with blood-vessels like the other organs of the body; they are called vasa vasorum. These nutrient vessels arise from a branch of the artery or from a neighbouring vessel, at some considerable distance from the point at which they are distributed; they ramify in the loose areolar tissue connecting the artery with its sheath, and are distributed to the external and middle coats, and, according to Arnold and others, supply the internal coat. Minute veins serve to return the blood from these vessels; they empty themselves into the venae comites in connection with the artery. Arteries are also provided with nerves; they are derived chiefly from the sympathetic, but partly from the cerebro-spinal system. They form intricate plexuses upon the surface of the larger trunks, the smaller branches being usually accompanied by single filaments; their exact mode of distribution is unknown. According to Kolliker, the majority of the arteries of the brain and spinal cord, those of the choroid, of the placenta, as well as many arteries of muscles, glands, and membranes, are unprovided with them. The smaller arterial branches (excepting those of the cavernous structures of the sexual organs, and in the uterine placenta), terminate in a network of vessels which pervade nearly every tissue of the body. These vessels, from their minute size, are termed capillaries (cnpillus, ‘ a hair’). They are interposed between the smallest branches of the arteries and the commencing veins, constituting a network, the branches of which maintain the same diameter throughout, the meshes of the network being more uniform in shape and size than those formed by the anasto- moses of the small arteries and veins. The diameter of the capillaries varies in the different tissues of the body, their usual size being about -g~gi_th part of an inch. The smallest are those of the brain, and the mucous membrane of the intestines; the largest, those of the skin, and the marrow of bones. The form of the capillary net varies in the different tissues, being modifications chiefly of rounded or elongated meshes. The rounded form of mesh is most common, and prevails where there is a dense network, as in the lungs, in most glands and mucous membranes, and in the cutis; the meshes being more or less angular, sometimes nearly quadrangular, or polygonal; more frequently, irregular. Elongated meslies are observed in the bundles of fibres and tubes composing muscles and nerves, the meshes being usually of a parallelogram form, the long