527 EIGHTH PAIR. Tlie branches of the ptieumogastric are— In the jugular fossa . Auricular. In the neck Pharyngeal. Superior laryngeal. Recurrent laryngeal. Cervical Cardiac. In the abdomen. In the thorax {Thoracic Cardiac. Anterior pulmonary. Posterior pulmonary. CEsophageal. Gastric. The auricular branch arises from the ganglion of the root, and is joined soon after its origin by a filament from the glosso-pharyngeal; it crosses the jugular fossa to an opening near the root of the styloid process. Traversing the substance of the temporal bone, it crosses the aqueductus Fallopii about two lines above its termination at the stylo-mastoid foramen; it here gives off an ascending branch, which joins the facial, and a descending branch, which anastomoses with the pos- terior auricular branch of the same nerve: the continuation of the nerve reaches the surface between the mastoid process and the external auditory meatus, and supplies the integument at the back part of the pinna. The pharyngeal branch, the principal motor nerve of the pharynx and soft palate, arises from the upper part of the inferior ganglion of the pneumogastric, receiving a filament from the accessory portion of the spinal accessory; it passes across the internal carotid artery (in front or behind), to the upper border of the Middle constrictor, where it divides into numerous filaments, which anastomose with those from the glosso-pharyngeal, superior laryngeal, and sympathetic, to form the pharyngeal plexus, from which branches are distributed to the muscles and mucous membrane of the pharynx. As this nerve crosses the internal-carotid, some filaments are distributed, together witli those from the glosso-pharyngeal, upon the wall of this vessel. The superior laryngeal is the nerve of sensation to the larynx. It is larger than the preceding, and arises from the middle of the inferior ganglion of the pneumogastric. It descends, by the side of the pharynx, behind the internal carotid, where it divides into two branches, the external and internal laryngeal. The external laryngeal branch, the smaller, descends by the side of the larynx, beneath the Sterno-thyroid, to supply the Crico-thyroid muscle and the thyroid gland. It gives branches to the pharyngeal plexus, and the Inferior constrictor, and communicates with the superior cardiac nerve, behind the common carotid. The internal laryngeal branch descends to the opening in the thyro-hyoid membrane, through which it passes with the superior laryngeal artery, and is distributed to the mucous membrane of the larynx, and the Arytenoid muscle, anastomosing with the recurrent laryngeal. The branches to the mucous membrane are distributed, some in front, to the epiglottis, the base of the tongue, and epiglottidean gland; and others pass back- wards, in the aryteno-epiglottidean fold, to supply the mucous membrane surrounding the superior orifice of the larynx, as well as the membrane which lines the cavity of the larynx as low down as the vocal chord. The filament to the Arytenoid muscle is distributed partly to it, and part to the mucous lining of the larynx. The filament which joins with the recurrent laryngeal, descends beneath the mucous membrane on the posterior surface of the larynx, behind the lateral part of the thyroid cartilage, where the two nerves become united. The inferior, or recurrent laryngeal, so called from its reflected course, is the motor nerve of the larynx. It arises on the right side, in front of the subclavian artery: winds from before backwards round this vessel, and ascends obliquely to