PELVIC PLEXUS. 569 plexus. It supplies the rectum, joining with branches of the superior hcemorrhoidal plexus. The vesical plexus arises from the fore part of the pelvic plexus. The nerves composing it are numerous, and contain a large proportion of spinal nerve-fibres. They accompany the vesical arteries, and are distributed to the side and base of the bladder. Numerous filaments also pass to the vesiculae seminales, and vas deferens: those accompanying the vas deferens join, on the spermatic cord, with branches from the spermatic plexus. The prostatic plexus is continued from the lower part of the pelvic plexus. The nerves composing it are of large size. They are distributed to the prostate gland, vesiculax seminales, and erectile structure of the penis. The nerves sup- plying the erectile structure of the penis consist of two sets, the small and large cavernous nerves. They are slender filaments, which arise from the fore part of the px-ostatic plexus; and after joining with branches from the internal pudic nerve, pass forwards beneath the pubic arch. The small cavernous nerves perforate the fibrous covering of the penis, near its root. The large cavernous nerve passes forwards along the dorsum of the penis, joins with the dorsal branch of the pudic nerve, and is distributed to the corpus caver- nosum and spongiosum. The vaginal plexus arises from the lower part of the pelvic plexus. It is lost on the walls of the vagina, being distributed to the erectile tissue at its anterior part, and to the mucous membrane. The nerves composing this plexus contain, like the vesical, a large proportion of spinal nerve-fibres. The uterine nerves arise from the lower part of the hypogastric plexus, above the point where the branches from the sacral nerves join the pelvic plexus. They accompany the uterine arteries to the side of the organ between the layers of the broad ligament, and are distributed to the cervix and lower part of the body of the uterus, penetrating its substance. Other filaments pass separately to the body of the uterus and Fallopian tube. Branches from the hypogastric plexus accompany the uterine arteries into the substance of the uterus. Upon these filaments ganglionic enlargements are found. Much difference of opinion still exists as to whether the uterine nerves enlarge during pregnancy. Dr. Robert Lee states, as the result of a series of elaborate investigations, that the nerves and ganglia supplying the uterus become greatly enlarged during gestation, thus confirming the observations previously made by William Hunter, and Tiedemann. Dr. Snow Beck, on the other hand, asserts that the nerves do not alter in size during pregnancy. For a detailed account of this subject, the reader should refer to ‘ The Anatomy of the Nerves of the Uterus,’ by Robert Lee, M.D., 184.1 ; to two papers by the same author in the Phil. Trans., for 1842 ; and to Dr. Snow Beck’s paper, ‘ On the Nerves of the Uterus,’ in the Phil. Trans, for 1846.