39« ARTERIES. middle of Poupart’s ligament. The line of incision required in the first steps of an ope- ration for securing this vessel, would materially depend upon the nature of the disease. If the surgeon select the iliac region, a curved incision, about five inches in length, may be made, commencing on the left side of the umbilicus, carried outwards towards the anterior superior iliac spine, and then along the upper border of Poupart’s ligament, as far as its middle. But if the aneurismal tumour should extend high up in the abdomen, along the external iliac, it is better to select the side of the abdomen, approaching the artery from above, by making an incision from four to five inches in length, from about two inches above and to the left of the umbilicus, carried outwards in a curved direction towards the lumbar region, and terminating a little below the anterior superior iliac spine. The ab- dominal muscles (in either case) having been cautiously divided in succession, the trans- versalis fascia must be carefully cut through, and the peritoneum, together with the ureter, separated from the artery, and pushed aside: the sacro-iliac articulation must then be felt for, and upon it the vessel will be felt pulsating, and may be fully exposed in close connection with its accompanying vein. On the right side, both common iliac veins, as well as the inferior vena cava, are in close connection with the artery, and must be care- fully avoided. On the left side, the vein usually lies on the inner side, and behind the artery ; but it occasionally happens, that the two common iliac veins are joined on the left instead of the right side, which would add much to the difficulty of an operation in such a case. If the common iliac artery is so short that danger is to be apprehended from secon- dary haemorrhage if a ligature is applied to it, it would be preferable, in such a case, to tie both the external and internal iliacs near their origin. This operation has been performed in 17 cases, 9 of which were cured, and 8 died. Collateral Circulation. The principal agents in carrying on the collateral circulation after the application of a ligature to the common iliac, are, the anastomoses of the haemorrhoidal branches of the internal iliac, with the superior haemorrhoidal from the inferior mesenteric; and by the anastomoses of the uterine and ovarian arteries, and of the vesical arteries of opposite sides; of the lateral sacral, with the middle sacral artery ; of the epigastric, with the internal mammary, inferior intercostal and lumbar arteries ; of the ilio-lumbar, with the last lumbar artery ; of the obturator artery, by means of its pubic branch, with the vessel of the opposite side, and with the internal epigastric; and of the gluteal, with the posterior branches of the sacral arteries. Internal Iliac Artery. The internal iliac artery supplies the walls and viscera of the pelvis, the gene- rative organs, and inner side of the thigh. It is a short, thick vessel, smaller than the external iliac, and about an inch and a-half in length, which arises at the point of bifurcation of the common iliac; and, passing downwards to the upper margin of the great sacro-seiatic foramen, divides into two large trunks, an anterior, and posterior; a partially obliterated cord, the hypogastric artery, extending from the extremity of the vessel forwards to the bladder. Relations. In front, with the ureter, which separates it from the peritoneum. Behind, with the internal iliac vein, the lumbo-sacral nerve, and Pyriformis muscle. By its outer side, near its origin, with the Psoas muscle. Plan of tiie Relations of the Internal Iliac Artery. In front. Peritoneum. Ureter. Outer side. Psoas magnus. Behind. , Internal iliac vein. Lumbo-sacral nerve. Pyriformis muscle. In the fechrfj^c internal iliac artery (hypogastric), is twice as large as the external iliac, 'find h|&eai's the continuation of the common iliac. Passing forwards to the bladder, it ascends along the side of that viscus to its summit, to which