MALE GENERATIVE ORGANS. 706 lying immediately beneath the mucous membrane. The portion of the bulb below the urethra presents a partial division into two lobes, being marked externally by a linear raphe, whilst internally there projects inwards, for a short distance, a thin fibrous septum, most distinct in early life. Structure. The corpus spongiosum consists of a strong fibrous envelope, enclosing a trabecular structure, which contains in its meshes erectile tissue. The fibrous envelope is thinner, whiter in colour, and more elastic than that of the corpus cavernosum. The trabeculae are delicate, uniform in size, and the meshes between them small; their long diameter, for the most part, corresponding with that of the penis. A thin layer of muscular fibres, continuous behind with those of the bladder, forms part of the outer coat of the corpus spongiosum. Erectile tissue consists essentially of an intricate venous plexus, lodged in the interspaces between the trabeculae. The veins forming this plexus are so numerous, and communicate so freely with one another, as to present a cellular appearance when examined by means of a section; their walls are extremely thin, and lined by squamous epithelium. The veins are smaller in the glans penis, corpus spongiosum, and circumference of the corpora cavernosa, than in the central part of the latter, where they are of large size, and much dilated. They return the blood by a series of vessels, some of which emerge in considerable numbers from the base of the glans penis, and converge on the dorsum of the organ to form the dorsal vein; others pass out on the upper surface of the corpora cavernosa, and join the dorsal vein; some emerge from the under surface of the corpora cavernosa, and, receiving branches from the corpus spongiosum, wind round the sides of the penis to terminate in the dorsal vein; but the greater number pass out at the root of the penis, and join the prostatic plexus and pudendal veins. The arteries of the penis are derived from the internal pudic. Those supplying the corpora cavernosa are the arteries of the corpora cavernosa, and branches from the dorsal artery of the penis, which perforate the fibrous capsule near the fore part of the organ. Those to the corpus spongiosum are the arteries of the bulb. Additional branches are described, by Ivobelt, as arising from the trunk of the internal pudic; they enter the bulbous enlargement on the corpora cavernosa and corpus spongiosum. The arteries, on entering the cavernous structure, divide into branches, which are supported and enclosed by the trabeculae; according to Muller, some of these branches terminate in a capillary network, which communicates with the veins as in other parts; whilst others are more convoluted, and assume a tendril- like appearance; hence the name, helicine arteries, which is given to these peculiar vessels. The helicine arteries are most abundant in the back part of the corpora cavernosa and corpus spongiosum; they have not been seen in the glans penis. The existence of these vessels is denied by Valentin, who describes the smallest branches of the arteries as terminating by wide, funnel-shaped orifices, which open directly into the venous cavities. The lymphatics of the penis consist of a superficial and deep set; the former terminate in the inguinal glands; the latter emerge from the corpora cavernosa and corpus spongiosum, and, passing beneath the pubic arch, join the deep lym- phatics of the pelvis. The nerves are derived from the internal pudic nerve and the hypogastric plexus. On the glans and bulb, some filaments of the cutaneous nerves have Pacinian bodies connected with them. The Testes and their Coverings. The testes are two small glandular organs, which secrete the semen; they are situated in the scrotum, being suspended by the spermatic cords. At an early period of fetal life, the testes are contained in the abdominal cavity, behind the peritoneum. Before birth, they descend to the inguinal canal, along which they pass with the spermatic cord, and, emerging at the external abdominal ring, they descend into the scrotum, becoming invested in their course by numerous coverings,