MUSCLES AND FASCIAE. 2 $2 of Poupart’s ligament, being attached to the groove on its upper surface ; from the anterior two-tliirds of the middle lip of the crest of the ilium, and from the lumbar fascia. From this origin, the fibres diverge in different directions. Those from Poupart’s ligament, few in number and paler in colour than the rest, arch down- wards and inwards across the spermatic cord, to be inserted, conjointly with those of the Transversalis, into the crest of the os pubis and pectineal line, to the extent of half an inch, forming the conjoined tendon of the Internal oblique and Trans- versalis ; those from the anterior superior iliac spine are horizontal in their direction; whilst those which arise from the fore part of the crest of the ilium pass obliquely upwards and inwards, and terminate in an aponeurosis, which is continued forwards to the linea alba; the most posterior fibres ascend almost vertically upwards, to be inserted into the lower borders of the cartilages of the four lower ribs, being continuous with the Internal Intercostal muscles. The conjoined tendon of the Internal oblique and Transversalis is inserted into the crest of the os pubis and pectineal line immediately behind the external abdo- minal ring, serving to protect what would otherwise be a weak point in the abdomen. Sometimes this tendon is insufficient to resist the pressure from within, and is carried forward in front of the protrusion through the external ring, forming one of the coverings of direct inguinal hernia. The aponeurosis of the Internal oblique is continued forward to the middle line of the abdomen, where it joins with the aponeurosis of the opposite muscle at the linea alba, and extends from the margin of the thorax to the pubes. At the outer margin of the Rectus muscle, this aponeurosis for the upper three-fourths of its extent, divides into two lamellae, which pass, one in front and the other behind it, enclosing it in a kind of sheath, and reuniting on its inner border at the linea alba: the anterior layer is blended with the aponeurosis of the External oblique muscle; the posterior layer with that of the Transversalis. Along the lower fourth, the aponeurosis passes altogether in front of the Rectus without any separation. Relations. By its external surface, with the External oblique, Latissimus dorsi, spermatic cord, and external ring. By its internal surface, with the Transversalis muscle, fascia transversalis, internal ring, and spermatic cord. Its lower border forms the upper boundary of the spermatic canal. Dissection. The Internal oblique should now be detached in order to expose the Trans- versalis beneath. This may be effected by dividing the muscle, above, at its attachment to the ribs: below, at its connexion with Poupart’s ligament and the crest of the ilium; and behind, by a vertical incision extending from the last rib to the crest of the ilium. The muscle should previously be made tense by drawing upon it with the fingers of the left hand, and if its division is carefully effected, the cellular interval between it and the Transversalis, as well as the direction of the fibres of the latter muscle, will afford a clear guide to their separation ; along the crest of the ilium the circumflex iliac vessels are inter- posed between them, and form an important guide in separating them. The muscle should then be thrown forwards towards the linea alba. The Transversalis muscle (fig. 165), so called from the direction of its fibres, is the most internal flat muscle of the abdomen, being placed immediately beneath the Internal Oblique. It arises by fleshy fibres from the outer third of Poupart’s ligament, from the inner lip of the crest of the ilium, its anterior two thirds, from the inner surface of the cartilages of the six lower ribs, interdigitating with the Diaphragm, and by a broad aponeurosis from the spinous and transverse processes of the lumbar vertebras. The lower fibres curve downwards, and are inserted together with those of the Internal oblique, into the crest of the os pubis and pectineal line, forming what was before mentioned as the conjoined tendon of these muscles. Throughout the rest of its extent the fibres pass horizontally inwards, and near the outer margin of the Rectus, terminate in an aponeurosis, which is inserted into the linea alba; its upper three-fourths passing behind the Rectus muscle, blending with the posterior lamella of the Internal oblique; its lower fourth passing in front of the Rectus. Relations. By its external surface, with the Internal oblique, the inner surface