MUSCLES OF THE PERFNiEUM. 747 along the canal of the urethra. The middle fibres are supposed, by Krause, to assist in the erection of the corpus spongiosum, by compressing the erectile tissue of the bulb. The anterior fibres, according to Tyrrel, also contribute to the erection of the penis, as they are inserted into, and continuous with, the fascia penis, compressing the dorsal vein during the contraction of the muscle. 391.—The Superficial Muscles and Vessels of the Perinseum. Crt Sceero-Sciatic LLg Perinea / A rtrrif Superficial Perineal.Nerve Internal Pud*? Ner*z’e- Intarnal Puciic A rie rf The Erector Penis covers the unattached part of the crus penis. It is an elongated muscle, broader in the middle than at either extremity, and situated on either side of the lateral boundary of the perinseum. It arises by tendinous and fleshy fibres from the inner surface of the tuberosity of the ischium, behind the crus penis, from the surface of the crus, and from the adjacent portion of the ramus of the pubes. From these points, fleshy fibres succeed, which end in an aponeurosis which is inserted into the sides and under surface of the crus penis. This muscle compresses the crus penis, and thus serves to maintain this organ erect. The Transversus Perincei is a narrow muscular slip, which passes more or less transversely across the back part of the perinaeal space. It arises by a small tendon from the inner side of the ascending ramus of the ischium, and, passing obliquely forwards and inwards, is inserted into the central tendinous point of the perinreum, joining in this situation with the muscle of the opposite side, the Sphincter ani behind, and the Accelerator urinte in front. Between the muscles just examined, a triangular space exists, bounded internally by the Accelerator crime, externally by the Erector penis, the base corresponding to the Transversus perina:i. The floor of this space is formed by the triangular ligament of the urethra (deep perinatal fascia), and, running from behind forwards in it, are the superficial perin seal vessels and nerves, the transversus perinasi artery coursing along the posterior boundary of the space, resting upon the Transversus perinsei muscle.