OCCIPITAL; POSTERIOR AURICULAR; PHARYNGEAL. 345 being covered by the Sterno-mastoid, Splenius, Digastric, and Trachelo-mastoid muscles, resting upon the Complexus, Superior oblique, and Rectus posticus major muscles; it then ascends vertically upwards, piercing the cranial attachment of the Trapezius, and passes in a tortuous course over the occiput, as high as the vertex, where it divides into numerous branches. The branches given off from this vessel are, The muscular branches supply the Digastric, Stylo-hyoid, Sterno-mastoid, Splenius, and Trachelo-mastoid muscles. The branch distributed to the Sterno- mastoid is of large size. The auricular branch supplies the back part of the concha. The meningeal branch ascends with the internal jugular vein, and enters the skull through the foramen lacerum posterius, to supply the dura mater in the posterior fossa. The arteria princeps cervicis (fig. 212), is a large branch which descends along the back part of the neck, and divides into a superficial and deep branch. The former runs beneath the Splenius, giving off branches which perforate that muscle to supply the Trapezius, anastomosing with the superficial cervical artery; the latter passes beneath the Complexus, between it and the Semi-spinalis colli, and anastomoses with the vertebral, and deep cervical branch of the superior intercostal. The anastomosis between these vessels serves mainly to establish the collateral circulation after ligature of the carotid or subclavian artery. The cranial branches of the occipital artery are distributed upon the occiput; they are very tortuous, and lie between the integument and Occipito-frontalis, anastomosing with the artery of the opposite side, the posterior auricular, and temporal arteries. They supply the back part of the Occipito-frontalis muscle, the integument, pericranium, and one or two branches occasionally pass through the parietal or mastoid foramina, to supply the dura mater. The Posterior Auricular Artery (fig. 209) is a small vessel, which arises from the external carotid, above the Digastric and Stylo-hyoid muscles, opposite the apex of the styloid process. It ascends, under cover of the parotid gland, to the groove between the cartilage of the ear and the mastoid process, immediately above which it divides into two branches, an anterior, which passes forwards to anastomose with the posterior division of the temporal; and a posterior, which communicates with the occipital. Just before arriving at the mastoid process, this artery is crossed by the portio dura, and has beneath it the spinal accessory nerve. Besides several small branches to the Digastric, Stylo-hyoid, and Sterno-mas- toid muscles, and to the parotid gland, this vessel gives off two branches. The stylo-mastoid branch enters the stylo-mastoid foramen, and supplies the tympanum, mastoid cells, and semi-circular canals. In the young subject, a branch from this vessel forms, with the tympanic branch from the internal maxillary, a vascular circle, which surrounds the auditory meatus, and from which delicate vessels ramify on the membrana tympani. The auricular branch is distributed to the back part of the cartilage of the ear, upon which it minutely ramifies, some branches curving round its margin, others perforating the fibro-cartilage, to supply its anterior surface. The Ascending Pharyngeal Artery (fig. 212), the smallest branch of the external carotid, is a long slender vessel, deeply seated in the neck, beneath the other branches of the external carotid and Stylo-pharyngeus muscle. It arises from the back part of the external carotid, near the commencement of that vessel, and passes up to the under surface of the base of the skull, ascending the neck between the internal carotid and the side of the pharynx, and lying on the Muscular. Auricular. Inferior meningeal. Arteria princeps cervicis. Stylo-mastoid. Auricular.