POSTERIOR TIBIO-FIBULAR REGION. 3*3 POSTERIOR TlBIO-FlBULAR REGION. Deep Layer. Popliteus. Flexor Longus Digitorum. Flexor Longus Pollicis. Tibialis Posticus. Dissection. Detach the Soleus from its attachment to the fibula and tibia, and turn it downwards, when the deep layer of muscles is exposed, covered by the deep fascia of the leg. The deep fascia of the leg is a broad, transverse, intermuscular septum, inter- posed between the superficial and deep muscles in the posterior tibio-fibular re- gion. On each side it is connected to the margins of the tibia and fibula. Above, where it covers the Popliteus, it is thick and dense, and receives an expansion from the tendon of the Semi-membranosus; it is thinner in the middle of the leg; but below, where it covers the tendons passing behind the malleoli, it is thickened. It is continued onwards in the interval between the ankle and the heel, where it covers the vessels, and is .blended with the internal annular ligament. This fascia should now be removed, com- mencing from below opposite the tendons, and detaching it from the muscles in the direction of their fibres. The Popliteus is a thin, flat, triangular muscle, which forms the floor of the popliteal space, and is covered by a tendinous expansion, derived from the Semi-membranosus muscle. It arises by a strong flat tendon, about an inch in length; from a deep depression on the outer side of the external condyle of the femur; and from the posterior ligament of the knee-joint; and is inserted into the inner two-thirds of the triangular surface above the oblique line on the posterior surface of the shaft of the tibia, and into the tendinous expansion covering the sur- face of the muscle. The tendon of the muscle is covered by that of the Biceps and the external lateral ligament of the knee-joint; it grooves the outer surface of the external semi-lunar cartilage, and is invested by the synovial membrane of the knee-joint. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the fascia above mentioned, which separates it from the Gastrocnemius, Plantaris, popliteal vessels, and internal popliteal nerve. By its deep surface, with the superior tibio-fibular articulation, and back of the tibia. 193.—Muscles of the Back of the Leg. Deep Layers.