INFERIOR MAXILLARY BONE. 61 menti; and still more externally, a foramen, the mental foramen, for the passage of the mental nerve and artery. This foramen is placed just below the root of the second bicuspid tooth. Running outwards from the base of the mental process on each side, is a well marked ridge, the external oblique line. This ridge is at first nearly horizontal, but afterwards inclines upwards and backwards, and is continuous with the anterior border of the ramus; it affords attachment to the Depressor labii inferioris and Depressor anguli oris, below these the Platysma myoides is inserted. The external oblique line, and the internal or mylo-hyoidean line (to be afterwards described), divide the body of the bone iuto a superior or alveolar, and an inferior or basilar portion. 56.—Inferior Maxillary Bone. Outer Surface. Side View. The internal surface (fig. 57) is concave from side to side, convex from above downwards. In the middle line is an indistinct linear depression, corresponding to the symphysis externally; on either side of this depression, just below its centre, are four prominent tubercles, placed in pairs, two above and two below; they are called the genial tubercles, and afford attachment, the upper pair to the Genio-hyo- glossi muscles, the lower pair to the Genio-hyoidei muscles. Sometimes the tubercles on each side are blended into one, or they all unite into an irregular eminence of bone, or nothing but an irregularity may be seen on the surface of the bone at this part. On either side of the genial tubercles is an oval depression, the sublingual fossa, for lodging the sublingual gland; and beneath the fossa a rough depression on each side, which gives attachment to the anterior belly of the Digastric muscle. At the back part of the sublingual fossa, the internal oblique line (mylo-hyoidean) commences; it is at first faintly marked, but becomes more distinct as it passes upwards and outwards, and is especially prominent opposite the last two niolar teeth; it divides the lateral surface of the bone into two por- tions, and affords attachment throughout its whole extent to the Mylo-hyoid muscle, the Superior constrictor being attached above its posterior extremity, nearer the alveolar margin. The portion of bone above this ridge is smooth, and covered by the mucous membrane of the mouth; whilst that below it presents an oblong depression, the submaxillary fossa, wider behind than in front, for the lodgment of the submaxillary gland. The superior or alveolar border is wider, and its margins thicker behind than in front. It is hollowed into numerous cavities, for the reception of the teeth; these are sixteen in number, and vary in depth and size according to the teeth which they contain. The inferior border is rounded, longer than the superior, and thicker in front than behind; it presents