OSTEOLOGY. 122 converted, in the natural state, into a foramen by a dense ligamentous band which passes across it. Through this foramen, the nutrient vessels and nerves enter the joint. The obturator or thyroid foramen is a large aperture, situated between the ischium and pubes. In the male it is large, of an oval form, its longest diameter being obliquely from above downwards; in the female smaller, and more triangular. It is bounded by a thin uneven margin, to which a strong membrane is attached; and presents, at its upper and outer part, a deep groove, which runs from the pelvis obliquely forwards, inwards, and downwards. This groove is converted into a foramen by the obturator membrane, and transmits the obturator vessels and nerve. Structure. This bone consists of much cancellous tissue, especially where it is thick, enclosed between two layers of dense compact tissue. In the thinner parts of the bone, as at the bottom of the acetabulum, and centre of the iliac fossa, it is usually semi-transparent, and composed entirely of compact tissue. Development (fig. gg). By eight centres: three primary—one for the ilium, one The 3 Trimcry centres /unite (hrougJi YSha/itd fiieee}al)out JiuZrrfy JZyijohyscs ajryccvr about jjutorty, fa unite about 2,5^? year 99.—Plan of the Development of tho Os Innominatum. t 3 JPri-Tn ary fJitwnuTs c7iiumffa, jT'tC'icv) iiy sm ' tj. Se concha r tj for the ischium, and one for the pubes; and five secondary—one for the crest of the ilium its whole length, one for the anterior inferior spinous process (said to occur more frequently in the male than the female), one for the tuberosity of the ischium, one for the symphysis pubis (more frequent in the female than the male), and one for the Y-shaped piece at the bottom of the acetabulum. These various centres appear in the following order: First, in the ilium, at the lower part of the bone, immediately above the sciatic notch, at about the same period that the develop- ment of the vertebrae commences. Secondly, in the body of the ischium, at about the third month of foetal life. Thirdly, in the body of the pubes, between the fourth and fifth months. At birth, the three primary centres are quite separate; the crest, the bottom of the acetabulum, and the rami of the ischium and pubes, being still