100 OSTEOLOGY. 88.—Left Humerus. Posterior surface. to the interval between the radius and ulna. The internal border is thicker, more prominent, and consequently, of greater length than the external. The grooved portion of the articular surface fits accurately within the greater sigmoid cavi- ty of the ulna; it is broader and deeper on the posterior than on the anterior aspect of the bone, and is directed obliquely from behind forwards, and from without in- wards. Above the back part of the trochlear surface, is a deep triangular de- pression, the olecranon depression, in which is j-eceived the summit of the olecranon process in extension of the fore-arm. Above the front part of the trochlear surface, is seen a small depression, the coronoid de- pression ; it receives the coronoid process of the ulna during flexion of the fore- arm. These fossm are separated from one another by a thin transparent lamina of bone, which is sometimes perforated; their margins afford attachment to the anterior and posterior ligaments of the elbow joint, and they are lined in the recent state by the synovial membrane of this articula- tion. Above the front part of the radial tuberosity, is seen a slight depression which receives the anterior border of the head of the radius when the fore-arm is strongly flexed. The external condyle is a small tubercular eminence, less pro- minent than the internal, curved a little forwards, and giving attachment to the external lateral ligament of the elbow joint, and to a tendon common to the origin of some of the extensor and supi- nator muscles. The internal condyle, larger and more prominent than the ex- ternal, is directed a little backwards, it gives attachment to the internal lateral ligament, and to a tendon common to the origin of some of the flexor muscles of the fore-arm. These eminences are di- rectly continuous above with the external and internal borders. The greater pro- minence of the inner one renders it more liable to fracture. Structure. The extremities consist of cancellous tissue, covered with a thin compact layer; the shaft is composed of a cylinder of compact tissue, thicker at the centre than at the extremities, and hollowed out by a large medullary canal, which extends along its whole length. Development. By seven centres (fig. 89)i one for the shaft, one for (he head.