340 ARTERIES. Plan of the Relations of the External Carotid. In front. Integument, superficial fascia. Platysma and deep fascia. Hypoglossal nerve. Lingual and facial veins. Digastric and Stylo-hyoid muscles. Facial nerve and parotid gland. Temporal and maxillary veins. Internally. Hyoid bone. Pharynx. Parotid gland. Ramus of jaw. Behind. Superior Laryngeal nerve. Stylo-glossus. Stylo-pharyngeus. Glosso-pliaryngeal nerve. Parotid gland. Surgical Anatomy. The application of a ligature to the external carotid may be required in cases of wounds of this vessel, or of its branches when these cannot be tied; this, how- ever, is an operation very rarely performed, ligature of the common carotid being prefer- able, on account of the number of branches given off from the external. To tie this vessel near its origin, below the point where it is crossed by the Digastric, an incision about three inches in length should be made along the margin of the Sterno-mastoid, from the angle of the jaw to the cricoid cartilage, as in the operation for tying the common carotid. To tie the vessel above the Digastric, between it and the parotid gland, an incision should be made from the lobe of the ear to the great cornu of the os-hyoides, dividing successively the skin, Platysma, and fascia. By separating the posterior belly of the Digastric and Stylo-hyoid muscles which are seen at the lower part of the wound, from the parotid gland, the vessel will be exposed, and a ligature may be applied to it. Branches. The external carotid artery gives off eight branches, which, for convenience of description, may be divided into four sets. (See fig. 208, Plan of the Branches.) Anterior. Posterior. Ascending. Terminal. Superior thyroid. Occipital. Ascending pha- Temporal. Lingual. Posterior auricular. ryngeal. Internal maxillary. Facial. The student is here reminded that many variations are met with in the number, origin, and course of these branches in different subjects; but the above arrange- ment is that which is found in the great majority of cases. The Superior Thyroid Artery (figs. 207 and 212), is the first branch given off from the external carotid, being derived from that vessel just below the greater cornu of the hyoid bone. At its commencement, it is quite superficial, being covered by the integument, fascia, and Platysma, and is contained in the trian- gular space bounded by the Sterno-mastoid, Digastric, and Omo-hyoid muscles. After ascending upwards and inwards for a short distance, it curves downwards and forwards in an arched and tortuous manner to the upper part of the thyroid gland, passing beneath the Omo-hyoid, Sterno-liyoid, and Sterno-thyroid muscles; and distributes numerous branches to its anterior surface, anastomosing with its fellow of the opposite side, and with the inferior thyroid arteries. Besides the arteries distributed to the muscles and substance of the gland, its branches are the following. Hyoid. Superior laryngeal. Superficial descending branch. Crico-thyroid. The hyoid is a small branch which runs along the lower border of the os hyoides, beneath the Thyro-hyoid muscle; after supplying the muscles connected to that bone, it forms an arch, by anastomosing with the vessel of the opposite side. The superficial descending branch runs downwards and outwards across the sheath of the common carotid artery, and supplies the Sterno-mastoid and neigh- bouring muscles and integument. It is of importance that the situation of this vessel be remembered, in the operation for tying the common carotid artery.