INFERIOR MAXILLARY BONE. 63 alveolar process; this ridge and part of the groove afford attachment, above, to the Temporal; below, to the Buccinator muscle. The Condyloid Process, shorter but thicker than the coronoid, consists of two portions: the condyle, and the constricted portion which supports the condyle, the neck. The condyle is of an oblong form, its long axis being transverse, and set obliquely on the neck in such a manner that its outer end is a little more forward and a little higher than its inner. It is convex from before backwards, and from side to side, the articular surface extending further on the posterior than on the anterior surface. The neck of the condyle is flattened from before backwards, and strengthened by ridges which descend from the fore part and sides of the condyle. Its lateral margins are narrow, and present externally a tubercle for the external lateral ligament. Its posterior surface is convex; its anterior is hollowed out on its inner side by a depression (the pterygoid fossa) for the attach- ment of the External pterygoid. The lower border of the ramus is thick, straight, and continuous Avith the body of the bone. At its junction Avitli the posterior border is the angle of the jaAv, which is either inverted or everted, and marked by rough oblique ridges on each side for the attachment of the Masseter externally, and the Internal pterygoid internally; and, between them, serving for the attach- ment of the stylo-maxillary ligament. The anterior border is thin above, thicker below, and continuous with the external oblique line. The posterior border is thick, smooth, rounded, and covered by the parotid gland. The Sigmoid Notch, separating the two processes, is a deep semilunar depression, crossed by the masseteric artery and nerve. Development. This bone is formed at such an early period of life, before, indeed, any other bone excepting the clavicle, that it has been found impossible at present to determine its earliest condition. It appears probable, however, that it is deve- loped by two centres, one for each lateral half, the tAvo segments meeting at the symphysis, where they become united. Additional centres have also been described for the coronoid process, the condyle, the angle, and the thin plate of bone which forms the inner side of the alveolus. Changes produced in the Lower Jaav by Age. The changes Avhich the Lower Jaw undergoes after birth, relate— 1. To the alterations effected in the body of the bone by the first and second dentitions, the los3 of the teeth in the aged, and the subsequent absorption of the alveoli. 2. To the size and situation of the dental canal; and, 3. To the angle at which the ramus joins Avith the body. At birth (fig. 58), the bone consists of tAvo lateral halves, united by fibro-cartilaginous tissue, in Avhich one or two osseous nuclei are generally found. The body is a mere shell of bone, containing the sockets of the tAvo incisor, the canine, and the first molar teeth, im- perfectly partitioned from one another. The dental canal is of large size, and runs near the lower border of the bone, the mental foramen opening beneath the socket of the first molar. The angle is obtuse, from the jaws not being as yet separated by the eruption of the teeth. After birth (fig. 59), the two segments of the bone become joined at the symphysis, from below upwards, in the first year; but a trace of separation may be visible in the beginning of the second year, near the aReolar margin. The body becomes elongated in its whole length, but more especially behind the mental foramen, to provide space for the three additional teeth developed in this part. The depth of the body becomes greater, owing to increased growth of the alveolar part, to afford room for the fangs of the teeth, and by thickening of the subdental portion which enables the jaw to withstand the powerful action of the masticatory muscles; but the alveolar portion is the deeper of the two, and, conse- quently, the chief part of the body lies above the oblique line. The dental canal, after the second dentition, is situated just above the level of the mylo-hyoid ridge ; and the mental foramen occupies the position usual to it in the adult. The augle becomes less obtuse, owing to the separation of the jaws by the teeth. In the adult (fig. 60), the alveolar and basilar portions of the body are usually of equal depth. The mental foramen opens midway between the upper and lower border of the bone, and the dental canal runs nearly parallel with the mylo-hyoid line. The ramus is almost vertical in direction, and joins the body nearly at right angles. In old age (fig. 61), the bone becomes greatly reduced in size; for, with the loss of the teeth, the alveolar process is absorbed, and the basilar part of the bone alone remains; consequently, the chief part of the bone is beloiv the oblique line. The dental canal, Avith the mental foramen opening from it, is close to the alveolar border. The rami are oblique in direction, and the angle obtuse.