303 INTERNAL FEMORAL REGION. ? 9.—Dissection of Lower Extremity. Posterior View. 1 . Dissection of CLUTEAL RECION mmediately behind it; from the posterior surface of the last piece of the sacrum, he side of the coccyx, and posterior surface of the great sacro-sciatic and >osterior sacro-iliac ligaments. The fibres tre directed obliquely downwards and out- vards; those forming the upper and larger >ortion of the muscle (after converging some- vliat) terminate in a thick tendinous lamina, vhich passes across the great trochanter, and s inserted into the fascia lata covering the iuter side of the thigh, the lower portion of lie muscle being inserted into the rough line eading from the great trochanter to the linea ispera, between the Vastus externus and Ad- luctor magnus. Three synovial bursa are usually found se- larating the under surface of this muscle from he eminences which it covers. One of these, >f large size, and generally multilocular, sepa- rates it from the great trochanter. A second, >ften wanting, is situated on the tuberosity of he ischium. A third, between the tendon of his muscle and the Vastus externus. Relations. By its superficial surface, with 1 thin fascia, which separates it from cellular nembrane, fat, and the integument. By its deep surface, from above downwards, with the ilium, sacrum, coccyx, and great sacro- sciatic ligament, part of the Gluteus medius, Pyriformis, Gemelli, Obturator internus, Quadratus femoris, the tuberosity of the ischium, great trochanter, the origin of the Biceps, Semi-tendinosus, Semi-membranosus, and Adductor magnus muscles, the gluteal vessels and nerve are seen issuing from the pelvis above the Pyriformis muscle, the ischiatic and internal pudic vessels and nerves, and the nerve to the Obturator internus muscle below it. Its upper border is thin, and connected with the Gluteus medius by the fascia lata. Its lower border, free and prominent, forms the fold of the nates, and is directed towards the perineum. 3 . back <f THICB POPLITEAL SPACE y. . BACK tf LEG 5 ■ SOLE <y FOOT Dissection. The Gluteus maximus should now be divided near its origin by a vertical incision carried from its upper to its lower border: a cellular interval will be exposed, separating it from the Gluteus medius and External rotator muscles beneath. The upper portion of the muscle should be altogether detached, and the lower portion turned out- wards ; the loose areolar tissue filling up the interspace between the trochanter major and tuberosity of the ischium being removed, the parts already enumerated as exposed by the removal of this muscle will be seen. The Gluteus Medius is a broad, thick, radiated muscle, situated on the outer surface of the pelvis. Its posterior third is covered by the Gluteus maximus; its anterior two-thirds are covered by the fascia lata, which separates it from the integument. It arises from the outer surface of the ilium, between the superior and middle curved lines, and from the outer lip of that portion of the crest which is between them; it also arises from the dense fascia covering its anterior part. The fibres converge to a strong flattened tendon, which is inserted into the oblique line which traverses the outer surface of the great trochanter. A synovial bursa