721 FALLOPIAN TUBE; OVARY. They are oval-shaped bodies, of an elongated form, flattened from above downwards, situated one on each side of the uterus in the posterior part of the broad ligament, behind and below the Fallopian tubes. Each ovary is connected, by its anterior margin, with the broad ligament ; by its inner extremity to the uterus by a proper ligament, the ligament of the ovary; and by its outer end to the fimbriated 376.—The Uterus and its Appendages. Anterior View. if th roufjlt. extremity of the Fallopian tube by a short ligamentous cord. The ovaries are of a whitish colour, and present either a smooth or puckered uneven surface. They are each about an inch and a half in length, three-quarters of an inch in width, and jabout a third of an inch thick; and weigh from one to two drachms. The surfaces and posterior convex border are free, the anterior straight border being attached to the broad ligament. Structure. The ovary is invested by peritoneum, excepting along its anterior attached margin; beneath this, is the proper fibrous covering of the organ, the tunica albuginea, which is extremely i dense and firm in structure, and encloses a peculiar soft fibrous tissue, or stroma, abundantly supplied with blood-vessels (fig. 377). Imbedded in the meshes of j this tissue are numerous small, round, I! transparent vesicles in various stages of I development; they are the Graafian ve- I sides, the ovisacs containing the ova. In women who have not borne children, I they vary, in number, from ten to fifteen I or twenty; and, in size, from a pin’s heat ! shown, that a large number of microscopic organ, few of which produce ova. These and are filled with a clear, colourless, albuminous fluid. The Graafian vesicles are, during their early development, small, and deeply seated in the substance of the ovary; as they enlarge, they approach the surface; and, I when mature, form small projections on I the exterior of the ovary beneath the I peritoneum. Each vesicle consists of an I external fibro-vascular coat, connected with I the surrounding stroma of the ovary hjr 377.—Section of the Ovary of a Virgin, shewing the Stroma and Graafian Vesicles. I to a pea; but Dr. Martin Barry has ovisacs exist in the parenchyma of the vesicles have thin, transparent walls, 378.—Section of the Graafian Vesicle. After Von Baer.