166 ARTICULATIONS. 2. Those which connect the neck and tubercle of the ribs with the transverse processes. i. Articulation between the Heads of the Ribs and tiie Bodies of the Vertebrae. These constitute a series of angular ginglymoid joints, formed by the articula- tion of the heads of the ribs with the cavities on the contiguous margins of the bodies of the dorsal vertebras, connected together by the following ligaments:— Anterior Costo-vertebral or Stellate. Capsular. Inter-articular. The Anterior Costo-vertebral or Stellate Ligament (fig. 124) connects the an- terior part of the head of each rib, with the sides of the bodies of the vertebrae, and the intervening interverte- bral disc. It consists of three flat bundles of li- gamentous fibres, which radiate from the ante- rior part of the head of the rib. The superior fas- ciculus passes upwards to be connected with the body of the vertebra above; the inferior one descends to the body of the vertebra below; and the middle one, the smallest and least dis- tinct, passes horizontally inwards to he attached to the intervertebral substance. Relations. In front, with the thoracic ganglia of the sympathetic, the pleura, and, on the right side, with the vena azygos major; behind, with the inter-articular ligament and synovial membranes. In the first rib, which articulates with a single vertebra only, this ligament does not present a distinct division into three fasciculi; its superior fibres, however, pass to be attached to the body of the last cervical vertebra, as well as to the body of the vertebra with which the rib articulates. In the eleventh and twelfth ribs, which also articulate with a single vertebra, the same division does not exist; but the upper fibres of the ligament, in each case, are connected with the vertebra above, as well as to that with which the ribs articulate. The Capsular Ligament is a thin and loose ligamentous bag, which surrounds the joint between the head of the rib and the articular cavity formed by the junc- tion of the vertebrae. It is very thin, firmly connected with the anterior ligament, and most distinct at the upper and lower parts of the articulation. The Inter-articular Ligament is situated in the interior of the joint. It consists of a short band of fibres, flattened from above downwards, attached by one extremity to the sharp crest on the head of the rib, and by the other to the intervertebral disc. It divides the joint into two cavities, which have no communication with one another, and are each lined by a separate synovial membrane. In the first, 124..—Costo-vertebral and Costo-transverse Articulations. Anterior View.