6o6 ORGANS OF SENSE. an inch from before backwards, as well as from above downwards, being narrower from without inwards. On its outer, or ti/mpanic wall, is the fenestra ovalis, closed, in the recent state, by the base of the stapes, and its annular ligament. On its inner wall, at its fore part, is a small circular depression, fovea hemisphe- rica ; it is perforated, at its anterior and inferior part, by several minute holes {macula cribrosa), for the passage of filaments of the auditory nerve; and behind it is a vertical ridge, the pyramidal eminence. At the hinder part of the inner wall is the orifice of the aqueductus vestibuli, which extends to the posterior sur- face of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. It transmits a small vein, and, 3*6.—The Osseous Labyrinth, laid open. (Enlarged.) according to some, contains a tubular prolongation of the lining membrane of the vestibule, which ends in a cul-de-sac, between the layers of the dura mater within the cranial cavity. On the upper wall, or roof is a transversely-oval depression, fovea semi-elliptica, separated from the fovea hemisplierica by the pyramidal eminence, already mentioned. Behind, the semicircular canals open into the vestibule by five orifices. In front is a large oval opening which communicates with the scala vestibuli of the cochlea by a single orifice, aperlura scales vestibuli cochlece. The Semicircular canals are three bony canals, situated above and behind the vestibule. They are of unequal length, compressed from side to side, and describe the greater part of a circle. They measure about one-twentieth of an inch in diameter, and each presents a dilatation at one end, called the ampulla, which measures more than twice the diameter of the tube. These canals open into the vestibule by five orifices, one of the apertures being common to two of the canals. The superior semicircular canal is vertical in direction, its arch forming a round projection on the anterior surface of the petrous bone. It forms about two- thirds of a circle. Its outer extremity, which is ampullated, commences by a distinct orifice in the upper part of the vestibule; the opposite end of the canal, which is not dilated, joins with the corresponding part of the posterior canal, and opens by a common orifice with it in the back part of the vestibule. The posterior semicircular canal, also vertical in direction, is directed back- wards to the posterior surface of the petrous bone : it is the longest of the three,