CRANIAL NERVES. 506 It is a rather large nerve, of rounded form and firm texture, having its apparent origin from the inner surface of the crus cerebri, immediately in front of the pons Varolii. The deep origin may be traced into the substance of the crus, where some of its fibres are connected with the locus niger; others run downwards, among the longitudinal fibres of the pons; whilst others ascend, to be connected with the tubercula quadrigemina, and valve of Vieussens. According to Stilling, the fibres of the nerve pierce the peduncle and locus niger, and arise from a grey nucleus in the floor of the aqueduct of Sylvius. On emerging from the brain, it is invested in a sheath of pia mater, and enclosed in a prolongation from the arachnoid. It then pierces the dura mater on the outer side of the anterior clinoid process, where its serous covering is reflected from it, and passes along the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, above the other orbital nerves, receiving in its course one or two filaments from the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic. It then divides into two branches, which enter the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure, between the two heads of the External rec- tus muscle. On passing through the fissure, the nerve is placed below the fourth, and the frontal and lachrymal branches of the ophthalmic nerve. The superior division, the smaller, passes inwards across the optic nerve, and supplies the Superior rectus and Levator palpebras. The inferior divisioji, the larger, divides into three branches. One passes beneath the optic nerve to the Internal rectus; another to the Inferior rectus; and the third, the largest of the three, passes forwards be- tween the Inferior and Ex- ternal recti, to the Inferior oblique. From the latter, a short, thick branch is given off to the lower part of the lenticular ganglion, forming its inferior root, as well as two filaments to the Inferior rectus. All these branches enter the muscles on their ocular surface. The Fourth, or trochlear nerve, the smallest of the cranial nerves, supplies the Superior oblique muscle. It arises from the upper.part of the valve of Vieussens, immediately behind the testis, and divides beneath the corpora quadri- I gemina, into two fasciculi; the anterior one arising from a nucleus of grey matter, close to the middle line of the floor of the Sylvian aqueduct; the posterior one jf from a grey nucleus, at the upper part of the floor of the fourth ventricle, close to the origin of the fifth nerve. The two nerves are connected together at their 275.—Nerves of the Orbit. Seen from above. Fourth Nerve.