NERVOUS SYSTEM. 468 The Sympathetic nerve consists of tubular and gelatinous fibres, intermixed with a varying proportion of filamentous areolar tissue, and enclosed in a sheath formed of fibro-areolar tissue. The tubular fibres are, for the most part, smaller than those composing the cerebro-spinal nerves; their double contour is less distinct, and, according to Remak, they present nuclei similar to those found in the gelatinous nerve-fibres. Those branches of the sympathetic which present a well-marked grey colour, are composed more especially of gelatinous nerve-fibres, intermixed with few tubular fibres; whilst those of a white colour contain more of the tubular fibres, and few gelatinous. Occasionally the grey and Avliite cords run together in a single nerve, without any intermixture, as in the branches of communication between the sympathetic ganglia and the spinal nerves, or in the communicating cords between the ganglia. The nerve-fibres both of the cerebro-spinal and sympathetic system convey impressions of a twofold kind. The sensitive nerves, called also centripetal or afferent nerves, transmit impressions made upon their peripheral extremities to the nervous centres, and in this way the mind, through the medium of the brain, becomes conscious of external objects. The motor nerves, called also centrifugal or efferent nerves, transmit impressions from the nervous centres to the parts to which the nerves are distributed, these impressions either exciting muscular con- tractions, or infiuencing the processes of nutrition, growth, and secretion. The Cerebro-Spinal Centre consists of two parts, the spinal cord and the ence- phalon : the latter may be subdivided into the cerebrum, the cerebellum, the pons Varolii, and the medulla oblongata. The Spinal Cord and its Membranes. Dissection. To dissect the cord and its membranes, it will be necessary to lay open the whole length of the spinal canal" For this purpose, the muscles must be separated from the vertebral grooves, so as to expose the spinous processes and laminse of the vertebras; and the latter must be sawn through on each side, close to the roots of the transverse processes, from the third or fourth cervical vertebra, above, to the sacrum below. The vertebral arches having been displaced, by means of a chisel, and the separate fragments removed, the dura mater will be exposed, covered by a plexus of veins and a quantity of loose areolar tissue, often infiltrated with a serous fluid. The arches of the upper vertebrae are best divided by means of a strong pair of forceps. Membranes of the Cord. The membranes which envelope the spinal cord are three in number. The most external is the dura mater, a strong fibrous membrane, which forms a loose sheath around the cord. The most internal is the pia mater, a cellulo-vascular membrane, which closely invests the entire surface of the cord. Between the two, is the arachnoid membrane, an intermediate serous sac, which envelopes the cord, and is then reflected on the inner surface of the dura mater. The Dura Mater of the cord, continuous with that which invests the brain, is a loose sheath which surrounds it, being separated from the bony walls of the spinal canal by a quantity of loose areolar adipose tissue, and a plexus of veins. It is attached to the circumference of the foramen magnum, and to the posterior common ligament, throughout the whole length of the spinal canal, by fibrous tissue; and extends, below, as far as the top of the sacrum; but, beyond this point, it is impervious, being continued, in the form of a slender cord, to the back of the coccyx, where it blends with the periosteum. This sheath is much larger than is necessary for its contents, and its size is greater in the cervical and lumbar regions, than in the dorsal. Its inner surface is smooth, covered by a layer of polygonal cells; and on each side may be seen the double openings which trans- mit the two roots of the corresponding spinal nerve, the fibrous layer of the dura