MUSCLES AND FASCIAE. 310 The Extensor Proprius Pollicis is a thin, elongated, and flattened muscle, situated between the Tibialis anticus and Extensor longus digitorum. It arises from the anterior surface of the fibula for about the middle two-fourths of its extent, its origin being internal to the Extensor longus digitorum; it also arises from the interosseous membrane to a similar extent. The fibres pass downwards, and terminate in a tendon, which occupies the anterior border of the muscle, passes through a distinct compartment in the annular ligament, and is inserted into the base of the last phalanx of the great toe. Opposite the metatarso-phalangeal articulation, the tendon gives olf a thin prolongation on each side, which covers its surface. Relations. By its anterior border, with the deep fascia, and the anterior annu- lar ligament. By its posterior border, with the interosseous membrane, fibula, tibia, ankle-joint, and Extensor brevis digitorum. By its outer side, with the Extensor longus digitorum above, the dorsalis pedis vessels and anterior tibia! nerve below. By its inner side, with the Tibialis anticus, and the anterior tibia! vessels above. The Extensor Longus Digitorum is an elongated, flattened, semi-penniform muscle, situated the most externally of all the muscles on the fore-part of the leg. It arises from the outer tuberosity of the tibia; from the upper three-fourths of the anterior surface of the shaft of the fibula; from the interosseous membrane, and deep fascia; and from the intermuscular septa between it and the Tibialis anticus on the inner, and the Peronei on the outer side. The muscle terminates in three tendons, which pass through a canal in the annular ligament, with the Peroneus ter tins, run across the dorsum of the foot, and, the innermost tendon having sub- divided into two, they are inserted into the second and third phalanges of the four lesser toes. The mode in which the tendons are inserted, is the following: Each tendon opposite the metatarso-phalangeal articulation is joined, on its outer side, by the tendon of the Extensor brevis digitorum (except the fourth), and receives a fibrous expansion from the Interossei and Lumbricales; it then spreads into a broad aponeurosis, which covers the dorsal surface of the first phalanx: this apo- neurosis, at the articulation of the first with the second phalanx, divides into three slips, a middle one, which is inserted into the base of the second phalanx; and two lateral slips, which, after uniting on the dorsal surface of the second phalanx, are continued onwards, to be inserted into the base of the third. Relations. By its anterior surface, with the deep fascia, and the annular liga- ment. By its posterior surface, with the fibula, interosseous ^nembrane, ankle- joint, and Extensor brevis digitorum. By its inner side, with the Tibialis anticus, Extensor proprius pollicis, and anterior tibial vessels and nerve. By its outer side, with the Peroneus longus and brevis. / The Peroneus Tertius may be considered as part of the Extensor longus digi- torum, being almost always intimately united with it. It arises from the lower fourth of the anterior surface of the fibula, on its outer side; from the lower part of the interosseous membrane; and from an intermuscular sep turn net ween it and the Peroneus brevis. Its tendon, after passing through the same canal in the annular ligament as the Extensor longus digitorum, is inserted into the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe, on its dorsal surface. This muscle is sometimes wanting. Nerves. These muscles are supplied by the anterior tibial nerve. Actions. The Tibialis anticus and Peroneus tertius are the direct flexors of the tarsus upon the leg; the former muscle, from the oblicpiity in the direction of its tendon, raises the inner border of the foot; and the latter, acting with the Peroneus brevis and longus, will draw the outer border of the foot upwards, and the sole outwards. The Extensor longus digitorum and Extensor proprius pollicis extend the phalanges of the toes, and, continuing their action, flex the tarsus upon the leg. Taking their origin from below, in the erect posture, all these muscles serve to fix the bones of the leg in a perpendicular direction, and give increased strength to the ankle-joint.