OSTEOLOGY. 24 21.—Lateral View of Spine. VL Lumbar. 1. Dorsal. articulation, and terminates at the point of the coccyx. It is concave posteriorly. These curves are partly due to the shape of the bodies of the vertebrae, and partly to the intervertebral substances, as will ,be explained in the Articulations of the Spine. The spine has also a slight lateral curvature, the convexity of which is di- rected toward the right side. This is most probably produced, as Bichat first explained, from the effect of muscular action; most persons using the right arm in preference to the left, especially in making long-continued efforts, when the body is curved to the right side. In support of this explanation, it has been found, by Beclard, that in one or two in- dividuals who were left-handed, the lateral curvature was directed to the left side. The spinal column presents for exami- nation an anterior, a posterior, and two lateral surfaces; a base, summit, and ver- tebral canal. The anterior surface presents the bodies of the vertebras separated in the recent state by the intervertebral discs. The bodies arc broad in the cervical re- gion, narrow in the upper part of the dorsal, and broadest in the lumbar region. The whole of this surface is convex transversely, concave from above down- wards in the dorsal region, and convex in the same direction in the cervical and lumbar regions. The posterior surface presents in the median line the spinous processes. These are short, horizontal, with bifid extremi- ties in the cervical region. In the dorsal region, they are directed obliquely above, assume almost a vertical direction in the middle, and are horizontal, like the spines of the lumbar vertebras, below. They are separated by considerable intervals in the loins, by narrower intervals in the neck, and are closely approximated in the middle of the dorsal region. Oc- casionally one of these processes deviates a little from the median line, a fact to be remembered, as irregularities of this sort are attendant on fractures or dis- placements of the spine. On either side of the spinous processes, extending the whole length of the column, is the vertebral groove, formed by the lamina3 in the cer- vical and lumbar regions, where it is shal- low, and by the laminas and transverse