377 SURGICAL ANATOMY OF BRACHIAL ARTERY. the muscle outwards, the artery should be separated from its accompanying veins and secured. In this situation the inferior profunda may be mistaken for the main trunk, especially if enlarged, from the collateral circulation having become established; this may be avoided by directing the incision externally towards the Biceps rather than inwards or backwards towards the Triceps. The lower part of the brachial artery is of extreme interest in a surgical point of view, on account of the relation which it bears to those veins most commonly opened in vene- section. Of these vessels, the median basilic is the largest and most prominent, and, con- sequently, the one usually selected for the operation. It should be remembered, that this vein runs parallel with the brachial artery, from which it is separated by the bicipital fascia, and that iu no case should this vessel be selected for venesection, except in a part which is not in contact with the artery. Collateral Circulation. After the application of a ligature to the brachial artery in the upper third of the arm, the circulation is carried on by branches from the circumflex and subscapular arteries, anastomosing with ascending branches from the superior profunda. If the brachial is tied below the origin of the profunda arteries the circulation is maintained by the branches of the profundse, anastomosing with the recurrent radial, ulnar, and inter- osseus arteries. In two cases described by Mr. South,* in which the brachial artery had been tied some time previously, in one‘a long portion of the artery had been obliterated, and sets of vessels are descending on either side from above the obliteration, to be received into others which ascend in a similar manner from below it. In the other, the obliteration is less extensive, and a single curved artery about as big as a crow-quill passes from the upper to the lower open part of the artery.’ The branches of the brachial artery are the Superior profunda. Inferior profunda. Nutrient artery. Anastomotica magna. Muscular. The superior profunda arises from the inner and back part of the brachial, opposite the lower border of the Teres major, and passes backwards to the interval between the outer and inner heads of the Triceps muscle, accompanied by the musculo-spiral nerve; it winds round the back part of the shaft of the humerus in the spiral groove, between the Triceps and the bone, and descends on the outer side of the arm to the space between the Brachialis anticus, and Supinator longus, as far as the elbow, where it anastomoses with the recurrent branch of the radial artery. It supplies the Deltoid, Coraco-brachialis, and Triceps muscles, and whilst in the groove, between the Triceps and the bone, it gives off the posterior articular artery, which descends perpendicularly between the Triceps and the bone, to the back part of the elbow-joint, where it anastomo- ses with the interosseous recurrent branch, and, on the inner side of the arm, with the posterior ulnar recurrent, and with the anastomotica magna or inferior profunda (fig. 22l). The nutrient artery of the shaft of the humerus arises from the brachial, about the middle of the arm. Passing downwards, it enters the nutritious canal of that bone, near the insertion of the Coraco-brachialis muscle. The inferior profunda, of small size, arises from the brachial, a little below the middle of the arm; piercing the internal intermuscular septum, it descends on the surface of the inner head of the Triceps muscle, to the space between the inner condyle and olecranon, accompanied by the ulnar nerve, and terminates by anastomosing with the posterior ulnar recurrent, and anastomotica magna. The anastomotica magna arises from the brachial, about two inches above the elbow-joint. It passes transversely inwards upon the Brachialis anticus, and piercing the internal intermuscular septum, winds round the back part of the humerus, between the Triceps and the bone, forming an arch above the olecranon fossa, by its junction with the posterior articular branch of the superior profunda. As this vessel lies on the Brachialis anticus, an offset passes between the internal condyle and olecranon, which anastomoses with the inferior profunda and posterior ulnar recurrent arteries. Other branches ascend to join the inferior profunda; and some descend in front of the inner condyle, to anastomose witli the anterior ulnar recurrent. The muscular are three or four large branches, which are distributed to the * Chelius’ Surgery, p. 254.