259 DIAPHRAGMATIC REGION. The liyamentum arcuatum externum is the thickened upper margin of the anterior lamella of the transversalis fascia; it arches across the upper part of the Quadratus lumborum, being attached, by one extremity, to the front of the trans- verse process of the second lumbar vertebra; and, by the other, to the apex and lower margin of the last rib. To the spine, the Diaphragm is connected by two crura, which are situated on the bodies of the lumbar vertebra, one on each side of the aorta. The crura, at their origin, are tendinous in structure; the right crus, larger and longer than the left, arising from the anterior surface of the bodies and intervertebral substances of the second, third, and fourth lumbar vertebra; the left, from the second and third; both branding with the anterior common ligament of the spine. A tendinous arch is thrown across the front of the vertebral column, from the tendon of one crus to that of the other, beneath which passes the aorta, vena azygos major, and thoracic duct. The tendons terminate in two Thrge fleshy bellies, which, with the tendinous portions above alluded to, are called the crura, or pillars of the dia- phragm. The outer fasciculi of the two crura are directed upwards and outwards to the central tendon; but the inner fasciculi decussate in front of the aorta, and then diverge, so as to surround the oesophagus before ending in the central tendon. The most anterior and larger of these fasciculi is formed by the right crus. The Central or Cordiform Tendon of the Diaphragm is a thin tendinous apo- neurosis, situated at the centre of the vault of this muscle, immediately beneath the pericardium, with which its circumference is blended. It is shaped somewhat like a trefoil leaf, consisting of three divisions, or leaflets, separated from one another by slight indentations. The right leaflet is the largest; the middle one, directed towards the ensiform cartilage, the next in size; and the left, the smallest. In structure, it is composed of several planes of fibres, which intersect one another at various angles, and unite into straight or curved bundles, an arrangement which affords additional strength to the tendon. The Openings connected with the Diaphragm, are three large and several smaller apertures. The former are the aortic, oesophageal, and the opening for the vena cava. The aortic opening is the lowest and the most posterior of the three large aper- tures connected with this muscle. It is situated in the middle line, immediately in front of the bodies of the vertebra; and is, therefore, behind the Diaphragm, not in it. It is an osseo-aponeurotic aperture, formed by a tendinous arch thrown across the front of the bodies of the vertebras, from the crus on one side to that on the other, and transmits the aorta, vena azygos major, thoracic duct, and occa- sionally the left sympathetic nerve. The oesophageal opening, elliptical in form, muscular in structure, and formed by the two crura, is placed above, and, at the same time, anterior, and a little to the left of the preceding. It transmits the oesophagus and pneumogastric nerves. The anterior margin of this aperture is occasionally tendinous, being formed by the margin of the central tendon. The opening for the vena cava is the highest; it is quadrilateral in form, ten- dinous in structure, and placed at the junction of the right and middle leaflets of the central tendon, its margins being bounded by four bundles of tendinous fibres, which meet at right angles. The right crus transmits the sympathetic and the greater and lesser splanchnic nerves of the right side; the left crus, the greater and lesser splanchnic nerves of the left side, and the vena azygos minor. The Serous Membranes in relation with the Diaphragm, are four in number: three lining its upper or thoracic surface; one its abdominal. The three serous membranes on its upper surface are the pleura on either side, and the serous layer of the pericardium, which covers the middle portion of the tendinous centre. The serous membrane covering its under surface, is a portion of the general peritoneal membrane of the abdominal cavity.