ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 648 from the liver the superfluous blood; and the bile duct carries from the liver the bile secreted by the hepatic cells. The hepatic cells form the chief mass of each lobule: they are of a more or less spheroidal form; but may be rounded, flattened, or many-sided, from mutual compression. They vary in size from the -j-o^th to the ^(tl) of an inch in diameter, and contain a distinct nucleus in the interior, or even sometimes two. In the nucleus is a highly refracting nucleolus, with granules. The cell-contents are viscid, and contain yellow particles, the colouring matter of the bile, and oil globules. The cells adhere together by their surfaces, so as to form rows, which radiate from the centre towards the circumference of the lobule. These cells are probably the chief agents in the secretion of the bile. Biliary ducts. The precise mode of origin of the biliary ducts is uncertain. Mr. Kiernan’s original view, confirmed as it is by the researches of Dr. Beale, shows that the ducts commence within the lobules, in a plexiform network (lobular biliary plexus), in which the hepatic cells lie. According to Henle, Handheld Jones, and Kblliker, the cells are packed in the interspaces of the capillary plexus, and, by means of temporary communications, transmit their contents into the minute bile ducts which originate in the spaces between the lobules, never entering within them. The ducts form a plexus (interlobular) between the lobules; and the interlobular branches unite into vaginal branches, which lie in the portal canals, with branches of the portal vein and hepatic duct. The ducts finally join into two large trunks which leave the liver at the trans- verse fissure, and these joining form the hepatic duct. The Portal vein, on entering the liver at the transverse fissure, divides into primary branches, which are contained in the portal canals, together with branches of the hepatic artery and duct, and the nerves and lymphatics. In the larger portal canals, the vessels are separated from the parietes, and joined to each other, by a loose cellular web, the capsule of Glisson. The veins, as they lie in the portal canals, give off vaginal branches, which form a plexus (vaginal plexus) in Glisson’s capsule. From this plexus, and from the portal vein itself, small branches are given off, which pass between the lobules (interlobular veins); these cover the entire surface of the lobules, excepting their bases. The lobular branches are derived from the interlobular veins: they penetrate into the lobule, and form a capillary plexus within them. From this plexus the intralobular vein arises. The Hepatic artery appears destined chiefly for the nutrition of the coats of the large vessels, the ducts, and the investing membranes of the liver. It enters the the liver at the transverse fissure, with the portal vein and hepatic duct, and ramifies with these vessels through the portal canals. It gives off vaginal branches, which ramify in the capsule of Glisson; and other branches, which are distributed to the coats of the vena portae and hepatic duct. From the vaginal plexus, inter- lobular branches are given oft’, which ramify through the interlobular fissures, a few branches being distributed to the lobules. Kiernan supposes, that the branches of the hepatic artery terminate in a capillary plexus, which communicates with the branches of the vena portae. The Hepatic veins commence in the interior of each lobule by a plexus, the branches of which converge to form the intralobular vein. The intralobular vein passes through the centre of the lobule, and leaves it at its base to terminate in a sub-lobular vein. 3+5- A transverse section of a small portal canal and its vessels, after Kiernan. 1. Portal vein ; 2. inter- lobular branches ; 3. branches of the vein, termed, by Mr. Kiernan, vaginal, also giving off inter- lobular branches; 4. hepatic duct; 5. hepatic artery.