107 RADIUS. The Shaft of the bone is prismoid in form, narrower above than below, and slightly curved, so as to be convex outwards. It presents three surfaces, separated by three borders. The anterior border extends from the lower part of the tuberosity above, to the anterior part of the base of the styloid process below. It separates the anterior from the external surface. Its upper third is very prominent; and, from its oblique direction, downwards and outwards, has received the name of the oblique line of the radius. It gives attachment, externally, to the Supinator brevis ; internally, to the Flexor longus pollicis, and between these to the Flexor digito- rum sublimis. The middle third of the anterior border is indistinct and rounded. Its lower fourth is sharp, prominent, affords attachment to the Pronator quadra- tes, and terminates in a small tubercle, into which is inserted the tendon of the Supinator longus. The posterior border commences above, at the back part of the neck of the radius, and terminates below, at the posterior part of the base of the styloid pro- cess; it separates the posterior from the external surface. It is indistinct above and below, but well marked in the middle third of the bone. The internal or interosseous border commences above, at the back part of the tuberosity, where it is rounded and indistinct, becomes sharp and prominent as it descends, and at its lower part bifurcates into two ridges, which descend to the anterior and posterior margins of the sigmoid cavity. This border separates the anterior from the posterior surface, and has the interosseous membrane attached to it throughout the greater part of its extent. The anterior surface is narrow and concave for its upper two-thirds, and gives attachment to the Flexor longus pollicis muscle; below, it is broad and flat, and gives attachment to the Pronator quadratus. At the junction of the upper and middle thirds of this surface is the nutritious foramen, which is directed obliquely upwards. The posterior surface is rounded, convex, and smooth in the upper third of its extent, and covered by the Supinator brevis muscle. Its middle third is broad, slightly concave, and gives attachment to the Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis above, the Extensor primi internodii pollicis below. Its lower third is broad, convex, and covered by the tendons of the muscles which subsequently run in the grooves on the lower end of the bone. The external surface is rounded and convex throughout its entire extent. Its upper third gives attachment to the Supinator brevis muscle. About its centre is seen a rough ridge, for the insertion of the Pronator radii teres muscle. Its lower part is narrow, and covered by the tendons of the Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis and Extensor primi internodii pollicis muscles. The Loiver Extremity of the radius is large, of quadrilateral form, and provided with two articular surfaces, one at the extremity for articulation with the carpus, and one at the inner side of the bone for articulation with the ulna. The carpal articular surface is of triangular form, concave, smooth, and divided by a slight antero-posterior ridge into two parts. Of these, the external is large, of a trian- gular form, and articulates with the scaphoid bone; the inner, smaller and quadrilateral, articulates with the semi-lunar. The articular surface for the ulna is called the sigmoid cavity of the radius; it is narrow, concave, smooth, and articulates with the head of the ulna. The circumference of this end of the bone presents three surfaces, an anterior, external, and posterior. The anterior surface, rough and irregular, affords attachment to the anterior ligament of the wrist-joint. The external surface is prolonged obliquely down- wards into a strong conical projection, the styloid process, which gives attachment by its base to the tendon of the Supinator longus, and by its apex to the external lateral ligament of the wrist-joint. The outer surface of this process is marked by two grooves, which run obliquely downwards and forwards, and are separated from one another by an elevated ridge. The most anterior one gives passage to the tendon of the Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, the posterior one to the tendon of the Extensor primi internodii pollicis. The posterior surface is convex, affords