OF THE SPINE. *57 occupying the interval between three or four vertebra?, and of a deeper layer, which extends between one vertebra and the next adjacent to it. It is separated from the dura mater of the spinal cord by some loose fdamentous tissue, very liable to serous infiltration. The Intervertebral Substance (fig. 116) is a lenticular disc of fibro-cartilage, interposed between the adjacent surfaces of the bodies of the vertebrae, from the axis to the sacrum, forming the chief bond of connexion between these bones. These discs vary in shape, size, and thickness, in different parts of the spine. In shape they accurately correspond with the surfaces of the bodies between which they are placed, being oval in the cervical and lumbar regions, circular in the dorsal. Their size is greatest in the lumbar region. In thickness they vary not only in the different regions of the spine, but in different parts of the same region: thus, they are uniformly thick in the lumbar region; thickest, in front, in the cervical and lumbar regions which are convex forwards; and behind, to a slight extent, in the dorsal region. They thus contribute, in a great measure, to the curvatures of 116.—Vertical Section of two Vertebra: and their Ligaments, from the Lumbar Region. ANTERIOR COM ,VION UCT POSTERIOR COM MON LICT the spine in the neck and loins; whilst the concavity of the dorsal region is chiefly due to the shape of the bodies of the vertebra?. The intervertebral discs form about one-fourth of the spinal column, exclusive of the first two vertebra?; they are not equally distributed, however, between the various bones; the dorsal portion of the spine having, in proportion to its length, a much smaller quantity than in the cervical and lumbar regions, which necessarily gives to the latter parts greater pliancy and freedom of movement. The intervertebral discs are adherent, by their surfaces, to the adjacent parts of the bodies of the vertebras; and by their circum- ference are closely connected in front to the anterior, and behind to the posterior common ligament; whilst, in the dorsal region, they are connected laterally to the heads of those ribs which articulate with two vertebra, by means of the inter- articular ligament; they, consequently, form part of the articular cavities in which the heads of these bones are received. The intervertebral substance is composed, at its circumference, of lamina? of fibrous tissue and fibro-cartilage; and, at its centre, of a soft, elastic, pulpy matter.