MUSCLES AND FASCIAE 292 Fracture of the lower end of the radius (fig. 185) is usually called Colies fracture, from the name of the emineut Dublin surgeon who first accurately described it. It is generally produced from the patient falling from a height, and alighting upon the hand, which receives the entire weight of the body. This fracture usually takes place from half an inch to an inch above the articular surface if it occurs in the adult; but in the child, before the age of sixteen, it is more frequently a separation of the epiphysis from the apophysis. The dis- placement which is produced is very considerable, and bears some resemblance to disloca- tion of the carpus backwards, from which it should be carefully distinguished. The lower 185.—Fracture of the Lower End of the Radius. fragment is drawn upwards and backwards behind the upper fragment by the combined actions of the Supinator longus and the flexors and the extensors of the thumb and carpus, producing a well marked prominence on the back of the wrist, with a deep depres- sion behind. The upper fragment projects forwards, often lacerating the substance of the Pronator quadratus, and is drawn by this muscle into close contact with the lower end of the ulna, causing a projection on the anterior surface of the fore-arm, immediately above the carpus, from the flexor tendons being thrust forwards. This fracture may be dis- tinguished from dislocation by the deformity being removed on making sufficient extension, when crepitus may be occasionally detected; at the same time, on extension being discon- tinued, the parts immediately resume their deformed appearance. The age of the patient will also assist in determining whether the injury is fracture or separation of the epiphysis. The treatment consists in flexing the fore-arm, and making powerful extension from the wrist and elbow, depressing at the same time the radial side of the hand, and retaining the parts in this position by well padded pistul-shaj)cd splints. MUSCLES AND FASCUE OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. The Muscles of the Lower Extremity are subdivided into groups, corresponding with the different regions of the limb. Iliac region. Psoas magnus. Psoas parvus. Iliacus. Thigh. Anterior femoral region. Tensor vaginae femoris. Sartorius. Rectus. Vastus estjcrnus. Vastus internus. Cruraeus. Subcrurreus. Internal femoral region. Gracilis. Pectineus. Adductor longus. Adductor brevis. Adductor magnus. Hip. Gluteal region. Gluteus maximus. Gluteus medius. Gluteus minimus. Pyriformis. Gemellus superior. Obturator internus. Gemellus inferior. Obturator extern us. Quadratus femoris. Posterior femoral region. Biceps. Semi-tendinosus. Semi-membranosus.