642 ORGANS OF DIGESTION. the largest, becomes inferior along the arch of the colon, where it corresponds to the attachment of the great omentum, but is in front in the ascending and de- scending colon and sigmoid flexure; the third, or lateral band, is found on the inner side of the ascending and descending colon, and on the under border of the trans- verse colon. These bands are nearly one-half shorter than the other parts of the intestine, and serve to produce those sacculi characteristic of the caecum and colon; accordingly, when they are dissected off, the tube can be lengthened, and its sac- culated character becomes lost. In the sigmoid flexure, the longitudinal fibres become more scattered, and upon its lower part, as well as round the rectum, they spread out, and form a thick uniform layer. The circular fibres form a thin layer over the caecum and colon, being espe- cially accumulated in the intervals between the sacculi; in the rectum, they form a thick layer, especially at its lower end, where they become numerous, and form the Internal sphincter. The cellular coat connects closely together the muscular and mucous layers. • The mucous membrane, in the caecum and colon, is pale, and of a greyish or pale yellow colour. It is quite smooth, destitute of villi, and raised into numerous crescentic folds, which correspond to the intervals between the sacculi. In the rectum, it is thicker, of a darker colour, more vascular, and connected loosely to the muscular coat, as in the oesophagus. When the lower part of the rectum is contracted its mucous membrane is thrown into a number of folds, some of which, near the anus, are longitudinal in direction and are effaced by the distension of the gut. Besides these, there are three or four permanent folds, of a semilunar shape, described by Mr. Houston.* They are usually three in number; sometimes a fourth is found, and, occasionally, only two are present. One is situated near the commencement of the rectum, on the right side; another extends inwards from the left side of the tube opposite the middle of the sacrum; the largest and most constant one projects backwards from the fore part of the rectum, opposite the base of the bladder. When a fourth is present, it is situated about an inch above the anus, on the back of the rectum. These folds are about half an inch in width, and contain some of the circular fibres of the gut. In the empty state of the intestine they overlap each other, as Mr. Houston remarks, so effectually as to require considerable manoeuvring to conduct a bougie or the finger along the canal of the intestine. Their use seems to be, “ to support the weight of foecal matter, and prevent its urging towards the anus, where its presence always excites a sensation demanding its discharge.” The mucous membrane of the large intestine presents for examination, epithelium, simple follicles, and solitary glands. The epithelium is of the columnar kind. The simple follicles are minute tubular prolongations of the mucous membrane, arranged perpendicularly, side by side, over its entire surface; they are longer, more numerous, and placed in much closer apposition than those of the small 3+o-—Minute Structure of Large Intestine. Dub. Hosp. Reports, vol. v. p. 163.