43 SPHENOID BONE. below, and of the external above, which articulates with the squamous portion of the temporal bone. At the tip of the great wing a triangular portion is seen, bevelled at the expense of the internal surface, for articulation with the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone. Internal to this is a broad serrated surface, for articulation with the frontal bone: this surface is continuous internally with the. sharp inner edge of the orbital plate, which assists in the formation of the sphenoidal fissure. The Lesser Wings (processes of Ingrassias) are two thin triangular plates of bone, which arise from the upper and lateral parts of the body of the sphenoid; and, projecting transversely outwards, terminate in a more or less acute point. The superior surface of each is smooth, flat, broader internally than externally, and supports the anterior lobe of the brain. The inferior surface forms the back part of the roof of the orbit, and the upper boundary of the sphenoidal fissure or foramen lacerum anterius. This fissure is of a triangular form, and leads from the cavity of the cranium into the orbit; it is bounded internally by the body of the sphenoid; above, by the lesser wing; below, by the orbital surface of the great wing; and is converted into a foramen by the articulation of this bone with the frontal. It transmits the third, fourth, ophthalmic division of the fifth and sixth nerves, and the ophthalmic vein. The anterior .border of the lesser wing is serrated, for articulation with the frontal bone; the posterior, smooth and rounded, is received into the fissure of Sylvius of the brain. The inner extremity of this border forms the anterior clinoid process. The lesser wing is connected to the side of the body by two roots, the upper thin and flat, the lower thicker, obliquely directed, and presenting on its outer side near its junction with the body a small tubercle, for the attachment of the common tendon of the muscles of the eye. Between the two roots is the optic foramen, for the transmission of the optic nerve and ophthalmic artery. The Pterygoid processes (7rrepv%, a wing, eibos, like- ness), (fig. 36), one on each side, descend perpendicularly from the point where the body and great wing unite. Each process consists of an external and an internal plate, sepa- rated behind by an intervening notch the pterygoid fossa; but joined partially in front. The external 'pterygoid plate is broad and thin, turned a little outwards, and forms part of the inner Avail of the zygo- matic fossa. It gives attach- ment, by its outer surface, to the External pterygoid; its inner surface forms part of the pterygoid fossa, and gives attachment to the Internal pterygoid. The internal pterygoid plate is much narrower and longer, curving outwards, at its extremity, into a hook-like process of bone, the hamular process, around which turns the tendon of the Tensor-palati muscle. At the base of this plate is a small, oval, shallow depression, the scaphoid fossa, from which arises the Tensor-palati, and above which is seen the posterior orifice of the Vidian canal. The outer surface of this plate forms part of the pterygoid fossa, the inner surface forming the outer boundary of the pos- terior aperture of the nares. The two pterygoid plates are separated below by an angular interval, in which the pterygoid process; or tuberosity, of the palate bone is received. The anterior surface of the pterygoid process is very broad at its base, and forms the posterior wall of the spheno-maxillary fossa. It supports Meckel’s ganglion. It presents, above, the anterior orifice of the Vidian canal; 36.—Sphenoid Bone. Posterior Surface.