ARTICULATIONS. 15a in the knee, and the tendon of the Biceps in the shoulder. In most of the joints, the synovial membrane is thrown into folds, which project into the cavity. Some of these folds contain large masses of fat. These are especially distinct in the hip and the knee. Others are flattened folds, subdivided at their margins into fringe-like processes, the vessels of which have a convoluted arrangement. The latter generally project from the synovial membrane near the margin of the cartilage, and lie flat upon its surface. They consist of connective tissue, covered with epithelium, and contain fat cells in variable quantity, and, more rarely, isolated cartilage cells. They are found in most of the bursal and vaginal, as well as in the articular synovial membranes, and were described, by Clopton Havers, as mucilaginous glands, and as the source of the synovial secretion. Under certain diseased conditions, similar processes are found covering the entire surface of the synovial membrane, forming a mass of pedunculated fibro-fatty growths, Avhich project into the joint. The bur see are found interposed between surfaces which move upon each other, producing friction, as in the gliding of a tendon, or of the integument over pro- jecting bony surfaces. They admit of subdivision into two kinds, the bursce mucosce, and the synovial bursce. The former are large, simple, or irregular cavities in the subcutaneous areolar tissue, enclosing a clear viscid fluid. They are found in various situations, as between the integument and front of the patella, over the olecranon, the malleoli, and other prominent parts. The synovial bursce are found interposed between muscles or tendons as they play over projecting bony surfaces, as between the Glutei muscles and surface of the great trochanter. They consist of a thin Avail of connective tissue, partially covered by epithelium, and contain a viscid fluid. Where one of these exists in the neighbourhood of a joint, it usually communicates Avith its cavity, as is generally the case Avith the bursa between the tendon of the Psoas and Iliacus, and the capsular ligament of the hip, or the one interposed betAveen the under surface of the Subscapularis and the neck of the scapula. The vaginal synovial membranes (synovial sheaths) serve to facilitate the gliding of tendons in the osseo-fibrous canals through which they pass. The membrane is here arranged in the form of a sheath, one layer of which adheres to the Avail of the canal, and the other is reflected upon the outer surface of the con- tained tendon; the space betAveen the two free surfaces of the membrane, being partially filled with synovia. These sheaths are chiefly found surrounding the tendons of the Flexor and Extensor muscles of the fingers and toes, as they pass through the osseo-fibrous canals in the hand or foot. Synovia is a transparent, yelloAvish-white, or slightly reddish fluid, viscid like the Avhite of egg, having an alkaline reaction, and slightly saline taste. It consists, accoi’ding to Frerichs, in the ox, of 94'85 water, C56 mucus and epithelium, O'O’] fat, 3’51 albumen and extractive matter, and O'gq salts. The Articulations are divided into three classes: Synarthrosis, or immoveable; Amphiarthrosis, or mixed; and Diarthrosis, or moveable. 1. Synarthrosis. Immoveable Articulations. Synarthrosis (avv, with, dpdpov, a joint), ox Immoveable Joints, include all those articulations in which the surfaces of the bones are in almost direct contact, not separated by an intervening synovial cavity, and immoveably connected with each other, as betAveen the bones of the cranium and face, excepting the loAver jaw. The varieties of synarthrosis are three in number: Sutura, Schindylesis, and Gomphosis. Sutura (a seam). Where the articulating surfaces are connected by a series of processes and indentations interlocked together, it is termed sutura vera; of which there are three varieties: sutura dentata, serrata and limbosa. The sur- faces of the bones are not in direct contact, being separated by a layer of mem- brane continuous externally Avith the pericranium, internally with the dura mater. The sutura dentata {(lens, a tooth) is so called from the tooth-like form of the