i3° OSTEOLOGY. behind, into two large eminences, the condyles (kovSvXo<{, a knuckle). The interval is called the inter-condyloid notch. The external condyle is the most prominent anteriorly, and is the broadest both in the antero-posterior and transverse diameters. The internal condyle is the narrowest, longest, and most prominent internally. This difference in the length of the two condyles is only observed when the bone is perpendicular, and depends upon the obliquity of the thigh-bones, in conse- quence of their separation above at the articulation with the pelvis. If the femur is held obliquely, the surfaces of the two condyles will lie seen to be nearly hori- zontal. The two condyles are directly continuous in front, and form a smooth trochlear surface, the external border of which is more prominent, and ascends higher than the internal one. This surface articulates with the patella. It pre- sents a median groove, which extends downwards and backwards to the inter- condyloid notch; and two lateral convexities, of which the external is the broader, more prominent, and prolonged farther upwards upon the front of the outer condyle. The inter-condyloid notch lodges the crucial ligaments; it is bounded laterally by the opposed surfaces of the two condyles, and in front by the lower end of the shaft. Outer Condyle. The outer surface of the external condyle presents, a little behind its centre, an eminence, the outer tuberosity; it is less prominent than the inner tuberosity, and gives attachment to the external lateral ligament of the knee. Immediately beneath it is a groove which commences at a depression a little behind the centre of the lower border of this surface: the depression is for the tendon of origin of the Popliteus muscle; the groove in which this tendon is contained, is smooth, covered with cartilage in the recent state, and runs upwards and back- wards to the posterior extremity of the condyle. The inner surface of the outer condyle forms one of the lateral boundaries of the inter-condyloid notch, and gives attachment, by its posterior part, to the anterior crucial ligament. The inferior surface is convex, smooth, and broader than that of the internal condyle. The posterior extremity is convex and smooth: just above the articular surface is a depression, for the tendon of the outer head of the Gastrocnemius. Inner Condyle. The inner surface of the inner condyle presents a convex eminence, the inner tuberosity, rough, for the attachment of the internal lateral ligament. Above this tuberosity, at the termination of the inner bifurcation of the linea aspera, is a tubercle, for the insertion of the tendon of the Adductor magnus; and behind and beneath the tubercle a depression, for the tendon of the inner head of the Gastrocnemius. The outer side of the inner condyle forms one of the lateral boundaries of the inter-condyloid notch, and gives attachment, by its anterior part, to the posterior crucial ligament. Its inferior or articular surface is convex, and presents a less extensive surface than the external condyle. Structure. The shaft of the femur 105.—Diagram shewing the Structure of the Neck of the Femur. (Ward.) is a cylinder of compact tissue, hol- lowed by a large medullary canal. The cylinder is of great, thickness and density in the middle third of the shaft, where the bone is narrowest, and the medullary canal well formed; but above and below this, the cylinder gradually becomes thinner, owing to a separation of the layers of the bone into cancelli, which project into the medullary canal, and finally obliterate it, so that the upper and lower ends of the shaft, and the articular extremities more especially, consist of cancellated tissue invested by a thin com- pact Layer. The arrangement of the cancelli in the ends of the femur is remarkable. In the