737 FASCIA LATA ; SAPHENOUS OPENING. nat’s ligament, where it becomes continuous with the pubic .portion. From the | spine of the pubes, it is reflected downwards and outwards, forming an arched I margin, the outer boundary (superior cornu) of the saphenous opening. This is I sometimes called the falciform process of the fascia lata (femoral ligament of 1 Hey); it overlies, and is adherent to the sheath of the femoral vessels beneath ; 3 to its edge is attached the cribriform fascia, and it is continuous below with the | pubic portion of the fascia lata by a well-defined curved margin. The pubic portion of the fascia lata is situated at the inner side of the saplie- | nous opening: at the lower margin of this aperture, it is continuous with the iliac I portion : traced upwards, it covers the surface of the Pectineus, Adductor longus, I and Gracilis muscles; and passing behind the sheath of the femoral vessels, to I Avhich it is closely united, is continuous with the sheath of the Psoas and Iliacus I muscles, and is finally lost in the fibrous capsule of the hip-joint. This fascia is 1 attached above to the pectineal line, and internally to the margin of the pubic | arch. It may be observed from this description, that the iliac portion of the I fascia lata passes in front of the femoral vessels, the pubic portion behind them; 9 an apparent aperture consequently exists between the two, through which the O' internal saphenous joins the femoral vein. The Saphenous Opening is an oval-shaped aperture, measuring about an inch 1 and a half in length, and half an inch in width. It is situated at the upper and I inner part of the thigh, below Poupart’s ligament, on the pubic side of its centre, I and is directed obliquely downwards and outwards. Its outer margin is of a semilunar form, thin, strong, sharply-defined, and lies I on a plane considerably anterior to the inner margin. If this edge is traced Hj upwards, it will be seen to form a curved elongated process or cornu (the superior I cornu), or falciform process of Burns, which ascends in front of the femoral vessels, | and curving inwards, is attached to Poupart’s ligament and to the spine of the I pubis and pectineal line, where it is continuous with the pubic portion. If traced I downwards, it is found continuous with another curved margin, the concavity of || which is directed upwards and inwards; this is the inferior cornu of the saphenous II opening, and is blended with the pubic portion of the fascia lata covering the 1 Pectineus muscle. The inner boundary of the opening is on a plane posterior to the outer margin, |i and behind the level of the femoral vessels; it is much less prominent and defined I than the outer, from being stretched over the subjacent Pectineus muscle. It Ij is through the saphenous opening that a femoral hernia passes after descending I along the crural canal. If the finger is introduced into the saphenous opening while the limb is moved I in different directions, the aperture will be found to be greatly constricted on I extending the limb, or rotating it outwards, and to be relaxed on flexing the limb H and inverting it: hence the necessity of placing the limb in the latter position in H employing the taxis for the reduction of a femoral hernia. The iliac portion of the fascia lata, together with its falciform process, should now be H removed, by detaching it from the lower margin of Poupart’s ligament, carefully dissecting ■ it from the subjacent structures, and turning it aside, when the sheath of the femoral I vessels is exposed descending beneath Poupart’s ligament (fig. 385). The Crural Arch, or Poupart's Ligament, is the lower border of the aponeurosis I of the External oblique muscle, which stretches across between the anterior supe- | rior spine of the ilium, to the spine of the os pubis and pectineal line; the portion | corresponding to the latter insertion, is called Gimbernafs ligament. Its direction I is curved downwards towards the thigh; its outer half being oblique, its inner half I nearly horizontal. Nearly the whole of the space included between the crural I arch and innominate bone is filled in by the parts which descend from the abdo- I men into the thigh. The outer half of the space is occupied by the Iliacus and I Psoas muscles, together with the external cutaneous and anterior crural nerves. 1 The pubic side of the space is occupied by the femoral vessels included in their 3 R