475 DURA MATER. The Brain and its Membranes. Dissection. To examine the brain with its membranes, the skull-cap should first be removed. This may be effected by sawing through the external table, commencing, in front, about an inch above the margin of the orbit, and extending, behind, to a level with the occipital protuberance. The internal table must then be broken through with the chisel and hammer, to prevent injury to the investing membranes or brain, and, after having been loosened, it should be forcibly detached, when the dura mater will be exposed. The adhesion between the bone and the dura mater is very intimate, and much more so in the young subject than in the adult. The membranes of the brain are, the dura mater, arachnoid membrane, and pia mater. Dura Mater. The dura mater is a thick and dense inelastic fibrous membrane, which lines the interior of the skull. Its outer surface is rough and fibrillated, and adheres closely to the inner surface of the bones, forming their internal periosteum, this adhesion being more intimate opposite the sutures and at the base of the skull; at the margin of the foramen magnum it becomes continuous with the dura mater lining the spinal canal. Its inner surface is smooth and epitheliated, being lined by the parietal layer of the arachnoid. The dura mater is, therefore, a fibro-serous membrane, composed of an external fibrous lamella, and an internal serous layer. It sends numerous processes inwards, into the cavity of the skull, for the support and protection of the different parts of the brain; it is also pro- longed to the outer surface of the skull, through the various foramina which exist at its base, where it is continuous with the pericranium; and its fibrous layer forms sheaths for the nerves which pass through these apertures. At the base of the skull, it sends a fibrous prolongation into the foramen cscum; it lines the olfactory groove, and sends a series of tubular prolongations round the filaments of the olfactory nerves as they pass through the cribriform foramina; a prolongation is also continued through the sphenoidal fissure into the orbit, and another is continued into the same cavity through the optic foramen, forming a sheath for the optic nerve, which is continued as far as the eye-ball. In certain situations in the skull already mentioned, the fibrous layers of this membrane subdivide, to form sinuses for the passage of venous blood. Upon the upper surface of the dura mater, in the situation of the longitudinal sinus, may be seen numerous small whitish bodies, the glandulae Pacchioni. Structure. The dura mater consists of white fibrous and elastic tissues, arranged in flattened laminae, which intersect one another in every direction. Its arteries are very numerous, but are chiefly distributed to the bones. Those found in the anterior fossa, are the anterior meningeal, from the anterior and posterior ethmoidal, and internal carotid. In the middle fossa are the middle and small meningeal, from the internal maxillary, and a third branch from the ascending pharyngeal, which enters the skull through the foramen lacerum basis cranii. In the posterior fossa, are the posterior meningeal branch of the occipital, which enters the skull through the jugular foramen; the posterior meningeal, from the vertebral; and occasionally meningeal branches from the ascending pharyngeal, which enter the skull, one at the jugular foramen, the other at the anterior condyloid foramen. The veins, which return the blood from the dura mater, and partly from the bones, anastomose with the diploic veins. These vessels terminate in the various sinuses, with the exception of two which accompany the middle meningeal artery; these pass from the skull at the foramen spinosum. The nerves of the dura mater are, the recurrent branch of .the fourth, and fila- ments from the Gasserian ganglion, the ophthalmic nerve, and sympathetic. The so-called glandulae Pacchioni are numerous small whitish granulations, usually collected into clusters of variable size, which are found in the following situations: I. Upon the outer surface of the dura mater, in the vicinity of the