SPINAL NERVES. 538 287.—Cutaneous Nerves of Right Upper Extremity. Posterior View. The cutaneous portion of the nerve passes behind the median cephalic vein, and j divides, opposite the elbow-joint, into an anterior and a posterior branch. The anterior branch descends along the radial border of the fore-arm to the wrist. It is here placed in front of the radial artery, and, piercing the deep fascia, accompanies that vessel to the back of the Avrist. It communicates Avith a branch from the radial nerve, and dis- tributes filaments to the integument of the ball of the thumb. The posterior branch is given off about the middle of the fore-arm, and passes downAvards, along the back part of its radial side to the wrist. It supplies the integument of the lower third of the fore-arm, communicating Avith the radial nerve, and the external cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral. The Internal Cutaneous Nerve is one of the smallest branches of the brachial plexus. It arises from the inner cord, in common with the ulnar and internal head of the median, and, at its commence- ment, is placed on the inner side of the brachial artery. It passes doAvn the inner side of the arm, pierces the deep fascia Avith the basilic vein, about the middle of the limb, and, becoming cutaneous, di- vides into two branches. This nerve gives off, near the axilla, a cutaneous filament, which pierces the fascia, and supplies the integument cover- ing the Biceps muscle, nearly as far as the elboAv. This filament lies a little ex- ternal to the common trunk from Avhich it arises. The anterior branch, the larger of the two, passes in front of, occasionally be- hind, the median basilic vein. It then descends on the anterior surface of the ulnar side of the fore-arm, distributing filaments to the integument as far as the wrist, and communicating with a cuta- neous branch of the ulnar nerve. The posterior branch passes obliquely doAvn wards on the inner side of the basilic vein, AArinds over the internal condyle of the humerus to the back of the fore-arm, and descends, on the posterior surface of its ulnar side, to a little beloAv the middle, distributing filaments to the integument. It anastomoses above the elbow, with the lesser internal cutaneous, and above the wrist, Avith the dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve (Sivan). The Lesser Internal Cutaneous Nerve (nerve of Wrisberg), is distributed to the integument on the inner side of the arm. It is the smallest of the branches of the brachial plexus, and usually arises from the inner cord, Avith the internal cutaneous