i6 OSTEOLOGY. Development. Each vertebra is formed of three primary cartilaginous portions (fig. 8); one for each lamina and its processes, and one for the body. Ossification commences in the laminae about 8.—Development of a Vertebra. J3y 3primary eeritres / for Hody f 8 f.' loccAj / for each Lamina (6*- weekJ the sixth week of foetal life, in the situation where the trans- verse processes afterwards pro- ject, the ossific granules shooting backwards to the spine, forwards to the body, and outwards into the transverse and articular pro- cesses. Ossification in the body makes its appearance in the middle of the cartilage about By 2 additional, plates for upper surfaces of lody L Vs -1for under stnfeteA of body 11.—Atlas. Ba 3 centres • /for center, ansi l for truth lateral, vwns) v 131/ 6 12.—Axis. .J for odontoidj?roc lG?-L m-oj \ /far caoh lateral mass Lady (CH mo.) 13.—Lumbar Vertebra. A rulditioTuil cent res the eighth week. At birth, these three pieces are perfectly separate. During the first year, the lam in ce become united be- hind, by a portion of cartilage in which the spinous process is ul- timately formed, and thus the arch is completed. About the the third year, the body is joined to the arch on each side, in such a manner that the body is formed from the three original centres of ossification, the amount contributed by the pedicles in- creasing in extent from below upwards. Thus the bodies of the sacral vertebrae are formed almost entirely from the central nuclei, the bodies of the lumbar segments are formed laterally and behind by the pedicles. In the dorsal region the pedicles advance as far forwards as the articular depressions for the heads of the ribs, forming these cavities of reception; and in the neck the whole of the lateral portions of the bodies are formed by the advance of the pedicles. Before puberty, no other changes occur, excepting a gradual in- crease in the growth of these primary centres, the upper and under surface of the bodies, and the ends of the transverse and spinous processes, being tipped with cartilage, in which ossific granules are not as yet deposited. At sixteen years (fig. 9), four secondary centres appear, one for the tip of each transverse process, and two (sometimes united into one) for the end of the spinous process. At twenty-