5i SUPERIOR MAXILLARY BONE. malar process. Along the middle line of the orbital surface is a deep groove, the infra-orbital, for the passage of the infra-orbital nerve and artery. This groove commences at the middle of the outer border of this surface, and, passing forwards, terminates in a canal which subdivides into two branches; one of the canals, the infra-orbital, opens just below the margin of the orbit; the other, which is smaller, runs in the substance of the anterior wall of the antrum; it is called the anterior dental canal, transmitting the anterior dental vessels and nerves to the front teeth of the upper jaw. At the inner and fore part of the orbital surface, just external to the lachrymal canal, is a minute depression, which gives origin to the Inferior oblique muscle of the eye. The internal surface (fig. 46) is unequally divided into two parts by a horizontal projection of bone, the palate process; that portion above the palate process forms part of the outer wall of the nose; the portion below it forms part of the cavity of the mouth. The superior division of this surface presents a large irregular shaped opening leading into the antrum of Highmore. At the upper border of 46.—Left Superior Maxillary Bone. Inner Surface. I this aperture are a number of broken cellular cavities, which, in the articulated skull, are closed in by the ethmoid and lachrymal bones. Below the aperture is a smooth concavity which forms part of the inferior meatus of the nose, traversed by a fissure, the maxillary fissure, which runs from the lower part of the orifice of ■the antrum obliquely downwards and forwards, and receives the maxillary process of the palate bone. Behind it is a rough surface which articulates with the per- pendicular plate of the palate bone, traversed by a groove which, commencing near the middle of the posterior border, runs obliquely downwards and forwards, and forms, when completed by its articulation with the palate bone, the posterior palatine canal. In front of the opening in the antrum is a deep groove, converted into a canal by the lachrymal and inferior turbinated bones, and lodging the nasal duct. I More anteriorly is a well-marked rough ridge, the inferior turbinated crest, for articulation with the inferior turbinated bone. The concavity above this ridge I forms part of the middle meatus of the nose; whilst that below it, forms part of