231 PHARYNGEAL REGION. pharynx. The inferior fibres are horizontal, and continuous with the fibres of the oesophagus; the rest ascend, increasing in obliquity, and overlap the Middle constrictor. The superior laryngeal nerve passes near the upper border, and the inferior, or recurrent laryngeal, beneath the lower border of this muscle, previous to their entering the larynx. Relations. It is covered by a dense cellular membrane which surrounds the entire pharynx. Behind, it lies on the vertebral column and the Longus colli. Laterally, it is in relation with the thyroid gland, the common carotid artery, and the Sterno-thyroid muscle. By its internal surface, with the Middle constrictor, the Stylo-pharyngeus, Palato-pharyngeus, and the mucous membrane of the pharynx. The Middle Constrictor is a flattened, fan-shaped muscle, smaller than the pre- ceding, and situated on a plane anterior to it. It arises from the whole length of the greater cornu of the hyoid bone, from the lesser cornu, and from the stylo- hyoid ligament. The fibres diverge from their origin; the lower ones descending beneath the Inferior constrictor, the middle fibres passing transversely, and the upper fibres ascending to cover in the Superior constrictor. It is inserted into the posterior median fibrous raphe, blending in the middle line with the fibres of the opposite muscle. Relations. This muscle is separated from the Superior constrictor by the glosso- pharyngeal nerve and the Stylo-pharyngeus muscle; and from the Inferior con- strictor, by the superior laryngeal nerve. Behind, it lies on the vertebral column, the Longus colli, and the Rectus anticus major. On each side it is in relation with the carotid vessels, the pharyngeal plexus, and some lymphatic glands. Near its origin, it is covered by the Hyo-glossus, from which it is separated by the lingual artery. It covers in the Superior constrictor, the Stylo-pharyngeus, the Palato-pharyngeus, and the mucous membrane. The Superior Constrictor is a quadrilateral muscle, thinner and paler than the other constrictors, and situated at the upper part of the pharynx. It arises from the lower third of the margin of the internal pterygoid plate and its hamular process, from the contiguous portion of the palate bone and the reflected tendon of the Tensor palati muscle, from the pterygo-maxillary ligament, from the alveolar process above the posterior extremity of the mylo-liyoid ridge, and by a few fibres from the side of the tongue in connexion with the Genio-hyo-glossus. From these points, the fibres curve backwards, to be inserted into the median raphe, being also prolonged by means of a fibrous aponeurosis to the pharyngeal spine on the basilar process of the occipital bone. Its superior fibres arch beneath the Levator palati and the Eustachian tube, the interval between the upper border of the muscle and the basilar process being deficient in muscular fibres, and closed by fibrous membrane. Relations. By its outer surface, with the vertebral column, the carotid vessels, the internal jugular vein, the three divisions of the eighth and ninth nerves, the Middle constrictor which overlaps it, and the Stylo-pharyngeus. It covers the Palato-pharyngeus and the tonsil, and is lined by mucous membrane. The Stylo-pharyngeus is a long, slender muscle, round above, broad and thin below. It arises from the inner side of the base of the styloid process, passes downwards along the side of the pharynx between the Superior and Middle con- strictors, and spreading out beneath the mucous membrane, some of its fibres are lost in the constrictor muscles, and others joining with the Palato-pharyngeus, are inserted into the upper border of the thyroid cartilage. The glosso-pharyngeal nerve runs on the outer side of this muscle, and crosses over it in passing forward to the tongue. Relations. Externally, with the Stylo-glossus muscle, the external carotid artery, the parotid gland, and the Middle constrictor. Internally, with the internal carotid, the internal jugular vein, the Superior constrictor, Palato-pharyngeus and mucous membrane. Nerves. The muscles of this group are supplied by branches from the pharyn-