.399 INTERNAL ILIAC. it gives branches; it then passes upwards along the back part of the anterior wall of the abdomen to the umbilicus, converging towards its fellow of the opposite side. Having passed through the umbilical opening, the two arteries twine round the umbilical vein, forming with it the umbilical cord; and, ultimately, ramify in the placenta. That portion of the vessel placed within the abdomen, i- called the hypogastric artery; and that external to that cavity, the umbilical artery. At birth, when the placental circulation ceases, that portion of the hypogastric artery which extends from the umbilicus to the summit of the bladder, contract.', and ultimately dwindles to a solid fibrous cord; the portion of the same vessel extending from the summit of the bladder to within an inch and a-half of its origin, is not totally impervious, though it becomes considerably reduced in size; and serves to convey blood to the bladder, under the name of the superior vesical artery. Peculiarities, as regards its length. In two-thirds of a largo number of cases, the length of the internal iliac varied between an inch and an inch and a-half; in the remaining third, it was more frequently longer than shorter, the maximum length being three inches, the minimum, half an inch. The lengths of the common and internal iliac arteries bear an inverse proportion to each other, the internal iliac artery being long when the common iliac is short, and rice versa. As regards its placi of division. The place of division of the internal iliac varies between the upper margin of the sacrum, and the upper border of the sacro-sciatic foramen. The arteries of the two sides in a series of cases often differed in length, but neither seemed constantly to exceed the other. Surgical Anatom)/. The application of a ligature to the internal iliac artery may ho required in cases of aneurism or haemorrhage affecting one of its branches. This vessel may he secured by making an incision through the abdominal parietes in the iliac region, iu a direction and to an extent similar to that for securing the common iliac; the trans- versalis fascia having been cautiously divided, and the peritoneum pushed inwards from the iliac fossa towards the pelvis, the finger may feel the pulsation of the external iliac at. the bottom of the wound ; and, by tracing this vessel upwards, the internal iliac is arrived at, opposite the sacro-iliac articulation. It should be remembered that the vein lies behind, and on the right side, a little external to the artery, and in close contact with it; the ureter and peritoneum, which lie in front, must also be avoided. The degree of facility in apply- ing a ligature to this vessel, will mainly depend upon its length. It has been seen that, in the great majority of the cases examined, the artery was short, varying from an inch to an inch and a-half; in these cases, the artery is deeply seated in the pelvis ; when, on the contrary, the vessel is longer, it is found partly above that cavity. If the artery is very short, which occasionally7 happens, it would be preferable to apply a ligature to the common iliac, or upon the external and internal iliacs at their origin. This operation has been per- formed in 7 cases, 4 of which recovered, and 3 died. Collateral Circulation. In Mr. Owen’s dissection of a case in which the internal iliac artery had been tied by Stevens ten years before death, for aneurism of the sciatic artery, the internal iliac was found impervious for about an inch above the point where the ligature had been applied ; but the obliteration did not extend to the origin of the external iliac, as the ilio-lumbar artery arose just above this point. Below the point of obliteration, the artery resumed its natural diameter, and continued so for half an inch ; the obturator, lateral sacral, and gluteal, arising in succession from the latter portion. The obturator artery7 was entirely obliterated. The lateral sacral artery was as large as a crow’s quill, and had a very free anastomosis with the artery of the opposite side, and with the middle sacral artery. Tire sciatic artery was entirely obliterated as far as its point of connection with the aneurismal tumour; but, on the distal side of the sac, it was continued down along the back of the thigh nearly as large in size as the femoral, being’ -pervious about an inch below the sac by receiving an anastomosing vessel from the superior profunda.* In additiontotheabove,thecirculation in the parts supplied by the internal iliac would be carried on by7 the anastomoses of the uterine and ovarian arteries; of the opposite vesical arteries; of the haemorrhoidal branches of the internal iliac, with those from the inferior mesenteric; of the obturator artery, by means of its pubic branch, with the vessel of the opposite side, and with the epigastric and internal circumflex; by the anastomoses of the circumflex, and perforating branches of the femoral, with the sciatic; of the gluteal, with the posterior branches of the sacral arteries; of the ilio-lumbar, with the last lumbar; of the lateral sacral, with the middle sacral; and by the anastomoses of the circumflex iliac, with the ilio-lumbar and gluteal. * Medico-Chirurgical Trans., vol.