METACARPUS AND PHALANGES. XI5 The metacarpal bone of the little finger may be distinguished by the concavo- convex form of its carpal surface, for articulation with the unciform, and from having only one lateral articular facet, which corresponds with the fourth meta- carpal bone. On its ulnar side, is a prominent tubercle for the insertion of the tendon of the Extensor carpi ulnaris. The dorsal surface of the shaft is marked by an oblique ridge, which extends from near the ulnar side of the upper extremity, to the radial side of the lower. The outer division of this surface serves for the attachment of the fourth Dorsal interosseous muscle; the inner division is smooth, and covered by the Extensor tendons of the little linger. Articulations. The first, with the trapezium; the second, with the trapezium, trapezoides, os magnum, and third metacarpal bones; the third, with the os mag- num, and second and fourth metacarpal bones; the fourth, with the os magnum, unciform, and third and fifth metacarpal bones; and the fifth, with the unciform and fourth metacarpal. Attachment of Muscles. To the metacarpal bone of the thumb, three: the Flexor ossis metacarpi pollicis, Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, and first Dorsal inter- osseous. To the second metacarpal bone, five: the Flexor carpi radialis, Extensor carpi radialis longior, first and second Dorsal interosseous, and first Palmar inter- osseous. To the third, five: the Extensor carpi radialis brevior, Flexor brevis pollicis, Adductor pollicis, and second and third Dorsal interosseous. To the fourth, three: the third and fourth Dorsal interosseous and second Palmar. To the fifth, four: the Extensor carpi ulnaris, Flexor carpi ulnaris, Flexor ossis metacarpi minimi digiti, and third Dorsal interosseous. Phalanges. The Phalanges are the bones of the fingers; they are fourteen in number, three for each finger and two for the thumb. They are long bones, and present for examination a shaft, and two extremities. The shaft tapers from above down- wards, is convex posteriorly, concave in front from above downwards, flat from side to side, and marked laterally by rough ridges, which give attachment to the fibrous sheaths of the Flexor tendons. The metacarpal extremity or base, in the first row, presents an oval concave articular surface, broader from side to side, than from before backwards; and the same extremity in the other, two rows, a double concavity separated by a longitudinal median ridge, extending from before backwards. The digital extremities are smaller than the others, and terminate, in the first and second row, in two small lateral condyles, separated by a slight groove, the articular surface being prolonged farther forwards on the palmar, than on the dorsal surface, especially in the first row. The Ungual phalanges are convex on their dorsal, flat on their palmar surfaces, they are recognised by their small size, and from their ungual extremity presenting, on its palmar aspect, a roughened elevated surface of a horse-shoe form, which serves to support the sensitive pulp of the finger. Articulations. The first row with the metacarpal bones, and the second row of phalanges; the second row, with the first and third; the third, with the second row. Attachment of Muscles. To the base of the first phalanx of the thumb, four muscles: the Extensor primi internodii pollicis, Flexor brevis pollicis, Abductor pollipis, Adductor pollicis. To the second phalanx, two: the Flexor longus pollicis, and the Extensor secundi internodii. To the base of the first phalanx of the index finger, the first Dorsal and the first Palmar interosseous; to that of the middle finger, the second and third Dorsal interosseous; to the ring finger, the fourth Dorsal and the second Palmar interosseous; and to that of the little finger, the third Palmar interosseous, the Flexor brevis minimi digiti, and Abductor minimi digiti. To the second phalanges, the Flexor sublimis digitorum, Extensor com- munis digitorum; and, in addition, the Extensor indicis, to the index finger; the Extensor minimi digiti, to the little finger. To the third phalanges, the Flexor profundus digitorum and Extensor communis digitorum.