MUSCLES AND FASCIiE. 268 the long head of the Triceps. The fibres pass outwards, and, gradually converging, terminate in a tendon, which is inserted into the lesser tuberosity of the humerus. Those fibres which arise from the axillary border of the scapula, are inserted into the neck of the humerus to the extent of an inch below the tuberosity. The tendon of the muscle is in close contact with the capsular ligament of the shoulder-joint, and glides over a large bursa, which separates it from the base of the coracoid process. This bursa communicates with the cavity of the joint by an aperture in the capsular ligament. Relations. By its anterior surface, with the Serratus magnus, Coraco-brachialis, and Biceps, and the axillary vessels and nerves. By its posterior surface, with the scapula, the subscapular vessels and nerves, and the capsular ligament of the shoulder-joint. Its lower border is contiguous with the Teres major and Latis- simus dor si. Nerves. It is supplied by the subscapular nerves. Actions. The Subscapularis rotates the head of the humerus inwards; when the arm is raised, it draws the humerus downwards. It is a powerful defence to the front of the shoulder-joint, preventing displacement of the head of the bone forwards. Posterior Scapular Region. Supra-spinatus. Teres Minor. Infra-spiuatus. Teres Major. Dissection. To expose these muscles, and to examine their mode of insertion into the humerus, detach the Deltoid and Trapezius from their attachment to the spine of the sca- pula and acromion process. Remove the clavicle by dividing the ligaments connecting it with the coracoid process, and separate it at its articulation with the scapula: divide the acromion process near its root with a saw, and, the fragments being removed, the tendons of the posterior Scapular muscles will be fully exposed, and can be examined. A block should be placed beneath the shoulder-joint, so as to make the muscles tense. The supra-spinous aponeurosis is a thick and dense membranous layer, which completes the osteo-fibrous case in which the Supra-spinatus muscle is contained; affording attachment, by its inner surface, to some of the fibres of this muscle. It is thick internally, but thinner externally under the coraco-acromion ligament. When this fascia is removed, the Supra-spinatus muscle is exposed. The Supra-spinatus muscle occupies the whole of the supra-spinous fossa, arising from its internal two-thirds, and from a strong fascia which covers its surface. The muscular fibres converge to a tendon, which passes across the capsular liga- ment of the shoulder-joint, to which it is intimately adherent, and is inserted into the highest of the three facets on the great tuberosity of the humerus. Relations. By its upper surface, with the Trapezius, the clavicle, the acromion, the coraco-acromial ligament, and the Deltoid. By its tender surface, with the scapula, the supra-scapular vessels and nerve, and up'per part of the shoulder- joint. The infra-spinous aponeurosis is a dense fibrous membrane, covering-in the Infra-spinatus muscle, and attached to the circumference of the infra-spinous fossa; it affords attachment, by its inner surface, to some fibres of this muscle, is con- tinuous externally with the fascia of the arm, and gives off'from its under surface intermuscular septa, which separate the Infra-spinatus from the Teres minor, and the latter from the Teres major. The Infra-spinatus is a thick triangular muscle, which occupies the chief part of the infra-spinous fossa, arising by fleshy fibres, from its internal two-thirds; and by tendinous fibres, from the ridges on its surface: it also arises from a strong fascia which covers it externally, and separates it from the Teres major and minor. The fibres converge to a tendon, which glides over the concave border of the spine of the scapula, and, passing across the capsular ligament of the shoulder- joint, is inserted into the middle facet on the great tuberosity of the humerus.