THE TONG EE. 577 or tip, thin and narrow, is directed forwards against the inner surface of the lower incisor teeth. The under surface of the tongue is connected Avitli the lower jaw by the Genio-hyo-glossi muscles; from its sides, the mucous mem- brane is reflected to the inner surface of the gums; and, in front, a distinct fold of that membrane, the fraenum linguae, is formed beneath its under surface. The tip of the tongue, part of its under surface, its sides, and dorsum, are free. The dorsum of the tongue is convex, marked along the middle line by a raphe, which divides it into two symmetrical halves; and this raphe terminates behind, about half an inch from the base of the organ, a little in front of a deep mucous follicle, the foramen ccecum. The anterior two-thirds of this surface are rough, and covered with papillae; the posterior third is more smooth, and covered by the I projecting orifices of numerous muciparous glands. The mucous membrane invests the entire extent of the free surface of the I tongue. On the under surface of the organ it is thin and smooth, and may be I traced on either side of the fraenum, through the ducts of the submaxillary glands; I and between the sides of the tongue and the lower jaw, through the ducts of the I sublingual glands. On being traced over the borders of the organ, it gradually I assumes its papillary character. The mucous membrane of the tongue consists of structures analogous to those I of the skin, namely, a cutis or corium, supporting numerous papilla, and covered, las well as the papillae, with epithelium. 1 The cutis is tough, but thinner and less dense than in most parts of the skin, land is composed of similar tissue. It contains the ramifications of the numerous I vessels and nerves from which the papillae are supplied, and affords insertion to I all the intrinsic muscular fibres of the organ. The papilla of the tongue are thickly distributed over the whole of its upper I surface, giving to it its characteristic roughness. They are more prominent than I those of the skin, which is chiefly due to their not being concealed under the I epithelium, but from their standing out prominently from the surface like the villi I of the intestine. The principal varieties are the papilla maxima (circumvallatae), I papillae mediae (fungiformes), and papillae minima (conica and filiformes). The papillce maxima (circumvallata) are of large size, and vary from eight to I ten in number. They are situated at the back part of the dorsum of the tongue, Inear its base, forming a row on each side, which, running backwards and inwards, I meet in the middle line, like the two lines of the letter A inverted. Each papilla I consists of a central flattened projection of mucous membrane, circular in form, I from Aq to yV of an inch wide, attached to the bottom of a cup-shaped depression I of the mucous membrane; the exposed part being covered with numerous small I papillm. The cup-shaped depression forms a kind of fossa round the papilla, I having a circular margin of about the same elevation, covered with smaller papillae. I The fissure corresponding to the papilla, where the two lines of the circumvallate I papillae meet, is so large and deep, that the name foramen ccecum has been applied I to it. In the smaller papillae, the fissure exists only on one side. The papillce media (fungiformes), more numerous than the preceding, are I scattered irregularly and sparingly over the dorsum of the tongue; but are found I chiefly at its sides and apex. They are easily recognised, among the other papilla?, I by their large size, rounded eminences, and deep red colour. They are narrow at I their attachment to the tongue, but broad and rounded at their free extremities, I and covered with secondary papilla?. Their epithelium investment is very I thin. The papilla minima (conicae et filiformes) cover the anterior two-thirds of the I dorsum of the tongue. They are very minute, more or less conical or filiform in I shape, and arranged in lines corresponding in direction with the two rows of the I papillae circumvallatae; excepting at the apex of the organ, where their direction I is transverse. The filiform papillae are of a whitish tint, owing to the thickness I and density of their epithelium; they are covered with numerous secondary v i*