646 ORGANS OF DIGESTION. The right lobe is much larger than the left; the proportion between them being as six to one. It occupies the right hypochondrium, and is separated from the left lobe, on its upper surface, by the longitudinal ligament; on its under surface, by the longitudinal fissure; and in front, by a deep notch. It is of a quadrilateral form, its under surface being marked by three fissures: the transverse fissure, the fissure for the gall-bladder, and the fissure for the inferior vena cava; and by two shallow impressions, one in front (impressio colica), for the hepatic flexure of the colon; and one behind (impressio renalis), for the right kidney and supra- renal capsule. The left lobe is smaller and more flattened than the right. It is situated in the epigastric and left hypochondriac regions, sometimes extending as far as the upper border of the spleen. Its upper surface is convex; its under concave surface rests upon the front of the stomach; and its posterior border is in relation with the cardiac orifice of the stomach. The lobus quadratics, or square lobe, is situated on the under surface of the right lobe, bounded in front by the free margin of the liver; behind, by the trans- verse fissure; on the right, by the fissure for the gall-bladder; and, on the left, by the umbilical fissure. The lobus Spigelii projects from the back part of the under surface of the right lobe. It is bounded, in front, by the transverse fissure; on the right, by the fissure for the vena cava; and, on the left, by the fissure for the ductus venosus. The lobus caudatus, or tailed lobe, is a small elevation of the hepatic substance, extending obliquely outwards, from the base of the lobus Spigelii, to the under surface of the right lobe. It separates the right extremity of the transverse fissure from the commencement of the fissure for the inferior cava. Vessels. The vessels connected with the liver are also five in number: they are the hepatic artery, the portal vein, the hepatic vein, the hepatic duct, and lymphatics. The hepatic artery, portal vein, and hepatic duct, accompanied by numerous lymphatic vessels and nerves, ascend to the transverse fissure, between the layers of the gastro-hepatic omentum; the hepatic duct lying to the right, the hepatic artery to the left, and the portal vein behind the other two. They are enveloped in a loose areolar tissue, the capsule of Glisson, which accompanies the vessels in their course through the portal canals, which are hollowed out of the interior of the organ. The hepatic veins convey the blood from the liver. They commence at the circumference of the organ, and proceed towards the deep fossa in its posterior border, where they terminate by two large, and several smaller branches, in the inferior vena cava. The hepatic veins have no cellular investment; consequently their parietes are adherent to the walls of the canals through which they run: so that, on a section of the organ, these veins remain widely open and solitary, and may be easily distinguished from the branches of the portal vein, which are more or less collapsed, and always accompanied by an artery and duct. The lymphatics are large and numerous, consisting of a deep and superficial set. They have been already described. Nerves. The nerves of the liver are derived from the hepatic plexus of the sympathetic, from the pneumogastric nerves, especially the left, and from the right phrenic. Structure. The substance of the liver is composed of lobules, held together by an extremely fine areolar tissue, of the ramifications of the portal vein, hepatic duct, hepatic artery, hepatic veins, lymphatics, and nerves; the whole being invested by a fibrous and a serous coat. The serous coat is derived from the peritoneum, and invests the entire surface of the organ, excepting at the point corresponding to the attachment of its various ligaments, and at the bottom of the different fissures, where it is deficient. It is intimately adherent to the fibrous coat.