CARPUS. 111 To ascertain to which hand this bone belongs, hold it so that the base is directed backwards, and the articular facet for the pisiform bone upwards; the concave articular facet will point to the side to which the bone belongs. Articulations. With three bones: the semi-lunar externally, the pisiform in front, the unciform below, and with the triangular inter-articular fibro-cartilage which separates it from the lower end of the ulna. The Pisiform bone may be known by its small size, and from its presenting a single articular facet. It is situated at the anterior and inner side of the carpus, is nearly circular in form, and presents on its posterior surface a smooth, oval facet, for articulation with the cuneiform bone. This facet approaches the supe- rior, but not the inferior, border of the bone. Its anterior or palmar surface is rounded and rough, and gives attachment to the anterior annular ligament. The outer and inner surfaces are also rough, the former being convex, the latter usually concave. To ascertain to which hand it belongs, hold the bone with its posterior or arti- cular facet downwards, and the non-articular portion of the same surface back- wards; the inner concave surface will then point to the side to which the bone belongs. Articulations. With one bone, the cuneiform. Attachment of Muscles. To two: the Flexor carpi ulnaris, and Abductor minimi digiti; and to the anterior annular ligament. Bones op the Lower Row. (Figs. 94, 95.) The Trapezium is of very irregular form. It may be distinguished by a deep groove, for the tendon of the Flexor carpi radialis muscle. It is situated at the external and inferior part of the carpus, between the scaphoid and first meta- carpal bone. The superior surface, concave and smooth, is directed upwards and inwards, and articulates with the scaphoid. Its inferior surface, directed down- wards and outwards, is oval, concave from side to side, convex from before back- wards, so as to form a saddle-shaped surface, for articulation with the base of the first metacarpal bone. The anterior or palmar surface is narrow and rough. At its upper part is a deep groove, running from above obliquely downwards and inwards; it transmits the tendon of the Flexor carpi radialis, and is bounded externally by a prominent ridge, the oblique ridge of the trapezium. This sur- face gives attachment to the Abductor pollicis, Flexor ossis metacarpi, and Flexor brevis pollicis muscles; and the anterior annular ligament. The posterior or dorsal surface is rough, and the external surface also broad and rough, for the attachment of ligaments. The internal surface presents two articular facets; the upper one, large and concave, articulates with the trapezoid; the lower one, narrow and flattened, with the base of the second metacarpal bone. To ascertain to which hand it belongs, hold the bone with the grooved palmar surface upwards, and the external, broad, non-articular surface backwards; the saddle-shaped surface will then be directed to the side to which the bone belongs. Articulations. With four bones: the scaphoid above, the trapezoid and second metacarpal bones internally, the first metacarpal below. Attachment of Muscles. Abductor pollicis, Flexor ossis metacarpi, part of the Flexor brevis pollicis, and the anterior annular ligament. The Trapezoid is the smallest bone in the second row. It may be known by its wedge-shaped form; its broad end occupying the dorsal, its narrow end the palmar surface of the hand. Its superior surface, quadrilateral in form, smooth and slightly concave, articulates with the scaphoid. The inferior surface articu- lates with the upper end of the second metacarpal bone; it is convex from side to side, concave from before backwards, and subdivided, by an elevated ridge, into two unequal lateral facets. The posterior or dorsal, and anterior or palmar surfaces are rough, for the attachment of ligaments; the former being the larger of the two. The external surface, convex and smooth, articulates with the trapezium. The internal surface is concave and smooth below, for articulation with the os magnum, rough above, for the attachment of an interosseous ligament.