26 OSTEOLOGY. The External Surface is convex. Midway between the summit of the bone and the posterior margin of the foramen magnum is a prominent tubercle, the external occipital protuberance, for the attachment of the Ligamentum nuchas; and descending from it, as far as the foramen, a vertical ridge, the external occipital crest. This tubercle and crest, vary in prominence in different skulls. Passing outwards from the occipital protuberance on each side are two semicircular ridges, the superior curved lines; and running parallel with these from the middle of the crest, are the two inferior curved lines. The surface of the bone above the superior curved lines is smooth on each side, and in the recent state, is covered by the Occipito-frontalis muscle, whilst the ridges, as well as the surface of the bone between them, serve for the attachment of numerous muscles. 22.—Occipital Bone. Outer Surface. The superior curved line gives attachment internally to the Trapezius, externally to the Occipito-frontalis, and Sterno-cleido mastoid; to the extent shewn in the figure. The depressions between the curved lines to the Complexus inter- nally, the Splenius capitis and Obliquus superior externally. The inferior curved line, and the depressions below it, afford insertion to the Rectus capitis posticus, major and minor. The foramen magnum is a large oval aperture, its long diameter extending from before backwards. It transmits the spinal cord and its membranes, the spinal accessory nerves, and the vertebral arteries. Its back part is wide for the transmission of the cord, and the corresponding margin rough for the attach- ment of the dura mater enclosing it; the fore part is narrower, being encroached upon by the condyles; it has projecting towards it from below the odontoid pro- cess, and its margins are smooth and bevelled internally to support the medulla oblongata. On each side of the foramen magnum are the condyles, for articulation with the atlas; they are convex, oblong or reniform in shape, and directed down- wards and outwards; they converge in front, and encroach slightly upon the