LARGE INTESTINE. 641 the lower part of the sacrum and coccyx; and, near the extremity of the latter bone, inclines backwards to terminate at the anus, being curved both in the lateral and antero-posterior directions. The rectum is, therefore, not straight, the upper part being directed obliquely from the left side to the median line, the middle portion being curved in the direction of the hollow of the sacrum and coccyx, the lower portion presenting a short curve in the opposite direction. The rectum is cylindrical, not sacculated like the rest of the large intestine; it is narrower at its upper part than the sigmoid flexure, gradually increases in size as it descends, and immediately above the anus presents a considerable dilatation, capable of acquiring an enormous size. The rectum is divided into three portions, upper, middle, and lower. The upper portion, which includes about half the length of the tube, extends obliquely from the left sacro-iliac symphysis to the centre of the third piece of the sacrum. It is almost completely surrounded by peritoneum, and connected to the •sacrum behind by a duplicature of this membrane, the meso-rectum. It is in relation behind with the Pyriformis muscle, the sacral plexus of nerves, and the branches of the internal iliac artery of the left side, which separate it from the sacrum and sacro-iliac symphysis; in front, it is separated, in the male, from the posterior surface of the bladder; in the female, from the posterior surface of the uterus and its appendages, by some convolutions of the small intestine. The middle portion of the rectum is about three inches in length, and extends as far as the tip of the coccyx. It is closely connected to the concavity of the sacrum, and covered by peritoneum only on the upper part of its anterior surface. It is in relation, in front, with the triangular portion of the base of the bladder, the vesiculaj seminales, and vasa deferentia; more anteriorly, with the under sur- face of the prostate. In the female, it is adherent to the posterior wall of the vagina. The lower portion is about an inch in length; it curves backwards at the fore part of the prostate gland, and terminates at the anus. This portion of the intestine receives no peritoneal covering. It is invested by the Internal sphincter, supported by the Levatores ani muscles, and surrounded at its termination by the External sphincter. In the male, it is separated from the membranous portion and bulb ot the urethra by a triangular space; and, in the female, a similar space intervenes between it and the vagina. This space forms by its base the perinaeum. Structure. The large intestine has four coats: serous, muscular, cellular, and mucous. The serous coot is derived from the peritoneum, and invests the different portions of the large intestine to a variable extent. The caecum is covered only on its anterior surface and sides; more rarely, it is almost completely invested, being held in its position by a duplicature, the meso-caecum. The ascending and descending colon are usually covered only in front. The transverse colon is almost completely invested, excepting at the points corresponding to the attachment of the great omentum and transverse meso-colon. The sigmoid flexure is nearly completely surrounded, excepting at the point corresponding to the attachment of the iliac meso-colon. The upper part of the rectum is almost completely invested by the peritoneum; the middle portion is covered only on its anterior surface; and the lower portion is entirely devoid of any serous covering. In the course of the colon, and upper part of the rectum, the peritoneal coat is thrown into a number of small pouches fdled with fat, called appendices epiploicce. They are chiefly appended to the transverse colon. The muscular coat consists of an external longitudinal and an internal circular layer of muscular fibres. The longitudinal Jibrcs are found as a uniform layer over the whole surface of the large intestine. In the caecum and colon, they are especially collected into three flat longitudinal bands, each being about half an inch in width. These bands commence at the attachment of the appendix vermiformis to the caecum: one, the posterior, is placed along the attached border of the intestine; the anterior band, T T