37 TEMPORAL BONE. squamous suture. The anterior inferior border is thick, serrated, and bevelled alternately at the expense of the inner and outer surfaces, for articulation with the great wing of the sphenoid. The Mastoid Portion (jiaaTOS, a nipple or teat) is situated at the posterior part of the hone; its outer surface is rough, and perforated by numerous foramina: one of these, of large size, situated at the posterior border of the bone, is termed the mastoid foramen; it transmits a vein to the lateral sinus and a small artery. The position and size of this foramen are very variable, being sometimes situated in the occipital bone, or in the suture between the temporal and the occipital. The mastoid portion is continued below into a conical projection, the mastoid pro- cess, the size and form of which varies somewhat in different individuals. This process serves for the attachment of the Sterno-mastoid, Splenius capitis, and Trachelo-mastoid muscles. On the inner side of the mastoid process is a deep groove, the digastric fossa, for the attachment of the Digastric muscle; and running parallel with it, but more internal, the occipital groove, which lodges the occipital artery. The internal surface of the mastoid portion presents a deeply curved groove, which lodges part of the lateral sinus; and into it may be seen opening the mastoid foramen. A section of the mastoid process shows it to be hollowed out into a number of cellular spaces, communicating with each other, called the mastoid cells; they open by a single or double orifice into the back of the tym- panum; are lined by a prolongation of its lining membrane; and, probably, form some secondary part of the organ of hearing. The mastoid cells, like the other sinuses of the cranium, are not developed until after puberty; hence the promi- nence of this process in the adult. Borders. The superior border of the mastoid portion is broad and rough, its serrated edge sloping outwards, for articulation with the posterior inferior angle of the parietal bone. The posterior border, also uneven and serrated, articulates with the inferior border of the occipital bone between its lateral angle and jugular process. The Petrous Portion (VeTpo?, a rock), so named from its extreme density and hardness, is a pyramidal process of bone, wedged in at the base of the skull between the sphenoid and occipital bones. Its direction from without is forwards, inwards, and a little downwards. It presents for examination a base, an apex, three sur- faces, and three borders; and contains, in its interior, the essential parts of the organ of hearing. The base is applied against the internal surface of the squamous and mastoid portions, its upper half being concealed; but its lower half is exposed by their divergence, which brings into view the oval expanded orifice of a canal leading into the tympanum, the meatus auditorius externus. This canal is situated between the mastoid process and the posterior and middle roots of the zygoma; its upper margin is smooth and rounded, but the greater part of its circumference is surrounded by a curved plate of bone, the auditory process, the free margin of which is thick and rough for the attachment of the cartilage of the external ear. The apex of the petrous portion, rough and uneven, is received into the angular interval between the spinous process of the sphenoid, and the basilar process of the occipital; it presents the anterior orifice of the carotid canal, and forms the posterior and external boundary of the foramen lacerum medium. The anterior surface of the petrous portion (fig. 31), forms the posterior boundary of the middle fossa of the skull. This surface is continuous with the squamous portion, to which it is united by a suture, the temporal suture, the remains of which are distinct at a late period of life. This surface presents six points for examination. 1. An eminence near the centre which indicates the situation of the superior semicircular canal. 2. On the outer side of this eminence is a depression, indicating the position of the tympanum, the layer of bone which separates the tympanum from the cranial cavity being extremely thin. 3. A shallow groove, sometimes double, leading backwards to an oblique opening, the hiatus Fallopii, for the passage of the petrosal branch of the Vidian nerve. 4. A smaller opening, occasionally seen external to the latter for the passage of the