KNEE JOINT. *93 semi-lunar fibro-cartilage; passing upwards, forwards, and inwards, it is inserted into the outer and fore part of the inner condyle of the femur. As it crosses the anterior crucial ligament, a fasciculus is given off from it, which blends with its posterior I4I—-Right Knee-Joint. Shewing Internal part. It is in relation, in front, with vrmen s. the anterior crucial ligament; behind, with the ligamentum posticum Winslowii. The Semi-lunar Fibro- Cartilages (fig. 142) are two crescentic lamellae attached to the margins of the head of the tibia, serving to deepen its surface for articula- tion with the condyles of the femur. The circumference of each cartilage is thick and convex; the inner free border, thin and concave. Their upper surfaces are concave, and in relation with the condyles of the femur; their lower surfaces are flat, and rest upon the head of the tibia. Each cartilage covers nearly the outer two-thirds of the corresponding articular surface of the tibia, the inner third being uncovered; both surfaces are smooth, and invested by synovial membrane. The Internal Semi-lunar Fibro-Car- tilage is nearly semicircular in form, a little elongated from before backwards, and broader behind than in front; its convex border is united to the internal lateral ligament, and to the head of the tibia, by means of the coronary ligaments; its anterior extremity, thin and pointed, is firmly implanted into a depression in front of the inner articular surface of the tibia; its posterior extremity to the depression behind the spine, between the attachment of the external cartilage and posterior crucial ligament. The External Semi-lunar Fibro-Cartilage forms nearly an entire circle, cover- ing a larger portion of the articular surface than the internal one. It is groov- ed on its outer side, for the tendon of the Popliteus muscle. Its circumference is held in connexion with the head of the tibia, by means of the coronary ligaments; and its two extremities are firmly im- planted in the depressions in front and behind the spine of the tibia. These ex- tremities, at their insertion, are interposed between the attachments of the internal cartilage. The external semi-lunar fibro- cartilage gives off from its anterior bor- der a fasciculus, which forms the trans- verse ligament. By its anterior extremity, it is continuous with the anterior crucial ligament. Its posterior extremity divides into three slips ; two of these pass upwards and forwards, and are inserted into the outer side of the inner condyle, one in front, the other behind the posterior crucial ligament; the third fasciculus is inserted into the back part of the anterior crucial ligament. The Transverse Ligament is a band of fibres, which passes transversely be- tween the anterior convex margin of the external semi-lunar cartilage, to the 142.—Head of Tibia, with Semi-lunar Cartilages, etc. Seen from above. Right Side. o