SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE PERINiEUM. 752 fascia, the external haemorrhoidal vessels and nerves, and the superficial and trans- verse perinseal vessels; if the fore-finger of the left hand is thrust upwards and forwards into the wound, pressing at the same time the rectum inwards and back- wards, the staff may he felt in the membranous portion of the urethra. The finger is fixed upon the staff, and the structures covering it are divided with the point of the knife, which must be directed along the groove towards the bladder, the edge of the knife being carried outwards and backwards, dividing in its course the membranous portion of the urethra, and part of the left lobe of the prostate gland, to the extent of about an inch. The knife is then withdrawn, and the fore-finger of the left hand passed along the staff into the bladder; the staff having been withdrawn, and the position of the stone determined upon, the forceps are intro- duced over the'finger into the bladder. If the stone is very large, the opposite side of the prostate should be notched before the forceps is introduced; the finger is now withdrawn, the blades of the forceps opened, and made to grasp the stone, which must be extracted by slow and cautious undulating movements. Parts divided in the operation. The various structures divided in this operation are as follows: the integument, superficial fascia, external hemorrhoidal vessels and nerve, the posterior fibres of the Accelerator urine, the Transversus perinasi muscle and artery, (and, probably, the superficial perineal vessels and nerves), the deep perineal fascia, the anterior fibres of the Levator ani, part of the Compressor urethre, the membranous and prostatic portions of the urethra, and part of the prostate gland. 394.—A Transverse Section of the Pelvis; shewing the Pelvic Fascia. Parts to be avoided in the operation. In making the necessary incisions in the perinamm for the extraction of a calculus, the following parts should be avoided: The primary incisions should not be made too near the middle line, for fear of wounding the bulb of the corpus spongiosum or rectum; nor too far externally, otherwise the pudic artery may be implicated as it ascends along the inner border of the pubic arch. If the incisions are carried too far forward, the artery of the bulb may be divided; if carried too far backwards, the entire breadth of the