OSTEOLOGY. 66 pital, is called the masto-occipital. Between the hones forming the petro-occipital suture, a thin plate of cartilage exists; in the masto-occipital is occasionally found the opening of the mastoid foramen. Between the outer extremity of the basilar suture and the spheno-parietal, an irregular suture may be seen formed by the union of the sphenoid with the temporal bone. The inner and smaller portion of this suture is termed the petro-sphenoidal; it is formed between the petrous portion of the temporal, and the great wing of the sphenoid; the outer portion, of greater length, and arched, is formed between the squamous portion of the temporal, and the great wing of the sphenoid: it is called the squamo-sphenoidal. The cranial bones are connected with those of the face, and the facial bones with each other, by numerous sutures, which, though distinctly marked, have received no special names. The only remaining suture deserving especial consideration, is the transverse. This extends across the upper part of the face, and is formed by the junction of the frontal with the facial bones; it extends from the external angular process of one side, to the same point on the opposite side, and connects the frontal with the malar, the sphenoid, the ethmoid, the lachrymal, the superior maxillary, and the nasal bones on each side. The sutures remain separate for a considerable period after the complete forma- tion of the skull. It is probable, that they serve the purpose of permitting the growth of the bones at their margins; while their peculiar formation, and the interposition of the sutural ligament between the bones forming them, prevents the dispersion of blows or jars received upon the skull. Mr. Humphry remarks, ‘ that, as a general rule, the sutures are first obliterated at the parts in which the ossification of the sknll was last completed, viz., in the neighbourhood of the fontanelles; and the cranial bones seem in this respect to observe a similar law to that which regulates the union of the epiphyses to the shafts of the long bones.’ 1 Tiie Skull. The Skull, formed by the union of the several cranial and facial bones already described, when considered as a whole, is divisible into five regions: a superior region or vertex, an inferior region or base, two lateral regions, and an anterior region, the face. Vertex of the Skull. The Superior Region, or vertex, presents two surfaces, an external, and an internal. The External Surface is bounded, in front, by the nasal eminences, and super- ciliary ridges; behind, by the occipital protuberance and superior curved lines of the occipital bone; laterally, by an imaginary line extending from the outer end of the superior curved line, along the temporal ridge, to the external angular process of the frontal. This surface includes the vertical portion of the frontal, the greater part of the parietal, and the superior third of the occipital bone; it is smooth, convex, of an elongated oval form, crossed transversely by the coronal suture, and from before backwards by the sagittal, which terminates behind in the lambdoid. From before backwards may be seen the frontal eminences and remains of the suture connecting the two lateral halves of the frontal bone; on each side of the sagittal suture is the parietal foramen and parietal eminence, and still more posteriorly the smooth convex surface of the occipital bone. The Internal Surface is concave, presents eminences and depressions for the convolutions of the cerebrum, and numerous furrows for the lodgment of branches of the meningeal arteries. Along the middle line of this surface is a longitudinal groove, narrow in front, where it terminates in the frontal crest; broader behind; it lodges the superior longitudinal sinus, and its margins afford attachment to the falx cerebri. On either side of it are several depressions for the Pacchionian bodies, and at its back part, the internal openings of the parietal foramina. This surface is crossed, in front, by the coronal suture; from before backwards, by the sagittal; behind, by the lambdoid.