22101785608 FORMED BY JOHN HODGKIN, FPRACTICAL VEGETARIAN EECIPES.XPRACTICAL 3//py^J VEGETARIAN RECIPES AS USED IN THE PRINCIPAL VEGETARIAN RESTAURANTS IN LONDON AND THE PROVINCES BY CHARLES W. FORWARD AUTHOR OP "THE ART OF LONGEVITY," " PAPERS ON PRACTICAL HYGIENE," "THE 'A B 0' OP VEGETARIANISM," " THE VEGETARIAN YEAR-BOOK," ETC., BTC. LONDON J. S. VIRTUE & CO., Limited, 26, IVY LANE PATERNOSTER ROW 1891LONDON: HUNTED BV J. S. VIRTUE AND CO., LIMITED, CITY ROAD. vWELLCOMI ' 11 iTUTE Co-'! Swell* nmec No.. IrJlS >°0PEEFACE. Although several books have been issued upon the subject of vegetarian cookery, the present work may fairly claim to be the first of its kind arranged in such a manner as to enable those trying the reformed diet to replace without difficulty the dishes heretofore in use. In this respect " Practical Vegetarian Recipes " occupies a unique position, being not only a cookery book but also a guide to the humane diet. In fact, anyone possessing an ordinary knowledge of cookery will, with the aid of this little work, be enabled to produce a repast that, on the score of gastronomic excellence alone, will vie with any preparations of flesh-food. As the recipes given will probably be largely made use of by beginners in vegetarianism, it has been thought well to include a good proportion ofPREFACE. 6 dishes prepared from cheese and eggs, for although many vegetarians do not use those foods they are not excluded from a broad vegetarian dietary. In the preparation of the present work the author desires to acknowledge the assistance he has received from the proprietors and chefs of various vegetarian restaurants, notably — The Charing Cross Vegetarian Hotel, the "Acorn," the " Central," the " Porridge Bowl," the " Apple Tree," &c. ; and he feels that the recognised excel- lence of the cuisine at these establishments will in itself be no small guarantee of the practical nature of the work.INTRODUCTION. For nearly fifty years there has existed in this country an organised propaganda of vegetarian- ism, and the advocates of a diet from which the flesh of animals is excluded have sought by means of books, periodicals, pamphlets, lectures, discus- sions, and illustrative dinners to inculcate the public with the principles they hold. The humane diet has so many powerful argu- ments in its favour that at first it seems a little difficult to understand why the persistent advocacy and example of vegetarians have not achieved larger results. The temperance movement, run- ning almost alongside the vegetarian movement, has resulted in the conversion of a very large number of the inhabitants of this country to the principle and practice of total abstinence from alcoholic drinks, but the number of those who consistently select their food from the vegetable kingdom is wretchedly inadequate with the efforts that have been put forth. Yet there are argu- ments in favour of the latter principle far moreINTRODUCTION. s powerful than those that can be adduced on behalf of abstinence from alcohol. What, then, is the reason of vegetarian progress having been so slow as compared with that of other principles % The reason—or, at least, one of the principal reasons—is not far to seek. In the case of the mere negative doctrine of absten- tion from a class of foods that are admitted on all hands to possess a very low nutritive value, it was not difficult to induce a large number of people to make so small a sacrifice for the sake of a prin- ciple the raison d'etre of which could be seen daily in our streets and police-courts. It is, however, quite another thing when not only the cutting-off of mere luxuries is concerned, but an attack is made against what have for centuries been looked upon as being the prime necessaries of life in these islands. If fish, flesh, fowl, suet, and lard are to be rejected, there are few recipes in the repertoire of the modern cook that will be available. In the bewilderment that arises from the mere contemplation of such a suggestion, the would-be food-reformer too often elects to accept the evils dietetic that already exist rather than fly to others that he knows not of, in the direction suggested by the advocates of vegetarianism. With a view to enlightening the tyro in vege- tarianism, several cookery books have been issued from time to time, but the complaint as to lack of practical instruction on the subject is as loud as9 INTRODUCTION. ever. It is, in fact, one thing to place a hetero- genous collection of recipes before the public, and quite another to impart such information as may enable them to utilise such recipes in place of the dishes heretofore in use. Take for instance the first meal, breakfast! In what way does a vegetarian breakfast differ from that of the ordinary mixed feeder ? What dishes take the place of the bacon, the ham, the pickled mackerel or stewed kidneys ? A perusal of the first section of the present work will convince any unprejudiced person, that so far as variety is concerned, the vegetist is by no means at a disadvantage. With some half- dozen varieties of porridge to select from, eaten with boiled milk and sugar, honey, marmalade, molasses, malt extract, or jam, with any number of appetising scones and cakes, with eggs cooked in diverse ways, and a practically unlimited variety of omelettes, fritters, &c, he must indeed be hard to please who cannot make a substantial and delicious repast without recourse to the flesh- pots. Or, again, take luncheon! In this section especial attention has been directed to the provi- sion of recipes that will enable anyone to prepare portable dishes suitable for picnics, boating excur- sions, cycling tours, &c.—a desideratum that any one who has tried a vegetarian diet will appreciate. In making up a luncheon basket, m addition to the sandwiches, and cold pies, baked potatoes,10 INTRODUCTION. roasted chestnuts, biscuits, and ripe fruit will help to fill up odd corners. The working man, the clerk, the business or professional man, and the school-boy can all be supplied with portable vegetarian meals of a more tasty and wholesome character than ever is pos- sible from flesh-food. With cold pies, salads, cheese-dishes, custards, and a larger variety of vegetarian sandwiches than has ever heretofore been put together, the holiday-making disciple of Pythagoras need be in no difficulty as to his commissariat. The third meal, tea, is practically a vegetarian repast with most people; the adoption of a non- flesh dietary will, however, give an increased interest in the production of cakes, biscuits, and fruit preparations, and so tend to amplify the resources of the hostess rather than curtail them. Dinner is the most serious business of all, and there is every excuse for those who have always been used to dining upon flesh soups, fish, game, poultry, and "joints," imagining that vegetarian- ism is only another method of spelling starva- tion. Let us start with soups. " Surely," exclaims the average cook, " sure'y you cannot make soup without ' stock '! " Let us grant this, but at the same time ask for a definition of " stock." Most cooks set no small value upon the water in which bones and meat have been boiled. But what about the water in which vegetable foods haveii INTR OD UCTION. been boiled ? Why is that thrown down the sink as of no value ? "Whenever peas, carrots, cauli- flower, potatoes, or other vegetables are boiled, the liquor should be strained into a basin and utilised as a basis for soup. Of course this is im- practicable in the case of steamed vegetables, but with pulse foods and cereals—e.g., lentils, hari- cots, rice, macaroni, &c.—it is easy enough, and should invariably be carried out. The water in which wheat or macaroni has been boiled is rich in gluten, and almost forms a jelly when cold. An excellent brown stock can be made by boiling a handful or two of bran in a quart of water, and barley makes a first-rate basis for soup or gravy. A small brown haricot is now to be had at most corn-chandlers, and makes a rich soup of a dark colour when boiled down. A well-assorted selection of light savoury dishes will be found under the head of "Entrees." These dishes should be served where possible upon frilled papers, and garnished with par- sley, &c. In place of the joint found on the ordinary table, the vegetist serves such dishes as will be found under the head of " Savouries," viz., stews, pies, various complex preparations of vegetables, pulses, &c, &c, whilst the number of vegetables that can be served separately is almost limitless. Sweet puddings and pies make a good fifth course, whilst ices, followed by fruit, fresh and stewed, wind up a meal that the most fastidious12 INTRODUCTION. opponent of the reformed diet will hardly find fault with. There is one danger in the adoption of a vege- tarian dietary that requires to be carefully guarded against. Whilst most animal foods lose a con- siderable proportion of their weight in cooking, owing" to the excess of water they contain, the cereals and pulses take up a great deal of water in the process, and by this means increase in bulk. These foods being more nourishing than butcher's meat, some care is required to keep the size of the dishes rather smaller than usual, the popular idea that a vegetarian needs about twice the quantity of food that a meat-eater does, being an absolutely mistaken one. A point that has been greatly neglected in the past is the tasteful serving of vegetarian dishes, and it will be found that the recipes in the follow- ing pages are especially suited for the display of taste in the serving. For instance there is no prettier or more tasty dish than egg or lentil cutlets placed carefully round spinach mould upon a frilled paper garnished with parsley, though the two recipes served separately are not nearly as attractive. This introduction cannot perhaps be better con- cluded than by the following sketch menu of a vegetarian dinner. i13 INTRODUCTION. MENU. Soups. Lentil. Macaroni. Tomato. Entrees. Tomato Toast. Mushrooms en Papillote. Celery Compote. Rissolettes of Potatoes. Sayoueies. Buttered Eggs -with Peas. Stuffed Mushrooms. Baked Vegetable Marrow. Lentil Cutlets. Macaroni au Beurre. Pumpkin Pie. "Vegetables. French Beans Seasoned. Asparagus a la Parmesan. Broad Beans. Baked Spanish Onions. Artichokes. Apple Fritters. Gateau Viennoise. Semolina Pudding. Sweets. Mock Eggs. Ices. Vanilla. Strawberry. Apples. Stewed Fruit. Greengages. Apricots. Dessert.PEACTICAL VEGETARIAN RECIPES. BEEAKFASTS. PORRIDGES. Oatmeal Porridge. Set on the fire a pan containing a quart of cold water; add to this one teaspoonful of salt, and when it comes to the boil strew into it, slowly and carefully, about four tablespoonfuls of oatmeal. If the oatmeal is very fine rather less will be required. It should be allowed to dribble through the fingers so as not to form lumps, and the porridge must be carefully stirred with a stick or wooden spoon. Allow it to boil for twenty-five to thirty minutes. This time is sufficient to cook16 PRACTICAL VEGETARIAN RECIPES. it thoroughly, but if wished very thick it may be boiled a little longer. Oatmeal Porridge. Ingredients.—12 ozs. meal, \ oz. salt, 3 pints water. Dissolve the salt in the boiling water; add the meal, previously rubbed smooth in a little cold ■water, and allow the whole to boil gently, all over the surface, about twenty minutes, stirring con- stantly. Pour it into saucers, and serve with jam and milk. Wlieatmeal Porridge. Ingredients. — 1 teaspoonful salt, § lb. wlieatmeal, 1 quart boiling water. To one quart of water add a teaspoonful of salt. Stir in gradually \ lb. of wheatmeal; boil ten minutes, and serve with milk, jam, or treacle. Milk Porridge. Ingredients.—1 \ pints milk, \ pint water, 1 dessert- spoonful oatmeal, salt. To a pint and a half of new milk put half a pint of water. Set it on the fire, and when just ready to boil stir in about a dessertspoonful of oatmeal and a little salt, mixed with water. Cut some bread in small pieces, put it into basins and pour the boiling milk upon it.>7 BREAKFASTS. Sago Porridge. Ingredients.—4 tablespoonsful sago, 1 saltspoonful salt, and 1 quart water. Soak the sago in cold water a few minutes, and boil it gently about an bour, adding tbe salt. Pour it into soup-plates, and serve with molasses or sugar. Lentil Porridge. Ingredients.—3 tablespoonsful lentil flour, 1 saltspoonful salt, 1 pint water. Mix tbe flour witb tbe water and salt, and boil ten minutes, stirring it all tbe time. SCONES, CAKES, CRUMPETS, Sfc. Butter Cakes. Ingredients.—| lb. butter, 2 eggs, \ lb. castor sugar, 4 ozs. almonds, \ oz. ground cinnamon, \ oz. nutmeg,' | oz. groimd cloves, 1 lemon, 1 lb. flour. Beat tbe butter to a cream, beat tbe eggs well, and cbop tbe almonds; mix tbese ingredients well together and add the sugar, spices, grated lemon peel, and flour. Moisten and work all well to- gether on a pasteboard. Eoll about half an inch thick and cut into shapes. Bake in a slow oven till a light brown. Sift sugar over. B18 PRACTICAL VEGETARIAN RECIPES. Chapatis. (An Indian recipe.) Ingredients.—1 lb. flour, 2 ozs. butter, 1 teaspoonful salt, water. "Work the butter and salt into a flour, add water gradually to make into a dougli. Roll some of it out on a board with a rolling pin till about -^o inch thick, cut it into a circular shape with an inverted saucer, and bake it on a griddle over a clear fire ; when done on both sides place it on a trivet before the fire and turn occasionally. By the time a second cake is baked on the griddle the first will be toasted enough. Butter the first chapati and put on a plate in the oven until the others are ready. Vienna Bread. Ingredients.—1 lb. flour, 1 oz. butter, l\ ozs. German yeast, J oz. castor sugar, 1 egg, \ pint warm milk. Put the flour into a warmed bowl, rub into it an ounce of butter, and add the salt. Put the yeast in a cup with the sugar and a little flour. Braid it with the back of a spoon until it is soft, and add half the milk. Leave it to rise in a warm place for ten minutes. Beat the egg light, mix with it the rest of the milk, add to the yeast, and pour the whole into the flour, kneading it into a light dough. Leave it to rise in a warm place for an hour. Knead and divide into eight pieces; knead each and form them into rolls. Place them on a baking tin, and set it over a pan of boiling water for ten to twenty minutes to raise them.BREAKFASTS. 19 Bake in a quick oven. When baked, brush them over instantly with beaten egg. Coco-nut Cakes. Ingbedients.—10 ozs. castor sugar, 3 eggs, 6 ozs. grated coco-nut. Whisk the eggs till very light, stir in very gradually first the sugar, and then the coco-nut. Form into rough balls. Bake in a very slow oven for half an hour. Bath Buns. Ingbedients.—2 lbs. flour, 6 ozs. butter, 6 ozs. sifted sugar, 3 eggs, 2 teaspoonsful caraway seeds, \ pint milk, 1 oz°lump sugar, \ oz. German barm. Bub the butter into the flour, add the sugar and the caraway seeds. Braid the barm with a little sugar and flour, add half a pint of lukewarm milk and three eggs well beaten. Stir into the flour and leave it to rise for four hours. Knead lightly, adding more milk if necessary. Form into buns, leave them to rise over boiling water nearly an hour. Bake in a quick oven five to ten minutes. Brush over with sugar and water, and sprinkle roughly broken lump sugar over. Hot Cross Buns. Ingbedients.—1 lb. flour, 2 ozs. butter, 1 egg, 2 ozs. sugar, 2 ozs. currants, \ teaspoonful salt, \ teaspoonfid mixed spice, \ pint of milk, \ oz. of barm, a pinch of nutmeg. Braid the yeast with a little flour and sugar and20 PRACTICAL VEGETARIAN RECIPES. add a little warm milk. Leave it to rise in a warm place for ten minutes. Mix the flour, salt, and spice in a bowl. Boil the milk, dissolve the butter in it, and leave it to cool. Beat the egg light. When the yeast is ready pour it into the flour, add the egg, and when the milk has cooled add it also and mis well with a wooden spoon. Leave the dough to rise for an hour and a half or two hours, covered with a cloth. When it is well risen mix in the fruit and sugar, knead it a little, turn it ou to a floured board, divide into sixteen pieces, shape them neatly into buns, and place them on a but- tered tin. Cover the buns with a clean cloth and stand them to rise for twenty minutes over a pan of boiling water. Brush over with sugar and water or egg. Bake in a quick oven ten or fifteen minutes. When half done cut the cross on the top with a knife. Banbury Cake. Ingredients.—\\lbs. flour, 1 lb. butter, a little German yeast, currants, candied peel, and moist sugar. Boll the butter in sheets in part of the flour ; wet up the rest of the flour with the water and a little German yeast; make into a smooth paste, roll into a large sheet, lay on the butter ; double up and roll out again; do this five times ; cut into square pieces about 1£ ozs. each. Mix the cur- rants, candied peel, and moist sugar, and put two teaspoonfuls of this mixture upon each piece ofBREAKFASTS. 21 paste ; bring the two corners together in the mid- dle, and close them np of an oval shape ; turn the closing downwards; sift finely-powdered loaf sugar over the tops ; put on a cold tin and let them stand for a while. Bake in a cool oven. Crumpets. Ingredients.—If lbs. flour, \ oz.barm, 1 pint cold water, f pint boiling water, \ oz. salt. Put the salt into cold water and beat it to a froth with a whisk. Add separately the boiling water, barm, and, by degrees, the flour, beating well after each addition and finally to a strong froth. Set it iu a large crock all night, and in the morning beat it down with a wooden spoon. Bake on both sides in greased rings, on a hot griddle rubbed with salt. Barley Scones. IxaEEDiENTS.—1 pint milk, fib. baiieymeal, salt. Put the mdk into a clean saucepan, add to it a teaspoonfid of salt, and let it come to the boil. When it boils stir in a cupful of barleymeal, stirring all the time, and addiug more meal until it is a thick paste. Turn out on to a thickly-floured board, knead at once with a little dry meal. Poll it out to the thickness of a crown-piece, cut it into rounds, and bake on a hot girdle, first one side and then the other. Thin flour scones may be made in the same way.22 PRACTICAL VEGETARIAN RECIPES. Wafer Oatcake. Ingredients.—| lb. oatmeal, water. Mix with the oatmeal nearly half a teaspoonful of salt. Pour over it a quarter of a pint of boil- ing water. Mix it quickly into dough ; turn it on to a board well sprinkled with meal; work very little. Poll it out as thin as possible, cut into rounds or triangles, and bake on a girdle or hot- plate. The excellence of both kinds of oat cake de- pends on the quickness with which they are worked, and the lightness of the handling. Oat-cakes, if not fresh made, should always be toasted a little before the fire, so that they may eat quite crisp. Cut in small rounds and buttered thickly with fresh butter, they are most acceptable at after- noon tea. Chestnut Cakes. Ingredients.—25 chestnuts, \ oz. butter, \ gill cream, white of 1 egg, \ lb. castor sugar, 2 teaspoonsful orange- flower water. Shell the chestnuts, boil till soft, dry and pound them, mixing in the butter, cream, and white of egg. When quite smooth add the sugar and flavouring. Koll into small balls, place them in wafer paper on a baking sheet, flatten them with a wet knife, brush over with egg well beaten. Bake in a quick oven, and sift powdered sugar over them.23 BREAKFASTS. Fludha Rice Cake. Ingredients.—8 eggs, 1 lb. crushed white sugar, \ lb. flour, \ lb. ground rice. Break the eggs, carefully putting the yolks in a basin and the whites on a plate. Beat the yolks for five minutes, then gradually stir in the sugar and continue beating till it is quite creamy. Beat the whites to a solid froth, stir them lightly in. Mix the flour and ground rice well together and lightly stir them in a little at a time. As soon as all the flour is well mixed, pour into a buttered baking tin and bake in a quick oven. A rather wide, shallow, round tin is best, as this cake is apt to get hollow in the middle if baked in a narrow deep tin. Indian Bread. Ingredients.—2 lbs. maize-meal, 1 lb. rye-meal, \ lb. raisins. Mix the two meals well and pour boiling water over until a thick paste is formed; put in the raisins, and let the whole steam in a pan for five or six hours, then bake in the oven until brown. Hoe Cakes. Ingredient.—1 lb. of fine corn-meal. Mix the meal into a dough with boiling water, using a wooden spoon to stir; make into thin24 PRACTICAL VEGETARIAN RECIPES. cakes, bake in a hot oven, and serve immediately with, golden syrup. American Breakfast Bread. Ingkedients.— 1 quart of milk, 1 pint of flour. Heat one-third of the milk, add half the flour and scald it. When the batter thus made is cool add the remainder of the milk, a teacupful of yeast, a dessertspoonful of salt, and enough flour to make a stiff paste. Knead it on a pasteboard until it is very fine and smooth. Let it rise all night, and bake in the morning for half an hour. Soda Scones. Ingeedients.—\ lb. flour, 2 ozs. butter, 1 teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, butter-milk. Mix the flour, butter, and soda in a basin, and add sufficient butter-milk, or sour milk, to form a paste. Turn it on a board and roll it about an inch thick; then cut it into small rounds and bake a light brown in a quick oven. Barley Bannocks. Ingredients.—Milk and barley meal. Put as much milk as is required into a sauce- pan, and allow it to boil; then sprinkle in barley meal, stirring it constantly to prevent lumps until the mixture is quite thick and almost unstirable. Turn the mass out on to a board well sprinkledBREAKFASTS. 25 with meal, and leave it to cool. "When cool enough to knead work it quite stiff with dry meal, roll into thin cakes and bake on a hot griddle; turning them over when one side is done. In baking on a griddle scrupulous clean- Hness skovdd be observed, as the adherence of the least portion of flour or meal to the griddle imparts a disagreeable flavour to the food. Coco-nut Bread. Ingredients.—2 quarts of whole-meal flour, 1 large coco-nut (grated). Mix the ingredients with water until a stiff batter is formed, beat with a fork until spongy; bake in oiled gem-pans about one hour. Light Breakfast Cakes. Ingredients.—4 ozs. flour, 1 small teaspoonf ul of baking- powder, 1 teacupful of milk. Mix the flour and baking-powder, and stir in the milk; then break the mixture into rough cakes; put them immediately on buttered paper into a cpuck oven, and bake until they are a light brown. Lemon Cheese Cakes. Ingredients.—\ lb. butter, 1 lb. castor sugar, 6 eggs (leaving out two whites), rind of 2 lemons chopped very fine, juice of 3 lemons. Beat the eggs well, then add the sugar, butter,26 PRACTICAL VEGETARIAN RECIPES. and lemons. Set by the fire until thoroughly mixed, stirring occasionally. Lay puff paste in patty-pans ; half-fill with above mixture, shake a little sugar over, and bake in a quick oven. EGG DISHES, OMELETS, FRITTERS, Sfc. Beaten Eggs. Ingredients.—i eggs, 1 tablespoonful of cream, 1 tea- cupful of peas. Partly cook the peas. Break the eggs into a pan with the cream, season with salt and pepper and place on the fire ; add the peas and stir the mixture until it thickens. Small mushrooms may be used instead of peas. Egg Rissoles. Ingredients .—G eggs, 1 tablespoonful of thick cream, 1 tablespoonful of parsley, 1 tablespoonful of breadcrumbs. Boil five eggs hard. Chop the parsley and pound it with the yolks and cream : season with salt and pepper. Chop the whites, stir them in the mixture, and form it into small balls. Boll them in egg and bread crumbs, and a second time in egg. Fry a pale brown in plenty of boiling oil.BREAKFASTS. 27 Savoury Eggs. Ingredients.—8 eggs, \ teacupful of broken bread, 2 ozs. butter, 1 dessertspoonful of parsley and onion mixed, a pinch of herbs. Boil six of the eggs hard, and cut them in halves lengthways. Take out the yolks and mix them with the bread, previously soaked in milk and squeezed dry, the butter, chopped parsley, onion, herbs, salt and pepper. Pound all together; moisten with the yolks of the remaining two eggs and fill the boiled whites with part of the mixture. Spread the rest on a dish and arrange the filled eggs upon it. Warm it in the oven and pass a salamander over. Baked Eggs. Ingeedients.—1 onion, 1 oz. butter, 2 teaspoonfuls curry- powder, 2 teaspoonfuls flour, 1 sour apple, \ pint of milk, 6 eggs. Put the butter in a pan and lightly brown the onion, cut small; add one apple chopped fine, the flour and curry powder mixed together, and by degrees the liquid. Let the mixture simmer very gently until the onions are thoroughly cooked. Have ready six hard-boiled eggs cut in half, drop them in, adding salt to taste; let them get hot through and serve with boiled rice. Minced Eggs with Rice. Ingeedients.—\ lb. Carolina rice, 3 eggs, salt, pepper, and butter. Wash and cook the rice until quite soft. Boil28 PRACTICAL VEGETARIAN RECIPES. the eggs hard, and chop fine \ mix well with the rice, adding pepper, salt and bntter to taste. Serve quite hot on slices of buttered toast. Eggs in Cases. Ingredients.—Eggs, butter, parsley, Parmesan cheese, bread crumbs, pepper and cayenne. Oil some small paper cases, and put into each a piece of butter the size of a hazel-nut, with a small pinch of minced parsley, some pepper, and the least portion of cayenne. Break an egg into each case, add a teaspoouful of grated Parmesan and some bread crumbs. Put the cases in the oven for five minutes and serve hot. Scrambled Eggs. Ingredients.—2 tablespoonfuls cream, 1 oz. butter, 4 eggs. Put the cream and butter in a saucepan and when melted add the eggs, well beaten up. Stir over the fire for a few minutes, and serve imme- diately on toast. (Eufs sur le Plat. Ingredients.—3 eggs, 1 oz. butter. Melt the butter on a double chiua milk sauce- pan and break the eggs carefully into it. Place over the fire until the whites are set and serve immediately on a hot dish.BREAKFASTS. 20 Italian Omelet. Ingredients.—6 eggs, 4 tomatoes, 4 oz. butter, pepper, salt, lemon. Stew the tomatoes till just tender, rub them through a sieve, adding a squeeze of lemon-juice. Beat the yolks of the eggs well, and stir in the tomatoes, pepper, and salt. Beat the whites to a solid froth. Put the butter into a pan and let it just melt. Stir the whites of egg to the yolks very lightly, and pour the mixture into the pan. Shake the pan gently over the fire till the mixture begins to set, then let it re- main still one minute to brown ; fold in halves, and serve on a very hot dish. Savoury Rice Omelet. Ingredients.—3 ozs. rice, 3 eggs, \ oz. chopped parsley, 1 pint water, butter. Well wash the rice and boil in 1 pint of water until the water is absorbed, when nearly cold add the eggs, well beaten, and the chopped parsley. Butter a lined pie dish, pour in the omelet and bake in a moderate oveu. Serve with sauce. Omelette Souffle\ Ingredients.—3 eggs, 2 ozs. butter. Beat the whites to a very stiff froth, and stir them into the yolks, seasoned with a little chopped onion, mixed herbs, salt, and pepper. Melt the30 PRACTICAL VEGETARIAN RECIPES. butter in a small saute pan and pour in the mixture, shaking it gently to prevent sticking. When lightly browned double in half, slide on to a dish, and serve immediately. Cheese Omelet. Ingredients.—3 eggs, 3 ozs. Parmesan cheese, 1 oz. butter. Melt the butter in a pan, beat the eggs, grate the cheese, and stir it lightly into them. Season with salt, pepper, and mustard. Pour into the butter, and saute a pale golden colour. Omelette aux Tomates. Ingredients.—3 eggs, 2 tomatoes, 2 oz. butter, lemon juice, garlic. Eub the pan with garlic and melt the butter in it. Beat the eggs well. Pulp the tomatoes through a sieve ; season with a scpieeze of lemon, salt and pepper. Mix with the eggs and pour into the butter. To prevent burning revolve the pan over the fire until the mixture begins to set, then let it rest a minute. Double the omelet in half by sliding a slice under it. Keverse it on a hot dish and serve immediately. Bread Fritters. Ingredients.—| lb. bread crumbs, 1 pint milk, yolks of 5 eggs, 2 ozs. sugar. Pour the boiling milk on the bread crumbs3i BREAKFASTS. cover it with a plate, and when cold beat it smooth, adding the yolks of eggs, and sugar, and a little grated nutmeg. Fry it in fritters nicely browned on both sides, and serve with sifted sugar over. Vegetable Sausages. Ingredients.—3 carrots, 4 onions, 2 parsnips, \ pint split red lentils, 2 eggs, \ pound bread crumbs, sago, parsley, garlic, salt and pepper. Boil the vegetables and mash fine. Cook the lentils until soft, pound them well, and add to the mashed vegetables, together with a little boiled sago, chopped parsley, a small portion of finely- chopped garlic, salt and pepper. Mix the eggs and bread crumbs, and add a portion to the other ingredients. Make up into pieces about the size of ordinary sausages, roll in egg and bread crumbs, and fry in boiling oil until browned. Mushroom Omelet. Ingredients.—\ lb. mushrooms, 3 eggs, 2 ozs. butter, pepper, salt. Lightly stew or bake the mushrooms till tender, chop tbem small, mix them with the beaten eggs as for Italian Omelet (p. 29). Apricot Omelet. Ingredients.—6 eggs, \ oz. butter, apricot jam. Beat up the yolks of six eggs and the whites of four with a small pinch of salt. Put a piece of32 PRACTICAL VEGETARIAN RECIPES. fresh, butter in the omelet pan, and when it is melted pour in the eggs. As soon as set fold up the omelet, inserting as much apricot jam as it will hold. Turn out neatly on a dish, powder with sugar, and glaze with a salamander. Rice Fritters. Ingredients.—i ozs. rice, 1 pint milk, J pint cream, G ozs. currants, 2 ozs. sugar, 4 eggs. Boil the rice, adding a little salt, in a pint of milk, till rather thick. Pour it into a basin; when cool add the cream, sugar, currants, the eggs well beaten, a little cinnamon, a few drops of almond flavour, and as much flour as will make it a thick batter. Fry in fritters, which should be Hghtly browned on both sides, and serve with sugar sifted over them. COFFEE AND CHOCOLATE. Coffee Making. Coffee is usually ill-made in England, chiefly because an insufficient quantity of the main ingre- dient is used. A tablespoonful of freshly-ground coffee for each cup, or one ounce for each person, is required.BREAKFASTS. 33 The coffee should, if possible, be roasted not more than twenty-four hours before it is used. It should be ground as short a time as possible be- fore it is made. Fresh-boiled water at boiling-point must be used in making coffee, but the coffee itself must not be boiled if the finest aroma is to be preserved. Milk for coffee should be made very hot, but not allowed to boil. Cream should always be used as well. Coffee should never be allowed to stand long in metal, as it loses its aroma. If made in a pan or metal pot, it should be poured off into a hot jug. Freshly roasted and ground coffee of fine quality may be had at Is. 6d. per lb., and fine Mochas and other coffees at higher prices. Machines for roasting and grinding coffee at home can be procured in sizes to suit small fami- lies, and are strongly recommended to those who like really good coffee. To make Coffee in a Pan. Ingredients.—2 ozs. coffee, \ pint hot milk:, 1 pint water. Put 2 ozs. of coffee into a dry enamelled sauce- pan. Hold it over the fire, stirring it for about two minutes till the coffee and pan are both tho- roughly hot. Pour over it a pint of fast-boiling water, cover it closely, let it stand for five minutes. Strain it through a clean cloth, heat again, and serve. Take care the milk is thoroughly hot. C34 PRACTICAL VEGETARIAN RECIPES. Coffee made in this way is strong enough to be mixed with, two-thirds of milk. To make Chocolate or Cocoa. Ingredients.—2 ozs. chocolate, 1 pint milk. Take 2 ozs. of any good plain chocolate, English or foreign. Place it in an enamelled pan with about two tablespoonfuls of water. Set it by the fire, and let it dissolve slowly. When the choco- late is all dissolved, add to it a pint of cold milk ; bring it gradually to the boil, and it is ready for use. Chocolate is much improved by frothing; but to do this properly, a French or Italian chocolatiere is required, with a whisk passed through the lid so that the chocolate can be whisked while coining to the boil. If cocoa is required for breakfast, the maker's directions, provided with the packets, may usually be followed, or it may be made as above. It must be remembered that all cocoa requires at least one minute's boiling—no mere pouring on of boiling milk or water will suffice to cook it thoroughly.LUNCHEONS. COLD PIES, PANCAKES, Sfc. Haricot Rolls. Ingredients.—\ lb. haricot beans, 3 ozs. wholemeal bread crumbs, 1 oz. butter, 1 onion, chopped parsley or herbs, pepper and salt, and 1 small egg. Soak the beans overnight in cold water, boil until tender, drain and mash, with a spoon, add the other ingredients, flour the hands and roll into sausage shape. Beat up the egg, dip the rolls in and cover with fine, dried bread crumbs, fry in boiling oil until of a golden brown colour. When cold, these are Ann and stiff and will carry well. Haricot Pie. Ingredients.—£ lb. haricot beans, 2 eggs, small teacup- ful of tapioca, j oz. butter. Soak the beans for twelve hours in cold water, and boil until soft. Boil the eggs hard and chop36 PRACTICAL VEGETARIAN RECIPES. tkeni up. Soak the tapioca all night in cold water. Line the edges of a pie-dish with paste, put in a layer of haricots, then a layer of egg, then a layer of tapioca with a few small pieces of butter. Continue the process until the dish is filled. Pour in half a teacupful of the water in which the beans were boiled, cover over with paste, and bake in a moderate oven until browned. Serve up cold. Melton Mowbray Pie. Ingredients.—12 fritters (onion and sage, or bread and parsley), \ lb. mushrooms, 3 eggs, 2 ozs. tapioca, 3 ozs. butter. Cut the fritters up small; boil the eggs hard, cut them up and mix them with the fritters; steep the tapioca for twenty-four hours in a pint of water, then boil it half-an-hour with the mush- rooms, finely chopped, mix all together, adding the butter and seasoning, put in a raised crust and bake. Mince Pies. Ingredients.— \ lb. each dates, raisins, and currants. 1 pound of peeled and cored apples, 6 ozs. of grated coco- nut, 4 ozs. sugar, 4 ozs. mixed peel, a little mixed spice, and the juice and grated rind of 1 lemon, 12 bitter almonds, 2 ozs. of Valencia almonds. Mince fine, or pass through a mincing machine, and mix well. This is better made a week before using, but if required to keep for a longer time,37 LUNCHEONS. the apple and coco-nut should not be added until required for use. In grating a lemon only the yellow part of the rind is used, which one rub across the grater is sufficient to remove. Never use the white part, which is bitter and indigestible. Wholemeal Pastry for Mince Pies. To one pound of wholemeal use three-quarters of a pound of butter; mis well together, using the fingers only, so as to keep it as cool as pos- sible. Add a little milk to bind the meal together, a little more moist than with white flour, and roll out two or three times, handling as lightly as possible. Pancakes. Ingredients.—10 ozs. flour, 1 quart milk, 3 eggs, 1 small teaspoonful baking powder. Mix the baking powder, rubbed very fine, and a little salt, with the flour, stirring in as much milk as will make it a stiff batter ; when beaten smooth add the remainder of the milk, and lastly the eggs, well beaten. Melt a little butter in a frying-pan, pour in as much batter as will cover the bottom of the pan, to make the pancakes about the thickness of a penny piece, not thicker : when nearly set, shake the pan round a little, and if the pancake will move freely, turn it over, adding a little more butter. When lightly browned, turn33 PRACTICAL VEGETARIAN RECIPES. it again, and almost immediately slip it out of the pan on a hot dish, set over a pan or deep dish of boiling water, rolling up each pancake as it is fried, and serve immediately with sugar and lemon juice. Apple and Custard Pancake. Ingredients.—6 apples, 4 eggs and \ pint of cream. Beat the eggs well, adding the cream and a little cinnamon, or a little almond flavour. Cut the apples in thin slices and fry them in butter ; when browned a little turn them over; pour in the custard. Fry it a light brown, turn it out carefully, and serve with sugar sifted over. Ground Rice Pancakes. Ingredients.—3 ozs. rice flour, 2 ozs. flour, \\ pints milk, 3 ozs. sugar and 5 eggs. Set a pint of milk on the fire, and when nearly boiling put in the rice flour, mixed with a quarter of a pint of cold milk, stirring constantly till it thickens; then pour it into a basin and add the sugar, a little salt, and powdered cinnamon. When cool stir in the flour, and the eggs well beaten. Fry the batter in pancakes, lightly browned on both sides, and sift sugar over them.LUNCHEONS. 39 SANBWICEES. Cheese Sandwiches. Ingredients.—2 eggs, bread and butter, grated cheese, mixed herbs, pepper and salt, and 1 tomato. Break the eggs into a basin and beat well to. gether, add the cheese, herbs, pepper, salt and the pulp of the tomato. Mix thoroughly and fry- in oil, pouring in only just sufficient to cover the pan. The frying pan must be very hot, and care must be taken that the mixture does not stick to the bottom. It must be fried thin, and when one side is done, cut up and placed between thin slices of wholemeal bread and butter with a little mustard. Bread and Butter Sandwiches. Ingredients.—Brown bread, white bread, fresh butter. Cut very thin slices of bread and butter, lay four one over the other, brown and white alter- nately. Cut into fingers. Apple Sandwiches. Ingredients.—\ tcacupful apple sauce, 2 tablespoonfuls of whipped cream, a pinch of nutmeg. Mix the ingredients well and spread between thin slices of wholemeal bread.4o PRACTICAL VEGETARIAN RECITES. Swiss Sandwiches. Ingredients.—2 ozs. Gruyere cheese, 1 oz. butter, a little cream, mustard. Pound all the ingredients well together in a mortar, spread on thin slices of bread and cut into three-cornered sandwiches. Polenta Sandwiches. Ingredients.—2 ozs. polenta, 1 oz. semolina boiled together with one onion cut up, 2 ozs. grated Parmesan, \ oz. butter, pepper and salt. Boil rather stiff and turn out on a plate to get cold. Then work in the grated cheese with a small piece of butter, and press smoothly into a pot. Make into sandwiches as in previous recipes. Curry Sandwiches. Ingredients.—3 hard-boiled eggs, 3 ozs. butter, a tea- spoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of Worcester Sauce, a tea- spoonful of curry powder, a tablespoonful of bread crumbs. Pound the whole to a smooth paste, until tho- roughly mixed, and moisten with a little tarragon vinegar. Spread the mixture between thin slices of buttered bread and serve. Bahette Sandwiches. Ingredients.—Brown bread, fresh butter, apricot jam, Devonshire cream. Cut thin slices of brown bread, butter them very4i LUNCHEONS. lightly. Spread each slice first with Devonshire cream, and then with apricot jam, taking care to break up the fruit so that there are no lumps. Cover with a second slice of bread and butter, press lightly together, cut into fingers and serve. Honey Sandwiches. Ingeedients—"White bread, fresh butter, honey, baked oatmeal. Cut the bread very thin and butter it. Spread one slice over with good run honey, or honeycomb, taking care to remove the comb. Have ready some oatmeal that has been Hghtly baked till just brown. Sprinkle some meal over the honey. Lay another slice of bread upon the top, press lightly together, cut into fingers and serve. Savoletta Sandwiches. Ingredients.—3 ozs. stale Naples biscuits, Devonshire cream, white bread. Cut thin slices of bread, spread them thickly with Devonshire cream. Crush the Naples bis- cuits to crumbs with a rolling pin. Spread a slice of bread and cream thickly with the crumbs, lay another slice over it, press together, cut into neat shapes and serve. Brown bread biscuit crumbs, or baked oatmeal may be used in the same way, but these sand- wiches must not be made too long before they are wanted, or the crispness of the crumbs is lost.42 PRACTICAL VEGETARIAN RECIPES. Sandwiches a l'lndienne. Ingredients.—6 eggs, 1 wineglassful of milk, § tcacupful potted cheese, 1 oz. butter, 2 large teaspoonsf ul of curry powder. Boil the eggs hard, shell them, take out the yolks, and pound them smooth. Chop the whites small. Put into a small enamelled pan 1 oz. of butter and curry powder, stir over a gentle heat till they are mixed, add one wineglassful of milk, stir till it is just boiling, take it off the fire. Add the pounded yolks of eggs and the cheese, salt, and a little cayenne, mixing very thoroughly. When the mixture is cold, spread with it thin slices of bread and butter, sprinkle over it the minced white of egg, cover with another slice of bread and butter, cut into squares and serve. Ravigotte Sandwiches. Ingredients.—2 ozs. butter, 1 tablespoouful chopped tar- ragon, 1 tablespoouful chopped chervil, juice of \ a lemon, pepper, salt, cayenne. Pat the butter on a plate, squeeze over it the juice of half a lemon. Chop the tarragon and chervil very fine, mix with \ teaspoonful of salt and \ teaspoonful of pepper, and a very small pinch of cayenne. Mix the herbs with the butter, using a knife to mix them very thoroughly. Spread on very thin slices of bread, andcoveawith another slice spread with fresh butter.43 L UNCHEONS. Mushroom Sandwiches. Ingredients.—12 small mushrooms, 2 tomatoes, \ oz. grated bread crumbs, | pint milk, \ an onion, 1 teaspooniul lemon juice, cayenne, salt. Put all these ingredients into a stew-pan; sim- mer gently till quite tender. The onion and mush- rooms should be cut small, as they will stew quicker. When quite tender pass the mixture through a sieve, and leave on a plate to cool. Cut thin slices of bread and butter, spread one shoe with the mixture, lay another slice on the top, cut into neat squares, and serve. This mixture should be highly seasoned ; two pinches of cayenne will not be too much. Lentil Sandwiches. Ingredients.—3 ozs. split red lentils, 1 small onion, cut- up. \ oz. butter, 1 hard-boiled egg, 1 small teaspoonful of mixed herbs, pepper and salt. Wash the lentils well and put them into a jar or gallipot; with all the ingredients except the egg, adding a tablespoonful of water. Stand the jar in a saucepan of boiling water and keep it boding. Cover the jar and stir occasionally until thoroughly done. The object being to turn out the lentils as dry as possible, add no more water to them than is necessary to cook them quite soft and smooth. Then turn them out on a plate, mix the egg finely chopped, and press into a pot or44 PRACTICAL VEGETARIAN RECIPES. mould. Spread this between slices of thin bread and butter for a savoury sandwich. SALADS. Apple and Orange Salad. Ingredients.—2 juicy apples, 3 oranges, pineapple syrup, castor sugar. Pare and core the apples, and cut them trans- versely to form rings. Peel the oranges and cut them in transverse slices. Arrange the slices of apple and orange alternately, in a circle, sprinkle over them castor sugar, and moisten with good syrup from a tin of pineapple. Melon Salad. Ingredients.—1 small melon, 3 tablepoonsfuls of oil, 1 tablespoonful of vinegar. Peel the melon and cut it into small blocks, dress it with one tablespoonful of oil with a little salt. Add the remainder of the oil mixed with the vinegar and a little salt, and pepper to taste. Banana Salad. Ingredients.—3 oranges, 4 bananas, castor sugar. Peel the bananas and oranges, cut in slices transversely and proceed as in previous recipe.45 L UNCHEONS. CHEESE DISHES. Cheese Ramekins. Ingeedients.— 2 ozs. cheese, 1 egg, 1 oz. butter, 1 tea- spoonful mushroom ketchup. Grate the cheese, beat the yolk of the egg, melt the butter, and pound all together with the mush- room ketchup and a little pepper. Spread thickly on buttered toast and brown before the fire. Cheese Rissoles. Ingeedients.—2 ozs. Parmesan cheese, 1 oz. English cheese, 3 eggs. Grate the cheese, beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, season with salt, pepper, and mus- tard. Mix all well together, form into small balls, and fry in plenty of boiling oil for about three minutes. Cheese Fritters. Ingeedients.—3 ozs. cheese, 2 eggs, 1 oz. butter, 1 gill milk, 1 tablespoonful of flour. Mix the flour and butter, and boil in the milk, stirring until it thickens. Let it cool a little ; then beat in the eggs, grate and stir in the cheese, and season, with salt, pepper, and mustard. Drop it by a spoonful at a time into boiling oil, and fry a light brown. Serve with fried parsley.46 PRACTICAL VEGETARIAN RECIPES. Devilled Cheese. Ingredients.— 2 ozs. Parmesan cheese, 1 teaspoonfu pickle, 1 teaspoonful curry powder. Grate the cheese ; chop the pickles small and mix them with it, adding the curry powder, a little salt, pepper, and cayenne, and plenty of mustard. Butter some toast on both sides with the paste. Bake in a buttered tin for four minutes. Parmesan Soume\ Ingredients.—3 ozs. Parmesan cheese, 4 eggs, 1 oz. flour, 1 gill milk, 1 oz. butter. Melt the butter in a saute pan, stir in the flour, season with mustard, cayenne, and salt. Pour in the milk, and stir until the mixture is set. Let it cool in a basin. Grate and stir in the cheese, drop in the yolks of the eggs one hj one, and beat well; whip the whites to a stiff froth, and stir lightly in. Butter a souffle-tin, pour in the mixture, and bake for fifteen minutes. Potted Cheese. Ingredients.—h lb. good sound mellow Stilton cheese, 2 ozs. fresh butter, mace, and mustard. Cut the cheese in thin slices, and pound with a small quantity of mace and some made mustard, until the whole forms a thick smooth paste. Then press it down in a jar or glass, and cover the top with some hot butter.LUNCHEONS. 47 Cheese Souffle. Ingeedients.—\ lb. cheese, 4 eggs, \ lb. butter. Grate the cheese and beat it well with the butter and yolks of the eggs ; season with salt and pepper. Whisk the whites to a stiff froth, and stir gently in. Bake in a deep dish for half an hour. Baked Cheese Cream. Ingeedients.—3 ozs. cheese, 2 eggs, \ pint cream or rnilk. Grate the cheese and mix in the cream ; whisk the eggs and beat them in. Season with pepper, mustard, and salt, and bake in a buttered tin for fifteen minutes in a sharp oven. Cheese Pancakes. Ingbedients.—5 ozs. macaroni, 5 ozs. Gruyere cheese, 3 ozs. butter, J lb. flour. Let the macaroni simmer with an ounce of butter, in sufficient water to cover it, until all the water is absorbed. Grate and mix in the cheese, season with pepper, mustard and salt. Work nearly all the remaining butter into the flour, and roll out a thin paste. Butter thoroughly a saute pan, and line it with a part of the paste; place the mixture in it, cover with the remainder of the paste, and fry on both sides a pale brown.48 PRACTICAL VEGETARIAN RECIPES. German Cheeses. Ingredients. — 3 pints milk, caraway seeds or sage leaves. Set the milk for three days, then shim off the cream. Warm the milk slowly, but do not let it boil. Squeeze whilst warm through a cloth, and set in a tolerably warm place for two days. Rub fine and mix with a few caraway seeds or pounded sage leaves. Form into small cheeses and lay out on straws for a week. CUSTARDS. Vanilla Custards. Ingredients.—1 stick vanilla, \ \ pints milk, § pint cream, i lb. -white sugar, 7 yolks, 4 whites of eggs. Cut the vanilla into slips ; boil in the milk and cream a quarter of an hour, adding the sugar; strain, and let it remain till cool, then stir in the eggs well beaten. Pour it into cups, with half a teaspoonful of fresh butter, melted, in each cup. Set them in water, bake in a moderate oven, colour them when done by holding a hot salamander over, and serve cold with sifted sugar on the top.LUNCHEONS. 49 Gooseberry Custards. Ingeedebnts.—8 pints green gooseberries, \ lb. sugar, 4 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls orange-flower water. Set the gooseberries in cold water over a slow fire, and simmer till soft; then drain the water away and rub tbem through a sieve. To a pint of pulp add the eggs, the sugar, and orange-flower water. Set it over a fire, stirring constantly till it becomes thick, and when cold serve in custard glasses. Lemon Custards. iNOEEDrENTS—8 eggs, 6 ozs. sugar, 2 lemons, 1 teacupful cream, 1 pint boiling water, 2 tablespoonfuls of orange- flower water. Beat the yolks of eggs till quite frothy; pour on them the boiling water, stirring quickly all the time ; add the sugar, and the rind of the lemons grated; stir it over a slow fire till thick, adding the cream and orange-flower water. When hot stir in the lemon juice; pour it into a basin; stir till nearly cold, and serve in custard glasses. Baked Custards. Ingeedients.—1 pint cream, 4 eggs, cinnamon, almond flavour, 3 ozs. sugar. Bod the cream with a piece of cinnamon ; pour it into a basin, and when cold add the eggs, well beaten and strained, the sugar powdered, and a few drops of almond flavour. Bake in small cups m a cool oven.TEAS. CAKES, MUFFINS, BISCUITS, Sfc. Sponge Cake. Ingredients.—! lb. castor sugar, 8 eggs, \ lb. flour, 1 lemon. Boil the sugar in a quarter of a pint of water; beat the yolks of eight eggs and the whites of three, and pour the "boiling water over them; add the grated rind of lemon, stirring the whole time. Beat for half an hour. Stir the flour in gently, and bake in a moderate oven for one hour and a quarter. Almond Cream Cakes. Ingredients.—3 ozs. sweet almonds, \ oz. bitter almonds, 2 ozs. castor sugar, £ pint cream, jam, rosewater. Pound the almonds and work into a paste with the sugar and a little rosewater. Spread on a buttered tin and bake in a slow oven for half anTEAS. 51 hour. Cut into shapes and cover with jam. Whip the cream to a stiff froth and pile on each. Cream Cookies. Ingredients.—1 large cupful of cream, 1 cupful of castor sugar, 1 egg, 1 teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. Mix the cream, sugar, and soda; beat the white and yolk of the egg separately, and add the yolk first. Bake in small patty in a quick oven for twenty minutes. Cream Muffins. Ingredients.—1 pint cream, 1 pint flour, 3 eggs, \ tea- spoonful of carbonate of soda. Mix the flour, soda, and a little salt with the cream. Beat the yolks of the eggs and stir in, then whisk the whites and beat all together. Bake in patty pans in a quick oven for half an bour. Muffins. Ingredients.—\\ lbs. flour, 1 oz. German barm, 1 tea- spoonful salt. Mix the flour and salt in a clean bowl. Braid the barm smooth with a little flour and sugar, and add by degrees a pint of lukewarm water. Let it rise in a warm place for ten minutes. Pour the barm into the flour, cover it over and leave it in a warm place to rise all night. Next morning52 PRACTICAL VEGETARIAN RECIPES. knead it down, beating it well with the hand. Leave it to rise again an hour. Add a little more flour if necessary ; it should be a very soft dough. Form into thin round cakes and bake on a girdle. If not made overnight, the dough shoidd rise the first time at least four hours. Shrewsbury Cakes. Ingredients.—1 lb. flour, \ lb. butter, 6 ozs. sugar, 2 eggs, milk. Beat the butter to a cream with the sugar, add the two eggs and beat very well, add the flour by degrees, beating all the time, and sufficient milk to form a quite soft dough. Eoll out thin and cut into rounds; bake in a moderate oven. These biscuits are excellent, aud may be varied in several ways, by the addition of flavourings, as grated lemon rind and juice, or J oz. ground o-ino-er, or \h ozs. ground cinnamon, or 2 ozs. grated chocolate. Kaiser Cake. Ingredients.—4 eggs, \ lb. sugar, \ lb. butter, 1 teacup- ful milk, \ lb. flour, 1 teaspoouful baking powder, \ a lemon. Beat the sugar and butter to a cream, stir in the eggs separately, grate the lemon pee], and add it with the milk. Stir in the flour and baking powder, and mix all well together. Pour into a mould, and bake in a good oven for one hour.53 TEAS. Chocolate Cake. Ingredients.—\ lb. butter, \ lb. sugar, 6 ozs. grated chocolate, 4 ozs. "flour, 4 ozs. almonds, 12 drops vanilla essence, 1 teaspoonful baking powder. Beat the butter to a cream, add by degrees the sugar, chocolate and the yolks of the eggs, beatiug briskly all the time. Have the almonds ready blanched and chopped, stir them in, add the flour, and beat very thoroughly for ten minutes. Beat the whites of eggs to a solid froth, stir them in, add the vanilla essence and the baking-powder. Pour into a tin lined with buttered paper, bake in a moderate oven for two hours. Ice with water icing. Water Icing. Ingredients.—1 lb. sugar, \ pint water. Put the water and sugar into an enamelled pan, boil for six minutes or a few seconds more. Pour it into a basin, and work with a wooden spoon till it looks milky white. Pour it over the cake and allow it to dry. This icing can be made with tea or coffee, or flavoured with vanilla, lemon, or almond. Cream Jumbles. Ingredients.—1 lb. butter, 1 lb. flour, \ lb. sugar, 3 eggs. Beat the butter to a cream, add the sugar, and continue beating till quite white. Beat the yolks of the eggs lightly, and mix them in by degrees.54 PRACTICAL VEGETARIAN RECIPES. Beat the whites very lightly, and stir thern in by degrees. Stir in the flour, which should be sifted. Drop from a spoon on to a buttered baking sheet, allowing the mixture to run in various fancy shapes. Bake in a rather quick oven. If this dough is not moist enough, another egg or a little milk may be added. Almond Giiigei'bread. Ingredients.—5 eggs, 10 ozs. sugar, i nutmeg, \ oz. ground ginger, G powdered cloves, ^ teaspoonful ground cinnamon, 4 ozs. candied peel, 9 ozs. flour, 6 ozs. almonds, \ oz. carbonate of soda, | wineglassful of milk. Beat the yolks of the eggs and the sugar until quite light. Add the spices. Beat the whites of eggs to a solid froth and stir them in. Chop the candied peel into dice, add it and stir in lightly the flour, which should be warmed. Blanch and split in halves 4 ozs. of almonds, mix them in. Dissolve the soda in milk and add it also. Butter a tin, line it with buttered paper, pour in the mix- ture. Brush the top over with milk and strew over it 2 ozs. of almonds finely chopped. Bake in a moderate oven for thirty-five minutes. Turn it out and cut into small squares. Wholemeal Biscuits. Ingredients.—1 lb. wholemeal, 3 ozs. sugar, 4 ozs. butter, 1 egg, £ teaspoonful salt, 1 teaspoonful baking powder, | teaspoonfid cinnamon, milk. Put the meal into a basin, rub in the butter, add55 TEAS. the bating powder, salt, and cinnamon, mix very thoroughly, and add the sugar. Beat the egg with about half a teacupful of milk; mix to a paste, adding more milk if needed. Eoll out to about one-third of an inch thickness, cut into strips three inches by half an inch. Lay them on a lightly greased baking sheet, and bake in a pretty quick oven. Ice Biscuits. Ingredients.—4 eggs, \ lb. castor sugar, essence of vanilla. Beat the whites to a stiff froth. Stir the sugar in slowly and flavour with essence. Drop a tea- spoonful at a time on a greased tin, and bake in a quick oven for ten minutes. Chocolate Drop Biscuits. Ingredients.— Whites of 2 eggs, \ lb. castor sugar, 2 ozs. grated chocolate. Beat the white of one egg lightly, mix into it \ lb. of fine castor sugar, stir well till the sugar is dissolved and it is of the consistency of icing. Add 2 ozs. of grated chocolate and the white of another egg beaten to a solid froth. Stir in lightly another \ lb. of sugar. Drop the mixture in spoonfuls on a sheet of white paper. Bake in a slow oven about ten minutes.56 PRACTICAL VEGETARIAN RECIPES. Lancashire Spice Nuts. Ingredients.—\\ lbs. flour, \ lb. treacle, \ lb. butter, \ lb. raw sugar, 1^-ozs. ground ginger, \ oz. caraway seeds, \ oz. carbonate of soda, 3 ozs. orange peel. Warm, tlie treacle, add to it the butter melted, the sugar, spices, soda, and the orange-peel minced fine. Pour the mixture into the flour, knead into a dough, roll it out and cut into rounds with a small cutter. Bake on greased tins in a slow oven for about ten minutes. Short Oatcake. Ingredients.—1 lb. oatmeal, \ lb. butter, \ teaspoonful carbonate of soda, 1 teaspoonful salt. Put the oatmeal in a bowl; add the soda and salt. Pub in the butter. Make into a paste with about half a pint of cold water. Cover the paste-board with meal, turn the paste on to it. Make it into a ball, flatten it with the backs of your fingers. Poll out to the thickness of a crown piece, cut into shapes, and bake on a hot stove or girdle. Dough Nuts. Ingredients.—6 ozs. flour, 2 ozs. butter, 2 ozs. sugar, 2 eggs, J teaspoonful of baiting powder, \ lb. jam. Mix the flour, sugar and baking-powder to- gether, rub in the butter. Beat the eggs light, and with them wet the mixture to a paste. Poll out thin, cut into rounds H inches across. OnTEAS. 57 each round lay a little jam; lay another round over it. Be very careful to pinch the edges to- gether. Drop into hot oil and fry a nice brown. The frying oil in this and similar recipes must be made thoroughly hot, about 350° to 380°. It is hot enough when all hissing and bubbling ceases, and a faint blue smoke begins to rise from it. A piece of bread dropped in should brown in one minute in oil of the right temperature. Little Chocolate Cakes. Ingeedients.—4 ozs, butter, 6 ozs. powdered sugar, 5 ozs. flour, 6 ozs. grated chocolate, 5 eggs, 10 drops vanilla, \ teaspoonful baking powder. Beat the butter and sugar together till creamy ; add alternately half the chocolate and an egg and half the flour and an egg, till all the ingredients are mixed. Beat well the whole time. Bake in greased patty tins in a quick oven about fifteen minutes. Macaroons. Ingeedients.—1 lb. almonds, 2 lbs. sugar, whites of 12 eggs. Blanch and pound the almonds as fine as pos- sible, mixing with them half the sugar. Beat the other half of tbe sugar with the whites of four eggs, as if for icing. Beat the remaining whites to a solid froth, stir them to the eggs and sugar, and then very lightly mix in the pounded almonds58 PRACTICAL VEGETARIAN RECIPES. and sugar. Drop on to wafer paper, bake in a moderate oven till light brown. Hominy Tea Cakes. Ingredients.—1 teacupful of hominy, 1 oz. of butter,. 1 gill of sour cream, 1 egg, 1 teaspoonful of baking powder, 1 teacupful of flour, salt. Boil tbe honiiny, and mis all tbe ingredients well together with the hands; then beat for ten minutes. Divide tbe mixture into light cakes, and bake in greased tins in a good oven for fifteen minutes. Serve hot in a folded serviette, or if preferred split and butter them. Wholemeal Plum Cake. Ingeedients.—1 lb. of finely ground wheatmeal, \ lb. butter, or 1 tablespoonful of olive oil rubbed into the meal, 1 dessertspoonful baking powder, J lb. currants, \ lb. sul- tanas, i lb. moist sugar, 2 ozs. candied peel, \ oz. caraway seeds or other spice to flavour, according to taste, 2 eggs and \ pint of milk to mix with. Mix thoroughly, put into a greased tin, and bake for two hours. Windsor Cake. Ingeedients.—6 eggs, 7 ozs. sifted sugar, \ lb. sultana raisins, 1 lb. flour. Beat the eggs with the sugar in a basin over a stove, or in a pan of hot water. When they are quite light, take it off the heat and beat till cold. Clean the raisins, mix them with a poundTEAS. 59 of flour sifted, and stir all gently together, mix- ing well. Add a little baking powder. Pour into a flat tin lined with greased paper; bake in a moderate oven. Madeira Cake. Ingredients.—4 eggs, 4 ozs. butter, 6 ozs. sugar, 6 ozs. flour, grated lemon rind, } teaspoonful baking powder. Beat the eggs very light, and while still beating them strew in the sugar and flour, which should be dried and sifted, and the grated rind of a lemon. Just melt the butter without heating it, and add it a little at a time, beating very well, so that one portion of butter disappears before the next is added. Last of all, stir in the soda or baking powder. Bake in a tin lined with buttered paper for an hour in a moderate oven. A tea- spoonful of caraway seeds is an improvement. Snow Cake. Ingredients.—-J lb. butter, | lb. sifted sugar, 6 ozs. flour, 6 ozs. potato flour, 3 eggs. Beat the butter to a cream, add the sugar and beat a little longer. Add the yolks of eggs alter- nately with spoonfuls of flour and potato flour till the flour is half in. Beat the whites of eggs to a solid froth, stir them in lightly, and add the rest of the flour. A little baking powder may be used. Pour into a papered tin or hoop. Bake in a moderate oven about an hour.6o PRACTICAL VEGETARIAN RECIPES. Berlin Wafers. Ingkedients.—4 eggs, \ lb. sifted sugar, \ lb. flour, 5 drops flavouring essence. Beat the eggs for ten minutes with the sugar. Add lemon or almond flavouring essence. Mix in the flour ; drop on to greased tins, so that they run round and very thin ; bake in a moderate oven till just brown. Take them off the tin, and while hot twist each into the form of a cone. Sponge Souffle. Ingredients.—4 small sponge cakes, \ lb. strawberry jam. Pour a glass and a half of sherry over the cakes; beat the whites of three eggs to a froth, with a little white castor sugar and a few drops of vanilla. Place in lumps over the cakes and set in the oven. French. Pancakes. Ingeedtents.—2 ozs. flour, 4 eggs, f pint of milk, the grated rind of a lemon, 1 oz. of white sugar. Mix the flour, sugar, lemon peel, and a pinch of salt with a little of the milk. Stir tiU quite smooth; add the yolks of the eggs well beaten, the remain- der of the milk, and then the white of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Put a little clarified butter into six saucers, and bake in a moderately quick oven. When done lay two together with pre-TEAS. 61 served fruit between; sift sugar over, and serve immediately. Savoy Cake. Ingredients.—6 eggs, | lb. sifted sugar, | lb. flour, essence of lemon. Beat the eggs with the sugar over a gentle heat till light and white. Eemove and beat till cold. Add the essence of lemon, and stir in the flour very gently. Butter a mould; dust it with fine sifted sugar, pour in the cake and bake in a moderate oven nearly half an hour. French Almond Cake. Ingredients.—6 eggs, 10 ozs. sifted sugar, 2 ozs. butter, 2 ozs. sweet almonds, J oz. bitter almonds, \ lb. flour, \ lb. rice flour, 1 lemon. Beat the yolks of the eggs with \ lb. of sugar and 2 ozs. of butter. Blanch the almonds and pound them with 2 ozs. of sugar. Add the grated rind and juice of a lemon, and mix with the eggs and sugar. Beat the whites of eggs to a solid froth, stir them in and mis by degrees \ lb. of flour and \ lb. of rice flour. Bake one hour in a moderate oven. Digestive Bisonits. Ingredients.—\ lb. forthright flour or wheatrneal, water. Mix the forthright flour or wheatmeal in as small a portion of water as will cause it, after62 PRACTICAL VEGETARIAN RECIPES. much kneading or rolling, to adhere ; then roll or cut it into biscuits about half an inch thick and three inches square, and bake them well in a quick oven. The unfermented "forthright bread" is made in a similar way, except being formed into rolls about an inch thick, cut deeply across, and baked in a moderately hot oven. Popovers. Ingredients.—3 eggs, 3 cupfuls of flour, 3 cupfuls of milk, 1 oz. of sugar, \ pint of fruit sauce. Beat three eggs very light, add three cups of milk, sugar to taste, then three cups of flour. Beat rapidly and smoothly, half fill some cups with the mixture, and serve with fruit sauce. Bake. PRESERVES, Sfc. Cliutnee. Ingredients.—H lbs. Demerara sugar, | lb. salt, Jib. small onions, 1 lb. raisins, } lb. mustard seed, J lb. powdered ginger, 1 oz. garlic, 3 pints vinegar, J oz. cayenne, lb large tart apples. Wash and dry the mustard seeds, shred and pound the onions and garlic. Peel, core, and boil the apples in the vinegar, and pass them through63 TEAS. a colander. Chop the raisins. Mix all the in- gredients well together and place in air-tight bottles. Gooseberry Pool. Ingredients.—1 lb. green gooseberries, j lb. sugar, 1 pint cream or milk. Take off the tops and stalks from the goose- berries, and stew with the sugar in one gill of water till tender. Pulp through a sieve. "Whip the cream, and beat into the pulp. Crystallised Nuts or Walnuts. Ingredients.—1 tablespoonful of butter, 2 doz. nuts or walnuts, 1 large cupful of white sugar. Boil the butter and sugar in three tablespoon- fuls of water until it will candy on a spoon ; mix in the nuts, stir briskly (off the fire) till well • coated, and place on a buttered dish. Gooseberry Marmalade. Ingredients.—2 quarts green gooseberries, 1 small bit of alum, 2 lb. sugar. Put the gooseberries in cold water; set them on a slow fire, with a small bit of alum, till they are scalded, and become just soft enough to pulp through a hair sieve ; allow one pound of sugar to each quart of gooseberries; boil till it becomes stiff, and then pour it into sweetmeat pots or small moulds.64 PRACTICAL VEGETARIAN RECIPES. Carrot Marmalade. Ingredients.—2 lbs. carrots, 2 lbs. sugar, 2 large lemons, •| oz. tartaric acid. Scrape or pare the carrots, then weigh them, allowing an equal weight of bruised loaf sugar; boil the carrots till perfectly tender, mash them quite fine, and rub them through a hair sieve. Boil the pulp half an hour, adding the sugar, and squeeze thoroughly the juice from lemons, and when taken from the fire stir in the tartaric acid. Vegetable Marrow Marmalade. Ingredients.—6 lbs. of grated marrow, 6 lbs. of broken ■ loaf sugar, the juice and grated rinds of 2 lemons. Peel the marrows and grate them, then weigh six pounds; add the broken loaf sugar, the lemon juice, and grated rinds of lemon ; boil it half an hour, stirring it frequently, and pour it into small moulds. Pineapple Marmalade. Ingbedients.—1 quart sliced pineapple, 1 lb. powdered sugar. Pare and cut into small slices enough pineapple to measure one quart, add the powdered sugar; boil half an hour, and pour into sweetmeat pots.DINNERS. SOUPS AND SAUCES. Barley Soup. Ingredients.—3 ozs. barley, 1^ ozs. stale bread, 1J ozs. butter, \ oz. chopped parsley, J oz. salt. Wash and steep the barley for twelve hours in half-a-pint of water, to which a piece of carbonic soda the size of a pea has been added; pour off the water not absorbed, add the bread crumbs, three quarts of boiling water, and the salt; boil slowly in a well-tinned covered pan, for four or five hours, add the parsley, butter, and white pepper about half-an-hour before the soup is ready to serve. Brown Soup. Ingredients.—1 lb. turnips, 1 lb. carrots, § lb. celery, 6 ozs. onions, \\ pints peas, 4 ozs. butter, and \ lb. bread crust. Cut the vegetables into small pieces, put them E66 PRACTICAL VEGETARIAN RECIPES. in a pan with the butter, cover the pan, and let them stew over the fire until brown, occasionally stirring them ; put in the peas with the water in which they were boiled; add sufficient boiling water to make three quarts altogether. Next add the bread, which should be browned or toasted before the fire, but not burnt; season with black peppercorns, Jamaica pepper, and salt; let the soup boil gently three or four hours ; rub it through a coarse sieve, return it into the pan, let it boil, and it will be ready to serve. Celery Soup. Ingredients.— 6 roots celery, 1 large turnip, 2 ozs. onions, 2 ozs. bread crumbs, 1 oz. butter, 1 dessertspoonful flour, § pint cream. Strip off all green part of celery, using only the white; cut it in shreds, reserving the inside of three roots to be added afterwards. Slice the turnip and onion, and put them with the celery into a pan ; add two quarts of water, the bread crumbs, and a dessertspoonful of salt ; let all boil till the vegetables are perfectly soft, rub through a sieve, return it to the pan, add the celery (previously boiled till quite soft), the butter and flour well mixed. Stir it, seasoning it with white pepper, a little mace, and more salt if re- quired ; and after boiling a quarter of an hour stir in the cream, but do not allow it to boil after- wards.DINNERS. Chestnut Soup. Ingredients.— \ lb. chestnuts, 1 onion, 1 stick celery, \ pint milk, 4 sprigs parsley. Boil the chestnuts just long enough for the rind and inner skin to be easily taken off, and when mashed put the chestnuts into a pan with the onion and celery, cut in very small pieces, and a pint of water, and let all boil together till suffi- ciently done ; then add the milk, the parsley finely chopped, and season with pepper and salt. Dried Green Peas Soup. Ingredients.—lj pints dried green peas, \ pint boiled spinach, 1 lettuce, 4 ozs. butter, 1 teaspoonful flour. After steeping the peas in soft water twelve hours, set them on the fire in a quart of boiling soft water, with a teaspoonful of salt, a piece of soda the size of a large pea, and two ounces of butter; simmer gently till the peas are perfectly soft, and rub them through a fine colander or wire sieve; add the lettuce and boiled spinach j put all together into the pan, with two quarts of boiling water; simmer till nearly ready; take out the lettuce and add some heads of asparagus, or a few leaves and young stalks of spinach, cut in very small pieces; stir in a spoonful of flour, mixed with two ounces of butter; season with pepper and salt, add a piece of sugar the size of a walnut, and boil the soup twenty minutes.68 PRACTICAL VEGETARIAN RECIPES. Green Bean Soup. Ingredients.—1 quart of full-grown green beans, 1 largo handful of spinach, 1 oz. parsley, 2 ozs. butter. Boil the beans; skin and bruise them in a bowl till quite smooth; put them in a pan, with two quarts of vegetable broth; add the butter with a little flour dredged in it, pepper and salt; stir it on the fire till it boils, and put in the spinach and parsley (previously boiled, and rubbed through a sieve), to make the soup a proper colour. Other vegetables may be added if required. Haricot Bean Soup. Ingredients.-i pint haricot beans, 1 tablespoonful tapioca, \ teaspoonful chopped parsley, \ teaspoonful thyme. Wash and pick the beans, put them in an earth- enware dish with three quarts of boiling water, cover, and let them simmer in the oven four hours. When they have been in the oven two hours and a half add the tapioca, and about half an hour before they are done add the parsley and thyme; season with pepper and salt, and just at the last stir in a little butter. Lentil Soup. Ingredients. 1 quart of prepared Egyptian reel lentils, 2 lbs. turnips, 1 lb. carrots, 1 Spanish onion, 1 root celeiy, 1 oz. parsley, 2 ozs. butter. Wash and pick the lentils; set them on the fire in four- quarts of spring water; add the vegetablesDINNERS. 69 and some salt; boil till quite soft; rub through a coarse sieve or colander, adding boiling water as required; return it to the pan, season with pepper and salt, stir in the butter, and boil a few minutes. Macaroni Soup. Ingredients.— I lb. Naples macaroni, 1 quart mush- rooms, 2 turnips, 1 onion, 3 Jerusalem artichokes, 1 dessert- spoonful potato flour, \ pint cream, 4 ozs. bread crumbs. Boil the macaroni in two quarts of water, with a teaspoonful of salt, and a small piece of butter ; when tender, drain the water from it; wash it m fresh water; lay it in a clean cloth for a short time, and cut it in pieces about an inch in length. Wash the mushrooms without paring them, or cutting off the stems; put them in a pan with three quarts of water, the turnips, onions, arti- chokes, bread crumbs, mace, pepper, and salt; boil them till the vegetables are perfectly soft; rub them through a sieve ; return the soup into a pan; put in the macaroni; set it on the fire again ; stir in the potato flour, mixed with a little cold water till quite smooth; add a little cayenne pepper and salt as required, and when it has boiled ten minutes add the cream. Tomato Soup. ripe tomatoes, 1 Divide the tomatoes, squeeze cut the seeds, and Ingredients.—12 ripe tomatoes, 1 onion, 1 pint milk, or \ pint cream.70 PRACTICAL VEGETARIAN RECIPES. cut off the stalks ; put them, with the onion and a pint of water, into a pan, and let them simmer about an hour. "When they begin to boil, add some salt and cayenne pepper. Press them through a sieve, put them again into the pan, and set them over the fire, and when hot stir in the milk or cream, previously mixed with a teaspoon- ful of flour, and boiled five minutes. If fresh tomatoes cannot be procured, those in tins answer equally well. Vermicelli Soup. Ingredients.—6 ozs. vermicelli, 2 quarts new milk, yolks of 4 eggs, 1 pint cream, 1 tablespoonful mushroom catsup. Blanch the vermicelli by setting it on the fire in cold water; when it boils, drain the water, and put it into cold water j let it remain a few minutes, and then drain the water entirely from it; put it into a pan with the milk, and boil it; beat up the yolks of the eggs, and after gradually adding a pint of boiled cream, strain through a sieve, and add the catsup. Take off the pan, add the eggs, a small lump of white sugar, and a teaspoonful of salt, and stii- the soup on the fire till near boiling. Fruit Soup. Ingredients. — 1 lb. apples, cut and cored, but not peeled : 1 lb. plums (when stoned), 3 pints water, sugar to taste, 2 tablespoonfuls wholemeal, 1 gill milk, 2 tablespoonfnls fine sago. Boil the fruit, water, and sugar together for anDINNERS. 7i hour then add the wholemeal rubbed to a smooth cream with the milk. When the fruit is thoroughly pulped, rub it through a wire sieve, return to the saucepan, and strew in slowly the fine sago, stirr- ing till it swells. If made with pears and raisins, take 1 lb. of stewing pears and \ lb. of pudding raisins or loose muscatels. Prepare in the same way, and serve a few whole raisins in the soup besides. Apple Sauce. Ingredients— 6 apples, butter, sugar. Prepare the apples as for a pie; put them in a saucepan with a tablespoonful of water j cover the pan, and set it over a moderate fire till the apples are soft; drain the water from them, and stir in a little butter and moist sugar. They will do equally well if put into a basin, covered with a plate, and set in the oven. Mint Sauce. Ingredients.—12 sprigs mint, \ pint vinegar, 1 oz. sugar. Take the mint when nicely dried, and the colour well preserved; chop it very fine. Then sprinkle the sugar over, and add the vinegar. Butter Sauce. Ingredients.—3 ozs. butter, 1 tablespoonful flour, f pint water, 1 dessertspoonful vinegar, 1 saltspoonful salt, £th as much fine 'white pepper. Mix the flour and two ounces of butter together ;72 PRACTICAL VEGETARIAN RECIPES. set it on the fire in the saucepan with the water, constantly stirring it the same way till at the point of boiling; add the vinegar, salt, and pepper; stir it well and pass it through a tin strainer; return it into the pan, add an ounce of butter, and stir it till melted over a moderate fire, but do not allow it to boil. Bread Sauce. Ingredients.—-i oz. fine bread crumbs, \ oz. onion, 1 blade mace, 1 doz. white peppercorns, \ pint 'water, 1 oz. butter, 3 tablespoonf uls cream. Cut the onion in thin slices; set it on the fire with the water, mace, and pepper; boil till the onion is quite softj strain the water on the bread crumbs ; cover with a plate, and when quite cool, mash it, and put it in a saucepan with the butter, cream, and a small saltspoonful of salt; mix the whole well together, and simmer till quite hot. Tomato Sauce. Ingredients.—12 tomatoes, 1 capsicum, 3 tablespoonf uls water, salt, pepper to taste. Take off the stalks of tomatoes, cut in two, squeeze them a little to get out the water and seeds ; then put them in a jar, with the capsicum and water. Cover and set them in a moderately hot oven till quite soft. Bub them through a sieve into a saucepan, adding a little salt and pepper to taste. Simmer over the fire a few minutes, and serve in a sauce tureen.DINNERS. 73 Horseradish. Sauce. Ingredients.—4 tablespoonfuls grated horseradish, 2 tea- spoonfuls mixed mustard, 1 tablespoonful sugar, 1 small saltspoonful of salt. Mix all together and add as much, vinegar as ■will just cover the ingredients. Curry Sauce. Ingredients.—Curry powder, brown or butter sauce. Stir a little curry powder into a little brown or "butter sauce. Mushroom Tea. Ingredients.—1 lb. mushrooms, 1 blade mace. Wash the mushrooms (the large flat mushrooms are best), put them in a jar with the mace ; pour boiling water upon them sufficient to cover them, and set it near the fire two or three hours. This forms an excellent substitute for beef tea. ENTREES. Pouf Burek. (An Arabian recipe.) Ingredients.—\ lb. flour, 2 eggs, cheese, parsley, butter. Break the eggs and mix into a paste with the flour, roll it out thin ; grate some new cheese, mix74 PRACTICAL VEGETARIAN RECIPES. with some finely-chopped parsley and spread over the paste. Double the paste and cut into small round cakes with a coffee-cup. Put a good- sized piece of butter into a frying-pan, and when it is nicely browned fry the little cakes in it and serve them hot. Mushrooms eu Croquettes. Ingredients.—6 large mushrooms, 1 small onion, 12 chestnuts, 2 eggs, 1 pinch of spice, 2 ozs. butter. Chop the onion and fry with the mushrooms in butter. Pound the chestnuts, spice, salt, and pepper, and make into a paste with the eggs. Form the mushrooms into balls, cover them with the paste, and fry in boiling oil. Tortilla Dulce with Vegetables. Ingredients.—1 large handful of sorrel, endive, or spin- ach, 2 eggs, 1 large cupful of peas, 2 ozs. butter, 1 dessert- spoonful of castor sugar, a pinch of powdered cinnamon. Drain and slice the vegetables. Cook the peas, and put both with the butter, the cinnamon, sugar, salt and pepper, into a pan. Beat and stir in the eggs. Cover with a lid. Place hot coal on the top. Shake the pan occasionally, and when brown on both sides turn carefully out. Mushrooms en Papillote. Ingredients.—1 lb. mushrooms, 1 oz. butter, 1 bunch of parsley, 1 small onion. Cut the mushrooms in pieces and mix with the75 DINNERS. butter; chop the parsley and onion, and stir all together. Season with pepper and salt. Put into squares of paper, fold over edges, broil over a slow fire and serve in the papers. Tomatoes a la Ste. Valerie. Ingredients— 6 large tomatoes, \ lemon, 2 eggs, J lb- butter, 1 saltspoonful of herbs, bread crumbs. Cut the tomatoes transversely, and remove the pips. Chop the lemon peel and make into a force- meat with the butter, herbs, breadcrumbs, pepper, salt, and an egg. Fill the halves and join them together again. Boll carefully in egg and bread crumbs, and bake for ten minutes. Rissolettes of Mushrooms. Ingredients.—\ lb. potatoes, § lb. mushrooms, 1 oz. butter, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoonful of parsley. Boil and mash the potatoes. Chop the mush- rooms and parsley ; and mix with the potatoes, butter, salt, and pepper, and one egg. Form into small balls ; roll in egg and sifted bread-crumbs, and fry in boiling oil. Rissolettes of Potatoes. Ingredients.—| lb. potatoes, 2 eggs, bread crumbs, 1 bunch of parsley. Boil the potatoes and mash them with an egg Form into small balls. Eoll in egg and sifted76 PRACTICAL VEGETARIAN RECIPES. bread crumbs, and fry in plenty of boiling oil. Serve with fried parsley. Tomato Toast. Ingredients.—3 tomatoes, 3 red chilies, 1 onion, \ oz. butter, 1 dessertspoonful of milk, 1 tablespoonful of bread crumbs, 1 egg, salt and cayenne to taste. Put the tomatoes into boiling water for two minutes, then peel them and chop very fine with the chilies, salt and onion. Put the butter and milk into a pan, add the tomatoes and chilies, cook for a few minutes, and mix a well-beaten egg with it. Then cook until the mixture is the thickness of buttered eggs, serve on slices of buttered toast, and sprinkle fried bread crumbs on the top. Tomatoes Fargtes. Ingredients.—6 musbrooms, 8 tomatoes, 1 small onion, 2 ozs. butter, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, bread crumbs, pepper, salt. Chop the mushrooms and onion finely, put them in a stewpan with the butter and parsley, and let them stew till tender—about fifteen minutes. Mix with them sufficient bread crumbs to take up the butter. Scoop out the cores of the tomatoes, and fill them with the mixture, sprinkle bread crumbs over them, place a piece of butter on each, and bake for ten minutes. Por tbis dish the tomatoes may be preparedDINNERS. 77 and stuffed over-night, but they should be kept in a closely-covered dish. Fried Turnips. Ingredients.—6 turnips, pepper, and salt. Pare and wash the turnips, wipe dry, and cut them in rather thin slices. Season with pepper and salt, dredge with flour, fry them tiU brown and tender, and serve with fried onions and brown sauce. Stewed Barley with Tomatoes. Ingredients.—\ lb. barley, 1 lb. tomatoes, salt, cayenne. Soak the barley for two hours in a quart of water. Boil for two hours, season with salt and cayenne, add the tomatoes and simmer gently for ten or fifteen minutes. Chouxfleur au Gratin. Ingredients.—1 large cauliflower, 4 ozs. cbeese, 2 ozs. butter, | pint milk, 1 dessertspoonful of flour, bread crumbs. Boil the cauliflower for ten minutes, and separate the branches. Make a white sauce of milk, flour, one ounce of butter, and two ounces of cheese. Till a dish with alternate layers of cauliflower, grated cheese, and sauce. Season with salt and pepper. Cover with bread crumbs and the remain- der of the butter, and bake for one hour.;S PRACTICAL VEGETARIAN RECIPES. Spanish Rice. Ingredients.—\ lb. rice, \ oz. butter, 2 tomatoes, 1 table- spoonful grated cheese, pepper and salt to taste. Boil half a pound of rice as for curry; dry it well, and fry it with a slice of butter till it is lightly browned. Stir into it two large toasted tomatoes and a tablespoonful of grated cheese ; season with pepper and salt. Serve it piled high on a dish. Parmesan Toast. Ingredients.—5 squares of bread, 2 ozs. Parmesan cheese, 8 gherkins, 2 eggs, cayenne and salt. Fry some squares of bread, sprinkle Parmesan cheese on each; chop some gherkins very fine and cover half the toast with them, and the other half with the yolk of hard-boiled eggs passed through a sieve ; season with salt and cayenne. Asparagus Stewed. Ingredients.—1 bunch asparagus, a little water, salt, \ a saltspoonfid carbonate of soda, 1 oz. butter, a little pepper, 1 teaspoonful loaf sugar, 2 tablespoonf uls cream, 1 yolk egg. Cut the points and tender parts of asparagus in pieces about the size of large peas ; put them in a pan with a little water, adding the salt, soda, and let them stew till tender; then add the butter, pepper, sugar ; move them gently round, and just at the last add the cream and egg mixed together.79 DINNERS. Put a slice of toasted bread on a flat dish, pour the asparagus over it, and serve immediately. Stewed Haricot Beans. Ingredients.—1 pint beans, 3 ozs. butter, juice of 1 lemon, 1 oz. parsley. Steep the beans two hours in cold water, drain, and set them on the fire in two quarts of cold water, adding a saltspoonful of salt, and one ounce of butter. When they boil simmer them slowly two hours or more ; put them into a stew- pan with a little pepper, salt, chopped parsley, two ounces of butter, and the lemon juice; set them on the fire a few minutes and stir them well. SA TO UR Y DISHES. Baked Savoury Haricots. Ingredients.—\\ pints haricots, 4 ozs. tapioca, 2 onions, 2 sliced tomatoes, h pint white sauce, sage, pepper and salt. Soak and cook the haricots until soft; soak the tapioca in cold water for an hour, and squeeze dry in a cloth. Mix the haricots and tapioca, and add tho onions cut up and fried, together with8o PRACTICAL VEGETARIAN RECIPES. the other ingredients. Pour all into a dish and cover with a mixture of bread crumbs, grated cheese, and chopped parsley; pour a little oiled butter oyer, and bake slowly for one hour. Pumpkin Pie. Ingredients.—Pumpkin, eggs, milk, sugar, allspice and nutmeg. Cut away the seeds and rind of the pumpkin, cut in pieces and stew it until tender. Strain through a fine sieve, add eggs and milk, in suffi- cient quantity to form a thick custard-like sub- stance ; add sugar and all-spice, put the mixture into a flat dish lined with good paste, and strew a little powdered nutmeg over the top. Bake in a moderate oven. Macaroni an Gratin. Ingredients.—| lb. macaroni, \ lb. cheese, f pint milk, 2 ozs. butter, 1 teacupful bread crumbs. Boil the macaroni for half an hour in water, and then for half an hour in milk. Grate the cheese and mix with part of the bread crumbs; season with pepper and mustard. Lay some macaroni in a dish and season well with salt, and fill with alternate layers of cheese and bread crumbs and of macaroni. Cover with crumbs and small pieces of butter, and bake for one hour in a moderate oven.DINNERS. Si Macaroni an Beurre. Ingredients.—| lb. macaroni, \ lb. Parmesan cheese, 1 pint milk, 3 ozs. butter, ± teacupful of bread crumbs. Prepare the macaroni as in previous recipe, lay a portion out in a flat di3h, sprinkle with grated Parmesan, and lay the butter on top in small pieces. Bake for a quarter of an hour, sprinkle with more cheese, and serve with fried onions. Egg Cutlets. Ingredients.—2 or 3 eggs, 1 tablespoonful each of bread crumbs and grated Parmesan, curry, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Boil one or two eggs hard, mix well with the bread crumbs and other ingredients. Bind the whole together with the yolk of a raw egg and shape like a cutlet. Dip it into the white of egg, then into bread crumbs, fry brown in oil; serve with fried parsley. Lentil Cutlets. Ingredients.—1 pint shelled lentils, 2 table spoonfuls of rice, 1 onion, 1 carrot, 1 quart water. Boil all the ingredients together into a stiff paste, season with pepper, salt, chopped parsley, and powdered marjoram. Turn out on to a board, divide up into cutlet shape with a large knife ; cover the bottom of a frying pan with oil, and after rolling the cutlets in bread crumbs make the oil hot and fry them on both sides until brown. F82 PRACTICAL VEGETARIAN RECIPES. Serve with any kind of green vegetables, and tomato, or other sauce. Five or six of these laid up against a round spinach mould make a hand- some dish. Cheese Pudding. Ingredients.—\ lb. grated cheese, \ lb. bread cnunb*, G eggs, 2 ozs. butter, -j pint milk. Mix the bread crumbs and butter, pour the milk over the mixture, and leave for ten minutes. Beat in the cheese and yolks of the eggs, whip the whites well, and stir lightly in. Season with salt, mustard, and pepper. Bake in a buttered dish in a brisk oven for fifteen minutes. Savoury Macaroni. Ingredients.—6 ozs. macaroni, 3 ozs. butter, 1 quart milk, 6 ozs. Parmesan cheese, 2 eggs. Pour two quarts of boiling water on the macaroni and let it soak until cold. Let it sim- mer with two ounces of butter in the milk for one hour and a half. Beat the eggs and add with part of the cheese a little cayenne, salt, mustard, and nutmeg, and stir well. Place on a dish. Sift over the remainder of the cheese and the butter, and bake for fifteen minutes. Boiled Lentils. Ingredients.—11 pints lentils, 2 ozs, butter. Pick and wash the lentils, then boil them for fif-*3 DINNERS. teen minutes, drain them in a colander, and lay them thickly on buttered toast. Melt the butter in the oven, and pour it over the lentils. Serve very hot. Curried Lentils. Ingredients.—\ lb. lentils, 1 onion, 1 oz. butter, 1 table- spoonful curry powder, f pint milk, salt, pepper, cayenne. This curry requires rather high seasoning. Soak the lentils for six hours, and boil them gently for twenty minutes, or till tender, but not broken. The time required varies with the age of the lentils. Slice the onion, fry it a nice brown in the butter, add the curry-powder, salt, pepper, cayenne and the milk. A little of the liquor from the lentils may be added if it is too thick. Let the gravy sim- mer half-an-hour. Do this over-night. Iu the morning stir the lentils into the gravy, and let both get hot through. The curry should be nearly dry when finished. Serve with rice. Stewed Lentils. Ingredients.—1 quart lentils, 3 ozs. butter, 1 onion, 1 tablespoonful of chopped eschalots, 1 small bunch parsley. Wash the lentils in cold soft water, set them on the fire in two quarts of cold soft water, with 1 oz. butter, eschalots, the onion sliced, the parsley chopped, and a little salt. Simmer on the fire about two hours. Drain in a sieve. Put the84 PRACTICAL VEGETARIAN RECIPES. lentils in a stewpan -with 2 ozs. of butter mixed with a little flour. Stir it well on the fire. Boil gently ten minutes, and serve on a flat dish, with a border of mashed potatoes, or in a deep dish. Tried Macaroni. Ingredients.—\ lb. Naples macaroni, 1 lb. flour, 1 table- spoonful salad oil," 2 eggs, a pinch, of salt. Boil the macaroni about twenty minutes until quite soft, turn into a colander and lay in cold water for a few minutes; strain off and dry the macaroni on a clean cloth. Make the flour into a rather thick batter with warm water; add the olive oil, the yolks of the eggs, and a pinch of salt. Beat up the two whites to a stiff froth, and mix all together. Take some long pieces of the cooked macaroni; dip into the batter, and then fry in smoking hot oil for one minute, and serve with tomato sauce. Baked Potatoes with Dumplings. Ingredients.—8 potatoes, paste, 1 onion, \ pint water, pepper, salt. Pare and wash the potatoes ; make some good paste into balls, and place them alternately with the potatoes in a pie dish previously but- tered : add the onion finely chopped, and pour the water into the dish. Season with pepper8S DINNERS. and salt, which should be mixed with the water. Cover with a flat dish and bate them. Baked Vegetable Marrow with Onions and Sage. Ingredients.— 1 marrow, salt, 2 onions, sage, 1 oz. butter, pepper. Pare and cut the marrow in two, scrape out the seeds and fibres ; rub the marrow over inside and out with a little salt. Let it drain an hour. Fill up tbe halves with onions, previously boiled a little, and chopped with some sage ; add a little butter, pepper, and salt. Close them and tie them together with a little twine. Butter a dish and bake in a moderately hot oven ; if not nicely browned, dredge it with a little flour, brown it in a Dutch or American oven before the fire, and serve with brown sauce. The marrows, and also cucumbers, may be prepared in the same way, using forcemeat instead of onions and sage. Hashed Potatoes. Ingredients.—2 lbs. potatoes, 4 onions, 2 ozs. butter, salt, pepper. Cut the potatoes as for a pie, put them in a pan with the onions (first chopped), add the butter and a quarter of a pint of water; cover the pan, and let them stew moderately about thirty to thirty- five minutes.86 PRACTICAL VEGETARIAN RECIPES. Turnip Hash. Ingredients.—I lb. turnips, f lb. potatoes, 2 table- spoonfuls flour, 2 ozs. butter, 1 large onion, and 1 table- spoonful salt. Put three quarts of water in a well-tinned pan, set it over the fire, put in the turnips (cut in small square pieces), and the onions (cut small). Add the salt, and let it boil for an hour; then put in the potatoes (also cut in pieces), and after boiling three-quarters of an hour longer add the butter ; rub the flour in a quarter of a pint of cold water till perfectly smooth, pour it into the pan, and let it boil slowly a quarter of an hour longer, when the liquid part of the hash will be of the consis- tency of thin butter sauce. Boil it two hours and keep it covered the whole time. Stewed Mushrooms. Ingredients.—6 mushrooms, \ pint water, 1 oz. butter, 1 dessertspoonful flour, mace, pepper, salt. Wipe some large button mushrooms, boil them quickly in a little water, and let them stew gently twenty minutes, adding the butter mixed with the flour, mace, pepper, and salt; boil them, frequently shaking the pan round during the time, and when clone add a little cream. Serve with a wall of rice, or sippets of toasted bread.87 DINNERS. Mushrooms and Tomatoes. Ingredients.—2 large tomatoes, 6 mushrooms, pepper, salt. Prepare slices of buttered toast, cut them into six neat pieces. Dip the tomatoes into boiling water, peel them, and cut each into three slices. Lay a slice on each piece of toast, sprinkle with pepper and salt. Place on each a peeled mush- room. Put a tiny morsel of butter into each mushroom, pepper them, and set in the oven for five minutes. Buttered Eggs with Peas. Ingredients.—4 eggs, 1 tablespoonful stock, 1 teacupful cooked peas, 1 oz. butter, pepper, salt, cayenne. Take a cupful of peas that have been cooked the day before, warm them by standing the cup in a pan of boiling water for a few minutes. Break the eggs, beat them with the cream. Melt the butter in a pan. Add the peas to the eggs. Pour the mixture into the pan. Stir till it sets, and serve on slices of buttered toast. Stuffed Mushrooms. Ingredients. — 20 mushrooms, 2 tablespoonfuls bread crumbs, 1 teaspoonful rice flour, 2 ozs. butter, 2 sprigs parsley, \ teaspoonful powdered herbs, 1 egg, 1 oz. flour, ^ pint milk. "Wipe, trim, and peel the mushrooms ; lay them on a buttered tin. Mix together the bread crumbs,88 PRACTICAL VEGETARIAN RECIPES. parsley, herbs, and rice flour, moistening -with the egg. Put a portion of stuffing into each mush- room, and put into the oven for fifteen minutes. "Wash the trimmings and stew in £ pint of milk. Make a sauce of 1 oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, and milk, boil up well. Serve the mushrooms on hot but- tered toast, sprinkling them with some browned bread crumbs ; pour the sauce round. Forcemeat Pie. Ingredients.—1 oz. beets, 1 oz. parsley, \ oz. leeks, \ lb. bread crumbs, 2 ozs. butter, 5 eggs, 1 oz. tapioca. Rub the butter and a dessertspoonful of flour into the bread crumbs; add the herbs chopped, seasou with pepper, salt, and a little mace ; mix all together with two eggs well beaten ; roll it into rather small balls and lay them in a pie-dish. Steep the tapioca ten minutes in half a pint of water; pour it over the balls; add three eggs, boiled and cut in small pieces ; cover with paste, and bake it. It may be used either hot or cold. Baked Mushrooms. Ingredients.—20 mushrooms, 1 oz. butter, pepper, salt. The button mushrooms should not be used for this dish. Choose good-sized ones, cut off the stalks, peel the tops, and wipe them. Lay them in a tin baking-dish, putting a small bit of but- ter into each, and sprinkling them with pepperDINNERS. 39 and salt. Bake them for twenty minutes. Have ready a slice of buttered toast on a hot dish, pile the mushrooms on it, pour the gravy over, and serve instantly. Mushroom Pudding. Ingredients.—1 pint of mushrooms, \ pint of bread crumbs, 2 ozs. butter. Kub the butter into the bread crumbs, adding pepper and salt, and as much as will just moisten the bread; add the mushrooms cut in pieces ; line a basin with paste; put in the mixture ; cover with paste, tie a cloth over, and boil an hour and a half. It is equally good when baked. Green Bean Pudding. Ingredients.—1 quart of full-grown mealy green beans, 2 tablespoonfuls of cream, 2 yolks of eggs. Boil the beans till quite tender ; peel and mash them fine with a little pepper and salt till quite smooth; add the cream and the yolks of eggs, well beaten. Boil it an hour in a basin that will just hold it, and serve with parsley sauce poured over it. Two tablespoonfuls of spinach boiled and cut small, or a little spinach juice added to the in- gredients before boiling will improve the colour. Onion Pudding. Ingredients. — \ lb. onions, 2 ozs. fresh sage, h oz. parsley, 1 oz. butter. Peel and cut the onions in two ; boil them ten90 PRACTICAL VEGETARIAN RECIPES. minutes; drain away the water and chop them, adding the parsley, previously chopped; season with pepper and salt, and stir in the butter; line a basin with paste, put in the onions, tie a cloth tightly over, and boil it about an hour and a half. It may be baked in a tart-tin, with paste under and over. Serve with brown sauce. Carrot Pie. Ingredients.—6 carrots, 3 ozs. butter. Fill a dish with carrots, half-boiled and cut in slices; season with pepper and salt; put in the butter and a little water, cover with paste, and bake it. Potato Pie. Ingredients.—2 lbs. potatoes, 2 ozs. onions (cut small), 1 oz. butter, \ oz. tapioca. Pare and cut the potatoes ; season with pepper and salt; put them in a pie-dish, adding the onions, tapioca, a few pieces of butter on the top, and half a pint of water ; cover with paste, and bake it in a moderately hot oven. A little celery or powdered sage may be added. Mushroom Pie. Ingredients.—8 mushrooms, 4 potatoes, 2 ozs. butter. Peel the mushrooms and cut in slices, pare and slice the potatoes, put them in a pie-dish with the9i DINNERS. butter and a little water; season with pepper and salt; cover with paste and bake it. Stew the parings and stalks of the mushrooms half an hour in water, then strain and pour into the pie when baked. Tomato Pie. Ingredients.—l\ lbs. tomatoes, \ saltspoonful salt, 3 ozs. sugar, i a lemon, Tegg, \ pint of cream, enough paste to cover a pie dish. Skin and slice ripe tomatoes, and lay in a pie- dish ; sprinkle over them a very little salt. For a pound of tomatoes, two ounces of sugar, the juice of half a lemon, one well-beaten egg, mixed with half a cup of cream, is to be poured over the tomatoes when the pie-dish is full. Cover with rich paste, and bake in a hot oven at first, gradu- ally getting cooler, for somewhat over half-an- hour. Garnished Macaroni. Ingbedients.—6 ozs. macaroni, 3 eggs, \ pint milk, 1 oz. butter, 1 oz. flour. Throw the macaroni into sharp boiling water with some salt, and a bit of butter to keep it from sticking. When tender, drain the liquor off, and arrange the macaroni on a flat dish. Have ready two or three eggs hard boiled. Cut the whites into strips and lay amongst the macaroni, pour over it half pint of white sauce made with the milk, butter, and flour, seasoned to taste. On the92 PRACTICAL VEGETARIAN RECIPES. top of the sauce grate the yolks of the hard-boiled eggs, edge the dish round with sippets of toast, fried potato strips, or green peas, when in season, and serve very hot. Turnip and Tomato Pie. Ingredients.—2 lbs. turnips, 1 tin tomatoes, 2 ozs. tapioca, 4 onions fried. Pour the tomatoes on the tapioca, and soak for two hours. Cut the turnips into thick slices and steam them. When they are sufficiently cooked place in the bottom of a pie-dish. Pat the fried onions next, season with pepper and salt, lay the tapioca and tomatoes on top, cover with wholemeal pastry, and bake for one hour. VEGETABLES. Artichokes. Ingredients.—8 artichokes, salt, carbonate of soda. Strip off a few of the outer leaves and twist off the stalks ; lay them with the leaves downwards in cold water, with salt in it, for half an hour. Wash and drain them well; put them in a pan of boiling water, adding salt and a small pinch of soda ; keep them covered with water by placing a93 DINNERS. plate over them that will fit inside the pan, or partly cover with the pan-lid, adding boiling water as required; boil about two hours. To try them draw out a leaf, and if it comes out easily they are sufficiently done. Drain, place them in a vegetable dish, and serve with butter sauce in a boat. Asparagus with Poached Eggs. Ingeedients.—1 bundle of asparagus, 4 eggs, 2 ozs. Par- mesan cheese, 1 oz. butter. Boil the asparagus, drain it well, and place on a dish. Poach the eggs and lay over, oil the butter and pour round. Serve with the Parmesan cheese grated. Baked Tomatoes. Ingeedients.—1 lb. tomatoes, 1 oz. butter, bread crumbs. Cut the tomatoes into slices, and grill for five minutes. Season the crumbs with salt, pepper, and mustard, and mix with the butter. Cover the tomatoes with the mixture, and crisp in the oven. Potatoes a la Baringole. Ingeedients.—1 lb. potatoes, 1 small onion, 2 pints hari- cot stock, 2 tablespoonfuls of oil, 1 bunch of parsley, 1 dessertspoonful of vinegar. Peel the potatoes, and put them in the stock with one tablespoonful of oil, pepper and salt.94 PRACTICAL VEGETARIAN RECIPES. Chop the onion and parsley, and boil with the potatoes for half an hour. Take the potatoes out, and fry in boiling oil, salt, pepper, sugar, and the vinegar, and serve with them. Celery Compote. Ingredients.—2 heads celery, 2 ozs. butter, 1 egg, 1 large cupful peas, 1 teacupful haricot stock, flour. Cut the celery into small pieces, and stew in the butter with the peas. Sprinkle with flour, salt, sugar, and pepper. Moisten with the stock, beat the yolk of the egg, and stir in when the vege- tables are tender. Stewed Tomatoes. Ingredients.—1 lb. tomatoes, 1 oz. butter, bread crumbs. Cut the tomatoes into slices, and grill for five minutes. Season the crumbs with salt, pepper, and mustard, and mix with the butter. Cover the tomatoes with the mixture, and crisp in the oven. Baked Spanish Onions. Ingredients.—4 Spanish onions, 2 ozs. butter. Peel the onions. Cut off the pointed ends, and rub in the butter, salt, and pepper. Place in a deep tin. Cover with a dish, and bake for three hours.DINNERS. 95 Potatoes a la Creme. Ingeedients.—1 lb. potatoes, 2 ozs. butter, 1 gill cream, 1 tablespoonful of parsley, 1 tablespoonful of flour. Boil and cut the potatoes in slices ; stir the flour and butter together over the fire till they form a paste ; chop the parsley, and add with the cream, salt and pepper, and mix thoroughly. Put in the potatoes, and warm all together. Stewed Lettuce. Ingeedients.—3 lettuces, 1 large cupful of beans, peas, or cauliflower, 1 teacupful of the water in which haricot beans have been boiled, and 2 ozs. of butter. Take off the outside leaves of the lettuces, and stir in salted water for a few minutes over the fire. Drain and put a little salt and pepper in each, and tie them up. Place the butter in a stew-pan, and the other vegetables previously cooked. Lay in the lettuces, and season with pepper and salt. Pour in the haricot stock, and stew till tender. Drain and untie them, and serve laid over the vegetables, with the croutons of fried bread. Spinach Shape. Ingredients.—lj lb. spinach, 4 eggs, 2 ozs. butter, 1 lemon, 1 small teaspoonful of sugar. Wash and remove the stalks from the spinach. Drain and chop it fine. Beat the eggs, and stir in with the butter, juice of lemon, sugar, pepper,96 PRACTICAL VEGETARIAN RECIPES. and salt, and boil all together in a shape placed in a saucepan of boiling water. Stir well for a few minutes, and boil for three-quarters of an hour. Turn it out carefully while quite hot. Broad Beans. Ingredients.—\\ pint of beans, 2 ozs. of butter, 1 egg, 1 clove of garlic, 1 large cupful of the water in which haricot beans have been boiled. Boil some very young beans, and drain them. Put the butter in a pan, and stir the beans well in. Add the haricot stock, garlic, salt, pepper, and sugar. Warm and stir all well together. Beat the eggs, and stir in; but do not let it boil. French Beans. Ingredients.—U lbs. beans, 2 tablespoonfuls of olive oil, 2 eggs, 1 teacupful of the water in which haricot beans have been boiled. Boil the beans till tender. Drain and warm in a stew-pan with the oil, salt, and pepper, and the haricot stock. Beat the yolks of the eggs and mix well in. Vegetable Marrow a l'Espagnole. Ingredients.—1 marrow, 2 large tomatoes, 1 oz. butter, 1 onion, \ pint milk, pepper and salt to taste. Slice the onion and tomatoes, and fry them in a little butter. When they are cooked add the marrow out into neat square pieces, moisten with97 DINNERS. a little hot milk, add pepper and salt ; let the whole stew gently until the marrow is cooked. Serve immediately. Asparagus a la Parmesan. Ingredients.—1 tin of asparagus, 4 ozs. Parmesan cheese, 2 ozs. butter. Boil the asparagus, as in last recipe; drain and place it on a dish. Grate and strew the cheese over. Season with pepper and salt. Melt the butter and pour over. Asparagus with Savoury Eggs. Ingredients.—1 tin of asparagus, 4 eggs, 4 ozs. Par- mesan cheese, 1 oz. butter. Stew the asparagus in its juice until tender, and lay it in a tin dish. Grate the cheese over it; break the butter, and put on the top and bake for fifteen minutes. Poach the eggs in boiling water, and place them over. Fried Tomatoes. Ingredients.—1 lb. tomatoes, 1 egg, 1 small bunch of parsley, bread crumbs, flour, 1 pinch of thyme. Cut the tomatoes in half, roll them in flour, and dip into the egg. Chop the parsley and mix with the bread crumbs, salt, pepper, and thyme, and Or98 PRACTICAL VEGETARIAN RECIPES. cover the tomatoes thoroughly. Fry a light brown in oil or butter. French Beans Seasoned. Ingredients.—\\ lbs. beans, 1 smcill onion, 2 ozs. butter, 1 lemon. Boil the beans until tender and drain them. Slice the onion and fry brown in the butter. Add the beans, season with pepper and salt. Squeeze over the lemon juice, and warm all through. SWEET DISEES, PUDDINGS, $c Macaroni Pudding with Preserved Fruit. Ingredients.—3 ozs. macaroni, 1| pints new milk, 3 eggs, lemon-peel and cinnamon, 2 ozs. sugar. "Wash the macaroni, and set it on the fire with a pint of milk, a piece of lemon peel pared very thin, and a small piece of cinnamon. Stew it gently till tender, but not soft. Beat the eggs well, adding half a pint of cold milk, the sugar, and 'a little salt. Butter a dish, and put a border of puff paste round the edge ; spread a layer of macaroni, then a layer of preserved fruit (goose- berry, currant, or raspberry jam, orange or appleDINNERS. 09 marmalade), and the remainder of the macaroni over. Pour the milk and eggs upon it, lay small pieces of butter on the top. Bake about one hour in a moderate oven, and serve with fine sifted sugar over it. Plum Pudding1. Ingredients.—1 lb. flour, 8 ozs. currants, 8 ozs. sultana raisins, 4 ozs. butter, 3 eggs, the grated rind of a lemon, and 1 small teaspoonful of baking powder. Mix the baking powder well with the flour; rub in the butter, and add the currants and raisins, the lemon peel, finely grated, a little nutmeg and the eggs, well beaten. Put it in a buttered basin, boil or steam it four hours, and serve with sweet sauce. Plum Pudding. Ingredients. — 1 lb. flour, \ lb. bread crumbs, 1 lb. raisins, 1 lb. currants, 6 eggs, 12 ozs. sugar, 4 ozs. butter, 2 ozs. candied peel, orange or lemon, and the grated rind of a lemon. Eub the butter in the flour, add the bread crumbs, sugar, currants, and raisins, stoned and cut a little, the grated rind of a lemon, a little mace or nutmeg, the candied orange or lemon ; cut in small slices, a small teaspoonful of salt, the eggs well beaten, and a little milk if required. Boil it in a buttered basin or mould five hours, and serve with sweet sauce.ioo PRACTICAL VEGETARIAN RECIPES. Paradise Pudding. Ingeedients.—j lb. apples, i lb. bread cmmbs, 3 ozs. sugar, 3 ozs. currants, 3 eggs, \ tbe rind of a lemon, tbe juice of 1 orange, salt, a little nutmeg. Grate or chop the apples, add the bread crumbs, currants, and sugar, the eggs well beaten, and as much water to the orange juice as will half fill a teacup. Beat all well together, and boil in a buttered raould an hour and a half. Serve with sweet sauce. Norfolk Dumplings. Ingeedients.—1 lb. flour, \ oz. baking powder, 1 oz. butter, 1 small teaspoonful salt, 2 ozs. currants. Rub the powder quite smooth, mix it well in the flour, adding the salt. Bub in the butter, add the currants, and mix with cold water to about the consistency of rather stiff dough. Divide it into six dumplings. Boil quickly quarter of an hour, and serve with sweet sauce. Albert Pudding. Ingeedients.—6 ozs. bread crumbs, 6 ozs. butter, 6 ozs. sugar, 4 eggs. Mix the bread crumbs, the butter, and sugar ; add the eggs, the whites and yolks beaten sepa- rately, and the grated rind of a lemon ; put some raisins or citron at the bottom of the mould, pour in the mixture and steam it about two hours and a half.DINNERS. 101 Mock Eggs. Purchase a sponge cake of a size suitable for slicing and toasting so as to look like ordinary slices of toast. Prepare some corn-flour blanc- mange, and pour it on a large flat disk or in saucers, and place upon each piece of toasted cake a piece of blancmange, to simulate tke white of a poached egg ; place upon each of these latter the half of a peach or apricot, either procured tinned or fresh, which last must be gently stewed, so as to slice in halves without losing their shape, or the dish will not represent poached or fried eggs on toast. Serve hot or cold, with a little of the syrup in which the fruit has been stewed or pre- served. Orange Tartlet. Ingredients.—1 oz. fresh butter, yolk of 1 egg, boiled bard, \ lb. orange marmalade. Mash the yolk of egg with the butter, and mix with the marmalade. A small quantity of Savoy biscuit may also be added. Cover a plate or large scalloped tartlet tin with puff paste. Pour in the mixture, and bake in a moderately hot oven. Semolina Pudding. Ingredients.—3 ozs. semolina, 1 pint of milk, 3 ozs. sugar, 2 eggs, 1 oz. butter. Wash and pick the semolina; set it over the102 PRACTICAL VEGETARIAN RECIPES. fire in the inilk, stirring it until it boils and becomes thickened; then let it boil gently twenty minutes, turning the pan and stirring it occasionally. Pour it into a bowl, addiug the sugar, butter, a pinch of salt, and a little mace or nutmeg. When cool add the eggs, well beaten, and bake in a but- tered dish, in a moderate oven. Plum Pudding. Ingredients.—One 2 lb. wholemeal loaf, 1 lb. wheatmeal, 1 lb. Brazil nut grated, chopped very fine or put through a mincing machine, 1 lb. brown sugar, 1 lb. apples, peeled, cored, and minced, ^ lb. mixed peel, \ lb. of grated coco- nut, 12 bitter almonds, h lb. currants, 1 lb. stoned raisins, 1 lb. sultanas, \ oz. cinnamon or other spice, 5 eggs. Cut up the loaf and soak in cold water. When soft, squeeze the bread dry and put it into a large basiu; add the other ingredients, mix thoroughly, divide, and tie up in basins. Boil for seven hours. Economical Plum Pudding. Ingredients.—To 6 ozs. of wholemeal bread crumbs, and 4 ozs. of wholemeal, add 4 ozs. each raisins, currants, dates (without stones), and grated coco-nut, 2 ozs. mixed peel, 2 tablespoonsful golden syrup, lj pints of milk or water, and a little mixed spice and essence of lemon to flavour. Mix well together, and cook in the same way as the one above. Fruit juices, which can be procured from any grocer, are capital flavourings for sweet sauces, and far more wholesome than brandy.DINNERS. Decoration for Plum Puddings. When served hot, the pudding will hardly need decoration, beyond a sprig of holly, with its bright scarlet berries, and a little castor sugar. Served cold, it may be stuck full of almonds, which have been blanched and split down the middle. An elaborate decoration, and one which can be used either hot or cold, is as follows : Beat the whites of two eggs into a stiff froth, till it can be cut; lay this on the pudding with a knife or spoon, shaping to any design or leaving smooth; then place crystallised fruits of different colours, strips of angelica, and coloured sugar to fancy, and place in the oven for a few minutes, till the egg is of a golden colour. Plum Pudding. Ingbedients.— 10 ozs. of wholemeal bread crumbs, 6 ozs. of coco-nut, 4 OZ3. each currants, raisins, dates and sugar. 2 tablespoonsful golden syrup, 2 eggs, a teaspoonful of mixed spice, a dozen bitter almonds, grated rind of an orange, and the grated rind and juice of a lemon. Clean the fruit, take the stones out of the dates and raisins; grate the coco-nut, blanch and cut up the almonds. Beat well the egg, adding the golden syrup, and pour over the other ingredients, stirring well with a wooden spoon. Add sufficient milk to bind the whole together. Let it stand till next day, then put into well-greased basins; tie down tightly with a cloth wrung out of hot water, and steam by standing in a saucepan, with water104 PRACTICAL VEGETARIAN RECIPES. sufficient to reach only half-way up the basin, for five or six hours. They will then keep for some time in a cool dry place. The day the pudding is wanted for use steam again for two or three hours. Eclairs d'Espagne. Ingredients. ^ pint milk, 2 ozs. sugar, U ozs. butter, 2J ozs. flour, 2 eggs, 2 ozs. almonds. Put the milk, butter, and 1 oz. of sugar into a small pan ; let it come to the boil, add 2£ ozs. flour, stir for three minutes. Take it off the fire, work it steadily for ten minutes, then add one whole egg and the yolk of another, beat it well and flavour with a little almond essence. Blanch and chop 2 ozs. of almonds, mix with them 1 oz. of sugar and the white of an egg. Lay the paste in finger shapes on a baking-sheet, spread the almond mixture over them, dust a little sugar on them and bake in a moderate oven. When they are cold open them, put in a little Devonshire cream and apricot jam, and close them again. Frangipani. Ingredients.—2 eggs, 2 tablespoonsful each flour and sugar, 1 gill milk, 1 oz. butter, 10 drops almond essence, 1 tablespoonful chopped almonds. Put the flour into a basin and rub it smooth with the milk; add the eggs. "Warm the sugar and butter in a small pan, add the other mixture to it,DINNERS. stir till it boils, beat quite smooth, add the almonds and essence. When cold, use for filling eclairs. Omelet Souffle. Ingeedients.— 6 eggs, 6 ozs. powdered sugar, 2 ozs. butter, 1 dessertspoonful of potato flour, and 1 dessert- spoonful of rose or orange-flower water. Put the yolks of eggs, sugar, potato flour, rose, or orange-flower water, and a very little salt, into a large basin. Stir well together with a wooden spoon ten minutes, then add the whites of the eggs, beaten or whisked, to a froth, and mix lightly into the batter. Put the butter into the omelet-pan; set it over a stove, and when the butter begins to boil pour the batter into it; set the pan over a moderate fire, and as the omelet becomes partially set round the sides and bottom of the pan toss it over and over very gently. Turn the omelet out neatly on a dish, previously buttered ; set it in the oven about twelve minutes, and serve immediately, with a little sugar sifted over it. Apple Fritters. Ingeedients.—i lb. apples, 6 ozs. flour, 2 ozs. currants, 1 oz. butter, 1 oz. sugar, 2 eggs, A pint milk, \ oz. baking powder, and little grated lemon rind. Prepare the apples as for sauce ; stir in the butter and sugar, add the currants and lemon rind. Beat the eggs, add the flour, bakingio6 PRACTICAL VEGETARIAN RECIPES. powder, the milk, and a little salt, then stir in the apples. Fry the fritters until nicely browned on both sides. Almond Hedgehog. Ingredients.— H lbs. almonds, 1 gill orange-flower water, 6 yolks of eggs, 5 whites of eggs, \ pint of cream, 1 oz. sugar, \ lb. fresh butter. Custard for sauce, 2 yolks of eggs, \ oz. sugar, \ pint of cream, 3 drops of vanilla. Take a pound of blanched almonds, beat them well in a mortar with a little orange-flower water ; make them into a stiff paste ; then beat in the yolks of six eggs, put the whites of five into half- a pint of rich cream, sweeten with sugar, mix it with a quarter of a pound of sweet butter melted. Set the whole on a slow fire, and keep constantly stirring till it is stiff enough to be made in the form of a hedgehog ; then stick it full of blanched almonds, cut lengthways to resemble the bristles of an hedgehog; put it into a dish and pour round it a good custard made with half-a-pint of cream and the yolks of two eggs sweetened to taste, and flavoured with a drop or two of vanilla. Gateau Viennoise. Ingredients.—§ lb. butter, \ lb. sifted sugar, 8 eggs, 1 lb. flour, h teaspoonful of baking powder. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, add the yolks of eggs and half the flour in alternate spoon- fuls, beating all the time. Beat the whites of eggs to a solid froth, stir them in, add the rest of107 DINNERS. the flour. Bake in shallow round tins. When cold, split open, spread with jam, cover with the top, and ornament with icing. Gateau Fran§ais. Ingredients.—3 eggs, 6 ozs. fine flour, 4 ozs. sifted sugar, 2 ozs. butter, 2 tablespoonsful milk, 1 oz. mixed peel, 1 tea- spoonful baking powder. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream. Beat the yolks of three eggs with the milk, and add them to the butter and sugar, alternately with spoonfuls of flour, till both are mixed in. Beat well all the time. Beat the whites to a solid froth, stir them lightly in, add the peel chopped fine, and lastly the baking powder. Bake in well-buttered patty- pans for twenty minutes in a moderate oven. Ice with water icing. Orange Fritters. Ingeedients.—4 oranges, 2 eggs, 2 tablespoonsful flour. Peel the oranges and cut them in rather thin slices, taking out the seeds. Make a batter with eggs and flour and dip the slices of orange in, and fry them till nicely browned on both sides. Sift sugar over and serve immediately. Chocolate and Peach Pudding. Ingbedients. — 1 tin of peaches, 4 ozs. chocolate, 1 oz. butter, 4 eggs, 1 pint milk. Stew the peaches in the butter till soft, and ifio8 PRACTICAL VEGETARIAN RECIPES. they are unsweetened add some sugar. Beat to a pulp. Boil the chocolate in the milk, and work it very smooth for five minutes. Beat the eggs well, and mix with the chocolate. Pour it over the peaches, and bake in a moderate oven for ten minutes. Fruit Fritters. Ingredients.—12 slices of bread, 4 eggs, \ lb. sugar, 1 gill of milk, stewed fruit, 4 ozs. butter. Beat the eggs with the sugar and milk. Soak the bread in the mixture for one hour. Form into balls, and fry in the butter. Serve warm with stewed fruit. Mantequillas. Ingredients.—Butter, J lb. almonds. Pound the almonds well, and work them on a board with sufficient butter to form a stiff paste. Shape like little pyramids. Mincemeat Padding. Ingredients—2 eggs, \ pint niilk, stale bread, brown bread crumbs, mincemeat. Butter a round cake tin, and coat it thickly with brown bread crumbs. Proceed to fill it with alternate layers of stale bread (one-third of an inch thick) and mincemeat, taking care to put a layer of bread first and last. Spread a littleDINNERS. 109 butter over the top layer, and only fill the tin three parts full. Beat up two eggs with a quarter of a pint of milk, and pour carefully over the con- tents of the tin. Bake in a moderate oven thirty or forty minutes, when the pudding will turn out nicely browned. Pour sweet sauce or boiled cus- tard, flavoured with lemon peel round it, and serve hot or cold. Fruit Pasties. Ingkedients.—"Wheatmeal, apples, currants, sultanas, cinnamon, sugar, lemon peel. Make a dough by mixing wheatmeal with ice- cold water ; add grated cocoa-nut if desired ; knead as quickly as possible to a stiff, hard dough, roll very thin. Core and chop the apples, mix with the currants and other ingredients, enclose por- tions in lengths of the pastry, bake, and when cold cut into slices. Jam Rolls. Ingeedients.—1 lb. flour, 1 lb. castor sugar, 8 eggs, essence of lemon, jam. Beat the sugar and eggs well together, stir in the flour, moisten with half a gill of water and a Httle essence. Place a sheet of paper upon a tin and pour the mixture over, about one inch thick. Bake in a moderate oven for six minutes, and then turn it on a cloth. Wet the paper and remove it. Spread some jam over and roll while warm.no PRACTICAL VEGETARIAN RECIPES. Knodeln. {A German recipe.) Ingredients— J lb. butter, 3 eggs, 2 breakfastcupsful of bread crumbs. Beat tlie butter well, and gradually add the eggs beaten to a froth j add the bread crumbs, mix, and make into balls the size of a walnut. Surprise Apples. Ingredients.—6 pippins, 1 glass brandy, 2 eggs, 1 oz. butter, essence of lemon or vanilla, flour, bread crumbs. Lift the skin of the apples near the stalk and remove part of the inside. Pound this with the brandy, a few bread crumbs and some essence, and fill the apples. Melt the butter and make into a paste with the eggs. When cold roll it ou a board, and cover the apples. Try in boiling oil a few minutes. When lightly browned sprinkle with sugar and serve cold. Gooseberry Cream. Ingredients.—| pint gooseberries, J lb. sugar, \ pint cream, 1 gill milk, 3 ozs. tapioca. Take off the tops and stalks of gooseberries, and stew with the sugar in one gill of water. Melt the tapioca in the warm milk. Whip the cream well, and stir lightly into the pulp. Add the tapioca after well soaking it, with the milk, and stir till nearly cold. Pour into a mould, and leave for twelve hours.ill DINNERS. Apple Trifle. Ingredients.—6 apples, sugar, \ rind of lemon, \ pint milt, \ pint cream, yolk of 1 egg. Scald and rub the apples through a sieve, then spread them over the bottom of a glass dish, adding sugar as required, and the grated rind of half a lemon. Mix the milk and cream and the yolk of egg ; scald over the fire, but do not let it boil; add a little sugar, pour it into a basin and let it remain till cool; lay it over the apples with a spoon, and put snow cream on the top. ICES. Fresh Strawberry Ice Cream. Ingredients.—1 quart strawberries, 1 pint double cream, | pint milk, 10 ozs. sugar, 2 eggs. Pick the fruit, strew over it 3 ozs. of powdered sugar, let it stand a little, then rub it through a tammy sieve with the back of a wooden spoon. Make a custard of two eggs, the milk, and the remainder of the sugar. Allow the custard to cool, stir into it the fruit pulp and the cream. Pour into the mould and freeze. When strawberry jam is used, 2 lbs. of jamH2 PRACTICAL VEGETARIAN RECIPES. and 4 ozs. only of sugar will be required for this quantity. Vanilla Ice. Ingredients—1 pint cream, 1 pint milk, 4 eggs, 10 ozs. sugar, 1 tablespoonful vanilla essence. Break the eggs, beat them lightly, stir to them the milk and sugar, and put into a jug- Stand the jug in a pan of boiling water, and stir till it thickens. Allow it to cool, add the flavouring essence and the cream, and freeze. STEWED FRUITS. Angel's Hair. Ingredients.—1 gourd, sugar, lemon juice. Beat the fruit, and take out the pulp and seeds, Boil in water, drain well, and bruise it. Weigh it and make a syrup with an equal quantity of sugar, and clarify it. Boil the pulp with syrup as in making jam; squeeze in a little lemon-juice, and let it get cold before bottling."3 DINNERS. Stewed Apples. Ingredients.—6 apples, 2 dessertspoonsful water, a little powdered loaf sugar, the grated rind of a lemon. Pare and core the apples. Put them in a pan with the water. Let them simmer over a slow fire, and when reduced to a pulp add powdered loaf sugar as required, and the grated rind of lemon peel. Put the whole into a basin, and when cold turn it out on a glass dish. Stewed Apricots. Ingredients. —-8 apricots, 4 ozs. powdered sugar, juice of 1 lemon, and a little water. J Cut eight unripe apricots into quarters. Put them into a pan with 4 ozs. of powdered sugar, the juice of a lemon and a little water. Set them over the fire, shaking the pan round occasionally, till the apricots are tender, but not broken. Stew them a very few minutes, and serve when cold. Stewed French Plums. of Slf f TNTS-7 !b- French Plums, J pint water, the rind of half a lemon, 2 cloves out thin, 1 oz. sugar. Put the French plums into a pan with the water, the lemon, the cloves, and sugar. Simmer about twenty minutes, and when cold take out the lemon and cloves. H114 PRACTICAL VEGETARIAN RECIPES. Stewed Greengages. Ingredients.—12 greengages, \ lb. sugar, juice of 1 lemon, a little water. Cut the greengages in halves, and take out the stones ; then put them into a pan with the sugar, the lemon juice, and a little water. Set them over a slow fire, shaking the pan round occasionally, till the fruit is tender, but not mashed. When cold, arrange them in a dish and pour the syrup over. Other plums may be done in the same way. Stewed Pineapples. Ingredients.—1 pineapple, a lb. loaf sugar, \ pint water. Peel the pineapple rather thickly, leaving no black spot upon it; make a syrup with the loaf sugar broken in pieces, and put into a pan with the water; cut the pineapple into round slices, quarter of an inch in thickness, put them into the syrup and let them boil ten minutes ; take them out with a colander-spoon, reduce the syrup till rather thick, and pour it over the pineapple and serve cold. Stewed Oranges. Ingredient 13.—4 oranges, \ lb. powdered sugar. Peel the oranges, carefully scraping off as much of the pith as possible; divide each orange into eight entire pieces, without breaking the skm with"5 DINNERS. which they are divided; put them into a pan with a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar and the juice of another orange ; set them over a slow fire, and when the syrup becomes sufficiently thick to adhere to the pieces of orange put them into a dish or basin, and when cold arrange them in a circle on a glass dish.APPENDIX. A LIST OP THE VARIOUS VEGETABLES AND FRUITS IN SEASON AT EACH MONTH OF THE TEAR. January. Vegetables.—Beet, Broccoli, Cabbage, Savoy, Artichokes, Colewort, Brussels Sprouts, Carrots, Celery, Parsnips, Po- tatoes, Salsify, Leeks, Onions, Spinach, Turnips, Haricots, Dried Peas, Lentils, &c. Fruits.—Apples, Pears, Medlars, Grapes, Raisins, French Plums, Carlsbad Plums, Prunes, Dates, Figs, Bananas, Shaddocks, Pomegranates, Oranges, Walnuts, Spanish Nuts, Almonds, &c. February. Vegetables.— Same as January. In addition, Sea Kale, Turnip-tops, Swede-tops, Celery, &c. Fruits.—Same as January. March. Vegetables.—Same as February. In addition, Rhubarb, &o. Fruits.—Same as February. April. Vegetables.—Broccoli, Broccoli Sprouts, Scotch Kale, Rhu- barb, Brussels Sprouts, Spinach, Potatoes, Sea Kale, Spring Onions, Leeks, Radishes, Cress, &c. Fruits.—Same as February.APPENDIX. ir7 May. Vegetables. — Spring Cabbage, Sea Kale, Asparagus, Cauliflower, Spinach, Young Carrots, Onions, Potatoes, Lettuces, Kadisb.es, Cress, Rhubarb, &c. Fruits— Oranges, Brazil Nuts, and a few Apples. June. Vegetables—Same as May. In addition, Artichokes, Green Peas, Broad Beans, Cucumbers, &c. Fruits.—Tomatoes, Gooseberries, Strawberries, Currants, Raspberries, Brazil Nuts. July. Vegetables.—Same as June. In addition, New Potatoes, Kidney Beans, Vegetable Marrows, Mushrooms, Walnuts tor Pickling, &c. Fruits.—Same as June. In addition, Cherries, Currants Apncots, Raspberries, Melons, Nectarines, Peaches, Plums Pineapples, &c. August. Vegetables.—Same as July. Fruits. — Currants, Nectarines, Melons, Tomatoes, Peaches, Apples, Pears, Grapes, Plums, Mulberries, Pine- apples, and Nuts. September. Vegetables -Brussels Sprouts, Artichokes, Peas, Beans, Carrots, Kidney Beans, Vegetable Marrows, Mushrooms Onions &°cmat0e8' Cucumbei'> Lettuce, Turnips, Potatoes, Fruits-FLums, Damsons, Melons, Nectarines, Apples, Pears, Peaches, Grapes, Bananas, Fresh Pigs, Cherries Quinces, Mulberries, Blackberries, Barberries, Filberts g7'anates Walnuts> Greengages, Pineapples, Pome' October. Vegetables — Cabbage, Cauliflower, Brussels Sprouts Beetroot. Artichokes, Carrots, Celery, Turnips, Kidney Beans, Vegetable Marrows, Mushrooms, Tomatoes Par Sfls, £t0eS' 0ni°n8' LettUC6' Haric°ts' ^ed leZ,n8 APPENDIX. Fruits.—Apples, Pears, Damsons, Fresh Figs, Bananas, Grapes, Quinces, Filberts, Walnuts, Brazil Nuts, Spanish Nuts, Pineapples, Pomegranates. November. Vegetables.—Same as October, except Kidney Beans and Vegetable Marrow. In addition, Spinach, &c. jfr-uits.—Same as October, except Damsons and Fresh Figs. In addition, Chestnuts, Dates, Shaddocks, Dried Figs, Raisins, French and Carlsbad Plums, Prunes, Dried Currants, &c. December. Vegetables.—Broccoli, Cabbage, Savoy, Beet, Cole-wort, Brussels Sprouts, Carrots, Turnips, Jerusalem Artichokes, Onions, Celery, Spinach, Parsnips, Potatoes, Haricots, Dried Peas, Lentils, &c. _ Fruits.— Apples, Pears, Chestnuts, Spanish Nuts, Wal- nuts, Medlars, Grapes, Raisins, Figs, French and Carlsbad Plums, Prunes, Dates, Shaddocks, Bananas, Dried Currants, Sultanas, &c. WHAT VEGETARIANS CAN LIVE ON. " Not eat butcher's meat! What on earth do you live on, then ? " is the frequent exclamation which one's friends make, on discovering his Vege- tarian proclivities. The following list has been made out with a view to giving some slight idea of the variety and plenitude of a Vegetarian dietary. It is not in any way a complete list, and in addition to this it does not show the varieties of many important foods. The cereals are prepared in so many different ways as to constitute what might be looked upon119 APPENDIX. as separate foods. Thus wheat appears as semo- lina, macaroni, spaghetti, vermicelli, bread, wheat- meal, &c. Many fruits also have hundreds of varieties. Of apples alone 1,500 varieties have been noted, and many of these are so different from one another as to justify their being looked upon for all practical purposes as a separate fruit. A careful study of this list will disabuse anyone of the idea that a Vegetarian diet need necessarily be a restricted one. THE VEGETIST'S MATERIA ALIMENT ARIA. A few of the Foods which Vegetarians use. Ceeeals. "Wheat Barley Rice Oatmeal Millet Indian Corn Rye Buckwheat Sago Othee Staech Foods. Cassave Salep Tapioca Mandiocca Peas Broad Beans Ground Nuts Pulse. French Beans Haricots Lentils Chick Pea Potatoes Parsnips Roots and Tubees. Yams Turnips Carrots Beet120 APPENDIX. Cabbage Samphire Iceland Moss Spinach Broccoli Artichokes Celery Apples Peaches Damsons Gooseberries Bilberries Black Currants Tomatoes Mangoes Custard Apple Apricots Nectarines Citrons Figs Bananas Dates Chestnuts Sapucaia Nuts Cocoanuts Brazil Succulent Vegetables. "Vegetable Marrow Succory Cauliflower Pumpkins Leeks Cress Asparagus Brussels Sprouts Fruits (sub-acid). Mulberries Cranberries Red Currants Grapes Limes Ciuuquat Pears Plums Cherries Blackberries Elderberries Pomegranates Lettuce Sea-kale Sorrel Onions Endive Tomatoes Prickly Pear Lemons Tamarinds Quinces Greengages Strawberries Barberries Medlars Shaddocks Oranges Mangosteen Guave Fruits (saccharine), &c. Melons Raisins Primes Bread Fruit Jack Fruit Nuts. Ground Nuts Olives Palm Hickory Nuts Walnuts Hazel Pistachio Almond Fungi. MushroomsCakes, Butter, 17 Babette Sandwiches, 40 IND EX. Albert Pudding, 100 Almond Cream Cakes, 50 Almond Gingerbiead, 54 Almond Hedgehog, 106 American Breakfast Bread, 24 Angel's Hair, 112 Apricots, Stewed, 113 Asparagus with Poached Eggs, 93 Apple and Custard Pancake, 3S Apple Fritters, 105 Apple and Orange Salad, 44 Apple Sandwiches, 39 Apple Sauce, 71 Apples, Stewed, 113 Apples, Surprise, 110 Apple Trifle, 111 Asparagus a la Parmesan, 97 Apricot Omelet, 31 Artichokes, 92 Asparagus, Stewed, 78 Baked Eggs, 27 Baked Cheese Cream, 47 Baked Custards, 49 Baked Mushrooms, 88 Baked Spanish Onions, 94 Baked Tomatoes, 93 Baked Potatoes with Dump- ings, 84 Banana Salad, 44 Banbury Cake, 20 Barley Bannocks, 24 Barley Scones, 21 Barley Soup, 65 Bath Buns, 19 Beaten Eggs, 26 Berlin Wafers, 60 Biscuits, Chocolate Drop, 55 Biscuits, Ice, 55 Biscuits, "Wholemeal, 54 Biscuits, Digestive, 61 Boiled Lentils, 82 Bread Sauce, 72 Bread, Indian, 23 Bread, Vienna, 18 Bread, Coco-nut, 25 Bread Fritters, 30 Bread and Butter Sandwiches, 39 Breakfast Bread, American, 24 Breakfast Cakes, Light, 25 Broad Beans, 96 Brown Soup, 65 Buns, Hot-cross, 19 Butter Cakes, 17 Butter Sauce, 71 Buttered Eggs with Peas, 87 Cakes, Almond Cream, 50 Cake, Banbury, 20INDEX. 122 Cakes, Chestnut, 22 Cake, Chocolate, 53 Cake, Fludha Rice, 23 Cakes, Hoe, 23 Cakes, Light Breakfast, 25 Cake, Sponge, 50 Cakes, Shrewsbury, 52 Cake, Kaiser, 52 Cakes, Hominy Tea, 58 Cake, Windsor, 58 Cake, Wholemeal Plum, 58 Cake, Madeira, 59 Cake, Snow, 59 Cake, Savoy, 61 Cake, French Almond, 61 Carrot Pie, 90 Cases, Eggs in, 28 Carrot Marmalade, 64 Celery Compote, 94 Celery Soup, 66 Crumpets, 21 Chestnut Soup, 67 Chestnut Cakes, 22 Chapaties, 18 Chouxfleur au Cratin, 77 Cheese Cakes, Lemon, 25 Cheese Omelet, 30 Cheese Ramekins, 45 Cheese Sandwiches, 39 Curry Sandwiches, 40 Cheese Cream, Baked, 47 Cheese Rissoles, 45 Cheese Fritters, 45 Cheese, Devilled, 46 Cheese, Potted, 46 Cheese, Souffle, 47 Cheese Pancakes, 47 Cheeses, German, 48 Cheese Pudding, 82 Chocolate Cake, 53 Chocolate Drop Biscuits, 55; Chocolate Cakes, Little, 57 Chocolate and Peach Pudding, 107 Chocolate or Cocoa, 34 Chutnee, 62 Coco-nut Bread, 25 Coco-nut Cakes, 19 Coffee-making, 32 Coffee, to Make in a Pan, 33 Cookies, Cream, 51 Cream Muffins, 51 Cream Cookies, 51 Cream, Gooseberry, 110 Cream Jumbles, 53 Crystallized Nuts, 63 Croquettes of Mushrooms, 74 Curry Sauce, 73 Curried Lentils, 83 Custards, Vanilla, 48 Custards, Gooseberry, 49 Custards, Lemon, 49 Custards, Baked, 49 Cutlets, Egg, 81 Cutlets, Lentil, 81 Devilled Cheese, 46 Digestive Biscuits, 61 Dough Nuts, 56 Dumplings, Norfolk, 100 Eclairs d'Espagne, 104 Economical Plum Pudding, 102 Eggs, Beaten, 26 Eggs in Cases, 28 Egg Cutlets, 81 Eggs, Mock, 101 Eggs, Poached, with Aspara- gus, 93 Egg Rissoles, 26 Eggs, Scrambled, 28 Farcies. Tomatoes, 76 Fludha'Rice Cake, 23 Forcemeat Pie, 88 Francais, Gateau, 107 French Beans, 96123 INDEX. French Plums, Stewed, 113 French Pancakes, 60 French Almond Cake, 61 French Beans, Seasoned, 98 Frangipani, 104 Fritters, Bread, 30 Fritters, Rice, 32 Fritters, Cheese, 45 Fried Turnips, 77 Fried Macaroni, 84 Fruit Fritters, 108 Fritters, Fruit, 108 Fried Tomatoes, 97 Fritters, Orange, 107 Fritters, Apple, 105 Fruit Pasties, 109 Fruit Soup, 70 Gateau Francois, 107 Gateau Viennoise, 106 Garnished Macaroni, 91 German Cheeses, 48 Gingerbread, Almond, 54 Gooseberry Custards, 49 Gooseberry Marmalade, 63 Gooseberry Fool, 63 Gooseberry Cream, 110 Greengages, Stewed, 114 Green Bean Pudding, 89 Green Bean Soup, 68 Green Peas Soup, 67 Ground Bice Pancakes, 38 Hair, Angel's, 112 Haricot Beans, Stewed, 79 Haricot Bean Soup, 68 Haricots, Baked Savoury, 79 Haricot Pie, 35 Haricot Rolls, 35 Hash Turnip, 86 Hashed Potatoes, 85 Hedgehog, 106 Hoe Cakes, 23 Hominy Tea Cakes, 58 Horseradish Sauce, 73 Hot-cross Buns, 19 Ice Biscuits, 55 Ice Cream, Strawberry, 111 Ice Cream, Vanilla, 112 Icing, Water, 53 Indienne, Sandwiches a 1', 42 Italian Omelet, 29 Jam Rolls, 109 Kaiser Cake, 52 Knbdeln, 110 Lancashire Spice Nuts, 56 Lemon Custards, 49 Lentils, Boiled, 82 „ Curried, 83 ,, Cutlets, 81 ,, Porridge, 17 ,, Sandwiches, 43 ,, Soup, 68 „ Stewed, 83 Light Breakfast Cakes, 25 Little Chocolate Cakes, 57 Macaroni Pudding, 98 ,, Garnished, 91 ,, Fried, 84 ,, Savoury, 82 ,, au Beurre, 81 ,, au Gratin, 80 ,, Soup, 69 Macaroons, 57 Madeira Cake, 59 Marmalade Gooseberry, 63 ,, Pineapple, 64 ,, Carrot, 64INDEX. Marmalade Vegetable Marrow, 64 Melon Salad, 44 Melton Mowbray Pie, 36 Mince Pies, 36 ,, ,, Pastry for, 37 Mincemeat Pudding, 108 Minced Eggs with Rice, 27 Mint Sauce, 71 Milk Porridge, 16 Mock Eggs, 101 Muffins, 51 ,, Cream, 51 Mushroom Tea, 73. ,, Sandwiches, 43 ,, en Croquettes, 75 ,, Omelet, 31 ,, Rissolettes of, 75 ,, Stewed, 86 „ and Tomatoes, 87 ,, Stuffed, 87 ,, Baked, 88 ,, Pudding, 89 ,, Pie, 90 Nuts, Dough, 56 ,, Lancashire Spice, 56 Oatmeal Porridge, 15 >> >> 16 Oatcake, Wafer, 22 ,, Short, 56 CEufs sur le Plat, 28 Omelet, Apricot, 31 ,, Cheese, 30 ,, Italian, 29 ,, Savoury Rice, 29 „ Souffle, 29 Omelette aux Tomates, 30 Omelet, Mushroom, 31 Souffle, 105 Onion Pudding, 89 Onions, Baked Spanish, 94 Orange Tartlet, 101 ,, Fritters, 107 Oranges, Stewed, 114 Pancake, Ground Rice, 38 ,, Apple and Custard, 38 Pancakes, 37 Papilotte, Mushrooms en, 74 Pasties, Eruit, 109 Parmesan Souffle, 46 Pastry for Mince Pies, 37 Pie, Pumpkin, 80 ,, Haricot, 35 ,, Mince, 36 ,, Turnip and Tomato, 92 ,, Tomato, 91 ,, Mushroom, 90 ,, Potato, 90 „ Carrot, 90 ,, Forcemeat, 88 ,, Melton Mowbray, 36 Pineapples, Stewed, 114 Pineapple Marmalade, 64 Plum Cake, Wholemeal, 58 ,, Pudding, 100, 102, 103 Pouf Burek, 73 Porridge, Oatmeal, 15 » », 16 Milk, 16 ,, Wheatmeal, 16 „ Lentil, 17 ,, Sago, 17 Polenta Sandwiches, 40 Potted Cheese, 46 Popovers, 62 Potatoes, Rissolettes of, 75 ,, a la Creme, 95 ,, Hashed, 85 ,, baked with Dump- bugs, 84 Pumpkin Pie, 80 Pudding, Cheese, 82 Mushroom, 89 Green Bean, 89INDEX. 125 Pudding, Onion, 89 ,, Macaroni, 99 ,, Plum, 100, 102, 103 Semolina, 101 ,, Chocolate and Peach, 107 ,, Mincemeat, 108 Ramekins, Cheese, 45 Ravigotte Sandwiches, 42 Rice, Minced Eggs with, 27 ,, Omelet, Savoury, 29 „ Fritters, 32 ,, Spanish, 78 Rissoles, Cheese, 45 Egg, 26 Rissolettes of Mushrooms, 75 Rolls, Haricot, 35 ,, Jam, 109 Sago Porridge, 17 Savoy Cake, 61 Salad, Apple and Orange, 44 ,, Melon, 44 ,, Banana, 44 Sandwiches, Lentil, 43 Mushroom, 43 ,, Ravigotte, 42 ,, a l'Indienne, 42 ,, Savoletta, 41 ,, Honey, 41 ,, Babette, 40 „ Curry, 40 ,, Polenta, 40 Swiss Sandwiches, 40 Sandwiches, Broad and Butter, 39 ,, Swiss, 40 ,, Apple, 39 ,, Cheese, 39 Sausages, Vegetable, 31 Savoury Rice Omelet, 29 Eggs, 27 ,, ,, with Asparagus, Savoury Macaroni, 82 Scones, Barley, 21 Soda Scones, 24 Scones, Soda, 24 Scrambled Eggs, 28 Semolina Pudding, 101 Shrewsbury Cakes, 52 Short Oat Cake, 56 Souffle, Omelette, 29 Souffle, Parmesan, 46 ,, Omelette, 105 ,, Sponge, 60 Snow Cake, 59 Soup, Barley, 65 ,, Brown, 65 ,, Celery, 66 ,, Green Peas, 67 ,, Chestnut, 67 ,, Green Bean, 68 ,, Haricot Bean, 68 ,, Lentil, 68 ,, Macaroni, 69 ,, Vermicelli, 70 ,, Fruit, 70 Sauce, Apple, 71 ,, Mint, 71 ,, Butter, 71 ,, Bread, 72 ,, Tomato, 72 ,, Horseradish, 73 ,, Curry, 73 Spinach Shape, 95 Sponge Souffle, 60 ,, Cake, 50 Spice Nuts, Lancashire, 56 Stewed Barley with Tomatoes, 77 Stewed Lettuce, 95 Stewed Asparagus, 78 ,, Haricot Beans, 79 ,, Lentils, 83 ,, Tomatoes, 94 ,, Apricots, 113 ,, Apples, 113126 INDEX. Stewed French Plums, 113 Greengages, 114 ,, Pineapples, 114 ,, Oranges, 114 Stuffed Mushrooms, 87 Surprise Apples, 110 Strawberry Ice Cream, 111 Tea, Mushroom, 73 Toast, Tomato, 76 Toast, Parmesan, 78 Tomates, Omelette aux, 30 Tomato Soup, 69 Tomato Sauce, 72 Tomatoes a, la Ste. Valerie, 75 Tomato Toast, 76 Tomatoes Farcies, 76 Tortilla Dulce, 74 Tomato Pie, 91 Turnip and Tomato Pie, 92 Tomatoes, Baked, 93 Tomatoes, Stewed, 94 Tomatoes, Fried, 97 Turnip Hash, 86 Vanilla Custards, 48 Vanilla Ice, 112 Vegetable Marrow a l'Espag- nole, 96 Vegetable Marrow, Baked, 85 Vegetable Marrow Marmalade, 64 Vegetable Sausages, 31 Vermicelli Soup, 70 Vienna Bread, 18 Viennoise, Gateau, 106 Wafer Oatcake, 22 Wafers, Berlin, 60 Water Icing, 53 Wheatmeal Porridge, 16 Wholemeal Pastry, 37 Wholemeal Biscuits, 54 Wholemeal Plum-Cake, 58 PRINTED BY J. S. VIRTUE AND CO., LIMITED, CITY ROAD, LONDONA new Monthly Illustrated Journal of Diet, Hygiene, and Social Reform. 2d.] THE [2d. HYGIENIC REVIEW, The publishers of The Hygienic Ebview desire to draw your attention to the following interesting features of this New, Original and Unique Journal. The Hygienic Eeview is a Journal for those interested in Dietetics, Hygiene, and Social Reform. It will contain in- formation as to what is going on in connection with these subjects in all parts of the world. The Hygienic Review will contain well-written articles on all subjects appertaining to Health, Dietetics, and Social Reform. These articles will be illustrated when necessary by reproductions from photographs, wood engravings, and other high-class processes of reproductive art. The Hygienic Review "will contain a monthly account of what is interesting in the world of Hygiene and Social Reform. It will contain a special letter to ladies, dealing with such matters as cookery, domestic hygiene, household management, &c. Price, 2d., Monthly. Annual Subscription, 3/- LONDON : The Hygienic Publishing Union, 169, Fleet St,Monthly, Is. 6d. THE ART JOURNAL. Each number contains a full-page ETCHING PHOTOGRAVURE. «■ Exceptionally attractive. . . . There is an absolute embarrassment of riches in the articles."—TheTimes. " Of late years many rivals have come into the held, but me pioneer still'holds its own."—Manchester Examiner. Price 2s. SHOWELL'S HOUSEKEEPER'S ACCOUNT BOOK FOR THE CURRENT YEAR. With thoroughly revised and corrected Tables of Daily, Weekly, Monthly, and Quarterly Expenditure. "A useful household diary."— Graphie. "A most comprehensive account book. —wmn. "The best of its kind."—Scotsman. LONDON: J. S. VIRTUE & Co., Limited, 26, IVY LANJ5, B.O.