7 MR SPENCE'S cases IN SURGERY. wise would be. I liave adopted gentle friction and wann clothing to remedy this, but I expect more benefit from time than from either. " From this statement I think you will a^'ee with me, that, con- sidering the severe nature of the injury, he is doing well; and, as I dc^ not perceive any symptoms of disease or aiiemism in the brachial arteiy, I trust he will go on uninterruptedly to recovery." " Octoher 1st, 1847.—Yours, dated 17th August, only came to hand tliis morning. " Mr B 's case is a very mteresting one, and one that must have required anxious and careM management. It is a capital cure; there is pulsation in the brachial, and a certain thrill at the wrist; there is a good deal of oedematous swelHng on the inside of the arm, and in the sheath of the biceps, but I can detect nothing wrong in the axilla; no tumour, no unusual beating; so far so good. I should not apprehend any formation of aneurism now." Remarks.—The complication of fracture of the neck of the humerus, with the untoward injmy detailed in the foregoing case, is fortunately of very rare occmTence, and I cannot help attributing it, in the pre- sent instance, more to the state of the vessels in this gentleman, than to the effects of cUrect injury of the artery by the broken end of the bone ; in other words, I consider that the internal and middle coats of the vessel, softened and altered in structure by the previous rheu- matic affection, had given way, at the time of the injury, from indirect violence, whilst the cellular coat had been stretched and twisted so as to obstruct the flow of blood through its canal. I am led to this conclusion by the folloAving circumstances in the case:—1st, There was no unusual swelling or appearance of extravasation in the axilla at the time of the accident, as would have occurred had a large ves- sel been torn through by the sharp fractured end of the bone. 2d, Though the displacement of the shaft was considerable, it was not freater than I have frequently seen in fracture of the neck of the umerus, and, owing to the faintness of the patient, there was little or no force required to extend it, and produce coaptation. 3d, No false aneurism has subsequently formed, which woiild also have pro- bably been the case, had all the coats of the artery been torn by the broken end of the bone. The method of treating the fractm-e which I adopted, was had recourse to on the spur of the moment, the principal point kept in view being not to interfere with the circulation; it answerecl the urpose sufficiently well, though, I daresay, many improvements could e suggested.