ME SPENCE'S cases IN SURGERY. 3 no more hemoiThage took place. The ulcerated sui-face at the bend of the arm healed £ndly. The edges of my incision at the lower part, where it had reached the injured skin, looked sloughy ; but the upper part of the incision, con-esponding to the point where the vessel was tied, had united, and I removed the stitches. As the patient still continued restless and unmanageable, constantly moving the arm and ^ disturbing the dressings, it was found necessary to muffle the opposite hand and se- cm-e the injm'ed ann towards the side. The sloughy appearance of the lower part of the incision increased for some days, and gave me some anxiety; stimulating dressings were appKed to it, and, on the ninth day after the operation, a slough separated which reHeved our fears, as it was found not to extend deeper than the skin, and the parts beneath were healthy in appearance; from tliis time every thing went on well in spite of the unfavourable nature of the case, and the unmanageable state of the patient. The hgatm'e from the axillary came away on the sixteenth day after the operation, and the incision healed rapidly. After this I did not attend him, but Mr Kerr informs me that cicatrization of the whole surface was not effected until the end of February, and that now the contraction of the hand and fore-arm towards the shoul- der is veiy great. He also mentions that, strangely enough, the first time the boy was left alone he ran to the fire-place (fortunately empty), and thrust his injm^ed arm between the bars of the grate. Remarks.—In this case it will be observed, that whilst the injured vessel was situated (as regarded retrograde bleeding) much in the same circumstances as an artery woimded by a cutting instrument, it differed fi'om it in tliis material point, that the vitality of its coats was impaired, and partook in the weakened action of the surrounding parts fi'om the effects of the bum; so that I could not have trusted to ligatm'e above and below the openmg, because the action of the hga- ture on tlie vessel would have proceeded too rapidly, and the impulse of the circulation would, in all probabiUty, have caused secondary hemorrhage in a day or two, on the decidence of the hgature. On the other hand, ligature of the arterial trunk higher up, whilst it arrested the flow of blood immediately from the upper part of the vessel, would not have sufficed to arrest the retrograde bleeding; and hence I adopted the practice of tying the main trunk high up, where it was healthy, and situated amongst healthy parts, to divert the impulse of the blood from the canal of the wounded vessel; whilst the ligatures ) above and below the opening at the bend of the arm, prevented the ;i retrograde bleeding sufficiently long to allow of consolidation of the surrounding textures, and permanent obliteration of the vessel at j that point, and also by avoiding the necessity for bandaging and i compresses; the necessary dressings to the general burned sui'face i were not interfered with. Of course, the nature of tlie agent causing