4 MR SPENCE'S cases in SURGERY. the sloui^Hiing must be taken into consideration, as this may mate- rially influence the line of practice. Whilst writing out these remarks, I was called to a young gentle- man in the country, who, by applying nitrate of silver over the com-se of the radial artery, had opened that vessel; the eschar separated wliilst he was out shooting, and he had lost a very large quantity of blood. In this case I merely cut down upon, and tied the vessel a short distance above and below the wounded point; because I knew that the adjacent structures, after the separation of an eschar caused by nitrate of silver, are generally in a state of healthy action, and not in that condition of impaired vitahty which characterises the tissues implicated in a severe biu-n by fire. Case 2.—Amputation of Arm for the secondary effects of a Burn. I was consulted by ]\Ir Falconer of Loanhead, in the case of a patient of his, a girl aged eleven years, whose health was sinking under the secondary effects of a bmii. About two years previously she had been very severely burnt in the arm whilst playing near the fire. She recovered from the first effects of the injmy, although mth great contraction of the wrist and elbow. After the burned sm'face had appai'ently healed for some weeks, the newly-formed skin gave way at several points, and a discharge took place fi'om the ulcerated sm-face. Various remedies were had recoiu'se to for the pm'pose of checking the discharge, and promoting the cicatrization of the parts, but all had ultimately failed. The ulceration had increased rapidly, and the patient's health had gradually sunk under the long-continued discharge and irritation. When I first saw her, she was apparently in the last stage of hectic, and worn almost to a skeleton, with rapid weak pulse. The injm'ed arm, from the wrist to the middle of the upper aiun, presented an almost continuous ulcerated smface, which was dis- charging profusely, and so irritable, that she screamed out whenever the dres'sings were touched. Over the posterior pai't of the elbow, there was a cicatrix, corresponding to the position of the ulnar nen^e, between the olecranon and inner condyle, which, she stated fi'equently, gave her excruciating pain; her mother stated, that she seldom slept at night, and when she did, was bathed in perspiration, and that her appetite had latterly almost entirely failed. Under these cu'ciunstances, I said, that I considered amputation the only chance of saving life; and that, although she seemed so much sunk, t Avoukl still recommend it as a means of relief from her sufter- iiigs. To this, both the parents and the patient readily consented, and I accordingly amputated the arm below the insei'tion of the deltoid by double flap. The operation seemed to afford almost immediate relief from the constitutional irritation ; for she slept well the_ niglit after it was performed, which she liad not done for months previously, and the wound healed almost entirely by the first intention. As she