6 MR SPENCE's cases IN SURGERY. ai-tery. ^ It was evident, however, that the axillaiy had suffered, that circulation through it was obstructed, and that the treatment of the fracture must be considered secondary to that of the injury of the vessel. I accordingly did not replace the pad in the axilla, but got a soft cushion made sufficiently long to reach from the axilla to the hand, jointed at the elbow, and thicker above than below. This I placed on the inside of the arm, and another soft cushion and thin pasteboard splint on the outside of the arm and fore-arm ; the elbow was kept only slightly bent, the splint and cushions secured with sHp-knots, and the whole limb covered with flannel. This plan, whilst it interfered but little with the restoration of the circulation through the collateral branches, kept the broken ends of the bone pretty well in position. I continued it for the first fifteen days; when, although I could feel no pulse in the larger vessels, I was satisfied, from the restored heat and sensation of the part, that the circulation was re-established sufficiently to allow of the ordinary apparatus being used. Accordingly, I replaced a soft elastic hair cushion in the axilla, and a leather splint, well padded, along the outside of the arm and fore-arm (from the point of shoulder to extre- mity of the fingers). The fore-arm was supported in a sling, and the arm kept to the side by a soft shawl. Under this treatment the cure went on favom-ably, except that, about the end of third week, he complained much of severe pain in the part, and of a sense of suffocation, and of a feehng of weight across the chest, which he attributed to the position of the fore-arm across the body. The sHng was lowered so as to change this posi- tion, but still the feeling continued; alterative medicine was given with some relief. As it became of great importance for him to get home to London at this time, and as the union of the bone seemed sufficiently fii'm to warrant his removal, he left Edinbiu-gh, with my consent, on the 17th of August. Since then, I received the following accounts of his progress from his usual mecHcal attendant, Dr Bower of Hatton Gai'den, and subsequently fe'om Mr Liston, to whom I had requested him to apply, but whom he had not consulted till 1st October. " As Mr B has now been under my watching more than^ a month, I am able to give you an account of his progi'ess more satis- factorily than if I had written sooner. The callus around the firac- ture is completed, and he begins to move his arm somewhat, and m time doubtless it will tm^n out all right. I cannot, however, say as much for the circulation through the fore-ami and hand. I can only distinguish a veiy faint pulsation in any arteiy beneath the fractm'e. At the wrist there is none either in the radial or ulnar, and there- fore I suppose the circulation through the hand must be by means of tlie interosseous or carpal. As you may suppose, tlie hand is not properly supplied, and much colder and more useless tlian it other-