2 MR SPENCE'S cases IN SURGERY, by compressing tlie humeral till I arrived, but the child had alread}- lost a very lar^e quantity of blood. On examining the ai-ni, the whole extent ot the hmh, from the lower margin of the axilla to the hand, exhibited the effects of the bum, being raw and discharging freely. On removing a piece of lint from over the bend of the arm, a deep cavity was exposed, and at the bottom of it the brachial artery- was seen, with a small oval opening in its anterior wall; when the pressure on the brachial was relaxed, a jet of blood came from this opening, so as to leave no doubt as to the source of the hemorrhage. From the appearance of the opened vessel, and the slouglimg state of the surrounding parts, I considered it improper to trust to liga- ture immediately above and below the opening; whilst the state of the arm, together with the impaired vitahty of the skin and other tissues, rendered ligature of the brachial in the middle, or higher in the arm, equally unadvisable. I therefore determined to tie the ax- illary in the third portion of its course, where it lies on the tendon of the latissimus dorsi; with this view the ai*m was separated from the side, and extended as far as could be done under the circumstances. I made an incision about 2^ inches long, commencing about an inch and a half within the anterior margin of the axilla, and earned down along the inner edge of the coraco-brachiahs; the fascia was divided to the same extent, and the plexus of nerves brought into view. I next carefully separated the median and internal cutaneous nerves, which exposed the vessel, and, after careftJly cleaning it, passed a ligature round it and tied it. There was a good deal of troublesome oozing of blood during the dissection, owing to the raw and vascular state of the skin at the lower part of the incision, and considerable delay and annoyance were caused by the unmanageable state of the patient (who, I should have mentioned, was deaf, dumb, idiotic, and epileptic). At the commencement of the operation, he thought proper to amuse himself by blowing out the candle, and when I was about to pass the ligatm-e round the artery, he took an epileptic fit. After the vessel was tied, the edges of the upper part of the womid were brought together by points of sutm-e, and the ligature allowed to hang out at the lower part. After waiting a short time, slight bleeding was noticed to take place from the lower part of the open- ing in tlie brachial artery; I therefore placed ligatm-es above and below the opening, as compresses seemed to give rise to much irrita- tion, and as I trusted there might be sufficient vitality of the coats of the vessel there to sustain the Hgatures for a day or two till more pennanent changes at the part, and in the collateral cu'culation,^ had taken place. The burnecl sm-face was then dressed vnth. a stinui- lating lotion. Next day I found that the patient had passed a very restless night, constantly moving the injured arm, but no ftu'ther bleeding had taken place. On tlie evening of the 11th January, the ligatures above and below tlie oi)ening"in the brachial artery came away, but