5 MR SPENCE'S cases IN SUllGERY. resided some distance in the country, I did not see her after the first fortnight until about six weeks from the date of the amputation, when she called upon me in town perfectly, restored m health. On chssection of the amputated limb, which had been previously injected with size by my friend Mr Goodsir, the muscular tissue was found quite aUered in structure, of a pale, almost white, colom-, and scarcely showing any appearance of fibrous texture. The hganients were tliickened, and so contracted as scarcely to admit of the sHght- est motion, even after the division of the other soft parts; but the synovial membrane and articular cartilages were perfectly healthy, and presented no appearance of ulcerative absorption at any point. The ulnai' nerve was found involved, and apparently compressed, by the consoHdated tissues corresponding to the cicatrix behind the elbow. AU the deep-seated parts of the limb seemed much less vas- cular than usual, probably owing to the consoHdation of the tissues tluough which the vessels passed; but this appearance might also, in some measure, have been caused by the injection escaping more readily fi'om the open vessels of the ulcerated surfaces. Case 3.—Injury of Axillary Artery from Fracture of the Neck of the Humerus. Mr J. B , aged sixty-three, in coming down-stairs from the drawing-room, tripped on the carpet, and fell down with his whole weight on the elbow and point of shoulder. I was sent for on the part of Dr Lawrie, who attended the family, and fomid the humerus broken at the neck, the broken end of the shaft considerably displaced inwards to the axilla, and the elbow tilted outwards. Mr B was exceedingly sick and faint, having only a short time previously recovered from a severe attack of rhemnatic fever, and suffering, at the time of the accident, from bowel complaint. The fractm'e was readily adjusted, scarcely any force whatever being necessary to extend the shaft of the bone, and withcfraw it from the axilla. I put it up in the usual manner, with a soft com- press in the axilla, placing the fore-arm in a shng, and confining the arm and elbow to the side by means of a broad soft shawl. I then ordered him an opiate to an'est the diarrhoea, and left him. Next morning I saw him with Dr Lawrie; he had passed a very restless night from the bowel complaint, and also fi'om pain at the fractiu-ed part, and numbness in the hand. On loosing the bandages, the hand and fore-arm were found not much swollen, but they were much colder than those of the opposite side, and no pulsation could be felt either in the brachial, radial, or ulnar arteries at any point, but distinct and full pulsation could be felt in the axillaiy, immediately above the fracture; there was considerable ecchymosis and biniising over the point of the shoulder and deltoid, also some swelling along the inner side of the biceps, but there was no pulsatory movement in the s^^•elling, nor any appearance of its connnunicating with the