BONES OF THE HEAD. 60 TUB INTERIOR, OV THE SKUIL. 1. The Cranial Cavity.—The walls of the cranium present two layers of compact tissue, the outer and inner tables, and between these, in the greater pai-t of their extent, cancellated substance, called dijdoe. The inner Fig. 62. — Inteknal Basis op the Skull, opened bt a hori- zontal incision one INCH ABOYE THE Su- pra-Orbital Arches and extehnal occi- PITAL Protube- rance. 4 1, anterior fossa and roof of the orbit, as foi-med by the frontal bone, marked by im- pressions of cerebral convolutions; 2, is close to the foramen ccECum and in iront of the crista galli and cribri- form plate of ethmoid ; 3, is close behind the ethmoidal spine of the sphenoid and behind the cribriform plate ; 4, lesser wing of Ingras- sias, terminating pos- teriorly in the anterior clinoid process, inside ■which the inner open- ing of the optic fo- ramen is seen ; 5, the pituitary fossa, in front of it the olivary emin- ence and transverse groove of the optic commissure ; 6, the inclined plate of the body of the sphenoid, or dorsum sellae, ter- minating in the posterior clinoid processes, and to the side of these the sigmoid groove of the internal carotid artery ; 7, foramen rotundum, to the inner side of which anteriorly, but not seen, is the foramen lacerum orbitale ; 8, foramen ovale ; 9, foramen spinosum ; 10, is placed on the ridge of the petrous bone, near its apex, and to the inside of the hollow occupied by the Gasserian ganglion ; in front of this is the foramen lacerum ante- rius ; 11, is placed internal to the eminence of the superior semicircular canal of the laby- rinth, and behind the hiatus Fallopii; 12, is upon the prominent ridge of the petrous bone, in which (on the opposite side) the superior petrosal groove is marked ; 13, is upon the posterior surface of the petrous bone—to the inside, the meatus auditorius internus, behind, the scale of bone covering the aqueduct of the vestibule ; 14, basilar groove ; 15, inner or upper opening of the anterior condyloid foramen ; 16, jugular part of the fora- men lacerum posterius ; 17, outer part of the groove of the lateral sinus, where it crosses the lower angle of the parietal bone ; 18, internal occipital protuberance, and between it and the foramen magnum, the internal occipital spine ; between 17 and 18, the upper part of the groove of the lateral sinus, between 17 and 16 the lower part; 19, cerebellar fossa. or vitreous table has a smooth, close-grained, shining appearance, is hard and brittle, and is thrown into irregular digitate impressions corresponding to the convolutions of the brain. The thinnest portions of the cranial wall are the cribriform plate of the ethmoid and the orbital plates of the frontal bone, in both of which the diploe is entirely absent; in the middle part of the inferior occipital fossse, and in the squama and glenoid fossa of the temporal, the bone is also very thin and compact.