106 BONES OF THE LOWER LIMB. border, after projecting rather abruptly forwards, slopes downwards and backwards ; its posterior border presents a shallow groove traversed by the tendons of the peronei muscles ; while externally it is convex and sub- cutaneous, and a triangular subcutaneous surface is continued up from it for an inch or two on the shaft. Fig. 98. ■2 mil*/!;./ Fig. 98.—Right Fibula from the outside and BEFOKE. J 1, shaft, outer and anterior surface, showing the oblique grooves of the peronei muscles ; 2, head ; 3, its projection, giving insertion to the tendon of the biceps femoris ; 4, malleolus externus or lower end, the figure is placed opposite its anterior or oblique edge ; above this is seen the triangular subcutaneous surface of the bone. Fig 99.—Right Fibula from the inside and BEHIND. ^ 5, the oblique surface of articulation with the tibia superiorly; 6, points to the internal or interosseous ridge ; 7, the triangular rough surface for the lower interosseous ligament; 8, the external malleolar surface for articulation with the astragalus; 9, groove behind the malleolus externus for the tendons of the peronei muscles. The shaft is irregularly four-sided and twisted. One surface, from which the peronei muscles take origin, looks forwards at the commence- ment, then turning outwards and backwards is continued behind the subcutaneous space of the lower end to the groove behind the malleolus. Another surface looking backwards in the upper half of its extent, winds inwards and terminates above the articular surface of the malleolus ; near its upper end this surface is rough, giving attachment to the soleus muscle, and in the rest of its extent it is occupied by the flexor longus polhcis. The remaining part of the surface of the bone, internal, turns for- wards inferiorly, and terminates on the anterior margin of the malleolus : it is divided by a longitudinal line to which the interosseous ligament is attached, into a posterior and upper part, which gives origin to the tibialis posticus, and an anterior and lower part, from which arise the long extensors of the toes and the peroneus tertius, the interosseous membrane being attached to the line between these sur- faces. About the middle of the posterior sur- face is the medullary foramen directed down- wards into the bone. THE TAEStrS. The tarsus is composed of seven bones, viz., the os calcis, astragalus, cuboid, scaphoid, and three cuneiform.