TENDO ACHILLIS. PLANTARIS. 285 Achillis considerably further than those of the gastrocnemius. The posterior surface presents a thin covering of longitudinal aponeurotic fibres continued up from the tendon below, and gliding on the similar tendinous surface of the gastrocnemius muscle. On the deep surface the edges of two mem- branous tendons, the other edges of which look towards the middle line of the muscle, imbedded in its substance, are seen descending from the tibial and libulai- origins : the fibres from the deep aspects of those tendons are directed obliquely inwards to a tendinous septum which divides the muscle into lateral halves ; while those from then- superficial aspects pass with similar obliquity to the flat tendon on the surface of the muscle, the fibres placed at the sides forming the lateral borders and part of the deep surface of the muscle. Thus the soleus is composed entirely of short oblique fibres of from one to two inches in length. The Boleus rests upon the flexor longus pollicis, flexor lougiis digitorum and tibialis posticus muscles, together with the posterior tibial vessels and nerve. The tench Achillis, the thickest and strongest tendon in the body, is formed by the union of the flat tendon of the gastrocnemius with the thicker and more rounded tendon of the soleus. It is from three to four inches long below the point where the muscular fibres of the soleus cease to be attaclied to it. It is inserted inferiorly into the back part of the tuberosity of the os calcis. Between the upper part of the tuberosity of the OS calcis and the tendon a synovial bursa is interposed. The gastrocnemius is, in some cases, joined by a bundle of muscular fibres, which arises separately from the femur above one of the condyles. This bundle has been observed passing between the popliteal artery and vein (R. Quain, op. cit. plate 80, figs. 4 and 5). To the soleus an accessory portion is occasionally added at its lower auil inner part; this usually ends on the inner side of the tendo Achillis, but it sometimes forms a tendon, attached separately to the os calcis. The plantaris arises from the femur immediately above the external con- dyle, and from the posterior ligament of the knee-joint, where this is covered by the corresponding head of the gastrocnemius ; its muscular part is from three to four inches in length, and terminates in a long delicate tendon, which inclines inwards between the gastrocnemius and soleus, and runnino- along the inner border of the tendo Achillis is inserted conjointly with it into the posterior part of the calcaneum. The designation by which this little muscle is known was assigned to it when the tendon w^as believed to terminate in the plantar fascia, as the palmaris longus does in the fascia of the hand. It was so described by Galen; and, though the real manner of termination was correctly pointed out by Vesalius (Oper. 1, 2, p. 419), the error was continued through many succeeding works, and is to be found even in Cowper's " Myotomia Reformata " (p. 105). The plantaris varies in its mode of termination; it is sometimes enclosed in the lower part of the tendo Achillis; and, in other cases, it ends in the internal annular ligament, which binds down the tendons and vessels behind the inner malleolus. The deep (/roiq) of posterior muscles of the leg is in close contact with the bones ; it consists of the popUteus, flexor longus digitoinim, flexor loncrus pollicis and tibialis posticus. ^ The pojMeus, an oblique muscle placed below the knee, arises by a thick tendon, about an inch in length, from the fore part of the popUteal groove on the outer side of the external condyle of the femur, within the external lateral ligament and capsule of the knee-joint j it is in contact with tho