37 THE TEMPORAL BONE. digastric muscle; and internal to that is the slight occipital groove, for the occi- piHl artery The internal surface of the mastoid portion is marked by a deep 8i..moid depression, descending in the angle between it and the petrous portion, which is part of the groove of the lateral sinus. A passage for a vem, of very variable size, the mastoid foramen, usuaUy pierces the bone near its posterior mai'gin, and opens into the groove. Fig. 34. Fi„. 34.—The Right Temporal Bone prom BELOW. S The indications where marked are the same as in the preceding figures. 14, is at tlie apex of the petrous bone in the upper opening of the carotid canal ; 21, lower rough surface of the petrous bone ; 22, the lower opening of the carotid canal; 23, the small foramen of Jacobson's nerve; 24, the jugular depression, and within it, 25, the foramen of Arnold's nerve ; 26, stylo-mastoid foramen—the figure is placed in the anterior part of the digastric groove; 27, groove of the occipital artery ; 23, place of the anterior opening of the osseous Eustachian caual. The PETROUS PORTION is named from its hardness. It contains the organ of hearing. It forms a three-sided pyra- mid, with its base directed outwards, one surface looking downwards, and the other two turned towards the interior of the skull. Inferior surface, base and apex.—At the base is the aperture of the ear. It forms a short canal, the meatiis auditorius externus, directed inwards and a little forwards, narrower in the middle than at its extremities, and leading into the cavity of the tympanum. It is bounded superiorly by the posterior root of the zygoma, and posteriorly in the remainder of its circumference chiefly by the external auditory process, a curved uneven border, to which the cartilage of the ear is attached. This process is the thickened outer extremity of the tympanic plate, a lamina one surface of which forms the anterior wall of the external auditory meatus and the tympa- num, while the other looks forwards and downwards. The anterior margin of the tympanic plate is sepai'ated from the glenoid fossa by the^isswe of Glaser, which communicates with the tympanum, while its posterior margin descends as a sharp edge, the vaginal process, which partly surrounds the front of the styloid process at its base. The styloid process is long and tapering, and is directed downwards and forwards. It is placed in front of the digastric fossa, and has immediately behind it the foramen which forms the outlet of the canal of the facial nerve, named stylo-mastoid from its position between the styloid and mastoid processes. A smooth rounded and deep depression, the jug^dar fossa, lies internal to the styloid process ; it is close to the posterior margin of the bone, and completes with the jugular notch of the occipital bone the foramen lacerum posterius. In front and a little to the inside of the jugular fossa is the carotid foramen, the inferior extremity of the carotid canal ; and internal to the carotid foramen is a rough surface which gives attachment to the levator palati muscle, and is continued into the rough inner extremity, or ajyex of the i)etrous bone. The carotid canal ascends at first perpendicularly, then turns horizontally forwards and inwards, and