234 DORSAL MUSCLES OF THE TRUNK. Actions.—The serratus posticus superior elevates the upper ribs, and is therefore to DC regarded as a muscle of inspiration. The serratus inferior acts directly as a depressor of the lower ribs, and may aid either in expiration or inspiration: in expiration by acting ia concert with the muscles which depress the higher ribs • in inspiration by fixing the lower ribs and giving firmness to the origin of'the diaphragm. ° o e> Splenitjs.—The sphnius muscle is so named from its having the form of a strap, which binds down the parts lying under it. It is attached superiorly in part to the cervical vertebrae, in part to the skull, and is described ac- cordingly under two names. a. The splenius colli is attached inferiorly to the spinous processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth dorsal vertebra, and superiorly along with the slips of the levator anguli scapulae to the transverse processes of the first two or three cervical vertebrae. h. The splenius capitis, broader and thicker than the preceding, arises from the spines of the seventh cervical and two upper dorsal vertebrsB, and from the ligamentum nuchae as high as the third cervical vertebra. It is inserted into the lower and back part of the mastoid process, and into the outer part of the superior curved line of the occipital bone. The splenius is covered by the trapezius, the rhomboid, and the serratus posticus superior; and on the cranium by the sterno-mastoid. It conceals, in part, the complexus and trachelo-mastoid. Erectoe, Spinje.—The erRctor spinoB may either be regarded as one large composite muscle, or as consisting of seven distinct muscles. Viewed as one muscle it may be conveniently considered as formed of three columns, of which the inner, or that next the spine, is comparatively slender ; the outer and inner columns of the remaining thicker mass consist each of a large lower muscle and of two successive slender continuations in an upward direction ; and to all these seven portions, or muscles, distinct names have been given. The erector spinae takes origin inferiorly as a common mass, the outer part of which is muscular, while the inner and larger part is tendinous. The muscular portion arises from the posterior fifth of the crest of the ilium; the tendinous portion arises from the back part of the ilium, the lower and back part of the sacrum, and the sacral and lumbar spines; it is inseparably united below with the lumbar aponeurosis, and is prolonged upwards on the surface of the muscular part, concealing the multifidus spinae. The division of the larger part into an external and internal column takes place below the level of the last rib. a. The ilio-costalis (Theile) or sacro-lumhalis, the main muscle of the outer column, is fleshy inferiorly, springing from that part of the common origin which proceeds from the crest of the ilium ; it ends in a series of tendons which incline slightly outwards, and are inserted one into each of the six or seven lowest ribs at their angles. b. The musculus accessorius ad ilio-costalem {ad sacro-lumhalem) is a con- tinuation of the preceding muscle. It arises by flat tendons from the upper margins of the lower six or eight ribs, internal to the tendons of the ilio- costalis, and ends superiorly by continuing the series of those tendons to the upper ribs. c. The cervicalis ascendens consists of slips in serial continuation with those of the musculus accessorius, taking origin from four or five of the