MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 186 a short tendon from the superior genial tubercle behind the symphysis of the jaw : from this its fibres diverge and are inserted in an extensive range VIZ., those which are most inferior into the body of the hyoid bone, and a lew into the side of the pharynx; those which are most superior into the tip ot_ the tongue; and the intermediate fibres into its whole len^Hh diverging transversely in its substance. ° ' The external surface is in contact with the lingualis inferior, hyo-glossus and stylo- glossus muscles, the sub-Ungual gland, the ranine vessels, and the nerves of the tongue. Fig. 162. Fig. 162.—Sketch op a part op the lept side of the Skull, the right side op THIS body of the Lower Jaw, AND the ToKonE, Hyoid Bone, Larynx, and Trachea, SHOAviNO the Extrinsic Muscles op the Tongue, &o. i a, external pterygoid pro- cess; b, styloid process; c, section of the symphysis of the lower jaw; d, front of the body of the liyoid bone; e, thyroid cartilage; /, front of the cricoid cartilage; between d and e, the thyro-hyoid mem- brane and ligament; g, isthmus of the thyroid gland in front of the trachea; 1, left stylo- glossus muscle ; 2, stylo-hyoid; 3, stylo-pharyngeus; 4, cut edge of the mylo-hyoid ; 5, geniohyoid; 6, genio-hyo-glos- sus ; 7, hyo-glossus ; 8, lingua- lis inferior ; 9, part of the supe- rior constrictor of the pharynx; 10, back part of the middle constrictor; 11, inferior con- strictor ; 12, upper part of the oesophagus; 13, crico-thyroid muscle. The hyo-glossus is a flat quadrate muscle, arising from the whole length of the great cornu of the hyoid bone, from the lateral part of the body of that bone, and from the small cornu ; the fibres arising from those three sources (formerly distinguished as cerato-glossus, basio-glossus, and chondro-glossus respectively—Albinus) pass upwards to be inserted into the side of the tongue, blended with the stylo-glossus and palato-glossus muscles. The hyo-glossus is concealed by the digastric and mylo-hyoid muscles, except at its posterior inferior angle; the deep part of the sub-maxillarj' gland rests on its surface, and it is crossed from below upwards by the hypo-glossal nerve, the W^hartonian duct, and the gustatory nerve. It covers the genio-glossus and the origin of the middle constrictor of the pharynx, together with the lingual artery and glosso-pharyngeal nerve. The stylo-glossus, the shortest of the three muscles which spring from the styloid process, arises from that process not far from its point, and from the