65 DEVELOPMENT OF THE SKULL. tl,P m,11pf nasscs out and becomes continuoiifl with that of the integument. In a 1^Ifn ml^o of thrca weeks of age all the arches are viBible Crhomson). The first 0 hi"hest vi ceral arch is the finst to appear, and it is likewise the first to unite with Us d iw of the opposite side : it forms by its lower part the out ine of the ower jaw. The posterior or upper part of the first branchial cleft remains as the external aperture of the car the tympanic cavity and the Eustachian tube, while its anterior part together with the ^vhole of the other branchial clefts are filled up. Connected with the upper ed-e of the fii-st visceral arch, at its origin, a process is developed tho maxillary lobe which passes forwards beneath the eye, forming the side part of the face. The eves are formed in connection with the sides of the anterior cerebral vesicle, and, in front of them, a quadrilateral mesial lobe, the middle frontal process passes down and forms the nose and middle part of the upper lip. At the angles of the extremity of the middle frontal process are two slight lobes, the xnlernal nasal processes of KiiUiker • above these are two notches, the rudimentary nostrils, and between the nostrils and eyes another pair of lobes, the external nasal processes of Kcilliker, or lateral frontal processes of Reichert. The maxillary lobe becomes united to the internal and external nasal processes ; but between it and the latter there is left the nasal duct. About the ninth week the inferior parts of the maxillary lobes, having sent projections inwards, are united in the middle line and form the palate. Fig. 56. A Fig. 56.—A. Magnified view from befoee of the Head AND Neck of a Human Embryo of about three weeks (from Ecker, Icones Physiol. Tab. xxix. fig. I.). 1, anterior cerebral vesicle or cerebrum ; 2, middle ditto ; 3, middle or naso-frontal process ; 4, superior maxillary pro- cess ; 5, eye ; 6, inferior maxillary process or first visceral arch, and below it the first cleft; 7, 8, 9, second, third, and fourth arches and clefts. B. Anterior view of the Head of a Human F(etus of ABOUT THE FIFTH WEEK (from Ecker, as before, fig. IV.). 1, 2, 3, 5, the same parts as in A ; 4, the external nasal or lateral frontal process ; 6, the superior maxillary process ; 7, the lower jaw ; x , the tongue ; 8, first branchial cleft becoming the meatus auditorius externus. Formation of the a-anium.—The chorda dorsalis passes into the base of the skull, as far forwards as the sphe- noidal region. According to the observations of H. Mliller on the calf (Ueber das Vorkommen von Chordaresten, &c., in Zcitschr. fiir Rat. Med. 3rd series, vol. ii.), it extends from the odontoid process of the axis through the basilar process of the occipital bone to the back of the dorsum sellae, which it pierces, and is lost behind the pituitary body. Before attaining the osseous state, the cranium passes through a membranous and cartilaginous condition, in which it is termed the primordial a-anium. In the membranous cranium, the blastema, immediately beyond the extremity of the chorda dorsalis, presents two thick bars, the lateral Irabeodoe of Eathkc, with a very thin part in the middle line between them, corresponding to the position of the pituitary body (see fig. 57, 4). These trabcculai unite in front in the ethmoidal region, and it is to be remarked that in the cartilaginous stage the ethmo-vomerine cartilage or mesial septum of the nose is continued directly forwards from the region containing the chorda dorsalis. In the cartilaginous stage of the cranium the cartilage can only be traced in the ba.silar parts, and corresponds in extent to the occipital bone below the level of its protuberance, the petrous and mastoid portions of the temporal bone, the sphenoid and the ethmoid, while the part of the wall in which the frontal and parietal bones, the upper part of the occipital, and the squamous portions of the temporals appear, remains membranous. The extent, however, over which the cartilage of the primordial cranium extends difTers in difreicnt animals, and is greater in many mammals than in man (KiiUiker). The nasal bones are derived from the middle