247 MECHANISM OF THE RESPIRATORY MOVEMENTS. smaller arches above tliem; and the second, by the movement or rotation of the ribs round an axis extending from their heads to the sternum, which everts the lower edge of the ribs, and increases the width of their arch outwards. 3rd. The capacity of tho thorax, transversely and posteriorly, is increased by the clastic bending of the ribs, as well as the opening of the angle between the ribs and their cartilages, produced by the resistance of the sternutn and weight of the limbs to the forward and upward motion of the extremities of the cartilages, and by the inclination backwards given to the middle ribs in their upward movement by the oblique direction of the plane of the costo-transverse articular surfaces. It is further to be noticed, that any considerable elevation of the lowest ribs, instead of increasing, would diminish the capacity of the thorax by raising the diaphragm, and accordingly in inspiration those ribs are drawn backwards and outwards rather than raised. Lastly, it may be remarked, that extension of the vertebral column is an important agent in respiration, for when the column is bent forwards, the ribs are pressed together in the concavity of the curve, and, conversely, when the column is extended the ribs are separated. The Intercostal Muscles.—The manner in which these muscles act has been a sub- ject of controversy from an early time, and cannot be said to be yet thoroughly understood. Among those who look upon the intercostal muscles as active in respiration, all are agreed that the external muscles are elevators of the ribs, and therefore muscles of inspiration. According to one view, defended by Haller, the external and internal layers have a common action, the decussating fibres acting in the direction of the diagonal between them ; while according to another view, that of Ilamberger, while the external intercostal muscles are admitted to be elevators, the internal are held to be depressors of the ribs. A more recent modification of these views, which is at present most generally adopted, is that maintained by Hutchison, viz., that the external intercostal muscles, and the parts of the internal intercostals placed between the costal cartilages, elevate the ribs, and that the lateral portions of the internal intercostals act as depressors. This view is founded upon a mathematical demonstration, and may be illustrated mechanically by an apparatus showing, that if two parallel bars, free at one end and attached by joints to a fixed pei-pendicular at the other, be united by oblique elastic bands, one set of which is directed downwards and away from the fixed upright, while another is directed downwards and towards the upright, the first set of bands will be shortened by the elevation of the bars from an oblique to a horizontal position, and the second set lengthened; whereas the first set will be lengthened and the second shortened by depression of the bars below the horizontal position. It may be objected, however, to this view, that the ribs diifer from the supposed bars in respect that they are not rigid, and are not free at either end, but have the greatest extent of motion, at least in some instances, in the middle of their arch, and in the living subject, the ribs, in their elevation, both rotate upon their axis and bend upon themselves, instead of describing a simple upward and downward movement like the bars. The deficiency of the external inter- costal muscles in front and of the internal behind, in which situations they would have acted as depressors, seems to point to some sorb of combined action of the muscles as elevators of the ribs. Among the more recent anatomical writers, Henle inclines to Haller's view; Luschka refers to Budge's experiments on the muscles of living animals, as proving that the internal intercostal muscles elevate the ribs (Budge, " Lchrbuch der Phy- siologic des Mcnschen," Weimar, 1860, p. 79); and Cruveilhier, founding on the experiments of Beau and Massiat, supports the very different but scarcely tenable view, that tho intercostal muscles arc not essential agents either in elevating or depressing the ribs, but only act as tensors of the intercostal spaces (op. cit. p. 575). The levatores costarum have a similar action with the posterior fibres of the external intercostal muscles, and ought therefore to be ranked among the agents of inspiration, Tho scalene muscles also arc usually believed to contribute, even in normal and quiet inspiration, to the support and elevation of the first and second ribs; and it is obvious that the serratus posticus superior must have a similar effect on those upper ribs to which it is attached. T/ie action of the diaphragm is more easily understood than that of the intercostal muscles. By its contraction and descent its convexity is diminished, the abdominal viscera arc pressed downwards, and tho thorax expanded vertically. The fibres