198 MUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIMB. ing stronger as it descends, it spUts, a little below the level of the thyroid body into two distinct layers. Of these the more superficial and weaker guided by the sterno-mastoid muscles, is fixed to the sternum and the interclavicular ligament; whilst the stronger layer, lying imder the former and closely covering the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, is attached to the deeper surface of that bone. These layers materially assist in closing the cavity of the chest, above the sternum : between them there exists a quantity of loose connective tissue and fat, and sometimes a small lymphatic gland. Continuous with the deeper of those two layers, a deep layer is found likewise in the posterior triangle, investing the posterior belly of the omo- hyoid muscle, and binding it down to the clavicle and first rib. Still deeper than the processes now described is a layer which lies behind the depressor muscles of the larynx, investing the thyroid body, and extending thence on the trachea and large vessels at the root of the neck down to the fibrous layer of the pericardium. Continuous with the deep processes of the cervical fascia is the common sheath of the large cervical bloodvessels, an envelope of fascia enclosing the carotid artery and jugular vein with the pneumogastric nerve. A thin fibrous septum intervenes between the artery and vein, thus completing a separate sheath for each. The layer of fascia descending on the prevertebral muscles, and inter- vening between them and the pharynx and oesophagus, is called the pre- vertebral fascia. MUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIMB. Between different parts of the head and trimk on the one hand, and the shoulder and humerus on the other, certain muscles pass which attach the upper limb to the body, and which, though situated mainly on the trunk, and often described along with its muscles, have so intimate a connection, both in their structure and uses, with the limb, that they may with greater propriety be treated of along with the muscles of that part. The muscles referred to are, posteriorly, the trapezius, latissimus dorsi, levator anguli scapulae, and the rhomboidei ; and, anteriorly, the two pectoral muscles, the subclavius, and the serratus magnus. Along with these might also be mentioned the clavicular part of the stemo-cleido-mastoid muscle and the omo- hyoid ; but as these last have important relations with parts situated in the neck, they are more conveniently described among the muscles of that region. Fig. 169. SlTPKRFIOIAL MUSOLKS OP THE TrUNK, ShOULDER AND HiP, VIEWED PROM BEHIND. I a, external occipital protuberance ; 6, acromion of the scapula; c, crest of the ilium; 1, trapezius ; 1', oval tendon of the two muscles in the upper dorsal and lower cervical region ; 1", triangular tendon of insertion ; 2, latissimus dorsi; 2', 2', its costal origins and its direct origin from the crest of the ilium ; 1, 2', c, the_ superficial layer of the lumbar aponeurosis ; 3, sterno-mastoid ; 4, deltoid ; 5, infraspinatus; 6, teres minor; 7, teres major ; 8, rhomboideus major; below this on the left side is seen a triangular space bounded by the rhomboid, trapezius, and latissimus dorsi muscles, in which, when the arm is depressed, as on the right side, a part of the seventh rib is usually felt; on the left side, the arm and shoulder being elevated, the space is enlarged so as to show a part of the sixth and seventh ribs; 9, back part of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen ; between 9 and 2', a small part of the internal oblique ; 10, part of the gluteus medius covered by the fascia lata ; 11, gluteus maximus ; 12, gracilis; 13, small part of the adductor magnus; 14, semitendinosus ; 16, biceps ; 16, fascia lata covermg the vastus externus.