224 MUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIMB. fibres end In a tendon, which occupies the narrow oblique groove in the middle of the posterior surface of the carpal end of the radius, and fs bound down in a separate compartment of the annular ligament; it is inserted into the base of the terminal phalanx of the thumb. The groove which lodges the radial extensors of the carpus intervenes between S the'thutr^' °^ """^ tendons of the otLr extensors A part of the tendon of the extensor ossis metacarpi is often found to terminate in the upper end of the abductor pollicis. The extensor primi intemodii is not unfre- quently umted with the extensor of the metacarpal bone, only a slender tendinous filament reaching the first phalanx. A portion of the extensor secundi internodii has been found attached to the first phalanx. ^'S- 18^- Fig. 184.—Superficial Mus- cles AND Tendons on tjie Back op the Wrist and Hand (After Bourgery). J The posterior annular liga- ment of the wrist is represented. 1, lower part of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis ; 1', its inser- tion ; 2, extensor primi inter- nodii pollicis ; 2', its insertion; 3, 3', tendon of the extensor se- cundi internodii pollicis; 4, lower part of the extensor com- munis digitorum, before passing below the posterior annular ligament; 4', slip of this tendon descending on the dorsum of the middle finger, where it re- ceives the insertion of the se- cond and third dorsal inter- ossei; 4", division of the tendon into three portions, of which the median is inserted into the second phalanx, the two lateral passing on to be inserted into the terminal phalanx; the union of the tendons of the third, fourth, and fifth fingers is shown; the slighter union which frequently exists between the tendons of the second and third fingers is not represented in the figure; 5, extensor minimi digiti; 5', its junction with the sUp of the common extensor; 6, placed on the lower end of the ulna, points to the extensor cai-pi ulnaris; 6', insertion of this muscle into the base of the fifth metacarpal bone ; 7, part of the flexor carpi ulnaris; 8, placed on the os magnum, points to the insertion of the extensor carpi radialis brevior; 8', placed on the base of the second metacarpal bone, points to the insertion of the extensor carpi radialis longior ; 9, tendon of the extensor indicis, emerging from below the annular ligament, to pass towards the index finger; 10, small part of the adductor pollicis, and deep head of the flexor brevis pollicis; 11, first dorsal interosseous or abductor indicis : in the other three interosseous spaces are seen in succession from the radial side inwards the insertion of the first palmar, second dorsal, third dorsal, second palmar, fourth dorsal, and third palmar interossei muscles ; 12, abductor minimi digiti. The extensor indicis (indicator) arises from the posterior surface of the ulna for three or four inches below the middle. The tendon passes with