BONES OF THE UPPER LIMB. 85 He superior extremity of the ulna presents for articulation with the humerus a large articular surface, the great sigmoid cavity, which looks forwards and is bounded in its posterior and upper part by the olecranon, a thick process contiaued upwards from the shaft, and in its lower part by the coronoid process, which projects forwards. The great sigmoid cavity is concave from above downwards, with its inferior wall deeper than its superior, and is convex from side to side, being traversed by a vertical ridge. The part external to this ridge is broad and convex above, while the part internal to the ridge is broad and concave below : a slight constriction, and some- times a notch of division, occurs across the middle of the cavity. Continuous Fig. 73. 74. Fig. 73.—Right Ulna from before. Fig. 74.—Eight Ulna FROM behind and without. ^ 1, point or beak of the olecranon ; 2, tuberosity of the olecranon; 3, end of the coronoid process; 4, greater sigmoid articular surface, 4 points to the upper division of this surface; 5, lesser sigmoid cavity, and below it the ridge for the supinator brevis muscle ; 6, external border or interosseous ridge ; 7, lower extremity or head; 8, styloid process; 9, rough surface of insertion of the brachialis anticus muscle on the front of the coronoid process; below 10, the oblique line marking the attachment of the pronator quadratus muscle; 11, triangular sur- face for the anconeous muscle ; 12, upper part of the posterior border, to the right of which the depres- sions for the long extensor muscles of the fingers occupy the posterior surface. with the great is the small sigmoid cavity, a small articular surface on the outer side of the base of the coronoid process, slightly concave from before backwards, and articula- ting with the cylindrical part of the head of the radius. The olecranon forms by its anterior surface a part of the articular sur- face of the great sigmoid cavity ; superiorly, broad and imeven, it gives attachment to the triceps extensor muscle, and posteriorly it presents a subcutaneous surface which is continuous Avith the posterior margin of the shaft. Between its anterior and superior surfaces is an acute projection which fits, in extension of the elbow, into the olecranon fossa of the humerus, and between the superior and posterior surface is a rectangular prominence wliich forms the point of the elbow. The coronoid process terminates in a sharp ridge, the prominent anterior extremity of which is received during flexion into the coronoid fossa of the humerus : its superior surface forms part of the surface of the great sigmoid cavity; the inferior surface rises gradually from the anterior surface of the bone, and is covered by a large triangular roughness which gives insertion to the brachiaUs anticus muscle. The body or shaft in the upper three-fourths of its extent is thi-ee-sided, and presents a slight curve with the convexity backwards, but I6wer extremity is slender, straight and cylindrical. '^'^^ n^rform near the The anterior surface is grooved in the upper half, where the flexor profundus muscle takes origin ; and at its lower end has an obUque line to which the pronator quadratus