Fig. 12. 16 DEVELOPJIENT OF THE VERTEBR/E. of these intervala is very trifling in the Fig. 11, VIEWED from the Left Side. ^ neck and in the greater part of the back, it increases in the lower third of the dorsal, and still more in the Inmbar region. The interval between the occipital bone and the arch of the atlas is consider- able, and so is that between the last lumbar vertebra and the sacrum. Fig. 12 —The same Vertebral Column as in Tlie letters and figures indicate the several vertebrse. The attention of the reader is called to the different curvatures of the column here shown, the shape and size of the bodies and intervertebral spaces, the form and transitions of the transverse and spinous processes, and the dififerences in the costal articulating surfaces. DEVELOPMENT OF THE VERTEBRiE. Earliest steps of foetal development as related to tlie first formation of the Vertebral Column and Skeleton.—The first step in the formative process within the ova of vertebrate animals is the production on the surface of the yolk of a superficial layer of organised cells, termed Uastodei~m, or germinal membrane. In the progress of development, this substance very soon comes to be divided into three strata or layers, which may be distinguished from each other by their structural differences, and have been named from their position the upper, middle, and lower layers of the germinal mem- brane. The upper and lower layers retain throughout their simple cellular structure, and take no share in the formation of the skeleton. From a part of the upper layer the medullary rudiments of the brain and spinal marrow are derived; while the rest of its extent is the source of the cuticular covering of the body. The whole of the deeper layer is taken up in the formation of the epithelium of the mucous membranes of the alimentary canal and its dependencies. But the middle layer has a far more complex and important destination, as it furnishes the formative material from which are developed the rudiments of the osseous, muscular and vascular systems, together with the peripheral nerves, the fibrous coats of the alimentary canal, and many other parts of the body. 'I'he earliest indication of embryo-form con- sists in the production of the primitive trace and groove, which takes place in the part of the upper and middle layers to be occupied by the embryo. The deepening of this groove by the elevation of its sides lays the foundation of the cerebro spinal canal or cavity, and this is finally closed in superiorly by the meeting and union of the elevated and approximated