PRODUCTION OF CELLS. xvu The formation of cells by segmentation of the yelk may be traced with comparative ease in the ova of many invertebrata. Tlic accompanying figures represent the several Bt^'es of the process in small species of the ascaris worm l-.gures a b and o are from the AsLis nigrovenosa, ^ observed by Kolliker. He found that, after the terminal vesicle had disappeared, a new nucleus with nuc eolus was formed m its E The segmentation then goes on as in the mammalian ovum, but he nuclei are visible from the first; and from appearances, such as those seen in the lowermost segments of a and b, it seems probable that the division of the nucleus is preceded by that of the nucleolus. . , .1 • I may remark that I once observed the ovum of the ascaris under the microscope whilst one of the large segments was actually undergoing division. There was first a very obvious heaving motion among the granules throughout the whole mass; then ensued a constriction at the circumference, which, proceeding inwards, soon com- pleted the division; but all this time the nuclei were quite hidden by the enveloping granular matter. . r.i n In some animals the segmentation process affects only a part ot the yelk. h. Division of free Cells.—Essentially the same process of fissiparous propagation by which the cells are multiplied -within the ovum continues to take place in the embryonic colls at future stages, and in their descendants in the Fig. XL organs and fluids of the body throughout life. The steps of the operation have been best observed and proved in the colourless blood-corpuscles, but it takes place in various other cells (fig. xi.). 0^ 1. Into two. —The body of the cell is ob- %r served to be somewhat lengthened, and its nucleus divided into two ; a constriction then pig. xi.—Commekcement, Pro- begins in the middle and proceeds until the gress, and Result, of Divi- substance of the cell is parted into two halves, sion of a free Cell. each of which contains a nucleus. There can be little doubt that here also the division begins with the nucleus. The colourless blood-corpuscle we presume to have no proper cell-wall, but if, as some believe, an envelope or primordial utricle is present, it is also involved in the division. 2. Into more than two.—The division is usually into two, as above described, but Remak has observed instances in the frog-larva of cells dividing into as many as five or six new cells ; that is, after the nucleus had divided in a corresponding way. Tlie difference in this modification of the process may simply be that whilst in the preceding case the two halves of the divided cell part from each other, and the resulting new cells undergo fresh subdivision solitarily, they in the present case remain asso- ciated in a group. Perhaps the formation of pus-corpuscles from connective tissue-corpuscles, as described by Virchow, may be an instance of this kmd. "Where the swollen primitive corpuscle acquires a distinct cell- membrane or capsule which incloses its progeny, the case comes to resemble the so-called " endogenous " propagation, as in cartilage, to be next described. c. Division of inclosed Cells.—An example of this is afforded by carti- lage. The cells in that tissue are surrounded by an outer capsule, which is continuous, or at least coherent, with the substance of the matrix. (Fig. XII., a). Here, as in the previous cases, there is first a division of the nucleus into two ; this is followed by cleaving of the cell-body like- wise into two, and thus two young cells are formed from a parent one. b