134 ARTICULATIONS OF THE UPPER LIMB. of it. The movements which take place in the superior and inferior compartments of the joint are of different kinds. In the upper the fibro-cartilage glides backwards and forwards on the temporal bone; in the lower compartment the condyle rotates on a transverse axis against the fibro-cartilago. In opening the mouth the two move- ments are combined: the jaw and fibro-cartilage together move forwards and rest on the convex root of the zygoma, while at the same time the condyle revolves on the fibro-cartilage. When the lower incisors are protruded beyond those of the upper jaw, the movement is conGncd chiefly to the upper articulation; and when the same movement is alternately performed in the joints of opposite sides a horizontal or grinding motion is produced. The fibres of the external lateral ligament remain tight both in shutting and opening the mouth, and it is owing to their direction that in opening the mouth the condyle is driven forwards. ARTICULATIONS OF THE UPPER LIMB, THE SCAPtTLO-CLAVIGULAR AKCH. The supporting arcli of the upper limb has only one point of attachment to the trunk, namely, that at the sterno-claviciilar articulation ; the scapula being connected with the trunk only by muscles. The clavicle articulates at its inner end with the first bone of the sternum, and is connected by ligaments to its fellow of the opposite side and to the first rib. At its outer end it is united to the scapula. Sxerno-Olavicular ARTiCTJiiATiON.—The articular surface of the inner end of the clavicle is considerably larger than the opposing surface of the sternum. Between the two bones an inter-articular fibro-cartilage is interposed. The anterior sterno-clavicidar ligament, broad and consisting of parallel fibres, passes from the inner extremity of the clavicle in front downwards and inwards, upon the anterior surface of the sternum. The posterior sterno-clavicular ligament, lying on the thoracic aspect of the joint, is of similar conformation with the anterior ligament, but is not so broad or strongly marked. The inter-articular fibro-cartilage, nearly circular in its form, and thicker above and at the border than at the centre, is interposed between the arti- culating surfaces of the sternum and clavicle. Towards its upper part it is attached to the inner and upper part of the clavicle, and at its lower edge to the cartilage of the first rib. In the latter situation it is thin and some- what prolonged, so that the inferior border of the clavicle rests upon it. Synovial membranes.—In this articulation, as in that of the lower jaw, there are two cavities lined by synovial membrane, one on each side of the inter-articular fibro-cartilage. The inter-clavicular ligament is a dense fasciculus of fibres, between the contiguous extremities of the clavicles. It dips downwards in the middle, and is connected with the upper margin of the sternum, filling up a part of its interclavicular notch. The costo-clavicular ligament (ligamentum rhomboides,—Weitbrecht) does not properly form part of the sterno-clavicular articulation ; yet it con- tributes materially to retain the clavicle in its situation. It is attached inferiorly to the cartilage of the first rib near its sternal end, and passes obliquely backwards and upwards, to be fixed to a rough depression at the under surface of the clavicle near the sternal end. Soapulo-Claviotoab Connections.—At its outer end the clavicle articu- lates with the acromion, and is connected by Ugamentous fibres with the coracoid process. The acromio-clavicular articulation is a synovial joint unitmg the outer extremity of the clavicle with the inner edge of the acromion. It is sup-