MUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIMB. 206 run the cephalic vein and the humeral branch of the acromio-thoracic artery. The anterior surface is subcutaneous in the greater part of its extent, being covered only by some of the fibres of the platysma myoides and by the mamma. The posterior surface rests chiefly on the pectoralis minor, and externally and internally to that muscle forms the anterior wall of the axilla. The tendinous fibres of origin of opposite sides sometimes decussate in front of the sternum, and occasionally the fleshy fibres also of opposite sides come into contact. In some instances additional muscular slips take origin from the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, and in others the lower part of the muscle presents consider- able deficiency. The pectoralis minor arises from the upper margins and external surfaces of three ribs near their cartilages—usually the third, fourth and fifth—and from the neighbouring parts of the intercostal aponeurosis. Its fibres converge to a narrow tendon, which is inserted into the anterior half of the inner border and upper surface of the coracoid process, in contact with the conjoined origin of the coraco-brachiahs and biceps muscles. This muscle is covered by the pectoralis major, and forms a part of the anterior wall of the axilla. When the arm is much raised a portion of the muscle is seen below the outer margin of the pectorahs major. The sulclavius muscle arises by a short thick tendon from the first costal arch at the junction of the rib and cartilage, close to the costo-clavicular ligament. From this tendon its fibres pass outwards and upwards, forming Fig. 174. Fig. 174.—Lateral view OF THE Trunk, show- INa IN A DEEP DIS- SECTION A VIEW OF THE Serratus Magnus Muscle. a, coracoid process of the scapula; b, glenoid cavity ; c, lower angle ; d, first dorsal vertebra ; 1, VI, XII, the first, sixth, and twelfth ribs ; 1, upper portion of tlie serratus magnus attached to the first and second ribs; 2, second or middle portion attached chiefly to the third rib ; 3, lower or fan- shaped portion attached to the ribs from the fourth to the ninth; 4, external intercostal muscles marked in the third and ninth spaces; 5, upper costal origins of the transver- salis abdominis ; x , sca- pular extremities of the levator scapuloo and omo- hyoid muscles. a rounded belly, which is inserted into the groove along the inferior surface of the clavicle, extending as far as the recess between the conoid and