METACARPAL AND PHALANGEAL ARTICULATIONS. 145 aspect, the transverse ligament. At their proximal extremities they are united to one another and to the carpal bones in articulations, the common synovial lining of which is derived from that of the carpal joint. In these articulations the four metacarpal bones are bound together by three dorsal, and three palmar, and by strong interosseous ligaments. There are also dorsal ligaments imiting these metacarpal bones with the carpus, each having two such ligaments except the fifth. Thus to the second, or that of the fore- finger, a thin fasciculus of fibres passes from the trapezium, and another from the trapezoid bone ; the third receives one from the trapezoid, and from the os magnum ; the fourth from the os magnum and also from the imciform ; but the fifth is connected with the unciform only. The palmar ligaments are not so well defined ; there is a single band to each bone, except that of the little finger. There is likewise an interosseous band in one part of the carpo-metacarpal articulation, connecting the lower and contiguous angles of the os magnum and unciform to the adjacent angle of the third metacarpal bone. This ligament is usually surrounded by a part of the general synovial membrane, but sometimes it separates the cavity be- tween the unciform and two inner metacarpal bones from the rest of the joint. The first metacarpal hone is unconnected with the others, and is articu- lated with the trapezium by an external and internal ligament, a capsular investment, and a distinct synovial membrane. ARTICULATIONS OF THE METACARPAL BONES WITH THE PHALANGES, AND OF THE PHALANGES WITH BACH OTHER. The rounded head of each of the last four metacarpal bones, being received into the slight concavity in the extremity of the first phalanx, is maintained in its position by two lateral ligaments, an an- terior ligament, and a synovial mem- brane. The lateral ligaments consist of dense and thick fasciculi of fibres, placed one at each side of the joint ; they are attached each by one extremity to the side of the Fig. 134.—General view of the Articulations Fig. 134. OP THE Wrist and Hand from before. 1, lower part of the interosseous membrane ; 2, and from that point across the lower end of the radius, the palmar radio-carpal ligaments ; 3, scaphoid bone; 4, pisiform ; 6, trapezium ; 6, unciform ; 7, os magnum, with most of the deeper ligaments uniting these bones ; I, first metacai-po-phalangeal articu- lation with its external lateral ligament; II to V, transverse metacarpal ligament : in the several phalangeal articulations the lateral ligaments are shown; in the first the external only is visible. metacarpal bone, and by the other to the anterior ligament and the contiguous ex- tremity of the phalanx. The direction of the fibres is downwards and forwards. The anterior or 'palmar ligament or rathar fibrous plate, occupies the interval between the lateral ligaments on the palmar aspect of each joint ; it