68 BONES OF THE HEAD. and produces a triangular depression at the site of tiic posterior fontanelle, wliicli is easily recognised by the finger of the accoucheur. The tfinpoml bone, considered in respect of its development, consists of the squamous and petro-mastoid parts, the tympanic plate, and the styloid process. The squamous part, inclusive of the zygomatic process, is ossilied from a single nuclcu.s. The petrous and mastoid portions are also formed from only one centre: bone is first deposited on the anterior surface, over the cochlea, and there afterwards appear one or two nuclei on the posterior surface, in connection with the formation of the semicircular canals; the different nuclei soon unite, and ossification extends into the mastoid process. The tympanic plate appears in the membranous wall of the tympanum and external ear as a slender arch of bone forming three-fourths of a ring, inclosing the membrana tympani. The styloid process is formed, as already stated, in the second visceral arch. Fig- Fig. 61.—Separate parts op the Temporal Bonk OF A Child at Birth. a, squamous part with the zygoma ; 6, the tym- panic bone forming an imperfect ring open sui)eriorly; c, the petrous and mastoid part; c being placed on the mastoid part; part of the cavity shown is the tympanum. The sphenoid bone presents in infancy traces of a natural division into a posterior or post- sphenoid part, to which the sella turcica and great wings belong, and an anterior ov pre-sphenoid part, to which belong the body in front of the olivary process and the small Avings,—a division which is found in many animals complete and persistent through life. The first osseous nuclei of the post- sphenoid division occur in the great wings, one on each side, between the foramen rotundum and foramen ovale, and spread thence outwards into the wing and downwards into the external pterygoid process. The internal pterygoid processes arise from distinct nuclei, and, although in the human subject they soon unite with the external pterygoid, in other animals they remain separate, and are named by comparative anatomists the pterygoid hones. Fig. 62. Fig. 62.—Ossification of the Sphenoid Bone. A snhenoid bone from a fcetus of three months, seen from above; 1, 1', the greater winJs ossified • 2, 2, the lesser wings, in which the ossification has encircled the optic Soen and a siall suture is distinguishable at its posterior and inner side ; 3, two m nd granu es of bones in the body below the sella trircica, the rest being cartilaginous. B Jpied from Meckel (Archiv, vol. i. tab. vi. fig. 23), and stated to be from a foetus