FASCIiE OF THE PERINiEUM AND PELVIS. 260 . The deep perinceal or sub-puhic fascia is stretclied across the pubic arch on the deep surfivce of the crura of the peuis and the bulb of the urethra. It consists of two distinct layers of strong fibrous membrane, separated by intervening structures. The anterior layer, or triangular ligament of the urethra, attached to the inferior margin of the symphysis pubis and to the rami of the pubic and ischial bones, and extendmg in the middle line back to the central point of the perinasum, is perforated about an inch from the symphysis by the urethra, immediately before its expansion into the bulb, and above and in front of this by the dorsal vein of the penis in the middle lino, and by the pudic arteries and nerves on each side. At its posterior and inferior extremity it is connected with the deep layer, and with the recurved margin of the periuoeal fascia. Between the two layers of the subpubic fascia are placed the membranous portion of the urethra, the deep transverse and constrictor muscles of the urethra, and Cowper's glands, together with the pudic arteries and nerves and the arteries of the bulb. The deep layer consists of a right and left lateral half, which are separated in the middle line by the urethra, close to the neck of the prostate, and are continued into the capsule of that gland. This layer of fascia is superficial to the anterior fibres of the levator ani muscle, which lie between it and the pelvic fascia, and is connected, not only Avith the superficial layer, but likewise with a thin web of areolar tissue which lies on the surface of the levator ani muscle, and is distinguished as the anal fascia. In the female the sub-pubic fascia is divided in tho middle by the vagina. FASCIA OF THE PELVIS. The fascia lining the pelvis is described in three parts, viz., the upper parb, or undivided pelvic fascia, and the two lower—the i-ecto-vesical fascia, and the obturator fascia. The first of these is divided into the other two at the level of a white band of fibres, stretched from the lower part of the symphysis pubis to the spine of the ischium. The space between those two fascice is occupied by the levator ani and the fat and other contents of the ischio-rectal fossa. a. The pelvic fascia is attached at the side superiorly for a short space to the brim of the pelvis, but in front of the line of its osseous attachment it inclines dowmwards towards the lower part of the symphysis pubis, following the margin of the obturator internus muscle. Anterior to the spine of the ischium, it lies between the obturator internus and the peritoneum, and at the back part of the pelvis is continued as a thin membrane over tho pyriformis muscle and the sacral nerves, and is perforated by branches of the internal iliac artery and vein. b. The recto-vesical fascia is the dii-ect continuation of the pelvic fascia downwards and inwards to the viscera, below the level of the white line previously mentioned ; it descends, immediately in contact with the inner surface of the levator ani muscle, to the prostate gland, the urinary bladder, and the rectum. On reaching those organs it spreads over them, and to some extent encases them. Close to the symphysis pubis, a short baud is directed backwards above the prostate gland, to the bladder, with which it is intimately connected. A similar band exists at the opposite side of the symphysis pubis, and the two are separated by a narrow depression in which the dorsal veins of the penis Ue, after entering tho pelvis. Iho bands in ciuestiou are named the anterior true ligaments of the unnary