11 SACRUM. ridtres, which indicate the places of union of the bodies of the five vertebrae; and at the extremities of these ridges are situated on each side four fora- mina called anterior sacral, which transmit the anterior divisions of the sacral nerves. Fig. 8. These foramina are sloped externally into grooves, and diminish gradually in size from above downwards. Fig. 8.—Saorom of the Male, viewed from BEFOllE. ^ 1, 1, four transverse ridges, indicating the place of original separation of the bodies of the five sacral vertebra; 2, anterior sacral fonnina ; 3, 4, lateral surface ; 5, a notch which, with the coccyx, forms a passage for the fifth sacral nerve ; 6, oval surface of the upper part of the sacrum for articulation with the body of the last lumbar vertebra ; 7, superior articular processes ; 8, inferior oval surface for arti- culation with the coccyx. The dorsal surface is convex, very uneven, and somewhat narrower than the pelvic surface. It presents along the median line four small eminences, the spinous processes, usually more or less connected, so as to form a ridge. Below the last spinous process is a triangular opening, the termination of the spinal canal, the lateral margins of which are formed by the imperfect laminae of the fifth sacral vertebra, and present a pair of tubercles, the sacral cornua, which project downwards, and articulate with the cornua or horns of the coccyx. On each side of the ridge of spines the sui'face is smooth and hollowed in the position of the united laminae, and beyond this surface are two rows of eminences, the inner of which corresponds with the articular and mammillary processes of the lumbar vertebrae, while the outer ranges with the transverse processes. In the groove between the two rows are placed the four posterior sacral foramina, which are smaller than the anterior, and transmit the posterior divisions of the sacral nerves. The lateral aspect or border presents anteriorly a large uneven surface, covered in the recent state with cartilage, which articulates with the ilium, and is called from its shape the auricular surface : behind this it is rough and very uneven for the attachment of the posterior sacro-iliac ligaments. Lower down, the margin of the sacrum is thin and sinuous, giving attach- ment to the sacro-sciatic ligaments, and tei'minates in the inferior lateral angle; below which the breadth of the bone is suddenly contracted, so that with the adjacent part of the coccyx a notch is formed for the trans- mission of the fifth sacral nerve. Fig. 9.—Upper Surface or Bash of the Sacrum of a Male, to compare with Fig. 3, A, of the Lumbar Vertebra, g 1, the body ; 4, the foramen, ring, or sacral canal ; 5, the spinous process of the first sacral vertebra ; 6, the part corresponding to a ti-ans- verse process, in front of which is the large lateral mass ; 7, the superior articulating pro- cess; 7', the inferior articulating process; c, the mammillary tubercle; /, the accessory tubercle, slightly seen. The base, looking upwards and forwards, presents in the middl Fig. 9.