76 BONES OF THE UPPER LIMB. The acromion process, projecting outwards and forwards from the extremity of the spine, is situated above and behind the glenoid cavity, and forms the summit of the shoulder. It is an expanded process, compressed from above downwards. Its superior sm-face, rough aud subcutaneous, is continuous with the prominent border of the spine; its inferior surface, smooth and concave, is continuous with the superior surface and external border of the spine. ^ On its internal border anteriorly is a narrow oval surface for articula- tion with the clavicle ; and at its extremity it affords attachment to the coraco-acromial ligament. The (jhnoid cavity is a slightly concave surface, looking outwards and a little upwards and forwards. It is ovoid or rather pyriform in shape with the narrow end uppermost, and gently incurved in front. It is in some degree flattened at its circumference, where, in the recent state, it is covered by a fibrous band, the glenoid ligament, which deepens its concavity ; and at its upper extremity is a slight roughness, marking the attachment of the long head of the biceps muscle. The 7i,eck, supporting the glenoid cavity, is most distinct posteriorly, where it forms between the glenoid cavity and the spine the great scapular notch or groove, leading from the supraspinous to the infraspinous fossa. The line of the neck, as described by anatomists, passes superiorly between the glenoid cavity and the coracoid process, but that of the part often named neck by surgeons passes internal to the coracoid process. The coracoid process, thick and strong, springs almost vertically from the superior border of the bone, above the glenoid cavity, but, suddenly bending at a right angle, is directed forwards and outwards. Its superior surface, towards the base, is rough and uneven, giving origin to the coraco- clavicular ligaments ; on its outer border is attached the coraco-acromial ligament, at its extremity the coraco-brachialis muscle and short head of the biceps, and on the inner edge the pectoralis minor. The borders or costce of the scapula are three in number. The superior border is the shortest ; it extends from the superior angle outwards and down- wards towards the coracoid process, at the base of which it presents a rounded suprascapular notch (incisiora semilu7iaris), which is converted into a foramen by a ligament or occasionally a spiculum of bone, and is traversed by the suprascapular nerve, and sometimes also by the accompanying vessels. The external, axillary, or inferior border presents at its upper part, beneath the glenoid cavity, a rough tuberculated ridge, above an inch long, to which the long head of the triceps muscle is attached : a little below this there is usually a slight groove, where the dorsal branch of the subscapular artery passes backwards : and at its lower extremity the border is thick, and rounded over into the space from which the teres major muscle arises. The i7iternal, vertebral, or posterior border, called also the base, is the longest of the three, and is divisible into three parts, viz., a short one opposite the triangular surface of origin of the prominent border of the spine, and the portions above and below that space, both of which incline outwards as they recede from the spine. The upper part gives attachment to the levator anguli scapulee muscle, the middle one to the rhomboideus minor, and the lower to the rhomboideus major muscle. Text/ure. The triangidar part of the scapula is in great part thin and translucent, and contains little cancellated tissue. The neck, the coracoid and acromion processes, the prominent border of the spme, and the part near the inferior angle, derive their greater thickness and strength from increased thickness of the compact bony substance in some parts, and