ARTICULATIONS OF THE VERTEBEvE. 125 below it ; those more deeply seated reach only from one to the next, or the' second below it. The I'ujamentum nuchce is the continuation upwards of the supraspinous ligament. It is, in the human subject, a thin intermuscular septum of elastic and white fibrous tissue, the most superficial part of which extends from the spine of the seventh cervical vertebra to the occipital protuberance, while the deeper fibres, springing from the same origin, pass to the occipital spine, and the spines of the six upper vertebrre. It derives importance as the representative of a strong elastic structure in other animals. The intertransverse ligaments are unimportant bands extending between the transverse processes. In the lumbar region they are membranous, in the dorsal region they are rounded bundles intimately connected with the muscles of the back ; and in the neck they are usually reduced to a few irregular fibres, which may in some instances be wanting. Movements.—The movement of flexion and extension of the vertebral column is freely allowed in the cervical and lumbar regions, but in the dorsal is limited by tlie small amount of intervertebral substance and the imbrication of the laminae. The greatest beading backwards is permitted in the cervical, the greatest bending forwards in the lumbar region, especially between the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebrae. Movements in other directions are limited chiefly by the articulating processes. In the dorsal region the articulating surfaces of each vertebra lie in the arc of a circle whose centre is in front of the vertebra, and round this centre a consider- able degree of rotation is permitted. In the lumbar region, the centre of the circle in which the articular surfaces lie being placed behind, rotation would involve an amount of motion between the bodies of the vertebree that is impossible; the articu- lating processes, however, fit sufficiently loosely to permit of lateral flexion, and by combination of this with antero-posterior flexion, some degree of circumduction is produced. The articulating surfaces of the cervical vertebrae, being oblique and placed in nearly the same transverse plane, allow neither pure rotation nor pure lateral flexion. They permit, besides forward and backward motion, only one other, which is rotatory round an oblique axis—the inferior articulating process of one side gliding upwards and forwards on the opposing surface, and that of the other side gliding downwards and backwards, by which a combination of lateral flexion and rotation is obtained. The reader who may wish to pursue more minutely the study of the movements of the joints may consult the work of W. and E. Weber already cited; H. Meyer, " Handbuch der Physiol. Anat.;" and Henke," Handbuch der Anat. und Mech. der Gelenke," 1864. ARTICULATIONS OF THE ATLAS, AXIS, AND OOCIPITAL BONE. The atlas, axis, and occipital bone are connected by articular surfaces and ligaments, without the presence of intervertebral discs. Two pairs of synovial articulations surrounded by capsular ligaments connect the lateral masses of the atlas with the superior articular surfaces of the axis and with the condyles of the occipital bone. The capsule of the atlanto-axial joint is strengthened behind by an accessory ligament, directed downwards and inwards to the body of the axis near the base of the odontoid process. The transverse ligament of the atlas is a strong and thick band, which extends across the ring of the atlas, and retains the odontoid process in its place. It is attached on each side to the impression below the inner border of the superior articulating process. It is arched backwards behind the odontoid process, and is broadened out in the middle line. From the middle of its posterior surface a short thin bundle of fibres passes down to be attached to the body of the axis, whilst another passes up to the basilar