258 MUSCLES AND FASCIiS OF THE ABDOMEN. The parts of the superficial fascia here described have received minute attention from surgical anatomists, because of their close relation to the seat of hernial tumours: the adhesion of the fascia to Poupart's ligament, and its disposition over the inguinal aperture, spermatic cord, and scrotum, while they prevent the descent upon the thigh of matter which has been efFused beneath the fascia, cause it rather to spread upwards upon the abdomen or to take its course downwards upon the scrotum. The deep layer of the abdominal fascia is also interesting, as corresponding with the tunica ahdominalis, a strong membrane consisting almost entirely of yellow elastic tissue, which exists in animals, as may be well seen in the horse or ox, and which contributes to the support of the viscera. Lining membrane of the abdomen.—On the inner surface of the wall of tlio atdomDn is a membranous structure which lines the visceral aspect of the deepest stratum of muscles : it is divisible into two principal parts, the fascia transversalis and fascia iliaca. The fascia transversalis is named from its position on the deep surface of the transversalis muscle. It is strongest and most clearly demonstrable in the lower part, where the muscular and tendinous support is somewhat weaker ; and here also it is of particular interest, on account of its forming one of the coverings for inguinal hernia. Followed upwards from this situation the transversalis fascia becomes gradually less strong, and beyond the margin of the ribs it degenerates into a thin covering for the under surface of the diaphragm. Along the inner surface of the iliac crest, between the iliacus and transversalis muscles, the fascia is attached to the periosteum. For about two inches inwards from the anterior superior iliac spine, it is closely connected with, the posterior surface of Poupart's ligament, and is there directly continuous with the fascia iliaca, a white line sometimes mark- ing the place of continuity. At this place also, and to the same extent, the fascia lata is closely united with both the fascia transversaUs and Poupart's ligament, which thus serves as a line of union of several layers of fascia. About midway between the iliac spine and the pubes, the external iliac artery and vein, as they pass out into the thigh, intervene between the fascia transversalis and the fascia iliaca, and from this point to the edge of Gim- bernat's ligament the fascia transversalis is prolonged downwards under the crural arch, and over the artery and vein, forming the anterior portion of the funnel-shaped femoral sheath. This prolongation of the fascia trans- versalis passes xindev Poupart's ligament, and is not very closely united with it : it is strengthened by a dense band of fibres which arches over the vessels, and is inserted into the pubic crest and pectineal line behind the conjoiiied tendon of the transversahs and internal oblique. This band is sometimes called the deejj crural arch. It includes beneath it, internal to the vessels, a space between Gimbemat's ligament and the vein, sufficiently large to admit the point of the little finger ; this is called the cr^l,ral ring, and is the space through which femoral hernia descends. About half way between the anterior superior iliac spine and the symphysis pubis, and about half an inch above Poiipart's liga- ment, the spermatic cord in the male, or the round ligament in the female, pierces the fascia transversalis. The opening thus made is called the internal or deep abdominal ring, to distinguish it from the external or superficial rino- in the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle ; the fascia above and internal to it is thin, but below and external to it is firm and thick, and forms a distinct crescentic margm, over which the cord or round ligament passes ; from the borders of the opening a delicate funnel-shaped covermg, the infimdibuliform fascia, is prolonged downwards on the emergmg struc-