ARTICULATIONS OF THE UPPER LIMB. liO tho radius and ulna. Its superior border is placed about an inch below the tubercle of the radius, leaving a space (hiatus iutcr-osseus) through which the posterior inter-osseous vessels pass. This space is diminished in size by the round or oblique ligament, a thin, narrow fasciculus of fibres ex- tending obliquely downwards and outwards from the corouoid process, to be attached to the radius about half an inch below the tubercle. Other small bundles of fibres, having the same direction as the round ligament, are often to be found at intervals, decussating with the fibres of the inter-osseous ligament on its posterior surface. Movement of the Radius on the Ulna.—The disposition of the annular liga- ment allows the head of the radius to rotate freely within it, while the lower end of the radius, bound by the triangular fibro-cartilage to the styloid process of the ulna, has a freedom of circumduction round that point, by which the liand is brought into the prone or supine position. Thus in pronation and supination the movement of the radius describes a part of a cone, the axis of which extends from the centre of the head of the radius to the styloid process of the ulna. The Elbow Joint.—The lower extremity of the humerus is in contact with the ulna and radius at the elbow, and forms with them a hinge-joint. The greater sigmoid cavity of the ulna articulates with the trochlea of the humerus, so as to admit of flexion and extension only ; while the cup- shaped, depression on the head of the radius is fitted to turn freely on the rounded capitulum. These bones are united principally by lateral ligaments. Fig. 130.—Ligaments of the Elbow-Joint. J A from the outer "side and behind; B, from the front; C, from the inner side and behind 1, internal lateral ligament; 2, external lateral ; 3, the ,uKldc strongest part of the anterior ligament; 4, orbicular ligament ; 5, posterior, represented as wr.nkled tm relaxSn in extension. In these figures the round ligament and upper part of the inter-osseus membrane are also represented below the elbow-jomt.