THE ANKLE-JOINT. 159 The inferior extremities of the tibia and fibula are in contact by surfaces which for the most part arc rough and bound together by ligament, but near Fig. 145.—Articulations op the Knee, Leo and Akkle, seen Fig- 145. PROM BEFORE. ^ / 1, superior anterior tibio-fibular ligament; 2, interos.seous mem- brane ; 3, points to the anterior inferior tibio-fibular ligament ; 4, internal lateral ligament of the ankle-joint ; 5, middle vertical part (calcaneo-fibular) of tJie external lateral ligament of the ankle- joint ; 6, anterior part (talo-fibular) of the same ; 7, anterior liga- ment of the ankle-joint. their lower edges are smooth and covered by cartilage. The tibial sixrface is concave, the fibular convex ; but the lower edges of both surfaces are straight. The strong short fibres which pass directly between the opposing surfaces form the inferior interosseous ligament. The anterior liga- ment is a flat band of fibres, extended obliquely over the lower part of the bones, the direction of its fibres being dowuwards from the tibia to the fibula. The posterior liga- ment, somewhat triangular, is similarly disposed behind the articulation ; its outer surface is covered by the peronei muscles. The transverse ligament^ longer and narrower than the preceding, is placed immediately below it ; its fibres are horizontal, and extend from the external malleolus to the contiguous part and hinder border of the articular surface of the tibia ; it closes the interval between the bones. The synovial cavity lying between the small articular surfaces is an extension of that of the ankle-joint. The Ankle-Joint.-—In this articulation, which is a hinge joint, the inferior extremities of the tibia and fibula, united so as to form a kind of arch, embrace .-^ transversely the superior articular surface of the astragalus, so as to render lateral movement impossible when the ligaments are tense Fig. 146.—The Lower TiBio-PiBraAR AETictfLATiON and Ankle-Joint, from behind. Fig. 146. 1, inferior pcsterior tibio-fibular ligament; 2, transver.se ligament; 3, posterior fibres of the internal lateral ligament of the ankle-joint; 4, middle, and 5, posterior part of the external lateral ligament of the ankle-joint; 6, posterior talo-calcaneal ligament. The internal lateral ligament is a flat fasciculus of fibres, much broader at the lower than at the upper part. One extremity is attached to the inferior border of the internal malleolus ; the other, to the inner side of the astragalus, the os calcis, and the scaphoid bone, as well as to the inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament. The external lateral ligament consists of three distinct bands, separated by intervals and disposed in difi-erent directions. 1. The middle band descends from the extremity of the fibula, and is inserted into the middle of the external surface of the os calcis. 2. The anterior band passes obliquely