BONES OF THE UPPER LIMB. (For an account of the varieties of form thus produced, sec Virchow, " Gesammeltc Abliandlungen, 1856.) Another series of irregular forms of skull is that produced by pressure artificially applied in early life, and is best exemplified from among those American tribes who compress the heads of their children by means of an apparatus of boards and bandages: it is also illustrated in a slighter degree bv individual instances in which undue pressure has been employed unintentionally. (Uosse,^ 'Essai sur les Deformations artificielles du Crane," 1855.) Posthumous distortions likewise occur in long-buried skulls, subjected to the combined influence of pressure and moisture. (Wilson, " Prehistoric Annals of Scotland.") IV.—BONES OF THE UPPER LIMB. The superior extremity, or upper limb, consists of the shoulder, the arm, the fore arm, and the hand. The bones of the shoulder are the scapula and clavicle ; in the arm is the humerus ; in the fore arm are the radius and ulna ; and in the hand three groups of bones, the carpus, metacarpus, and digital phalanges. SOAPTILA. This bone is placed upon the upper and back part of the thorax, occupies the space from the second to the seventh rib, and forms the posterior part of the shoulder. It is attached directly to the trunk only by the clavicle, and from it is suspended the humerus. It is of an irregular triangular form, flat in the greater part of its extent, and elongated downwards ; and is so placed, that its internal border is likewise posterior. Its angles may be termed superior, inferior, and external. It has an anterior and posterior surface, and presents at its external angle the head with its glenoid cavity or articular surface for the humerus, supported on a short thick neck of bone, and surmounted by the coracoid process ; also, springing from its posterior surface, the s2oine terminating in the acromion process. The anterior surface exhibits in the greater part of its extent a shallow concavity, the fossa suhscapidaris or venter, occupied by the subscapularis muscle, and marked by irregular prominent lines converging upwards and outwards, which give attachment to the tendinous intersections of that muscle. Separated, however, from this concavity, there are several smaller flat spaces : one is a triangular surface in front of the superior angle, another is a smaller surface at the inferior angle, and these, together with a rough lino running close to the posterior border and uniting them, give attachment to the serratus magnus muscle : there is also a grooved area occupied by the lower border of the subscapularis muscle, close to the ex- ternal border, and separated from the fossa subscapularis by a prominent ridge descending from the neck of the bone. The posterior surface or dorsum is divided by the spine into two unequal parts, the superior and smaller of which is called fossa supra-spinata, the in- ferior fossa infra-spinata. The supra-spinous fossa has its greatest vertical extent at its internal extremity, but is deepest externally : it is occupied by the supra-spinatus muscle. The infra-spinous fossa, much larger than the preceding, presents in the middle a convexity corresponding to the concavity of the venter, and outside this a concavity bounded by the prominent external border. It is marked near the inner border by short lines, cor- responding to tendinous septa of the infra-spinatus muscle, and is occupied by that muscle in the greater part of its extent. Adjacent to the external border, in its middle third, is a narrow interval giving attachment to the