146 Fig. 135. that the three form one undivided structure which ARTICULATIONS OF THE UPPER LIMB. is a thick and dense fibro-cartilaginous structure, which is firmly united to the first phalangeal bone, and but loosely adherent to the metacarpal. It is continuous at each side with the lateral ligament, so covers the joint, except on the dorsal aspect. Its palmar surface is grooved for the flexor tendon, whose sheath is connected to it at each side ; the other sur- face, looking to the interior of the joint, is lined by the synovial membrane, and supports the head of the metacarpal bone. In the joint of the thumb there are two sesamoid bones, one situated at each side, which are connected with its ligaments. Fig. 1.35.—Longitudinal Antero-Posterior Section through THE LOWER PART OF TOE RADIUS, THE CarPUS, SEMILUNAR Bonk, Os Magnum, Metacarpal Bone, and Phalanges of THE Middle Finger, to show the shape of the Articular Surfaces and Synovial Cavities between these several Bones. ^ 1, synovial cavity of the wrist-jolnt; 2, intercarpal cavity ; 3, carpo-metacarpal cavity ; 4, metacarpo-phalangeal cavity; 5 and 6, phalangeal cavities; 4', 5', and 6', the palmar fibro- cartilaginous plates which are attached to the base of the several l^halanges ; 7, indicates the place of the tendons of the long flexor muscles; 8, a transverse section of the anterior annular ligament; 9 and 10, transverse retinacula or vaginal ligaments of the flexor tendons on the first and second phalanges. A synovial membrane is present in each joint, and invests the surface of the ligaments which connect the bones. The pJialanges are articulated with one another, on the same plan as that which obtains in the articulations between the bases of the proximal phalanges with tJie metacarpal bones. Movements of the Wrist and Fingers.—In the radio-carpal and common carpal articulations, there is allowed not only flexion and extension, but a certain amount of lateral bending. The superior articular surfaces of both ranges of carpal bones being prolonged further on the dorsal than on the palmar aspect, over-extension is allowed in both joints to some degree. In over-extension the opposing surfaces are most per- fectly adapted to each other; in flexion, they ai'e least so. The kind of movement which is allowed between the carpal and metacarpal bones is best illustrated by placing the hand in such a position that the weight of the body is rested upon the open palm. The metacarpal range, which naturally is concave towards the palm, is flattened ; and the metacarpal, interosseous, and palmar ligaments are thus tightened, while a slight separation of the opposed surfaces of the bones takes place; so also the palmar carpo-metacarpal ligaments are tightened, and both palmar and interosseous liga- ments of the second range of carpal bones. The convex part of the os magnum and unciform bone, fitted in those circumstances into the concavity of the first range, is a little wider than the part usually in contact with it; and thus, while the bones of the second range are separated from the distal side, those of the first range are pressed still more separate from the palmar aspect, and their interosseous ligaments are put upon the stretch. The whole arrangement secures elasticitj'. The fourth and fifth metacarpal bones, being more moveable at their carpal articulation than the second and third, bend forward very distinctly in shutting the hand, thus rendering the palm more hollow, and bringing the tips of the fingers more closely together: the movement is one of coaptation. At the phalangeal articulations the only movement allowed is that of flexion and extension, and over-extension is pre-