xxi CELLS IN KELATION TO TISSUE-FORMATION. common occurrence exhibit changes of figure and movements of an amcabine character which seem naturally to be referred to the present head. The fact above mentioned that these movements of cells may be excited by stimulation of the nerves ia especially worthy of note, in as much as it proves that operations efi'ected in and by cells are more or less under the governance of the nervous system. Moreover the well-known influence of mental states over the secretions, and the eflects resulting from ex- perimental stimulation of the nerves of secreting glands, although doubtless due in part to changes in the blood-vessels, seem to show that this subjec- tion to the nervous system extends even to the chemical and physical operations which take place in secreting cells. A curious and interesting observation in proof of this is adduced by KoUiker. He found that the light of the fire-fly, lampijns, is emitted from cells in which albuminoid matter is decomposed with production of urate of ammonia, and that the emission of light could be brought on or rendered more vivid by electrical and other stimuli operating through the nerves. The well-known tremulous movement which so often afiects minute particles of matter, is not unfrequently observed in the molecular contents of cells; but this phenomenon depends simply upon physical conditions, and is of a totally different character from the motions of the protoplasm above referred to. Of Cells in JRelaiion to the Formation of Textures.—In a certain sense it might be siiid that the foundation of all the textures and organs of the body is formed of cells ; for in the early embryo all the different parts of the body, so far as they are characterised by form and position, are made up of embryonic cells; but how the different and special characters of the fully organised textures are produced is still a matter of no little uncer- tainty. No doubt certain textures in their mature condition are composed of cells, which, on the supposition of continuous cell-generation, must be the progeny of the embryouic cells, although modified in character to suit them to their special destination. The epidermis, the several varieties of epithelium, and the plain or non-striated muscular tissue are examples of this. Other textures or textural elements are not made up of cells or formed immediately from cells, as, for example, the fibres of connective tissue, which are produced in intercellular substance. But there remain cases of tissue-formation ia which, whilst it is generally admitted that cells or nuclei take part, it is not agreed to what extent or in what precise mode these bodies share in the process : the development of the fibres of voluntary muscles and nerves afford an illustration of this, as will be afterwards shown in its proper place. Accordingly the reasonableness of certain limitations and qualifications of the doctrine of tissiae-development from cells has been recognised by judicious histologists even from its first promulgation. Of the changes which cells or their elements undergo in the formation of tissues, or afterwards in the exercise of their functions when constituting part of the living organism, the following are what may be considered as best ascertained ; and it is to be observed that the same cell may undergo more than one of the changes indicated. 1. Cells may increase iu size and change their figure. When a cell grows equally or nearly so in all directions, it preserves its globular shape ; but more commonly the growth is greater iu one dimension than in another and then the cell becomes flattened, in which ciise it may remain as a round disk or change into an oval, fusiform, or strap-shaped figure. When