ARTICULATIONS OF THE LOWER LIMB. ]60 forwards and inwards from the fore part of tlie outer malleolus to a part of the astragalus in front of its external malleolar surface ; it is the shortest of the three. 3. The posterior baud, the strongest of the three, passes almost horizontally inwards from the pit on the inner and back part of the malleolus to the posterior surface of the astragalus. Fig. 147. Fig. 147.—Transverse-Vertical Section op the Right Ankle Joint near its Middle, and of the Posterior Talo-Calcaneal Articplation, so as to show the Shape op the Articular Sorpaces and Cavities, viewed from before. ^ 1, internal, 2, external malleolus ; 3, placed on the astra- galus at the angle between its superior and its external malleolar surfaces ; 4, points to the interosseous tibio-fibular ligament; 5, internal lateralligament of the ankle-joint; 6, sustentaculum tali; 7, calcaneo-fibular or middle part of the external lateral ligament; 8, inner part of the interosseous calcaneo-talar ligament; 9, great tuberosity of the calcaneum : between the tibia, iibula and astraijalus, the synovial cavity is indicated by the dark space enclosed by a white line; between the astragalus and os calcis a section of the posterior calcaneo- talar synovial cavity is shown. The anterior and posterior ligaments are merely scattered fibres in front of and behind the joint; those of the posterior ligament are weak and principally transverse. The synovial membrane of the ankle-joiut extends upwards by a small process which lines the inferior peroneo-tibial articulation. Movements.—The movements at the ankle-joint are mainly those of flexion and extension of the foot^ and the directions of those movements are principally determined by the shape of the articular surfaces. The external border of the superior cartila- ginous surface of the astragalus is curved, and longer than the internal border, and hence extension of the ankle-joint is accompanied with a slight inward movement of the toes. The horizontal surfaces of both the tibia and astragalus are broader in front than behind ; hence in complete extension of the ankle the narrow part of the astragalus is brought into the widest part of the space between the malleoli^ and a certain amount of lateral motion is allowed, whereas in complete flexion, as when the weight of the body, with completely bended knees, is supported on the toes, the broad part of the surface of the asti-agalus is pushed back into the narrowest part of the space, and the inferior extremity of the fibula is pressed upon, so as to stretch the ligaments between it and the tibia, and give a certain amount of spring to the joint. There appears to be no other movement between the tibia and fibula; these bones being bound together at their lower ends with remarkable firmness. articulatioks of the foot, Artictjlations of the Calcaneum, Astragalus, and Scaphoid Bones ONE WITH another.—The astragalus is connected with the calcaneum by two synovial articulations, viz., by a posterior one peculiar to those two bones, and by an anterior one common to them with the scaphoid bone. The fol- lowing are the principal parts requiring description :— Astragalo-calcaneal ligaments. — The interosseous ligament, broad and strong, passes vertically downwards from the groove between the anterior and posterior articular surfaces of the astragalus to the similar groove between the corresponding articular surfaces of the calcaneum. A membnmous posterior ligament connects the posterior border of the astragalus with the upper surface of the calcaneum ; its fibres are oblique and very short.