67 OSSIFICATION OF CRANIAL BONES. die Vidceralbogen," Mailer's Archiv, 1837. See for a figuic of Meckels cartilage the description of the ossicles of the ear.) Ossification.—The occipital bone, for some time after birth, consists of four sepa- rate pieces, a basilar, a tabular, aud two condyloid parts. The lines of junction of the Fig. 69.—OsSIKIOATION OP THE Occipital Bone. A, in a fcetus of 10 weeks (from Meckel, Archiy, vol. i. tab. vi.) ; a, upper or tabular part; 1 & 2, lower and upper pairs of ossific centres in it; b, lower part or basilar and condyloid portions : ossific cen- tres are seen in the condyloid portions. B, occipital bone of a child at birth; a, upper or tabular part, in which the four centres have become united into one, leaving fissures between them; b, b, the ossified condyloid por- tions ; c, the basilar portion. basilar and condyloid parts pass through the condyles near their anterior extremities ; those of the condyloid and tabular parts extend outwards from the posterior extremity of the foramen magnum. The basilar and condyloid parts arise each from one osseous nucleus. In the tabular part there are probably in most cases four nuclei, placed in pairs above and below the occipital protuberance: Meckel mentions four additional nuclei, placed two at the superior and one at each lateral angle (" Handbuch der Mensch. Anat.," ii. § 543); the different nuclei speedily unite to form a single thin tabular mass. The parietal bones are ossified each from one nucleus which is placed near the centre of the bone or at the parietal eminence. The frontal bone consists for a year, or from one to two years after birth, of two lateral portions, which not unfrequently remain separate during life (as happens also Fig. 60.—Fkontal Bone op a Fceius shortly BEFORE Birth. a & 6 indicate the two separate portions of the bone, in each of which the radiation of bony spicula from the frontal eminence is seen. in the majority of animals), with a vertical suture between them, the frontal suture. Ossification begins on each side from a single nucleus above the orbit, or in the place of the frontal eminence. The Fontanelles. Opposite the angles of the parietal bones, there are spaces which remain unoccupied by bone, after the osseous wall of the skull is elsewhere completed. Two of these, the anterior and posterior fontanelles, are in the middle line; the lateral fontanelles, two on each side, are opposite the inferior angles of the parietal bones, and are less important. The anterior fontanelle, situated between the adjacent angles of the parietal bones and the ununited halves of the frontal bone, is quadran- gular in form, and remains open for some time after birth. The posterior fontanelle, situated between the parietal bones and the superior angle of the occipital bone is triangular; it is filled up before birth, but during parturition the compression of the child 8 head forces the angle of the occipital bone beneath the edges of the parietals, F 2 Fig. 60.