vi GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS ON THE TEXTURES. urea, uric acid, liippuric acid, inosiiiic acid, sarkin (or hypoxanthin), leucin, tyrosin, azotised biliary compounds. II. Substances destitute of Nitrogen, viz., fatty matters (except cerebric acid), glycogen (or animal starch), animal glucose, sugar of milk, inosit, lactic, formic, and oxalic acids, certain principles of the bile. Some of the substances now enumerated require no further notice in a work devoted to anatomy. Of the rest, the greater number will be explained, as far as may be necessary for our purpose, in treating of the particular solids or fluids in which they are chiefly found; but there are a few of more general occurrence,the leading characters of which it will be advisable here to state very briefly, viz. :— A. Albuminoid Principles, albumen, fibrin, and casein. Coagulable—fibrin spontaneously, albumen by heat, casein by rennet. Precipitated by mineral acids, tannic acid, alcohol, corrosive sublimate, subacetate of lead, and several other metallic salts. When coag\ilated,not soluble in -water, cold or hot, unless after being altered by long boiling; insoluble in alcohol; soluble in alkalies ; soluble in very dilute and also in concentrated acids ; the solu- tions precipitated by red and yellovf prussiates of potash. B. Gelatinous Principles, gelatin and chondrin. Not dissolved by cold water ; easily soluble in hot water ; the solution (at least that of gelatin) congealing when cold. Precipitated by tannic acid, alcohol, ether, and corrosive sublimate, and not by the prussiates of potash. Chondrin pre- cipitated by acids, alum, sulphate of alumina, persulxDhate of iron, and acetate of lead, which do not precipitate gelatin. c. Extractive Matters, associated with lactic acid and lactates. All soluble in water, both cold and hot ; some in water only; some in water and rectified spirit ; some in water, rectified spirit, and pure alcohol. D. Fatty Matters. Not soluble in water, cold or hot ; soluble in ether and in hot alcohol. It has been shown by Mr. Graham,* that chemical substances may be distinguished into two classes—the a-ystalloid and the colloid—which diflfer in several important characters. Crystalloid bodies, of which water, most salts and acids, and sugar, may be taken as examples, have a disposition to assume a crystalline state; their solutions are usually sapid, difiluent, and free from viscosity; they readily diflTuse in liquids, and pass through moist organic membranes or artificial septa of organic matter, such as parchment-paper. Colloids, on the other hand, are characterised by low difi'usibility and great indisposition to permeate organic septa, so that when they are associated with crystalloids, the latter may be easily separated by diiFusion through a septum into another fluid; i.e, by "dialysis." Colloids are, moreover, generally tasteless; they have little or no tendency to crystallize, and their solution, when concentrated, is always, in a certain degree, viscous or gummy. Among the colloids may be reckoned hydrated silicic acid, and various hydrated metallic peroxides, also albumen, fibrin, gelatin, starch, gum, and vegetable and animal extractive matters. Several substances may exist either in the colloid or the crystalloid condition. In point of chemical activity the crystalloid appears to be the more energetic, and the col- loidal the more inert form of matter; but the colloids possess an activity of their own, arising out of their physical properties, and especially their penetrability, by which they become a medium for liquid difi'usion, like water itself. Another characteristic is their tendency to change; the solution of hydrated silicic acid, for instance, cannot be preserved; after a time it congeals. In this respect a liquid colloid might be compared to liquid water at a temperature below freezing, or to a supersaturated saline solution. This dominant tendency of the par- ticles of a colloid to cohere, aggregate, and contract, is obvious in the gradual * Liquid Diffusion applied to Analysis,—Phil. Trans., 18C1.