xxxiii CHEMICAL COMPOSITION". the clot remains free from redness, and forms the well known " buffy coat" so apt to apjjear iu iuflammatory blood. Now, in such cases, a portion of the clear liquor mjiy be taken up with a spoon, and allowed to separate by coagulation into its fibrin and serum, so as to demonstrate its nature. Professor Andrew Buchanan has pointed out another method of separating the liquor sanguinis from the red corpuscles, which I have repeatedly tried with success; it consists in mixing fresh-drawn blood with six or eight times its bulk of serum, allowing the red particles to subside, and then decanting the supernatant fluid, and filtering it through blotting-paper; the admixture of serum delays coagulation, and a great part of the liquor sanguinis, of course diluted, and usually more or less coloured, passes through the filter, and subsequently coagulates. Coagulated plasma, whether obtained from bufFy blood, or exuded on. inflamed surfaces, presents, under the microscope, a multitude of fine fila- ments confusedly interwoven, as in a piece of felt; but these are more or less obscured by the intermixture of corpuscles and fine granules, the former having all the characters of the pale corpuscles of the blood. The filaments are no doubt formed by the fibrin, as it solidifies in the coagulation, of the liquor sanguinis. Blood may be freed from fibrin by stirring it with a bundle of twigs, which entangle the fibrin as it concretes. CHEMICAL COMPOSITION" OF THE BLOOD. ^ The blood is slightly alkaline in reaction. Carbonic acid, oxygen, and nitrogen gases may be extracted from it, by exhaustion (Magnus), by heating after dilution with water (L. Meyer), or by both these means com- bined (Setschenow). Carbonic acid is yielded in largest proportion, oxygen next, and nitrogen least. The nitrogen appears to be simply retained by absorption, the other two partly by absorption and partly by weak chemical combination. The combined oxygen is probably in great part held by some component of the red corpuscles ; the carbonic acid, which is obtained iu larger measure from serum, seems to be combined partly with carbonate of soda in a bicarbonate, and partly with phosphate of soda, from both of which combinations it can be set loose by heat and reduction of pressure. Arterial blood yields more oxygen and less carbonic acid than venous blood. On being evaporated, 1000 parts of blood yield, on an average, about 790 of water and 210 of solid residue. This residue has nearly the same ultimate composition as flesh. A comparative examination of dried ox- blood and dried flesh (beef), by Playfair and Bceckmann, gave the followinsr mean result :—■ ° c^ , Flesh. Blood. ^"•■""^ 51-86 51-96 7-68 7-25 15-03 15-07 21-30 21-30 ^^''^^ 4-23 4-42 i?ecZ Cori^ttscies—The specific gravity of the red corpuscles, in a moist