PATELLA. TIBIA. 103 The tibial surfaces are nearly parallel, except in front, where the internal turns obliquely outwards to reach the patellar surface. Above the condyles are two rough tuberosities, one on each side of the bone, which give attachment to the external and internal lateral ligaments of the knee joint. Between the external tuberosity and the back part of the external condyle is a smooth* groove directed downwards and forwards, and ending anteriorly in a pit, in which the poplifceus muscle takes origin. In the female the angle made by the neck of the femur with the shaft is less obtuse than in the male ; and from the greater width of the pelvis, and the shortness of the limbs, the convergence of the thigh bones inferiorly la more apparent. THE PATELLA. The patella, rotula, or knee-pan, is situated at the front of the knee joint, is attached inferiorly by a ligament or tendon to the tibia, and may be Fig 95.—Right Pathlla. J Pig. 95. A from before ; B from behind. Both views show the lower extremity pointing slightly inwards ; the posterior view shows the articular cartilaginous surface, divided by an elevated ridge into a smaller internal and a larger external part. considered as a sesamoid bone developed in the tendon of the quadriceps extensor cruris. It is compressed from before backwards, and has the form of a triangle with the apex below. Its anterior surface is subcutaneous ; its siiperior border is broad, and gives attachment to the extensor muscles; its inferior angle, together with a rough depression on its deep aspect, gives attachment to the ligamentum patellae. The deep surface, except at the inferior angle, is coated with cartUage for articulation with the femur, and is divided by a vertical elevation into two parts, the external of which is largest and is transversely concave, whUe the rutemal is convex. THE TIBIA. The tibia, or shin bone, is, next to the femur, the longest bone in the skeleton. It is the anterior and inner of the two bones of the leg, and alone communicates the weight of the trunk to the foot. It articulates with the femur, fibula, and astragalus. The superior extreviity is thick and expanded, broader from side to side than from before backwards, and slightly hollowed posteriorly. On its superior aspect are placed two slightly concave articular surfaces, which sustain the femur. These are the condyloid surfaces ; they are oval in form, the external being widest transversely, and the internal longest from before backwards. Between them is an irregular interval, depressed in front and behind, where it gives attachment to the crucial ligaments and semilunar cartilages of the knee joint, and elevated in the middle, where is formed the spine. The summit of the spine presents two prominent tubercles, which are formed by the prolongation upwards on its sides of the margins of the condyles ; that of the outer condyle being turned slightly forwards, and that of the inner more slightly backwards. On the sides of the upper extremity of the bone are two rounded eminences, the external and internal tuberosities ; the outer one of these