101 FEMUR. IntemaUy at its base, and rather behiud the Fig. 93.—Fbmur of a Male prom bkpore. J 1, shaft; 2, head ; 3, neck ; 4, great tro- chanter ; 5, small trochanter ; 6, anterior inter- trochanteric line ; 7, internal articular condy e ; 8, external articular condyle ; 9, internal tube- rosity ; 10, external tuberosity; 11, the patellar articular surface ; above it 12, the flat part of the femur sometimes called the suprapatellar surface ; 13, the depression for the tendon of the popliteus muscle. fossa, which gives attachment to the ob- turator externus muscle. The posterior border of the great trochanter is pro- mi ueut, and continued into a smooth elevation, the 2iosterior inter-trochanteric line, which passes downwards and in- wards to the small trochanter, and limits the neck posteriorly. The small tro- chanter, a conical rounded eminence, projects from the posterior and inner aspect of the bone, and gives attach- ment to the tendon of the psoas and iliacus mnscles. The anterior trochan- teric line is a rough ridge limiting the neck in front between the two tro- chanters ; it indicates the superior border of the crureus and vastus internus mus- cles, and is continuous beneath the great trochanter with the line which limits the vastus externus. The shaft is slightly arched from above downwards, with the convexity forwards. It is expanded at its upper and lower ends. Towards the centre it is nearly cylindrical, but with an inclination to the prismatic form. Its anterior and lateral surfaces, smooth and uniform, are covered by the crureus and vasti muscles. The elevation which separates the ante- rior from the internal surface is at the upper part strongly marked and inclined forwards, giving the appearance to the bone as if the forward inclination of the neck were produced by a twisting out- wards of the upper end of the shaft. The lateral surfaces in the middle of their extent approach one another behind, being only separated by the linea aspera. The linea aspera is a prominent ridge, extend- ing along the central third of the shaft posteriorly, and bifurcating above and below. It inclines slightly inwards in the ;, is the trochanteric or digital Fig. 93. midtlle, so as to make the external