METATARSAL BONES. 109 respectively with the three cuneiform bones. Ou its outer side, m some instances is a small smooth surface, by which it is articulated to the cuboid bone Its superior and inferior surfaces are rough, and on its inner border, directed downwards, is a prominent tubercle to which the tendon of the tibialis posticus muscle is attached. THE CUNEIFORM BONES. These wed<^e-shaped bones, three in number, are distinguished numerically according to their order from within outwards. They intervene between the scaphoid^bone and the three inner metatarsal bones, and present anteriorly and posteriorly smooth surfaces for articulation with those bones. The first or internal cuneiform bone is the largest; it is narrow above, and thick and rough towards the sole ; its dorsal surface looks inwards and upwards, and is rnarked by an oblique descending groove, in which the tendon of the tibialis auticus lies ; its external surface, concave and rough inferiorly, is smooth and articular above. The second and third, or middle and ex- ternal, cuneifoi-m bones each present a quadrangular surface superiorly, and a narrower rough edge below, contributing thus to form the transverse arch of the foot. The proximal ends of the three bones are in the same transverse line ; but as the middle bone is the shortest, the internal and external project forwards, so as to articulate laterally not only with the sides of that bone, but also with the base of the second metatarsal bone, which is inserted between them. The outer side of the third cuneiform articulates by a smooth flat surface with the cuboid, and by a small narrow facet (some- times absent) with the fourth metatarsal bone. THE METATAKSCTS. The five metatarsal bones are distinguished by numbers, according to their position from within outwards. They resemble the metacarpal bones of the hand in being shafted bones, slightly convex from behind forwards on the dorsal aspect, and having irregularly shaped proximal extremities, three-sided shafts, and rounded heads which articulate with the phalanges. The first metatarsal bone is much thicker and more massive, though shorter than any of the rest. The others diminish in length from the second to the fifth. The proximal extremities resemble those of the metacarpal bones exactly as regards the number of bones with which each articulates. The first articulates with one bone, the internal cuneiform ; the second with four bones, viz. the three cuneiform and the third metatarsal; the third with three bones, viz. the external cuneiform and the adjacent metatarsals ; the fourth with four bones, viz. the cuboid, external cuneiform, and the adjacent metatarsals ; the fifth with two bones, viz. the cuboid and the fourth meta- tarsal. The fourth, however, is sometimes connected with only three bones, its facet for articulation with the external cuneiform being absent. The tarsal extremity of the first metatarsal bone presents a slightly concave articular surface, and is broad below and narrow above. That of the fifth presents externally a large rough tuberosity which projects beyond the other bones at the outer side of the foot ; and the line of its articulation with the cuboid bone is so oblique that, if prolonged inwards, it would reach tho digital end of the first metatarsal bone. The tarsal ends of the remaining three bones are broad and flat above, rough and narrower below, and by their wedge-like form assist in producing the transverse arch of the foot. The shafts present in the greater part of their extent a prominent border