xli CHEMICAL COMPOSITION. of diseased and healthy persons. The quantity is very small. Tlie fonn of sugar is that known as glucose or grape sugar. Colonnng Principles.—A yellow or greenish-yellow colouring principle, supposed to he the same as that of the bile, has been found by various chemists in the blood of persons aflFected with jaundice, and, according to Lecanu and Denis, a certain amount of it may be detected even in healthy blood. The colouring matter which gives a pale yellowish tint to ordinary serum does not, however, exhibit the reactions of bile-pigments. Odoriferous Matters. Denis describes three. 1. One combined with fat, smelling like garlick. 2. One supposed to depend on a volatile oil, with an odour said to be of peculiar character in each species of animal, and to be heightened by adding sulphuric acid to the blood. 3. One of a variable character, derived from the food. Schmidt found that the blood of only three animals yielded an odour distinctive of the species. Salts.—1. Having soda and potash as bases, combined with lactic, carbonic, phosphoric, sulphuric, and fatty acids. Also chlorides of sodium and potassium, the former in large proportion. Schmidt has pointed out that the potash salts exist almost exclusively in the blood-corpuscles and the soda salts principally in the serum. In the corpuscles there are principally chloride of potassium and phosphate of potass : in the serum, chloride of sodium, and phosphate of soda. The following table (giving the mean of eight experiments) exhibits the relative quantities of jjotassium and sodium, and of phosphoric acid and chlorine, in the blood corpuscles and plasma. 100 parts of Inorganic Matters. Blood-Ci K. n-puscles. Na. Pla K. sma. Na. Blood-Cc ^rpuscles. CI. Pla PO,. sma. CI. 40-89 9-71 5-19 37-74 17-64 21-00 6-08 40-68 The Table shows that the chlorides are, relatively to the phosphates, in much larger quantity in the plasma than in the blood-corpuscles; and that the phosphates are, relatively to the chlorides, in much larger proportion in the blood-corpuscles than in the plasma. 2. Lactate of ammonia. 3. Salts with earthy bases, viz., lime and'magnesia with phosphoric, carbonic, and sulphuric acids. The earthy salts are for the most part associated with the albumen, but partly with the crassamentum. As they are obtained by calcination, it has been suspected that the phosphoric and sulphuric acids may be in part formed by oxidation of the phos- phorus and sulphur of the organic compounds. Nasse found in 1000 parts of blood 4 to 7 of alkaline, and 0-53 of earthy salts. Mean Composition.—The following statement of the mean composition of human venous blood is from Lecanu. (Etudes chimiques sur le sane humain, Paris, 1837.)