GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS ON THE TEXTURES. " plastic force," and is known also by various ofclier names. But in reality the process of assimilation produces two diflferent effects on the matter assimilated : first, the nutrient material, previously in a liquid or amorphous condition, acquires determinate form ; and secondly, it may, and commonly does, undergo more or less change in its chemical qualities. Such being the case, it seems reasonable, in the mean time, to refer these two changes to the operation of two distinct agencies, and, with Schwann, to reserve the name of "plastic" force for that which gives to matter a definite organic form ; the other, which he proposes to call " metabolic," being already generally named "vital affinity." Respecting the last-named agency, however, it has been long since remarked, that although the products of chemical changes in living bodies for the most part differ from those appear- ing in the inorganic world, the difference is nevertheless to be ascribed, not to a peculiar or exclusively vital affinity different from ordinary chemical affinity, but to common chemical affinity operating in circumstances or con- ditions which present themselves in living bodies only. 2. Vital Contractility.—When a muscle, or a tissue containing muscular fibres, is exposed in an animal during Ufe, or soon after death, and scratched with the point of a knife, it contracts or shortens itself; and the property of thus visibly contracting on the application of a stimulus is named " vital contractility," or "irritability," in the restricted sense of this latter tenn. The property in question may be called into play by various other stimuli besides that of mechanical irritation—especially by electricity, the sudden application of heat or cold, salt, and various other chemical agents of an acrid character, and, in a large class of muscles, by the exercise of the will, or by involuntary mental stimuli. The evidence that a tissue possesses vital contractility is derived, of course, from the fact of its contracting on the application of a stimulus. Mechanical irritation, as scratching with a sharp point, or slightly pinching with the forceps, electricity obtained from a piece of copper and a piece of zinc, or from a larger apparatus if necessary, and the sudden application of cold, are the stimuli most commonly applied. Heat, when of certain intensity, is apt to cause permanent shrinking of the tissue, or "crispation," as it has been called, which, though quite different in nature from vital contraction, might yet be mistaken for it ; and the same may happen with acids and some other chemical agents, when employed in a concentrated state; in using such stim\ilants, therefore, care should be taken to avoid this source of deception. 3. Vis Nervosa.—The stimulus which excites contraction may be applied either directly to the muscle, or to the nerves entering it, which then com- municate the effect to the muscular fibre, and it is in the latter mode that the voluntary or other mental stimuli are transmitted to muscles from the brain. Moreover, a muscle may be excited to contract by irritation of a nerve not directly connected with it. The stimulus, in this case, is first conducted by the nerve irritated, to the brain or spinal cord; it is then, without participation of the will, and even without consciousness, transferred to another nerve, by which it is conveyed to the muscle, and thus at length excites muscular contraction. The property of nerves by which they convey stimuli to muscles, whether directly, as in the case of muscular nerves, or circuitously, as in the case last instanced, is named the " vis nervosa." 4. Sensibility.—We become conscious of impressions made on various parts of the body, both external and internal, hy the faculty of sensation ;