55 SUTURES. and parietal bones, inclines downwards and outwards on eacli side and has somewhat of the form of the Greek letter A. The occipito-mastoid suture {udditainentum sutune lamhduidalis) is in continuation with it. The parietal, or sagittal sutwe, counects the two parietal bones : it is continued in children, and not uufrequeutly in adults, by a suture between the two halves of the frontal bone, the frontal suture. The spheno-parietal sulxire, the line of contact of the parietal bone and great wing of the sphenoid, is about half an inch in extent. It is absent only in very rare cases, and then the frontal and temporal bones come into contact. The temporo-parictal suture consists of two very distinct parts, the squamous suture, arched in direction, in which the scale-like margin of the squamous portion of the temporal bone overlays the similar margin of the parietal, and the paricto-mastoid suture (additamentum sutiwce squamosa}), which is thick and seri'ated. From the nature of the squamous suture, the inferior margins of the parietal bones cannot be pressed outwards by forces acting either from above or from within, without at the same time pushing before them the squamous margins of the temporals. When the pars squamosa is thus acted on, it may either bulge outwards alone, or may press downwards the base of the pars petrosa. Both phenomena are observable in broad skulls. OssA Tkiquetra.—Supernumerary ossicles are found in a great number of skulls, interposed between the cranial bones, like islets in the sutures. They are called ossa tn'qiietra, ossa Wormii, ossa suturarum, &c. They are of irregular form, with margins adapted to the character of the sutures in which they are situated. They are most frequently found in the occipito-parietal suture, where they occur sometimes in great numbers, more or less symmetrically arranged ; in other instances, one or several bones of considerable size may occupy the place of the superior part of the occipital. They are less frequent in the parietal suture and at the anterior fontanelle, are found only in small numbers in the fronto-parietal suture, and rarely occur in the squamous. A single triquetrous bone intervenes sometimes between the parietal and sphenoid ; and still more frequently between the parietal and the place of meeting of the squamous and mastoid portions of the temporal. GENERAL CONFORMATION OF THE SKtXLl. THE EXTERIOR. The surface of the skuU may be conveniently divided into superior, inferior, anterior, and lateral regions. The SUPERIOR REGION, extending fi-om the supra-orbital ridges in front to the supei-ior curved line of the occipital bone behind, and bounded laterally by the temporal ridges, is smooth and convex, covered only by the muscular fibres and fascia of the occipito-frontalis muscle and the integument. It is of an oval form, broader in the parietal than the frontal region, flattened in front, and projecting somewhat in the middle behind. The ANTBRiOR REGION of the skull, below the forehead, presents the openings into the orbits, bounded by the frontal, malar, and superior maxillary bones ; and between the orbits, the bridge of the nose, formed by the nasal bones and ascending processes of the superior maxillaries. Below the nasal bones is the nasal aperture, of an inverted heart shape : its thin margin gives attachment to the nasal cartilages, and projects forwards in the middle line below as the nasal spine. Below the nasal aperture are the incisor fossaa of the upper jaw ; below the orbits are the canine fossse ; and external to the canine fossjB are the prominences of the cheeks, formed by the anterior inferior parts of the malar bones. The lower jaw completes the