MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN". 255 PvJ^n! P"'""^' insertion of this muscle to the vertebra;, and the a^taoW "^''f '"''^'^ ^""^^ ^^''y ^" '^'^^'-"''^ instances. It is sometimes attaciied to the body or transverse process of the last dorsal vertebra. 11118 muscle IS placed between the middle and deepest layer of the lumbar aponeu- rosis, and Its inner part is covered in front by the psoas muscle. Fig. 201. Fig. 201. —DiAGKAM OF A TRANSVERSR SECTION OP THE WaLL OP THE AbDOMEN, TO show the connections op the lumbar and abdominal aponeuhoses, and the Sheath op the Keotus Mdsolb. A, at the level of the third lumbar vertebra; B, the fore part, at a few inches above the pubes. a, spinous process of the third lumbar vertebra ; h, body ; 1, section of the external oblique muscle ; 2, internal oblique ; 3, transversal is ; 4, a dotted line to mark the position of the fascia lining the abdomen ; 5, 5, in A, the anterior and posterior parts of the sheath of the rectus, formed by the aponeurosis of the internal oblique splitting at its outer edge 2'; 6, points by two Hues to the section of the rectus muscle in A and B; 7, innermost layer of the lumbar aponeurosis, covering in front the quadratus lumborum, and passing to the root of the transverse process ; 8, points to the section of the psoas magnus and parvus muscles; 9, the section of the erectores spinse muscles; S) + , the middle layer of the lumbar aponeurosis passing to the extremity of the transverse process; 10, 10 + , the posterior layer of the lumbar aponeurosis, connected with the latissimus and serratus inferior : in A, at the sheath of the rectus, the aponeurosis of the external oblique is seen to unite in front with the sheath, while that of the transversalis is seen uniting with it behind : in B, the section is taken below the semilunar fold of Douglas, where all the tendons pass in front of the rectus as at 5'; the + near this, and in a similar place in A, marks the middle line and the place of the union of the several aponeuroses in the linea alba. Actions.—The abdominal muscles not only form a great part of the wall to enclose and support the abdominal viscera, but by their contractions are capable of acting successively on those viscera, on the thorax, and on the pelvis. When the pelvis and thorax are fixed, the abdominal muscles constrict the cavity and compress the viscera, particularly if the diaphragm be fixed or be made to descend at the same time, as occurs in vomiting and in the expulsion of the foetus, the fa3ccs, and the urine.