NUTRITION OF THE TEXTURES. xxiv majouty of organic beings it assumes the form of a nucleated cell (protoplast, or monoplast), as the first condition of their organised structure, in simpler modes of life ana organisation it is not subject to the same limitation of form and mass In the imjcetozoa {imjxomycetes), a curious tribe, heretofore mostly reckoned among tlie tungi, but standing as it were in the debateable ground between the animal and vegetable kingdoms, the protoplasm is extended into reticular masses, or irregularly anastomosing trains, spread over the surface of bark and other bodies to which it parasitically clings; whilst in vibrios and some other infusorial animalcules of the simplest kind, it appears as fine molecular particles; but it is most probably derived Irom parents in all instances, however minute and apparently insignificant these may be. x i. j o _ Professor Beale proposes to distinguish the matter of organised bodies into two kinds, VIZ., " germinal matter "—which comprehends the active matter of cells and nuclei, and appears to correspond with what has been already described as protoplasm—and formed material," under which term he includes all the structural elements and intercellular substances lying outside and between cells, the cell-wall itself when present, and certain products, not germinative, which may be included in the cell- contents. ^ " Germinal matter " grows and increases, and is converted into " formed material; " and all " formed material" has passed through the condition of " germinal matter." In nutrition, according to Dr. Beale, " pabulum does not pass through the cell-wall to become altered by the action of the cell, but certain of its constituents are converted into germinal matter,—the living substance, which becomes tissue, or is changed into substances which form the constituents of tlie secretions." Formed material may be endowed with peculiar and important properties, but is destitute of the power of producing matter like itself,—" it has no power to produce structure or to alter itself."* I presume it is not meant by this to imply that " formed material" is incapable of undergoing further organisation; for otherwise the proposition would be in contradiction to well-known facts, such as the formation of fibres in the matrix of cartilage, &c. Professor Bennett considers that organisation begins with molecules or granules of various composition and endowments. These are of two kinds—histogenetic, formed by precipitation from fluids, and histolytic, derived from the disintegration of previously formed tissues. Molecules of disintegration may in peculiar circumstances become the basis of matter which undergoes development, so that histolytic, or disintegration particles of one period become the histogenetic or formation molecules of another. Certain molecules are endowed with the power of active movement, and the motions in cells and tissues depend upon them; they are mutually attracted by a molecular force, and thus unite to produce cells and higher forms of tissue.f Molecules and granules are, no doubt, more elementary forms of organisable substance than cells ; still it is matter of observation that in the early embryo and in the production of certain tissues, these particles in the first instance unite to form cells. This, Dr. Bennett by no means denies, only he regards the formation of cells as of subordinate moment in the general process of organisation. For my own part I am disposed to think that in the process of organisation, as distinguished from its result, the cognisable form and mass of the organisable material, whether as cell or molecule, are of altogether subordinate consideration to the nature of its substance. NUTRITION AND REGENERATION OF THE TEXTURES. Nutrition.—The tissues and organs of the animal body, when once em- ployed in tlie exercise of their functions, are subject to continual loss of material, which, is restored by nutrition. This waste or consumption of matter, with which, so to speak, the u.se of a part is attended, takes place in dififerent modes and degrees in different structures. In the cuticular * On the Structure of the Simple Tissues of the Human Body, &c., 1861 ; aud Archives of Medicine for 1 8ii2. t For a brief but lucid exposition of his views on this subject, see Dr. Bennett's paper On the Molecular Theory of Organisation, as given in abstract in the rroceedings of the Royal Society of Edinburgh for the 1st of Ai)ril, 18G1.