291 INTEROSSEl MUSCLES. the external head of the flexor acccssorius, the ligamentum longum plantse, the peroneus longus, and the flexor brevis minimi digiti. The flexor brevis minimi digiti arises by tendinous fibres from the base of the fifth metatai-sal bone, and from the sheath of the peroneus longus, and terminates in a tendon which is inserted into the base and external border of the first phalanx of the Httle toe. It is covered partly by the abductor minimi digiti, partly by the plantar fascia. The Interosseous Muscles of the foot, like those of the hand, are seven in number, three plantar and four dorsal; the plantar interossei, visible only from the under side, arise each from only one metatarsal bone, and theii- action is to approximate the toes ; the dorsal muscles, visible both from above and below, arise each from two metatarsal bones, and in their action separate the toes. The arrangement of the second dorsal and first plantar interosseous muscles of the foot, in relation to the toes, is somewhat difi"erent from that of the corresponding muscles of the hand. A Fig. 222. B Fig. 222, A.—Deep Dissection of the Dorsum op the Foot, to show the Dorsal Interosseous Muscles. J 1, 2, 3, 4, the several dorsal iuter- osseous muscles : the final insertion of the extensor tendons into the phalanges of the toes is also shown in this figure, more particularly in the great toe, and the sepa- rate insertion of the tendons of the short and the long extensor, B.—Deep Dissection op the Sole op THE Foot, to show the Plantar Interosseous Muscles. 5 1, 2, 3, the three plantar interossei; this figure also shows the long and short plantar ligaments, and the insertion of the tendon of the peroneus longus muscle into the first metatarsal bone. The dorsal interossei are arranged so as to separate the toes from the line in which the second toe rests ; they lie one in each interspace, their fibres radiating pennately from a central tendon ; and they terminate partly in the first phalanx and partly in the extensor aponeurosis of the toe to which each belongs. The first two are inserted one on each side of the second toe ; the third and fourth, are inserted on the outer sides of the third and fourth toes. The plantar interossei, arranged so as to approximate the three outer toes to the second, arise from the inner and under surfaces of the third, fourth, and fifth metatarsal bones, and are inserted in a manner similar to the dorsal interossei into the inner sides of the first phalanges of the third, fourth, and fifth toes. Actions of the Muscles op the Leo and Foot.—There is only one muscle of the leg, viz., the x>oxjlitetis, which acts on the knco-joint alone. Its principal action is that of a rotator inwards of the lower leg; and it is interesting to observe that while rotation of the leg at the knee-joint occurs only in flexion, it is in that position only that the tendon of the poplilcus lies in its groove on the femur.