xix MOTIONS OF THE PKOTOPLASM. walls of the capillary vessels have been observed to multiply in this way in the formation of new (morbid) growths, as is shown in fig. xiii. Vi" XIII-Capillary Vessel from a Fibroid Tumour; mag- Fig. XIII. NiFiED (adapted from 0. 0. Weber, Virch. Arch. 1864). a a, nuclei on the wall of the capillary; h, nucleus after division into two ; c, group of nuclei surrounded by protoplasm ; d, new ceils; e, cells of connective tissue. Seeing the successive generations of cells which proceed from a single" one in the ovum, and the propagation of cells in a similar manner which occurs at after-periods, physiologists have been naturally led to look to the ovum for the original source to which all succeeding cells in the economy might be traced back; and, as that body is itself derived from the parent organ- ism, it is conceived that a peculiar germinative matter is handed down from parent to offspring, and, receiving an impulse by fecundation, begins in the ovum the series of assimilative and reproductive actions which is afterwards continued throughout life. Seeing, moreover, that throughout all these operations the nucleus takes the first apparent step in the propagation of cells, and by itself increases and multiplies, that body may not un- reasonably be regarded as the original depositary and sub- sequent representative of the germinative matter in its most characteristic type, although, no doubt, the protoplasm of the primary cell- contents is, in its degree, endowed with the same property. According to this view, all cells in the animal economy are derived from pre-existing cells, and all are to be referred back through preceding generations to the ovum. Schwann, on the other hand, maintained that cells may arise altogether independently of pre-existing cells, and that in animals this was actually the most prevalent mode of cell-production. He conceived that cells are formed out of a soft or liquid organisable matter, which he named " cyto-blastema," or simply " blastema," and which in animals that have a circulating blood is derived from that source. The blastema might be contained in cells, lodged in the interstices of cells and tissues, or deposited on the surface of growing parts; and cells might arise in any of these situations, viz., in previously existing cells, or in the interstitial and free blastema. As to the steps of the process of formation, Schwann adopted and applied to animal cells the account given by Schleiden of cell-genesis in vegetables. According to Schleiden, nuclei arc first formed by aggregation of matter round nucleoli which appear in the cyto-blastema, and a cell-wall is produced by deposition and condensation of fresh matter on the nucleus, which he regarded as the generator of the cell, and therefore named the "cytoblast." Among later observers who deny the uninterrupted descent of all cells from the ovum, may be mentioned M. Robin, who believes that the embryonic cells derived from the ovum do not generate secondary cells, but suffer complete dissolu- tion, at the same time that fresh nuclei are independently formed in their interstices from the dissolved substance. The doctrine of independent cell-formation, which, in contradistinction to derivatiori • from previously existing parent-cells, it has been proposed to call " equivocal cell- generation," has greatly lost ground since it was first promulgated; and perhaps it must be abandoned as regards cell-formation in the higher animals. At the same time, undue weight must not be allowed to the natural cl j^riori argument against it as a case of spontaneous generation. It must furlher bo borne in mind that in certain lichens, algDe and fungi, spores entirely constituted as colls arise, not indeed independently of a parent organism, but to all appearance not immediately from pre-existing cells or nuclei. Motion of the Protoplasm in Cells.—In the colls of the Vallisneria, Ohara and various other plants, when exposed under the microscopej the greei^ b 2