TARSAL ARTICULATIONS. 163 A separate synovial memhrane linea this joint. Articulations of thk Soapuoid, Cuboid, and Cuneiform Bones, one WITH another.—Tlie scaphoid and cuboid bones are connected by a dorsal ligament, composed of sliort thin fibres, extended obliquely between the two bones ; a plantar, situated in the sole of the foot, and consisting of transverse fibres; and an interosseous ligament, which intervenes between the bones, and is attached to their contiguous surfaces. When the bones touch, which is not always the case, they present two small articulating sur- faces, which are covered with cartilage, and have between them an offset of the adjacent synovial membrane. The scaphoid and the cimeiform bones are held together by dorsal liga- ments. It will be recollected that the scaphoid bone articulates with the three cuneiform by the smooth faces on its anterior surface. The dorsal ligaments, three in number, pass from the upper surface of the scaphoid to the first, second, and third cuneiform bones, iuto which they are inserted. Plantar bands are similarly disposed on the imder surface of the bones, but these are continuous with, or offsets from, the tendon of the tibialis posticus muscle. The cuboid and the external cwneiform bo7ies are connected by a dorsal Fig. 150. 20 21 22 Fig. 150,—LlOAMENTB OP THE FoOT, FEOM THE OUTSIDE AND DORSAL ASPECT. ^ 1, lower part of the interosseous membrane ; 2, lower anterior tibio peroneal liga- ment ; 3, lower pcsterior tibio-peroneal ligament; 4, middle part of the external lateral ligament oi the ankle-joint, passing to the calcaneum ; 5, anterior part of the external lateral ligament of the ankle-joint, passing to the astragalus; below the last liga- ment the external calcaneo-talar ligament has not been represented in this figure ; 6 posterior part of the external lateral ligament of the ankle-joint, passing to the astra- galus 7, is placed above the interosseous calcaneo-talar ligament; 8, dorsal calcaueo- scaphoid ; 9, dorsal calcaneo-cuboid ; 10, part of the long plantar or calcaneo-cuboid ; 11 superior talo-scaphoid; 12 and 13, second and third scaphoido-cuneiform, and between them one of the intercuneiform ligaments; 14, superior scaphoido-cuboid ; 15, placed on the external cuneiform bone, points to the cuneo-metatarsal ligament of the third bone ; above and below 16, are corresponding ligaments from the external cuneiform to the second and fourth metatarsal bones; 16, cuneo-metatarsal ligameiit, from the first cuneiform to the second metatarsal bone ; between 12, and 16, are seen the cuneo-metatarsal ligaments which converge from the three cuneiform bones on the second-metatarsal; 17, cuboid°o-meta tarsal ligament passing to the fourth metatarsal bone ; 18, that to the fifth ; 19 and x x dorsal intermetatarsal ligaments ; 20, lateral metalarao-digital; 21, 22, lateral digital. ' M 2