51 INFERIOR MAXILLARY BONE. This bone is marked by horizontal grooves and canals for vessels and nerves, but not, as the turbinations of the etlimoid are, with vertical grooves for the olfactory nerve. TUB INFERIOR MAXILLARY BONE. The inferior maxilla, or lower jaw, is the thickest and strongest bono of the face, and moves on the rest of the skull by means of a pair of articular surfaces or condyles. It has the shape of an inverted arch bent forwards upon itself, and consists of a middle larger and horizontal part— the body, and of two rami or ascending branches. Pig. 46.—The Inferior Max- iLLAUY Bone, from the RIGHT SIDE AND ABOVE. ^ 1, the body; 2, the sym- physis ; 3, the ramus; 4, the angle, near it the oblique ridges marked by the attachment ot the masseter muscle; 5, the coronoid process ; 6, the con- dyle or articular head ; 7, placed in the sigmoid notch, points to the front of the neck; 8, the mental foramen; 9, the external oblique ridge; 10, the inferior dental foramen and mylohyoid groove of the left side. This figure represents a full set of the teeth of the lower jaw in middle life. (See also, for the view of the inner surface of the lower jaw, figure 53, the vertical section of the skull.) The body is marked in the middle by a vertical ridge, indicating the original division of the bone into two lateral parts, and thence named the sym- 2)hysis. The superior or alveolar border is hollowed out into sockets for the teeth. The inferior border, thicker anteriorly than beneath the ramus, is slightly everted in front, constituting the chin, or mentum, a prominence peculiar to the human skull. On the outer surface, on each side of the symphysis, below the incisor teeth, is a shallow depression, the incisor fossa, which gives origin to the levator menti muscle, and, more externally, the labial or mental foramen, which transmits the facial branches of the inferior dental nerve and artery. From beneath the mental foramen an elevation, the external oblique line, extends upwards and outwards to the anterior border of the ramus. The deep surface is marked, on each side of the symphysis, along the inferior margin, by a depression, indicating the anterior attachment of the digastric muscles, and above them by two pairs of prominent tubercles, spime meniales, placed closely together, giving attachment, the upper pair to the genio-hyo-glossi, and the lower to the genio-hyoidei muscles. An oblique prominent line, the mylo-hyoidean rid(jc, leading from beneath the spiuiB mentales, upwards and outwards to the ramus, gives attachment to the mylo-hyoideus muscle. Above this line is a smooth depression for the sublingual gland, and beneath and external to it another for the submaxillary gland. The ramus is thinner than the body of the bone, and its border forms, posteriorly and inferiorly with that of the body, an angle, called the angle of the jaw. The external surface is flat and marked by slight uneveuness, and towards the angle by ridges at the place of attachment of the masseter K 2