137 THE SHOULDER JOINT. and tores minor muscles, which are intimately connected over it to reach the great tuberosity of the humerus. Anteriorly the tendon of the subscapularis muscle comes mto direct contact with the «y;;o-al mem^ braue which is prolonged upon it through an oval opening The insertion of the capsule is likewise interrupted opposite the bicipital groove, to givo passage to the long tendon of the biceps muscle The coraco-hamcral, or accessory ligament, is a broad bundle of fibres extending obliquely over the upper and outer part of the articulation ; it is attached to the root of the coracoid process, and thence descends towards the greater tuberosity of the humerus, intimately connected with the capsule. The glenoid ligament is a firm fibrous band, about two lines deep, whicli is fixed to the edge of the glenoid fossa, and, by elevating the border of the cavity, renders it a little deeper. The upper part of it is connected with the tendon of the long head of the biceps muscle, which is also fixed into the upper part of the glenoid fossa, within the capsule of the joint. The synovial membrane is reflected uninterruptedly from the glenoid cavity on the inner surface of the fibrous capsule to the humerus, but its form is complicated by its relation to the tendons of the biceps and sub- scapularis muscle. The long tendon of the biceps muscle, traversing the joint in its course from the upper border of the glenoid cavity to the bicipital groove, Ls enclosed in a tubular sheath, formed by an offset or process of the synovial membrane, which is continued down upon it beyond the fibrous capsule into the bicipital groove, and is thence reflected upwards upon it to Fig. 126. A Fig. 126.—A, Section TUROuan the Shoulder Joint, passing prom within ouTWARrs THROUGH THE TENDON OF THE BiCEPS AND BICIPITAL GrooVE, SOMEWHAT DIAGRAMMATIC, TO SHOW THE SYNOVIAL CAVITY OF THE JoiNT, &0. ^ B, Outline ob the same, to snow the inflection of the Synovial Membrane OVER TUB Tendon. 1, placed above the sawn end of the outer part of the clavicle ; 2, is near the acromial end ; 3, the cavity of the slioulder joint close to the upper part of the glenoid head, where there are seen the section of the cartilages on the head of the humerus and in the glenoid cavity of the scapula, the glenoid ligament, and the origin of the tendon of the biceps muscle ; 4, is in the lower part of the cavity of the joint, indicating the section of the glenoid ligament in that situation ; 5, the upper part of the capsular ligament and synovial membrane ; 6, the tendon of the biceps as it passes out of the joint into the bicipital groove ; C, 6', the tubular prolongation of the synovial membrane round the tendon ; 7, the reflection of the synovial membrane on the humerus within the lower part of the capsular ligament.