OBTUKATOR MUSCLES-QUADRATUS. 269 Tho ohttirator intermis muscle, in great part lodged within the pelvis, arises from the deep surface of the obturator membrane ; from the fibrous arch which completes tho canal for the obturator vessels and nerves ; from a narrow strip of the bone internal to the obturator foramen ; from tho posterior surface of the membrane occupying that aperture, extending on tho bone downwards to the outlet, backwards as far as the sciatic notch, and, upwards to the brim of the pelvis ; it also arises to some extent from the obturator foscia, which is in contact with the deep surface of tho muscle. Its fibres converging as they proceed backwards from this origin, the muscle emerges from the pelvis by the small sacro-sciatic foramen, turus over on the trochlear surface of the ischium, and is directed outwards, to bo inserted, in connection with the gemelli, into tho upper part of the digital fossa of the great trochanter. The tendon of the muscle is formed by the union of four or five bands, occupying the surface of the muscle which is towards the bone, and lying side by side as they turn over the trochlear groove : their motion in that groove is facilitated by a synovial bursa, which sends in processes between them, and by a thin coating of cartUage on the trochlear sm-face of the bone. Another bursa, of much smaller size, elongated and narrow, is placed between the tendon and the fibrous capsule of the hip- joint. These bursee are sometimes continuous with one another. The gemelli (gemini) are two small narrow muscles, consisting chiefly of fleshy fibres extended horizontally at each side of the tendon of the obtm-ator internus; and they are named from their position above and below that tendon. The gemellus superior, which is usually the smaller muscle, arises from the ischial spine ; the gemellus inferior takes origin from the iipper and back part of the tuberosity of the ischium. Passing outwards, they join the tendon of the internal obturator muscle, which is placed between them, covering and concealing it more or less, and along with it are inserted into the digital fossa of the trochanter. Some of their fibres, especially from the superior gemellus, run obliquely into the tendon of the obturator. The superior gemellus is placed immediately below the pyriformis; the inferior gemellus is above the quadratus femoris, and at its insertion is close to the tendon of the obturator externus muscle; both muscles are in contact with the synovial bursa; of that tendon. These muscles may be regarded as portions of the obturator internus arising external to the pelvis. The gemellus superior is often very small, and in some cases is altogether absent. The quadratus femoris, of an oblong figure, arises from the external border of the tuber ischii, and proceeding horizontally outwards, is inserted into the greater part of the linea quadrati on the posterior surface of the great trochanter of the femur. Superiorly this muscle is close to the inferior gemellus. Its inferior border is in contact, at its origin, with the descending fibres of the adductor magnus, and at its insertion with the superior or horizontal fibres. It conceals the outer part of the obturator externus, and also the lesser trochanter, which is separated from it by a small bursa. The oUurator externus, arising from the anterior two-thirds of the siufaco of the obturator membrane, and from tho outer surface of the rami of tho pubes and ischium as far as tho margin of the thyroid foramen, encroaching also a little upon the body of tho pubes, and spreading towards the tuberosity of the ischium, extends horizontally outwards and backwards, convergincr to a tendon which is directed along the under and hinder surface pf the neck