ARTICULATIONS OF THE LOWER LIMB. 164 ligament, which is a thin fasciculus of fibres extended between them : a plantar hgament, whose fibres are transverse and rather indistinct ; and a bundle of interosseous fibres attached to their neighbouring sides. Between tne two bones a distinct articulation is formed by cartilaginous surfaces ; it is provided sometimes with a separate synovial membrane, at others with an ottset from that which belongs to the scaphoid and cuneiform bones. The three cuneiform bones are connected by transverse dorsal ligamenis and strong interosseous fibres ; but the latter are their most efficient uniting structures. A transverse plantar ligament exists only between the two innermost bones. The articulations between these bones are Hned by offsets from the synovial membrane of the joint between them and the scaphoid bone. Articulation of the Tarsus with the Metatarsus.—The four anterior bones of the tarsus, viz., the three cuneiform and the cuboid, articulate with the metatarsal bones ; and as the first and third cuneiform bones pro- ject beyond the middle one, and the third cuneiform beyond the cuboid bone, the anterior surface of the tarsus is very irregular. The first meta- tarsal bone articulates with the internal cuneiform ; the second is wedged in between the first and third cuneiform, and rests against the second ; the third metatarsal bone articulates with the extremity of the external cunei- •Fig. 151. Fig. 161. The Synovial Cavities of the Ankle-Joint aot) the Tarsal and Tarso-Mbtatarsal Articulations, in Section. ^ The section has been carried obliquely upwards and inwards across the foot, and vertically through the upper part of the astragalus and the tibia. 1, cut surface of the tibia above the ankle-joint; 2, placed on the astragalus above the posterior calcaneo-talar synovial cavity ; 3, on the head of the astragalus close to the common calcaneo-talo- scaphoid synovial cavity ; 4, interosseous calcaneo-talar ligament; 5, on the anterior edge of the calcaneura, points to the calcaneo-cuboid synovial cavity ; 6, interosseous calcaneo- cuboid ligament; 7, on the scaphoid bone, marks the common scaphoido-cuneiform and intercuneiform synovial cavity ; 8, on the cuboid bone, points to the interosseous sca- phoido-cuboid ligament; 9, internal, 10, middle, 11, external cuneiform bones; 12, cuboid • between these several bones the interosseous ligaments are shown; from 13 to 17, are the metatarsal bones, with the interosseous ligaments between them; 9 to 14, the interosseous ligament from the internal cuneiform to the second metatarsal bone ; 11 to 16 the interosseous ligament from the external cuneiform to the fourth metatarsal bone : there are also shown in this figure, the synovial cavity of the first tarso-metatarsal arti- culation that between the middle and external cuneiform bones and the second and third metatarsal • and that between the cuboid and the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones.