89 OSSIFICATION OF SCAPULA AND CLAVICLE. limb being developed on the superior margin. The upper limb appears before the lower, and sooner exhibits a separation of digits. The division into arm and forearm, thigii and leg, is observable about the eighth week (Kolliker, loc. cit.). The nerves are seen extending directly into the limbs soon after their first appearance; but it is not determined whether the bones and muscles are derived from extensions of the dorsal plates, or have an independent origin in the ventral plates. Ossification of the uppkb limb.—AVith the exception of the clavicle, all the bones of the upper limb begin to ossify from cartilage. The Sccqmla is developed in the greater part of its extent from a single osseous nucleus, but possesses also supplementary nuclei in the coracoid process and acromion, and along the base. The nucleus of the coracoid process is especially worthy of attention, both because it appears in the first year, while the other supplementary nuclei are formed only after puberty, and because, although reduced to a mere epiphysis in mammals, it forms a distinct and sometimes large bone in other vertebrate animals. The acromion is ossified from two or more nuclei. Along the base of the young scapula a strip of cartilage extends, corre- sponding with a much more largely developed permanent cartilage found in many animals; and in this there first appears a nucleus of bone at the inferior angle, then a prolonged ossification throughout its length. Occasionally a separate epiphysial lamina occurs, in the border of the glenoid cavity. Fig. SO.—OsSIflOATION OF THE Claviole. Fig. 80, a, the clavicle of a fcctus at birth, osseous in the shaft, 1, and cartilaginous at both ends. b, clavicle of a man of about twenty-three years of age ; the shaft, 1, fully ossified to the acromial end ; the sternal epiphysis, 2, is repre- sented rather thicker than natural. The Clavicle begins to ossify before any other bone in the body. Its ossification commences before the deposition of cartilage in connection with it, but afterwards progresses in cartilage as well as in fibrous substance. It is formed from one prin- cipal piece, and has a thin epiphysis at its sternal end. Fig. 81. Fig. 81. —Ossification op the Humerus. A, humerus of a full-grown foetus ; B, humerus at two years of age; C, in the third year; D, at the beginning of the fifth year ; E, at about the twelfth year : F, at the age of puberty. ' 1, the primary piece for the shaft; 2, nucleus for the articular head ; 3, that for the tuberosity ; 4, for the radial condyle and adjacent part of the trochlea ; 5, for the inner or trochlear eminence; C, fur the inner part of the trochlea; 7, for the external or capitellar emmcuce.