22 VERTEBKAL COLUMN. On examination of the series of transverse processes, a certain amount of correspon- dence cannot fail to be noticed between the anterior divisions of tliose of the cervical vertebrae and ribs; especially when it is considered that in certain instances those of the seventh cervical vertebra are replaced by ribs which are articulated in two places with the vertebra; and that in the neck of saurian reptiles short ribs are found very similar in appearance to the anterior divisions of the transverse processes in the human subject. On the other hand, these processes differ from ribs in being for the most part ossified in continuity with the arch ; and on that account some anatomists prefer to compare them with the costal facets on the dorsal vertebrae, and with pro- ceases on which in birds and reptiles those facets are elevated. The tran.sverse, mam- millary, and accessory processes of the lumbar vertebras lie in series, as has been seen, with the three sets of tubercles on the transverse processes of the twelfth and other dorsal vertebrae, whence it may be argued, as has been done by Eetzius, that the whole transverse process of a dorsal vertebra corresponds to three processes of a lumbar vertebra. At the same time, the mammillary processes are not mere subsidiary parts developed on the transverse processes, for in some animals, as the hedgehog and the armadillo, they are of much greater size than the transverse pro- cesses themselves, continue distinct from them in nearly the whole length of the thoracic region, and may be seen to lie in series with prominences on the articulating processes of the cervical vertebrae. The lumbar transverse processes are not without a certain degree of correspondence with ribs, which is illustrated by the first of the series being sometimes replaced by a short thirteenth rib on one or both sides, and is also indicated by the existence on the upper borders of the lumbar transverse processes of grooves, sometimes pretty distinct, which lie in series with the intervals between Fig. 20, Pig- 20.—Osseous part of the First Vertebra ov the Sacrum of a Person of four or five years old. g 1, the body ; 2, 2, the large lateral masses between which and the body and the transverse processes deep fissures are seen running backwards. the necks of the ribs and the dorsal transverse processes. In the sacrum, the special lateral centres of ossification in the three upper vertebrae may, very probably, be regarded as costal elements. (Retzius, "Miiller's Archiv," 1849 ; J. Muller, " Vergl. Anat. der Myxinoiden;" August Muller, "Miiller's Archiv," 1853 ; Humphry, " Treatise on the Human Skeleton;" Cleland,in "Nat. Hist. Review," 1861 andl863.) It is not to be wondered at that the vertebral column, from its being the most regularly segmented structure in the body, as well as from its forming the basis of the osseous system, should have held a prominent place in the various schemes, according to which it has been attempted to resolve the skeleton into a certain number of elements, repeated in modified forms in the different segments. Among the various schemes of this description may be mentioned those of Oken, Carus, Geoffrey St. Hilaire, Owen.Maclise, and Goodsir. (Oken,"Physiophilosophie," and in " Isis," 1817, 1819, 1820 ; C. G. Carus, "Lehrbuch der Zootomie," 2nd edit.; Geoffrey St. Hilaire, "Philosophie Anatomique;" Owen, "On the Archetype and Homologies of the Vertebrate Skeleton;" Maclise, " Comparative Osteology," and the Article " Skele- ton" in "Todd's Cyclop^d. of Anat. and Physiol.;" Goodsir, "Edinburgh New Philosophical Journal," 1857, p. 118.) Based upon morphological views, there has likewise been introduced by Owen a system of nomenclature, which being adhered to in his descriptive writings, and adopted more or less by various English writers, demands attention. In that system the word vertebra is employed to signify a segment of the skeleton, the term centrum is preserved in its usual signification, the laminae are called neurapophyses, the spine the neural spine, the articulating processes zygapophyses, the ribs 2}leura- pophyses the mammillary processes metaiw2?hyses, and the accessory processes anapophvses. Two descriptions of transverse processes are distinguished, viz., the diapophyses and the parapophyses ; the dorsal transverse processes and the pos erior parts of the cervical transverse processes being examples of the first, while the anterior parts of the cervical transverse processes are referred to the second. Ihe ideal