50 BONES OF THE HEAD. and with the nasal spine of the frontal bone and the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid. The anterior surface, concave at its upper part, convex hi the rest of its extent, presents a minute vascular foramen ; the posterior or nasal surface is marked by a groove for the passage of the nasal nerve. THE LACHllYMAL BONE. The lachrymal bone, or os unguis, is a thin scale of bone placed at the anterior and inner part of the orbit. It articulates superiorly with the frontal bone, posteriorly with the orbital plates of the ethmoid ; anteriorly it presents a longitudinal or vertical groove, and articulates with the ascending process of the superior maxillary bone, completiug with it the groove for the lachrymal sac ; inferiorly it articulates in its greatest extent with the orbital plate of the superior maxillary bone, while its anterior Fig. 44. Fig. 44.—Right Lachrymal Bone, from the outside. | 1, upper or frontal border ; 2, the orbital surface ; 3, lachrymal groove ; 4, the process which meets the inferior turbinated bone. grooved part projects downwards, taking part in the formation of the lachrymal canal, and terminates in a pointed extremity, hamulus lachrijmalis, which fits into an angle between the superior maxillary and inferior turbinated bone. The inner surface looks superiorly to the anterior ethmoidal cells, and inferiorly to the middle meatus of the nose. THE INFERIOR TURBINATED BONE. The inferior turbinated, or spongy bone, is a slender lamina, attached by one margin from before backwards along the lateral wall of the nose, and Fig. 45. Fig. 45.—The Inferior Turbinated Bone op THE Right Side. | A, from the outside ; B, from the inside. 1, anterior angle ; 2, posterior angle ; 1, 3, 2, inferior free border; 4, internal convex surface ; 5, part of the bone articulating with the uncinate process of the ethmoid ; 6, portion articulating with the lachrymal ; 7, the outer concave sur- face ; 8, the deflected scale of bone from the upper border, which, by union with the superior maxillary, forms a part of the inner wall of the maxillary sinus. projecting into the nasal cavity, so as to divide the middle from the inferior meatus. It is slightly convoluted, its convexity look- ^ ing upwards and inwards, and its free mar- gin being dependent, slightly thickened, and rolled upon itself. The attached margin articulates anteriorly with the oblique ridge below the ascending process of the superior maxillary bone, and ascends abruptly to complete the lachrymal canal and articulate with the lachrymal bone ; behind this it bends downwards, forming part of the inner wall of the antrum below the entrance into that cavity ; above and behind this, it presents a small projection which articulates with the uncinate process of the ethmoid, and posteriorly it is attaclied to the liorizontal line on the vertical plate of the palate bone.