7 LUMBAR AND CERVICAL VERTEBEyE. B with the ribs. Behind each, at its base, is a small process poiutiiig down- wards, which corresponds with the inferior tubercles of the dorsal transverse processes, and is also called the acces- sor 1/process. The transverse processes P'S- ^• of the tifth lumbar vertebra are shorter and thicker than those above, and ai-e usually slanted a little upwards. Fig. 3.—Third Lumbar A'^ertebra. 4 A, from above; B, from the right side. 1, the body ; 2, the pedicle and inter- vertebral notch; 3, the lamina; 4, the vertebral ring, somewhat triangular; 6, the spinous process ; 6, transverse process; 7, 7', superior and inferior articulatiug processes; e, the mammillary tubercle, ap- parently on the superior articulating pro- cess ; /, the accessory tubercle, between the articulating and transverse processes. The artimlating processes are thick and strong. Their articular surfaces are placed vertically and curved so as to lie in the arc of a circle. Those of the superior pair, concave, look backwards and inwards ; those of the inferior, convex, look forwards and outwards. The superior pair are fur- ther apart than the inferior, and em- brace the inferior pair of the vertebra aliove them. From each superior articular process a tubercle projects backwards, which corresponds with the internal tubercles of the dorsal transverse processes, and is also Pig- ^■ called the mammillary process. The ring is large and triangular, or widely lozenge-shaped. Fig. 4.—Two Lower Dorsal amd two Upper Lumbar Yertebr^. | with portions of the eleventh and twelfth ribs of the right side: viewed from behind, chiefly to show the relations of the trans- vei-se processes and adjacent tubercles. 1, body of the eleventh dorsal vertebra ; 5, spinous process of the second lumbar ; 6, the tratisverse process; 7, 7', superior and inferior articulating processes; e, mammillary, and /, accessory tubercle. These indications are placed only on the alternate vertebrae to avoid crowding the figure. CEEVICAL VERTEBRA. The cervical vertebrse are seven in number. The first and second are so peculiar in form that they require a separate description. The following characters belong to the five lower vertebrse :— The body is small, and broader from side to side than from before back-