CASES IN SURGERY, OCCURRING IN THE PRACTICE OF P. D. HANDYSIDE, M.D., F. R. S. E., LATE SENIOR ORDINARY SURGEON, NOW ONE OF THE CONSULTING SURGEONS, TO THE ROYAL INFIRMARY OF EDINBURGH. REPORTED BY JOHN STRUTHERS, Esq. RESIDENT CLERK IN THE ROYAL INFIRMARY. Extracted from the London and Edinburgh Monthly Journal of Medical Science. The following short Series of Cases of Surgical Diseases and Injuries, I have been induced to publish, as they present some important Practical considerations. P. D. H. I.—NECROSIS OF THE OS FEMORIS. Case 1. Extensive Necrosis of the Os Femoris, with Protrusion:— Recovery without Amputation. Jane Roy, aged 9, was admitted into the Royal Infirmary, under Dr Handyside, on December 20, 1843, with extensive Necrosis of i the left thigh-bone. On examination the left thigh was found remarkably twisted land distorted, ibeing enlarged land unshapely, land bent near- lly to a right wangle at its middle. The leg of the same aide was com- pletely drawn up, and lay ob- liquely below ithe opposite thigh, with the foot thus pro- iecting beyond the right hip, as represented in the accompanying outline.9 4* The shaft of the os femoris appeared as if fractured near its mid- dle. The upper end of the lower half projected through an open- ing in the soft parts to the extent of above two inches. The upper part of the thigh bone was in its normal position, but felt much thickened, and the soft parts over it were much swollen and indu- rated. A dark-coloured cicatrix existed over the. inner condyle. The projecting portion of bone was destitute of periosteum, smooth and dark-coloured on the surface; rough and spicular at the extremity. Its medullary canal was hollowed out, and continu- ally discharged feetid pus; and, when handled, it appeared to be firmly connected with the lower half of the shaft of the os femoris. The patient had no power over the hip and knee joints, but could move the foot and toes freely. The knee-joint allowed of passive motion to a limited extent, and the pain thence arising was referred to the middle of the thigh. Previous history.—Exactly nine months before being brought to the hospital, she was awakened during the night by a violent pain in the left thigh, which was soon followed by swelling. For this she could assign no cause, except her having taken more exer- cise than usual the previous day, during which she had leant prin- cipally on the left leg, in consequence of some wound, or other tem- porary cause of lameness, of the right foot. Friction with vinegar cloths was assiduously applied for a fortnight over the painful part; but, as by this time the pain had become worse, it was then thought necessary to apply for medical advice. Twelve leeches were now applied, followed by hot fomentations : the latter were continued for two months. The pain, however, continued. Soon after this time, an opening formed spontaneously in the situation marked by the cicatrix before mentioned, and after a plentiful escape of matter, the pain somewhat subsided. Poultices were then applied. Two months ago the thigh began to bend, and quickly assumed its pre- sent position. This change was followed by constitutional disturb- ance, and great local pain and redness, which rapidly subsided, a month afterwards, on the protrusion of the bone through the inte- guments,—an occurrence which was also accompanied by a gush of matter. Before the pain in the thigh began, she had always been healthy, but since that time she has lost much flesh. Throughout the pro- gress of the disease she has suffered considerably from pain, sleep- lessness, and severe constitutional disturbance. Of late, also, she has had nocturnal sweatings, and loss of appetite. On admission she was in an emaciated state, the pulse 100, and rather weak, the tongue moist, and inclining to red, and the bowels open; but she had no diarrhoea. There is no pain in the limb, except when touched.—To have nourishing diet. Dec. 26. It having been resolved that an attempt should be made to remove the sequestrum and save the limb, the following opera- (VS5210o tion was to-day performed by Dr Handyside in the theatre of the hospital:— The sequestrum not having yielded to moderate traction with strong forceps, an incision several inches in length was, with a strong scalpel, made down to the new bone, in the direction of the sequestrum. The soft parts were then dissected a little to each side, and the incision was carried through the substitute bone, down to the sequestrum, which being again seized with the forceps, now readily yielded to strong evulsive force, exerted in a rotatory man- ner. The operator then, placing firmly a hand on each portion of the still bent thigh, proceeded to undo the distortion, by re-bending the substitute, which had been felt during the previous steps of the operation to be as yet soft and pliable, and which now yielded to moderate and continued extension. The hemorrhage from the incision, though profuse, was now ar- rested by the application of cold, and a strip of dry lint having been inserted into the upper angle of the wound, a bandage was next applied. The patient being then put to bed, the limb was placed on a double inclined plane, with the view of effecting gradually still greater extension, and also as the knee-joint still remained semi- bent and stiff. An opiate was given, and ordered to be repeated at night.—To have only the common diet of the hospital. Jan. 3. She expresses herself much easier since the operation, having slept more soundly than usual. So much of the wound as has not healed by adhesion, granulates kindly ; and the limb, both at the seat of the operation and at the knee-joint, is becoming daily more straight, from the gradual extension, made by means of the MTntyre splint. An opening was made to-day to evacuate matter which had formed in the upper third of the thigh. 13th. There has been some constitutional disturbance for the last two days. Free dilatation of the above-mentioned opening was therefore to-day made, and was followed by the escape of much matter. 15th. Doing well; appetite improving.—To have steak diet; and two grains of quinine daily. Feb. 1. The wound, which was healing rapidly, has assumed a phagedoenic appearance.—Intermit the steak and tonics ; a poultice to be applied; and to have four grains of Dover's powder twice daily. lOtfA. The above symptoms have declined. Matter flows freely from the openings.—To have steak, and three ounces of ivine daily. March 1. A wooden splint along the outside of the limb was substituted for the double inclined plane. She is now to rise, and take exercise with the assistance of crutches. April 1. The symmetry of the limb is much improved. A starch bandage to be applied, now that the swelling is diminished. The discharge from the openings has almost wholly ceased. 29</t. The thigh is now only slightly bent outwards, the limb being thereby shortened about an inch. She walks with the ankle- joint partially extended, as in talipes equinus, resting the weight on4 the ball of the foot, and thus compensating for the shortness of the limb. She has recovered the use of the hip and knee joints, and can use the limb freely. Her general health is excellent. Dismissed,— cured. Appearance of the Sequestrum.—On examination, it was found to be from four to five inches in length, and to involve the whole cir- cumference of the os femoris at its middle, and also the entire thickness of that bone. The medullary canal is empty and per- vious, except at the middle, where it is obstructed by a cribriform bony septum. The whole sequestrum is uniform in its appearance, and its distal extremity is rough and irregular, indicating that it has been detached at Nature’s line of separation. Remarks.—This case has been deemed worthy of notice from its peculiar nature, and from the success which has attended the treat- ment pursued. In regard to its previous history, the case presents nothing very peculiar. The absence of an apparently sufficient exciting cause is of frequent occurrence, and the subsequent progress of the case is what might have been expected considering the treatment,—at first injurious, and subsequently inefficient,—which was had recourse to. The shaft of the bone itself had been inflamed, both internally and externally, as indicated by the size and nature of the seques- trum—the upper end of which had become separated by the seventh month, as shown by the bending of the thigh, the substi- tute bone having been then either broken or bent, from its inability as yet to support weight or to resist force. The case had thus be- come seriously complicated, and it illustrates well the important practical indication, to support the limb during the progress of Ne- crosis. The protrusion of the sequestrum is the next feature of import- ance, which, along with the free escape of the matter that had formed around it, afforded, as usual, great relief. Hectic, however, had fairly manifested itself previously to the patient being sent to the Hospital; and her health was then con- siderably reduced. Two lines of practice then presented themselves,—either the im- mediate removal of the limb, in accordance with the hitherto general rule, that, “ when the necrosis is extensive and near a large joint, and when the new bone has given way and immense deformity and vast irritation resulted, amputation ought not to be delayed to save the life, if not the limb, of the patient,”—or on the other hand, by removing the sequestrum, to give the patient a chance of preserv- ing the limb. In favour of the latter view, there was the probabi- lity, that the sequestrum had been already separated by the natural process, and being only bound down mechanically by the new osseous case, might therefore be easily and safely removed by operation,— that sufficient callus had now been formed to supply the place ofthe necrosed shaft, and that, though the thigh was greatly bent and distorted, from the giving way of the substitute, still such had not been the case for so long a period, as to preclude the possibility of rebending it, and afterwards modelling the bone anew. The pa- tient’s health also was not yet so far reduced as to render her unable to bear up against the subsequent calls on the resources of the sys- tem ;—her time of life also was in her favour, and there was the probability that the hectic, instead of increasing, would cease, as soon as the sequestrum should be removed. This line of practice was therefore followed, and it is fully borne out by the result of the case. After the removal of the sequestrum at nature’s line of separa- tion, the bending of the substitute,—the most interesting feature of the case,—was safely accomplished, and without the employment of much force. The old and new bones were thus brought nearly into a line with each other. The subsequent progress of the case is likewise interesting, the indications being—to restore still more the symmetry of the thigh, by moderate and continued extension,—to restore the functions of the hip and knee joints by passive motion,—to support the system by nourishing food, wine, and tonics,—to evacuate, by timeous in- cisions, the collections of matter which formed from time to time,— and, lastly, by gentle and increasing exercise, to restore gradually the use of the limb. This case, then, affords another example in corroboration of the propriety of the modern practice of removing large sequestra instead of the whole limb ;—and it farther shows that a case may not be irremediable, as regards the healthy functions of the limb, although from the giving way of the substitute bone, the greatest deformity may for a time have existed. Case 2. Complicated Fracture of the Os Femoris followed by Ne- crosis, vnth Protrusion :—Recovery after Amputation. Andrew Finlayson, aged 18, farm servant, was admitted into the Royal Intirmarv, under Dr Handyside, late in the evening of April 19, 1844, having, whilst intoxicated, been knocked over by a cart, the wheel of which had passed over, and injured the right thigh and knee-joint. On examination, the right knee and the lower third of the tlii^h were found much swollen and discoloured. A nearly transverse fracture of the os femoris was easily recognised, a few inches above the condyles, there being great displacement, and great deformity. No fracture through the condyles or into the knee-joint could be discovered. The latter, however, was immensely swollen, and the seat of severe burning heat, and much pain. Two contused and(i lacerated wounds were visible on the outside of the joint; but tliev did not communicate with its cavity. The accident happened in the afternoon, .and the patient had been driven to the hospital in a cart, from a distance of ten miles. On his arrival there was no collapse, the skin being moderately warm all over, the pulse 100, and inclining to be full. The fracture was immediately reduced. The broken ends, on being brought into accurate coaptation, were retained so, by the limb being placed on a double inclined plane, and one roller applied from the toes upwards to the knee, while another reached from the middle of the thigh downwards, over the seat of fracture. The limb was restored to its proper length. The knee-joint being thus left exposed and free from traction, twenty-four leeches -were applied over it, and hot fomentations or- dered to be continued during the night. An opiate also was ad- ministered. The bowels had been previously opened, and the tongue was clean. 20th. Doing well; pain, heat, and swelling of the joint dimi- nished.—To be kept on loiv diet. 21 st. Swelling, pain, and heat of the joint increased; tongue white; skin hot, and dry ; bowels opened by enema; pulse 120, full, bounding, and incompressible. He was now bled from the arm to 14 ounces, which nearly in- duced syncope, after which the pulse fell to 100, and became soft and compressible. An opiate was then given, and repeated some hours afterwards, to meet the moderate reaction which ensued. An ounce of the following mixture teas ordered to be taken every second hour:—R. tartratis antimonii, gr. ii, bitart, potassoe t>ij, aquae %xxiv. Solve. 24th. Pain and swelling deci-eased. Continue fommtations and the antimonial solution. 27th. One of the wounds on the outer aspect of the joint now discharges much dark-coloured glairy serum, which appears to flow from the cavity of the articulation. May 4. The above discharge has now become purulent; pain and swelling of the joint much less.—To have the common diet of the hospital. 20th. To-day the splint was removed, a slough having formed over the popliteal cavity. When the loose slough was removed, pus escaped freely, and appeared to come from the seat of fracture. The fracture wras then found not to have made any progress towards union, although the ends of the bone had been retained in coapta- tion. The splint hitherto employed being found more available in this case than the straight splint of Dessault, was accordingly reap- plied, and pressure made, so as to direct the pus towards the surface, and favour its escape from the seat of fracture. 2bth. The ends of the bones now no longer remain in coaptation, the upper end rises over the lower, and the least motion or pressurecauses such intense pain, that all attempts to remedy the displace- ment are fruitless. The discharge from the knee-joint and the seat of fracture continues free. Tongue rather red ; pulse 100, and small; he has nocturnal sweatings.— To have full diet, and an acidulated tonic mixture. June 20. Continues much in the same condition, only the hectic is becoming more evident. — To have four ounces of wine daily. July 9. An opening has now formed in the soft parts, some inches above the inner condyle, through which a large sequestrum protrudes, which, on being handled, is found to be connected with the shaft of the os femoris. Some pus exudes along the lower sur- face of the sequestrum. 14f/t. An incision having been made down to the bone, two inches above the point where the sequestrum protrudes, much matter made its escape. The patient’s health has rather improved since the bone protruded. The purulent discharge from the knee has ceased, and the wound on the outside has closed, but there is still dull pain in the joint. 24th. Tongue red, glazed, and aphthous; pulse 120, small and weak; hectic blush veiy marked; has had great nocturnal sweat- ings, but as yet no diarrhoea. The sequestrum still adheres firmly to the upper portion or shaft of the bone. The sloughing in the popliteal region has now extended so far that the flexor tendons are exposed, and the lower portions of the fractured bone can be felt bare and rough.—Amputation ivas now deemed inevitable. 26th. The limb was accordingly removed to day, by the double- flap operation, in the middle of the thigh. The flaps were neces- sarily oblique in their direction, owing to the sloughing condition of the skin above the ham, and the protrusion anteriorly of the shaft of the bone. The anterior and outer flap was formed by trans- fixion and cutting outwards, but the posterior and inner one was completed by cutting from the surface inwards, owing to the awk- ward position of the lower end of the bone. The bone was healthy where the saw was applied. About 4 ounces of blood were lost; 10 vessels were tied; 7 sutures were introduced; and a pledget of dry lint, with a bandage, were applied to support the stump, which was long and fleshy. An opiate was given on his being replaced in bed. Two hours after the operation, the pulse being 150 and weak, and the patient faint, 2 oz. of wine were given. Moderate re-action fol- lowed some hours afterwards, and was met by an opiate. 21th. Feels vastly better ; pulse 140 and stronger; has slept and eaten well. To have 6 oz. of wine daily, in small and frequent doses combined with a little light solid nutriment. No heat or pain in the stump. 29th. Pulse 130, full and soft; tongue less red; bowels open. The stump was dressed to-day for the first time. Primary union lias taken place, except at the mere margin and outer commissure8 of the flaps, at the latter of which places a sloughing sore formerly existed. Most of the stitches were removed, and straps substituted. Subsequently to this date, the case progressed favourably and without any thing remarkable occurring,—the ligatures came away in due time, the discharge ceased, and the stump became solid. The patient had a slight attack of bronchitis, which was completely removed by a blister, and on the 8th of September he was dismissed in good bodily health, with the stump solid and fleshy, and afford- ing an ample and useful covering for the bone. State of the diseased parts.—On opening the knee-joint, the syno- vial membrane generally, was found thickened and increased in vascularity. The articular cartilage, particularly over the condyles, was thickened, and appeared also to be vascular; while on the cen- tre of the external condyle, a deep irregular ulcer was found pene- trating through the cartilage to the bone, and communicating with the recently cicatrized external opening from which the matter had formerly flowed. The fracture was found to be nearly transverse, and about two inches above the condyles. The lower portion of the os femoris was partly overlapped by the upper, and the now empty cavity of a large abscess intervened. Both ends of the fractured bone were necrosed,—the upper end for about two inches in length, including the whole circumference of the os femoris,—and the lower end to a less extent. No new bone existed at these extremities, but began to show itself at about two inches from the end of each por- tion. Over the lower portion it extended as far down as the epi- physis, but not over it, and the upper portion was covered by a thick crust of new bone, for about three inches. The usual lines of separation could not yet be recognised. Lymph was found plenti- fully effused into the tissues surrounding the new bone. Remarks.—This case is more particularly interesting, as showing how a case of Necrosis of comparatively limited extent may require amputation of the member, from the peculiar circumstances which may accompany the disease. The violent synovitis, resulting from the injury of the joint, and running on, notwithstanding the most active antiphlogistic mea- sures of which the case would permit, to suppuration, and latterly to ulceration of the articular cartilages, and surface of the bone,— combined with the profuse discharges early occurring from the seat of the fracture, could scarcely have failed to oppose, or at least to retard, the sanatory process of union of the fracture; but the possibility of this was effectually pi-evented, by the inflamed and subsequently necrosed condition of the fractured extremities of the bone. That necrosis, however, had actually taken place, was proclaimed by the sequestrum showing itself on the surface; and then the character, and consequently the treatment of the case, changed from one of disunited and complicated fracture, to one of Necrosis, complicated with deformity and disease of an important neighbouring articulation.9 Amputation might at this time have been justifiably performed ; but, in consideration of the youth and constitution of the patient, an attempt was first made to combat the hectic, and afford nature an opportunity and time to detach the sequestrum, and furnish sufficient callus. The hectic, however, soon declaring itself strongly, and the case continuing to be further complicated by symptoms of ulceration of the articular cartilages of the knee, and sloughing in the popliteal region, amputation was at length unavoidably had recourse to. The chief indication after the operation was to ex- tricate the patient from the danger of the shock, by bringing about re-action ; and this being effected by carefully administered stimuli, he was comparatively safe, requiring afterwards only nourishing- food, moderate stimuli and tonics, with the usual local treatment, to restore him to his former health. Viewing the two cases at the period when the sequestra protruded, they present a remarkable contrast to each other. In both a lai'ge sequestrum protruded at the same spot; but in the former case it had already been undergoing separation, by a natural effort, from the living bone, and waited only for the co-operation of the surgeon. An ample substitute was already formed, and the powers of the system were yet able to furnish more ;—whereas, in the latter case, the sequestrum adhered as yet firmly, the system being unable either to effect the tedious process of separation, or to produce a sufficient callus, were the separation to have been completed by art; the joint also was still diseased; and lastly, the hectic was so advanced that there remained not the slightest chance of recovery, without having- recourse to the summary measure at length adopted. Although, then, we have seen it to be possible, in some cases of extensive Necrosis,—notwithstanding the existence of immense de- formity,—to save not only life but limb, where formerly, to preserve life, it might have been deemed necessary to sacrifice the member; it is obvious that other cases will still occur where any treatment short of this serious sacrifice, and the concomitant danger to which he is exposed from the operation, will fail to save the patient’s life. II.—SPASMODIC AFFECTIONS OF THE LARYNX. Case 1. Bronchocele giving rise to Spasmodic Dyspnoea—Tra- | cheotomy—Recovery. Jaret Dixon, aged 18, was admitted into the Royal Infirmary, under Dr Handyside, on April 16, 1845, with a large Bronchocele.’ On admission, both lobes, as well as the isthmus of the thyroid body, were much enlarged. The swelling was soft and yielding, and li10 of a pyriform shape ; the base extended downwards to the clavicles, filling up the jugular fossa, and the apex reached upwards to above the thyroid cartilage. Pulsation was communicated to the tumour, on each side, from the impulse of the carotid arteries, over which it lay ; and, in addition, a gentle pulsatory thrill was perceptible in the tumour itself. The patient’s neck appeared to be peculiarly long, and his tone of voice was higher and more shrill than natural. Previous history.—Until two years ago, he states, that he was free from any swelling of the neck. At that time, however, being 16 years of age, he began to work as a farm-servant, and simulta- neously with this, the swelling arose. It has gradually increased ever since, and of late has afforded him considerable uneasiness. He is a native of Carlisle, and states that he has been employed on a low marshy farm. In all other respects his health was good when he came to the Infirmary, and he expressed extreme anxiety to get rid of the dis- ease.—lie was ordered to take ten drops of the tincture of iodine internally, three times a-day ;—and an ointment consisting of hy- driodate of potass and camphor, of each 5ss, and of the unguentum hydragyri, and the unguentum simplicis, of each 3ss, was ordered to he applied twice a-clay over the tumour. May 9. Since last report, the above treatment has been continued. To-day, for the first time, there is considerable irritation of the in- teguments over the tumour, which is found by admeasurement rather to have increased in size. His system appears now to be affected by the mercury, which has been used externally only, and without much friction. The gums are tender, there is increased salivary flow, and the salivary glands are enlarged and painful. The bowels are open, the tongue is red, the skin hot and dry, the pulse is small, and he is in an anxious and excited condition. The inter- nal use of the iodine, and the application of the ointment to be dis- continued. Let him take night and morning the following medi- cine :—R. Pulveris Jacobi veri gr. iss.; pulveris Doveri gr. iij. M. Fiat pmlvis. 7 P.M. He has now had a severe and sudden attack of dyspnoea, which lasted some time. From this he was much relieved by his assuming the semi-erect posture, and by the inhalation of steam. 9 P.M. He has now had another attack of dyspnoea, but of a more severe and lasting nature. He complained of pain, and of a sense of constriction of the glottis. The epiglottis was felt to be erect and somewhat tumid, and he expectorated what was said to resemble thickened mucus. The attack of dyspnoea had been so severe, that it was deemed advisable by the resident clerk. (Mr J. W. Reid,) to propose tracheotomy, but to this the patient would not submit, as the urgency of the symptoms had at the time decreased. 11th May, 4 a.m. During the night he has had several severe at- tacks of dyspnoea, the last of which was so severe and protracted.that he is now glad to submit to the operation of tracheotomy. It was accordingly performed by the resident clerk in the following manner:—An incision of about two inches in length was made in the usual situation. The enlarged isthmus of the thyroid body was then felt, and avoided ; and, on deepening the incision, the trachea was found to have been pushed deeply towards the left side, by a portion of the right lobe of the gland, which at the same time over- lapped and covered it. An attempt was now made to raise this portion of the tumour from off the trachea, but this was found to be impossible, from the extent and adhesions of the tumour; an in- cision was accordingly made through it to reach the trachea, into which a sufficient opening was then made. On the tube being in- serted, the patient felt relieved, though at first much cough was ex- cited by the trickling of blood into the trachea and along the tube, which was much too short, although the longest in the house. The hemorrhage was very profuse, though principally venous in its character. It however continued, notwithstanding the applica- tion of pressure, for nearly two hours,—when Dr Handyside was sent for. It was then entirely arrested by increased pressure. The quantity of blood lost was supposed to be about a pound ; but from its having flowed on the bed-clothes, the exact amount of it could not be ascertained. The epiglottis and glottis were at this time felt by Dr Handyside, and there was no oedema.—The wound to he kept covered over with a light piece of linen gauze ; and 20 drops of the solution of muriate of morphia to he administered. At 10 A.M., he breathed easily, and entirely by the mouth and nares,—air passing through the tube only when a forced expiration was made. He had no dyspnoea when the mouth of the tube was closed by the finger. He still complains of pain in the region of the salivary glands and mouth. At noon. The tube was removed by Dr Handyside, without the slightest recurrence of dyspnoea. There has been likewise no return of the hemorrhage. Lint dipped in cold water was applied to the wound, and covered 11 over with oiled silk. He spoke at this time not in a whisper, but with a pretty full ; and strong voice. 8 P.M. He continues to breathe easily by the mouth and nares, and there has been no return of the dyspnoea, or of the hemorrhage. Pulse 140, soft, and small. Bowels opened hy an enema.—To have ! a draught, consisting of 3ss of the tinctura hyoscyami, ivhich is to ‘ be repeated if necessary. 11th May. He continues to breathe naturally, and has had no re- currence of the dyspnoea. The wound has assumed a glazed appear- ance from the effusion of lymph, and there has been no recurrence of the hemorrhage.— To ho.ve the following mixture. It. Spirit is12 aitheris nitrosi. %ss; aquas acetatis ammonias 5j; Misce.—Of this he is to take a teaspoonful every hour in a little water. 12th. The respirations are easy and natural; tongue dry and brown; bowels open ; the pulse remains as before; and the mouth and fauces are red and tender.—Continue the same care and treat- ment, and let him have in addition a gargle. \3th. To-day he has the usual symptoms of mild bronchitis. The wound has been kept carefully from exposure to the air, by a napkin applied round the neck. The ward also has been kept at as equable a temperature as possible. Air has had ingress by the wound, only when the dressings were being changed.—To be cup- ped between the shoulders to six ounces; and a blister 6 inches by 4 to be applied to the left hypochondrium, where he complains chiefly of pain. 14th. He refused yesterday to be cupped ; but is to-day much re- lieved, from the application of the blister. He now expectorates thick mucus, both by the mouth, and by the wound in the neck. 7th. Another blister to be applied on the same part. The wound is granulating well;—the discharge from it is healthy. 20th. The bronchitic symptoms are entirely gone. The wound does not now communicate with the trachea, and is cicatrizing rapidly from within outwards. He has had no return of the dyspnoea. The tumour is evidently diminishing in size. June 1. The wound is now all but cicatrized, there remaining only a small granulating fissure. The Bronchocele is now so much diminished in size, that the line and form of the stemo-mastoid muscles, and of the trachea, are visi- ble ; and the usual depression, constituting the jugular fossa, exists, Discharged—cured. Case 2. Spasmodic Dyspnoea from the Introduction of Sand into the Pharynx and Larynx:—Tracheotomy :—Recovery. Margaret Campbell, aged 17, a servant, was admitted into the Royal Infirmary, under Dr Haudyside, near midnight, on June 4, 1844. On admission, she was suffering from severe and continued dysp- noea, which undenvent frequent exacerbations. It was stated by the medical gentlemen who accompanied the patient to the hospital, that, about an hour and a half previous to the time of her arrival there, a handful of sand was thrown into her mouth by a young boy, while she was speaking to him.13 Some of the sand accordingly entered the pharynx and larynx, and soon afterwards she became suddenly affected with dyspnoea and violent cough. Since then, she had had continued dyspnoea, with frequent exacerbations; and the latter are becoming on each accession more severe. As the patient was now almost in a state of suffocation, and no adequate obstruction was found by the finger in the mouth or about the glottis, the resident clerk (Dr Fleming,) had immediate re- course to tracheotomy. No unlooked-for difficulties occurred dur- ing the operation,—a few particles of sand were discharged through the wound, before the tube was introduced,—and immediately there- after the patient felt greatly relieved. June 5, 9 a. m. She has passed a good night, having slept well.— An ounce of the following mixture luas ordered to he taken every third hour:—R. Sol. mur. morph. 5ss; vini antimonii gss ; mis- turce camphorce giv. Misce. At noon. She continues to breath partially by the mouth and nares, but chiefly through the tube. When the latter is closed by the finger, there is considerable dyspnoea. She expectorates freely by the tube, which is regularly emptied of the mucus, that would otherwise accumulate in it. Pulse rather quick, but otherwise natural.—To have the above mixture every second hour. 4 P. M. She complains of pain, of an inflammatory character, in the larynx.—Twelve leeches to he applied over the larynx. June 6, 10 A. M. She has passed a restless night. The symptoms of acute laryngitis became more marked this morning, there being- acute pain in the larynx, with the usual signs of inflammatory fever. —She vjas accordingly hied from the arm to 24 ounces. At noon. The pulse has become more frequent, but is now small and compressible.—The tube has now been removed, and she breathes easily by the mouth and nares. There is no oedema of the glottis. —She was ordered to take one of the following powders every 6th hour: R. Calomelanos, pidv. Jacobi veri, dd gr.iij. Misce. Fiat pulvis.—The mixture ordered yesterday was intermitted. 7th. She breathes easily by the mouth.—Continue the powders. Sth. Pulse 112, small, and weak. Perspiration profuse. The mouth has now become affected by the mercury. The wound is granulating well, under the tepid water dressing. She still complains of pain in the larynx.—Tivelve leeches to be applied aver the larynx, and the powders to be intermitted. 12th. The pain in the larynx is now gone, but there is superficial pain and swelling in the hyoid and submental regions. She has occasional cough, and still expectorates a little mucus by the natural passage. The wound is healing rapidly.—Continue the water dressing, and let a. poultice be applied below the chin and, rami of the lower jaw. Judy 1. Since last report the patient has progressed favourably.14 as far as the larynx and wound are concerned. A diffuse abscess which formed superficially in the submental region, has been eva- cuated by the knife, and the opening is now nearly closed. The wound from the operation is now also nearly closed, and there has existed for the last eight days no direct communication between the trachea and the surface. The patient’s voice remains husky. She is now taking wine and nourishing food. August 7. The patient, though dismissed only to-day, has been considered as cured for some weeks, as she has remained under medical treatment in the hospital, on account of a rheumatic affec- tion of the articulations of both the upper and lower extremities, accompanied by the usual debility. Her health is now restored, and her voice is natural. Discharged—cured. Remarks.—These cases present many points of interest to the pathologist, and of practical importance to the surgeon. In regard to the first case, there can be little doubt that the dyspnoea arose from a spasmodic affection of the muscles of the glot- tis, and not from change of structure in the lining membrane of the larnyx. The occurrence of tumours in the neck giving rise, in various ways, to dyspnoea, so as to have demanded the performance of tra- cheotomy, is by no means rare ; but in this case, the tumour was of such a nature, as to render the treatment complicated and difficult, and the ultimate result of it doubtful. The Bronchocele was simple in its nature, and had nothing pecu- liar either in its history or disposition, except in its having encroach- ed more on the trachea than might have been expected from its out- ward appearance. The treatment adopted for the removal of the thyroid enlarge- ment, was that which is found to be most efficacious when the tumour is of a simple nature, namely, the internal administration of iodine, with the external and topical application of the hydriodate of potass and mercurial ointments, with friction. The efficacy of this treat- ment was not, however, in this case, fairly tested, as it was not con- tinued after the operation was performed. On the day on which the dyspnoea occurred, the patient was found to be in an extremely excited and uneasy condition, resulting from the action of the mercury, which had affected the system solely by its external application; and this condition would predispose strongly to the occurrence of the spasmodic affection of the muscles of the larynx, which was excited by the irritation of, or recent and moder- ate pressure on, the recurrent or motor laryngeal nerves, by the still increasing Bronchocele.* * The recurrent or motor nerves of tho larynx, it will be remembered, lie imme- diately behind, and by the side of the trachea, at its upper part; and they would15 That tho dyspnoea arose from a spasmodic closure of the rima glot- tidis, and not merely from an inflammatory affection, is evident from the fact, that the dyspnoea was sudden and intermittent, having oc- curred without any previous affection of the larynx, or alteration of the voice, and also because there was no dyspnoea in the intervals between the fits; and farther, likewise, by the fact, that there was no affection of the voice, such as occurs in all inflammatory affec- tions of the larynx, whether acute or chronic. This consideration, indeed, is one of the chief points of interest in the case, from its showing how a Broncliocele may occasion dyspnoea to such an extent as to require the performance of tracheotomy, under circumstances too, where it has never, I believe, been hitherto performed. The operation of tracheotomy in this case was in itself both diffi- cult and uncertain, but no other alternative was left, except that of allowing, as must otherwise be done, the patient to die from as- phyxia ; and consequently, the operation was not only warrantable but demanded. The division of a portion of the Broncliocele, and the consequent profuse hemorrhage, were unavoidable, but at the same time, not necessarily attended by much danger; as pressure will be found in such circumstances, a sufficient hcemostatic, when it is firmly and methodically applied. The hemorrhage, however, in this case was rather salutary in its effects; as to it must be attributed the imme- diate, as well as the subsequent diminution in the size of the tu- mour, and the consequent removal or diminution of the pressure on the recurrent nerves, or on the trachea itself, which had given rise to the dyspnoea. The chief danger to be feared from the hemor- rhage in this case, was the entrance of blood into the trachea, and thence into the bronchi, as the depth of the former from the surface rendered the tube, which was the longest in common use, almost inefficient,—thus illustrating the great importance of having a tube of sufficient length for such cases ; as well as for others, where the parts over the trachea have become infiltrated and vascular. It is worthy of remark, that the tube was removed at noon, from there having been no return of the dyspnoea,—although the orifice of the tube had been intentionally occluded for some hours previously to its being removed. Moreover there was no recur- rence of the hemorrhage, an event which would also have con- necessarily suffer pressure from the increase of the tumour, either directly or througli the intervention of the trachea. That considerable pressure had been exerted on the latter, is evident, from its having been found forcibly displaced to one side, by that part of the tumour which embraced it so closely. The first efTect of this pressure would bo to irritate or stimulate the nerves, and thus to cause the spasmodic contraction of the muscles of the glotti.s, to all of which this nerve is distributed. Hence, closure of the •rima glottidis would result, giving rise to the croupy or crowing inspiration, with the difficult and prolonged expiration ; but after long-continued or severe pressure, tho op- posite condition—or paralysis of these muscles—would ensue, giving rise to sudden10 tra-indicated the removal of the tube at that early period ; but the surface of the wound had become rapidly covered with plastic lymph, and after this hemorrhage was no longer to be feared. It is interesting, also, to observe the remarkable diminution of the Bronchocele which occurred in this case. This was no doubt owing, in a great measure, to the extensive local bleeding which followed the operation, and to the subsequent contraction from the cicatriza- tion of the wound; though it may also have been due to the previous treatment, and to the change of locality which the patient had made. This case then shows that the pressure exerted by a Bronchocele may not only be sufficient to cause so much dyspncea as to require tracheotomy for its relief, but that the operation may be performed in these circumstances with success. The latter fact points out also the propriety of having recourse to this operation in those cases— not uncommon in districts where the Bronchocele prevails—in which the patient has begun to suffer severely from dyspnoea, as well as from the consequent affection of the lungs and heart,—and where either death has been allowed to take place from the severity of these symptoms, or where the unwarrantable operation of complete exci- sion of the tumour has been had recourse to, as the only apparent means of relief. In the second case also, the dyspnoea was of a spasmodic charac- ter, arising, however, not from primary or direct irritation of the muscles or motor nerves of the larnyx, but from reflex motor influ- ence, which was excited by the irritation,—from the particles of sand,—of the sensory nerves of the mucous membrane of the glottis, and of the neighbouring parts. After it had been ascertained that no foreign body was lodged above the rima glottidis so as to cause its occlusion mechanically, the line of practice to be followed was very evident; namely, the immediate establishment of an artificial opening into the trachea, to save the patient from being speedily asphyxiated. Much relief accordingly was felt as soon as the tube was introduced. The operation was thus performed as a measure of necessity, and on account of the dyspnoea alone ;—but it was also attended by an unlooked-for advantage, as a few particles of sand which had entered the trachea, were thus afforded an opportunity, though unintention- ally, of making their escape. That the latter advantage was not part of the object or design of the operation, is sufficiently evident from the fact, that information as to some particles of the sand having actually entered the trachea, asphyxia, from mechanical closure of the rima glottidis ; unless one only of the recur- rent nerves was affected, when the closure would be less complete. In tlio case, however, of the patient Dixon, the dyspncea evidently arose from spasm, and not from paralysis, of the muscles of the glottis.17 was obtained only after the operation had been performed, the symp- toms not having been sufficient to warrant the conclusion that these very minute foreign bodies were actually there. Indeed all the symptoms might have arisen, and probably did arise, from the lodg- ment of particles of sand in the mucous folds of the larynx, above the rinia glottidis, or even from what was not unlikely, the presence of a quantity of the sand in the lower part of the pharynx, behind the larynx;—as the lodgment of a foreign body there has been known to cause,—independent of the pressure which it exerted,— complete and fatal spasmodic closure of the glottis. Supposing, however, that in such a case, the existence of a few particles of sand in the trachea could be actually ascertained, the operation of tracheotomy would not even then be warrantable, as the rirna glottidis itself would be a sufficient aperture for their ex- trusion by the expiratory efforts, when the paroxysm of the dysp- noea was over; unless, as occurred in this case, the dyspnoea was so severe and continued, as to demand immediate operation. In regard to the true pathology of this case, it differs from that of the one first related, in so far as the first case presented some of the characters of laryngismus stridulus; whereas, in the second case, the spasmodic affection of the muscles of the glottis was severe and unintermitting,—the cause not being of internal or of idio- pathic, but of traumatic origin. It required accordingly immediate operative interference. The errors in practice which might arise from confusing such cases with those of true laryngismus stridulus, are sufficiently evi- dent ; since operative measures are not warrantable in cases coming strictly under the latter denomination, until, after repeated attacks of the dyspnoea, between which there have been intermissions, the patient is at length unable to struggle through the fit, and is in imminent danger of suffocation. Whereas, in cases such as that which forms the subject of these remarks, the operation is demand- ed almost at the beginning;—just as in the somewhat similar case of a foreign body of considerable size in the larynx or trachea, g ing rise to so severe and continued dyspnoea as to demand the per- formance of tracheotomy to obviate impending suffocation; and I need hardly remark, that to these cases also, the term laryngis- mus stridulus is inapplicable. The acute laryngitis which subsequently occurred, in this case, is to be ascribed to the violence of the primary irritation, and also, to some of the particles of sand having lodged in the neighbourhood of the glottis until they were removed by the viscid mucus which was expectorated. And it was not attributable to the entrance of unheated air by the wound, as an acute bronchitis would have been the more likely consequence of this, and as every precaution was taken to prevent the entrance of unheated air. The suppuration which afterwards occurred in the neck, it is worthy of remark, took place rapidly, and from this circumstance, c18 as well as from the reduced state of the patient’s system, the mat- ter was diffused in tho cellular tissue, the usual barrier of lymph being absent. A free incision was therefore made as soon as sup- puration seemed to have occurred, not only in order to evacuate matter which had already formed, but to prevent the formation of more, and the farther destruction of texture which would otherwise have resulted. III. ON AMPUTATION AT THE IIIP-JOINT. Case of Osteo-Medullary Sarcoma of the Os Femoris, for which Amputation at the Hip-joint was successfully performed:—with Observations. John Wright, aged 13, was admitted into the Royal Infirmary, under Dr Handyside, on 13th June 1843, with an extensive tu- mour of the left thigh-bone. On examination, the thigh was found to be much enlarged, especially at its middle, whence it tapered gradually towards each extremity. The tumour was hard and inelastic, connected evidently with the os femoris, and it occupied about the three middle fifths of that bone, leaving its extremities of nearly the normal size. Its surface was smooth and regular, and over it the muscles and other soft parts could be moved freely. The integument over the disease presented a some- what glistening appearance, but was not discoloured; and beneath it there appeared some faint blue lines, indicating distension of the superficial veins. The tumour was the seat of acute, darting pain, which became increased towards night, and also underwent, occa- sionally, severe exacerbations. The lymphatic glands of the groin, and of the rest of the body, were carefully examined, and found not to be enlarged or otherwise affected. The motions of the hip-joint were perfect, and were performed without giving rise to pain. The limb below' the knee was much emaciated. The countenance of the patient was sallow', and had an anxious appearance; and his tongue w'as of a bright red colour. His body generally was not much emaciated; and his health appeared on the whole to be good. Previous history.—Six years since, he had an attack of scarlatina, on recovering from which, the left thigh remained weaker than the other, and appeared also to be smaller in size. For this, the part had been rubbed frequently with various ointments. He continued to go about, othenvise quite well, till about six months ago, when, during the night, he was suddenly seized with violent pain in the thigh. Poultices were next applied to the affected part, and after- w'ards sinapisms, and a few leeches ; but under this treatment, the thigh increased rapidly in size. Since then, the tumour has19 gradually increased; and of late ho has experienced considerable uneasiness, from the frequent pain in it, and the deprivation of sleep thus occasioned. As amputation was the only method by which tho patient’s life could be saved, or, at least, prolonged,—and as the bone appeared to be affected at the trochanteric region also, as indicated by its apparent enlargement there, and by that region being the seat of stinging pain,—it was resolved that the limb should be removed by Amputation at the Hip-joint. Accordingly, on the 30th June, the patient having had a good night’s rest, and his bowels having been freely opened, the opera- tion was performed by Dr Handyside, at noon, in the following manner:—The patient was secured on his back, on the operation- table, with the nates resting on its edge. The right limb was held aside by one assistant, and the left extended by a second. The femoral artery was then compressed against the pubes, by the fingers of a third assistant, and the knife was introduced rather above midway between the anterior superior spine of the ilium and the trochanter major. It was then carried downwards, forwards, and inwards, passing close over, and grazing the capsular liga- ment and the neck of the thigh-bone; and the point of it was brought out at about two inches and a half from the anus. The anterior flap was then rapidly formed, being about from three and a half to four inches in length. This flap was then seized by the left hand of the third assistant, who thus more effectually prevented hemorrhage from the divided vessels, and who, at the same time, elevated and retracted the flap thus made. As the knife entered, the second assistant (he to whom was committed the charge of the limb) held it midway between abduction and adduction, then slight flexion was made by him, and subsequently, complete rotation inwards, as the knife advanced. On the completion of this anterior flap, the limb was immediately rotated outwards, by which movement the capsular ligament was fully exposed, and rendered quite tense, at it3 thinnest part, where it was struck by the knife, so as to pene- trate the cartilage covering the head of the bone. At the same moment, the limb was abducted and depressed, which made the ball of the os femoris start forwards from the acetabulum. The teres ligament, thus rendered tense, was divided by the point of the knife. The operator, then, grasping with his left hand the head of the bone, and maintaining it on a transverse plane with the neck and trochanter major, passed the blade of the knife behind these parts, dividing thus the remaining portion of the capsular ligament; while, at the same time, he completed the separation of the limb, by rapidly forming the posterior flap, which was of greater length than the anterior one. A small portion of the tumour, which was observed to remain on the divided surface of the posterior flap, was now carefully and completely removed. The hemorrhage from the sciatic and obtu-20 rator arteries and their branches, as these issued from their pelvic apertures, was temporarily arrested by the instantaneous and firm application of two dry sponges, which, during the ablation of the limb, two other assistants watched the opportunity to apply; and the bleeding from the many small vessels of the posterior flap was farther prevented by the quick application of the expanded hands of the second assistant, instantly on his dropping the amputated limb. The vessels of the posterior flap were secured by ligatures, previously to those of the anterior, the superficial femoral being tied last. Fifteen vessels in all required ligature. About six ounces only of blood were lost, and this flowed chiefly from the divid- ed surface of the ablated limb. The flaps were brought together by seven points of the interrupted suture; a pledget of dry lint was next applied,—and this was retained, while the stump also was supported by the application, around the loins and pelvis, of a broad cotton bandage. The patient bore the operation well; but symptoms of the shock exhibited themselves before he left the table, notwithstanding that stimuli to the amount of four ounces of brandy and two of wine were administered. He was replaced in bed, after about 15 minutes on- ly had elapsed since his leaving it, and the removal of the limb did not occupy more than about one-third of a minute;—although a tri- vial delay was occasioned at the moment when the limb was forcibly depressed, by the attendants having, in their desire to stead the patient’s body, drawn the nates backwards on the table, from which position he had to be again drawn forward. Soon after being placed in bed he became much excited, from the load of stimuli that had been given him during the operation; but on vomiting freely, he became quite calm. The pulse, however, soon began to sink, so that additional stimuli were administered. On this he revived, and about an hour and a half after the operation the pulse had risen to 115, and half an hour thereafter reaction set in.—An opiate, consisting of 20 drops of the sol.mur. morph., teas then administered, and repeated twice within an hour. At 4 o’clock p.m., he was asleep; and the pulse still continued at 115. At 9 p.m. the pulse was 125; at 11 p.m. 140; and at 12 p.m. 150. The respirations were 35 in the minute, and he perspired profusely. July 1. At 1 o’clock a.m. the pulse had risen to 156, and it con- tinued thus high till about 3 a.m., when it fell to 150. At 9 a.m., it was reported that he had slept most of the night. The pulse was found still to continue high, and an opiate ivas given, which has been since repeated. 3 p.m. The pulse has now risen to 160.—To have a full opiate, which is to be repeated several times during the afternoon and evening, and let a blister be applied to the chest, as slight catarrhal symptoms have shown themselves. July 2. He slept soundly during the night, and the pulse has21 fallen to 128. At noon, the pulse ranged between 140 and 150. The catarrhal symptoms are now gone. Sd. Pulse from 130 to 140. The tongue is natural; and the bowels have been freely opened. §th. Since last report he has continued much in the same condi- tion. His food has been light and farinaceous, and he has been al- lowed various cooling drinks. He has had opiates administered from time to time, and the boicels have been f reely opened by an enema. The stump has been Jcept cool and moist by cold applications, frequently changed. To-day the stump was dressed for the first time. Union by the first intention has taken place, except at three places where this was prevented by the ends of the ligatures. Two of the sutures were removed. A small quantity of pus was discharged at the parts al- ready mentioned, where primary union had been prevented. There was no hemorrhage. The tepid icater dressing to be applied to the stump. 12th. Since last report, the pulse has ranged between 110 and 120. After an enema—several of which have been given, containing assafcctida—he passed a large lumbricus. Three more sutures were removed to-day. The ligatures were tried gently, but all of them remained fast. There is some discharge from around the ligatures. Otherwise the stump is quite solid and free from pain. His appetite remains good, and his food consists chiefly of por- ridge and milk. It would be tedious to give the farther details of this case :—suf- fice it therefore to state, that the patient remained in the hospital till the 5th of August, during which time every thing advanced favourably. His diet during this time was chiefly farinaceous, with a little steak and wine occasionally; but these were discontinued, as they did not agree with him. His general health and appetite continued to improve daily; and during the last ten days that he remained in the hospital, he had an occasional airing in the grounds. The discharge from around the remaining ligatures continued healthy in character, and moderate in quantity, and the stump it- self became firm, and continued free from pain. On the oth of August, six weeks after the operation, he left the hospital, but remained in the immediate neighbourhood of Edin- burgh till the 11th of September. Soon after leaving the hospital he complained of occasional frontal headach, which was followed by pain in the left orbit and eyeball, with increased sensibility to light, and lachrymation. About the middle of August also, a small chronic abscess formed over the occiput. Towards the beginning of Septem- ber the pain in the eye and orbital region diminished; and he took exercise on crutches in the open air daily, using also the stump freely by sitting on it. On the 11 th of September he left the neighbourhood of Edinburgh22 for his home in Stir-, lingshire, in excel- lent spirits, and ap- parently in good health. The stump at this time felt a little indurated in the course of the lymphatics, where it had assumed a slightly glazed and full appearance, but otherwise it was na- tural, and entirely free from pain. It presented the ap- pearance, represent- ed in the accompa- nying wood-cut, co- pied from a cast made by Dr J. Mac- lean, the day be- fore the patient re- turned home. The first ligature came away on the sixth of July, and by the 11th of September, when he went home, only four of them adhered. These appeared to be held fast among the deep granulations, as there was no want of action in the stump. He was discharged from the hospital about six weeks after the operation, and returned home, in the condition above mentioned, about two months and a half after having left it. After his return home he continued to progress favourably, walk- ing about on crutches, till about the end of September, when the pain in the left frontal and orbital regions became so severe as to oblige him to remain in the house. At this time he was visited by Dr Handyside, who found that the functions of the patient’s left eye were much impaired, with prominence of the eyeball, and considerable tumefaction of the left eyelids. Three of the remaining ligatures were withdrawn, and the fourth—the only remaining one—when pulled, broke across, from its being held fast in the interior of the stump. The stump itself was nearly in the same condition as when he left the neighbourhood of Edinburgh,—only there protruded at the seat of the ligatures, a mass of cedematous granulations,— but it was still free from pain. Towards the end of October he was again seen by Dr Handy- side, who found him in the following condition:—23 The left eyeball was very prominent and discoloured, with almost complete loss of vision. The eyelids were so much tume- fied, as almost to conceal the eyeball,—and the veins of the eyelids were very conspicuous, being enlarged and tortuous. The orbit itself appeared to be also enlarged and prominent, especially to- wards its upper and outer part, forming there a hard inelastic swelling. These parts were the seat of continual stinging pain, which prevented sleep, and was fast undermining his strength. Three chronic abscesses were situated over various parts of the head. There was a tumour of the size of an egg on the left hypo- chondrium, which was firmly adherent to, and connected with the cartilages of the upper false ribs. It was slightly elastic to the feel, had grown rapidly, and was the seat of acute darting pains,— being, like the tumour of the orbit, decidedly of a malignant cha- racter. The disease seemed to be fairly begun in the stump, par- ticularly in that part of it which had been irritated by the long re- tention of the ligatures,—as, at the part where the last ligature had lain, a small, pale-coloured fungus protruded. The patient’s body, generally, was emaciated, and his strength was worn down by the continued pain, and the malignant hectic. To procure sleep, he had been for some time in the habit of taking frequent and full doses of the solution of the muriate of morphia. His appetite was not much impaired, as he had a great desire for food; but he was unable to eat much. He was now evidently sinking fast. He lived, however, getting gradually worse, till the 11th of November. No sectio cadaveris could be obtained. The patient thus lived for two months after leaving Edinburgh, and about four and a half months after the operation. Remarks.—In connexion with this case, numerous important considerations suggest themselves. In regard to the previous history of the case, it may be ob- served, that though the tumour commenced apparently only about six months before the patient presented himself at the hospital, the disease had existed probably for some time anterior to that. The left thigh and limb had, in fact, continued weaker than the other, for about six years subsequent to the attack of scarlatina,— an affection indeed which is not an unfrequent precursor, or even ■ cause, of such diseases in children. During the last six months, however, the expansion and growth of the tumour had been rapid, and when the patient did present himself at the hospital, it evidently partook of a malignant charac- ter; as was indicated not only by its remarkable advance in size, of late, and by its being the seat of acuto darting pain, but also by the appearance of the patient. At the same time, it had the cha- racter of the osteo-sarcoma, as indicated by the apparent great ex- pansion of the bone, or of the tumour connected with the latter,—by the absence of any softness or elasticity on the tumour being handled,—by the entire absence of any affection of the lymphatic glands in the neighbourhood,—by the soft parts and the integu- ment being freely moveable over the tumour,—and by the disease having shown no tendency to spread to and involve the integu- ment. On the last point it may be added, that some of the diag- nostic characters of the osteo-sarcoma, as distinguished from the osteo-encephaloma, (or true and originally malignant tumour of bone), are, that the former increases and spreads by continuity, being confined to the bone only, which becomes much expanded and attenuated, as was apparently the case in the tumour now under consideration;—whereas the latter, although it arises in the bone, yet does not confine itself to that tissue, but, after the part originally affected has become softened with- out much expansion, it extends and spreads more by contiguity than by continuity, so that, after having involved in its ravages all the various deep textures with which it comes into contact, it ultimately reaches the surface, the integument be- coming included in malignant ulceration. In the present instance, therefore, the appear- ances of the tumour favoured the opinion, that it, though now of a malignant nature, had origi- nated, and for some time advanced as an osteo- sarcoma,—the tendency to degeneration possessed by which having been increased, and its progress accelerated by the constant irritation of the tu- mour by the counter-irritants and rubefacients applied to it, and continued so long. On the muscles and other soft parts which la}r over the bone and tumour being dissected off, the disease presented the appearance represented in the accompanying sketch. On making a section of the tumour and bone, it was found to be of a somewhat peculiar nature, and to be different from what was to be expected from its external appearance. The shaft of the bone is entire, except near its middle, where it appears as if compressed by the tumour, which is external to it. The medullary canal is obliterated opposite to the bulk of the tu- mour, being filled up with apparently new osseous deposit; this, however, as well as the shaft of the bone, is more soft and sectile than natural. At about four inches from the lower epiphysis, the medullary canal is divided into lai’ge cells, in which sarcoma- tous substance has been deposited. The space also which in- tervenes between the walls of the cylinder, from the part surround- ed by the tumour up to the neck of the bone, is filled up with similar deposit. The section of the upper extremity of the bone25 presents the usual osseous cancelli, but these aro condensed and crowded, owing to the altered form of the head, nock, and trochan- ter. This alteration in form consists chiefly in the flattening and elon- gation, in a transverse direction, of the head of the bone, and in the nearly complete absence, from absorption, of the neck, the head at its upper arc being almost in contact with the great tro- chanter. The periosteum, which extends over and limits the tumour, is thickened and diseased, and this condition extends as high as the head of the bone. The morbid mass, which con- stitutes the tumour proper, lies between the shaft of the bone and its periosteum, having originated either in the latter texture, or in the outer lamina of the shaft. The former is the more probable view, since, in the substance of the periosteum it- self, both above and below the tumour, (where that investing membrane, altered by disease, sur- rounds the cervix, and also the lower fifth of the thigh-bone) may be recognised both osteo-sarco- matous and medullary tissue. In structure, the tumour appears to be a mixture of the osteo-sar- coma and of the fibro-medullary formation, there being distinct radiating bands between the surface of the bone and the periosteal covering of the tumour. Some of these strim are osteo-cartila- ginous, and others fibrous; and in the interstices of both of these are deposited the sarcomatous and encephalomatous substances. The teres ligament adheres firmly to the bone, and is healthy in texture. These appearances, presented by the section of the tumour and bone, are represented in the accompanying sketch. But the tumour having presented the appearance already describ- ed, when the case presented itself at the hospital, it was evident, that the only chance in favour of the patient’s life being saved, or at least prolonged, was the early and complete removal of the tumour;—it w?as therefore resolved to afford the patient this benefit. The question next arose, whether the limb should be removed by amputation in the upper fifth of the thigh, or by dis- articulation at the hip-joint; but there could be little doubt as to the propriety, or rather the necessity, of giving the preference to the latter operation, since the bone evidently appeared to be affec- ted as high as the trochanteric region. This fact was indicated by the symptoms already noticed. Had the operation of amputation through the trochanters been performed, the patient might have sustained with impunity the shock resulting from this at least equally severe operation—the26 flaps might have united by the first intention, and the stump might have remained well lor a short time,—but there can be no doubt that tho latter inevitably would havo early become one mass of malignant disease, as this would have soon increased with renewed vigour in the diseased portion of the divided bone, thus left be- hind,—would have soon extended to, and seized on, the surround- ing soft parts,—and, after involving the integument, would have protruded as a bloody fungus, so as to have carried off the patient more speedily, after all the dangers he had escaped, than if the ori- ginal tumour had been left unmolested. No doubt the disease did return in the stump after all, but this appears scarcely attributable to part of the tumour or of the local disease having been left behind, as is shown by its having first oc- curred in a distant part, and only subsequently in the stump itself; whereas, had the operation of amputation through the trochanters been performed, the local disease would never have been eradicat- ed, and the stump must have been the first part in which the dis- ease would have shown itself,—certainly ere many weeks had elapsed,—and in a more severe form than before. The preference was therefore evidently to be given to the opera- tion of disarticulation at the hip-joint, as by it only could the local disease be entirely removed. In arriving at such a determination in similar cases, the surgeon must, of course, keep in view the hazards which attend such a se- rious operation; though, at the same time, the dangers attending it, as compared with amputation through the trochanters, or at the upper fifth of the thigh, have been, I believe, much over-rated. Indeed, many of the fatal results which have followed its perform- ance, have not been due to the fact, that this operation in parti- cular had been performed, but to other causes. Previously to the present instance, the operation had been per- formed, I believe, in about fifty cases, of which sixteen were at- tended by complete success. A few only of these successful cases occurred in Britain; and the only l’ecorded instance in Scotland, where the operation has been attended with final success, is one which was performed by Dr Macfarlane of Glasgow, on account ot extensive injury of the left thigh, with compound fracture below the trochanters, occurring in a child only two years of age.1 k' The patient is now a stout and active girl.”2 There are published other cases, however, in which it cannot be said that the patients died from the operation, as they sur- vived its first effects, but were carried oft by diseases apparently unconnected with it. Six in number of such cases have been related, only one of which occurred in Scotland, being in the prac- tice of Professor Syme, and where the patient lived till the com- 1 See London Medical Gazette, vol. ix., p. 231. 5 Extract from a private letter from Dr Macfarlane to Dr Handysulo.27 mencement of the eighth week from the operation, but then died from ascites.1 The remaining cases were unsuccessful, as the patients died either some hours, or at least some days, after the operation. These occurred chiefly in military practice. In most of them the operation was undertaken for severe injuries, from gun-shot wounds, of the upper third of the thigh and trochanteric region; and in many of which the patients would, in all probability, have sunk from the extent of the shock and original injury, although the re- moval of the shattered limbs with the head and neck of the bone had not been attempted.2 Taking, then, even the statistics of the results of the cases where the operation has been performed, we see that one-third of the patients have recovered completely. This, however, is by no means a correct method by which to form our conclusions in regard to the operation ; as the deaths in some of the unsuccessful cases were clearly attributable to causes unconnected with the operation, and occurred a considerable time after it. Moreover, in many of those cases in which death occurred not long after the operation, the surgeon felt called on to remove the shattered bone by disarticula- tion, notwithstanding that the patients were previously so much enfeebled by the injury, that the chance of success was but small. To these considerations, it may be also added, that in almost all the cases in which the operation has been undertaken, death was otherwise expected speedily to ensue. It is commonly believed, that this operation is in itself much more severe and dangerous than that of amputation through the trochanters, or at the upper fifth of the thigh; but the difference between them is not so great as might at first sight appear. The flaps formed, the vessels divided, and surface exposed, are nearly the same in both; whereas in the former, the operation is much more easily and more rapidly executed, and the removal of a few inches more of the bone is attended with less shock and danger to the patient, than is the division of the bone by the saw, in its trochanteric region. Lastly, any greater fatality which may have followed the former, is due to the fact that the cases in which it has been performed have been much more complicated and dan- gerous, as well as more hopeless, than those in which the latter- operation has been practised. The superiority, also, of the opera- tion of disarticulation, in a case of disease of the bone, where there is suspicion of the upper end being affected,—as in the case which has given rise to these remarks,—is sufficiently evident. In regard to the easiest, safest, and best method of performing an operation of such magnitude and importance as Amputation at the Hip-joint, surgeons are not as yet entirely agreed. Very many 1 See Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, vol. xx., p. 25. 3 See Velpeau’s Elements de Mddecinc Opdratoire, 1832,28 different methods have been proposed and practised, but these may be referred to three principal methods, with their modifications ; excluding that by the circular incision, which was recommended and even practised by Mr Abernethy. It is also almost unneces- sary to notice the old preliminary practice of securing by ligature the common femoral artery, as adopted by Baron Larrey, this being now superseded by compression, effected by the fingers of an assistant. First, There is the method of making directly lateral flaps by transfixion, and cutting from within outwards; the disarticula- tion being effected between the formation of the flaps, as practised by Larrey,—the internal flap being first formed. This method has been varied by different surgeons. Thus, Langenbeck reverses the order of forming the flaps, by beginning with the external; and Dupuytren begins with the formation of the internal flap, by cut- ting from without inwards. Secondly, The method by the forma- tion of postero-external and antero-internal flaps, effected also by transfixion, and then cutting from within outwards, beginning with the external flap, but leaving the disarticulation till the end. This method is practised and recommended by Lisfranc, and has been followed by Mr Syme. It has also been varied by cutting from without inwards. Thirdly, The formation of antero-posterior flaps, the disarticulation being effected after the formation of the anterior flap. The anterior flap is derived partly from the inner side of the thigh, and the posterior one partly from its outer side. The last described method was practised by various surgeons, so far back as the year 1806, but in such a manner as not to have been generally adopted by subsequent operators, the anterior flap having been made of great length, and the posterior one cut very short. An improvement on this method, adopted by Mr Liston, is that which was followed in the present instance. As to which of these methods the prefei’ence should be accorded, the surgeon must be guided principally by the nature of the case. However, when circumstances will allow of it, the antero-posterior flap method,—just adverted to, and as described in the early part of this narrative,—will be found, I believe, to be the preferable one. The vessels divided are the same, and they are more easily secured than when the surfaces exposed are lateral,—the flaps are of more equal dimensions, and lie afterwards more accurately in apposition, —the articulation is more rapidly reached, and is exposed at a more favourable part for being opened,—the head of the bone is more easily dislocated, and the division of the ligaments more easily effected;—the removal, too, of the limb is completed with one instrument only,—and, finally, by this method the whole opera- ration can be much more easily and rapidly completed, than by practising any of the other methods. For these reasons, therefore, I would recommend the adoption of this mode, of performing the operation of Amputation at the Hip-joint. (To be continued.)29 IV.—CARIES OF THE TARSUS AND ANKLE-JOINT. The following Cases illustrate well the improvement which has been lately made in the treatment of disease of the bones of the tarsus and ankle-joint; and they may also assist in forming an estimate as to the relative merits of the operations of amputation below the knee and at the ankle-joint. Some of the Cases, at the same time that they add instances in proof of the advantages and safety of the latter operation, point out an important modification in its mode of performance. Case 1. Amputation through the Leg. Recovery.—Elisabeth Hut- ton, aged 12,1'rom Dunfermline, was admitted into the Royal In- firmary, under Dr Handyside, on March .SO, 1841, on account of disease of the right ankle-joint. The soft parts around the joint were much swollen. Several openings existed on each side beneath the malleoli, through which the probe passed readily into carious bone. The discharge was not profuse, but the patient was becom- ing hectic. Two years and a half before admission, the joint be- came swollen without any assignable cause. Six months afterwards it became very painful, and continued in this condition for a year, when the openings formed, and matter was discharged. On the 12th of April, a consultation of the Surgeons was held on the case, when it was agreed to amputate through the leg. Next day the operation was performed through the middle ef the leg. The flaps were made by cutting from without inwards. Seven vessels required ligature. After the operation, the hectic declined l’apidly; the flaps united by the first intention, except at their margins merely; and the patient was dismissed, cured, on the 80th of April. Case 2. Amputation below the Knee. Recovery.—Cecilia Grant, aged 15, was admitted on March 22,1842, on account of disease of the j left foot. There was considerable pain, redness, and swelling over the ankle and tarsus; and, on the inner aspect of the latter, fluc- tuation w’as perceptible, but no opening then existed. About thir- teen months before admission, the ankle and foot became swollen and painful, and had continued so, notwithstanding appropriate treatment* Openings were made by Dr Handyside to evacuate the matter, and through these the bones of the tarsus were found, on examination by the probe, to be in a carious condition. The pa- tient became hectic, and, as this increased, it was agreed, at a con- sultation of the Surgeons, that amputation below the knee should be performed. This was done, on the 25th of April, by Mr Miller, in the absence of Dr Handyside. The flaps had healed partially by the first intention, when, on tho fourth day after tho operation, they became inflamed, and were attacked on their margins by pha- :getlsenic action, which was at that time prevalent in the hospital.30 Powerful escharotics were applied, after which the stump again be- came healthy; and the patient was dismissed, cured, on the 28th of May. Case 3. Amputation through the Leg. Recovery.—Caroline Hamil- ton, aged 18, was admitted on March 6, 1843, with disease of the left ankle-joint. The joint was stiff and immoveable, the soft parts around it were much thickened and swollen; over it there were se- veral ulcers, leading into sinuses, and also several unhealthy cica- trices. On passing the probe through the sinuses, the bones of the ankle-joint were found to be quite carious, and the lower extremity of the tibia seemed to be diseased for a short way above the ankle. The disease had existed for about twelve years, and the patient had formerly refused to submit to amputation when proposed to her in the Royal Infirmary by Mr Liston. She continued in the hos- pital under palliative treatment till the month of August, when she consented to submit to amputation. At first sight, the case appeared to be one fitted for the opera- tion at the ankle-joint, which had been performed some time pre- viously by Dr Handyside, in the case next related; but, from the disease appearing to affect the tibia for some way above the joint, from the great swelling of the soft parts, and from the ulcerated and otherwise unhealthy condition of the integument all around the joint, it was thought advisable to amputate some inches higher up. Accordingly, on the 1st of August, Dr Handyside performed ampu- tation somewhat below the middle of the leg. The posterior flap was formed by transfixion, and by cutting from within, and an ample covering for the bones was formed. Five vessels required ligature. After the operation, the patient’s health improved rapidly, the flaps united by the first intention, except at their margins; and the patient was dismissed, cured, on the 22d of September. Case 4. Amputation at the Ankle-joint. Recovery.—George Mac- donald, aged 19, from Lanark, was admitted on April 25, 1843, ou account of disease of the right foot and ankle. There was consider- able swelling of the soft parts around the joint, and the latter was the seat of acute pain. Sinuses existed on each side of the joint, through which the os calcis and astragalus could be felt to be in a . ® ^ carious condition. The disease was of two years’ standing, and was originally caused by a severe sprain. The patient refused to submit to amputation till the month of July, when the pain became more severe, and hec- tic had set in. The case was reckoned favourable for the operation of amputa- tion at the ankle-joint, which was accordingly performed by Dr Handyside, on July 11th, in the following manner:—A strong bis- toury was entered in front of the joint, and midway between the malleoli. From this point an incision was carried forwards over31 the side of the instep in a semicircular direction, and then down- wards to the middle line of the foot, terminating immediately in front of the ball of the heel. The extremities of this incision were met by another and a similar one on the outer aspect of the joint, the second one terminating where the first had been commenced. The flaps were then dissected backwards,—the tendo Achillis was easily divided at its attachment to the os calcis,—and the separa- tion of the foot was readily accomplished. The malleoli were re- moved by the saw, and along with them about one-eighth of an inch of the lower end of the tibia, although the cartilaginous sur- face of the latter was not diseased. Two vessels were tied, these being the anterior tibial and external plantar arteries. After the introduction of the sutures, which were five in number, the flaps covered the bone completely, and the ball of the heel was situated, as in the antero-posterior flap operation, below the extremities of the bones. A bandage was then applied to support the stump. The flaps united almost entirely by the first intention, and a month afterwards the patient could rest his weight on the stump. The ball of the heel continued to form an excellent cushion beneath the ends of the bones. The cicatrice was situated vertically on the fore part of the stump, and it did not exceed two inches in length. The leg was only an inch and a half shorter than the other, so that the patient could walk easily with a high-heeled padded shoe. The accompanying sketches represent the line of one of the two similar incisions made in this case, and the form of the stump and leg, as copied from a cast taken upwards of two months after the operation.32 Case 5. Amputation at the Ankle-joint. Recovery.—Andrew Scott, aged 8, from Leith, was admitted on June 4, 1843, on account of disease of the left ankle. The joint was enlarged, painful, and dis- torted. An opening existed below the inner malleolus, through which the probe passed readily into the joint, and detected a cari- ous condition of the astragalus. The affection arose, it was stated, from a sprain which he received six years before admission. On the 11th of June a sequestrum was felt loose beneath the inner malleolus, and it was removed easily by dilating the opening. The sequestrum was found to be part of the astragalus, which was again felt to be quite carious. A consultation of the surgeons was held on the case, when it was recommended to delay amputation, and to try the application of the red oxide of mercury. On July 26tli, he was sent out of the Hospital by DrHandyside; and as the case did not improve, but still appeared to him to be one requiring amputation, he then performed the operation. This was done on the 14th of August, and exactly in the same manner as in the case last described. Two vessels only required ligature. The flaps united by the first intention, and a month afterwards the pa- tient was walking freely on the stump. On examination afterwards, the as- tragalus was found to be almost en- tirely destroyed by disease, and a large carious cavity existed in the upper portion of the os calcis. At present the boy walks with per- fect ease and freedom with a high- heeled and padded boot, and he can rest the weight of the body on the naked stump without the smallest in- convenience. The cicatrice is about an inch and a half in length, and has not suffered at all from pressure. The ball of the heel remains beneath the ends of the bones, and forms an excel- lent protection for them. The leg is much smaller than the other, from the partial wasting . of its muscles, which are now no longer required, and it is exactly an inch and a half shorter than the other. The accompanying sketch repre- sents the form and length of the stump, and the difference in size, which now exists, between the legs.Remarks.—The two cases fivst related occurred at a period when, for caries of the tarsus and ankle-joint, amputation through the leg was regarded as the established practice here as elsewhere. In Cases 1 and 3, amputation was performed not immediately below the knee, as most surgeons recommend, but in accordance withtherecommendation of Professor Fergusson of London, through, or rather below, the middle of the leg; as in my opinion, also, this part should be selected in preference to the former, when the sur- geon has his choice. The danger to life is thus less,—the stump, if well formed, is equally comfortable,—and afterwards the limb is more serviceable, owing to the patient having free use of the knee- joint. In Case 3, although previously the importance of amputation at the ankle-joint for caries occurring there, had been demonstrated by Professor Syme, and although the latter operation had been, as already stated, previously performed by myself, I preferred, for rea- sons already given, amputating a few inches higher up. It was after- wards seen that, as far as the bones were concerned, the opei’ation at the ankle-joint might have been performed, but previously the efficacy of it seemed to me so doubtful, as not to warrant the att empt. Moreover, the danger attending the operation which was performed, though greater than that incurred by the operation at the ankle- joint, is not, I believe, as already stated, nearly so great as that which attends amputation immediately below the knee, which ope- ration most surgeons would have regarded as the alternative in these circumstances; and I regretted the less being obliged to amputate through the middle of the leg, as after the latter opera- tion the limb, with the appropriate apparatus attached to it, is 1 equally useful to the patient as after amputation at the ankle-joint,— the motions of the knee being equally preserved in both. The operation of amputation through the leg is no doubt more dangerous to life than at the ankle-joint,—as is shown by the fact, that out of upwards of twenty cases in which the operation i has been performed in this city, all the patients except one have i recovered. But it appears to me to be an important observation, which is well illustrated by the results of the operations in Case 1, 2, and 3, that the disproportion in the fatality would be much de- creased, were we to reckon only those cases of amputation through 'the leg in which the operation at the ankle-joint might have suf- ficed. And accordingly, most of the fatal cases in which the • former operation had been performed, would be found to be those where the latter was quite inapplicable, such as for acute gangrene of the foot—for severe injuries at the ankle, attended with exten- sive contusion and laceration of the soft parts— and for necrosis •severe compound fractures, &c., occurring in tho lower or middle thirds of the leg, which do not by any means generally roquire am- putation through the thigh or above the knee.34 It follows, therefore, that the operation of amputation below the knee will still not unfrequontly bo required,—as amputation at the ankle-joint cannot supersede it in nearly all cases, and as the operation of amputation through the condyles of the thigh-bone, as lately recommended by Mr Syme,1 cannot properly supersede it in the remaining ones. The greater safety of amputation at the ankle-joint over that through any part of the leg, is sufficiently accounted for by the comparatively small extent of the part removed by the former ope- ration, and by the consequent slightness of the shock,—in accord- ance with the still established rule in surgery, that the danger is diminished proportionally as the amputation is distant from the trunk. It has lately, however, been conjectured by Mr Syme,2 that much of the safety attending the operation at the ankle, as well as near other joints, is due to the circumstance, that the cancellated texture only of the bone is divided by the saw, and that the me- dullary canal is not opened into. This would be an observation of considei’able importance in surgery, were it established. But the reasons which I have given above for the greater safety attending the ankle-joint operation are so obviously sufficient, that it is quite unnecessary to have recourse to any theoretical explanation in ad- dition. It may be that there is less risk incurred by the division of a bone through its cancellated texture than through its shaft; but we are still in great want of statistics sufficient to prove this. The results of amputation at the ankle-joint, as compared with that through the leg, cannot prove it, for reasons already given; neither for like reasons would it be proved, although the operation through the condyles of the thigh-bone was found to be less dan- gerous than that through its shaft; and it will be difficult to find those who will believe that, cceteris paribus, amputation below the knee is more dangerous than amputation through the condyles of the thigh-bone,3 or that amputation through the trochanters of the latter is more safe than amputation through its shaft, until it should be proved by the evidence of statistics. The operation of amputation at the ankle-joint was performed many yeai’s ago by various surgeons in France,4 5 by the formation of antero-posterior as well as of lateral flaps, but generally in such a manner as not to afford a sufficient covering for the ends of the bones. The projection of the malleoli formed one of the chief obstacles, but this difficulty was overcome by M. Baudens, ’ who practised 1 See Monthly Journal for May 18*15. 2 See Monthly Journal for August 1844 and for May 1845. 3 See Monthly Journal for May 1845. * See Mddecine Op6ratoire, by Velpeau, 1832. 5 See Medecine Optfratoire, by Bourgery, 1840.35 ami recommends removing them by the saw, and along with them part of the articular surface of the tibia. A still greater improvement, however,—that of taking the cover- ing flap from behind, so as to make the soft parts of the heel cover and protect the ends of the bones,—seems also to have been first practised in France. This method is described by Dr T. King of London.1 “The operation,11 says he, “might be performed by ruakine a short flap in front, by a semicircular incision, extending from one malleole to the other. As the internal malleole descends less than the outer one, the joint should be opened on that side; the astragalus being luxated, the covering flap should be carved out of the soft parts of the heel. The removal of the malleoles would allow an ample covering for the stump. Lisfranc, in his lectures, mentions a man on whom this amputation had been performed, who could walk ten or twelve miles a-day with great ease.”2 The merit, however, of introducing this operation into regular practice, is more especially due to Professor Syme, of this city. He ’ was, 1 believe, the first surgeon who performed it in this country,3 —who showed the importance of the operation,—and how it ought, in many cases, to supersede the operation of amputation through i the leg. According to the method practised by Mr Syme,4 the soft parts of the heel are included in the posterior flap, and the flaps meet : transversely in front of the anterior margin of the lower end of the tibia. The cicatrice, however, is thus necessarily exposed to the pressure of the latter part, and of the bases of the malleoli, and also to the front of the boot or shoe. According to the method described in Case 4, the ball of the heel is also included, but the flaps are so formed as to meet vertically in front. The cicatrice thus—which afterwards does not exceed from an inch and a half to two inches and a half in length—lies between the soft part of 1 Cyclopedia of Practical Surgery, article “ Amputation,” 1837. 2 Since writing the above, my attention has been directed to some observations on this subject in the Periscope of the Northern Journal of Medicine for September 1844 among which there is an interesting quotation from M. Malgaigne’s Manuel de Mede- cine Operatoire, 1834, which the above quotation very much resembles, and which also .goes to prove, that the practice of including the soft parts of the heel in the posterior flap was at least recommended first in France. M. Malgaigne writes as follows, page -247:—“Nous ferions done un tres-eourt lambeau en avant, par une incision demicir- culaire aboutissant au bord posterior de chaque malleole. Puis l’articulation serait at- taquie par le coti interne dont la malle'ole descend moins de quatre lignes que l’autrc et, la disarticulation achevde, on taillerait le lambeau aux de'pens de la peau du talon* plus propre que tout autre, apres la guerison, it soutenir le poids du corps. Et si les mallioles faisaient trop obstacle a la reunion, nous ne verrions aucun inconvenient a les •retrancher, et h obtenir ainsi le moignon le mieux conformi et le mieux revetu de tous ■ceux qui risnltent d’amputations faites a la jambe et it la cuisse. M. Lisfranc dit dans <sos cours, qu’il a pu examiner un homme araputi dans cctte articulation qui avait con- ■servi la flexion de la jambe, et qui pouvait, sans inconvenient, fairo quatre ii cinq lieues par jour.” 1 3 See Monthly Journal for Feb. 1813. 4 See Monthly Journal for August 1814.36 the stump and the soft padding of the boot. By the latter method, also, there is no danger of sloughing of any part of the stump, as the posterior tibial artery is not divided, so as to cut off the prin- cipal vascular supply, but only its divisions into the two plantar arteries; whereas, by the former method, the trunk of the poste- rior tibial artery may be divided, and thus give rise to the serious consequence of at least partial sloughing of the posterior flap,—as happened in two cases related by Mr Syme,1 —the vessel having been divided accidentally in the one case, and intentionally in the other. The operation can be much more easily and rapidly performed by the method of antero-lateral flaps, as the dissection of the os calcis from the soft parts of the heel is thus much more easily ef- fected;—the great bruising and twisting of the soft parts which occurs in the other method of disarticulation is thus happily avoid- ed, and primary union is thus more likely to take place. The ope- ration could, if necessary, be still farther facilitated also by incis- ing the pad of the heel backwards from the point where the two antero-lateral incisions meet. This would not interfere much with the subsequent usefulness of the stump. In the method by antero-lateral flaps, moreover, should union by the first intention not be complete, the matter is allowed to drain off freely from the lower commissure of the flaps, so as to render quite unnecessary the establishment of an opening through the integument of the heel,—the formation of which is recommend- ed by Mr Syme,2 in the method by antero-posterior flaps,—if, in- deed, it has not been formed accidentally or unavoidably3 during the tedious and difficult dissection which is required to separate the os calcis from its attachments. In removing the malleoli, it is better to employ the saw than the cutting pliers; as, along with these points of bone, a thin slice of the lower end of the tibia ought always, in my opinion, to be removed. When the articular extremity of the tibia is diseased, this evidently must be done,—the surgeon then has no choice;4 but even when the cartilage of the tibia is sound, as in Case 4, I would advise its removal, as it will accelerato the healing process, more especially if union by the first intention should fail. 1 See Monthly Journal for August 1844. 3 Ibid for April 1843. 3 Ibid. 4 See Ibid, for a case by Mr Syme, the first in which he seems to have removed part of the lower end of the tibia. Edinburgh, 45 York Place, 1st October 1845. ( To be conli.iued.)37 V.—Ovariotomy. By Dr Bennett and Dr Handyside. (From, the Edin. Med. and Surg. Journal, No. 167.) History of the Case previous to the operation. By Dr Bennett. Jessie Fleming, unmarried, aged 20, residing in Crail, was admitted into the Royal Infirmary under Dr Bennett, July 5, 1845, recommended by Mr Crabbe, Surgeon. She states, that eighteen months ago she first perceived a tu- mour in the lower part of the abdomen, deep seated in the middle of the hypogastrium. She remembers that she could push it aside in various directions without pain, and that at this time it was about the size of an orange. She can assign no cause for its ap- pearance. The tumour rapidly increased in bulk, until at the end of ten months the abdomen was greatly distended, so much so, that respiration and progression were rendered difficult. Para- centesis was now performed, and forty imperial pints of a viscid yellowish-coloured fluid were removed. The abdomen, however, again rapidly increased in size, and paracentesis was again had re- course to. The operation has now been performed six times, the intervals between each becoming less and less lengthened, and the amount of fluid, though always considerable, varying in amount. She says that immediately after every tapping a tumour can be felt about the size of a child’s head on each side of the abdomen; that these tumours (she thinks there arc two,) are moveable la- terally, but seem to grow from below. She thinks the one on the left side is larger and higher up than that on the right. Her ge- neral health has been little affected by the disease. A,38 At present, July 6tli, site complains of pain in the head, which is stated to be dull and heavy, and seated principally over the forehead. It comes on occasionally, and lasts for three or four days at a time. She has pain in the loins very frequently, espe- cially when the dropsy is large. Special senses and common sen- sibility normal. Her sleep is much disturbed by breathlessness, and by the semi-erect posture the dropsy requires. Motion is impeded by the size of the abdomen, and from its great weight. There is much muscular weakness. The abdomen measures 48^ inches at its largest girth, which i3 just above the navel. It fluctuates distinctly. Dulness of the liver cannot be defined by percussion. The skin of the abdo- men is marked by transverse fissures or marks of a purplish colour ; it often feels very hot and as if it were bursting; tongue clean; appetite a little impaired ; no thirst or sickness ; bowels regu- lar ; stools somewhat fluid, but of healthy aspect ; urine scanty, thick, high coloured, of acid reaction, containing a yellowish brown sediment, but unaffected by heat; skin dry, not warmer than usual. She states that she never perspires. Has no cough or pectoral complaints except dyspnoea, which is very severe at •night. On auscultation the chest appears to be healthy. Pulse 88, sharp and small ; heart’s sounds apparently abrupt, but na- tural. The catamenia have appeared at irregular intervals, some- times of three weeks, at others five weeks, and when present are profuse. From this time she remained generally in about the same con- dition. The urine passed in the twenty-four hours never exceed- ed twelve ounces, and on one occasion was as low as six ounces. The abdomen gradually became more tense and the dyspnoea more urgent. Ii2th. Mr Syme performed the operation of paracentesis of the abdomen. The trocar was introduced to the left of the linea alba, about two inches above the pubic bone. Five imperial gal- lons of a yellow-coloured transparent fluid were removed. The last four ounces which came off were viscid like white of egg, and contained a few yellowish opaque flocculi. The fluid was densely coagulable on adding heat or nitric acid. The flocculi when examined with the microscope were found to be composed not of lymph, as was at first supposed, but of nu- merous cells, varying in size from the T&ath to ^th of a milli- metre in diameter. The great majority were about ygtli of a mil- limetre. They were slightly granular, of round and oval shape, unaffected by water, but becoming more transparent on the addi- tion of acetic acid, and exhibiting a distinct nucleus about ijgth of a millimeter in diameter. The nucleated cells were imbedded in a granular matter which could easily be broken down.39 Shortly after the operation, she complained of considerable pain in the abdomen towards the left side, which was not increased on pressure. Fifty minims of tincture of opium to be taken imme- diately. 7 p. M. Experiences pain over the abdomen analogous to cramps, not increased on pressure. Pulse between 70 and SO. Opii gr. i.; Pulv. Antim. gr. ij.; Con. Aromat. q. s. Ft. nil. 4ia kora samend. Mittantur vi. 13th. To-day has felt considerable trembling and faintishness, which were relieved by tightening the roller. Bowels not reliev- ed since yesterday morning; pulse 100; pain in abdomen very slight, not affected by pressure ; has passed forty-eight ounces of urine since yesterday ; vomited her breakfast; tongue much furred. The pills were stopped ; and one drachm of the compound jalap powder was directed to be taken immediately. 14th. Passed a good night, and has now no pain in the abdo- men ; but there is considerable tenderness on pressure towards right side, where the swelling appears to be greatest. Passed fifty ounces of urine. No powders have been taken since the morning of the 12th. Bowels freely opened by jalap powder. Breath- lessness. loth. Passed a restless night, having experienced much nausea and vomiting. She also felt considerable pain in the right iliac and hypochondriac regions. The pain still exists, and she says is much increased on pressure. The source of pain is very deep- seated ; is certainly not in the peritoneum. The puncture is now healed; the abdomen is still voluminous, but soft. On palpation, a tumour with distiuct margins, about the size of the adult human head, may be distinctly felt, firmly attached inferiorly within the pelvis, but its upper portion moveable to a considerable extent from side to side. She describes the pain as being of a dull, gnawing, and continued character; not lancinating nor increased on movement. Pulse 98, of natural strength; tongue slightly furred ; has tolerable appetite ; no thirst, but says she vomits everything she takes. The matters vomited are thrown up about ten minutes after each meal, in successive mouthfuls, accompanied by gnawing pains at the stomach. These latter pains are felt under the false ribs on the right side. The stomach is often felt to be distended, followed by considerable eructations of gas; bowels have been open four or five times ; urine much increased in amount since the operation ; to-day she passed thirty-eight ounces. On the 10th passed ten ounces of urine, on the 17th sixteen ounces. The compound jalap powder was directed to be given again. July 18th. To-day she was carefully examined by Professor Simpson, who employed his uterine bougie. By this means the40 fundus of the uterus was raised above the brim of the pelvis, where it was distinctly felt presenting its obtuse, rounded, natural form. The Professor stated his opinion that the tumour was connected to the left ovary by a narrow pedicle. Urine ten ounces. 19th. The examination of yesterday was followed by great pain. She described this as being “ tremendous,” and seated in the back. The nurse says she cried out as a woman in labour. About two and a half hours afterwards a draught containing one drachm of so- lution of morphia was given. It relieved the pain, but it con- tinued until lip. m. An anodyne and ether draught was then given, which was immediately rejected by vomiting. Since the examination the vomiting has been more urgent; everything taken has been brought up en masse, and there is still dull pain on pressing deeply into the right hypochondriac and iliac regions. Urine sixteen ounces. The powders were stopped. She was directed to take three times daily one ounce of a mixture consisting of one drachm of medicinal naphtha, three drachms of tincture of foxglove, three of spirit of nitrous ether, and five ounces of water. 20th. Urine twelve ounces. 21st. Urine ten ounces ; still complains of vomiting. Seven leeches were applied to the epigastric region. 22d. Leeches bled well; vomiting continues ; it comes on now ten minutes after taking meals, but sometimes sooner; it is more quickly excited when fluid is taken than when solid food only is swallowed ; for the last eight months has had occasional vomiting, and since entering the house it has become more frequent and continued ; no pain on pressure of the epigastrium ; the stomach is much distended with air; there is frequent eructation of gas in considerable quantity; twenty ounces of urine passed since yester- day’s visit.; the fluid in the abdomen is again increasing; the tu- mour can be felt very moveable ; it can be pushed freely from one side of the abdomen to the other, and seems only attached by a long pedicle ; considerable pain in back. Continue powder. U Pulv. Opii gr. ij.; Creosoti. gtt. ij. Ext. Taraxaci q. s. Ft. pil. ii. 1. h. s et post hor. vj. si opus sit. 23d. No vomiting yesterday after the visit. Complains of pain in the back and some cephalalgia. Passed thirty-six ounces of urine. A plaster of extract of belladonna was applied. 24th. Urine eighteen ounces; presents a more copious sedi- ment of urate of ammonia; it is high coloured. Acid reaction on litmus ; copious orange-coloured sediment, which is dissolved on addition of heat or nitric acid ; no vomiting. 25th. Urine twelve ounces. 26th. Urine eighteen ounces. 27th. Urine twenty-four ounces. 28th. Urine sixteen ounces.41 09th. Twenty-two ounces. 30th. Twenty-six ounces. 31st. Ten ounces. August 1. Urine sixteen ounces. August 7th. Since last report the amount of urine passed daily has diminished to from ten to twelve ounces, whilst the increase of fluid in the abdomen has gradually rendered respiration difficult. To-day this fluid was removed by Dr Duncan. A trocar wras introduced in the mesian line, above the pubes low down. Five and a half gallons of yellow slightly viscid fluid were removed. Towards the end the viscidity of the fluid was increased, and floc- culi, as on the last occasion of tapping, were observed. Exami- nation of the flocculi microscopically presented the same appear- ances as on the last occasion. Fluid the same chemically. Soon after the operation she experienced considerable pain in the back and over superior portion of abdomen, which was not in- creased by pressure. Pulse became quick and full. At 8 v. M. she had experienced no relief, and was ordered half a drachm of the solution of muriate of morphia in the form of draught imme- diately, and repeated at midnight if necessary. August 8th. The pain ceased at midnight. Had little sleep. To-day slight pain under false ribs of left side ; otherwise easy. Pulse natural. She has passed more than fifty ounces of urine. August 9th. Passed a good night; slight pain in abdomen on pressure. Amount of urine less than yesterday, but not measured. August 16th. Since last report has been in the Surgical Hospital. Dr Bennett proposed to the acting-surgeons severally the operation ofovariotomv, which they declined to perform. To-day, accordingly, she returned to the medical ward. During the interval her gene- ral health has been good. The fluid in the abdomen, however, is again accumulating. By a careful examination the tumour can be ascertained to be quite free from adhesions to the anterior walls of the abdomen. These latter can be pulled forwards and held steady, while the tumour is made to roll free beneath. Passed dur- ing the last 24 hours eighteen ounces of urine. The liver was care- fully percussed. Its extreme dulness in the right hypochondrium is three inches ; it is pushed considerably upwards, the upper line of dulness being on a level with the nipple. She denies ever having suffered from dyspeptic symptoms, or so-called attacks of bile; and her general health is in every respect good, and the amount of urine discharged diminishing. Her genera] health is not so robust as when she first entered the house. Dismissed from the infirmary August 24th. The fluid of abdo- men somewhat increased in amount. September 2d. After leaving the house she went into lodgings, having been placed by Dr Bennett under Dr Handyside’s care. The fluid gradually accumulated again, and for the last three days has rendered respiration difficult. Yesterday, paracentesis was42 performed by Dr Handyside, and about four gallons of fluid were removed. The character of the fluid was exactly the same as on former occasions, except that the flocculi were not so large and numerous. About an hour after the operation considerable pain in the abdomen came on, which continued until 2 a. m. this morn- ing. notwithstanding two anodyne draughts. To-day is free from pain. Slight cephalalgia. Bowels not open since yesterday morning. September 3d. This evening a consultation was held; present Dr Handyside, Dr Simpson, Dr Spittal, Mr Crabbe, and Dr Ben- nett. Patient is doing well; no pain ^ tumour very moveable, and distinctly felt, as after previous tappings. The propriety of ovariotomy was agreed on, Dr Handyside having now satisfied himself that this was a case urgently calling for the performance of that operation, and feeling that lie could no longer conscien- tiously decline the proposal to this effect, previously made to him by Dr Bennett. To have half an ounce of castor oil. September 4th. Partly vomited castor oil. Bowels open only slightly ; is in good spirits; face pale and a little anxious. B. Ext. Colocynth. c. gr. x.; Ext. Hyoscyam. gr. v. Ft. pil. iii. s.s. A domestic enema in the morning. September 5th. Bowels opened four times during the night, the last time at 8 this morning. In good health and spirits. Tongue clean. To-day the operation was performed by Dr Handyside, in the presence of Dr Beilby, Dr J. Y. Simpson, Dr W. Camp- bell, Dr A. D. Campbell, Dr Baillie, Dr Bennett, Mr Goodsir, and Dr Struthers. Description of the operation and subsequent treat- ment up to October 3d. By Dr Handyside. The operation was performed at half-past 12. The tempera- ture of the room was raised to 72°. The patient was placed on a table before a good light, her feet resting on a stool, and her shoulders raised and supported by pillows. The other necessary arrangements for the operation having been made, Dr Handy- side, now, standing to the right side of the patient, made, with a strong scalpel, an incision of about three inches in length through the skin and subcutaneous cellular tissue, midway between the umbilicus and pubis, and over the linea alba. This incision was deepened carefully, the linea alba divided, and the peritoneum reached. A fold of this membrane was pinched up with the for- ceps, and a small opening made into it. Through this opening some glairy fluid escaped, indicating that the cavity of the abdo- men had been opened. With a probe-pointed bistoury the peri- toneum. was now slit open to the extent of an inch less than the43 external wound. A large quantity of the glairy fluid then escap- ed, which occasioned some delay. Through this opening Dr Handyside now introduced two of his fingers, in order to ascer- tain that no adhesions existed on the anterior surface of the tu- mour. None being felt, the wound was now dilated upwards for other three inches. This was done with a probe-pointed bis- toury, which was guided by two fingers introduced into the abdo- men. Through this opening Dr Handyside now introduced his whole hand, in order to ascertain whether the tumour was adhe- rent at any part of its surface. The hand was passed over, around, and down to the pedicle of the tumour, and the latter was found to be attached only by its pedicle, which was felt to be small. The operation was therefore proceeded with. From the size of the tumour it was evident that a large opening was required for its removal. Accordingly, the wound was extended upwards to ra- ther more than midway between the umbilicus and the ensiform cartilage, and downwards to within two inches of the symphy- sis pubis,—the probe-pointed bistoury being employed as be- fore. In dilating upwards, the umbilicus was avoided, the incision passing to the left side of it. Through the large opening the fundus of the tumour now presented, and the charge of it was committed to Professor Simpson, who drew it gently outwards. At this time, as well as before and after, care was taken to pre- vent protrusion of the intestines. This was done by Mr Good- sir, who, with both hands, pressed the edges of the wound down- wards and backwards against the intestines and from the tumour. On the anterior aspect and fundus of the tumour were now ob- served several round smooth-edged apertures, through which some of the glairy fluid was seen to escape, being of the same character as that which had flowed from the peritoneal cavity, but rather more viscid in consistence. One of these openings was dilated with a bistoury, which allowed of the escape of a large quantity of the glairy fluid. This had the desired effect of diminishing con- siderably the size of the tumour. The pedicle of the tumour was next examined, and it was found to consist of the left broad ligament of the uterus, somewhat elongated and enlarged, but not altered in texture. The uterus was seen to be of normal size, though of a rose-red colour, and to be unconnected with the tu- mour, except through the medium of the ligament. The pedicle of the tumour being now put on the stretch by exerting slight traction on the latter, a strong curved needle, in a fixed handle, and carrying a strong double ligature, was passed through its middle. The double end of the ligature being divided, each half was tied separately, so that each included one-half of the pedicle. Some delay was occasioned by the difficulty experienced in tying the ligatures, as the elasticity of the part included caused the first44 half of the knot to slacken before the other half could be thrown. The tumour now required to be removed. This was done by cutting carefully with a scalpel at about an inch beyond the part surrounded by the ligatures. In doing so a cyst, which had ex- tended down to the pedicle, was necessarily opened, and some more of the glairy fluid escaped. During the division of the pe- dicle venous blood escaped freely from the tumour, but, after the removal of that latter, no bleeding occurred from the divided sur- face of the pedicle, although the mouth of at least one large artery was visible. The right ovary was now examined, and it was found to be enlarged to the size of a walnut, and to contain seve- ral small cysts. Accordingly Dr Handyside proceeded to remove it also. A needle carrying a double ligature was passed through the middle of the ligament of the ovary, and the ends tied sepa- rately in the same manner as on the other side. No bleeding fol- lowed the division of the ligament beyond the ligatures. The portions of the broad ligaments which were left were unaltered in structure. The four ends of ligature attached to each broad li- gament were now tied together around the latter, and then three of the ends cut off so as to leave one only from each side hanging at the lower angle of the wound. The blood mixed with the re- mainder of the glairy fluid was now sponged carefully out of the lower part of the abdomen and the pelvis, which were exposed. The peritoneum lining the abdominal wall, as well as that cover- ing part of the intestines, was now examined, and seen to be of a red colour, as from congestion or chronic inflammation ; but on no part was there any mark of the effusion of lymph. Beneath the part of it which lined the abdominal wall, the appearance as of numerous ecchymotic spots was visible. Part of the intestines which were seen towards the termination of the operation, though they did not protrude, were quite natural in their appearance. All oozing of blood from the incisions in the abdominal wall having ceased, no vessel having required liga- ture, the edges of the wound, with the careful exclusion of the peritoneum only, were approximated and retained in accurate ap- position by means of twisted sutures, ten of which were employed. Corresponding parts of the edges of the incision were indicated by the dark points and cross lines which were previously marked with the nitrate of silver, and which, on the now flaccid skin, were found to be of great use. A long pad of tint was now laid, as a com- press, along each side of the wound, and a lighter one over it, and these were retained by broad strips of adhesive plaster. Lastly, over these pressure was made, and support given, by the ends of a double many-tailed bandage, which had been placed under the patient before the operation began, and which were crossed and pinned alternately at opposite sides of the abdomen. The patient45 was then placed in bed, a dry blanket having been previously wrapped round the thighs and pelvis. The patient bore the ope- ration well. At one time she felt faint, but syncope never oc- curred, so that no stimuli were given. The pulse never sunk be- low SO, but remained most of the time between 90 and 100. The operation occupied in all about forty minutes. Fifteen of these were occupied in the preliminary incision, examination and re- moval of the large tumour,—five in the removal of the small one, and twenty in sponging out the pelvis, introducing the sutures, and applying the compresses, straps, and the many-tailed roller. September 5th,* 1^ p. m. Pulse 60. To have one drachm of the solution of muriate of morphia. 3 p. m. Pulse 90, and of good strength. 4 p. m. Pulse 90, and full. She complains of acute pain of abdomen. To have two grains of solid opium in pill. 5 p. m. Pulse 100, and full. To have another grain of opium. 9 p. m. Pulse 100, and soft. The pain of abdomen now ceased on her being turned in bed. Eight ounces of urine with- drawn by the catheter, several ounces having been passed at 5 p. m. 12 p. m. Pulse 100. She complains of thirst. She has had no sleep as yet. To have one drachm of the solution of muriate of morphia. 6th, 1 a. m. She complains of sickness, and has made some efforts to vomit. For this a drop of hydrocyanic acid was given. 8 a. M. She has had some more vomiting. The fluid vomited is thin, and of a green colour. No sleep as yet. To have half a drachm of the solution of muriate of morphia. 10 a. m. She has lain in a drowsy condition during the night, but has had no sleep. Pulse 122, of moderate size, and soft; tongue rather dry ; less pain of abdomen. Four ounces of urine withdrawn, some having been passed during the night. 2 p. m. Pulse 134, full, but soft. Complains of difficulty of breathing, from a feeling of constriction of the chest. 9 p.m. Pulse 148, full, and rather strong. Difficulty of breath- ing increased. Pain of abdomen less. She was now bled from the arm until the pulse became soft and compressible. She was bled in the recumbent posture, and twenty ounces were taken. After the bleeding the breathing became easy. Was ordered twenty drops of black drop. lip. m. Pulse 160, small and vibrating. She has passed urine twice during the day. 7th, 9 a. m. She has had some hours sleep towards morning. Passed urine freely during the night. Pulse 130. 2 p. m. Pulse 140. She has as yet taken no nourishment since the operation, except a little warm coffee. To have some warm * Froni ti i, lime up to the loth the case was treated in consultation.by Drs Handy- side, Bennet?, J. Y. Simpson, W. Campbell, and Messrs Crabbe and Goodsir.4G gruel. Fifteen drops of the “ black drop” were now given, as she was restless and irritable. 9 p. m. Pulse 130. Has passed urine three times during the day,—the quantity each time being about four ounces. The ban- dage was now loosened for the first time. Some scro-purulent fluid oozed from around the ligatures. Except where the latter intervene the wound seems to be united throughout. The ban- dage was replaced, as she complained of a feeling of tightness of the abdomen. To have some beaf-tea and toast. 8th, 9 a. M. She has slept several hours during the night, and passed urine twice; pulse 120, and not so soft as before; skin hot and dry; complains of griping pain in abdomen; no mo- tion of the bowels as yet. An enema of warm water to be admi- nistered. 2 p. m. Pulse 120. The enema has acted twice, but no in- testinal matter has come with it. Griping still continues. The compresses were removed, and the wound dressed for the first time. Union by the first intention has taken place throughout, except where the ligatures interpose. Some sero-purulent fluid oozed from around the latter. Light compresses were applied along the side of the wound, and retained by a few straps, and the bandage was again replaced. 9 p. m. She has slept some time since last report. Passed urine twice during the day ; bowels again moved in the after- noon, but no faeces in the stool; pulse 120- It may be here stated, to save repetition, that she continued to pass urine regularly and freely, the quantity gradually increasing. 9th, 9 a. M. She has passed a good night, but her sleep has been occasionally interrupted by tormina, which caused several watery stools, with the passage of flatus. Pulse 120 ; skin cool. Has had some arrow root with new milk. She has also been troubled with flatulence and eructation, for which she was order- ed half a wine glassful of a mixture of equal parts of milk and lime water occasionally, and she is to have “ Dalby’s carminative,” one drachm for a dose, if the flatulence continues. 2 p. m. After a dose of each of the above the tormina and fla- tulence diminished. The wound was again dressed. The tepid water dressing was applied to the lower part of the wound. No tenderness of abdomen. 9 p. M. Had bread with milk to dinner. Bowels moved, and feculent matter in the stool. 10th, 9 a. m. She has slept a good deal during the night. Pulse 130, and soft ; respirations 35 ; tongue white and fur- red ; complains of tormina ; wound discharging freely around ligatures. The three lower alternate needles were removed, and their places supplied by straps of adhesive plaster. rl o have chicken broth for dinner.47 1 p. m. Complains of great tormina and restlessness. R Bismuthi Alii 5ss.; Olei Anisi m. iij. ; M. et divide in pit. vi. One of which she is to have every three hours. 6 p. m. She has had since last report twro copious feculent stools. She is now irritable and restless; skin dry ; tongue furred ; expression anxious. Let her have three grains of genuine James’ powder with two grains of calomel. 9. p. M. Pulse and general condition as before. There is now tenderness of the abdomen, which is elicited by pressure over the iliac regions. This was the first symptom of local inflammatory action. Twenty-four leeches were ordered to be applied,—and after the bleeding lether have gr. iij. of the Pidv. Jacobi Ver. and gr. i. of opium in pill, which is to be continued till the pain is abated and the frequency of the pulse diminished. 11th, 9 a. m. The leeches bled well last night. One of the pills was given, and in addition, two grains of solid opium during the night. After the bleeding she felt relieved, and she has pass- ed a tolerable night; pulse 130, but softer; respirations 35, easy and full ; skin moist ; iliac region still the seat of pain though less than before. Twenty leeches to be applied, after which let her have three grains of genuine James’s powder, with half a grain of opium, which is to be repeated at noon. To allay thirst let her have some soda water with raspberry vinegar for drink. 2 p. m. Leeches bled freely, and she feels again relieved. The remaining sutures were removed, and union by the first intention is found to have taken place throughout. Discharge from around the ligatures free. Had milk and tea with rusk to breakfast, and to have broth for dinner. 9 p. m. Pulse 128 ; respirations 22. 12th, 9 a. xi. Has had three of the opiate pills. Slept seve- ral hours towards morning ; starts during her sleep, and awakes unrefreshed ; pulse 120 ; tongue covered with whitish fur ; skin warm and moist ; wound discharges small sloughs of a blackish colour amongst the pus. 9. p. xr. Pulse 120. Has had two opium pills during the day. She has slept occasionally. Bowels not open. To have half an ounce of the electuary of senna, and afterwards the yolk of a soft boiled egg. 13th, 9 a. m. Has passed a pretty good night. Bowels not yet moved, but she had an enema of warm water, which has just come away, but without bringing any faeces with it. Pulse 116 : tongue cleaner. To have half an ounce of castor oil. 9 p. xi. Has had five bilious stools since the castor oil was given. Feels much relieved. Has had beef-tea for dinner-48 Pulse 108 ; tongue cleaner ; has occasional hiccough; fla- tulent distension of the abdomen, which appeared yesterday, has subsided. To have sixty drops of the Sol. Mur. Morph. 14th, 8 a.m. Has slept several hours during the night ; pulse 108. 10 a. m. Pulse 120. lias taken an egg with rusk and coffee to breakfast. Wound discharging freely. 9 p. M. Pulse 102. Has had four scanty bilious stools since morning; complains of tormina and eructation. 15th, 9 a. m. Has had no sleep during the night; pulse 100; skin natural. To have two of the bismuth pills ordered on the 10th instant, and some beef-tea. 9 p. m. Has had two scanty motions of the bowels ; no eruc- tations since the bismuth was taken ; pulse 118. To have twenty drops of the Lancaster black drop. To have farinaceous food only for the present. 16th, 9 a. m. Has had several hours’ sleep. Has had other two bismuth pills, as the eructation returned during the night. Wound discharges freely sero-purulent matter, mixed with dark flocculi; pulse 108. 9 p. M. Has had one free motion of bowels. Has had other two of the bismuth pills. To have one drachm of the Sol. Mur. Morph. 17th, 9 a. m. Has slept well during the night ; pulse 118. 9 p. m. Pulse 120 ; tongue natural; she feels comfortable. 18th, 9 a. m. Has passed a restless night; but has no particular complaint except a little cough. Bowels once opened during the night; pulse 120. On auscultation no abnormal sounds could be detected. A sinapism to be applied to the sternal re- gion. 9 p. m. Cough still present; pulse 120, full and soft. To have one grain of opium with three grains of James’s powder in- stead of morphia ; and to have a bottle of hot water to the feet. Bowels twice opened during the day. 19th, 2 p. m. Passed a good night. Had beef-tea and calf’s- foot jelly for dinner. Pulse 120 ; has still a little cough ; dis- charge from wound very free, amounting to about three ounces at each dressing. 20th, 2 p.'m. Had 80 drops of the Sol. Mur. Morph, last night. Slept well ; pulse 112; tongue covered with whitish fur, but moist skin, rather hot and dry ; bowels open. 21st. 9 p. M. Was restless last night. She is annoyed by irre- gular cough ; had three motions of bowels during the day. Has had 20 drops of the black drop, with the yolk of an egg- Sinuses discharging freely. 22d, 9 p. m- Feels better; pulse 120; skin cool; tongue 449 clean. Had two ounces of steak allowed for dinner to-day, with beef-tea and toast. 23d, 9 p. m. Had an opiate last night, after which she slept well. Has been restless during the day, with want of appetite ; pulse 120 ; discharge free. About three and a-half ounces of pus escaped at the dressing. The pus escapes more freely when she is raised in bed, and when slight traction is made on the ligatures. Coimh continues ; no expectoration ; no rales audible in chest. 24th, 9 v. M. Slept well last night after the usual opiate. Had two ounces of minced collops for dinner. Appetite rather im- proved ; bowels open ; pulse 120, and sharp. To have 15 drops of the black drop, with one drachm of the Aq. Acet. Ammon. 25th, 9 p. m. Slept well last night. Had dinner to-day as yester- day. To have a little porter. Draught to be repeated to-night. 26th, 9 p. m. Feels better to-day; pulse 13 6; tongue clean ; respirations 32, and thoracic ; appetite improved ; bowels open thrice during the day. 27th, 9 p. M. Had her opiate last night, and slept well. Has been troubled a good deal with eructation. She is now able to sit up in bed during her meals, and to read in bed. 28th, 9 p. m. Slept well after the draught last night. Eructa- tions removed by a dose of the hydrocyanic acid. Bowels open twice during the day, and with tormina. For this she had 20 drops of the Sol. Mur. Morph, in half a glass of wine, made into negus. She sat up in a chair to-day and read for some time. The cough is now attended with slight mucous expectoration, but there is no pain of chest. Discharge less to-day. To have a grain of opium with three grains of James’ powder, and to have no more malt liquor at present. 29th, 9 p. m. Slept well last night, but has been troubled a good deal with cough during the day. There is a scanty expectoration of clear, and sometimes of tough greyish-yellow tenacious mucus. She complains of soreness of the throat, extending down the larynx and trachea, but the fauces seem natural. On examination of the chest, the respiratory sound is normal, but loud anteriorly, and es- pecially in the upper parts of the chest. In the lateral regions it is less distinct; and posteriorly, especially in the lower parts, very feebly heard, and it is there almost inaudible during expiration. There are a few sonorous rales in the anterior part of the right axilla, on a line with the nipple, during inspiration. Pulse 112. To have a grain of opium. 30th, 9 p. m. Feels easy ; appetite improved ; still some cough ; pulse 120. To have 20 drops of the black drop, with a drachm of the Aq. Acet. Ammon. October 1st, 9 p. m. Slept well last night; bowels open ; pulse 130. To have an opiate. 2d, 9 p. m. She feels weaker, and has less appetite to-day ; but50 still took two ounces of roast mutton with bread for dinner. Bowels thrice opened during the day; pulse 120. To have a grain of opium. Tiie remainder of the Case is reported Dr Bennett. October 3d,* 2 p. m. Dr Bennett on again taking charge of the patient found her pulse 120, weak; the discharge from the wound copious and foetid ; considerable diaphoresis and diarrhoea, the bowels having been open four times since last night’s visit; and with loss of appetite. To have half an ounce of wine every two hours until the evening. 9 p. m. Has taken the wine regularly. Face somewhat flushed ; pulse 112, of greater force; appetite improved; bowels open twice since morning visit. When she coughs air is sucked in, and forced out of the wound during expiration and inspiration. She feels the ligatures gnawing. On pulling the right ligature gently it cameaway together with a slough about three inches long, and the diameter of a crow quill. A quantity of pus followed, but no blood. The end of the ligature embraced the two loops which enclosed the halves of the pedicle. Immediately after the dressing the pulse was counted to be 132; ten minutes after it sunk to 114. This is the twenty-ninth day after the operation. To have a grain of opium. Omit wine. 4th, Notwithstanding the pill had a restless night. Dis- charge from wound abundant; pulse 132, weak; no appetite; bowels open four times during the morning; cough less trouble- some. Considerable morning perspirations. Percussion of the chest every where good. No rales could be detected any where. Respirations short; chest not fully expanded. Infcriorly and posteriorly the inspiratory murmur is harsh, and the expiratory murmur is prolonged over the whole chest. Vocal resonance clearer than usual on the right side. Heart’s action fluttering. To have a dessert spoonful of wine every two hours. Rice pudding with one egg. At night a dessert spoonful of castor oil. 5th, 2 p. m. Passed a tolerable night. Has taken wine regu- larly. Vomited the castor oil last night. Bowels have been open twice this morning. At present she complains of the cough, which causes her much pain in the seat of the ligature. The dis- charge from wound is abundant; pulse 140, soft; tongue clean ; respirations hurried. Continue wine. 9 p. m. Dr Alison was invited to meet Dr Bennett and Dr Spittal in consultation, and he saw the patient at this visit. Bowels open five times since the morning; stools loose and fe- culent, with streaks of mucus floating in them; pulse 130, * Dr Handyside at this period went into the country, leaving the farther surgical treatment of the case to Dr Struthers.51 fuller. A thin purulent discharge squeezed from the wound. No tenderness of abdomen. To have one of the following pills every eight hours :— R. Palo. Opii gr. i.; Pulv. Plumb. Acet. gr. ij.; Pulv. Ipecac, gr. ss. Ft. pil. Continue wine. 6th, 2 p. m. Has taken three lead and opium pills, which have checked the diarrhoea. Tongue clean; pulse 140, weak; morn- ing perspirations. Omit pills. 9 p. m. Bowels have not been opened since taking the pills. Pain in the seat of ligature always induced on coughing. Pres- sure in the left iliac region causes pus to exude plentifully. Edge of the opening is somewhat wider, and the skin surrounding it is the seat of an erythematous blush, over a space the size of half a crown. Poultice to the wound. Continue wine. Meat soups, and nutritious diet. 7th, 2 p. m. Discharge from the wound this morning amounted to about two ounces. Pulse 140, soft; appetite improved; re- spiration hurried and thoracic. 9 p. M. On placing the trunk in a semi-erect posture pus flows freely from the wound without pressure. Pulse 130, very soft; feels weaker; bowels have been open three times during the day; stools natural, but soft. Skin covered with a damp sweat. Increase the wine to a tablespoonful every two hours. Repeat the Pil. Opii c. Plumb. 8th, 12 a. m. Bowels open once last night, and twice this morning. There is still cough, which is now followed by a tough expectoration. Occasional mucous rales are heard on inspiration over the posterior surface of chest. The inspiratory murmur, how- ever, is generally harsh and dry; the expiration prolonged. Pulse 128, of greater strength. Discharge from wound less copious. 9th, 9 P. m. Since last report has been much the same. Dis- charge from wound this evening copious and thicker, mixed with small portions of slough. 10th, 2 P. m. On tightening the ligature, which is still firmly at- tached, about three ounces of thick greenish offensive pus flowed from the opening. On examining chest, a crepitating rale is heard for the first time about the middle third of left back, and inferiorly, sonorous rale, both with inspiration and expiration. Over the right back the respiratory murmurs are generally harsh, with increased vocal resonance, but no rale. Sputa are tenacious and slightly tinged of a rusty colour. To lie on the face as much as possible. To take a tablespoonful every four or five hours of the following mixture :— %>• Mucilag. f}\.; Syr. Simp. Vin. Ipecac., aa. gss.; Sol. Mur. Morph. 7/\j.; Aq. font. M. 9 p. m. The report of this evening visit is in the words of Dr Struthers. Dr Bennett was not present. “ For the last three52 days the ligature lias been pulled regularly at each dressing, with the view of at least accelerating its separation, but it has always firmly resisted the attempts at extraction. To-night, however, it suddenly yielded, when it was being firmly and steadily pulled at. The patient cried out that some one had struck her a severe blow on the belly, and she experienced considerable pain for a short time afterwards. The ligature was then entirely removed, having the same appearance as to loops and ends as the last one. No slough came with or after the ligature, but in the pus which pre- ceded it were seen numerous flakes of dead tissue. Not a drop of blood followed the extraction of the ligature, neither was the latter itself tinged with it. Considerable pressure was made by pads over the iliac fossa and the umbilical region, so as to direct the pus towards the external opening. A little more force was used to bring away the ligature than is usually had recourse to in surgical practice ; but it was thought to be very desirable that the ligature should come away, as the great discharge and irritation to which its presence apparently gave rise were evidently reducing the strength of the patient.” This is the thirty-sixth day from the operation. 11th. 2 p. m. Amount of discharge from wound increas- ed, amounting this morning to four ounces, of foetid odour, mixed with shreds. Pulse 130, fuller; tongue clean; appetite improved; thirst less; bowels open once. Wine to be dimi- nished to two drachms every two hours ; omit lead and opium pills. Ik Opii gr. i.; Acid. Gallici gr. ij. Ft. pil. One to be taken every eight hours. Ik Acid. Sulph. Dil. 3ij.; Tr. Digit. Jiij.; Sol. Mur. Morph. 3ij.; Aq.font. §xvj. A tablespoonful every three hours. 12th. 2 p. m. No material change. Bowels open once. 13th. 2 p. m. Cough has been very troublesome this morn- ing ; respirations still rapid and thoracic; expectoration tena- cious, and slightly tinged with blood of a rusty colour. In right side of chest posteriorly, a distinct crepitating rale may be heard with the inspiration, and short sonorous rales with the ex- piration. Skin hot; pulse 140 ; tongue clean ; bowels open once. Says that she is constantly hungry. 14th. 2 p. m. Much the same. No blood in sputa. 15th. 9 p.m. Less cough ; pulse 120 ; bowels open twice; respiration still frequent and catching ; no dulness on percussion could be determined. On left back, near spinal column in the middle third of chest, there is a space about the size of the hand, where both respiratory murmurs are harsh and exaggerated, with the vocal resonance of a shrill character. Crepitating rale has disappeared. A blister to be applied to the left side early in the morning.53 Oct. 20th. 2 p. m. Since last report there has been a marked im- provement in all the symptoms. The blister rose well, and the cough and respiration have been easier. Mixture was not given. About one ounce of pus is discharged at each dressing. She has been eating animal food with appetite, and sitting up for an hour and a half daily. Last night she complained of severe tormina, increased on going to stool, and took one of the gallic acid and hyoscyamus pills. To-day the pain is still present occasionally. No tenderness on pressing abdomen. Bowels open three times last night and this morning. Blister nearly well. To have a gallic acid and opium pill. 21st. 2 p. m. Has been taking vinegar and water three times a day for a few days.* With the exception of occasional tormina, doing well. Omit vinegar and water. 27th. Has had no tormina, and has been doing well since last report. To-day she was removed to another lodging in a car- riage, under the care of Mr Crabbe, and bore the journey remark- ably well. 28th,| 9 a.m. Expression of countenance much improved. Pass- ed a tolerable night ; had slight cough during the night, with no expectoration ; chest examined with great care ; respiration audible over the whole of the back, but more obscure on the right side inferiorly than on the left. Under tire inferior angle of left scapula, over a space about the size of the palm of the hand, there was a distinct crepitating rale, loudest with inspiration. The vocal resonance here is also increased in intensity, but less so than formerly ; and there is marked dulness on percussion. Anterior- ly, bronchial respiration diminished. The inspiratory murmur is unusually harsh, but there are no anormal rales. Pulse 114 ; in other respects well. The wound discharges freely. 29th, 11 a.m. Passed a good night; discharge from wound slight; pulse 108; bowels open twice since yesterday. Ab- sence of respiration over right back inferiorly, as high as lower angle of scapula; vocal resonance not increased ; crepitating rale in left back diminished ; little cough, very scanty expectoration. §> Pulv. Digit, gr. i.; Sulph Quinines, gr. iss. M. Ft. pil. Sumat ii. in die. Applied. Emp. Lyttce lateri sinis- tro 2£ p. m. 30th, 11 a. m. Night somewhat restless, having experienced griping pains in the abdomen ; bowels open at 9 this morning, since which the pains have diminished ; tongue clean ; blister was applied yesterday, but did not rise well ; has no cough or expectoration ; takes a breath without difficulty ; respirations 36 in the minute. On sitting up, matter flows freely from wound. This had been given probably with the best intentions, but without the know- ledge of the medical attendants, by a pupil who was assisting at the dressings. f From this period the case was treated in consultation by Drs Alison, Spittal, Bennett, and by Mr Crabbe, whose attention throughout the case was most assiduous. n54 On pressing abdomen, an indurated, undefined swelling is felt bencatli integuments immediately to the left and below the umbili- cus. On pressure over the induration, the flow of matter is acce- lerated. About half an ounce of thick good matter discharged this morning. No tenderness ; but feels slight pain on pressing deep. November 1, 11 a. m. Has been doing well. At present feels easy; pulse 106, soft ; tongue clean ; respirations 26 ; on cough or expectoration. About two teaspoonfuls of good pus sponged from wound. 4^ i’. m. About 1 o’clock, feeling excessively hungry, she took half a teacupful of arrow root, a small piece of roast beef, half a pint of strong soup, and a small piece of bread, without the nurse being aware of it. Immediately afterwards she experienced se- vere griping pains over the whole abdomen, followed by vomiting of the matters taken. She was seen by Mr Crabbe, who adminis- tered a few drops of the 01. menth. pip., which produced some re- lief, and ordered warm fomentations to the abdomen. After vo- miting the pulse sunk to 80. At present the griping pains occur frequently with loud borborvgmi. Abdomen somewhat distended, and generally tympanitic above the umbilicus. A curve of intes- tine is very prominent, and clear on percussion. Continued firm pressure on abdomen gives relief. Frequent vomiting of a green- ish fluid. Pulse 100, soft. Cries for relief. Dr Spittal, who was sent for at this time, administered five grains of opium, in the form of suppository. 2d, 12 m. Pain in abdomen only occasional. Had a good night. Still occasional sickness, bringing up a few mouthfuls of mucus. Tongue clean. An injection was given at 10 a. m., which has not yet come away. Pulse 98, soft. Injection to be repeated, with a little salt in it. To have beef-tea and toast for dinner. 8 p. m. There has been no stool since 6 p. m. on the 81st. During the day there has been frequent retching, with discharge of mouthfuls of mucus. The coil of intestine noticed in the re- port of yesterday still prominent in abdomen, and tympanitic. Marked difference between fulness and distension above umbili- cus, and flatness and collapse of abdomen below it. Pressure with points of fingers causes pain ; but she is very irritable. Has had two injections, which have been for the most part retained, but no evacuation has been produced. Had nothing to eat; drank only a little coffee. Pulse 108 ; no shivering. Fomentations to ab- domen. Pi. Calomel, gr. viij.; Gum. Opii gr. ij. ; Con. q. s. Ft. pil. ij. Sumat una stat. sumend. Four pounds of warm water to be injected slowly. If no motion by 12 o’clock to have a tobacco enema ; six ounces of boiling wa- ter to fifteen grains of tobacco. lip. m. Injection of water was given about a-quarter of an hour55 a<*o, and returned immediately, with much flatus and some small pieces of feculent matter. Uneasiness in abdomen has been re- lieved since. Had one of the calomel pills at 9 p. m. Pulse 100, of pretty good strength. Tobacco enema not given. Repeat the injection at 1 a. m., and again at 3 a. m., if bowels are not moved. Repeat calomel pills at 2 a. m. if requisite. 3d, 8 a. m. Slept occasionally during the night, and vomited twice. About 3 a. m. was very restless, threatening to get out of bed. Two injections have been given, also another pill, but no faeces have passed. At present countenance anxious ; and pulse 120, smaller ; tongue furred ; great thirst ; no appetite ; still distension of upper part of abdomen, especially the knuckle of intestine formerly mentioned. There is slight tenderness on pressure. Twelve leeches to be applied to the abdomen. Tobacco in- jection. 11 a. m.* The whole of tobacco injection, as formerly ordered, was not given. It was kept in ten minutes ; produced consider- rable collapse, with tremors and vomiting. Pulse now 120, small; great thirst ; swelling of abdomen somewhat diminished, and knuckle of intestine shifted higher up ; no tenderness. Tur- pentine embrocation to abdomen. Large warm water injection. R. Acid. Hydrocyan. gtt. xii.; Aquae giv.; M. §ss. every two hours. 8 p. m. Mixture has been given regularly, but always vomited shortly after. Some matters vomited immediately before this vi- sit have a distinctly feculent odour. Two large injections have been given, which have been returned without faeces. Expression of countenance flushed and febrile. Thirst continues ; pulse 140, of good strength. Still tympanitic swelling of upper part of abdomen, but more diffused ; the knuckles of intestine prominent. She is occasionally seized with spasmodic pains of abdomen, and then the knuckles of intestine become very prominent and tense. Slight discharge from wound. Dr Handyside passed a probe a short distance into the sinus, which brought away a little blood. Apply eight leeches to the abdomen, to be followed by warm fomentations. R. Gum. Opii gr. iss.; Calomel, gr. iij. Ft. pil. Injection with §j. of tincture of assafcetida. 4th, 8 a. m. Passed a restless night; rather quiet about 5 a. m. Vomited frequently till about 4 a. m. Leeches bled well. Com- plained last night for the first time of throbbing pain in the calf of left leg, and swelling of foot and ankle. To-day the whole limb is swollen as high as the groin, and a slight degree of indu- * Dr Handyside was now again invited to meet the other practitioners in atten- dance, a3 it appeared to them doubtful whether any part of these abdominal symp- toms depended on the state of the wounds.56 ration is felt in the course of the femoral vein. Pulse 120, soft, and rather smaller ; vomited little since 5 a. m ; matter eject- ed during the night more feculent ; bowels not opened; tongue furred ; thirst great. It was agreed to apply the electro-magnetic aura to the abdomen, which was done by Dr Ilandyside. Im- mediately after, she vomited about a pint of thickish brown-yellow matter of feculent odour. Pills and injections have been given as directed ; fomentations continued. To continue the pills every four hours. Flannel roller to be applied to abdomen. Sugar of lead solution, with opium, to left lower extremity to be applied hot. 5 p. m. Has taken two pills since last report. Vomited occa- sionally, the matter being stercoraceous ; leg less painful and less tense ; no pain in abdomen, except on sudden and deep pres- sure ; pulse 140 ; tongue slightly furred ; thirst diminished. Has taken at various times a little coffee, milk, and biscuit, which, however, for the most part were vomited. To continue pills. An injection at 9- 10^ p. m. Pulse 140, small, and soft. Has vomited three times since last report; matter vomited small ; less feculent ; abdomen softer and less swollen ; no pain except on con- siderable pressure ; no stool ; flannel roller has been applied since 5 p. m. ; countenance anxious ; cheeks somewhat flushed. An injection immediately, to be repeated at 4 a. m. One pill now, and another at 5 a. m. 5th, 8 a. M. Has passed a quiet night, having slept a good deal. Has taken two pills and two injections, the latter having been returned without feculent matter. At 12 m. had a little wine, as she felt faint. At 3 a. m. took a small cup of coffee and a portion of rice biscuit, which were retained ; no vomiting since 10 last night ; pulse varies from 126 to 135, easily excit- able, small, and soft ; tongue furred ; still thirsty, but less so since 3 a. m. ; pain of limb less ; abdomen less distended and bears pressure better. R Calomel, gr. iij. ; Opii gr. ss. Ft. pil. 1 quartis horis. An injection some time during the day. A desert spoonful of wine every four hours. Fomentations to limb to be continued. 10 p. m. Vomited a little about 10 a. m. ; again at 4 p. m. Matter not feculent. Has taken from time to time a little coffee, with bread. Wine taken returns, and apparently produces “ heart- burn.” Has had two pills since morning. No complaint of pain. Is generally in a drowsy state, but easily roused. Upper, ante- rior, and lateral part of thigh more swollen. There is also a deep redness over a portion of the skin. Discharge from wound rather increased. She is thinner, and when she lies on the left side, matter from the wound flows over the left groin, occasioning ery- thematous redness. Had an injection of warm water at 3 p. M.,57 returned without feces ; pulse 130, as before ; abdomen tense and not so much swollen ; loud borborygmi, heard at some distance from the bed. The stethoscope enabled amphoric resonance to be detected occasionally with these. To lie if possible on right side. 6‘th, S a. m. Between 10 and 11 last night had a warm water injection, which was returned in a few minutes without feculent matter. About 11 had a small beef-tea injection with forty drops of laudanum, which was retained. Had a pill at 11 p. m., and again at 4 a.m. Vomited at 2 and 74 a. m. ; matters ejected not fecu- lent, but containing bile ; abdomen less distended since last night, soft, and little or no pain on pressure ; respirations decidedly show descent of diaphragm. There is still general enlargement of the limb, with an erythematic blush, extending from orifice of wound round to left hip, showing the surface over which the matter flows. She still lies constantly on the left side. Discharge scanty. Pulse 130, small. Thirst increased. R Ext. Colocynth. gr. iv. ; Pulv. Scammon. gr. iv. ; Ext. Hyoscyam. gr. ij. Ft. pil. ij. s. s. 12^ p. m. Lies a little on right side. Has slept at intervals during the morning, and taken a little coffee and bread, which has remained on the stomach. Complains of griping pains through the bowels. The aperient pills were retained. 8 p. 3i. About 2 p. M. had desire to go to stool. Nothing was passed, however, but felt sick and vomited a mouthful of matter, not stercoraceous. About 7. p. m. vomited half a basonful of dark-brown matter, decidedly feculent. At present pulse 140, of good strength. Tympanitic distension of abdomen disappear- ed ; still loud on percussion, however, which is well contrasted with the perfect dulness below umbilicus ; otherwise the same ; no tenderness on pressure; swelling of leg and erythematous blush very much diminished. Continue calomel and opium pills. To have beef-tea injection early to-morrow. One drachm of mercurial ointment to be rubbed into the axilla on both sides. 7th, 8 a. m. Vomited only once last night; matter bilious, not feculent; slept well; swelling of leg diminished ; pulse 138, soft; otherwise the same. Pills to be continued. 8 p. m. Had a beef-tea injection at about 10 o’clock, which was retained. Half an hour afterwards felt a desire to go to stool, but was unable to pass anything; then took the opium and calomel pill. About 11 had a teaspoonful of Dalby’s carmina- tive, which immediately induced vomiting. After this she felt very faint and exhausted. Three tcaspoonfuls of sherry wine were then given in water. At mid-day a tablespoonful of yellowish fluid of feculent odour passed per anum. From this time till 5 p. M. small quantities of similar fluid, sometimes thick as cream, passed from the bowels, accompanied by considerable griping58 pains in the abdomen. At 5 an injection of warm water was given, which was immediately returned with small lumps of feculent matter. She has since had two fluid feculent stools. Pulse 130, full; tongue clean, but dry; general appearance much improved; hungry. ft Ext. Hyoscyam. gr. x. s. s.; Pil. Opii, si opus sit. To have coffee and bread, and in the night, arrow root. 8th, 11a. m. Had short snatches of sleep during the night. There were, however, considerable griping pains in the abdomen. Since last report the bowels have been open twice, and loose fe- culent matter passed on both occasions, with small hardened por- tions of feces. At present is suffering much from colic pains. The coils of intestine distended with gas, produce visible pro- minences on the surface of the abdomen. There are none of these, however, below the umbilicus. A small indurated mass may be felt, on the left of, and somewhat below umbilicus; mat- ter discharged from opening more copious and of offensive odour; distension of leg gone, slight swelling of foot only remains; ery- thematous redness of left groin nearly disappeared ; tongue slight- ly furred, rather dry; thirst; pulse 140, firm ; appearance of ex- haustion much less. Had a little coffee, bread, and a tablespoon- ful of wine during the night. An injection immediately. ft Pulv. Opii, gr. iss.; T. Rliei, gr. x. ; Syr. q. s. Ft. pil. iv. Two for a dose. Hot fomentations to abdomen. 8 p. m. During the day had two stools, with small lumps of feces. There have been tormina throughout the day, but less than formerly. To-night the upper part of abdomen is found still to be distended with air; pulse 144, firm; tongue furred and dry; thirst. Has had no nourishment, with the exception of a little coffee, which was again vomited. Skin hot, feverish. To have draughts with 3j .Kali. Citratis et Vin. Autim. gut. x. Draught at night, with Sol. Morph.- m. xxv. Milk and water for drink. Nov. 9th. 11a. m. Passed a tolerable night ; likes the effervescent draughts ; vomited twice a slight quantity; is great- ly exhausted and emaciated ; tongue moist; less thirst; pulse 140, smaller. About two tablespoonfuls of soft feculent matter passed per anurn ; fever less. Pil. Opii et Calomel, i. Milk and water for drink. Two tea- spoonfuls of wine occasionally. 8 p. m. Has taken beef-tea and milk and water several times, but they have either been immediately vomited or retained a very short time. Between 1 and 4 p. m. had two stools, soft, but con- taining lumps of purulent matter and a little mucus. To-night pulse 140, thready; countenance anxious ; eyeballs staring ; ema-59 ciation extreme. Has a sore on the left hip, the surface broken over the space of a five-shilling piece. Had one opium and ca- lomel pill. Gums and mouth sore; spirits depressed, and ex- presses a fear of approaching death. Beef-tea injection, with Sol. Morph. 3j- J Haust. c. Sol. Mur. Morph. M. xxv. White-wine whey. Nov. 10th, 8 a. m. Vomited much last night until 11 P. m. after which passed rather a restless night, with occasional sound sleep for short periods; pulse 150, small and more feeble. Had two drachms of wine six times during the night, and several times a little beef-tea. This morning had a wine- glassful of milk. Complains of mouth being hot and sore ; countenance less anxious. Beef-tea injection was retained some time, and when passed was accompanied with much flatus. Sina- pism was applied to epigastrium last night, but produced no relief. The upper part of the abdomen still distended. There are oc- casional tormina, preceded by loud borborygmi. Discharge from opening thin, foetid, and tinging the bed-clothes blackish. Repeat beef-tea injection with forty minims of solution of mu- riate of morphia; wine as before; beef-tea or milk for drink. 8 p. >i. Passed the day tranquilly, with only occasional pain in abdomen. Appetite improved, asks for food; has taken four ounces of milk twice, and sometimes a few tablespoonfuls of beef- tea with a little bread. Two teaspoonfuls of wine have been given every hour; no vomiting. At present is tolerably easy; anxiety of countenance disappeared ; voice more firm ; pulse 130, firm ; no motion ; somewhat stronger. A beef-tea injection with forty minims of tincture of opium has been given and retained. Lin. Sapon. c. Opio, to be rubbed on abdomen. Haust. Anody. 11th, 8 a. m. Passed a restless night from griping pains in ab- domen and flatulency; vomited twice during the night; pulse 136; thirst; no stool; frictions on abdomen have produced no relief. Warm water injection. 8 p. M. During the day has vomited every thing taken; mat- ters ejected are of a greenish hue, with flakes of mucus ; bowels open slightly once, when about two ounces of feculent matter were discharged with several lumps in it; frequent desire at stool and tenesmus. At present pulse 140, of good strength ; upper part of abdomen still distended and tympanitic. R Bismuth. Oxyd. gr. x.; Pulv. Opii gr. ii. M. Ft. pil. iv. One every hour. 12th, 8 a. m. About one o’clock this morning the tenesmus and pain in abdomen have ceased ; she had then taken two pills; has since, been restless and vomited every thing taken ; thirst; mouth very sore, with discharge of saliva; bowels not opened since last report; pulse 130, firm.60 Be Ext. CoJocyntli. i.; Scammon. gr. ij.; Ex. Hyoscyam. gr. i.; Pil. Opii gr. ss.; Bismuth, gr. iij. Ft. pit. ij. 'l’o be taken in four hours if the bowels are not opened. Fo- mentations and warm water injection. 7 i*. m. Has slept occasionally during the day. Still continual vomiting of ingesta ; has taken pills ; no motion ; abdominal pain and griping less severe; injection would not pass; pulse 126, weak ; is very restless ; hands and feet cold ; countenance sunk ; dark areola round the eyes. To have large warm water injection. B Fulv. Opii gr. i.; Bismuth, gr. vj.; in pil. ij. The warm water injection was given easily about 9, and was retained several minutes. When returned it brought away only one piece of feculent matter the size of a bean. Vomiting com- menced shortly after. The coldness of extremities now increas- ed. She complained of want of breath, tinnitus aurium, and fre- quently turned from side to side. Hot bottles were applied to the hands and feet, and they were also rubbed assiduously with warm flannels. Wine given freely, but was always vomited. Pulse small, weak, and thready. The pills were vomited. About 11 p. m. the restlessness was somewhat abated, and she expressed a desire to go to sleep. After lying some time, she requested the nurse to raise her up. This was done, when she fell back and ex- pired, without a groan or struggle, at ten minutes after 12 o’clock, —the 70th day after the operation. Examination of the body, November 14th, 4 p. m. Present, Drs Alison, Simpson, Spittal, Cowan, A. D. Campbell, Handy- side, Bennett, and Mr Crabbe. The body was greatly emaciated. The head was not opened. Chest The cavity of the pleura on the left side contained about one ounce and on the right about two ounces of serum. On the left side the pleurae were adherent so strongly, that the lung was lacerated in removing it: this more especially between the inferior surface of the lung and upper surface of the diaphragm. On the right side the pleurm were adherent at the apex, and over inferior lobe, but the adhesions were easily torn through. The anterior margin of the upper lobe of the left lung was em- physematous ; its posterior portion slightly engorged. On section it crepitated readily, and was healthy in structure. The inferior lobe felt dense externally, and on section the parenchyma was of a brownish red colour ; splenified ; easily breaking down under the finger, and portions of it placed in water sunk nearly to the bottom of the vessel. The two upper lobes of the right lung very emphysematous anteriorly, engorged posteriorly and inferiorly> but61 otherwise healthy. The anterior half of the inferior lobe also emphysematous, with here and there indurated patches of chronic lobular pneumonia. The posterior half of this lobe was splenifi- ed throughout, as in the opposite lung. The lining membrane of the bronchi was healthy, here and there covered with mucus. Both lungs were small in volume. The heart was small and pale. Its right cavities contained a firm dark coagulum. The valves and structure of the organ healthy. In the aorta there was a small but firm coagulum, partly decolorized. Abdomen.—On reflecting the walls of the abdomen, a few chronic bands of lymph were torn through, uniting the opposite portions of peritoneum. The line of incision was firmly united ex- cept at its lower end, where a round opening existed about the size of a pea. On the peritoneal surface the union was marked by a dark blackish line, which was perfectly smooth and free from lymph. The omentum was thin and transparent, destitute of fat, and stretched tightly over the intestines. Its inferior margin ad- hered strongly to the visceral and parietal peritoneum, about an inch above the pubic bones. The omentum was cut through transversely about its middle, and the intestines below exposed, which were greatly distended with gas. These were found to be portions of the ileum, the coils of which were more or less adhe- rent to each other, to the mesentery, omentum, and to the neighbour- ing organs by bands of chronic lymph. The adhesions were now care- fully torn through, the gut liberated and traced downwards. Ex- actly five feet and a half from the caecum, above and to the left of the umbilicus, the intestine was constricted by a band of lymph, as if a ligature had been tied round it. Above the constriction the gut was distended to about the size of the wrist; below, it was collapsed to the size of the little finger. Air could be pressed from the superior portion into the inferior, but the passage of water poured from above was completely checked at the seat of stricture. All the intestines above the stricture were greatly dis- tended with gas ; those below it, including the caecum, colon, and rectum, were small and collapsed. The cavity of the pelvis was blocked up, and separated from the general cavity of the abdomen by firm adhesions between the surfaces of the abdominal walls, the omentum, and knuckles of intestine. The peritoneum in this place, and especially in the left iliac hollow, was covered with a dense layer of chronic lymph. This lymph was about one-eighth of an inch in thickness, of a dirty greenish colour, mixed with black pigmentary matter, of great hardness to the feel, and cut under the knife like cartilage. With some trouble the united knuckles of intestine, and portions62 of omentum involved were separated and drawn out. A cavity was thus exposed, about the size of an orange, situated between the uterus and rectum, lined throughout by the same dense, chronic lymph spoken of above. The anterior surface of the uterus was firmly united to the bladder by chronic adhesions. On the right side about one inch of the Fallopian tube and broad ligament re- mained, the extremities of which were closely united to the ante- rior wall of the cavity. On the left side the margins of the uterus and short pedicle of the broad ligament were so united to the walls of the cavity that they could not be separated. This cavity or pouch between the uterus and rectum communicated with the external opening, and was evidently the place where the pus dur- ing life had accumulated. A sinus opened into it superiorly, which on being traced upwards was seen to extend, above the de- scending colon, between the peritoneum and intestines as high as the diaphragm on the left side, where it terminated in a cul de sac, the size of a hen’s egg. The sinus was about the size of the little finger, and lined throughout by the same dense, greenish lymph formerly noticed. The cul de sac was full of dirty-yellow offen- sive pus, and bounded by a portion of the stomach and left lobe of the liver internally ; the diaphragm above and posteriorly ; and the colon and spleen externally and inferiorly. It also was lined with dense chronic lymph. The mucous membrane of the stomach and small intestines were healthy. The latter contained a clayey coloured soft feculent mat- ter. The large intestines were empty. No appearance of in- flammation existed at the constricted part. The internal surface of the rectum, extending seven inches from the anus, was intensely vascular, thickened, and inflamed. Six ulcers, varying in size from a sixpence to that of a shilling, were scattered over the dis- eased part of the gut, one of the largest being only an inch from its extremity. They were round in shape, and covered with a raised dirty greenish slough. The live?', kidneys, and spleen were anemic, but healthy in struc- ture. The femoral arid saphena veins could be felt hard and distend- ed below the integuments. On dissection, these, as well as the external iliac vein, up to the point where it passed under the layer of lymph, in the left iliac hollow formerly described, were found to be obstructed by a coagulum of blood. This coagulum was adherent to the internal wall of the vessel, was partially de- colorized, and of the consistence of soft cheese. This obstruc- tion of the vessels ceased about three inches below Pouparts li- gament.63 Description of the tumours removed. The tumour which involved the left ovary on being removed weighed nine pounds and a half. It was of an oval form, and measured thirteen inches in its longest, and nine inches and a half in its shortest diameter. Its envelope was composed of white, dense, and glistening fibrous tissue, having upon its external sur- face patches of various sizes, resembling chronic lymph. On its ante- rior surface might be seen openings, or ulcerations, varying in size. The edges of these ulcerations were smooth and rounded, and of the same thickness as the fibrous envelope. The cut surface, which had been near the ligature, now presented a large opening into the tumour, through which numerous cysts, varying in size from a pea to that of a billiard ball, protruded. The incision into it, made during the operation, had opened up one of these cysts about the size of a cocoa nut. Dr Bennett and Dr Handyside sent the tumour to the Univer- sity Museum, where Mr Goodsir was forming a collection of these growths. By him it was minutely injected, and afterwards cut up, in order to show its internal structure. In dividing it, some of the internal cysts were found to be full of pus, whilst others contained the usual glairy fluid, common to these tumours. Three preparations were made from this tumour, which may be seen in the museum, and which demonstrate the following facts. ls£. A portion of the fibrous sac, showing the attachment of numerous cysts varying in size and shape. A minute injection has been thrown into the arteries ? and exhibits how richly the walls of the internal cysts are supplied with blood-vessels. One of these cysts, about the size of a small hen’s egg, has its upper half fully injected, whilst the lower half is pale. The margin be- tween the two is uneven but abrupt, and from the creamy and distended appearance of the cyst, there can be no doubt that it is full of pus. 2d. A portion of the fibrous sac, showing the incision which separated the tumour from its attachments. The opening is of an irregular form, about three inches in its longest diameter. 3d. A portion of the fibrous sac, showing the ulcerated open- ings fonnerly described. The left ovary was about the size of a walnut. It was formed externally of a dense fibrous capsule, and internally of several small cysts. The natural stroma of the organ had entirely dis- appeared. Remarks by Dr Bennett. The question 1 have frequently asked myself is, was I warrant-64 ed in proposing and urging others to perform the operation ? The reasons that induced me to do so were the following, 1st, The youth and good constitution of the patient. 2dly, The disease was rendering her life miserable, and she earnestly wished the operation to be performed. Sdhj, Death seemed unavoidable at no distant period. At least, it could not be anticipated that five gallons of fluid could be removed from the abdomen every three weeks, for any length of time, without injury to the vital powers. 4Ihly, Extirpation of the tumour appeared to be the only ra- tional means of cure. Again, on looking at the most recent statistics of the operation, published by Dr Atlee,* I found that abdominal section has been performed for ovarian tumours, real or supposed, 101 times. If we extract from this list cases where the operation was not completed, and those on the point of death before the operation was begun, we shall have ninety remaining, in all of which the tu- mour was excised. Of these sixty-two recovered and twenty-eight died. Thus, whatever may be thought of the correctness of the statistics, the broad fact still remains, that an ovarian tumour has been extracted from living women in sixty-two cases with perfect success. An acquaintance with the structure and mode of deve- lopment of these growths must convince us that the only other possible mode of cure is by rupture of the cyst, and then only under particular circumstances. This I shall endeavour to show in a separate paper. At present it need only be said that this is an occurrence ofextreme rarity, and yet, were we to be guided by the opi- nions ofthose surgeons who refuse to perform ovariotomy in any case, no other termination is to be expected, and the disease, notwith- standing the facts previously stated, is to be considered as irreme- diable by art. But every case must stand upon its own merits, and when all the circumstances of the one detailed are taken into consideration, the perfect diagnosis that was established, and the probability of a speedy fatal termination, (a probability after- wards rendered certain by the suppuration discovered to exist within the cysts), it must be granted that the operation, if admis- sible at all, was so in this instance. An important practical question presents itself in regard to the treatment after the operation, on which there is a difference of opinion among the practitioners who witnessed the case and dis- section, viz. how the cavity or pouch containing pus, between the uterus and rectum, and the sinus leading from it up to the dia- phragm, were connected with the pressure made on the abdomen by the many-tailed bandages and compresses, in order to direct the * American Journ. of the Med. Sciences, April 1(145.Go matter towards tlie external opening. Some have thought, that the pressure employed, instead of directing the matter downwards, may have forced a portion of it upwards ; while others are inclin- ed to believe, that if the pressure, which latterly was much relax- ed, had been more steadily continued, the formation of that cavity and sinus might have been prevented. The question is important, however, rather in reference to the proper treatment of future cases, than to the fatal event of this case ; for the symptoms of ileus and the death of the patient were obviously dependent on the constric- tion of the portion of ileum above noticed by a band of lymph which was at the distance of some inches from any part of the wound, and had no connection either with the cavity or the sinus. Although various lesions were found after death, their origin and connection with each other will easily be understood from a perusal of the case, and of the post mortem examination. Notwithstanding the unsuccessful termination of this case, I am still of opinion that ovariotomy is warrantable when the diagnosis of the tumour is certain, and the other circumstances favourable. The more frequently it is performed the more readily will expe- rience dictate the avoidance of many errors that even now encum- ber the practice of it. When once recognised as a legitimate mode of treatment, and only performed in appropriate cases, there is every reason to hope, from the experience of the past, that the degree of mortality which has hitherto accompanied it will gradu- ally diminish. Before such a result can be hoped for, however, it is necessary that our notions of the pathology and diagnosis of the disease should be improved. To these subjects I shall advert in a separate communication. Remarks by Dr Handyside relative to the opera- tion of Ovariotomy in general. In the divided state of opinion existing among surgeons, rela- tive to the propriety of undertaking the operation of ovariotomy, the profession may naturally look to me as responsible for the step taken in the case now narrated; and expect a full statement of the reasons that led to the performance of that operation. It is acknowledged, that the only justification and full warrant for such surgical operations as involve imminent peril and hazard, —(such as lithotomy, the ligature of a large artery, the operation for hernia, amputation through the thigh, ovariotomy, &c.,)—rest on this ground, that their performance is essential to the preser- vation of the patient’s life. Thus, the patient in the present case had been much reduced by repeated tappings, the last three of which were found to be necessary during the very limited space ofGG about three weeks ; and this was not a case similar to those de- scribed by Martineau, Portal, and others, which “ amply attest the protracted duration of life in association even with this stage of the affection.11 But there are other important conditions which must coexist with the above requirement in order to warrant the step of a capital operation, such as that of ovariotomy. These are, secondly,—the establishing a clear diagnosis in a proposed case of ovariotomy, so as to determine accurately that the tumour is not malignant or of solid consistence, that it presents no serious adhesions, and that the uterus is not involved. Thirdly,—that there is no hope of a palliative cure, or of a spontaneous declension in the severity of the urgent symptoms. Fourthly,—that there is no co-existent disease or condition of the system such as contra- indicates capital operations in general. Fifthly,—that the patient and her relatives, on being made acquainted with the danger at- tending the operation, express their urgent request for its perform- ance. Sixthly,—as to the statistics of the operation, I refer to the Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ. for April 1844, and to the Monthly Journal of Medical Science for February and May 1845, and January 184-6; although these are by no means unfavourable as argument for its performance, still I would not make use of them as such, for these reasons: First,—that many cases in which the operation had been most recklessly and unjustifiably performed are included in these tables, which have thus perverted the statis- tical results, and made the operation appear in a less favourable light; and, Secondly,—because surgical statistics in general stand broadly forth against the performance of many universally recog- nised capital operations, for instance, some of the larger amputa- tions, &c. I am no advocate for the operation in cases such as those in which it has been generally had recourse to. Like many other surgeons, I had been previously prejudiced against and averse from the operation, (which aversion was in no degree lessened by the circumstance, that some Edinburgh surgeons had previously refrained from undertaking the operation in the present case); but, after a careful examination of the subject, I was forced to the con- clusion, that it is the duty of the surgeon, in certain rare cases, to recommend and to practise the operation, and the case submitted to my care appeared to be one of those. This view I adopted only after having been informed of the opinion of those of my pro- fessional brethren versant in obstetric diagnosis, who concluded along with myself, that the tumour was non-adherent throughout; —that it was attached only by an elongated pedicle, the broad li- gament;—that the uterus and peritoneum generally were healthy; —and that the fluid in the abdomen was either the result of the