Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https ://arch i ve. org/detai Is/b21528573KRTHRRiHE. IJMRRilfc. RUTHoR g=$tiek. STol'CS BB0fN. RUTHoR , OF (jpoKEK/ Q IUtUSTrrTLD &y MRBEkU HTiWtUr. W^R. CHRMBLRb.M0 l£RD<=>ri ^ELDiMEWRGrH osiW72TO MY DEAR OLD FRIEND, ELLEN TERRY.BY WAY OF APOLOGY. «§=> <=§<=> jPt F the making of cookery-books there is no end. Can there justly be offered any possible excuse for the appearance of yet another? We have stout books, thin books, ancient books, and modern books, all very much better than these struggles of an amateur; but they are in- variably tinged with an austere and solemn severity of demeanour. Like Dr John Brown’s terrier, they find life (and cooking) ‘ full o’ sairiousness ’! The ‘Amateur Cook’ has approached the trials and terrors of the kitchen in a frivolous spirit; but she trusts her frivolity and levity may be pardoned, for underneath a layer of nonsense lies a solid stratum of plain, useful, receiptful fact. We may live without poetry, music, and art; We may live without conscience and live without heart; We may live without friends, we may live without books, But civilised man cannot live without cooks. Even with an excellent cook we should be some- what bereft without the various articles mentioned inIV By Way of Apology. the above verse. I trust we most of us possess a certain amount of conscience—perhaps the amateur has but little when she inflicts her experiences upon a long-suffering public—and ‘ the merry heart ’ that can carry us cheerfully on our way. If the serious can only find one recipe that pleases them, and the merry-hearted offer the amateur even one very small smile, then the sad hours in the kitchen and the many disappointments will be happily forgotten. Should there be neither smiles nor satisfactory recipes, then will the readers—of their charity— remember the American backwoodsman’s advice: ‘ Don’t shoot the man at the piano; he is doing his best ’ ?Contents. CHAPTER I. We go to Vine Cottage . PAGE 1 II. A Day of Misfortunes . 20 III. Black Dogs, Visible and Invisible . 32 IV. The Joyful Arrival of Delecta 47 V. Delecta on Cooking 68 VI. Brilliant Breakfasts 91 VII. Lightsome Luncheons 118 VIII. Triumphant Teas .... 149 IX. Delectable Dinners .... 176 X. Superb Suppers .... 222 XI. The Doleful Departure . 252 XII. We Make the Christmas Pudding . 269 Index 288Illustrations. <=S|o <=§® PAGE ‘Every woman should be able to cook' . Frontispiece. 'The road is the worst in Hillsboro’’ (Tailpiece) . . 19 I could even smile on the Phenomenon when I saw it washing dishes ....... 27 Ever ready to eat up my failures (Tailpiece) ... 46 ‘The good cook is the queen of the home' (Tailpiece) . 90 I begin to wonder if primitive man had not the best of it after all (Tailpiece) ...... 148 Delecta has kindly consented to give her cake lecture in the garden ........ 152 I steal away to bed (Tailpiece) ..... . 175 * I only hope I shall remember all your instructions ’ (Tailpiece) 221 When Batiushka makes his fortune (Tailpiece) . . . 251 Dear Hillsboro’, good-bye—good-bye (Tailpiece) . 268 Every one must stir the Christmas pudding . . . 274The Amateur Cook. CHAPTER I. WE GO TO VINE COTTAGE. <=§o HAVE been seriously impressed by a sen- tence I read in a book the other day : ‘ Every woman should be able to cook.’ These words have haunted me. When I order the dinner I see them—‘in my mind’s eye, Horatio’—painted on the kitchen wall above the polished tins. They come home to me with accusing force when I eat the confec- tioner’s cake and the baker’s scone. I mean, of course, cakes and scones which I buy myself. Other people are at liberty to buy their edibles if they like, also where they like so long as it is not at the grocer’s. Do you know grocer’s cake?We go to Vine Cottage. 2 Never eat it if you can possibly avoid it. When I even nibble it I develop a severe attack of Groceritis! Philomela says, ‘ Groceritis is only imagination.’ She also asks (when I bewail my culinary deficiencies), ‘ Why eat a stodgy cake baked on the premises when you can buy a really good one in a shop?’ If I try to explain that the principle of the purchased cake is bad, she only replies, ‘ I much prefer the good cake of no principles to the indi- gestible, damp-in-the-middle one whose principles are irreproachable and that tastes of baking soda.’ Philomela has no sympathy with my cooking aspirations. I consulted her about having cookery lessons, and all she said was, ‘ Much you learnt the last time.’ This is quite true (if rather rude); but still, I had only one lesson. They set me to fillet a sole. It sounds easy and simple. Try it. The instructress was patient and kind. She said the bits and crumbs would make nice fish-balls and the cat would enjoy the skin; also that it was better not to be afraid of the sole, but to grasp it firmly. The fish inter- lude was so clammy and depressing that I hailed Genoese pastry with delight. It was most attractive and puffed up beautifully, and I was inordinately proud—nearly as much puffed up as the pastry.We go to Vine Cottage. 3 Bat pride, as usual, went before a fall. The next day I tried it at home, and it was neither ‘ the puff direct nor the puff preliminary/ for it did not puff at all. I did not return to the cookery classes. I was afraid of meeting the ghost of that hacked and mangled sole. Think of the spectre of an injured and departed fish. Doesn’t it sound unpleasant and creepy ? I taught myself a certain amount at home, but feel there is much to learn. There is no body about my cooking. Too much flummery ; too little solid. If only people could live on scrambled eggs, beef-tea, ices, cold savouries, very elegant sweets, omelettes, and caramel walnuts, then I think I might set up as a real cook. Alas ! ices are not sustain- ing, nor caramels satisfying. They want roasts and boileds, trussed birds, fish other than trout (I can wrestle with trout), and all manner of plain, dull, necessary dishes. Now I know that the writer who said, ‘ Every woman should be able to cook/ meant the whole- some, the useful, the plain, the dull. Can these be learnt by experience, that sad but excellent teacher of the mentally deficient? Would practice ever teach me how to fillet fish?We go to Vine Cottage. 4 Could I after many years skin a rabbit? We once had a cook who tried to skin a hare with a knife and a silver fork, and to this day I do not know if it was insanity or inebriation. Probably the latter. Can I learn plain, sensible cooking from a cookery-book ? Like the Frenchman who was asked if he thought he could catch the fox, ‘ I do not know, mon a?ni, but I vill try.’ I am no less heroic than a fox- hunting Frenchman, so, though I may never suc- cessfully grapple with all the intricacies of cooking, ‘ I vill try.’ I wish the writers of cookery-books did not credit you with an unlimited income, a very high order of intelligence, and a kitchen filled with every known and unknown implement. You pleasantly read: ‘Having now placed the force-meat of chicken in the bain-marie, you steam ’ But you don’t steam; you don’t do anything, because you are brought up short by the fact of not possessing a bain-marie. Then the recipes are always so gorgeous, though generally described as ‘little dishes.’ ‘ A delicious little supper-dish is made from the breasts of three fowls ’ (shade of Foker! ‘ What becomes of the legs ? ’) ‘ stewed in a puree of oysters, mushrooms, truffles, and very thick whipped cream.We go to Vine Cottage. 5 Serve in small silver dishes with a sauce of old French brandy, maraschino, and the whites of twelve fresh eggs beaten to a froth ’! If I go to the other extreme and buy the sort of book that calls itself How to have Late Dinner on Fifteen Shillings a Week, or Humble Meals for Simple Folk, all the dishes are made of the bits of beasts the butcher says he has never heard of. One cook I had of an economical turn told me to ask for ‘ skirt of beef,’ which was about sixpence a pound. The pained and grieved look on the butcher’s face I shall never forget. ‘No, ma’am; that is a thing I could not send to your house.’ He seemed so genuinely upset that I ordered fillet steak instead—and stewing steak would have done perfectly well! Philomela says I should take up a firmer position and insist upon seeing the cheaper article. I simply have not the nerve. The superior voice: ‘ Yes, madame, I believe there is an inferior quality at elevenpence three farthings.—Perkins’ (to an assistant), ‘the cotton- backed velveteen for covering chairs.’ Then the confidential, ‘ We really cannot recom- mend this quality; ’ and before you have time to breathe—‘ Certainly, madame; four yards of the6 We go to Vine Cottage. dark-green velvet at five shillings and eleven- pence ’! Well! I cannot cope with it, and of course take the expensive and leave the cheap. There is a subtle way of huddling up and pushing out of sight a cheap silk that is a positive art. It’s just the same with bacon. You read in the useful cookery-book: ‘A really excellent bacon can be bought for fivepence half- penny the pound.’ Charmed with the vision of what you are going to save on the family breakfast, you sally forth, and return—with the same old bacon at elevenpence. The cheap cookery-book should give a list of the shops that sell the cheap and good without contempt for the purchaser and the article purchased. Another thing: the really ideal cookery-book would tell you all the things that may occur, not merely give a description of the process that goes on when everything proceeds satisfactorily. No notice is taken of the inherently evil dis- position of inanimate objects. Onions, for example —no, not onions; they are not inanimate, but very, very much the reverse. The front page of a cookery- book should have in large letters : ‘ Buy an onion- knife, and never, never, never let any other object touch an onion.’We go to Vine Cottage. 7 Then the things that cookery-books tell you to ‘set by the side of a slow fire.’ Turn your back for two minutes and they are boiling over. I think most books warn you of the inflammable nature of milk, but very few explain how to save the milk if it does burn. No cookery-book says: ‘Having spent most of the day in a hot kitchen, you will find the straw- berry-jam still like water. Now dry your eyes and do so-and-so and so-and-so.’ (You will observe / don’t know what you would do except fling the jam that won't jam out of the window !) Then a recipe tells you how clearly and beauti- fully the jelly sits up like an amber tower. It does not say: ‘You now find the jelly totally incapable of standing up. Take the wobbling ruins and cut into neat squares; arrange in a crystal dish with delicately flavoured whipped cream; decorate with angelica and candied cherries. Maintain—in the face of all comment—that this is the newest way of serving a shape of jelly.’ There never seems to be any provision made for failure. High failure is considered (by the failures) infinitely better than low success; but this does not apply to cooking. Still, it would be pleasant (for the culinary failures) to find a little notice taken of mistakes and disappointments. For example:We go to Vine Cottage. 8 ‘You will probably discover that, instead of being clear, your soup is like mud. To clear it effectually take a pellet of nitro-glycerine and blow it up.’ Photography—a much poorer art than that of Brillat-Savarin—always makes provision for acci- dents, tells you what to do when a plate or film is under-exposed, and how to doctor it when the exposure has been too long. Certainly no remedy is offered for not taking off the cap or putting in the slide, but you can’t have everything in this world, not even in photography. Now suppose I really took to cooking, and wrote down all my failures and all my successes (if there are any, it is doubtful!), would they be of any help to some ‘ forlorn and shipwrecked ’ sister struggling with an incompetent cook and a hungry husband ? This is rather a happy thought, but of course I should have to experiment on Philomela and the Batiushka, and they might object. I must discuss it with Philomela if—I can find her. She is one of those aggressively busy people who are either practising, or wood-carving, or enamelling buttons, or—out. My only chance of rational conversation is when she is in bed with a cold. Then her views are gloomy, and tinged with eucalyptus; but she is9 We go to Vine Cottage. fairly idle. I like to talk to a perfectly idle person. Men who say they cannot talk to a knitting or stitching wife have my sympathy; they want un- divided attention, and so do I, and Philomela never, never gives it to me. Her favourite remark, ‘ If I listened to you talk- ing I should do nothing all day,’ is not very polite to my improving conversation. Philomela is not in her own domain. I begin to think she must be out till I hear a tapping sound in the drawing-room—‘ where nae tappin’ shu’d be ’— and there I discover her, sitting in a sea of wood- chips—so good for the carpet! In answer to the cold inquiry in my carpet- owning eye : ‘ I came here because there’s more light. What do you want ? ’ ‘ Philly darling, I’ve thought of such a lovely plan.’ Philomela looks up suspiciously. ‘Anything to do with cooking ? ’ ‘Well, yes. I thought it would be so nice, a sort of picnic ’ I get no further, for I am excitedly interrupted. ‘ I knew it! Ever since you read that sickening, silly book, you have harped and carped about cooking. I told Batiushka you would never rest till you did the cooking yourself and poisoned us,We go to Vine Cottage. 10 or starved us. What’s the good of it? You only want to boast what a grand cook you are.’ ‘ I don’t want to boast, but I do think it’s right that every woman should be able to cook.’ Philomela is brutally direct. ‘ Well, you can’t cook; and you ’ll never learn, you are so sloppy and untidy. Besides, you’d never stick at it; you always take up new things and drop them.’ Now is that fair? I feel rather crushed, especially as Philomela takes no further notice of me, but goes on chipping, chipping, in a most irritating manner. Then she lays down her tools, looks at her watch, and makes a calculation: ‘Ten minutes to walk to Rutland Street; five minutes to put on my hat. Well, fire away with your old plan; I can spare you five minutes.’ People who spare me their valuable time always annoy me. I become dignified. ‘ After all, Philo- mela, you must allow it’s my own house, and if I choose to dispense’ (dispense is a good, crushing word) ‘with a cook, you really have no right to interfere.’ ‘Your house, indeed ! It’s Little Father’s house. Not that he is ever allowed to say anything, poor lamb ! And now he’s to have his precious digestion ruined for life or be poisoned. What do you know11 We go to Vine Cottage. about animals? And every animal has a poison bit in him somewhere, and if you don’t know where it is and eat it, then you ’ Philomela finishes her unpleasant remarks by impressively singing the direful end of Lord Ronald’s hounds : ‘ Oh ! they swelled and they died, mother; Mak’ my bed soon, For I’m weary wi’ huntin’, And fain wad lie doon. Now, I ask you, do you want the Batiushka and me to be like that ? ’ I can see Philomela is going to make trouble, so I must conciliate her. I cast about in my mind for an appropriate gift, but before I have time to offer my once-worn pink leather belt or my quite new silk petticoat she begins again. ‘ Perhaps it might not be so bad; even you could not cook worse than some of the cooks we’ve had. You could try it, and it would certainly save half- crowns at Registries and postage answering adver- tisements. Try it! I don’t really object,’ says our Philomela, with magnificent condescension. However, I must just be thankful for small mercies. ‘ I knew you would see there were points about my plan. Really, Phillikins, think what we have endured at the hands of the “ tampories.” ’12 We go to Vine Cottage. In this part of the world the lady who comes in an emergency and demands fifteen shillings a week is known as a ‘ tampory.’ We have had many. For the most agreeable things have their drawbacks, and though it is delightful to have Mrs Wilson—an old and family friend—reigning over the kitchen during the winter months, it only makes us more un- comfortable by contrast when we struggle for the other six months with the imbecile, the antique, and the cheeky. ‘When does Mrs Wilson go?’ demands Philo- mela. ‘On the first of June. She has promised to stay an extra month this year. Now my plan (oh! do listen ; don’t chip !) is to find a nice cottage—a real cottage, not a villa—give the two handmaidens a holiday, and I will cook and have a nice girl from the village to do the rough work. Now won’t it all be summery, and idyllic, and Arcadian, and delightful ? ’ ‘ It will be awful! Nice girls from villages always creak when they move—their hinges are never properly oiled—smash everything they touch, and are never any use. Don’t say I didn’t warn you. However, never mind me. Arrange your old plan; find your Arcadian, earwiggy cottage and your intelligent assistant, and take Batiushka and13 We go to Vine Cottage. me like parcels to where you want to go—which is always the same place. Confess! You say vaguely “ a cottage in the country,” but you mean a cottage at Hillsboro’.’ ‘Well, it was Hillsboro’. I can’t help it. I never want to go anywhere else, for I love the place, and the hills, and the heather.’ ‘ And the wind, and the bad roads, and the long walk from the station,’ mimics Philomela. ‘ Now I’m off,’ shaking a shower of drippings on to the carpet. ‘ Off where to ? Oh Philly ! do wait five minutes.’ ‘ Can’t possibly. Music lesson at sharp twelve, and punctuality is the soul of business. You would waste anybody’s time ! ’ She has gone, leaving me to pick up the chips and tidy up. ‘’Twas ever thus from childhood’s hour ’—some one else does the carving and I pick up the chips. I saw Philomela for only five minutes at luncheon, and then she was too busy eating to take any interest in anything else, so we had no speech on the burning question of cooking—I hope that is not a prophetic pun—till dinner-time, when she asked the Batiushka, in tones of utmost sweetness, how often he thought he could eat scrambled eggs in one week.14 We go to Vine Cottage. Naturally he demanded an explanation; and with many embellishments and much fluent comment of her own, Philomela laid my poor little Arcadian scheme before him. One to me. He professes himself quite pleased, and says he can make a pudding sauce out of brown sugar, fresh butter, and lemon-juice, and a savoury composed of tomatoes, anchovy sauce, and sardines. Philomela, who thought he would be on her side, actually sits perfectly subdued for two minutes hatching vengeance. ‘ Lesbia is an awful swagger cook, isn’t she ? I mean, she does knoAV about cooking ? ’ The dear, unsuspecting Little Father walks into the trap. ‘ Of course she does. There isn’t much she can’t do; ’ and he beams genially at us both. I kiss my hand to him in thanks, but I don’t like the cold gleam of triumph in Philomela’s eye. ‘ All right; you ’re quite sure ? ’ (Batiushka nods ‘Quite’ with his head.) ‘Very well; then you’ll please tell me, Mrs Clever Lesbia, what are giblets ? You don’t know, I can see. All right; I don’t mind. Now I’ll ask you another question: How do you “ tammy ” things ? ’15 We go to Vine Cottage. I am speechless, and Philomela keeps the floor. f Those are simple things, and you are very ignorant. Now I’ll ask you something more diffi- cult. How do you “ panada ” ? and what are “ darioles ” ? ’ ‘Philomela, have you been reading a cookery- book ? ’ ‘ Rather! I actually wasted ten minutes over one of your books. You ought not to have so many when you don’t know a few simple things. Now, I’ll tell you. You listen too, Small Father; then you can learn another pudding sauce ! Are you both attending ? ’ Very impressively : ‘Giblets make soup, and you can also stew them. I can’t tell you what they are, because the book only said : “You take the giblets;” never “Giblets are.” A “ tammy ” strainer is very superior. You can’t use it unless you have a kitchen-maid; at least I gathered that. But Lesbia’s book was very con- fusing. You can’t make quenelles unless you can “ panada,” and “ darioles ” are little moulds. They are very expensive, so you need not bother with them.’ Here Philomela leant back exhaustedly in her chair and murmured, ‘ I have spoken ’—her favourite wind-up to her long speeches. I feel rather oppressed by my ignorance, but somewhat consoled by the Batiushka saying gibletsWe go to Vine Cottage. 16 sound horrible and he never wants anything Tam- o’-shantered or ‘ panada ’-ed. I lay awake quite a long time thinking how much there will be to learn, and almost wishing I had never thought of cooking. Suppose things turn out very badly, what could I do? I know—and I won’t tell Philomela. I will write to Delecta, who is a real live professor of cooking, and ask her to be in readiness to come to my rescue if I can’t manage by myself. I have spent several weary days cottage-hunting— alas! without success. I generally go by myself, for Philomela is so disagreeable, and always offends the landlady by asking if the windows open or if there really isn’t a larger bedroom somewhere. Once I had the pleasure of Batiushka’s company, and he talked of nothing but drains ! To-day I have news of another cottage—a real one; not of gentility and a double coach-house, but a cottage of no pretensions, with a garden, and with a view. A view over the mouth of the river, that is almost the sea; a view towards the Delectable Mountains. The Batiushka must take this cottage. Philomela says she knows it. 1 The view is all right, but the road is the worst in Hillsboro’, and that is saying a good deal.’17 We go to Vine Cottage. I don’t mind the road, for I mean to go to Vine Cottage. Isn’t that a most attractive name ? When I talked it over at breakfast and mentioned the name, Philomela shrieked—yes, shrieked is the only word— ‘ Mention Omar Khayyam at peril of your life.’ Of course I was just going to—can we ever hear of vines without thinking of Omar ?—but seeing the gleam in Philomela’s eye, I refrained. The Batiushka has satisfactorily negotiated with the landlady, and she has kindly promised to find ‘a nice girl from the village’ for me. We are all looking forward to the country, and I look forward to being monarch of the kitchen, with one willing henchwoman. But will she be willing ? ‘ Ay, there’s the rub.’ The thought of the cooking fills me with some apprehension and misgiving, but I have a perfect library of cookery-books, and surely, surely all these volumes must teach me something! Philomela is taking stacks of luggage ; not only body-clothes and head-coverings, but every kind of apparatus and implement she needs for her various employments. My heart rather sank when I saw the wood-carving tools also going for change of air and scene. I had hoped to be spared the chipping. Philomela wanted to go over to Hillsboro’ and inspect the piano, but I put my foot down on that J3 c A. C.18 We go to Vine Cottage. scheme. I do not want to begin our tenancy of the cottage by words with the kind landlady, so the piano is still an unknown quantity. ‘ If I don’t like the Vine Cottage piano I can hire a clavier,’ says our pianist. The Batiushka privately asked me what on earth a clavier was. When I explained it was soundless, and that Philomela would practise on it, his face fairly lit up with joy. ‘Won’t I hear her before-breakfast scales?’ ‘ Not a note of them ! ’ ‘ Lesbia,’ whispered my long-suffering cherub, ‘couldn’t we buy one of these silent instruments and give it to Philly ? ’ The price rather daunted him, but he is cheered by the thought that perhaps Philomela will not approve of the piano that ‘ goes ’ with Vine Cottage. Martha has promised to take the canary with her to Scotland. It’s a very English bird; I hope it won’t dislike Kirkcudbrightshire. That blessed bullfinch goes with us. I would like to board it out, but it’s the Batiushka’s own property, and he says he could not bear to be parted from it. I do hate travelling with a bird-cage ! Nothing makes you look so trippery and common. There is only one thing worse, and that is a bath with a tin cover and a strap !19 We go to Vine Cottage. To-morrow—oh, eventful to-morrow! Will the Batiushka and Philomela starve ? What will ! the nice, active girl ’ be like ? Can I cook ? Truth compels me to answer, ‘No.’ Can I learn? Time alone will show. However, for to-morrow night I am taking cooked viands with me; also I have several tins and glass bottles of provisions to fall back upon if—I My dear Lesbia, don’t be ridiculous! Remem- ber, ‘ Every woman should be able to cook.’20 A Day of Misfortunes. r CHAPTER II. A DAY OF MISFORTUNES. <=§o HAT a day ! What a miserable day! If only I kept a diary, what a record of misfortunes would it be! Everything has gone wrong—simply everything. It is only twelve o’clock and I’m dead tired. I feel just like Weedon Grossmith in The New Boy, who said he’d ‘been up about six weeks.’ I am sure I have been up six months. First of all, why, oh ! why did I not insist on a personal inter- view with ‘ the nice girl from the village ’ ? I meant a girl, not a child in short frocks and a pigtail—a ginger pigtail, too, crowned by a very dressy, frilly cap with streaming ends. Harriet—she preferred Harry, but I quenched that—was waiting for us at the gate of Vine Cottage, and received us with Mrs Fezziwig’s ‘ vast, substantial smile; ’ in fact, she grinned cease- lessly all the time. Philomela looked at her once, but it was a look that spoke volumes, and envelopedA Day of Misfortunes. 21 Harriet with disdain from the toes of her sand-shoes to the frill of her cap. That dear Batiushka (sadly incommoded with the bullfinch’s cage and various packages) murmured, ‘ Never mind, darling; she ’ll grow, and you can give her a long skirt. She looks strong and active, anyway.’ I think she is strong, for she hauled and pulled at the boxes in a very business-like manner; only she would grin. Philomela had stalked into the house, and I was just following her—Batiushka, Harriet, and a box bringing up the rear—when, with a face of horror, Philly bounced out of the front door. ‘Lesbia, Lesbia, there’s a child, an awful child, sitting in the kitchen.’ At the word ‘ child ’ Harriet dropped her handle of the box and fled precipitately round to the back premises. Batiushka, who very nearly received the box on his toes, looked perfectly dumfounded; and there we all stood staring like idiots till the cab-driver came to our rescue. ‘ It’s that there Frankie, mum,’ he kindly ex- plained. ‘ I knowed she was ’ere, but in course I thought you’d give permission for ’Arriet to bring22 A Day of Misfortunes. ’er. Lor ! she’s a reg’lar caution, that kid—beg yer pardon, mum—beg yer pardon, sir.’ I felt my brain reeling. What and who was Frankie, and why should she sit in our (temporane- ously our) kitchen? However, there was nothing for it but to find out, so with much dignity I walked through to the kitchen, followed by Philo- mela; and there, sure enough, was ‘an awful child,’ but no Harriet. The awful one was seated on a chair in front of the kitchen fire toasting her long thin legs, encased in elaborate, open-work, white-knitted stockings, contentedly munching something pink and white and sticky, suggestive of‘four a penny.’ No way abashed by our severe appearance, she continued to munch like the sailor’s wife in Macbeth, and took no notice of us. ‘ What are you doing here, little girl ? ’ I asked, looking as forbidding as possible. From a mouth stuffed full of sweet-stuff came one word that sounded like ‘ Coomtarry-coomtstay.’ I looked helplessly at Philomela: did she, with her alert and active brain, understand this occult utterance ? Philomela is a person of decision. She walked firmly forward and simply whisked the child on to its feet, and having made it stand up, gave it a good, hard shake. dP 4>A Day of Misfortunes. 23 ‘You are a very naughty little girl; and what is worse, you are a very ugly little girl—an ugly little girl that can’t speak properly.’ The effect was magical. Philomela says to tell small children they are ugly brings them to their bearings at once. Evidently 1 Frankie ’ in the family circle is considered a beauty. She cast a glance of withering scorn at Philly and addressed herself to me, first giving me the benefit of a bobbing curtsey. ‘Please, mum, mother said I could coom with ’Arry. I won’t be no trouble, and I can wash up and make beds, and I doan’t want no wages nor nothing, only to stay ’ (here a burst of sobs) ‘ with ’Arry.’ What could I do ? Philomela says that I should have packed her off home at once, but I had not the heart to do so; and we have two domestics instead of one, if you can call a little object in open-work stockings a domestic! Harriet, at the sound of Frankie’s loud and dolorous weeping, came in from the back premises—I think she had been hiding in the coal-cellar—and explained at great length how Frankie screamed so when she said she was going away that her mother thought I should not mind having them both. I do mind. But, after all, it is only for a month,A Day of Misfortunes. 24 and I am not going to let a little thing like a frizzy-headed infant phenomenon spoil our summer happiness. She really is very like Miss Vincent Crummies, even down to the possession of a very ornate parasol! Philomela went off in disgust to tell Batiushka of my weak-mindedness, and to give him a description of Frankie. I have stipulated that she shall answer to her baptismal name of Frances and call her sister Harriet. They both promised to meet my views in this matter with alacrity; in fact, I think they were prepared to promise anything. One of the joys of Hillsboro’ is the presence— very near us, too—of the Good Samaritan, and, with her usual goodness, she carried us all off to tea. After the excitement of the Frankian episode, it was pleasant to sit in her cool green and white drawing-room, and look across the heather and the bracken to the distant hills lying far beyond the wet reaches of shimmering sand, where the river meets the sea, and where ‘imagi- nary Marys’ herded their ‘fictitious cattle.’ Gazing out of the wide windows, I almost forgot that I had to cook the dinner, till Philomela reminded me of it. What an unpleasant memory Philly has, to be sure ! I did not want to cook; I wanted to sit and25 A Day of Misfortunes. watch the ever-changing shadows on hill and sky, to listen to the birds—in fact, just enjoy myself in my own dull way. Somehow, dinner-cooking seemed singularly out of place. Of that dinner—the first we ate in Vine Cottage—I will say very little. It was not a conspicuous success. I think I attempted too much. The menu was as follows (on the menu: it did not all appear in the dining-room) : ‘ Con- somme, Salmon Mayonnaise, Cold Lamb with New Potatoes, Asparagus, Tot-Fait, and Cheese Cauli- flower.’ I was glad to find Harriet had peeled the potatoes, still more glad to find Frances had retired upstairs to a small room she was to share with her sister; but I was slightly dismayed to discover Harriet knew absolutely nothing of cooking, not even the most rudimentary rudiments. She told me she had been in two places, but in each the mistress had done all the cooking herself. I almost wish I had not undertaken to attempt the same thing. The cold lamb I had brought with me ready cooked; also the salmon, ready for its nest of lettuce and tomatoes. The consomme lived in a tin. Now I know there is a great prejudice against tinned soups, but they are often useful, and the Franco - American kinds are everything that is D 4> A. C.26 A Day of Misfortunes. delightful and desirable. Tinned vegetables and that peony-coloured horror, tinned salmon, are un- doubtedly objectionable, but a really good brand of tinned soup is both safe and pleasant. The consomme would have been very good. I added a little sherry and it tasted delicious. How could I possibly guess that with a shriek and a roar all the soot would fall down the chimney and the kitchen be filled with acrid- smelling smoke ? Why need the soot have chosen the one moment when the soup was heating to avalanche into the fire? Amidst much spluttering and choking I lifted the poor soup off the fire and gazed up the chimney. There seemed no reason for the catastrophe except pure cussedness. However, the soup was done for. The potatoes also had received their share of soot, but they could be washed; you cannot wash soup. Asparagus is not what I thought it. I never realised it had to be scraped, nor that in scraping the inexperienced chop the heads off. However, at last it was successfully ready for tying in a bundle, and I gaily manipulated the string, Harriet looking on full of pleased interest. I don’t know what happened, but something slipped; the string was left in my hand; the asparagus scattered itself in every direction. Now the floor was perfectly clean,27 ~ ' --- - - Bl GUIP Eyoi 6H'\E_ / <=>"M HEiiomion sf» V/r\tn Q^w iTwHsrftHq- Disv-\e^>. Mabel lyOEL ffTfotett27 A Day of Misfortunes. and had there been no Harriet present I should have grimly collected it, cooked it, and eaten it; but it seemed a bad precedent, so it followed the soup to the ash-pit. The dinner was certainly diminishing, growing ‘small by degrees and beautifully less,’ for I suddenly realised I had forgotten to parboil the cauliflower; there was no time, so the savoury was off! The tot-fait pudding is one of those fluffy, light, souffle-like morsels that depend on two things— very fresh eggs and much whipping. I had the former, but unfortunately I am not an expert whippist; at any rate the pudding wouldn’t rise. It ate quite well, but looked wrong. I was so hot and tired and smoked and flustered that I made a very bad mayonnaise for the salmon; in fact, the cold lamb was really the only decent thing we had. Philomela majestically asked for butter and biscuits, and even Batiushka said new potatoes were nothing without mint and plenty of butter. I do think Harriet might have reminded me about the mint. If I had had to wash up I think it would have killed me. I even smiled upon the Phenomenon when I saw it washing dishes. I was so tired I tottered to bed at half-past nine, leaving Batiushka28 A Day of Misfortunes. and Philly playing Sympathy Patience and quarrel- ling dreadfully. My dreams were haunted by giant cauliflowers with eyes that turned into asparagus dragons from whose cavernous mouths issued volumes of soot and smoke. I woke to realise breakfast, and oh, how I wished there was nothing to cook! But there were eggs to poach and sausages to fry; at least I fully intended to fry them. Unfortunately I discussed the sausages with Harriet, who maintained her last mistress always cooked them in the oven. Now I 'had never cooked a sausage in my life, and as Harriet seemed much more intimate with them, I left them to her and confined my attentions to the eggs. It may not be much, but I can poach eggs. The secret is, of course, the addition of a little vinegar to the water and the dexterity with which you slither in the egg. They were a triumph— snowy, whole (a smashed poached egg is a mon- strosity), and beautiful. Unfortunately Philomela won’t eat eggs, so she at once demanded the sausages. They appeared. Let it be understood at once the oven is not the proper place for sausages. They were a hideous, dismal failure, and Philly did not hesitate to say so. In fact, those sausages have cast a gloom over the whole morning. Now it is only twelve and I amA Day of Misfortunes. 29 perfectly exhausted. I am really thankful Batiushka had to go into the City, for, poor dear! he will have a good luncheon, and the meal here is to be only potted meat and bread-and-butter. I think Harriet is rather disgusted that there will be nothing but the cold lamb for her and Frances; she wanted me to make them a pudding. ‘ We alius has puddens at home, mum.’ Harriet is dissatisfied with me, I can see; but I am reserving my ener- gies for the dinner. I must have a decent meal to-night. Hillsboro’ is a dear little place, but it has its drawbacks, and one is the extreme hardness of the water. Another is the number of people—men, women, and children—who come to the door selling things. Sitting in our little drawing-room or in the front garden, I cannot possibly pretend that I neither see nor hear the importunate shrimp-seller, the tomato - seller, the itinerant glass-merchant. Frances was having quite a flirtation with a horrid little boy who was selling rather mouldy-looking oranges, his head tied up in none too clean bandages. I severely ordered her into the house, and because of the bandaged head, gave Nell Gwynn’s descendant some coppers. Fatal error! Every child in the district has been here with gooseberries, with apples, with fish, with shrimps.30 A Day of Misfortunes. Philomela facetiously explained from her bed- room window that we never eat shellfish in any form; also that she need not be told the shrimps are freshly caught, because she can smell them ! The shrimp-seller became abusive, and it has cost me sixpence to get rid of him peaceably. I am at present lengthening Harriet’s frock, for really she looked most undignified, and I fear the Hillsboro’ folk would be shocked if she answered the door displaying not only solid ankles but solid calves. Philomela has been at the Samaritan’s telephone in pursuit of a clavier, for the piano does not meet with her approval. Does Philly ever really find a piano that suits her? Mr Samaritan has presented her with a huge bunch of deliciously smelling pinks, and she has borrowed an old book of songs from the Good Samaritan. She also tried to borrow the Samari- tanian dog, a perfect person of much character and sense, but he prefers to lie in his own garden and bark at the passers-by. I have no personal objection to Prince Charlie; in fact, I have Jacobite leanings; but if Philomela intends to learn ‘ Farewell, Manchester,’ off by heart, I don’t think I can bear it.A Day of Misfortunes. 31 She is depressing me dreadfully by wailing out: ‘ Farewell, Manchester ! Noble town, farewell! Here with loyalty ev’ry breast can swell.’ Philomela is evidently very pleased with it; it is making me almost tearful. ‘Though I toil anew shadows to pursue— Shadows vain—thou It remain within my heart.’ Poor ill-fated Prince ! I feel very sorry for you, but you are making me very melancholy. I will try to shut out the sadness of Philly’s song by studying cookery-books and planning my to- night’s dinner. Thank goodness! there will be strawberries and cream: that saves fighting with a pudding; and filleted steak is not very difficult. Then there are tiny little soles—‘ flukies ’ we call them in the north; slip-soles is their name here. Three things will be plenty. Peas for a vegetable— a nice, easy job for the Phenomenon to shell them— and new potatoes, with plenty of mint. ‘ Tho-ough I toil anew shadows to pursue— Sha-a-a-dows vain ’ I cannot bear it any longer; I am becoming a rampant Cumberland-at-Culloden-Hanoverian. I must go out!32 Black Dogs, Visible and Invisible. CHAPTER III. BLACK DOGS, VISIBLE AND INVISIBLE, cf® <=§■=> <=§<=> JTfX HERE are days in our lives that may be safely and truthfully designated failures— failures with a large capital ‘F.’ You start badly by being late in the morning, and from the early hours onward through ‘ the burden and heat of the day,’ till you crawl exhaustedly and crossly to bed, everything goes wrong. To-day is one of them. For the last week I have done fairly well. In- deed, some of the dishes have been quite superb; but the roasts have not been successful. I am quite convinced there is something radically wrong with the kitchen-range. I still think so, though Delecta, to whom I wrote in my difficulty, replied: ‘ Stoves and ranges, among the great trials of the amateur cook, are generally considered out of order when the cooking is bad.’ Now, is that fair? However, she sent me a number of useful directions in regardBlack Dogs, Visible and Invisible. 33 to flues and dampers, and I have conscientiously wrestled with them all morning, assisted by Harriet, who became as black as a sweep. It was very kind of Delecta to send me so many instructions. She said I had told her nothing about the kitchen-range, so she sent me a little lecture on ranges in general. Apart from the complications, it is decidedly useful. I read it aloud to the Batiushka, who only said, ‘ Perhaps now the meat will be neither black as a cinder nor absolutely raw.’ I do hope amateur cooking is not going to injure Batiushka’s naturally sweet and amiable temper. THE MANAGEMENT OF A KITCHEN-RANGE. £LOSED ranges are in more general use than open grates, but the following rules apply to all coal-ranges, open or closed. The keynote of range management is cleanliness. A range consists of three parts—fireplace, oven, and boiler. The boiler is sometimes at the side of the grate opposite to the oven, but where it supplies the hot-water pipes, it is found at the back. In this case a second oven is sometimes placed at the side. An oven really consists of two iron boxes, one inside the other, with an open space between com- E A. C.34 Black Dogs, Visible and Invisible. municating on one side with the fire and on another with a small passage called a flue leading to the main chimney. Round the open space the flame and hot air circulate, escaping with the smoke into the flue, and finally passing into the chimney. Across the flues are small iron doors, arranged to open and shut by means of knobs or handles; these doors are called dampers, and are used to regulate the heat by opening or closing the passage to the flame and heat. The secret of a hot oven is a good draught so that the flame may be drawn into the flue, and the farther the dampers are pulled out the greater the draught. It will be readily understood that if the space round the oven or the flues becomes choked with soot, (i) the draught will be less, and (2) the soot, which is a bad conductor of heat, will prevent the heat from passing into the oven. All flues, therefore, must be regularly cleaned with the proper brushes sold for the purpose. The times of cleaning depend on the amount of cooking done. In a large house where a great many elaborate meals are regularly prepared, all soot must be carefully and thoroughly removed every morning (needless to say, before the grate is otherwise cleaned or the fire laid); in a simpler household once a week may be enough. Common-sense must be used.Black Dogs, Visible and Invisible. 35 At the upper and lower parts of the stove are small doors called soot-doors. When cleaning the flues, remove the top soot-doors first—one at a time only—put the flue-brush into the opening, and push it vigorously upwards to the chimney till it will go no farther. Pull it up and down till all soot is removed from the upper part; remove the brush, and turn it downwards, cleaning the part below in the same way. Next remove the rings from the top of the oven, if there be any, and brush the soot off the top. Insert the brush at each soot-door in turn until the whole length of flue is clean, and finally remove all the soot from the lowest door, generally found at the bottom of the grate below the oven. Each flue is cleaned in the same way, one at a time, and care must be taken to have only one soot-door open at once to avoid unnecessary dirt. An open stove often has two handles over the oven connected with a scraper inside. The soot is loosened and falls to the bottom by the handles being pulled in and out for a few minutes. In addition to careful cleaning of the flues, the chimney must be regularly swept; the frequency of this operation depending (i) on the width of the36 Black Dogs, Visible and Invisible. chimney, (2) on the amount of cooking done. In some houses once a year will be enough; in others every six weeks will be none too often. To heat the oven, make up a good fire and pull out the damper some time before beginning to cook. By pushing the damper in the heat may be lessened, and experience will teach the proper regulation. When the damper is out to its fullest extent the greatest possible amount of heat will be obtained; when it is quite closely shut the oven will gradually grow cold. If a very hot oven is required, shut off the boiler damper; this will set free more heat for the oven, and of course care must be taken to keep up the fire. Towards the end, when the cooking is almost complete, the fire may be allowed to get low unless it is needed for some purpose. In buying a range, if possible choose one with bottom heat; that is, with the flame passing under the oven first of all. As a general rule more heat is required at the bottom than the top, so that cakes, bread, &c. may rise before being baked on their upper surface. However much may be known in theory or practice, one must know one’s own oven and its special peculiarities; for every oven has its own special advantages and disadvantages, and twoBlack Dogs, Visible and Invisible. 37 ovens of exactly the same make behave in very different ways. This is well known to experienced cooks. Sometimes an oven is badly set, and this can only be remedied by an experienced workman being called in. Occasionally, owing to situation of the kitchen, an oven heats badly when certain strong winds are blowing; but we generally find • the chief causes of badly working ranges to be dirty flues, badly regulated dampers, and want of attention to the fire. Delecta is very clever, and I know she under- stands all about it, but I don’t think she would like to spend a hot summer morning fighting with flues, despondent over dampers, smothered in soot. Philomela once condescended to put her head into the kitchen, and loftily remarked, ‘Thank goodness, you’re making that range decent! Now I can make cocoa-nut biscuits.’ Cocoa-nut biscuits! When a worn and weary woman is inches deep in soot, is it a time to talk of cocoa-nut biscuits? I intended to give a dignified reply, but before I had time to do so both Philomela and Harriet were out of the back38 Black Dogs, Visibl e and Invisible. door chasing the Hound of the Baskervilles round the garden. The Hound lives next door. He is a thin, black, greyhoundy-whippety kind of beast, a born thief and marauder, and a most graceful and wonderful jumper. No high wall could keep him out, and he ‘takes off’ from a little mound of grass in the neatest manner possible always at the last moment, when Philomela thinks she has cornered him. Philomela, for some reason or other, has taken a violent objection to this Strand Magazine animal, and maintains he is either the Fiend Incar- nate or a wandering evil spirit. She says she can hear him laugh at her ! I rather respect the black dog if he does really laugh at Philly, for he shows immense bravery. I would not dare. Philomela’s temper is somewhat ruffled; in fact, there is a distinct shadow of gloom—the result of soot and black dogs—over the whole community. Harriet too is decidedly cross. She has not yet forgiven me for returning the Infant Phenomenon, parasol, white stockings, and all, to its bereft home. I do not think Mrs Brocklay wanted Frankie back; but I can be firm occasionally, and over the Pheno- menon I was firm. Some little girls might have been handy about the house—not Frankie ! I made her dust, and she broke everything she touched,Black Dogs, Visible and Invisible. 39 including two of Philomela’s photograph-frames. I could not leave her alone with Harriet for more than an hour without their quarrelling and wrangling at the pitch of their voices. At first, in the full bloom of our home-made joke of ‘ furious Frank and fiery Hun,’ we were amused at their quarrels; but the amusement soon palled, and for the sake of peace we despatched the Phenomenon to its own place. Philomela would have liked to send the black dog with her; but it’s ‘ first catch your hound ; ’ also, dog-stealing is punishable by law. I should not like any of my family to know, but I really look upon the Hound of the Baskervilles as my best friend. He possesses a most voracious appetite, and is ever ready to eat up any failures. Even the dreadful cake that looked like sodden putty he swallowed with avidity. All the things that I forget are in the oven, even if too brick- like to eat, he will take away to play with. Now ‘Grip,’ the Samaritanian dog, is much too high class to accept anything but the very best bones, the most seductive biscuits. I hardly dare to offer him a home-made biscuit; he even refused the brown biscuits I made yesterday, and they were really delicious. For a wonder the oven was in a good temper.40 Black Dogs, Visible and Invisible. Ah me! but it is pleasant to have an occa- sional success in this weary world, even if it is only biscuitian! BROWN BISCUITS. pUT into a basin ij lb. of flour, \ lb. of sugar, 2 oz. desiccated cocoa-nut, i oz. mixed spice; rub through these dry ingredients \ lb. of butter. Add to this mixture 2 well-beaten eggs and | lb. of golden syrup. Knead into a firm dough. Roll out thinly and cut into neat rounds with a cutter, decorate each biscuit with a small strip of lemon-peel, place on a greased baking-sheet, and bake in a moderate oven. Harriet is by way of washing the kitchen floor. It is perfectly hopeless to hurry her, so there will be no luncheon to-day except potted meat. I dare not offer Philomela Bovril again ; she is so offensive about it. The other night when the clear soup went wrong and I touched it up with Bovril, neither the Batiushka nor the Good Samaritan would have noticed anything if Philomela had not pretended to cry the moment she tasted it, and wailed out, ‘ Alas, my poor brother ! ’c Black Dogs, Visible and Invisible. 41 Such a silly joke, and in such bad taste. Of course Batiushka left most of his soup, and he was eating it, or supping it, or whatever it is, quite con- tentedly before Philly spoke. Besides, you can make soup with Lemco or Bovril, and make it quite well; and it is much cheaper than having pounds and pounds of shin of beef. rpVKE 4 carrots, scrape well, and wash ; divide each carrot into 4 parts and place them in a saucepan with 2 quarts of water, 2 quartered onions, 1 turnip cut in half, a small bit of celery, 1 dessert-spoonful of sugar, and 1 dessert-spoonful of salt. Boil up briskly, and then place saucepan on the side of the fire to simmer till the vegetables are soft; add 1 dessert-spoonful of meat extract, let it simmer for half-an-hour, and strain through a fine colander into a basin. I wrote and told Delecta my clear soup was always wrong, and she sent me a list of causes of failure, cheerfully remarking: ‘ Perhaps one of these is your mistake.’ I replied: ‘ Probably I have done or left undone the whole lot.’ CHEAP CONSOMM& F A. C.42 Black Dogs, Visible and Invisible. She tells me there are five traps waiting for the unwary : 1. Greasy stock. 2. White of egg and lean meat not sufficiently mixed with the other ingredients. 3. Insufficiency of cooking. 4. Not allowing long enough time for soup to stand in the pan. 5. Omitting the brisk boiling with sugar. I certainly never remembered about the sugar, and I rather think I never do give quite long enough for the cooking of anything! I like quick results. Even though he wins the race, can you raise any real enthusiasm for the tortoise ? CLEAR SOUP NO. I. jpUT in a saucepan 3 to 4 lb. of shin of beef and \ lb. of veal or veal bone, and i| gallons of cold water. Set the pan at the side of the stove (to draw the blood from the meat) for a couple of hours. Then put it on the fire and boil very quickly for half-an-hour, taking off the scum as it rises, and adding now and then a table-spoonful of water to throw up the scum. Now draw to the side and simmer for six hours,Black Dogs, Visible and Invisible. 43 adding gradually 2 lb. of vegetables — carrots, turnips, onions, parsley, celery; finally add 2 lumps of sugar, 1 table-spoonful of salt, and 1 dessert- spoonful of black peppercorns. Strain through a cloth, and it is ready for use. CLEAR SOUP NO. II. make really good clear soup the stock must be made the previous day. As greasy stock is one of the chief reasons why so-called ‘clear’ soup is often cloudy, it is essential that every trace of fat should be removed, and this can easily be done when the stock is cold and solid. The stock should be prepared in the following manner : Allow 1 lb. of shin of beef to each quart of cold water, half a large carrot, 1 small turnip, 1 small onion, a piece of celery, a bunch of herbs—parsley, thyme, and marjoram—5 peppercorns, a thread of mace, and 2 cloves. The meat must be cut into small pieces and every scrap of marrow removed from the bone. Let these ingredients all simmer together for two hours, and then remove the herbs and vegetables. Now let the gentle simmering by the side of the fire continue for another three or four hours. During the cooking occasionally re- move the scum.44 Black Dogs, Visible and Invisible. This process should ensure a really good stock. Now for the clear soup itself. Take i quart of stock (quite free from fat), \ lb. lean beef finely minced that has been covered for twenty minutes with a cupful of cold water, i slice carrot, i turnip, i onion (very small), io peppercorns, 2 cloves, i blade of mace, i tea-spoonful of salt, a bunch of herbs, the whites and shells of 2 eggs. Put all these ingredients into a perfectly clean pan on a gentle fire and whisk vigorously for ten minutes. Now let the contents boil briskly for ten minutes, then remove the pan to a cooler part of the range, place the lid on, and simmer for half-an-hour or longer. Then let it stand without simmering till the soup settles. Take care not to disturb the crust that will have formed on the top. To strain the soup the best thing is an old table-napkin or a fine kitchen-cloth. Tie it securely over a stool or chair turned upside down, and place a basin under the cloth. First pass a little boiling water through the cloth, and then gently pour your soup. The first two or three cupfuls will probably be cloudy, so pass them through again. It should now be perfectly clear. But to make it quite brilliant, place it in a clean pan with a small piece of lump-sugar. It is now ready for serving, and you may, if you prefer it, add a little sherry to the soup. All garnish mustBlack Dogs, Visible and Invisible. 45 be ready cooked beforehand, and slipped into the soup the last thing. <=§■=> «=§£> It’s a simple little performance making clear soup, isn’t it? Are we to be greatly blamed for occasionally flying to glass bottles and tins ? Philomela would like elaborately prepared soup every day. She never seems to think that cooking becomes monotonous, not to say wearisome. What with the flues, I almost wish the Batiushka had not come home early and insisted on cutting the grass. I dare say I was rather cross, but I could not help saying the lawn looked as if it had been cut with nail-scissors. That began it. He was very offended, and flung down what Toddie called ‘the cutter grass,’ and said I might cut it myself. I tried it; but how could I possibly know the horrible implement would run away and lodge itself in the rockery? Why do people have rockeries? They are not ornamental. Batiushka says I have ruined Mr Samaritan’s lawn-mower and I shall have to buy him a new one. Altogether everything is very un- pleasant, especially as Harriet let something burn on the newly cleaned and swept stove, and the smell is awful. I am trying to write a letter to Delecta asking46 Black Dogs, Visible and Invisible. her by the memory of our former friendship, and by the affection that she bears for the Batiushka, to come to us and help. To come—yes, I say it unblushingly—to come, and, if she will be so good, teach me to cook ! XVEL!^ RERDy To EAT UR MIPS47 The Joyful Arrival of Delecta. CHAPTER IV. THE JOYFUL ARRIVAL OF DELECTA. <=$» <=50 <=§» sw CAN hardly believe that Delecta is really and Jr truly coming, but she is—coming to-day with * a whole stack of well-filled culinary note- books and a sheaf of cooking lectures. I have told Batiushka and Philomela that they must play together and amuse themselves, as I shall be very busy and very much given over to cooking. ‘You can’t cook more than you do at present,’ remarked Philly; ‘ only let us hope when Delecta comes there will be more variety. Perhaps I will listen to some of her old cooking lectures, if they are interesting. — Batiushka ’ — she turned towards him with an insinuating smile—‘ don’t try to hide the burnt part of your fried egg under your knife and fork; draw Lesbia’s attention to it, and then perhaps it won’t occur again.’ Batiushka is a hero !The Joyful Arrival of Delecta. 48 ‘ It’s not burnt, Philly. I thought I’d finished it. Lesbia fries eggs very well; ’ and with this slightly erroneous statement, the good Batiushka swallows down every bit of his egg. ‘When I marry,’ says Philomela, ‘I shall of course keep a proper cook; but if I didn’t, I wonder if my husband would eat burnt, nasty food and say it was all right.—You are an angel, Batiushka! ’ He really is. I know perfectly well the fried eggs are burnt, for I quite forgot to slide them about the pan. It is rather easy to burn an egg, if you are not careful, or if the fire is too hot. ‘ Have some potted meat to take away the taste of the egg. The potted meat is not home- cooked.’ Really Philly is making herself most unpleasant. To change the subject I discuss Delecta’s arrival and her trains, and am suddenly struck with a brilliant idea. ‘ Delecta has to change at the Ancient City, and has to wait for the Hillsboro’ train. Why shouldn’t we go and meet her, take Batiushka to the Cathe- dral—he’s never been ’ ‘And have luncheon at the wedding-cake shop,’ interrupts Philomela. ‘ Good! It will make up to Batiushka for his spoilt breakfast. You get aThe Joyful Arrival of Delecta. 49 heavenly lunch there, and such good ices. Last time we went we began with an awfully good soup, and ended up with the best strawberry ice I Ve ever tasted.’ ‘ Philomela, you are really greedy.’ ‘No, I’m not, my sweet Lesbia; but when one lives on your meals one begins to long for some- thing that is cooked professionally.’ She is quite right. I should rather enjoy eating something myself that I had not seen in its raw state, and had neither scraped and washed nor cleaned and dissected! It is really quite a good idea, and we can have several hours in the Ancient City before Delecta arrives; also, she will look upon it as a great compliment that we have all come to meet her. Delecta’s room is swept and garnished and filled with flowers—sweet-smelling roses and bunches of pinks. Why pinks when they are white ? I once knew a gardener who called them ‘spinks.’ There is a little writing-table in the window with fresh pens, clean blotting-paper, and plenty of note-paper, for I know Delecta is like myself and never feels quite the same again to people who give her nothing to write with. Will she be disappointed with the beauties of dear Hillsboro’? I hope not; but perhaps I have said too much—written too G A. C.The Joyful Arrival of Delecta. 50 enthusiastically of the views and the hills and the shining river-sea. Philomela and Batiushka cannot make up their minds what to wear! I tell them they know no one in the Ancient City, and that we are merely going as tourists with a taste for good luncheons. We must leave fairly early to catch our train, so I hope they won’t spend too long over their toilets. I have no time for an elaborate costume, having many instructions to give Harriet towards preparing the dinner. I want to give Delecta a good meal for the first one. Eventually Philomela appears ‘gowned charmingly’ (as they say in Society papers) in dark-blue linen, with a pale-blue blouse, a pale- blue hat, and a pale-blue leather belt. She is followed by the Batiushka, who is very dressy about the tie. They both maintain that I do them no credit, so I very hastily put on a slightly better hat and a new veil. It is wonderful what a new veil does for you—especially a new thick one ! Before we leave we have an anxious discussion on the subject of weather. Will it rain ? The country requires rain so badly—the thirsty hedges and trees droop piteously, waiting for the showers that never come—that it seems terribly selfish to hope it will be fine, and yet we certainly do hope the rain will not come till we are safely home again.The Joyful Arrival of Delecta. 5l ‘ Take an “ aquascutum ” and a sunshade, and then you are ready for anything,’ says Philomela. Batiushka flatly refuses to burden himself with a coat or an umbrella; as he very justly remarks, ‘ I have to carry both Philly’s coat and yours, and three coats are too much for any man.’ In the train, to the disgust of my family, I study a small cookery-book that a friend sent to me this morning. It is full of good recipes, with some specially suitable for invalid cookery. I told this to Philomela, who rudely said, ‘ No invalid could eat your food; you need to be very, very strong. And I do think it silly to bring a stupid cookery- book in your pocket when you go away for the day. Look out of the window and enjoy the scenery. Much better for you.’ Perhaps she is right, so I reluctantly return the book to my pocket, follow her advice, and look out of the window. Yes, the country does want rain. Lovely as everything looks in the blazing sunshine, it will be far lovelier when a good shower has washed away the dust and brightened and cheered the parched and dying grass. The railway banks are covered with wild flowers, the little stations filled with rose-trees, and everything cries out with one voice, ‘Send us rain; send us the sweet and freshening rain.’ Even though I am52 The Joyful Arrival of Delecta. looking out of the window, I cannot help thinking of the little cookery-book. I must certainly tell Delecta about the recipes for quickly made beef- tea and special restorative for invalids. QUICKLY MADE BEEP-TEA. WIPE carefully i lb. of lean, juicy beef, and shred it finely on a board; put it in a basin with i pint of cold water and i tea-spoonful of salt, and, if possible, allow it to stand for half-an-hour covered with a plate. Then pour the contents of the basin into a lined saucepan, place over a slow fire, and with two forks whisk it well till it almost reaches boiling-point. Do not let it boil. Draw the pan to the side of the fire, put on the lid, and allow the beef to simmer very slowly from ten to fifteen minutes. Strain through a coarse strainer, pressing all the juice out of the meat, and remove all the fat before serving. SPECIAL RESTORATIVE. 'T’AKE six fresh (new-laid) eggs, wash well, and dry; lay them in a bowl large enough to allow them to lie flat and not to touch. Squeeze the juice out of six large lemons (no pips); pour on to the eggs. Cover up and leave all night.53 The Joyful Arrival of Delecta. The next day turn the eggs, and do this four days running. Now stir all together and strain through a strainer; add sugar to taste, and half a pint of rum. BARLEY-WATER. QNE breakfast-cupful of barley well washed. Boil for one hour in 4 quarts of water with the rind of 1 lemon; strain, and add sugar to taste. When cold add the juice of 4 lemons. BEEP-TEA. pUT i lb. of gravy beef, cut into small pieces, into a basin with a pinch of salt and 1 pint of water; let it stand one hour; then pour into a saucepan, bring to the boil, and draw to the side of the fire to simmer gently for half-an-hour; remove all fat, and strain through a sieve. For very strong beef-tea make your jelly stock of gravy beef, knuckle of veal, and a whole fowl. CHICKEN-BROTH. pUT half a raw chicken into a pan with 1 quart of water and any suitable vegetable flavouring. When it boils skim well, and let it simmer for one hour. Pass through a sieve, and serve.54 The Joyful Arrival of Delecta. RESTORATIVE ESSENCE. ^AKE £ lb. of lean beef and 4 lb. of veal cut into small pieces; add a little pepper and salt and 2 glasses of dry sherry; or if wine is not desired, use water. Put all in a jar and cover closely. Set the jar in a saucepan of boiling water and let it boil six hours. Turn the meat once with a fork during that time. Strain through a fine sieve, let it stand until cold, remove all the fat, and then it is fit for use. Give one tea-spoonful occasionally with a little piece of toast or a water biscuit. ^UT £ lb. of mutton, J lb. of veal, and lb. of best steak into small pieces. Put into a closed jar with water and steam for six hours; strain, and put into little pots. Philomela has evidently come to the Ancient City to eat! The moment we were out of the station she exclaimed, ‘ Come on at once to the wedding- cake shop and have an “ elevens ” of coffee, ices, and cakes.’ Much to her disgust, this we firmly refused to do. INVALID MEAT JELLY.55 The Joyful Arrival of Delecta. ‘No, Philomela; your first food shall be luncheon at one o’clock. Now I am going to show Batiushka the wonderful walls, and you must stave off the pangs of hunger the best way you can.’ The walls are wonderful, and the walk round them is delightful. Of course Philly and Bati- ushka argued about Charles the First, and Batiushka refused to believe the announcement on the Phoenix Tower: King Charles STOOD ON THIS TOWER, September 24TH, 1645, and saw his Army deeeated on Rowton Moor. Batiushka said, ‘ How do they know he did ? ’ So silly! I never dispute information as to where people were, or the chairs they sat on, or the beds they slept in. Any story that adds to the romantic and the picturesque is a benefit in this prosaic age. Then (just to annoy Philly) Batiushka remarked : * Well, he lost his “ napper,” anyway; and a good job, too. He was a very poor king.’ Philomela was furious. She told Batiushka a breathless history of Charles’s wrongs in three minutes; in one sentence she called him a martyr, a saint, a hero, and an angel. TheThe Joyful Arrival of Delecta. 56 things she said of Oliver Cromwell will not bear repetition, and she wound up by telling Batiushka he was stupid and ignorant and vulgar—‘To talk of Charles the First in that common, vulgar way. Napper is a very vulgar word—isn’t it, Lesbia ? ’ I pretended to be deaf; but I afterwards told Batiushka privately that ‘napper’ and Charles the First were very incongruous terms, and must never again be used together. Mercifully, we discovered a diversion from the Stuart period in the shape of a pavement artist drawing chalked pictures on the flagged stones— not only drawing, but writing out verses of poetry that he said were original. One little verse of four lines was particularly attractive, and perhaps par- ticularly true: Philomela says the first two lines apply to me and the last two to Batiushka, for he gives everything away. ‘ You’d give your head away if it wasn’t gummed on.’ Philly’s remarks are terse and to the point. It’s not the man who knows the most That has the most to say; It’s not the man who has the most That gives the most away.57 The Joyful Arrival of Delecta. This last remark was too reminiscent of ‘nappers,’ and kings who lost them; so I ner- vously hurried them on, drawing Philomela’s attention to the beauty of the view. Philomela said she couldn’t possibly admire any view when she was so dreadfully hungry, so there was nothing for it but slowly to wend our way towards the shops. Oh! those fascinating old furniture shops in the Ancient City, how alluring they are, how attractive and delightful, and—how dear! Philomela says when she is very rich she will come back here with ‘ thousands of money ’ and buy all the beautiful old china, furniture, pewter, brass, and cut-glass that she can only price to-day. She prices everything. I think the old curiosity people are very long-suffer- ing, but Philly has an insinuating manner—when she likes ! Batiushka says the old shops are dull. ‘ What’s the use of looking at things when you can never buy them ? ’ ‘Lesbia, you are like the letter “L” in the children’s “A was an apple-pie.” Don’t you re- member, “ L longed for it ” ? ’ ‘ I wish I was “ S,” because he kleptomaniaed the pie. “S stole it.” I should like to steal these chairs.’ I receive no answer; in our wanderings we have58 The Joyful Arrival of Delecta. been brought to the very door of the wedding-cake shop, and with appalling promptness Philomela and Batiushka disappear. I cannot help feeling this wild longing for restaurant food is a terrible reflec- tion on my culinary skill. We have a very nice luncheon. Philomela over- does it with ices. Plenty of people come in and out, which always entertains me greatly. One man has a very fine luncheon himself, and gives his faded-looking wife and two children cups of tea and sponge-cakes. This interests me till Batiushka says, ‘ Don’t stare.’ I try not to stare; but the faded wife looks so faded and the man so well fed and pleased with life in general that I take a violent aversion to him. I can’t help staring. Philly and Batiushka are so long over their luncheon that there is only twenty minutes for a very hurried rush to the Cathedral before it is time to meet Delecta’s train. Why does one never have long enough to see English cathedrals pro- perly? Abroad it seems as if the cathedrals and churches were the main thing, and you can take your time; in an English town you are always coming back another day, like the people who live in London and have never been to the Tower or the British Museum. I can’t remember if the Heir of Redclyffe visited the Ancient City, but I am sure59 The Joyful Arrival of Delecta. it was he who spent his honeymoon touring among the cathedral towns of England. Batiushka says I should have brought a guide- book. I wish I had; he asks so many questions and I can’t answer them. However, I have pro- mised to bring him back to the Cathedral with a guide-book another day when we have no train to meet. Of course Delecta’s train is late, and of course we keep finding ourselves on the wrong platform. Batiushka fusses because he thinks we may lose the Hillsboro’ train. The station is so crowded, and there are so many children either going to the seaside or returning, all armed with spades and pails. One small boy has his bucket filled with the corpses of baby crabs—‘wee yins,’ as Macgreegor would say—but I hope this young gentleman did not ‘bawsh ’ them. Eventually Delecta’s train steams into the station, and we hurriedly retrieve her, her baggage, and her bicycle, and bundle into the Hillsboro’ train. No sooner are we seated than Philomela ex- claims, ‘Why on earth did you bring a bike?’ * Lesbia never mentioned biking, but I thought it was as well to have it. Don’t any of you bike now ? —Why, Batiushka, you bought a bicycle last year, didn’t you ? ’The Joyful Arrival of Delecta. 60 Philomela answers for him: ‘ My dear, he sold it for three pounds.- Brand new, too. Pie fell off it so often, and every time he went out with Lesbia he ran into her. Then Lesbia’s bike fell to bits with antiquity and hard usage; and as for mine— it’s lying about somewhere, but I don’t bike now; it’s gone out. I motor ! ’ ‘ Has Batiushka set up a motor ? ’ asks Delecta. ‘You never told me, Lesbia.’ ‘ Batiushka ! ’ cries Philly scornfully. ‘ He couldn’t afford to keep a wheelbarrow. No; I motor with my friends.’ ‘Stop swaggering, Philly, and have a green fig. It will keep you quiet.’ ‘Not for worlds,’ I cry. ‘Those figs are to make a delicious sweet for to-night’s dinner. I must give Delecta something really nice to show her what I can do.’ Philomela, who is quite unsquashable, gives Delecta a full and minute account of all the things I have spoilt—the roasts that didn’t roast, the pastry that wouldn’t rise, the jellies that never stood up. Dear Delecta only smiles and says: ‘Never mind, Lesbia; you and I are going to concoct some wonderful dinners. I think it was immensely plucky of you to tackle cooking at all.61 The Joyful Arrival of Delecta. I only wish every woman would really take an interest in the kitchen instead of spending all her time in the drawing-room or in front of her bed- room looking-glass.’ ‘ Don’t dare to look at me when you talk of looking-glasses, Delecta’—Philomela takes it personally—‘and I can cook. I can make lovely cocoa-nut biscuits. Besides, food is not every- thing.’ Batiushka gives a hollow groan. 11 wonder who the girl in the pale-blue hat was at the wedding- cake shop who ate three ices, not to mention other things.’ Philomela merely treats him with scorn. Delecta, I am glad to say, is duly impressed with the beauties and charms of Hillsboro’, and says I have not exaggerated one bit. I am so glad she is not disappointed. It is so comforting when people do not exclaim, ‘Is that your view?’ or, ‘ Oh! this is your river,’ or your lake, or your duck-pond, or whatever it is, in tones of manifest disappointment. Certainly Hillsboro’ is looking its loveliest in the curious lights and shadows that are the heralds of the coming storm. Everything is still with that strange, breathless stillness that comes before thunder or heavy rain. Delecta is so en- tranced by the view that she does not offer to62 The Joyful Arrival of Delecta. superintend the dinner; and I am so glad, because I really want to do it all myself. Unfortunately the thunder in the air has quite spoilt my pudding. Is it the thunder, or the controversies and conflicts of the Church ? For my pudding is called— FREE KIRK PUDDING. rJ~'AKE a small loaf of white bread and carefully cut away the crust. Leave it to soak for twenty-four hours entirely covered with milk in a very cool place—if possible, on ice. Now take it out and pour all over it thick whipped cream flavoured with vanilla or strawberry-juice, or any other flavouring that is liked. It is delicious to eat with stewed fruit or a fruit salad. This was certainly not a sweet to choose for thundery weather, and it is quite, quite sour. I am terribly disappointed, for I did so want to prove to Delecta that I could cook a truly elegant dinner. But, alas! ‘the best-laid schemes o' mice [an’ women] gang aft agley.’ My poor pudding is quite done for; so Harriet removes it sadly to the ash-bin, where I have no doubt it will prove a pleasant little light supper for the Hound ofThe Joyful Arrival of Delecta. 63 the Baskervilles. For Delecta I have a little soup, salmon-steaks cooked in buttered papers, a Russian salad—not an elaborate one—cold lamb, a compote of green figs (the Free Kirker is, alas ! no more), and a savoury. Delecta is quite delighted—specially pleased with the green figs, which she had never met in that way before. It is a great triumph to give a professional mistress of cookery something new. B0IL together for three hours 8 breakfast-cupfuls of water, 6 potatoes, 3 onions, 1 dessert-spoon- ful sauce, and x table-spoonful butter; rub through a sieve, and add a table-spoonful of tapioca pre- viously soaked for an hour. Return the soup to the pan and boil for ten minutes, stirring fre- quently just before you take it off. Add a little cream or a breakfast-cupful of milk. A few boiled peas or asparagus-points improve this soup. J.JAVE your salmon-steaks cut neatly and not too large. Butter sheets of white note-paper or sandwich-paper; wipe fish well and roll in papers; put them in a moderate oven for twenty to thirty minutes. PLAIN WHITE SOUP. SALMON-STEAKS.64 The Joyful Arrival of Delecta. VERY SIMPLE RUSSIAN SALAD. '"JTAKE a little potted meat, and, with chopped fresh thyme and a little chopped parsley, roll it into balls; set each ball in a circle of hard-boiled white of egg. Make the central portion of your dish to consist of these balls and very small skinned toma- toes. Surround with fresh lettuce, and pour over the lettuce either a mayonnaise sauce or a salad- dressing made from the hard-boiled yolk of egg, a little cream, mustard, pepper, salt, oil, and vinegar. compOte of green figs. rpAKE a dozen fresh green figs and cut them into quarters, put them in a glass bowl, and pour over them f pint of raspberry juice, or raspberry and red-currant juice mixed. Add (if liked) i wine- glass of brandy or curagoa. Set the bowl on ice. Now whip i gill or more of cream till it is stiff, flavour with a few drops of liqueur or brandy or vanilla, and heap on the top of your fruit. The compote is very good without the whipped cream, especially if you have pop-overs to eat with it. POP-OVERS. ID EAT 2 eggs, without separating the yolks from the whites, until thoroughly mixed; add i cup of milk. Put i cup of flour into another bowl; add 465 Tke Joyful Arrival of Delecta. to it gradually the eggs and milk; beat until smooth. Strain through an ordinary strainer. Put at once into hot, greased, iron gem pans, and bake in a moderate oven for forty-five minutes. If these are properly baked and made they should swell to six times their original bulk. During dinner the rain came in spasmodic heavy splashes, attended by distant rumblings of thunder and a few flashes of lightning. By nine o’clock the storm broke over us with a vengeance. The country wanted rain, but did it want the deluge ? I never heard such rain; it came in sheets, in avalanches. As Philomela remarked: ‘This is not raining cats and dogs, but raining elephants and hippopotamuses.’ ‘ Hippopotami, Philly,’ corrected Batiushka. ‘So it is,’ she replied; ‘not because you say so, but because I remember dear Johnny Crow's Garden: Said the Hippopotami, “Ask no longer what am I.’” Delecta, who did not know this fascinating work, had to be shown it immediately; all the delightful pictures—‘the lion with a green-and-yellow tie on,’ ‘ the beaver who said he had a fever ’—and in everyThe Joyful Arrival of Delecta. 66 one stands good, kind-hearted, worried little Johnny Crow, doing all he can for his friends, who, I fear, were not sufficiently grateful—a failing not confined to lions (by the way, there is a conspicuously grateful story-book lion) or beavers. Philomela gave the book to Delecta and went and sat with her back to the window—I must say the flashes of lightning were somewhat appalling—said she was too reduced even to play ‘ Miss Milligan/ and of all ‘ Patiences ’ she is certainly the best. Batiushka suggested we should play ‘Pit’ and then we shouldn’t hear the thunder! But no one had sufficient nerve to sit down and shout, ‘Trade two, Trade two/ with the thunder crashing and rolling over our heads, and the room every few minutes being vividly lit by a piercing flame. Mercifully, through it all the rain continued to fall—less violently but with extreme steadiness. A thunderstorm never seems quite so terrible when there is rain. Poor Vine Cottage seemed to rock and sway with every crash—purely our imagination. Philomela stoutly maintains she felt an earthquake! But Philly’s nerves were de- moralised by the lightning. ‘ Delecta, you look very tired after your long, hot journey, so I will take you off to bed; and, Philly, I would advise you to come out of your dark corner and go to bed too.’The Joyful Arrival of Delecta. 67 I tried to persuade her, but Philomela would not move. She said the lightning would be worse in the upstairs rooms, and she was quite right—it was. Gradually the thunder and lightning died away and the rain ceased; but it came on again with redoubled fury in the middle of the night, when I really thought the roof was coming in. I heard Philly’s voice wailing for Lesbia, and found her sitting up in bed perfectly convinced that the cottage had been struck by lightning. It really was a terrible night. I felt quite sorry that our welcome to Delecta had been heralded with alarms and excursions, and that her visit to Vine Cottage had begun by meeting ‘ Jupiter with thunderbolts ’!Delecta on Cooking. 68 CHAPTER V. DELECTA ON COOKING, ,HIS morning we woke to find a rain-washed world, fresh, radiant, and lovely. After last night’s awful storm, which shook the windows and rattled on the roof, it is indeed a case of ‘joy cometh in the morning.’ All the dust has been washed away; the trees are positively glittering with vivid emerald bright- ness ; the flowers, whose heads had sadly drooped during the long drought, lift happy faces to the sun. I said all this at breakfast, and Philomela laughed scornfully, remarking I omitted to men- tion that the gravel had been literally swept into the road, that the soft-water barrel had over- flowed and nearly swamped the kitchen, and that I had probably forgotten that two chairs and three rugs had been out all night. So likeDelecta on Cooking. 69 Philomela to crush my poetic ardour with prosaic fact. Delecta, to change the subject, praised the scrambled eggs, and asked what it was that made them so delicious. When I told her the addition of thick cream, she seemed to think me rather extravagant. But the improvement is really very great; even Mrs Professional Cook had to own that. SCRAMBLED EGGS. ^^LLOW one egg for each person, and beat them well in a bowl. Heat a small piece of butter in a pan, and add to it two table-spoonfuls of milk and one table-spoonful of thick cream. Now add your eggs, and stir briskly all the time till the mixture is thick enough. Never for a moment cease stirring. Spread on toast lightly buttered; or if preferred, serve heaped up in a hot fireproof dish surrounded by snippets of dry toast. Delecta and I were entering into quite a long discussion on the subject of eggs served in different ways, till the Batiushka very pointedly asked her her opinion of the Russian-Japanese war. We bothDelecta on Cooking. 70 took the hint, and for the rest of the meal left cooking severely alone. After breakfast Delecta appeared with a huge pile of notes and manuscript, and announced her intention of giving a lecture on Rudimentary Cook- ing. She asked Philomela if she would like to be present, and I regret to say the answer was, 11 ? Not much ! ’ Also, Philly says it is absolutely neces- sary to call every other day and talk severely to Miss Hartmore as to why she never sends the papers. This is a very old grievance. Philly takes in numerous papers and magazines, which never by any chance arrive on the right day. She calls perpetually at the little shop whose window displays post-cards, note-paper, and fancy baskets, and demands satisfaction. Miss Hartmore only smiles sweetly and makes any amount of promises, that are invariably, and with unfailing regularity, broken. The Batiushka has taken himself off, every pocket bulging with cigars and tobacco-tins—I have told him so often that a tobacco-tin is ruin to the hang of any coat—his last remark being, ‘ Never mind the cooking lecture; give me a good lunch.’ Delecta suggests she should arrange about the luncheon before she holds forth on the best manner to roast, to boil, to stew.71 Delecta on Cooking. She is agreeably surprised by the goodness of the little range, and sadly shakes her head over the failures. ‘ Lesbia, my dear, it was never the range that spoilt your dishes.’ ‘ Probably not, Delecta mia; but never mind that now. What will you give us for luncheon ? ’ ‘Let me see. Suppose we have cups of soup— you have some stock, I see—salmon-cakes, the cold chicken done up, and a pudding.’ ‘Delecta, not a pudding; we all loathe them, especially jammy ones. Do something with toma- toes instead.’ ‘Very well. Now we shall have plenty of time for a sensible rudimentary lecture before we need to cook the luncheon. Have you a pencil and a note-book?’ This is too much. ‘ Delecta, I know it’s very good of you to come and help me with hints, and all the rest of it, but if you are going to “ school-ma’am ” me I ’ll pack your box and send you home. Why don’t you ask me if I can spell ? ’ ‘ My dear, I know you can’t, so I won’t trouble to ask you useless questions. Lesbia, try not to be frivolous ; I am going to begin.’ Delecta gives a preliminary professional lecturer cough and says impressively :Delecta on Cooking. 72 RUDIMENTARY METHODS OF COOKING. JT is the cooking of meat that presents special difficulty to the amateur cook, and perhaps more especially those methods of cooking it which may be known as the wet methods, viz. boiling, stewing, and steaming. Before one can cook meat successfully it is neces- sary to know something of its composition. Meat contains a large proportion of a substance called albumen, which coagulates and hardens on the application of heat in exactly the same way as the white of an egg, which is almost pure albumen, hardens when boiled. If, therefore, meat be cooked for a long time at a high temperature, albumen—which, by the way, is the nourishing or flesh-forming part— becomes gradually hardened through, is made tough and indigestible, and its food value greatly lessened. On the other hand, if meat be placed in cold water at first, and cooked throughout at a com- paratively low temperature, much of its nourishment and nearly all its flavouring juices, which assist digestion, will escape, and we shall have, if not a tough, at least a tasteless and unappetising dish. It is therefore extremely important that, whatever73 Delecta on Cooking. the method of cooking employed) the right degree of heat should be used. Let us first take the method of boiling. To the intelligent cook the word boiling has two distinct meanings: first, as applied to the cooking of meat, where the word boiling is a misnomer; second, as applied to the cooking of vegetables and puddings, in which the food is really subjected to the degree of heat known as boiling-point (2120 Fahr.) during the whole period of cooking. When meat is boiled the water into which it is plunged must be at boiling-point, with bubbles rising quickly over the whole surface; and this temperature must be maintained during the first five or seven minutes of cooking, and the heat must then be reduced to simmering-point. The intense heat at first is used to harden the albumen on the outside, forming a case which keeps in the juice. When this result is obtained, the cooking is con- tinued at a lower temperature so that the joint may be soft, juicy, and palatable. And now a word on the meaning of simmering, for here a difficulty arises between the chemist and the practical cook. Chemists tell us that if there is movement at all, the liquid is at boiling-point, and the heat as great as if bubbles were rising fast and furiously. A cook explains simmering as the degree J>— 4>Delecta on Cooking. 74 of heat obtained when a bubble rises lazily now and then to the surface at one side of the cooking-vessel only. Both are right. Wherever there are bubbles the heat is at boiling-point. What the chemist does not realise is that a pan may be so arranged that only one part of it comes in contact with the fire or gas, and that one part supplies heat to the rest of the contents. A practical cook knows that a pan may have an occasional bubble at one side of its contents, while the other side is not nearly so warm. The quantity of liquid used for boiling must be sufficient to immerse the food cooked; it must be at boiling-point for the first five or seven minutes, and must then be reduced to a much lower temperature, so that the juices are retained and the meat is made tender and digestible. An exception is made in the case of salt meats, these being put into cold water and brought gradually to the boil, first, to draw out some of the salt; second, to soften the fibres, which have been slightly hardened by the action of the salt. True roasting is cooking by the direct action of the fire, and a properly roasted joint has a distinc- tive flavour owing to its being surrounded by air during that process. I shall not describe the roast-Delecta on Cooking. 75 ing-jack, which may be obtained from any good ironmonger at a moderate cost. Our first con- sideration will therefore be the fire. This must be clear and bright, and the surface large enough for the joint. All dust and ashes must be raked out from the bottom of the grate, the red coals brought to the front, and the fire made up with small knobs of coal. Cinders and damp slack may be placed well at the back to push forward the glowing coals. When necessary to replenish the fire follow the same rule; i.e. red coals to the front, fresh fuel at the back, and this will give a ‘ roasting ’ fire throughout the time the meat is cooking. Attention must now be given to the preparation of the joint. It will need wiping with a damp cloth (on no account must it be washed, as that would render it flabby and also draw out some of the goodness). The superfluous fat and veins, and in fact anything of an unpalatable nature, must be removed. Wooden skewers must also be removed and replaced by iron ones. Weigh the meat and allow the proper time, and also five minutes extra for dishing and making the gravy. Now place the hook through the fattest part of the joint (this is to prevent unnecessary holes being made in the lean, from which the juices of the meat76 Delecta on Cooking. would escape); hang it with the cut surface upper- most (this applies more to legs of mutton than anything else) for the same reason. Into the dripping-pan put some nice, clean dripping for basting purposes, for unless it is well basted a roasted joint must be an utter failure. There are two good reasons for this. In the first place, basting keeps the joint moist; and in the second, it prevents shrinking. This basting, which is simply pouring hot melted fat over the meat, must be done frequently—about every ten minutes. To return to the actual cooking of the joint: place it close to the fire for the first five or ten minutes, according to the size. If the principle of boiling meat has been fully grasped, the reason for this will be seen at once; i.e. the surface of the meat is to be hardened as soon as possible to form a case for the retention of the juices. When this is accomplished draw the meat farther from the fire and cook it at a lower temperature until ready for dishing. Ten minutes before serving, well baste the joint, sprinkle over it a little flour, also salt if liked. This is called ‘frothing’ the meat, and should always be done when game and poultry are being cooked. One word of caution must be given, and that is, the flour must be well cooked and browned before the J3 4>77 Delecta on Cooking. meat is served. A final basting is given at the end of the cooking. To make Gravy.—Pour off the fat which has dripped from the meat, leaving all the brown par- ticles which form the sediment in the pan. Put a tea-spoonful of flour with this, mix over the fire, and carefully pour in half a pint of stock, stirring well to prevent lumps and also to get all the sediment in- corporated. Boil; add salt and pepper to taste, and, if necessary, a few drops of brown ‘ caramel ’ to heighten the colour. A little of the gravy is poured round the meat, and the rest sent to table in a sauceboat. If a perfectly clear gravy is desired, leave out the flour. Water may replace the stock, but is not so good. Roasting when successfully done concentrates and develops the flavour of meat. It is, moreover, a very digestible way of cooking, but cannot be considered an economical method. Before finishing the subject of roasting and boil- ing, something must be said about the choice of meat, the most suitable joints, and also the time allowed for cooking. Freshly killed meat is never tender, and for this reason it should hang before it is cooked by any of the dry methods (roasting, baking, grilling, frying, &c.). A cold, airy place must be chosen for theDelecta on Cooking. 78 purpose, and in dry, frosty weather a fortnight or three weeks will not be too long to hang a leg of mutton. In mild, damp weather it cannot be kept for the same length of time, while in summer a few days will be the most that meat will keep good, and in hot weather every precaution must be taken to keep off the flies. The prime joints should be selected for roasting, such as sirloin of beef, ribs, fillet of veal, leg of mutton, &c. The lean should be finely grained and elastic to the touch; the fat firm and white—in mutton and in beef a pale straw-colour. Joints in which there is little fat and much gristle are sure to be tough and poor in flavour. Time for cooking can only be given approxi- mately, as so much depends upon the shape and thickness of the joint. A quarter of an hour to the pound and a quarter of an hour over will be found sufficient for small joints of beef or mutton if much surface is exposed; i.e. a neck of mutton. Large, thick joints, such as leg of mutton and round of beef, will require twenty minutes to the pound and twenty minutes over. Veal and lamb will also require the latter time, while pork may need as much as twenty-five minutes to the pound and a quarter of an hour over. All closely grained meat must be well79 Delecta on Cooking. cooked to render it digestible. Pork is particu- larly unwholesome if underdone. At this point I rudely interrupt Delecta and implore her to give me a breather. ‘Lesbia, I am really surprised at you.’ Delecta looks severely at me through her eyeglasses. ‘ Why, we have only just begun.’ Just begun, and I feel quite exhausted! With another preliminary cough, Delecta proceeds. Baking closely resembles roasting, but hot air is employed instead of radiant heat. As it is fre- quently more convenient to bake than to roast, due attention must be given to the conditions which are essential to success. These are : i. A clean, regularly heated, and well-ventilated 2. A double baking-tin to prevent the dripping from burning. (The under one contains water.) 3. Frequent basting. The same principles apply to this method as to roasting and boiling—great heat at first; lower temperature afterwards. The joint must be placed <=§■=> '=§<=> oven.80 Delecta on Cooking. upon a meat-stand on the baking-tin to prevent its becoming sodden in the fat. Even where a double baking-tin is not obtainable, the stand should be used. The reason why meat roasted in the oven is often quite a failure is simply that the above conditions are not carried out. Unless the oven is dean and well ventilated the joint will have an unpleasant flavour, and unless the basting is thoroughly done the meat will be dry. It may be necessary to turn the meat once during the baking. In doing this, remember that the fork must not be put into the lean part. The cut surface should be put to the greatest heat first. The preparation of the meat and the time for cooking are exactly the same as for roasting, and the gravy is made in the same way. Stewing is cooking slowly by gentle heat in a little liquid. It is the economical method, because by it the tougher and cheaper pieces of meat can be made delicious with little labour and small expendi- ture of fuel. Any kind of meat can be stewed, but stewing is a method specially suitable for those parts which contain more gristle and gelatine than the more expensive joints. Stewing differs from boiling in the quantity of water used, this being small and served with the meat as gravy. The advantages are obvious. None of the food value is wasted, any juices escaping from the meat being served in the81 Delecta on Cooking. gravy, and the valuable mineral salts of vegetables cooked with the meat being preserved in like manner. The pan should be closely covered during the cooking of a stew to prevent evaporation; the heat should be kept at simmering-point all the time; and a stew cannot be cooked quickly. The gravy is generally thickened, and is often completely made before the meat is put in. A special point to remember is that the gravy should be of a good, rich colour—pale, sickly stews being most unappetising; and to accomplish this the meat and vegetables are sometimes slightly browned before cooking. A greasy stew is an abomination. As little fat should be used as possible, and any particles of grease should be removed before the dish is sent to table. The pieces of meat may be either large or small. The time needed for stewing depends partly on the size and partly on the quality of the meat, a longer time being necessary for such a sinewy part as shin of beef than for tender steak; but no stew should cook for less than two hours. Stewing can be done in a pan on a range or stove, or in a covered jar in a cool oven. Steaming is cooking by the heat of steam instead of immersing the food in water. Its great advan- tage is, that there is less loss of juices and flavours than in boiling. It takes a longer time, but this A. C. K82 Delecta on Cooking. disadvantage is insignificant when we consider the finer flavour obtained. Steaming may be done (i) in a steamer ever a pan of quickly boiling water; (2) the basin con- taining the food may be placed in enough boiling water to come two-thirds of the way up the vessel, as in the case of steamed puddings, the top of the basin being quite out of the water and the pudding protected from the moisture by a greased paper. The water used for steaming must actually boil during the whole period of cooking, the heat not being reduced after the first few minutes, as in boiling. Great care must be taken to keep up the supply of boiling water, or the pan, and possibly the food, may be burnt. Anything that can be boiled may be steamed—for example, corned beef, ham, all boiled puddings, vegetables, &c.—and the advan- tages may be summed up as follows : the retention of a larger amount of juices and flavourings, the lessened danger of hardening the albumen, the increased lightness of puddings, and the abolition of pudding- cloths, and therefore the labour of washing them. The chief points of difference between boiling, steaming, and stewing are : Boiling is cooking in a large quantity of liquid, with great heat at first, this being afterwards reduced.83 Delecta on Cooking. Stewing is cooking in a small amount of liquid, for a long time, at a comparatively low temperature. Steaming is cooking by steam supplied from quickly and constantly boiling water, and it takes a rather longer time than boiling. Grilling and Broiling.—These two methods are classed together, the only difference being that grilling is done over the fire and broiling in front of the fire. Only small cuts of meat and fish and small birds are suitable for these methods of cooking. The object in view is the same as in the processes already referred to : the retention of the juices and the flavour of the meat. The requisites for perfect grilling are, first, tender, well-hung meat; and second, a dear fire. As glowing solids are better radiators than ordi- nary flame, coke should be mixed with the coal before the fire is used for grilling. A handful of salt thrown on the fire will help to clear it. The gridiron must be absolutely clean (this is the third requisite), and well greased with mutton fat, suet, or salad oil. If kidneys or a bird split down the middle are to be cooked, of course these must be placed cut side down first. The gridiron is then placed in a slanting direction over the glowing fire, and quite eight inches above it. As soon as one side is nicely browned, turn and brown on the84 Delecta on Cooking. other; then turn frequently until cooked. The time depends, again, upon the size of the article to be cooked, and also individual taste must be taken into consideration. Chops and steaks should certainly show a little redness when cooked and cut. Broadly speaking, from five to fifteen minutes may be allowed for a grill. Great care must be exercised in turning. If a double gridiron is used there is no difficulty, as the whole thing can be turned over; but if a single gridiron, then stick the fork into the fat part. Some of the fat will fall into the fire during the grilling process, causing it to flame. This is quite different from a flame caused by the burning of coal or coke, and therefore there will be no unpleasant smoky flavour. A pro- perly grilled chop should have a plump, not a shrivelled, appearance. Serve on the hottest of hot dishes with a pat of fresh or maitre d'hotel butter and a sprinkling of salt and pepper. When a sauce is served it must be sent to table separately in a sauceboat. Broiling.—This is really toasting in front of the fire. A Dutch oven is often employed for the purpose, and answers admirably where it is incon- venient to grill over the fire. Follow the same rules as for grilling.Delecta on Cooking. 85 We now come to that much-maligned method of cooking, Frying. ‘Delecta, I will not listen to anything about frying; anything fried is a mistake. Down with frying-pans ! ’ ‘Nonsense; you don’t know what you’re talk- ing about, so don’t interrupt. Frying is a really important part of a cook’s education, so listen attentively.’ ‘ “ Once more unto the breach ”—I mean the lecture.’ It is quite true that the average English cook does abuse the frying-pan, but it is generally through ignorance. Therefore a little intelligent care in the carrying out of the following instructions should ensure success. One point must be remembered, and it is this, that whatever is fried must have, when finished, a golden-brown surface and a tasty flavour. We have the English method of frying, which is called Dry Frying, from the small amount of fat used in the process; also the French method, which is called Wet Frying, as sufficient fat must be used86 Delecta on Cooking. to immerse the articles. This is by far the supe- rior method, and is not nearly so extravagant as appears at first sight, for the same fat, with care, may be used indefinitely. Clarified fat forms one of the best frying mediums, Hugon’s suet another. Olive-oil is excellent but expensive. Butter is liable to burn, and lard also in a lesser degree. For the bath of fat 2 or 3 lb. at least will be required, and an iron saucepan about 9 or 10 inches in diameter and 5 or 6 inches in depth should be used. Allow the fat to get hot slowly over a very gentle heat. When it is quite still and a blue smoke is visible it is ready for most things. The ordinary temperature for this mode of cooking is 350° Fahr., while for some small things such as whitebait, which only require a few seconds in the fat, the temperature must be raised to quite 400° Fahr. To test the heat of the fat, throw in a small cube of crustless bread, and if it becomes a golden colour almost instantly the fat is ready for fillets of fish, rissoles, and, in fact, anything which requires very little actual cooking. Cutlets and thick slices of fish must have the temperature lowered somewhat, as the five or seven minutes necessary for the actual cooking would render the outside too dark in colour before the inside could possibly be cooked. In any case theD electa on Cooking. 87 fat must be still and a slight smoke arising. The more smoke the greater the heat. Whatever is to be fried in the bath of fat must have a coating of some kind to keep in the goodness. Egging and crumbing is employed for most things, while batter is also very useful for fritters, &c. Anything which is simply floured should be fried in the shallow frying-pan with a small amount of fat. Draining.—A frying-basket or a wire spoon is almost a necessity, as in lifting fried things from the fat they can be drained effectually before being put on to soft unprinted paper, which will absorb any fat still clinging to the food. A perfectly fried article should not leave a trace of grease on the d’oyley or dish-paper on which it is served. After use the fat must be allowed to cool, and then be strained (to keep back any loose particles) into a tin bowl. When next required for use, scrape away any sediment there may be and use as before. If the fat once becomes burnt it makes everything a dark mahogany-colour and is useless. Shallow frying is useful in emergency for chops, steaks, and bacon, all of which, however, are better broiled or grilled. The fat must again be quite hot—so hot that when the chop is placed in it the surface is browned immediately. Turn and brown on the other side, as for grilling. In the case of88 Delecta on Cooking. bacon, which is always fat, no other fat is required. Warm the pan, put in the rashers, and fry slowly over very gentle heat until they become transparent; turn and cook on the other side. Now we will take the various causes that lead to failure. ‘ No, we won’t,’ I exclaim. ‘ I can’t bear any more to-day. Keep the causes and effects and failures till to-morrow. Go and cook the luncheon, and, like Mrs Jamieson, “leave me, leave me to repose.” ’ * Poor Lesbia ! has it been too drearily methodical and serious for you? Well, cheer up; I will cook the luncheon all “by my lonesome,” and you can rest.’ She nobly did so, and the result was excellent. ^UT the red part of 2 carrots into round balls, and grate the remainder; melt 1 oz. butter in a pan ; add x small chopped onion and the grated carrot; stir for five minutes, but do not allow to brown ; add 1 quart stock and the carrot balls, and boil for three- quarters of an hour. Thicken with 2 oz. of flour; add 1 tea-spoonful parsley and seasoning to taste. NORMANDY SOUP. dP89 Delecta on Cooking. SALMON-CAKES. 'T'AKE equal quantities of salmon (or any left-over cold fish) and mashed potatoes. Flake and pound the salmon; mix with potato, i oz. butter, i yolk of egg, | tea-spoonful dry mustard, and seasoning to taste. Form into small flat cakes, egg and bread-crumb, and fry in very hot fat. If preferred, cold boiled rice may be used instead of potato. BOUDINS OF CHICKEN. QHOP up fine small bits of cold, left-over chicken, adding to each pint i tea-spoonful of salt, a dash of cayenne, and i table-spoonful of chopped parsley. Put in a saucepan i table-spoonful of butter, ^ pint of stock, and 2 table-spoonfuls of stale bread-crumbs. Stir until boiling ; add the chopped chicken; take from the fire and add 2 well-beaten eggs, fill into small greased moulds, and cook in the oven for fifteen minutes. Serve hot with a cream sauce made from rich milk thickened to the con- sistency of cream. Game can also be used for this dish. TOMATO RAREBIT. MELT 1 oz. butter in a pan; add 1 large tomato. Cook, and pass through a sieve. Return to the pan, and add 1 large tea-spoonful of ketchup, L A. C.1°— 90 Delecta on Cooking. i squeeze of lemon, i oz. of cheese, a little salt and pepper. Mix all together and pile on but- tered toast. ‘ Delecta/ said the Batiushka after he had finished the very last scrap of tomato—‘ Delecta, the good cook is the queen of the home. I feel at peace with all the world. I could even listen to Philly playing Chopin’s Ballade in A flat! ’91 Brilliant Breakfasts. CHAPTER VI. BRILLIANT BREAKFASTS. <=§» ^§<3 ^f^HILOMELA’S expression this morning is dpgs one of suppressed excitement. I could not think what was the matter, till with much empressement she invited Delecta and myself into the dining-room, where we found two note-books, two penny pencils (bought at Miss Hartmore’s emporium, evidently), and two chairs ready at the table; while at a small table in the window, armed with a whole sheaf of manuscript and a very pro- fessional-looking glass of water, stood Philomela in motor-goggles! ‘The goggles are to look learned, but I don’t mean to lecture in them,’ quoth Philly. ‘But, my dear child, whom are you going to lecture ? ’ asked Delecta. ‘You and Lesbia, of course. It’s a very good lecture, most interesting and most useful. Now sit down and take your note-books like good little girls.’92 Brilliant Breakfasts. Then in a totally different voice from her ordinary one, and in an attitude suggestive of Ajax defying the lightning, Philomela began : ‘ Mr Chairman, Ladies, and Gentlemen,—I have to thank you for the extreme cordiality of your reception (that’s the proper beginning, so don’t interrupt to tell me there are no gentlemen pre- sent) ; and without further preamble ’ (to impress us sufficiently Philomela said the last word very slowly and distinctly) ‘ I will proceed to the subject of my following remarks. The subject is Brilliant Breakfasts.’ ‘Good gracious!’ ejaculated Delecta, ‘are you coming out as a cook ? ’ Philomela quite forgot she was a lecturer, and retorted promptly, ‘ I am an observer; and I have noticed breakfasts are very often all wrong.’ Delecta feels there is some force in this re- mark, so sits patiently waiting for the lecturer to proceed. ‘Breakfasts, ladies and gentlemen, are a crucial test of the ability of the cook. The great want is variety. Scrambled eggs, bacon, and grilled kidneys form the whole gamut (good word, isn’t it?) of the British breakfast. Boiled eggs and poached eggs are not fit to appear upon any table. This isBrilliant Breakfasts. 93 perhaps only my opinion, as I don’t like eggs in the rough; but a great many people will agree with me. ‘ The ideal breakfast is eaten alone. No one is fit to speak to so early in the morning. I read in a book ’ (here Philly dived among her notes) ‘ of a girl who, talking of her future husband, said she hoped he would be brilliant and amusing at break- fast ; and her mother replied, “ My dear, you may be thankful if he is even decently civil.” This anecdote illustrates my point that the human animal is not affable in the small hours of the morning. Try and make him amiable by giving him a good breakfast. ‘It is important’ (Philly again consulted her notes) ‘ to have a perfectly clean table-cloth, white china, fresh flowers, bright silver; and the lady of the house must wear a beaming smile— remember that, Lesbia—as well as a dainty morn- ing-gown. It is necessary to have good coffee, freshly ground and roasted, a variety of hot rolls, toast, marmalade, two kinds of jam, cold ham, salad, fruit, a dish of eggs done in some tempting way, and some other viand well cooked. The above meal sounds extravagant for a small house- hold, but small households are of but little interest in the scheme of good living.’Brilliant Breakfasts. 94 Delecta is simply staring at Philly, her eyes wide open with astonishment, paralysed at her audacity. But Philomela calmly proceeds : ‘ In the present day we hear a great deal about the Simple Life. Any one can lead it. Most people have to, through inability to pay for a more expensive one. The breakfast of the Simple Lifers consists of a cereal (pre-digested) and fresh fruit, with a handful of nuts thrown in to complete the repast. There is no need to give recipes for Simple Life breakfasts, so I will now call upon Mrs Delecta to give us her views on breakfasts, and some recipes of really good dishes.’ Here Philomela made us a low bow and sat down, and Delecta and I clapped our hands. I really did not know Philly had taken any interest in the amateur cookery. Delecta was politely in- vited to seat herself at the rostrum, and if she wished, to wear the motor-goggles on the top of her eyeglasses. This honour she declined. I could see, though, that Philly’s remarks about breakfasts had made some impression on her; she sat lost in thought, and then sadly remarked : ‘It’s quite true British breakfasts are not good. Of course I am thinking of the ordinary small household where there is only either a cook-Brilliant Breakfasts. 95 general or a cook with no kitchen-maid, though even with kitchen-maids and all appliances and means to boot you sometimes get a very bad meal.’ Philomela has seized one of the note-books and is ostentatiously taking down Delecta’s remarks. 1 Philly talked of good coffee. Is it ever good ? ’ asks Delecta dejectedly. ‘With all the new coffee-machines and coffee-pots, how seldom is it drinkable! Even tea is rarely all it ought to be. Then hot rolls, though delightful, are some- what indigestible; and even if they were entirely hygienic, many cooks much object to baking them before breakfast. It’s a very difficult problem, but I have a book of breakfast recipes, and if you care to take them down, Lesbia, I will go and fetch it.’ The moment she has gone Philomela sadly remarks, ‘ It fell very flat. I quite hoped Delecta would flare up and say I was frivolous or ribald or something; she took it like a lamb. Still, you know, Lesbia precious, our breakfasts are rather frosts sometimes, aren’t they ? Think of the coffee! ’ I do think of the coffee. I often do; and I am still thinking of it when Delecta returns with a large and weighty volume.96 Brilliant Breakfasts. ‘ First of all, let me give you a really good recipe for coffee, another for tea, and then we can go to rolls and scones and various dishes.’ be really good, coffee should be roasted frequently and freshly ground. But as in quite small households the roasting of the berries and the grinding may not be convenient, buy suffi- cient ready-ground coffee to last for a week, and keep it in a tin in a very dry place. It is a disputed point as to how much coffee is required, but it is safer to err on the side of too much than too little. No good coffee can be successfully made without a percolator coffee-pot, of which there are very many kinds. For cafe noir or after-dinner coffee the very best coffee-pot is one made by Picard of Regent Street; it is not only ornamental, but makes quite perfect coffee. For breakfast coffee or cafe au lait any ordinary coffee-pot will give good results if these directions are followed. Allow 2 oz. of coffee to each half-pint of water. Be sure that the water is really boiling and freshly boiled. Take out the percolator from the coffee-pot and put the coffee on top of the strainer, return the percolator, pour in your boiling water, and place the coffee-pot on the COFFEE. 4>Brilliant Breakfasts. 97 side of the fire till the water has drained through. Let the coffee get very hot before you pour it into either the silver jug or fireproof jug in which it is going to table. The best way to pour out cafe au lait is to take the boiling-milk jug in one hand and the coffee-jug in the other and pour out at the same time. Many cooks tell you they can make coffee splendidly in all kinds of ways— in muslin bags, in pans, and in ordinary jugs. Don’t believe them. caf£ noir. 'Y’HE great thing is to have after-dinner coffee really strong. Very often after a thoroughly well-cooked, well-served dinner the coffee is hor- rible. People think it does not matter if their coffee looks like hayseed and water and tastes of slate-pencils. Under no circumstances ever offer your guests essence of coffee or anything of that nature. Make the coffee twice as strong as you use for breakfast, and hand with it either what is called ‘raw sugar’ or crushed sugar-candy. Though it is very injurious to take cream with black coffee, you must of course hand it also. If you like you can have the cream whipped, which, like most things that are bad for you, is very good. A. C. m98 Brilliant Breakfasts. Philomela gave a sigh of satisfaction. ‘Dear Delecta, how sweet of you to mention the whipped cream ! It’s simply “ mermumelicious.” ’ Delecta smiles, and continues to read from her book. TEA. ALI; the mistakes and failures in tea-making come from the fact that it is generally too much trouble to see that the water is absolutely freshly boiled; that it has neither stood in the kettle half- boiled nor been allowed to come to the boil more than once. The water, too, must not continue to boil, but be poured on the tea directly it is just boil- ing. Allow one tea-spoonful of tea for each person and one ‘for the pot,’ as it is called, and then let it stand for five minutes covered with a cosy. To be very hygienic, you can pour your tea off the leaves into another tea-pot. Do not be misled into perpetually filling up the tea-pot as new-comers appear. Have fresh tea made. ‘Well, Philly’—for Delecta sees Philomela is bursting with something to say—‘ what is it ? ’ ‘It’s a lovely rhyme about tea, which is quite as good as your recipe. Listen :Brilliant Breakfasts. 99 ‘ First you take and warm your tea-pot, let the water boiling be— That’s a most important secret, but mind you do not spare the tea; Put it on the hob to draw it, for some minutes two or three, Then fill up and shake and pour it, and bless the man who found out tea. Give to me, oh ! give to me, a full and fragrant cup of tea.’ ‘ Thank you, Philly • I never heard that before. You must write it down for me. And now for recipes. A great many savouries make delicious little breakfast dishes. Ways of doing sardines and tomatoes are always useful and not very expensive.’ pUT in a saucepan i tea-cupful of milk, 2 beaten- UP eggs, 2 spoonfuls of grated cheese, and stir constantly till it thickens. Pour this mixture over fried sardines on toast—strips of buttered toast the same length as the sardines—and serve very hot. HALVE some large sardines and dip them into a batter made as follows : Put 2 table-spoonfuls of flour and 2 yolks of eggs in a basin, and add by degrees £ pint of milk and the whites of 2 eggs well whipped, with a pinch of salt. Fry your batter- covered sardines in boiling lard, and serve very hot. SARDINES AND CHEESE. SARDINES IN BATTER. J5 4>Brilliant Breakfasts. 100 SARDINES ON TOAST. CUT. a slice of toast into 8 fingers. Split 8 sar- dines; lay aside 8 halves, and put the other halves in a mortar with i tea-spoonful tarragon vine- gar, \ tea-spoonful dry mustard, a pinch of pepper, and a pinch of salt; pound all together; add to the mixture the yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs, and make all into a smooth paste. Spread over the toast and heat in the oven. Now place the other halves of sardine on the toast-fingers, decorate with white of egg hard-boiled, cut in rings, and serve very hot. ‘Delecta, that recipe is just common, common sardines on toast, and / don’t think it’s at all suit- able for breakfast.’ Thus speaks Philomela. Delecta tranquilly replies, ‘It’s very nice for breakfast, really; and though it’s not very grand, it is a particularly good recipe. However, if you want something uncommon, here are two Spanish breakfast dishes for you.’ HUEVOS CON TOMATES. CCALD 1 \ tomatoes and take the skins off; take ^ out the pips, and cut the tomatoes up into small pieces. Put a little lard in a stewpan orBrilliant Breakfasts. 101 frying-pan, and when sufficiently warmed, add the tomatoes. Stir all the time. When the tomatoes are half-fried, add one small lump of sugar and salt to taste. Beat four eggs thoroughly and add them to the tomatoes. Stir briskly all the time. When it has become fine and the eggs have set, serve on hot toast. 'J'AKE off the tails of the sardines, split them down the middle, remove the middle bone carefully, lay the two halves together, and place them in a baking-pan. Peel and take out the pips of 2 tomatoes, and chop up small with a little onion parsley, i bay-leaf, and i sprig of marjoram. Mix all together, adding grated bread-crumbs, pepper and salt, and a very little red pepper. Sprinkle all this over the sardines. Pour over them some salad oil—2 table-spoonfuls to i dozen sardines—and \ table-spoonful of vinegar. Again sprinkle thickly with bread-crumbs, add 2 table-spoonfuls of water, and leave in the oven for quarter of an hour. To be eaten either hot or cold. ‘Now, Philly, how will those suit you?’ With joy Philomela answers, ‘They sound lovely. SARDINAS CON TOMATES. <=§<=> dh 4>Brilliant Breakfasts. 102 I feel exactly as if I were starting for the Spanish Main in a golden galleon with pieces of eight in my pocket.’ Delecta laughs. ‘You ridiculous child! Now I fear we must go to eggs, though not, as you call them, “in the rough.’” AMERICAN BUTTERED EGGS. jgREAK 4 eggs into a bowl with 4 table-spoonfuls of cream, 4 table-spoonfuls of water or stock, and 1 tea-spoonful of butter; beat for three or four minutes, turn into a saucepan, and stir till the mixture seems like jelly. Serve on hot buttered toast. ‘Well, really, Delecta,’ I exclaim, ‘that recipe is just like my one. I don’t so far see anything strikingly original for breakfast.’ ‘ You expect too much,’ answers Delecta, and continues to read from her book. BEAUREGARD EGGS. T)UT 5 eggs into lukewarm water, bring to boiling- 1 point, and keep them boiling for fifteen minutes. Throw them at once into cold water; remove theBrilliant Breakfasts. 103 shells and separate the whites from the yolks ; press the whites through an ordinary potato-press, and then the yolks, keeping them separate. Have ready 5 squares of nicely toasted hot bread. Now put 1 tea-spoonful of butter and i tea-spoonful of flour into a saucepan, mix thoroughly, and add \ pint of milk; stir until boiling; add x tea-spoonful of salt, a pinch of pepper, and the whites of the eggs. When quite hot heap on the squares of toast, sprinkle over the yolks of the eggs, and stand them in a hot oven for two minutes. Sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve at once. SCOTCH EGGS. B0IL 2 eggs for fifteen minutes. Remove the shells, roll in flour, and cover with J lb. of sausage-meat. Egg and bread-crumb them twice, and fry in a bath of deep fat. Dish surrounded by tomato sauce. AUSTRIAN EGGS. pUT 2 tea-spoonfuls of flour in a basin with ^ tea- cupful of milk. Mix well, and stir in 4 eggs. Put into a flat buttered pan and cook for two or three minutes till it is fired through but not too stiff. Have ready some finely chopped boiledBrilliant Breakfasts. 104 ham, turn the eggs on to a hot dish, sprinkle with ham, and serve hot. ELGIN EGGS. some stale bread f inch thick. Stamp into rounds; out of the middle of each take a smaller round. Butter a flat dish, lay in the bread- rings, and soak them in milk or cream. Break one egg into the centre of each ring, and sprinkle with pepper and salt and a few small bits of butter. Bake till the whites of the eggs are set but not brown. EGGS k LA CONTADINA. gEAT up 2 eggs with i table-spoonful of milk, any kind of cooked left-over fish entirely free from bones and skin, i tea-spoonful anchovy sauce, and a dash of cayenne pepper. Melt i oz. butter in a saucepan, and add the other ingredients and mix thoroughly. Pour the mixture into buttered scalloped shells, sprinkle with bread-crumbs and a little butter, and bake till brown. ‘ I know an egg dish,’ cried Philomela, ‘ much nicer than any of those.’Brilliant Breakfasts. 105 ‘ What is it called ? ’ ‘ I don’t know, so I will call it ‘EGGS IN CUPS. ‘ jpUT a little bit of butter in each of your fireproof cups and melt it in the oven (don’t melt the cup; the butter, I mean), break an egg into each cup, and put some pepper and salt and chopped parsley on the top, and sit them in the oven till they sit—I mean till they are set.’ ‘Well, Philomela, it’s a confused sort of direction, but I think it would taste all right.’ Really, Philomela and Delecta are having it all their own way, so I feel I must suggest an egg dish. ‘ Have you ever tried this way of cooking eggs ? ’ I give them the recipe before they have time to answer. EGGS A LA CREME. 'Y'AKE a round fireproof dish and slightly butter it; break into it 3 or 4 eggs, and pour over them 4 or 5 table-spoonfuls of thick cream. Dust with pepper and salt, and put in the oven till the eggs set.106 Brilliant Breakfasts. ‘ Lesbia, that’s not a real dish. You made it up.’ It’s a strange thing Delecta will never allow me to know anything. However, she goes on to omelettes without asking me if I know any oilier ways of cooking eggs. ‘All omelettes are excellent breakfast dishes, and there are so many kinds of omelettes I almost think we must leave them to another day, Lesbia dear, for we are not half through the breakfast dishes yet. Please give me your undivided attention till I discourse upon the best method of cooking bacon.’ ‘Delecta,’ interrupted Philomela suddenly, ‘is bacon meat?’ ‘Well, yes, I suppose it is meat. It’s a flesh food, but of course it is not meat in the same way as beef or mutton. But I see what you are driving at; you think bacon for breakfast means three meat meals a day. However, if you feel you want to knock off meat, Philly, eat none at luncheon or none at dinner and have bacon for your breakfast; bacon fat is particularly good and nutritious for delicate children.’ ‘ Delicate children indeed, Mistress Delecta! I am not going to stay and hear anything more. J3 4>107 Brilliant Breakfasts. Good-morning. I am off to wood-carve; it’s more interesting than carving food.’ So Philomela departs, and leaves me alone to benefit by Delecta’s remarks upon bacon. DON’T fry it! Broil it, or toast it in front of the fire. It must be cut delicately thin and all the rind removed. In many cases it is better to have your rashers cut by the bacon-merchant him- self, but if you slice it at home, have a preternatu- rally sharp cook’s knife and cut it thin. ‘ Bacon can be served with fried eggs, with grilled tomatoes, with fried mushrooms, and with kidneys; the latter to be fried in bacon fat and served very hot. Bacon is always a favourite breakfast dish; in fact, it may almost be considered a national ‘What a nation,’ I ejaculate, ‘whose national dish is bacon, and whose national musical in- strument is a concertina ! ’ Delecta is very English, so she naturally resents my remarks; but beyond saying contemptuously, TO FRY BACON. dish.’ 4>Brilliant Breakfasts. 108 ‘ Bagpipes! ’ and shivering in horror, takes no notice. ‘ Fish—attend, Lesbia, please—fish is an excellent breakfast dish. Many people prefer a little fried fish to anything else, and most people are fond of kedgeree, which can be made of any fish that is left over from dinner.’ KEDGEREE. 'T'AKE equal quantities of cooked fish (salmon is excellent) and boiled rice; flake and bone carefully your fish. Put 2 oz. of butter in a sauce- pan, and when melted, add the fish and rice and the whites of two hard-boiled eggs. Make very hot, and stir vigorously to prevent burning. Place on a hot dish, and decorate with the yolks of the eggs passed through a sieve. A great improvement to the kedgeree is the addition of one table-spoonful of dry curry powder. KIPPERED HADDOCK. CKIN, trim, and bone a kippered haddock; cut ^ it into neat fillets, and fry in butter for three or four minutes. Dish in a hot fireproof dish, and pour the butter they have been fried in over theBrilliant Breakfasts. 109 fillets. Many people like the addition of poached eggs laid lightly upon the fish. FRIED TROUT. ^ROUT require much careful cleaning, and should be washed most particularly in a stream of running cold water. When thoroughly washed, dip in egg and oatmeal and fry in boiling lard. Lay them on a sieve to dry. Some people prefer bread-crumbs to oatmeal, but the latter is really the more suitable. ‘ Lesbia, Lesbia, are you going to sleep ? ’ Delecta’s voice breaks across my dream, for the thought of trout brings back memories—happy memories—of burns and lochs, of rods and lines, of—yes, even so far away are the memories—an old walking-stick and a crooked pin! I sit up very sharply and give Delecta my best attention. COLD GAME-PIE. JT is always nice to have a cold dish for break- fast-ham, tongue, a galantine, or the best of all, a game-pie.110 Brilliant Breakfasts. Skin and cut into quarters as many grouse, par- tridges, or pigeons as you require, and put a piece of tender beefsteak at the bottom of the dish; arrange your game in layers alternating with slices of hard-boiled egg, and fill up with stock made from some game bones; cover with pastry, and bake for an hour. BABBIT-PIE. pREPARE and cut up 2 rabbits; cut 2 hard- boiled eggs into small slices, and \ lb. of bacon into small pieces; arrange all these in- gredients in layers in your pie-dish, sprinkling through them r tea-spoonful parsley, \ tea-spoon- ful grated lemon-rind, \ tea-spoonful thyme; pepper and salt to taste, and pour into your filled dish J pint of stock (if you have no stock, water in the same quantity will do). Line the dish-edges, and cover your pie with f lb. of rough puff pastry; decorate, and remember to make a hole in the middle. Brush with beaten egg, and bake in a moderate oven for two hours. In making rabbit- pie it is wiser to use a pie-funnel; but if you have not got this, remember to make a hole in the centre. ‘Lesbia, before I go on to crumpets and rolls IIll Brilliant Breakfasts. want to tell you that in the summer you ought always to have lettuce or fruit, or both, on your breakfast-table. Not a made salad, but fresh, clean, crisp lettuce. Even in the winter months a little stewed fruit—apples or prunes—or sliced bananas are an addition without much expense; and many people prefer that sort of light meal to the heavier bacons and meats.’ ‘ It sounds rather Simple Life, doesn’t it ?—what Chesterton calls simplicity and sandals. We fuss far too much about eating just what is healthy, and when we think we have eaten something unhealthy, then we have indigestion. Indigestion is more often wrought by overthought than overweight of food. Now that’s quite neat, Delecta. Why don’t you laugh ?’ ‘ Because there is nothing to laugh at. I don’t know who Chesterton is. Don’t tell me I am ignorant, as I see you are dying to do, but I cannot see what sandals have to do with food.’ c Delecta, can you eat “ a raw tomato with a grilled mind ” ? ’ Delecta stares; so I hasten to say it is Chesterton and not I; and all she says is simply, ‘ You can’t have a grilled mind, so don’t be silly,’ and returns to her book.112 Brilliant Breakfasts. BREAKFAST ROLLS. ^AKE a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda, 2 tea- spoonfuls of cream of tartar, J pint of sour- milk, 1 whole egg, and a pinch of salt and a pinch of sugar. Knead all this into 4 handfuls of fine flour, make into little rolls, and bake in a hot oven for fifteen minutes. BREAKFAST TWISTS. RUB 2 oz. of butter into 1 lb. of flour; add 2 eggs, a little milk and a little salt, and 1 tea-spoonful of baking powder. Knead into dough and roll into neat little twists, and bake fifteen minutes in a sharp oven. BREAKFAST CRUMPETS. i^IFT i breakfast-cupful of flour with half a tea- spoonful of carbonate of soda, a pinch of salt, and 2 dessert-spoonfuls of sugar. Drop in 1 egg and a little butter-milk. Leave the mixture for a little while; then add three-quarters of a tea- spoonful of baking powder. Grease a 1 girdle ’ with a piece of suet tied up in muslin. Put the mixture on, a spoonful at a time. When brown, turn with a knife.Brilliant Breakfasts 113 CREAM SCONES, pUT f lb. of flour and 2 tea-spoonfuls of cream of tartar and 1 tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda into a basin; add 1 tea-spoonful of sugar, a pinch of salt, and \ pint of cream. Knead very quickly on a slab, cut into rounds, and bake in a quick oven from ten to fifteen minutes. To make ordinary ‘girdle’ scones use the above recipe, but substitute milk or butter - milk for cream. rpAKE 1 small tea-spoonful of baking soda and rub all the lumps out of it. Mix it with 1 lb. flour, 1 tea-spoonful of cream of tartar, and 1 tea- spoonful salt. When thoroughly mixed, add enough butter-milk — about half a pint—to make a light dough; turn out on a floured board and knead quickly till smooth, press out into a round cake, divide crosswise into four, and cook for ten minutes on a floured girdle. 'J'AKE 3 table-spoonfuls of fine oatmeal, put it into a basin, and keep adding boiling water from a jug with a little carbonate of soda in it. SODA SCONES. OAT-CAKES. oBrilliant Breakfasts. 114 Mix with your hand to a stiff dough. Roll out thin, bake on the girdle for a few minutes on one side only, then put in front of the fire on a toaster till ready. SIMPLE WHEATEN BREAD. RUB, i table-spoonful of butter well into i lb. wheaten meal and i lb. flour. Now add i tea-spoonful sugar, J tea-spoonful salt, ^ tea- spoonful tartaric acid, i small tea-spoonful of baking soda; mix well, and moisten with i break- fast-cupful of milk; make into a smooth round lump; place on the oven-shelf, which should be slightly greased and floured; flatten with the hand till i inch thick; cut right through into four pieces, but do not separate the parts; bake in a hot oven for twenty minutes. ‘Now, Lesbia dear, having successfully carried you from the egg stage of breakfast to the bread, let me say a word about toast. Have it hot. A charming American woman who had many nice things to say of England told me sadly that she never had hot toast from the moment she left America till she went back again.Brilliant Breakfasts. 115 Remember that good toast is always crisp and always hot.’ ‘ Thank you, Delecta; I ’ll try to remember. And don’t you think we might go out now, revel in the flowers and the sunshine, and forget that we have to manger pour vivre ?—though I begin to feel, with so many instructions, that we really vivre pour matiger.’ Here occurred a welcome and charming interrup- tion, for Philomela appeared at the open window, a symphony in mauves and purples; her head crowned with a fluffy, floppy, muslin hat; her arms filled with foxgloves almost the same shade as her dainty linen gown. ‘ Come out at once, you two cooks. It’s glorious down by the shore—much too fine to wood-carve, and much too fine to think of nothing but food. Come out at once; you both look like a whole kitchenful of materials. Delecta is lard-coloured, and Lesbia is either paste or watery milk—I don’t know which. Come out.’ Away she goes with her flowers, singing as she goes: ‘ Come, listen, O love, to the voice of the dove ; Come, hearken and hear him say, “There are many to-morrows, my love, my love; There is only one to-day.”116 Brilliant Breakfasts. And all day long, you can hear him say, “This day in purple is roll’d, And the baby stars of the Milky Way Are cradled in cradles of gold.’” * What a sweet voice the child has, Lesbia ! ’ says Delecta as she shuts up her cookery-books and takes off her eyeglasses. ‘Yes, hasn’t she, my little Philly? And to think she is grown up—grown up—and you and I, Delecta, are old, old. Why, I am nearly forty, and you are ’ ‘ Lesbia, there is no need to be indiscreet on the subject of ages; and if you are beginning to feel your age, it shows you have been cooped up in the house too long; so let us take Philly’s advice and go out.’ The voice of the dove is cooing distractingly sweet—I believe he is really a common pigeon, but he coos all the same—the flowers are heavy with scented beauty. Well, even if we are old, we can still see the sun shine. Shall we ever be too old to hear the voice of the dove ? Now what is your secret, serene gray dove, Of singing so sweetly alway? ‘ There are many to-morrows, my love, my love; There is only one to-day.’Brilliant Breakfasts. 2 j—i * •» . i . > I * y ^ y czz s -C- 4 r > y > y . j p _ v ' v- * • a • ^ 6 There are many to-morrows, my love, my love; there is118 Lightsome Luncheons. CHAPTER VII. LIGHTSOME LUNCHEONS. ELECTA tells me she has a great deal to say on the subject of luncheons. She quotes her American friend constantly, and, as far as I can gather, that lady never had one decent luncheon in this country. Delecta’s friend told her the typical English luncheon was roast chicken, prune shape, biscuits and cheese, and bad coffee; and the chicken was invariably accompanied by a cauliflower drowned in white sauce, and ‘school potato.’ Long ago we all christened the ordinary dull potato that is neither new and mint- trimmed, nor mashed, nor chipped, nor cooked in its jacket, ‘school potato.’ Philomela says she knows by looking at them the people who always have ‘ school potato,’ unless they have a dinner- party. I have feebly tried to explain to Delecta that if only her American will come to lunch withLightsome Luncheons. 119 me, I will give her bouillon in American cups, chicken a la Maryland, a good salad, ice cream, and coffee that really is cafe noir. I am glad to say Delecta and I are at one on the subject of having a dainty luncheon. Personally, if alone, I prefer an omelette and a cup of coffee to anything else. Delecta is great on the subject of omelettes, and has given me so many recipes that I truly believe there are dozens and dozens of different omelettes; but the leading principles are always the same. And is there anything better than a really good omelette ? gREAK 4 eggs into a bowl and beat them vigorously; add 4 table-spoonfuls of cold water, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, and 1 table-spoonful of sifted sugar. Put the butter in a sheet-iron pan used only for omelettes, and when it begins to crackle, turn in the eggs. Shake vigo- rously to allow the omelette to slide from side to side. In a moment the egg nearest the heat will become congealed. Slide a palette-knife, or a thin, flat, wooden knife, under the omelette to allow the soft portions to run beneath. Shake and lift, lift and shake, till the omelette is light. Take the omelette from the fire; fold it from the handle side OMELETTE AU RHUM. 4>120 to the outer side of the pan. Hold the omelette in the pan with the flat wooden knife, and turn it quickly on to a dish. Have some heated rum; pour over it; set the rum alight; then blow out the light and dust all over with sifted sugar, and serve. gEAT up 4 eggs in a bowl; add i table-spoonful water, 4 oz. cheese, pepper and salt to taste. Melt 2 oz. butter in an omelette-pan, pour in the mixture, and with a palette-knife keep it from stick- ing. Fold it over, and serve very hot. To make a savoury omelette, substitute J tea-spoonful finely chopped shalot and 1 tea-spoonful chopped parsley for the cheese. For ham omelette, use 1 table- spoonful finely minced ham. For a fish omelette, use 1 table-spoonful grated cheese and 1 table- spoonful cooked fish. gEAT up 4 eggs with 4 table-spoonfuls of cream, 1 table-spoonful white sauce, and 1 table- spoonful picked shrimps, seasoning to taste. Melt butter in omelette-pan, and proceed as in cheese omelette. CHEESE OMELETTE. SHRIMP OMELETTE. dP 4>Lightsome Luncheons. 121 ‘Lesbia, tell me how you make your ordinary luncheon clear soup. You surely don’t go to the expense of hough or shin of beef? ’ ‘I should think not,’ I answer. ‘We make it from three-pennyworth of bones and half a pound of gravy beef—of course clearing it with the whites and shells of eggs and whisking it like clear soup. It comes out beautifully clear, and certainly doesn’t cost much. Do you know, Delecta, that all white soups and tomato soup are greatly improved by the addition of a little whipped cream just before serving? It makes them so good and fluffy; and that idea I learned from a cook who had been with an American. They seem to know all the good things. Think of their chicken dishes.’ ^INGE, draw, and disjoint one or two plump young chickens. Put into a good-sized sauce- pan 2 table-spoonfuls of butter; when hot, drop in the pieces of chicken; allow them to brown gradu- ally, taking great care the butter does not burn. As soon as the pieces are browned, draw them to one side of the saucepan, and add to the butter 2 table- spoonfuls of flour; mix well, and add 1 pint of stock or water. Stir constantly until it begins to CHICKEN A LA MARYLAND. J3 A. C. P 4>Lightsome Luncheons. 122 boil, moving the chicken around in the sauce. Add i slice of onion, i bay-leaf, i table-spoonful of chopped carrot, i tea-spoonful of salt, and a quarter of a tea-spoonful of pepper. Cover the saucepan, push to the back part of the stove, and let the chicken simmer for an hour. When done, arrange the pieces on the dish, the legs in front, the wings and dark meat at the sides, and the back and breast on top. Take the sauce from the fire; add to it the yolk of i egg beaten with 2 table-spoonfuls of cream. Strain this over the chicken, and garnish with crescents of fried bread dusted over with finely chopped parsley. VIRGINIAN FRIED CHICKEN. CELECT two plump chickens; dress, singe, and split them down the back, but be careful not to break the breast-bone. Wash quickly and wipe dry. Put into a large baking-pan two table-spoonfuls of lard, or oil, the latter being the better. When hot, put in the chickens. Fry the chickens brown on all sides; dust with salt and pepper; cover the pan and push to the back of the stove, where the contents may cook slowly for thirty minutes. Arrange the chicken on a heated platter, and add to the gravy in the pan two table-spoonfuls of flour; mixLightsome Luncheons. 123 smoothly, and add a pint of milk ; stir until boiling; add salt and pepper, and strain into a sauceboat. Serve with the fried chicken either potato fritters or rice croquettes. BOUCH^JES OF CHICKEN CREAM. LIN! some bouchee-moulds with good puff paste. Have ready some chicken cream. Half-fill the moulds, on the top put a puree of ham or tongue well seasoned, and above it place either cooked peas or French beans. Serve hot. GRILLED CHICKEN k LA NAPOLITAINE. QRILL a fowl in the ordinary way. Boil some large Italian macaroni cut into inch-long pieces for fifteen or twenty minutes. Strain, and season with Parmesan cheese, butter, and pepper; and add enough cheese and butter to make it thoroughly stringy. Place the fowl on the dish, the macaroni round it, and the rest of the stew over all, with a few slices of truffles. Serve very hot. Delecta has produced another mysterious book, this time a note-book, and on the outside it has written in Delecta’s neat and careful handwriting: '■Dishesfrom Many Lands'124 Lightsome Luncheons. She is evidently going to give me some foreign luncheon dishes. RISOTTO ALL1 ITALIAN A. pRY a small onion slightly in butter, then add half a pint of good stock. Boil 4 oz. of rice, but do not let it get pulpy; add it to the onion and stock, with a purde of three tomatoes. Mix all up well; add more stock, grated Parmesan and grated Cheddar cheese—one table-spoonful of each—and serve very hot. RISOTTO ALLA CAPUCCINA. JyJake a good risotto as above recipe, and when cooked, put in a fireproof dish. When cold, cut into shapes with a dariole-mould and fry for a few minutes in butter; turn out the darioles, scoop a little out of each, and fill with eggs beaten up. Cover each with a slice of truffle and garnish with chopped ham. Put them in the oven for ten minutes. MINESTRA ALLA CAPUCCINA. CCALE one anchovy and pound it; then fry it in butter, together with a small onion cut across and 4 oz. of boiled rice. Add a little salt, andLightsome Luncheons. 125 when the rice is a golden-brown take out the onion, and add gradually some good stock till the dish is the consistency of rich pudding. CAROTE E PISELLI ALLA PANNA. HALF cook equal quantities of peas and young carrots cut in dice. Put them together in a stewpan with 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of cream, and cook till quite tender, adding a little salt. Serve very hot. GNOCCHI ALLA ROMANA. B0IL half a pint of milk in a saucepan, and add 2 oz. of butter, 4 oz. of semolina, 2 table- spoonfuls of grated Parmesan, the yolks of 3 eggs, and a pinch of nutmeg. Mix all well together and let it cool. Spread out the paste to about the thickness of a finger. Put a little butter and grated Parmesan, and 2 table-spoonfuls of cream, in a fireproof dish; cut out with a dariole-mould the semolina paste, place in the dish, dust over writh Parmesan, put in the oven for five minutes, and serve in the dish it is cooked in. COLCON ARROZ (SPANISH CABBAGE). ^AKE i good-sized cabbage and boil for thirty minutes, drain it, and shred it up finely. Put in a stewpan 3 oz. of butter well rolled in flour, and126 when melted put in the cabbage. Add 4 oz. of rice (previously boiled), 2 tea-spoonfuls of salt, 1 tea- spoonful of white pepper, and add gradually 4 table- spoonfuls of milk. Let all simmer for ten minutes, stirring continuously, and serve very hot. pUT into a small stewpan over a sharp fire 4 oz. of butter, 1 raw chopped apple, and 4 sliced onions. Fry till a golden colour. Rub through a tammy-cloth, and add 2 tea-spoonfuls of curry powder, 2 tea-spoonfuls of curry paste, 2 tea-spoon- fuls of lemon-juice, half a tea-cupful of cocoa-nut milk, 2 oz. of grated cocoa-nut, 6 cardamom-seeds, 1 bay-leaf, a tiny pinch of saffron, salt, pepper, and sugar. Cut up the meat, chicken, or fish to be curried into small pieces, and stir into the mixture. Simmer for two hours. (^OAK a sufficiency of rice in cold water for two hours, strain through a sieve, and pop the rice into boiling water. Let it boil for eight minutes, when the rice should be tender. Strain off the water through a sieve, and dash a very little cold water over the rice to separate the grains. INDIAN CURRY. RICE FOR CURRY. J3 4>127 Lightsome Luncheons. GREEK PILAF. "V/TELT 2 oz. of butter in a saucepan, and throw in a cupful of rice. Stir it for some time on a small fire, but do not let it brown. Add to it cups of boiling stock made with tomato-pulp, and leave it to simmer till the rice has swelled. Be careful it does not stick to the bottom or sides of the pan. When cooked, pour over it a little hot butter and serve at once; it must never wait a moment, and must be very hot. GREEK VEGETABLE MARROWS. pARTLY boil some small vegetable marrows split lengthwise. Scoop out the inside and mix with chopped boiled onion and browned and grated Parmesan cheese. When the mixture is soft and pulpy fill your marrows, egg and bread-crumb them, place tiny pieces of butter on each, and bake in a shallow tin. ‘Lesbia,’ asks Delecta, ‘do you generally have fish at luncheon; and if you do, what do you have ?’ ‘Well, I think small fillets of sole with fried mushrooms in the centre is rather a favourite of128 Light some Luncheons. f mine; and then of course there are fish souffles, and in summer mayonnaises of salmon or halibut, or even cod. I think those are all good for luncheon; but I should be very glad to have a few good recipes if you have them.’ B°il i haddock, remove every bone and particle of skin, and pound the flesh in a mortar with i oz. of butter. Now rub through a sieve. Put in a basin and stir in the yolks of 3 eggs. Whip the 3 whites to a stiff froth, and add to the other in- gredients. Grease a souffle-tin, pour in the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven for ten minutes. If preferred, grease eight small china or paper souffle- cases, and cook in the same way. ^LEAN 1 whole haddock, wipe with a wet cloth, and scrape off all scales. Lay it on a board, but touch it as little as possible with the fingers. Mix together 4 table-spoonfuls of bread-crumbs, 2 table-spoonfuls chopped suet, 1 table-spoonful chopped parsley, 1 egg, a little pepper and salt. Put this mixture inside the fish and sew together. Skewer the fish in the form of the letter S, sprinkle FISH SOUFFL& STUFFED HADDOCK.129 Lightsome Luncheons. with bread-crumbs and a few bits of dripping, and bake in the oven from twenty to thirty minutes. jpUT one table-spoonful of butter and one table- spoonful of flour into a saucepan; mix to- gether, and add half a pint of milk; stir until boiling. Take from the fire; add the yolk of one egg and three mushrooms chopped fine, a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, half a tea-spoonful of salt, and a dash of pepper. Stir gradually into this one cupful and a half of any cold boiled fish picked fine, and stand the mixture over hot water for just a moment till thoroughly heated. Arrange in a border of mashed potatoes, dust lightly with chopped parsley, and serve. This same mixture may be filled into paper cases or china shells, and slightly browned in the oven. J7RY an onion slightly in ij oz. of butter; add a small cut-up carrot, half a stick of celery, a sprig of parsley, and one salt anchovy (scaled). Into this mixture put either sole, mullet, or turbot cut in pieces, a pinch of spice and pepper, and let it simmer for a few minutes; then add two cut-up FISH A LA REINE. SOLE A LA GENOESE. J3 A. C. Q 4Lightsome Luncheons. 130 mushrooms, one mashed-up tomato, and a little flour. Mix all together and cook for twenty minutes. Delecta has closed her books for a few moments. I see she wishes to talk, so I lay down my pencil and make ready to listen. She asks me if I ever give a coloured luncheon-party, and informs me it is quite easy. You start with, say, a pale- green soup, then fish that has a green sauce; follow this with perhaps fillets of beef that are decorated with parsley butter and accompanied by a green vegetable; green sweets are easy of accomplish- ment; and then you may have either a little green savoury cream with olives for your savoury, or peas dressed in some dainty way. The table must of course be decorated with green, either feathery asparagus fern or maidenhair, and the sweets must also be green. I tell Delecta it all sounds delightful, but I would like a few plain luncheon recipes, as I cannot always run to pale-green meals, symphonies in blush-rose pink, or nocturnes in heliotrope. In fact, I don’t believe you could make a heliotrope soup. Even a pale-mauve sweet is not so easy of attainment, as you must mix ‘ cherry red ’ and ‘damson blue,’ and sometimes they don’t mix exactly as you want them to. Delecta—who, ILightsome Luncheons. think, wished to hold forth on the subject of coloured meals—remarks resignedly, ‘Very well, I’ll tell you some plain things,’ and in a crushed voice reads out: ■pUT on to boil i gallon water, 2 lb. scrag of A mutton, x bone, 1 tea-cupful of barley, and a few peas. Just before it boils, skim. Now add 1 small carrot and 1 small turnip cut up fine. Boil for half-an-hour; then add half a small cabbage and 2 small onions chopped up. Just before serving, add a little finely chopped parsley. ^UT up a rabbit into neat pieces, removing as much bone as possible. Put a good ^ lb. fat bacon into an iron saucepan, put in your pieces of rabbit, and fry to a golden brown. Just before they become this colour, add two table-spoonfuls of rum or brandy, and two shalots cut up very fine. Make a gravy of the rabbit-trimmings pounded up in a mortar with one breakfast-cupful of stock and 1\ pints of hock. Delecta gets no further, for I scream out that I consider her most extravagant, not to say SCOTCH BROTH. SALMIS OP RABBIT. j°132 Lightsome Luncheons. inebriated, and she really must not give me recipes that are all drink. She thinks me very hard to please, and turns over her books in despair. ‘You see, Lesbia, any dinner recipes do per- fectly well for luncheon, so it is really nonsense having things only for luncheon. However, I will give you some sweets, and then I will give you a green luncheon, a white luncheon, and a pink one.’ I tell her I am quite resigned, and leave myself entirely in her hands. PAIN-PERDU. B0IL J pint of milk with a little sugar, a few grains of salt, and a pinch of grated lemon- peel. When off the fire, add one tea-spoonful of orange-flower water. Have some slices of bread about the third of an inch thick, cut round or oval (a French roll is very nice); dip them in milk, and then in a beaten-up egg. Fry them in butter, sprinkle sugar over them, and serve very hot. t6t-fait. 'JpAKE a little more than f of a pint of milk ■, boil it. Put in a cup one good table-spoonful of very, very fine flour, a pinch of salt, sugar to taste,133 Lightsome Luncheons. and a little cold milk; mix it all up and pour into the saucepan of milk. When it is boiling, stir it and let it boil once. Beat up in a basin the yolks of two eggs, a little vanilla or orange-flower water, or if preferred, a little essence of ginger. Beat up all briskly, and add two whites of eggs that have been previously beaten up with a knife in a soup-plate. Now pour into the basin the hot milk by degrees, and beat up briskly; pour the whole into a pie-dish well buttered, or a deep silver dish, and put into a very brisk oven. It will puff up very high. Serve at once or it will fall; and remember to use very fresh eggs. CARAMEL CUSTARDS IN CUPS. Jy^ELT 4 table-spoonfuls of sugar until a light brown, pour into 6 custard-cups, and shake them well and quickly, so that the caramel will line them. Beat 3 eggs without separating the whites from the yolks; add to them 3 table-spoonfuls of sugar and i| cups of cream; mix thoroughly, add a tea-spoonful of vanilla, and pour into the cups on top of the caramel. Stand them in a baking-pan full of hot water, and bake in an oven ten or fifteen minutes until they are set in the centre. Turn out while hot, and serve.Lightsome Luncheons. 134 f JAM TATO. ^ORK 3 oz. of butter and 2 oz. of sugar to- gether for twenty minutes; then add 4 oz. of cooked potatoes (rubbed through a sieve) and the yolks of four eggs gradually. Last of all add the rind and juice of a lemon and the whites of the eggs whipped up stiffly. Bake one hour and a half in a moderate oven. Serve with a sauce of melted red-currant jelly or with jam. TORRIJAS DE PAN. ^UT some slices of crumby bread about half a finger in thickness, cut off the crusts, and soak in milk. Fry them, then dip in a beaten-up egg, and fry them again in butter or good oil until they are brown. Put some honey and a little water over a slow fire, dip the torrijas in the honey, and serve. MANTE CADOS. gEAT up i lb. of lard very well in a deep dish, and when well beaten add 1 lb. sifted sugar. When both are thoroughly mixed, add 2\ lb. of flour by degrees, and when worked into the consistency of dough, make into small round balls, sprinkle caraway-seeds over the top,Lightsome Luncheons. 135 and place on a tin sheet in the oven until a light-brown colour. AUSTRALIAN SNOW. 'gAKE four eggs and separate the yolks and whites; whisk the latter stiffly with a small pinch of salt. Poach in boiling milk small spoonfuls at a time. Flavour with vanilla, or lemon, or ratafia. Make a custard with the four egg-yolks and a little milk, pour round the poached whites, and serve cold. VELVET RICE CREAM. pUT into a stewpan 4 oz. ground rice, 4 oz. sugar, and 2 oz. fresh butter. Add 1 quart milk, and boil for fifteen or twenty minutes till it forms a smooth substance; add a few drops of any flavouring, and serve when cold with peaches or stewed fruit. FRENCH PANCAKES. gREAK 1 egg into a basin, and beat it well with 1 oz. butter; stir in 1 oz. sifted sugar and 1 oz. flour; when well mixed, add £ pint of milk. Put on small buttered plates and bake in a quick oven for twenty minutes. Heat some apricot (or straw- berry or raspberry) jam, spread on one half of each pancake, and fold over.Lightsome Luncheons. 136 THE QUEEN OF PUDDINGS. ^AKE one egg and its weight in butter, sugar, ground rice, and flour. Beat the egg and butter with the sugar. Then mix together the flour and rice and one tea-spoonful of baking powder. Now mix all the ingredients together, pour into a pie-dish previously lined with raspberry-jam, and bake in a quick oven from twenty to thirty minutes. COFFEE AUFLAUF. MIX together 6 oz. of flour, io oz. of sugar, a pinch of salt, 2 oz. of butter, \ pint of strong coffee, and | pint of cream. Stir this quickly over the fire till it boils, add the yolks and beaten whites of three eggs, butter a mould, pour in the mixture, and bake in the oven. EDINBURGH FOG. rjhAKE half a pint of cream, mix with a little pounded sugar, and switch to a thick froth. Mix a good handful of ratafia biscuits and chopped, blanched sweet almonds with the cream. Flavour with vanilla and pile up in a crystal dish. ‘That last dish, Delecta, sounds rather like the137 Lightsome Luncheons. “ little Cupids ” sopped in brandy that Miss Barker gave the ladies in Cranford.’ Delecta looks perfectly blank. Her whole soul is set on cooking, and she brooks not interruption. I hasten to say, ‘Never mind.’ So she reads out the recipes for a pale-green luncheon. pUT on in boiling water 2 pints of fresh green peas, 1 small carrot cut up, 1 sliced onion, a little mint, a small bunch of parsley, and half a tea-spoonful of sugar. Let them boil with the cover off the pan till quite tender, then take out carrot and onion, drain the peas, and pass them through a wire sieve. Moisten 1 dessert-spoonful of corn-flour with a little stock, and boil in 2J pints of seasoned white stock. Now stir the puree of green peas into the boiling stock, but do not allow it to boil after the puree has been added. SALMON WITH GREEN MAYONNAISE SAUCE. ^UT your cold salmon into neat squares and arrange in the centre of your dish; surround with crisp lettuce torn (not cut) into neat pieces. Cover the salmon with the mayonnaise, and the whole dish will be green. CHANTILLY SOUP. R A. C.138 Lightsome Luncheons. GREEN MAYONNAISE SAUCE. JpUT the uncooked yolks of two eggs into a clean, cold soup-dish; then add a quarter of a tea- spoonful of salt and a dash of cayenne pepper. Work this well together, and then add, drop by drop, half a pint or more of pure salad oil. Stir rapidly and ceaselessly while adding the oil. After adding a quarter of a pint of oil, alternate occasion- ally with a few drops of lemon-juice or vinegar. If you like you can add a few drops of tarragon. In hot weather it is as well to make the mayonnaise in a dish standing on ice or in a very cool place. Scald some parsley and beat it through a wire and hair sieve, and add sufficient to the sauce till it is the green shade you require. FILLETS OF BEEF WITH SPINACH. 'JbYKE 2 lb. of fillet of beef and stamp out in rounds of an inch thick. Cook them in front of a clear, hot fire on a gridiron, a piece of fat under and a piece of fat above each little fillet to keep it juicy. Now arrange them very neatly in a silver entree-dish, surround each fillet with pale-green spinach, and decorate each fillet with a ball of parsley butter. J3 4>139 Lightsome Luncheons. PUREE OP PALE-GREEN SPINACH. T> OIL your spinach very carefully, and press till perfectly dry; mb through a fine sieve, and whip it with plenty of whipped cream. ORK one dessert-spoonful of fresh butter thoroughly into one or two table-spoonfuls of finely minced parsley, with the juice of half a lemon and a pinch of salt. WHIP i pint of double cream in a basin with i tea-spoonful of vanilla and ij oz. sifted sugar. Add to it 2 oz. pistachio-nuts pounded through a wire sieve. Dissolve \ oz. gelatine in 3 table-spoonfuls of water and a few drops of sap- green colouring. Pour into a prepared mould and put away to set. Decorate with little silver balls, pistachio-nuts, and strips of angelica. If preferred, little moulds can be used, each little cream being decorated with leaves of angelica set round a silver jpiCK to pieces three endives, wash them well in three different waters, drain them, throw them into boiling water with a handful of salt, and boil till PARSLEY BUTTER. PISTACHIO CREAM. ball. DRESSED ENDIVES.Lightsome Luncheons. 140 quite tender. Put them to drain in a colander, and squeeze out all moisture. Chop them very fine; place them in a saucepan with i oz. of butter, a little grated nutmeg, pepper, and salt; stir over the fire for about twenty minutes, add a little cream, and dish up surrounded by fried sippets. ‘Now, Lesbia, if you don’t want such an elaborate savoury, nor a hot one, you can have the following.’ SIMPLE CUCUMBER SAVOURY. ^UT some neat rounds of bread-and-butter and lay on each a round of cucumber; lay a small blob of whipped cream seasoned with pepper and salt on each, and dust with finely chopped parsley. Without giving me a breather Delecta goes straight to the white luncheon. CELERY CREAM SOUP. ^HOROUGHLY wash one large head white celery, cutting away all the green tops and coloured parts of stalks. Scrape in clean water to which a little lemon-juice has been added. The lemon-juice helps to whiten the celery. SoakLightsome Luncheons. 141 thoroughly, and then cut across in fine slices. Boil i pint of milk, and add your sliced celery to it with 2 slices of onion; simmer for half-an-hour or longer till quite tender. Now melt i oz. butter in a saucepan, and stir into it i oz. flour; add i pint white stock, and stir till it boils. Now add the celery (rubbed through a sieve) and the milk, season to taste, and finally add two or three table-spoonfuls of whipped cream. Serve very hot. White Stock.—To each pound of knuckle of veal (or carcass of chicken) allow i quart of water, i small carrot, i stick of celery, bunch of herbs, i small onion, 2 cloves, 6 peppercorns, shred of mace, 1 small turnip, 1 tea-spoonful salt. Break the bones up small and cut meat into small pieces, bring slowly to the boil, skim if necessary, and cook for two or three hours. Add all the other ingredients, and cook for another four hours with the lid on the saucepan. Strain through a fine sieve. FISH CREAMS WITH WHITE SAUCE. jpUT 11 oz. bread-crumbs into a basin. Heat 1 oz. butter and \ pint milk; pour over the crumbs, and leave for a little to soak. Scrape down 6 oz. haddock or whiting, and put it through a sieve. Add the fish, a dash of cayenne pepper, and a little salt 3*Lightsome Luncheons. 142 and lemon-juice to the crumbs. Mix thoroughly, and add two eggs well beaten and \ pint cream well whipped. Butter some small dariole-moulds, three- parts fill them with the mixture, and steam for fifteen or twenty minutes. When ready, turn them on to a hot dish and pour over them the following sauce : Melt i oz. butter in a saucepan, add \ oz. flour, J pint milk, squeeze of lemon-juice, white pepper, and salt. Stir till it boils, and then add one table- spoonful cream. ‘ Now, Lesbia, as chicken is always known as white meat, you can have either a roast or a boiled chicken, and for a white vegetable, artichokes or a cauliflower. Or you can have chicken dressed in some way, or veal. But I know you disapprove of veal, don’t you ? ’ I merely nod my head, and Delecta continues the following: ‘Fricassee can be made of either chicken or veal, but we will call it chicken.’ T) EAT 2 eggs and whip \ pint cream; strain into £ pint bechamel sauce, and stir over the fire till it thickens, but do not let it curdle. Add a FRICASSEE OF CHICKEN.143 Lightsome Luncheons. squeeze of lemon-juice. Take i lb. ready-cooked chicken and cut into neat slices; heat them, and pour over them the sauce. WALNUT CREAM. pUT J lb. (shelled) walnuts on a tin in the oven for a few minutes; chop finely, and add to J pint double cream whipped stiff. Dissolve f oz. gelatine in 2 table-spoonfuls of hot water. Make a custard of \ pint milk, 1 white of egg and 2 yolks of eggs, 1 table-spoonful of sugar, and a little maraschino or brandy to flavour. Strain the custard into the gelatine and add to the cream. Pour into a mould, and put aside to set. <=§£> <=§<=> ‘If you have celery soup, Lesbia, you will have some celery over, so your savoury may as well be made of it. I know you should not have two dishes tasting of the same thing, but celery biscuits are delicious, and also most daintily white.’ CELERY BISCUITS. JvJAKE some little cheese biscuits from 2 oz. of butter, 3 oz. of grated cheese, 2 oz. of flour, 2 or 3 grains of cayenne pepper, and a pinch ofLightsome Luncheons. 144 salt. When well rubbed together, drop in the yolk of one egg, mix to a soft dough, and turn on to a floured board. Bake in a slow oven on white paper in a baking-dish. Let these little biscuits become quite cold, and on each place a spoonful of whipped savoury cream in which there is some finely chopped celery. Decorate by cutting thin strips of celery and placing them across the cream from corner to corner, and dust with a little coral- line pepper. ‘ Delecta, don’t tell me of a pink luncheon to-day. I can’t bear it.’ But Delecta is inexorable, and only remarks : TOMATO SOUP. "D OIL 2 lb. tomatoes (or i-quart tin of tomatoes) in \\ pints stock; rub through a hair sieve; return to the pan. Mix i pint milk and oz. flour quite smooth, strain into the soup, and put on to boil. Stir all the time till it boils; then boil for ten minutes. Add seasoning as follows: £ tea- spoonful sugar, pinch of pepper, and pinch of salt. Before serving, add a little whipped cream; and with the cream your tomato soup should turn a pretty shade of pink.Lightsome Luncheons. 145 MOUSSELINE OF COD. 'JpAKE f lb. cod and carefully trim it. Make some fish stock with the trimmings. Pound the cod in a mortar and pass through a sieve. Melt i oz. butter in a pan, and add i oz. flour and \ pint stock; stir till it boils, then take from the fire and cool for one minute; break in 3 eggs and beat well; add salt, a dash of cayenne, a pinch of nut- meg, and a few drops of lemon-juice. Have a greased mould decorated with chopped shrimps; pour your mixture in, and steam very slowly for forty minutes. Make a sauce of 1 oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, and \ pint fish stock; Reason it; bring to the boil, stirring carefully; add a little cream and a few drops of cochineal to colour. Pour over the mousseline and garnish with shrimps. TOURNE-DOS WITH PINK SAUCE. ^UT some beef (either cooked or uncooked : the latter is the better) into neat slices a little more than half an inch thick, and lard them with the finest larding-pin. Now ‘marinade’ the beef in a deep dish in the following way: Put on the fire, and allow to simmer for five minutes, 4 table-spoonfuls water with 1 of French vinegar, 1 onion cut inLightsome Luncheons. 146 slices, 2 blades of thyme, i small bay-leaf, some stalks of parsley, a pinch of pepper and a pinch of salt, and a small piece of butter. Leave the beef- slices in the marinade for two hours. Now put some butter in a saucepan, and toss your beef about in it on a very hot fire for six minutes. When done take them out, and in the same pan and butter fry some slices of crustless bread—an equal number to your slices of beef. Arrange them alternately round your dish, and pour over them the following sauce: Put in a stewpan ^ pint French vinegar, i coarsely-chopped-up shalot, 4 sprigs parsley, i bay-leaf, i sprig thyme, i carrot, salt, and some crushed peppercorns. Let it boil till it has become reduced to one quarter; strain it. Put 2 oz. butter in the stewpan, and 1 tea-spoonful flour, and put back your sauce with a touch of cayenne; add to it your marinade, strained; simmer for five minutes, and colour with cochineal. Pour over your tourne-dos. ‘There are so many sweets that you can have pink, Lesbia, that I am sure I do not need to tell you of them. But a very easy simple sweet can be made as follows.’Lightsome Luncheons. 147 MERINGUE BISCUIT CREAM. BUY some pink meringue biscuits (they cost a halfpenny each); make a round basket of them by standing them up on end and sticking each biscuit to the next one with a little sugar. As the biscuits make rather a deep basket, you can place some sponge-cake fingers soaked in a little maras- chino at the foot. Now whip half a pint of cream, colour a pretty pink, and flavour either with a few drops of maraschino or some strawberry-juice. Fill your basket, and decorate with whole fresh straw- berries, or crystallised rose-leaves, or glace cherries. ‘Of course you can, if you like, make pink meringues, and fill them with pink cream; but meringues are somewhat troublesome, and the biscuits do perfectly well.’ ANCHOVY CREAMS, sufficient cream for the number of neat rounds of toast you require, with, added to the cream, one tea-spoonful of anchovy paste and a pinch of cayenne. Spread the cream on the toast nice and full, and place in the centre of each round one stoned Spanish olive wrapped round a small quantity of pounded anchovies.148 Lightsome Luncheons. Delecta closes her book, and with an air of triumph asks me what I think of it all. She deems me very ungrateful because I answer that I begin to wonder if primitive man had not the best of it after all. How much simpler to go out and kill some animal, haul it home, sit down peacefully beside it, and eat it raw / ‘ Lesbia, I am disgusted with you. When I gave you such lovely recipes, and so many hints, to talk of meat eaten raw! ’ Delecta is quite offended. But I cannot help feeling primitive man had his advantages when he walked by his ‘wild lone in the wild wet woods ; ’ he was never worried over meals, and he never gave coloured luncheons !Triumphant Teas. 149 CHAPTER VIII. TRIUMPHANT TEAS. <=§■=> <=§<=> <=§=> S|r AM suffering from the exhaustion that appears dtp about eleven o’clock after you have been imbecile enough to get up ‘so early in the morning.’ It was quite unnecessary to rise at 4.15 a.m., and I can’t think why I did it. Only I was awake—so were the birds; they were aggres- sively awake—and there is something very attractive about getting up early when there is no need to. I wonder if the birds ever go to bed at all. I am sure the cuckoo never does, unless it is for a hurried forty winks about twelve o’clock. It was very fresh and sweet and cool—the latter an important thing in these broiling hot days—only there were several drawbacks. First and most unpleasant—a mouse ! A very large, stout mouse in the kitchen; also several cockroaches — quite a menagerie if you count the flies. Then I could not open the front door! WhyTriumphant Teas. 150 are doors so intricately constituted ? ‘ Locks, bolts, and bars all fly asunder’ in a song with cheerful rapidity; they were anything but cheerful and rapid this morning. I wrestled for quite half-an- hour, softly so as not to wake the household, and eventually stepped into the garden. It really was rather delicious, and I was fired with the ambi- tion to fill the house with roses before the family appeared for breakfast. Very charming in theory, but not quite so delightful in practice. Our best rose-trees are wall-flowers, covering the garden wall and nodding away far above our heads; there- fore I required the ladder, and after much pulling and hauling I leant it against the wall. But, alas! there was no one to hold it, and the rose-gathering was a perilous performance. Still, I triumphed in the end. Though much barked about the ankles and scratched about the face and hands, I cut a goodly bunch of glorious roses. Poor dears, it was cruel to cut them off when they were hardly awake ! Arranging them took me quite a long time, and it was six o’clock before I had finished. I had my back to the door, and was backing away from the mantelpiece admiring my handiwork, when I backed into something flabby, and found it was Harriet, staring with her mouth open. When I £Triumphant Teas. 151 asked her why she had neither spoken nor moved she gasped out, ‘ Lor, mum ! I could not move; I was that frightened. I thought you was a ghost.’ Imagine a ghost in broad daylight, in a muslin dressing-gown, arranging flowers ! Harriet was quite upset, and went off to lay and light her kitchen fire shaking her head gloomily, as if she thought I was a ghost and didn’t know it. I cooked quite an elaborate breakfast; though I regret to say it was rather late, and Philly said sententiously, ‘A plain breakfast punctual is better than a grand one late.’ But Delecta, who was late for once in her life, kindly said, ‘The amateur cook has to learn the time required for each dish, and experience is the best teacher.’ Thank goodness! the Batiushka said nothing, but manifestly enjoyed his meal. ‘ How cross you ’ll be by ten o’clock, Lesbia! People who get up at four o’clock in the morning always grow crosser and crosser as the day goes on.’ ‘Lesbia mustn’t be cross,’ remarked Delecta; ‘so don’t suggest it to her, Philly. To-day we are going to discuss cake-making and teas, and I want all her attention.’ I don’t feel much like cake conversation ; it’s much too hot; also I know I shall fall asleep.152 Triumphant Teas. However, Delecta has kindly consented to give her cake lecture in the garden. I have flatly refused to learn to-day by demonstration, as the kitchen is like an oven and it is growing momentarily hotter. Philomela says she is going to sit under the trees on the lawn—grass plot is perhaps more accurate—but she does not mean to listen, as it is much too hot to hear about butter and ovens. I rather agree with her, but of course have to do what Delecta tells me. The Batiushka has secured a long basket-chair, and with much tobacco, several papers, and a great many cushions, has ensconced himself in the back garden, far away from the sound of ‘ butter and eggs and a pound of cheese.’ I have asked Delecta quite pathetically to let me off taking notes and writing down recipes; but she is determined; so I have armed myself with a writing-board and a note- book. I know—I feel it in my bones—that I am going to fall asleep. * Lesbia, before we begin I should like you to understand clearly that though home-made cakes are much nicer in every way, they entail a great deal of trouble, and are no cheaper than buying them in a shop. The only cakes that are cheaper to make at home are the dainty little cakes whose foundation is sponge-cake and which are dressed in coloured icing. I think those are somewhat152153 Triumphant Teas. f cheaper; but I am also inclined to think that unless you mean to take a great deal of trouble, you are wiser to buy your cakes in a good shop. Some cooks are born cake-makers, but many of them—fairly good cooks in other ways—fail in cakes, generally through not being sufficiently accurate and careful.’ With this lengthy beginning, Delecta opens her note-book. I know I am going to sleep; the buzzing of a neighbouring bee is most soporific; I never felt so sleepy in my life. 'Y'HE following mixture is the most useful foun- dation for cake-making. In this instance we will convert it into ginger-cakes. Beat 4 oz. butter and 4 oz. castor sugar till it is white and creamy. This requires much practice, and the novice should always allow twenty minutes for the process. Now add, one at a time, 3 eggs (or 2 very large ones), with 1 table-spoonful of flour; thoroughly beat the mixture, and add the rest of the flour (making 6 oz. of flour); add \ tea-spoonful of baking powder and 3 oz. preserved ginger cut into small cubes. This cake batter should be of the consistency of thick sauce; it should just drop from GINGER-CAKES. & T A. C.154 Triumphant Teas. a spoon, not run from it. Barely half-fill some greased fancy tins with the mixture, dust a little fine sugar on the top of each, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty or thirty minutes. If properly made these little cakes will rise to the top of the tin while baking, and be of a pale-brown colour, nicely glazed on the surface, when cooked. By substituting cherries, pine - apple, walnuts, almonds, or currants for the ginger, quite a number of varieties may be obtained. ^REAM 4 oz. butter with 4 oz. sugar; add 2 eggs, one at a time, with some of the flour, and add the rest of the flour (4 oz. in all). Break up 2 oz. chocolate and melt it in ^ cupful of milk over the fire. When you have well beaten the butter, egg, and flour mixture, pour in your chocolate, £ tea- spoonful vanilla essence, and a pinch of salt. Pour into small greased tins and bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. To ice these cakes, break 4 oz. chocolate into a pan with | small tea-cupful warm water; stir over a gentle heat till dissolved. Put f lb. icing sugar in another pan, pour in the melted chocolate, and stir until smooth. Add 1 tea-spoonful vanilla essence, and use. CHOCOLATE-CAKES. •4>Triumphant Teas. 155 ORANGE-CREAM CAKE. J^EAT two eggs, and add to them one tea-cupful of soft sugar, and beat again till the eggs become lighter in colour. Very carefully fold in one tea- cupful of flour. On no account attempt to beat the mixture or it will be ruined. Add one tea-spoonful of baking powder, and pour the mixture into two well- greased round tins about the size of a dinner-plate. Bake in a hot oven for ten minutes. When the cakes are firm on the top they are ready. Turn them on to a paper covered with castor sugar, and when cold make them into a sandwich with the following mixture: Cut up the peel of two oranges and one lemon very thin; put it on the fire with \ pint cold water to infuse for ten minutes or longer. Strain, and return the water to the saucepan with i oz. butter and 2 oz. sugar, and when it boils stir in one table-spoonful of corn-flour that has been mixed to a smooth cream with the strained orange and lemon juice. Boil all till thick, stirring all the time. Cool slightly and add the yolks of two eggs. This mixture can be kept for some time in a cool, dry place securely covered. Ice the top of your sand- wich with orange icing, and cut into neat, diamond- shaped pieces. This sandwich-cake can be made with a frilling J°156 Triumphant Teas. of chocolate and chocolate icing; with jam and no icing, but a dust of pink sugar; with, in fact, any- thing you fancy, but the sandwich itself must be very light and most carefully made. J^UNSHINE-CAKE is very delicious, but can only be indulged in when you have your own hens or at the time when eggs are really cheap, for it requires eleven eggs! Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth; add to them the well-beaten yolks of 3 eggs; then stir in carefully ij cupfuls of sifted granulated sugar, i tea-spoonful vanilla essence, and i cupful of flour that has been previously sifted five times, with i tea-spoonful of cream of tartar. Add the flour very carefully and mix thoroughly. Turn into an ungreased cake-tin and bake in a moderate oven for forty-five minutes. When cool it will either drop out or can be easily removed from the tin. jpARE one large orange thinly and put the rind in a basin with the juice of one lemon. Soak for an hour. Beat £ lb. butter and 6 oz. sugar to a cream ; add three eggs well beaten, and beat for five minutes. Strain the lemon-juice and add it to the SUNSHINE-CAKE. ORANGE-CAKE.157 Triumphant Teas. mixture, and stir in \ lb. flour; mix thoroughly, and add J of a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda dis- solved in one tea-spoonful of hot water. Put into a flat, greased cake-tin and bake till ready. Orange icing for this cake is made from f lb. icing sugar mixed with the juice of an orange and the rind of a lemon, and poured over the cake. MOCHA-CAKE. jpUT \ lb. fine sugar into a basin, and add by degrees, beating and mixing in thoroughly, the yolks of four eggs, 2 oz. flour, and 2 oz. corn- flour. Now add very lightly the four whites of the eggs beaten to a very stiff froth. Sift in J tea- spoonful baking powder. Pour into a greased and papered cake-tin, and bake for twenty minutes in a moderate oven. Ice this cake with the following icing: Beat J lb. fine sugar and 2 oz. fresh sweet butter to a cream; add one tea-spoonful essence of coffee. When the cake is cool, spread over it with a wet knife. CREAM-CAKES. pUT one small tea-cupful of water, 1 oz. sifted sugar, and 1 oz. butter on to boil. When boil- ing fast, stir in oz. flour and boil well, beatingTriumphant Teas. 158 ■cP thoroughly for three or four minutes. Take the pan from the fire, and add two small eggs, one by one, and half a tea-spoonful vanilla essence. Beat thoroughly. Put the mixture in little heaps on a greased oven-shelf, and brush with egg and sugar. Bake in a hot oven for twenty or twenty-five minutes. When hot, split them with a knife and set aside to cool. Now fill each cake with a mixture of thick whipped cream and vanilla essence, and place the other half of the cake as a lid. Dust with icing sugar. SIMPLE SPONGE-CAKE. MIX i cup of flour, i cup of sugar, and \ tea- spoonful of baking powder together in a basin; add 2 eggs, and beat all together for five minutes, pour into a well-buttered tin, and bake in the oven till ready. TEA BRETZELS. rj^AKE | lb. of butter, 1 dessert-spoonful of sugar, and 6 eggs. Stir to a froth. Mix J oz. of cinnamon with it, also oz. of grated lemon-peel, a pinch of salt of ammonia, and as much fine flour as will make a good dough. Make it into the shapes of cakes, squeeze flat with the hand, lay them in coarse sugar for a moment, and bake.159 Triumpliant Teas, ZWIEBACK. jyjAKE a paste of i J lb. of flour, \ lb. of butter, i lb. of sugar, i tea-spoonful of cinnamon, and the quantity of milk that is sufficient to let it be rolled. Roll very thin, cut into any shape, and bake on waxed tin. MELT 2 oz. butter with \ lb. golden syrup in a saucepan. Mix together § lb. flour, 2 oz. brown sugar, £ oz. ground ginger, J oz. allspice. Now make a hole in the centre and pour in 2 well- beaten eggs; add the warmed butter and syrup and 1 tea-spoonful baking powder. Mix thoroughly, and if the mixture is too stiff add 1 table-spoonful milk. Turn on to a well-greased baking-tin and bake for twenty minutes or half-an-hour in a cool oven. J.JEAT 4 oz. butter, 1 lb. syrup, and 1 lb. treacle in a saucepan. Mix together ij lb. flour, 1 breakfast-cupful sugar, 1 tea-spoonful ground ginger, 1 tea-spoonful cinnamon, and x tea-spoonful ground cloves. Mix all together with 1 cupful sour- milk and 1 tea-spoonful carbonate of soda, line a GINGERBREAD SPONGE-CAKE. SCHOOLROOM GINGERBREAD.Triumphant Teas. 160 cake-tin with buttered paper, and bake one and a half hours in a moderate oven. BRUNSWICK-CAKES. jgEAT 3 oz. butter and 6 oz. fine sugar to a cream. Beat 2 eggs well and add them and f tea-cupful sweet-milk to the butter and sugar. Mix together J lb. flour, | tea-spoonful ground ginger, \ tea- spoonful ground cloves, and \ tea-spoonful ground cinnamon; stir in gently and mix thoroughly. Pour into two papered and buttered cake-tins and bake half-an-hour in a moderate oven. Ice these cakes with the following icing: Put \ lb. icing sugar in a saucepan; add \ tea-spoonful lemon-juice, J tea-spoonful ground ginger, and i table-spoonful water. Mix gently with a wooden spoon till quite smooth. I did not hear either of these last two recipes. Delecta gave me them afterwards when I woke tip 1 I had grown sleepier and sleepier. Butter is rather soothing. The bees were positively slumberous; the whole air was full of languorous, drowsy sleep. I did try to keep awake. Delecta was really quite huffy, but she didn’t get up at 4.15 a.m. Mercifully, Philomela came to the rescue just when DelectaTriumphant Teas. 161 was gathering up her papers preparatory to retir- ing like Achilles to sulk in her tent. ‘Never mind Lesbia, Delecta Delectissima. Listen till I tell you how to make the most heavenly cocoa-nut biscuits, and then you can tell me the recipes for some more of your lovely, lovely cakes.’ Delecta was quite mollified, and beamed at Philly through her eyeglasses while the latter discoursed on the subject of cocoa-nut biscuits and macaroons. COCOA-NUT BISCUITS. THE great thing about these excellent biscuits is their cheapness; they are also very easy to make. Beat one large egg for ten minutes with 4 oz. fine sugar, and add gradually \ lb. desiccated cocoa-nut mixed with the grated rind of one lemon. Form the mixture into little cones with your hands. Place on a greased tin and bake from fifteen to thirty minutes in a moderate oven. ‘The only thing to remember,’ remarks Philo- mela, ‘ is to have clean hands. Dirty hands would considerably mar the beauty of the biscuits. Now for macaroons. I must tell you (this is specially for Lesbia) that it is entirely erroneous to imagine A. c. u oTriumphant Teas. 162 macaroons are indigestible. I have read in a book by a doctor, remember, that macaroons are the staff of life—no ; that’s bread. But, anyway, macaroons are very good for you, and not indigestible; so Lesbia might let us have macaroons much oftener.’ MACAROONS. ADD i lb. blanched and pounded sweet almonds to i lb. fine sugar; add a little rose-water. Beat the whites of 7 eggs to a froth, put them with the almonds, and beat thoroughly. Drop them on wafer-paper, grate sugar over them, and put them in the oven. ‘ I don’t know any other recipes for things for tea, so Delecta can give us some more. Delecta, do you know how to make potato-cakes ? They are so good. But it’s rather a hot sort of cake to talk about. I expect Lesbia will fall asleep again.’ Delecta is quite pleased to find Philomela so interested, and discovers not only potato-cakes but two other hot tea-cake recipes in her note-books. POTATO-CAKES. "V/TELT 1 oz. butter, and stir into 1 lb. boiled, well-dried, and mashed potatoes and 2 oz. flour; add 1 egg and 1 tea-spoonful baking powder,163 Triumphant Teas. with i tea-spoonful castor sugar and a pinch of salt. Knead the mixture, and then roll out into cakes half an inch thick. Brush over with egg, and bake in a quick oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. While hot, split and butter them. OXFORD TEA-CAKES. RUB 2 oz. butter into J lb. flour; add \ tea- spoonful salt and 2 tea-spoonfuls baking powder. Mix to a light dough with \ pint cream and 1 egg. Divide into six pieces, brush over with milk, and bake quickly for about fifteen minutes. LANCASHIRE TEA-CAKES. MIX together x lb. pastry-flour, 3 oz. corn-flour, 2 oz. castor sugar, and ^ tea-spoonful baking powder. Add 1 well-beaten egg and 1 tea-spoonful lemon-juice. Roll into a strip, spread 4 oz. fat (that is, butter and lard) over two-thirds of the surface, fold in three, turn, and roll out half an inch thick. Cut into rounds and bake in a brisk oven. While hot, split and butter them. 1 Oh Delecta! I know I’m in disgrace, but I do feel so hot and buttery. Please, please give us something cool.’164 Triumphant Teas. I had to remonstrate, for I really feel as if I were a tea-cake—a very buttery one—being hotly cooked in a very brisk oven. Philomela slowly rolls herself and her rug across the grass. ‘ I ’ll tell you what, Delecta ; let us talk of giving a tea—a garden party tea—with cool drinks and ices.’ ‘ That sounds rather a grand tea, Philly; but we can imagine, if you like, that Lesbia is giving a garden party. Now what would you have ? ’ ‘ Ices,’ answers Philly promptly, ‘ and strawberries and cream, and peaches, and chocolate eclairs, and ’ But Delecta holds up her hand in protest. ‘ Stop, stop, Philomela; there is no end to the cool luxuries in which you wish to indulge. Suppose we begin at the very beginning with iced tea and iced coffee.’ ‘ Oh! give me some,’ I groan; but neither of them takes the faintest notice of me. ‘ Of course, Philly, at an ordinary little summer tea—tea in the garden for perhaps twenty or twenty- five people—you would not have ices.’ ‘Yes, I would,’ says Philly; ‘I’d always have ices.’ Delecta looks baffled for a moment. ‘Well, let us leave the ices just now, and think of simpleTriumphant Teas. 165 sandwiches, and dainty cakes, and sweets not too ruinously expensive, and you can have iced coffee if you like.’ ‘ This is my party, not Lesbia’s—isn’t it, Delecta ? Only, mind you ’re to listen and write it all down. You ’re not to go to sleep.’ ‘ Don’t worry. I don’t feel nearly so sleepy when you discuss cold things, so go ahead with the coffee.’ JyJAKE some strong coffee. Add one pint of boiled milk to each pint of coffee, and let it stand till cold. Now add to every quart half a pint of slightly whipped cream. Sweeten the coffee to taste, place it in a freezing-pot, and pack well with ice and salt. Turn it now and then. Serve the coffee from a freezing-pot or a crystal jug. ‘ I do not think I would have iced tea, Philly, because really the most refreshing thing you can possibly drink to cool you is a cup of good tea hot.’ Philomela is doubtful; she still believes that ices cool you and tea makes you hotter. Plowever, she says if Delecta doesn’t know how to make iced tea, it doesn’t matter. Delecta, who is slightly nettled ICED COFFEE.166 Triumphant Teas. at being considered unlearned in the ways of tea, dryly reads out : ICED TEA. JVJAKE tea in the ordinary way, but slightly stronger. Pour it off the leaves, and, if required, sweeten to taste. Stand it on ice for six or eight hours. Serve in a punch-bowl with some thin slices of lemon and lumps of ice. You can have very many kinds of sandwiches— cress, cucumber, tomato; but remember to cut them finely and neatly and evenly either in narrow fingers or dainty rounds. FRENCH ROLL SANDWICHES. rjpAKE some small French rolls, cut off the top half rather thin, and scoop out a little of the crumb; fill the inside with a mixture of chopped lettuce, pounded sardine, and a little salad dressing; slightly butter the thin halves, and cover. SALMON SANDWICHES. pOUND some salmon finely with butter, salt, and pepper. Dip some slices of cucumber lightly in oil and vinegar, and then chop them up. Add167 Triumphant Teas them to the salmon. Cut some largish French rolls in half, and then split the halves into sandwiches, butter very slightly, and fill with the salmon mixture. There are various sweet sandwiches that can be made with fruit, and also with ordinary jellies and jams. Bananas make an excellent sandwich. CUT a rather hard banana, on no account over ripe, in thin slices. Cut your bread into thin, neat rounds, and spread a little thick whipped cream lightly on each side. Place the banana-slices on the cream, and do not fill too full. ^JAKE or buy some sponge-cakes (not too large), halve them, and fill them with a little whipped cream and firm strawberries cut in slices dusted with castor sugar. DISSOLVE i oz. butter in 2 oz. water, and add to it ij oz. flour. Mix well together over the fire. Remove from the fire, and add, one by one, BANANA SANDWICHES. STRAWBERRY SANDWICHES. CHOCOLATE ^CLAIRS.168 Triumphant Teas. - -three eggs and 3 oz. sugar. Work up with a wooden .spoon 12 rolls of this mixture about 4 inches long and | an inch wide and deep. Place them very carefully on a baking-sheet. Cover with castor sugar, and then shake it all off. Bake until a nice light brown. Make a mixture of 8 oz. chocolate, 1 oz. castor sugar, and \ pint cream. Melt, and well mix in a saucepan. Make a hole at one end of your eclair, and force in two table-spoonfuls of the chocolate mixture, and also coat the top of the eclair with the chocolate. Apricot eclairs are made in the same way, only making an apricot mixture as follows: Put twelve apricots (any good brand of tinned fruit) in a saucepan, and add 4 oz. castor sugar. Rub through a hair sieve. You can use peaches in the same way. To ice eclairs, stand them on ice in an ice- chest. ALMOND JUMBLES. \ lb. fat (mixed butter and lard) into £ lb. flour till it looks like bread-crumbs. Add \ lb. fine sugar, \ tea-spoonful baking powder, and 2 oz. chopped and blanched almonds. Now make a well in the centre, and put in the yolks of two eggs and knead to a smooth dough. It mustTriumphant Teas. 169 not be damp. Roll this paste on a floured board to the depth of J an inch. Cut into fingers, small squares, diamonds, &c. Brush them over with the white of an egg and dip them into the following mixture: J lb. chopped and blanched almonds, 2 oz. white sugar, and two beaten whites of eggs. Now place the jumbles on a greased tin and bake in a moderate oven for thirty or forty minutes. They require very careful cooking to ensure the inside being thoroughly done, while the outside must be pale fawn-colour. ‘ In case you want a really superior little scone at your tea-party, Philomela, I will give you a good recipe.’ LITTLE SCONES. MIX one table-spoonful Paisley flour with | lb. ordinary flour very thoroughly. Pass it care- fully backwards and forwards through a sieve. Rub in 3 oz. fat (that is, butter and lard), and add i oz. sugar. Mix to a dough with one egg and \ pint milk. The dough should be damp but not sticky. Roll on a floured board till about two- thirds of an inch thick; cut into very small, neat rounds; brush the tops with beaten egg, A. C. V170 Triumphant Teas. and bake on a greased tin in a hot oven. Split open and butter while hot. ‘ Oh Delecta, Delecta! you’ve gone back to buttery things, and I thought it was going to be a cool tea.’ Philly is quite disappointed. Delecta smiles amiably, and replies, ‘ I will give you a fruit salad, and an ice, and some drinks; and then, Philomela, you must go away, for I want to talk to Lesbia seriously about cake-making.’ I wriggle miserably in my chair. I very much dislike serious talks. It is pleasant, though, to listen to the description of cool fruit and imagine the sound of ice clinking against the side of a glass. FRUIT SALAD. B0IL i lb. lump-sugar and \ pint water for ten minutes, then turn into a basin to cool. Pre- pare all kinds of fruit in season: strawberries, rasp- berries, grapes, cherries, pine-apple cut in cubes, and sliced bananas. Add some blanched almonds and a few candied cherries. Flavour the syrup with a glass of maraschino, rum, or brandy, and pour it over the fruit. Stand on ice.Triumphant Teas. 171 STRAWBERRY ICE. RUB x lb. strawberries through a sieve; add 3 oz. castor sugar, a few drops of carmine or cochineal to improve the colour, 2 tea-spoonfuls lemon-juice, and \ pint of whipped cream. Mix all together, fill your ice-pot, and place in crushed ice and salt in a pail (if you have no ice-machine) for five or six hours. rpAKE one bottle cider (Devonshire cider is the best) and mix with one bottle soda water, one glass curagoa or maraschino, sugar to taste, and a few strawberries or raspberries. Add a small lump of ice, and stand it on ice till required. pUT 1 bottle claret, J lemon sliced, J glass noyau (or curagoa), 1 glass brandy, 1 strip cucumber, and 1 sprig borage in a jug with 2 table-spoonfuls of sifted sugar. Set on ice for an hour; then strain, and add two bottles iced soda water and, if liked, a few lumps of ice. Philomela rises expeditiously. ‘We have every- thing except borage, and that I ’ll get from the CIDER-CUP, CLARET-CUP.172 Triumphant Teas. Good Samaritan’s garden.—Batiushka, come and make claret-cup.’ The Batiushka responds with alacrity, and they both disappear into the house, leaving me to listen to Delecta. ‘You told me, Lesbia, your cakes were often wrong. Now do try to look interested, like a good girl, while I read you some notes on cake- making. ‘ “ The most common failure in cake-making— at least in those cakes that are known as plain mixture (where the fat is less than half the pro- portion of flour)—is owing to the fat not being sufficiently rubbed in. Then very often the mix- ture is far too damp. Then, too, the raising agent, either in the form of baking powder, car- bonate of soda, or Paisley flour, is used without caution. Too much of any of these will make the cake dry and full of holes, while the exces- sive use of soda gives that unpleasant soapy taste. Careful measurement of the raising agent is absolutely necessary, and it must be thoroughly mixed with the flour. The best plan is to pass the flour and baking powder backwards and forwards through a fine sieve. If you use carbonate of soda for your cakes, you must also use an acid—either sour-milk or cream of tartar.Triumphant Teas. 173 Allow to each pound of flour one tea-spoonful of bicarbonate of soda and one tea-spoonful of cream of tartar. “‘In cake-making the best ingredients must be used. Inferior or damp flour will spoil the best-mixed cake. Even with the best materials mistakes and failures often arise. For it is far easier to make than bake l Generally speaking, small cakes require rather a hot oven. To be exact, the temperature should be 300° Fahr. or 350° Fahr.; but in case the thermometer is not handy, the heat of the oven is simply tested by sprinkling a handful of flour on a baking-tin and putting it in the oven for four or five minutes. If the flour becomes a deep, golden-brown colour, the oven is ready for small cakes. ‘ “ For scones and cakes that are required for layer sandwiches the oven must be hotter, so your hand- ful of flour should brown in three minutes. For large cakes you require a much more moderate heat; and where it is chiefly a bottom heat, the cake should be placed on another tin covered with sand or salt to prevent the bottom of the cake becoming too dark in colour. A large cake put into too hot an oven will get a hard crust on the top that will quite prevent it from rising. The surface of174 Triumphant Teas. a cake (in a well and regularly heated oven) is the last place to cook, and by the time that part is cooked and firm the whole cake is cooked through- out. A bright skewer thrust into the middle should come out perfectly clean, and then you know your cake is done. All cakes should be kept in a warm kitchen till they are cold and firm. They should stand on something that will allow the steam to escape. A wire sieve is as good as anything ‘Now, Lesbia, if you pay attention to all the things I have told you, you ought to become an expert cake-maker.’ I try to look properly grateful and serious—cakes are a serious matter—when, with an approaching tinkle and clink, the Batiushka and Philomela appear, each bearing a large tumbler filled with cool, delicious claret-cup. ‘We had no liqueur, Lesbia—you are a bad housekeeper—so we have put in double brandy. It will probably go to your head, but never mind; you can sleep it off.’ Philomela hands me my tumbler, and the Batiushka, with a low bow, presents Delecta with hers while he says, ‘ Let the poor sleepy thing off any more cooking for to-day. You both look dead tired.’ else.”175 Triumphant Teas. Delecta, I am thankful to say, has finished the cake-talk for to-day, and with feelings partly sleep and partly heat—and, Philomela says, partly claret- cup—I steal away to bed. Why, oh! why did I get up at 4.15 a.m. ?176 Delectable Dinners. CHAPTER IX. DELECTABLE DINNERS. ELECTA says dinners are far too important to be discussed in the garden, and I must sit properly at a table with my note-book and pencil, and pay a great deal of attention. Mercifully, to-day is not quite so hot, but it is quite hot enough to make one take very little in- terest in roasts, and the first thing Delecta touches upon is failure in roasting. ‘You remember, Lesbia, when I gave you a lecture on rudimentary cooking, that I told you there were various causes of failure in roasting, boiling, stewing, &c. ? I have written them out for you, and here they are.’ CAUSES OP FAILURE IN (A) Boiling-. i. Liquid kept boiling all the time. Result: toughness.Delectable Dinners. 177 2. Meat put into cold or lukewarm water. Result: want of flavour. 3. Cooking for too long or too short a time. Result: dry, tasteless meat, or raw and red inside joint. (B) Roasting. 1. Fierce heat continued all the time. Result: tough, dry, and tasteless joint. 2. Insufficient basting. Result: juices escape and meat is dry and tasteless. 3. Over or under cooking. Result: same as in boiling. (C) Baking. Same faults as in roasting, and same results. In addition: if a dirty, grease-splashed, or ill- ventilated oven be used, meat will have greasy, unpleasant flavour. (D) Grilling. 1. Griller not greased. Result: meat will stick to bars. 2. Smoky, black fire. Result: meat black and untempting, with smoky flavour. 3. Cooked too long on one side. Result: juices escape and meat becomes dry. (E) Stewing. 1. Cooked at too high a temperature. Result : meat tough and unpalatable. w 4> A. C.178 Delectable Dinners. 2. Cooking done hurriedly (i.e. insufficient time allowed). Result: toughness and consequent lack of flavour. 3. Attention not paid to browning of flour, meat, vegetables. Result: gravy pale and sickly and wanting in flavour. (F) Frying. 1. Insufficient coating of food. Result: greasi- ness and loss of flavour. 2. Fat not hot enough. Result: food greasy, sodden, and bad colour. 3. Fat too hot. Result: food charred on out- side and frequently uncooked inside. (G) Steaming. 1. Water not kept boiling. Result: food in- sufficiently cooked. 2. Pan boiling dry. Result: pan spoiled and food and basin burned. 3. Puddings, &c., uncovered with greased paper. Result: top of pudding wet and heavier than it should be. <=§<=> ‘ It all sounds terribly dull and stuffy, Delecta dear; but I will try to remember all your directions. But please do go on now to nice, interesting, pretty dishes, and talk about good dinners.’179 Delectable Dinners. I feel it is an appropriate moment to fling in a little flattery, so add with great conviction, ‘You know everything about good dinners, don’t you?’ Delecta seems pleased, and in return, to please me, she asks me if I know Thackeray’s lines about roast mutton. Of course I do, and am only too ready to repeat them : ‘A plain leg of mutton, my Lucy, I prithee get ready at three; Have it tender, and smoking, and juicy— And what better meat can there be ? ’ ‘Thank you, Lesbia. A leg of mutton is very good if it’s well cooked; but I don’t think I should care to dine at three o’clock.’ ‘Not to meet Thackeray! Why, Delecta, I’d dine at three, or four, or five, or go without my dinner for a week, to have the joy of talking to Thackeray—I mean listening to him ‘ Are you sure you would listen, Lesbia ? ’ ‘Yes, I would to Thackeray. Oh, I quite under- stand what you mean; but it isn’t every one who is worth listening to, is it ? ’ ‘Well, Lesbia, I cannot discuss talkers and listeners now. The thing is dinner.’ talk ! ’180 Delectable Dinners. ‘If only you were really witty, Delecta, you would have said, “ Let us return to our muttons.” ’ ‘ Perhaps. The main fact is that we must return, not to mutton, but to dinners in general. My advice to you is never to attempt too much. Have little, and have it good. ‘ Cold sweets and cold savouries you can make yourself either quite early in the morning or the day before. You can even have cold entrees if it is warm weather, and surely even a very inferior cook can manage fish and the meat or game. ‘You know now how to make a good clear soup, and I really think you ought to be able to give a very successful little dinner. Ten people is a nice little party; and do have people who know and like each other or who wish to meet. Uncongenial society will freeze the dinner long before you come to the ice. It is no use my telling you of very grand dinners. When the Batiushka has made his fortune you can keep a chef and a whole band of kitchen- maids. I want to tell you simple, easy things that you can make yourself or teach your cook. ‘Suppose by any chance a dish appears a com- plete failure. Take 710 notice; don’t frown and look miserable, and send whispered, surreptitious messages of wrath by the parlour-maid. Suppose a dish is hopeless—so bad that you can’t expect181 Delectable Dinners. your guests to eat it. Make a joke of it; and whatever you do, don’t relapse into almost tearful silence. The Batiushka—luckily for you—is an amiable being, and he probably would not be annoyed even if your dinner was not perfection. Don’t make faces at him across the flowers indicative of remorse and contrition and despair. Just leave it. ‘Of course, I see no reason why your dinner should not be quite a success; only, if it is not, don’t worry. You can always see that the same mistakes do not occur again. I know you have everything waited from the side-table, and you are wise to have your ordinary every-night dinner waited in precisely the same way as if you had a party. If you don’t, the maids are in a muddle and everything goes wrong. ‘If you have a large dinner-party—with your income it would be quite ridiculous ’—(‘ Thank you, Delecta; you needn’t rub it in,’ I interpolate)—‘I fancy you must have professional aid; but have waiting-maids, not waiters. Some people imagine the hired waiter looks like the fine old crusted family butler. Well, he does not, and that’s the truth. I don’t wish you ever to have in a cook; but if circumstances compel you to do so, let her make the dinner simple. Do not let it be too182 Delectable Dinners. obvious that she brought the cold dishes in a cab, and that all the various trimmings are professional to the verge of the Carlton. ‘ I have given you a recipe for a good clear soup; and if you clear it very light, you can colour it with beetroot-juice till it is a beautiful shade. You can also make a clear green spinach soup. If you hand with these soups a little whipped savoury cream, I do not think you require a better or prettier soup even if you have a very large party. * I need not impress upon you how important it is to have everything absolutely fresh. Fish can be stale without being in the least high, but stale fish is not pleasant. In summer-time you can keep things wonderfully cool and sweet by covering them with damped butter muslin. The butter muslin costs a few pence, and with a few pence expended on ice, and a small inexpensive ice-chest, you can have all your milk, butter, and other food wonderfully fresh and nice. I have told you before that you really do not require an ice-machine, as a pail, an ice-mould, and plenty of salt and ice answer perfectly well; but if you can afford to buy a really good ice-cave from Mrs Marshall’s School of Cookery, it will well repay the expenditure. ‘ Use some intelligence in your arranging of183 Delectable Dinners. dinners, and keep your eyes open when you are dining out. Try new things; food becomes very monotonous if it is always the same. Salads and various vegetable dishes ought to form part of your menu, for vegetarianism is a very fashionable complaint, or cure (whichever you like), nowadays. An orange and cress salad eats delici- ously with pheasant, and well with roast chicken, though its proper mate is of course wild-duck. Stewed fruit with meat is a German fashion, but a very pleasant one. Nothing is nicer with a roast fowl than candied fruits in a syrup of sugar and mustard. Stewed glace cherries—not crystallised ones—are very nice with mutton cutlets; so also is a purde of chestnuts. Try to have variety, and remember whatever is worth doing is worth doing well.’ Here Delecta ended her homily, and I meekly sat and wrote down recipes at her dictation. CHESTNUT SOUP. ^UT the tops off i lb. of chestnuts, slit them across, put into boiling water, and boil for ten minutes. Blanch them, taking off outer and inner husks. Put i oz. of butter in a pan; allow it to melt. Add the chestnuts, and simmer them for five minutes, but do not brown. Now addDelectable Dinners. 184 ij pints of white stock; boil for ten minutes. Rub through a fine wire sieve, return to the pan, and add half a pint of cream. Season with pepper, salt, and sugar, and serve. ALMOND SOUP. ^HOP into small pieces a neck of veal and the scrag end of a neck of mutton; put them into a large pan with five quarts of water, a cut turnip, and a blade or two of mace. Set on the fire and allow to boil gently till the whole is reduced to two quarts. Now strain through a hair sieve into a clean pot, and put in 6 oz. of blanched and beaten almonds and half a pint of thick cream, and season to taste with cayenne pepper. Place three small French rolls, with blanched Jordan almonds stuck in them, in the bottom of the tureen, and pour the almond soup over them. HARE SOUP. /'"'UT the flesh from a hare and pound it with £ oz. of butter to every \ lb. of meat. Chop up the hare carcass, and put the pieces into a stew- pan with i£ oz. of butter, i carrot, i turnip, i leek, 3 onions, i strip of celery, a few peppercorns, 3 mushrooms, and a bunch of herbs. Fry for185 Delectable Dinners. about twenty minutes, then mix in 3 oz. of corn- flour and 4 quarts of good brown stock (from game bones if possible). Let all boil up. Skim, and simmer gently for a couple of hours; rub through a fine sieve; add the pounded meat and, just before serving, one glass of port wine. ^AKE 6 leeks, 1 oz. bread, and 2 oz. turnips. Slice all small and fry in 2 oz. of butter for two hours, taking care to prevent burning. Add one quart of white stock, boil for one hour, put through the tammy-cloth, season to taste, and just before serving, add two table-spoonfuls of thick cream and the yolk of one egg. Hand stewed stoned prunes with this soup. £*UT two lettuces into shreds and put into a sauce- pan with one table-spoonful of butter. Cook till soft. Do not let it brown. Slice down one cucumber very small, and add to the lettuce with one breakfast-cupful young peas. Pour over suffi- cient white stock for ten persons, add seasoning, and let it simmer for three-quarters of an hour. PUREE OP LEEKS. CREME D’EtE soup. X A. C.186 Delectable Dinners. Just before you serve, put in the tureen the yolks of two eggs well beaten, mixed with half a tea-cupful of whipped cream. T'AKE three pints of good, clear, brown stock, and throw in a handful of freshly gathered, shredded, green tarragon-leaves. Serve very hot. pUT two quarts white stock into a stewpan. When nearly boiling add four table-spoonfuls ground rice, stir well, and boil for ten minutes. Add one tea-spoonful sugar and a pinch of salt (no pepper). When sufficiently boiled, add \ pint of boiling cream, and strain before serving. J7LAKE some cold boiled salmon from the bones and skin; pound in a mortar with two or three boned and washed anchovies, a lump of butter, a dash of cayenne, and a little veloutd sauce. Pass the mixture through a sieve, and add enough whipped cream to make the mixture soft and light. Coat some small moulds with aspic jelly. When set, fill them with the cream, cover with aspic, and CONSOMME k L’ESTRAGON. CONSOMME AU RIZ. CREAM OP SALMON. 4187 Delectable Dinners. leave them till firm. When turned out, dish them round a finely cut cucumber salad. HAKE WITH BECHAMEL SAUCE. pUT into your fish-kettle sufficient equal quantities of water and milk to cover your fish, which you put in when the liquid boils. Then make your be'chamel as follows: Melt i oz. of butter in a small pan, or more if your fish requires it. Throw in one dessert-spoonful of flour (do not allow the flour to brown), a little salt and pepper, and a very small piece of mace. Pour in by degrees, stirring all the time, | pint of hot milk and a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley. Let the sauce boil very gently for three minutes; then put in your fish cut up into small pieces, cover up, and allow to simmer for a quarter of an hour. When you dish, be careful to remove the bit of mace. Cold boiled fish from the previous day will do for this. SOLE A. LA SEARLE. LINE a plain mould with aspic jelly. Stew one filleted sole in stock or milk. When cold, cut into small pieces. Add a few oysters, anchovies, shrimps, tomatoes, and pieces of lobster. Stir all together into mayonnaise sauce, into which liquid aspic has been beaten sufficient to make it firm.188 Delectable Dinners. Pour all this mixture into the lined mould. Set on ice, or in a cold place, till firm. Turn out and garnish with lettuce. BOILED COD k LA MARGOT. y^jLLOW two table-spoonfuls salt and one table- spoonful lemon-juice to every gallon of water. Put these into your fish-kettle with the water re- quired, one turnip, one carrot, one head of celery, and one onion stuck with three cloves. Let the water come to the boil, and when it has boiled three minutes, carefully put in your fish either on the strainer or in a cloth. Boil for a few minutes, then place the kettle at a cooler part of the stove. You can tell when the fish is sufficiently cooked by its creamy appearance. Dish ready to serve with the following sauce. A delicious sauce for fish or even cold meat is made from horse-radish sauce to which has been added finely chopped celery. In making the sauce put in the mustard very carefully a few drops at a time, and have plenty of well-whipped cream. SOLE AU GRATIN. TF possible, cook your sole in a pretty fireproof dish that can go to the table. Mix up together in a basin very fine bread-crumbs, chopped parsley, aDelectable Dinners. 189 small shalot or two spring onions, a few mushrooms, and a piece of fat of bacon the size of a walnut, all chopped very, very fine. Add white pepper and salt. Now put little patches of butter on your fireproof dish, spread the seasoning mixture, and lay your sole—a large, thick one—on the mixture, and cover it with the same. Pour over all one glass of white French wine—Sauterne, Grave, or Chablis —with one glass of good white stock. Finish up with a slight layer of raspings of bacon fat and a few drops of butter. Put the whole into a quick oven. It takes about a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes to cook, but of course you must be careful that your oven is not too fierce. CHICKEN IN ASPIC. |^INE some small dariole-moulds with liquid aspic; garnish the outsides with strips of cooked chicken, tomato, and chopped truffle. Whip half a pint of cream and stir into it one tea-cupful of finely chopped chicken, chopped truffle, and a little chopped tarragon. (If you cannot procure fresh tarragon-leaves, a few drops of tarragon vine- gar will do.) Season with pepper and salt. Add to this mixture a quarter of a pint of liquid aspic. Keep in a cool place till the shapes have begun to set, and then fill them with the chicken mixture.190 Delectable Dinners. When quite stiff, turn out and garnish round the dish with a lettuce tossed in mayonnaise sauce. RUSSIAN SALAD. ^UT into small dice-shaped bits 2 oz. of cold tongue, 2 oz. of cold cooked chicken, and 1 oz. of cold ham. Place in your salad - dish first the chicken, then three boned sardines, then the tongue, then six boned sardines, then more chicken, m and lastly the ham. Garnish round the dish with lettuce-leaves and cover with sauce tartare. RUSSIAN SALAD ANOTHER WAY. ^HE following Russian salad is much more elaborate, but makes a very delicious entree. Cut some fillets of partridge or pheasant into small pieces, with anchovies cut into thin strips. Then into dice cut cold turnips, carrots, and asparagus; add peas and French beans, and little rounds of beetroots, stoned olives, and a few capers. Arrange all this in a dish, the vegetables in the centre and the chopped-up game round; and pour over all the following dressing: oil, vinegar (three times as much oil as vinegar), a few drops of tar- ragon vinegar, pepper, made mustard, and a very little chopped-up shalot. Mix in such a way that191 Delectable Dinners. nothing predominates. The glass bottles of cut-up, mixed vegetables—macedoine of vegetables—are excellent for the above dish, and can be used in the winter, when it is difficult to get the fresh young vegetables. SWEETBREADS EN SURPRISE. ^AKE one pair of ox sweetbreads, blanch them, remove the fat, pick them into small pieces, and stew gently in stock till quite tender. Drain them thoroughly and place them in a basin. Take the white meat from a cold boiled or roasted fowl, and after cutting it into very small pieces, add it to the sweetbreads, with one small bottle of finely chopped truffles, \ pint of chopped aspic jelly, | of a pint of whipped cream, and a little pepper and salt. Stir all very gently together, and lightly fill small paper cases with the mixture; or if pre- ferred, heap the mixture in a dish surrounded by chopped-up aspic jelly, colours green and yellow. ICED LOBSTER-CREAMS. pOUND the meat of a lobster, and moisten with cream. When quite smooth, add stiffly whipped cream—as much as you require—and a little whipped-up aspic jelly. Carefully fill small192 Delectable Dinners. paper cases, or white china cases, piling the mixture higher in the centre, and decorate with lobster- coral and finely grated parsley. Place the cases on ice. The aspic jelly can be omitted if you like, and then the entree is very simply made; but if no aspic jelly is used, season with pepper and salt. TOMATOES FILLED WITH CREAM. ^HOOSE very firm, medium-sized tomatoes, the number you require, and see that they are not in the least bruised. Cut the tops off and carefully scoop out the pulp. Mix the pulp smoothly with whipped cream and pepper and salt. Fill the tomato-skins with the mixture, being careful not to let it spill on the edges or sides of the tomatoes. Place a stoned olive in the centre of each. If you wish to ice them, place them in a flat tin and stand them on ice and salt as long as required. These are quite nice without being iced, and very easily and quickly made. SWEETBREADS ‘ DELMONICO.’ B0IL i lb. of sweetbreads and pick into small pieces. Take one can of small French mush- rooms and boil by themselves for two hours. Put in a saucepan one heaping table-spoonful ofDelectable Dinners. 193 butter and one heaped table-spoonful of flour. Now stir in over the fire one pint of thick cream. Mix the mushrooms with the sweetbreads, place in the cream, and flavour with pepper and salt. Serve in a silver dish, heaped up, or if preferred, in a ring of French pastry. Chicken also does for this. £*UT up the meat of a hare and wash the pieces in vinegar. Then cook them in stock, butter, a few bits of ham, chopped onion, and a little salt. Half-fill a wine-glass with sugar, and add vinegar till the glass is three-quarters full. Mix the sugar and vinegar well together, and when the hare is browned and nearly cooked, pour the vine- gar and sugar over it. Add one dessert-spoonful of grated chocolate, a few shredded almonds, and a few stoned raisins. Mix all well together, and cook for a few minutes more. LITTLE CREAMS OP SWEETBREADS. T'AKE one or two calves’ sweetbreads and place them in cold water with a little salt, and bring to the boil; then rinse them in cold water, and simmer gently for one hour in some good flavoured veal stock. Now put them to press till quite cold. A. c. Y ROMAN HARE. J° 4>194 Delectable Dinners. Remove any skin or fat, and weigh half a pound of the meat. To this add by degrees 6 oz. of fine bread-crumbs pounded. Add two large table- spoonfuls of thick bechamel sauce, i oz. of butter, one glass of sherry, two table-spoonfuls of thick cream, and a little salt and white pepper. Add three large, whole, raw eggs, and pound all to- gether and rub through a sieve. Place the puree in a forcing-bag with a large plain pipe, and force it out into little bombe or timbale moulds that have previously been buttered and sprinkled with chopped truffles and tongue. Put the moulds into a stewpan, stand them on a fold of paper, and surround them to about three- parts their depth with boiling water. Watch until the water reboils, draw the pan aside, and poach the creams for fifteen or twenty minutes. When cooked, turn out the creams into a hot entree-dish, and serve with this sauce: Put into a stewpan the gravy from the cooking of the sweetbreads, first freeing it from the fat. Make it up to i£ pints with a little more light stock, i oz. of Lemco, a quarter of a pint of mushroom gravy, and two chopped shalots. Mix together with the whites of two or three raw eggs, and boil for about ten minutes till clear. Then strain it through a soup- cloth, and mix one pint of it with i oz. of the bestDelectable Dinners. 195 arrowroot that has been mixed with a wine-glassful of sherry. Reboil, and add to it some finely chopped truffles and three or four drops of car- mine. This entree will well repay the time and trouble spent upon it. PIGEON CUTLETS WITH CHERRIES. £)IVIDE your pigeons into four parts and stew gently till tender. Thicken the sauce with a little flour, and add one glass of port wine and a little browning, salt, and pepper. Heat some glace cherries in claret, and well drain them. Place in the centre of the dish the piled-up cherries, round them a ring of mashed potatoes, and on the pota- toes place the pigeon cutlets, pouring the sauce over them. Hare cutlets can be done in the same way, only instead of stewing, fry the hare in butter, and make the sauce rather richer. ICED CRAB, CHICKEN, OR VEAL CREAMS. QUT up your crab meat, cold chicken, or veal as fine as possible. Stir into it the quantity of whipped cream you require, with pepper and salt to taste. Then add two whites of eggs beaten to stiff froth, thoroughly mix, and fill little paper cases. PlaceDelectable Dinners. 196 on ice for one hour. Decorate with finely chopped truffles and a little chopped-up coloured aspic. CUTLETS ALIMABIMEAS. ]V[INCE and pound together J lb. of cold chicken, a few mushrooms, a little salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and the white of an egg. Take six neatly cut mutton cutlets, dip in egg, and place the mince on either side. Then dip in egg, then in bread-crumbs, and fry in smoking lard to a nice brown. Garnish with fried parsley and mushrooms. MUTTON CUTLETS k LA SOUBISE. ^RIM your cutlets very carefully. Take an earthenware fireproof dish. Melt in it \ oz. of butter. Now put in your cutlets, sprinkle them with salt and pepper, and cover them with buttered paper. Put your dish in the oven. Now peel i lb. of ordinary onions and cut up small, put them in a saucepan with i oz. of butter, and shake the sauce- pan occasionally, keeping the lid on. When quite done, add some salt, a little white pepper, one dessert- spoonful of flour, and pour in, stirring carefully, l pint of hot cream, with a piece of sugar. Simmer for four minutes and pass through a sieve, and197 Delectable Dinners. return to the saucepan to keep very hot. Dish your cutlets and pour soubise sauce round them. FILLETS OF BEEF WITH MUSHROOMS. rp\KE 2 lb. of fillet of beef and stamp out in rounds of an inch thick and three inches in diameter. Cook them in front of a clear, hot fire on a gridiron, a piece of fat under and a piece of fat above each little fillet to keep it juicy. Place them on rounds of tomato slightly fried, and on the top of each fillet one large fried mushroom, and in the centre of the mushroom a ball of green butter. Place them in a dish in the centre of which is a puree of spinach; that is, spinach done in the follow- ing way: Boil your spinach very carefully and press till perfectly dry, rub through a sieve, and whip up with plenty of whipped cream. DEVILLED DUCK. ^AICE i lb. of onions, one piece of green ginger, and six chillies; reduce them to pulp; then add two tea-spoonfuls of mustard, pepper, salt, cayenne, and chutney, two table - spoonfuls of ketchup, and half a bottle of claret. Cut up a roast duck and put it into the sauce, and let it simmer for a long time.Delectable Dinners. 198 FRENCH BEEF OLIVES WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 'JpAKE some slices of fresh beef very thin and about four inches square; flatten them with a rolling-pin. Chop up any scraps of fowl or game, some bacon (fat and lean), a scrap or two of veal, a little sweetbread, one sausage, three mushrooms, one very small onion, some parsley, a tiny bit of nutmeg, and a little pepper and salt. Bind all this together with the yolk of an egg and a little cream. Spread this mixture on your slices of beef, and tie them round with a coarse white kitchen thread; then stew them in some nice tomato sauce, simmering gently for one hour and a half—see that it does not boil—and when you dish them, remember to pour the gravy over them. FILLETS OF HARE WITH CHERRIES. RIGHTLY stew some neatly cut fillets of hare; then place in the stewpan some brown sauce (sufficient to cover the fillets) and a large handful of glac6 cherries. Stew all gently till done. Dish on thick crofitons of bread fried, with little heaps of the cherries in between cn couronne; add the sauce over and round them. 4>Delectable Dinners. 199 CREAM OP RABBIT. MAKE a forcemeat of rabbit with two yolks of eggs and a pint of cream, and pass all through a hair sieve. Add the whites of three eggs whipped up; if required, whipped cream; but see that it is all very light and fluffy. Put into either small dariole-moulds or one round mould, and steam till cooked. Decorate with mushrooms and chopped truffles. KIDNEYS WITH WINE SAUCE AND FRENCH BEANS. rT'AKE six (sheep) kidneys, cut them in small pieces, and place in a saucepan with i oz. of butter. Put on the fire till the kidneys are slightly browned, add sufficient water to cover them, and simmer for half-an-hour. Thicken with one tea-spoonful of flour ; then boil till cooked ; and just before serving, pour into the sauce one glass of sherry. Dish sur- rounded with French beans cooked in the usual way. '"FAKE the best end of a neck of lamb. Cut it and trim it into small, neat cutlets. Season with pepper and salt, place them in a stewpan, and lightly fry them. Put them to press between two LAMB CUTLETS IN ASPIC.<^o 9 200 Delectable Dinners. plates; and when cold, mask them over quickly with white sauce into which two table-spoonfuls of aspic and one table-spoonful of mint sauce have been mixed. Garnish each one with the hard-boiled white of egg cut into little star shapes. These cutlets can be dished up in the form of a crown, with chopped aspic round; or they can be served up with chopped truffles, and in the centre small pieces of cucumber in green-coloured mayonnaise sauce. ROMAN SAUCE. MIX two spoonfuls of burnt sugar with one spoon- ful of vinegar, and dilute with a little good stock. Now add two cups of Espagnole sauce, a few stoned raisins, and a few pine-nuts or shredded almonds. Keep this sauce hot in a bain-marie, and serve with cutlets. ESPAGNOLE SAUCE. ID UTTER the bottom of a stewpan with at least 2 oz. of butter, and into it put slices of lean veal, ham, bacon, cuttings of beef, fowl or game trimmings, three peppercorns, mushroom-trimmings, one tomato, one carrot, one onion stuck with two cloves, one bay-leaf, one turnip cut up, one sprig of thyme, parsley, and marjoram. Put the lid on theDelectable Dinners 201 stewpan and braise well for fifteen minutes; then stir in one table-spoonful of flour and pour in \ pint of good boiling stock, and boil very gently for fif- teen minutes. Strain through a tammy, skim off all grease, pour the sauce into an earthenware vessel, and allow to get cold. Pass again through the sieve before using. £JUT up i oz. of ham and pound it in a mortar; then mix it with three dessert-spoonfuls of Aus- tralian muscat, one tea-spoonful of vinegar, a little dried basil, and a pinch of spice. Boil it up, and then pass through a sieve and warm it up in a bain-marie. This sauce is served with roast meats. AGRO-DOLCE (SWEET-SHARP) SAUCE. piLL half a wine-glass with sifted sugar and pour over it two-thirds of a glass of vinegar. Place in a small stewpan i lb. of pine-kernels, i lb. of currants, and half a cupful of ground chocolate; add the vinegar and sugar, and place it on the fire till it boils. QNE table-spoonful of cream, one table-spoonful of vinegar, one tea-spoonful of mustard, one tea- spoonful of Harvey sauce, a little cayenne pepper HAM SAUCE. GRILL SAUCE. A. C. z 4>202 Delectable Dinners. and salt. Warm in a saucepan, and pour over the grilled steak or chop. half a pint of good stock add two sprays of fresh tarragon. Simmer for a quarter of an hour in a stewpan with the lid on. In another stewpan melt i oz. of butter, and mix it with three dessert - spoonfuls of flour; then gradually pour the stock from the first stewpan over it, but remember to take out the tarragon-sprays. Mix well, add a tea-spoonful of finely chopped tarragon, and boil for two minutes. jpUT in a saucepan i oz. of butter, one onion cut in slices, a bunch of parsley, and some mush- rooms. Put on the fire, and shake the pan all the time to prevent the sauce from becoming dis- coloured. Pour in by degrees £ pint of hot milk; stir gently all the time. Add salt, pepper, and a little bit of mace. When it all simmers, cover up, and let it cook gently for half-an-hour; then pass the whole through a sieve. Then in the same pan make some white ‘ roux/ a mixture of butter and flour, and use instead of milk the stock that has TARRAGON SAUCE. BECHAMEL SAUCE. d°Delectable Dinners. 203 just gone through the sieve, and let the whole boil together. MIX well together i oz. grated horse-radish, one dessert-spoonful of made mustard, three dessert-spoonfuls of moist sugar, three dessert- spoonfuls of vinegar, four table-spoonfuls of thick whipped cream, and a little salt and pepper. MIX together eight yolks of eggs, 8 oz. of sugar, and 8 oz. of creamed butter. Add last 8 oz. of fine flour. Grease some small cups, and put at the bottom of each cup half a stewed apricot and pour the mixture on the top. Bake half-an-hour in a moderate oven, turn out, pour the juice of the fruit over all, and cover with a meringue of the whites of the eggs. ^AKE one pint of good custard, one pint of whipped cream, the whites of three eggs stiffly whipped, the juice of four oranges, one glass of maraschino, and one table-spoonful of sifted sugar. Mix all these ingredients together, and add, finely HORSE-RADISH SAUCE. ADELAIDE PUDDING. ICE PUDDING,Delectable Dinners. 204 chopped, some dried fruits—oranges, greengages, apricots, and cherries. Fill your ice-mould and put into ice. ‘ It has been rather the fashion during the last few years to serve a hot chocolate sauce with the above ice, or with vanilla ice. This is the recipe.’ HOT CHOCOLATE SAUCE. MELT three table-spoonfuls of the best French chocolate, grated down, in a little water over the fire, and add \ pint of custard. Keep hot, but do not allow it to boil. Serve in a sauce- boat. CAP^! PARFAIT. ^AIvE good thick cream sufficient to fill your mould; add to it \ pint of black coffee. Mix thoroughly. Now stand the basin on ice, and beat to a froth for five minutes. Fill your mould, and pack in ice for two hours. You can use any other flavouring you like, calling the parfait by that name. ICED SOUFFLE. T) EAT up together the yolks of five eggs and one table-spoonful of sugar till quite frothy. Beat the five whites separately. Whip the cream required.Delectable Dinners. 205 Three shilling pots of cream will make a large souffle. Rub through a sieve your strawberries, apricots, or peaches, and mix your fruit puree with the cream and the eggs. Sugar to taste. Fill your souffle-dish, put it into a covered pan, and bury in ice and salt for five hours. This is sufficient for twelve or fourteen people. 'J’OAST three slices of white bread in the oven till brown. Put one of them in a saucepan with J lb. of loaf-sugar, \ pint of milk, two penny sponge- cakes, and one pint of cream. Boil, and strain through a sieve. Let it stand till cold. Now add other two slices of bread, pounded and sifted, and one glass of maraschino; fill your mould, and freeze. ^EPARATE the yolks and whites of three eggs, and put the yolks in a basin with 3 oz. castor sugar. Place the basin in a saucepan of hot water and whisk the eggs into ropes. Melt | oz. leaf- gelatine in a little water, and melt i| oz. chocolate in a little milk. Pound 2 oz. French almond rock in a mortar. Stiffly whip £ pint thick cream, and also whisk the three whites of eggs. Now add all the mixture together, whisking lightly. Tie a band BROWN BREAD ICE CREAM. TOSCA SOUFFLES.206 Delectable Dinners. of paper round each little souffle-case, coming half an inch higher than the case. Fill them with the mixture and set aside to cool. Decorate with crystallised violets or rose-leaves. Very carefully remove the paper bands. If it is thought desirable, these souffles can be stood on ice. They can be made with a flavouring and colouring of coffee, or flavoured with maraschino instead of using chocolate. j^yJAKE some light sponge-cake and press into cutlet shapes with a cutter. Cake with chocolate icing, and arrange round a cone of whipped cream flavoured with vanilla. ‘Meringues can be used in all kinds of ways, and always make a pretty sweet. They are somewhat troublesome to make, and if you cannot turn them out successfully, buy the meringue-cases at a good confectioner’s. They can be filled with cream, either iced or not, and can be made in the follow- ing manner.’ J^EAT the whites of five eggs to a very stiff froth; lightly and quickly stir in io oz. castor sugar. Force through a forcing-bag on to strips of paper, CHOCOLATE CUTLETS. <=§<=» MERINGUES.Delectable Dinners. 207 sift sugar over them, place on a meringue-board, and dry in a cool oven. Now remove the meringues from the papers, and press the soft inner part to the side of the meringue, thus forming a shell. Place on clean paper, and leave in a warm place till thoroughly dry. ‘All compotes of fruit, creams and jellies, and iced sweets are nicer for dinner-parties than pud- dings, but I will give you the recipe of one hot pudding that is generally much liked.’ <C^IFT into a basin 2 oz. of flour, form a hollow in the centre, and add \ oz. German yeast diluted with warm milk. Make a light dough, knead it well, and let it rise in a rather warm place. Put in a larger basin 6 oz. flour, 2 oz. sugar, two table- spoonfuls milk, 3 oz. butter, and four eggs. Knead with the hands for ten minutes, lifting the mixture with every movement. Add the dough and work five minutes longer. Add \ pint cream, two wine-glass- fuls of rum, and £ lb. dried cherries. Cover the basin with a warm cloth, and let the mixture rise in a warm place for three hours. Butter a baba-mould —that is, a mould hollow in the centre—drop in a BABA AU RHUM.208 Delectable Dinners. few cherries, fill the mould three-parts full, and let it rise until quite full. Bake in a quick oven, turn it out of the mould, and throw over it £ pint of rum. EGGS A LA REINE. B0IL six eggs till hard. Take out the yolks and mash them till like flour, and mix with i oz. of butter and i oz. of grated cheese. Cut the whites lengthwise to look like little boats, and fill them with the mixture. Put some ordinary white cream sauce into the bottom of a fireproof dish, place the eggs in it, and bake five minutes (till brown) in the oven. The above is sufficient for twelve people. CAULIFLOWER AU GRATIN. REMOVE the green leaves and underboil your cauliflower. Pour over it some butter sauce in which has been mixed 2 oz. of grated cheese, half Gruyhre and half Parmesan. Powder with bread-crumbs and more grated cheese, and lastly over it pour one tea-spoonful of oiled butter. Place in the oven in a fireproof dish, and see that the oven is very hot. Bake till the surface is a golden- brown, which it should be in from ten to fifteen minutes, and serve in the same dish that it was baked in.209 Delectable Dinners. HAM SAVOURY. pOUND 2 oz. of lean, cooked ham, and put into a saucepan with two whole eggs, i oz. of butter, one good-sized tomato (skinned), and one table-spoonful of cream. Stir over a hot fire till it thickens, and then pour into little pastry-cases. Serve very hot. If you like, place a small fried mushroom on the top. CHEESE SAVOURY. pUT into a saucepan J pint of milk, with 2 oz. of butter and a pinch of salt. Bring to the boil, add oz. of fine flour, and stand at the cool side of the fire for a quarter of an hour. It must not boil after the flour has been put in. Now add one large whole egg and half a tea-spoonful of mustard. Spread the mixture on a plate to cool. When cool, wrap up in the batter square dice of American or any other kind of cheese. Now flour over the pieces and fry in boiling lard, roll in grated Par- mesan cheese, and serve hot. CHEESE BALLS. ^yjAKE in a basin a well-mixed batter consisting of two table-spoonfuls of flour, two beaten-up eggs, half a tea-spoonful of mustard, a pinch of salt, A. c. 2 ADelectable Dinners. 210 and two table-spoonfuls of grated cheese. Drop in spoonfuls the size of large marbles into boiling lard, and fry a light golden-brown. Serve very hot. HAM TOAST. ^UT thin slices of bread from a stale loaf; take off all crust and divide into pieces inches long and fully an inch wide. Fry in boiling fat. Cover half the number with lean (cooked) ham, sliced as thin as possible; sprinkle over the ham some grated Parmesan cheese, and lay on that the remaining strips of toast. Put them in the oven till thoroughly heated. Serve very hot. AMULET OF ASPARAGUS. J^EAT up six eggs with some cream. Into the egg-and-cream mixture place some cut-up> boiled asparagus; well mix, and add pepper and salt. Place one large table-spoonful of butter in a pan, put in the mixture, and serve up hot on buttered toast. SANDWICHES A L’ANGOULfiME. rT'AKE four fresh herring-roes, one large tomato, and two mushrooms; pound them together in a paste, and saut£ the paste in butter for a few minutes. Then spread on buttered toast.Delectable Dinners, 211 0 MUSHROOMS EN RAGOUT. C LICE some mushrooms; toss them in melted butter seasoned with salt and pepper; add a little minced parsley, moistened with broth, and one table-spoonful of brown sauce. Serve piping hot with a squeeze of lemon. CHEESE RAMEQUINS OR RAMAKINS. B°!L pint of milk with two table-spoonfuls of butter; then add two table-spoonfuls of flour, mixed smooth with the milk. Let this boil. Now add 2 oz. of grated cheese, a pinch of cayenne, and pepper and salt. Take it off the fire and break into it the yolks of four eggs. Add the whites, beaten to a stiff froth, very lightly to the mixture. Put into little souffle or ramakin cases, and bake in a hot oven for fifteen minutes. rJ1AKE six medium-sized tomatoes, place in the oven in a baking-tin with a small piece of butter, and leave till cooked. Put into a saucepan one tea-cupful of milk, two beaten-up eggs, two table-spoonfuls of grated cheese, and stir cease- lessly till it thickens. The careful stirring is TOMATO CHEESE.Delectable Dinners 212 essential or it may spoil. Place the tomatoes in the dish and pour the cheese mixture over them. ‘Two very simple and quickly made savouries are sandwiches of anchovy toast with toasted bacon between; or strips of anchovy toast with chopped- up white of egg and grated yolk of egg dusted over them.’ C^EPARATE the yolks from the whites of three eggs; beat the yolks with J a tea-spoonful of dry mustard, a little salt and pepper, 4 oz. of grated Parmesan cheese, and add \ a pint of whipped cream. Switch the whites of the eggs till very stiff and light, and mix all together carefully and lightly. Freeze in the usual way in a square or oblong mould, and, just before serving, cut into pieces 2 inches long, 1 inch broad, and J inch thick. Arrange the slices overlapping each other on a bed of lettuce or endive. ^UT some neat rounds of thin bread and fresh butter, place a round of beetroot on each, and a heaped-up tea-spoonful of savoury cream, with finely chopped parsley on the top. Remember to cut the rounds very neatly. ICED CHEESE. BEETROOT SAVOURY.Delectable Dinners. 213 ICED PARMESAN CREAMS. JWINE some little dariole-moulds with thin aspic. Arrange some neatly cut truffles in the jelly. When cold, fill with the following mixture : 4 oz. of finely grated Parmesan, a dust of cayenne, salt to taste, and \ pint of very thick cream slightly whipped. Stand the little moulds on ice, and turn out when cold. If only wanted cold, take them away from the ice; but if wished quite iced, place the turned- out shapes in a baking-tin on a sheet of clean white paper, and stand on ice as long as required. TOMATO JELLY. rpAKE 2 lb. of tomatoes, \ a grain of cayenne pepper, and two shalots. Boil in a stewpan till soft. Melt fifteen sheets of the thin French gelatine and pour into the mixture; pass all through a sieve. Then either pour into one circular mould with a hole in the centre for whipped savoury cream, or pour into small moulds, decorating their tops with finely chopped truffles and white of a hard-boiled egg- SIMPLE COLD SAVOURY. ^UT some neat fingers of toast about 3 inches long and 1 inch broad; spread on each some green parsley butter made in the following way:214 Delectable Dinners. Work one dessert-spoonful of fresh butter thoroughly into one or two table-spoonfuls of finely minced parsley, with the juice of half a lemon and a pinch of salt. ^UT some rounds of thin brown bread and fresh butter. On each place a round of hard- boiled egg, one spoonful of shrimp paste mixed with a little whipped cream, and a dust of finely minced parsley. ‘Now, Lesbia, you remember all I told you on the subject of paste. The most important pastry you require for dainty dinners is puff pastry, and you must be very careful with this, for the slightest carelessness or deviation from the recipe and direc- tions will entirely spoil it.’ pASS | lb. best pastry flour and J tea-spoonful of salt through a wire sieve. Make a well in the centre of your flour, and mix to an elastic dough with one well-beaten egg, one tea-spoonful lemon-juice, and £ pint water. Now press in a well-floured cloth £ lb. fresh butter till every ANOTHER SIMPLE SAVOURY. PUFF PASTRY.Delectable Dinners. 215 J3 4> drop of moisture is out of it. Place this on half your pastry, fold over, and roll out thinly. Fold in three, and if the butter is inclined to be soft, do not roll it. If it is not soft, give it two rolls before you put it away in a cool place for fifteen minutes. Repeat this three times, and then the paste is ready to stamp out for patty-cases, tartlets, vol-au-vents, or any dish that requires fine and delicate pastry. This pastry requires a hot oven, and during baking the oven door must be kept carefully shut. Patties and tartlets take about fifteen to twenty-five minutes to bake, vol-au-vents from forty minutes to an hour. The best baking-board for this pastry is a marble slab, as it ought to be kept very cool. ‘I will not give you another recipe, Lesbia, because ordinary pastries are in every cookery- book. I know you have dozens. But I do want you to pay particular attention to puff pastry. If you can make it really good and light, then you are on the fair road to becoming a first-class cook. I said I would give you some vegetarian dishes, and I must also say a word or two about potatoes.’Delectable Dinners. 216 J3 % CURRIED HARICOT BEANS. pUT one pint sauce superbe in a stewpan with juice of half a lemon and two tea-spoonfuls curry powder. Stir over the fire for five minutes; add one fried onion and i lb. cooked beans, cook for fifteen minutes, and serve with cooked rice. Sauce superbe is made as follows : Fry one large carrot, one small turnip, and one small stick of celery in 2 oz. butter till they are a good brown colour. Add pints water, two table-spoonfuls barley, two cloves, twelve peppercorns, one blade of mace, and one tea-spoonful of salt. Boil three-quarters of an hour. Now add one large tomato cut in slices, boil half-an-hour longer, strain, and use. SHREDDED WHEAT AND MUSHROOMS. /^OOK ^ lb. mushrooms in \ pint milk and 2 oz. butter till they are tender. Mix one dessert- spoonful of flour with a little milk till it is of the consistency of cream. Stir this into the mush- rooms ; boil, and season with pepper and salt. Take five shredded wheat biscuits and remove the insides. Make them thoroughly hot on a greased tin in the oven. Strain the mushrooms and fill the biscuits with them, pour the sauce round, and garnish with strips of fried parsley.217 Delectable Dinners. J3 FRICANDELLES. MIX 4 oz. bread-crumbs with 4 oz. chopped mush- rooms ; add ± oz. grated cheese, chopped parsley, basil, lemon-rind, salt, and pepper. Rub in 1 oz. butter, and bind with the yolk of an egg. Form into balls or cutlets, egg and bread-crumb them, and fry. Serve with fried parsley. b°il 4 oz. lentils (black best) and 2 oz. onions till tender in one pint water. Pass through a sieve and return to the pan. Sprinkle in two table- spoonfuls of tapioca. Add 1 oz. tomatoes, 4 oz. vermicelli, one tea-spoonful curry powder, one tea- spoonful sugar, two tea-spoonfuls ‘ Worcester ’ sauce, chopped parsley, basil, and thyme. When this mix- ture is cooked, add pint corn-flour panard, two well-beaten eggs, and 4 oz. bread-crumbs. Well butter a mould and dredge brown bread-crumbs over, put the mixture in, and bake one hour till it is a rich brown. Turn out and serve with sauce. pUT nearly all one pint of milk into a perfectly clean pan, with 3 oz. grated cheese, 1 oz. butter, salt, and cayenne. Mix i£ oz. corn-flour to ROAST BARON. CORN-FLOUR PANARD. A. C. 2 B218 Delectable Dinners. a smooth paste with the rest of the pint of milk, and when the milk in the pan is boiling, pour in the corn-flour, stirring rapidly with a wooden spoon. Stir till the mixture will leave the sides of the pan, and then pour at once into a wetted mould. Let it stand till cold, and then turn out. •^IMMER 3 oz. butter, one tea-spoonful minced onion, and a few leaves of green mint, salt, and pepper for a few minutes. Take care they do not brown. Then add one quart green peas. Shake the pan to prevent them from burning, and in five minutes add \ pint of water, ^ tea-spoonful of sugar, and a tiny pinch of borax. Cover the pan closely, draw to the side of the fire, and simmer slowly for three-quarters of an hour. On no account let the peas boil or the dish will be spoilt. ‘ By the way, Lesbia, didn’t you tell me you had great difficulty in cooking your asparagus ? ’ ‘It wasn’t the cooking, Delecta; it was the scraping. I kept cutting off the heads. Tell me how to do it.’ RAGOUT OP PEAS. 4>Delectable Dinners. 219 TO COOK ASPARAGUS. WASH, scrape, and trim your asparagus slowly, and carefully tie in small bundles and stand upright in a saucepan of boiling salted water for twenty to forty minutes. By keeping the bunches upright you cook the heads by the steam, which is a better plan than laying the bunches right down in the water. * Do you ever have boiled cucumbers, Lesbia ? ’ BOILED CUCUMBERS. pEEL the cucumbers and cut into convenient pieces. Put into boiling water and cook until tender. Serve with white sauce. ‘They are really very nice, and are a change. New potatoes you do very nicely, and I am glad you remember the mint. The following French way of cooking potatoes is delicious. You might try it.’ POTATOES k LA MAtTRE D’h6tEL. rpAKE I lb. small, very good potatoes (not mealy) and steam or boil them in their skins. Peel them, and cut them into slices twice as thick as a220 Delectable Dinners. penny. Now take 2 oz. butter mixed with very finely chopped parsley, and put it into a stewpan. When it is melted, add your potatoes, with a little salt and pepper and one tea-spoonful of lemon-juice. Cover the stewpan and place it over a gentle fire, giving it an occasional shake to keep the potatoes from sticking. Move the top potatoes to the bottom now and then. Cook for fifteen minutes, and dish. PRIED POTATOES IN SPIRALS. pEEL your potatoes like an apple, only thicker, and try not to break the peelings too often. Put them in a wire basket and dip them into a saucepan (not too deep) of boiling clarified suet. Two or three minutes will cook them. The wire basket is a great improvement upon frying potatoes in the old way. The spirals are very dainty, and only require care in the cutting. ‘ You must try the spiral potatoes, Lesbia; only, remember to cut them properly.’ ‘Thank you, Delecta dear. Just look what a big, fat book I have written! I only hope I shall remember all your instructions.’Delectable Dinners. Alas! it seems impossible that I can remember everything. Delecta is kindly hopeful; she tells me that I can always try, try, try again if my first attempts do not succeed.222 Superb Suppers. CHAPTER X. SUPERB SUPPERS. LAS! the days are passing quickly—quickly. Soon must Delecta, with her cooking lectures and her note-books, leave us. Soon must we too leave dear Vine Cottage, say farewell not only to Harriet and amateur cookery, but, what is far sadder, say good-bye to the stretches of purple heather, the rose-trees in the garden, and the bracken-covered dells that wind downwards to the sea. Delecta says she has kept the most superior lecture to the last; one that will interest even Philomela. She has told Philomela all about it, for this morning Philly greeted me with the words from L'Avare, ‘ “ Je me suis engage, Maitre Jacques, h. donner ce soir un souper.” Now, Lesbia, you as Maitre Jacques must exclaim, “Grande merveille! ” Don’t look so petrified, Lesbia; it’s only Delecta’s223 Superb Suppers. and my way of telling you that we are going to discuss the cooking of suppers.’ Here Batiushka broke in, ‘Fancy, talking of suppers at breakfast. So incongruous.’ I quite agreed with him, and even Delecta said, ‘We will put off supper-sayings till later on.’ Philomela was quite excited; though, as she said with much truth, ‘Suppers aren’t much in Lesbia’s line, for we don’t give dances.’ ‘It is as well to know what to give, though,’ answered Delecta, ‘ and be prepared to cook it yourself if necessary.’ Philomela brought the note-books and pencils, and here we are seated at the table—like the oysters, ‘all eager for the treat.’ At least we are eager to hear how we can cook dishes that would be treats. Delecta opens her book and begins. ‘ Of course, it goes without saying that if you can afford it, you are very much better to order your dance-supper at a good caterer’s, who will do the whole thing for you. For a really large, smart dance or “At Home” this is absolutely necessary. But you can give a pleasant little dance without very much expense, or a little musical evening- party with a light supper that can be easily prepared at home. It is a very great pity’—here224 Superb Suppers. Delecta looks severe—‘that it has become the fashion to give entertainments of such an elabo- rate and expensive kind. I cannot see why a few young people should not meet together, dance, and enjoy themselves with no other refreshments but iced coffee and claret-cup, good sandwiches, and a few pretty sweets. Philomela quoted Monsieur Harpagon, and we know he did not think it necessary “to live to eat.” Well, young things should come to a dance to dance, and not to stuff themselves like the fat boy in Pickwick. We all eat too much.’ ‘Speak for yourself,’ interrupts Philly the irre- pressible. Delecta takes absolutely no notice, but repeats, ‘We all eat too much. However, as you do not want people to say they are starved, you must have some good dishes, and enough to go round. The main foundation of all the daintiest and prettiest of supper-dishes of the meat and savoury kind is aspic jelly. Once you can make this really well, you can have a variety of delightful dishes. There are several ways of making aspic jelly, either with gelatine—the simplest, quickest way—or from knuckle of veal or cow-heel. I will give you two recipes, but I think you will find the first the easier to manage.’Superb Suppers. 225 ASPIC JELLY NO. I. JpUT into a pan 2J oz. leaf-gelatine, 1 carrot cut in pieces, 1 onion, 1 clove of garlic, £ pint lemon-juice, ij pints water, 1 tea-spoonful salt, | pint mixed vinegars, 1 small turnip, 1 blade mace, 10 peppercorns, 2 or 3 cloves, stick of celery, bunch of herbs, rind of 2 lemons, 2 large whites and the shells of 2 eggs. Whisk over the fire until it boils well, then add £ pint of sherry. Place the lid of the pan half on and let it stand for ten minutes. Now strain through a clean jelly-cloth, and when cold it is ready for use. This jelly can be divided, and one half coloured green, the other red if required. Mrs Marshall’s leaf-gelatine is the best to use, and also her colourings. J^REAK into small pieces 3 lb. shin of beef, 4 lb. knuckle of veal, and 4 calves’ feet. Thoroughly wash them, and put into a stewpan with 3 carrots, 2 onions, 1 bunch parsley, and 1 gallon of water. Boil the whole up, and then place at the side of the fire to simmer, skimming off the fat from time to time. When it is reduced to one-half, remove from the fire and let it stand for some ASPIC JELLY NO. II. 3= 2 C A. C.Superb Suppers. 226 minutes, and then strain first through a colander and then through a dinner-napkin. When cold, remove all traces of grease and fat. If it is not sufficiently clear, whisk the whites and shells of two eggs in a pint of water, warm your jelly, and add the eggs and water. Stir well, and allow it to boil for fifteen minutes, then strain through a jelly-bag. When it is clear, warm it up, and flavour, if liked, with some sprays of tarragon and the juice of three lemons, or with some sherry. CHARTREUSE OF pAt^ DE FOIE GRAS. J^INE a mould with cold liquid aspic to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, and decorate with fancy designs in truffles and white aspic; fill the mould entirely with pate' de foie gras, and then place on ice. When quite cold and firm, turn it out by dipping it into hot water for a second or two, and garnish with chopped aspic and cherry tomatoes. JyJAKE some neat fillets (boned) of any cooked bird—chicken is excellent—and place be- tween two plates, with a weight on the top plate to put them into shape. Make a mixture of good white sauce and liquid aspic, one-third of the latter CHAUDFROIDS IN ASPIC. 4>227 Superb Suppers. J3 4> to two-thirds of the former. Warm and well mix. Pour on to a dish, and when nearly cold, but not set, dip in your fillets and cover well with the mix- ture. Set aside on ice. Now cover your cutlets neatly and carefully with aspic jelly, and arrange on a dish the centre of which is a heaped-up mass of chopped coloured aspic jelly or mace'doine of vegetables covered with cream bechamel sauce. ‘ You will quite understand, Lesbia and Philomela, that, as well as these dishes, there are any number of simple, inexpensive ways of using aspic jelly. Little moulds can be half-filled with the jelly, and then filled up with cream of chicken or cream of rabbit, decorated on the top with chopped white of egg and chopped truffles. You can line little moulds with aspic, and fill them with such a humble mixture as savoury egg balls, with pounded shrimps, with pounded salmon, with lobster; in fact, with a little ingenuity you can have a great variety of dishes. Macedoine of vegetables bought in glass bottles at one shilling each are invaluable for decorating and improving supper dishes. Russian salads are a great favourite, and pressed beef, cold tongues well glazed and nicely decorated, and boiled hams are all nice. The ham is never wasted, for isSuperb Suppers. 228 anything better for breakfast than cold ham ? Ham hot, with the accompaniment of orange sauce, is a good dinner course; and I will tell you a delightful way to cook it, though you may consider it some- what expensive and extravagant.’ HAM BOILED IN CHAMPAGNE. B0IL your ham very carefully, and place in a deep baking-tin. Pour a bottle of champagne —any cheap brand will do—over the ham, and place it in the oven, basting continually until the champagne is entirely absorbed. Serve as a sauce with the ham, oranges without the pips stewed to a pulp. ‘ Philomela looks as if she thought this a great waste, but I do say a cheap brand. However, here are two more ways of boiling your ham, and both are good.’ TO BOIL HAM NO. I. pUT your ham into a stewpan with sufficient meat stock to cover it; add carrots, celery, and onions. Let it boil up, and then simmer for four or five hours, and allow the ham to cool in the stock. Skin it and cover it with glaze.229 Superb Suppers. SIMPLE GLAZE. J^ISSOLVE J oz. gelatine in a small pan with \ tea-cupful water and one tea-spoonful meat extract; stir till dissolved, and stand till it is nearly cold. Brush over meat, &c., two or three coats. SUPERIOR GLAZE. REDUCE some good meat stock by boiling till it is like liquid glue; when it begins to thicken, let it simmer until it drops from the spoon like thick syrup. When required for use, place the basin of glaze in hot water to warm. TO BOIL HAM NO. II. pUT the ham in enough water mixed with cider or beer to cover it; boil gently for three hours or upwards. When you take it out, remove the skin and rub it all over with an egg, strew it over with bread-crumbs and baste it with butter, and set it in front of the fire or in the oven till it is a light brown. Many people prefer raw brown sugar to the bread-crumbs. ‘Philomela looks rather bored with three re- cipes for ham. Never mind; cheer up! We230 Superb Suppers. shall soon come to the sweets. Now I want to give you three recipes for sauces that are not only useful, but essential, for supper dishes.’ each | pint of mayonnaise allow \ pint cold liquid aspic jelly. Mix very thoroughly and pass through a fine strainer; or better still, rub through a tammy-cloth. JpiRST of all make some veloute sauce as follows : Melt 2 oz. butter in a pan, and fry in it till a pale brown ij oz. flour. Now add J pint well-flavoured stock (made from poultry), one tea- spoonful salt, and a pinch of pepper. Cook for one hour. Add ^ pint of cream and one tea-spoonful lemon-juice; strain or tammy. Now take one pint of the veloutd, one tea-spoonful lemon-juice, J small tea-cupful cream, and J pint liquid aspic.' Mix all together over a gentle heat. 'JAAKE one pint poivrade sauce made as follows: Cut 2 oz. lean ham, 2 oz. tomatoes, one small carrot, one slice turnip, one stalk celery, and four ASPIC MAYONNAISE. CHAUDFROID WHITE. CHAUDFROID BROWN. 4>231 Superb Suppers. J3 fresh mushrooms into small pieces, and fry for ten minutes in a covered pan in 2 oz. of butter. Now add one blade mace, one bunch herbs, | small tea-cupful vinegar, six peppercorns, juice of half a lemon, and \ small tea-cupful of claret. Boil till it is reduced to half its quantity. Now add one pint of brown sauce and one tea-spoonful of anchovy sauce. Simmer slowly for twenty or thirty minutes, skimming off the fat as it rises. Season with pepper and salt, and strain. Take one pint of this sauce and \ pint liquid aspic and one glass claret. Mix all together thoroughly. This sauce forms a brown masking for cutlets or birds. ‘The finest and best birds for suppers are, of course, quails and ortolans. I will not mention the other poor little bird, for I know Lesbia could never bring herself to cook a singing lark! Quails are, of course, excellent, stuffed with foie gras or roasted and cold garnished with lettuce. At dances hot quails are often much appreciated; though I think any hot dish except the clear soup at the end of the evening a mistake. Wherever you have a hot dish you must have a certain amount of savoury, warm smell of cooking; and in a crowded232 Superb Suppers. supper-room—all rooms are not what Mrs Elton would call “spacious apartments”—you want all the coolness and fresh air you can get. Still, quails, either hot or cold, need not worry Lesbia, for they are much too expensive for her. She must turn her attention to the humbler feathered world, and see what she can make of pigeons and fowls. A large boned turkey goes a very long way, and there is absolutely no waste with it; but have the turkey properly boned, dressed, and cooked at a good caterer’s. To bone a turkey is a serious business, and I very much doubt the amateur or the inferior cook doing anything but spoiling the turkey. Let Lesbia turn her attention to boning a fowl, and when she can manage that successfully, then let her try a turkey. Perhaps by that time Batiushka will be so rich that all the supper will be coming from the smartest caterer’s.’ TO BONE A FOWL. LAY the bird breast downwards on the table with the head towards you; with a sharp cook’s knife cut a straight line down the back through skin and flesh to the bone. Release with the thumb and forefinger of the left hand the skin and flesh on the left side nearest to you, and withSuperb Suppers. 233 the right hand keep cutting away the flesh from the bone, pulling it away clear as it is cut with the left hand. When the wing joint is reached cut the joint clean away, and continue cutting close to the bone until all the meat is released from the left breast; then return to the back, and continue to clear the meat in the same way until the leg is reached. Now twist it round, which will enable you to get the skin over it and arrive at the joint. Cut this joint away from the body bone. Now proceed with the right side in the same way, only use your left hand to cut and your right hand to pull away. The bird is now clear of the carcass. Now lay the bird flat on the table, inside upwards; cut out the wing bone, and proceed down the legs; cut the meat on the inside of each thigh down to the bone, and clear the meat from the bone, cutting it at each side till you can raise the bone out. Now cut up the inside of the drum- stick to the bone, and proceed in the same way as in the thigh, when the bone can be taken out, and the bird, free of bone, is ready for use. Before Delecta was half through her boning Philly had covered her ears, and with fingers tightly held over them, beseeched me to let her A. c. 2DSuperb Suppers. 234 know when that cruel cannibal had finished her dissecting. Delecta laughed. ‘ Cooking isn’t all cocoa- nut biscuits, Philly, nor ices and fruits and cakes. Would you like to know how to skin a rabbit ? ’ With a shriek, Philomela again covered her ears, this time burying her head in a cushion. She was only induced to look up by Delecta promising there would be no more boning or skinning or unpleasant- nesses. ‘As we have boned our fowl,’ said Delecta, ‘I had better tell you what to do with it.’ gONE fowl and fill with i lb. sausage, quenelle, or forcemeat; season with pepper and salt, and add chopped-up truffles, pistachio nuts, tongue, and hard-boiled eggs. Season again with pepper and salt, and roll neatly in a clean cloth. Tie tightly at each end with string, and cook gently in stock for two hours. Now place your fowl in a clean cloth and press between two dishes till cold. Glaze and decorate with truffles and pistachio- nuts, and lay either on a bed of lettuce or a dish surrounded by chopped, coloured aspic jelly. This GALANTINE OF FOWL. 4>235 Superb Suppers. same galantine can be made with breast or loin of veal, but a fowl is really the nicest. ‘As you may wish to white glaze your fowl, I will give you a recipe for it. It is also the recipe for boned turkey.’ At the word boned Philomela again buried her head. ‘Come out, Philly,’ said Delecta kindly; ‘it’s all right.’ WHITE GLAZE. r|~’0 glaze one boned turkey, moisten 4 oz. flour with one pint thin cream or good milk (not skim-milk), and season with a little grated nutmeg and salt. Put into a clean enamelled pan on a slow fire, and stir very carefully till it boils; then add a little cream. Soak 1 oz. leaf-gelatine in a very little cold milk. Now dissolve it in nearly half a pint of boiling milk; add this to the glaze in the pan, and let it again come to the boil. Watch and stir it very carefully in case it should singe or brown; take it off the fire and set in a cool place, stirring occasionally till nearly cold. When almost cold, pour it over your turkey; and when it has set (which it will do very quickly), garnish to taste with butter icing, coloured aspic, &c.236 Superb Suppers. Here Philly interrupts. ‘That glaze is so nasty to eat, Delecta. Don’t you think so ? ’ ‘ My dear child, you can always scrape it off; and it looks very nice. Why, you can colour it pink or green. And then, think what pretty deco- rative effects you can produce.’ ‘Well, I ate some pink glaze just to try it at a dance, and it was horrid. Still, you are quite right; it looked very nice, and I expect it was only for ornament. It was a ball of pink glaze in the centre of the dish, and little cutlets in aspic were laid against it. It was only curiosity—“satiable curti- osity,” like the elephant’s child — that made me taste it. Never again ! ’ Delecta says Philomela interrupts far too often, and we shall never get away from the glaze if she talks so much. Think of it—being stuck in glaze for ever and ever ! ‘ Before I go on to sweets, Lesbia, there is one thing I should like to mention. Suppose you are doing a little necessary entertaining—alas! there is rather too much ‘ cutlet for cutlet ’ hospitality nowa- days, but sometimes the feeding of people is an absolute necessity—and as your purse is not too well filled, you wish to be as economical as possible. Try and arrange to give your parties together. The same flowers will do; the same table sweets will237 Superb Suppers. do; the clear soup is made; the salmon, that proudly held his head aloft as a well-boiled fish, will make into a mayonnaise—if very scrappy, into salmon in aspic. ‘Perhaps you are going to give a little dance for Philomela. If you are wise you will have some luncheon-parties and dinner-parties the same week; you will find it very much cheaper. In- deed, with your small household, Lesbia, you ought always to have a little luncheon-party the day after a dinner-party, and then everything can be used up, and you can also give a much more elaborate and pretty midday meal. ‘Now as to supper sweets. Try not to have too many; the remains of mushy trifles and half- eaten creams are rather a trial to the spirits and digestions of a small family. Have some good plain jellies in reserve; if they are not wanted they can be given to a friend who is ill—jelly is always acceptable to an invalid—or Philomela can take them with some of the party flowers to any small hospital that you or she is in the habit of visiting. Never waste jellies, soups, or indeed anything; remember there is always some one who will be glad to have them.’ ‘ Isn’t Delecta preachy ? ’ whispered Philly— ‘ where-is-that-crust-I-threw-away sort of thing.’Superb Suppers. U 238 * Don’t whisper, Philly. It is very wrong to waste good food, and you know it is quite as well as I do. Now subside, and listen to these notes I have written out on the subject of jelly-making. Jelly comes, in some form or other, into so many of the prettiest sweets that it is extremely impor- tant that it should be good.’ JELLIES seem to present many difficulties, if we judge from the varying results obtained by people who consider themselves fairly good cooks. Jellies as stiff as glue, jellies that collapse as they leave the moulds, are both quite unneces- sary trials. Accuracy is the ‘ open sesame ’ to the art of jelly-making; if the proper proportions are rigidly adhered to, the jelly must be of the right consistency. First of all take care to have a reliable gelatine. If sheet-gelatine be used, it may be put with the other ingredients into the pan and the jelly-making proceeded with. All other kinds of gelatine need steeping in a little cold liquid, but this must be deducted from the whole amount of liquid used or the proportion will be wrong and the jelly will fall. Inaccuracy in the proportion of ON JELLIES. J° 4>Superb Suppers. 239 gelatine and liquid is therefore one great cause of failure, and the result is a jelly either too stiff or too fragile. Another cause is often found in the fact that if gelatine has been dissolved separately before being added to the other ingredients, as in the case of creams, part of it is left behind either in the pan or strainer, and again the jelly falls. Frequently, too, undissolved lumps of gelatine are found (and gelatine is a slightly unpalatable material resembling glue). In this case the use of a strainer has been dispensed with, and the result is most unpleasant. So accuracy both in proportions and method is most essential. The proper proportion of gelatine to liquid is 1 oz. to i quart for small jellies. This makes them stand up properly and yet quiver and sparkle with the slightest movement, as a well-behaved jelly should. For larger jellies a slightly higher propor- tion (ij oz. to i quart) must be used to support the larger bulk. This should be used if the mould is over the pint size. If the jelly has to support fruit or some other substance (as in a macedoine of fruit) 2 oz. to every quart must be allowed. In exces- sively hot weather it may be necessary to use a little more gelatine than at other times; though if you240 Superb Suppers. have plenty of ice to stand your jellies on you must use less gelatine. If a jelly collapses, the only thing to do is to melt it down, add more gelatine, and clear it again. As this takes much time and trouble, it is another argument in favour of accuracy at first. There are different makes of sheet-gelatine, but personally I find Mrs Marshall’s leaf-gelatine the best. Cox’s sparkling gelatine is somewhat stiffer, but many people prefer it to any other make. CALVES’ FEET JELLY. pUT two calves’ feet in two gallons of water on a brisk fire; bring to the boil, and take off the scum as it rises. Draw to the side of the stove and simmer for twelve hours. Strain. Take off the fat carefully with a clean linen rag that has been wrung in very hot water. Now place the jelly stock in a saucepan with one small glass of rum, one small glass of brandy, two glasses of sherry, six sticks of cinnamon, one clove, £ lb. of lump-sugar, the peel of six lemons, and the juice of three small lemons. Now put in three whites of eggs briskly beaten up, and the egg-shells; whisk all together over a brisk fire till it boils, and stand in the oven for half-an- hour, covered with a close lid. Strain through aSuperb Suppers. 241 jelly-bag and set in moulds to cool; and if the jelly is not very stiff, add \ oz. of Marshall’s gelatine to the other ingredients. ‘ I have given you this recipe for real calves’ jelly (though I do not suppose you will very often trouble to make it) because it is extremely nutri- tious, and particularly good for children and invalids. For all ordinary jellies gelatine does perfectly well, and the process of making is much quicker and simpler. I need hardly say that all jellies can be made with flavourings of vanilla, &c., omitting wines or spirits. pUT into a stewpan J pint water, pints claret, \ pint lemon-juce, i|- oz. leaf-gelatine, one table-spoonful of red-currant jelly, 6 oz. sugar, a few drops of red colouring, and the whites and shells of three eggs. Whisk over the fire till it boils, then place the lid partially on and leave for fifteen minutes. Pass through a clean jelly-bag and run into a damp mould. This is an excellent way of using claret that has been decanted and not used. Very often there is great waste when wines are decanted and not required. CLARET JELLY. 2 E A. C.242 Superb Suppers. GREEN-AND-GOLD JELLY. jpUT into a stewpan pints water, J pint lemon- juice, 8 oz. loaf-sugar, ij oz. gelatine, some green colouring and flakes of gold-leaf (these can be bought at Marshall’s School of Cookery), and the whites and shells of two eggs. Whisk and boil in the usual way, and when the jelly has boiled add \ pint of white wine or sherry, stand for fifteen minutes, strain, and mould. If a mould with a hole in the centre is used, this jelly is very: pretty filled with pink whipped cream or very pale-green whipped cream. it b oz. sugar and | pint water. Strain over i oz. gelatine. Put all the ingredients in a saucepan and stir on the fire till it boils. Stand for fifteen minutes. Strain into a damp mould. MAKE a compote of fruit syrup as follows : Put 4 lb. white lump-sugar into a sugar-boiler; add to it one quart of water whisked up with half a white of egg. Let the sugar dissolve, stir it up, and put on the fire, stirring till it boils. Stand at the side of ORANGE JELLY. the juice from six oranges, and add to MACEDOINE OP FRUITS.243 Superb Suppers. the fire, and as it boils add gradually one pint of water. Boil for a minute or two, and strain through a dinner-napkin. For your macedoine take one quart of this syrup and 2 oz. leaf-gelatine, and proceed in the usual jelly manner, throwing into your saucepan all the fruits you can get, carefully prepared and dipped in sugar and brandy. When ready, fill your mould and set on ice. (I need not tell you, Lesbia, that you can make jellies of every colour and shape, filled with cream or decorated with fruits; in fact, there is no end to what you can do once you can make the jelly. Round moulds like golf balls, half coloured cream and half jelly, make a pretty dish. If you can afford to buy them, there are numbers of pretty little moulds. Simple dariole-moulds can be filled with jelly and cream half-and-half, or three-quarters cream and a quarter jelly. You can line your dariole-moulds with jelly and fill them with cream. Many of these pretty sweets are very simple and inexpensive. All you want is a light hand and a little taste in decoration. Moulds that represent fish and animals are not pretty. I have frequently met Canova’s lions in white cream, and a sleeping Cupid in chocolate shape, the result being Negrotesque ! I have also seen small white J=> 4>244 Superb Suppers. cream swans with currant eyes floating gracefully on a lake of pale-green jelly. Don’t have those menagerie dishes. Don’t have over-elaboration; it tends towards vulgarity. A trifle is a simple dish, but every one likes it and every one can make it. It can be decorated to look extremely nice. With a light and steady hand and an accurate eye you can build a beautiful trellis-work of ratafia biscuits, or the tiny pink and white biscuits, round your trifle by the aid of melted sugar. The following are the proportions : i lb. lump-sugar, one tea-cupful water, one tea-spoonful cream of tartar. Boil till it crackles and is quite crisp. This sugar will always stick things together, and the results are not only pretty, but quite as good as what you buy. TRIFLE. pUT into a large glass dish six sponge-cakes soaked in sherry; over them a layer of raspberry jam (or tinned apricots) and a few ratafias. Cover to the depth of two inches with a good custard, and then heap on the top the following: two whites of eggs, one quart double cream, one wine-glassful sherry or brandy or maraschino, and 6 oz. powdered sugar. Whisk till it is very stiff. You can decorate your trifle with blanched almonds cut in spikes, withSuperb Suppers. 245 rose-leaves, with violets, with candied fruits, with pistachios—indeed with anything you fancy. ‘ This of course, Lesbia, is a large trifle; but yoit can make a much smaller one, judging the propor- tion of quantities for yourself. The thick cream you buy in bottles will do quite well. An eight- penny bottle is enough for a small cream or a small trifle, and goes further than the one-shilling and two-shilling jars; but the latter are better for ices. If you wish a very delicious and smart sweet for your party, get a bombe k la Pompadour, corbeilles de nougat, or something of that sort from a good caterer’s. You may try the nougat-baskets at home, but they are not easy; and you could buy them, I think, for sixpence or eightpence each, and fill them at home yourself. I give you the recipe, but you must have the proper moulds, and they are some- what expensive. I think you might manage bombe k la Milanese, but you must have a proper bombe- mould. ‘A very delicious imitation bombe can be made by taking a round melon, removing rind and seeds. Split it in half, and scoop out some of the inside; fill it with iced cream and chopped candied fruits, and set it on a block (that just fits your dish)246 Superb Suppers. of ice frozen very hard. Another delicious sweet is made from peaches that are skinned and then covered with strawberry ice cream. With iced cream you can make many pretty sweets. A pale- green ice in a nest of spun pink sugar looks very- pretty, but the sugar is not very easy to spin.’ SPUN SUGAR. JpUT i lb. lump-sugar (the best lump) in a sauce- pan with one tea-cupful water and one tea- spoonful cream of tartar; boil, and when it crackles it is ready to spin. This you do by placing two long-handled wooden spoons between two chairs; then with a wooden spoon throw your sugar syrup lightly and quickly across the spoons. Much dex- terity is required in the throwing, and do not forget to place newspapers on the floor, as much of the sugar breaks and falls. When finished, it should rest across the spoons like spun glass, and be quite easy to lift with your hand; but be careful, as it is very brittle and breaks easily. It is not easy to work with, but it is well worth trying. BOMBE A LA MILANESE. J^EAT two yolks of eggs with one pint thick cream; add to it £ lb. sifted sugar and 2 oz. Neapolitan biscuits that have been reduced to powder247 Superb Suppers. and placed in £ pint of milk. Put all the ingre- dients in a clean saucepan and cook very slowly till the mixture is as thick as an ordinary custard. Strain through a sieve. Put into your freezer for half-an-hour; then add one glass maraschino or curaqoa, and put into a bombe-mould and keep in ice till required. ICED ZABAJONE. MIX the yolks of ten eggs with two dessert- spoonfuls of castor sugar, three wine-glassfuls of Marsala, half a stick of vanilla, a small bit of whole cinnamon, and the peel of half a lemon cut in slices. Whip this up lightly over a slow fire until it is nearly boiling and slightly frothy; then remove it; take out the cinnamon, vanilla, and lemon-peel, and whip up the rest for a minute or two away from the fire. Add one tea-spoonful of maraschino and one of rum, stir up the whole, pour it into a silver soufM-dish, and put it on ice. VANILLA ICE CREAM. jpUT one pint of cream into a double boiler; add two tea-spoonfuls of vanilla extract and 4 lb. of sugar. Stir constantly till smoking hot. Take from the fire and stand till quite cold; add another pint of cream, and freeze in an American freezer.Superb Suppers. 248 NOUGAT-BASKETS. MELT * lb. icing sugar with a few drops of lemon-juice over a gentle fire. When it is golden in colour stir in 4 oz. almonds that have been blanched, shredded, and slightly browned in the oven. Keep the mixture warm. Well oil your basket-moulds, place a little of your nougat mixture in one of them, and with well-oiled fingers press the mixture into shape. Proceed with each basket in the same way. When they are the requisite shape and firm, remove them from the moulds and fill with whipped cream, or ice or fruit dipped in syrup and covered with whipped cream. Handles can be made for the baskets from angelica. In the shops the handles are daintily formed of coloured sugar, not unlike fine rock. These I do not think you could manage yourself, but the angelica looks very pretty. ‘ As for your table sweets, I do not advise you to make them at home.’ ‘ I’d like to,’ says Philomela, * so just give us some recipes.’ ‘The only thing is, Philly, they are a lot of trouble; and if Lesbia does not mind the expense—249 Superb Suppers. it’s not very great—she could buy sweets coloured and made to suit her table decorations and flowers from any of the girls who have gone in for pro- fessional sweet-making as a means of livelihood and really make them so well. However, you can always make caramel walnuts, for they are very cheap and very simple, and every one likes them.’ CARAMEL WALNUTS. MIX together J lb. almonds (bought ready ground) with i lb. icing sugar and the white of one egg to a firm paste. If it is too dry or crumbly add a very little milk. Roll this paste in balls, and stick each ball between two halves of walnuts (bought shelled and halved ready for use). The paste may be coloured pink with cochineal, or green with green colouring. For your sugar glaze put i lb. lump-sugar in a saucepan with one tea-cupful of water and one tea-spoonful of cream of tartar. Boil till the sugar crackles—ten minutes should be long enough, but on a slow fire it might take longer. Now with an iron spoon dip in your walnuts and coat well with the sugar; lay them to harden on buttered plates. When cooling, slide them off with a knife and carefully break away the superfluous sugar. Place each caramel a. c. 2 FSuperb Suppers. 250 walnut in a neat paper case. Grapes are very nice dipped in the sugar glaze without any almond paste, and so are cherries. Before dipping the cherries in the sugar, dip them in brandy. You can remove the stones from dates and prunes and fill the cavity with almond paste, and dip in the sugar as you do the walnuts. <=§o At this moment Batiushka put his head in at the door and exclaimed : ‘ Sweets! I knew it. A woman’s idea of a dance supper is sweets, and a man’s, drink! ’ Delecta is horrified, but she feels she must interrogate the Batiushka on the subject of dance drinks. She even asks for his advice. With oracular wisdom he replies, ‘If you can’t give it good, leave champagne alone and have hock-cup and champagne-cup and claret-cup and honest lemonades. And for goodness’ sake have whiskies and sodas somewhere on the premises for an old gouty man like me.’ ‘ You never go to dances, Batiushka,’ says Philomela, ‘and you can’t dance. You know you can’t.’ ‘If I can’t dance, is that to say I can’t drink ? ’Superb Suppers. 251 The conversation is becoming slightly intoxi- cated, so I feel it is time to get up and thank Delecta very, very much for all her hints and recipes, and remove Batiushka and Philly before they become violent. However, they are now amiably discussing the ball they intend to give when Batiushka makes his fortune. ‘A real good one,’ cries Philly, ‘with the best champagne and a perfect band and a perfect supper —a real supper, not a home-made one cooked by Delecta and Lesbia.’ Now, isn’t that rude ?The Doleful Departure. 252 CHAPTER XI. THE DOLEFUL DEPARTURE. <=§■=> <=§=> ^fVELECTA has gone. She went off armed . MBfW with a huge bunch of honeysuckle, and * with a large bunch of heather tied to her hold-all. ‘Tie a sailor hat to the other side of your rugs, Delecta, and you will look like a cheap tripper,’ remarked that impertinent Philomela; but she did not ruffle Delecta’s calm and placid brow. ‘ I don’t in the least mind looking like a tripper; and think how lovely the heather is.’ I have tried to express my gratitude to Delecta —to tell her how much she has done for me, and incidentally for Batiushka and Philomela in the future—and can behold the departing pro- fessional cook with absolute equanimity; for am I not a full-blown cook myself? I have made clear soup that was a succh-fou—clear as amber- coloured crystal—roasted and boiled and stewedThe Doleful Departure. 253 and baked, and altogether distinguished myself. Harriet turned into a very handy little kitchen- maid ; in fact, I have suggested she should leave the ways of cook-general and become, by the ladder of scullery and potato-paring, a real cook. The day before Delecta departed she gave me a lesson on strawberry jam. That jam is a triumph! She also gave me many hints on the subject of jams and jellies. She even left with me a recipe for marmalade. f Don’t let me hear of you buying marmalade again; make it yourself.’ Delecta says if your strawberry jam is really successful you may consider yourself a good jam-maker. Of course Delecta was on the spot to help, but our jam was all that it ought to be. And this is how we made it. STRAWBERRY JAM. bought 12 lb. of strawberries, and very, very carefully picked over the fruit, rejecting every berry that was soft or spotted or doubtful. We then weighed out each pound of fruit, and allowed for each pound f lb. of the best preserving sugar (never use inferior sugar). We put the fruit and sugar in layers carefully into a preserving-pan,254 The Doleful Departure. and allowed it to stand till the sugar was melted. Then we placed the pan over a gentle fire and brought it to the boil, allowing it to cook quickly for twenty minutes. We tried it by dropping some of the jam on a cold plate, and when it set it was ready. We used a wooden spoon for gentle stirring and to remove the scum, but as we had the very best sugar there was comparatively little scum. We then filled the jars and set them aside to cool. Then we covered the jars, and Philomela neatly labelled them. Delecta told me that though this is quite a good strawberry jam, there is a still better one, though much more difficult to make. She also gave me some useful directions to prevent strawberry jam from becoming watery. HINTS FOR STRAWBERRY JAM. 'J'HE fruit must be gathered on a fine day and be perfectly dry. Wet strawberries are per- fectly useless for jam. It is wet fruit that causes watery jam, so if you have the least suspicion that your berries are rather damp, allow extra sugar— say another | lb. or \ lb. to each pound of fruit— and prolong the boiling. Suppose that, with all care255 The Doleful Departure. and precautions, you find, even after your jam has been put in the jars, it is still watery and flavour- less. Return it all to the preserving-pan with extra sugar carefully pounded, and reboil it for twenty or thirty minutes after it has come to the boil, stirring continuously. Great care must be exercised with this reboiling, especially in the stirring, otherwise the jam will burn. WHOLE STRAWBERRY JAM. 'Y'O make this you require a fruit syrup. Take the poorest of your strawberries (but not bad or mouldy ones) and put them with two or three pints of red currants into a covered stone jar. Place in a cool oven or in a saucepan of boiling water. Cook until all the juice is extracted. It will take from one to two hours. Turn the whole of the contents of the jar into a jelly-bag or on to a fine hair sieve, and let the juice run through without pressure. While this is going on put equal quantities of firm strawberries and crushed preserving sugar into a pan, and leave for several hours; if possible, for twenty- four hours. Now pour the juice over your fruit in the proportion of \ of a pint to each pound of fruit. Stand for another twenty-four hours. Now pour off the fruit syrup carefully into another clean pan256 The Doleful Departure. with \ lb. sugar to each £ pint of juice. Boil, and put your strawberries in gently and cook quickly for twenty minutes. 1. An aluminium pan is the best, or an enamelled pan. Never allow fruit to stand in brass or copper. 2. Remember that you must have absolutely dry jam-jars. 3. Never use water in jam-making unless with unripe plums or green gooseberries; then the proportion is one tea-cupful to 6 lb. of fruit. 4. Except in the case of strawberries, allow 1 lb. preserving sugar to each lb. of fruit. 5. Always stir with a wooden spoon. 6. Never use anything but the very best preserving sugar. Inferior sugar ruins jams and pre- vents them from keeping. pUT your carefully-picked-over currants in a covered jar in a pan of boiling water. Cook till the juice flows freely, and run through a jelly- HINTS ON JAM-MAKING. RED-CURRANT JELLY.257 The Doleful Departure. bag or hair sieve without pressure. Allow i lb. castor sugar to each pint of juice. Heat your sugar on a flat dish in the oven, but do not let it discolour. Boil your red-currant juice for twenty- minutes, remove the pan from the fire, and stir in the sugar by degrees. When it is thick pour into small jars. BLACKBERRY (BRAMBLE) JELLY. JQRAW the juice from the fruit in the usual manner. Allow i lb. castor sugar to each pint of fruit, and proceed in the same manner as for red-currant jelly. Pour when ready—that is, thick—into dry, hot jars. WIPE 6 lb. bitter oranges and three lemons with a hard cloth, and pare off the yellow rind very thinly and cut up into slender chips. Boil these chips with three breakfast-cupfuls of water in a small saucepan for half-an-hour. Boil slowly. Take the white skins off the oranges and the lemons, and remove the pips. Break the pulp up into small pieces and put into a jelly-pan with seven breakfast- cupfuls of water; boil gently for one hour, stirring occasionally. Drain all this through a jelly-bag. ORANGE MARMALADE. A. C. 2 G 4>258 The Doleful Departure. Now put the drained liquid, the chips, and the water in which they were boiled, and 8J lb. crystallised sugar, into a clean pan; stir, and boil for half-an- hour. Skim the marmalade and put it into pots. SCOTCH MARMALADE. ''pAKE an equal weight of bitter oranges and loaf- sugar—i lb. of sugar to i lb. of fruit. Rub your oranges with a clean cloth and put them into a pan with cold water. Let them boil till the skins are tender. Change the water twice during the process of boiling. When tender, take out the oranges and keep the water. Divide the oranges into quarters, scrape all the white from the skins, and cut the skins into very thin strips and lay them aside in a dish till required. Put the rest of the oranges (remember to remove the pips) into a pan with the water in which they were boiled, let it boil slowly for a short time, and then press through a sieve. Now put orange-pulp, skin-strips, and your sugar into a clean pan and boil quickly for a few minutes. I read the two marmalade recipes to Philomela, and she said it was far too much trouble, and that ’Varsity marmalade or Oxford marmalade was worth259 The Doleful Departure. all the home-made marmalades put together. How- ever, I will try making marmalade next year instead of buying it. Dear Delecta was so serious and solemn before she left. She looks upon cooking as the serious business of life. Perhaps she is right. Certainly our health depends upon our food. She took me aside and pressed two neat little folded papers into my hand. ‘ Lesbia dear, I want you to pay very great attention to the first paper. Don’t lose it, and try to remember its instructions. The other little paper you might paste on a sheet of card- board and hang in the kitchen; put it in an old photograph-frame, if you have such a thing, to keep it clean. I know you will find it useful.’ I promised to obey Delecta. But I had no time then for papers; the cab was at the door, and Delecta was quite likely to lose her train if I kept her to discuss even the most useful of mysterious instructions. You cannot hurry on the Hillsboro’ roads for two reasons: it is unwise to jump a cab over sandhills and rocks and ruts; also, the horses would probably drop down dead ! The Batiushka is an excellent being in many 4>The Doleful Departure. 260 ways, conspicuous for his amiability, but he suffers from ‘ too-soonism; ’ he is one of those who like to be in a station three-quarters of an hour before the train starts. ‘Humour him,’ says Philomela, ‘and take a book or a magazine in your pocket.’ We do humour him; so, as he was going to escort Delecta to the station, I did not dare to ask her what was in her folded documents. Away went the cab bumpity-bump—oh, what a road! Will the Hillsborians never have proper roads ? — Delecta waving her bunch of honey- suckle, and the Babushka anxiously looking at his watch. I returned to the house and solemnly opened Delecta’s last instructions. The first paper was really a monument of good advice, the Code Napoleon in matters culinary. I read it to Philomela, who, I fear, did not listen. HINTS TO REMEMBER. 1. Never cook by guesswork. Weigh out every ingredient carefully and accurately. 2. Never slam the oven door. It spoils puddings, cakes, and pastry.261 The Doleful Departure. 3. Never be in a hurry; flurried cooking is gene- rally a failure. 4. Never leave the corks out of sauce-bottles or vinegar and oil bottles. Put corks in pro- perly and carefully. 5. All crusts and pieces of bread should be browned in the oven, and then grated into crumbs and stored in tin canisters. 6. You cannot bread-crumb with the centre of a new loaf. Many cooks think they can. 7. Have a wire whisk for your clear soup, a switch for your cream-whipping, and an egg-beater for your eggs. Do not use one whisk for all three things. They can all be bought for a very small sum. 8. Test your oven before you bake bread or cakes. Don’t guess. 9. Save the skins of lemons, dry them in the oven, grate them down, and keep in a glass bottle. They will do for flavouring. 10. All pieces of bacon and bones and ends of meat will do for your stock-pot, from which you make your everyday household soups and broths. n. Never spare vegetables and fruit. They save doctors’ bills.262 The Doleful Departure. 12. Never waste anything, for ‘wanton waste makes woeful want.’ 13. If at first you fail with a dish, try again, and try till you succeed. 14. When you use a recipe, use it absolutely as it is given. Do not deviate from it because ‘it’s so much trouble’ or ‘it will do all right.’ 15. Bring some common-sense to bear upon your cooking, and remember whatever is worth doing is worth doing well. 16. Remember a good cook is neither an extrava- gant one nor a cheese-paring one. Most of all remember the following lines : We may live without friends, we may live without books, But civilised man cannot live without cooks. <=§<=> The good Delecta! How I laughed at her quotation! I suppose she is right, but I would very much rather not ‘ live without books.’ I must try and remember all her instructions, particularly about waste. Alas! it is so very easy in cooking to be wasteful. Philomela was rather bored with the code of rules, and most anxious to see if the other263 The Doleful Departure. paper was more exciting. She opened it, and merely remarking, 4 Dull,’ walked out of the room. But I do not think it is at all dull; I think it is very useful, and I shall certainly have it framed and hung up on the kitchen wall. I hope the new cook will attend to it. For there must be a new cook. Delecta is right: ‘ Civilised man cannot live without cooks; ’ and I cannot spend my days in a town kitchen, though with Delecta’s teaching I feel quite equal to the task. But there are other things in life than entre'es and savouries—things that have to be done. Still, I shall certainly bake my cakes and make dishes when I want to, as the new cook seems amiable. I trust we may get on well together without friction — without my hearing that well-worn remark, 4 It’s my kitchen, ma’am; ’ or the other remark, ‘Leave the recipe with me, ma’am; don’t you bother yourself,’ when you want to ‘bother yourself’ and try something fascinatingly new! If I have a very attractive and ornamental frame made for Delecta’s 4 Handy Measures,’ perhaps the new cook will look upon it as a decoration, and not feel insulted or oppressed by the fact that I mean her to measure her quantities.The Doleful Departure. 264 HANDY MEASURES. 6 table-spoonfuls = x small tea-cupful, i small tea-cupful = i gill or \ pint, i small breakfast-cupful = \ a pint, i oz. dry substance = i table-spoonful, i oz. butter = i dessert-spoonful. £ lb. flour = x tea-cupful. J lb. flour = i breakfast-cupful. These measures are accurate and very handy, but in very fine cooking it is wiser not to trust even to them but use your scales and your pint measure. <=§=> <=§«» After Delecta left we had only time to pack and pack, and to-day we go. Leave dear, delight- ful Hillsboro’, and return to a town that, with the best intentions in the world, cannot in the summer be otherwise than stuffy. Poor town! you will seem hot and unpleasant after the country. But we can’t have everything in this world, and if we had too much country we might tire of the greenness and the freshness, the flowers and the birds. I do not think I should grow weary of the country, but it is a great matter to be contented and make the best of the inevitable. Backwaters are veryThe Doleful Departure. 265 charming, very restful, very soothing; but you cannot live for ever in a backwater, and may as well take your chance with the other vessels in the stream. If you are run down or come to grief—well! you might have stuck in green weeds in a backwater, and perhaps we were never meant to take our ease all the time. I said something like this to Philomela, and all she answered was, ‘ Have you seen the key of the small black box ? ’ Practical, eminently practical, but very damping to poetic thought. I wish some one would tell me why a man has so many pairs of boots and shoes. The Batiushka has a kit-bag absolutely full. As I never see him in anything but one very old, awful pair, I can’t think why he travels superfluous boot-leather about the country. Harriet goes home after we leave. At present she is weeping in the kitchen. It is so nice of her, but dreadfully depressing. We have a basket of fresh eggs and a whole hamper of green stuffs, given us by those kind Samaritans. How I shall miss the Good Samaritan and our talks, or let me be accurate and say gossips ! But, as she always says, ‘ It’s very wrong to gossip, but really it’s most amusing and entertaining.’ So it is. We all think so; but J3 A. C. 2 H 4>t 266 The Doleful Departure. many of us are of too ‘ high a tone ’ — spelt h-u-m-b-u-g—to say so. I can’t think how Batiushka burnt a hole in two table-cloths. Cigars of course; but so careless of him. I have replaced them (at Batiushka’s expense); and I do think, looking all over dear little Vine Cottage, that we have not done any other damage. I have filled the rooms with flowers —a welcome for our kind landlady, who returns this evening. Philomela has bought the clavier ! She says it’s a great expense, but with it she is independent of pianos, and I never consider a piano Avhen I take a house! She sent it to town yesterday by Parcels Delivery, tied up in an eider down, a bed quilt, and sheets of brown paper. It looked like Mr Man- tilini’s ‘ dem’d unpleasant body,’ or like the parcel in that horrible story The Long Pack, which scared me dreadfully in my early years. In fact, I was rather surprised the Parcels Delivery man took it without notifying the police. I hope we sha’n’t lose the train, but there always seems so much to do at the last. Batiushka has chosen this most inappropriate moment to let the bullfinch out of his cage. I do think he might have packed him in his green baize house without letting him out. What’s the good of telling me ‘JamesThe Doleful Departure. 267 Augustus likes a walk’? I dare say he does, but this is not a time for walks; he is going in the railway train, and that is treat enough. I wish the sun would not shine so aggravatingly bright. I wish the birds would not sing their joyful loudest. Surely the hills look more beautiful than ever. The sea is bluer; the bracken is greener. To-morrow streets and streets and streets—electric trams — nothing to look at but the opposite houses. I have said good-bye to everybody. I have paid every one: the greengrocer, whose bill in- cluded ‘ sparrergrass ’ and ‘ lettriss ’—they tasted better than they were spelt; the fishmonger; ‘ the butcher, the baker, the candlestick-maker.’ Now there is nothing to do but go. 1 Stand not upon the order of your going, but go at once.’ Philomela would make an excellent Lady Macbeth. Alas! like the Thane of Cawdor, I am ever 1 infirm of purpose,’ but the luggage is on the cabs—the caught and secured bullfinch is piping ‘ Polly Perkins ’ madly on the front seat, his cage tightly wedged between two dressing-bags—there is nothing to do but give one last look at the garden, wring Harriet by the hand, and—go. The cab is wending its way between the hedges thick with honeysuckle and wild roses. Dear Hills-268 The Doleful Departure. boro’, good-bye—good-bye. How lovely the country looks ! How sweet the hay smells ! How beautiful are the distant sweeps of hill and wood ! I look at it all regretfully and longingly. Are there tears in my eyes ? I almost think so. ‘And now, Batiushka,’ remarks our Philomela, ‘ how much do you think Lesbia will have left behind ? ’We Make the Christmas Pudding. 269 CHAPTER XII. WE MAKE THE CHRISTMAS PUDDING. <=§<=» <=§o tHE new cook is quite a success—so successful that there is no need for the Amateur to invade her kitchen, though she has amiably allowed me to try various dishes, notably French beignets souffle's, which I always find somewhat difficult to manage. However, the other day I accomplished them triumphantly; the professional lady-of-the-pots-and-pans kindly looking on, and— most important—washing up for me when I was finished. FRENCH BEIGNETS SOUFFLES. pUT one tumblerful of water into a saucepan with a few grains of salt, i oz. sugar, i oz. butter, and a grated lemon-peel. Let it boil, and when boil- ing take from the fire and throw in enough flour to make a nice thick paste. One tea-cupful is gene- rally sufficient. Put it back on the fire and stir270 We Make the Christmas Pudding. briskly for a few minutes till it does not stick to the saucepan. Let it cool, and then stir in quickly one egg, and then another, and still another, till it can be worked to leave the spoon quite clean. Add the white of one egg beaten as hard as possible. If you can spare the time, set your mixture aside for two hours. Put some butter in your frying-pan, and do not let it be too hot at first. Now put some pieces of paste about the size of a walnut into a spoon, and with the end of your finger drop them into the frying-pan. They will swell very much, and can be eaten either hot or cold. The above recipe sounds quite simple, but the first time I tried it, it was a complete and ab- solute failure. However, I remembered Delecta’s advice to try, try, try again, and I followed the directions with absolute accuracy. In nothing more than in cooking does practice tend towards perfection. Between the end of October and Christmas—the back end, as it is called in Scotland—there hardly seems time to breathe. I was very glad to have a reliable cook and to feel that I had not to superin- tend her, but Philomela and I intend to make theWe Make the Christmas Pudding. 271 Christmas pudding. It will be a big undertaking, but I hope it will repay our trouble. Then there are the mince-meat and the Christmas-cake. It is so English to bake a Christmas-cake; but I like to let the Batiushka’s nationality come to the top some- times, and we shall of course have the usual kind, ‘still-keeping-you-in-memory’ box of shortbread, currant-loaf, Edinburgh rock, and Pitkeathly ban- nock from the one who never forgets! I think Batiushka would like to make weird Yorkshire drinks with odd names, but we don’t encourage it. He is not so very antique, but he tries to make us believe that he remembers mummers—real mummers, who began, ‘ Here be I, King Gearge the something or other.’ He also talks a great deal about carol-singers. The carol- singers we keep in our town seem to be quite different from the north - country carollers; our singers are merely small boys accompanied by attendant female sprites, and—none of them can sing! But I do not like to discourage them even though they come early in November and, with singular incongruity, sing Easter hymns. Even the singing of inappropriate verses has something in it of the Christmas spirit, and when they hit the mark by giving us ‘Once in Royal David’s City,’ I feel constrained to press ‘pence in their un-272 We Make the Christmas Pudding. washen palms ’ and present them with apples and oranges. I have no time for the people who tell you Christmas festivities are a mistake and went out of fashion with Dickens’s novels; that peace and goodwill are all humbug; that Christmas Day means nothing but tips and bills ! Bills come in June. Do we on that account revile the summer sunshine? We have to tip the railway porters, but we do not persistently abuse the various rail- way systems of the world. ‘Why do you bother?’ asks the supercilious person in a detached and bored voice when he meets you bulging with parcels, crackers oozing at every pore! ‘ Isn’t it an awful bore?’ No, it is not. Any one worth his salt loves the bother. We are led to believe that the right kind of heart to possess is the heart of a little child. Are children bored with Christmas? Do they find tying up mysterious parcels with very knotty string and rather dilapidated paper a bore ? ‘ Oh,’ says the supercilious one, ‘ that is absurd; children have no responsibilities and no bills.’ Well, if it is absurd, what about the child’s heart ? Is that absurd too ? Think of all the best people you have ever known. Have they disliked Christmas, grumbledWe Make the Christmas Pudding. 273 at the little expenses (extravagance is not happiness, nor does it give it), and voted crackers, holly, presents, gaiety, and goodwill a bore ? If you happen to be a supercilious person—for your own sake I hope you are not—and one of the extra supercilious who will not read Dickens, break through your rule of thinking his books vulgar and out of date, and read in The Uncommercial Traveller the tale of the seven poor travellers. It revels —literally revels—in happiness and goodwill; it breathes the Christmas spirit in every line. And the fun of it! What fun do you ever have if you are supercilious ? Who but Dickens, in describing the procession of good things, would have said ‘ inattentive boy with plates ’ ? Can’t you see him ? Every time I read it I am struck with the absolute felicity of the expression. Don’t we all know ‘ the inattentive boy with plates ’ ? It is quite useless to tell supercilious persons to read the Christmas Carol, because of course they won’t; it is much too sentimental and far-fetched, and Tiny Tim is impossible, and the fat turkey ridiculous. That may all be true; and yet surely it is pleasant to think there may perhaps be Scrooges whose hearts are touched by the Christ-Child’s tender fingers, and Tiny Tims whose Christmas Dinner is a feast indeed. Personally I love every line of the A. C. 2 1274 We Make the Christmas Pudding. Christmas Carol, and if at Christmas-time there is one being towards whom I do not feel really Christmasy, it is Mr Supercilious who sneers at Bob Cratchit! Every one in the house must stir the Christmas pudding—stir it three times round, wishing hard all the time, and you must see the bottom of the basin. If you don’t you will never, never get your wish! Philomela says our plum-pudding is the very most superior pudding, and the reason is, I think, be- cause we use creme de riz flour (Mrs Marshall’s) instead of ordinary flour. \>TIX together i lb. stoned raisins, i lb. cleaned currants, x lb. finely chopped beef suet, i lb. fine bread-crumbs, 2 apples cut into small dice, 1 tea-spoonful ground ginger, 1 tea-spoonful ground cinnamon, 1 tea-spoonful salt, 1 tea-spoonful grated nutmeg, 2 oz. minced orange and lemon peel, 1 oz. blanched and chopped almonds, and 3 oz. creme de riz. Beat 4 eggs with £ lb. good brown sugar; add 2 glasses of brandy and J tea-cupful of milk. Now mix this with your pudding, and if it seems too stiff add a little more milk. Put into a buttered basin covered with a greased and floured PLUM-PUDDING. 4>274We Make the Christmas Pudding. 275 cloth and boil for six hours. Never let it leave the boil, adding more water if required. Some people think it is better to boil the pudding for eight hours, but if it is really always boiling, six hours is quite long enough. Much the best plum-pudding sauce, we all think, is simply stiffly whipped cream flavoured with brandy; but our cook is very anxious to try another sauce, and has given me the recipe to ponder over. But I still incline to the whipped cream. PLUM-PUDDING SAUCE. pUT four yolks of eggs into a deep stewpan. Add 2 oz. sugar, one glass of sherry, a little lemon- juice and grated peel, and a grain of salt. Whisk the sauce over a moderate heat either in a Gourmet boiler or in a small saucepan put in a larger pan filled with hot water. When the sauce begins to set it is ready for use. Philomela discovered our mince-meat recipe in an old book—a very ancient cookery-book over a hundred years old. We have made it, and it will, I think, be quite successful. Philomela says276 We Make the Christmas Pudding. it’s so very important that the mince-meat should be good when she has to eat twelve mince-pies between Christmas Day and New Year’s Day. Every pie means a happy month, says the old legend. Philly eats them in what she calls six weeks at a time. That is a pie and a half! GREAT-GRANDMOTHER’S MINCE-MEAT. ^AKE 3 lb. beef suet and 2 lb. tender beef (chopped as fine as possible), 3 lb. chopped, good baking apples, 4 lb. currants clean washed and picked, 1 lb. raisins stoned and chopped small, and 1 lb. powdered sugar. Mix them all together with | oz. mace, £ oz. grated nutmeg, £ oz. cloves, ^ oz. cinnamon, and 1 pint"French brandy. Ladle the mixture into a stone jar, and tie down tightly with paper and string. When you make your mince-pies add a little chopped candied citron and orange. Philomela says it ought to be good; it has four weeks to stand—though it really ought to stand for months! But in case great-grandmother’s mince- meat does not come up to our expectations, our cook is making a small jar of what she calls common ordinary mince-meat.We Make the Christmas Pudding. 277 Philomela remarks, ‘ It’s as well to have some- thing modern to fall back upon.’ pASS twice through a mincing-machine i| lb. stoned raisins, i lb. citron-peel, £ lb. sultanas, | lb. currants, and 2 lb. apples. Add to these in- gredients 1 lb. finely chopped suet, another £ lb. of sultanas, J oz. ground cinnamon, the rind and juice of a lemon, a few ground cloves, and a touch of nutmeg. Add another \ lb. currants, i| lb. sugar, and £ pint of rum or brandy. The spirit is employed as a preservative, but for those who do not care to use alcohol, the plum- pudding and mince-meat may be made without it. We have used brandy in preference to rum. Philomela says it’s more Christmasy. She is very anxious to try on Christmas Day a dish that is practically all brandy. Some one told her about it, but I am a little doubtful of its success. Perhaps it may be bad for us; it is somewhat reminis- cent of the dish Elizabeth had on her French visit, that was first a mouthful of very hot chicken and then an iced oyster. As far as I can remember, MINCE-MEAT. 4278 We Make the Christmas Pudding. she found it exciting. I think Philomela’s brandy cherries will be equally exciting. You have brandy cherries placed in a large punch-bowl and set on fire—slightly suggestive of youthful snapdragon— and when you have helped yourself to a spoonful of burning cherries, you cover them with a helping of vanilla ice cream. Well, I wonder ‘Now, don’t be silly, Lesbia; we must try it.’ If Philomela is determined, I suppose we shall. Delecta wrote and asked me for a hot-pot recipe. She is evidently going to stave off the hunger of her friends with a good hot-pot, and in the winter weather nothing is better. I sent her the recipe for the best hot-pot in the world, and she, in return, sent me a whole collection of Christmas recipes. Philomela wants the cook to try them all! LANCASHIRE HOT-POT. JpLACE a layer of mutton cutlets, with most of the fat and tails trimmed off, at the bottom of an earthenware stewpan; then a layer of chopped sheep’s kidneys, one onion cut in slices, and half-a- dozen oysters and some sliced potatoes. Sprinkle over these a little salt and pepper and one tea- spoonful of curry powder. Then start again with cutlets, and keep adding layers of the different 4>We Make the Christmas Pudding. 279 ingredients till the earthenware stewpan is full. Place whole potatoes on the top, and some good gravy and the oyster liquor. Cook in not too fierce an oven, but just fierce enough to brown the top potatoes. QREAM | lb. butter with f lb. brown sugar; add J pint new milk, 2 table-spoonfuls of treacle, and 6 eggs. Stir in \ lb. candied peel cut in thin slices, \ lb. chopped and blanched almonds, 1 lb. sultanas, 1 lb. currants, 1 glass of brandy, and | a grated nutmeg. Now lastly add 1 lb. flour. Bake in a lined tin for four hours at least in a slow oven. JyJake a lemon-water ice according to the follow- ing recipe. When it is frozen smoothly add a large wine-glass of rum and freeze again till firm. Sorbets are only frozen enough to keep their shape, and should be piled lightly in ice cups or glasses. ADD the grated yellow rind of 2 lemons and 1 orange and i| lb. of sugar to x quart of water; stir over the fire till the sugar is dissolved, CHRISTMAS-CAKE. RUM SORBETS. LEMON-WATER ICE.280 We Make the Christmas Pudding. and boil five minutes. Strain. When cool, add the juice of four large lemons and one orange, strain through two thicknesses of cheese-cloth, fill your mould, and freeze. BOSTON CREAM. pUT 3 lb. of granulated sugar and three tumbler- fuls of water into a pan, and bring slowly to the boil. Pour the boiling mixture into a basin above tartaric acid (2 oz.). Leave it till cold, and pour in one tea-spoonful of essence of lemon and the whisked white of one egg. Bottle the mixture and well cork. Allow one table-spoonful of cream to a tumblerful of water and a pinch of carbonate of soda. Drink while it effervesces. TIPSY-CAKE. ^UT a stale sponge, rice, or Madeira cake into slices. Spread a little jam on each slice, but before you build the cake into its original shape, soak the layers in wine and a little brandy. Now stick the cake over thickly with £ lb. Jordan almonds, blanched, slightly browned, and cut in spikes. Now pour round the base of the cake a little good custard, or, if preferred, some cream slightly whipped with brandy.A. c. 2 j RIZ A L’IMPERATRICE. ^ASH 3 oz. Carolina rice and stew gently in i pint milk till the milk is absorbed. Add 3 oz. sugar. Now melt J oz. leaf-gelatine in £ pint of water, and strain to the rice. When it cools, mix with | pint whipped cream, flavour with vanilla, and pour into a damp mould. ‘The rice sounds rather tame after all the other recipes,’ said Philomela; ‘ but I expect Delecta thinks you are going to give a children’s Christmas party.’ ‘Whom for? You?’ Philomela is rather indignant, but she is sure the rice cream would be a good, wholesome dish for children, and I think she is quite right. It would be nicer than blanc-manges, even though they are coloured most artistically. I remember one child at its own party wailing out in a voice of bitter disappointment, ‘ Mother, mother, you promised they would be creams, and they’re only nasty, nasty corn-flour shapes ! ’ It is rather difficult to know what children will like, but I think Italian oranges and an American trifle would meet with their approval.282 We Make the Christmas Pudding. ITALIAN ORANGES. ^UT your oranges across in halves and empty the skins carefully without breaking them; notch the skins neatly round the edges; press all the juice out of the orange-pulp and strain. Add sufficient water to the juice to make one pint. Put this pint of liquid in a saucepan with i oz. leaf-gelatine, the rind and juice of one lemon, ^ lb. fine sugar, and the whites and shells of two eggs. Whisk over the fire till it boils. Then let it boil gently by the side of the fire for ten minutes in a covered pan, stand for a few minutes, and strain. Fill your orange- skins with the jelly, and set round a glass dish filled with whipped cream flavoured with vanilla, or place them round a vanilla ice. Another way is to fill one half orange with jelly, and the other half with vanilla cream slightly stiffened or frozen, and place the two halves together. AMERICAN TRIFLE. LINE your glass dish with sponge-cake and macaroons, and over them place a layer of strawberries or raspberries (glass-bottled fruit of a reliable brand will do quite well). Pour over them custard. Make a meringue and pile on the top, set in a cool oven till well set, and serve cold.We Make the Christmas Pudding. 283 Batiushka from somewhere has unearthed a recipe for a Yorkshire pie, and he suggests we should have it as part of our Christmas week fare. It sounds terribly complicated and full of various beasts and birds. I would like to please Batiushka, but YORKSHIRE CHRISTMAS PIE. JJAVING made a good standing crust, with the wall and bottom very thick, take and bone a turkey, a goose, a fowl, a partridge, and a pigeon. Season them well with \ oz. mace, J oz. nutmegs, £ oz. cloves, and \ oz. black pepper, all beat fine together. Then add two large spoonfuls of salt and mix all well together. Open the fowls all down the back, and bone first the pigeon, then the partridge, and cover them. Then proceed in the same manner with the fowl, goose, and turkey, which must be large. Season them well, and then lay them in the crust so that they may look like a whole turkey. Then have a hare ready cased and wiped with a clean cloth. Disjoint the hare into pieces, season them well, and lay them as close as you can on one side; and on the other side put woodcocks, moor- game, and whatever sort of wild fowl you can get. Season them well and lay them close. Put284 We Make the Christmas Pudding. at least 4 lb. of butter into your pie, and then lay on your lid, which must be very thick, and let it be well baked. It must have a very hot oven, and will need four hours baking at least. This crust will take a bushel of flour. Never tell me Yorkshire is not a great county! No wonder John Browdie — typical Yorkshire- man—found the Squeers’ thin bread and butter unsatisfying if he was accustomed to such Brob- dingnagian pies. Bushels of flour, four pounds of butter, and practically every feathered thing you can lay your hands on! No; with infinite regret I have told Batiushka we cannot have that pie till we have enlarged the house and built an oven into the back-green ! He says if I was a really good cook I should know how to reduce the quantities 1 Philomela meanly agrees with him; but how could any one reduce turkey and fowl and hare and partridge? No; a Yorkshire pie must be all or nothing. No half-measures. I have asked Batiushka if anything in the Christmas dinner can make up for the pie disappointment, and he says chestnut stuffing to the turkey, and a chestnut sauce, as well as a cranberry one, will meet the case. Philly clamours for chestnut cream andWe Make the Christmas Pudding. 285 chestnut ice—both very good, and not expensive when chestnuts are cheap and plentiful. <=§<=> We have made and stirred the pudding. Shall we have our wishes in the future? Who can tell ? What do I wish ? Why, that would be breaking the spell, and my wish would never, never come true. For every one else what can I say but, * I wish you all your heart can wish ’ ? Philly has decked the little tree with candles and crackers, with the tinselly glittering balls and stars that we have known since we were children. Can we ever be too grown up to love a Christmas-tree ? Most sincerely I hope not. Batiushka has stood upon a very rickety step- ladder and trimmed the picture-frames with holly. Supercilious would tell you holly dirties the wall- papers ! We have decked and decorated and made the whole house look as Christmasy as possible. Philomela has even bought a set of paper banners that form the words ‘ A Happy Christmas,’ and are plentifully besprinkled with fat robins and very round red holly-berries. This we have pinned right across the room above the baby Christmas-tree. Really, if we don’t look like Christmas, I’d like to know who does. We have tied up so many parcels>——— f 286 We Make the Christmas Pudding. that our arms quite ache with folding brown paper and pulling the string tight. ‘ Lend us your thumb for a minute,’ cries Philly, ‘and press hard or the string will slip ! ’ A little later she will do the same kind service for me. It is very important that the parcels should hold together. ‘ If there only were some decent carol-singers, I wish they would come to-night,’ observes Philly, who is taking a short rest from parcel-making. Almost in answer to her words we hear the first notes of the dear old carol that we all know so well, and it is actually being beautifully sung. Philly looks out of the window. ‘Choir-boys, I think, Lesbia. Get some cake and apples and oranges.—Batiushka, produce some sixpences, for they really deserve it.—Listen—do listen.’ We all listen, and clear on the evening air come the boys’ fresh young voices : ‘ God rest you, merry gentlemen, Let nothing you dismay; Remember Christ our Saviour Was bora on Christmas Day, To save us all from Satan’s pow’r When we were gone astray. O, tidings of comfort and joy, comfort and joy! O, tidings of comfort and joy ! ’ 4>We Make the Christmas Pudding. 287 Comfort and joy. Two good things if they come at Christmas-time, or at any other time. We all need comfort; we all need joy. Most of all we must give them to others. Is not that the great Christmas lesson, ‘to give’? We may not have very much to give, but we all have something. The choir-boys singing in the streets have their message to give, bringing home to many sad hearts tidings of comfort, to many happy hearts tidings of joy. At this Blessed Christmastide may comfort and joy rest upon every home. May the words of the old carol bring us many blessings. In the words of Tiny Tim, may ‘ God bless us every one.’INDEX. A PAGE Beef (Fillets of) with PAGE Adelaide Pudding 203 Mushrooms 197 Agro-Dolce Sauce 201 Beef (Fillets of) with Almond Jumbles . 168 Spinach . 138 Almond Soup 184 Beef Olives (French) American Buttered Eggs 102 with Tomato Sauce . 141 American Trifle . 282 Beef-Tea 53 Amulet of Asparagus . 210 Beef-Tea, Quickly Made 52 Anchovy Creams. 147 Beetroot Savoury. 212 Asparagus, Amulet of . 210 Beignets Souffles, French 269 Asparagus, How to Biscuit Cream, Me- Cook 219 ringue i47 Aspic Jelly No. I. 225 Biscuits, Brown . 40 Aspic Jelly No. II. 225 Biscuits, Celery . i43 Aspic Mayonnaise 23O Biscuits, Cocoa-Nut 161 Australian Snow . 135 Blackberry (Bramble) Austrian Eggs 103 Jelly 257 Boiling 82 B Boiling, Causes of Fail- Baba au Rhum . 207 ure in 176 Bacon, To Fry . 107 Bombe a la Milanese . 246 Baking, Causes of Fail- Boston Cream 280 ure in 177 Bouchees of Chicken Baking of Meat . 79 Cream 123 Banana Sandwiches 167 Boudins of Chicken 89 Barley-Water 53 Bramble (Blackberry) Baron, Roast . . 217 Jelly • • • 257 Beans, Curried Haricot 216 Bread, Simple Wheaten 114 Beauregard Eggs. 102 Breakfast Crumpets 112 Bechamel Sauce . 202 Breakfast Rolls . 112289 Index. PAGE Breakfast Twists . . 112 Bretzels, Tea . . 158 Broiling . . 83, 84 Broth, Chicken . . 53 Broth, Scotch . . 131 Brown Biscuits . . 40 Brown Bread Ice Creams 205 Brown Chaudfroid . 230 Brunswick-Cakes. . 160 Butter, Parsley . *139 C Cabbage, Spanish . 125 Cafe Noir ... 97 Cafe Parfait . . 204 Cake, Christmas . . 279 Cake, Gingerbread Sponge . . .159 Cake, Mocha . . 157 Cake, Orange . . 156 Cake, Orange-Cream . 155 Cake, Simple Sponge . 158 Cake, Sunshine . .156 Cake, Tipsy . . 280 Cake-Making . 172-174 Cakes, Brunswick . 160 Cakes, Chocolate. . 154 Cakes, Cream . . 157 Cakes, Ginger . *153 Cakes, Lancashire Tea 163 Cakes, Oat . . .113 Cakes, Oxford Tea . 163 Cakes, Potato . .162 Cakes, Salmon . . 89 Calves’ Feet Jelly . 240 Caramel Custards in Cups 133 a. c. PAGE Caramel Walnuts . 249 Carote e Piselli alia Panna . . .125 Cauliflower au Gratin . 208 Celery Biscuits . . 143 Celery Cream Soup . 140 Chantilly Soup . -137 Chartreuse of Pate de Foie Gras . .226 Chaudfroid Brown . 230 Chaudfroid White . 230 Chaudfroids in Aspic . 226 Cheese Balls . . 209 Cheese Cauliflower . 208 Cheese, Iced . . 212 Cheese Omelette . .120 Cheese Ramequins . 211 Cheese, Sardines and . 99 Cheese Savoury . . 209 Cheese, Tomato . . 211 Chestnut Soup . .183 Chicken a la Maryland 121 Chicken, Boudins of . 89 Chicken Cream, Bouchees of *123 Chicken Creams, Iced . 195 Chicken, Fricassee of . 142 Chicken, Grilled, a la Napolitaine . . 123 Chicken in Aspic . 189 Chicken, VirginianFried 122 Chicken-Broth . . 53 Chocolate Cutlets . 206 Chocolate Eclairs . 167 Chocolate Sauce, Hot . 204 Chocolate-Cakes . . 154 2 K 4290 Index. f PAGE Christmas Pie, York- shii-e . , . 283 Christmas-Cake . . 279 Cider-Cup . . .171 Claret Jelly. . . 241 Claret-Cup . . *171 Clear Soup, Everyday . 120 Clear Soup No I. . 42 ClearSoupNo.il. . 43 Clear Soup, To Make . 41 Cocoa-Nut Biscuits . 161 Cod (Boiled) a la Margot 188 Cod, Mousseline of . 145 Coffee.... 96 Coffee Auflauf . .136 Coffee, Iced . . 165 Coicon Arroz (Spanish Cabbage). . . 125 Coloured Luncheons . 130 Compote of Green Figs 64 Consomme a l’Estragon 186 Consomme au Riz . 186 Consomme, Cheap . 41 Cooking, Causes of Fail- urein . . 176-178 Cooking, Rudimentary Methods of . 72_88 Corn-Flour Panard . 217 Crab Creams, Iced . 195 Cream, Boston . . 280 Cream of Rabbit . .199 Cream of Salmon . 186 Cream, Pistachio. . 139 Cream Scones . . 1x3 Cream, Velvet Rice . 135 Cream, Walnut . -143 3° Cream-Cakes PAGE 157 Creams, Anchovy 147 Creams of Sweetbreads, Little 193 Creme d’lite Soup 185 Crumpets, Breakfast . 112 Cucumber Savoury, Simple 140 Cucumbers, Boiled 219 Currant Jelly, Red 256 Curried Haricot Beans 216 Curry, Indian 126 Curry, Rice for . 126 Custards in Cups, Cara- mel.... 133 Cutlets Alimabimeas . 196 Cutlets, Chocolate 206 Cutlets (Lamb) in Aspic 199 Cutlets (Mutton) a la Soubise . 196 Cutlets (Pigeon) with Cherries . 195 D ‘ Delmonico ’ Sweet- breads 192 Devilled Duck 197 Draining 87 Duck, Devilled . 197 E Eclairs, Chocolate 167 Edinburgh Fog . 136 Eggs k la Contadina . 104 Eggs k la Creme . 105 Eggs k la Reine . 208291 Index. Eggs, American Buttered PAGE 102 Fried Chicken, Virginian PAGE 122 Eggs, Austrian 103 Fried Trout 109 Eggs, Beauregard 102 Fruit Salad . 170 Eggs, Elgin IO4 Fruits, Macedoine of . 242 Eggs in Cups 105 Frying 85 Eggs, Scotch IO3 Frying, Causes of Fail- Eggs, Scrambled . 69 ure in 178 Elgin Eggs . Endives, Dressed IO4 139 G Espagnole Sauce. 200 Galantine of Fowl 234 Essence, Restorative . 54 Game-Pie, Cold . 109 F Failures in Cooking 176-178 Gingerbread, School- room Gingerbread Sponge- 159 Figs, Compote of Green 64 Cake 159 Fillets of Beef with Ginger-Cakes 153 Mushrooms 197 Glaze, Simple 229 Fillets of Beef with Glaze, Superior . 229 Spinach . 138 Glaze, White 235 Fillets of Hare with Gnocchi alia Romana . I25 Cherries . 19S Gravy, To Make . 77 Fish a la Reine . 129 Greek Pilaf. 127 Fish Creams with White Sauce 141 Greek Vegetable Marrows . 127 Fish Souffle 128 Green Figs, Compote of 64 Fog, Edinburgh . 136 Green Mayonnaise Fowl, Galantine of 234 Sauce 138 Fowl, To Bone a 232 Green-and-Gold Jelly . 242 Free Kirk Pudding 62 Grill Sauce . 201 French Beef Olives with Grilling 83 Tomato Sauce . 198 Grilling, Causes of Fail- F rench Beignets Souffles 269 ure in 177 French Pancakes. French Roll Sandwiches I3S 166 H Fricandelles 217 Haddock, Kippered 108 Fricassee of Chicken . 142 Haddock, Stuffed 128Index. 292 Hake with Bechamel PAGE Sauce 187 Ham Boiled in Cham- pagne 228 Ham Sauce. 201 Ham Savoury 209 Ham Toast . 210 Ham, To Boil, No. I. 228 Ham, To Boil, No. II. 229 Handy Measures . 264 Hare (Fillets of) with Cherries . 198 Hare, Roman 193 Hare Soup . 184 Haricot Beans, Curried 216 Horse-Radish Sauce . 203 Hot-Pot, Lancashire . 278 Hints to Remember 260-262 Huevos con Tomates . 100 I Ice Cream, Vanilla 247 Ice Creams, Brown Bread 205 Ice, Lemon-Water 279 Ice Pudding 203 Ice, Strawberry . 171 Iced Cheese 212 Iced Coffee . 165 Iced Crab, Chicken, or Veal Creams . i95 Iced Lobster Creams . 191 Iced Parmesan Creams 213 Iced Souffle 204 Iced Tea 166 Iced Zabajone 247 PAGE Indian Curry . .126 Invalid Meat Jelly . 54 Italian Oranges . . 282 J Jam, Hints for Straw- berry . . .254 Jam, Strawberry . . 253 Jam, Whole Strawberry 255 Jam-Making, Hints on 256 Jam-Tato Pudding . 134 Jellies, How to Make 238-240 Jelly, Aspic . . 225 Jelly, Blackberry (Bramble) 257 Jelly, Calves’ Feet 240 Jelly, Claret 241 Jelly, Green-and-Gold . 242 Jelly, Invalid Meat 54 Jelly, Orange 242 Jelly, Red-Currant 256 Jelly, Tomato 213 Jumbles, Almond 168 K Kedgeree 108 Kidneys with Wine Sauce and French Beans 199 Kippered Haddock 108 Kitchen-Range, Manage- ment of a . . 33-37 L Lamb Cutlets in Aspic 199 Lancashire Hot-Pot . 278293 Index. PAGE Lancashire Tea-Cakes . 163 Leeks, Puree of . . 183 Lemon-Water Ice . 279 Little Creams of Sweet- breads . . .193 Lobster Creams, Iced . 191 Luncheons, Coloured . 130 M Macaroons . . . 162 Macedoine of Fruits . 242 Mante Cados . . 134 Marmalade, Orange . 257 Marmalade, Scotch . 258 Marrows, Greek Vege- table . . .127 Mayonnaise, Aspic . 230 Mayonnaise Sauce, Green . . .138 Measures, Handy . 264 Meat, Baking of . . 79 Meringue Biscuit Cream 147 Meringues . . . 206 Mince-Meat . . 277 Mince-Meat, Great- Grandmother’s . .276 M inestra alia Capuccina 124 Mocha-Cake . . 157 Mousseline of Cod . 145 Mushrooms en Ragofit 211 Mutton Cutlets a la Soubise . . .196 N Normandy Soup . . 88 Nougat Baskets . . 247 0 PAGE Oat-Cakes . ”3 Omelette au Rhum 119 Omelette, Cheese 120 Omelette, Shrimp 120 Orange Jelly 242 Orange Marmalade 257 Orange-Cake 156 Orange-Cream Cake . 155 Oranges, Italian . 282 Oxford Tea-Cakes 163 P Pain-Perdu . 132 Panard, Corn-Flour 217 Pancakes, French 135 Parmesan Creams, Iced 213 Parsley Butter 139 Pastry, Puff 214 Pate de Foie Gras, Chartreuse of . 226 Peas, Ragout of . 218 Pie, Rabbit. IIO Pie, Yorkshire Christ- mas .... 283 Pigeon Cutlets with Cherries . 195 Pilaf, Greek I27 Pistachio Cream . 139 Plain White Soup 63 Plum-Pudding 274 Plum-Pudding Sauce . 275 Pop-Overs . 64 Potato-Cakes 162 Potatoes a la Maltre d’Hotel . 219294 Index. PAGE Potatoes (Fried) in Spirals. . . 220 Pudding, Adelaide . 203 Pudding, Free Kirk . 62 Pudding, Ice . . 203 Pudding, Jam-Tato . 134 Pudding, Plum . . 274 Pudding Sauce, Plum . 275 Pudding, Tot-Fait . 132 Puddings, The Queen of 136 Puff Pastry . . .214 Puree of Leeks . . 185 Puree of Pale-Green Spinach . . . 139 Q Queen of Puddings, The 136 R Rabbit, Cream of . 199 Rabbit, Salmis of . 131 Rabbit-Pie . . .1x0 Ragout of Peas . . 218 Ramequins, Cheese . 211 Rarebit, Tomato. . 89 Red-Currant Jelly . 256 Restorative Essence . 54 Restorative, Special . 52 Rice Cream, Velvet . 135 Rice for Curry . .126 Risotto alia Capuccina 124 Risotto all’ Italiana . 124 Riz h l’lmperatrice . 281 Roast Baron . . 217 Roasting, Causes of Failure in . . 177 Roll Sandwiches, PAGE French 166 Rolls, Breakfast . 112 Roman Hare 193 Roman Sauce 200 Rum Sorbets 279 Russian Salad 190 Russian Salad another Way 190 Russian Salad, Very Simple 64 S Salad, Fruit 170 Salad, Russian . 190 Salad, Russian, another W ay 190 Salad, Russian, Very Simple . 64 Salmis of Rabbit. 131 Salmon, Cream of 186 Salmon Sandwiches 166 Salmon Steaks 63 Salmon with Green Mayonnaise Sauce . 137 Salmon-Cakes 89 Sandwiches a l’Angou- leme 210 Sandwiches, Banana . 167 Sandwiches, French Roll 166 Sandwiches, Salmon . 166 Sandwiches, Strawberry 167 Sardinas con Tomates . 101 Sardines and Cheese . 99 Sardines in Batter 99 Sardines on Toast 100Index. 295 Sauce, Agro-Dolce PAGE 201 Sauce, Bechamel. 202 Sauce, Espagnole Sauce, Green Mayon- 200 naise 138 Sauce, Grill 201 Sauce, Flam 201 Sauce, Horse-Radish . 203 Sauce, Hot Chocolate . 204 Sauce, Plum-Pudding . 275 Sauce, Roman 200 Sauce, Tarragon . 202 Savoury, Beetroot 212 Savoury, Cheese . 209 Savoury, Ham 209 Savoury, Simple Cold Savoury, Simple, 213 Another . Savoury, Simple 214 Cucumber 140 Schoolroom Gingerbread 159 Scones, Cream 113 Scones, Little 169 Scones, Soda 113 Scotch Broth 131 Scotch Eggs 103 Scotch Marmalade 258 Scrambled Eggs . Shredded Wheat and 69 Mushrooms 2l6 Shrimp Omelette. 120 Simple Cold Savoury . Simple Savoury, 213 Another . Simple Cucumber 214 Savoury . I40 PAGE Simple Wheaten Bread 114 Snow, Australian . 135 Soda Scones . . 113 Sole a la Genoese . 129 Sole a la Searle . .187 Sole au Gratin . .188 Sorbets, Rum . . 279 Souffle, Fish . .128 Souffle, Iced . . 204 Souffles, French Beignets 269 Souffles, Tosca . . 205 Soup, Almond . .184 Soup, Celery Cream . 140 Soup, Chantilly . . 137 Soup, Chestnut . .183 Soup, Clear. . 41-43 Soup, Creme d’Ete . 185 Soup, Everyday Clear . 120 Soup, Hare. . .184 Soup, Normandy . 88 Soup, Plain White . 63 Soup, Tomato . .144 Spanish Cabbage . 125 Spinach, Puree of Pale- Green . . . 139 Spirals, Potatoes Fried in . . . 220 Sponge-Cake, Ginger- bread . . -159 Sponge-Cake, Simple . 158 Spun Sugar. . . 246 Steaks, Salmon . . 63 Steaming . . .81 Steaming, Causes of Failure in . .178 Stewing ... 80Index. 296 PAGE PAGE Stewing, Causes of Fail- Torrijas de Pan . 134 ure in 177 Tosca Souffles 205 Stock, White 141 Tot-Fait Pudding 132 Strawberry Ice . 171 Tourne-Dos with Pink Strawberry Jam . 253 Sauce 145 Strawberry Jam, Hints Trifle .... 244 for . 254 Trifle, American . 282 Strawberry Jam, Whole 255 Trout, Fried 109 Strawberry Sandwiches 167 Twists, Breakfast 112 Stuffed Haddock. 12S V Sugar, Spun 246 Sunshine-Cake 156 Vanilla Ice Cream 247 Sweetbreads * Delmo- Veal Creams, Iced 195 nico ’ 192 Vegetable Marrows, Sweetbreads en Surprise 191 Greek 127 Sweetbreads, Little Velvet Rice Cream 135 Creams of 193 Virginian Fried Chicken 122 T W Tarragon Sauce . 202 Walnut Cream . 143 Tea .... 98 Walnuts, Caramel 249 Tea Bretzels 158 Wheaten Bread, Simple 114 Tea, Iced . 166 White Chaudfroid 23O Tea-Cakes, Lancashire 163 White Soup, Plain 63 Tea-Cakes, Oxford 163 White Stock I4I Tipsy-Cake. 280 v Toast, Ham 210 X Tomato Cheese . 211 Yorkshire Christmas Tomato Jelly 213 Pie . 283 Tomato Rarebit . 89 Tomato Soup 144 Z Tomatoes filled with Zabajone, Iced 247 Cream 192 Zweiback . 159 Edinburgh: Printed by W. & R. Chambers, Limited.-,*vRECORD OF TREATMENT, EXTRACTION, REPAIR, etc. Pressmark: Binding Ref No: \ °1 •: U Microfilm No: Date 2S I 2 i °\~) Particulars Chemical Treatment Fumigation Deacidification Pi b/V Lamination Solvents Leather Treatment Adhesives Remarks