87 CAKES. rather thick custard made with half a pint thick cream, three whole eggs, 4oz. of sugar, and a little vanilla or any other flavouring preferred. Bake this half an hour in a quick oven, and serve hot or cold, sprinkled with “ hundreds and thousands ” or with vanilla sugar. If served cold, cut the cake into wedge-shaped pieces from the centre. Be careful when baking this cake to ensure due bottom heat, or the paste will be heavy. Cake, Currant.—2lb. of good clarified dripping or marrow fat, 2lb. of Demerara sugar, 41b. of currants, 71b. of flour, 3oz. of baking powder, and a few drops of prepared turmei'ic. Mix as before, moistening with a little butter- milk. Bake in a moderateoven for two hours for a 41b. size. This makes a really excellent nursery or school cake. Or : lib. of flour rubbed to crumbs with a pinch of salt, a dessertspoonful of baking powder, and 4oz. of butter, clarified dripping, or marrow fat; when quite dry and powdery, mix in 4oz. of moist sugar, Alb. of well-washed and dried currants, loz. of shr-ed candied peel, and a quarter of a grated nutmeg. Mix thoroughly to a stiff paste with either milk or water. Delicate.—Take 4oz, of creamed fresh butter, |lb. sugar, lib. well washed and dried currants, 21b. of flour sifted with loz. carbonate of soda, and a pint of new milk. Mix this well and bake in a hot oven as soon as it is mixed. Diet.—Take the weight of nine eggs in sugar, the weight of five in flour; whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and the yolks till quite light, then mix them, stir in the sugar, the flour, and a few carraway seeds, and beat it all well together. Bake in a well papered hoop. Dough.—This is an excellent cake for school treats, &c., and if carefully made is very good. For every 41b. of bread dough (risen ready for making up into loaves), allow 11b. of butter or good clarified dripping, 12oz. sugar, two eggs, a dust of mixed spice, a gill of hot water and 3lb. currants or sultanas, or mixed; lay the dough on a well-