99 CAKES. Cake, Irish Plum.—lib. of butter, lilb, of flour, lib. caster sugar, l£lb. currants, 4oz. almonds, 4oz. peel, nine eggs, a wineglassful of brandy. Beat the butter to a cream, then work in the sugar, next the eggs (the yolks and whites beaten separately and very thoroughly), lastly the flour, beating it all continuously from the moment you begin mixing it. Just before putting it into the oven add the peel finely shredded, the well washed and dried currants, and the almon’s pounded finely. This makes a capital cake, but requires much beating and elbow work. Plum (a la vanille).—Pile l^lb. of flour on a board, make a hollow in the centre, and put into this £oz. caster sugar, Joz. fine salt, the yolks of three eggs, lib. of butter, and a glass of good cream; beat this all well together, drawing the' flour gradually from the sides till it is all well mixed in ; then roll it out like puff paste four times, sprinkling it each time with powdered vanilla ; mix in then as many stoned raisins or sultanas as you please, press the cake into a tin 3 inches deep, surround it with bands of buttered paper, and bake in a quick oven for three hours. Porter.—Bub 4oz. of butter into lib. of flour; then mix in £lb. well washed and dried currants, the same of sultanas or stoned raisins, two teaspoonfuls of mixed spice, the finely-grated rind of one lemon, a teaspoonful of car- bonate of soda on to which has been poured a quarter pint of heated porter, and four eggs broken (not beaten) into the mixture; beat altogether for twenty minutes, then bake for three hours in a slow oven. To be kept three days before use in an airtight tin. The recipes for this cake only vary slightly in detail; for instance, in some, finely-shred candied peel is given instead of fresh lemon peel, while one adds 2oz. blanched and shred almonds to the mixture. Potato.—Bub 4oz. clarified dripping into lib. of flour, then work into it lib. of mashed mealy potatoes, an egg, a teaspoonful of baking powder, a pinch of salt, and as much tepid milk as will mix it to a nice smooth paste. H 2