49 HOLLS, &ci. well with a fork, dust a baking sheet lightly with rice flour (do not butter it), arrange the biscuits on this and bake at once in a very hot oven. To ensure success with these biscuits the dough must be worked in a warmish place and guarded from draughts till it gets into the oven. In baking set the biscuits at first in the very hottest part of the oven to blister and brown the surface, then shift them to a somewhat cooler part; but the oven must always be very hot and the work done very quickly. Like all plain hard biscuits, captains should always be well dried after baking, setting them for some hours in a dry warm place, or a slack oven. Thiele Captains are made in precisely the same away, only breaking the dough off in 2oz. pieces, rolling these out a quarter of an inch thick, in rounds (or rolling the dough in a sheet and stamping it out with a cutter), then pricking them well through. Abernethy bis- cuits are made like thick captains, only adding 2oz. of carraway seeds to the mixture, and baking the biscuits in a somewhat cooler oven than for captains. Milk is also often used instead of water, in the mixing. Biscuits, Cracker.—Work a tablespoonful of equal parts of lard and butter with a pinch of salt into a quart of flour till it has all crumbled into dry crumbs, then mix it to a stiff paste with water, and knead it well till it blisters; roll it out thin, stamp it out into squares or rounds, prick well, and bake at once in a quick but not fierce oven. These can be made either thin or thick, but should be dry and crisp. These biscuits, pounded and sifted, are the well- known “ cracker crumbs ” used by American cooks inatead of ordinary breadcrumbs. Cracknell.—Into 4^1b. of flour, rub 4oz. of butter, then make a bay in the mixture; mix twelve whole well beaten eggs, a gill of milk, £lb. of sugar, and a piece of “ vol ” or rock ammonia, the size of a pea, in another basin, whisking them together for two or three minutes; now pour this into the bay and work it up from the bottom, as K