BREAD, CAKES. AND BISCUITS. 06 cake rather lighter than the foundation, now gold cake, then chocolate, and lastly snow cake), and cover with any icing you may have over. This cake is also called Harlequin cake. Cake, Light.—Beat together for an hour 6oz. each of sifted flour and rice flour (creme de riz), |lb. caster sugar, the yolks and whites of nine eggs beaten separately, and ioz. carraway seeds. Bake for an hour in a quick oven. This makes a very light cake, specially suitable for children, or persons with delicate digestions. Lunch.—4oz. of butter or lard, 4-oz. ground rice, 4oz. sultanas, |lb. of flour, one Avhole egg, 2oz. sugar, a tea- spoonful of baking powder, and enough milk to moisten it nicely. Bake in a buttered tin thirty to forty-five minutes. Serve plain, dusted with sugar. Madeira.—This is a really good trade recipe : Take lib. each of butter, caster sugar, and eggs (be sure and weigh these), ljlb. sifted flour, a teaspoonful of.(baking powder, and a little milk. Beat the butter to a cream with the sugar, and when it is quite thick, light, and white add the eggs gradually, one or two at a time (if you put in too many at a time the mixture is very apt to thin suddenly, and curdles as you beat it). When these are all well blended, stir in lightly the flour (into which the baking powder should have been sifted), moistening the mixture, if necessary, with a very little milk. Pour this mixture at once into a tin or tins lined with buttered paper and bake in a fairly sharp oven (but not too hot a one), shifting the cake, as soon as it has fully risen and is nicely coloured, to a cooler part of oven, and cover with a sheet of buttered paper. A lib. cake of this mixture takes about thirty-five minutes to bake, a 21b. size fifty minutes. Of course, flavouring to taste, such as vanilla, essence of lemon, or finely grated lemon peel, may be added to the mixture at the last to flavour it. Or: Work 8oz. of butter to a cream with the same weight of Demerara sugar, then add five