153 FOREIGN CAKES. golden colour in a moderately hot oven. Turn it out and serve. If preferred, the spirit may he omitted altogether or replaced by liqueur syrup. Abroad, a baba is usually served as a dinner sweet, and is sent to table hot with a rich jam sauce, or a fruit or liqueur syrup poured over it. It is of Polish origin, and is the same class of cake as a savarin, or brioche. Brioche.—Put about 4oz. of sifted flour on the pastry board (or, better still, if at hand, the pastry slab), make a hollow in the centre and pour into this §oz. of German yeast dissolved in a little tepid water; work it together, adding, if necessary, a little more warm water to get it just to a soft mass. Be careful to use as little water as possible. Now knead it all up into a ball and put it into a delicately clean pan capable of holding at least three times as much, cover the lid down closely, and set it in a moderately warm place to rise. It does not need to be hot, in fact, in ordinary summer weather it may stand anywhere in the kitchen out of the draught, except close to the fire. Mean- while, put 12oz. of flour on the board, hollow it out as before, and into this hollow put about a teaspoonful each of salt and sugar, and dissolve it with two tablespoonfuls of water; now mix in lOoz. of butter and six eggs (three at a time), working it well with both hands to get it thoroughly mixed. There is a knack in mixing brioche paste, which, though easy enough to acquire if seen, is rather difficult to describe. You should work it with both fists pressed flat on the slab, working it back and fcrtli, gathering the dough together closely with both hands, and slapping it down on the slab till there are no lumps in the dough, and the paste is as elastic and yielding as a lump of indiarubber. By this time the sponge (i.e., the flour and yeast ball) should have risen to about three times its first size, so lift it out and spread it on the mass of worked dough (it should look like a piece of sponge, whence its name), and work the two mixtures well but