134 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. candied peel, and bake in a moderate oven. A very nice variation of this is made by using lib. of flour, £lb. of buttei-, two whole eggs, Goz. caster sugar, 2oz. grated chocolate (or li oz. ground cinnamon), and enough milk tc make a nice dough. Finish as before. Cakes, Sly.—Roll out any pieces and trimmings of pastrj left after apple pie or tart making; cover with tiny dab; of butter, clarified dripping, or beef marrow; fold it and roll it out again, keeping it as even and square as you can. Have i*eady somo currants or sultanas previous!} marinaded for an hour or so in wine or liqueur (rum is the proper thing, and only a very little spirit of any kind is needed, as a tablespeonful is enough for 4oz. or 5oz. of fruit); cover half the paste with these, dusting them as you do so with sugar and a little powdered spice to taste; then cover with the rest of the paste, pressing the two sheets vTell together; stamp them out in rounds, Ac., and bake in a hot oven. Eat plain or buttered, hot or cold. Orange Sandwich.—Grate the yellow outer part of one orange, after washing it well, and press out the juice. Put ilb. of flour, 3oz. of sugar, and 2oz. of butter into a basin, and sift into it half a teaspoonful of soda; mix the butter carefully into the flour till it is quite rubbed down. Put the yolks of three eggs into a basin and beat them well; add to them the grated orang; rind and juice, and mix thoroughly ; then add one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, and stir again ; pour all into the basin with the Hoar, Ac., and mix well. Beat the whites of the three eggs until stiff, and stir them in, pour all into two well-buttei’ed sandwich cake tins, or two soup plates, and bake till ready. When cool, split and spi-ead with the following mixture : One orange, 3oz. of icing sugar, one white of egg. Grate the rind of the orange, press out the juice and mix into the sugar, beat the white of egg stiffly, and stir in. Spread it over the cakes, put the two sides together, cut neatly, and serve.