FOREIGN CAKES. 169 Merveilles.—Take £lb. of fine sifted flour, three whole and very fresh eggs, a pinch of salt, a very small piece of butter, and one and a half spoonfuls of eau de vie. Mix all these to a rather stiff dough, which must be well worked to make it light. Allow it then to rest for ten minutes, being careful to cover it with a slightly damp napkin, so that the paste may not dry up. Make this latter up into little balls, and then roll these out as thinly as possible, cut them out with a pastry cutter into an oval shape, running the cutter three times right across the length, without, however, cutting it through at either end, and lay each as done on a cloth. Have ready some very hot frying fat, and place the merveilles one by one in it, turning them over all the time with a skimmer, and lift them out the moment they are nicely but not too strongly coloured. They should puff out almost as soon as they are in the fat. Drain them very carefully on a paper, and dish them on a napkin, dusting them liberally with powdered sugar. To be eaten hot or cold. If properly made they will not spot the napkin in the least. Millefeuilles, Gateau (also known as Gateau Milfras).— From some good puff-paste, not too thinly rolled out, cut some rounds, the first the size of a plate, the rest decreasing in size; place these separately on papered baking tins and bake till lightly coloured and cooked. Now lift out the tins, lay white paper over the rounds, and a lightly weighted iron baking sheet on this and leave till quite cold, when you spread each round with any icing to taste, arranging each on top of the other till you have built them up into a kind of pyramid, put a glace fruit on the apex, and serve when firm. If preferred the rounds may be cut of equal size, and all but the top one spread with a sheet of bavaroise, jolly, Vienna icing, or any filling to taste ; they are then built up as before, the whole cake being iced with any icing you please, and garnished to taste with fruit, nuts, and rosettes of pink and white Vienna icing.