08 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. &oz. of baking powder, and stand it all on tho screen to get warm. Butter a plain charlotte mould, paper it, and dust it with equal parts of flour and sugar, pour in the cake mixture, and bake one and a quarter hours in a very mode- rate oven. Then turn it out and let it get quite cold on a pastry rack or a reversed sieve; it can now be either sliced, spread with marmalade rubbed through a sieve, the slices replaced in position, and iced with orange glace (6oz. of icing sugar warmed over the fire with one and a half table- spoonfuls of orange juice, and stirred till smooth), or it may be left whole, and iced with glace made with half orange juice, half Curagoa. Cake, Orange,—Work together lightly the yolks of three and the whites of two eggs with 6oz. caster sugar till it is thick. Now add the juice and grated rind of two oranges to it. Sift together two teaspoonfuls of baking powder and 4oz. of fine dried flour, and stir this all lightly and quickly into the previous mixture. Pour this into two round flat cake tins and bake about twenty minutes. Let this cool, mixing meanwhile fib. of icing sugar with the strained juice of an orange and a good squeeze of lemon juice. When the cakes are quite cold spread over thickly with this icing, place the second round on it, and cover all over with the rest of this icing. Serve plain, or divide up two or three Tangerine oranges, removing all pith and pips, dip each in sugar, boiled to the “ crack,” and arrange them all round the edge of the cake, making a star of them in the middle, with tiny leaves cut out of angelica. Parkin (real old Yorkshire).—Melt together ljlb. of treacle, ilb. of butter, and jib. of sugar, with ginger to taste; then work this well into 2lb. of fine sifted oatmeal, and bake in well-greased tins in a moderate oven. It rises a good deal in baking. Or: 4lb. fine oatmeal, 61b. treacle, 4oz. butter, four teaspoonfuls of ground ginger, and one teaspoonful of carbonate of soda; mix well, and bake in well-greased tins in a very, very slow oven.