66 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS near the fire till light and milk warm), an 1 when it is all mixed beat it well together for fully ten minutes, adding gradually half a pint warm milk; put it into well buttered tins, and bake in a moderate oven. Or, make little loaves with a dough composed of 4*oz. gluten flour, loz. prepared bran flour, a teaspoonful of salt, one and a half table- spoonfuls of yeast, and a little warm water, and bake in a moderate oven. Parker House Rolls.—These, like the following l’ecipes, are also American. Mix half a teaspoonful of salt with a quart of flour, then work into it a good tablespoonful of butter or lard. Dissolve one-sixth of an ounce of compressed yeast in a gill of warm water; scald half a pint of milk; then, off the fire, dissolve in it 2oz. or so of sugar, and mix into this, when it is tepid, the dissolved yeast; make a hollow in the flour, Ac., and pour into this the milk, yeast, Ac., drawing a little flour down from the sides over the batter. Now cover this well, and set it aside to rise. If you set this sponge at 5 p.m., stir the whole thoroughly together with a spoon about 10 p.m., then next morning turn this dough on to a postry board, and roll it out evenly about half an inch thick. Lift this sheet of dough off the board and let it shrink as much as it will before cutting it out with a plain cutter or a tumbler; place a small piece of butter on one side, and double the other over so that the edges meet; set these cakes to rise for two hours, then bake twenty minutes in a sharp oven. If these rolls are wanted for tea, set the sponge early in the morning—nearly double the amount of yeast given above will be required in this case. Brioche Rolls.—Make a sponge with 4oz. flour, a pinch of salt, $oz. yeast, and half a gill of tepid milk, working it into a smooth dough. Ivnead it well together, then let it rise in a basin in a warm corner for thirty minutes or so. Meanwhile, mix together §lb. of flour, Alb. butter, a short }oz. caster sugar, a tablespoonful of warm water, and three whole eggs; work this all well together, mixing in the eggs