CAKE DECORATION, &c. 189 sugar, and the two should be stirred together till the mixture becomes light and creamy. Remember when adding eggs to a cake mixture only to add them two or three at a time, or they will curdle and suddenly thin the mixture. Each lot should be well mixed in before adding the next. As the freshness of eggs is of such importance, it is well to give a method of testing them: I. Encircle the egg with your finger and thumb, and then hold it up to the light; if the egg is clear and transparent it is all right, but if cloudy or dark in patches it is, to say the least, suspicious; any way, with bought eggs especially, always break each separately into a basin before mixing it with the rest of the materials. II. Dissolve 2oz. kitchen salt in a pint of warm water in a basin, and when this solution is cold put in the eggs to be tested. A new laid egg will sink at once to the bottom and stay there ; if a day or two old it will sink and then rise a little off the bottom; if three days old it will float half way between the bottom and the surface ; getting nearer and nearer to the surface the staler it is, till what is called the “ shop egg ” will project right out of the water. The butter should be of the best quality, fresh if possible; or if salt must be used, wash and work it well in several waters, finally pressing it in a cloth to extract every drop of moisture. Unless butter is hard and cold it will oil, and make whatever it is mixed with heavy. Butter should always be kept in a cool, not to say a cold, place; abroad the cellar is always chosen for its storage. In summer, when it is difficult to keep it firm, take a good lump of ice and after well washing it put it in a pan full of cold water, and put in the butter broken up fairly small, watch it, for the very moment the butter begins to “ ice ” it must be well worked in the icy cold water, then care- fully wiped with a clean cloth, and used at once. In the country where ice is not always attainable, if there is a