102 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. with J>lb. of sugar; then add four eggs previously beaten up with two or three spoonfuls of mirk, and beat these in well; next stir in a pound of flour (sifted with a teaspoon- ful of baking powder), and lastly add two full table- spoonfuls of raspberry jam (this may be sieved if preferred), mix it all well, put the mixture (leaving room for it to rise) into a papered mould, dusted with flour and sugar, and bake. Be careful not to shake or jar the cake or to open the oven door till the top has set, or it will very likely drop in the centre. A drop or two of carmine may be added to this cake, if necessary, to improve the colour, but it should not be too dark. Cake, Ribbon.—Beat 4oz. of fresh butter to a cream with lib. of caster sugar, and lastly the yolks of four eggs. Now stir in a teaspoonful of vanilla or lemon essence, half a pint of new milk, and 12oz. fine sifted flour. Mix this all thoroughly, then stir in lightly and quickly the whites of the eggs whipped to a very stiff froth, and about a tablespoonful of baking powder ; take out one-third of the mixture and work into it quickly a spoonful of cinnamon (the quantity of this is a matter of taste), £lb. washed and dried currants, and about 2oz. finely shredded candied citron peel. Butter three shallow pans of the same size, fill one with the fruit mixture, and put the rest of the dough in the others, and bake half an hour in a moderate oven. Turn them out directly they are baked, and, when slightly cooled, spread one of the light cakes and the dark one with royal icing flavoured to taste, and mixed with shred pistachios or almonds (either blanched or baked a golden brown), place the fruit cake on the plain one, and on the top press lightly the other plain cake, put a sheet of white paper over it all, then a clean baking sheet, and on this a couple of fairly light weights. Let it stand to press for an hour, then remove the weights, and serve either plain or iced to taste. This cake can be varied by varying the icings.