ir,6 BREAD, CAKES, AND BTSCUITS. floured baking sheet, let it rise for a few minutes again, then cook for three-quarters of an hour; when ready take them out, brush them over at once with liquefied butter, and dust them with caster sugar mixed with a little powdered cinnamon. These cakes are better if kept for two or three days before eating. Brannschweiger Kuchen (German).—Make a good dough with about lib. of fine, dry, sifted flour, fib. of fresh butter, the yolks of four eggs, three-quarters of a pint of cream, four tablespoonfuls of fresh brewer’s yeast, a pinch of salt, and a tablespoonful of sugar ; work it well as stated above, set it to rise, then work into it about 4oz. of sultanas and currants respectively. Spread the dough on a buttered paper in a layer of the thickness of half to three-quarters of an inch; cover it with a cloth, and set it to rise till more than double its original thickness ; prick it all over with a pointed piece of wood, brush it with egg, sprinkle the cake thickly with chopped almonds and a little sugar, and bake slowly for half an hour. Butter Kuchen (German).—Beat Jib. of butter to a cream, then work in one whole egg and 4oz. caster sugar; now add in gradually Jib. of flour, working it till the paste leaves the side of the basin, and flavour it to taste. In Germany cinnamon is mostly used to flavour this cake. When well mixed, spread it on a floured baking tin, to the depth of two inches, and let it bake for five minutes; then lift it out, and with a knife mark it out pretty deeply into squares or strips, return it to the oven and let it bake for twenty-five minutes longer, then lift it out and serve dusted with coarsely pounded loaf sugar, chopped almonds, and a little cinnamon or vanilla, &c. This paste when cooked is so brittle that, unless divided before it is fully baked, it would crumble to pieces. Chocolate Cake (American).—Take two cups of sugar, three-quarters of a cup of butter, one cup of milk, three and a half cups of flour, the yolks of five eggs and the