HOUSEHOLD AND FANCY BREADS. 27 meal, oatmeal, or Indian corn meal may be used in making this bread, allowing one-quarter to one-third of either of these meals to three-quarters or two-thirds of white flour. Brown Bread (American).—Two quarts of Indian corn meal, one quart of rye flour, and two tablespoonfuls of molasses ; mix it well together with enough good sweet milk to make a dough. Let it stand for two hours, then bake in a slow oven. (Boston).—For this, mix together thoroughly two cupfuls each of white cornflour, yellow corn meal, and ordinary wheat meal (or Graham flour, or rye flour, to taste), with a teaspoonful of salt; then mix it all with two cupfuls of boiling water, and a cupful of milk in which you have mixed a cupful of molasses, working this last well into the flour; at the last dissolve a teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda in a cupful of sour milk, and stir this also into the mixture. Then turn it all into a covered mould, and steam it for three hours, after which take off the lid and bake it for half an hour. If sour milk is not handy, fresh or sweet milk may be used, but the sour milk is best. Another version of this bread is made by scalding a pint of Indian corn meal with just enough boiling water to moisten it thoroughly without making it sloppy. Let this stand for ten minutes, then add to it enough cold water to make it all to a soft batter, when you work into it a gill of brewer’s yeast, a gill of molasses, one pint of rye flour, half a tea- spoonful of salt, and a saltspoonful of bicarbonate of soda. When this is all thoroughly worked together, set it to rise till the next morning ; then, when light again, knead it thoroughly; two-thirds fill a buttered tin with the mix- ture, dust it with a little flour, and again let it rise, after which bake it for two hours. (This makes delicious toast.) Cake Bread.—Take a quartern of well risen dough, then work into it, kneading it well, 2oz. of butter (or well Clarified dripping), 2oz. of sugar (caster or moist), and Go?.