168 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. then of the dark mixtures, and continue these layers till it is all used, -when the cake must he baked in a moderate oven for forty-five to sixty-minutes, putting a piece of paper over the top if you think the oven is too sharp. Or ; white part: Whites of four eggs, Jib. white sugar, 4oz. of butter, a gill of sweet milk, a teaspoonful of cream of tartar, and half a teaspoonful of soda. For the dark: Yolks of four eggs, Jib. of brown sugar, 4oz. of molasses, 4oz. of butter, a gill of sour milk, a teaspoonful of soda, and mixed spice to taste. First layer should be dark, the next white, and so on till done, and bake. This is made in the same way as the first. Marzipan (German).—It is very similar to the almond icing so much appreciated on wedding cakes. Take, for instance, ^lb. of almonds, twenty bitter almonds, and Jib. of sugar. Scald, peel, and dry the almonds, pound them all in a mortar, and then press them through a sieve. To avoid too much stiffness in the paste, moisten occasionally during the pounding process with a little rose or orange flower water; crush and sift the sugar, which must be very finely powdered, put it into a copper saucepan with the almonds, stand it over the fire, and stir steadily until the paste has attained the proper consistency; this will be tested by putting the tip of the finger in the contents of the sauce- pan, if the mixture does not adhere it is ready. Sprinkle some sugar on a pastry board and knead the almond paste, make it into a ball, wrap it in a sheet of clean paper, and keep it in a cool, dry place till wanted. It will remain good for some days, and need, therefore, not all be used at once; or it can be made beforehand. The rest of the process is quite simple. Roll it out on the board (if too stiff, moisten with some white of egg), work it to any desired thickness, cut the paste into fancy shapes, and dry (rather than bake them) in a moderate oven. They can also be covered with fruit, or merely be sprinkled with