171 FOREIGN CAKES. up to the edge, brush them over with egg, and bake them in a hot oven. Pate d Poupelin, 4"c. (French).—Put 4oz. of butter in a stewpan, together with nearly half a pint of water, and add a pinch of salt. When it boils stir in 4oz. of sifted Vienna flour and the rind of half a lemon finely chopped, and work over the fire until the flour is cooked. The pate must be very stiff, and the sides of the pan must become quite clean before it is taken off the fire. Let it cool a little, then work in a whole egg and the yolk of one egg; beat well for a few minutes, and use when cold.—A la Turque; Sift Jib. of flour into a basin, rub in lightly 4oz. of butter. Blanch, peel, and chop finely 4oz. of sweet almonds, weigh 6oz. of caster sugar, and add these to the flour and butter. Sprinkle over half a teaspoonful of powdered saffron and a pinch of salt. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, beat up an egg, and work this in until a smooth paste is obtained. A little water may be added if found too stiff.—A la Duchesse : Put half a pint of cream, loz. of caster sugar, 2oz. of butter, one teaspoonful of orange-flower water’, and a pinch of salt in a stewpan. Let it come to the boil, and stir in 5oz. of best flour, sifted. Work it over the fire for a few minutes, then add a well-beaten egg. Mix thoroughly, and use when cooled.—d’Amandes; Pound Jib. of blanched almonds in a mortar. When quite fine pass through a sieve, return to the mortar, and add Jib. of icing sugar. Mix well, and moisten with the juice of half a lemon and a dessertspoonful of water. Put all in a stewpan, and stir over the fire until warm; then turn out, and use when cold.—Another Way ; Put |lb. of lump sugar and half a gill of water into a copper sugar boiler, add three drops of essence of almond, and allow it to dissolve. Place it on the fire and boil for a few minutes (“ blow ” degree), then add Goz. of ground almonds and a pinch of powdered saffron, stir well, and work in the yolk of an egg. Turn out on to a marble slab and work to a smooth paste.