140 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. of water, and bake in a slow oven. Be careful to get the paste to a nice soft dough, for if too soft or liquid it will run in the baking, whilst if too stiff the macaroons will be heavy. If the jelly is omitted, and rosewater used instead of vanilla, these are known as M. de Bruxelles. Macaroons, Almond.—Blanch and pound fib. sweet and 4oz. bitter almonds, using a little egg white to prevent their oiling, and let them stand till next day. Now whisk three egg whites to a stiff froth, working in gradually, a very little at a time, three full tablespoonfuls of sifted sugar, and when this is amalgamated add in lightly a teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, mace, and nutmeg, all sifted together, and a teaspoonful of either rose or orange-flower water, lastly adding in by degrees the pounded almonds. Be careful about the con- sistency of this paste for the above given reasons, thinning the dough with a little liquid, or thickening it with a few more pounded almonds, as may be needful. Now take up little pieces of this dough and roll it in your floured hands into little balls rather bigger than large marbles, set these on a buttered baking sheet, 2in. apart, lay some shred and blanched almonds on each, brush them over with plain sugar and water syrup, and bake for eight or nine minutes in a moderate oven till of a delicate fawn colour. Filberts, pistachios, or any nuts, can be used for this recipe, where variety is desired. . Chocolate.—Peel and pound fib. of almonds, mix with this «lb. of powdered sugar and four chocolate sticks (i.e., four divisions as they are usually marked on Suchard’s and other foreign chocolate when sold by the pound packet for cooking purposes, &c.), previously softened to a pulp by being placed just inside the oven. Moisten this paste when well mixed with enough white of egg to bring it to the proper consistency without making it wet. Drop it on buttered paper with a spoon, and bake as above. Grate very finely 2oz. of vanilla flavoured