125 BISCUITS AND SMALL CAKES. dissolved in just enough boiling milk to melt it). Set the buns in a warm place for twenty-five to thirty minutes to rise, and bake twenty minutes in a moderate oven. Buns, Cocoanut.—Beat to a cream Mb. of white sugar and 3oz. of butter, add one gill of milk and one egg by degrees, then gib- of flour, into which has been sifted one tea- spoonful of baking powder; add lib. of cocoanut, mix well, shape into buns, and bake for fifteen or twenty minutes. Cream.—Put lib. of flour in a basin, make a hollow in it with your knuckles, pour a teaspoonful of yeast, dissolved in a teacupful of tepid milk, into this, mixing into it a little flour from the sides, then cover and let it rise near the fire. Meanwhile, cream 6oz. of butter, or use 5oz. or Goz. of clotted or thick cream, beat it up lightly with four whole eggs and a little flavouring to taste, and add this to the flour when well risen. Work the whole well together, again let it rise for an hour or so, and, when well risen, put little balls of this dough on to well buttered baking tins, 2in. to 3in. apart (being light these drop into bun shape), brush each over with egg and milk beaten up together, dust with roughly crushed loaf sugar, and bake in a moderate oven. Currant or "Penny.”—To half a gallon of water at 94° Fahr. add lib. moist sugar and 5oz. German yeast. When this is all thoroughly dissolved, mix in well 7Mb. of flour. Let this rise, then add lib. lard and butter, 2oz. salt, and washed and dried currants to taste. Let it all rise again for half an hour in a warm place, then weigh it off in 2oz. or 3oz. buns, wash them over with egg, and bake. (This is a trade recipe.) Eggless.—Work2oz. butter, or clarified dripping, into a full pint of light, well risen bread dough, with two heaped tablespoonfuls of sugar, and grated nutmeg to taste. Let this all rise for an hour, then turn it on to a well-floured board and knead it till it is full of air bubbles and is elastic to the touch. Again let it rise for an hour.