BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. 16 tartaric acid, lib. carbonate of soda, 21b. potato flour, and about 1| drachms of turmeric. If the turmeric is omitted, this makes by no means a bad baking powder. Failing baking powder, a mixture of sour milk and carbonate of soda, in the proportion of one teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda to half a pint of milk, is excellent for cakes, scones, &c. Indeed, in Scotland it is chiefly used for the latter piu-pose. Finally, besides baking powders of various sorts, there are the self-raising flours, such as Coomb’s Eureka, or Brown and Poison’s Paisley flour, in which fine wheat or cornflour are carefully mixed with a due proportion of chemicals, and simply need to be wetted without other addition to make the dough. Both the flours mentioned are highly to be recommended for the use of amateurs, full directions for their use being sent with them. A very good home-made self-raising flour of this kind is produced by sifting together, carefully and repeatedly, loz. of tartaric acid and Joz. of bicarbonate of soda, with 2lb. of fine flour. Be sure this is well blended, and keep it in a dry place in a well-covered wooden or earthenware pan. This last remark gives the one chief difficulty with these flours, viz., the fact that if, by any accident, damp or moisture, in however slight a form, gets near them they are spoilt, as effervescence sets up, and all their value is lost. The last general point to be considered in baking is the oven. On the proper regulation of the heat of this success almost entirely depends. The materials may be of the best, the mixing perfect, but if the baking or “ firing,” as it is technical^ called, is not properly attended to failure is inevitable. The time bread -will take to bake will depend on the size of the loaf, the heat of the oven, and the light- ness of the dough. If only a small quantity of salt has been used in the mixing the dough will be light and dry, and will in consequence bake very quickly. If, however, a small quantity or a low quality of yeast has been used,