BREAD, CAKES, AND BTSCUITS. 86 over with butter, dust it with equal parts of flour and sugar, knock the tin on the table to remove any superfluous flour or sugar, pour in the mixture, and bake about thirty minutes in a moderate oven. Let this cake stand for a minute or two in the tin before turning it out, and either serve plain, dusted with caster sugar, or ice it with coffee glace, and ornament with pink and white Viennese icing.—• Coffee Glace: Stir 6oz. of caster sugar over the fire, with three dessertspoonfuls each of coffee and hot water, till smooth and warm, and use.—Viennese Icing: Work 5oz. icing sugar smooth with 2oz. of fresh butter, then mix in a liqueurglassful of either maraschino or Cognac till it is like a cream. Colour part rose pink with a few drops of liquid carmine. Apply this last icing with a rose pipe, after the first glace is thoroughly set. Blanched and split almonds are also used to garnish this cake. Cake, Coffee.—Jib. of butter, 6oz. brown sugar, three eggs, fib. of flour, one large teaspoonful of cloves, the same of allspice and of grated nutmeg, three ditto of cinnamon, 2lb. of raisins, fib. of currants, 4oz. citron peel, 6oz. molasses, half a pint of warm black coffee, and a full tablespoonful of baking powder. Beat the butter to a cream, then beat in the sugar, add the eggs, then the flour and spice, beating it all together vigorously; mix the citron (shredded) with the washed and stoned raisins and the well-cleansed and dried currants, flour them all well, and add them into the cake. Mix in the coffee and the molasses, stirring it thoroughly together, then the baking powder, and pour it into a cake tin lined with greased paper, and bake in a very moderate oven. Cream (Tarte a la creme).—Mix Jib. fine flour with 2oz. caster sugar; now beat 4oz. of fresh butter to a cream, and work in one whole egg, then work this into the flour and sugar. Have ready a round tart tin, with straight sides, flour it, and line it with this paste (a fleur ring would do), pinching up the edges well. Now pour into this q,