161 FOREIGN CAKES. flavouring, alternately with small quantities of flour. Bake in the same way. In the south the ingredients are some- what different—|lb. of flour, Jib. of powdered sugar, the finely chopped rind of half a lemon, Joz. of powdered cinnamon, a small pinch of crushed cloves, l|oz. of melted butter, two tablespoonfuls of rose water, one egg, and some red or white wine. Stir all these things to a soft paste, and bake as in the second recipe. Greek Easter Cakes.—To every pound of butter allow one of sugar and four of the finest dry flour. Mix the sugar and flour very thoroughly, rubbing it between the hands until the two ingredients are well incorporated ; put in the butter quite hot, knead the whole well; into this work about 2oz. to 3oz. of yeast dissolved in warm water, and some slightly salted lukewarm water (but only in sufficient quantity to moisten the dough to the right amount). When the dough has been thoroughly well kneaded, for at least three-quarters of an hour, set the pan in a warm place to rise for a couple of hours. Boll the pastry out on a floured board, then, after cutting it into strips, roll these with the palm of the hand till long, even, finger-like rolls are obtained; make these into plaits, true lover’s knots, circles, bows, &c., brush them over with yolk of egg, and bake them a good colour in the oven after the bread has been taken out, or in a moderately and evenly heated kitchen oven. Hutzel Brod.—This is essentially a Bavarian dish. Parboil lib. of dried prunes and lib. of small dried pears ; stone the former and cut the latter in half ; in the liquor in which these have been boiled, parboil ten or twelve figs, cut them in dice, then put the liquor to boil over the fire till it has been reduced to nearly a quarter of a pint. When this has partly cooled, put it in a basin, add three dessertspoonfuls of yeast, a small lump of leaven (he., of dough that has previously been prepared with yeast and put aside), and enough flour to form a dough as before, M