flOLLS, Ac. n Scones, Dropped.-— Mix together a breakfastcupful of flour, two teaspoonfuls of moist sugar, and a teaspoonful of baking powder (better still, use a quarter of a teaspoonful tartaric acid and three-quarters of a teaspoonful of bi- carbonate of soda, rubbing the lumps out of the latter till it is quite smooth), beat up an egg till light and mix it into this batter, then add in the same way, very gradually, a small breakfastcupful of milk, beating it all well together for a few minutes with the back of a spoon. Prepare your girdle as above, and drop the mixture iu spoonfuls on to the hot girdle, being careful to keep them a nice round shape and some distance apart, so that they do not touch one another in cooking. When the top surface is bubbled all over, slip a broad knife under the cake and turn it. When both sides are nicely browned the cake is ready. It should only be turned once. A spoonful of the batter makes a cake, for it spreads a good deal as it touches the girdle. Mix half a teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda quite smooth with a quarter teaspoonful of cream of tartar, a little salt, and two full breakfast cup? of flour; rub into this about 2oz. of butter, and sufficient buttermilk to make a thick and fairly stiff batter. Beat this well with a wooden spoon. Bake on a hot girdle, and finish off as before. Irish.—lib. of flour, loz. of butter, a piece of lard the size of a walnut, sugar to taste, and just enough milk beaten up with two eggs to make it all into a nice dough (one and a half teaspoonfuls of baking powder should be sifted in among the flour); the cakes should be mixed quickly, made into the size and shape of a muffin, baked sixteen minutes in a quick oven, and turned occasionally, as they burn very quickly. Split, butter, and serve very hot. Lito.—Eub 5oz. of butter or lard into 2lb. of Lito flour, then add to this two oggB well beaten with 3oz. of caster sugar, a pint and a quarter of milk, and a very little salt; make it all to a smooth dough, roll it out, stamp