FOREIGN OAKES. 175 together. Now moisten rather less than lib. of dried and browned breadcrumbs with a little white wine; add this to the former mixture, and stir in at the last the whites of the eggs beaten to the stiffest possible froth. Bake slowly for an hour and a half, and, when cold, ice with either royal or chocolate icing. (This is an American recipe.) Vachenn au Clxocolat.—The sweets which go by the name of vacherins are made very much in the same way, and merely vary in their flavouring. Take about 6oz. of blanched almonds, £Lb. of pounded sugar, the grated rind of one lemon, and the whites of two or three eggs. Pound the almonds thoroughly, moistening them with the whites of eggs; add the sugar and the grated rind of lemon. Put this paste into a basin; if necessary, add another white of egg, to avoid too much stiffness, for the paste should be moist enough to be spread with a spoon in a fairly thick layer on a well-buttered or floured tin. Bake this in a moderate oven till it is of a light brown colour; cut the paste into the required width, and, whilst still hot, put it round the inside of a mould or timbale, joining the two ends by pressing them well together. Stand it aside to get cold. In the meantime, prepare a whipped chocolate or otherwise flavoured cream. Remove the paste ring from the mould, and fasten it on to a plain sheet of ordinary or almond paste, large enough to cover the dish on which the vacherin is to be served. Fill this with alternate layers of whipped cream and crushed meringue paste, heaping it well above the side of the case; serve cold. Vera Cruz, G&teau.—Cream together floz. each of butter and caster sugar, then work in one by one the yolks of twelve eggs, 3oz. finely shred preserved or candied fruit, a few drops of essence of vanilla, a tablespoonful each of rum and kirschwasser, and lastly the stiffly whipped whites of four eggs alternately with 6oz. creme de riz (very fine ground rice). Mix this all well together, pour it into a well buttered Solferino mould, and bake in a moderate oven. A