139 BISCUITS AND SMALL CAKES. should lift from the pan in a smooth, firm mass. Now put it into a bag with a plain pipe, and force it out in fingers on to a buttered baking sheet; brush each over with egg yolk beaten up with a little water, let these stand a quarter of an hour, then bake in a slow oven. When nicely coloured, dust them with caster sugar and return them to the oven till glazed. Leave on a pastry rack or reversed sieve till quite cold, then with a sharp-pointed knife slit them down the side, and fill them with cream, custard, or any other filling to taste, serving them plain or with any appropriate icing. If this paste is broken off in little balls or knobs the size of a walnut, and finished off as before, these are known a; petits clioux, Duchess loaves, or cream, puffs, their special name depending on the filling used. If the sugar and lemon peel is omitted, and grated cheese and cayenne pepper used instead, these make very nice savoury eclairs, filled with any savoury cream or mince to taste, or if made very small are a delicious garnish for consomme aux profiteroles. Cakes, “Fat rascals.”—Kub 8oz. butter into 12oz. flour, then add 8oz. stoned and picked raisins; mix it all to a stiff dough with a little milk, roll it out, and bake it on a girdle till nicely browned, turning it only once. When ready, cut it into squares, butter well, and serve at once, hot. Macaroons.—Macarons Aimes.—Blanch and pound Mb. of sweet almonds, moistening as you pound with a few drops of egg white to prevent oiling ; then add to this 9oz. or 10oz. of fine rice flour, and about ljlb. of fine sifted sugar, working it all well and lightly together with a delicately clean spoon, adding the finely-grated rind of a small lemon and a little essence of vanilla. Now beat it all lightly for five minutes, then add the whites of four stiffly-whipped eggs, and drop this in little heaps the size of a florin on to papered baking sheets; make a little hollow in the centre of each with your finger, drop in this a little bright coloured jelly or marmalade, brush over with a drop or two