84 BREAD, OAKES, AND BISCUITS. halved, with the finely grated rind of half a small lemon, and, if liked, an ounce of shredded candied peel; now beat together the yolks of two eggs with two or three table- spoonfuls of milk till perfectly blended, and beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth. Moisten the dry ingredients with the egg and milk,'and stir in the whites lightly and thoroughly, pour into a papered mould (or one buttered, and strewed with equal parts of flour and sifted sugar), and bake at once. Be careful not to make the cake too moist in the first instance, or it will be heavy. Mix the eggs with just two spoonfuls of milk, and then add a little more milk, if necessary, afterwards. Cake, Chocolate.—Beat Jib. of butter to a cream, mix in 2oz. powdered vanilla chocolate and 4oz. caster sugar ; work this all together for ten minutes, then mix in gradually and alternately four whole eggs and 4oz. fine flour. Work it all again for fifteen minutes this time, then pour the mixture into a buttered and papered mould previously dusted with sugar and flour, and bake half an hour. When perfectly cold, ice it with chocolate glace and ornament it with pink and white sugar almonds. For the glace, cook loz. of vanilla chocolate (grated) in half a gill of water till smooth, then mix it with Jib. of icing sugar and one and a half tablespoonfuls of warm water; just warm it up (do not let it get too hot, or the icing will be dull), and pour it over the cake. Make a cake -with Jib. of creamed butter, lib. of sugar, four eggs, lib. (Eureka) flour, and half a pint of milk. Bake this in two tins that match exactly, and, when baked and cold, spread one with the following mixture : Beat fib. of icing sugar to a smooth paste with the whites of three eggs and three tablespoonfuls of grated vanilla chocolate; place the other cake on the top of this filling, and ice the whole with the same icing as you used for the filling. Some almonds blanched, shredded, and baked a light golden brown are an improvement if stirred into the icing used for filling.