BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. 28 to 8oz. of well washed and dried currants or sultanas. This may be made with the ordinary bread dough, dripping, moist sugar, and currants, in which case it makes very nice sweet bread and butter, whilst if made with Vienna or milk bread dough, fresh butter dissolved in a gill of new milk, caster sugar’, and sultanas or dried cherries, with a flavour- ing of vanilla, lemon, or kirschwasser, it becomes an extremely nice cake. Coarse Bread.—This is made from the cheapest line of flour made; but, if carefully made, though its colour will, of course, be somewhat dark, its flavour will compare favourably with a good deal of so-called “ superior ” bread. Dissolve 2oz. to 3oz. of yeast and foz. of salt in half a gallon of hot water (about 90° Fahr.), have ready about 121b. of coarse flour in the trough, make a “ bay ” in this, pour the liquid in, drawing down enough flour to produce a thin batter; let it stand over night till thoroughly risen, when you work into it a quart more water and 2oz. of salt, and finish off like any other bread. Coffee Bread.—Beat the yolks of five eggs till light with 4oz. of caster sugar, then stir to them the whites of the eggs whipped till stiff, and whisk it over boiling water or in the bain-marie till quite warm; now lift it from the fire, and continue whisking it till it is quite cold; then sift in lightly 4oz. of fine Viennese or Hungarian flour, and pour the mixture into a papered mould and bake in a moderate oven. As soon as it is ready, lift it out of the oven, remove the paper, and let it stand till cold. It may then be served as bread, or it may be sliced down in pieces the length of your finger and the width of two, carefully dried in the oven or over a slack fire till delicately browned on both sides, and served as rusks. This kaffee brod is served abroad mostly as rusks or zwieback, as in that form it will keep good a long time if stored in airtight tins. Corn Bread (Indian).—Mix together half a pint of coarsely ground white Indian meal with a pint of milk, one