115 CAKES. and using instead 4oz. sweet and loz. bitter almonds and half a pint of cream. Cake, Vinegar.—Rub 2oz. of butter or clarified dripping into ilb. of flour till it is all in crumbs, then mix to it 4oz. brown sugar, 4oz. well-washed and dried currants, half a teaspoonful of bating powder, and the same of powdered cinnamon. Then mix together in another basin half a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda and a gill of milk ; when smooth, pour into this a tablespoonful of vinegar, and, while it is in full effervescence, stir into it the dry ingre- dients, then put the mixture quickly into a ready-buttered tin, and bake at once in a moderate oven from one and a half to two hours. Walnut.—Mix carefully six tablespoonfuls of sifted flour, 5oz. butter creamed with a good tablespoonful of caster sugar, one tablespoonful of blanched and powdered almonds, two tablespoonfuls of blanched and powdered wal- nuts, the yolks of two eggs, and a very little water. Bake in a flat, round, or oblong cake tin in a moderate oven till of a light golden-brown colour. Meanwhile heat together (without letting it boil!) half a gill each of cream and milk, the well- beaten yolks of three eggs, and three tablespoonfuls of caster sugar. When this is quite hot (but not boiling), lift off the pan and stir in the whisked whites of the eggs and four table- spo:nfuls of blanched and chopped, or powdered walnuts. Cover the cake evenly with this mixture, then put it in the oven till set. Serve dusted with sugar and chopped pistachios. Beat half a cupful of butter to a cream, then beat in a cupful of white sugar, add two well-beaten eggs, half a cupful of milk, and two cupfuls (lib.) of fine flour mixed with a good teaspoonful of baking powder; bake in buttered shallow tins, round ones if possible. Whip up some cream with a little fine sugar till quite thick ; when the cakes aro cold, spread the inside of one or two of them, according to number, with the cream, and sprinkle on the cream some finely-chopped walnuts, place one on top of the other, and