CAKES. 103 Cake, Rice.—Beat lib. of butter to a cream with lib. of caster sugar, work in about ten eggs, one or two at a time, and when these are all mixed in thoroughly, stir in 11b. 4oz. of fine flour (previously sifted with a full teaspoonful of baking powder), 2oz. of rice flour or cr£me de riz, a few drops of essence of lemon and of tincture of saffron. Bake in well-papered hoops, in a steady oven, half an hour for lib. cakes, forty-five minutes for 2lb. tins. Ornament each cake with a thin strip of candied peel and some comfits before baking. Cream together Jib. each of fresh butter and caster sugar, and when white and frothy beat for ten minutes longer, adding in a few drops of any flavouring to taste, then work in, one by one, six whole eggs alternately with spoonfuls of 5oz. fine flour and 3oz. creme de riz (pre- viously sifted together) ; this will take fifteen minutes work in thoroughly, then sprinkle in Joz. of baking powder, and pour the mixture into two pint moulds, buttered and papered (or prepared as for sponge cake), and bake in a moderate oven for about one hour. If when turned out the paper is kept on these cakes, they will keep a fortnight in a tin. Or the mixture may be poured into fancy moulds, previously buttered and well dusted with equal parts of flour and caster sugar. Just liquefy the butter and brush it well all over the mould with a brush before pouring it in ; if this is not done all over the cakes will stick and look ragged. A good rice cake may be made by any good cake recipe, using half wheat half rice flour, or one part Paisley flour to two parts each of wheat and rice flour. Rice flour needs rather more baking powder than ordinary flour. Rose.—For the rose part beat 3oz. of butter to a cream with 6oz. finest icing sugar, then add a wineglassful of rose water and 6oz. dried and sifted flour ; work this well together, adding 6oz. ground almonds, the yolks of six eggs, and a vex-y few drops of essence of almonds; colour this to a delicate rose tint with a few drops of liquid