52 BREAD, CARES, AND BISCUITS. Croissants.—Sift together lib. of fine flour, Joz. good baking powder, and a couple of saltspoonfuls of salt, then rub into this loz. of fresh butter. Work this all well together, moistening it first with a well-beaten egg, and then with sufficient milk to form a firm dough. When this is smooth, turn it out on to a floured board, divide it into six portions, and roll these with your hand into sausage shapes, about 1 Jin. thick in the centre, and tapering slightly at the ends; bend them into crescent shapes, lay them on a buttered baking tin, brush them over with milk, and bake about fifteen minutes. Crullers.—Beat together three whole eggs, four table- spoonfuls of sugar, and four tablespoonfuls of butter or lard (just heated enough to make it mix readily, but not oiled, or the mixture will be heavy); then work in enough flour to make a dough that will roll nicely, and roll it out in a sheet a quarter of an inch thick. Cut this into strips 3§in. long by 2in. broad, slit each piece twice, giving each a twist, and fry in plenty of smoking hot fat to a delicate brown. Drain well, and, if liked, dust with a little sugar. Crumpets (Bakers’).—Dissolve loz. German yeast in a quart of warm milk, add a teaspoonful of salt, and when the yeast is quite melted pour it into 21b. of flour in a basin, and work it all to a smooth batter; then cover the pan, and let the batter rise in a warm place for about three-quarters of an hour. Now make a stout iron baking sheet hot in the oven, brush this over with liquid butter, put some oiled crumpet rings evenly on this in rows, put a large tablespoonful of the batter very carefully in each, slip the sheet into the oven, close the oven door at once, and bake in a sharp oven. When one side is done lift the crumpets out of the rings, and turn them on the sheet to insure both sides being cooked nicely. Crumpets can be eaten either hot or cold, or re-toasted and buttered. Melt loz. of butter over the fire in a pint of