48 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. out ^in. thick, and stamp it out with a plain cutter; arrange these biscuits on a buttered baking sheet, keeping each well away from the other, brush them over with milk, and bake in a quick oven. When ready lift them off the baking sheet, and when cold store them in tins. Biscuits, Bath Olivers.— Put into a pan 6‘lb. fine flour; cream together 2oz. German yeast with loz. of sugar, mix this with a quart of tepid milk, and pour it all into a bay in the flour, draw a handful or so of the flour down into it, cover, and let it rise for one and a half hours; then work it into the rest of the flour, with a pound of butter, working it well together to a smooth dough; let it rise again for two hours, then roll it out very thinly, stamp out in biscuits with a plain cutter the size of a teacup, prick them well, being careful the fork prongs go right through the biscuits (or the gas and steam will not escape properly, and their look will be spoilt by blisters on the surface), set them on flat baking tins previously sprinkled with water, and brush the biscuits over with egg yolk beaten up in milk ; set the tins, when filled, in a warm cupboard or a drawer for half an hour, then bake in a slack oven. These biscuits can hardly be rolled too thin. — Captain’s.—Mix in a large basin 41b. flour, 2oz. butter (broken up small), two whole eggs, and a pint of water; work and rub these ingredients well together, slipping the hands down to the bottom of the pan, and throwing up the half mixed dough till it is all well blended. Then knead it thoroughly, working it well and heavily (the secret of baker’s “Captains” lies in this kneading, as they use either a “break” or a biscuit machine, and thus knead the dough much more thoroughly than it is easy to do by hand, save in very small batches); as soon as the dough is well mixed and smooth, cover it with a damp cloth, and leave it for an hour or two ; then roll it out quickly, as thin as possible (paper-thin is about right), cut out with a round plain cutter, prick the biscuits