FOREIGN CAKES. 159 dessertspoonfuls of orange juice, and stir it over the fire till just warm, and use. Of course, if liked, half orange juice, half liqueur may be used in making the glace. Dainty Calces (American).—Cream 4oz. fresh butter with |lb. caster sugar; sift together 4oz. corn flour and 6oz. wheat flour, with a teaspoon!ul of cream of tartar and half a teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, then mix this lightly to the creamed butter in alternate spoonfuls with the stiffly-whipped whites of eight eggs. Flavour withlemon peel, rose or orange flower water to taste, and bake in a buttered papered cake tin, covering it lightly with paper over the top to save it from over-colouring. Honig-Kuchen (German).—Boil together lib. each of honey and sugar till thin, then stir in lib. of unblanched, finely chopped almonds, a saltspoonful each of powdered cinnamon, cloves, and ginger, a grate of nutmeg, a little finely shred candied peel, a pinch of white pepper, a few cardamoms, a tiny pinch of potash dissolved in a little brandy, and lib. of cornflour. Mix this all to a smooth dough, and leave it to rise in a warm place till the morning, then stand it for twenty-four hours in the cellar or some cool place. Boll this out about half an inch thick, cut it out in oblong pieces, ornament it with blanched and split almonds, and bake, glazing it with a little sifted sugar and a hot shovel or salamander. Gateau de Noisettes (French).—Beat the jolks of six eggs and 4oz. caster sugar for fifteen minutes, then add in gradually 4oz. ground Barcelona nuts, loz. ground almonds, two powdered cloves, and five coffee beans powdered. Beat these well in for another fifteen minutes, and lastly add the very stiffly whisked whites of the eggs, and bake in a buttered mould for about forty minutes in a mode- rate oven. Serve hot or cold. May be served as a sweet with a rich sabayou or liqueur-flavoured custard sauce. Eisenkuchen.—Eisenkuchen can be made in three or four different ways. This is the name given to the cake