138 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. sugar, then mix in four tablespoonfuls of melted butter, half a pint of milk, a saltspoonful each of salt and ground cinnamon, and a teaspoonful of baking powder, previously sifted with enough flour to make it all a soft dough ; roll this dough out lin. thick, cut it into rings or strips, twist these, then drop them into smoking hot fat; fry to a golden brown, drain well, and roll them in sifted vanilla sugar whilst warm. (A form of this, known as “ Jersey Wonders,” is made by cutting the above dough (which for this should be rather stiff, and flavoured with powdered mixed spice instead of the cinnamon) into rounds, making a hole in the centre of each, and finishing off as in the previous recipe.) Or : Take lib. of flour, a piece of butter the size of an egg, a little allspice, two tablespoonfuls of sugar ; mix a table- spoonful of yeast with four eggs and a little lukewarm milk; work all together thoroughly, and put the mixture in a warm place to rise. When sufficiently risen, roll out half inch thick, cut round, and fry in boiling oil or lard until of a golden brown. Drain on a moistened sieve before the fire. Strew sifted sugar over, and keep them in a cool place. Sometimes the cakes are insufficiently cooked in the centre. To insure their being thoroughly done, drop each into the oil or lard as soon as it boils. They will take five or ten minutes to fry. Calces, Eclairs.—Put into a pan half a pint of cold water, a few grains of salt, loz. of caster sugar, loz. of butter, and a little grated lemon rind ; when this boils lift it off the fire, and stir in by degrees enough fine flour to produce a thick, smooth paste (about 4oz. or Goz. should do this) ; now return it to the fire, and stir it sharply till it no longer sticks to the pan (a few minutes should be sufficient), then let it get almost cold before you break into it one egg; stir this well into the paste; now add two more eggs, working each well in before the next is added, and then working it all till it is a smooth, thick, and elastic dough that recedes from the spoon as you lift the latter, leaving it quite clean. It