CAKES. 85 Cake, Chocolate, Little.—Whisk the whites of seven eggs to the stiffest possible froth, then mix into this lib. of caster sugar and 4oz. finely powdered chocolate, previously sifted together; drop this mixture in spoonfuls on to a well buttered paper, let it stand for an hour to dry before putting it into the oven, which must not be over hot, and bake for ten or twelve minutes. Do not remove from the paper till perfectly cold. Cocoanut.—Beat Jib. of butter to a cream with |lb. of sugar, and then work in the well-beaten yolks of four eggs; now stir in Jib. of flour, 4oz. desiccated cocoanut, and finally the whites of the eggs whipped to a stiff froth. Pour this mixture into a buttered cake tin, previously dusted with equal parts of flour and sugar, and bake in a slow oven. Turn it out, and, when quite cold, slice it, spread each slice with royal icing thickly sprinkled with cocoanut, put it back into shape again, and ice it with royal icing all over, garnishing it, when nearly set, with pink and white cocoa- nut. For the royal icing, work ljlb. of best icing sugar to a smooth, thick paste with the whites of four eggs and a teaspoonful of strained lemon juice, working it for fifteen to twenty minutes with a clean wooden spoon, then spread with a wetted palette knife or a broad ordinary knife old enough to be flexible. Cakes must be perfectly cold before they are iced, and twenty-four hours should, if possible, be allowed between the icing and the decoration. When available, freshly grated cocoanut may he used instead of the desiccate 1, using the finely grated white part of one large, or two small, nuts. Coffee.—Put into a pan four raw eggs, with two dessertspoonfuls of strong, freshly-made coffee and 6oz. caster sugar; whip these on the fire over boiling water till warm, then lift it off and continue the whipping till the mixture is cold and as thick as well whipp( d cream; now add gradually 4oz. fine warmed flour, loz. ground rice or creme de riz, and Joz. of baking powder. Brush a mould