110 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. Cake, Solferino.—Mix 4oz. very finely shredded orange and lemon peel with 8oz. savarin dough, then with this half fill a Solferino mould (something like a trois freres border mould), and let it stand on the stove till the dough rises and fills the mould completely, then bake in a moderate oven. Pour over this some apricot sauce, i.e., Alb. of apricot jam boiled for a few minutes with a gill of water, then rubbed through a sieve, and flavoured with any liqueur to taste. This cake, though delicious as a cake, makes an even nicer sweet if served with the centre filled with flavoured whipped cream and a garnish of fruit tossed in syrup, either hot or cold. The same remark applies to Mexican and other cakes of the same kind. Sponge.—Take lRb. of eggs (eggs weigh about eight to ten to the pound), lib. caster sugar, and a few drops of essence of lemon; whisk together in a large bowl the eggs and the sugar for half an hour (if you use an egg-beating machine fifteen minutes will be plenty), whisk- ing regularly and steadily one way, from right to left and back in a kind of circular sweep. This beating must be kept up till the mixture is ready, or the air cells formed by the whisking will collapse, and the cake in consequence become heavy and tough. At the end of half an hour stir in the flavouring lightly, and last of all 12oz. to 14oz. of flour, sifted, dried, and warmed. Mix in the flour as lightly and quickly as possible, or this will spoil the cake, and the moi'e it is whisked the heavier it will become. As soon as this is all m'xed it must be at once put into the prepared moulds and baked in a very moderate oven, which should have been really hot and then allowed to cool before putting in the cake. As soon as the cake has risen, and the top is of a very pale and delicate brown, lay a buttered paper over it to prevent its over-colouring. When the cake is ready lift the tin from the oven and leave it in a warm corner near the fire for two or three minutes before turning it out, as in