BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. 6 carbonic acid gas. If this be liberated, by the addition of any stronger acid which removes the soda, the gas is dis- engaged, as may be seen by dissolving an effervescing powder. Should this disengagement take place in the substance of the tenacious and adhesive dough produced when wheat flour is mixed with water, the bubbles of gas so liberated are retained, and, distending the dough, pro- duce a light bread. The best means of liberating this gas is the addition of tartaric acid, which forms with the soda a dry powder, the ingredients of which do not react upon one another until wetted, so that, if the mixture be stirred in the flour and then moistened, the carbonic acid gas is entangled in the dough. But as alum also contains a large proportion of acid, and when mixed with carbonate of soda causes effervescence, so, as it is only a fraction of the cost of tartaric acid, it has been used to a very large extent as a substitute for the latter in making baking powder. The question whether such employment of alum is, or is not, legal has at last been decided in the Court of Queen’s Beach, after some years’ litigation, the question raised being whether baking powder is, or is not, an article of food coming within the scope of the Act of Parliament regulating the adulteration of food and drugs. It was decided that baking powder not being an article of food, the employment of injurious substances in it does not entail any penalty on the makers. The decision was a perfectly legal one on the following grounds : that the sale of alum is not an offence, and that the small quantity of ground rice or other starchy ingredient in b alcing powders made with alum does not convert them into food. It is true that the purchaser of baking powder, if he mixes it with food and then sells the food, does commit an offence, but legally the vendor of the powder does not. The question turned entirely on the legal point whether bakin^ O powder was, or was not, to be considered as food, which alone would bring it within the scope of the Act of Parliament.