14.°. BISCUITS AND SMALL CAKES. liqueur or other flavoured glace to taste. Very pretty little sandwich cakes can be made thus of diamonds of chocolate cake. Spread half with apricot jam, heated as above and mixed with a little rum or brandy, cover with the rest, and then ice with liqueur icing, on which, when set, you place a tiny spray of mistletoe made with angelica leaves and the tiny transparent berries sold for the purpose. Orange cake, spread with sieved marmalade and cream, iced with orange glace, and garnished with a quarter of an orange previously dipped in boiling sugar, is also very pretty. Such cakes are easily made by any deft-handed person with a little goodwill, and add enormously to the beauty of a table, as they can be coloured to suit any style of decoration chosen. These hints are easily varied indefinitely, but the following individual recipes will give an idea of the immense variety known to French confectioners. Petits Fours Franqais.—The ordinary French foundation for these is made thus: Beat the yolks of four fresh eggs till light with lib. sifted sugar, then stir in quickly the very stiffly whipped whites of the egg and lib. warmed and sifted flour, in alternate spoonfuls, adding at the same time a little grated lemon or orange rind, or any flavouring to taste. This paste may now be dropped on buttered tins in tiny heaps, baked to a golden brown, and when cold covered with icing, blanched and shred nuts, or any bonbons to taste. Or the paste may be put into any well-buttered fancy moulds to taste, previously thickly dusted with equal parts of flour and caster sugar, baked, and either served plain, or iced and decorated as before. Madelaines Glacees.—Stir together over the fire 4joz. sifted sugar, 4oz. flour, three whole eggs, and the yolks of two more, a teaspoonful of brandy, and a grain of salt, till it thickens, then stir it for one minute only; meanwhile stir 5oz. fresh butter over the hot plate till it begins to liquefy, when you quickly brush it over sixteen little madelaine moulds (tiny fluted patty pans will do), and stir