FOREIGN OAKES. 177 adding half a gill of rum or arrack, and, after kneading it very thoroughly, cover the pan containing the dough and let it rise in a warm place for three to four hours; then put the dough into the irons to finish as before. See also Eisenkuchen, previously given. Wiener-Torte.—Take ten eggs, their weight in butter, sugar, and flour respectively, beat the eggs and butter to a cream, and afterwards beat in the sugar; to this add the flour, with a little grated nutmeg, some cinnamon, and the grated rind of a lemon; mix all thoroughly well together, spread the paste thus obtained on a sheet of buttered paper or on a buttered tin, to the thickness of half an inch, sur- round this with strong paper, which may be sewn or other- wise fixed for the time being, and bake in a moderately heated oven. Remove the paper when the tart is cold, spread stewed fruit all over the top (or jam if more con- venient), and ice it in the ordinary way. Of course, the quantities can be increased according to requirements, but most of these Viennese cakes are rather extravagant in the use of butter and eggs. It can be made in another way : Mix £lb. of butter with three whole eggs, the yolks of three more, one and a half teaspoonfuls of brewer’s yeast, and ilb. of fine flour together, and add enough milk to make it into a good dough. Stand it in a warm place to rise, knead it well, roll it out fairly thin, spread it on a buttered tin ; over this put a layer of sultanas previously thoroughly washed and picked, and slightly stewed in wine and sugar ; over these put some strips of pastry, lay them cross wise over the fruit, brush them over with yolk of egg, and bake till crisp. In this manner all sorts of fruit besides sultanas can be used as they come into season, as long as they have been stewed in some wine, flavoured with spices, grated lemon rind, &c. Zuckerbrod.—The manufacture of Zuckerbrod is difficult to explain, especially to those not familiar with the foreign rolls known as Wecken, resembling a thick plait more than N