104 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. carmine, stir in Joz. of baking powder, and, lastly, the whites of the eggs whipped as stiff as possible, and bake in a square mould lined with buttered paper for forty to sixty minutes in a rather quick oven. Let it cool in the tin before turning it out. White part: Beat 4oz. fresh butter to a cream, then work into it Jib. dried and sifted flour and 4oz. cornflour, into which you have previously sifted one and a half teaspoonfuls of baking powder; now beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth, mix this with Jib. caster sugar, and then stir it into a gill of new milk and a few drops of essence of lemon, and work the whole into the flour and butter as quickly and lightly as possible. Bake in a well-buttered tin. When both these cakes are quite cold slice them about half an inch thick, and cut these slices again into half-inch strips. Have ready a square, buttered mould, and in this arrange the strips of cake, rose and white alternately, till the mould is full, then pour all over this a syrup (made by boiling together lib. of loaf sugar with half a pint of water till it is like cream, then strain it through muslin, and flavour it with a spoonful of maraschino and a few drops of rose water), and when this has set thoroughly turn the cake out carefully, and serve, iced with maraschino glace (6oz. icing sugar stirred over the fire, with one and a half tablespoonfuls of maraschino, till warm and smooth, coloured, if liked, with a few drops of liquid carmine, till of a pretty rose colour), and garnished with crystallised rose leaves (if the icing is kept white) and pistachios or candied angelica. Cake, Russian.—Prepare a Genoese or Madeira mixture as you choose, and divide this into three parts; flavour one part with a little maraschino, the second part is mixed with grated or melted chocolate, and the third coloured with a drop or two of carmine, and a flavouring of essence of vanilla; bake each part separately in a well buttered and floured flat tin. When baked turn these cakes out on to a sieve or rack till cool. Have ready a square or oblong loaf tin, thinly