FOREIGN CAKES. 165 the other ingredients. Next sift in the flour, with which has been mixed the cream of tartar; finally, stir lightly in the whites of the eggs, beat well until quite free from lumps, and then pour in equal quantities into three shallow round tins half an inch in depth, which should be previously lined with well-buttered paper. Bake in a quick oven for fifteen minutes. When the cakes are cool, pile them one on top of another, spreading the filling, for which directions are given below, between each layer. Pour over the cake a soft icing flavoured with a few drops of lemon juice. Lemon Filling.—Take one large fresh lemon, one cup of white sugar, half a cup of water, one egg, one teaspoonful of cornflour, the same of butter. Grate the rind of the lemon and put it in a saucepan with the juice, the water, sugar, beaten egg, butter, and the corn flour rubbed smooth in a little water. Boil them all together until the mixture begins to thicken slightly. When it is cold spread it between the layers of the cake. Lady Cake. — Cream lOoz. butter with lib. of caster sugar, then mix in, in alternate spoonfuls, lib. fine sifted flour and the stiffly whisked whites of seventeen eggs. Flavour at the last with a few drops of essence of almonds, vanilla, or what you please, and bake in a square or oblong shallow tin. This is an American favourite. Yellow Lady Cake.—Beat lib. of icing sugar to a cream with Jib. of butter, then add the yolks of eight eggs beaten smooth and thick, a cupful of milk, a small teaspoonful of powdered volatile salts dissolved in a little hot water, half a grated nutmeg, a teaspoonful of essence of lemon or of orange-flower water, and as much sifted flour as will make it as thick as pound-cake batter. Beat it all together till light and creamy, then mix into it 4oz. of ground almonds, and beat it all well together again. Line some buttered tins with white paper, pour the mixture in an inch thick, and bake half an hour in a quick, or forty minutes in a moderate oven. When cold take off the paper, turn the