173 FOREIGN CAKES. (in which it will also be sent to table), lay the macaroons lightly over the top, and stand it carefully in a very cold place. Meantime beat to a stiff froth the whites of ten eggs, adding to the same about fib. of sifted sugar. Put the froth and the macaroons over the custard when quite cold, and bake in a moderate oven for a quarter of an hour. Again stand in a cool place, and serve when quite cold. It may also be iced if desired. Savarin.—This is made in the same way as the baba, only omitting the spice and saffron, and using 2oz. of shred almonds instead of tho muscatels. In all these cake3 it is well to remember that the eggs should be worked in two or three at a time, beating the paste well till it leaves the sides of the pan clear each time. Butter the mould, strewing it well with sugar and chopped almonds, and bake the cake for about an hour in a moderate oven. When baked, turn it out and let it cool off for fifteen minutes or so before dishing it, or pouring over it the syrup or liqueur that abroad always accompanies this cake. A few drops of essence of almonds are an addition, if added with the other ingredients. Abroad this cake, like the glace cake, the baba, &c., is mostly used as a sweet entremets, and is there served with a rich sauce, or syrup, poured round it, and a garnish of fruit in syrup, or marinaded with liqueur, and sometimes, but more rarely, whipped and flavoured cream. Therefore, if wanted for use English fashion, dry, it would be well to add the liqueur as a flavouring as in the baba, making the syrup poured over the cake at the last stiff enough to form a kind of brittle glaze. Schnee Kuchen.—Beat Jib. of butter to a cream, then work into it carefully lib. of potato flour and loz. caster sugar. Beat the yolks and whites of two eggs till the former are lio-ht and the latter a stiff froth, work in the yolks into the mixture and then the whites, beating it all well, but lightly, for twenty minutes. Bake slowly. The cake should be snow-white, whence its name, and quite crisp,