95 CAKES. on a well-floured baking sheet, let them rise well, and before putting them into the oven score them across the top in diamonds. Bake half an hour. These cakes should be very light and flaky, and are usually eaten hot. Layer.—Beat Jib. of butter to a cream with Jib. of sugar, then add the yolks of five eggs, and next the whites beaten till stiff, in spoonfuls, alternately with 6oz. of Eureka flour and 2oz. of cornflour. When this is well mixed, add a teaspoonful of essence of vanilla and two tablespoonfuls of sherry. Have ready three square, well-buttered baking tins, and bake the mixture in these for fifteen minutes. When baked, lift them carefully from the tins, and stand till cool on a clean napkin. They are then spread with all kinds of fillings, one cake placed on the top of the other, and the whole then iced with any icing or glace you please. Amongst the nicest fillings is one made by stirring fresh or canned fruit, such as strawberries, apricots, peaches, &c., into royal icing, and spreading a thick layer of this on the cakes, pressing the top well on, and serving it either plain, dusted with sugar, or covered with royal icing. Again, fruit or jam beaten up with whipped cream is delicious between the cakes, the top layer being covered with almond icing, and this again when set being covered with chocolate glace. Or, lastly, make a meringue of stiffly whipped white of egg, sugar, and shred and baked almonds, with a few drops of noyeau, and spread this on the cakes, finishing off with noyeau or maraschino glace. It is impossible to give anything but a hint of the ways of varying these cake fillings, as their number is infinite. Left Over.—This is a capital cake to make at Christmas or birthday time, when a variety of cakes are being made. Bake the remains of each cake separately in layer tins; then spread them with any delicate jelly, such as apple, guava, quince, &c. Place one on the top of the other, arranging the colours (for example, a dark fruit cake at the bottom, then silver cake next a layer of fruit