68 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. sugar gradually into the flour; work it all to a smooth dough, adding two lightly beaten eg"s. Divide the dough into four, put it into round buttered tins, cover these with a clean cloth, and leave them in a warm place to rise; when almost three times their original size bake in a quick oven. Sally Lunn’s Teacakes (a Farmhouse Recipe).—Mix together one pint warm milk, loz. fresh butter, Joz. sugar, two large or three small eggs, half a cup of yeast, and enough flour to make a stiff batter. Bake in well-buttered rings for an hour. Rusks (Boer).—This recipe was procured from S. Africa during the war, the rusks (found in the Boer camps) having been much appreciated by the British soldiers : “ To 31b. of flour mix ^lb fresh butter, |lb. white cane sugar, and a teacupful of yeast. Knead well at night with fresh, warm milk. The sponge should rise well by morning, when you knead it again, and make it into buns ; set these to rise, then bake. When the oven is cool, cut each bun in half, put them on tins, and let them remain all night in the cooling oven till crisp. These make delicious rusks. For the yeast, pour about two and a half pints of boiling water on to foz. of hops, cover and leave in a wai'm corner for twelve hours; then strain, and stir in two tablespoonfuls each of flour and sugar. This yeast will be ready for use next day. A little old yeast helps the fermentation.5’ Scones.—These cakes are usually (and best) cooked on a girdle or griddle, i.e., a round iron plate, with an archedhandle over it—the girdle being formerly hung to the pot-hook fastened in the chimney, by which thelai'ge cooking pot was suspended above the fire. This girdle is still generally used in the North, but failing one a clean shallow fi’ying pan kept for the purpose answei’s very well. Neither pan nor girdle should ever be washed, but when you have done using either, sprinkle well with coarse salt, and rub it with pieces of paper till the latter is no longer soiled; this removes any burnt crumbs that may be sticking to it, which would