179 FOREIGN CAKES. in this stir one egg and a small piece of butter, and work it into the dough until it detaches itself from the sides of the pan; continue the kneading by adding |lb. of caster sugar, the same quantity of chopped almonds, some citron and orange candied peel, and aniseed or cinnamon to taste, if desired. When all these ingredients are thoroughly incor- porated into the dough, roll and fold it on a floured board, and work it into one smooth lump ; pull enough of this off to form a long, low roll, and use all the dough up in the same way; pub these rolls on a buttered tin, and bake a golden brown. These can either be eaten when they are cold enough to be pleasant to the taste, or they can be put aside till the next day, when they may he cut into slices, sprinkled with caster sugar, and toasted or roasted till quite crisp. They must not be made in large quantities, as they become leathery rather soon, and they must in any case be kept in well-closing tins. Or, prepare a small quantity of dough “ sponge ” as above; beat to a froth ?lb. of butter and a tablespoonful of lard, Btir into this three eggs, some caster sugar, and a little aniseed; work this into a suitable dough with the required quantity of flour, add it to the risen lump, knead it thoroughly, moistening it with milk to bring or reduce it to the required stiffness, and make into rolls as before; cut them into slices at once, brush them with yolk of egg, and bake them crisp ; these should be eaten whilst fresh. Zwieback.—Make a dough with 3lb. of fine flour, a pint of milk, and some yeast. When it is risen work into it £lb. of butter, six whole eggs, and a little finely grated lemon peel; shape it into a long roll, let it rise again, then bake it a nice even light brown. When cooled, after baking, slice it down not too thinly, and bake these slices till crisp, and of a delicate golden brown. These are very good as they are, but can be made into very dainty five o’clock tea cakes, if iced over with any nice icing, such as liqueur glace, or coffee or chocolate icing. N 2