5 BREAD. Breadmaking is an art that should, theoretically, he possessed by every woman, though its practice need not be always incumbent upon her. At the same time, in these days, when we all wander so much, it were well for every woman, whatever her status, to have a working knowledge of the matter. It may be added that anaemia, a disease which has increased so largely of late years, in the country especially, is by many doctors freely attributed to the decline of home baking, and the consequent use of the baker’s bread; for which amongst working people, as a rule, the sole test of purity is its whiteness, due in only too many cases to an excessive use of alum. The use of alum, especially as an ingredient in bread, has, for a very long series of years been declared illegal, and the bakers employing it can, if detected, be severely fined. Its employment was formerly defended by the bakers on the ground that it rendered certain flours, which could not be used under ordinary circumstances, fit for food. Wheat harvested in wet seasons, when the grain is exposed to much atmospheric moisture, yields a flour which cannot be used advantageously; the bread made from it becomes sticky and glutinous when masticated, adhering to the teeth, and being objectionable not only on the ground of taste, but of indigestibility. A small portion of alum added to the water with which such bread is made obviates this defect, and thus enables the baker to use cheaper and inferior flour than he otherwise could do, hence its use was formerly very general. Heavy penalties were, it is true, incurred by its use, so alum was seldom kept on the baker’s premises, and before each baking the journeyman used to go to the nearest chemist’s and purchase a pound of “ stuff ”—the technical name under which alum was sold. Used in baking powder, alum serves a totally different purpose. The most essential ingredient in baking powder is carbonate, or, as it should be called, bicarbonate of soda, which contains with the alkali a very large quantity of