CAKES. 91 Cake, French.—Whip ten eggs to a good froth, then stir in carefully Jib. sugar, loz. finely shred orange peel, 4oz. fine sifted flour, and half a gill of rose or orange flower water; put it into a well buttered flan tin or mould, and bake in a cool oven. When cold ice with chocolate glace, edge with rosettes of pink and white Vienna icing, and sprinkle lightly with crystallised rose or orange flowers. Fruit Shortcake.—Sift together three heaped teaspoon- fuls of baking powder with one quart of flour (or the Eureka flour may be used instead with capital results), and rub into it loz. of butter. Work this to a paste with one pint of milk, but do not attempt to roll it (it should be softer than ordinary pie-crust) with a rolling pin, just pat it out with the palm of your hands on the baking tins, to the depth of about an inch. Bake slowly till the cakes begin to rise, then increase the heat. When cooked split the cakes, and butter them generously while hot, and cover with fresh or canned fruit previously marinaded for an hour in a little lemon juice and sugar ; put the cakes together again, and serve at once. If preferred, omit the butter and spread the cakes with the fruit mashed with thick cream. Straw- berries bottled in syrup, or canned apricots or peaches, are particularly good prepared in the latter way. Cake, Genoa.—Work lib. of butter to a cream with lib. of caster sugar; then work in lightly, but thoroughly, lib. and 2oz. of eggs (weigh these, as this ensures greater certainty as to the proportions), mixing in one or two at a time, for if you add too many at a time they would very probably go thin suddenly and curdle as you beat them up. When the eggs, butter, and sugar are thoroughly mixed, work in gradually lib. 2oz. of flour, Ijlb. currants, Jib. sultanas, and about lOoz. of shred lemon peel. Put the mixture into an ordinary round cake tin, and just before putting it into the oven strew 4oz. of shred almonds on the top. Bake in a slow oven. This will make about filb. of cake. Bakers often use long oblong tins for this cake whep