157 FOREIGN CAKES. whites of two, half a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, and one teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Mix and bake in exactly the same way as lemon jelly cake, only filling and icing with chocolate icing. Or, if preferred, it may be baked in one tin, and the icing poured over the top only. Chocolate Icing.—Take one cup of sugar, four tablespoon- fuls of water, the well-beaten white of one egg, a pinch of cream of tartar, and loz. of unsweetened chocolate grated. Boil the sugar and water together until the syrup will string when poured from the end of a spoon. Stir the grated chocolate into the stiff white of egg, to which has been added the cream of tartar. Slowly pour the boiling syrup on the egg, beating hard all the time. Beat until the mixture begins to cool and thicken, and then spread it between the layers of cake, and on the top. Butter Torte (German).—This has nothing much to do with its name ; simply make a good pastry with butter, roll it out, and spread it on a suitable baking tin of the required size. Over this place another layer of pastry, but allow the lower one to exceed the upper one all round by the width of two fingers. Eoll out a third layer a little smaller still, and cut out the centre so as to make a space for the fruit which has to occupy the centre. Have ready some fine peaches, stoned and cut in half ; crush one half of these with some caster sugar, and spread them over the middle of the tart, sprinkling the edges with pounded sugar; bake this tart for half an hour in medium heat. Meantime, stew the rest of the peaches in some sugar, arrange them according to taste all over the tart, and over the whole place the kernels of the fruit, previously extracted from the stones, scalded, and coarsely chopped. Serve hot or cold. Carraway Cake (American).—Beat Mb. of butter to a cream with Jib. of caster sugar, then add the well-beaten yolks of four eggs, mixing them well in ; lastly, add lOoz. of dried and sifted flour (previously mixed with half a grated nutmeg, the same amount of powdered cinnamon.