186 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. should not be attempted till you have mastered the arts of dot and star making, especially the trick of lifting off the pipe cleanly from the design without leaving a trail behind, like the tail of a comet. This is accomplished by giving the pipe a gentle and dexterous but firm twist as you lift it. As a matter of fact the worker soon learns which is the most convenient method of holding the pipe. The great point is to practice, for with piping it is essen- tially a case of practice making perfect. It is a sort of freehand drawing, for which few original sketches can be made, and no blunders erased. As royal or other icing used for this purpose is a somewhat expensive material to waste ad lib. for practising purposes, make the following mixture: Beat some good firm lard to a cream, working into it a very little flour to stiffen it, then practice on a clean cake tin turned upside down till you acquire some firmness and precision in handling your tools. The advantage of this is that the lard can easily be scraped off and used over and over again. Failing a cake tin, a common slate or the back of a japanned tray makes a capital drawing board. Very intricate decoration is seldom, if ever, required for household cakes, so for all ordinary purposes the above directions are ample, espe- cially if well practised. A word or two may be said con- cerning icings. Recipes for various kinds have been given, and may be relied on; but sometimes it is not always easy to procure eggs (for royal icing the sugar must be of the finest cane sort, whilst the eggs need to bo of the freshest, for the fresher they are the stronger are the whites). In this case try the following mixture : Slowly dissolve |oz. of best gelatine or isinglass in a gill of water, and when the former is perfectly melted add either four drops of acetic acid, or as much tartaric acid as will lie on a sixpence in a layer as thick as the coin ; then beat in about lib. of best cane icing sugar till it forms a paste that will stand up stiffly in points (this will take about ten minutes), then