10 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. a good deal more than hops and grain are used in brewing. The next ferment taken up was ammonia, a volatile salt chemically prepared from the ammoniacal products of the gas works, ivoi’y black, animal charcoal, and other manu- factures. This sesqui-carbonate of ammonia, to give it its technical name, has long been used, in trade recipes especially, under the various names of sal. vol., voil, and saleratus. It is to be had in lumps, which should be pounded fine as wanted, and in its rock state should be stored in a tightly-stoppered bottle, as it soon loses its strength. The objection to this form of leaven is that, unless very carefully and exactly used, it gives a pronounced and anything but pleasant “hartshorn” flavour, frequently noticeable in inferior cakes and pastry. Next came baking powders of various more or less excellent kinds. These, however, though certainly labour-savers and very con- venient, possess a failing common to ammonia, that, namely, of producing, by chemical action, a practically indissoluble residuum in the articles with which they are incorporated. Of course, the same thing, to some extent, happens with yeast, but the original constituents of yeast being practi- cally the same as the material it is mixed with, this residuum is not more unwholesome than the flour and moisture that nourish it. Considerations of this kind, and convenience, brought into existence the well-known German yeast, which has, year by year, been followed by the appearance of various forms of home-made compressed yeasts of steadily increasing excellence. The quality of these yeasts is a point distinctly to be studied, for inferior compressed yeast is always specially inferior in strength, so that it takes nearly twice as much of it to do the work of good, fresh, and pure ferment. Moreover, there is a technical fact not too well known by the average housewife, which is that in all yeasts there are two kinds, the “ high ” and the “low” yeast—the former working at a higher tem- perature than the latter, so that it is better for bakers in