162 BREAD, CAKES, AND BTSCUITS. Set it to rise. Work into this some currants, chopped almonds, candied orange and lemon peel, a pinch of cinnamon, sultanas, the prunes, pears, and figs; put in a pinch of salt, two or three pounded cloves, and finely work in about lib. of flour; the quantity must be determined by the stiffness of the dough. Knead it all very thoroughly for a considerable time, set it to rise in a warm place, shape it into loaves as desired, and, after having brushed it over with water, bake it in a well-heated oven. Some people also work into this cake a teaspoonful of brandy or Kirschwasser. Kirschen Kuchen (Cherry Cake).—Soak Jib. of sliced bread in as much cold milk as it will take up, then press it out and beat into it six well-beaten eggs, 2oz. pounded almonds, 4oz. caster sugar, 4oz. creamed butter, and a small teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon. When these are thoroughly mixed, stir in ljlb. of stoned cherries, and fill an inch deep tin (a Yorkshire pudding dish answers), well buttered, with the mixture ; dust it well on the top with sugar, powdered cinnamon, and shred almonds, and bake slowly in a moderate oven. Kougloff (German).—Warm a gill of cream and stir into it two eggs, loz. yeast, 2oz. sugar, and 4oz. or 5oz. dried and sifted flour. Let all this rise together for half an hour, then cream lOoz. fresh butter and mix it with the sponge, adding to this, then, as much fine flour as will make lib. altogether, with Joz. each of grated lemon rind and powdered cinnamon ; work this all to a smooth batter, then pour the mixture into a well-buttered mould, let it rise again for fifteen minutes, and bake in a moderate oven. Kourabi (Turkish).—Heat over the fire about Jib. of butter, without letting it become too oily (it should be removed when still in the creamy state). Mix together lib. of finest dry flour and 1,1b. of finely-sifted sugar, and to this add the butter gradually. The best way is to put it in by spoonfuls (using a wooden spoon), and to work the paste with the