BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. 44 making scone3 you are often bidden to take sour milk, or preferably buttermilk, to moisten the ingredients, in which case you allow a level teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda to each pmt of milk. If, however, you have neither of the kinds of milk, use sweet milk, and half a teaspoonful of soda to a full one of cream of tartar. The same rule applies to molasses, often mentioned in American recipes ; you leave out the cream of tartar and use a level teaspoonful of soda to the half pint of molasses. These rules apply to most cakes and scones; so that, bearing these rules in mind, it is fairly easy to adapt recipes to your own conditions. It may be well here to remind amateurs that a little attention is indispensable for the correct mastering of any new recipe. Always read it over carefully before starting, noting the ingredients required and the quantities, and have these ready, carefully weighed out, before beginning. I quite admit the experienced cook often “ does not hold ” with all such weighing, and prefers to judge by rule of thumb and eye, but there her experience comes in (some- times it does not, by the way—a frequent cause for the astonishing failures in recipes, which she has, according to her mistress, “ often made before most satisfactorily ! ”) so the beginner is advised to be particular as to her weights and measures. A level, or an even spoonful (of any size) means a spoon filled up to the very edge of the bowl, often lightly pressed down to get it level, and when full and thus lightly pressed, hold the back of a knife perpendicularly over the full spoon and gently shave off the top till quite level. Such a spoonful is very different from “ a heaped or rounded spoonful,” which is almost equivalent to three- quarters of a spoonful more, and will, of course, play havoc with your recipe if used instead of the “ level ” spoonful given. The same rule applies to liquid measure. A full cup means one filled up to the very brim, rather difficult; to lift without spilling unless the hand be very steady;