HOLLS, Ac. 61 in thoroughly two heaped teaspoonfuls of baking powder, and bake at once on a hot girdle. Stale Bread Girdle Cakes.—Soak a pint of stale bread- crumbs in a quart of milk for an hour, then beat it till smooth; now beat into it, one by one, the well whisked yolks of two eggs, then work in a teaspoonful of salt and enough flour to make a thin, batter, lastly add the stiffly whisked egg whites and two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, and bake quickly on a hot girdle. Hot Hoe Cakes.—Mix together half a teaspoonful of salt and a pint of cornmeal, then pour on this just enough boiling water to moisten it, and let it stand for ten minutes ; now add more boiling water, enough to make a batter that will drop (not pour) nicely from a spoon. Bake on a hot girdle or a ** hoe.” Serve hot with a piece of butter on each. Old Southern coloured cooks made the cakes on their “ hoes ” at a wooden fire, whence their name. Johnny Cakes.—Beat together three whole eggs till light, then add to them a pint of buttermilk, and lastly mix in a pint of Indian cornmeal, beating it well; dissolve a tea- spoonful of bicarbonate of soda in two tablespoonfuls of boiling water, and add this, with a teaspoonful of salt and two tablespoonfuls of liquified butter, to the cornmeal batter; mix thoroughly, and pour it into a well buttered shallow baking tin (such as is used for Yorkshire pudding). Bake for thirty minutes in a fairly quick oven. In America a coarse hand-ground meal is used for this cake, but any coarsely ground corn meal will do. Mix together one pint of meal and a teaspoonful of salt, and make it to a stiff, smooth batter with boiling water. Now pour on sufficient cold milk to bring it to the consistency of sponge cake batter, and drop it in spoonfuls on a hot buttered girdle. When the underside is nicely coloured, turn the cakes and brown the other side. Serve hot and buttered. Maryland Cakes (also known as “Beaten Biscuit”).— Mix a teaspoonful of salt with a quart of flour, then rub