114 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. any flavouring to taste; then work in 6oz. of butter to which you have added half a small teaspoonful of baking powder, and bake in a high round tin (buttered) in a hot oven. When perfectly cold cover with almond icing, and when this is set ornament to taste with royal and Viennese icing and glace fruit. Cake, Venetian.—Beat together the yolks of six eggs and Jib. of sugar for twenty minutes. Beat the whites of the eggs to a very stiff froth, then mix them lightly with the yolk5 and sugar, and rather more than 2oz. of fine sifted flour; pour this mixture into a buttered mould dusted with equal parts of flour and sugar, and bake. Turn it out on to a sieve or a pastry rack and leave it till perfectly cold, when it is iced with vanilla chocolate icing. Victoria.—Beat loz. of butter to a cream, then add to it three eggs, together with a teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, 3oz. caster sugar, 3oz. ground almonds, 4oz. dried cherries, 2oz. finely shred candied peel, half a gill of brandy, and 4oz. of flour. Work this all well together for a few minutes, then add gradually three more eggs and 12oz. more flour. When this is all well mixed in, spread the paste out in the pan and add to it Joz. German yeast, a teaspoonful of salt dissolved in a little tepid water, and a gill of stiffly-whipped cream. When this is all mixed, paper a 6-inch hoop with buttered white paper, lay a sheet of buttered paper on the baking sheet, set the papered hoop on this, pour in the mixture, and set it in a moderately warm place till it has risen to twice its first size; then bake in a moderate oven till of a light brown colour. It is impossible to give the time this cake will take to bake, so the best way is to test it with the wooden skewer driven to the centre of the cake. Directly it is turned out of ihe hoop, return it to the oven for a minute or two, as tliis prevents its shrinking and falling as it would do if turned out of the hoop in a cooler atmo sphere. A variety of this cake may be made by omitting the cherries, sp'ce,anl peel,