100 BREAD. CAKES. AND BISCUITS. Shape this into rounds the size of a plate, cut these again into triangles from the centre, and bake in a hot oven, or preferably on a girdle. If the paste is too soft, or the oven cool, these cakes are spoilt. A richer kind may be made by baking instead of boiling the potatoes, crushing them through a potato masher, and to every pound of this potato snow allow loz. of fresh butter, or a proportionate amount of cream, a dust of salt and of grated nutmeg, sugar to taste, and the yolk of an egg. When beaten quite smooth (it should look very rich), flatten it out with the hands, shape it in rounds the size of a plate, cut it into triangles, and bake, glazing it at the last with a little sugar. Cake, Pound.—12oz. butter, 12oz. caster sugar, lib. of eggs (be sure to weigh them), lib. dried and sifted flour, 6oz. candied peel (shred), 8oz. well washed and dried currants, and a few drops of essence of lemon. Mix this according to the directions given in the beginning of this chapter, put the mixture into pound tins neatly papered, and bake them for thirty-five minutes in a moderate oven. To try if they are done, stab the cake with a sharp skewer; if it comes out clean the cake is done. Beat ^lb. of fresh butter to a cream with lib. of caster sugar, then -work in the well-beaten yolks of four eggs, next lib. of sifted flour, previously mixed with a teaspoonful of baking powder, a quarter of a nutmeg grated, and Goz. to 8oz. well-washed currants ; then stir in a little finely shredded candied peel, and lastly the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Bake one and a half hours in a moderate oven. Beat lib. of fresh buiter to a cream with 12oz. caster sugar, then add six eggs, one or two at a time, beating each well in before adding the next; then stir in 14oz. fine sifted flour, 4oz. to Goz. currants, stoned raisins, sultanas, or dried cherries, and the grated peel of two lemons or limes. When this is all thorougly mixed, bake in small round hoops, line ! with three thicknesses of white