ROLLS, &c. 55 Galette.—Make a hole in the centre of lib. of flour, put into this loz. caster sugar, half a small teaspooaful of salt, two whole eggs, and a teacupful of milk, adding lastly Jib. of warmed but not oiled butter; mix this all well, and knead it thoroughly; make it up into a ball, flatten it with your hand, cut it across in lozenge shape, pinch the edges, glaze it with beaten egg, and bake about three-quarters of an hour. (This is particularly good if made with Coombe’s Eureka flour.) Make a hole in a pound of flour, and put into this Jib. of warmed fresh butter, half a pint of milk, a table- spoonful of sugar, and a teaspoonful of salt. Knead this all thoroughly together, make it up in a ball, then cover with a cloth, and let it rise for half an hour in a warm place. After this finish off as in preceding recipe. Work lightly fib. of butter into lib. of flour, Indian meal, buckwheat, or rye flour, add a large spoonful of salt, and make it into a paste with a little water, or if you have them, the yolks of two eggs beaten up with a little milk; roll this out into a round (in some parts of Brittany I have seen the knuckles used instead of a roller) fin. thick; score it into diamonds, brush it over with the yolk of an egg, and bake for half an hour in a quick oven. Eaten hot or cold. Often cooked on a girdle or frying-pan. Dissolve Jib. of butter very gently, then work it into lib. of light dough (that used for French or Vienna bread), add two eggs, two spoonfuls of eau do vie, and a teaspoonful of salt; beat this all well together for twenty minutes, then let it rise for two hours in a warm place ; put it into a buttered mould, and bake three-quarters of an hour in a quick oven. Grissini, or Salt Sticks.—Take some light dough, such as is used for Vienna, French, or milk bread ; cut this into strips 8in. to lOin. long, and rather thicker than a pencil; lay them on a buttered baking sheet, dusting them well with salt, and bake till crisp. Some people use puff paste, to