167 FOREIGN CAKES. to a paste, and mix them gradually with the other ingre- dients, till a paste of suitable consistency is obtained, but it should not be too moist; if necessary, some flour may be added after the arrack has been put in. Shape the cakes as above, and cover them with a thick layer of chopped almonds, sugar, and cinnamon, or other desired flavouring. Vanilla is quite as good. Bake as before. Handelmehl Speise (Almond Bread).—Beat the yolks of five eggs till light with Jib. of caster sugar, and add Jib. ground almonds, working thi3 all well together ; now mix in lightly Jib. fine sifted flour alternately with the whites of the eggs whisked to a very stiff froth, then pour it all into a well buttered mould and bake very slowly. Manon Gateau (French).—Eoll out a round of puff paste, and line a plain tin ring with it, then pour into it some good thick pastry custard flavoured to taste (vanilla is most used), dust this with vanilla sugar or with shred candied fruit, cover it with a round of puff paste rolled out very thin, pressing the edges well together, decorate with little pastry leaves, glaze it with beaten egg, and bake. When three parts done, dust the cake with caster sugar, glaze, and finish baking in a rather cooler oven. This cake may be eaten hot or cold. Marble Cake (American).—Beat 4oz. of butter to a cream with 12oz. of sugar, then mix in a gill of water and 4oz. of flour; when this is all well mixed, add the whites of four eggs beaten to a stiff froth, then 4oz. more of flour, and, lastly, the strained juice and the grated rind of a lemon, aud set it aside while you make the dark mixture. For this, cream 2oz. of butter with Jib. brown sugar, add, one by one, the yolks of four eggs, until this is all very light; then add a gill of water and 6oz. of flour, and beat it all together till quite smooth, when you add 2oz. of melted chocolate, and a teaspoonful of essence of vanilla. Now add a teaspoonful of baking powder to each part, and put into a well-buttered cake tin a layer first of the white and