191 CAKE DECORATION, Ac. from such a rough and ready oven. The method is as follows: Put a small pastry rack (a “ rapid steamer ” rack would do admirably) into the pan which you intend using (which must be kept entirely for baking pastry), lay two or more sheets of buttered paper on this rack and set the cake or cakes on this, being careful that if several are baked at once they do not touch each other at any point. Set the pan on a trivet over, but not on, a strong, steady, clear fire, and place a row of hot coal all round the edge of the lid ; placed thus the hot coals diffuse a more even and less scorching heat than if piled ou the centre of the lid. Watch the cake, and if the top shows signs of catching cover it with a buttered paper and remove enough of the top coals to moderate the heat. The baking must b9 watched to keep the heat, which should be moderate rather than fierce, even and steady, either taking off or adding to the live coal on the lid. The pan should be turned from time to time to insure the cake being evenly coloured and cooked. Have the pan and its lid well heated for about a quarter of an hour before putting in the cake. Do not try to cook too many pieces at once, for, although kept scrupulously separate, they interfere with their respective cooking, and the baking will not not then be quite successful. Experience and practice will soon teach the cook to overcome any little difficulties, and will enable her to tell both the heat and the time required very fairly accurately. For instance, for small cakes and biscuits a very gentle and even heat is required, and when the lid is lifted to watch the baking it must be replaced as quickly as possible, or the cakes will drop. It is easy to cook a fairly large cake in this way if baked in two parts, which are when ready fixed together with a little royal icing. Meat and fish pies can also be baked in this way, which is indeed the way the Russian fish pasties (Coulibiacs) are mostly baked. But in this case measures must be taken to keep up the fire, as naturally sueh things take longer to cook than small pastry and