BREAD. 11 this country, who set their batches to “ prove ” or rise at a temperature too high to affect the “ low ” yeast. Now, “low” yeast is always used in the manufacture of German lager and light beers, so it is fair to conclude that the chief part of the German compressed yeast is made from the low variety; therefore, even without taking into account adulteration (caused by the insane desire for cheap- ness at any cost), it i s easy to see that recipes based on the use of our home-made “ high ” yeast may need some modi- fication when worked out with German yeast. In this, as in most cases, the best plan is to procure one’s supplies from respectable firms whose characters stand too high to be risked by adulteration or inferior goods. Fresh German yeast never has a bitter taste; it should look like a firm, putty-coloured paste, moist in the centre and with a faint smell of new bread, and be easily friable between the fingers ; it should always be kept in an even temperature (as near 56° to 60° Fahr. as possible), for it is very liable to “ turn ” if kept in an over hot place, or in very hot weather. An easy way of testing its condition is to dissolve loz. of loaf sugar in a tumbler half filled with warm water at a temperature of 100° Fahr., and then add an ounce of the yeast. This will at once sink to the bottom of the glass, but if in good usable condition will rise to the surface of the water in two minutes; if it exceeds this time avoid using it. It is useless to try and name even a tithe of the yeasts now on the market, but it is pleasant to be able to assert that in almost every case the home-prepared ferments appear to give the best results from their freshness and purity. To dwellers in towns, or within postal reach of the makers, I can safely say “ buy your yeast ready pre- pared ” ; but as in the pages of the Queen, from which these recipes have been chiefly gathered, requests from dwellers in distant parts abroad have often appeared for recipes for the home preparation of such baking necessaries,