94 BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. caster sugar in nearly a wineglassful of water, and let it boil up, then pour it boiling on the eggs, and let them stand till nearly cold; then beat in gradually 4oz. of fine flour and bake three-quarters of an hour in a quick oven. Cake, Isabella.—Beat ^lb. of butter to a cream with lib. of sugar, then work in the well-beaten yolks of eight eggs, and add i|lb. of fine flour sifted with a small teaspoonful of bating powder (or use the Eureka flour), in spoonfuls alternately with the whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Flavour either with essence of vanilla or lemon, and bake carefully in a well-buttered and papered mould. When quite cold, ice with the following : Work 4oz. of fresh butter to a cream with 6oz. finest icing sugar, using a wooden spoon, and when quite smooth mix in 2oz. powdered vanilla chocolate and about half a wineglassful of brandy or liqueur or liqueur syrup, and continue working till it is all perfectly creamy, then use. Glace.—Put sixteen whole eggs into a delicately clean stewpan with lib. of caster sugar; set this pan in another three parts full of boiling water ; place this on the stove and whisk the eggs and sugar together till warm, then lift it off the fire, and continue the whisking till the mixture is cold and as thick and light as well-whisked cream. Now stir in £lb. cf creme de riz, 12oz. of butter beaten to a cream, and half a wineglassful of maraschino. Mix this all together lightly, pour it into a square fluted mould (such as the Progres, for instance), previously well- buttered and dusted with flour and sugar, and bake. When cooked, turn it out, brush it over with thin apricot jam or marmalade, previously rubbed through a sieve, and strew it plentifully with chopped and blanched pistachios and almonds. Lard.—To each pound of bread dough when well risen, work in 2oz. of lard or clarified dripping, a pinch of salt, and a sprinkling of sugar; when thoroughly worked together, shape the dough into round flat cakes, put them