Ill CAKES. cooling it shrinks, and leaves the tin, so is easier to slip out. If it should stick, slip the point of a knife round the edges, tap the mould gently on the table, then cover the mould with a hair sieve, reverse these, and the cake should slip out clean and uninjured on to the sieve, whei*e it should be left untouched in a warm corner till set, when it can be lifted up without breaking or crumbling. The oven must be a vei’y moderate one, so that the cake may heat through gradually, and a crust form round the sides to support the top as it rises. In an overheated oven the top will rise up sharply in a coue shape drawn up by the heat, and the sides not being properly set as the top hardens, and con- sequently becomes heavier, they give way, the top falls in, and the cake becomes heavy. It must also be remembered that a draught (before the cake is properly set), or a jar in putting it into the oven, or the slamming of the oven door when this has been opened to exainine the cake, are each and all sufficient to make the cake drop and “ sadden.” Bear in mind also that the cake mould should never be set flat on the oven shelf, but in a baking tin containing a good layer of sand or salt. If this is neglected, the cake will be burnt, or at least too dar'kly coloured on top. To test if the cake is done, prick it with a clean splinter of wood or a fine knitting needle, draw this out gently, and if it is quite clean and dry, the cake is ready. If, however, it is stained or damp, the sponge requires longer baking. It cannot be too strongly impressed on the amateur that a great deal of the success in this cake- making depends on the preparation of the mould. Try it in this way: Wash the mould thoroughly, and dry it per- fectly. Now dissolve 2oz. or 3oz. of butter, and either paint the inside of the mould thickly and evenly with this liquid, or pour the butter into the mould and turn and tilt the mould till every particle of its surface is buttered; then pour out the superfluous butter in a jar (this can be used again) and dust the inside of the mould with equal parts of