ROLLS, &c. 57 horizontally, butter these slices generously, replace them in shape, set them on a hot dish covered with a folded napkin, and serve at once very hot. Breakfast Cakes.—lib. of flour, loz. of butter or clarified dripping, one full teaspoonfnlof baking powder, a little salt, and half a pint of buttermilk; mix all quickly to a smooth dough, roll it out half an inch thick, stamp it out with a tumbler, brush over with milk, prick it a little, and bake. Serve hot, plain, or torn open and buttered generously. Do not put a knife to these. Mix together 21b. of flour, Jib. butter, 2oz. lard, sugar and a little salt to taste, with four eggs beaten up with just enough milk to make it all to a nice dough; mix in at the last three level teaspoonfuls of baking powder, make it up in cakes the size of a muffin, and bake fifteen minutes in a quick oven. Turn occasionally, as they burn very quickly, and serve very hot, split and buttered. Cornish Heavy Cakes.—Rub 6oz. to 8oz. butter lightly into lib. of flour, add a pinch of salt and Jib. well washed and dried currants or sultanas; work it all to a nice dough with cold milk or single cream, roll it out Jin. thick on a well-floured board, and stamp it out in rounds with a tumbler or plain cutter, handling the pastry as little as may be. Bake in a quick oven, for twenty to thirty minutes, till of a pale golden shade. If the oven is not sufficiently hot, bake on a girdle or in a frying-pan ; any- how, serve very hot. If to be used for tea, Cornish cooks very often stir 4oz. of very finely shred candied peel into the mixture. Buckwheat Cakes.—Mixagood tea spoonful of baking powder with a pound of dried and sifted buckwheat flour; beat the yolks of two eggs with a little water till light (i.e., till the fork can be lifted out without leaving any strings), then beat them into the flour, adding gradually enough water to produce a batter, which when lifted will fall in a kind of sheet from the spoon. Now stir in the whites of the