THE MEDULLA OBLONGATA. 73 should be carried through one of the hemispheres so as to leave about one-third of it on the inner side, and two-thirds on the outer side. The arrangement of the white or medul- lary substance is distinctly seen on the surfaces of these sec- tions. It presents, in both, a beautiful arborescent appear- ance, which has been named the arhor vitce. The one in the middle lobe is the middle arbor vitce, and the one in the hemi- sphere, the lateral arhor vitce. The central mass is the trunk of the tree, and from this spring branches, which divide into smaller branches, and these again into twigs and leaflets. In this way the medullary fibres diverge from the centre to the periphery, so as to be placed in connection with a large ex- tent of cineritious surface. In the centre of the trunk of the lateral arbor vitae is a mass of grayish-yellow matter, with indented edges; this is the corpus dentatum^ corpus rhomboideum, or the ganglion of the cerebellum. It consists of a capsule of gray substance, filled with white fibres, inter- mixed with gray neurine. The capsule is perforated ante- riorly by the fibres of the corpus restiforme. The Cerebellum is about one-eighth the size of the cere- brum. Its white central mass is connected with the cere- brum, through the processus cerebelli ad testes, and with the medulla oblongata, through the corpora restiformia and the arciform fibres which come from the corpora pyramidalia; the two hemispheres are connected by the transverse fibres of the pons Varolii. These commissural fasciculi should be carefully observed by the student, as it is through them en- tirely that the cerebellum is placed in relation with the other parts of the nervous system. The Medulla Oblongata, Fig. 17 (i 3), may next be exa- mined. This consists of an intermediate section between the spinal marrow and the cerebrum and cerebellum; it is a sort of unfolding of the spinal marrow preparatory to the con- tinuation of its fibres upwards into the two bodies just men- tioned. Although it is convenient to speak of it as a distinct part, the student should bear in mind that it is merely a portion of one continuous structure. It gives origin, it is true, to nerves which have specific functions, but this does not, m an anatomical point of view, isolate it at all from other parts with which it is structurally connected. It commences just below the foramen occipitale, and extends