VESSELS AND NERVES OF ABDOMINAL VISCERA. 885 descends on the side of tlie spine, and over the psoas magnus and iliacus internus muscles to the internal inguinal ring, where it joins the spermatic cord. They cross the ureters, and are accompanied by the spermatic veins. In the female, they go to the ovaries, and are called the ovarian arteries. There are sometimes two on the same side. The right one occasionally passes beneath the vena cava. They supply the testicles. The Spermatic Yeins in the abdomen accompany the spermatic arteries. The left one usually terminates in the renal, and the right one in the ascending vena cava. The latt^ passes beneath the right and lower portion of the mesentery, and the former beneath the sigmoid meso-colon. The Spermatic Plexus accompanies the spermatic artery to the testicle. In the female, the corresponding plexus fol- lows the ovarian artery to the ovary and the uterus. It is derived from the renal plexus. The Eenal Arteries, Fig. 159 (7), sometimes called the emulgent arteries, arise from the aorta opposite to the kidneys. They are very large in proportion to the size of the organs which they supply. The right one is longer than the left, and passes beneath the vena cava. The corresponding veins are usually situated in front of them. When the arteries reach the fissures of the kidneys, they divide into several branches. Sometimes, instead of one there will be two or three on the same side. They are also subject to considerable variation in their origin. The Eenal Veins convey the venous blood from the kidneys to the ascending vena cava. The left is the longest, and passes over the aorta; it also receives the left sjoej-matic vein. The veins are in front of the corresponding arteries. They open into the vena cava at right angles. The supra- renal vein on the left side usually opens into the renal of the same side. The Eenal Plexus, Fig. 142 (14), is formed on each side by filaments from the solar plexus and from the lesser splanchnic nerve. It accompanies the renal artery to the kidney. The Supra-Eenal Arteries, Fig. 159 (e), arise from the