DISSECTION OF THE DEEP VESSELS AND NERVES. 413 The Common Iliac Veins correspond to tlie common iliac arteries. The left one is longer and more oblique than the right. It lies at first on the inner side of the left common iliac artery, and then passes under the right common iliac, to join the right common iliac vein, which is placed on the outer side of its accompanying artery. The middle sacral vein opens into the left common iliac. The common iliac veins are formed by the junction of the external and internal iliacs. The Cord and the Lumbar Ganglia of the sympathetic nerve, Fig. 142 (17), are situated on the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae. There are usually three or four ganglia on each side. The cord enters the abdomen on each side beneath the inner arch of the diaphragm, or the true ligamentum arcuatum, continiies down along the internal border of the psoas magnus muscle, and descends into the pelvis beneath the common iliac artery. From the ganglia external and internal branches are given off. The external branches pass beneath the psoas muscle, and join the lumbar nerves. The internal are directed inwards, and form, with filaments from the solar plexiis, the aortic plexus. Other branches go to join the plexuses which supply the viscera. The aortic plexus terminates in filaments which accompany the iliac arteries, and in others which join the hypogastric plexus in front of the sacrum. The hypogastric plexus is formed by filaments from the aortic plexus, and from the lumbar and sacral ganglia. Those from the lumbar ganglia reach it by passing over the com- mon iliac arteries. It divides into other plexuses' which accompany the arteries that go to the pelvic viscera. The Lumbar Nerves, Fig. 178, consist of five pairs. They divide, after leaving the intervertebral foramina, into anterior and posterior branches. The latter are distributed to the muscles and the integument of the back. The anterior branches are much the largest. They enter the psoas muscle, where they divide and unite again with each other, so as to form the lumbar plexus. The first one is connected to the last dorsal, and the last two to the sacral nerves. The Lumbar Plexus, Fig. 178 (i), is larger below than above. It is placed at the sides of the lumbar vertebrse, and m the posterior part of the psoas muscle. It gives off the 35*