390 OF THE ABDOMEN. lar and mucous, to tlio former of wliicli it is closely con- nected by processes which are sent in between its fibres. The arteries and nerves, after passing through the muscular coat, ramify in this. By its density and intimate connection with the muscular layer, it contributes much to the strength of the walls of the stomach. It has been regarded by some as the framework of this organ. The Mucous OoAT,,Eig. 162, should be examined when the stomach is everted and inflated, and also when everted but not distended. It glides freely on the fibro-cellular layer to which it is applied, and hence when the stomach is empty and contracted, it is thrown into numerous folds or rugcE^ which disappear again when the organ is distended. The principal part of these folds have a longitudinal direction. There are, however, some which intersect these obliquely, and others transversely. At the cardiac orifice^ when the stomach is empty, the folds of the mucous membrane present a stellated appear- lorus. Fig. 162. A Vertical and Longi- tudinal Section op the Stomach and Ddodenijm, MADE in such A DIRECTION as to include the two Orifices op the Stomach. —1. The oesophagus; upon its internal surface the pli- cated arrangement of the cu- ticular epithelium is shown. 2. The cardiac orifice of the stomach, around which tho fringed horder of the cuti- eular epithelium is seen. 3. The great end of tho sto- mach. 4. Its lesser or pylo- ric end. 5. The lesser curve. 6. The greater curve. 7. The dilatation at the lesser end of the stomach, which has received from Willis the name of antrum of tho py- This mav be regarded as the rudiment of a second stomach. 8. The rugaj of tho stomach, formed by the mucous membrane: their bngitudinal direction is shown. 9. The pylorus. 10. The oblique portion of the duodenum. 11. The descending portion. 12. The pancreatic duct and the ductus communis choledo- chus close to their termination. 13. The papilla upon which the ducts open. 14. The transverse portion of the duodenum. 15. The commencement of the jejunum. In the interior of the duodenum and jejunum tho valvule connivcntes are seen.