OF THE PELVIS. 432 internally, which is named tlie corpus Highmorianum or me- diastinum testis, Fig. 184 (3). From this fibrous bands pass off in different directions to be attached at various points to the inner surface of the tunic. These add very much to the strength of the fibrous structure of the testicle, and support the vessels as they penetrate the substance of the gland. The corpus Highmorianum is traversed by the bloodvessels and nerves which enter the interior of the testicle, and, also, by convoluted seminal tubes. It will be observed that from the dense and unyielding character of the tunica albuginea rapid effusion into the interior of the testicle would almost necessarily be attended with a great deal of pain. The Tunica Yasculosa, or Pia Mater of the testicle, Fig. 184 (4), lines the internal surface of the tunica albuginea, and is reflected around the fibrous bands attached to its inner sur- face. It transmits the vessels to every part of the interior of the organ. The Glandular Portion of the testicle consists of a great number of seminal tubes. These may be drawn out with the forceps to the extent of a foot or more; when this is done they appear at first like exceedingly fine, deli- cate threads, just unravelled from a network. They adhere very slightly to each other, and may be easily separated when allowed to float in water. They are arranged in lohes of a conical shape, and of different sizes; the bases of which look forwards, and the apices backwards. There are from three to four hundred of these lobes or bundles of convo- luted tubes. Some of them commence by a blind extremity, and others are joined together so as to form loops. The TuBULi Seminiferi, Fig. 185 (3, 3), unite to form about twenty tubes, which are nearly straight; these enter Fig. 184. a transverse section OF THE Testicle.—1. The cavity of the tunica vagi- nalis. 2. The tunica albu- ginea. 3. Corpus Highmo- rianum or mediastinum testis. The cut ends of the vessels below the figure be- long to the rete testis; those above, to the bloodvessels of the testicle. 4. Tunica vasculosa of the testis. 5. One of the lobules of the tubuli seminiferi terminat- ing in a vas rectum, 6. A section of the epididymis.