SOFT PARTS ON THE UPPER PART OF CRANIUM. 51 The anterior division pursues a tortuous course upwards and forwards to the upper part of the forehead. The posterior division passes upwards and backwards to the upper and back part of the head. The lower part of this artery should never be opened for the abstraction of blood, on account of its depth and the danger of ecchymosis occurring. The anterior division is superficial, and easily found on the forehead. The Nerves in this region are a small branch of the superior maxillary, the auriculo-temporal branch of the infe- rior maxillary, and branches of the facial nerve. The first one perforates the temporal aponeurosis just above the zygoma. The auriculo-temporal divides into branches, which ascend to the top of the head. It also sends filaments to the upper part of the ear, to the retrahens aurem, and to the integument above the ear. The branches of the facial nerve pass up over the zygoma, and ramify in the temporal and frontal regions, anastomosing with the branches of the fifth pair. The Posterior Auricular Artery, Fig. 1 (21), ascends between the mastoid process and the ear. It sends branches to the ear, to the integument behind the ear, and to the occipito- frontal muscle and the retrahens aurem. The posterior auricu- lar branch of the facial nerve, and the deep auricular branch of the auricularis magnus, are found in this region.—i The former passes upwards over the anterior and outer sur-rj face of the mastoid process, and divides into an ascending' and a horizontal branch. The ascending branch supplies the retrahens aurem, and the attoUens aurem; the horizontal branch is distributed to the occipito-frontal muscle. The latter ascends at first in front of the mastoid process, and then behind the retrahens aurem. It divides into an anterior and a posterior branch, which are distributed to the skin. The Occipital Artery becomes superficial at the inner border of the splenius muscle. It then ascends on the back part of the head, ramifying in the scalp, and anastomosing with the posterior auricular, the temporal, and the corres-. ponding one on the opposite side. The NERVES in this region are the Occipitalis Major and the Occipitalis Minor. The former perforates the trapezius muscle, and accompanies the occipital artery. The latter- ascends on the inner border of the mastoid muscle, and rami-