OF THE PELVIS. 452 hemorrhoidal nerve is occasionally wholly cutaneous, sending no filaments to the sphincter muscle. The coccygeus muscle is supplied with filaments derived from the fourth and fifth sacral nerves, and the coccygeal nerve. One or two of these nerves, after perforating the coccygeus muscle, become cutaneous, and supply the integu- ment behind the anus and on the back of the coccyx. Two small nerves usually arise from the sacral plexus which are distributed to the gemelli and quadratus femoris muscles^ and also to the hip-joint. The one that supplies the superior gemellus arises from the plexus near the origin of the internal pudic. The one that goes to the inferior ge- mellus and quadratus femoris arises from the plexus at or near the commencement of the great sciatic nerve, passes downwards behind the superior gemellus and obturator in- ternus muscles, between them and the capsule of the hip- joint, to reach the deep surface of the muscles to which it is distributed. Besides supplying these muscles, this nerve sends filaments to the hip-joint. The internal pudic or sujjerior long pudendal nerve arises from the lower part of the sacral plexus, and soon joins the internal pudic artery which it accompanies through the small sacro-sciatic foramen to the perineum, where it divides into two terminal branches, named the perineal nerve and the dor- sal nerve of the penis. They will be noticed as they are met with in the dissection of the parts to which they are distri- buted. It may be well, however, to give a brief description of the course and distribution of the branches of the internal pudic nerve in this place. The perineal nerve accompanies the internal pudic artery as far as a point nearly opposite to the junction of the tube- rosity and ramus of the ischium. At this place it perforates the obturator fascia, which up to this point in the perineum separated it from the ischio-rectal fossa, and divides into its two terminal branches. One of these, named the superficial perineal nerve, Fig. 195 (2), corresponds to the superficial pe- rineal artery. It is placed in the groove between the erec- tor penis and accelerator urin^e muscles, and is distributed to the scrotum, some of its filaments being continued forwards to the integument covering the under surface of the penis. The other branch passes above the transversus perinei mus- cle and sends filaments to the accelerator urinte, to the bulb