112 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK. temporal arteries^ Fig. 33 (17, 1 s), and nerves, Fig. 37 (22), will be seen penetrating the internal surface of the muscle." Each consists of an anterior and posterior branch, the artery being derived from the internal maxillary, and the nerve from the third division of the fifth pair. A branch of the superior maxillary nerve may also be seen passing through the outer wall of the orbit, and penetrating the muscle in the anterior part of the fossa. The inferior maxilla should now be divided transversely through the base of the condyloid process, and vertically through the body in a line corresponding to the last molar tooth. In doing this, both the saw and chisel may be advan- tageously employed. Before cutting through the condyloid process, the masseteric artery and nerve should be traced to- ward their origin and pushed away. If the section of bone between the two incisions be care- fully turned outwards and backwards, without detaching it from the structures beneath, the following parts will be ex- posed :— The Pterygoideus Externus, Fig. 32 (1), situated in the upper part of this region, arises by two heads, the upper and smaller, from the great wing of the sphenoid, near the root of the pterygoid process, the lower one from the outer plate of the pterygoid process. These two heads pass horizontally out- wards, and unite to be inserted by a short tendon into the neck of the condyle of the lower jaw, the internal lateral ligament and the interarticular cartilage. The internal maxillary artery, Fig. 33 (12), crosses over the ex- ternal surface of this muscle from its lower border near the con- dyloid process, to the pterygo- maxillary fossa. The masse- teric nerve passes over its upper margin from within out- wards, and in its course sends a small branch to the temporo- Fig. 32. The two Pterygoid Muscles. The Zygomatic Arch and the greater part op the ramus op THE Lower Jaw hate been re- moved, IN order to bring these Muscles into view.—1. The sphe- noid origin of the external pterygoid muscle. 2. Its pterygoid origin. 3. The internal pterygoid muscle.