471 DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. throuRh the medium of the anterior ligaments of the bladder, which may be regarded as portions of the pelvic fascia. The layer which is placed below the same muscles, after coverino- their under surface, is reflected to the sides of the prostate°gland and the neck of the bladder, where it joins the pelvic fascia just behind the anterior bgaments of the bladder; so that we find three fasciae or layers of fascia, uniting on the sides of the prostate and the fore part of the neck of the bladder, forming a conjoined fascia of the pelvic and deep perineal fasciae. The lower layer of the deep pe- rineal fascia is not only reflected over the sides of the pros- tate, but passes upwards over its lower surface, atid also over the vesiculte seminales so as to inclose them. Fig. 199. A Transverse Vbrticai, Section of the Pelvis, shoving the distribution OF the Pelvic Fascia.—1. The bladder. 2. The vesicula seminalis of one side, divided across. 3. The rectum. 4. The iliac fascia, covering in the iliacus and psoas muscles (5), and forming a sheath for the external iliac vessels (6). Y. The anterior crural nerve, excluded from the sheath. 8. The pelvic fascia. 9. Its as- cending layer, forming the lateral ligament of the bladder of one side, and a sheath to the vesical plexus of veins. 10. The recto-vesical fascia of Tyrrell, formed by the middle layer. 11. The inferior layer surrounding the rectum and meeting at the middle line with the fascia of the opposite side. 12. The levator ani muscle. 13. The obturator internus muscle, covered in by the obturator fascia, which also forms a sheath for the internal pudic vessels and nerve (14). 15. The layer of fascia which invests the under surface of the levator ani muscle, the anal fascia. The junction of the deep perineal and pelvic fascias around the prostate gland and neck of the bladder is very important when viewed with reference to cutting into the bladder through the perineum. It is by means of this con-