DISSECTION OF THE VESSELS AND NERVES. 453 of tlie corpus spongiosum, and to the muscles of Wilson and Guthrie. The perineal nerve, just before it enters the perineum, gives off a branch which has been called the jMsierior superficial perineal nerve. It perforates the great sacro-sciatic ligament, enters the ischio-rectal fossa, and passes forwards to be distri- buted to the scrotum in the male, and to the vulva in the female. It anastomoses with the inferior hemorrhoidal and the perineal branch of the small sciatic nerve; and some- times sends branches to the sphincter ani and coccygeus muscles. The dorsal nerve of the penis^ instead of perforating the obturator fascia, continues forwards, gets between the layers of the deep perineal fascia, perforates the anterior one, and reaches the dorsum of the penis in company with the artery of the same name. It proceeds forwards to the glans penis, to which it is distributed. It gives off a cutaneous branch which divides into numerous filaments to supply the skin including the prepuce; it also sends off branches which penetrate the substance of the corpus cavernosum. The cor- responding nerve of the one last described, in the female, is distributed to the clitoris. The small or lesser sciatic nerve^ Fig. 192 (e), arises from the lower part of the sacral plexus by one, and sometimes by several nervous cords. It leaves the pelvis at the lower part of the great sacro-sciatic foramen, and beneath the pyriformis muscle. At first it is placed on the inner side of the great sciatic nerve, but soon gets behind it. It divides into mus- cular and cutaneous branches. The former supply the glu- teus maximus; the latter are divided into the external and internal; they are distributed to the skin on the outer, back and inner parts of the thigh, one or two branches descending as low as the upper part of the leg. Another branch, named the perineal cutaneous^ or the inferior long pudendal nerve, Fig. 218 (4), passes downwards and inwards below the tuber ischii to reach the anterior part of the perineum, where it divides into two branches, which pass forwards, one on each side of the testis, to be distributed to the anterior part of the scrotum, and to the skin on the under part of the penis. It anastomoses with the superficial perineal nerve. The great sciatic nerve, Fig. 192 (7), is the terminal branch of the sacral plexus. It escapes from the pelvis through the