38 DISSECTION OP THE HEAD AND NECK. the external surface of the alveolar process of the inferior maxilla m front of the coronoid process; the u'p'per one from the alveolar process of the superior maxilla, in front of the pterygoid process; and the middle one from the pterygo-max- illary ligament, which stretches from the pterygoid to the base of the coronoid process, and to which the superior constrictor muscle of the pharynx is also attached. From these difierent origins its fibres converge and pass forwards to the angle of the mouth to be inserted, the inferior ones into the upper, and the superior ones into the lower lip. This muscle is separated behind from the ramus of the inferior maxilla and masseter, by a mass of fat, also by two of the buccal glands called molar. It is perforated by the duct of Steno. It is crossed transversely by the buccal branches of the facial and fifth pair of nerves. The facial artery and vein pass over it vertically. The buccal glands separate its internal surface from the mucous membrane. It draws the angle of the mouth backwards, and makes the lips tense; assists in expelling the contents of the mouth, and antagonizes the tongue in keeping the food in the process of mastication between the teeth. The Zygomaticus Majoe, Fig. 61 (is), arises from the malar bone, jast above its lower border, passes downwards and inwards, and is inserted into the angle of the mouth. It is generally surrounded by more or less fat, and its upper part is covered by the orbicularis palpebrarum; it crosses over the facial artery and vein. Its action is to draw the angle of the mouth upwards and backwards, as in smiling. The Zygomaticus Minoe, Fig. 61 (i 2), is often a fasciculus from the orbicularis palpebrarum. When a distinct muscle, it arises from the malar bone, above the last muscle, and is inserted into the upper lip with the levator labii superioris, with which it acts, at the same time drawing the lip outwards. The Leyatoe Labii Supeeioeis, Fig. 61 (s), arises from the anterior border of the floor of the orbit, above the canine fossa, where it is overlapped by the orbicularis palpebrarum. Its fibres converge as they pass downwards to be inserted into the skin of the upper lip, and the orbicularis oris. All the lower part of this muscle is subcutaneous. Its action is indicated by its name. The infra-orUtal nerve and artery will be found escaping from the infra-orbital foramen, beneath the upper part of this