DISSECTION OP THE BACK. 226 muscle is exposed. In making this dissection, the student ]-equires no other guide than that afforded by the fibres of the mnscle. The direction of these he will see distinctly re- ]iresented in the drawing of the muscles of the back. In the upper part of the neck, this muscle is frequently very small. It arises from the superior ridge on the occipital bone, from the ligament^im nuchas and the spinous processes of the lower cervical and all the dorsal vertebrae ; from this extensive origin the fibres converge and are inserted into the posterior third of the clavicle, the acromion process, and the spine of the scapula. The fibres of the lower part pass ob- liquely upwards, while those of the upper part pass obliquely downwards; the middle fibres have a transverse direction. When the entire muscle acts, it draws the shoulder back- wards. When the upper part acts separately, it may draw the shoulder upwards and backwards; when the lower part acts separately, it may draw the shoulder downwards and backwards. If the shoulder be fixed, this muscle may draw the head backwards and to one side; both the trapezii acting at the same time would draw the head directly backwards. That portion of the muscle which arises from the lower cervical and upper dorsal vertebrge is aponeurotic for some distance from its origin. The student should be careful not to remove this tendon Avith the fascia. The lower part of the muscle, where it passes over the spine of the scapula, is also aponeurotic. _ To expose the Latissimus Doesi, Fig. 97 (4), the trape- zius must be detached from the lower dorsal vertebrte and turned upwards. The arm should also be drawn upwards to make its fibres tense. It arises from the spinous processes of the six lower dorsal and all the lumbar vertebree, from the dorsum of the sacrum, the posterior third of the crest of the ilium, and also from the inferior three or four ribs. The fibres pass upwards and forwards, and are inserted by a thin tendon into _ the bicipital groove of the humerus. The lumbar portion of it is, principally, aponeurotic, and forms the posterior layer of the lumbar fascia. The fleshy slips by which it arises from the ribs indigitate -wdth the heads of the posterior part of the external oblique. The upper part of this muscle is much thinner than the lower; it glides over the inferior angle of the scapula, from