296 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. they are reflected from the roots of the lungs and the peri- cardium to the vertebral column. The pleura mediastinalis is continuous below, with the pleura diapliragmatica^ and laterally with the -pleura costalis. The former lines the thoracic surface of the diaphragm; the latter covers the inner surface of the ribs and intercostal spaces, the internal mammary and intercostal arteries, the splanchnic, sympathetic and intercostal nerves, and the dor- sal ganglia of the sympathetic. The pleura is prolonged from half an inch to an inch above the first rib, where it covers the posterior surface of the lower part of the scalenus anticus muscle, and the subclavian artery. It usually extends somewhat higher on the right side than on the left. Small masses of fat, similar to the appendices epiploicas on the colon, are sometimes observed on the medias- tinal and diaphragmatic portions. The pleura pulmonalis lines the fissures which separate the lobes of the lung. It is very thin and elastic. The inner or fibrous layer is connected with the parenchyma of the lung. The air will generally escape through it from the cells when the lungs are removed from the thorax and inflated. The fibrous layer of the costal pleura is thicker than that of either of the other portions, and more easily detached from the subjacent tissues. The shape of the cavity formed by the parietal pleura is the same as that of the lung which fills it. The left one is longer than the right, but not so broad. Abscesses rarely open into the pleural cavities, either from the lungs or from the surrounding parts. Having examined the pleura, the student should now pro- ceed to the study of the contents of the mediastinal space. ^ The boundaries of this space are on each side the medias- tinal pleura, in front the sternum, behind the vertebral column, below the diaphragm, and above the upper orifice of ■ the thorax. To facilitate the study of the organs, especially of their position in the thorax, contained in this space, it will be found convenient to divide it into four parts; and as the heart is the principal organ in point of size in it, it naturally forms the basis of this division. Observing its position, or that of the pericardium, the student will have no difficulty in understanding these di- visions.