PREFACE. VI That some parts of anatomy can be taught to better ad- vantage in the anatomical theatre than elsewhere there can be no doubt. But there are other parts that can be learned far better in the dissecling-room. Among the parts thus learned may be included almost everything, whose relations must be understood in order to render a knowledge of them available in diagnosis and in operative surgery. However desirable it may be to have every student become a thorough anatomist^ it must be well known to every teacher of anatomy that much of what is taught in the lecture-room is never fully learned and retained by very many of those who graduate in our best institutions; nor is it necessary that the practitioner of medicine or surgery should be so thoroughly conversant with the science of anatomy as he who teaches it. Yet no one, I presume, will say that the student should not learn as much of anatomy as is essential to enable him to do justice to those who may confide in his skill or his ability to treat disease. As but few of those who enroll their names in our colleges as students can ever desire or hope to become teachers of anatomy, it is important that their time should be appropriated to the study of what will be indis- pensable for them to know in the daily routine of practice. Impressed with the conviction that the dissecting-room affords the greatest facilities for acquiring that knowledge which the student, when he becomes a practitioner of medicine, will most need, I have endeavored to supply him with what might be regarded as his text-hook in the dissecting-room. To be a student in the lecture-room is quite different from being a student in the dissecting-room. In the latter, the body is placed in his hands without any previous dissection having been made, and he is required to dissect each part himself. To do this, he must avail himself of the experience of some one who is familiar not only with the parts to be dissected, but with the manipulations necessary to make the proper dissections. In ofl'ering him this assistance, I have not viewed