THE CEREBRUM. 63 When tlie free border of the corpus fimbriatum is raised up and turned over on the hippocampus, the corpus dentatum is brought into view. It is a reddish gray body, serrated, and lies within the concavity of the hippocampus. The internal and upper wall of the middle cornu is formed by the thalamus opticus and corpus striatum. On the lower and posterior part of the thalamus may be observed two small bodies, the coiyus geniculatum,, externum and mter- num. The latter is located a little anterior to and below the former; it is also somewhat smaller, and of a paler ap- pearance. These bodies are connected by white bands to the tubercula quadrigemina. The optic nerve arises in part from them. Having observed the walls and contents of the lateral ventricles, the student may proceed with the dissection in the direction of the third ventricle. This ventricle is situated under the fornix, which has not as yet been disturbed. By observing the point at which the plexus choroides on each side passes beneath the fornix, the position of the foramen of Monroe will be found, as it is occupied by the junction of the two plexuses. This foramen forms the only direct communication between the lateral ventricles, and also between them and the third ventricle. Now divide the fornix over the foramen of Monroe, and carefully raise up and reflect one portion forwards and the other backwards. The union of the two plexuses will now be seen, and also a thin delicate membrane stretching across from one plexus to the other, and which lined the inferior surface of the fornix behind the foramen of Monroe; this is called the velum interpositum, Fig. 12, v. The handle of the scalpel should now be carried backwards between the fornix and the velum interpositum, separating the latter from the former, and also from the posterior border of the corpus callosum. On the under surface of the posterior part of the corpus callosum, and between the posterior pillars of the fornix, are several oblique lines, which constitute what is called the hjra, Fig. 12, e. By dividing what remains of the posterior part of the corpus callosum and fornix, in the direction of the median line, the connection between these two boclies may be examined; also the manner in which the fornix is connected on the sides with the two hippocampi and the corpora fimbriata. These last connections form the j^oste-