DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 52 Acs on the back of the head, between the auricular and the great occipital nerves. The SuPEKFiciAL Yeins, Fig. 62, of the head correspond generally to the arteries. Those which pass through the foramina in the parietal bones are named the emissaries of Santorini. They open into the superior longitudinal sinus. Sect. IV.—Dissection op the Meivibeanes of the Brain. Having dissected the soft parts covering the upper part of the cranium, the calvaria may be removed. If it be de- sired to preserve the cranium for a preparation, this should be done with a saw. The incision should pass through the occipital protuberance behind, about half an inch above the ear on each side, and just above the superciliary ridges in front. The variations in the thickness of the skull at differ- ent points through which this incision would pass, should be observed on one which has already been sawed. It is better to divide both tables entirely with the saw, so that but little effort will be required afterwards to raise the calvaria from the dura mater. This may be done with a chisel, first prying up one part and then another, until it has been detached around the whole circumference of the incision. If the saw be sharpj there will be but little danger of injuring the brain or its membranes, as there will then be no necessity for using any force to press it down on the bone. The position of the subject should be changed to saw through the anterior and posterior portions of the cranium. ■ The strength of the adhesions between the upper part of the cranium and the dura mater, varies greatly in different subjects. Sometimes a good deal of force is required to effect a separation, although the bone has been entirely di- vided. The description of the meninges of the brain will be divided into two parts. The first will embrace all the parts which can be examined before the removal of the brain; the second will include the deep parts, or those which can be seen only after the brain has been removed. ,;TJie membranes of the brain consist of the Dura Mater, tiie, Arachnoid, and the Pia Mater.