DISSECTION" OF THE NECK. 176 The upper part of tlie superior carotid and the submaxil- lary regions will be described separately, as far as the student will be able to dissect conveniently the parts which they contain, without destroying or displacing too much their boundaries. Some parts will be partly brought into view and noticed without their being fully dissected and exposed until a more advanced stage of the dissection; and some which are deep-seated can be dissected better without refer- ence to regions, as the deep muscles, the sympathetic, and the nerves generally in the upper and deep part of the neck, consequently these will be described under the head of the deep parts of the neck. The submaxillary region contains the Submaxillary Gland, Fig. 8(3), which should be dissected first, on account of its size and the important relations which it sustains to the vessels and nerves of that region. This gland is covered by a layer of the deep fascia in which it is embedded. It is of an irregular shape; the transverse diameter being somewhat greater than the vertical. In structure, it resembles the other salivary glands. Anteriorly, it projects over the mylo- hyoideus, and sends a prolongation beneath it; below, it is in relation with the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles ; pos- teriorly, it rests against the process of the deep fascia which is attached to the stylo-hyoid ligament; above, it occupies a fossa on the inner surface of the lower jaw. There are seve- ral lymphatic glands situated in this region around the sub- maxillary gland. They receive lymphatics from the mouth, face, and pharynx; hence they are liable to become afiected in cases of disease located in either of these regions. An enlarged lymphatic gland, in the immediate vicinity of the submaxillary, might be mistaken for disease of the submax- illary gland itself In dissecting this gland, the following parts will be brought into view:— The Facial Arteey, Fig. 65 (9), passes beneath its posterior extremity, occupying a sulcus in its substance, and sending branches to it. The submental branch (11) of the same artery gives small branches to the gland, and passes forwards over the mylo-hyoideus to near the symphysis of the chin, where, after giving branches to the parts beneath the chin, it goes up over the jaw to the face. The facial artery usually gives