526 THE LOWER EXTREMITY. extending from the occiput to the sac- rum. It IS narrower opposite the body of each vertebrse than it is opposite to the intervertebral substance. It is thicker and more compact than the an- terior ligament; its connection, however, with the bodies of the vertebra and the intervening fibro-cartilage is nearly the same as that of the anterior. A plexus of veins with areolar tissue separates it from the body of each vertebra. It diminishes in width from above down- wards. The length of its fibres vary in the same manner as they do in the preceding ligament. The dura mater adheres loosely to its posterior sur- face, being connected to it by areolar tissue. The Intervertebral Substance or Ligaments, Fig. 223, Fig. 224, are placed between the bodies of all the vertebrae except the first two. Each one consists of fibro-cartilage which has the form of the space that it occupies. As the bodies of the vertebras vary in shape so does the intervertebral substance. It is usually thicker in the centre than at the circumference. It adheres so closely to the bone that the latter will break before the former will separate from it. It also pos- sesses great strength in itself. Each one consists of lamellae which are more numerous in front and on the sides, in the cervical and lumbar regions, than behind; the reverse is true in the dorsal region ; they are thicker before than behind in the two regions first-named, while the opposite is true in the dorsal region. The anterior convexities of the column in the cervical and dorsal regions are said to be due principally to the thickness of the intervertebral substance, while the concavity in the dorsal region is attributed to the vertebrae. The heads of the ribs articulate, Fig. 144 (4), with tlie inter- Fig. 222. A Posterior view op THE Bodies op three Dor- sal Vertebrae, connect- ed BY (1, 1), THEIR InTER- tertrbral Substance.— The laminse (2, 2) have been sawn through near the bodies of the vertebras, and the arches and processes removed, in order to show (3) the posterior common ligament. A part of one of the openings in the posterior surface of the vertebrae, for the transmis- sion of the vena basis ver- tebrae, is seen at 4, by the side of the narrow and unattached portion of the ligament.