DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK. in the tubes of tlie optic nerve. It loses its transparency " after death. In the human eye its anterior border is soon serrated. Fig. 28. The Posterior Segment op a Transverse Section op the Globe OF the Eye, seen from within.—1. The divided edge of the three coats— the membrane covering the whole in- ternal surface is the retina. 2. The entrance of the optic nerve with the arteria centralis retinae piercing its centre. .3, 3. The ramifications of the arteria centralis. 4. The foramen of Siiramering; the shade from the sides of the section obscures the limbus lu- teus which surrounds it. 5. A fold of the retina, which generally obscures the foramen of Sommering after the eye has been opened. The vascular or inner layer is composed principally of a network of vessels proceeding from the central artery of the retina. It is exposed by ma- cerating an eye for two or three days, and then scraping off the nervous layer. It ter- minates anteriorly by passing m between tlie ciliary and hyaloid processes. This layer is intended for the ramifica- tion of vessels to supply the retina and hyaloid membrane, also to fix and support the nervous layer. The nervous substance of the retina is- deficient in a small spot, about a line from ^the entrance of the optic nerve and in the axis of the eye; this has been called the fora- men of Sommering^ Fig. 28 (4). The limbus luteus is a yellow spot around this depression or foramen. These points in the transverse vertical section of In this section the retina is retina are best seen when a the eyeball has been made, commonly thrown into folds by being deprived of the sup- port of the vitreous humor. The Hyaloid Membeane, or capsule, contains the vitreous humor^ Fig. 25 (13), which occupies about three-fourths of the eyeball posteriorly. It is a thin, delicate, transparent mem- brane, consisting of a general capsule and a large number of septa projecting from its inner surface, so as to form numer- ous small cells or compartments. These cells communicate with each other, as is shown by the gradual escape of the humor when the vitreous body is cut or punctured. The hyaloid body, which includes the hyaloid membrane and the