84 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK. spinal nerves. It passes throngli the anterior condyloid foramen, and in its cranial course usually consists of two or more fasciculi. The study of the cerebral nerves is rendered perhaps more complicated to the student on account of each nerve being designated by a particular name. Their origin is necessarily more difficult to learn than that of the spinal nerves; this results from the gray neurine with which they are connected being more scattered about and not so easily located. If we were able to see clearly and distinctly all the gray matter with which the different cerebral nerves are connected in their origin, we should probably observe the same simplicity in its arrangement as in that of the spinal marrow. The student should endeavor to acquire familiarity with these nerves by studying them 'according to their functions, and in connection with the parts to which they are distri- buted. If, for instance, he refers to the nervous endowment of the tongue, he will at once see the necessity of this organ being supplied with at least three different kinds of nerves. It contains muscles which must be supplied with a motor nerve; and if these muscles can act independently of the will, as well as under its direction, then they must be sup- plied with both voluntary and involuntary motor filaments. Like nearly all other parts of the body, it must have a nerve of general sensibility^ and, as it is the seat of taste, it must have a nerve of special sensibility. He should learn to con- template other organs and other parts of the body, in regard to their nervous endowment, in the same manner. The third, fourth, sixth, and ninth nerves may be regarded as being associated with the motor portion of the fifth nerve, as the distribution of all these motor nerves corresponds to that of the sensor portion of the fifth. As the fifth is the nerve of general sensibility to aU parts of the face, superficial as well as deep seated, so would it then also be the nerve of volun- tary motion to all the muscles of the same parts. This would leave only the four nerves of special sensibility and the por- tio dura, an involuntary motor nerve, to be distributed to the head; the pneumogastric and spinal accessory going to sup- ply other parts. The following table will exhibit to the student, at a glance, the functional divisions of the cerebral nerves:—