277 THE PALM OF THE HAND. articulations, aud are expanded on the back of the first row of phalanges, in connection with the tendons of the common extensor of the fingers. Their action cannot well be defined; it will depend on tlie action of other muscles, whether they assist in flexing or extending, in abducting or adducting the fingers. The four short muscles of the thumb may now be dissected. They form the palmar or thenar eminence, and are named according to their action on the thumb. The Abductor PoLLicis,Eig. 119(2, 2), is the most super- ficial and external. It arises from the annular ligament and trapezium, and is inserted into the base of the first phalanx. It abducts the thumb. The Flexor Ossis Metacarpi, or, Oppojstens Pollicis, Fig. 119 (3), is partly overlapped by the preceding muscle, which, consequently, should be raised before the opponens Fig. 119. The Muscles of the Hand.—1. The annular ligament. 2, 2. The ori- gin and insertion of the abductor pol- licis muscle; the n.iddle portion has been removed. 3. The flexor ossia metacarpi, or opponens pollicis. 4. One portion of the flexor brevis polli- cis. 5. The deep portion of the flexor brevis pollicis. 6. The adductor pol- licis. 7, 7. The lumbricales muscles, arising from the deep flexor tendons, upon which the numbers are placed. The tendons of the flexor sublimis have been removed from the palm of the band. 8. One of the tendons of the deep flexor, passing between the two terminal slips of the tendon of the flexor sublimis, to reach the last phalanx. 9. The tendon of the flexor longus pol- licis, passing between the two portions of the flexor brevis to the last phalanx. 10. The abductor minimi digiti. 11. The flexor brevis minimi digiti. The edge of the flexor ossis metacarpi, or adductor minimi digiti, is seen project- ing beyond the inner border of the flexor brevis. 12. The prominence of the pisiform bone terosseous muscle. 13. The first dorsal in- 18 dissected. It aiises from the annular ligament and os scaphoides, and is inserted into the metacarpal bone of the 24