DISSECTION OF CAVITY OF THE ABDOMEN. 363 portion is reflected upon the remains of the umbilical vein of the foetus, and forms the suspensory ligament of the liver. Below the umbilicus it presents three folds which correspond, in the middle, to the urachus, and on the sides to the umbili- cal arteries of the foetus. In some parts it adheres closely to the abdominal parietes, while in others, as in the lumbar and iliac regions, more or less loose areolar tissue intervenes. The visceral portion is rendered somewhat complex by its numerous reflections. To understand it properly, the student cannot rely wpon a mere description of it; he must examine it for himself The best mode of doing this is to study it in its connections with the organs which it invests, and from which it is reflected to the parietes. It is in this way that we shall describe it. If the liver be examined, it will be found that the perito- neum covers nearly the whole of its exterior surface, includ- ing a portion of the gall-bladder; and that it is reflected from it at four different places. From its upper and anterior surface in the median line it is reflected to the diaphragm, so as to form a fold which extends from the ligamentmn teres or the remains of the umbilical vein of the foetus, which it includes, to the posterior border of the liver. This fold is caUed the suspensory ligament^ and indicates the dividing line between the right and left lobes of the liver. At the poste- rior border it is reflected to the diaphragm, and forms first the coronary and then the right and left lateral ligaments; of the last two the right one is short, and attaches the right lobe closely to the diaphragm, while the left is longer, and allows the left lobe a considerable degree of mobility inde- pendently of the diaphragm. From the under surface it IS reflected in three laminas. The anterior tivo form a fold which contains, in its right border, the hepatic artery and duct^ the portal vein, the hepatic plexus of nerves, and the deep-seated lymphatics of the liver, and below, the stomach. This fold between the liver and the stomach, is named the gastro-hepatic omentum, Fig. 154 (9). These two laminae leave the con- vex border of the stomach, pass down in front of the trans- verse colon, without adhering to it, and descend to the lower part of the abdomen. Fig. 153 (27, 27), where they are re- jected on themselves; they then pass upwards to the trans- verse colon, to inclose which they separate, and then reunite and go backwards to the spine, forming the transverse meso-colon •