285 THE LIGAMENTS OP THE HAND. The trapezium is connected to the metacafpal bone of t tliumb by a capsidar ligament. This articulation allows Fig. 125. A Diagram showing the disposition OP THE FIVE Synovial Membranes op THE AVrist-Joint.—1. The sacciform mem- brane. 2. The second synovial membrane. 3, 3. The third, or large synovial mem- brane. 4. The synovial membrane between the pisiform bone and the cuneiform. 5. The synovial membrane of the metacarpal articulation of the thumb. 6. The lower extremity of the radius. 7. The lower extremity of the ulna. 8. The inter- articular fibro cartilage, s. The scaphoid bone. Jj. The semilunar, c. The cunei- form ; the interosseous ligaments are seen passing between these three bones and separating the articulations of the wrist (2) from the articulation of the carpal bones (3). p. The pisiforme. t. The trapezium. 2t. The trapezoides. M. The OS magnum, u. The unciform interos- seous ligaments are seen connecting the OS magnum with the trapezoides and unci- form. 9. The base of the metacarpal bone of the thumb. 10, 10. The bases of the other metacarpal bones. the thumb a great degree of motion. The metacarpal bones of the fingers are connected to the carpus by dorsal and jpal- mar ligaments. The former are stronger than the latter. The metacarpal bones are united at their carpal extremi- ties by dorsal and palmar tramverse ligaments, and also by interosseous fibres. Their phalangeal extremities are connected to each other by three hose transverse fibrous bands. Each metacarpal bone is connected to its corresponding phalangeal bone by an anterior and two lateral ligaments. The anterior ligament is joined to the lateral ligaments on its sides. Anteriorly it is grooved for the tendons of the flexor muscles of the fingers, the sheaths of which are attached to it on each side of the groove. The lateral ligaments of the thumb are very strong, and sometimes contain sesamoid bones. The articulations of the phalangeal bones have each an anterior and two lateral ligaments. They require no particular description. The synovial membranes, Fig. 125, about the wrist should be carefully examined. There are five distinct capsules.