THE THOKACIC DUCT. 329 gus lies in front of the vertebral column, and behind the tra- chea, being inclined a little to the left side. Its relations to the aorta in passing through the thorax are changed. At first it passes beneath the arch, then to the right of the descending aorta, and finally it gets nearly in front of it. Its course is slightly flexuous. The course of the aorta has already been observed. It g-ives off, besides the branches previously described, the oeso- phageal and intercostal, The oesophageal branches, Fig. 137 (3), vary in number and origin. There may be three, four, or more of them. They divide, after reaching the oesophagus, into ascending and descending branches, which perforate the muscular coat and ramify beneath the mucous membrane. The intercostal arteries, Fig. 137 (21, 21), arising from the aorta, usually consist of nine or ten on each side; the supe- rior intercostal spaces being supplied from the subclavian arteries. They arise from the posterior part of the aorta, and proceed laterally to enter the intercostal spaces. Those on the right side, especially the superior ones, are much longer and more oblique in the first part of their course than the corresponding ones on the left side. As the intercostals enter the intercostal spaces, they give off posterior branches which go back to supply the muscles in the spinal fossa3, and also to send twigs into the spinal canal through the inter- vertebral foramina. After giving off the posterior branches, they pass forwards along the lower borders of the ribs, occu- pying the intercostal grooves. Each artery divides into two or more branches, some distance from the sternum, which anastomose with branches from the internal mammary. They are accompanied by the intercostal nerves in the inter- costal spaces, and also the veins of the same name. The Thoracic Duct, Fig. 141 (12, 13, 14), was seen in the posterior mediastinum, and was also noticed in the dissection of the neck. It commences in the receptaculum chyli, which is situated on the second lumbar vertebra, and between the right or long crus of the diaphragm and the aorta. It enters the posterior mediastinum through the aortic opening- in the diaphragm, between the aorta and azygos vein, and ascends nearly in a straight direction as far as the third cervical vertebra, having the cesophagus in front of it; it now tui'ns to the left beneath the aorta, and gets to the left side of the 28*