DISSECTION OF THE SOLE OF THE FOOT. 583 exposed situation, are constantly liable to injury, especially among the poorer classes of people, who are in the habit of dis- pensing with the use of shoes or boots. Punctured wounds are frequently met with in the sole of the foot, which are liable to be followed by tetanus, or by collections of pus; in either case, the proper treatment must be based mainly on the anatomy of the parts. The same is true in the case of incised wounds, in which hemorrhage occurs, requiring the employ- ment of prompt and efficient means for arresting it. Deformi- ties are also met with, in the treatment of which a thorou.gh knowledge of the foot is demanded. And the same may be said in regard to injuries of various kinds, requiring surgical treatment. The question, as to the removal of a part or the whole of the foot by excision or amputation, must frequently be decided by the extent of injury which the parts have sus- tained ; and, to be able to determine this, the surgeon must have an accurate knowledge of all the parts involved. In the management of such cases, the surgeon cannot rely on any rules which he may have learned in the lecture-room or in books; for it is impossible to lay down any set of rules which will meet the indications of every case that may occur. Whe- ther the patient shall lose the whole or a part of his foot, or shall have the limb saved entire, may depend wholly upon a slight variation in the extent of the injury inflicted, and which can be detected only by the surgeon having a distinct idea of all the parts, and their relations to each other, which enter into the structure of the foot. ,^^,^ ^^^r,. ^ ^ 'io dissect the sole oi the foot, a block must be placed under the instep, so that the foot can be fully extended on the leg, with the plantar jsurface looking upwards; it must also be firmly fixed in this position; if this be neglected, the dissector will be constantly annoyed by the foot moving about, its own weight being insufiicient to assist much in keeping it in the position required, and the integument is so closely connected to the aponeurosis or fascia beneath it, by numerous fibres prolonged from its under surface and from the subcutaneous adipose substance into the aponeurosis, that considerable force is required to divide them in raising the skin. To be able to make this dissection properly, the student must be provided with sharp scalpels, otherwise he will almost necessarily, either remove portions of the aponeurosis with the skin, or leave