THE T7PPEK EXTREMITY. 230 it, the scapula should he depressed and carried forwards. The use of this muscle is to elevate the angle of the scapula, and thus depress the acromion process; acting with the tra- pezius, it assists in raising the shoulder. When the shoulder is fixed, it can bend the head back and to one side. When this muscle is detached near its insertion, the student will be able to get a view of the serratus magnus from behind. By moving the scapula in different directions, the attach- ments and relations of this large muscle may be distinctly seen. The relations of the levator anguli scapulae to the posterior scalenus should, also, be noticed. It is important to keep in view the relations of the parts which are seen in the dissec- tion of the anterior portion of the neck, to those which are observed from behind. It should be borne in mind that the neck presents a lateral as well as an anterior and posterior view. When the splenius is raised from its origin, and turned upwards, the four following muscles are brought into view in the neck. The splenius is perforated near its spinal attach- ment, by several nerves which may be noticed in raising it. The CoMPLEXUS, Fig. 98 (s), is a large, powerful muscle, with several tendinous intersections. It lies next to the spine, and arises from the transverse processes of the upper three dorsal, and the oblique processes of the four lower cer- vical vertebrae. Its fibres ascend and are inserted into the occipital bone between the two transverse ridges. When one acts alone, it rotates the head, or draws it back and to one side. When both of the complexus muscles act at the same time, they draw the head directly backwards. The Trachelo-Mastoideus, Fig. 98 (7), is a small muscle which arises from the transverse processes of the upper three or four dorsal, and the inferior three or four cervical verte- br£e. Its fibres pass upwards, and are inserted into the back part of the mastoid process. The dorsal portion of this muscle is frequently connected to the cervical by a small fasciculus. It assists other muscles in the movements of the head, as drawing it backwards, or backwards and to one side. The Transversalis Colli, Fig. 98 (9), is another small muscle, situated on the outside of the preceding. It aru^cs by small slips from the transverse processes ot the upper