THE LOWEE EXTREMITY. 538 is triangular, Pig. 233. coccyx, and anteriorly to the spine of the ischium. Its form and its direction is nearly transverse. Pos- teriorly, it is covered principally by the great ligament, with which its fibres are more or less inter- mingled, especially at its base or near the sacrum. Anteriorly, it is in apposition with the coc- cygeus muscle. The great and small sacro- sciatic notches, which exist in the osseous pelvis, are by these two ligaments converted into the great and small sacro-sciatic foramina, Fig. 233 (1,2). As the spine of the ischium separates the two notches, so the small sacro-sciatic ligament separates the two foramina. The contents of these foramina require par- ticular notice in the dissection of the parts inside of the pelvis and in the gluteal region. The articulation formed by the bodies of the pubic bones is designated the symphysis pvbis, Fig. 233 (e). The space between these bones is of a cuneiform shape, the base looking forwards and downwards, and the thin edge backwards and upwards. This space is filled with fibro-cartilage, including sometimes an imperfect synovial sac, especially in the female. The fibro-cartilage is arranged in concentric layers of an elongated oval form; short fibres penetrate and connect them together, except in the centre and posteriorly, where a soft pulpy substance is found, or the synovial sac when present. As the laminae just fill the circumference of the space between the bones, they are thicker or more numerous in front than behind, where they project so as to form a vertical ridge; some of them may be entirely deficient behind. Surrounding this intermediate structure, ligamentous fibres extend from one bone to the other. They are nanied accord- ing to their location. Thus, we have quite a thick, strong fasciculus of fibres above, passing from one bone to the other and continuing some distance on their upper borders; this A Section of the Pelvis, show- ing THE Ligaments and Sacro- SciATic Foramina on the Left in- ner side, viz: 1. Great sacro-sciiitic foramen. 2. Small sacro-sciatic fora- men. 3. Sacro-coccj-gean ligament. 4. Great sacro-sciatic. 5. Small sa- cro-sciatic. 6. Symphysis pubis. 7. Anterior saoro-iliac ligament. 10. Obturator.