ANTERIOR PART OF THE THIGH. 509 closely connected at its upper part, but separated from it below by a triangular areolar interspace, in which the adductor bre- vis is seen? It arises, by a narrow, flat tendon, from the spine and body of the pubes, passes downwards, backwards, and ontwards, and is inserted into the linea aspera at the middle third of the femur. Near its insertion, it is connected by tendinous fibres to the adductor magnus and vastus inter- nus. It is perforated by branches of the arteria profunda femoris. The pectineus and adductor longus should now be detached at their origins, and carefully turned downwards for the pur- pose of examining the anterior or superficial branches of the obturator nerve, which are situated immediately behind these muscles. The oUuraior nerve, Fig. 212 (s), enters the inner and upper part of the thigh through the sub-pubic canal in the obtura- tor foramen. As it leaves the canal, or just before it leaves, it gives off one or two twigs to the obturator externus muscle, and to the hip-joint; it then divides into its superficial and deep branches. The former pass in front of the adductor brevis, and the latter behind it. The superficial branches are distributed to the pectineus, adductor brevis, adductor longus, gracilis, and the vastus internus muscles. After passing be- neath the pectineus and the adductor longus, a branch pro- ceeds to join the plexus formed on the inner side of the thigh by branches derived from the internal cutaneous and saphe- nous nerves. Vaginal branches are also sent to the femoral artery. The accessory obturator nerve will be found beneath the pectineus muscle. This nerve reaches the thigh by passing over the brim of the pelvis near the pectineal eminence. It usually anastomoses with the obturator nerve, and sends a filament to the pectineus, and one to the hip-joint. The deep division of the obturator nerve perforates the obturator ex- ternus, to which it sends filaments. It then descends on the adductor magnus, to which it is principally distributed. One branch leaves this muscle and joins the femoral artery as it enters the popliteal space. It terminates in articular branches to the knee-joint, and to the upper and back part of the leg. The adductor brevis and magnus muscles may now be dis- sected. The Adductor Brevis, Fig. 214 (i i), arises from the pubes 4:i*