ANTERIOE PART OF LEG, DORSUM OF THE FOOT. 571 may now be dissected off to expose the deep fascia^ and the external and anterior annular ligaments. The deep fascia on the anterior part of the leg is thicker and stronger than on any other part. It is composed in the upper part of fibres which have an oblique direction, and interlace with each other; in the lower part they are circular. It is continuous ahove with the fascia lata as it is continued downwards in front of the knee-joint, and is also attached to the tubercle of the tibia; internally^ it is attached to the spine of the tibia; externally^ to the fibula ; and helow^ to the ante- rior annular ligament. Thus, it will be seen that it forms a sheath for the muscles on the anterior part of the leg ; besides forming a sheath common to the muscles, it sends processes or intermuscular septa in between them, especially in the upper part of the leg. The tibialis anticus and the extensor longus digitorum communis have, as will be seen, their origin in part from these intermuscular septa; they also arise partly irora the inner surface of the fascia, where it covers them. The deep fascia on the outer side of the leg is continuous above, with the fascia lata, and is attached to the head of the fibula; laterally, it is attached to the tibia and fibula, where it assists the anterior and posterior fasci£e in forming two intermuscular septa. This fascia forms a sheath for the long and short peroneal muscles, and sends a process in be- tween them from which, as well as from the inner surface of the sheath, they, in part, have their origin; below, it termi- nates in the external annular ligament. The anterior annular ligament, Fig. 244 (i 2), consists of a broad fibrous band extending superficially from the internal malleolus and os naviculare obliquely across in front of the ankle-joint to the external malleolus and os calcis. As the deep fascia gradually increases in thickness as it approaches the ligament, it is impossible to fix any distinct line of sepa- ration between them. It forms on the inner side next to the tibia a sheath for the tendon of the tibialis anticus, and an- other for the tendons of the extensor longus digitorum com- munis and peroneus tertius, which is placed lower down and close to the fibula. The tendon of the extensor longus polli- cis also passes through a sheath, which is, however, imperfectly formed; the anterior tibial vessels and nerve pass through the same sheath occupied by the tendon of the extensor longus polhcis. A fibrous band extends from the annular