ANTEEIOR PART OF LEG, DORSUM OF THE FOOT. 573 Fig. 244. part of the interosseous ligament, from the head and the outer surface of the upper two-thirds of the tibia, and from the deep fascia. The fibres pass obliquely downwards and inwards to end at the lower part of the leg in a flattish round tendon, which passes down in front of the lower part of the tibia and the ankle-joint to get to the inner side of the tarsus, to be imerted into the tuberosity of the internal cunei- form bone, and by a tendinous fascicu- lus into the base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe. The fibres join the tendon much lower down behind than before, so that in front the tendon is seen as high as the junction of the middle and lower thirds of the leg; it extends considerably higher, but is concealed by the fibres of the muscle. It passes through a separate sheath formed by the anterior annular liga- ment, and is surrounded in the sheath by synovial membrane. Its action is to flex the foot upon the leg, to raise the inner part of the foot, and also to adduct it. As a flexor it antagonizes the tibialis posticus, so that when the student has learned its action as such, he has merely to reverse it to under- stand the action of the posticus. The Extensor Longus Digitorum Pedis, Fig. 244 (4), is situated in the outer part of the interosseous fossa, having nearly the same relation to the fibula that the preceding muscle has to the tibia. The lower part of it is separated from the fibula by the pero- ThE MtTSCLBS OP THE ANTERIOR TiBIAL REGION AND DonsUM OF THE FoOT 1. The extensor muscles inserted into the patella. 2. The subcutaneous surface of the tibia. 3. The tibialis anticus. 4. The extensor longus digitorum. 5. The ex- tensor proprius pollicis. 6. The peroneus tertius. 7. The peroneus longus. 8, Ihe peroneus brevis. 9, 9. The borders of the soleus muscle. 10. A part of the inner belly of the gastrocnemius. 11. The extensor brevis digitorum; the tendon m front of this number is that of the peroneus tertius, and those behind it, the ten- dons of the peronei brevis and longus. 12. Anterior annular ligament. 13. Ex- ternal annular ligament. 14. Ligamentumjatellao.