402 OF THE ABDOMEN. The hepatic veins, Fig. 171, H, commence in the lobules by ihQ mtrabhular veim, which end in the suhlobular, and these again terminate in the hepatic veins, of which there are commonly, three or four principal trunks. These open into the vena cava near the diaphragm. They are not surrounded by areolar tissue like the portal vein, but adhere closely to the canals, the walls of which are very thin, and conse- quently do not collapse when they are divided. A branch of an hepatic vein is readily distinguished from one of the portal vein; as the latter is alwaysliccompanied by a branch of the hepatic artery and duct, is surrounded by areolar tissue, collapses when divided, and is directed towards the transverse fissure. Neither the portal nor the hepatic veins have any valves. The nerves and the deep lymphatics of the liver accompany the divisions of the hepatic artery and portal vein. The proper substance of the liver consists of small granu- lar polyhedral bodies named lobules. Each one is about the size of a millet seed, and represents, in miniature form, the entire liver. It is invested by a process from the capsule of Glisson, except at its base, where it rests on a sublobular vein. Dissection of the Gall-Bladdee. The gall-bladder, Fig. 169 (22), and Fig. 172, is attached to the under surface of the right lobe of the liver, and occupies the anterior portion of the right antero-posterior fissure. It is of a conical form. The base is directed downwards, for- wards and to the right; sometimes it projects beyond the anterior border of the liver, and again does not extend to it. The apex is directed backwards, upwards, and to the left, where it ends in the cystic duct. It is subject to much vari- ation in size. Its free surface is covered by peritoneum., which is reflected from it to the liver. Its adherent, surface is in contact with the substance of the liver, from which it is easily separated after the peritoneum has been divided around it. It has a fibro-cellular coat, which in some of the larger animals con- tains non-striated muscular fibres. The mucous membrane presents a honey-combed or reticulated apjsearance. It is stained with bile after death.