148 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK. outer -wall is formed by tlie superior constrictor of the plia- rynx and tlie pharyngeal aponeurosis, by which the excava- tion containing the tonsil is separated from the internal carotid artery. The tonsil, Fig. 55, t, is composed of a number of follicles col- lected into a group. Its internal surface is perforated by fora- mina which communicate with these follicles. A single fora- men may open into a cell or cavity with which several follicles communicate. In excising the tonsil when enlarged, there can be no danger of wounding the internal carotid if the incision be not made deeper than on a level with the half- arches. Nor is there any danger of injuring the same artery in opening abscesses of the tonsil if the bistoury be not car- ried into it too far in a posterior direction, as the artery lies outside and between the tonsil and the vertebrae, on the rectus capitis anticus major. Abscesses of the tonsil almost always open internally on account of the resistance offered by the pharyngeal aponeurosis. Mucus sometimes collects and becomes inspissated in the follicles, and when discharged gives rise to the idea that tuberculous matter has been expec- torated. The tonsil is supplied principally by the palatine branches of the pharyngeal arteries. These arteries some- times attain a considerable size in enlargements of the tonsils, and consequently may give rise to quite a profuse hemor- rhage when they are excised. The Pharynx, Eig. 55, is the third division of the ali- mentary canal. It extends from the cuneiform process of the occipital bone to a point opposite the fifth cervical verte- bra. It commu.nicates with the tympana, nasal fossae, mouth, larynx, and oesophagus. Its position and relation to con- tiguous parts render an accurate knowledge of it exceedingly important. It may be very properly considered as divided into a 7iasal, a faucial, and a laryngeal section. This division is not based upon its structure, but upon its relations to the parts placed in front of it. Its posterior wall corresponds to the bodies of the superior five cervical vertebrae. This pre- sents nothing which requires to be noticed at the present time. The same is true with the lateral walls, except at the upper part, where the orifices of the Eustachian tubes are found. The pharynx has no anterior wall peculiar to itself, but is intimately associated with the nasal cavities, the fauces, and the larynx.