?i DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK. ■upwards to the pons Varolii. Its direction corresponds to the inner surface of the cuneiform process of the occipital bone and the commencement of the spinal canal. Anteriorly and laterally, it is simply covered by pia mater and arachnoid membrane; posteriorly, it is, as has already been seen, in relation with the cerebellum and fourth ventricle. Each lateral half presents four elevations or bodies, named corpus pyramidaUj corpus olivare^ corpus restiforme^ and corpus pyramidale posterius. The two anterior pyramidal bodies are separated by a fissure, which is a continuation of the anterior fissure of the spinal marrow. At the bottom of this fissure are observed transverse commissural fibres; and, about an inch below the upper extremity, are seen several fasciculi, which decussate, connecting each half of the spinal marrow with the opposite hemisphere of the brain. The two posterior pyramidal bodies are also separated by a fissure, which is a continuation of the posterior fissure of the spinal marrow. A part of this fissure is the calamus scriptorius. The CoEPORA Pyramidalia, Fig. 17 (2 0), are a continuation of the anterior columns of the spinal marrow upwards. They increase in size up to the pons Yarolii, where they become suddenly constricted, and immediately enter that body. They diverge slightly as they ascend. At the upper end of the fis- sure, and between their upper extremities, is a small depres- sion, called the foramen ccecum. Bach body is composed of fibres coming from the anterior column of the spinal marrow of its own side, and also of fibres from that of the opposite side. These fibres continue upwards, through the pons Ya- rolii and crura cerebri, to the cerebral hemispheres. TheCoEPORAOLiVARiA,Fig.l7 (22), are situated behind, and external to the anterior pyramids. They do not extend quite up to the pons ; nor are they quite as long as the pyramids. The upper extremities are more prominent than the lower. Externally, they consist of white fibrous tissue; internally, each contains a mass of gray substance called the olivary ganglion^ or corpus dentation of the olivary body. The structure and appearance of this is similar to the corpus dentatum of the cerebellum. On the inner side, its capsule is open, and the gray matter which it contains is continuous with that of the centre of the medulla oblongata; it is also continuous with the gray substance of the pons. The fibres of the olivary bodies are continued upwards into the upper and posterior