473 DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. pubes and the rami of the ischia, and of the pelvic fascia to the brim of the pelvis, and then the manner in which these fascite are joined to each other and are connected with the neck of the bladder, the prostate gland, and the membranous portion of the iirethra, are observed, it would seem to be impossible for any displacement of these organs to occur. In tracing the middle portion of the pelvic fascia, it will be observed that it is reflected between the rectum-and bladder to join the fascia of the opposite side, thas forming what is called the recto-vesical fascia, Fig. 199 (lo), and behind this, to the sides of the rectum, in the same way as it was anteriorly to the neck of the bladder. The recto-vesical fascia has been called the fascia of Tyrrell. It is reflected upwards on the bladder in front, and on the rectum behind, becoming more and more attenuated until it disappears on the parietes of these organs. As it is reflected on the bladder it splits to form a sheath for the posterior part of the vesical plexus of veins, Fig. 199 (9). Below, it is joined by the deep perineal fascia which is continued up behind the prostate gland and the vesiculse seminales, splitting to form a sheath for the last named bodies, Fig. 199 (2). Where the pelvic fascia is re- flected to the rectum, a layer proceeds downwards as far as the insertion of the levator ani muscle, separating this mus- cle from the rectum ; this is continuous anteriorly with the deep perineal fascia behind the prostate gland and vesiculse seminales. As the anterior part of the pelvic fascia is continuous with two layers which belong to the perineum, so is the middle portion of it; these are the levator and obturator fascise. The levator fascia is given off from the obturator rather than from the pelvic fascia; the continuity, however, remains the same. A line having an antero-posterior direc- tion is observed at or just above the origin of the levator fascia; it is caused by a thickening of the fascia, and gives strength to the upper attachment of the middle portion of the levator ani muscle. When it is remembered that the levator and obturator fasciae are connected to the layer which joins the deep with the superficial perineal fascia in front of the ischio-rectal fossa, the connection of the two last-named fascia3 with the middle portion of the pelvic fascia will be readily seen. The posterior part of the pelvic fascia passes behind the 40*