THE LOWER EXTREMITY. 590 Fig. 252. The digital brandies tliea divide, each into an internal and external collateral branch to go to the toes; these pass forwards on the opposing sides of contiguous toes. There is but one that goes to the outer part of the little toe. The arteria magna poll'icis arises near the anastomosis of the plantar arch with the dorsal arter}^, and supplies the outer side of the great toe, and the inner side of the second toe. The veins accompany the arteries, there being two for each arter j. They anastomose with the dorsal veins along the inner and outer borders of the foot. As they leave the sole of the foot tliey unite to form the posterior tibial vein. The nerves of the sole of the foot are derived from the posterior tibial which divides behind the internal malleolus into the external and inter- nal plantar. The internal plantar nerve, Fig. 252 (4), passes along the inner side of the OS calcis and above the abductor pol- licis in company with the artery of the same name, and gets into the internal sulcus or groove, in the anterior part of which it divides into four digital branches, which supply the great, the second, the third, and the inner side of the fourth toe. Its distribution to the toes is the same as that of the median nerve is to the fingers. In the anterior part of its course, it perforates the sheath, in which the flexor brevis digi- torum is placed, and continues for a short distance along the inner border of that muscle. It gives off several branches to the muscles and to the in- tegument before it divides into its ter- minal branches. Near its origin, it sends quite a large branch to the integument on the heel. The external plantar nerve, Fig. 252 (5), accompanies the A View of thk Termina- tion OP THE Posterior Ti- bial Nerve in the Sole op THE Foot.—1. Inner side of the foot. 2. Outer side of the foot. 3. The heel. 4. In- ternal plantar nerve. 5. External plantar nerve. 6. Branch to the flexor brevis muscle. 7. Branch to the outside of the little toe. 8. Branch to the space between the fourth and fifth toes. 9, 9, 9. Digital branches to the remaining spaces. lO. Branch to the internal side of the great toe.