184 DISSECTION" OF THE NECK. The PosTEEioE AuEicuLAE, Fig. 65 (ic), arises above, or in common with, the occipital, and passes upwards and back- wards between the mastoid process and meatus auditorius. It ramifies on the external ear, and beneath the integument behind the ear. The styloid is more frequently a branch of the posterior auricular; it enters the foramen stjlo-mastoideum, and goes to the middle ear. Besides the branches just mentioned, the external carotid generally sends two or three small ones to the sterno-cleido- mastoideus. Sect. II.—Dissection of the deep paets op the Keck. The examination of these parts requires a displacement of the lower jaw, or at least the half on the side upon v/hich they are to be dissected. The only additional section which will be required will be through the symphysis of the chin, when the remaining portions of the jaw upon that side may be drawn upwards and forwards, out of the way, or they may be entirely removed. The parts to be examined in the present dissection are the internal carotid artery, the internal jugular vein, the pneumo- gastric, the giosso-pharyngeal, the spinal accessory, the hypo- glossal, and the sympathetic nerves, and the pharyngeal ]3lexus, and some of the deep muscles of the neck. Most of the parts just enumerated have been examined as they were found in the different regions already dissected. The following de- scription, therefore, will be confined principally to those por- tions of them which remain to be exposed. The branches of the external carotid may be cut away, as the dissector shall find it necessary, in the progress of the dissection. The digastricus and the stylo-hyoideus may be divided near their hyoid attachments, and reflected backwards. The Inteenal Caeotid, Fig. 65 (2), passes upwards nearly in a vertical direction from the bifurcation of the common carotid, to the foramen caroticum in the petrous portion of the temporal bone, through which it enters the cranial cavity. In the superior carotid region, it is quite superficial, being covered merely by the integument, platysma myoides, and