158 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. body, a vestige of the panniculus carnosus of the lower animals. The platysma may now be dissected up from the layer of fascia beneath it, when the following vessels and nerves must be found and studied:— The External Jugular Yein, Fig. 2, /, and Fig. 62 (i, 2, 3), formed generally by the union of the temporal and internal maxillary veins, commences close to the angle of the lower jaw, and passes downwards and backwards over the sterno-cleido-mastoideus, towards the centre of the cla- vicle, and terminates usually in the subclavian. It is some- times very small or entirely absent; again, it is very large and sometimes double. It may be large on one side and small on the other. It also varies in its origin and in its termination. As this vein is sometimes opened for the abstraction of blood, it should be particularly noticed. Its direction, in connection with that of the fibres of the platysma, should be observed with reference to the proper mode of opening the vein. It commonly contains two valves—one near its centre and the other near its termination; the first is sometimes wanting. The Facial Vein, Fig. 62 (1 e), enters the neck along with the facial artery, and passes down in front of the submaxillary gland, while the artery goes behind it. It most commonly unites with the lingual to form a common trunk which opens into the internal jugular. Its termination, however, is so irre- gular, and of so little consequence, as to deserve no special attention. The Anterior Jugular, Fig. 2, 7i, commences_ in the submaxillary region, and, passing down on the anterior part of the neck to the upper border of the sternum, dips beneath the sterno-cleido-mastoideus to reach the subclavian. Some- times, there is no anterior jugular, or it is very small; some- times, it is quite large on one side and very sraall_ on the other; again, it may take the place of the external jugular, which will, in that case, be absent. If the student should have an opportunity to dissect the superficial veins of the neck in several subjects, he will observe the great irregularity which exists in their general arrangement. The Facial Artery, Fig. 62 (14), is the only one which deserves any special notice in connection with the superficial