322 DISSECTION OP THE THOEAX. the inferior border of the cricoid cartilage, and terminates by its bifurcation into the two bronchi. It is about five inches in length, and is nearly equally divided in its cervical and thoracic portions. Its diameter is about ten lines in the male, and a little less in the female. Sometimes it increases in diameter from above downwards. Its direction is downwards, backwards, and a little to the right side. In the thorax, it has the oesophagus behind, and one of the pneumogastric nerves on each side of it; the left recurrent nerve and left common carotid artery are on the left and the upper part of the arteria innominata on the right side; the lower part of the last named artery and the arch of the aorta are in front of it. The bronchi, Fig. 138 (s, 9), extend from the trachea into the roots of the lungs. The right forms nearly a right angle with the trachea; it is about an inch and a quarter in length, and half an inch in diameter. The vena azygos winds around it to enter the descending cava. The left bronchus is longer, and has a more oblique direction downwards than the right, to reach the root of the left lung; it also has a smaller caliber. The oesophagus and descending aorta pass behind it. The bronchi at the bifurcation of the trachea are connected to- gether by quite a strong ligament. The triangular space between them is filled with bronchial glands, which usually have a very dark appearance. Filaments from the anterior and posterior pulmonary plexuses accompany the bronchial tubes into the substance of the lungs. The trachea, together with the bronchi and lungs, may be removed from the thorax, for the purpose of examining their structure. But, before doing this, the bronchial arteries, Fig. 137 (a 0), should be noticed. They arise from the descending aorta, and vary in number; there may be two, three, or four. Sometimes one arises from the internal mammary, or the superior intercostal. They join the bronchi, and accompany them in their subdivisions through the lungs, which they supply with arterial blood, for their nourishment. The bronchial veins convey the blood which is transmitted to the lungs by the bronchial arteries into the vena azygos and the superior intercostal vein. . ThS trachea is composed of imperfect cartilagmous rmgs, of muscular and fibrous tissue, and of glands and mucous membrane. There are from sixteen to eighteen cartilagmous