UTERUS. 487 cera contained in the pelvis receive altogether too small a share of the attention of the student in the dissecting-room, the only place where a proper knowledge of them can be acquired ? The cavity of the uterus may be exposed by simply mak- ing a vertical incision through its parietes, and forcibly separating the cut edges, or it may be done by making a transverse vertical incision, so as to divide it into two equal parts, one being the anterior and the other the posterior half. The walls of the uterine cavity vary in thickness at different points. Wl^ere the Fallopian tubes join them, they are not more than two or three lines thick ; the anterior and posterior walls are from four to six lines thick; the walls of the cervix are not so thick as those of the body. Like the vaginal, the anterior and posterior surfaces of the uterine cavity are con- stantly in apposition. Owing to the great thickness of the Avails, the cavity is comparatively very small. It has the shape of a curvilinear triangle, the superior angles corresponding to the mouths of the Fallopian tubes, and the lower angle to the OS uteri internum^ or isthmus uteri, Fig. 204 (c), the opening be- tween the body and the cervix, or, if the latter be included, the OS externum. The mucous membrane is very thin and delicate, so much so that its existence has been denied or doubted by some. It is more vascular in the body than in the cervix, especially during the menstrual period. In the cervix, a vertical ridge or column is observed in the median line both on the anterior and posterior wall, from which pro- ceed other ridges at an obtuse angle. The term arlor vitce uterina, Fig. 204 (c), has been employed to designate this appearance. It commonly becomes less apparent after the first parturition, although not necessarily so. Numerous fol- licles may be noticed in the cervix, especially near its external OS, and some in the body. They have been named the ov^ila of Naboth from the circumstance that Naboth happened to observe them in a diseased condition, and thinking they were ovula, described them as such. _ The openings that lead into the Fallopian tubes. Fig. 204 (^), are so small that they are scarcely perceptible to the naked eye. The cavity is elongated towards them so as to form cornua. The muscular coat of the uterus is hard, dense, and of a grayish color. It consists of fibres, which, in the unimpreo-- natcd uterus, cannot be traced on account of their conipac°-