DISSECTION OF BACK OF THIGH AND THE HAM. 551 Fig. 239, passes upwards along the outer border of the patella, and anastomoses with the superior external articular artery. The second, passing transversely below the patella and between the ligamentum patellae and the joint, anastomoses with the inferior internal articular artery; it also sends small branches to the fat and areolar tissue beneath the liga- mentum patellte. The last one anasto- moses with the anterior recurrent tibial, a branch of the anterior tibial artery. The inferior internal articular artery^ Fig. 239 (7), arises opposite to the pre- ceding artery, and passing downwards and inwards around the internal tube- rosity of the head of the tibia, and be- neath the tendons of the muscles which form the inner hamstring, and the internal lateral ligament of the knee- joint, it turns upwards towards the patella. It anastomoses with the pre- ceding artery beneath the ligamentum patell£B, and also with the superior internal articular arteries. The middle articular artery, or the azygos artery, Fig. 289 (e), arises from the forepart of the popliteal artery, and passes directly through the pos- terior ligament, to be distributed to the synovial membrane, the areolar tissue, and the crucial ligaments within the knee-joint; some of its branches pene- trate the lower extremity of the femur, A View of the Arteries on the Back of the Right Leg. The Muscles have BEEN REMOVED SO AS TO UISPLAT THE VESSELS IN THEIR WHOLE LENGTH.—1. The popliteal artery, cut ofif so as to show the articular arteries. 2. Lower end of the same artery on the popliteus muscle. 3. Point of bifurcation into the posterior tibial and peroneaL 4. Lower superior internal articular artery. 5. Superior ex ternal articular artery. 6. Middle articular artery. 7. Inferior internal articul'ar artery. 8. Inferior external articular artery. 9. Branch to the head of the soleug muscle. 10. Origin of the anterior tibial artery. 11. Origin of the posterior""tibial artery. 12. Point whore it passes behind the internal annular ligament to become i^.** }^'}'^' Muscular branches. 16. Origin of the peroneal artery 1/, 17. Muscular branches. 18, 18. Anastomosis of the posterior tibial and nero neal arteries near the heeL 19, Muscular branch from the anterior tibial