76:, DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK. matter of the two crura is connected by the pons Tarini. It is continuous below with the gray neurine of the pons, me- dulla oblongata, and spinal marrow, and above, with that of the corpora striata and optic thalami. If the fibres of the crura be traced upwards into the cerebral hemispheres, they will be found to enter the gray matter of the corpora striata and optic thalami; the inferior fibres, or those from the corpora pyramidalia, pass into the striated bodies, and the superior fibres, or those from the corpora olivaria and innominata, into the optic beds. This is true, however, only to a certain extent. The termination of these fibres- in the optic thalami and striated bodies varies; some seem to form a plexiform arrangement in them. The corpora striata and optic thalami are the great central ganglia of the cerebral hemispheres; their gray matter forms really but a single mass in each hemisphere, and the masses of the two hemispheres are joined together by the commis- sura mollis of the third ventricle; in the same manner the loci nigri, in the crura cerebri, are connected by the pons Tarini; the lateral gray masses of the pons Varolii are joined together, and the medulla oblongata and the spinal marrow are also united in the median line by gray substance. Thus the student will see that the white fibres, as well as the gray neurine of the spinal cord, are continued through the medulla oblongata, pons Yarolii, and crura cerebri, up into the corpora striata and optic thalami; that although the fibres may change their relative position, and the gray neurine appear in different forms, yet they present an un- broken continuity. The Locus Peeforatus Medius, or Pons Tarini, Fig, 17 (i o), is of a gray color. It is placed between the base of the brain and the posterior part of the third ventricle, and is per- forated by numerous small arteries. It is very thin, and easily broken through. It was called 'pons' by Tarinus, be- cause it extended across from one crus cerebri to the other. The Corpora Mammillaria, or Corpora ALBicANTiA,Fig. 17 (9), are two small round bodies, white externally and gray internally. The white matter is the termination of the anterior cornua of the fornix on the base of the brain; the fibres of the fornix do not, however, end in these bodies, but are reflected upwards and backwards to the upper part of the thalami.