OP THE ABDOMEN. 398 mences. In tliis respect these valves resemlDle tlie one be- tween the Btomacli and dnoclenum. When these valves are closed the contents of the large intestine cannot pass into the small. To obtain a good view of these valves and the opening between them, the student should inflate and dry the cascum and a portion of the colon and ileum, and then cut awaj a part of the former. The Dissection" of the Livee. To dissect and study the liver, it should be removed from the abdomen. To do this it will be necessary to divide the ligaments or folds of peritoneum which attach this organ to the diaphragm, and also to remove a portion of the ascend- ing vena cava with it. Care should be observed not to in- jure the diaphragm in this dissection. The' liver presents, for examination, an upper anterior, and an inferior posterior surface, a posterior and an anterior border, and a right and left extremity. It is the largest gland in the body. Its weight varies from two to five pounds. Both its weight and size, however, will depend much on the amount of blood contained in its vessels. Its size is also greatly modified by disease. In some instances it has been found to weigh from twenty-five to thirty pounds, while in others its weight did not exceed a pound. It has a reddish brown color; but in this respect it varies very much in different subjects, and especially when diseased. It is fragile, and easily broken when pressed between the thumb and finger. Owing to its brittleness, it is liable to be lacerated by blows inflicted on the abdomen. The iq^per anterior surface of the liver is convex, and moulded to the concavity of the diaphragm. The attach- ment of the suspensory ligament divides it into a right and left surface, corresponding to the right and left lobes. The posterior border is rounded, thick at its right, and thin at its left extremity. The anterior border is thin, presenting quite a sharp edge. The right extremity is thick behind and thin anteriorly. The left extremity is thin. It will be ob- served that the posterior and right portion of the liver is the thickest part of it.