212 THE UPPER EXTREMITY. raised witli a view of replacing it so as to study its relations to the axilla. Instead of detaching the entire muscle from its origin, the student may turn down the clavicular portion at first, and dissect down to the axillary vessels and nerves, which will afford him a good view of the surgical relations of the upper part of the axillary artery. In this way, he will be able to obtain a correct idea of its depth, and what parts are neces- sarily involved in cutting down upon it just below the cla- vicle. In doing this, the following parts will be seen:— Having turned the clavicular portion of the pectoralis major down to the extent of about three inches, the costo- clavicular aponeurosis will be brought into view. This is at- tached to the first rib, the clavicle, and the coracoid process, and is reflected downwards over the pectoralis minor. Coming through this fascia, and close to the upper border of the pectoralis minor, will be observed the superior thoracic and tlioracico-acromial arteries^ Fig. 92 (11,12); the first going to the pectoralis major, and the last towards the deltoid muscle, to divide into its acromial, humeral, and thoracic branches. The acromial branch is distributed to the parts in the neighborhood of the acromion process; the humeral enters the fissure between the deltoid and pectoralis major, to be distributed principally to the former muscle; the thoracic branch goes to the latter muscle. These arteries send branches to the skin and fascia crossing the muscles. ^ The Superior Thoracic Nerve, which arises behind the clavicle, perforates this fascia, and accompanies the artery of the same name to the pectoralis major. The Cephalic Yein, after passing up in the groove be- tween the deltoid and pectoralis major to near the clavicle, dips beneath the latter muscle, and passes transversely across to terminate in the axillary vein, which lies close to the tho- rax,'Fig. 94. There are other veins in this region which open either into the cephalic, or directly into the axillary, but they are small, and have no practical importance. Eemoving the fascia and areolar tissue, the upper border of the pectoralis minor below, and the subclavius muscle, Fig. 91 (3, 12), above, will be seen separated by a space somewhat triangular in shape. In this space, and occupying a plane deeper than these muscles, are the axillary vein, artery, and