OF THE MEMBRANES OF THE BEAIN. 55 wards. The middle glands of PaccMoni are situated in it; often these are very small or entirely absent. The mouths of the veins of the pia mater will be seen opening into it. Fibrous bands stretch across it; they are called the chordxz WiUisn. These cords, however, are not very distinct. The superior longitudinal sinus receives blood from the nose and frontal sinus, from the diploe, pericranium, and dura mater, as well as from the veins of the pia mater. An incision should now be made through the dura mater corresponding to the one made in the bone for removing the calvaria. Eaising it up on each side from the arachnoid, its serous surface will be observed, and, tracing it towards the median line, it will be found to be reflected down between the two hemispheres of the brain. This reflected or vertical portion is the falx cerebri. Before raising the falx, it will be necessary to divide the veins of the pia mater. It will be observed that many of these enter the longitudinal sinus in a direction from behind forwards; this arrangement has a tendency to prevent these veins being too rapidly emptied, which woxild be liable to cause syncope. The interned glands of Pacchioni are found on the inner surface of the dura mater, near the longitudinal sinus. By separating the hemispheres a short distance, the falx, Fig. 9 (3), can be seen in situ. Its lower border is concave, and corresponds to the upper surface of the corpus callosum, which it nearly touches behind. It is attached anteriorly to the crista galli, and posteriorly to the tentorium; its anterior extremity is quite narrow, while its posterior extremity is broad. The inferior or concave border contains the inferior longitudinal sinus, Fig. 8, c, which resembles in its form an ordinary vein. The falx may be divided just above its ante- rior attachment, and turned backwards out of the way for the present. The upper part of the cerebrum is now covered by the arachnoid and pia mater, through which the. convolutions are clearly seen. The size and direction of the veins of the pia mater may be noticed. On separating the hemispheres, the arachnoid will be seen reflected from one to the other without reaching to the bottom of the fissure. The pia mater lines the fissure throughout its whole extent. The arteries of the corpus callosum are seen resting on it anteriorly but dividing into branches as they pass backwards. '