515 THE GLUTEAL EEGION. circumflex ilii, a branch of the femoral artery. Other branches are directed towards and above the trochanter major. The glu- teal nerves are divided into the superior and inferior. The superior gluteal nerve, Fig. 218 (2), is a branch of the lum- bo-sacral cord. It accompanies the gluteal artery through the great sacro-sciatic foramen. It divides into twoprincipal branch- es. One of these accompanies the superior deep branch of t^e glu- teal artery; the other is directed downwards and forwards above the trochanter major, and termi- nates in the tensor vaginae femo- ris muscle. These nerves supply the glutei medius ajid minimus. The inferior gluteal nerve comes from the small or lesser sciatic nerve. It consists of muscular and cutaneous branches. The former are distributed to the glu- teus maximus; they penetrate its under surface. The cutaneous branches descend below the lower border of the gluteus maximus, where some filaments ascend to Fig. 217. A View op the Ahteribs on the Back of the Buttock and Thigh, as ■well AS ON THE Back Of the Ham.—1. Gluteal artery as it escapes from the pelvis. 2, 3, 4. Branches which it furnishes to the gluteus medius aud gluteus minimus muscles. 5. Small cutaneous arteries given ofl' by the posterior branches of the sacral arteries. 6, 6. Internal pudic, from its exit from the pelvis to the root of the penis. 7, 7. Sciatic artery as it escapes from the pelvis to its distri- bution to the biceps and semi-tendinosus muscles, as well as its branches to the gemelli, pyriformis, and quadratus femoris muscles. 8. Termination and distribution of internal circumflex. 9. Profunda femoris seen in the thickness of the adductors. 10. A branch to adductor longus and brevis. 11. First per- forating artery, going to vastus externus. 12. Second perforating artery. 13. Third perforating artery. 14. Termination of profunda femoris. 15. A branch to the short head of the biceps. 16. Popliteal artery. 17, 18, 19. Its articular branches. 20, 21. Gastrocnemial arteries.