SPHENO-MAXILLARY REGION. 117 the two sacs may commtinicate witb eacli other. This artic- ulation should be studied with reference to luxation, and ^ the action of the masticatory muscles. The Stylo-Maxillary Ligament, Fig. 34 (e), arises from the styloid process, and is inserted into the angle of the lower jaw, furnishing an attachment for a reflection of the deep cervical fascia, and for a part of the stylo-glossus muscle. The Pterygo-Maxillary Ligament is attached above to the external wing of the pterygoid process, and below to the; base of tlie coronoid process of the lower jaw. The buccinator arises in part from its anterior, and the superior constrictor of the pharynx from its posterior border. The remaining portion of the malar bone, with the malar process of the maxilla, and that part of the gi'cat wing of the sphenoid which forms the posterior boundary of the spheno- maxillary fissure, should now be removed, so as to expose the upper part of the pterygo-maxillary fossa. The infra- orbital nerve and artery may now be traced into and through the infra-orbital canal. The roof of this canal may be best cut away with a small sharp chisel. If the nerve be slightly raised in the canal, the anterior dental branch will be seen leaving it to enter the antrum Highmori. Two or three fila- ments also leave it to go to the mucous membrane lining the antrum. The infra-orbital nerve. Fig. 37 (7), may now be traced back to the foramen rotundum, in doing which the origin of the posterior dental and orbital branches should be sought. The former consists of two branches, a superior and an inferior; the latter enters the orbit and divides into the malar and temporal branches. The infra-orbital artery has the same course and distribution as the nerve. The infra- orbital vein communicates with the facial by means of the alveolar. The upper and outer wall of the antrum may now be cut away to follow the dental arteries and nerves in their dis- tribution. To trace these nerves in their minute ramifications, a fresh bone, softened in diluted nitric or muriatic acid, should be used. The posterior superior dental nerve, Fig. 37 (7), enters the upper part of the antrum, and anastomoses with the posterior inferior, and anterior dental nerves.