THE LOWER EXTREMITY. 588 back of the leg have not been destroyed. The posterior tibial artery has been seen to bifurcate at a point about midway between the internal malleolus and the os calcis. From this bifurcation the external and internal plantar arteries pass for- wards and outwards to enter the sole of the foot. The internal plantar artery, Fig. 250 (4), gets into the sulcus between the abductor pollicis and flexor brevis digitorum muscles, and passes forwards to the anterior part of the first interosseous space, where it usually terminates by sending one, and sometimes two branches, to the great toe. In its course it gives off branches to the muscles, to the integu- ment, and to anastomose with branches of the dorsal artery of the foot. The external plantar artery,Y\g.2bl{5,6),when it has reached the sole of the foot, turns outwards and forwards beneath the flexor brevis digitorum, and thus gets into the sulcus between the flexor brevis digitorum and the abductor minimi digiti, in which it continues for a short distance, then turns inwards across the second and third metatarsal bones and interosseous spaces, to reach the first interosseous space, where it anasto- moses with the dorsal artery of the foot. The anterior curved portion of it is called the plantar arch. At first, it passes, as has already been seen, under the abductor pollicis, then through the posterior part of the internal groove where it can be reached without dividing any muscle; it then passes under the flexor brevis digitorum and enters the external groove where it can again be reached without cutting through any muscle; as it leaves the groove it becomes deep-seated, get- ting between the tendons and the common flexor muscles of the toes and the interosseous muscles; so that in its course it is in three places situated beneath muscles, and in two places subaponeurotic. In the first and the middle part of its course, it gives branches to the integument on the heel, to mics- cles, and to the tarsal articulations, also to anastomose with the tarsal and metatarsal branches of the dorsal artery of the foot. Two sets of branches are given off from the arch. The posterior perforating branches, three in number, pass up- wards through the second, third, and fourth interosseous spaces, and anastomose with the corresponding interosseous arteries on the dorsum of the foot. The anterior or digital arteries. Fig. 251 (1 4), four or five in number, pass forwards to supply the toes; at the anterior extremities of the inter-