568 THE LOWER EXTREMITY. Sect. Y.—Dissection of the Anterior and Outer Parts OF THE Leg, and the Dorsum of the Foot. As there is so little on the dorsum of the foot that is not found on the leg, while almost every thing to be dissected on the leg, such as fascia, muscles, vessels, and nerves, not only extend to, but pass over the dorsum of the foot, we think it is better to make but one dissection of these regions. Nor is the number of the parts to be examined so great that the student cannot, if proper means be employed to preserve the subject from drying or decomposing, dissect them in a satis- factory manner while they are in a suitable condition for this purpose. There is, perhaps, more danger to be appre- hended from the parts drying and becoming hard on the foot, than of their decomposing, especially if a strong solution of .chloride of zinc has been used as an antiseptic; this can be prevented only by the constant use of wet-cloths kept ap- plied to the limb during the intervals of dissecting. The foot should be extended on the leg, and kept in this position by means of hooks; in dissecting the muscles it will be neces- sary, not only to extend the foot, but to abduct it in dissect- ing the tibialis anticus, and adduct it in exposing the pe- ronei muscles. To remove the integum.ent a vertical incision may be made, commencing at the knee and extending it down the leg a little to the outside of the spine of the tibia to the ankle- joint, and thence in a straight line on the dorsum of the foot to the space between the great and the second toe. Two transverse incisions should be made; an upper one extending from the ligamentum patellas to the outer hamstring, and a lower one from one malleolus to the other in front of the ankle-joint. If the thigh and back part of the leg have already been dissected, it may not be necessary to make any new incisions, or it may be more convenient to make them in a different manner; the student will have no difficulty in determining the most convenient way, when he remembers that the manner in which the skin is removed has nothing to do with the dissection of the parts beneath it, except to get it out of the way as fast as, but no fester than is required to expose those parts, and to use it for covering them when he is not dissecting. Care is necessary here as well as elsewhere m