500 THE LOWER EXTREMITY. first been placed m a proper position. In cutting a stricture at the upper part of the crural canal, the incision should be made upwards, or upwards and inwards. In continuing the dissection of the thigh, the integument must be dissected off down as far as the tubercle of the tibia both m front and on the sides. To do this, the incision, com- menced at the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, may be extended down below the outer side of the knee, and then carried across the leg to the inner side. Having done this, the integument may be reflected from the outer to the inner side of the limb. _ The superficial fascia of the thigh requires no further no- tice. It passes -over the knee, and is continuous with that of the leg. The saphenous vein may be traced down as far as the skin has been removed. The cutaneous nerves. Fig. 208, as was mentioned in the previous dissection, are derived from the lumbar plexus, the genito-crural and the anterior crural, and also from the obturator nerve. The anterior branch of the external cutaneous nerve usually perforates the fascia lata about four inches below Poupart's ligament. It supplies the integument on the inner and ante- rior part of the thigh. The middle cutaneous nerve, a branch of the anterior crural, usually becomes subcutaneous four or five inches below Poupart's ligament. It passes down on the fore part of the thigh to the knee. It frequently divides into two branches, nearly of the same size, soon after perforating the fascia lata. The internal cutaneous nerve is also a branch of the anterior crural nerve. It perforates the fascia lata on the inner part of the thigh, about three inches above the knee, and then passes down to the internal condyle of the femur, where it turns outwards over the patella, and ends in the skin on the outer side of the knee. In its course down the thigh, this nerve frequently gives off several branches, which perforate the fascia lata at different points, and become subcutaneous. One or two of these branches accompany the saphenous vein for a short distance. The internal saphenous nerve, Fig. 207 (e), becomes subcu- taneous at the inner side of the knee, and then continues as such down the leg, in company with the internal saphenous vein. Before becoming subcutaneous, it gives off a branch, which is lost in the skin which covers the patella. Quite a