ANTEEIOR PART OF THE THIGH. 501 large cutaneous branch is sometimes found on the inner side of the knee and the upper and back part of the leg, that is de- rived from the obturator nerve. When this occurs, it takes the place of a branch of the internal cutaneous nerve. The cutaneous nerves of the thigh anastomose with each other. The superficial fascia may now be removed by first making an incision through it down the middle of the thigh, and over the patella, and then reflecting it outwards and inwards. A bursa mucosa, situated in the subcutaneous areolar tissue, between the skin and the patella, should be observed. The density of the fascia, and the absence of adipose tissue in the vicinity of the patella, should also be noticed. However much adipose substance there may be above and below the patella, there is very little, if any, ever found in front of it. In examining the fascia lata at this stage of the dissection, it will be found to divide into two layers below the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, to inclose the tensor vagincB femoris muscle, and then to pass to the gluteus medius. It should not be exposed much posterior to the tensor muscle at present. The superficial layer may now be divided from the spinous process downwards, and somewhat backwards, to the extent of three or four inches, exposing the tensor vaginse femoris. The Tensor Yagin^ Femoris, Fig. 211 (4), arises tendi- nous from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, and, passing downwards and backwards, is inserted, about four inches below its origin, into the fascia lata; the two layers which form its sheath being here united. In dissecting out the tensor vagina femoris, some care is necessary not to ex- pose the gluteus medius and minimus muscles. Below and behind the insertion of the tensor vaginse femoris, the fascia lata is connected to the tendon of the gluteus maximus, and, below this, to the linea aspera and the external condyle of the femur. The action of the tensor vaginae femoris will now be easily understood. It first renders the fascia tense, and then rotates the thigh inwards by acting on the linea aspera through the fascia. The vastus externus Fig. 211 (7), arises for some distance froni the fascia lata, near its attachment to the linea aspera, and it will be seen, in the dissection of the posterior part of the thigh, that the short head of the biceps flexor arises