440 OF THE PELVIS. igameutous cord will be observed extending on the side of the bladder to the anterior parietes of the abdomen, and thence to the umbilicus; this is the remains of the hvno- gastric artery of the fcetus. The folds of peritoneum formed by these hbrous cords, there being one on each side, were noticed ni the examination of that membrane. The vasa aetercntia pass over these cords. The branches of the internal iliac artery vary so much in their origin that no fixed rule, perhaps, need be observed in describing them. They will be noticed in the order in which It will be found most convenient to examine them in the dis- section. The internal iliac very frequently divides into two principal trunks, from which the branches proceed. They are designated the anterior and posterior divisions. Fig. 189 (7, e). When this division exists, the latter usually gives off Fig. 189. A niAGRAU OP THE Iliac Arteries and their Branches.—1. The aorta. 2. The left common Iliac artery. 3. The external iliac. 4. The epigastric artery. 5. The internal circumflos ilii. 6. The internal iliac artery. 7. Its anterior division. 8. Its posterior division. 9. The umbilical artery giving off (10) the superior vesical artery. After the origin of this branch the umbilical artery becomes converted into a fibrous cord—the umbilical ligament. 11. The internal pudic artery passing behind the spine of the ischium (12) and small sacro-sciatic ligament. 13. The middle hemorrhoidal artery. 14. The sciatic artery, also passing behind the small sacro-sciatic ligament to escape from the pelvis. 15. Its inferior vesical branch. 16. The ilio lumbar, the first branch of the posterior division (8) ascend- ing to anastomose veith the internal circumflex ilii artery (5), and form an arch along the crest of the ilium. 17. The obturator artery. 18. The lateral sacral. 19. The gluteal artery escaping from the pelvis through the upper part of the great sacro-seiatic foramen. 20. The sncra media. 21. The right common iliac artery cut abort. 22. The femoral artery.