346 OF THE ABDOMEN, As no fibres arise from the inner third of Poupart's liga- ment, tliere is left a space, Fig. 147 (i i), between it and the lower border of the muscle for the passage of the spermatic cord. The action of the internal oblique muscle is similar in some respects to that of the external oblique. When both uct at the same time, they will compress the abdominal viscera, or approximate the thorax and pelvis. When one acts alone, or in conjunction with the external oblique of the opposite side, it will rotate either the thorax or the pelvis to its own side; or if it acts with the external oblique of the same side, it will bend the thorax to that side, or draw the pelvis up. The Ceemaster Muscle, which arises from Poupart's ligament, in common with the lower fibres of the internal oblique, is found in the outer and anterior part of the space just named. This muscle accompanies the spermatic cord through the external abdominal ring, and down into the scrotum, where it forms loops on the tunica vaginalis; its fibres then ascend on the cord, and are inserted into the linea pectinea. Some of its fibres are usually lost on the tunica vaginalis. The fibres of the cremaster are frequently very pale and few in number, so that some care is required to separate them from the cord. Its use is to draw up and support the testicle. In raising the internal oblique muscle, the student will sometimes experience some difficulty in finding the separation between it and the transversalis muscle. This may be done most readily by dividing its fibres near the anterior portion of the crest of the ilium, where the two muscles are separated by the internal circumflex ilii artery. When the separation is once found, it is comparatively easy to follow it, especially in the upper and posterior part, where the direction of the fibres is different. The lower part of the muscle is closely connected to the transversalis, and it requires some care to separate them. The Transversalis, Fig. 147 (g, 7, s, 9), arises from the fascia lumborum, the crest of the ilium, the external ha t ot Poupart's ligament, and the lower six or seven ribs, where it indigitates with the diaphragm. All its fibres, with the exception of the lower, or those which arise from louparts