DISSECTION OF BACK OF THIGH AND THE HAM. 549 Fig. 238. distributed to the joint in company with the inferior external articular artery. The Popliteal Aetery, Fig. 238 (i), is a continuation of the femoral. It commences at the lower end of the canal formed by the tendons of the adductores longus and magnus, and passes downwards and outwards, first over the femur, then the posterior ligament of the joint, and lastly the aponeurosis, which covers the popliteal muscle, at the lower border of which, it divides into the posterior tibial and peroneal or fibular. At first, it is to the inner side of the median line of the limb, but gets into it as it descends behind the joint. The popliteal vein, Fig. 240 (s), lies behind and a little to the outer side of it above the joint, but directly behind it in the rest of its course. The coats of this vein are very thick, so that when cut it some- times gapes, and might then be mis- taken for the artery. It also adheres very closely to the artery, which should be borne in mind, whenever it is necessary to place a ligature on the latter. The lower part of the artery is partly covered by the heads of the gastrocnemius and the plant- aris; the popliteal nerve also crosses this part of it from the outer to the inner side. It has on the sides of it the different parts which form the boundaries of the popliteal space, which are specified above. The relations of the popliteal artery to the knee-joint are interesting, and should be care- fully observed. When one limb is placed across the other, as m sittmg, the pulsations of the artery are distinctly seen in the movements of the foot, so that the beats of the heart can be counted as accurately, by observing the movements of the foot with the legs crossed, as by placing the fingers on the radial artery in the wrist. There are eight branches given mm A View of the Arteries IN THE Popliteal Space, Right Leg. — 1. Popliteal artery. 2. Internal gastroc- nemial artery. 3. External gastroeneuiial artery. 4, 5. Division of these arteries in the substance of the muscle.