EELATIONS OF PELVIC VISCERA IN THE MALE. 435 part of the testicle to the internal abdominal ring. The left cord is somewhat the longest. The spermatic artery is a branch from the aorta. It enters the testicle through the corpus Hio-hmorianum, and divides into numerous small branches, wMch ramify in the substance of the gland. The spermatic veins commence in the testicle, and leave it in company with the artery. Just above the testicle they form a plexus named the i^^exus jMmpiniformis. They contain no valves. Those on the right side terminate by a single trunk in the ascending cava, and those on the left side in the renal vein. The nervts of the testicle are derived from the plexus which accompa- nies the spermatic artery. Eelations of the Pelvic Viscera in the Male. The pelvic viscera of the male consist of the rectum^ the bladder^ the vesiculce seminales, and the prostate gland. The rectum occupies the posterior part, and the other organs the anterior part. In studying the relations of the rectum, it may be divided into two parts, the upper and lower; the first being in direct relation with the peritoneum, and the last having no serous covering. The upper part, Fig. 187 (i e), extends downwards to the recto-vesical fascia, or to within about three-quarters of an inch of the prostate gland. The whole of this part is co- vered in front, and partly on the sides, by the peritoneum, and is in relation with the bladder, and usually with the small intestines; the superior portion is also covered behind by peritoneum, except a small space between the laminse of the mesorectum. Below it is in apposition with the sacrum, the pyriform muscles, the branches of the internal iliac arte- ries, the sacral nerves, and the ureters, especially the one on the left side. The lower pari, Fig. 187 (i s), is in relation behind and on the sides with the sacrum and coccyx, and the coccygeus and levatores ani muscles. It has in front of it, commencing above, first, the vesiculce seminales and the triangular space between them on the base of the bladder; second, the pros- tate gland; third, the membranous portion of the urethra