THE LOWER EXTREMITY. 582 form a sheath for it at each place, lined by a synovial mem- brane; the canal through which it passes behind the external malleolus is also lined by a synovial membrane. It will be seen that the tendon of this muscle passes over two trochlear surfaces, one behind the malleolus from which it is reflected forwards and downwards, the other at the outer border of the cuboid bone where it is reflected forwards and inwards. A sesamoid bone is frequently found in the tendon where it passes over the cuboid bone. The action of this muscle is to extend the foot on the leg and to depress the inner border of the foot, elevating at the same time the outer border. The examination of the tendon of this muscle in the sole of the foot must be postponed until the parts which cover it there have been dissected. The Peroneus Brevis, Fig. 244 (s), arises from the exter- nal surface of the lower half of the fibula, and from the inter- muscular septum on each side of it; its tendon commencing a short distance above the external malleolus, but lower than that of the peroneus longus, descends to the groove behind the malleolus where it passes through the same canal as the preceding muscle; it is then continued forwards and down- wards through a groove on the outer side of the os calcis to the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe, into which it is inserted; sometimes it is connected by a few fibres to the cuboid bone or to the base of the fourth metatarsal bone, or it may send a slip to the extensor tendon of the little toe. On the outer side of the fibula and behind the external mal" leolus it is placed beneath the peroneus longus, but is above it on the outer side of the os calcis, where it is surrounded by a synovial membrane. Its action is the same as that of the peroneus longus. These muscles should be examined with reference to fracture of the fibula, and, also, to displacement of their tendons, by being forced out of the canal through which they pass, behind the external malleolus. Sect. YI.—Dissection of the Sole of the Foot. The anatomy ojp^tile'sole of the foot demands the" careful attention of the student. Its arteries and nerves, from their