407 DISSECTION OF THE KIDNEYS. cesses wliicli are easily broken. It also joins the fibrous layer of the ureter, and is prolonged internally along with the vessels, as far as the apices or papillce. It requires but little force to detach this membrane from the substance of the kidney. In dissecting the kidney, the student should, in the first place, carefuUy re- move the areolar tissue and fat from the hilum, so as to obtain a distinct view of the vessels and the ureter, Fig. 174 (7, 8, 11). Having done this, the ureter should be slit up on one side, cutting away at the same time a portion of the kidney. That part of theiireter situated in the hilum is named its pefcfs, Fig. 175 (c). There will be observed opening into the pelvis three apertures, sometimes only two; these are called the infundibula, Fig. 175 (5, 5, 5). If one of these now be laid open, a cavity will be seen with several eminences or papillce projecting into it. The cup-shaped depression which is observed sur- rounding each papilla is called the ccdix. Sometimes two papilla are found projecting into a single calix. Small openings may be noticed on each papilla, which are the mouihs of uriniferous tubes, and if the kidney be pressed between the thumb and finger, urine may frequently be seen escaping from them. Each papilla is the apex of a conical-shaped portion^ Fig. 175 (3, 3) of the kidney, which is composed of a great num- ber of straight tubes. If the kidney be divided through one of the apices, the outlines of the cone to which the apes belongs will be distinctly seen, having a striated appearance, with its base imbedded in a different kind of structure. The 5ase of each cone is rounded off, and reaches to within about two lines of the external surface of the kidney. There are from Fig. 174. A View of the Right Kid- ney AND ITS SuPIIA-ReNAL Capsule.—1. Anterior face of the kidney. 2. External or convex edge. 3. Its inter- nal edge. 4. Hilum. 5. In- ferior extremity of the kid- ney. 6. Pelvis of the ureter. 7. Ureter. 8, 9. Superior and inferior branches of the emul- gent artery. 10, 11,12. Tho three branches of the emul- gent vein. 1.3. Supra-renal capsule. 14. Its superior edge. 15. Its external edge. 16. Its internal extremity. 17. The fissure on the ante- rior face of the capsule.