DISSECTION OF THE VESSELS AND NERVES. 447 The vaginal plexus of veins surrounds the vagma. Near the vulva the plexus is composed of a great number of veins, many of which have their origin in the erectile tissue that is found around the external orifice of the vagina. The veins of the vaginal plexus communicate behind, with the hemor- rhoidal plexus, and before, with the vesical plexus. The uterine veins correspond on the exterior surface of the uterus to the uterine arteries. They arise from venous canals, or sinuses, which traverse the substance of the uterus, without, however, being tortuous like the arteries. The veins, as well as the arteries of this organ, increase greatly in size during the period of pregnancy. The nerves which supply the pelvic viscera are derived from the lumbo-sacral, the anterior sacral, and the sympa- thetic system. Besides the visceral nerves, there are several small branches derived from the sacral nerves or plexus, and appropriated to the muscles within the pelvis and perineum. There is also found in the pelvis a branch from the lumbar plexus called the obturator nerve, which from its position should be exa- mined first. The obturator nerve, Fig. 191 (e), arises from that portion of the lumbar plexus which is formed by the third and fourth lumbar nerves. To reach the pelvis, it first passes through the psoas magnus muscle, and then runs for some distance on its inner side; it then crosses over the brim of the pelvis, and gets below the external iliac vein and above the obtura- tor artery, which it accompanies to the sub-pubic groove, when it enters the upper and inner part of the thigh. After perforating the psoas muscle, it passes beneath the bifurca- tion of the common iliac vessels. In the pelvis, near the obturator foramen, it usually gives off one or two articular branches to the hip-joint. As it enters the thigb it divides into the superficial or anterior division, and the deep or posterior division. These are distributed principally to the muscles on the inner part of the thigh, and will be noticed in the dis- section of that region. When the obturator accessory nerve. Fig. 191 (s), is present, and of its usual size, it supplies the hip-joint with articular filaments instead of the obturator nerve itself. The accessory nerve has the same origin as tbe obturator nerve; of whicb it is sometimes a part for a short distance, when it becomes a