THE UPPEE EXTREMITY. 222 somewliat upwards, and is inserted, by a broad thin tendon, into tlie posterior part of the bicipital groove of the humerus'. Fig. 96. An Anterioh View of the Muscles op the Siiouldeii.— 1. Upper part of the body of the scapula. 2. Supra-spinatus mus- cle. 3. Section of acromion pro- cess. 4. Coracoid process. 5. Origin of the second or short head of the biceps. 6. Subsca- , pularis near its ^insertion. 7. i / Deltoid. 8. Tendon of tho pec- / toralis major. 9. Insertion of the deltoid muscle. 10. Brachi- alis anticus. 11. Cut extremity of the OS humeri. 12. Triceps extensor cubiti. 13. Tendon of the latissimus dorsi. 14. Teres major. 15. Axillary portion of the latissimus dorsi. 16. Lower portion of the subscapularis. 17. Origin of the teres major. 18. Lower portion of the scapula. 19. Middle portion of the subscapularis. Its tendon is closely connected with that of the latissimus dorsi; although a small bursa is commonly found between them and near, their, insertion. A triangular space will be noticed between this muscle and the lower border. of the subscapularis, with its base corresponding to the surgical neck of the humerus. The circumflex nerve and the posterior circumflex artery will be seen going backwards through this space close to the humerus, while the dorsal branch of the subscapular artery passes through it nearer to the apex. The Long Head of the Triceps Extensor Cubiti, Fig. 96 (12), may be seen at this stage of the dissection, crossing this space vertically behind the teres major. The Latissimus Dorsi, Fig. 96 (i 3), is necessarily exposed in its upper part in the dissection of the axilla, of which it forms, with the teres major, the lower part of the posterior wall of that space. It lies, at first, in this region, on the out- side of the teres major, then below it, and finally anterior to it. It is inserted into the posterior part of the bicipital groove by a thin, broad tendon, which usually extends a little higher up than that of the teres major. The student should now review what he has dissected,