THE HEART. 299 tliose vessels, except wHere they are in apposition. It covers anteriorly the pulmonary veins between the left auricle and their divisions into branches. The vena cava ascendens is only partly invested by it. Where it is reflected over the vessels, it forms between them depressions or culs-de-sac. When the heart is empty, it lies loosely in the cavity of the pericardium, but when the former is full, or distended, it just fills the latter. When the blood escapes from the cavities of the heart, or from the great vessels at its base into the pericardium, it destroys life by interfering mechanically with the action of the heart. The fibrous layer of the pericardium is composed of fibres crossing in different directions ; a large proportion of them, however, are longitudinal. This membrane is very strong and slightly elastic. Altho^igh the heart, when distended, just fills the pericardium, yet the latter is sometimes in- creased to two or three times the size of the former, by the gradual accumulation of fluid in it. The student should observe the effect such a collection would have by making pressure upon, or by causing dis- placement of, surrounding organs. Fat is not unfrequently deposited in considerable quantity between the muscular fibres of the heart and the serous layer which invests it. The Heart. It is better that the student should examine the heart be- fore it is removed from the thorax; or, at least, the more important parts of it. Before proceeding to its dissection, he should carefully observe its position in the thoracic cavity, its relations to contiguous parts, its external appearance, and the situation of its difierent compartments, the auricles and ventricles. It is situated, as will be seen, in the lower and central part of the thorax, between the lungs, and resting on the diaphragm. Its form is conical, presenting a base, body, and apex. _ The lase looks upwards, backwards, and to the right side; it corresponds, in front, to an oblique line extending across the sternum from the third intercostal space on the left side to the fourth and fifth on the right side; and behind, to the fifth, sixth, and seventh dorsal vertebrte, from which it