604 THE LOWEli EXTREMITY. IS placed between the external glenoid cavity of tlie tibia and tie external condyle of the femur; it is broader laterally than the internal, but not so long, being more round, which IS owing to Its attachments to the tibia being so close to each other; like the internal, its upper surface is more concave than the lower. Its cornua are attached to the tibia, one in front and the other behind the spine, but between the attach- ments of the cornua of the internal cartilage. The posterior cornu is connected to the posterior crucial ligament. Its attached, or thick, convex border is in apposition with the posterior and the external lateral ligaments, and the tendon of the poj)liteus muscle. The semilunar fibro-cartilages are retained m situ by liga- Fig. 260. A Longitudinal Section of the Left Knee-Joint, showing the Reflection OF ITS Synovial Membrane.—1. Tho cancellated structure of the lower partof the fomur. 2. The tendon of the extensor muscles of tho leg. 3. The patella. 4. The ligamentum patellaj. 5. Tho cancellated structure of the head of the tibia. 6. A bursa situated between the ligamentum patellas and the head of the tibia. 7. The mass of fat projecting into the cavity of the joint below the patella. ** The syno- vial membrane. 8. The pouch of synovial membrane which ascends between the tendon of the extensor muscles of the leg, .and the front of the lower extremity of the femur. 9. One of the alar ligaments; the other has been removed with the opposite section. 10. The ligamentum mucosum left entire; the section being made to its inner sido. 11. The anterior or external crucial ligament. 12. The posterior ligament. The scheme of the synovial membrane, which is here presented to the student, is divested of all unnecessary complications. It may be traced from the saoculus (at S), along the inner surface of the patella; then over the adipose mass (7), from which it throws off tho mucous ligament (10); then over the head of tho tibia, forming a sheath to the crucial ligaments; then upwards along the posterior ligament and condyles of the femur to the sacculus, whence its examination com- menced.