470 OF THE PELVIS. corresponds to the ischio-rectal fossa was noticed in the examination of that fossa. It was then seen how the levator and obturator fascise joined the pelvic; it now remains to be Fig. 198. A Side View of the Viscera op the Peltis, showing the Distkibution op THE Perineal and Pelvic Fascijs.—1. The symphysis puhis. 2. The bladder. 3, 3. The recto-vesical fold of peritoneum, passing from the anterior surface of the rectum to the posterior part of the bladder; from the upper part of the fundus of the bladder it is reflected upon the abdominal parietes. 4. The ureter. 5. The vas deferens crossing the direction of the ureter. 6. The vesicula seminalis of the right side. 7, 7. The prostate gland. 8, 8. The section of a ring of elastic tissue encircling the prostatic portion of the urethra at its commencement. 9. The pros- tatic portion of the urethra. 10. The membranous portion, inclosed by the com- pressor urethrse muscle. 11. The commencement of the corpus spongiosum penis, the bulb. 12. The anterior ligaments of the bladder. 13. The edge of the pelvic fascia at the point where it is reflected upon the rectum. 14. An interval between the pelvic fascia and deep perineal fascia, occupied by a plexus of veins. 15. The deep perineal fascia; its two layers. 16. Cowper's gland of the right side. 17. The superficial perineal fascia, ascending in front of the root of the penis to become continuous with the dartos of the scrotum (18). 19. The layer of the deep fascia which is prolonged to the rectum. 20. The lower part of the levator ani; its fibres are concealed by the anal fascia. 21. The inferior segment of the funnel-shaped process given ofi" from the posterior layer of the deep perineal fascia, which is continuous with the recto-vesical fascia of Tyrrell. The attachment of this fascia to the recto-vesical fold of peritoneum is seen at 22. noticed, in the first place, how the two layers of the deep perineal fascia, which are placed, as has been seen, the one above and the other below the muscles of Guthrie, in- cluding also the membranous portion of the urethra, join the pelvic fascia. This junction takes place around the neck of the bladder, and usually on the sides of the prostate gland just below the neck. If we examine the layer placed above the muscles, we shall find that it joins the pelvic fascia