42 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK. contracts, tliis tendon can be felt in the living subject. In opening the lachrymal sac, the incision should be made below the tendon, to avoid injuring it. The CoEEUGATOR SuPEECiLii, Eig. 64 (2), is exposed by reflecting downwards the upper portion of the orbicularis. It arises from the inner part of the superciliary ridge, passes upwards and outwards, and is inserted into the orbicularis, near the junction of its middle and outer thirds. The super- cilii muscles depress and approximate the eyebrows, pro- ducing the vertical wrinkles on the forehead. The expression of frowning depends on the action of these muscles. The Tensoe Taesi, or The Muscle of Hoenee, Fig. 5, arises from the upper part of the os unguis just behind the lachrymal groove; it is about three lines in breadth and six in length, and is situated behind the tendo-palpebrarum. It divides into two slips, Fig. 5. which are inserted, one into the upper lachrymal duct, and the other into the lower. To expose this muscle the eyelids should be detached, except at the inner can- thus, and reflected over the nose; its fibres will then be distinctly seen by the re- moval of a portion of the conjunctiva and areolar tis- sue between the eyeball and the lachrymal bone. Its action is to govern the po- sition of the puncta lachry- malia, so as to facilitate the entrance of the tears, and to keep the eyelids applied to the eyeball; it may also com- press the lachryroal sac if distended.^ The Meibomian Glands, Fig. 6 (e), consist of a series of tubes more or less tortuous, situated in grooves on the pos- terior surface of the tarsal cartilages. In length they cor- 1 A small muscle, situated in the outer part of the orbit and connected to the tarsal cartilages, is described by Dr. N. E. Mosely. of Philadelphia, m the Iston Medical and Surgical Journal, August 3 1853. Dr. Mosely regards it as an antagonistic muscle of the tensor tarsi of Horner. A View op the Tensor Tarsi Mus- CLK.—1, 1. Bony margins of the orbit. 2. Opening between the eyelids. 3. In- ternal face of the orbit. 4. Origin of the tensor tarsi. 5, 5. Insertion in the neigh- borhood of the puncta laohrymalis. s