56^ THE LOWER EXTREMITY. at first obliquely downwards and outwards, to penetrate the flexor longus pollicis muscle, in which, or between it and the fibula,_it extends vertically to within a short distance of the ankle-joint, where it divides into the posterior and ante- rior peroneal branches. Between its origin and the flexor longus pollicis, it is placed between the soleus behind and the tibialis posticus in front, and gives off in this part of its course bi-anches to those muscles; a little lower down it supplies a nutriiious branch to the fibula; and still lower, it sends quite a large branch to join the posterior tibial artery; this anastomosing branch passes transversely, or nearly so, across the interosseous ligament; sometimes it is met with very large; when this occurs, the posterior tibial is usually quite small above its junction with this branch of the peroneal artery. Besides those named, the peroneal artery sends branches to the peronei muscles, and to the periosteum on the fibula. The anterior 'peroneal branch perforates the interosseous ligament, and thus gets into the lower part of the anterior interosseous fossa, where it anastomoses with the external malleolar branch of the anterior tibial artery. This is an interesting anastomosis, on account of the large size which this branch of the peroneal artery sometimes presents. It occasionally takes the place of the anterior tibial artery in supplying the arteria dorsalis pedis. It sends small branches to the peroneus tertius muscle and to the ankle-joint, including the articulation be- tween the tibia and fibula. The posterior peroneal bramch passes down behind the external malleolus, and over the ankle^piut, to reach the outer posterior part of the os calcis, on the surface of which it ramifies, anastomosing with branches of the posterior tibial, external plantar, and the anterior peroneal, or external malleolar branch. The integu- ment and adipose substance on the bottom of the heel are supplied principally from this branch. The Deep-seated Veins, Fig. 240, on the back of the leg, consist of venae comites, which accompany the arteries. Those which accompany the peroneal artery are usually larger than those accompanying the posterior tibial. The artery is generally placed between its vente comites, between which frequent communications take place across the artery.