295 THE PLEURA. ^vill be understood when it 'is considered that they are sub- jected to more or less motion. Each sac is divided into a visceral and a parietal portion. The first is applied closely to the external surface of the organ, while the other lines the inner surface of the cavity which contains it. Thus two smooth surfaces are opposed to each other, which are con- stantly lubricated with serum, so that no friction is caused hy their movements upon each other. The Pleura, The student should now carefully trace the reflections of the pleura for himself, and observe its relations to the con- tiguous parts, and to the external surface of the body. The pleural cavity has been exposed by separating the costal car- tilages from the ribs, and raising them on one side with the corresponding half of the sternum. It will be observed that as the pleura is reflected from the posterior surface of the sternum, it proceeds almost directly backwards to the vertebral column. The corresponding portions of the two pleurae form a sep- tum between the pleural cavities, called the mediastinum. The lower part of this septum is inclined somewhat to the left side on account of the position of the heart. That portion of each pleura concerned in forming the mediastinum is called the pleura mediastinalis. As this is traced from the sternum backwards, it will be found in the upper part of the thorax to pass almost directly to the vertebrse, while in the middle and lower parts it is reflected outwards over the pericardium, to which it closely adheres, except where it covers the phrenic nerve. As it proceeds backwards it is, near the middle of the mediastinum, reflected round the root of the lung, from which it is extended over the entire lung, forming the pleura jndmonalis. In the lower part it forms a fold extending from the root of the lung to the diaphragm, called the ligamentum latum pulmonis. This fold is of a triangu.lar shape, with the apex towards the root of the lung. If the lungs be drawn for- wards it will be seen that the pleurae approach each other as