DISSECTION OF THE PEEINEUM. 467 described, and Ccalled the gland of Litre, and named by Litre the anli-prostaiic gland. . Before proceeding to dissect the upper cavity or pocket, it will be well to examine the deep perineal fascia, immediately below the arch of the pubes, and also the levator ani muscle. The first may be done by dividing the corpus spongiosum and the urethra about an inch anterior to the bulb, and dissecting them up as far back as the point where the urethra perforates the fascia. A catheter or bougie should be intro- duced into the urethra where it has been divided, and carried into the bladder. When this is done, the deep perineal fascia will be seen attached above to the symphysis pubis, laterally to the rami of the pubes; and below, it will be seen perfo- rated by the membranous portion of the urethra. From its shape and structure it has been called the triangular liga- ment. It consists of two layers, separated by the sub-pubic ligament. Only one of these can now be seen. By means of this dense fibiws membrane the urethra, which perforates it about three-fourths of an inch below the symphysis pubis, is at this point firmly fixed in its position. This fact should be carefully observed with reference to the introduction of instruments through the urethra into the bladder. Before examining the levator ani muscle, the continuity of the deep perineal fascia with the superficial perineal, the ob- turator, and the levator fascise should be attentively studied; also its connection with the perineal centre. Thus far in the dissection no part of these fasciae has been cut away or de- stroyed so as to prevent a review of them being made, which is essential to a thorough understanding of them. To examine the levator ani muscle, the lower part of the rectum should be slightly drawn down and pushed to one side, while some portions of the fasciae just alluded to, including the whole of the levator, must be removed. The Levator Am, Fig. 193 (9), is a thin, broad muscle, placed on the side of the lower part of the rectum. Its origin, commencing at the symphysis pubis, extends back- wards across the obturator foramen to the spine of the ischium. Anteriorly, it arises from the symphysis pubis and from the body of the pubes; posteriorly, from the body and spine of the ischium; the part of the muscle which corre- sponds to the foramen, arises from the pelvic fascia, where it