122 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK. Fig. 39. The Arteeies of the anricle are derived from the poste- rior auricular, and the auricular branches of the temporal. Quite a large branch from the posterior auricular enters the concha between the anti-helix and the processus caudatus. The Nerves come from several sources; as the auricula- ris magnus, the facial, the fifth, and the pneumogastric. The concha is supplied by a branch which perforates the cartilage just above the anti-tragus. The meatus auditorius externus, Fig. 41 (a), is about an inch in length. The inner half of it is osseous, and belongs to the temporal bone. It is slightly curved, with its convexity "upwards. Its lower wall is longer than the upper, on account of the oblique position of the membrana tympani. A trans- verse vertical section of it presents a figure somewhat oval or ellipti- cal, the vertical diameter being the longest. The middle of it is not quite so large as the extremities. The outer portion is partly fibrous and partly cartilaginous. The fibrous structure forms about the upper fourth of the canal. There are two or three fissures in the cartilaginous portion called the fissures of Saniorini. The struc- ture of this part of the canal admits of some mobility. The meatus is lined by a reflec- tion of the skin from the auricle. It is very thin and delicate, and covered with fine hairs. In old persons there are usually some quite long stiff hairs near the ex- ternal orifice, which seem to afford some protection against the en- trance of foreign bodies. In the structure of the lining membrane are a number of sebaceous follicles called the ceruminous glands. They are of a yellowish color when cut, and secrete an unctuous substance resembling wax. This sometimes ac- cumu.lates and becomes hard, causing deafness. The meatus should be observed with care by the student. It may be Represents the Cartilage of THE External Ear with some of ITS Muscles.—1, 2. The helicis major muscle on the front of the helix. 3, 4. The helicis minor mus- cle. 5, 6. The tragieus muscle on the front surface of the tragus. 7, 8. The anti-tragicus muscle. Ml.