DISSECTION OF SPINAL OANAL AND CONTENTS, 289 The Medulla Spinalis, oe Spinal Cord. The spinal cord, Fig. 126, extends from the occipito- atlantoid articulation, to the first lumbar vertebra; bemg from sixteen to eighteen inches in length. It is much smaller than the spinal canal. It is not of equal size throughout its whole length. Those portions which correspond to the roots of the nerves that supply the upper and lower extremities, are the largest. It terminates below in the cauda equina^ Fig. 126 (17), which consists of nervous cords. The cord presents, externally, an anterior and a posterior median fissure, Fig. 128, which divide it, externally, into two Fig. 127. distinct lateral columns. The pia mater enters these fissures. The anterior one is the widest, while the posterior is the deepest. A lateral fissure is observed where the posterior roots of the nerves are attach- ed to the cord. This fissure divides each half of the cord into an antero-lateral, and a posterior column. Another lateral fissure has been de- scribed, corresponding to the anterior roots of the nerves; this, however, is scarcely per- ceptible. "When a transverse section of the cord is made, each half is seen to consist, internally, of gray substance. Fig. 128. This is arranged so as to present a semilunar form, the cornua of which correspond to the anterior and posterior roots of the nerves. The posterior cornu reaches the external surface of the cord, but the an- terior, which is the shortest and thickest of the two, does not. From this arrangement of the gray substance each half of the cord may be said to consist of three columns, the antero- lateral being divided into two by the anterior cornu. Vesicu- lar matter exists in both cornua, but is most abundant in the 25 a Vietv of a Small Portion op THE Spinal Mabeow, showing the Origins op some op the Spinal Nerves.—1. The anterior or motor root of a spinal nerve. 2. The pos- terior or sensor root of a spinal nerve. 3. The ganglion connected with the latter.