429 DISSECTION OF THE PENIS. fibres wliicli descend from tlie linea alba to form the sujm-- ficial suspensory ligament of the penis. Some yellow elastic fibres are usually found in this ligament. The Peepuce, Fig. 182 (2), is formed by a duplicature of the skin, which projects over and sometimes beyond the gians penis. The reflected portion of it assumes the charac- ter of a mucous membrane, and is continued from the cervix over the glans to the orifice of the urethra, where it be- comes continuous with the lining membrane of that canal. "When the prepuce covers the glans so as to confine it, it forms what is called pliymosis. When it becomes constricted behind the corona, it forms paraphymosis. In the cervix, or depression behind the corona, there are some sebaceous glands, named the glandulce odoriferce Tysoni. Fig. 182 (4, 4). The frce7ium prcBputii, Fig. 182 (3), consists of a triangular fold of the mucous membrane, which is attached to the groove in the glans just below and behind the meatus urinarius. The arteries of the penis are derived principally from the internal pudic. The corpus spongiosum is supplied by the bulbous branches, which penetrate the bulb. The branches which are distributed to the corpora cavernosa enter the crura; they are called the arteries of the corpora cavernosa. The glans, the prepuce, and the skin, are sup- plied by the dorsal branches, which reach the dorsum of the penis by passing between the crura and perforating the sus- pensory hgament. The arteries which enter the spongy and cavernous bodies divide, into a great number of branches; some of which are appropriated to the nourishment of the tissues, and others terminate by communicating freely with the venous plexus in the intertrabecular spaces. The veins of the penis are large ; they are divided into the c^sal or superficial, and the veins of the corpora cavernosa. Ihe dorsal pass backwards beneath the symphysis pubis and between the crura, to terminate in the prostatic and vesical plexuses, while those of the corpora cavernosa end in the internal pudic veins. The veins which proceed from the spongy structure commence by dilatations, which form plex- uses m the intertrabecular spaces. The nerves of the penis are derived mainly from the in- ternal pudic.