LIGAMENTS OF THE KNEE-JOINT. 601 ment, the space between tlie lining membrane of the joint and the ligamentum patellas should be examined. It will be found to contain adipose substance, Fig. 260 (7), and the an- astomosis between the external and internal inferior articular arteries. It will be noticed that this space extends down- wards between the head of the tibia and the ligamentum patellae, and that there is at the lower part of it a bursa, Fig. 259 (9), Fig. 260 (e), placed between the ligament and the bone. This space should be studied with reference to wounds penetrating the cavity of the joint, either directly through the ligamentum patell£e or on either side of it. It will be observed that the adipose substance in this space is pressed backwards by the ligamentum patellae when the leg is flexed. To examine the reflections of the synovial memhrane in the ]3osterior lower part of the cavity, a vertical section of the entire joint should be made, as represented in Fig. 260, or one should be made of the femur and patella, dov/^n to the space between the semilunar cartilages on the head of the tibia. It will be found, when traced on the condyles, to ex- tend upwards a short distance beyond their articular surfaces, extending a little further up on the inner than on the ou.ter condyle. In the posterior part of the joint, it covers, on the outer side, the anterior surface of the ligamentum posticum and the outer head of the gastrocnemius, and also the tendon of the popliteus. Fig. 258 (s), on which it is prolonged to the superior articulation of the tibia and fibula, with the syno- vial membrane of which it is sometimes connected, so as to form a communication between that and the knee-joint. On the inner side, it covers the anterior surface of the ligamentum posticum and inner head of the gastrocnemius. In the central part oii\xQ joint behind, it is reflected upon the sides of the crucial ligaments, while opposite to these laterally, it covers the lateral ligaments. In the lower part of the joint, it "is reflected over both the upper and lower surfaces of the semi- lunar cartilages, and also over the articular surfaces on the head of the tibia. Masses of adipose substance are observed in difierent parts of the knee-joint; they are contained in folds of the synovial membrane, and present different shapes • they have been called the synovial fringes; they have also been compared to the appendices epiploic^ on the colon • they arc even found in subjects which are greatly emaciated' Having traced the synovial membrane in every part of the