THE LOWER EXTREMITY. 566 done this, to extend tlie foot on the leg, and to adduct the foot. The Tibialis Posticus, Fig. 241 (e), is situated ia the middle of the interosseous fossa, or rather occupies a large portion of it, except at the lower part, where it has become tendinous. It arises from both bones of the leg, and from the interosseous membrane; from the fibula, it arises between the origin of the soleus muscle and the outer malleolus, from the tibia, below the linea poplitei, and from nearly the whole of the posterior surface of the interosseous mem- brane; it also arises from the intermuscular septa, which separate it from the two preceding muscles. The fibres, which arise from these different points, pass downwards to end in a tendon which extends nearly the whole length of the muscle, occupying the central part of it. This tendon passes between that of the flexor longus digitorum communis and the tibia, to get into a fibrous canal above and behind the internal malleolus, and to the inner side of the tendon of the last- named muscle; it then continues obliquely forwards and is inserted into the scaphoid and the internal and middle cunei- form bones; sometimes some fibres can be traced from it to the base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe, and also to the external cuneiform bone. A sesamoid bone, or fibro- cartilage, is very frequently found in its tendon just behind its insertion into the scaphoid bone. A synovial membrane is placed between this sesamoid body and the scaphoid bone. The upper end of the muscle is notched for the passage of the anterior tibial vessels. Its action is to extend the foot on the leg; it will also invert the plantar surface of the foot by elevating its inner border; with the long flexor muscles of the toes it may act as a substitute for the gastrocnemius and soleus in case the tendo-Achillis has been injured. It also assists in steadying the foot in standing or walking. Having completed the dissection of the back of the leg, the student should review what he has been over, including m this review the popliteal space. He should carefully exami7w the deep fascice to see in what manner they would hmit or favor in any "particular direction, the extension of collections oi pus He will notice that pus, collected beneath the deep fascia of the popliteal space, might extend to the foot without en- countering any obstruction from fascia; and also that in en-