OF THE ABDOMEN, 348 the former from tlie spinous, and the latter from the trans- verse processes of the lumbar vertebrae. To expose the rectus, make an incision through the tendon of the external oblique and the anterior lamina of the internal oblique, from the cartilage of the sixth rib to the pubis, about three-fourths of an inch from the linea alba, and paral- lel with it; then dissect these tendons up from the muscle, turning one flap inwards and the other outwards. At the lower part of the rectus the incision will extend through the tendons of the three broad muscles, as they all pass in front of that muscle. They are easily separated from the muscle, except at the linse transversas, where they are blended with the tendinous intersections, from which it will require some care to detach them. After exposing the muscle in this way, divide it opposite the umbilicus, and reflect one portion up- wards and the other downwards, when its relations to the tendons of the broad muscles may be examined; tranches of the epigastric and internal mammary arteries, and of the inter- costal nerves, will be seen penetrating it from behind. The termination below of the posterior lamina of the tendon of the internal oblique, and the tendon of the transversalis, will be observed. They generally present quite a distinct semi- lunated border, but not always. The tendinous intersections are very imperfect behind, and do not usually adhere to the sheath of the rectus. The Eectus, Fig. 146 (le), arises from the upper border of the OS pubis, between the spine and symphysis, by a flat tendon. It passes upwards on the side of the linea alba, gradually increasing in breadth but diminishing in thick- ness, until it reaches the thorax. It is inserted into the car- tilages of the fifth, sixth, and seventh ribs, and sometimes into the xiphoid or ensiform cartilage. The fibres are interrupted in their course by the lin^oi fransversce; one of which is placed opposite to the ensiform cartilage, one between this and the umbilicus, one at the umbilicus, and another lower down. Each presents a zigzag line, and only two of them, the one at the ensiform cartilage and' the one at the umbilicus, extend entirely across the muscle. The rectus draws the thorax towards the pelvis or the pelvis towards the thorax; it also acts as a compressor.^ The tendinous intersections connect it with the tendons ot