THE CEREBRUM. 59 terior border. Having cut into the ventricles, and observed the thickness of the corpus callosum, it may be reflected outwards on each side, or cut away with the scissors. The incision on each side should be extended backwards and outwards for a short distance in the direction of the lateral cornu, so as to expose more fully the ventricle and its contents. The Septum Lucidum, Fig. 10, s, will now be seen forming a vertical septum between the two lateral ventricles. By lifting up the central portion of the corpus callosum between the handles of two scalpels, and placing a light on the opposite side, its translucent character will be seen. It has the shape of a falx, with its broad extremity situated anteriorly, and its poste- rior extremity tapering to a point between the corpus callosum and fornix. It consists of two lamellag of medullary sub- stance, separated by a small space called the fifth ventricle. The Fifth "Ventricle is situated in the anterior part of it; and to demonstrate it, the upper part of the septum should be cut away with the scissors. Sometimes the two lamellse adhere to each other, and again they are separated by a small quantity of fluid. The fifth ventricle does not usually communicate with the third ventricle. The Lateral Ventricle, Fig. 11, on each side, consists of ■ a body and three cornua, one for each lobe of the hemisphere. The anterior cornu is the space between the reflected portion of the corpus callosum and the anterior extremity of the corpus striatum. The examination of the posterior and middle cornua may be postponed until the body of the ventricle has been studied. The body presents three surfaces: the upper, or corpus callosum; the inner, or septum lucidum; and the lower, or floor, which is composed of several parts. Of these parts, there are five which deserve special notice. They are the corpus striatum, taenia semicircularis, thalamus opticus, plexus choroides, and fornix. The Corpus Striatum, Fig. 11, h, forms the outer and an- terior part of the floor of the ventricle. It is pear-shaped, with the large extremity situated anteriorly, and the small extrem- ity posteriorly. It is readily distinguished from the surround- ing parts by its dark-grayish color. It is called the striated body, on account of the intermixture of gray and white sub- stance in its structure, which gives to it a striated appearance