SPHENO-MAXILLABY REGION. 119 The Ganglion of Meckel, or Spheno-Palatine Gang- lion, may now be examined, witli its communicating branches. For this purpose the upper part of the posterior wall of the antrum may be removed, with enough of the great wing of the sphenoid fairly to expose the foramen rotundum. If we now divide the infra-orbital nerve, and turn it backwards, we shall observe two small filaments going downwards to join a small reddish mass, of a somewhat triangular shape, which is the ganglion of Meckel. The following nerves may be dis- covered proceeding from it in different directions :— The Spheno-Palatine leaves it on the inner side, and passes almost immediately through the spheno-palatine fora- men to enter the nose just behind the superior meatus, where it divides into branches which will be described with the nasal cavity. The Palatine Nerve, consisting sometimes of two or three divisions, leaves it on the lower side, and enters the palatine canal to divide into an anterior, middle and posterior branch. The anterior is distributed to the roof of the mouth; the middle and posterior to the soft palate, the amygdalee and uvnla. The posterior palatine branch not unfrequently passes through a separate canal in the palatine bone. The Vidian Nerve passes backwards from the ganglion to the vidian or pterygoid canal, and through it into the cavity of the cranium. It sends several small filaments to the sphenoidal sinus. These nerves cannot at present be con- veniently followed beyond the pterygo-maxillary fossa. The dissection of this ganglion and its nerves, may be made from the nasal cavity, by breaking away the vertical plate of the palatine bone which forms a septum between the nose and the pterygo-maxillary fossa. If the student wishes, he can dissect one side of the head as above described, and the other side from the nasal cavity. As much of the great wing of the sphenoid, with the emi- nentia articularis of the temporal bone must now be cut away as shall be necessary to expose the foramen ovale. Divide the dental and gustatory nerves and turn them up towards the foramen; the otic ganglion will now be observed just below the foramen and on the inner side of the inferior maxillary nerve. The Otic Ganglion is a small, reddish body, like the gan-