DISSECTION OF THE TESTICLES. 433 Fig. 185. the corpus Higlimorianum. Tbey are termed the tuhuli recti, or vasa recta. These open into i\iQrete testis, which consists of a network of tubes, in the anterior part of the corpus Highmo- rianum. From the rete testis from ten to twenty tubes pass through the tunica albuginea. They are called the vasa efferentia. These are at first straight, but become convoluted, and form mass- es of a conical shape, which are named the coni vasculosi. These cones form the globus major or head of the epididymis, and by uniting together form a single tube, called the canal of the epididymis. This tube, after forming the body and the globus minor or tail of the epididy- mis, terminates in the vas deferens. The Vas Deferens, Fig. 185 (lo), and Fig. 186 (e, e), commences at the lower end of the globus minor, and is directed upwards on the inner side of the epididymis. It enters the spermatic cord at the upper part of the testicle, and ascends in the posterior part of it to the internal abdominal ring, where it leaves the cord, and turning short round the epigastric artery, passes down- wards and inwards over the external iliac vessels, and enters the pelvis. In the pelvis it crosses over the ureter, gets between the rectum and the blad- der, and passes downwards and for- wards, on the inner side of the vesicula seminalis, to the upper border of the prostate gland, where it unites with the ductus vesiculce semi- nalis, to form the ductus ejaculatorius communis. The vas deferens is composed of an inner mucous, and an outer fibrous layer. The latter is very thick and firm, so that the tube can be distinctly felt in the spermatic cord of the living subject. The vas deferens is about two feet in Its size does not vary much from its commencement 37 A View of the Minute Structure of the Testis. —1, 1. Tunica albuginea. 2,2. Corpus Highmorianum. 3. 3. Tubuli seminiferi con- voluted into lobes. 4, 4. Vasa recta. 5. Rete testis. 6. Vasa efferentia. 7. Coni Tasculosi constituting the globus major of the epididy- mis. 8. Body of the epidi- dymis. 9. Its globus minor. 10. Vas deferens. 11. Vas aberrans, or blind duct. length