THE LOWEK EXTREMITY. 522 there IS generally a looseness in this part of the ligament which admits of a proportionate degree of abduction of the limb. When the capsular ligament is divided, there will be observed fibres, intermixed with areolar tissue, extending from the root of the cervix to the margin of the articular surface of the head of the bone; they seem to be a con- tinuation of the fibres of the capsular ligament reflected over the cervix, for which they form, with the areolar tissue, quite a thick sheath or covering, especially on the upper and anterior part of it. In a fracture of the neck within the capsule this fibro-areolar tissue might, no doubt, contribute largely to the formation of an osseous union. It would not only furnish a nidus in which callus might be formed, but it would be a medium for the transmission of vessels to the head of the bone; in the latter case it would co-operate with the ligamentum teres. The iUo-femoral or accessory ligament^ Fig. 220 (9), consists of a fasciculus of fibres, which arises from the anterior infe- rior spinous process of the ilium, passes obliquely downwards and inwards, and, spreading out, is inserted into the anterior intertrochanteric ridge. It strengthens that portion of the capsular ligament to which it corresponds. On the inner side of this fasciculus an opening is sometimes noticed which forms a communication between the bursa that is placed beneath the psoas and iliacus internus muscles and the cavity of the joint. The Cotyloid Ligament, Fig. 221(6), surrounds the margin of the acetabulum or cotyloid cavity. It is of a tri- angular form, presenting three sides; one of these, the base, is adherent to the bone; the other two are covered by syno- vial membrane, and correspond, the one with the head of the femur, and the other with the capsular ligament. It is not a proper ligament, but a fibro-cartilage, the cartilage increasing in quantity from the apex or free edge to the base, v/here there is but little fibrous tissue. It is separated by a groove from the articular cartilage which lines the acetabulum. The fibrous portion of it is continued across the notch at the lower part of the cavity; this part of the cotyloid ligament, together with other fibres that arise from the sides of the notch, constitute the Transveese Ligament. By means of this arrangement, the notch is converted into a foramen for