LIGAMENTS OF THE KNEE-JOINT. 597 lateral on each side. The first of these might very appropri- ately be called the aponeurotic regiom. la the outer one the parietes consist of the fascia lata, which is prolonged down- wards over every part of the knee, in this as well as in the other regions; and beneath the fascia lata, of a thick fibrous layer, which is expanded from the tendon of the vastus ex- ternus, and, proceeding downwards, is inserted into the tibia between its tubercle and the lower attachments of the external lateral ligaments; and, under this, of a layer of fibres which arise from the outer border of the patella, and, passing trans- versely outwards, are inserted into the outer surface of the external condyle of the femur. The parietes in the inner antero-lateral region are very nearly the same as in the one just described; instead of the vastus externus, the vastus in- ternus sends off a layer of vertical fibres, which pass down- wards to be inserted into the tibia between its tubercle and the internal lateral ligament; there is no difference in the arrangement of the layer of transverse fibres; they are attached to the inner border of the patella, and to the internal condyle of the femur. The parietes of the joint in these regions are interesting on account of its being in one or the other of them that the cavity is entered by instruments, either in cases of hydrops articuli, or of loose cartilages in the joint, requiring an operation; it is in these regions, also, that a bulging is first observed, denoting the presence of water in the joint. The parietes in the postero-lateral regions consist of the late- ral ligaments. As these ligaments are unyielding, there are generally depressions in hydrops articuli corresponding to these regions. The tendons of the inner and outer hamstring muscles also correspond very nearly to them. In the posterior region the parietes are formed by the liga- mentum posticum. This is very deep seated, having the con- tents of the popliteal space placed between it and the external surface. _ When the cavity of the joint is opened, it should be studied in connection with these regions. The ligaments of the knee-joint are divided into the external and internal. The former can be exposed without cutting into the cavity of the joint. By referring to the plates, the student will have no difficulty in ascertaining the exact position of each one. Their positions in the parietes of the joint have already been noticed. They will now be examined more par- ticularly with reference to their appearance and attachments.