THE LOWEE EXTEEMITY. 610 front of, and behind, the ankle-joint; and, in removing it, the student must be careful, or he will cut through the sijnovial membrane, Fig. 262 (7), which is quite loose in these places, especially in front, and expose the interior of the joint, Fig. 265 (9), before he desires to do so. Perhaps no joint in the body is more liable to injury than the ankle-joint, hence the importance of a thorough knowledge of it to the student. It should be studied with reference to luxations, fractures, and sprains. The mal- leoli form prominent points, which can always be distinctly seen and felt in the living subject. Their position in relation to the other parts should be carefully noted, as they will be im- portant guides in determining whether, in cases of injury or disease, displacement of any part or parts has occurred, and, if so, its character and extent, and also whether in the treatment the parts displaced have been restored to their proper place. The tarsal ligaments, like those of the carpus, are nume- rous ; and while it is scarcely expected that the student will have the time to become familiar with all, he should not neglect to acquire a thorough knowledge of some of them. A knowledge of the tarsal and the tarso-metatarsal articula- tions is indispensable to any one who shall have occasion to disarticulate the metatarsus, as in Hey's operation, or a por- tion of the tarsus, as in Chopart's operation. As every phy- sician is liable to have cases of inflammation of these joints and its sequelce, or of injuries not requiring, as a dernier resort, or at least not immediately, amputation of a portion of the foot, every student should avail himself of the oppor- tunities afforded him in the dissecting-room to carefully exa- mine and study the structure of the foot. Although it may be the last part of the limb to be dissected, it is none the less important. After dissecting the muscles, vessels, and nerves of the whole, or any part of it, he should keep it wet until he has time to examine all the articulations, which he can easily do with the aid of his book and plates. Having severed the ligaments which connect the tibia and fibula with the tarsus, and dissected off all the soft parts which cover the bones and ligaments of the foot, the liga- mentous connections of the tarsus may be examined first. Of these, the connections of the astragalus are, from its posi- tion, its function, and liability to displacement, perhaps, the