SUPEEFICIAL PARTS OF THE NECK. some distance, without injuring anything of importance. The sterno-hyoideus may also be detached at its origin and turned upwards, so as to dissect the muscle beneath it. The actions of the three last muscles will be readily un- derstood by observing their attachments. The sterno-, thyro-, and omo-hyoid muscles, Fig. 67 (e), re- ceive nervous filaments from the descendens noni; the thyro- hyoid is supplied by a filament from the hypoglossal. These nerves may be looked for while dissecting the muscles,_or their examination may be postponed until the opposite side is dissected. The same course may be pursued with regard to the arteries going to them. The DiGASTRlCUS, Fig. 69 (i, 2), arises from the digastric fossa and mastoid process, and from the base of the inferior maxilla close to the symphysis ; the two bellies are inserted into an intermediate tendon, which is connected by tendinous fibres to the hyoid bone. The posterior belly is the longest and more tmns verse in its direction. The tendon of this muscle perforates the anterior extremity of the stylo-hyoideus^ A little care is necessary, or this arrangement may be de^ stroyed before it is observed. The deep fascia of the neck is connected to the digastric muscle, which deserves to be noticed. The origin of the posterior belly of this muscle need not be exposed at present, as it is covered by the sterno- cleido-mastoideus. The action of this muscle is to depress the lower jaw, or, when this is fixed, to elevate the hyoid bone. If the student has been successful thus far in his dissection of the neck, he will encounter but little dif&culty in com- pleting it in a manner satisfactory to himself. All the more prominent points are now distinctly brought into view, and their relations to the other parts are such that he will be able to locate and find them without much trouble. He can now readily trace upon the subject the boundaries of the follow- ing subdivisions or surgical regions. Each side of the neck is divided into five regions; the submaxillary, the superior carotid, the inferior carotid, the supra-clavicular, and a fifth one, which is situated behind the sterno-cleido-mastoideus, and above the posterior belly of the omo-hyoideus muscle. The Submaxillary Eegion is bounded above by the^ in-