DISSECTION OF THE THORAX, 318 ries; it then descends between these arteries to the aorta, which it crosses over and then dips down behind the root of the left lung. Each nerve gives off a recurrent laryngeal branch; the right just as it passes over the subclavian artery, and the left as it crosses the aorta. The left recurrent brancb winds round behind the aorta, and ascends to the larynx in the groove between the trachea and the oeso- phagus; the right passes round the subclavian artery and ascends to the larynx in the corresponding groove on the Tight side. The recurrent nerves give off cardiac, oesopha- geal, tracheal, and pharyngeal branches. The left is longer than the right, and gives off more cardiac branches. Each pneumogastric nerve forms two j^ulononary plexuses, one in front and one behind the root of the lung. The one in front, called the anterior pulmonary plexus, is formed by filaments which leave the nerve just above the root of the lung ; it also receives filaments from the phrenic and cardiac nerves. The one behind, named the piosterior pulrtwnary plexus, consists of a plexiform arrangement of the filaments of the nerve itself; it receives filaments from the anterior plexus, and from the cardiac nerves. The pulmonary plex- uses give off filaments which accompany the bronchial tubes, and ramify minutely in the lungs. The pneumogastric nerves, after forming the posterior pulmonary plexuses, join the oeso- phagus, which they accompany to the stomach. Filaments from each unite round this tube to form Xho, plexus guloi. It is somewhat difficult to dissect out the posterior pulmo- nary plexuses, as their filaments are intermixed with glands and areolar substance. There is an interchange of filaments between the two plexuses which establishes a direct sympa- thetic connection between the two lungs. The left plexus is considerably larger than the right. The AoETA commences at the anterior and inner part of the base of the left ventricle, opposite to the junction of the cartilage of the fourth rib and sternum, on the left side. From tbis point it proceeds upwards, forwards, and to the right side as far as the junction of the cartilage of the second rib with the sternum; it then turns to the left and goes back- wards to the body of the second dorsal vertebra, where it curves downwards and somewhat inwards oa the side of the vertebrae, to enter the posterior mediastinum. This part of the aorta is divided into the ascending, trans-