DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 304 from the ascending cava into the left auricle through the foramen ovale. The mouth of the coronary vein, Fig. 132, v, is placed a little to the left of the Eustachian valve. It is partly covered by a fold of the lining membrane of the auricle, which is named the valve of^ Thehesius. It prevents the return of the blood into the vein when the auricle contracts; its office, however, cannot be very important, as it is often imperfect or wholly absent. The foramina of Thehesius are small openings, consisting of the mouths of veins, or of mere crypts in the parietes of the auricle. They vary in number and in their location. The musculi pectinati, Fig. 132, o, are muscular fasciculi, which extend in parallel lines from the auricula to the auriculo-ventricular orifice. They are named from their re- semblance to the teeth of a comb. They are crossed by other fasciculi, which cause a reticulated appearance. This reticu- lated arrangement is observed especially in the auricular appendix. The inner and outer membranes are in contact with each other between the muscular fasciculi in some por- tions of the auricle. In examining the structure of the walls of the auricle it will be seen that they are not adapted to exert much force in expelling the blood from the auricle into the ventricle. The interior of the Eight Yentricle should now be ex- amined. For this purpose make two incisions from its apex to its base, along the ventricular septum, and raise the whole of its right and anterior wall without detaching it at the base. To facilitate the study of the parts around the auriculo- ventricular orifice, this flap may be divided through its centre. The following parts will be found in the dissection of this cavity:— The columrwe carnece are muscular projections on the inner surface of the ventricle. They present three different kinds of arrangement. The first kind are adherent to the walls throughout their whole extent. The second are attached to the walls at their extremities, while the middle part of each is surrounded by the lining membrane of the ventricle. They cross each other in different directions, so as to form a reticu- lated appearance. The third set, or mmculi papillares, are