DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. 457 and nerves which ramify in it should be observed; also the boundaries of the ischio-rectal foss». The arteries which supply the perineum are derived prin- cipally from the internal pudic, a branch of the internal iliac artery. The course of this artery is deep seated, and will be noticed at an advanced stage of the dissection. The prin- cipal branches involved in the removal of the common superficial fascia are the inferior hemorrhoidal., Fig. 194 (i o). These vary in number from one to three on each side. They pierce a layer of the obturator fascia which covers the internal pudic artery, and pass transversely, or nearly so, across the ischio-rectal fossa to the anus. They supply the lower part of the rectum, including the levator and sphincter ani muscles, and the integument around the anus. They are surrounded by the adipose substance which fills the ischio-rectal fossa. The student cannot be too particular in obtaining an accurate knowledge of the position of these vessels. The subcutaneous branches in the anterior part of the perineum are not of suflBcient importance to require any special notice here. They consist of small branches of the superficial perineal artery^ which is also a branch of the in- ternal pudic, arising from it just after the hemorrhoidal are given off. The veins correspond to the arteries and require no par- ticular notice. The nerves of the perineum are mainly supplied by the internal pudic, which enters this region in company with the internal pudic artery; and its distribution is nearly the same as that of the artery. It sends hemorrhoidal branches to the lower part of the rectum, and to the levator and sphincter ani muscles. One of its principal divisions is called the superficial perineal nerve, Fig. 195 (2), which passes forwards in company with the superficial perineal artery. In the anterior part of the perineum this nerve becomes subcutaneous and is distributed to the skin in that region and to the scrotum. A small branch, derived from the small sciatic nerve, is also distributed to the integument of the perineum and scrotum- principally, however, to the latter. ' _ Before examining the boundaries and relations of the ischio-rectal fossae, the sphincter ani and coccygeus muscles may be studied. 39