600 THE LOWER EXTREMITY. artery or ai1;eries when there is more than one. It is difficult to make a clean dissection of this ligament, on account of the tat usually found intermixed with its fibres. _ To examine the interior of the hnee-joint, a semilunar in- cision should be made, with its concavity looking downwards through the tendon of the quadriceps extensor muscle and the synovial membrane, about an inch above the patella, and extendmg laterally to the lateral ligaments. Having made the incision, and turned the patella downwards, with the leg semi-flexed, a beautiful view of the interior of the joint is pre sented. The following parts should now be observed :— First, the prolongation of the synovial membrane upwards into a sort of pouch, between the tendon of the quadriceps extensor and the anterior surface of the femur. Fig. 260 (e). This should be carefully noted with reference to wounds penetrating the cavity of the joint. The extension of the synovial membrane upwards varies from an inch and a half to three inches, the difference being caused by the position of the leg as it regards flexion and extension; when the leg is flexed, it is not more than an inch and a half or two inches^ but is increased to two inches and a half or three inches when the leg is extended. Hence, to determine whether a wound situated two inches or a little more above the patella, has penetrated the cavity of the joint or not, it is necessary to ascertain the position of the leg at the time the wound was inflicted. Second, three folds of synovial membrane between the inter- condyloid notch and the upper part of the ligamentum patellae should be noticed. The middle one contains a few ligamentous fibres, and has been named the ligamentum mucosum, Fig. 260 (i o). The two lateral folds, which are frequently quite indis- tinct, contain adipose substance; they have been called, with- out any good reason, the ligamenta alaria, Fig, 260 (9). The use of the ligamentum mucosum is to hold the ligamenta alaria in situ, and thus prevent them from being pinched by getting between the articular surfaces of the bones. From the liga- mentum mucosum, the synovial membrane is generally re- flected backwards to the crucial ligaments, so as to form a sort of septum dividing the posterior part of the cavity into a right and left portion. Dividing this fold, together with the ligamentum mucosum and also the ligamentum patellas, just below its upper attach-