613 LIGAMENTS OF THE TARSUS, wlilcli the head of the astragcalus is received is formed partly by the inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament, which not only supports the head of the astragalus, but assists in keeping it applied to the glenoid cavity of the scaphoid bone. The synovial membrane, Fig. 265 (12), of this joint is, as was be- fore stated, continuous with the one in the anterior articu- lation of the astragalus and os calcis. The OS calcis is connected to the scaphoid and cuboid bones by several ligaments; with the cuboid it is connected by a superior, an inferior, and an interosseous ligament, and with the scaphoid bone by two, the external calcaneo-scaphoid, and the inferior calcaneo-scapJwid ligament. The Superior Oalo^sjteo-Cuboid Ligament arises from the anterior and superior part of the os calcis, and passes for- wards to be inserted into the superior and posterior surface of the cuboid bone. The Inferior Oalcaneo-Cuboid Ligament consists of two fasciculi, a long or superficial, Fig. 266(4), and a sliort or deep-seated fasciculus {5). The former is also called the long plantar ligament. They both arise from the under surface of the OS calcis, but have very different insertions. The long fasciculus extends forwards, to be inserted, partly into the cuboid bone, and partly into the bases of the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones; it passes over and binds to the bone, the tendon of the peroneus longus muscle. The short or deep- seated fasciculus is inserted into the under surface of the cuboid bone, being covered by the long one below, and lying next to the bone above. The Interosseous or Internal Oalcaneo-Cuboid Li- gament arises from the groove in the os calcis and passes for- wards, to be inserted into the inner and posterior part of the cuboid bone. It is quite a short, but a strong ligament. The External Oalcaneo-Scaphoid Ligament arises from the os calcis close to the origin of the internal calcaneo- cuboid, and from its deep situation at its origin might, as well as that, be called an interosseous ligament. It is inserted into the upper and outer part of the scaphoid bone. The Inferior or Plantar Oalcaneo-Scaphoid Liga- ment, Fig. 266 (6), arises from the anterior and lower part of the os calcis, and passes forwards to be inserted into the 52