OF THE PELVIS. 456 which are exceedingly interesting when viewed in reference to the formation of sinuses and abscesses, to effusions of urine, and to the dangers attending operations for the removal of calculi from the bladder, or for any other pur- pose. The great importance of a knowledge of the anatomy of the perineum should be impressed on the mind of every student independently of the idea of his ever being called upon to operate for calculi in the bladder. Very few in the profession ever have an opportunity to cut for stone, while every physician is liable to meet with cases of sinuses, abscesses, and fistulous- openings in this region, which he should be able to treat properly. To dissect the perineum, the subject must be placed on the back near the end of the table, with a small block under the pelvis. The thighs must be flexed and separated from each other; to keep them in this position, the feet may be fastened by a roller or a cord to the wrists; or a cord may be attached to one of the thighs near the knee, car- ried under the table and fastened in the same manner to the opposite thigh. If a cord of sufficient length be used, with blocks to support the thighs, the student will have no difficulty in placing and keeping the subject in a favorable position for making his dissection. The rectum should be thoroughly washed out and moderately and evenly distended with tow, cotton, or a piece of a roller gradually introduced into it. The scrotum should be drawn upwards and fastened by hooks. The first thing to be done in the dissection is to remove the skin. To do this make an incision from the coccyx to the anus, and thence to the raphe of the scrotum; and an- other from the nates on each side to the anus. In this way the integument may be raised in four flaps. The skin is so thin at the margin of the anus tha,t some care is requisite to raise it and leave the superficial fascia. The common superficial fascia usually contains a large quantity of adipose substance, especially in the ischio-recial fossce, spaces situated, one on each side of the anus and lower part of the rectum. This fascia is continuous with the super- ficial fascia of the parts contiguous to the perineum, and must not be confounded with the superficial perineal fascia. To remove it the same incisions may be made as were made to raise the skin. Before doing this, however, the vessels