VESSELS AND NERVES OF ABDOMINAL VISCERA. 879 pancreas and the duodenum, between whicli it runs some distance. It also gives off a branch to anastomose with one from the superior mesenteric artery. The right gastro-epiploic, Fig. 155, g, turns to the left, runs along the convex border of the stomach, and anastomoses with the left gastro-epiploic. It gives ascending branches to both sides of the stomach, and descending to the omentum majus. The c7/stic artery, Fig. 155, h, arises from the right division of the hepatic in the transverse fissure of the liver. It goes to the gall-bladder, and divides into two branches, which ra- mify on its sides. There is no vein that corresponds to the hepatic artery. The veins which accompany its branches empty into the vena portse. The blood which is conveyed to the liver by the hepatic artery enters plexuses formed by the portal vein in the substance of that organ. The Hepatic Plexus follows both the hepatic artery and portal vein to the liver; hence it has been divided into the anterior and posterior plexus. The former is de- rived from both of the semilunar ganglia, and from the right pneumogastric nerve; the latter comes principally from the left semilunar ganglion. The left pneumogastric nerve sends filaments to join the plexus in the gastro-hepatio omentum. The hepatic plexus ramifies in the substance of the liver, accompanying the divisions of the hepatic artery and portal vein. It also gives off secondary plexuses, which follow the branches of the hepatic artery to the pylorus, the convex border of the stomach, the pancreas, and the gall- bladder. They are named the pyloric, the gastro-diiodenal, the right gastro-epiploic, the pancreatico-duodenal, and the cystic plexuses. The Superior Mesenteric Artery, Fig. 156 (lo) and Fig. 159 (9), arises from the aorta just below the coeliac artery. Its origin is concealed by the pancreas, which should be turned upwards and fastened with hooks. It passes down- wards in front of the inferior transverse portion of the duo- denum to the commencement of the attached border of the mesentery, between the laminas of which it continues down to the junction of the small with the large intestine. In its course it forms a curve with the convexity to the left, and