483 UTERUS. charge of calculi from tlie bladder before they have acquired too great a size. Uterus. The uterus, Fig. 204, is placed in the tipper and central part of the pelvis, between the bladder and the rectum, being inclined forwards in those who have not borne children, so as to form an angle with the vagina. As seen in the dissect- ing room, it has, perhaps, in a large majority of cases, under- gone some displacement, being most frequently _ inclined backwards. It does not reach the brim of the pelvis, and is frequently observed to be very much below it. A large portion of it is invested by peritoneum, which covers the fundus, the whole of the posterior and the upper three- fourths of the anterior surface, the remaining fourth being in contact with the bladder. The parts covered by the peri- toneum present a free surface, which is constantly in appo- sition with another surface covered by peritoneum. The lower extremity projects into, and is embraced by, the vagina, which is attached to it higher up posteriorly than anteriorly. Each border below the fundus has attached to it the broad ligament which extends, laterally, to the sacro- iliac symphysis, and, with the uterus and the corresponding ligament on the opposite side, divides the pelvic cavity trans- versely into two culs-de-sac. Between the layers which form this fold of peritoneum, are found the round ligament, the ovarian ligament, and the Fallopian tube. The relative position of each of these parts should be noticed. Where they are attached to the uterus the Fallopian tube is placed above the other two, and partly between them, while the ovarian ligament is situated a little lower than the round ligament. The round ligament^ or ligamentum ieres^ Fig. 201 (s), passes outwards, upwards, and forwards, to the inguinal canal, through which it passes to reach the mons veneris and the corresponding labium majus, with which it becomes blended. It is surrounded by a layer of peritoneum, which forms what is called the canal of Nuck. It is composed of a venous plexus, of arteries, of a plexus of nerves, and of muscular fibres. Its use is said to be to support the uterus, and to assist in keeping it in the axis of the pelvic cavity. It is very evident, from its size and structure, that it cannot con-