DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 330 oesophagus and to the inner side of the subclavian artery, and passes up in this direction to the fifth cervical vertebra, where it curves forwards and outwards to join the subcla- vian vein at its junction with the internal jugular. In passing through the thorax, it not unfrequently divides into two or three trunks, which again unite into one trunk before its termination; sometimes it terminates in two or three divisions, which have separate openings into the sub- clavian vein. It is the common trunk of the lymphatics of the whole body, except the right half of the head and neck, and the right upper extremity. The lymphatics of these parts terminate in the right thoracic duct, Fig. 141 (i 5), which opens into the right subclavian at its union with the internal jugular vein. The Vena Azygos Major, Fig. 141 (10), commences in the abdomen near the second lumbar vertebra, and on the right side. It is formed by the union of branches from several veins, as the superior lumbar, renal, and capsu- lar. Sometimes it communicates directly with the ascending cava. It passes through the aortic opening in the diaphragm, and ascends on the bodies of the vertebrae as far as the fourth dorsal, where it curves forwards over the upper border of the root of the lung to enter the descending cava. It crosses over the intercostal arteries. It receives in the thorax the right intercostal veins, except the upper one or two, the vena azy- gos minor, the oesophageal, mediastinal and bronchial veins. The Yen A Azygos Minor, Fig. 141 (11), commences in the lumbar region, on the left side, in a similar manner to that of the azygos major on the right side. It passes through the left crus of the diaphragm, usually with the left great splanchnic nerve, and ascends on the left side of the vertebral column, as far as the sixth or seventh dorsal verte- bra, where it passes over to the right side to join the vena azygos major; it crosses beneath the aorta and thoracic duct. It receives the inferior six or seven left intercostal veins, also, the oesophageal, phrenic, and mediastinal veins. The upper five or six intercostal veins, except the first on the left side, unite to form a common trunk, which is some- times called the superior vena azygos; it empties into one of the other azygos veins. The left superior intercostal gene- rally joins the vena transversa. The intercostal veins receive branches through the intervertebral foramina from the