DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 294 thorax. In this part of its course, the phrenic nerve crosses it superficially from without inwards. Its course in the thorax is nearly parallel with, and about one-third of an inch from, the border of the sternum. It is situated between the costai cartilages in front and the pleura and triangularis sterni mus- cle behind. At the sixth intercostal space it divides into two branches, external and internal. _ The internal division^ which is generally regarded as a con- tinuation of the artery, passes beneath the cartilage of the seventh rib, and pierces the sheath of the rectus abdominis muscle. It supplies the upper and anterior parietes of the abdomen, and inosculates with branches of the epigastric, thus connecting the external iliac and subclavian arteries. The external branch, or musculo-phremc, goes obliquely downwards and outwards to the eleventh intercostal space, giving off, in its course, branches to the diaphragm, and to the intercostal and abdominal muscles. Its branches inoscu- late, with the lower intercostal arteries, from the aorta. The internal mammary artery, before it divides, gives off the following branches:— The anterior intercostah are directed outwards, in the inter- costal spaces; they inosculate with the aortic intercostals. There are frequently two in each space. The anterior, ov perforating branches, pierce the internal in- tercostal and pectoralis major muscles. They are distributed to these muscles, and to the integuments and mammary gland, and inosculate with branches from the axillary artery. The mediastinal branches are distributed to the remains of the thymus gland, and other parts in the mediastinal space. A branch—comes nervi phrenici—accompanies the phrenic nerve to the diaphragm, giving branches in its course to the pericardium. The internal mammary artery has two venc& comites. The Anterior Cutaneous Branches of the upper inter- costal nerves may be seen where they perforate the internal intercostal and pectoralis major muscles near the sternum, to reach the integument. There are three serous sacs in the thoracic cavity—one for each lung, and one for the heart. The necessity of each of these organs having appropriated to it a serous membrane