162 DISSECTION" OF THE NECK. tlie' siibcntaneous vessels and nerves, tlie platysma myoides, and lymphatic glands; while the deep cervical fascia is more dense in its structure, has fixed attachments, and contains between its laminae the deep vessels, nerves, and lymphatic glands, and the muscles. The superficial fascia forms a bond of union between the skin and the deep parts, and retains in situ the subcutaneous vessels, &c. The deep fascia connects together the deep parts, and keeps each one in its proper place. It must be studied as these parts are exposed in the progress of the dissection. The superficial fascia may now be raised without preserv- ing the vessels and nerves found in it. This can be done on the opposite side. The following muscles may now be dis- sected :— The Sterno-Oleido-Mastoideus, Fig. 64 (17), is the largest muscle on the side of the neck. It is separated from the platysma myoides by the deep layer of the superficial fascia, the external jugular vein, the auricularis magnus, the superficialis colli, and the anterior branches of the supra- clavicular nerves, which have already been dissected, and by a thin layer of the deep cervical fascia. This layer of the deep fascia is frequently so thin, that it is difficult to dissect it up as a distinct lamina; its continuity, however, with the deep fascia, especially at the anterior border of the muscle, will be clearly seen. It arises by two heads ; one from the Tipper border of the sternum, and the other from the inner extremity of the clavicle. The sternal origin is the narrow- est, and extends tendinous for some distance; the clavicular origin varies very much in Avidth in different subjects, and its tendinous fibres are shorter. The space between these two heads is occupied by areolar tissue ; it also varies very much in width in different subjects; sometimes it is scarcely perceptible. The muscle formed by the junction of these two heads passes obliquely upwards and backwards, and is inserted into the mastoid process and the superior semicir- cular ridge of the occipital bone. The action of the two muscles is to approximate the chin to the sternum; if one acts alone, it will turn the chin to the opposite side. This muscle is exposed by making an incision through the fascia, near its anterior border, from its origin to its insertipn, and dissecting the fascia off, so as to observe its connection with the deep layer.