376 OF THE ABDOMEN. ments from tlie splanclinic nerves and tlie riglit pneumogas- tric nerve. It gives off the hepatic^ the splenic, the gastric, the phrenic, the superior mesenteric, and the renal plexuses. Each one of these plexuses should be observed, when the artery which it accompanies is dissected. The Semilunar Ganglia are the largest in the body. They are situated one on each side of the solar plexus, be- hind and above the supra-renal capsule, and resting on the diaphragm and aorta. Although called semilunar, they are very irregular in shape, frequently consisting of several small masses connected by filaments. The great splanchnic nerves terminate in thera. They are joined to each other by the solar plexus. The coeliac artery has no corresponding vein. It divides into three large branches, the splenic, the gastric, and the hepatic. It is sometimes called the coeliac axis; and its three branches the tripod of Sailer. The Splenic Aetery, Fig. 155, i, runs along the upper border of the pancreas to the hilum of the spleen, where it divides into several branches to be distributed to that organ. It is much longer than the distance from its origin to the spleen, hence it is very tortuous, although nearly horizontal in its general direction. It furnishes branches to the pan- creas and stomach. The pancreatic branches are given off to the pancreas as it runs along the upper border of the gland. Near the left ex- tremity, one branch, larger than the others, penetrates the gland, and, joining the duct, accompanies it to the right. The left gastro-epiploic, Fig. 155, k, turns to the right, and runs some distance along the convex border of the stomach, where it anastomoses with the right gastro-epiploic artery. In its course it sends branches to both sides of the stomach and to the omentum majus. The vasa hrevia consist of several branches, which arise from the terminal divisions of the splenic artery. They go to the left extremity of the stomach, where they anastomose with branches of the gastric artery. The Splenic Vein, Fig. 157, 6, commences in the hilum of the spleen, by the union of branches which originate m the cells of that organ. It receives branches which corre-