312 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. the character of both the striated and non-striated muscles, and yet is different from either of them. It is exceedingly dense and compact, with scarcely any areolar tissue inter- vening between its fibres or fasciculi. The fibres are vari- ously arranged. Some of them have a parallel direction, while others interlace and intermix with each other. In function, the heart is closely allied to the non-striated or in- voluntary muscles. _ The Muscular Fibres op the Auricles, Fig. 136, are divided into the proper and common. The common have a transverse direction, and are, for the most part, superficial. They are attached to and extend between the fibrous zones of the auriculo-ventricular orifices. They form a very distinct layer on the anterior walls behind the aorta. Some fibres pass into the septum auriculorum. The -pwper fibres have not the same arrangement in the two auricles. In the left^ they are expanded over the parietes so as to form a smooth even surface. They consist of fasciculi, which have either a circular or oblique direction, and are attached to the fibrous ring of the opening into the ventricle. Fasciculi spread out between the orifices of the right and left pulmonary veins, and also pass between and around those of the same side. Some fibres surround the auriculo-ventricular open- ing ; others pass into the septum auriculorum, while others still mix with the common or superficial fibres. In the auricula, they form a network. In the right auricle, the fibres are arranged more distinctly in fasciculi, leaving between them interspaces in which the endocardium and pericardium are separated merely by areolar tissue ; they are also limited to a portion of the walls. The direction of the fibres varies, being either oblique or circular. They are attached to the fibrous zone of the auriculo-ventricular opening. In the auricula, they form a reticulated arrangement. The Muscular Fibres of the Yentricles, Fig. 136, like those of the auricles, are divided into the common a;nd proper. The common fibres consist of two portions, the superficial, and the'deep-seated or the reflected. The superficial fibres are situated on the outside of the proper, and become the deep- seated, or reflected fibres, after they have penetrated the cavities of the ventricles at their apices. If they be traced, they will