197 OF THE LARYNX. nected to the tongue by yellow elastic tissue, to the body of the OS hyoides by ligamentous fibres, and also to the thyroid cartilage just above the anterior insertion of the vocal chords. Between the two latter attachments is found a mass of cellulo- adipose tissue, of a yellowish color, and surrounded by areolar tissue ; it has been called the "epiglottic gland," but without any good reason, as it is destitute of all the elements of a true gland. On the posterior surface of the epiglottis are observed numerous small foramina, orifices of mucous follicles. It is of a yellowish color, and very flexible and elastic, being easily depressed so as to meet the glottis in the ascent of the larynx, by the passage of food from the fauces into the pharynx, immediately recovering its vertical posi- tion when the pressure is removed. It is never found ossi- fied, like the other cartilages of the larynx. The cuneiform bodies are two small masses, found in the aryteno-epiglottidean folds of the mucous membrane, a short distance above the appendices or cornicula. Sometimes they are very indistinct, and possess very little firmness. The ligaments connecting the cartilages of the larynx to each other, and to the hyoid bone, are the following:— The thyroid cartilage is connected to the os hyoides by a middle and two lateral ligaments. The MIDDLE THYEO-HYOID, Fig. 79 (4), is a broad, yelloAV ligament, extending from the centre of the upper border of the thyroid to the posterior part of the body of the os hy- oides. The LATERAL, Fig. 78 (4, 4), are round, fibrous cords, coQnecting the superior cornua of the thyroid to the extre- mities of the great cornua of the os hyoides. The spaces between these ligaments are occupied by dense areolar tissue. The ligamentous attachments of the epiglottis have been spoken of in connection with that body. The cricoid cartilage is joined to the thyroid by three liga- ments, two lateral, and one middle. _ The LATERAL LIGAMENTS, Fig. 78 (9,9), are regular capsular ligaments, containing, in each, a synovial sac. These articu- lations allow of a gliding and rotary movement. The middle CRico-THYROiD, Fig. 79 (10), is of the yellow elastic tissue, connecting the anterior part of the upper border of the cri- coid with the corresponding portion of the lower margin of the thyroid. It is perforated by one or more foramina, for 17*