SUPEIRFICIAL PARTS OP THE NECK. 161 parotid region, crossing in its coiirse the sterno-cleido-mas- toideus. It is generally found a slaort distance beliind the external jugular vein, and running nearly parallel to it. Its terminal branches were dissected in connection with the paro- tid and auricular regions. The SuPERFiciALis Colli, Fig. 63 (i 3), arises at the same place as the auricularis magnus, passes over the sterno-cleido- mastoideus, and, going transversely across it and beneath the external jugular vein, divides into ascending and descending branches. The former ascend to the submaxillary region; one or two filaments usually accompany the external jugular vein, and two or three filaments anastomose with the facial beneath the platysma. The latter ramify on the side of the neck, extending to the median line. The superficialis colli sometimes arises, by two trunks, from the cervical plexus. The filaments which accompany the external jugular may be wounded when this vein is opened. The Cervical Branch of the Facial, Fig. 63 (14), leaves the parotid gland near the angle of the lower jaw, beneath which it passes to the anterior and upper part of the neck to near the chin, where it divides into several branches. It runs beneath the platysma, to which it sends filaments. Two or three branches anastomose, as before stated, with the super^ ficialis colli, with which they form a plexus. The Supra-Clavicular and Acromial Nerves, Fig, 66 (le), arise from the cervical plexus, behind the sterno-cleido- mastoideus, and divide into anterior, middle, and posterior branches. The anterior pass downwards and forwards, over the sterno-cleido-mastoideus, to the anterior and lower part of the neck, and, over the inner part of the clavicle, to the thorax; the middle go directly downwards to the clavicle, which they pass over to reach the thorax; the posterior or acromial branches pass over the lower portion of the trapezius, and the acromion process and spine of the scapula, to the shoulder. These nerves are distributed to the platysma myoides and to the integument. _ The superficial fascia of the neck may be regarded as con- sistmg of the dense areolar tissue which is spread out beneath the skin, being continuous, above, with the superficial fascia of the face, and below with that of the thorax, and containing 14*