69 THE CEEEBELLUM. entering the cerebellum. The posterior pyrmxids are two bodies, one on each side of the lower part of the fissure. The superior surface of the pons Varolii forms a part of the floor just behind and below the tubercula quadrigemina. The fasciculi innominati, or corpora teretes, also pass up through the posterior part of the medulla oblongata, and in the floor of the fourth ventricle. In the lower part of the floor are observed white transverse fibres, called linecB trans- versce. The PORTio MOLLIS arises in part from some of these fibres. A thin layer of gray neurine covers the greater part of the walls of this cavity, and the whole is lined by a serous membrane, which is continued into the third ventricle through the aqueduct of Sylvius, but not into the subarachnoid space immediately below. The pia mater sends into the fourth ventricle two pro- longations called choroid plexuses. Before proceeding farther with the dissection, the reflection of the arachnoid from the cerebellum to the medulla oblongata should be noticed. Quite a space is left beneath it, occupied principally by areolar tissue. This is called the posterior subarachnoid space. It will be observed that the arachnoid adheres closely to the surface of the medulla oblongata, so that fluid cannot readily pass from the posterior subarachnoid space in the cranium, to the one in the spinal canal. It may be remarked here, that the subarachnoid spaces in the cranium communicate for the most part freely with each other. THE CEREBELLUM. The dissection of the cerebellum may now be commenced. Some of its parts have already been noticed in connection with the fourth ventricle. Its location and relations in the cranial cavity were seen at the time the encephalon was removed. It differs in form and external appearance very materially from the cerebrum. Its transverse diameter is greater than the antero-posterior, while its two hemispheres are connected above and below by elevations. Instead of con- volutions, its exterior surface presents numerous concentric lamella separated by sulci; these have, for the most part, a transverse direction, and are more numerous on the upper than on the lower surface. It is composed of white medul- lary substance internally, and gray matter externally. The