DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 50 It will be seen tlaat the temporal aponeurosis and muscle, by their strength and thickness, serve greatly to protect that portion of the parietes of the cranium which they cover, and which in this region are very thin. The vessels and nerves may now be dissected on the oppo- site side;' and for thia purpose, the integument should be raised in the same manner as for the dissection of the muscles and fasciae. The temporal and occipital. Fig. 1 (2 3, 2 o), are the principal arteries. Besides these, there are the terminal branches of the facial, the supra-orbital, and the posterior auricular. The nerves. Fig. 68, are derived from the fifth, the facial, and the cervical. To dissect the vessels and nerves, they should be traced from below upwards. Entering the frontal region from below will be found the terminal branch of the facial artery, and the supra-orbital, and near these the supra-orbital and frontal nerves. The Supra-OEBiTAL Artery and Nerve pass through the siipra-orbital foramen. The artery is distributed to the muscles and integument of this region. The nerve ascends beneath the orbicularis palpebrarum and occipito- frontal muscles, and some distance above the orbit divides into two cutaneous branches, which perforate the latter muscle, and ascend in long slender filaments to the top of the head. In its course it gives branches to the muscles beneath which it passes, and through which filaments are sent to the skin which covers the muscles. The terminal branch of the Facial Artery supplies the parts above the root of the nose. The Frontal Nerye is placed on the inner side of the supra-orbital, and has a similar course and distribution. Besides the supra-orbital, the Ophthalmic Artery usually sends one or more small branches to the forehead. The Temporal Artery passes upwards over the zygoma, and close to the ear. It is accompanied by the auriculo- temporal branch of the inferior maxillary division of the fifth pair of nerves.' It divides into an anterior and a poste- rior branch. Just above the zygoma it gives off the middle temporal branch, which perforates the temporal aponeurosis.