278 THE UPPER EXTREMITY. thumb. It opposes the thumb to the fingers, as in grasping anything in the palm. The Flexor Brevis Pollicis, Eig. 419 (4, 5), is the largest of the four short muscles of the thumb. It consists of two parts, separated by the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis. The anterior part is not unfrequently inseparably connected with the opponens, and the posterior with the adductor pollicis. The first arises from the annular ligament, trapezium, and scaphoides ; the second from the trapezoides, magnum, and base of the third metacarpal bone. The two parts unite and are inserted by two short tendons into the first phalanx. A sesamoid bone is commonly found in each of these tendons. As its name implies, it flexes the thumb. The Adductor Pollicis, Pig. 119(6), arises from the meta- carpal bone of the middle finger, nearly its whole length, and is inserted^ with the posterior part of the flexor brevis, into the flrst phalanx. It approximates the thumb to the forefinger. There are three short muscles in the palm which belong to the little finger. They form the hypothenar eminence. The Abductor Minimi Digiti, Pig. 119 (10), arises from the annular ligament and pisiform bone, and is inserted into the base of the first phalanx. It is the most superficial and internal of the short muscles of the little finger. It separates the little from the ring finger. The Plexor Brevis Minimi Digiti, Pig. 119 (11), arises from the annular ligament and unciform bone, and is inserted into the first phalanx. It is closely connected to the abductor. It flexes the little finger. The Adductor Minimi Digiti, Pig. 119 (11), aiises from the OS unciforme and annular ligament, and is inserted into the metacarpal bone of the little finger. It may be compared to the opponens pollicis. It lies behind the flexor brevis. It draws the little to the ring fiaiger. . -a a The annular ligament may now be exammed and divided, and the tendons of the long flexors with the lumbricales re- moved from the palm, so as to expose the deep palmar arch and the interosseous muscles. The Annular Ligament, Pig. 119 (1), is attached on the inner side to the pisiform bone, and the tendon of the flexor