DISSECTION OF ARTICULATIONS OF VERTEBRA. 529 tlie young. The uses of this substance in the spinal column will be readily understood when its structure has been pro- perly examined. While it assists in forming the parietes of the spinal canal, the intervertebral foramina, and the costo- vertebral articulations, and while it holds the bodies of the vertebrae securely in their proper place and diminishes the force of shocks transmitted to the brain, it allows a sufficient degree of mobility to every part of the column in which it is found, and, at the same time, prevents any undue motion taking place in it. The connection of the vertebras by their oblique processes is very diflerent from that which has been observed between the bodies. The oblique processes have articular facets, which are covered by a thin layer of cartilage and by synovial membrane, and articulate with those of the adjacent vertebrte. They are connected by imperfect capsular liga- ments^ which are rather longer in the neck than in the dorsal and lumbar regions. The LiGAMENTA SuB-FLAVA, Fig. 226 (i), are composed of yellow elastic fibres, arranged in dense, compact laminae, which oc- cupy the spaces between the arches or laminae of the vertebrae. The fibres are longer than the spaces between the arches, for they extend a short distance on the anterior surface, of the laminae. They form the parietes of the spinal canal be- tween the arches as far forwards as the roots of the transverse pro- cesses. They are thicker posteriorly than laterally, and more distinct in the lower than in the upper part of the column. They are not found in the space between the occiput and the atlas, or between the atlas and the axis. They are strong and elastic; they assist the muscles in keeping the column in an erect position and in restoring it to this position when it has been flexed. The SuPRA-spiNous Ligament, 45 Fig. 226. An Internal View op the Arches of three Vertebra.— To obtain this view the laminae have been divided through their pedicles. 1. One of the liga- menta subflava. 2. The capsu- lar ligament of one side. Fig. ■^'^^ ('? 0) connects.