THE LOWER EXTEEMITY. 494 sumed that the dissector has some knowledge of the muscles and vessels sit^iated beneath it, also of Poupart's ligament including Gimbernat's, and of the infundibuliform sheath of the vessels. It is divided into two parts, by the saphenous opening. The portion which is situated on the inner side of the opening is named the puhic or pectineal^ and, that placed on the outer side and above, the sartorial or iliac portion. Below the opening the fascia is continuous from one side of the thigh to the other. The pulic portion is usually quite thin, and lies directly on the adductor longus and pectineus muscles. It is attached, above, to the body, the spine, and the pectineal line of the pubic bone; externally, it dips down behind the infundibu- liform sheath, and of course behind the femoral vein and artery which the sheath incloses. The iliac portion lies on the sartorius, iliacus internus and psoas magmis muscles, and the infundilDuliform sheath with its inclosed vessels, and in front of the femoral ring. It is attached, above, to the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, and to the lower border of the whole of Poupart's ligament, including Gimbernat's, Internally, it forms the outer and "upper boundary of the saphenous opening. This border is curved with the concavity looking to the pubic side and somewhat downwards; the term crescentic has been applied to it. That portion of the fascia which lies in front of the vessels and the femoral ring is named the falciform process, while that portion of the process which is placed in front of _ the ring is called Key^s ligament. Hey's ligament, then, is under- stood to be, simply the small portion of the fascia lata which lies in front of the femoral ring and is attached to the border of Gimbernat's ligament, and, by a narrow point, to the pectineal line. It will now be seen that the infundibuliform sheath and the femoral vessels lie lehind the iliac and in front of the pubic portion of the fascia lata; and that the saphenous opening is formed by the division of the fascia lata into these two portions. The sajjhenous opening, Fig. 148 (20), is of an oval torm with the narrow extremity directed upwards. The loiver boundary is named the semilunar margin, and is formed by a