DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 128 the centre, with tlie cochlea in front and the semicircular canals behind. These osseous cavities contain within them inembranous sacs, which constitute the membranous laby- rinth. A fluid fills the sacs, and also the osseous cavities outside of the sacs. The Yestibulb, Fig. 41 (i 4), is placed between the fenestra ovalis on the external side, and the macula crihrosa at the bottom of the meatus auditorius internus on the inside. The distance between these two walls is about an eighth of an inch. Its antero-posterior diameter is about one-fifth of an inch. It presents in its circumference three enlargements, called cornua, a superior, an anterior inferior, and a posterior inferior. The semicircular canals open by three orifices into the posterior inferior cornu, and by two into the superior, while the vestibular scala opens into the anterior inferior cornu. Thus, it will be seen, that the parietes of the vestibule are perforated by six openings of considerable size. Besides these, there are also small foramina for the transmission of filaments of the auditory nerve, and the aqueduct of the ves- tibule opening into its posterior part. The vestibule presents two depressions, an inferior, called the fovea hemispherica, and a superior, called the fovea elliptica; these are separated by a crest named eminentia pyramidalis. The SemigiboulAk Canals, Fig. 41 (1 s), form each about three-fourths of a circle. They are not exactly round tubes, but compressed slightly on the sides. Two of them open into the vestibule by a common orifice. Dilatations occur at three of their orifices; they are called amimllce. These osseous canals are distinguished from each other by their direction and position. Thus, there is a superior vertical, posterior vertical, and a horizontal one. The superior vertical has its convexity upwards; its situation is indicated by a promi- nence on the petrous bone, which is very distinct in the foetus; its direction is transversely across the bone. The posterior vertical has a direction parallel to the axis of the petrous bone ; its convexity looks upwards and outwards. The hori- zontal canal is convex outwards. It is shorter than the other two. The common orifice is formed by the two vertical canals. The Cochlea, Fig. 41 (17), resembles in shape the shell of a snail. Its base is situated at the bottom of the meatus audi- torius internus, while its apex is directed forwards, outwards,