DISSECTION OF BACK OF THIGH AND THE HAM. 539 is named the superior puhic ligament Behind, there are fibres which connect the two bones together; they do not form, however, so thick a layer as the upper and anterior ones do; they constitute the posterior puhic ligament. Anteriorly, there is also the same arrangement of fibres, forming the anterior puhic ligament. Below, the fibres interlace, and extend down- wards on the rami of the pubes, and form the suh-puhic ligament, which is of a triangular shape. This ligament rounds off the angle formed by the rami of the pubic bones, and forms the summit of the pubic arch. The symphysis pubis is supposed by some to allow of a slight degree of mobility in parturition. If motion takes place at all, it must be so little as to produce scarcely any appreciable effect in increasing the diameters of the pelvis. The Obtueator Ligament or Membrane, Fig. 233 (i o), occupies the obturator foramen. It presents an opening called the suh-puhic foramen, Fig. 232 (12), in the upper part, corresponding to the sub-pubic groove in the horizontal ramus of the os pubis, for the transmission of the obturator nerve and vessels. Its surfaces are occupied by the origins of the obturator muscles. This fibrous membrane is a sub- stitute for osseous structure in the parietes of the pelvis, which are probably rather strengthened than weakened by it; it may also yield somewhat in parturition, and thus facili- tate the passage of the head of the child through the pelvis. Another advantage said to be derived from it, is that it is lighter than bone would be; the difference, however, between its weight and that of a thin lamella of bone could make no manifest difference. Fouparfs and Qimlernats ligaments, Fig. 220 (e, 7), are formed by the lower border of the tendon of the external oblique muscle, with the addition of some fibres which arise from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium; they are noticed in the dissection both of that muscle and of the femoral region. Sect. III.-—Dissection of the Back of the Thigh, and OF the Ham. The back part of the thigh and the popliteal space should be examined at the same time, commencing the dissection above, and extending it down as far as the back of the