64 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK. rior pillars, or crura, Fig. 12, cc, of tlie fornix, of which there is one on each side. It will be observed that the borders of the central part of the fornix are entirely free, resting upon the plexuses and the velum interpositum. The anterior part of the fornix divides into two crura, which pass downwards towards the base of the brain. These will be seen more distinctly when the third ventricle is fairly exposed. The velum interpositum may now be raised and reflected backwards, observing, at the same time, two veins, the vence Galeni, Fig. 8, e, occupying the centre of it. These veins col- lect the blood from the different bodies in the ventricles and convey it into the sinus rectus. In separating the pia mater from the substance of the brain, care should always be taken to divide with the scalpel or scissors any small vessels which are uot readily broken. In raising the posterior part of the velum, it should be borne in mind that it is closely connected to the pineal gland, and that this part of it, therefore, should be dissected, and uot torn away. With a little care, and by using the forceps and scissors, the student will be able to preserve this small body with its connections to the thalami and posterior commissure of the third veutricle. The Third Ventricle, Fig. 13, z to s, should now be exam- ined. It is located between the thalami nervorum opticorum and below the fornix and velum interpositum; the locus per- foratus medius, eminentias mammillares, and tuber cinereum, which are seen on the base of the brain, are placed imme- diately below it. It contains three commissures, an anterior, a middle, and a posterior. The middle one is not a true com- missure; it consists of gray substance, formed apparently by a mere adhesion of the two thalami. It is apt to be broken away in separating the bodies to expose the other parts in the ventricle. It is sometimes absent. In the ante- rior part ■ of the ventricle are seen, first, the anterior crura of the fornix, having a vertical direction; second, in front of, and between these, the anterior commissure, a small transverse cylindrical body connecting the corpora striata and the con- volutions of the middle lobes; and third, below this, and between the crura, the opening which leads into the infundib- ulum. In the posterior part are observed, first, the pediincles of the pineal gland, which extend forwards along the inner margins of the thalami, to which they adhere, to connect with the anterior crura of the fornix and the tsenia semi-