855 ANATOMY OF INGUINAL HERNIA. way between the anterior superior spinous process of tlie ilium and the symphysis pubis, and half an inch above Fou- mart's ligament. It is overlapped by the internal oblique, and :ience cannot be observed until this muscle is raised. To examine this opening, cut through the fascia transversalis a short distance above it, and separate the fascia from the peritoneum down to where the cord enters the ring, then by carrying the handle of the scalpel along the cord, the con- tinuation of the fascia over it, and through the canal, is ren- dered distinct; showing that, while there is no opening through the fascia from without, there is one from within through which the bowel can escape from the cavity of the abdomen. The internal ring then is an opening which leads into a pouch formed by the testicle carrying before it the fascia transversalis in its descent into the scrotum. Sometimes the internal ring presents a well defined margin on one side, or entirely around it. At other times, it is difficult to demon- strate, satisfactorily, the reflection of the transversalis fascia over the cord. When the cord is made tense, the fascia trans- versalis, as it is reflected from the internal ring, presents a funnel-shaped appearance, and hence the name of infundi- huliform fascia has been given to this part of it. The Epigastric Artery, Fig. 149 (i o), and Fig. 151 (i 3), with its accompanying veins, will be found by dividing the transversalis fascia on the inner side of the internal ring. It lies between the fascia and peritoneum, and crosses the canal nearly -at right angles. Its distance from the internal ring varies from one-fourth to one-half of an inch. When the internal surface of the inguinal portion of the parietes of the abdomen is examined, two pouches orfossce are observed corresponding to the two rings. These are formed by the remains of the hypogastric artery, which, in its course from the mternal iliac to the umbilicus, projects here into the cavity of the abdomen. The peritoneum is reflected over it. Sometimes the hypogastric artery is situated a short distance to the inner side of the epigastric, when an additional small pouch IS formed. These fossae cause a greater or less predis- position to rupture, according to their depth, by directing the bowel against either the internal or external ring. The student should now review the parts, the dissection of which he has j ust completed, with reference to hernia. There