THE UPPER EXTREMITY. Fig. 112. The Eadul Artery, Fig. 112 (12), although usually not so arge as the uluar, appears to bc a continuation of the brachial. It is covered in front merely by the integument and aponeurosis; hence it is superficial in its whole course. It has one muscle in relation with it on the outside, the supinator lon- giis; two on the inner side, the pro- nator radii teres, and flexor carpi radialis; and five behind it, and on which it lies. These are arranged in the following order, commencing above: the supinator brevis, pro- nator radii teres, flexor sublimis digitorum, flexor longus pollicis, and the pronator quadratus; below this last muscle the artery rests on the radius. Near its commencement it gives off quite a large branch, the radial recurrent^ Fig. 112 (13). This is distributed to the muscles on the outside of the elbow, and anasto- moses with the superior profunda. In its course down the arm it gives off numerous branches, which are not named. In the lower part of the arm it sends off the superficial volar branch, Fig. 112 (14), which either passes over the mass of muscle that forms the thenar of the The Arteries op the FoREARsr.—1. The lower part of the biceps muscle. 2. The inner condyle of the humerus, with the humeral origin of the pronator radii teres and flexor carpi radialis divided across. 3. The deep portion of the pronator radii teres. 4. The supinator longus muscle. 5. The flexor longus pollicis. 6. The pronator quadratus. 7. The flexor profundus digitorum. 8. The flexor carpi ulnaris. 9. The annular ligament, with the tendons passing beneath it into the palm of the hand; the figure is placed on the tendon of the palmaris longus mus- cle, divided close to its insertion. 10. The brachial artery. 11. The anastomotica inosculating superiorly with the inferior profunda, and inferiorly with the anterior ulnar recurrent. 12. Tho radial artery. 13. The radial recurrent artery inoscula- ting with the termination of the superior profunda. 14. Tho superficialis vola2. 15. The ulnar artery. 16. Its superficial palmar arch giving ofl'digital branches to three fingers and a half. 17. The magna pollicis, and radial artery. 18. Tho posterior ulnar recurrent. 19. The anterior interosseous artery. 20. Tho posterior interosseous, as it is passing through the interosseous lueuibrano.