316 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. SO that he may learn the position and relations of each part. His greatest difficulty will be to dissect out some parts, and preserve them, so as to see and learn their relations without destroying other parts. This difficulty may, however, to a considerable extent, be overcome, if he will carefully read a description of what he is to look for before he commences his dissection. The following are the things to be found and examined in this dissection: The remains of the thymus gland, the vena innominata, the vena transversa, the vena cava descendens, the vena azygos, and several smaller veins, as the superior intercostal, the thyroid, the mediastinal, and the bronchial; the aorta, the arteria innominata, the left common carotid, the left subclavian, the bronchial, and the oesophageal arteries; the pulmonary arteries and veins; the pneumogastric, the phrenic, and the sympathetic nerves; the trachea; the oeso- phagus ; the thoracic duct; and the bronchial glands. The Thymus Gland in the adult subject, exists only in the form of a small quantity of cellulo-adipose substance. In the old subject, very frequently, no trace of it is to be found. In the latter part of foetal life, and for some time after birth, it exists as quite a large body, reaching from a short distance below the thyroid gland nearly down to the diaphragm. It may become so large, especially in scrofulous children, as to cause death by pressing upon the trachea, or the oesophagus and other parts which are situated beneath it. The 2^hremc nerves should be sought and traced in the early stage of the dissection; this can be done without disturbing other parts. The right nerve enters the thorax between the subclavian vein and artery. As it descends it has on the outer side the vena innominata covered by the pleura, and on the inner side the vena cava descendens and the pericardium. It passes in front of the root of the lung. The left_ nerve de- scends at first between the pleura and the left carotid artery; it then passes in front of the left portion of the arch of the aorta and the root of the lung to get between the pleura and the pericardium. These nerves are accompanied by small branches of the internal mammary arteries. The following veins may next be examined :— The Vena Innominata, Fig. 139 (i i), is formed by the iunction of the right subclavian and internal jugular, be- hind the sternal end of the right clavicle; it passes down-