156 DISSECTION" OF THE NECK. serve the following prominent points in the median line, and the distances thej are apart: The chin, the hyoid bone, the thyroid and cricoid cartilages, and the sternnm. If the sub- ject be emaciated, he will also be able to feel distinctly the cartilaginous rings of the trachea. It is an excellent plan for the student to familiarize himself with all the prominent points in a region which can be seen or felt in the living body. If they be movable, then he should attentively ob- serve the changes effected by such movements in their rela- tions to each other and to the surrounding parts. A vertical incision is to be made along the median line, through the skin, from the symphysis of the chin to the upper border of the sternum; and, if the face and thorax have not already been dissected, two horizontal ones will be required; a superior one, extending from the commencement of the first, along the base of the inferior maxilla, to the mastoid process; and an inferior one, commencing at the termination of the first, and continued along the upper border of the clavicle, to the acromion process. In making these in- cisions, care should be taken to divide nothing but the skin. The skin is to be carefully dissected up and reflected back- wards, leaving the superficial fascia exposed. The platysma myoides is placed between two layers of this fascia. The outer layer is very thin in the lower part of the neck, but quite thick in the upper part, where it usually contains a consider- able quantity of adipose tissue. When the fat is very abund- ant, it forms what is called the double chin. There are no vessels of any importance in this layer, and the only nerves found in it are cutaneous branches derived from the cervical plexus. This layer may now be removed, and the platysma myoides exposed. To raise the fascia, the student should commence at the chin, and cut down cautiously until he perceives the muscle and observes the direction of its fibres. Having found the muscle, and made its fibres tense by placing the head m a proper position, there can be no difficulty in dissectmg ot£ the fascia and leaving the muscle clearly exposed. The strokes of the scalpel must be made, at first slowly and care- fully, in the direction of the fibres. If the student attempts to make a rapid dissection of this muscle, he will be very likely to remove more or less of it with the fascia.