DISSECTION OF THE SOLE OF THE FOOT. 585 cannot be raised except by detacliing it from the fibres of the muscle; hence it may be left to be raised with the muscle. The middle portion of the aponeurosis forms a common sheath for the flexor brevis digitorum, flexor longus digito- rum, flexor longus pollicis, musculus accessorius, the lumbri- cales, and the plantar vessels and nerves. Being attached to the posterior extremity of the tarsus, and anterior extremity of the metatarsus, it greatly strengthens the arch of the foot in an antero-posterior direction, and also in an opposite direc- tion by some transverse fibres found in the part immediately below the metatarsus. It not only contributes to the strength of the framework of the foot, and serves to keep the muscles, for which it forms a sheath, in siiu, but it protects the parts above it. The internal portion is thinner than the external, being so thin anteriorly that considerable care is requisite to preserve it when the integument is removed. Posteriorly, it is con- nected to the internal annular ligament, or the ligamentous arch that extends from the os calcis to the internal malleolus; internally, it is partly attached to the inner border of the tar- sus, and partijs continuous with the dorsal fascia; externally, it is joined to the middle portion, and assists in forming the internal intermuscular septum. It forms a sheath, in part, for the muscles of the great toe, and the plantar vessels and nerves. Besides protecting the parts beneath it, it strength- ens the inner part of the foot. The external portion arises behind, from the external annular ligament, or the ligamentous arch that extends from the ex- ternal malleolus to the oe calcis; it is attached to the outer border of the tarsus, -^here it is also continuous with the dor- sal fascia. It forms, by its attachment to the cuboid bone and the posterior extremity of the fifth metatarsal bone, a strong ligamentous arch over the tendon of the peroneus longus where it enters the sole of the foot; internally it is connected to the external intermuscular septum, and to the middle por- tion of the aponeurosis. It covers the abductor and flexor brevis minimi digiti muscles. Its uses are similar to those of the inner portion. Having now exposed and studied the plantar aponeurosis, it must be raised in order to examine the parts placed above it. From what has already been said in describing the plan- tar aponeurosis and the long flexor muscles, together with