SPINAL CANAL AND CONTENTS. loncrations, whicli contain the sacral nerves as they extend .onie distance in the canal before leaving it. Below it sends down a small fibrous cord, which is attached to the walls ot the lower part of the sacral canal. It is more fixed m the anterior than in the posterior part of the canal, by its attach- ments to the posterior common spinal ligament. The Aeachnoid lines the internal surface of the dura mater, and also invests the cord. It is exposed by slitting (^pen the dura mater in the median line, through its whole length. It is continuous with the arachnoid of the brain, to "which it is similar in structure and function. The visceral portion is connected to the parietal by tubular pro- longations around the roots of the nerves. It is separated from the pia mater by the subarachnoid space, which is occupied by cellulo-fibrous tissue and a fluid. The fibrous structure is most abundant in the niiddle line behind, where it forms an imperfect septum. If this space be punctured in a living animal, the subarachnoid fluid escapes in a jet, causing, for a time, stiipefaction of the animal. The principal use of this fluid is, probably, to protect the spinal marrow. A serous exhalation takes place from both surfaces of the arachnoid membrane, where it invests the cord. The PiA Mater surrounds and adheres closely to the spinal cord. It is continuous with that of the brain, from which, however, it differs in structure, being more dense and fibrous, and less vascular. It sends prolongations into the anterior and posterior fissures of the cord, and also along the roots of the nerves. It terminates below, after furnishing sheaths for the nerves, in a fibrous cord, which descends to the sacrum, where it is attached to the dura mater. The LiGAiviENTUM Denticulatum, Fig. 126 (i 9), is found on each side of the cord, and between the anterior and posterior roots of the nerves; it reaches from the occipital foramen to the first lumbar -vertebra. Its inner border is straight, and appears to be blended with the pia mater; while its outer border presents a series of tooth-like processes, which are attached to the dura mater in the spaces between the foramina which give exit to the nerves. In the upper part of the canal the spinal accessory nerve lies behind it. The serrated processes number twenty one or two. It separates the roots of the nerves and prevents lateral movement of the cord.