68 DISSECTION OP THE HEAD AND NECK. wards and from before backwards, and may be considered as curved laterally with the concavity looking towards the ventricle. The following parts enter into the formation of its roof:— In the w^j^^e?' and anterior part are the valve of the brain and the processus cerebelli ad testes. The valve is of a tri- angular shape, the apex being joined above by a narrow band to the testes, the base to the cerebellum, and the sides to the processus cerebelli ad testes. It consists of a thin white lamina, covered by a layer of gray substance. Its upper surface, especially near the base, presents several trans- verse ridges, resembling the lamellated arrangement of the cerebellum. The foukth pair of nerves arise from it and the processes on its sides. The Processus Cerebelli ad Testes are two bands of medullary fibres, one extending from the centre of each hemisphere of the cerebellum to the testes, and through them to the cerebrum. In the lower and posterior part of the roof there are, in the median line, two projections; the upper one is named the nodulus^ the lower one the uvula. These promi- nences are situated on the inferior vermiform process on the lower part of the median lobe of the cerebellum. On each side of the uvula, and united to it, is a small protuberance termed the tonsil. Extending from the floccuhis or pneumo- gastric lobe on the one side, to the nodulus in the centre, and thence across to the corresponding lobe of the opposite side, may be seen a thin, white, delicate membrane, composed of transverse fibres, and named the j)osterior medullary velum. It forms a commissural connection between the parts with which it is connected. It presents a free, concave border, which looks into the ventricle. The following points are observed in the floor of the fourth ventricle: A fissure is seen in the median line extending from the lower orifice of the aqueduct of Sylvius above, to a slight depression in the medulla oblongata called the vm- tricle of Arantius. The lower part of this fissure is named the calamus scrijotorius. The whole length of the fissure is about an inch and a half. The corpora restiformia commence at the ventricle of Arantius, and diverge as they pass up- wards and outwards to enter the cerebellum. In the upper part are the crura cerebelli, which are composed of the trans- verse medullary fibres of the pons Varolii, and are here seen