APPENDAGES OF THE EYE WITHIN THE ORBIT. 97 into which it is inserted like the other recti. It receives a branch from the motor oculi, which enters its ocular surface. Fig. 23. A View op the Muscles of the Eyeball, taken from the outer side op the Right Orbit. 1. A small fragment of the spheuoid bone around the entrance of the optic nerve into the orbit. 2. The optic nerve. 3. The globe of the eye. 4. The levator palpebrse muscle. 5. The superior oblique muscle. 6. Its cartilaginous pulley. 7. Its reflected tendon. 8. The inferior oblique muscle; a piece of its bony origin is broken off. 9. The superior rectus muscle. 10. The internal rectus, almost concealed by the optic nerve. 11. Part of the external rectus, showing its two heads. 12. The extremity of the external rectus at its insertion, the intermediate portion of the muscle haying been removed. 13. The inferior rectus muscle. 14. The scle- rotic coat. The internal and external recti may now be divided within a short distance of their insertion, and turned back with the nerves supplying them, thus bringing into view the inferior oblique, with the nerve distributed to it. The Inferior Oblique Muscle, Fig. 23 (s), arises from the inner and anterior part of the floor of the orbit, crosses the inferior rectus, between it and the periosteum, and continues in a direction obliquely outwards and upwards, between the external rectus and the eyeball, to be inserted into the sclerotica near the insertion of the superior obliqiie. The nerve to the inferior oblique is the largest branch of the motor oculi; it runs along the exterior border of the infe- rior rectus, and penetrates the muscle at right angles. . This branch of the motor oculi is connected by a filament to the lenticular ganglion. Besides the nerves already mentioned, a branch from the superior maxillary division of the fifth pair enters the orbit through the posterior part of the spheno-maxillary fissure, and divides into the malar and temporal branches. This nerve is situated in the lower and outer part of the orbit. The malar portion passes through the malar bone, and supplies,