239 DISSECTION" OF THE SHOULDEE. Fig. 99. its fibres converge to form a short, thick tendon, which is inserted into the deltoid ridge of the humerus. This muscle may be divided into anterior, middle, and posterior portions. It will be seen, from the origin and insertion of the deltoid, that it is of a triangular form, and covers all the outer part of the shoulder-joint. Its action is to raise the arm, and to keep the head of the humerus applied to the glenoid cavity. If the posterior fibres act alone, they will draw the arm upwards and back- wards, while the anterior fibres, acting alone, will draw it upwards and for- wards. Its origin corresponds to the insertion of the trapezius. This muscle should be raised by detaching it from its origin and re- flecting it downwards. In dissecting it up from the humerus, the anterior and posterior circumflex arteries and the circumflex nerve will be observed enter- ing its under surface. It will be seen that a blow over the deltoid might, by injuring the circumflex nerve, paralyze this muscle. There is also to be noticed a large hursa between it and the upper and outer part of the humerus. Its relations to the shoulder- joint and the parts around it are deserving of special atten- tion. It will be observed that its under surface is more tendinous than the outer, and that many of the muscular fas- ciculi terminate in a tendinous structure some distance from the point of insertion. The deltoid muscle is to be preserved, in order to replace it after the parts which are covered by it have been dissected. It is only in this way that its relations can be properly un- derstood. The Supea-Spinatus, Fig. 100 (2), occupies the supra-spi- nata fossa. It is covered by the trapezius, and by a thick, dense aponeurosis, named the supraspinous fascia. This fascia is attached to the margins of the fossa, and sends a process for- A View of the Deltoid Muscle.—1. Clavicle. 2, 3, 4. Origin of tbe deltoid from the clavicle, acromion, and spine of the scapula. 6. Body of the scapula. 6. Middle of the deltoid, showing the fasci- culated character of its fibres. 7. Its insertion. 8. Shaft of the OS humeri.