530 THE LOWER EXTREMITY. the ends of the spinous processes of the vertebrte, including the occipital bone above, and the sacrum below. Between the occiput and the seventh cervical vertebra it forms what is called the ligamenium nuchse. This is connected by slips to the spinous processes of all the cervical vertebrie except the first. It varies much in size. Situated in the median line, it is connected with the tendons of several muscles in this region, and can be distinguished from them only by the direction of its fibres. The same is true of the supra-spinous ligament below this, which is much larger and stronger in the lumbar region than in the dorsal. The Inter-spinous Ligaments extend between the spinous processes of the dorsal and lumbar vertebras. They are thin and membranous in the dorsal region, but quite thick and strong in the lumbar region. They are intimately connected with the tendons of the extensor muscles of the back. The Inter-transverse Ligaments are found only in the lower part of the dorsal region and in the lumbar region. Their use seems to be as much to give attachment to the muscles as to connect the bones. These, as well as the ob- lique, the supra-spinous, and the inter-spinous, are inelastic. The occipital bone is connected to the atlas by an anterior and a posterior ligament, and two on each side. The Anterior Occipito-atlantal Ligament, Fig. 227 (1,2), may be said to consist of two, a round or superficial, and a broad or deep-seated one. Both of them extend from the anterior border of the occipital foramen to the anterior arch of the atlas. The superficial consists of a thick, strong, round fasciculus, which forms quite an elevation in the me- dian line; it is inserted into the tubercle on the anterior arch of the atlas. The deep-seated is broader than, but not so thick, as the superficial. The Posterior Occipito-atlantal Ligament, Fig. 228 (3), connects the posterior margin of the occipital foramen to the posterior arch of the atlas. It is broad and thin. The vertebral arteries and sub-occipital nerves pass through it. The dura mater adheres closely to its inner surface. Each condyle of the occipital bone is joined to the cor- responding oblique process of the atlas by a Capsular Liga- ment, Fig. 228 (4,4.) This ligament is much thicker ex-