810 DISSECTION OF TB^E THOEAX. The cavities of the heart are lined by a serous membrane which is continuous with the lining membrane of all the vessels which communicate with these cavities. The different valves of the heart are formed, as has been seen, principally, by duplicatures of this membrane. It is not of equal thick- ness throughout its whole extent. It is called the endo- cardium. By contrasting the form of the ventricles, and the thick- ness of their walls, they will be found to be quite different. The right ventricle has a pyramidal form, with three well- marked sides; the inferior is flat, the anterior concave, and the left posterior, which corresponds to the septum ventricu- lorum, is convex. The left ventricle has a conical shape, and consequently presents no particular surface. The base of each ventricle slopes from before backwards, and from above downwards, making the anterior surface longer than the posterior. It should be observed that the left ventricle is partly received into the right. There is probably little or no difference in the size of the two ventricles, although the capacity of the left seems to be much less than that of the right in the dead subject. This is owing to the flaccid con- dition of the walls of the right, while those of the left are firm and contracted. Each ventricle will contain about three ounces of blood. The walls of the left ventricle are about three times as thick as those of the right. The thickness, however, varies in each at different points. In the right the thickness is the greatest at the base, while in the left it is greater in the middle than at the base or apex. The thickness of the sep- tum ventriculorum is about the same as that of the walls of the left ventricle, of which it seems rather to be a part, than of the right. The relative thickness of the walls of the ventricles corresponds to the force which each is required to exert in propelling the blood through the vessels. The relative position of the four great orifices at the base of the heart shovild be noticed. To do this the auricles should be detached just above the auriculo-ventricular open- ings, and the pulmonary artery and aorta just above their mouths. The openings between the auricles and ventricles, Fig. 135 (4, 7), will be found to occupy the posterior part and