186 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. presents two enlargements, one near its commencement, and the otlier just above its termination. It has no valves. The GtLosso-Pharyngeal Nehve, Fig. 67 (i 7), is a part of the eighth. It passes through the foramen lacerum pos- terius in a fibrous canal by itself. It descends, at first be- tween the internal jugular and internal carotid, then in front of the artery and behind the styloid process and its muscles; it now turns inwards, and passing in front of the stylo-pha- ryngeus, gets between it and the stylo-glossus; continuing this course, it passes beneath the hyo-glossus, and enters the base of the tongue, to terminate in the papillae of the mucous membrane. There are two ganglia or gangliform swellings on this nerve; a small one in the foramen lacerum, and a larger one, the petrous or ganglion of Andersch, a little lower down. Trom the ganglion of Andersch proceed branches to anasto- mose with the sympathetic, the facial, the pneumogastric, and the nerves in the middle ear. The glosso-pharyngeal ^ receives filaments from the spinal accessory, by which it be- comes partly a motor nerve in its distribution. Its muscu- lar branches are sent to the stylo-pharyngeus, stylo-hyoideus, digastricus, hyo-glossus, and superior and middle constrictor muscles. The last-named muscles obtain their filaments through the medium of the pharyngeal plexus. Its sym- pathetic filaments go to the carotid plexus, and thus connect with the superior cervical ganglion. The tympanic branch, or Jacobson's, enters a small foramen between the jugular foramen and foramen caroticum to go to the tympanum. This branch is noticed more particularly in connection with the ear. Its anastomotic branch to the facial winds round the styloid process, and joins that nerve just as it emerges from : the stylo-mastoid foramen. It also sends filaments to the | tonsils and palatine arches, forming the tonsillitic plexus. The Hypoglossal, or the ninth nerve, supplies the muscles of the tongue and larynx with voluntary motor fila- ments. It enters the neck through the anterior condyloid foramen; just below which it is connected by filaments with [ the loop formed by the first and second cervical nerves, j with the sympathetic by a small filament which comes from 1 the superior cervical ganglion, and also with the pneumo-