514 THE LOWER EXTREMITY. while those of the latter are directed generally frora behind torwards and downwards, those of the former are directed not only from behind downwards and forwards, but from above downwards, and also from before downwards and back- wards. Its lower border is placed in juxtaposition with the pyriformis muscle, from which some care will be requisite to separate it. Its under surface is penetrated by branches of the gluteal artery and nerves. This muscle should now be detached from its origin and turned downwards, when the gluteus minimus will be brought into view. The Gluteus Minimus, Fig. 219(8), arises from the dor- sum of the ilium between the middle and inferior semicircu- lar ridges._ Its fibres converge and unite in a short tendon, which is inserted into the anterior border of the trochanter major. The direction of its fibres is the same as that of the fibres of the gluteus medius. The capsular ligament of the hip-joint is placed immediately beneath this muscle. The action of the glutei muscles varies according as the pelvis or the femur is the fixed point, also according as the three muscles act together or separately. When standing on one leg these muscles hold the pelvis in siiu, and thus keep the body in the erect position; or they may incline it to their own side, or rotate it on the head of the femur. They are capable of rotating the limb inwards or outwards, also of abducting or extending it. They are concerned in walking. The gluteus maximus also renders tense the fascia lata. The following vessels and nerves should now be exa- mined :— The gluteal artery, Fig. 217 (i), is a branch of the internal iliac. It escapes from the pelvis through the upper part of the great sacro-sciatic foramen, and appears in the gluteal region between the pyriformis and gluteus minimus muscles. It divides into a superficial and deep branches. The super- ficial branch passes forwards, and divides into several branches between the glutei maximus and medius. These are dis- tributed principally to the upper part of the gluteus maximus and the integument of this region. The deep hranches ramify between the glutei medius and minimus, which muscles they supply. One or more of these pass upwards and for- wards to the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, where it anastomoses with the external circumflex artery, a branch of the arteria profunda, and also with the external