1 DISSECTION OF THE URETHRA. 425 arranged so as to form lobules. These are compressed closely- together, so that the gland has quite a dense, solid feel. It is traversed by muscular fibres, which come from the bladder. Its ducts, varying from ten to fifteen in number, open into the urethra on each side of the cajiut gallinaginis. Small calculi sometimes lodge in the mouths of these ducts. The Urethra. The Urethra is from seven to nine or ten inches in length, extending from the bladder to the end of the penis. It is composed of a mucous membrane, supported by a layer of areolar tissue, in which is observed longitudinal bands, sup- posed by some to be muscular, and by others fibrous. It is divided into three parts, each of which requires special notice, not only on account of its peculiar appearance, but on account of its relations to contiguous parts. The three divi- sions are named the prostatic, the membranous, and the spongy. In specifying the relative length of these divisions, the ure- thra will be- supposed to be nine inches long. The Prostatic Portion, Fig. 180 (14), is an inch and a quarter in length. It is shaped like a wine-cask, being larger in the middle than at the extremities. At the bottom of it in the median line is a prominence named the caput gallina- ginis^ or verumonianum, Pig. 180 (s). On the summit of this and near the middle, is the sirius pocularis, or utricle, which extends a short distance downwards and backwards in the direction of the common ejaculatory ducts which not unfre- quently open into it. On each side of the verumontamim is a depression, named the prostatic sinus, Fig. 180 (11). The ducts of the prostate gland open into these sinuses, except those of the middle lobe, which open just behind and above the verumontanum. This portion of the urethra is sur- rounded by the prostate gland, and by the muscular coat of the bladder, which is prolonged downwards immediately around the iirethra as well as into the substance of the gland. The Membranous Portion, Fig. 180(i 5), and Fig. 181 (10), is about three-fourths of an inch in length. It extends from the prostatic to the spongy portion. It passes through the tri- angular ligament, which fixes it firmly in its position. It is