OF THE ABDOMEN. 360 divides into cutaneous branches, which are distributed to tbe integument in the gluteal region. The hranclies from the lumbar plexus are the superior and middle musculo-cutaneous. The Superior Musculo-Cutaneous, or Ilio-Scrotal, Eig. 178 (3), arises from the upper part of the plexus, per- forates the psoas magnus, and runs over the quadratus lum- borum muscle to the crest of the ilium, where it gets between the transversalis and internal oblique muscles. It divides above the crest into an abdominal and pubic or an external and an internal branch. The abdominal branch has a course similar to the intercostal nerves. The pubic division passes above Poupart's ligament, and joins the spermatic cord in the inguinal canal, passes through the external ring, and is dis- tributed to the integument in the pubic region. Sometimes it gives off a cutaneous branch, which passes over the crest of the ilium, and is lost in the gluteal region. The Middle Musculo-Cutaneous, Fig. 178 (3), has nearly the same origin and course as the preceding. It generally anastomoses with the superior musculo-cutaneous at the upper portion of Poupart's. ligament. It will be observed that the course of the abdominal nerves is, for the most part, the same, while that of the arteries is quite different. The parietes of the abdomen are abundantly supplied with both nerves and vessels. Sect. II.—Dissection of the Cavity op the Abdomen. To open the cavity of the abdomen, make an incision from the xiphoid cartilage to the umbilicus and a little to one side of the linea alba, and another on each side from the umbilicus to the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium. This cavity is divided into nine regions. Pig. 152, to which two others are sometimes superadded. Although these divisions are arbitrary, they are still useful for the purpose of locating the different organs in the abdomen. _ They are found by making two transverse and two vertical hues. The transverse lines extend, the superior from the cartilage of the eighth rib on one side to the correspondmg rib on the opposite side, and the inferior from one anterior superior