DISSECTION OF CAVITY OF THE ABDOMEN. 365 The whole of the spleen, except the hilum, or fissure, throuo-h which the vessels enter it, is invested by the peri- toneum. It is reflected from the spleen along the splenic vessels to the left extremity of the stomach, where it becomes continuous with the lamina which passes over the anterior surface of that organ. This portion of it is designated the gastro-splenic omentum. Below the spleen, the peritoneum is continued down oyer the left extremity of the transverse colon and the descending colon, forming the descending meso-colon. From the meso- colon it is reflected on the left to the jDarietes, and on the right it is continuous with the anterior lamina of the omentum majus and the mesentery; lower down it is reflected over the. sioine, the aorta, the vena cava, the ureter and iliac vessels. It lies in front of the left Iddneij, from which it is usually sepa- rated by fat, areolar tissue, and partly by the colon. From the posterior border of the right lobe of the liver it is reflected downwards over the right hidney, the superior transverse portion of the duodenum, the right extremity of the transverse colon, the commencement of the inferior transverse portion of the duodenum, the ascending colon and ccecmn, form- ing the ascending meso-colon and the meso-ccecum. On the left, it joins the anterior lamina of the omentum majus and the mesentery; on the right, it joins the parietal portion. The C£ecum is sometimes almost wholly covered by peritoneum. The lamina of the ascending and of the descending meso- colon, above the sigmoid flexure, are separated some dis- tance apart, so as to leave the posterior aspects of these portions of the colon uncovered by peritoneum. Thus it is that the large intestine can be punctured without wound- ing the peritoneum. The laminae of the transverse meso- colon and of the sigmoid flexure in the left iliac region are applied to each, other so as to leave just space enough for the vessels and nerves to reach the parietes of the in- testine. The difference in the length of the meso-cola should be . observed. That of the transverse colon as well as that of the sigmoid flexure are usually several inches in length, al- lowing a considerable degree of mobility to those parts of the large intestine. In the pelvis, the peritoneum is reflected over the upper 31*