i24 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK. meatus. In the foetus it is attaclied to an osseous ring, which is distinct from the rest of the petrous bone. It contains some small vessels. The following points are to be noticed on the inner wall:— The fenestra ovalis, Fig. 41 (lo), is situated in the upper part, directly opposite the roof of the meatus. Its long diameter is inclined downwards and forwards. The upper border of it is arched, while the lower is nearly straight. It is occupied in the recent subject by the stapes and by a mem- brane. The fenestra rotunda is located in the posterior part of the inner wall, and lower down than the fenestra ovalis. It is situated at the bottom of quite a deep fossa. Between and below these two orifices is seen the promontory. Several small grooves are sometimes observed on the promontory for the lodgment of filaments of Jacobson's nerve; instead of grooves, they may exist in the form of canals in the bone. Just in front of, and a little below the anterior extremity of the fenestra ovalis, is the tympanic orifice of the canal for the tensor tympani rnuscle. The processus cochlearformis is a projection of the wall of this canal into the tympanum. The aqueduct of Fallopius forms a curved ridge just above the fenestra ovalis. Behind the fenestra ovalis, and near the posterior wall, is the pyramid^ with a small opening upon its apex which is occupied by the stapedius muscle. The canal for the transmission of Jacobson's branch of the glosso- pharyngeal nerve enters the tympanum at the lower part of the promontory. g,;,In the posterior part of the tympanum is a large opening which leads into the mastoid cells. These cells are lined by mucous membrane, and contain air during life. They are analogous to the frontal and sphenoidal sinuses. Below the mastoid opening is a small foramen, through which passes the chorda tympani nerve, after it leaves the portio dura. ^ There is nothing in the floor of the tympanum which deserves particular notice. It is quite thin, and is formed by a prolongation inwards of the floor of the meatus. It corresponds to the parotid fossa externally. In the anterior part of the tympanum is the fissure of Gflaserius, and the small foramen through which the chorda tympani makes its exit. There is also a small opening for the superficial petrosal branch of Jacobson from the otic ganglion. The tympanic orifice of the Eustachian tube, Fig!^41 (13), occupies the greater part of the anterior wall of