THE FACE. 35 the gland, and is deeper seated than the facial. The facial gives off the following small branches before it enters the gland :— The posterior auricular^ which sends filaments to the poste- rior and superior muscles of the ear, and to the posterior belly of the occipito-frontalis; the styloid, which is distributed to the stylo-hyoid muscle; and the digastric, which goes to the digastric muscle, and also anastomoses with the glosso-pha- ryngeal and pneumogastric nerves. The auricularis magnus penetrates the parotid, in which some of its filaments anasto- mose with the facial, while others pass through it to the cheek, and to the skin behind the ear. The external carotid artery enters the gland from below, and divides into the internal maxillary and temporal; it also gives off branches to the gland and to the integument and masseter in front. The veins in the gland correspond to the arteries. The gland may now be entirely removed, preserving the branches of the facial nerve so that they may be traced to their destination, and its relations to the deeper seated parts observed. It will be found to fill up several irregularities, and to be in relation with the temporo-maxillary articulation, the glenoid cavity behind the glaserian fissure, the ramus of the inferior maxilla, the styloid and mastoid processes of the temporal bone, the internal pterygoid and stylo-glossus mus- cles. The internal carotid artery generally occupies a sulcus on its internal surface. The removal of this gland is ren- dered difficult from its deep-seated projections. It can be torn out from the depressions which it occupies, when it could not well be dissected out. The masseter muscle will be described in connection with the spheno-maxiUary region; and the vessels and nerves behind the parotid with the deep-seated parts of the neck. The Buccal, Mental, Labial, and Nasal Eegiojsts may now be dissected and examined together. The principal constituents of these regions are the Muscles, Arteries, and Nerves. The Muscles are mostly subcutaneous, and belong to the nose and mouth. The principal Artery is the facial, with its branches. Besides this, small branches are furnished by the temporal, internal maxillary, and ophthalmic. The facial vein is situated on the outside of the facial artery, with which it corresponds in its direction and branches. The nerves are derived from the fifth, and facial or portio dura,