THE LOWER EXTREMITY. of the semi-tendinosus. 14. The femoral artery. 15. The external circumflex the thigh. It is supposed that the parts m the inguinal region have al- ready been dissected, so that no new incisions will be required above Pou- part's ligament. _ Having exposed the superficial fas- cia, the student should now look for the subcutaneous vessels, nerves, and lymphatic glands in this region. The arteries are the arteria ad cutem abdominis, the external circumflex ilii, the superficial external pudic, and the inguinal branches. They all arise a short distance below Poupart's liga- ment ; sometimes two or three of them arise by a common trunk. The arteria ad cutem aldominisj or superficial epigastric, Fig. 206 (2), passes upwards and inwards over Pou- part's ligament, in the direction of the umbilicus. It is distributed to the integument. The superior external pudic, Fig. 206 (le), goes inwards to supply the in- tegument on the pubes, the penis, and the scrotum. The external circumflex ilii, Fig. 206 (15), passes outwards towards the an- terior superior spinous process of the A View of the Anterior and Inner Aspect op the Thigh, showing the Course and Branches op the Femoral Artery.—1. The lower part of the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle; its inferior margin is Poupart's liga- ment. 2. The external uhdominal ring. 3, 3. The upper and lower parts of the sartorius muscle; its middle portion having been removed. 4. The rectus. 5. The vastus interuus. C. The patella. 7. The iliaeus and psoas; the latter being nearest the artery. 8. The peotineus. 9. The adductor longus. 10. The tendi- nous canal for the femoral artery formed by the adductor magnus and vastus in- ternus muscles. 11. The adductor magnus. 12. The gracilis. - 13, The tendon ilii artery taking its course along the line of Poupart's ligament, to the crest of the ilium. 2. The superficial epigastric artery. 16. The two external pudic arteries, superior and inferior. 17. The profunda artery giving off 18, its external circumflex branch; and lower down the three perfbrantes. A small portion of the internal cir- cumflex artery (8) is seen behind the inner margin of the femoral, just below the deep external pudic artery. 19. The anastomolica magna, descending to the knee, upon which it ramifies (6). Fig. 206.