422 OF THE PELVIS. Its parietes are composed of a serous, a muscular, a cellu- lar, and a mucous layer. The Serous Layer is found only on the upper, posterior and lateral portions. The anterior surface has no serous in- vestment, nor have the sides anteriorly; and the same is true of the lower part posteriorly, especially when the bladder is distended. The serous layer is loosely connected to the one beneath it by areolar tissue. The Muscular Layer, Fig. 186, consists of three sets of fibres or fasciculi, a longitudinal, a circular, and a reticu- lar. To examine the muscular structure of the bladder, it should be distended with air or some suitable material, as hair or tow. The longitudinal fibres are placed on the outside. They are spread out over the entire organ, and terminate below at the neck of the bladder; some of them are inserted into the cervix, others enter the substance of the prostate gland, and a few are attached to the anterior ligament of the bladder and through it to the pubic bone. The circular fibres are thinly scattered over the body of the bladder, but increase in number towards the cervix, where they form what has been regarded by some as the sphincter vesicae. The reticular fibres are very irregular in their distribution. They cross each other in different directions, and give to the interior of the bladder a reticulated appearance. Sometimes these fasciculi become so large that quite deep crevices are found between them, into which the mucous membrane is reflected, forming pouches in which calculi are sometimes lodged. When these pouches exist, the bladder is said to be sacculated. The Cellular Layer is placed between the muscular and mucous, and requires no particular description. To examine the Mucous Layer, Fig. 180, and the in- ternal appearance of the bladder, it should be laid open along the median line in front. The mucous membrane is thin, soft, and of a pale color, and presents numerous folds, most of which are transverse. These rug«, however, disappear when the bladder is filled. Mucous follicles may be seen, especially in the neighborhood of the cervix. The orifices of the ureters and of the urethra, with the triangular space