393 THE SMALL INTESTINE. This layer can he very-satisfactorily demonstrated by evert- ing a portion of the intestine and then forcibly distending it with air. The preparation should be dried, and the inncons membrane afterwards removed. The Mucous Membeane of the small intestine should be carefully observed by the student. He should become per- fectly familiar with the appearance of it as seen in the dis- secting room, where he will have an opportunity of examining it in a healthy as well as in a diseased condition. The follow- ing should be particularly noticed: The valvulte conniventes, the common orifice of the pancreatic and biliary ducts, the villi, the glands of Lieberkiihn, Brunner, Peyer, and the glandulce solitariee. The Yalvulje Conniventes, Eig. 162 (i 5), are perma- nent, crescentic folds of the mucous membrane, extending from one-half to two-thirds around the circumference of the intestine. They are most prominent in the lower part of the duodenum and in the jejunum, while in the upper part of the duodenum and in the lower part of the ileum they are usu- ally absent. They increase the extent of mucous surface, and also serve to retard the passage of the food through, the in- testine. The Orifice of the ductus clioJedochus communis^ and the 2)ancreaiic duct, Fig. 162 (13), is situated on the summit of a small eminence at the lower part of the descending portion of the duodenum, and about three inches and a half from the pylorus. It is readily observed when the duodenum is everted, or when a probe is carried through the biliary duct. These ducts sometimes open into the intestine separately. The biliary duct is slightly constricted near its orifice. After perforating the muscular coat, the two ducts run half an incb or more between it and the mucous membrane, before open- ing into the duodenum. When the intestine is inflated, air will not pass into these ducts on account of the mucous mem- brane being pressed against the muscular layer. The Yilli, Fig. 165, are small vascular eminences, which are found on the mucous surface of the whole of the small intestine. They vary from one-fifth to four-fifths of a line in length. They are most numerous in the duodenum and jeju- num where the valvulje conniventes are most prominent.