391 THE STOMACH. ance, and where tlie mucous membrane of tlie assophagais joins that of the stomach, its epithelium exhibits a fringed or festooned border, Fig. 162 (2). There is no circuLar fold or sphincter muscle at this orifice as there is at the 'pyloric^ where the mucous membrane projects inwards from the circumfer- ence of the opening between the stomach and the duodenum, so as to form a partial septum between the cavities of these organs. "With the aid of the circular fibres contained be- tween the laminae of this fold, it is capable of closing the orifice which it surrounds. If the stomach and duodenum be inflated and dried, a good view of this fold, with the cir- cular aperture in its centre, may be obtained. The laminae of which it is composed resemble, in their organization, the one the gastric, the other the duodenal mucous membrane. The color of the mucous membrane of the stomach varies in health as well as in disease. In the very young, it has a bright reddish tint, while in the aged it usually presents a dark-grayish appearance. It is found of a brighter red if death has occurred when it was full and during the process of digestion than if when empty and free from vascular ex- citement. Its color is also frequently modified by the pre- sence of bile, or by the action of the gastric juices. The mucous membrane has not the same thickness and vascularity in every part of the stomach; being thicker towards the pyloric, and more vascular towards the cardiac orifice. There seems to be, also, sorne difference in susceptibility to disease in its right and left portions. Papill(B may be observed with the aid of a lens on the mucous surface in all parts of the stomach. They are more numerous, however, in the pyloric than in the cardiac extremity. They are sepa- rated from each other by cells, or alveoli, in which may be seen the mouths of small tubes. These tubes are lined by a columnar epithelium. They are sup- posed to secrete the gastric juices. The vessels and nerves of the stomach were examined before it was removed from the abdomen Fig. 163. View op the Cells OP THE Mucous Mem- BUANE OF THE fluMAN Stomach, magnified 32 diameters.—After Dr.SprottBoyd. The hexagonal cells with their interineiliate ele- vated margins, and the mouths of the tubuli at the bottom of each, are shown.