DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK. The MIDDLE TUEBiNATED BONE, Fig. 50 (c), is a part of the ethmoid; and is not half as large as the inferior. This is situated m the lower part of the upper half of the nasal fossa; its free border is separated from the inferior about two lines. The middle meatus is the space below and on the outside of it. The antrum Highmori, the anterior cells of the ethmoid and the frontal sinus open into this meatus. The frontal sinus is nearly half an inch above and in front of its anterior ex- tremity, and the opening between them is called the infundih- ulum. The SUPERIOR TURBINATED BONE, Fig. 50 (s), is about half an inch in length; it is separated from the posterior part of the middle turbinated bone by the superior meatus^ which is a small sulcus, forming a sort of common opening to the pos- terior cells of the ethmoid. The spheno-palatine foramen is situated just behind this meatus, and the opening from the sphenoidal sinus just behind and above it. Thus it mil be seen that the frontal and sphenoidal sinuses, the antrum of the maxilla, the cells of the ethmoid bone and the nasal duct all communicate with the nasal fossa. ' A very small portion of the lachrymal bone is seen in the anterior extremity of the middle meatus. This should be noticed, as showing, the relation of the lachrymal sac to the nasal fossa. The vertical lamella of the palatine bone forms a portion of the outer wall posteriorly. The ROOF of each of the nasal fosste is arched in its antero- posterior direction. It is formed, proceeding from before backwards, by the nasal bones, the floor of the frontal sinus, the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, and the anterior wall of the sphenoidal sinus. The central or horizontal portion is perforated for the olfactory nerve and the internal nasal branch of the ophthalmic; the anterior sloping portion has a groove for the nasal branch just mentioned; the posterior portion, which is nearly vertical, contains the opening from the sphe- noidal sinus. The form of the roof may be modified some- what, according to the development of the frontal and sphe- noidal sinuses. The FLOOR of each fossa is nearly horizontal in the antero- posterior direction, and concave transversely; it is narrowest at its anterior extremity. The central part is formed by the horizontal plate or palatine process of the superior maxilla; anteriorly, by the bony substance just above the alveolar pro-