110 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK. Fig. 31. layer of the cornea. This is thicker in front than behind. Its inner surface does not adhere to the lens, which escapes readily when the capsule is divided. Behind, it is connected to the hyaloid membrane by delicate areolar tissue. When it is punctured some time after death, a fluid escapes; this does not probably exist previous to death; it is called the liquor Morgagni. The lens increases in density from the exterior surface towards the centre, which is called the nucleus. Its transverse diameter is about four lines; its antero-posterior about two; its weight is between three and four grains. When boiled in water, or immersed in dilute acid, it separates into concentric lam,ell8e, and also by slight pressure into three triangular segments. Fig. 31, the bases of which correspond to its circumfer- ence. Its minute structure is not well understood. It consists chemi- cally of water, albumen, salts, and an extractive matter. The aqueous humor is contained in the anterior and posterior chambers of the eye. Its weight is about five grains. Its composition is the same as that of the vitreous humor. Both surfaces of the iris are bathed by it. Lens hardened in spikit and partially divided along the three interior planes, as well as into Lamella.—Magnified 3i di- ameters. Sect. VIII.—Spheno-maxillart Eegion. Before commencing the study of this region, that portion of the cranium which is involved in its dissection should be carefully examined. The following are the, parts which re- quire special attention: The ramus of the inferior maxilla with its coronoid and condyloid processes, and the posterior dental foramen; the spheno-maxillary fissure and infra-orbital canal; the pterygo-maxillary fossa, or the space between the pterygoid process of the sphenoid and tuberosity of the supe- rior maxilla, together with the vidian, palatine, spheno- palatine, and round foramina, which open into it; also foramina ovale and spinosum, which are situated behmd base of the pterygoid process.