558 THE LOWER EXTREMITY. seems to be a part, to end about tbree inches beloAv its origin, in_ a small tendon which disappears beneath the gastrocne- mius, to appear again on the inner side of the tendo-Achillis, which it accompanies to the os calcis, into which it is inserted, either on the inner side of; or anterior to that tendon. The upper part of the tendon is placed between the gastrocne- mius and soleus, having, with the muscular part, a direction somewhat oblique from above downwards, and from with- out inwards. This muscle is sometimes wanting, or its ten- don may terminate in condensed areolar tissue before it reaches the heel. ■ The Soleus, Fig. 236 (5, 5), is placed beneath the gastroc- nemius, which must be partly or wholly raised to expose it. This may be done by detaching both heads at their origin; or by cutting across the muscle just below the junction of its two heads; or by simply detaching the internal head, separating the muscle from the parts beneath it, and then turning it outwards. It is immaterial which plan is adopted, provided the different muscles are preserved so that they can be replaced after the dissection has been completed, for the purpose of studying their relations to each other, and more particularly to the vessels and nerves in this region. The soleus has three origins. The first is by a strong tendon from the posterior part of the head of the fibula, and from the outer border and the posterior surface of the upper two thirds of its body; the second is from an oblique line, called the liuea poplitei, on the posterior surface of the upper part of the tibia, and from the middle third of the inner angle of the same bone; the third one is from a tendinous arch extending from the head of the fibula to the commence- ment of the linea poplitei. It is beneath this arch that the vessels and nerves pass from the popliteal space to the back of the leg, to get between the superficial and deep-seated layers of muscles, and by which they are protected from pressure by the action of the muscles between which they are placed. The fibres arising in the manner above men- tioned pass downwards, some of them more or less obhquely, to be inserted into the anterior surface of a tendinous expan- sion, which spreads out to form a considerable portion of the posterior surface of the muscle. This tendon, like the lovver one of the gastrocnemius, diminishes in breadth, but in-