ANATOMY OP INGUINAL HEKNIA, the broad muscles, and also, wlien it contracts, prevent ita bulcring so much as it would if its fibres extended the whole length of the muscle; they may, perhaps, augment somewhat its power to act. The Pyeamidalis, Fig. 146 (17), arises from the upper surface of the body of the pubic bone, anterior to the rectus. It passes upwards, and is inserted into the linea alba two or three inches above the symphysis pubis. It is of a trian- gular shape, and usually placed in a sheath, formed by a splitting of the conjoined tendon of the internal oblique and transversalis. It is sometimes absent. The pyramidalis acts on the linea alba in a vertical direction. Anatomy of Inguinal Hernia. The anatomy of the inguinal region may now be examined with reference to hernia. Most of the parts contained in it have already been noticed, without, however, any particular regard to their relations to protrusion of the bowel. They will now be described as they appear in the process of dis- section. The Inguinal Kegion is the triangular space bounded above by a line extending from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium to the linea alba, below by Poupart's ligament and the upper border of the body of the pubio bone, and internally by the linea alba. Dissect the skin from the superficial fascia, and reflect it downwards. This dissection should be carried to a short distance below Poupart's ligament and down to the dorsum of the penis. The superficial fascia contains the arteria ad cutem abdominis^ and one or tivo small branches from the superior external pudic; also three or four lymphatic glands^ which are usually imbedded in it along Poupart's ligament. Near the linea alba, the fibres which descend in the fascia to form the suspensory ligament of the penis, Fig. 148 (2), should be observed. The adipose-layer is placed next to the skin, Fig. 148 (], 1), and presents an uneven areolar appearance. There is generally considerable fat in this region, espe- cially towards the pubis. The membranous layer lies next to the tendon of the external obliq ue. Its under surface has 30