VESSELS AND NEEVBS OF ABDOMINAL VISCERA. 383 The Superior Mesenteric Plexus, Fig. 142 (le), pro- ceeds from tlie lower part of the solar plexus. The nervous cords in it are large and numerous, forming a sheath for the trunk of the artery. It divides into secondary plexuses, cor- responding to the divisions of the mesenteric artery. In the mesentery, the filaments are long, slender, and straight. Some of them unite to form arches just before they penetrate be- tween the coats of the intestine. This is .the largest plexus in the body. The Inferior Mesenteric Artery, Fig. 155 (n), and 158 (9), arises from the aorta, from one to two inches above its bifurcation into the common iliacs. It passes downwards along the aorta, and across the left common iliac, to enter the pelvis. It is much smaller than the superior mesenteric. It supplies the left portion of the transverse colon, the descend- ing colon, the sigmoid flexure, and the upper part of the rectum. In its course it sends off the following branches:— The left colic artery, Fig. 158 (10), passes over the left kidney, between the layers of the meso-colon, to the de- scending colon. It divides into an ascending and descend- ing branch. The former anastomoses with the middle colic branch of the superior mesenteric, thus establishing a free anastomotic connection between the two mesenteric arteries ; the latter joins the sigmoid artery below. The sigmoid arteries, Fig. 158 (12), proceed transversely to the sigmoid flexure, and divide into branches to anasto- mose above with the left colic, and below with the superior hemorrhoidal. The superior hemorrhoidal artery, Fig. 158 (is), passes to the upper part of the rectum, between the lamina of the meso-rectum. Its branches anastomose with the sigmoid above, and the middle hemorrhoidal below. The Inferior Mesenteric Vein, Fig. 153, d, is formed by branches which correspond to those of the inferior mesenteric artery. A free anastomosis exists between the superior and middle hemorrhoidal veins. It passes upwards to empty into the splenic vein behind the pancreas. Sometimes it opens into the superior mesenteric vein. The Inferior Mesenteric Plexus, Fig. 142 (is), is de-