THE EYEBALL. 107 processes around the margin of tlie lens. The view now ob- tained of the ciliary processes from behind, in connection with the one from the posterior chamber, will afford a very- accurate idea of their exact position in the eye. They form a sort of septum between the anterior border of the retina and the posterior chamber, while they establish a connection between the lens and the sclerotic coat through the ciliary liga- ment on the one hand, and the hyaloid processes on the other. The CiLiAEY Processes, Fig. 27 (4), from sixty to seventy in number, are an interesting portion of the mechanism of the eye. The student will do well to study them faithfully; they are, as he will sgg, dirootlj- Fig. 27. connected with, or related to, nearly all the other parts of this organ. Externally, they are in relation with the ciliary ligament, the choroid coat and iris; internally, with the hy- aloid processes; anteriorly, with the posterior chamber; and posteriorly, with the re- tina. They are regarded by some as being composed of muscular tissue^ and capable of acting on the lens through their connection with the hva- i„--1 „ T • J-H^ Anterior Segment of a lOld processes, in this case, Transverse Section of the Globe their fixed attachment would '^^e Eye, seen prom within.—1. be to thp oilinrv li"craTnpn+ onrl ^'"^ divided edge of the three coats— ue to Xne_ciliary ligament, ana the sclerotic, choroid, and retina. 2. through it to the sclerotica. The pupil. 3. The iris; the surface „i -r, _,. presented to view in this section being The KETINA, Fig. 25 (s), is the uvea. 4. The ciliary processes. 5. composed of three layers : the '^^^ 'I'^terior border of the retina. membrana Jacobi, the nervous, and the vascular layer. The membrana Jacohi is considered by some a serous membrane. It is more intimately connected with the retina than with the choroid coat. It seems to consist of cylin- drical cells, varying in length, and arranged vertically or obliquely to the surface of the membrane. To expose it the choroid should be removed from behind. The nervous layer consists of a soft pulpy substance, re- garded by some as an expansion of the neurine contained