OF THE MEMBEANES OF THE BEAIN. 53 The Dura Mater is a fibro-serous membrane. It adheres to the inner surface of the osseous walls of the cranium. It is of a dense fibrous structure. Its fibres run in different directions, thus imparting to it great strength. In some places it separates into two layers, as in the formation of sinuses for the transmission of venous blood. The firmness of its attachment at different points to the cranium, prevents any general displacement of it taking place. Its external surface is rough, while its internal surface is smooth, and presents the appearance of serous membranes generally. Its uses are the following :— 1, It performs the office of an internalj periosteum to the bones of the cranium. 2. It furnishes processes to separate and support different parts of the encephalon. 3. It sup- plies canals or sinuses for conveying venous blood. 4. It provides the nerves with fibrous sheaths as they pass through the foramina in the base of the cranium. 5. It affords a general protection to the brain, especially in early life, before the bones of the cranium are yet completely ossified. Its intimate connection with the external periosteum will be noticed at another time. The Arachnoid Tunic is a serous membrane, and, like other serous membranes, forms a shut sac; the reflected portion of it, however, is described as a part of the dura mater. This membrane, the visceral portion, surrounds every part of the encephalon. It adheres quite closely to the pia mater, especially immediately over the convolutions, except at particular parts on the under surface of the brain. It is connected to the reflected portion by an arrangement consisting of tubes which allows the vessels and nerves to ^ass to and from the brain without interrupting its continuity. The ends of each one of these tubes are continuous, the one with the reflected portion, and the other with the visceral portion. The Pia Mater is a vascular membrane. It invests every part of the exterior of the encephalon, dips in between the convolutions, and also lines the ventricles. It is intimately connected with the substance of the brain by vessels and prolongations of areolar tissue. With these general remarks on the meninges of the brain, the student will be prepared to commence the examination 5*