DISSECTION OF THE VESSELS AND NERVES. 451 together; they will be referred to again in the dissection of the sympathetic nerve in the pelvis. Although a knowledge of these nerves possesses but little value as applied to surgical operations, its value cannot be estimated when viewed in connection with injuries and dis- eases in which the pelvic organs, either in the male or female, are directly or indirectly involved. The following are the muscular nerves derived from the sacral plexus or nerves and distributed principally to the muscles in the pelvis and perineum. The nerve to the pyriformis, generally, comes from the pos- terior aspect of the plexus, but sometimes it proceeds from one of the sacral nerves before it enters the plexus; some- times there are two of these small nerves, or one which di- vides it into two branches before penetrating the muscle. The nerves to the levator ani are usually two branches of the fourth sacral nerve. Besides these, this muscle commonly receives two or three filaments from the vesical and hemor- rhoidal nerves. The first of these nerves, or those from the fourth sacral nerve, penetrate the pelvic surface of the mus- cle, the largest one near its centre and the other near its anterior border. The nerve to the obturator internus proceeds from the upper and anterior portion of the sacral plexus, passes around the spine of the ischium and through the small sacro-sciatic fora- men, when it divides into two or three branches which spread out and penetrate the inner surface of the muscle. The inferior hemorrhoidal nerve arises from the posterior part of the sacral plexus near the internal pudic, or from the internal pudic itself, which it accompanies through the small sacro-sciatic foramen to near the upper border of the sphincter ani muscle, where it divides into several small branches. Some of these penetrate the muscle at different points, while others proceed to the integument around the anus; others still pass forwards and anastomose with the superficial perineal nerve and the perineal branch of the lesser sciatic nerve. The inferior hemorrhoidal nerve corre- sponds in its distribution with the artery of the same name. The sphincter ani is also supplied in part by filaments which proceed to it directly from the fourth and fifth sacral nerves; and also from the internal pudic. And again, the inferior