'OF THE ABDOMEN. 378 The Splenic Plexus is derived from the coeliac or solar plexus.. It accompanies the splenic artery, upon which its filaments may be readily traced. It gives off filaments to the pancreas and to the left extremity of the stomach. The latter form the left gastro-epiphic plexus, which accompanies the artery of the same name. The plexus terminates in the substance of the spleen. The Gasteic or Superior Coronary Artery, Fig. 155, c, passes between the laminae of the gastro-hepatic omentum to the cardiac orifice of the stomach, it then turns to the right and runs along its upper or concave border to near the pylo- rus, where it anastomoses with the superior pyloric, a branch of the hepatic. It gives off' branches to both sides of the stomach and to the lower part of the oesophagus. The superior coronary vein commences at the lower part of the oesophagus and left extremity of the stomach, and ac- companies the coronary artery along the upper border of the stomach to the pylorus, where it empties into the vena portse. It receives in its course branches from both sides of the stomach. The coronary plexus is formed by filaments derived from the upper part of the solar plexus, but chiefly from the pneumogastric on the right side. Its filaments are distri- buted to the stomach along with the branches of the coronary artery. The Hepatic Artery, Fig. 155, d, goes transversely to the pylorus, and then enters the capsule of Glisson in the right border of the gastro-hepatic omentum, and passes up- wards to the transverse fissure of the liver. It is smaller than the splenic, but larger than the gastric artery. It gives off the following branches :— The superior pyloric, Fig. 155, e, arises near the pylorus, runs a short distance on the upper border of the stomach, and anastomoses with the superior coronary artery; it sends twigs to the sides of the stomach. The gastro-duodenal. Fig. 155,/, passes downwards be- hind the duodenum near the pylorus, and divides into the pancreatico-duodenal and the right gastro-epiploic. Before it divides, it gives off the inferior pyloric branches to the pylorus. T, j J? +1 The pancreatico-duodenal is distributed to the head ot tlie