341 PAKIETES OF THE ABDOMEN. parts of the abdomen it is thin, and requires no special notice. Over the linea alba it is thicker and more compact Around the umbUicus it is dense, and seems to be blended with the tendon underneath. At the lower part of the Imea alba it usually contains fibrous fasciculi, which go down to the dorsum of the penis; they constitute the suspensory ligament ot that organ. It is proloDged round the spermatic cord into the scrotum, where it joins the superficial perineal fascia, and forms separate pouches for the testicles. In the inguinal region it is divided into a deep and super- ficial layer. The former is much more dense and compact than the latter; it is adherent to Poupart's ligament, and appears to be continuous with the fascia lata in the upper part of the thigh ; a short distance above Poupart's ligament it is blended with the tendon of the external oblique. This lamina has been called the fascia of Scarpa. The outer layer of the superficial fascia is areolar, and usually contains adi- pose substance in this region; hence, it is sometimes called the adipose layer; the inner layer is more compact, and con.- tains yellow elastic tissue, which assists the muscles in sup- porting the abdominal viscera. The Cutaneous Aeteries of the abdomen are derived from the internal mammary, the intercostal, the lumbar, the femoral, and the external iliac. The only one of any import- ance to be studied is the arteria ad cutem abdominis. This arises from the femoral artery a short distance below Pou- part's ligament, and passes upwards in the superficial fascia nearly to the umbilicus. It varies in size, but is rarely absent. The Cutaneous Nerves consist of branches of the lower five or six intercostals and the lumbar. There are two sets of the cutaneous branches of the intercostals, the lateral and the anterior. The former are given off in the intercostal spaces, perforate the muscles, and divide into anterior and posterior filaments; the latter are the terminal branches of the intercostals, which, after leaving the intercostal spaces, pass forwards to the sheath of the rectus abdominis, which, together with the muscle, they perforate to reach the integu- ment near the linea alba. The remaining cutaneous nerves are derived from branches of the lumbar plexus, and are dis- tributed in the lower part of the abdomen. There are five pairs of muscles in the anterior and lateral 29*