THE FACE. 39 mnscle To expose these, cut down tlirougli the muscle in the direction of its fibres, upon tlie foramen, and gently raise the nerve when its filaments will be seen to radiate upwards to the lower eyelid, inwards to tbe nose, downwards to tbe upper lip, and outwards and downwards to the cheek. They intermix and anastomose with the facial to form the infra- orbital plexus. It requires a good deal of care and patience to trace these filaments to their termination. The infra- orbital artery is one of the terminal branches of the internal maxillary. It inosculates with the facial, transverse facial, and ophthalmic. The Levator Akguli oris, or Cantnus, Fig. 64 (e), arises from the canine fossa, below the infra-orbital foramen, and beneath the preceding muscle; passes downwards, and is inserted into the angle of the mouth. It raises the a,ngle of the mouth, and antagonizes the depressor anguli oris, with which some of its fibres are continuous. The Levator Labii Superioris Al^que Nasi, Fig. 61 (s), arises from the upper part of the nasal process of the superior maxilla. It passes downwards on the side of the nose, divides into the nasal and labial portions, and is inserted, the former into the ala of the nose, and the latter into the upper lip. Its name indicates its use. The Compressor ISTasi, or Triangularis Nasi, Fig. 64 (s), is partly concealed by the preceding muscle. It arises from the inner part of the canine fossa, passes forwards to spread out over the ala of the nose, and is inserted into a thin aponeurosis, common to it and its fellow on the opposite side; it is also connected with the pyramidalis. It compresses the nostril when it acts alone, but may expand it when it acts in conjunction with the pyramidalis. The Depressor Labii Superioris Al^que Nasi, or Myrtiformis, Fig. 64 (7), is exposed by everting the upper lip, and dissecting off'the mucous membrane on the side of the frainura. ^ It arises from the alveolar process of the superior maxilla in front of the incisor teeth, passes upwards and forwards, and is inserted into the upper lip and the fibro- cartilage of the ala and septum of the nose. Its name indi- cates its actions. The Pyramidalis Nasi, Fig. 64 (3), appears to be a fascicu- lus of the occipito-frontalis prolonged downwards on the nose.