DISSECTION OP THE HEAD AND NECK. 48 adipose cells are interspersed througli it. The compactness of this structure, with its high degree of vitality, is said to be the cause of the tendency of the scalp to take on erysipelatous inflammation after injuries. When arteries are divided in its substance, the forceps instead of the tenaculum should be used in ligating them. The OcciPiTO-FRONTAL MuscLE, Fig. 61 (i, 2, 3), with its broad aponeurosis, extends from the root of the nose and the superciliary ridge to the superior transverse ridge of the occiput. It consists of two fleshy bellies connected by a broad aponeurosis, which expands over the arch of the cranium. The OCCIPITAL PORTION arises from the superior transverse ridge of the occipital bone, and from the adjacent portion of the mastoid process of the temporal bone. The fibres pass upwards and somewhat inwards, and terminate in the tendon. The FRONTAL PORTION is blended with the pyramidalis nasi, the orbicularis palpebrarum, and the integument; some of its fibres are also attached to the internal angular process of the frontal bone. It joins the tendon nearly opposite the coronal suture. Its fibres are generally paler than those of the occipital portion. The tendon of this muscle is continu- ous across the median line with that of the opposite side; and from its outer border, the superficial temporal fascia extends downwards over the deep temporal fascia or aponeurosis. The use of this muscle is to move the scalp, to raise the eye- brows, and, in some measure, the upper eyelids. It adheres closely to the scalp, while it glides freely on the parts beneath it. It causes the transverse wrinkles on the forehead. The Attollens Aurem, Fig. 61 (4), is situated in the tem- poral region above the ear. It arises broad from the aponeu- rosis of the occipito-frontal muscle; its fibres converge as they descend, and are inserted into the concha of the ear. Its use is to raise the ear, and to render tense the aponeurosis from which it arises. The Attrahens Aurem, Fig. 61 (3), is situated immediately in front of the preceding muscle. It arises from the aponeu- rosis of the occipito-frontal muscle and the zygoma, and is inserted into the anterior part of the helix. It draws the ear upwards and forwards.