614 THE LOWER EXTREMITY, under surface of the scaphoid bone. It is considerably laro-er than the preceding ligament. Its upper surface is partly covered by the synovial membrane of the astragalo-scaphoid articulation, of which it may be regarded as forming a part. From the dissection that has now been made, the student will be able to see what ligaments must be lacerated, when the astragalus is luxated^ and also what ligaments must be divided in Ghoiparis operation, in which the scaphoid and cu- boid bones are disarticulated from the astragalus and os calcis. He has also seen three of the four synovial membranes or sacs which are found in the tarsus. Tig. 265 (i o, 12, i s, i e). The remaining five bones of the tarsus are connected by dorsal, plantar, and interosseous ligaments. It is not necessary to describe each one of these separately. With a little care and patience, the student will have little or no difficulty in finding them. The Scaphoid Bone is connected to the cuboid by a dor- sal,, an interosseous, and a plantar ligament, all of which have a transverse direction. Sometimes there are one or two small synovial membranes between these bones, which are held very firmly together by their ligaments. The Scaphoid Bone is connected, to the three cuneiform bones by four dorsal ligaments; one for each, except the in- ternal, which has two, one of which is placed on the inner side of the articulation, and is called the internal scapJioideo- cuneiform ligament; it is also connected by three plantar liga- ments, the principal one of which connects it to the internal cuneiform, and is blended with the tendon of the tibialis posticus. The synovial membrane, Fig. 265 (15), between the scaphoid and cuneiform bones, is continuous with those found between the latter bones. The Cuboid Bone is joined to the external cuneiform bone by a dorsal, a plantar, and an interosseous ligament. These ligaments have a transverse direction. The plantar one is very small. The Cuneiform Bones are connected to each other by dorsal, plantar, and interosseous ligaments. Of these, the interosseous are the strongest. The plantar are very small. The foiirth synovial membrane of the tarsus is common to the articulations of the cuboid with the external cuneiform,