298 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. mmal surface, where an anastomosis is formed between the two nerves. They are said, also, to anastomose with the pneumogastric nerve and solar plexus. The Pericardium. The Pericardium is a fibro-serous membrane, which sur- rounds the heart. To obtain a good view of it, the areolar tissue, and fat in the anterior mediastinum should be removed. It will be found to have a conical form, with the base down- wards, and the apex upwards. The base is closely connected anteriorly, to the cordiform tendon of the diaphragm, fi'om which it cannot, without difficulty, especially in the adult, be separated. In consequence of this attachment, but little motion is allowed to the lower part of the pericardium. The apex terminates above by being blended with the thoracic fascia, the external layers of the vena cava, aorta, and pulmo- nary artery, some distance from the base of the heart. Late- rally it is in relation with the pleuree and phrenic nerves. In front it corresponds to the sternum, and the cartilages of the fifth, sixth, and seventh ribs, from which it is separated by the anterior mediastinum and the pleurae, and the left lung, which is excavated for the reception of the heart. Posteriorly it forms the anterior wall of the posterior mediastinum. Its fibrous or external lamina is perforated by all the large vessels which leave or enter the heart. These are the two venas cavee, the aorta, the pulmonary artery, and the four pulmonary veins. The pericardium may now be opened by making a longi- tudinal, and, if necessary, a transverse incision. The inner or serous layer presents the same appearance as other serous membranes. It lines the internal surface of the fibrous layer, and is reflected from it upon the large vessels at the base of the heart, and from them over the heart itself. It is reflected from the fibrous layer to the vessels, where that layer joins their outer coats. This takes place upon the vena cava descendens, near the entrance of the vena azygos. At first it is limited to the anterior surface of this vessel, but nearly surrounds it at the auricle. It is reflected to the aorta at its arch, and to the pulmonary artery at its bifurcation; and, as it descends to the ventricles, it completely invests