250 THE UPPER EXTREMITY. Fig. 107. lower part of the arm. The musculo-spiral nerve and supe- rior profunda artery perforate this intermuscular septum ine internal septum commences at the insertion of the teres major and latissimus dorsi, and extends to the inner condyle ot the humerus. It is narrower above than below. The brachialis anticus and triceps extensor cubiti muscles are intimately connected with it in the lower part of the arm. It is perforated by the ulnar nerve. The brachial aponeurosis furnishes sheaths for the muscles of the arm, and is connected to the sheaths of the bra- chial vessels and nerves. Besides its attachment to prominent points about the elbow, it is continued into the apo- neurosis of the forearm. It binds down the muscles of the arm, gives attachment to muscular fibres, and serves to protect the brachial vessels and nerves. The Biceps Flexor Cubiti Muscle, Fig. 107 (i 5), may now be exposed by dividing the aponeurosis along the mid- dle of the forepart of the arm, and re- flecting it to each side. The heads of this muscle arise, as has been seen, the long one from the upper part of the glenoid cavity, and the short from the coracoid process, in common with the coraco-brachialis, from which it cannot be separated without making an arbitrary division. The heads unite just above the middle of the humerus, to form quite a large, prominent belly, which ends in a flat tendon, a short dis- A View op the Muscles on the Front of the Arm.—1. Clavicle. 2. Coracoid process and origin of the short head of the biceps. 3. Acromion scapula. 4. Head of the OS humeri. 5. Tendon of the biceps muscle in the bicipital groove. 6. Co- raco-humeral dissected off. 7. Cut portion of the pectoralis major. 8. Long head of the biceps. 9. Insertion of the deltoid. 10. Cut portion of the tendinous insertion of the pectoralis minor. 11. Coraco-brachialis. 12. Short head of the biceps. 13. Latissimus dorsi. 14. Inner portion of the triceps. 15. Body of the biceps. 16. Outer portion of the triceps. 17. Brachialis anticus. 18. Origin of the flexor muscles. 19. Brachialis anticus near its insertion. 20. Tendon of the biceps. 21. Fasciculus from the biceps tendon to the brachial aponeurosis. 22. Flexor carpi radialis. 23. Palmaris longus. 24. Supinator radii longus.