166 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. ferior_ maxilla, below and in front by tbe anterior belly of the digastricus, below and behind by the posterior belly of the same muscle, and by a process of the deep fascia, which is attached to the stylo-maxillary ligament, and separates this region from the parotid. The Superior Carotid Eegion is bounded above by the posterior belly of the digastricus, behind by the sterno-cleido- mastoideus, below and in front by the anterior belly of the omohyoideus. The Inferior Carotid Eegion is bounded anteriorly by the median line, above by the anterior belly of the omo- hyoideus, and behind and below by the sterno-cleido-mas- toideus. The Supra-Clavicular Eegion is bounded in front by the sterno-cleido-mastoideus, above by the posterior belly of the omo-hyoideus, and below by the clavicle. : The Fifth Eegion, or Sub-Occipital, is bounded in front by the sterno-cleido-mastoideus, below by the omo-hyoideus, and behind by the trapezius. A sixth region^ embracing the parts concerned in the opera- tions of laryngotomy and tracheotomy, or laryngo-tracheo- tomy, may be conveniently made by the student. It is not necessary, however, to give any specific boundaries to such a region. ' The lower part of the neck, embracing the inferior carotid and supra-clavicular regions, and extending upwards to the bifurcation of the common carotid artery, is to be dissected next. If the sterno-cleido-mastoideus, sterno-hyoideus, and sterno- thyroideus have not been detached at their origins, it should be done now. The overlapping of the sternal origin of the sterno-cleido-mastoideus should be noticed, with reference to ligation of the common carotid artery. Beneath the sterno- hyoid and thyroid are the trachea and thyroid gland. A plexus of veins^ Fig. 66, coming from the thyroid gland, is usually situated directly in front of the trachea, and is liable to be wounded in tracheotomy. The middle thyroid artery, sometimes called the artery of Neubauer, when present, is found in this region. It is not yery often met with, and is so irregular in its origin and