THE CEEEBEUM. 61 and only a small portion of it is seen in the floor of the lateral ventricle. The Plexus CnoROiDES, Fig. 11, e, is composed of vessels and areolar tissue, being a portion of the pia mslter. _ It is situated on the inner side of the thalamus. It is red in the recent brain. The FoENix, Fig. 11,/, is a white body forming the inner part of the floor. Anteriorly, it is connected with the septum lucidum; and posteriorly, with the corpus callosum. Besides these five bodies, the student may notice along the concave border of the corpus striatum a narrow, shining band, called the Lamina Cornea. This is apparently a thickening of the lining membrane of the ventricle. It is not always very distinct. Beneath this is a vein of consider- able size, coming from the corpus striatum. The floors of the two lateral ventricles are perfectly symmetrical. The Posterior Cornu of the lateral ventricle. Fig. 11, A, is an extension into the posterior lobe. It proceeds outwards at first, and then inwards. Its floor is'formed by a spur- shaped elevation called the Hippocampus Minor, The upper and lateral walls consist of white medullary substance. The Middle or Inferior Cornu, Fig. 11, ^, is much larger. It curves outwards, downwards, and forwards around the posterior, outer and loAver part of the thalamus. This cavity may be exposed by removing the upper and outer portion of the middle lobe down to a level with it; or it may be fully brought into view by making a single incision, cutting from within outwards, and following the course of the cornu from its commencement to its termination, and then lifting up that portion of the middle lobe situated above it. The following parts are found in the middle cornu. The plexus choroides extends into the middle cornu, and dis- appears there, by becoming continuous with the pia mater in the transverse fissure; this must be removed to expose the parts beneath it. The Hippocampus Major extends the whole length of the floor, and terminates in an indented expansion, called the 2)es hippocampi. This body follows the curved direction of the cavity; presents a smooth white appearance, convex ex-