POSTERIOR AND INNER PART OF THE LEG. 561 Fig. 240. The depth and central position of the upper half or two thirds of the posterior tibial artery, and the same is true of the peroneal artery, as will be seen, renders it one of the most diflacult arteries in the body to be reached in the living sub- ject for the purpose of applying a liga- ture to it. The posterior tibial artery gives off several branches in its course down the leg. The first one to be noticed is the internal remrre)it branch. This passes round the inner border of the tibia, then upwards to the internal tuberosity of that bone, where it anastomoses with the inferior internal articular branch of the popliteal artery. The next branch to be observed is the nutritious artery of the tibia. This enters the nutritious foramen, and is distributed to the inter- nal lamelliB of the bone, including the medullary membrane. It is remark- able for its large size as compared with other arteries of this class. Sometimes it is a branch of the anterior tibial artery. Before entering the bone, the nutritious artery usually gives off' one or more muscular branches. The next branch to be examined is one of the principal arteries of the leg. The Peroneal Artery, Fig. 239 (i6, 1 8), arises from the posterior tibial usually about an inch below the bifur- cation of the popliteal artery, and passes The Arteries and Deep-seated Veins on the Back of the Right Leg —1 Poplueal vein 2. Popliteal artery. 3, 4. Vein and artery in their relative position on the back of the knee-joint. 5. Popliteal vein on the inner side of the ioint. 6 ' Popliteal artery to the outer side and beneath it. 7. Posterior or short saphenous vein. 8, y. Internal articular vessels, both arteries and veins. 10, 11 External articular vessels, both arteries and veins. 12. Junction of the peroneal and poste- rior tibial veins. 13. A venous branch from the anterior tibial vein. 14 A vein vZTj^M ^^T^T"^'"': .^^-..f"til'!"! artery going Ibrniigh the interosseous hgamen . 16, 16. Posterior tibial artery. 17, 17. Its two venw comites 18 18 Peroneal artery. 19, 19. Its two venae comites. 20. Vessel^ qu the heel'.