431 DISSECTION OF THE TESTICLES. The Tunica Vaginalis, Fig. 184 (i), was, before the descent of the testicle, a portion of the peritoneum. The testicle, whHe in the abdomen, is covered by the peritoneum m the same manner as the spleen or the liver, and when it descends into the scrotum carries along with it, not only the portion which adheres to its proper tunic, the tunica albugmea, but also a portion of the peritoneum which is attached to the walls of the abdomen. Hence the tunica vaginalis presents two portions, one of which is still adherent to the tunica albuginea, while the other is reflected over the inner surface of the pouch formed by the prolongation of the fascia trans- versalis. The latter is denominated the tunica vaginalis re- flexa, and the former, the tunica vaginalis testis. They are analogous to the parietal and visceral portions of the pleura, or of the peritoneum, and, like these membranes, form a shut sac. In studying the descent of the testicle, the student should bear in mind that it was just as much covered by the perito- mum, in the cavity of the abdomen, as it is by the tunica vaginalis, in the scrotum, and that the latter is to it in the scrotum, what the former was in the abdomen. The tunica vaginalis should be studied with reference to the occurrence of hydrocele, &c. The testicle is brought into view when the tunica vagi- nalis is laid open. It is of an oval form, flattened somewhat on the sides. It is about an inch and a half in length, and about three-fourths of an inch in thickness, and an inch in breadth. Its position in the scrotum is oblique, from above downwards, and from before backwards. The EPIDIDYMIS is seen attached to its posterior border. This presents an^'upper large extremity, named the globus major, and a lower small one called the globus minor; the middle portion is named the body. The epididymis is partly covered by the tunica vaginalis. Having examined the ex- terior of the testicle, the tunica albuginea should be divided, and the glandular substance carefully removed, for the pur- pose of studying the structure of this tunic. The Tunica Albuginea, Fig. 184 (2), is the proper cap- sule of the testicle. It is a thick, dense, white fibrous mem- brane. It preserves the form of this organ, and protects its delicate glandular structure. Behind, it forms a projection