FEMALE ORGANS OF GENERATION. 475 probe or bougie into the os uteri, may be practised in the dissecting-room to considerable advantage. It is, perhaps, equally important to become familiar with the parts involved in carrying an instrument through the urethra into the blad- der. The student should observe for himself what points he could rely on to guide him in conducting the catheter to the meatus urinarius, and thence into the bladder. It has happened that through the neglect of acquiring the necessary familiarity with the exact position of the external orifice of the urethra, and its relations to the surrounding parts, the young phy- sician has been subjected to feelings of chagrin and mortifi- cation, in consequence of his having failed to introduce the catheter the first time he attempted it in his practice; or if he has not failed, he has been compelled to make an im- proper exposure of the person of his patient in order to succeed. One or two hours devoted to the examination of these parts, and to the practice of introducing the catheter, in the dissecting-room, will be worth more than all that can be learned from reading books on this subject. The female organs of generation are divided into the external and internal. In the latter are included the uterus^ the ovaries, and the Fallopian tubes; in the former, the vagina and the parts that constitute the vulva, which are the mons veneris, the labia majora and minora, the anterior and posterior commissures, the fourchette, the fossa navicularis, the clitoris, the vestibule, the meatus urinarius, the hymen, and the carun- culcB myrtiformes. All these parts should be carefully in- spected in sii'Q,. The MoNS Veneris, Fig. 200 (3), is an eminence placed in front of the symphysis pubis and the pubic bones. It is formed by areolar tissue and adipose substance, situated be- neath the integument, which in adult life is covered with hair. The Labia Majora, Fig. 200 (1, 1), are situated below the mons veneris, one on each side of the rima, or the fissure that leads to the vagina. Each consists of a fold of the integument, which contains a substance resembling the dar- tos m the male, areolar tissue and fiit, besides vessels, nerves and sebaceous follicles. Its free border is round, and thicker than Its attached border; it is also thicker above than be- low. Its external surface is continuous with the skin and covered with hair, while its internal surface is continuous