VESSELS AND NEEVES OF ABDOMINAL VISCERA. 381 from fifteen to twenty in number. They arise from the convexity of the artery, and after passing a short distance nearly parallel to each other, between the layers of the me- sentery, each one bifurcates. By the inosculation of these bifurcations with each other, a series of arches, or one con- tinuous arch, is formed, from the convexity of which another set of branches arise. These, much more numerous than those which arise directly from the artery, inosculate with each other, and form a second series of arches, from the con- vexity of which another set of branches arise and inosculate with each other. By the repetition of this process the third, fourth, and sometimes the fifth series of arches are formed by the time the middle portion of the small intestine is reached. Having reached the intestine, the last branches divide into two sets, which ramify on the opposite sides of the bowel; some of them between the serous and muscular coats; others perforate the muscular layer, and terminate in the mucous membrane. To dissect the arteries to the small intestine, the mesen- tery should be spread out and made tense. It is not neces- sary that the student should dissect all of them, in order to understand their general arrangement. The Iranches to the large intestine arise from the concavity of the main trunk. There are three in number, the ilio- colic, the right colic, and the middle colic. They pass be- tween the layers of the meso-colon, and bifurcate to form a single_ series of arches, from which branches proceed to the large intestine, upon which they ramify in the same manner as the arteries do on the small intestine. The ileo-colic, or inferior colic, Fig. 156 (15), descends to the caecum to divide into branches, to be distributed to the lower part of the ileum, the c^cum, the appendix vermi- formis cffici, and the lower part of the ascending colon. It sends a branch upwards to anastomose with the right colic. The right colic, Fig. 156 (14), or, according to some, the middle colic, goes horizontally to the ascending colon, and divides into an ascending and a descending branch, to anas- tomose, the one with the middle colic, and the other with the ileo-colic. The middle colic, or the superior colic. Fig. 156 (n) pro- ceeds upwards to the right half of the colon, and like the preceding, divides into two branches. One of these anasto-