LIGAMENTS OT THE KNEE, ANKLE, AND FOOT. 595 side of the base of the first phalangeal bone of the second toe; like the plantar, it joins the tendons of the extensor muscles. It draws the second to the great toe or from the median line of the foot. The Abductor Externtjs Secundi DiaiTi, Fig. 255 (2), arises by two heads from the opposite surfaces of the second and third metatarsal bones, and is inserted into the outer side of the base of the first phalangeal bone of the second toe. It draws the second toe from the median line of the foot. The Abductor Digiti Tertii, Fig. 255 (3), a7-ises from the opposite surfaces of the third and fourth metatarsal bones, and is inserted into the outer side of the first phalangeal bone of the third toe. It separates the third toe from the second. The Abductor Digiti Quarti, Fig. 255 (4), arises by two heads from the opposite surfaces of the fourth and fifth meta- tarsal bones, and is inserted into the outer side of the base of the first phalangeal bone of the fourth toe. It draws the fourth from the third toe. Sect. VII.—Dissection of the Ligaments of the Knee, Ankle, and Foot. The knee-joint is the largest of all the articulations. From its liability to injuries and diseases of different kinds, its study demands the earnest attention of every student. Before com- mencing the dissection of it, he should, if possible, carefully examine the bones which enter into its formation, or, at least, as far as they enter into the mechanism of the joint; it is better that they should be examined in an articulated skele- ton, as the relative position of each prominent point can then be observed and much better appreciated. He should also carefully observe the prominences and depressions around the joint when the limb is flexed, or extended, or placed in any; intermediate position, so that he may be able, in case of dis- ease or injury, to detect any deviation in the general contour of the knee from its natural appearance. Three bones enter directly into the formation of the knee- joint; they are the femur, the patella, and the tibia; the fibula indirectly contributes to the formation of the joint, inasmuch as It gives attachment to the inferior extremities of the ex-