DISSECTION OP THE HEAD AND NECK. 142 pterygo-palatine, the supra-orbital, the ethmoidal, and the facial. From these various sources the mucous membrane of the nasal fossa is abundantly supplied with arterial blood. The veins, Fig. 8, k, correspond with the arteries. Some branches find their way into the frontal sinus, and through the foramen cascum communicate with the superior longitudi- nal sinus of the dura mater. The student should study the nasal fossDs with reference to plugging the nares to arrest hemorrhage; the removal of polypi, and foreign bodies which may happen to be lodged in them; the introduction of instruments to reach the Eustachian tube, or to be conducted into the pharynx through the nasal cavity; their proximity to the brain and its meninges; and their connection with the sphenoidal, frontal, and maxillary sinuses, Fig. 52 (i, 2), and the ductus ad nasum. The exact relation of the osseous sinuses, j ust mentioned, to the nasal fossae should be carefully noted; the manner in which a purii- lent collection in either of these sinuses would be affected, in regard to its escape, by the position of the head. If, for instance, pus should be formed in the maxillary sinus or antrum, a large proportion of it would necessarily be retained as long as the head was kept in a vertical posi- tion, on account of the opening from it into phe middle mea- tus being situated in the upper part of its nasal wall; nor could it be emptied of its contents until the head was placed upon the opposite side. In case of a purulent discharge from the nose, a knowledge of this fact would enable the physician to determine whether it came from the antrum or not. The contents of the sphenoidal sinus, in case of a purulent collection, would be emptied entirely only when the head was placed with the face looking directly downwards. As the opening from the frontal sinus'is in its floor, its contents would escape when the head occupied a vertical position. The nasal orifice of the ductus ad nasum should be observed, and the introduction of a probe of the proper curve into it should be practised upon the subject. The same thing should be done with the antrum and Eustachian tube. A correct idea of the dimensions of the nasal fossa is ex- ceedingly important. It will be observed that the upper part of it is very narrow, and will not admit an instrument of much size without injuring the parietes. The walls of the antrum, Fig. 51 (14), should be noticed as