POSTEKIOE AND USTNTSR PART OF THE LEG. 559 creases in thickness as it passes downwards to end in the tendo-Achillis. The muscular belly of the soleus is pro- longed some distance further down than that of the gastroc- nemius. The opposing surfaces of these muscles are per- fectly fitted to each other, and are separated only by loosCj delicate areolar tissue, which allows the one to glide on the other with the greatest facility. Taken together, they form the calf of the leg; the upper part being formed mostly by the gastrocnemius, the lower part by the soleus. Perhaps no two muscles in the body present a more beautiful appea-r-' ance than these two, when fully developed and properly dis- sected. This is owing not only to their perfect symmetry of form, but to the manner in which the muscular and tendinous structures are distributed in them. The Tendo-Achillis, Fig. 236 (e), is the tendon of inseri tion common to the gastrocnemius and soleus. It is from three to four inches in length, being the largest and strongest tendon in the body. It is inserted into the lower part of the posterior extremity of the os calcis, being separated from all the upper and posterior surface of the bone by a synovial sac. It is separated from the posterior tibial vessels and nerve, which are placed beneath it, by areolar tissue and a dense fibrous membrane. The distance between it and the vessels allows of its being divided without any risk to them. . , . . , The action of the gastrocnemius and soleus wiU be"l5"h^ same, as far as the ankle-joint is concerned, as both of them pass over it; the former, as it passes over the knee-joint, can act on the leg as well as the foot, or on the thigh when the foot is made the fixed point. The office which they are re- quired to perform demands that they should be powerful muscles. Making their origin the fixed point, they are ca- pable of raising the entire body, as is done at every step that is taken in walking. When their attachments, and the re- lations which they sustain to the joints that they pass over; are understood, there will be no difficulty in understanding their actions. The action of the plautaris is so little that it can produce no marked efiect, and as it is frequently absent or when present, void of any fixed attachment below, must be unimportant. The three muscles just noticed may now be removed for the purpose of examining the/asc/a, which separates them