DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 82 also to tlie inferior oblique and the levator of the upper eyelid. The FouETH Paie, or Pathetic, Fig. 17 (31), arise from the valve of Vieussens and processus cerebelli ad testes. Thej are very small, and thread-like. Each passes through the walls of the cavernous sinus, and sphenoidal foramen to go to the superior oblique muscle of the eyeball. These nerves are so small and delicate, that the student must be very careful in tracing them, or he will either break or lose sight of them. The Fifth Pair, Trifacial, or Trigeminal, Fig. 17 (32), have each two roots, arising apparently from the pons Yarolii. The small root consists of motor jfilaments, and is situated above the large or sensor. The sensor portion of this nerve can be traced to near the floor of the fourth ventricle, or to the corpus innominatum; the motor portion is connected in its origin with the fibres of the corpus pyramidale, with which it is associated in function. The two roots, after leaving the pons, unite to form a large cord or fasciculus, which passes beneath the tentorium, perforates the dura mater, and rests on the petrous bone, in its course to the middle fossa of the base of the cranium, where the sensor portion expands into the Oasserian ganglion. This ganglion is of a triangular shape, and, when fully exposed, presents a plexiform arrangement, with gray neurine intermixed. It is covered by a lamina of the dura mater, which adheres closely to it. The motor fila- ments pass over its under surface, and not through it. From its base proceed the ophthalmic and the superior and inferior maxillary branches. The first of these passes through the sphenoidal foramen; the second^ through the foramen ro- tundum; and the third, through the foramen ovale. All the motor filaments accompany the inferior maxillary branch. The dura mater obtains filaments from the fifth pair. It will be observed that this nerve resembles the spinal nerves in having a motor and a sensor root, and the sensor portion having a ganglion on it. The Sixth Pair, or Abducentes, Fig. 17 (3 3), arise from the corpora pyramidalia, just as they enter the pons. Each nerve passes through the wall of the cavernous sinus aud the sphenoidal foramen to reach the external rectus of the eye- ball. While passing through the wall of the cavernous