524 THE LOWER EXTREMITY, and a quarter in length; the head of the femur may be luxated downwards without this ligament being ruptured, but not upwards. It is loosely covered by synovial mem- brane. The ligament varies very much in size in different subjects. Sometimes it is entirely absent. Its principal use seems to be to conduct bloodvessels to and from the head of the femur, to the proper nutrition of which its presence is sometimes of the greatest importance. The depression or fossa, extending upwards from the notch in the bottom of the acetabulum, is occupied by a mass of fat, sometimes denominated a synovial gland. It allows vessels and nerves to enter the joint, and protects them against pressure from the head of the femur. Although called a gland, it has none of the characteristics of a gland. The Synovial Membrane of the hip-joint lines the whole of the internal surface of the articular cavity, and surrounds the interarticular ligament. It is sometimes prolonged, as was before mentioned, into a bursa placed between the cap- sular ligament and the psoas and iliacus internus muscles. It not unfrequently presents folds on the neck of the femur, which may take the place in part of the round ligament in transmitting bloodvessels to the head of the femur. The student should attentively observe all the prominent points connected with, and in the vicinity of the hip-joint; such as the crest of the ilium, the trochanter major, the pubes, and the sacrum and coccyx. The relation of tbe trochanter to the other points when the limb is placed in different posi- tions, as flexed, extended, abducted, and rotated both inwards and outwards, should be noted. It is in the dissecting room, with the subject before him, that the student should prepare himself to diagnose in diseases, fractures, and luxa- tions involving the hip-joint. It is here that he can measure for himself the distances between the different prominent points, and note the elevations and depressions as they are found in their normal condition, and then calculate the various chancres which may occur from disease or injuries. He should be able, before he leaves the hip-joint, to place his finger on any point either in front of it or behind it, on the outer side or inner side of it, and specify each muscle, or any ves- sel or nerve that may lie between that point and the cavity of the joint. The articulation is completely surrounded by muscles. Thus in front are found the iliacus internus, psoas