DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 146 Fig. 54. tongue, and are of a glandular structure. They are arranged in two rows. The mucous membrane is not closely adherent to them, as it is to the true papillas. The true papillte are divided into three classes, as follows :— The calyciform consist of two rows which are arranged in the form of the letter V. There are from six to eight in each row. They are situ- ated on the posterior part of the tongue. Each papilla is attached to the centre of a cup-like depression by its small extremity, leaving its large extremity free, and on a level with the surface of the tongue. At the junction of the two rows behind is a deep depression, called the " fora- men ctecum." It has opening into it several mucous follicles. Some- times a papilla is found in the place of it. The fungiform are found near the sides and tip of the tongue. They are of a reddish color, and much smaller than the preceding. They are best seen when a sapid substance is applied to the living tongue, as they then become distended. The conical papillce are diffused papiiifD conicfB, and fili- q^qj. |;]^q greater part of the dorsum nes. 3. Ino tip of the „ , <=> J i • t i gue. 4, 4. Its sides, on 01 the touguc. They are inclined which are seen the lamellated backwards, wllich beCOmeS VCiy ap- and fringed papi se. , o. -pr^^Q^^ when the touguc is rubbed from behind forwards, especially in some of the lower animals. They are of a whiter color than the others. The papillos are very vascular, and are supplied with filaments from the fifth and glosso-pharyngeal nerves. The Fauces, Fig. 55, is the space between the mouth and The Tongue, ■with its Pa- pilla.—1. The raphC', which in some tongues bifurcates on the dorsum of the organ, as in the figure. 2, 2. The lobes of the tongue. The rounded eminences on this part of the organ, and near its tip, are the papillas fungiformes. The smaller papillaj, among which the former are dispersed, are the formes. a. The tip „ , - . t t tongue. 4, 4. Its sides, on ot the touguc. They are inclined The V-shaped row of papillas calyciformes. 6. The fora- men caecum. 7. The mucous glands of the root of the tongue. 8. The epiglottis. 9, 9. The frtena epiglottidis. 10, 10. The greater cornua of the OS hyoides.