THE HEAET. 811 sides of the base of the ventricles, while the mouth of the aorta Fi^ 135 (i o), is situated between and m front ot them; the orifice of the pulmonary artery, Fig. 135 (i i), is situated Fig. 135. A VERTICAL VIEW OP THE AuHICULO" Ventriculau and Arterial Valves, AS GIVEN BY a Section op the Heart AT the Ostium Venosum and of the Arteries at their Valves.—1. De- pression in the left auricle at the left ostium venosum. 2. Depression in the right auricle at the right ostium veno- sum. 3, 3. Section of the parietes of the left auricle. 4. Superior or auricular face of the two folds of the mitral valve. 5. Section of the greater coronary vein. 6, 6. Section of the parietes at the base of the right auricle. 7. Auricular face of the three folds of the tricuspid valve. 8. The orifice of the greater coronary vein. 9. Septum of the auricles. 10. A section of the aorta to show its sig- moid valves. 11. The pulmonary artery with its valves. in front, and a little above and to the left of that of the aorta. These orifices are surrounded by fibrous zones which, taken together, may be regarded as forming the framework of the heart. "While they give to each orifice its particular shape, they furnish a fixed attachment for a portion of the muscular parietes of the heart, for the valves, and for the fibrous coats of the aorta and pulmonary artery. The space between the fibrous rings of the auriculo-ventricular openings and the mouth of the aorta, is filled with a dense fibrous substance, which adds greatly to the solidity of this part of the heart. A bone is frequently found in this space, in the hearts of some of the lower animals. The heart may be regarded as a hollow muscle, divided into two compartments. These are subdivided into the auricular and ventricular, which have no muscular fibres in common. The muscular parietes of the auricles contain fibres which are common to both, and others which belong to each exclusively. The same is true of the ventricles. The muscular structure of the heart seems to differ from that of every other organ in the body. It partakes, more or less, of