DISSECTION OF THE FOEEARM. 259 formed by the anterior and posterior muscles of the forearm. There is a deficiency in it in front of the elbow-joint which allows the superficial fascia to join the deep areolar tissue, and also the vena communicans to reach the deep-seated veins, Fig. 106 (e). "When this aponeurosis is removed from the front of the forearm as far as it can be done without interfering with the muscles which partly arise from it, a sulcus will be observed extending from the bend of the arm to the wrist, and separa- ting the muscles on the back from those on the front of the forearm. The upper part of this sulcus or depression is quite broad and deep. In it are found the median nerve and the bifurcation of the brachial artery, and the vense comites. The radial artery and its corresponding veins, occupy this sul- cus nearly its whole length; the middle third contains also the radial nerve. On the inner side of the lower two-thirds of the forearm is another sulcus, which contains the ulnar artery, its vense comites, and the ulnar nerve. There are eight muscles on the anterior part of, the forearm. Two of these are inserted into the radius; they are the pro- naiors. Two of them pass over the wrist-joint to be inserted into two of the metacarpal bones; these are cafpal flexors. Three of them go to the thumb and fingers; these are digital flexors] the one going to the thumb is called flexor longus jooUicis. The eighth one, the palmaris longus, is connected to the annular ligament and palmar aponeurosis. The student should familiarize himself with these muscles by making the several movements with his own hand as they respectively depend upon them. Three simple movements, such as flexing the fingers and thumb, then the hand on the forearm, and lastly, turning the hand on the palm, call into action seven of these muscles. A familiarity with their actions will assist him greatly in recollecting their names and their relative position. In dissecting them, it is better to commence on the radial side. The two most prominent ones on this side are the pronator radii teres and flexor carpi radialis. They form the inner boundary of the sulcus in which lies the radial artery. The Pronator Eadii Teres, Fig. Ill (.1), arises from the internal condyle and aponeurosis of the forearm, and also by