THE LOWER EXTREMITY. 602 jomt, the lateral and posterior ligaments may be divided, or removed, for tlie purpose of exposing the crucial ligaments; it is better to divide them, just above the convex borders of the semilunar cartilages, so that the connection between them and these cartilages may be preserved. The synovial mem- brane is easily detached from the crucial ligaments. These ligaments are two in number; as their common name implies, they cross each other; they are named separately the anterior or external^ and the posterior or internal. From their size and arrangement, they contribute largely to the strength of the knee-joint, in the central and posterior part of which they are placed. The Anterior or External Crucial Ligament, Fig. 259 (2), arises from the tibia just in front of the spine, be- tween the glenoid cavities, and passes upwards, outwards, and backwards, to be inserted into the inner and posterior part of the external condyle. The Posterior or Internal Crucial Ligament, Fig. 259 (3), is somewhat larger, and more vertical in its direc- tion than the anterior; it arises from the tibia just behind the spine, and passes upwards and slightly forwards, to be inserted into the outer part of the internal condyle. It is placed be- tween the anterior crucial and the ligamentum posticum; it is best seen from behind, when the latter ligament has been removed, while the anterior one is best seen from before. Each ligament is connected at its origin with one of the semilunar cartilages; the anterior with the anterior cornu of the in- ternal, and the posterior with the posterior cornu of the external semilunar cartilage. They limit the rotation of the tibia inwards, but not outwards; and prevent too great ex- tension of the leg on the thigh; they also oppose abduction or. adduction of the leg. The crucial ligaments may now be divided, and the semilunar fibro-cartilages with the liga- ments which are connected to them for the purpose of keeping them in situ, may now be examined. There are two fibro-cartilages in the knee-joint, the In- ternal and External, called Semilunar, from their shape; they are placed, one between each of the glenoid cavities and its corresponding condyle. Each presents a thick convex outer border, and a thin concave margin which looks towards the centre of the joint, where a small portion of the articular