THE LOWEE EXTREMITY. 586 the posterior tibial nerve and vessels on the back of the leg the student has obtained some idea of what he will find above the aponeurosis. Two of the superficial muscles may be exa- mmed first, as this can be done not only without injuring the vessels and nerves, but it will facilitate the dissection of them; of these, the following muscle may be first examined, as it occupies the central part of the sole of the foot, and sustains more important relations to the vessels and nerves than any other in this region. It separates the grooves in which the external and internal plantar arteries are found. The Flexor Brevis Digitorum Perforatus, Fig. 249(5), arises from the under surface of the posterior and inner part of the OS calcis, from the intermuscular septum on each side of it, from the plantar fascia which covers its under surface, and also from the internal annular ligament. From these different points of origin it passes forwards to near the mid- dle of the foot, where it divides into four small muscles, each of which proceeds forwards a short distance and terminates in a small tendon, which is continued to the base of the se- cond phalangeal bone, where it divides into two slips, be- tween which the corresponding tendon of th^long common flexoj of the toes passes; the slips unite again, and, after expanding laterally, are inserted into the under surface of the second phalangeal bone. It corresponds, in the division of its tendon, to the superficial common flexor of the forearm. It is quite thick at its origin, where it is both fleshy and tendin- ous, but increases in breadth towards the middle of the foot. Its action is to flex the four outer toes; it may also strengthen the middle aponeurosis in preserving the arch of the foot. To expose this muscle, a transverse incision may be made across the middle portion of the aponeurosis, as was before mentioned, about an inchi or an inch and a half anterior to its origin, taking care not to divide anything but the aponeu- rosis. The portion in front of the incision may next be raised. .To do this, it maybe dissected from behind forwards, detaching it from the intermuscular septum on each side; or it may be divided longitudinally into four portions, so that each shall correspond to one of the four processes into which the aponeurosis divides anteriorly, and then dissect each por- tion to its subdivision into its two slips, and their attachments to the sheath of the tendons of the short and long common