DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 233 The Vertebral Artery sends small brandies in its course up the neck, to the deep muscles. The deep cervical branch of the subclavian sends branches to the muscles of the back. These anastomose with the occipital and vertebral arteries. The Intercostal Arteries send branches to that portion of the back which corresponds to the thorax. These branches supply the muscles as they pass through them to reach the skin. They are named the dorsal branches of the intercostal arteries. The Lumbar Arteries send dorsal branches to the muscles aud integument in the lumbar region. They correspond to the dorsal branches of the intercostals. The origin and course of these arteries are described elsewhere. The Sacro-Lumbalis, the Longissimus Dorsi, and the Spinalis Dorsi, Fig. 98 (i), may now be dissected. They consist of a single mass in the loins, and cannot be distinctly separated in that region. They constitute the erector spince. They arise in common from the dorsum of the sacrum, the sacro-iliac ligaments, from the spinous, transverse, and oblique processes of the lumbar vertebraa, and from the posterior third of the crest of the ilium. They are covered by a thick, strong tendon, from which many of their fibres take their origin. At the upper part of the lumbar region these three muscles can be separated from each other. ^ The Sacro-Lumbalis, Fig. 98 (2), is situated on the outer side. It passes upwards, dividing into tendons, which are attached to the ribs at their angles. When this muscle is separated from the longissimus dorsi, and raised from the ribs, six or eight muscular and tendinous slips will be ob- served. These constitute the accessorius ad sacro-lumbalem. They arise from the lower six or eight ribs, and join the te*n- dons of the sacro-lumbalis. They vary in number and size. The sacro-lumbalis, besides supporting the spine, can depress the ribs, and thus act as a muscle of expiration. The Longissimus Dorsi, Fig. 98 (3), extends upwards on the inner side of the sacro-lumbalis, and is inserted into all the ribs except the upper two or three, between their angles and tubercles, and also into the transverse processes of "the 20*