170 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. wards, it gets into the groove formed by the trachea and oesophagus, and continues in this groove to the lower border of the inferior constrictor muscle of the pharynx, to which it gives some filaments; it then passes round outside the crico- thyroid articulation, to divide into branches to supply all the muscles of the larynx except the crico-thyroid. While in connection with the subclavian artery, it gives off branches to join the cardiac branches of the sympathetic. It also, in its course, sends filaments to the trachea, oesophagus, and thyroid gland. The situation of this nerve is to be noticed as connected with oesophagotomy. About an inch aud a half from the bifurcation of the arteria innominata, the inferior thyroid artery passes trans- versely beneath the common carotid, the internal jugular, and the pneumogastric nerve. The course of this artery should be observed as connected with the ligation of the carotid, and also with oesophagotomy. The dissection is now to be extended along the course of the Subclavian Arteey, Fig 65 (21). This artery, from its relations to the scalenus anticus muscle, is divided into three sections: the first extends from its commencement to the inner border of the scalenus; the second includes that portion directly behind the muscle, and the third division ex- tends from the outer border of this muscle to the point where it passes over the first rib to terminate in the axillary artery. The deep cervical fascia in this region is quite thick and dense. It is firmly attached to the clavicle and first rib. The vessels and nerves, and the scalenus anticus, obtain investments from it. A prolongation is also sent down from it into the thorax, along with the trachea and the large vessels and nerves which enter that cavity from the neck. The dis- section of this region is somewhat difficult. The parts will be noticed in the order in which they seem most naturally to present themselves to the dissector. The internal jugular vein and the pneumogastric nerve may be divided some distance above the subclavian artery, and reflected down- wards. Filaments of the sympathetic may be noticed passing over the artery to enter the thorax. The Beanches of the subclavian artery are numerous, and, with the exception of one, have their origin on the inner side of the scalenus. The thyroid axis,^ as it is called, is some- times the common origin of the inferior thyroid, the supra-