177 SUPERFICIAL PARTS OF THE NECK. off two or three other small branches in this region, one to the pterygoideus internus, and another to the soft palate. The Hypoglossal Nerye, Fig. 67 (i), enters the anterior and lower part of the submaxillary region from beneath the digastricus and stylo-hyoideus; runs a short distance before it gets on the anterior surface of the hyo-glossus, just above the greater cornu of the hyoid bone; it then passes upwards and forwards between the hyo-glossus and mylo-hyoideus to reach the tongue. In its course through this region it gives off branches to the thyro-hyoideus, stylo-glossus, and hyo- glossus, and to anastomose with the gustatory branch of the fifth nerve. The Gustatory or Lingual Branch, Fig. 67 (12), of the fifth enters this region at the anterior border of the ptery- goideus internus, and partly behind the gland. This nerve is brought into view by separating the gland from the lower jaw, and loosening it up from the hyo-glossus. It passes over the hyo-glossus and along the stjlo-glossus muscle, in nearly a transverse direction, to the genio-hyo-giossus, which it perforates, to go to the sublingual gland and mucous mem- brane of the mouth. With a very little care in exposing this nerve, the suhmaxillary ganglion may be observed connected to its lower border, and situated nearly opposite the centre of the submaxillary gland. From this ganglion filaments are sent to the substance of the gland, and to the duct of Wharton, and mucous membrane of the mouth. The gan- glion is quite small, of a grayish color, and often appears like a slight projection from the nerve. It is classed with the cranial ganglia of the sympathetic. The vidian nerve is said to terminate in it after accompanying for some distance the gustatory. The Mylo-Hyoid branch of the inferior dental nerve enters this region above the gland, and close to the inner surface of the jaw, and gets on the cutaneous surface of the mylo-ityoi- deus, to which, and the digastricus, it sends filaments,'and also to the gland. The anterior belly of the digastricus may now be detached from the lower jaw, and reflected downwards without destroy- mg its attachment to the hyoid bone. The insertion of the stylo-hyoideus may also be observed at the same time. Ee- movmg the areolar tissue, mylo-hyoid nerve, submental