ix PREFACE. nic cavities, to the organs of the special senses, and to such regions as the perineum, the inguinal, the femoral, the ante- rior part of the neck, and the axilla. Although the space allowed in the original plan of the book did not admit of my dwelling long on the medical and surgical anatomy of many parts and regions, I have endeavored to direct the attention of the student to whatever had a practical bearing, so that he could, by referring to works on medicine and surgery, derive full advantage from his dissections. To give merely a meagre or sujoerficial account of the medical and surgical anatomy of a part, I am satisfied, does the student more harm than good. There has necessarily been in some places more or less repetition. As the dissector wishes merely to know the posi- tion and the relations of a part in the region that he is dis- secting, the same part, in some, instances, is-referred to at different times, and in different dissections. In regard to illustrations, I need only say that the Pub- lishers gave me carie-hlanche to select from the whole number of drawings contained in the various works which have been published by them. When the value of these illustrations— over two hundred and sixty in number—is considered, I am confident that the liberality thus manifested by them will be duly appreciated by every one who may avail himself of the work. There is no Dissector, as far as my knowledge extends, which is so fully illustrated as this; it is hardly possible to over-estimate the value of pictorial illustrations in a work on practical anatomy. I may be permitted to say that the Pub- lishers have spared no expense to make the work, as far as it depended on them, in every way acceptable to the medical student. The artistical appearance of the work speaks the praise of those who have had the execution of it in their charge. It affords me sincere pleasure to avail myself of this oppor- tunity to express my heartfelt thanks to those Gentlemen who, while my Pupils, aided me in various ways in examining dif-