DISSECTION OF BACK OF THIGH AND THE HAM. 545 head of the biceps sometimes arises with the preceding, and sometimes by itself, lower down. Those that go to the other three muscles, generally run some distance before penetrat- ing them, which they do on their anterior surfaces. The posterior surface of the adductor magnus, Fig. 216 (13), should be noticed so that a clearer idea of the muscle can be obtained than could be, by simply examining it when the an- terior part of the thigh was dissected. Its relations to so many parts renders a knowledge of it very im- portant to the student. The obturator ex- Fig- 236. ternus should also be examined now more thoroughly than could be done before. The 2oopliteal s2Mce, and its boundaries^ Fig. 236 (3), should next be examined. It is somewhat diamond-shaped, the broadest part corresponding to the knee-joint. It is covered in by the integument and a strong aponeurotic fascia, which is continued, as was noticed before, from the fascia lata on the back of the thigh. This fascia serves to protect the parts in this space, and, in case of aneurism of the popliteal artery, or of an accumulation of pus beneath it, offers strong resistance, which renders such cases very painful. It is connected laterally, to the condyles of the femur and to the tendons of the muscles. The upper part of the space is bounded, on the outer side, by the biceps flexor muscle, and on the inner side, by the semi-tendinosus, semi-merabranosus, and the adductor magnus. The lower part has, on the outer side, the external head of the gastrocnemius and the plantaris, and on the inner side, the internal head of the gas- W W\ trocnemius. The anterior boundary or the WjjJ^ floor of this space, is formed by the pop- ^^■"■""'^ The Superficial Muscles of the Posterior Aspect of the Leg.—1 The biceps muscle forming the outer hamstring. 2. The tendons formin<r the inner hamstring. 3. The popliteal space. 4, 4. The gastrocnemius muscle. 5, 5. The soleus. 6. The tendo-Achillis. 7. The posterior tuberosity of the os calcis. 8. llio tendons of the peroneus longus and brevis muscles passing behind the outer ankle 9. 1 he tendons of the tibialis posticus and flexor longus digitorum passing into the foot behind the inner anklo. ° o t- 6 46*