248 THE UPPER EXTREMITY. will apply to any considerable number of cases. The two median veins particularly, are very irregular. The cutaue- Fig. 105. 1. The radial vein. 2. The cephalic vein. 3. The anterior ulnar vein. 4. The posterior ulnar vein. 5. The common ulnar vein. 6. The basilic vein. 7. The point at which the basilic vein pierces the fascia! 8. The median vein. 9. The communication between the deep veins of the forearm and the median. 10. The median cephalic vein. 11. The median basilic vein. 12. A slight convexity of the deep fascia, formed by the brachial artery. 13. The slip of fascia derived from the tendon of the biceps, which separates the median basilic vein from the brachial artery. 14. The external cutaneous nerve, piercing the fascia, and dividing into two branches, which pass behind the median cephalic vein. 15. The internal cutane- ous nerve, dividing into branches, which pass in front of the median basilic vein. 16. The nerve of Wrisberg. 17. The spiral cutaneous nerve, branch of the musculo-spiral nerve. ous nerves, on the contrary, usually have nearly the same position; so that they may be avoided by selecting a proper place for opening a vein. The place selected is more import- ant to be considered in bleeding than any particular vein. As the internal cutaneous nerve is more superficial, usually passing in front, Fig. 105 (12), of the median basilic, than the external cutaneous, which is commonly situated behind the median cephalic. Fig. 105 (1.4), the outer part of the bend of the arm should be selected for opening a vein. The lymph- atics, also, are less numerous here than in the middle or inner part of this region, and are not so liable to be wounded. The relations of the veins in the bend of the arm to the median nerve and brachial artery, will be observed at another time. The Yena Communicans, Fig. 99 (is) and Fig. 105 (9), may now be examined; so that the superficial fascia can be divided and reflected laterally from the median line in the same manner as the skin. This is a short vein, which