THE ELBOW-JOINT. 283 downwards between this ligament and the cervix. Thus the cervix of the radius, as well as the head, it will be observed, is covered with synovial membrane. This should be noticed with reference to the occurrence of fracture in this part of the radius. The EouND or Oblique Ligament, Fig. 122 (4), consists of a small fasciculus, which extends from the coronoid pro- cess obliquely downwards, to be inserted into the radius, just below its tubercle. The Interosseous Ligament or Membrane, Fig. 122 (5), is composed of fibres which extend from the inner border of the shaft of the radius obliquely downwards to the opposite border of the ulna. It gives attachment on both of its sur- faces to muscles, and is perforated for the passage of vessels and nerves. The radius and ulna, at their inferior extremities, are con- nected to each other by a Fibro-Cartilage, Fig. 125 (s), which extends from the styloid process of the ulna to the inner border of the radius, between its carpal and ulnar arti- cular surfaces. The anterior and posterior borders of this fibro-cartilage are attached to the radio-carpal ligaments. The synovial membrane between the radius and ulna is sometimes called the sacciform membrane or ligament^ Fig. 125 (1). It is strengthened by anterior and posterior fibres, which pass from one bone to the other. The radius and ulna are joined to the carpus by an ex- ternal and an internal lateral, and an anterior and a posterior ligament. The External Lateral Ligament, Fig. 124 (4), arises from the styloid process of the radius, and is inserted into the scaphoides and trapezium, and the annular ligament. The Internal Lateral Ligament, Fig. 124 (5), arises from the styloid process of the ulna, and is inserted into the cuneiform and pisiform bones. The Anterior Ligament, Fig. 124 (3), arises from the anterior border of the lower end of the radius, and from the ulna, and is inserted into the scaphoid, semilunar, and cunei- form bones. The Posterior Ligament arises from the radius and ulna