258 THE UPPER EXTREMITY. the skm from the whole of the forearm and the back of the hand at the same time. If this be done, the parts must be kept covered with the integument or with wet cloths durino- the mtervals between the times allotted to dissecting. The Internal Cutaneous Nerve, Fig. 103 (e, 7) will be found to contmue down the forearm to the wrist; the anterior branch, which was seen in connection with the median basilic vein, on the front part, and the posterior branch on the back part of the arm. These branches are situated on the ulnar side. The anterior frequently anastomoses near the wrist with a branch from the ulnar. The External Cutaneous Nerve, Fig. 104 (4), is situated on the radial side. Near the lower third of the forearm it divides into two branches; one continues down to the integu- ment, covering the ball of the thumb, and usually sends a filament through the deep fascia to ramify on the radial ar- tery ; it anastomoses with the radial nerve; the other branch is reflected round to the back of the forearm, where it also anastomoses with the radial. The loiver external cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral nerve will be found passing down on the back of the forearm to near the wrist. Branches of the radial and ulnar nerves are distributed on the back of the hand and fingers; but these will be traced more readily from the main trunks. Beneath the superficial fascia is a thick, dense aponeurosis^ Fig. 106, which invests the muscles of the forearm generally, and furnishes fibrous sheaths for them separately. In struc- ture, it is similar to the brachial aponeurosis. It is thicker behind than in front, and in the upper than in the lower part of the arm. It gives origin to muscular fibres both from its under surface and from the processes which it sends in be- tween the muscles, especially near the elbow. Its connections with the brachial aponeurosis and with the fibrous expansions from the tendons of the biceps and triceps, have been seen. It is firmly attached to the olecranon process and to the inner part of the ulna down to the styloid process. Below, it is connected to the anterior and posterior annular liga- ments. Between its attachments to the upper part of the ulna there is a subcutaneous surface on that bone. Just below the bend of the arm it stretches across a sulcus that is