OF THE ABDOMEN. 412 directed downwards on the sacrum into the pelvis. It may be traced a short distance in this stage of the dissection, but it cannot be followed out in its distribution until the pelvis is dissected. _ The Common Iliac Arteries, Fig. 177 (e), arise from the bifurcation of the aorta, and are directed downwards and out- wards to the sacro-iliac symphyses. Each is from an inch and a half to two inches in length. The peritoneum and fila- ments of the sympathetic nerve, and sometimes the ureter, lie in front of it. The right one is usually somewhat longer than the left, on account of the aorta being placed to the left side. They diverge more in the female than in the male. Opposite to the sacro-iliac symphysis each divides into the external and internal iliac. The External Iliac Artery, Fig. 177, on each side is directed downwards and outwards along the brim of the pelvis to Poupart's ligament. It is covered by peritoneum through its whole extent. The ureter generally crosses it near its origin, and just above Poupart's ligament the vas deferens passes over it from without inwards. The psoas magnus lies at first on the outside of it, and then behind it. The exter- nal iliac vein is placed on the inner side of it, except on the right side where it passes under the artery near its origin. Just before it passes beneath Poupart's ligament it gives off the epigastric and the internal circumflex ilii arteries, which have been described with the abdominal parietes. The obtu- rator artery sometimes has its origin from the external iliac. The dissection of the internal iliac artery must be post- poned for the present. The Yena Cava Ascendens commences below, oppo- site the last lumbar vertebra. It is formed by the union of the common iliac veins. It ascends, on the right side of the aorta, to the cordiform tendon of the diaphragm, which it perforates, to join the right auricle of the heart. In its course it receives the lumbar, the right spermatic or ovarian, the renal, the supra-renal, the phrenic, and the hepatic veins. The lumbar and th6 phrenic veins accom- pany their corresponding arteries, and require no particular description. The other veins have been noticed. The vena cava has no valves. The external iliac veins were observed in the dissection of their corresponding arteries.