THE PALM OF THE HAND. 279 carpi ulnaris, and also to the unciform bone; tlie ulnar nerve passes between these attachments. Externally it is connected to the scaphoides and trapezium. Its fibres are, for the most part, transverse. Its connection witli the aponeuroses of the forearm and palm, and with the palraaris longus, and the short muscles of the thumb and little finger have already been seen. It subtends the deep sulcus in the anterior part of the carpus, and serves to keep the flexor tendons which pass beneath it in their proper place ; it also strengtliens the carpus. The Eadfal Artery reaches the palm of the hand by pass- ing between the heads of the abductor indicis. Before termi- nating in the deep palmar arch, it gives off a digital branch, to the index finger, and the arteria magna pollicis^ Fig. 118 (i 7), which divides into two branches for the thumb. The former will be found passing behind the flexor brevis pollicis and adductor pollicis, and over the abductor indicis; the latter passes between the abductor indicis and short flexor of the thumb. Their distribution was seen in the dissection of the branches of the superficial arch. The Deep Palmar Arch rests on the metacarpal bones and interosseous muscles, to which, and the carpus, it sends small branches. Three metacarpal branches are sent down- wards from it along the interosseous spaces to anastomose with the digital branches of the superficial arch. It ends on the ulnar side by joining a deep branch from the ulnar artery. The deep branch of the ulnar nerve may be traced at the same time with the deep palmar arch. ^ There are seven interosseous muscles—three palmar, and four dorsal. They occupy the spaces between the meta- carpal bones, being separated from each other by a thin apo- neurosis. The three palmar are called adductors, because they approximate the forefinger and the little and ring fingers to the middle finger, which is made to represent the median line of the hand. , The adductor of the forefinger, Fig. 120 (1), arises from the tilnar side of the upper and front part of the second meta- carpal bone, and is inserted -into the first phalanx of the fore- finger. The adductor of the ring finger, Fig. 120 (2), arises from the