409 DISSECTION OF SUPBA-RENAL CAPSULE. Fig. 176. capsule it forms a plexus around the tube, and then termi- nates in a branch of the renal vein. The Ureters convey the urine from the kidneys to the bladder. They are from sixteen to eighteen inches m length. Below its pelvis each one is about the size of a goose-quill. The man- ner in which it is formed m the hilum by the calices, the infundibula, and the pelvis, has been noticed in the dissection of the kidney. Its walls consist of two layers, a fibrous and a mucous. The fibrous layer is said to contain muscular fibres, and is very dilatable. The mucous membrane is continuous above with the lining membrane of the uriniferous tubes, and below with that of the bladder. The manner in which the ureter per- forates the coats of the bladder will be noticed in the dissection of that organ. The Supra-Eenal Capsule, Fig. 175 (i), is a small body of a crescen- tic form, situated on the upper end of each kidney. The one on the right side is placed between the kid- ney and the liver, resting on the dia- phragm, and having the vena cava and the duodenum in front of it. The left one also rests on the dia- phragm, and has the spleen and pan- creas above and in front of it. They are moulded on the upper extremities of the kidneys, to which they are attached by loose areolar tissue. Without some care they might be readily confounded with the fat which surrounds them. They are yellowish externally, and when cut into pre- sent a striated lamina or cortical substance of the same color, and a dark-colored medullary substance, of a much softer consistence. Occasionally they are found to contain a small cavity in the centre. They have no excretory ducts,, 35 Plan of the Renal Circit- lation; copied from Mr- Bowman's Paper. — a. A branch of the renal artery giving off several Malpighian twigs. 1. An afferent twig to the capillary tuft contained in the Malpighian body, in; from the Malpighian body the uri- niferous tube is aeen taking its tortuous course to t. 2, 2. Efferent veins; that which proceeds from the Malpighian body is seen to be smaller than the corresponding artery. p, p. The capillary venous plexus, ramifying upon the uriniferous tube. This plexus receives its blood from the efferent veins, 2, 2, and trans- mits it to the branch of the renal vein, v.