BASE OP THE BEAIN. 79 The Tuber Cineeeum, Fig. 17 (s), is a thin mass of gray matter behind the optic chiasm and in the floor of the third ventricle. From the centre of this projects downwards the infundihulum. This is of a reddish gray color, of a conical shape, terminating below in the pituitary gland, and opemng above into the anterior part of the third ventricle. Its upper extremity only is hollow, at least, as a general thing, in the adult brain. r The PiTUiTAET Gland occupies the sella turcica. It is a'^ small body, consisting of an anterior and a posterior lobe. The anterior lobe is kiduey-shaped, and composed of a yel- lowish substance; the posterior lobe is partly received into the anterior. This body is hollow in the foetus, and com-;;- municates with the third ventricle through the infundib- ulum. It is covered by a layer of the dura mater. To dissect it in siho, the posterior clinoid processes should ,be broken away. When the optic chiasm is raised, a thin layer of gray substance is seen, called the lamina cinerea. This extends from the tuber cinereum behind to the corpus callosunl in front. Laterally, it joins on each side the perforated place at the inner extremity of the fissure of Sylvius. Its upper surface looks into the anterior part of the third ventricle. The chiasm of the optic nerves is connected by gray matter to the lamina cinerea. ■ On the sides of the lamina cinerea, and crossing the lateral perforated places, are seen two white fibrous bands, which pass forwards to terminate in the anterior border of the corpus callosum. These are named the peduncles of the corjyus callosum. The Loci Peefoeati Lateeales are situated, one at the commencement of each fissure of Sylvius. They are per- forated by numerous small arteries which are intended, mostly, for the supply of the corpora striata. The FissuEE of Sylvius, Fig. 17 (5), separates the anterior and middle lobes. It serves to increase greatly the exterior surface of the brain and the number of convolutions. As it passes outwards, it divides into two branches, which sur- round several small convolutions. These constitute the island of Reil. They correspond to the outer part of the corpus striatum.