EELATIONS OF THE ABDOMINAL VISCEKA. 873 it is in direct apposition with the walls of the abdomen, and can be felt during life through the parietes; but when it is empty, the convolutions of the small intestine usually inter- vene. It terminates in the rectum opposite the left sacro- iliac symphysis, without any precise line of demarcation. _ Only the superior part of the rectum can be observed with- out a dissection of the pelvis. Its relations to the bladder and to the uterus, in the female, may be noticed at the present time, leaving the study of it until the pelvic viscera are examined. The parts surrounded by the capsule of Glisson, in front of the foramen of Winslow, should now be dissected. They consist of the ductus choledochus communis on the right side, the hepatic artery on the left, and the portal vein between and behind the duct and artery. The hepatic plexus of nerves accompanies the artery. From the ductus choledochus the hepatic duct may be traced to the transverse fissure of the liver, and the cystic duct towards the gall-bladder. The ductus choledochus is about two inches and a half in length. Its direction is downwards, backwards, and a little to the right. It passes behind the duodenum to reach the inner and central part of its descending portion. It accompanies, for a short distance, the pancreatic duct, a groove formed in the sub- stance of the pancreas. It perforates the coats of the duo- denum, as will be seen at another time, obliquely. The ductus choledochus varies much in size in different subjects. 'It sometimes acquires very great size from the detention of bile. The pancreas may be exposed by dividing the descending laminse of the omentum majus a little distance below the convex border of the stomach and turning that organ up- wards. The middle portion of it is brought into view by simply dividing the gastro-hepatic omentum. The pancreas is situated behind the stomach, and is covered by the ascending lamina of the transverse meso-colon. It extends from the spleen to the descending portion of the duo- denum, being from six to seven inches in length. The duo- denal extremity, from its size, is sometimes called the head of the pancreas. It fills the concavity of the duodenum, and adheres closely to it. The splenic end is named the tail, and the middle part the body. The coaliac artery projects forwards