APPENDAGES OF THE EYE WITHIN THE OBBIT. 91 Sect.YI.-^Dissection of the Appendages of the Eye within THE OrBIT. To dissect the appendages of the eye within the orbit, the orbital plate of the frontal bone must first be cut away. This can easily be done, after the calvaria has been removed, with a small sharp chisel or saw. The former is preferable, because it can be accommodated to the inequalities of the surface which is to be cut. The lesser wing of the sphenoid may also be removed with the orbital plate, care being taken not to destroy the optic foramen, nor disturb the contents of the sphenoidal fissure. Before removing the orbital ridge, the tendinous loop for the passage of the tendon of the superior oblique muscle should be examined, or the inner extremity of the ridge to which the loop is attached may be left. In removing the orbital plate, the periosteum which covers its under surface, and to which it is loosely connected, should be preserved. Before proceeding to examine the contents of the orbit, the student will do well to obtain some idea of what they consist, and in what part of the orbit each is to be found. The dissection must also be conducted slowly and cautiously, so as not to destroy any of the minuter structures involved. The upper plane of the orbit is occupied on the nasal side by the superior oblique muscle, with the pathetic nerve resting on it; in the central portion by the frontal nerve, and immediately below it, the levator palpebras superioris; and in the outer part by the lachrymal nerve, and beneath it the upper margin of the external rectus, on the outer side of which lies the lachrymal gland. The Frontal Nerve, Fig. 20, enters the orbit above the muscles, and proceeds along its central portion, close to the periosteum, towards the supra-orbital foramen, where it di- vides into the siapra-orbital and frontal branches. The former sends filaments to the upper eyelid, and then passes through the supra-orbital foramen to the forehead; the latter gives off filaments to the eyelid, also one to the frontal sinus, and one which anastomoses with the external nasal; its terminal branches are distributed on the forehead.