THE LOWER EXTREMITY. 554 From the knee to the saphenous opening in the fascia lata the internal saphenous was described in connection with the anterior part of the thigh. Below the knee it is accompanied by one of the terminal divisions of the internal saphenous nerve. This is the longest vein in the body. ^' The External or Posterior Saphenous Yein, Fig.240(7), commences by the external dorsal vein of the foo°t, which communicates by quite a large branch with the internal dor- sal vein; thus a sort of an arch is formed, from the extremi- ties of which the saphenous veins take their origin. It passes backwards and upwards around the lower and posterior sur- face of the_external malleolus to the outer border of the tendo- Achillis; it then ascends on the back of the leg over the gastrocnemius muscle to the popliteal region. It receives on the dorsum of the foot, at the outer part of the ankle-joint, the small veins which correspond to those received by the internal saphenous. It is accompanied by the external saphenous nerve which the vein crosses twice in its course, passing between it and the skin. There are several cutaneous nerves distributed to the in- tegument on the back and inner part of the leg. They have been noticed incidentally in connection with the dissection of the thigh and the popliteal region. The CoMMUNiOANS Tibialis, a branch of the internal popliteal, and the Communioans Peronei, a branch of the external popliteal. Fig. 235, were observed in the dissection of the popliteal space. They are very regular in their origin and in the upper part of their course, but not so in the latter part of their course. Sometimes the peroneal communicans merely sends a branch to join the tibial communicans, and then again it terminates in it. They vary as to the point where they perforate the deep fascia, sometimes not doing it Hhtil they reach the lower part of the leg; the distribution, h'owever, is the same. The tibial communicans, after it has received the anastomosing branch from the peroneal commu- nicans, or has been joined by the nerve itself, is by some called the external saphenous. Fig. 235 (e, e). It descends on the outer side of the tendo-Achillis in company with the ex- ternal saphenous vein, to a point behind the external malleo- lus, where it sends ofi' external calcaneal branches to the inte- gument on the heel ; it then continues forwards below the