DISSECTION OF THE THOKAX. 324 They are strong, elastic, and not easily broken. The last one consists of two segments of smaller circles, united at their inner extremities. Each of these segments is the commence- ment of one of the bronchi. The fibrous tissue is the yellow elastic kind. It forms a com- plete tube, which is attached to the cricoid cartilage above, and is lost below in the bronchi. The cartilaginous rings are imbedded In it, and are more thickly covered by it on their external than on their internal surface ; hence the difference in the prominence of the rings on the two surfaces. On the inside of the muscular portion of the tube, the elastic tissue forms, apparently, longitudinal folds, which, however, ^result from the fibres of this tissue being arranged in fasciculi. The use of the elastic tissue in the trachea is "^tery evident. It con- tributes greatly to its strength, and, by its elasticity, prevents displacement of the organs with which the trachea is connected above and below, when the head is thrown backwards. The trachea may be stretched to the extent of an inch or more, and recover its natural length as soon as the force is removed. The muscular fibres are situated behind, being attached to the ends of the cartilaginous rings. They have a transverse direction, and belong to the non-striated or involuntary class of muscles. They approximate the ends of the cartilages, and thus diminish the size of the tube. They also form a flattening of the trachea behind where it rests upon the oesophagus, which may facilitate the passage of the food to the stomach. The mucous membrane of the trachea is continuous with that of the larynx above, and that of the bronchi below. _ It is thin and transparent, and adheres closely to the subjacent tissues. It is perforated by numerous small foramina, through which the secretion from the tracheal glands is poured out upon the inner surface of the trachea. The tracheal glands consist of numerous small glandular bodies, situated in the parietes of the trachea. Those found behind, in the membranous part, are the largest. They are placed outside of the muscular layer, between it and the fibrous layer. The others are contained in the fibrous tissue between the rings. . . ^ . The bronchi may be regarded as a continuation ot tlie tra- chea in two divisions. They have the same elements, with the same arrangement in their structure. The left bronchus