OF THE LAEYNX. 201 brane wbicb extend between tbese cartilages. They are more strongly developed in the larynx of some of the lower animals. The Thyko-Arytenoideus, Fig. 84 (n), is situated be- tween the ala of the thyroid cartilage, and the vocal chords and ventricle of the larynx. To expose this muscle, it is ne- cessary to remove the posterior part of one of the alas of the thyroid car- tilage, by dividing it vertically a short distance behind the median line, and disarticulating it from the cricoid. It is separated from the cartilage by some loose areolar tissue, which must be carefully dissected away. The Crico-Aeytenoideus La- teralis, Fig. 84 (is), may be ex- posed by the same dissection. It arises from the upper border of the cricoid cartilage, just on the inside of the surface on which rests the ala of the thyroid cartilage, and passes obliquely backwards to be inserted into the base of the arytenoid. The Mucous Membrane of the larynx is continuous through its superior orifice with that of the pharynx, and, through its lower opening, with that of the trachea. It follows all its elevations and depres- sions. The lateral boundaries of the glottis are formed by folds of this membrane, which extend from the arytenoid cartilages obliquely up- wards and forwards to the sides of the epiglottis, thus leaving an opening between them of a triangular shape, with the base formed by the epiglottis. There are quite a number of mucous glands in the larynx, especially about the ventricles and glottis. The Ventricles, Fig. 85 (g), of the larynx are two pouches, one situated on each side of the rima glottldis, and lined Fig. 84. A Vertical Section of the Lartnx to show some of its Muscles.—1. Cornu majus of the thyroid cartilage. 2. Its superior border. 3. Section of its body. 4. Its internal sur- face. 5. Arytenoid cartilage. 6. Posterior surface of the thyroid cartilage. 7, 8, 9. Arytenoid muscles. 10, 11, 12. Thyro-arytenoid muscle. 13. Crico-arytenoideus latera- lis muscle. 14. Cricoid carti- lage. 15,16,17. Crico-aryte- noideus posticus. 18,19. First rings of the trachea as united by ligament.