DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 306 inner surface of the infundibulum is smooth, which facilitates the passage of the blood from the ventricle into the pul- monary artery. The term locus jolanus has been applied to this surface. The mouth of the pulmonary artery is situated at the upper part of the infundibulum, and about three-fourths of an inch from the opening into the auricle, from which it is sepa- rated by a muscular elevation. It is about three-fourths of an inch in diameter, is round, and surrounded by a fibrous zone to which are attached muscular fibres of the walls of the ventricle, the middle coat of the artery, and the semilunar valves. To examine the semilunar valves and the sinuses of Val- salva, the pulmonary artery must be slit up for an inch or more from its commencement. The semilunar, or sigmoid valves, at the mouth of the pul- monary artery, are similar in appearance and structure to those at the mouth of the aorta. Fig 134 (i, 2, 3), They are three in number. They consist of folds of the lining mem- brane of the ventricle and artery, inclosing a fibrous tissue similar to the middle coat of the latter. When they are de- pressed and made tense, each presents a smooth convex sur- face towards the ventricle, and a concave surface towards the artery. In the centre of the free border of each valve is a small nodule or sesamoid body, named coi'pus Arantii, Fig. 134, c. When the valves are depressed and these small bodies are brought in apposition in the centre, a perfect closure of the mouth of the artery is secured. The semilunar valves, although thin and apparently very delicate, are capable of resisting a great deal of force. They offer no resistance to the passage of the blood from the ventricle into the artery, but effectually prevent its return from the latter into the former. The sinuses of Valsalva, Fig. 134, s, t, t, consist of three small pouches, situated at the commencement of the pulmonary artery, and, also, as will be seen, at the commencement of the aorta. They are formed, by dilatations, in the coats of the artery, between which and the concave surfaces of the valves they are placed. They secure the closure of the valves by allowing the blood to get between them and the walls of the artery. They are more distinct in old than in young per- sons.