SOFT PAKTS ON THE UPPEE PAET OF CRANIUM. 47 lachrymal ducts, lachrymal sac, and nasal duct, the conjunc- tiva is continuous with the hning membrane of the nasal fossa; and as the former is prolonged into the lachrymal gland through its excretory ducts, there is a direct sympathetic connection established between that gland and the mucous membrane of the nose. The appendages of the eye, which have just been described, deserve the careful attention of the student. They are fre- quently the seat of diseases which require surgical operations. A minute examination of the structure of the eyelids, and the lachrymal passages especially, is important. Sect. III.—Dissection of the soft paets on the uppee PAET OF THE CeANIUM. This region is included within the circumference of a line commencing just above the root of the nose, and extending round the head through the eyebrows, along the zygomatic arches, and just above the ears back to the occipital protuber- ance. It is subdivided into the Frontal, Temporal, Auricular, and Occipital regions. The parts to be studied in this dissec- tion are: the integuments, the cellulo-adipose layer, the tem- poral fascia, the occipito-frontal muscle, the upper part of the orbicularis palpebrarum, the temporal muscle shove the zygo- matic arch, the attollens aurem, the attrahens aurem, the retra- hens aurem, the cranial branches of the occipital, temporal, auricular, supra-orbital and facial arteries, and their corres- ponding veins, the cranial branches of the occipital, facial, and trifacial nerves, and the pericranium. In removing the skin, an incision should be made from the root of the nose along the median line to the occipital pro- tuberance, and another at right angles to this, extending down to the ear. The skin should then be dissected off" in two flaps. The different layers which cover the cranium should be dis- sected on one side, and the nerves and vessels on the other. The integument which is covered with hair adheres closely to the cellulo-adipose layer, and some care is requisite to separ- ate them. The Cellulo-adipose Layee is the thickest and most dense on the upper and posterior part of the head. Numerous