DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 223 should replace tlie muscles which have been partially de- tached, and get a distinct idea of the boundaries of the axilla, and the relations of the vessels and nerves to these boundaries. This is a most important region, and cannot be too carefully studied with reference to abscesses or tumors occurring in the axilla, fractures of the clavicle, luxations of the head of the humerus, ligation of the axillary artery, &c. The coraco- brachialis and the two heads of the biceps flexor have been- exposed, to some extent, but the dissection of these muscles had better be postponed till the arm has been detached from the trunk. Sect. IL—Dissection of the Back. The subject should now be turned over, so that the back can be dissected preparatory to removing the upper ex- tremity. It will not interfere materially with the dissection of the head and neck, and lower extremities, whenever it is done, as those who are dissecting these parts can attend to the dissection of the back almost as well at one time as ano- ther. When several are dissecting on. the same subject, some arrangement should be entered into in the dissection of the .back, by which some of the class may be at work while the rest are engaged in reading a description of the parts to be examined. In this way, each member of the class may have the full benefit of the dissection. The subject should be placed on the forepart, with, the tho- rax elevated, by placing blocks beneath it. The muscles are to be made tense by placing the subject in such a position as will effect this object, which can be readily ascertained by the student himself. It may be necessary to place a small block under the pelvis, or to allow the head to hang over the end of the table. The arms and shoulder are to be so placed as to put the muscles attached to the clavicle, sca- pula, and humerus on the stretch. It is impossible to make a good dissection of the back unless the position of the differ- ent parts concerned is properly attended to. The first incision is to be made through the skin and in the median line from the occiput to the lower part of the sacrum. If it be intended to examine the subcutaneous fascia, it is a matter of little consequence in what direction