102 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK. anteriorly with the conjunctiva, with which it is connected by loose areolar tissue, except near the cornea; just behind this, with the tendons of the muscles of the eye; and more posterior- ly, with fat and areolar tissue; its internal surface is in appo- sition with the choroid coat and ciliary ligament. It is con- nected by means of the neurilemma of the optic nerve, with the dura mater, and the periosteum of the orbit. The Coenea, Fig. 25 (2), is perfectly smooth and transpa- rent, being adapted to the transmission of rays of light. It consists of the segment of a sphere of about seven lines in diameter. The two surfaces of the cornea are not exactly parallel, it being thicker in the centre than at the margin; hence it acts to some extent as a lens. It is composed of the four following layers, going from without inwards: The conjunctiva, the pro- per cornea, the elastic cornea, and the aqueous membrane. The continuation of the conjunctiva over the cornea is proved by maceration, by disease, and by the case of animals which shed their skins. This layer is composed of cells which contain a limpid fluid. The proper cornea consists of from sixty to seventy lamellae, connected by a delicate areolar tissue, which contains a vapor or fluid. When the lamellse are pressed together and this fluid displaced, the cornea is rendered -opaque until the pressure is removed, and the fluid restored to its natural condition. The proper cornea is blended with the sclerotica. The elastic cornea is a thin, transparent lamina, lining the concave surface of the proper cornea. It is not made opaque by maceration or by boiling; the shape of the cornea is said to depend on it. Its margin projects in be- tween the sclerotica and ciliary ligament. The aqueous layer is a portion of the thin delicate membrane, which lines the chambers of the eye, and secretes the aqueous humor. After death the cornea becomes flaccid on account of the aqueous humor transuding through it. A molecular change in the fluid between the lamellse of the proper cornea has been supposed to be the cause of the dimness of the eye which occurs in the moribund state. The structure of the proper cornea is regarded as a modified form of white fibrous tissue; that of the elastic cornea is not well understood. The cornea is very sparingly supplied with bloodvessels and nerves ; wounds of it, however, generally heal by the first in-