POSTERIOR AND INNER PART OF THE LEG. 553 Having reflected the integument from the incision made in the median line to a line corresponding to the fibula and external malleolus on the outer side, and to the inner angle of the tibia and internal malleolus on the inner side, the cuta- neous vessels and nerves should be examined. If it be de- cided to dissect the internal saphenous nerve and vein in connection with the back of the leg, then the internal flap must be raised as far as the anterior angle or spine of the tibia. Special care is requisite in raising the integument that the superficial fascia be left in order that the cutaneous vessels and nerves may not be injured or destroyed before they have been dissected. There are no arteries in the superficial fascia that require particular notice. The veins to be examined in the superficial fascia are the two saphenous, external and internal. The latter was dis- sected in the upper part of its course in connection with the thigh, and the former, with the popliteal space. They both commence on the dorsum of the foot, and are subcutaneous to within a very short distance of their termination, the one in the femoral, and the other in the popliteal vein. They communicate freely with each other on the leg, and sometimes the external joins the internal instead of the popliteal. They contain very few valves, which may contribute to the forma- tion of varix, and also tend to prevent the obliteration of the veins, as they can, in the absence of valves, more readily empty themselves by means of collateral branches; the in- ternal has from two or three to six valves^ and the external only two. The Internal Saphenous Vein, Fig. 208, arises by the internal dorsal vein of the foot, passes backwards and upwards on the inner part of the dorsum, and in front of the ankle- joint to the anterior part of the internal malleolus, and thence along the inner angle of the tibia to the internal and poste- rior part of the knee-joint. In this part of its course it re- ceives branches from both sides of it. In the foot it commu- nicates with the deep plantar vein, and receives the superficial veins of the inner part of the plantar portion of the foot, including the internal calcaneal veins. Sometimes the last- named veins form a trunk which passes upwards behind the internal malleolus, and there unites with the saphenous 47 ^