DISSECTION OF AETICULATIONS OF PELVIS. 535 Dissection of the Aeticulations of the Pelyis. The pelvis is articulated above with the vertebral column, and below with the femora. The degree of mobility allowed by these articulations is very different. Between the bones of the pelvis, except between the sacrum and coccyx, no mo- tion is required, unless it be in the female during parturition. The sacro-vertebral articulation is formed by the last lumbar vertebra and the sacrum. With the exception of the sacro- vertebral and ilio-vertebral ligaments, the connecting media are the same as between the different vertebras. The Sacro-Yeetebral Ligament, Fig. 220 (2), is of a triangular shape, and extends from the transverse process of the last lumbar vertebra to the upper or horizontal surface of the corresponding ala of the sacrum. Its fibres spread out towards the sacro-iliac symphysis. The Ilio-Veetebral Ligament, Fig. 220 (3), of a trian- gular form, extends from the transverse processes of the last two lumbar vertebras to the crest of the ilium. It fills up a notch that would otherwise exist at this point. Sometimes there are two of these ligaments on the same side. The sacro-coccygeal articulation presents two ligaments, one before and the other behind; and a thin layer of cartilage placed between the two bones, where a small synovial sac is sometimes met with, especially in the female. The Anterior Saceo-Coccygeal Ligament is composed of irregular fibres, and is much thinner than the posterior. The PosTEETOE Saceo-Coccygeal Ligament, Fig. 232 (10), is quite a thick, strong ligament. It extends downwards over the different pieces of the coccyx, closes in the lower extremity of the sacral canal, and protects the last nervous cords of the medulla spinalis. The mobility of this articulation is said to be greater in the female than in the male; and in women who have borne children, its mobility is preserved for a much longer period of life than in those who have not. If it were not for the sacro-sciatic ligaments, the motion between the sacrum and coccyx would be greater than it is. The number of coccygeal articulations vary greatly in