264 THE UPPER EXTREMITY. alls, palmaris longus, and flexor sublimis digitorum. Tlie depth and direction of it in this part of its course should be observed. In the lower two-thirds of the forearm it is super- ficial, and situated on the radial side of the flexor carpi ulna- ris, which may serve as a guide for Ending it. The flexor sublimis lies on the outer side, and the flexor profundus be- hind it. The median nerve is separated from the artery at first by the coronoid head of the pronator radii teres, and below this it is situated to the outer side of it. It gives off a recurrent branch, Fig. 112 (n, is), which usually divides into an anterior and posterior. The anterior is small, and is distributed in front of the joint; the posterior is larger, and passes up beneath the flexor sublimis, to the notch between the olecranon process and internal condyle, where it meets with the ulnar nerve. It anastomoses with the inferior profunda and anastomotic branches of the bra- chial artery, and also sends small branches to the interior of the joint. Just below the origin of the recurrent, it gives off the^ Interosseous Artery, Fig. 112 (19). This soon divides- into the anterior and posterior interosseous; the/ormer passes down the forearm resting on the interosseous ligament, while the latter perforates the ligament, and is distributed to the muscles on the back of the limb. These will be examined at another time. There are no other branches given off from the ulnar, which are named, until it reaches the carpus, where it sends off a small metacarpal branch, which goes to the dorsum of the little finger, and carpal branches, which anas- tomose on the carpus, both in front and behind, with corre- sponding branches of the radial artery. The ulnar artery leaves the forearm by passing over the annular ligament close to the radial side of the pisiform bone, where it is covered by a few ligamentous fibres. The ulnar, as was stated in connection with the bifurcation of the brachial artery, may commence at any point on the arm. An important anomaly is occasionally met with in its position; instead of passing beneath the muscles it may pass over thera, or all of them except the palmaris longus. In this case it may be even superficial to the aponeurosis of the forearm. It also varies greatly in size; the interosseous or radial, or both of them, being'at the same time larger or smaller than