507 ANTERIOR PART OF THE THIGH. line of the thigb down to the patella, and dissect it off from the muscles by cutting in the direction of their fibres. The Eectus, Fig. 211 (e), arises bj two short tendinous heads, one from the anterior inferior spinous process of the ilium, and the other from the superior margin of the acetabulum. From this double origin it proceeds down- wards on the front part of the thigh to the patella, into which it is inserted. It is broader and thicker in the middle than above or below. Its tendon, at first is somewhat round, but expands as it descends, and is prolonged much further on the anterior than on the posterior part of the muscle, while in the lower part the tendon extends further up behind than it does in front. The fibres pass off obliquely on both sides from the middle line, and hence it is called a penniform muscle. The action of the rectus is to assist in extending the leg on the thigh, or in flexing the thigh on the pelvis. The rectus may now be divided in the middle and turned upwards and downwards, and the dissection of the external' circumflex artery completed. The Vastus Externus, Fig. 211 (7), arises around the base of the trochanter major, from the linea aspera, from the ridge which runs from it to the trochanter, and also from the external intermuscular septum of the fascia lata. It is inserted into the patella and the tendon of the rectus. The direction of its fibres increase in obliquity from above down- wards, the upper fibres descending almost perpendicularly, while the lower are nearly transverse. It is separated from the crureus beneath it by vessels, nerves, and areolar tissue; this space should be observed with reference to the collection of pus in it. _ The Vastus Internus, Fig. 211 (s), is placed on the inner side of the thigh, and is not separated by any natural divi- sion from the crureus. It arises from the linea aspera and from a rough line extending from the linea aspera to the trochanter nainor, and also from the internal intermuscular septum. It is inserted into the patella and the tendon of the rectus. The crureus, Fig. 214 (, 5), arises from the anterior surface of the femur, commencing above at the anterior intertrochanteric ridge, and extending downwards between the origins of the vasti to a short distance above the condyles. It is inserted into