OUTER PART OF LEG, DORSUM OF THE FOOT. 581 muscles, long and short. They cover the whole of the ex- ternal surface of the fibula except about two inches and a half at the lower end, where the bone is subcutaneous, and can be distinctly felt beneath the skin. When compared with the tibia, the fibula will be seen to have but little subcutaneous surface; it gives origin or attachment to muscles on every side, while but two of the three sides of the tibia are thus occupied. The fibula belongs essentially to the foot, the tibia to both the thigh and foot, perhaps more, however, to the former than to the latter. Only one muscle passes over the knee-joint to be attached to the fibula, while nine will be found'passing over it to be attached to the tibia; the reverse is true to some extent of the attachments of those muscles to the tibia and fibula which pass over the ankle-joint to the foot. The musculo-cutaneous nerve, Fig. 248 (i), one of the termi- nal divisions of the external popliteal, should now be sought in the substance of the peroneus longus, in order that it may be traced through this muscle to the space between it and the extensor longus digitorum. This nerve was noticed in the dissection of the superficial fascia and muscles on the anterior part of the leg, and on the dorsum of the foot; it only remains now to examine it in its course through the peroneus longus, and the branches which it gives off to the peronei muscles. The Peroneus Longus, Fig. 2i4 (7), arises from the ante- rior and outer surface of the head of the fibula, from a small portion of the external surface of the head of the tibia, from the outer surface of the upper half of the fibula below the head, from the intermuscular septum on each side of it, and from the fascia which covers it. From these different points of origin the fibres pass downwards to end in a ribbon-shaped tendon near the middle of the leg, where it is closely applied to the peroneus brevis; becoming narrower, the tendon de- scends to the groove behind the external malleolus, where it passes under the external annular ligament in a canal with the short peroneus; it then turns forwards to a groove on the outer border of the ciiboid bone, through which it passes to enter the sole of the foot; from this point it is directed ob- liquely forwards and inwards to the base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe, into which it is inserted, Fig. 266 (s). It is covered by ligamentous fibres at the outer border of the cuboid bone, and also in the sole of the foot; these fibres