DISSECTION OF THE AXILLAKY REGION. 209 Fig. 89. of the axilla, and also with others in the cavity of the thorax. The size of the gland varies greatly. In the female it is much larger than in the male. The nipple is situated a little to the inner side of the centre. It is surrounded by an are- ola, the tint of which, in the female, depends on several cir- cumstances, as complexion, menstruation, pregnancy, &c. The surface of the mam- ma appears smooth, the spaces between the lobules being filled with fat. There is not, however, usually much fat beneath the skin around the nipple. The lactiferous tubes, Fig. 89, in the nipple, vary from fifteen to twenty-three or four. These tubes are wholly independent of each other; so, also, are the various smaller ducts of the different lobules, which pro- ceed from the radicles, and unite to form them; hence, if one of these tubes shall become closed during lactation, the milk will necessarily be accumulated in all the smaller tubes of which that is a common outlet. . There are small glands on and around the nipple, for the purpose of supplying a lubricating secretion. The importance of supporting the mam- m£e during lactation, and especially if suf- fering from inflammation, will be suggested by their position and means of attachment to the thorax. ' There is generally very little fat in the subcutaneous fascia or areolar tissue in this region. The deep or special fascice consist of one investing the pecto- ralis major, and another covering the deltoid. The j^ectoral fascia is continuous from the lower border of the great pecto- ral muscle, across the axilla to the latissimus dorsi; also with the fascia of the arm. Externally, it dips down between the deltoid and pectoralis major muscles, along with the deltoid fascia, which is inserted below into the deltoid ridge, and ia 18* A Vertical Sec- tion OF THE Mammary Gland, showing its Thickness and the Origins of the Lac- tiferous Ducts.—1, 2, 3. Its pectoral sur- face. 4. Section of the skin on the surfiice of the gland. 5. The thin skin covering the nip- ple. 6. The lobules and lobes composing the gland. 7. The lac- tiferous tubes coming from the lobules. 8. The same tubes col- lected in the nipple.