FEMALE OKGANS OF GENERATION. 478 the urethra is situated in the median line and midway between the nymphae and just above the upper projecting edge of the vagina. It is surrounded by a slight elevation or ridge tormed bythe mucous membrane, and, beneath this, by a band of fibres which cause a slight constriction. It is gene- rally closed. The HYMEN, Fig. 200 (7, 8), consists of a fold of mucous membrane placed at the entrance of the vagina. It varies in shape, being sometimes crescentic with the concavity looking upwards; and, again, consisting of a transverse band with an opening above and below it; or it may form a ring having an opening in the centre with a fringed margin. It may et?- tirely close the external orifice of the vagina so as to prevent the escape of the menstrual discharge. It is very rarely met with in the dissecting-room. Its absence does not afford any certain evidence of the loss of virginity. The CARUNCUL^ MYRTiFORMEs, Fig. 201 (25, 25), are the remains of the hymen. They consist of small reddish bodies attached to the sides and the lower part of the opening into the vagina. Vagina. The VAGINA is placed between the vulva and the uterus, being from four and a half to five and a half inches in length; as it is curved, with the concavity looking forwards, its pos- terior wall is somewhat longer than the anterior. Its anterior wall corresponds to the bladder and urethra, while the pos- terior wall corresponds to the cavity of the peritoneum, the rectum, and the perineum. Its axis corresponds to that of the lower part of the pelvis. It is larger above than below; in this respect it is the reverse of the rectum. Its anterior and posterior walls are in apposition, although in drawings they are represented as separated some distance from each other. The cervix of the uterus projects into it at its upper extremity, the posterior lip more than the anterior. This results from its attachment to the uterus being a little higher behind than before. It is lined by a vascular mucous membrane. Transverse rugcB are observed on its upper and lower surfaces. These do not, like the rugas of mucous membranes generally, disap-