345 PARIETES OF THE ABDOMEN. it from near the origin of its upper head, obliquely down- wards to the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, nearly in the direction of the fibres of the internal oblique muscle, and then turning one flap forwards, and the other backwards, detach it from the ribs and the crest of the ilium as the dissection proceeds. Whichever mode is adopted, the fascia which separates it from the internal oblique should be dissected up with it. The Obliquus Internus, Fig. 146 (i e), has an extensive 'origin and a more extensive insertion. It arises from the fascia lumborum, the crest of the ilium, and the external two- thirds of Poupart's ligament. Its fibres diverge so as to be inserted into the lower five or six ribs, the xiphoid carti- lage, the linea alba, the symphysis pubis, the body of the •pubic bone, and the linea pectinea. The posterior fibres .ascend obliquely to the ribs, and the upper part of the linea alba; the middle have a transverse direction, while the ante- rior pass forwards and downwards, some to the lower part of the linea alba, others to the body of the pubis and the linea pectinea. It will be observed that while all the lower and anterior part of the external oblique, to the outer side of the rectus muscle, is aponeurotic, the corresponding portion of the internal oblique is muscular, and that in the upper and anterior part the reverse is true. The tendon of the internal oblique, above a point midway between the umbilicus and symphysis pubis, divides into two layers, the anterior of which passes in front of the rectus, and unites with the tendon of the external oblique about three- fourths of an inch outside of the linea alba, while the ^posterior layer passes behind the rectus and joins the tendon of the transversalis muscle. The anterior layer extends higher up in front of the rectus than the posterior does behind it. The lower part of the tendon does not split, but the whole of it passes in front of the rectus. The lowest portion of the tendon unites with the corresponding portion of the tendon of the transversalis, to form the conjoined tendon^ Fig. 146 (i 9), of these two muscles. That part of the conjoined ten- • don which is inserted into the linea pectinea is placed directly behind the external abdominal ring, and, as will be seen in the dissection of the inguinal region, forms an important part in the anatomy of direct inguinal hernia.