DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. 469 than aji their origin. Their fibres are so intermixed with spongy tissue, adipose substance, and bloodvessels, that it is often difficult to obtain a clear and satisfactory view of them ; and the difficulty is not unfrequently augmented by the blood that escapes from the vessels which are divided; they are also very feebly developed in some subjects; so that if the student does not succeed, in his first attempt to expose these muscles, in getting so distinct a view of them as he might expect from the description given of them in books, he should not be discouraged. In the whole body there is, perhaps, no other region in the dissection of which so much depends for success upon the character of the subject, as the perineum. If the subject be very fat, or the veins distended with blood, or the muscles pale and feebly developed, it is almost impossible for any one to make a satisfactory dissection or demonstra- tion of the parts found in this region. As the membranous portion of the urethra is placed between the two layers of the muscle of Guthrie, it will be compressed when that muscle contracts; it may also be drawn downwards, which, however, is counteracted by the action of the muscle of Wilson, which tends to draw it upwards. The action of the latter seems to be in part to steady the former. The glands of Cowper are compressed by the lower fibres of the muscles of Guthrie. A thin layer of fascia will be found separating the posterior fibres of the muscle of Guthrie from the anterior fibres of the levator ani. This intermediate fascia is best observed by carefully removing the anterior fasciculi of the levator before the muscle of Guthrie has been disturbed. Like all other intermuscular septa or sheaths of muscles, it varies very much in thickness in different subjects. Besides the compressores urethrse muscles there will be found surrounding the membranous portion of the urethra an erectile, elastic fibrous tissue, also several veins or a plexus of veins. The dorsal veins of the penis, after perforating the sub-pubic ligament and deep perineal fascia, pass through this region close to the arch of the pubes. Fig. 198 (14) to reach the vesico-prostatic plexus of veins. Before proceeding further with the dissection upwards the upper surface of the pelvic fascia must be exposed by the removal of the peritoneum and the subperitoneal areolar tissue; which can be done by partly tearing and partly dis- secting them offi That portion of the pelvic fascia which