SUPEEFICIAL PAETS OF THE NECK. 167 course, that no rule can be laid down for avoiding it in opening the windpipe. There are no nerves in front of the trachea which deserve any special notice. It is separated from the muscles by a layer of the deep fascia, by areolar tissue, and by the thyroid gland. The Thyeoid Gland consists of two lobes, connected across the upper rings of the trachea, usually the second and third. It is of a reddish color and exceedingly vascular. The lobes are situated more on the sides than in front of the trachea. They are somewhat conical in shape; the small end being above. Each one extends from about the sixth ring up to the thyroid cartilage, and projects backwards between the sheath of the common carotid and the wind- pipe. The portion connecting the two lobes is called the isthmus. This varies much in size, a point which deserves special notice in reference to tracheotomy. A small body projects upwards from the isthmus, or from one of the lobes called the pyramid, and this again is connected to the hyoid bone by a fibrous structure, which, from its resemblance to muscle in some cases, has been called the levator glandulce thyroidece. There is perhaps no organ in the body which presents so great a variety in its development as the thyroid gland. It is not necessary to specify these variations, as the student will be able to note them as he happens to meet with them in his dissections. Whatever may be the office of the thyroid gland, whether of great or little importance in the economy, it is liable to abnormal or pathological changes, which are of the utmost consequence to the physician. It has no excretory duct, and, consequently, cannot be classified with the true glands which elaborate and secrete a known fluid. Its arteries are derived from the subclavian and external carotid. At this stage of the dissection, the student will observe merely the terminal branches of the thyroid arteries. Those of the inferior thyroid will be seen entering for the most part the under surface of the lower portion of the gland, while those of the superior penetrate the anterior surface of the upper part. This mode of en- tering the gland seems to result from, or at least to corre- spond to, the superficial and deep situation of the superior and inferior thyroid arteries.