■ airiTHE LOWER EXTREMITY. from the posterior tibial vessels and nerve and tlie deep layer of muscles. It is an extension of the one that covers the pophteus muscle, downwards to the foot, where it is blended with the internal and external annular ligaments. Laterally, it is attached externally to the fibula, and internally to the inner border or angle of the tibia. It binds down the muscles which are placed under it; and should be observed with re- ference to the formation of pus beneath it, and the direction it would be most likely to take. It shows the depth of the posterior tibial artery, and hence may be made an important guide for finding that vessel. When this fascia is removed, the following parts will be exposed:— The popliteal artery will be seen at the lower border of the popliteus muscle, dividing into the anterior and posterior tibial arteries. The former is appropriated to the anterior part of the leg and the dorsum of the foot; the latter is dis- tributed mainly to the back of the leg and the plantar por- tion of the foot. The Posterior Tibfal Artery, Fig. 239 (u, 12), com- mences at the bifurcation of the popliteal at the lower border of the popliteus muscle, and extends down the leg to the groove formed by the internal malleolus and the os calcis, where, beneath the internal annular ligament, or the origin of the abductor poUicis, it divides into the external and internal plantar arteries. At first it is inclined inwards for a short distance, after which it has a vertical direction to its termi- nation. In the upper part of its course it rests on the tibialis posticus, in the middle on the flexor longus digitorum com- munis, and in the lower part it is in apposition with the tibia and the ankle-joint. In the upper two-thirds of its course it is covered by the gastrocnemius and soleus muscles; in the lower third it lies along the inner side of the tendo-Achillis and the OS calcis, and is covered only by the integument and the different fascias of this region, including the internal annular ligament. It is placed midway between the internal malleo- lus and the os calcis, being separated from the former by the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum communis and the tibialis posticus, and from the latter by the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis. The posterior tibial nerve is at first on the outer side, then behind, and in the lower part of the leg on the inner side of it, where it is separated from the artery by one of the venas comites.