.96 , DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK. lachrymal ; the inferior, which, descends behind the tendon ^ of the orbicularis to the lower lid, and anastomoses with the infra-orbital. The nasal artery runs over the tendon of the orbicularis to the integument covering the side of the nose, and anasto- moses with the facial. The frontal goes to the muscles and integument of the forehead. The Optic Nerve enters the orbit through the optic fora- men, and proceeds to the ball of the eye, which it enters just inside of its axis. As it passes through the optic foramen, it receives an investment from the dura mater, which leaves it again to become continuous with the sclerotic coat. The Ophthalmic Yein, Fig. 19, c, is formed by branches corresponding to the arteries in the orbit. It leaves the orbit between the two heads of the rectus externus, passing through the sphenoidal fissure to terminate in the cavernous sinus. At the inner and anterior part of the orbit, it communicates with the frontal and facial veins. The vessels and nerves which enter the ball of the eye, and which have been examined, may now be detached and turned backwards, to facilitate the dissection of the parts in the lower portion of the orbit. The Internal Rectus Muscle, Fig. 23 (lo), arises from the margin of the optic foramen, and passes along the inner part of the orbit, to be inserted into the sclerotica just behind the cornea. It is partially separated from the eyeball by ■the inferior oblique. A branch of the motor oculi nerve enters its ocular surface. The External Rectus, Fig. 23 (i i), arises by two heads connected by a tendinous arch, beneath which the motor oculi and nasal branch of the fifth enter the orbit. It occu- pies the outer part of the orbit, and is inserted into the scle- rotica in the same manner as the other recti. This muscle is supplied by the sixth nerve, or abducens, which enters the orbit between the motor oculi and ophthalmic vein, and pene- trates the ocular surface of the muscle by several filaments. The Inferior Rectus, Fig. 23 (i 3), arises in common with the internal rectus and lo^^er head of the external rectus, and extends along the lower part of the orbit to the eyeball.