281 THE ELBOW-JOINT, interosseous muscles appropriated to the middle finger. One will move it towards the forefinger, and the other towards the ring finger. The terms "abductor" and "adductor" cannot be applied to these two muscles, unless it is done with reference to the median line of the body. The tendons of the interosseous muscles are connected to those of the long extensors of the fingers, and serve to keep the latter applied to the dorsal surface of the phalanges; thus supplying the place of fibrous sheaths. When the fingers are flexed, they lose the power of abducting or ad- ducting them. They contribute to the strength of the meta- carpo-phalangeal articulations. The adductor and abductor of the thumb differ from those of the fingers in having no attachment to its metacarpal bone. The fibres of the ad- ductor pollicis 'have a direction nearly transverse to the axis of the thumb, which adds greatly to the power of this muscle. The remaining articulations of the upper extremity may now be examined. The Elbow-joint is formed by the humerus above, and the ulna and radius below. The radius and ulna also articulate with each other so as to form a movable joint. The articular surface of the humerus is adapted to flexion of the forearm, and, at the same time, allows the radius to rotate on the ulna. Thus it will be seen that this articula- tion admits of two distinct movements. It contains only one synovial membrane, which lines the inner surface of the parietes of the joint. The ligaments are the following:— The External Lateral Ligament, Fig. 123 (4), arises from the external condyle of the humerus, passes downwards, and is inserted into the annular ligament. The Internal Lateral Ligament, Fig. 122 (2), arises from the internal condyle of the humerus; its fibres diverge as they pass downwards to be inserted into the base of the coronoid process of the ulna. The Anterior Ligament, Fig. 123 (7), is thin and mem- branous. Its fibres arise from the margin of the fossa for the reception of the coronoid process of the ulna, pass downwards in front of the joint, and are inserted into the 24*