SPHENO-MAXILLARY REGION. 113 maxillary articulation. The buccal nerve usually arises by two roots, which unite after perforating the pterygoideus externus; it then runs downwards and forwards over this muscle to the buccinator; at the anterior border of the masseter it becomes superficial, and is distributed to the buccal portion of the face. The posterior deep temporal artery in the first part of its course runs on this muscle; also the buccal artery. The Pterygoideus internus, Fig. 32 (3), is situated deeper and lower down than the externus. It arises from the pterygoid fossa, and passes downwards and somewhat backwards, and is inserted into the internal surface of the angle and ramus of the lower jaw. In form it resembles the masseter. The pterygoid muscles, when they act on both sides, draw the jaw forwards and upwards; and when they act on one side only, they move the jaw laterally, as in grinding the food. The lingual branch^ Fig. 37 (23), of the inferior maxillary nerve will be seen crossing this muscle in a direction from above downwards. The chorda tympani joins the lingual at the posterior border of the mascle, having come from the glenoid fissure to this point, along the deep surface of the^ external pterygoid. The myh-hyoid branch, Fig. 37 (as), of the inferior dental nerve, with a small artery accompanying it, is situated close to the inner surface of the inferior maxilla, being frequently lodged in a groove in the bone just above the insertion of the pterygoideus internus. The pterygoideus externus may now be dissected away so as to expose the following branches of the internal maxillary artery, and inferior maxillary nerve, and the posterior dental branch of the superior maxillary nerve. The main trunk of the artery should first be traced to the pterygo-maxillary fossa. The chorda tympani will be seen crossing the artery almost at right angles to join the lingual nerve. The infe- rior dental artery, Fig. 33 (14), and nerve. Fig. 37 (24), may be easily found as they enter the posterior dental foramen, and traced from this point to their origin. The mylo-hyoid nerve comes from the dental just before it enters the foramen. The middle meningeal artery passes up- wards and forwards to the foramen spinosum, through which It enters the cavity of the cranium. It passes between two 10*