DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 328 and bronclnial vessels, nerves, and absorbents, so that it may- be regarded as representing tlie entire lung. The pulmonary artery accompanies the bronchial ramifica- tions in all their subdivisions, and finally forms a capillary network by anastomosing freely with the radicals of the pul- monary veins in the parietes of the air-cells. The pulmo- nary veins, commencing in the walls of the cells, accompany the bronchial tubes to the root of the lung. The bronchial vessels, nerves, and absorbents are all found ramifying with the air-tubes in the substance of the lung. The nerves are de- rived from the pneumogastric and sympathetic. The ab- sorbent vessels consist of two sets, the deep and the superficial; they terminate in the bronchial glands. The OESOPHAGUS has been noticed in the neck, and also in the posterior mediastinum. It is a muscular tube, com- mencing at the lower orifice of the pharynx and extending to the stomach. It is the smallest section, in diameter, of the alimentary canal, being usually less than an inch. It is narrower above than below, except where it passes through the diaphragm. It is composed of three layers ; a mucous, cellular, and muscular. The mucous mem- brane is a continuation of that of the pha- rynx. It is thrown into longitudinal folds when the cesophagus is empty. The cellukir layer is intermediate to the other two, and allows of a somewhat loose connection be- tween them. The muscular layer, Fig. 140 (i, i, 2, 2), consists of longitudiual and cir- cular fibres; the latter are internal to the former. The longitudinal fibres arise in part from the posterior aspect of the cricoid cartilage, and terminate in the muscular parietes of the stomach. The circular fibres cease at the cardiac orifice of the stomach. They all belong to the involuntary class of muscles. In the superior mediastinum, the oesopha- A ViKW OP A POBTION OF THE (ESOPHAGUS OF AN AdULT, SEEN ON ITS OTTER SIDE —1 1 External or longitudinal muscular fibres. 2, 2. Internal or circular fibres, as shown after the removal of the longitudinal ones. 3, 3. The cut edges of the longitudinal fibres, from which a portion has been removed, so as to show the circular ones. Fig. 140.