DISSECTION OF THE FOEEARM. 269 Fig. 116. lower clo\vn than tlie preceding muscle. The tendons of these two carpal extensors are partly covered bj the supinator longus, and are so closely connected to each other that they appear to form a single tendon until they get near the wrist, where they separate, and, passing beneath the tendons of two of the extensor muscles of the thumb, and then through the same canal in the posterior annular ligament, are inserted, the longior into the base of the meta- carpal bone of the index finger, and the brevior into the metacarpal bone of the second finger. They extend the hand on the forearm, and also abduct it. The groove which their tendons occupy in passing over the radius is lined by a bursa. The Extensor Digitorum Commu- nis, Fig. 116 (s), is placed on the ulnar side of the muscles just described. It arises from the external condyle, from the aponeurosis around it, and from the ulna. About the middle of the fore- arm it divides into four small muscles, each of which ends in a tendon. The four tendons passing through a groove on the radius, and a canal beneath the annular ligament, expand on the back of the hand, being connected to- gether more or less by tendinous fibres, and finally are inserted into all the phalanges. On the dorsum of the fingers they are connected with the -tendons of the interossei and lumbri- The Supehpicial Layer of Muscles op'the posterioii aspect op the Fore- arm.—1. The lower part of the biceps. 2. Part of the brachialis anticus. 3. The lower part of the triceps, inserted into the olecranon. 4. The supinator longus 5. The extensor carpi radialis longior. 6. The extensor carpi radialis brevior 7 The tendons of insertion of these two muscles. 8. The extensor communis digito- rum. 9. The extensor minimi digiti. 10. The extensor carpi ulnaris. 11. The anconeus. 12. Part of the flexor carpi ulnaris. 13. The extensor ossis metacarpi and extensor pnmi internodii muscles lying together. 14. The extensor secundi in- ternodu; its tendon is seen crossing the two tendons of the extensor carpi radialis tongior and brevior. 15. The posterior annular ligament. The tendons of the com- r^he'trBum'/thrLgC ''''''' """^'^ 23*