191 DEEP PARTS OF THE NECK. parts, even if he should find it convenient to examine them repeatedly. His attention in the second dissection of the same parts should be directed more particularly to relational anatomy. The following are some of the points especially deserving of his notice: The operations of laryngotomy, tracheotomy, pharyngotomy, and oesophagotoray; the parts to be cut through, and those to be avoided in these opera- tions ; also the parts which are liable to be divided in attempts to commit suicide by cutting the throat. The young physician is liable to be called upon to treat these wounds without being allowed time to consult his books, and consequently he should make himself thoroughly acquainted, when he has the opportunity, with the exact loca- tion and the relations of all the parts liable to be implicated in such injuries. The application of ligatures to the various arteries of the neck, and the anastomotic connections between them; also the manner in which the circulation will be carried on when any particular artery is obliterated. The formation of tumors, and the effect they will be likely to have on the surrounding parts, whether those parts be vessels and nerves or the windpipe, the oesophagus, &;c. In dissecting the left side, some peculiarities will be met with which do not occur on the right side. These are located in the _ lower part of the neck. They are introduced sepa- rately instead of alluding to them in connection with the de- scription of the right side, as it was thought this method would be less likely to cause embarrassment, especially to the beginner. _ The Left or Geeat Thoracic Duct enters the neck be- hind and internal to the subclavian artery, opposite to the sixth or seventh cervical vertebra; gets behind the internal jugular, and curves outwards, forwards, and downwards to open into the junction of the internal jugular and subclavian veins. If it be not injected, the student may have some difficulty m distinguishing it from the surrounding tissues It is easily found, however, in the abdomen; and, by insert- ing a blowpipe into it there, it may be filled with air, when It will swell up and be readily observed in the neck It varies m its mode of termination; sometimes it opens by two trunks, one into the jugular and the other into the subcla- vian ; or It may open singly into cither one of these veins