i^U DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK. glion of Meckel. It gives oflf the follovang nerves: a fascicu- lus, which communicates with the inferior maxillary; ptery- goid and auricular branches, the latter being a motor and the. former a sensor filament; and several filaments, which connect it with the sympathetic, being sent to the plexus on the middle meningeal artery. Two muscular branches also leave this ganglion, one supplying the tensor tympani, and the other the tensor palati. Posteriorly it gives ofi" the super- ficial petrosal nerve^ which perforates the petrous bone to join the vidian and a branch from the glosso-pharyngeal in the tympanum. This ganglion, like that of Meckel, may be reached from within by cutting away the levator palati muscle, and finding the cartilaginous portion of the Eusta- cTiian tube, near the osseous extremity of which it is situated. Sect. IX.—Dissection of the Ear. The organ of hearing is divided into the external, middle, and internal portions. The first is covered by the skin, the second is lined by mucous membrane, and the third has no external communication. The External Ear, Fig. 38, is divided into the auricle and meatus. The framework of the auricle consists of a fibro-cartilage, which gives to it the peculiar form it presents, and allows of a great degree of flexibility. It is very firmly attached to the margin of the meatus, so much so that the weight of the body may be sustained by the auricles. The following points are to be noticed upon each auricle:— The cranial surface is, generally convex, while the facial surface is concave. The deepest part, that which leads into the meatus, is called the concha. The projection in front of this, and partly covering it, is the tragus. When the tragus is pressed inwards, it covers the meatus. Hairs grow from its posterior surface. A little lower down, behind and opposite to the tragus, is the anti-lragus. This is smaller than the tragus, and separated from it by a deep notch called the notch of the concha, or incisura tragica. The anti-helix is the ridge which commences just above the anti-tragus, curves upwards and forwards to bifurcate, leaving a depression be- tween its divisions called the scaphoid fossa. The external curved border of the ear is the heliv. The helix is separated