36 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK. Fig. 63 (1), of the seventli pair. The branches of the facial have been noticed in the description of the Parotid and Masseteric regions. Those of the fifth pair are the terminal branches of the inferior dental, the buccal, the infra-orbital, and the nasal. The inferior (kntal comes through the mental fora- men, which is situated just below the second bicuspid tooth; the hiiccal enters the buccal region behind the anterior bor- der of the masseter ; the infra-orbital emerges from the infra- orbital foramen in the upper part of the canine fossa; the nasal comes from the inner canthus of the eye, and from the junction of the lower end of the nasal bone with the cartilage. To dissect these parts, the skin must be reflected forwards to the median line, and upwards as far as the root of the nose and the attached border of the lower eyelid. The Platysma Mtoides is lost in the lower part of the face. The posterior fasciculi which cover the facial artery and the lower portions of the parotid gland and masseter muscle, terminate in the subcutaneous areolar tissue and a fasciculus which turns forwards towards the angle of the mouth, called by Santorini the risorius novus. The middle fasciculi blend with the depressor anguli oris and depressor labii inferioris muscles. The anterior fibres mix with those of the opposite side. The superficial fascia may now be removed in detached portions while exposing the muscles, arteries, and nerves. The facial artery, Fig, 1 (i o), is subcutaneous throughout its whole course, except where it passes beneath the zygomatici major and minor muscles, and can be easily traced. Its branches, consisting of the masseteric, mental, inferior and superior coronary and nasal, are irregular in their origin, and must be looked for as the main trunk is dissected from below upwards. The position of the facial artery where it rests upon the inferior maxilla should be noticed, as pressure applied to it at this point will arrest hemorrhage from it or any of its branches. The Orbiculaeis Oris, Fig. 61 (i a), is situated in the lips, the principal part of which it forms. It consists of two fas- ciculi, one for each lip. These blend at the angles of the mouth with the buccinators, and other mascles inserted at these points. To dissect this muscle, the lips must be made tense. Its external surface is mixed, more or less, with fat.