192 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. It may divide into two trunks in tlie tliorax, and wliile one opens in the usual place on tlie left side, tlie other may open into the right subclavian along with the common lymphatic duct of the right side. The Subclavian Arteey on the left side arises from the aorta, and consequently is longer than the one on the right side. The second and third divisions have the same relations as on the right side, but with the first or inner section it is quite different. Its direction is nearly vertical, and it makes, in passing' behind the scalenus anticus, a much shorter turn. It is covered anteriorly by the same parts, although it is deeper seated. The pneumogastric does not pass over it, nor does the inferior laryngeal or recurrent nerve wind around its posterior surface. It is also in relation with the thoracic duct. The Common Carotid arises from the aorta, and therefore is longer than the right. It is nearer to the internal jugular and the oesophagus, and is also in relation to the thoracic duct. Its connections in the thorax will be mentioned when that cavity is examined. The Internal Jugular Yein on the left side requires no special notice. The pneumogastric nerve does not, as before mentioned, pass in front of the subclavian artery as on the right side; nor does it give off the recurrent branch until it has reached the arch of the aorta. The oesophagus projects a little more on the left side than on the right, and hence it is advised that when it is necessary to open it that it should be done on this side. Sect, ni.—Dissection of the Larynx. The larynx is situated in the upper and anterior part of the neck, in front of the pharynx and above the trachea. It presents a regular framework, which is composed of several fibro-cartilages joined together by ligaments. It is supplied with muscles, vessels, nerves, and mucous membrane. Its structure is such that it remains constantly patulous, while the mobility of its cartilages adapts it to the production of the voice. For the purposes of respiration merely, a very