576 THE LOWER EXTREMITY. inner side of the leg, so that by their combined action the toes will be extended in a line directly backwards. Having now examined the muscles on the anterior part of the leg and dorsum of the foot, the deep vessels and nerves found in this region should next be Fig. 245. noticed. To do this it will not, how- ever, be necessary to raise the muscles, for they can be pushed sufficiently to one side or the other to get to the vessels or nerves. The anterior tibial artery and veins, with their branches, are the only vessels; the anterior tibial and the muscular cutaneous, for a short distance, are the only nerves. The Anterior Tibial Artery, Fig. 245 (3,4,5), is one of the divisions of the popliteal artery. It passes im- mediately through an opening in the upper part of the interosseous liga- ment, to get into the anterior interos- seous fossa or space, in which, resting on the anterior surface of the interos- seous ligament, it passes downwards to the ankle-joint, where it terminates in the dorsal artery of the foot. It is placed, in the upper third of its course, between the tibialis anticus and the extensor longus digitorum; below this, down to about the middle of the lower third, it is found between the last- named muscle and the extensor pol- licis proprius, while in the remainder of its course it is placed, at first, be- hind the tendon of the extensor poU- A View of the Anterior Tibial Artery and its Branches.—1, 1, 1. The re- mains of tlie extensor proprius poUicis pedis muscle and tendon. 2, 2, 2, 2. Super- ficial branches from the popliteal artery, known as articular arteries. 3. Anterior tibial artery, as it comes throua;h the interosseous ligament. 4. The same artery, on the middle of the leg. 5. Point where it passes under the extensor proprius tendon above the annul.ar ligament. 6. Anterior recurrent branch. /. Branch to the extensor communis, soleus, and peroneus longus muscles. 8, 8, 8. Other mus- cular branches. 9. Arteria dorsalis pedis, or continuation of the anterior tibial on the foot. 10. A branch of the external maUeolar artery.