OF THE ABDOMEN. 38S is a dilatation called the small cul-de-sac^ Fig. 160, d. Instead of there being a constriction around the cardiac orifice, as there is around the pyloric, the oesophagus expands somewhat as it joins the walls of the stomach. The stomach is everywhere covered by peritoneum, except a narrow space along each of its borders where the laminae of the greater and lesser omenta are separated for the trans- mission of vessels and nerves. This space is diminished in size when the stomach is distended. Perhaps no organ in the body is subject to greater varia- tion in size than the stomach. This is owing, probably, in a great measure, to the habits of the individual in regard to eating. Its coats being very dilatable, yield to a distending force, which may be exerted by the introduction of large quantities of food into the stomach until it has acquired an enormous capacity. It is not unfrequently found very much contracted in the dead subject. It also varies considerably in its relative dimensions, being much longer and narrower in some cases than in others. The stomach has four different layers in its parietes. These differ from each other in structure and in function. In addition to these, it has bloodvessels, nerves, and lym- phatics. The layers are a mucous, a fibro-cellular, a mus- cular, and a serous or peritoneal. The Seeous Coat, as has been seen, is a portion of the peritoneum. It furnishes to the stomach a perfectly smooth surface, which is constantly lubricated with a serous exhala- tion which prevents the occurrence of friction in its move- ments on contiguous surfaces. It also adds strength to its parietes, and, by its reflections, assists in keeping it in its place. The MuscuLAE Coat consists of longitudinal, circular, and oblique fibres. To expose these, the serous layer should be removed while the stomach is distended with air. _ This is to be done partly by tearing and partly by dissecting it off. Frequently, when the stomach is inflated, the fibres can be very distinctly seen without any dissection. This is the case, especially when the muscular layer is strongly deve- loped. The muscular fibres of the stomach belong prmci- pally to the non-striated or involuntary class.