460 OF THE PELVIS. downwards, and corresponds to the integument. The inner •boundary is formed below by the sphincter ani and above by the levator fascia, which covers the levator ani muscle; while the outer boundary is formed below by the gluteus maximns, and above by the obturator fascia, which covers the obturator internus muscle. The anterior boundary is formed by a reflection of the superficial perineal fascia up- wards to join the deep perineal fascia; as the superficial perineal fascia is reflected upwards it is joined to the ante- rior border of both the obturator and the levator fascia. Thus it will be seen that the ischio-rectal fossa is bounded on three sides by fascia, especially the upper part of it. The posterior boundary corresponds to the gluteus maximus and coccygeus muscles, and to the sacro-sciatic ligaments and foramina. When the contents of the ischio-rectal fossa have been removed and its boundaries carefully observed, the student should endeavor to obtain a distinct idea of its relations to the cavity of the abdomen. He should do this before he has attempted to master the anatomy of that portion of the perineum which belongs to the genito-urinary apparatus. As the ischio-rectal fossa is now fairly exposed, a part of the levator fascia should be carefully removed from the levator muscle. Having done this, a portion of the muscle should also be dissected away when another fascia, the pelvic, will be observed. Remove a portion of this and the sub-peritoneal areolar tissue together with the peritoneum itself will be seen. Thus a clear idea of what separates the abdominal cavity from the ischio-rectal fossa will be obtained. It will be seen that, besides the peritoneum and the sub-peritoneal areolar tissue, the bowels are separated from the ischio-rectal fossa simply by the levator ani muscle and the fasciae that cover its pelvic and perineal surfaces. It will now also be observed that the pelvic fascia, Fig. 199 (a), as it descends from the brim of the pelvis, divides into three layers. These are the obturator (i 3), the levator or anal (is), and the recto-vesical (8,11). The first descends on the obturator internus muscle, and is attached below to the ramus and tuberosity of the ischium, and to the great sacro-sciatic ligament; the second passes downwards on the perineal sur- face of the levator muscle to the upper border of the sphinc- ter ani, where it is frequently so thin that it hardly deserves