151 DISSECTION OF THE PALATE. and a liorizontal portion. The vertical part is situated behind the Eustachian tube, and outside the corresponding posterior naris. It arises from the petrous portion of the temporal bone, near its apex, and from the contiguous part of the Eustachian tube. Its fibres pass downwards, on the outside of the tube, and then turn inwards to be inserted^ with its fellow, on the opposite side, along the median line of the palate. The Tensor Palati arises^ Fig. 56 (4), from the scaphoid fossa at the upper part of the internal pterygoid ala, from a small portion of the great wing of the sphenoid, and from the Eustachian tube. Its fibres pass downwards to the hamular process, where they form a small round tendon, which winds round this process, and is reflected horizontally to the me- dian line of the palate, into which it is inserted. Where it plays over the pully-like surface of the hamular process, there is a synovial membrane. Its vertical portion is situated between the internal pterygoid and levator palati muscles. Fig. 57. a View op the Muscles op the Soft Palate, as seen prom below AND IN frost.—1. The roof of the mouth, or hard palate, sawed across at the second molar tooth. 2. Origin of the levator palati muscle. 3. Its ex- pansion near its insertion. 4. Origin of the circumflexus or tensor palati. 6. The pterygo-mnxillary ligament, which converts the potch through which this muscle plays into a foramen. 6, 6. Palatine aponeurosis. 7. A section of the constrictor pharyngis superior muscle. 8. Extremity of the azygos uvulaj muscle. 9. Section of the Eus- tachian tube. A Posterior View of the Muscles OP the Soft Palate, as shown by a SECTION OP THE CrANIUM THROUGH THE Glenoid Cavities. — 1. Basilar portion of the sphenoid bone. 2. Condyles of lower jaw. 3. Hard palate. 4. Levator palati, on one side entire, on the other partially removed. 5,6. Eustachian tubes. 6. Externiil pterygoid muscle. 7. Cir- cumflexus palati. 8. Azygos uvulw. 9, Myloid attachment of constrictor nharyno-is superior. 10. Palato-pharyngeus. 11. Palato-glossus. The Palato-glossus, Fig. 57 (,,), is a small, pale fasciculus, which IS spread out above in the soft palate and below in