THE FACE. 37 and adheres closely to the skin. The labial glands are placed between its inner surface and the mucous membrane. Its action is to close the mouth, and antagonize the muscles inserted into the lips. The Dbpeessor Anguli Oris, or Triangularis, Fig. 61, arises from a ridge on the outer surface of the inferior max- illa, between the insertion of the masseter and the mental foramen. The fibres converge, pass upwards, and are inserted into the angle of the mouth. It partly overlaps the_ depres- sor labii inferioris and buccinator muscles, from which it is readily distinguished by the different direction of their fibres. It depresses the angle of the mouth, as its name indicates. The Depressor Labii Inferioris, or Quadratus Menti, Fig. 64 (i o), arises from the base of the inferior maxilla, com- mencing near the symphysis of the chin, and extending outwards a short distance beneath the preceding muscle. Its fibres pass upwards and inwards, and are inserted into the orbicularis and skin of the lower lip. It is difficult to make a clean dissection of this muscle, on account of the adipose substance mixed with its fibres. The terminal branches of the inferior dental artery and nerve emerge from the mental foramen under this muscle. By detaching a small portion of the muscle from its origin below the second bicuspid, and raising it up, the foramen will be found and the nerve escaping from it. From this point its branches can be easily traced upwards to the skin and mucous mem- brane of the lip, and upwards and outwards where they interlace with the facial nerve, to form the mental plexus. This nerve is sensor, and supplies, besides the lips, the lower and inner part of the face generally. The Levator Labii Inferioris, or Levator Menti, Fig. 64 (i i), is situated between the mucous membrane and the last niuscle. It arises from the alveolar process opposite the in- cisor teeth; its fibres radiate as they pass downwards and forwards, and are inserted into the integument of the chin. The lower part of it is blended with fat. To expose it, the lip should be everted, and the mucous., membrane dissected away. It elevates the lower lip by drawing up the chin. The Buccinator, Fig. 64 (s), is a broad, thin muscle, located in the cheek. It has three origins; the lower one arises from 4