261 DISSECTION OF THE FOREARM. absent. It flexes the hand, and makes tense the palmar apo- neurosis. It is separated from the muscle beneath it by a ■ thick fascia. The Flexor Carpi Ulnaris, Fig. Ill (8),is placed on the ulnar side of the palmaris longus. It arises from the internal condyle, and from the tilna nearly its whole length, and from the fascia of the forearm. The ulnar nerve passes between its origins from the condyle and the olecranon pro- cess. Its origin from the lower part of the ulna is apo- neurotic. It is inserted into the pisiform bone, and through it into the metacarpal bone of the little finger; ^ it is, also, connected by some fibres with the muscles of the little finger. Its tendon is much shorter than that of the flexor carpi radialis. It flexes the hand, and assists in adduction. The ulnar artery and nerve are situated along the outer border of its inferior two-thirds. The flexor carpi radialis and palmaris longus may now be divided about three or four inches below their origin, and turned upwards, detaching the fibres from the intermuscular septa. The following muscle will then be exposed. The Flexor Sublimis or Perforatus Digitorum Com- munis, Fig. Ill (7), arises from the internal condyle, internal •lateral ligament, and from both bones of the forearm; from the coronoid process of the ulna, and from the radius below its tubercle; it also obtains some fibres from intermuscular septa. It forms a large muscular belly, which terminates in four tendons a little below the middle of the forearm; these tendons pass under the annular ligament, the two on the radial side being situated somewhat anterior to the others, and through the palm of the hand, to be inserted into the second row of phalangeal bones. It flexes the fingers, and assists in flexing the hand and forearm. Before proceeding further with the dissection of the mus- cles, the arteries and nerves of this region should be examined. Some of them have already been seen, but not dissected and studied. There are three arteries in the forearm which extend from the bend of the arm to the wrist. They are the radial, the ulnar, and the anterior interosseous. From these three arteries recurrent branches are given off, to anastomose around the elbow-joint, with the anastomotic and two pro- found branches of the brachial artery.