406 OF THE ABDOMEN. ture may be very well seen in a section of the spleen after repeatedly washing and squeezing it until the red pulpy substance, contained in the cells or interstices, has been re- moved. It will be observed that the processes sent in from the mternal surface of the capsule are connected to the ex- ternal surface of the sheaths of the vessels. The peritoneum adheres closely to the fibrous capsule. The interstices are filled with a red pulpy granular sub- stance. This, when exposed to the air, assumes a bright red color. Small vesicular bodies have been noticed in the granular substance. The spleen is an exceedingly vascular organ, and its size depends much on the quantity of blood which it contains. It has no excretory duct. Sometimes one or more small bodies are found in the neighborhood of the spleen, which resemble it in color and structure. Dissection of the Kidneys. These are two organs for the secretion of the urine, situated, one in each lumbar region, Fig. 177 (i, i). They are some- times connected across the spine so as to form what is called the horse-shoe kidney. Sometimes one is entirely absent. They are usually smaller in the female than in the male. They are about four inches in length, two in breadth, and one in thickness. In shape they resemble the kidney iDcan. Their color is a deep brown-red. Each kidney. Fig. 174, presents an anterior and posterior surface, an upper and a lower extremity, and an outer and inner border. The anterior surface is more convex than the posterior, and the upper extremity is broader and thicker than the lower. The external border is convex, while the internal is concave and marked by quite a deep fissure or hilum, which contains the renal vessels, nerves, and excretory duct. The excretory duct is usually situated in the lower and posterior part of the fissure or hilum, while the veins are placed in the front part, with the arteries immediately behind them. The kidney has sl proper fibrous capsule which invests the entire organ, and sends into its substance fine delicate pro-