DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 320 The principal i)art of it is contained in the pericardium, and invested by the serous lamina of that membrane. The trans- verse portion, sometimes called the arch, Fig. 137 (2), lies nearest to the sternum. The vena transversa lies imme- diately above it, resting on the arteria innominata and the left common carotid and subclavian arteries. The ductus arteriosus and the right pulmonary artery occupy its cardiac aspect, while the trachea is in contact with it behind. The descending portion, Fig. 137 (3), has in front of it the left phrenic and pneumogastric nerves, and the root of the left lung. On the left side, and behind, it is in relation with the pleura and the body of the third dorsal vertebra. The attention of the student should be directed especially to this great vessel, as it furnishes a key to the study of the relations of almost all the other parts found in the superior mediastinum. Besides, a knowledge of it is of the utmost importance, if we wish to understand the nature and the results of aneurisms, which are formed in it. The Arteria Innominata, Fig. 137 (4), arises from the arch of the aorta, near the median line, and extends obliquely upwards to a point behind the right^terno-clavicular articula- tion. It varies in length from an inch to an inch and a half. It is separated from the sternum by the vena transversa, the sternal muscles and areolar tissue; on the right side, it is in relation with the vena innominata and the pleura; behind, it rests, at first, on the trachea, and then gets to its right side; on the left side, it is seiDarated from the left common carotid artery by a triangular space, in which the trachea is seen. This artery divides into the right common carotid and subcla- vian. It sometimes gives off' one or two small branches, especially the middle thyroid, or the artery of Neubauer. The Left Common Carotid Artery, Fig. 137 (11), arises from the arch of the aorta immediately to the left of the inno- minata. It passes obliquely upwards to the left, to reach the neck. The vena transversa and the sternal muscles lie in front of it; the trachea and oesophagus are behind it; the pleura partly covers it on the left side. The Left Subclavian Artery, Fig. 137 (12), arises from the aorta to the left and behind the left common carotid. Its direction is nearly vertical. It is covered on the left side by