OF THE ABDOMEN. 874 above its upper harder, and gives off the splenic, gastric, and hepatic arteries, both of which run along its upper edge, the former to the spleen, and the latter to the liver. It corresponds behind to the vena portse, the vena cava, the aorta, the crura of the diaphragm, and also to the superior mesenteric artery and vein, which form in it quite a deep sulcas. Its left or splenic extremity rests on the superior extremity of the left kidney and the supra-renal capsule. The excretory duct of the pancreas runs the whole length of the gland. It joins the ductus choledochus a short distance before the latter opens into the duodenum, so that the two ducts open by a common ol-ifice. Sometimes there is a small pancreatic duct which opens either into the large one, or sepa- rately. It is better that the duct of the pancreas should be examined, at least partially, before the gland is removed from the abdomen. If the pancreas becomes enlarged from disease, it may press upon the vessels beneath it, retarding the circulation through them. The arteries may, at the same time, communicate a pulsatory movement to the tumor, which might give rise to the impression that there was an aneurism. Its relations to the stomach are important. It may, by chronic inflamma- tion, become so agglutinated to the posterior wall of that organ, that when it is perforated by ulceration the pancreas will prevent the escape of its contents. Scirrhus of the pan- creas might be mistaken for that of the pylorus. The kidneys are situated in the lumbar regions, the left a- little higher than the right. Each lies on the anterior lamina of the fascia lumborum, which separates it from the quad- ratus lumborum muscle, and on the diaphragm by which it is separated from the lower two or three ribs. The ascend- ing colon lies in front of the right, and the descending colon in front of the left. The liver is in relation with the upper extremity of the right, and the spleen with that of the left. Each one is separated from the spine by the psoas magnus, and the right one also by the vertical portion of the duode- num. They are usually surrounded by considerable fat and areolar tissue. Sometimes the peritoneum comes in direct contact with their anterior surfaces; the colon, in that case, is placed to the inner side of them. The supra-renal capsule is situated on the upper extremity of the kidney. The ureters should now be traced from the kidneys into