340 OF THE ABDOMEN. concerned in inguinal hernia. In this case, the dissection of the skin and fascia may be carried down only to a line ex- tending transversely across from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium to the linea alba. The student will find the parts in the inguinal region described in the first place simply as forming a portion of the abdominal parietes, and afterwards with special reference to hernia. If he can dissect the lower extremity but once during the session, he had better reserve the inguinal region for a special dissection. Make an incision from the xiphoid or ensiform cartilage down to the symphysis pubis along the linea alba; and an- other corresponding to the origin of the external oblique muscle. The last incision will extend laterally from the first over the lower eight ribs, and about three or four inches above the inferior border of the most prominent part of the thorax. If the pectoralis major and serratus anticus muscles have been previously dissected, this incision will not be re- quired; if they have not been, the incision should be made so as to expose those portions of them which are in relation with the external oblique. • ■ Instead of making an incision over the origin of the ex- ternal oblique, the student may make one, commencing just above the umbilicus, and extending obliquely upwards^ and outwards, in the direction of the fibres of the external oblique, and then raise the integument in two flaps, one to be reflected upwards, and the other downwards. The advantage of this mode of procedure is that the external obhque is ranch thicker and its fibres more distinct in the line of this incision than it is in the upper part, where its fibres are short and comparatively few in number, and its aponeurosis is thin and liable to be cut through, thus exposing the rectus abdominis muscle, • c -u When the student has once obtained a distmct view of the fibres or fasciculi of a muscle, in whatever part of it, he can have no difficulty in dissecting it as long as he is careful to follow its fibres. In order to do this, he must take sufficient time to remove the fascia entirely from every fasciculus as he proceeds in the dissection. • The SuPEEFiciAL Fascia of the abdomen is continuous above with the fascia of the thorax, and below with that of the pelvis and lower extremity. In the upper and lateral