THE LOWEE EXTEEMITY. 574 neus tertius, which on the leg appears to be a part of this muscle. It arises from the outer part of the head of the tibia, from the whole of the inner surface of the upper half of the fibula including the head, from the interosseous liga- ment, and from the intermuscular septum on each side, and the deep fascia of the leg in front. The fibres from these different origins pass downwards, some obliquely and others vertically, to end in a tendon near the junction of the ndddle and lower thirds of the leg. This tendon immediately di- vides into three others, which pass through a single canal under the annular ligament, and then continue forwards on the dorsum of the tarsus, the external one dividing into two to reach the outer four toes, into the last two phalanges of which they are inserted. If the upper part of this muscle be de- tached from, the fascia which covers it and the intermuscular septa on its sides, the surfaces thus formed will be very rough. On the dorsum of the foot, the four tendons cross over at an acute angle, from within outwards, the tendons of the short extensor of the toes; each tendon spreads out on the dorsum of the first phalangeal bone, which it passes over to divide at the articulation of this bone with the second, into three parts, the middle one of which is inserted into the base of the second phalangeal bone, while the other two pass forwards, to be inserted in common into the base of the last phalangeal bone. The action of this muscle is to extend the toes with which it is connected, and to flex the foot on the leg; it may also assist the tibialis anticus in inverting the sole of the foot. The Peeoneus Teetius, Fig. 244 (e), is placed to the outer side of the preceding muscle, of which it not unfre- quently seems to be a part. It arises from the anterior and inner part of the lower half of the fibula, soon forms a ten- don which passes downwards through the same canal under the annular ligament as the extensor longus digitorum; it then descends obliquely outwards over the tarsus to reach the base of the fifth metatarsal bone, into which it is inserted. A tendinous band sometimes connects the tendon of this muscle with the outer tendon of the preceding muscle. Its principal action is to elevate the outer_ border of the foot; in this way it may antagonize the action of the long ex- tensor muscles of the toes, as far as those muscles may tend