DISSECTION OF THE FOREARM. 257 tends the forearm on tlie arm, and draws tlie synovial mem- brane from tlie joint when the forearm is extended. By its long head it can act on the scapula. When the olecranon process is broken off, it may draw it upwards. The musculo-spiral nerve and superior profunda artery may no^v be traced in the spiral groove through the triceps muscle. To do this the muscle must be divided along the course of the artery and nerve, when the branches given off by them to the muscle, while passing through it, may be ob- served. The artery, on reaching the outer and lower part oi the arm, divides into several branches, which are distributed about the elbow-joint, some of them anastomosing with the anastomotic and recurrent branches of the radial and poste- rior interosseous arteries. The nerve, when it leaves the triceps, gets between the brachialis anticus and supinator longus muscles, between which it goes to the bend of the arm, where it divides into the radial and posterior interosseous. These divisions will be traced in the dissection of the forearm. The internal and external cutaneous branches of this nerve have been noticed. Besides supplying muscular branches to the triceps extensor, it sends filaments to the brachialis anticus, supinator longus, and extensor carpi radialis longior. In dissecting the forearm, it will be sufficient to remove, in the first place, the skin in front down to the wrist. To do this, the incision which was made to dissect the arm may be continued down the middle of the forearm to the wrist, where a transverse incision is to be made. The vessels and nerves contained in the superficial fascia of the forearm, both in front and on the back, are the same as have been seen in the previous dissection. If they have been preserved, the stu- dent will have no difficulty in tracing them. The veins vary so much in their arrangement on the fore- arm that it is hardly necessary to give any particular descrip- tion of them. If they have been injected, they are distinctly seen and easily followed. In the living person, especially if not fat, they are made prominent under the skin by com- pressing the veins of the arm. They anastomose freely with each other, forming a complete network. They are divided into the radial, median, and ulnar. If the student should wish to trace them and the cutaneous nerves, he must dissect 22*