GAMENTS OF TIBIO-FIBULAB AETICULATION. 605 mentous fibres, wliich connect tlie convex border of each to the corresponding portion of the parietes of tlie joint; these fibres constitute the coronary ligaments, there being one for each of the fibro-cartilages. A fasciculus of fibres extends from one cartilage to the other in front, and assists m pre- venting them from being forced outwards; they form the transverse ligament, Fig. 259 (4). The cornua consist almost wholly of fibres which have been, where they are attached to the bone, named the oblique ligaments. It will be observed that only two of the internal ligaments of this joint are intended to connect the femur to the tibia, and to contribute directly to the strength of the articulation; while the others are connected with the synovial mem- brane and the fibro-cartilages; the latter may, at a casual glance, appear to be unimportant, but when properly con- sidered, they will be found to be essential to the perfection of the joint. If, for instance, the ligamenta alaria are necessary parts of the joint, then the ligamentum mucosnm is requisite to keep them in their proper place. The same is true of the semilunar fibro-cartilages and the ligamentous fibres pro- vided for keeping them in situ. Having completed the dissection of the knee-joint, the superior tihio-fihular articulation may be examined next. It is formed by a small oval articular facet on the outer and posterior part of the head of the tibia, and a corresponding one on the head of the fibula; both of these facets are covered with articular cartilage and with synovial membrane, which lines the parietes of the joint, forming a sac which sometimes communicates with the cavity of the knee-joint. The fact of a communication sometimes existing between this articula- tion and the knee-joint, should be recollected in a case of dis- articulation of the head of the fibula. Although ligamentous fibres surround the articulation, so as to form an imperfect capsular ligament, they may be described as forming an anterior and a posterior ligament. The Anteeior Supeeior Tibio-Fibular Ligament, Fig. 259 (10), consists of a broad, fiat fasciculus, which arises from the anterior part of the head of the fibula, and passes ob- liquely upwards and forwards, to be inserted into the ante- rior and outer part of the tibia. The PosTEEioE Supeeior Tibio-Fibular Ligament Fio-