520 THE LOWER EXTREMITY. a small branch to tiie gemellus inferior. The gemellus sutdb- rior receives a nerve directly from the sacral plexus i be obturator externus is supplied with branches from the obturator nerve, which is derived from the third and lourth lumbar nerves. Having completed the dissection of the parts in the glu- teal region, the student should now replace the muscles and study their relations to the hip-joint and to the vessels and nerves. The prominent points which can be seen or felt in this region m the living subject should be observed with re- ference to luxation of the head of the femnr and the ligation of the arteries. The exact position of the trochanter major and the tuberosity of the ischium and their relations to the sacrum and ilium, should be carefully noted. It will have been_ seen that the principal arteries are the gluteal, the sciatic and the internal pudic. The position of each one of these vessels may readily be ascertained by observing its relations to the posterior inferior spinous process of the ilium, the tuberosity of the ischium, and the trochanter. As the dissection of the ligaments of the vertebral column should be made in connection with those of the pelvis, and as this cannot well be done until the external parts of the pelvis have been dissected, the dissection of the hip-joint is included with that of the others. Dissection of the Hip-Joint. The hip-joint is formed by the acetabulum of the os inno- minatum and the head of the femur. It is a ball and socket joint. At the lower part of the acetabulum is a notch occu- pied by the ligamentum teres and by the vessels that enter the joint; just above this notch, and in the bottom of the cavity, there is a depression occupied by adipose substance and loose synovial membrane; the rest of the acetabulum is covered by cartilage. The head of the femur forms the seg- ment of about four-fifths of a globe. It is covered by car- tilage, except a small spot just below its centre, which gives attachment to the ligamentum teres. The ligaments of this joint consist of the capsular, the cotyloid, the round, the trans- verse, and the ilio-femoral. The last two scarcely deserve to be