THE LOWEE EXTEEMITY. 492 the inner and anterior part of the thigh, and lies close to the tascia lata. It receives several branches, Ficr 207 (a h c) some of which accompany tha arteries already described ' ' Tlie nerves (Fig. 207) are delived from the lumbar plexus the genito-crural, and the anteiior crural. They penetrate the fascia lata obliquely at different points, and after run- ning some distance they leave it to become subcutaneous. _i he integument on the upper and anterior part of the thigh is supplied principally by three branches. One of them, a hranch of the superior musculo-cutaneous, reaches the thigh through the external abdominal ring; another one, a hranch of the genito-crural, passes through the fascia lata just be- low the middle of Poupart's ligament; the third one, a hranch of the inferior musculo-cutaneous or the external cuta- neous nerve, pierces the fascia below the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium. The middle cutaneous nerve sometimes becomes subcutaneous near the junction of the up- per with the middle third of the thigh, but usually lower down. Very little importance is attached to these nerves in connection with the anatomy of femoral hernia. The lymphatic glands, Fig. 148 (7), are divided into the dee}:) and superficial; the former are placed beneath the fascia lata, and the latter are imbedded in the superficial fascia. The superficial are again divided into the superior and infe- rior ; the superior lie along Poupart's ligament, some above and others below it; the inferior are situated near the saphe- nous vein. These glands are frequently found enlarged, so that the student can often get in his dissection a distinct view of their location. They vary in number in different subjects; sometimes several are joined together. The super- ficial lymphatics of the penis pass through the glands situated near Poupart's ligament, and hence the liability of these to become affected in venereal disease. The superficial fascia should now be removed. It may be raised and reflected in the same manner as the skin was; or it may be turned off'from above downwards and from within outwards. The saphenous vein must be dissected out as far up as where it enters the saphenous opening, cutting it across below but not above, as its connection with the infun- dibuliform sheath of the femoral vessels should be, for the present, preserved. In raising the superficial fascia in front of and around the saphenous opening, it will be found to