FEMALE OEGANS OF GENERATION. 474 rectum, dividing into two layers; one for the rectum, whicli IS continuous anteriorly with the layers given off from the middle part of the pelvic fascia; the other passes between the sacral plexus of nerves and the branches of the internal ihac vessels,_ which appear to be furnished with sheaths from this fascia; it is finally lost in dense areolar tissue on the an- terior surface of the sacrum. Between the coccygeus and the levator ani muscles the levator fascia is joined to the pelvic by a thin lamina, thus completing the cavity which contains the levator ani muscle. From the arrangement of the fasciae or aponeuroses in the perineum and pelvis, the term perineo-pelvic fascia might with propriety be applied to them generally. It may be observed that the fascia which arises from the anterior and lateral portions of the brim of the pelvis is continuous all around with those which have their origin from the borders of the lower strait of the pelvis, and that in passing from one border to the other they inclose certain organs so as to keep them in situ^ or they send off processes which are attached to the organs contained in the central part of the pelvis. Sect. IV.—Dissection of the Female Organs of Generation. The genital organs in the female differ so essentially from the corresponding ones in the male, that a separate examination of them is necessary. It is of the utmost im- portance that the student, before he commences this dissection, should make himself familiar with the appearance of all the parts within the reach of inspection. The vagina should be carefully cleansed by means of a syringe, and afterwards the finger should be introduced into it, for the purpose of touch- ing the OS tincEe in situ, of ascertaining its distance from the exernal orifice of the vagina, and how far the finger must be introduced in order to reach it, so as to be able to judge fairly of its condition. This should be practised after the cavity of the abdomen has been opened, so that the relations of the vagina to that cavity may be observed. The relation that exists between the vagina and the peritoneum is exceedingly important; every student should observe this for himself. The introduction of the speculum into the vagina, and of a