488 FEMALE ORGANS OF GENERATIOlir. ness and interlacing apparently in every direction. They are non-striated, and hence belong to those of organic life. They are arranged in the body in a superficial and a deep- seated layer. Anteriorly and posteriorly the superficial have a longitudinal direction; laterally they are oblique, and are prolonged into the round and ovarian ligaments, and into the walls of the Fallopian tubes. The deep-seated are arranged in the form of two hollow cones, the bases of which -correspond to the median line, interlacing with the fibres of the opposite side, while the apices surround the cornua, and extend into the Fallopian tubes and the round and ovarian ligaments. The cervical portion of the muscular coat consists of circular fibres which interlace and cross each other. The Ovaries. The ovaries^ Fig. 204 (o), are the analogues in the female, of the testes in the male. There are two of them, one on each side. Each is placed between the layers of the broad ligament, behind the Fallopian tube, and about two inches from the uterus, to which it is connected by the round and broad ligaments. It is a small oval body flattened on the sides from before backwards. They increase in size during pregnancy, and like the testicles, become atrophied in old age. Their anterior, posterior, and upper surfaces are free. One or more of the fimbria3 are usually attached to their outer extremities. Immediately under the peritoneum is a thick, dense, fibrous coat, corresponding to the tunica albu- ginea of the testicle. The peritoneum adheres to this in the same manner as the tunica vaginalis testis adheres to the testicle. From the inner surface fibrous bands are sent in- wards into a cellulo-vascular substance named the stroma. Besides the fibrous and serous coats there is a vascular one, similar to the tunica vasculosa of the testicle. Throughout the stroma are distributed the Graafian vesicles; they vary very much in size and number. They can be best observed just after parturition, when the ovaries are soft and swollen. Each vesicle consists of two coats, an external and internal, and contains a yellowish fluid and an ovum. When a vesicle ruptures, and the ovum escapes, the remains of the vesicle, it it is supposed, forms a brownish-yellow body called corpus luteum.