DISSECTION OF THE SHOULDER. 243 of the humerus when luxated either backwards, downwards, or forwards, and the new relations it acquires in these dis- placements to the surrounding parts. He can readily see for himself what muscles will be relaxed, and what will be put on the stretch when the head of the humerus is made, by displacement, to occupy a new position. He can now note the effect of the contraction of the deltoid in producing dis- placement of the acromion process when broken off, or that of the trapezius in preventing displacement; also the effect of the contraction of the muscles attached to the coracoid process when that is fractured. These practical points should be impressed on the mind while the parts involved are before him. The shoulder-joint and ligaments around it may now be examined. This can be done without interfering with any- thing yet to be dissected on the arm. : The clavicle and acromion pro- cess are connected by ligament- ous fibres which surround the articulation, forming a sort of fibrous capsule. As the fibres are more numerous above and below the joint, they are some- times spoken of as the Supeeior and Inferior Acromio-Clavic- tJLAR Ligaments, Fig. 102 (i). This joint sometimes contains two synovial membranes which i&re separated by an interarticular fibro-cartilage. This fibro-carti- laginous septum, however, is sometimes imperfect, when there will be only one synovial mem- brane in the joint. The articular surfaces of this joint are very small, rendering it difficult to keep the acromial extremity of the clavicle in its proper place after it has been luxated. Fig. 102. The Ligaments op the Scapula AND Shoulder-Joint.—1. The su- perior acromio-clavicular ligament. 2. The eoraeo-clavicular ligament; this aspect of the ligament is named trapezoid. 3. The coraco-acromial ligament. 4. The coracoid ligament. 5. The capsular ligament. 6. The coraco-humcral ligament. 7. The long tendon of the biceps issuing from the ciipsular ligament, and entering the bicipital groove.