THE HEART. 313 be found to arise from the auriculo- ventricular zones, and to pass down- wards, those in front from right to left, and those behind from left to right, to the apex of the heart. As they enter the ventricles, those from behind twist round those from be- fore, so as to form a stellated ap- pearance. Having entered the cavities of the ventricles, they pass upwards on the side opposite to the one upon which they descended; so that the fibres which assist in forming the anterior walls as they descend on the outside, will assist in forming the posterior walls as they ascend on the inside. Some of them terminate by being inserted into the fibrous zones, and others in the columnae carnese. As many of the superficial fibres penetrate the ventricles before reaching the apex, loops of different lengths are formed one within another, thus increasing the thickness of the ventricular parietes from the apex towards the base. The proper fibres of the ventri- cles form two hollow truncated cones, which are covered on the outside by the superficial portion of the common fibres, and on the inside by the re- flected portion. There is one cone for each ventricle. Their bases are connected to the fibrous zones around the auriculo- ventricular openings. They are composed of circular, oblique, and spiral fibres. To unravel the muscular structure of the heart, the stu- dent should begin with that of a bullock. This should be prepared by boiling and maceration, until the fibres can be loosened up, and separated from each other. It will require much time and patience to trace out the different fibres and their connections. 27 Fig. 136. A PosTEnioR View op the Ex- ternal M0SCULAR Layer of THE Heart after the removal OP ITS Serous Coat, <fec.—1. Right auricle. 2. Descending vena cava. 3. Right posterior pulmonary vein. 4. Muscular fibres of the left auricle. 5. Left posterior pulmonary vein. 6, 7. The arrangement of the muscular fibres at the end of the left auri- cle. 8. Orifice of the great coro- nary vein. 9. Band of fibres be- tween the two vena3 cavEe. 10, The orifice of the ascending vena cava; the Eustachian valve is at the end of the line. 11,12. Mus- cular fibres at the base of the auricle. 13, 13, 14. Muscular fibres in the ventricles.