THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 260 Fig. 111. a small head, from the coronoid process of the ulua. The median nerve passes between these two origins. Its fibres pass obliquely downwards and outwards, to be inserted into the outer part of the middle third of the radius. The upper part of this muscle is superficial and prominent, while the lower part is deep-seated, having the radial artery and nerve in front of it. It rotates the radius inwards, and pronates the hand; it may also assist in flexing the forearm. The Flexor Carpi Radialis, Fig. Ill (s), arises from the internal condyle and fascia,, including the intermuscular sep- tum, in common with the preceding mus- cle. It forms a thick belly which becomes tendinous near the middle of the forearm, and continues so to its insertion into the base of the metacarpal bone of the index finger. The dissection of this muscle beneath and below the annular ligament with the lower part of the others which go to the hand, must be postponed until the palm of the hand is dissected. It flexes the hand on the forearm, and may assist in pronation and abduction of the same. The Palmaris Lokgus, Fig. Ill (e), is the next muscle to be dissected. Its origin is similar to that of the flexor carpi radialis. It forms a short belly, which ends in a long, slim tendon; this extends down the forearm to the annular ligament and palmar aponeurosis, into which it is inserted. It is sometimes SdPERnciAL Layer of the Muscles of the Forearm.—1. The lower part of the biceps, with its tendon. 2. A part of the brachialis anticus, seen beneath the biceps. 3. A part of the triceps. 4. The pronator radii teres. 5. The flexor carpi radialis. 6. The palmaris longus. 7. One of tho fasciculi of the flexor sub- limis digitorum: the rest of the muscle is seen beneath the tendons of the palmaris longus and flexor carpi radialis. 8. The flexor carpi ulnaris. 9. The palmar fascia. 10. The palmaris brevis muscle. 11. The abductor pollicis muscle. 12. One portion of the flexor brevis pollicis; the leading lino crosses a part of tho abductor pollicis. 13. The supinator longus muscle. 14. Tho extensor ossis nieta- carpi, and extensor primi internodii pollicis, curving around the lower border of the forearm.