DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 72 to the anterior notch. It is much larger anteriorly where it overhangs the valve of the brain, and is in apposition with the tubercula quadrigemina, than it is posteriorly. It is crossed by curved lamellae, which are convex anteriorly. The inferior vermiform process has a crucial form. The pos- terior limb projects backwards in the posterior notch, the anterior extends forwards into the fourth ventricle, while the lateral or transverse are connected to the hemispheres. It presents in the median line three prominences : the pyramid behind, next to this, in front, the uvula^ and anterior to this the nodulus. The last two form a portion of the roof of the fourth ventricle. The internal structure of the cerebellum may be seen by making two vertical incisions from before backwards, commencing at the anterior notch. One of these incisions should divide the middle lobe in the median line; the other Fig. 16. A View of the Ahbou VitjE and the Fundahental Portion op the Cerebel- lum, TOGETnEu WITH THE Floor of the Fourth Ventricle.—1. The tubercula quadrigemina. 2. The superior surface of the cerebellum. 3. Its inferior surface, and also the arbor vitte. In the trunk of the arbor vitas are seen three fasciculi running up to the tubercula quadrigemina. The most internal of these is—4. A fibrous layer, in which are collected all the filaments which pass from the parietes of the aqueduct of Sylvius to the inferior vermiform process. 5 Is the fasciculus outside of the preceding, which runs from the trunk of the arbor vitas behind the tubercula quadrigemina. 6 Is that from which all tlie fasciculi of the superior Vermiform process pass to the tubercula quadrigemina. 7. A very delicate medullary layer, which passes from the anterior surface of the crus cerebelli under the cincritious matter of the cerebrum. 8. The anterior extremity of the fourth ventricle, drawn back and leading to the aqueduct of Sylvius. 9. Middle furrow on the floor of the fourth ventricle. 10. Tracts of nervous lunttor, running to the auditory nerve. 11. Elevated portion of the same on the lloor of the fourth ventricle. 12. Middle fis- sure on the calamus scriptorius. 13. Corpora Kestiformia. I J. Lateral portion of the spinal marrow.