DISSECTION OP THE ARM. 245 which communicates with the cavity of the joint. Ihe ex- tent of the synovial membrane is worthy of notice, as it is reflected over the head of the humerus, the internal surface of the capsular ligament, including a portion of each of the tendons connected with it, and the glenoid cavity. While it frequently communicates with the burs^ beneath the tendons of the infra-spinatus and subscapularis. The GrLENOiD LiGAMENT surrounds the margin of the glen- )id cavity, and deepens and increases the extent of its ar- ticulating surface. In structure it is fibro-cartilaginous, the cartilage predominating where it is attached to the bone and connected with the articular cartilage. The tendon of the long head of the biceps appears to arise, by two fasciculi, from the upper part of this ligament. Sect. IV.—Dissection of the Arm. Having finished the examination of the shoulder, the next stage in the dissection will embrace the arm and a part of the forearm. An incision may be made through the skin along the forepart of the arm, and in front of the elbow-Joint, ex- pending it down four or five inches on the forearm. There is no necessity for making any transverse incision in the skin at present; if it be done, however,., care must be taken not to cut the cutaneous vessels and nerves. After reflecting the skin from the anterior part of the arm and bend of the arm, the following vessels and nerves are to be traced in the superficial fascia, or subcutaneous areolar tissue. As they have been, for the most part, already exposed hi the axilla, the student will have no difficulty in following them:— . The Cephalic Yein, Fig. 94 (l o), will be found passing down the outer side of the arm. Just above the bend it re- Qeives a large branch, the Median Cephalic, Fig. 94 (i 3), which joins it on its ulnar side. The cephalic now becomes the radial, and may be traced as far as the skin has been raised, taking care not to destroy filaments of the external cutaneous nerve, which has now become subcutaneous. The Median Cephalic may also be traced to its commencement m the median vein. 21*