DISSECTION OF THE THORAX, 314 The vessels of the heart consist of a right and left coronary artery, and a coronary vein. The Eight Coeonaey Aetery, Fig. 130 (i i), arises from the aorta above the anterior semilunar valve. At first, it is concealed by the conus arteriosus, between which and the right auricle, it passes to enter the auriculo-ventricnlar groove; it winds round in this groove to the posterior part of the heart, where it divides into two branches, one to go along the pos- terior vertical groove to the apex of the heart, and the other to continue in the auriculo-ventricular groove, until it anas- tomoses with the left coronary artery. It gives off quite a large branch, which ramifies over the anterior and right por- tion of the right ventricle. The Left Coeonaey Aeteey, Fig. 131 (lo, n), arises near the root of the aorta, above the left semilunar valve. It passes between the conus arteriosus and the left auricle, soon divides into two branches, the largest of which enters the anterior vertical groove, and goes to the apex of the heart; the other and smaller branch enters the auriculo-ven- tricular groove, and terminates by anastomosing with the corresponding branch of the right coronary. The coronary arteries anastomose freely with each other, not only at the apex and in the horizontal sulcus, but in different parts of the parietes of the heart. They vary in number and in the manner of their distribution. The CoEONARY Vein, Fig. 131 (9), commences at the apex of the heart, and ascends along the anterior vertical groove to the sulcus between the left auricle and ventricle, in which it continues to the posterior part of the heart, where it opens into the right auricle. In its ascending course, it receives branches from the anterior parietes of the ventricles; as it winds round to the back of the heart, it increases very much in size, as it receives branches from the posterior parietes of the ventricles, and from the left auricle; one of these branches occupies the posterior vertical groove, and is called the mid- dle coronary or cardiac vein. Besides the coronary vein and its branches, there are several small anterior cardiac veins, which open into the lower part of the right auricle. The coronary veins have no valves. The nerves which supply the heart consist of two plexuses, the anterior and posterior coronary. These are derived from