THE LOWER EXTREMITY. of the external head of the gastrocnemius, and the upper attachment of the external lateral ligament; it passes down- wards and backwards beneath the external lateral ligament and behind the outer part of the articulation, to the uppe^ part o the tibia, into the posterior surface of which it is inserted, aho^^e an oblique ridge named the linea poplitei. Its tendon is connected to the external semilunar cartilacre by liganientous fibres, and also to the synovial membraSe by which It is partly surrounded, and through which connection a communication is sometimes found to exist between the articulation of the fibula with the tibia, and the knee-joint. The action of the popliteus is to assist the hamstring muscles m flexing the leg on the thigh; or it may flex the thigh on the leg; it may also rotate the tibia slightly, or the femur when the tibia is fixed. By its connection with the semi- lunar cartilage, it may fix it in its proper place. The Flexor Longus Digitorum Communis Pedis, Fig. 241 (7), arises from the posterior surface of the tibia, 'com- mencing just below the insertion of the popliteus and the origin of the soleus, and extending down to within three or four inches of the ankle; it also has some fibres arising from the aponeurosis on the tibialis posticus, and from intermus- cular septa. _ From this origin the fibres pass obliquely back- wards and inwards, to end in a tendon which descends to a groove behind the internal malleolus, where it is covered and fixed in its place by the internal annular ligament, and sepa- rated from the tendon of the tibialis posticus by a process of the annular ligament. It is surrounded by a S3movial mem- brane which extends some distance above and below the groove. From this point it is directed forwards and a little outwards, to pass through a groove in the astragalus, and also one in the os calcis, when it enters the sole of the foot, where it is first joined by a slip from the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis, and next by the musculus accessorius; it now divides into four tendons, one for each of the four smaller toes. Each tendon passes through a fibrous sheath lined by synovial membrane. This sheath corresponds to the under surface of the first and second row of phalanges. Each contains also one of the tendons of the flexor brevis digitorum communis, each of which is slit opposite the base of the second phalan- geal bone, for the transmission of the corresponding tendon