DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK. The muscles, areolar tissue, and mucous membrane should be dissected off from the external surface. This can be done best with scissors. The eyeball is not a perfect sphere, but seems to consist of segments of two globes of different sizes; the posterior segment forms about four-fifths of the exterior surface of the ball, and the anterior about one-fifth. The antero-posterior diameter of the human eye is about eleven lines, and the transverse about ten. _ The external tunic constitutes the framework of the eye; gives it form; affords attachments for muscles; allows the passage of rays of light to its interior; transmits vessels and nerves, and serves to protect its internal, delicate struc- tures. This tunic consists of two parts; the cornea^ which corresponds to the anterior segment, and the sclerotica, which corresponds to the posterior segment. The ScLEEOTiCA, Fig. 25 (V), is opaque, of a pearly white ap- pearance, and perforated by numerous foramina, which should be observed before commencing the dissection of the ball. Be- hind, and a little to the inner side of its axis, is the entrance of the optic nerve, which is funnel-shaped from without inwards. This nerve does not pass through a single large opening, but through small apertures, and in separate filaments. The term lamina cribrosa has been applied to the structure thus per- forated. In the centre of this is the porus opticus for the transmission of the arteria centralis retince, Fig. 28 (2). A short distance from, and around the entrance of the optic nerve are quite a number of small foramina. Fig. 26, for the passage of the ciliary nerves and the posterior long and short ciliary arteries; the long ciliary arteries enter, one on each side of the optic nerve. Just behind the middle of the eye are usually four or five apertures for the exit of the venous trunks formed by the vasa vorticosa. Near the anterior margin of the sclerotica are several other small foramina for the transmission of the short anterior ciliary arteries. ■ • As the optic nerve perforates the sclerotica on the internal side of the axis of the eye, it is considerably nearer to the inner than to the outer part of its anterior border. One of the eyes provided for dissection should be divided vertically through its axis, and everything removed but the cornea and sclerotica. The inner surface, the thickness, the struc- ture, and the connection of the sclerotica with the cornea can