DISSECTION OF BACK OF THIGH AND THE HAM. 547 are distributed to the muscles in the upper and back part of the leg. Two of them, quite large, and sometimes arising by a common trunk, go to the heads of the gastrocnemius. They ramify on the anterior surface of each head before penetrating its substance. A smaller one goes to the plan- taris, entering its inner and anterior surface; sometimes this is a branch of the preceding nerve. Another branch passes downwards, and gets between the soleus and gastrocnemius muscles, and, after ramifying on the posterior surface of the soleus, penetrates its substance. The last muscular branch goes to the popliteus; after passing down to the lower bor- der of the muscle, turns around it and passing upwards, rami- fies on its anterior or deep surface. It sends an articular branch to the tibio-fibular articulation. The cutaneous branch is known by several names, as the tibial, short, or external saphenous, the posterior cutaneous nerve of the leg, and the communicans tibialis. Fig. 235 (e, e). It usually arises opposite the articulation, and passing down- wards first between the heads of the gastrocnemius, and then on its posterior surface in a small fibrous canal, perforates the deep fascia near the junction of the xipper with the middle third of the leg; sometimes it continues lower down before it becomes subcutaneous. It is joined by the com- municans peronei nerve, a branch of the external popli- teal. The point of union varies greatly, occurring sometimes in the upper part of the leg, and then again not until it has nearly reached the foot. This nerve will be referred to again in the dissection of the back of the leg and the dorsum of the foot, on the outer part of which it terminates. • The articular branches are three in number, and correspond to the internal and middle articular branches of the popliteal artery, except there is but one superior internal articular nerve, whereas there are two of these arteries; and sometimes this branch, always small, is absent. When present, it passes in front of the popliteal vessels to reach the artery, which it accompanies in its distribution to the joint. The inferior in- ternal articular branch arises above the joint, and, passing downwards, at first on the outer side of the vessels, then in front of them, joins the corresponding articular artery, which It accompanies in the rest of its course. It is larger than either of the other articular branches for the knee-joint. The middle articular branch arises opposite the articulation, and