THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 272 wrist. It terminates in filaments to the carpal articula- tions. In its course it sends filaments to all tlie muscles on the back of the limb, except the supinator longus, extensor carpi radialis longior, and anconeus. The Extensor Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis, Fig. 117 (e), is the first deep muscle below the supinator brevis. It arises from the posterior and upper part of the radius and ulna, and from the intermediate portion of the interosseous ligament. Its tendon descends obliquely outwards over the lower part of the radius, and the carpus to be inserted into the base of the metacarpal bone of the thumb. It very frequently divides into two tendons, one of which goes to the trapezium. The Extensor Primi Internodii Pollicis, Fig. 117 (7), is the next small muscle. It arises from the radius and inter- osseous ligament, immediately below the preceding muscle, with which its tendon is closely connected. It is inserted into the base of the first phalangeal bone of the thumb. The line of separation between these two muscles is often very indistinct, except near their insertion. Their tendons pass through the same canal in the posterior annular ligament. The Extensor Secundi Internodii Pollicis, Fig. 117(8), arises from the middle third of the ulna and the interosseous ligament contiguous to it. Its tendon passes down over the lower end of the radius, about half an inch to the ulnar side of the tendons of the other two extensors of the thumb, and continues to the last phalanx, into which it is iruserted. The last three muscles extend the three joints of the thumb; the first two also act as abductors of it. The student should observe the situation of the tendons of these muscles in his own wrist. They are seen very distinctly through the skin when the thumb is forcibly extended. They have an im- portant relation to the radial artery, which passes beneath them, and which will shortly be noticed. The Extensor Indicis, or Indicator, Fig. 117 (9), is the only muscle left. It arises from the ulna and interosseous ligament just below the muscle last described, and forms a small tendon which passes through the annular ligament with the common extensor of the fingers; it joins and is inserted in common with, the tendon of that muscle which is appropriated to the index finger. Its use is to extend that finger by itself.