80 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK. The Lobes of the cerebrum, Fig. 17 (3, 4, c), are six in num- ber, three for each hemisphere. These are not seen on the upper part of the brain, and even on the base there is no natural line of separation between the posterior and middle. The middle is the most prominent; it occupies the middle fossa in the base of the cranium. The posterior rests on the tentorium, which separates it from the cerebellum, and at the same time supports it. The anterior lobe lies on the orbital por- tion of the frontal bone. It is separated from the corres- ponding lobe on the opposite side by the great longitudinal fissure. The two posterior lobes are separated from each other bj the same fissure. The extent of this fissure is worthy of notice. No one can have any correct idea of the number of convolutions or the extent of exterior surface which each hemisphere of the cerebrum presents, without a knowledge of this fissure. The Great Transveese Fissure separates the posterior lobes from the cerebellum. It opens into the central exca- vation in front of the pons Varolii, passing round on each side of that body, and under the crura cerebri. This fissure leads into the middle cornu of each lateral ventricle, and also into the third ventricle, beneath the posterior border of the corpus callosum. It is in this part 01 the transverse fissure that Bichat described a communication between the cavity of the lining membrane of the third ventricle and the cavity of the arachnoid, external to the brain. It is called the Canal of Bichat. This anatomist described this communication as being of a tubular form, and surrounding the venae Galeni. There can be no doubt that it does exist in some cases. origin of the cerebral nerves. The cerebral nerves consist of nine pairs. With the excep- tion of the spinal accessory, a part of the eighth pair, they all arise from some part of the encephalon; they escape from the cranial cavity through different foramina. There is no difference between the corresponding nerves of the two sides. Although each pair has a particular name, they are gener- ally designated by numbers—as first, second, third, &c. The First Pair, or Olfactory Nerves, Fig. 17 (23), have