188 DISSECTIOlSr OF THE NECK. occasionally from the glosso-pliaryngeal, and passes beneatli the internal carotid to join, on the side of the pharynx, fila- ments from the glosso-pharyngeal, superior laryngeal, and superior cervical ganglion, to form the pharyngeal plexus. The superior laryngeal has its origin generally from the inferior ganglion near its middle. It is considerably larger than the preceding branch. It passes downwards and in- wards beneath the internal carotid, giving ofi' in its course filaments to the superior cervical ganglion, to the hypo- glossal and pharyngeal plexus. It divides into an external and internal branch. The former is the smallest; it is dis- tributed to the external muscles of the larynx, to the thy- roid gland, and anastomoses with the recurrent laryngeal, and cardiac branches of the sympathetic. The internal branch passes beneath the thyro-hyoid muscle, and per- forates the thyro-hyoid membrane, to be distributed to the mucous membrane of the larynx. This is the sensor nerve of the larynx. The course of the pneumogastric nerve through the carotid regions and the recurrent branch,, have already been de- scribed. Just before it enters the thorax it sends off branches to the heart; they unite with branches of the sympathetic, to form the anterior cardiac plexus. The Sympathetic Nerve traverses the neck from the base of the cranium to the thorax. It presents three cervi- cal ganglia, a superior, middle, and inferior. The number, however, is subject to variation; there being sometimes but two, and again there may be four. "When three are present, the superior is situated in front of the second cervical ver- tebra ; the middle opposite to the fifth, and the inferior corre- sponds to the seventh vertebra. The superior ganglion is usually about an inch in length; its lower extremity is commonly larger than the upper, some- times it is bifid, and it may taper as it descends in the neck, below the second vertebra, which sometimes occurs. This ganglion connects above by filaments which ascend into the carotid canal, with the carotid plexus, and through this plexus with several of the cranial ganglia. Externally, it communi- cates with the four superior cervical nerves, by filaments which can be traced into the inter-vertebral foramina. Internally, it is connected by branches with the pharyngeal and laryn-