DISSECTION OF THE ARM. 25a major and latissimus dorsi, the triceps extensor, and the co- raco-brachialis; below these it rests on the brachialis anticus. In the upper part of the arm it is placed on the inner side of the humerus, but is in front of the bone, where it rests on the brachialis anticus. At the bend of the arm it is situated beneath the aponeu- rotic expansion from the tendon of the biceps muscle, which protects it to some extent when the median basilic vein is opened in bleeding. To ascertain the exact position of it, before opening the vein the biceps should be relaxed, other- wise the tensioa of this aponeurosis might prevent the pulsa- tion of the artery being felt. The median nerve here lies on the inner side of the artery. Usually there is no necessity for opening a vein over either the artery or nerve, and hence the liability of wound- ing either of them may be avoided. The anomalies which occur in the brachial artery are interesting in a surgical point of view ; but they vary so much, that a description of them must be omitted. It may be mentioned, however, that the one most commonly met with is a high division of the artery into the radial and ulnar, which may occur at any point in the arm, even as high as the axilla. It gives off the four following branches:— The sui^erior 'profunda^ Fig. 92 (i 5), arises just below the tendon of the teres major, and passes obliquely downwards and backwards to enter the fissure between the two heads of the triceps which arise from the humerus; it accompanies' the musculo-spiral nerve. Sometimes this branch arises in common with the posterior circumflex, or with the inferior profunda. The inferior profimda, Fig. 92 (1 e), arises lower down, and proceeds obliquely downwards to the inner part of the elbow- joint, accompanying in the latter part of its course the ulnar nerve. The nutritious branch is given off near the middle of the humerus, which it penetrates through the nutritious foramen. The anastomotic branch, Fig. 92 (1 7), arises usually about two mches above the bifurcation into the radial and ulnar, and goes to the inner part of the elbow. These branches, except the nutritious, will be noticed again in connection With the vascular anastomosis around the elbow-joint.