DISSECTION OF THE BLADDER. 421 in the small intestine. Some of them terminate in the ex- ternal sphincter of the anus; others are reflected inwards and upwards around the internal sphincter, and are lost in the submucous areolar tissue from half an inch to an inch above the anus. The circular fibres are collected into quite a large fasci- culus at the lower end of the rectum, forming what is called the internal sphincter of the anus. The raucous memhmne of the rectum presents a number of large irregular folds, which are not wholly obliterated when the bowel is distended. At the lower end of the bowel there are several small longitudinal folds, between which depres- sions exist, and in which foreign substances are sometimes lodged. The mucous membrane in the lower part of the rectum is very loosely connected to the muscular layer. Hence prolapsus of it sometimes occurs. The arteries of the rectum are the superior, the middle, and the inferior hemorrhoidal. The superior are branches of the inferior mesenteric; the middle^ of the internal iliac; and the inferior, of the internal pudic. The rectum is more vas- cular than any other portion of the large intestine. The veins are named the superior, middle, and inferior hemorrhoidal. A plexus of veins is found beneath the mu- cous membrane in the lower part of the rectum, which, by becoming varicose, forms hemorrhoids. This plexus com- municates with the vesical plexus. The hemorrhoidal veins empty partly into the inferior mesenteric, and partly into the internal iliac. The nerves of the rectum are derived from the sympathetic system, and from the sacral plexus. Dissection of the Bladdee. The Bladder should be examined in situ, when distended as well as when empty, in order to understand its relations to the surrounding parts in both of these conditions. To study its structure, it should be removed from the pelvis together with the prostate gland and the penis. It varies greatly m size in different individuals, and under difi'erent circumstances. It is said to be larger and more globular in the female than in the male. 36