POSTERIOE AND INNEE PART OF THE LEG. 565 of the long flexor, as it passes forwards, to be inserted into the base of the last phalangeal bone. The Flexor LoNGUS Follicis Pedis, Fig. 241 (9), is placed to the outer side of the preceding muscle, from which it is partly separated by the tibialis posticus. It arises from the lower two-thirds of the fibula, from the aponeurosis which covers the tibialis posticus, and from the interosseous membrane near the lower end of the fibula, Fig. 241. and also from a fibrous septum between it and the peronei muscles. The fibres pass obliquely downwards and inwards, to end in a tendon which descends to a groove first on the inner side of the astragalus, and then of the os calcis, being kept by a strong fibrous sheath, firmly applied to these bones; from this point it is continued into the sole of the foot, and through it to the base of the last phalangeal bone of the great toe, into which it is inserted. Its tendon crosses above that of the long common flexor of the toes, and gives to it a tendinous slip; in the latter part of its course, it is placed be- tween the bellies of the short flexor of the great toe. Opposite the internal malleolus, it is separated from the tendon of the long common flexor of the toes and the tendon of the tibialis posticus, by the posterior tibial vessels and nerve. The peroneal vessels are placed between its origin from the fibula, and its origin from the aponeurosis on the inner side of that bone. Its tendon passes very nearly through the whole muscle. Its action is to flex the great toe, and, having The deep Layer op Muscles of the Posterior Tibial Region op the Lept Leg.—1. The lower extremity of the femur. 2. The ligamentum posticum Wins- lowii. 3. The tendon of the semi-membranosus muscle dividing into its three slips. 4. The internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint. 5. The long external lateral ligament. 6. The popliteus muscle. 7. The flexor longus digitorum. 8. The tibialis posticus. 9. The flexor longus polliois. 10. The peroneus longus muscle, n. The peroneus brevis. 12. The tendo-AchiUis divided near its insertion into the OS calcis. 13. The tendons of the tibialis posticus and flexor longus digitorum muscles, just as they are about to pass beneath the internal annular ligamint (14) of the ankle; the interval between the latter tendon and the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis IS occupied by the posterior tibial vessels and nerve 48