229 DISSECTION OF THE BACK. Fig. 97 (i s). It is continuous below, witla the lumbar fascia, through the inferior serratus and tendon of the latissirnus dorsi. If pus be formed beneath the posterior layer of the fascia lumborum, there is nothing to prevent it from travelling upAvards beneath this aponeurosis. In dissecting oft' the serrati and rhomboid ei muscles, the student may notice the nerves which perforate them. The principal muscles of the back yet to be examined, have generally a longitudinal direction, and lie more or less parallel to each other. The student should read carefully a description of them before he attempts their dissection. The Splenius, Fig. 97 (i s), is commonly divided into the sphnius colli, and splenius capitis. This division belongs rather to the upper than to the lower part of the muscle. The Sp)lenius Colli arises from the spinous processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth dorsal vertebra. The Splenius Capitis arises from the spinous processes of the inferior cer- vical, and the first and second dorsal vertebrte. The former passes upwards, and is inserted by tendinous slips into the transverse processes of the superior two or three cervical vertebrae, while the latter also goes upwards, and is inserted into the mastoid process of the temporal bone, where it is overlapped by the insertion of the sterno-cleido-mastoideus, and into the occipital bone below the upper transverse ridge. The actions of these two divisions of the splenius are in- dicated by their insertions. The splenius capitis draws the head backwards, and to one side. If the corresponding por- tion of the splenius on the opposite side acts at the same time, they will draw the head directly backwards. The sple- nius colli acts in the same manner on the neck. There is a triangular space between the splenii muscles of the two sides in the upper part of the neck, which is filled up with dense areolar tissue, and fat. The complexus mus- cles are seen in this space. The Levator Anguli ScAPULiB, Fig. 97 (i o), is situated outside of the splenius. It arises by tendinous slips from the transverse processes of the superior three or four cervical vertebra?. Its fibres pass obliquely downwards and back- wards, and arc inserted into the base of the scapula, between the spme and the superior angle. Its origin corresponds nearly with the insertion of the splenius colli. To dissect