POSTERIOR AND INNER PART OF THE LEG. 663 The deep-seated veins on the back of the leg nnite to form the popliteal vein. The Posterior Tibial Nerve, Fig. 237, is a continua- tion of the internal popliteal, and commences at the lower border of the poplitens muscle, where it is placed on the inner side of the posterior tibial artery; as it descends in companj with the artery it crosses over to the outer side of it, and continues in this position to the space between the internal malleolus and the os calcis, where it divides into the external and internal plantar nerves. In its course on the leg it gives off branches to the deep layer of muscles and to the integument on the heel. The nerve for the flexor longus pollicis accompanies the peroneal artery to a short distance above the ankle-joint. It usually arises by a common trunk with the branch for the flexor longus digitorum communis. The branch for the tibialis posticus arises a little distance below the knee-joint, and a little higher than the origin of the branches for the other muscles; it penetrates the muscle near its middle, having sent filaments to it in its course to this point. The internal calcaneal branches arise by a sin- gle trunk behind the ankle-joint, winds around the os calcis, on its inner side, to reach the integument and adipose sub- stance on its lower surface, where it divides into a brancb which goes to the posterior part of the heel, and one that goes to the anterior part. The relations of the posterior tibial nerve to the muscles are the same as those of the artery which it accompanies. The deep layer of muscles which are next to be dissected consist of four. The first one, or popli- teus, is covered by an aponeurosis or fascia, by the removal of which the muscle will be exposed. To separate the three muscles below this from each other, it is sometimes better to find their tendons first, and then trace each one upwards. It is not unfrequently with difficulty that any line of separation can be found between the upper and middle portions of these muscles, unless it is followed up from their tendons below; this is more especially the case with the tibialis posticus and the flexor longus digitorum communis. The PoPLiTEUS, Fig. 2il («), is a flat, triangular-shaped muscle, placed behind and below the knee-joint. It arises by a round thick tendon from a depression on the outer surface of the external condyle of the femur, just below the origin