THE PALM OF THE HAND. 275 the close adherence of cellulo-adipose substance to them. ■Phe superficial palmar arch is connected at its outer extre- mity with the superficialis volse, and another branch which proceeds from the radial artery to the index finger. Besides the branches already mentioned, there are several smaller pnes derived from this arch, bat they require no special notice. Although the radial artery cannot be traced at the present time into the deep palmar arch, its digital branches to the thumb and forefinger may now be exposed. They occupy a. position on the thumb and radial side of the forefinger, simi- lar to that of the other digital branches on the fingers. It will be observed that the index finger is supplied equally by the radial and ulnar arteries. The Ulnae Nekve, Fig. 113 (5), will be found entering the palm along with the ulnar artery, but instead of forming an arch, it divides into a deep and superficial branch. The deep one passes deeply into the palm of the hand, and across it be- neath the common flexor tendons to the muscles of the thumb. It perforates the short flexor of the little finger, and in its course supplies branches to the muscles of the little finger, the third and fourth lumbricales, and the corresponding inter- osseous muscles, terminating in the abductor indicis, adductor pollicis, and the inner head of the flexor brevis poUicis. The superficial one sends a branch to the inner side of the little finger, the short flexor of which it perforates. It then divides into two branches to supply the contiguous sides of the little and ring fingers; it also sends a small branch to join the median nerve. The Median Nerve, Eig. 113 (4), enters the palm of the hand resting on the tendons of the long digital flexors. Having sent a branch to those muscles of the thumb which are not supplied by the deep branch of the ulnar, it divides into two parts, from which proceed five branches, to be dis- tributed as follows:— One branch goes to each side of the thumb; one to the radial side of the index finger; the other two subdivide each into two branches, to supply the opposing sides of the index, middle, and ring fingers. They are expended mainly in the skin, which, at the extremities of the fingers, is supplied by them on the dorsal as well as on the palmar aspect. The digital