187 DEEP PAET3 OF THE NECE. gastric. It anastomoses with tlie gustatory branch of the iifth in the submaxillary region, just before it passes beneath the mylo-hyoideus. The course of this nerve in the carotid and submaxillary regions, with the descendens noni and its other branches given off in these regions, has been described. In the parotid region it lies at first between the internal carotid and internal jugular, and behind the pneumogastric. As it descends, it gets on the outside of the pneumogastric, then in front of it, to turn inwards across the neck, and to- wards the tongue. The Spinal Accessory leaves the cranial cavity with the glosso-pharyngeal and pneumogastric, passing through the foramen lacerum posterius with the latter. Just below the foramen it sends a large branch to join the pneumogastric, thus supplying this nerve with involuntary motor filaments. It also communicates with the sympathetic and ninth nerves. The main trunk descends, usually behind the jugular vein and the styloid muscles, to perforate the sterno-cleido-mas- toideus, or to send a branch to it, and then to pass on to the trapezius. Behind the sterno-cleido-mastoid it anastomoses with the cervical plexus. _ The Pneumogastric, or Par Yagum, is the largest divi- sion of the eighth nerve. It passes through the foramen lacerum posterius in the same fibrous canal with the spinal accessory. There is a small ganglion situated on it in the foramen, and below the foramen it presents a gangliform arrangement of about an inch in length. It here lies be- tween the carotid and the jugular vein. It gives off several communicating branches. From the superior ganglion fila- ments connect with the glosso-pharyngeal and spinal acces- sory; while from the inferior ganglion filaments communicate with the hypoglossal, the upper spinal, and the sympathetic nerves. The auricular branch of the pneumogastric leaves the su- perior ganglion, and after giving a small branch to Jacob- son's branch of the glosso-pharyngeal, enters the petrous portion of the temporal bone in the jugular fossa, and joins the facial nerve in its bony canal, sending filaments also to the integument around the meatus externus. The pharyngeal branch arises just below the foramen sometimes receiving a branch from the spinal accessory, and