57 THE CEREBRUM. tions of the brain. The convolutions on tlie two sides do not exactly correspond in their direction or number, ims, however, does not interfere at all with the functions ot the orffan. , . , . . The dissection of the brain is begun by making a hori- zontal transverse incision through one hemisphere on a level with the upper surface of the corpus callosum. In doing this, the corpus callosum is kept in view, and answers for a guide. The following points are now to be noticed: Just above the corpus callosum, and projecting somewhat over it, is a long convolution, not only extending the whole length of it, but bending downwards both before and behind, to terminate on the base of the brain. If the medullary substance in this convolution be examined in that portion of the hemisphere which has been removed, it will be found to contain longitu- dinal fibres. These fibres constitute the superior longitudinal commissure, and are supposed to connect, physiologically, the anterior, middle, and posterior portions of the hemisphere. The Corpus Callosum, Fig. 10, is abou.t three inches and a half in length. It is arched from before backwards, broader behind than before, and thinnest in the middle. Two ridges are seen on the upper surface, close to the median line, extending from its anterior to its posterior border; these ridges are not always parallel to each other. The raphe is situated in the median line. The linece transversce are slight elevations extending from the longitudinal ridges to the later- al borders; they indicate the direction of the fibres of which the corpus callosum is composed. The termination of the corpus callosum, neither anteriorly nor posteriorly,, can b& seen at this stage of the dissection. It may be stated here, however, that it passes downwards and backwards, in front, to the lamina cinerea, or the anterior part of the floor of the third ventricle. Its reflected portion gradually diminishes in thickness to its termination. The term genu, or Jcnee, has been applied to the junction of the horizontal and reflected por- tions, and rostrum to the lower part, just in front of the floor of the third ventricle. Posteriorly, it seems to be doubled' upon itself, the lower or reflected part apparently terminating in the posterior extremity of the fornix, forming the upper _ boundary of the transverse fissure at this point. Laterally, ■ the fibres of the corpus callosum are lost in the hemispheres.