OF THE ABDOMEN. 342 parietes of the abdomen. They are the external and internal obliqae, the transverse, the recti, and the pyramidal. To render these muscles tense for dissection, besides using blocks, it may sometimes be found convenient to distend the bowels either by inflation or by injecting water into them. The Obliquus Exteenus, Fig. 146 (12, 13), lies next to the superficial'fascia. It arises from the eight inferior ribs near their cartilages, by as many fleshy digitations. These digitations project in between five similar ones belonging to the serratus anticus, and three belonging to the latissimus dorsi. It requires some care in dissecting to make these digitations distinct. A slip extends from the upper part to the pectoralis major. The length and direction of the fibres vary in different parts of the muscle. In the upper part they are short and quite oblique, in the middle they are longer but less oblique, while they are nearly perpendicular in the posterior part. The upper and middle fibres terminate in a broad aponeu- rotic tendon, which is inserted into the ensiform cartilage, the linea alba, the pubic bone, and Poupart's ligament; the pos- terior fibres are inserted tendinous and fleshy into the anterior two thirds of the crest of the ilium. The student should be careful to observe where the muscular fibres join the tendon, so that he may avoid cutting through it. Poupart's Ligament, Fig. 146 (14), is regarded by some as the lower border of the tendon of the external oblique folded back upon itself. By others it is considered as consist- ing of fibres which arise from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, and extending across the crural region, are inserted into the spine and crest of the pubic bone. That portion of it which is inserted into the crest of the pubis is called Gimhernat's ligament. The external oblique muscle is capable of acting in several ways. If the thorax and pelvis be fixed and both muscles act, they will compress the abdominal viscera; if the thorax be fixed, they will approximate the pelvis to it, or if the pelvis be stationary, they will draw the thorax forwards. If one acts separately, it will rotate the thorax to the opposite side, or the pelvis to its own side, or approximate them m a lateral direction. Before dissecting up the external oblique, the following points should be observed:—