105 THE EYEBALL. eye will now be seen, consisting of the iris in front, and the lens and ciliary processes behind. That a space does actually exist behind the iris, and in front of the lens, which is filled with a portion of the aqueous humor, may be proved by freezing an eye, when a thin layer or pellicle of ice will be found separating these two bodies. The anterior chamber, Fig. 25 (i o), of the eye is the space between the concave surface of the cornea and the anterior surface of the iris; it is much larger than the posterior. The iris is the only septum between the two chambers, forming the anterior boundary of one, and the posterior boundary of the other. These chambers communicate with each other through the pupil. The picpil, Fig. 26, g, is an aperture in the iris which ad- mits the rays of light into the posterior part of the eye. It is not exactly in the centre of the iris, being placed a little nearer to its inner than to its outer margin. In the human eye it is circular, but in the lower animals varies in shape. The Iris, Fig. 25, h, and Fig. 26,/, it will be seen, presents two borders and two surfaces. The outer border is attached by areolar tissue to the ciliary ligament, while the inner is free; the two surfaces are constantly in contact with the aqueous humor. It is the iris which gives to the eye its color, as we say a person has a ' blue eye,' a ' hazel eye,' or a ' black eye.' Its posterior surface is covered with a dark pigment called the uvea, from its resemblance to the color of the grape. Different opinions have been entertained in regard to the structure of the iris. It has been considered by some as composed of an elastic tissue, and by others as consisting of muscular fibres arranged in a circular and radiated form; the former consisting of a narrow band around the pupil, and the latter extending in a radiated manner to its outer circum- ference. It is considerably thicker than the choroid coat, and is abundantly supplied with bloodvessels and nerves. It responds to the stimulus of light applied to the retina, regulating by varying the size of the pupil, the number of rays which shall pass through the lens to that tunic. Some persons have the power of exciting its contractility by voli- tion. The size of the pupil may be increased or diminished by medicinal agents, and by certain conditions of the brain, as in concussion and compression.