508 THE LOWEE EXTREMITY. Fig. 214. the tendon of the rectus and into the patella. When the cru reus IS raised a fasciculus will be found going to the upper mrt of the synovial membrane of the knee-joint. ThisTcalled he s^^hcrure^^ rm^scle. Its action is supposed to be to d aw the synovial membrane upwards, so that it may not b^ pmched between the articular surfaces of the joint. It should be observed that the crureus does not occupy in its origin the whole of the anterior surface of the femur. The action of the vasti and crureus muscles is to assist the rectus in ex- tending the leg on the thigh. These four muscles, it will be seen, are at- tached to the tubercle of the tibia through the medium of the patella and the ligament of the patella. The pectineus and the adductor muscles, including the lower portion of the psoas magnus and iliacus in- ternus, may now be examined. The last-named muscles have already been described. _ The PECTmEus, Fig. 214 (4, s), is situated at the upper and anterior part of the thigh. It arises from the pectineal line, and from a triangular surface in front of this line, passes downwards, and is inserted into the ridge which extends from the trochan- ter minor to the linea aspera. The Adductor Longus, Fig. 214 (e, 9, 10), lies on the inner side of the pectineus, with which it is usually A View of the Deep-seatf.i) Muscles on the inside of the Thigh.—1. Os 2. Capsular ligament of the hip-joint. 3. Trochanter major; 4. Origin of the pectineus rauscle. 5. Symphysis pubis. 6. Origin of the adductor longus. 7. Insertion of the iliaous internus and the psoas ningnus. 8. Insertion nf the pectineus. 9. Middle of the adductor longus. 10. Tendinous insertion of the adductor longus. 11. Part of the adductor brevis seen between tlie pectineus and adductor longus. 12. Adductor uiagnus. 13. Aperture for the passage of bloodvessels. 14. Adduc- tor magnus with opening for the femoral vessels. 15. Portion of the crureus. 16. Another opening for vessels. 17, 18. Cut tendon of the quadriceps femoris. 19. Ligament of the patella.