VESSELS AND NERVES OF ABDOMINAL VISCERA. 375 the pelvis. Ecacli one lias a direction downwards and inwards along the psoas magnus, until it reaches the common iliac artery, which it passes over, and also the sometimes external iliac, to enter the pelvis. It is covered by the peritoneum, and has the spermatic vein and artery crossing over, and the genito-crural nerve passing behind it. Before the viscera are removed from the abdomen for dis- section, the vessels and nerves which supply them should be carefully examined. The arteries are, the coeliac, the superior and inferior mesenteric, the capsular, and the renal. The veijis correspond very nearly to the arteries; and all of them, except the renal, belong to the portal system. The nerves are derived from the pneumogastric and the sympathetic. In the dissection of the vessels of the abdominal viscera, no rule can be laid down for the guidance of the student that will be of much service to him. Before commencing their dissection, he should read carefully a description of each one of them, and ascertain very nearly its origin, position, and direction. He will then be able to place the parts in the position most favorable for getting at and tracing them. In exposing the coeliac artery and its branches, it may be found necessary to change the position of the stomach several times; and the same may be required in the case of organs concerned in the dissection of other arteries. In tracing the vessels which are distributed to the stomach and intestines, much assistance may be derived from a partial inflation of these organs. As the arteries are, for the most part, accompanied by veins and plexuses of nerves which must be dissected at the same time, they will be described in connection. It should be re- marked here, that if the student should wish to acquire a thorough and minute knowledge of the nerves in the abdo- men, he should obtain a subject for this purpose alone. The C(BLiAc Artery, Fig. 155, 5, and Fig. 159 (a), is given off from the aorta, just below the opening in the diaphragm, and between the crura of that muscle. It is from one-half to three-fourths of an inch in length, and projects almost directly forwards. It is surrounded by the solar plexus, and has one of the semilunar ganglia on each side of it. The Solar Plexus, Fig. 142 (90), consists of a network ot nerves, placed m front of the crura of the diaphragm and the aorta, and around the coeliac artery. It receives fila-