293 THE THORAX. side, from the ribs; the pleura may be divided at the same time, as this will not interfere with the study of it afterwards.^ By carefully separating the two halves of the sternum, a space will be observed behind it, bounded laterally by the pleura; and, by raising the cartilages on each side, the man- ner in which this space is formed will be readily understood, by observing that each pleura is reflected from the_ posterior surface of the sternum backwards. It will be noticed that, as the pleura leave the sternum, they are, in the centre, very nearly in apposition, leaving scarcely any space between them, while above and below they are separated a short distance from each other. The left pleura is reflected from the lower part of the sternum obliquely downwards, and to the left side. One half of the sternum, with the cartilages attached to it, may now be raised, commencing at its upper extremity, and reflected downwards over the abdomen without detaching it from the diaphragm. In raising it, the origin of the sterno- thyroideus, and sometimes that of the sterno-hyoideus, the internal mammary artery, the triangularis sterni muscle, and the intercostal nerves, will be seen. The Triangulaeis Sterni Muscle is situated behind the sternum and costal cartilages. It arises from the side of the sternum and xiphoid cartilage, and some of the costal carti- lages close to the sternum. It divides into several digitations, which are inserted into the second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth ribs. The lower fibres have neai'ly a transverse direc- tion, and are continuous with the transverse muscle of the abdomen ; the upper fibres pass obliquely upwards and out- wards. Its action is to draw down, or to fix the costal carti- lages. The Internal Mammary Artery arises from the sub- clavian opposite to the supra-scapular, and passes obliquely downwards behind the sternal extremity of the clavicle and cartilage of the first rib, where it enters the cavity of the ' a pai'tial view of the contents of the thoracic viscera may be obtained by simply dividing the sternum in the median line, and separating the two halves by means of dilators made for the purpose, or by any means -which may be most convenient. To make a thorough examination of the contents of the thoracic cavity, it is necessary to cut away, more or less, the ribs.