DISSECTIOIf OF THE PERINEUM. 459 The CoccYGEUS, Fig. 193 (i o), is situated between the pyri- formis and the posterior border of the levator am. It anses from the spine of tlie ischium and from the small sacro- sciatic ligament, and is imerted into the side of the coccyx The Arteries of the Perineum; on the Eight Side the Superficial Arte- ries ARE SEEN, AND ON THE Left THE Deep.—1. The penis, consisting of the corpus spongiosum and corpora cavernosa. The crus penis on the left side is cut through. 2. The acceleratores urina3 muscles, inclosing the bulbous portion of the corjius spongiosum. 3. The erector penis, spread out upon the crus penis of the right side. 4. The anus, surrounded by the sphincter ani muscle. 5. The rami of the ischium and pubes. 6. The tuberosity of the ischium. 7. The small sacro-sciatic ligament attached by its small extremity to the spine of the ischium. 8. The coccyx. 9. The internal pudic artery, crossing the spine of the ischium, and entering the perineum. 10. Inferior hemorrhoidal branches. 11. The superficial perineal artery, giving off a small branch, transverse perineal, upon the transversus perinei muscle. 12. The same artery on the left side cut off. 13. The artery of the bulb. 14. The two terminal branches of the internal pudic artery; one is seen entering the divided ex- tremity of the crus penis, the artery of the corpus cavernosum; the other, the dor- salis penis, ascends upon the dorsum of the organ. and the lower part of the sacrum. It is of a triangular form; and its attachments are aponeurotic. Its inner and upper surface corresponds to the rectum. Its action is to keep the coccyx in its proper place, and to assist in forming the floor of the pelvis. The iscnio-EECTAL FOSSA is wedge-shaped, and is from an inch and a half to two inches deep. The thin edge looks up- wards and corresponds to the splitting of the pelvic fascia into the levator or anal fascia on the inner side, and the obturator fascia on the outer side. The base or thick edge looks