INTEBNAL EAK, OR LABYRINTH. 131 There are observed attached to the utricle and saccule small calcareous bodies, called otolithes, or otoconia. The arteries of the tympanum enter it in the following manner: A small branch from the middle meningeal passes through the hiatus Fallopii; another from the internal max- illary enters it through the Grlaserian fissure; a third one comes from the stylo-mastoid, and gets in at the lower end of the aqueduct of Fallopius; it receives branches through the Eustachian tube from the ascending pharyngeal or inferior palatine arteries; the internal carotid also sends a twig into it through a small foramen from the carotid canal. The artery to supply the labyrinth passes through the meatus auditorius internus. It sometimes comes from the superior cerebellar, and sometimes from the basilar. At the bottom of the meatus it divides into a vestibular and a coch.- lear branch. The nerves connected with the middle and internal ear are derived from several sources. There are four which enter the petrous bone; one of these terminates in the labyrinth; the other three pass through the bone, traversing in their course the tympanum. The portio dura and portio mollis enter it through the meatus auditorius internus ; the former leaves it through the foramen stylo-mastoideum; the latter is distributed to the labyrinth. The vidian enters through the hiatus Fallopii, and makes its exit as the chorda tympani, through a small aperture near the Glaserian fissure. Jacob- son's branch of the glosso-pharyngeal passes through a small foramen situated between the jugular fossa and carotid fora- men, and leaves the bone as the siiperficial petrosal branch of Jacobson, just below the hiatus Fallopii to go to the otic ganglion. The Portio Mollis, Fig. 44 (i s, i e, 17), at the bottom of the meatus divides into two branches, one for the cochlea and one for the vestibule and semicircular canals. The anterior or cochlear division passes through by a number of filaments the perforated base of the modiolus, and thus enters its osseous canals, from which the filaments enter nearly at right angles the space between the lamellas of the lamina spiralis, to terminate in a delicate nervous membrane in the form of •papillfe. The ^posterior or vestibular division separates into three fasci-