SPHENO-MAXILLAKY EEGION. Ill The portions of the" skull concerned in this dissection may be arranged in three planes: First, the zygoma with the super-, llcial portion of the malar bone. Second, the external portion of the superior maxilla, the glenoid cavity, and eminentia articularis of the temporal bone, and that part of the greater Aving of the sphenoid situated in the zygomatic fossa. Third, the tuberosity of the superior maxilla, with the pterygoid process, and the horizontal portion of the great wing of the sphenoid. The Masseter muscle. Fig. 61 (i e), which was noticed in the superficial dissection of the face, should now be more accurately observed. It is a powerful muscle, consisting of two parts, an external and an internal. The external is the largest; it arises^ chiefly tendinous, from the anterior portion of the zygomatic arch, and the malar process of the superior maxilla, passes downwards and backwards, and is inserted into the lower half of the ramus of the inferior maxilla, extending as far back as the angle. The mternal portion arises from the posterior part of the arch; its fibres pass downwards, most of them in a vertical direction, and are inserted into the upper half of the ramus of the lower jaw. The lower portion of the internal is overlapped by the fibres of the external. When both masseter muscles act, they approximate the lower jaw to the upper; when the exter- nal portions alone act, they move it forwards; and when the internal portions act, they draw it backwards. By acting separately, they can move the jaw laterally. The masseter may now be removed. In doing this, the masseteric artery and nerve should be sought; the former is a branch of the internal maxillary, and the latter, of the second division of the fifth pair. They penetrate the internal surface of the muscle, just above the sigmoid notch, where thev mav be easily found. ^ ^ The masseter having been removed, the zygomatic arch and the contiguous portion of the malar bone may now be cut away, thus exposing the insertion and lower part of the temporal muscle, which was described with the soft parts on the outside of the cranium. The coronoid process should now be cut through and turned upwards with the temporal muscle, care being taken not to mjure the parts beneath. In doing this, the deep