BASE OF THE BRAIN. 77 whicli is placed between the optic tracts, and behind the optic chiasm; in front of the chiasm is the fissure which separates the anterior lobes; on the outside of each optic tract is the commencement of the fissure of Sylvius, with the locus per- foratus lateralis and the peduncle of the corpus callosum. The relative position of these different parts on the base of the encephalon, should be carefully noted by the student. The Pons Varolii, Fig. 17 (12), contains the fibres which constitute the great commissure between the hemispheres of the cerebellum, and also the fibres which are prolonged from the medulla oblongata upwards into the crura cerebri. Be- sides these two sets of fibres, more or less gray substance is found in it, in which other fibres are said to originate. It has directly above it the upper portion of the fourth ventricle, the tubercula quadrigemina, and the aqueduct of Sylvius. Its lower surface is free, and corresponds to the upper part of the basilar process of the occipital bone. Below and behind it is the medulla oblongata. In front of it are the crura cerebri. Laterally it terminates in the middle pedun- cles of the cerebellum. "When the pons is cut into, the transverse fibres are found to be intersected by longitudinal fasciculi, which are easily traced from the corpora pyramidalia upwards to the crura cerebri. The transverse fibres which are placed above the longitudinal fasciculi have gray substance intermixed with them. This gray substance is also intermixed with the fibres, which are prolonged upwards from the corpora olivaria. Above the gray substance are the fibres which proceed from the corpora innominata to the upper part of the crura cerebri. The Crura Cerebri, or the Peduncles of the Cerebrum, Fig. 17 (11), are two large white bodies placed in front of the pons Varolii. They are to be regarded as a continuation of the spinal marrow upwards to the base of the cerebrum. They consist of white fibres which have ascended through the pons from the medulla oblongata and those which have originated in the pons, together with a mass of gray matter in each cms named the locus niger. The inferior fibres are a continuation of those which compose the corpora pyramidalia; the superior fibres are a continuation of those of the corpora olivaria and innominata. The gray matter is situated between these two sets, of fibres, and in the central part of each crus. The gray