208 THE UPPER EXTREMITY. dissected at the same time, it may be convenient to carry the last incision from the xiphoid cartilage ajong the lower border of the pectoral muscle, since the parts belonging to both the upper and lower extremities are here more or less blended. In this way,the same incision, as far as the origin of the pectoralis major is concerned, will answer for both. The portion of skin covering the serratus magnus may be left till the student is ready to dissect the axilla, when it may be reflected off in a single flap. The integument of the pectoral region demands no particu- lar notice. Its nerves are derived partly from the supra-clavicular, Fig. 103 (i), and supra-acromial. Fig. 104 (i), branches of the cervical plexus, which descend from the neck over the cla- vicle and sternum, and partly from the anterior cutaneous branches of the intercostals, which perforate the intercostal spaces along the border of the sternum, and ramify in the subcutaneous fascia; a branch of the second intercostal nerve anastomoses with a branch of the supra-clavicular. The cutaneous arteries come from the internal mammary, and from the thoracic branches of the axillary. The largest of them are distributed to the mammary gland. There is only one vein of any importance superficial to the deltoid and pectoralis major muscles, and this is the cephalic, which occupies the groove corresponding to the juxta- position of these muscles. In Removing the skin and fascia, the student should look for this vein and the humeral branch of the thoracico-acromial artery which accompanies it. The Mammary Gland, Fig. 88, should be examined in sitH: its lobulated ar- rangement ; its appearance as contrasted with the surrounding tissues; the man- ner in which it is connected with the fascia, and its relations to the pectoralis major and the thorax generally. Its arteries and nerves are derived from the same sources as thosp of the Its lymiohalics are connected with those Fig. 88. A Side View of the Majimauy Gland. skin in its vicinity.