THE LOWER EXTREMITY. »ame. 7. Anterior ligament of ankle-joint. cm Fig. 261. 258 (9), IS not so large as the anterior. It arises from the posterior part of the head of the fibula, and passes upwards and backwards, to be inserted into the outer and posterior part of the head of the tibia. The mobility allowed by this articulation is very limited ; the head of the fibula may move slightly backwards or forwards, or separate a very little from the tibia. The Interosseous Ligament or Membrane, Fig. 261 (a), which connects the shafts of the tibia and fibula, forms a septum between, or a floor for, the anterior and posterior interosseous foss£e. It corresponds to the one between the radius and ulna of the forearm. It is composed principally of fibres which pass obliquely downwards and outwards, from the outer angle of the tibia to the inner part of the fibula; a few fibres will be observed crossing these. An opening is observed in the upper part of it for the passage of the anterior tibial vessels; and another at the lower part, or about an inch above the inferior tibio-fibular articulation, for the transmission of the an- terior division of the peroneal artery and its venae comites. Both of its surfaces, as has been observed, are occupied by the origins of muscles. This ligament is some- times called the great or superior interosse- ous ligament, to distinguish it from the small or inferior interosseous ligament which con- nects the lower extremities of the bones to- gether. The inferior tibio-fibular articulation is formed by a vertical, concave, rough surface on the outer part of the lower end of the tibia, into which the lower end of the fibula is received. Instead of having articular cartilage, covered by synovial membrane, as A PAHT OF THE FeMTTR, THE PatELLA, THE BONES OF THE LeG, ANB A RANGE OP THOSE OF THE FoOT OF THE LEFT SIDE ARE VIEWED IN FRONT. Some ligaments of the knee-joint are distinguishable.—1. Superior anterior tibio-fibular ligament. 2. Interosseous membrane. 3. Inferior anterior tibio-fibular ligament. 4. Deltoid of ankle-joint. 5. Middle division of external lateral; and 6, anterior division of