193 OF THE LARYNX. V Fig. 72. simple arrangement would have been sufficient, as in the case of the trachea and bronchial tubes. To make a thorough examination of this organ, the student should be provided with at least two larynges; one for the dissection of the cartilages and ligaments, and another for the muscles, ves- sels, and nerves. The Hyoid Bone should be examined before the dissec- tion of the cartilages and ligaments of the larynx. It is situated between the base of the tongue and the upper part of the larynx, and is connected to both of these organs. It is named from its having a form resembling the Greek letter upsilon. Its position is nearly horizontal, being concave pos- teriorly and convex anteriorly. It consists of a central part or body, and four lateral por- tions called cornua. There are two cornua on each side, one large and one small. The Body^ Fig. 72 (j), is curved and flattened. It presents a superior anterior, and inferior posterior surface. The ante- rior superior surface is rough and uneven for the attachment of mus- cles. The inferior posterior surface is excavated, and sometimes occu- pied by a yellow areolar tissue. Its upper border gives attachment to the hyo-glossal membrane or sep- tum of the tongue. The thyro- hyoid muscle is inserted into its inferior border. The Great Cornua, Fig. 72 (2), proceed backwards from the ends of the body, and, diminishing in size, terminate in tubercles. In the young bone, they are connected to the body by cartilage. They present a superior and an in- lerior surface. The Small Cornua, Fig. 72 (3), are two small bodies winch project upwards from xhe junction of the body with the great cornua. The stylo-hyoid ligaments are inserted into tiiem. ihese ligaments are sometimes found ossified itie principal cartilages are the cricoid, the thyroid the 17 ' An Anterior View OF the Os Hyoiues.—1. The anterior con- vex side of tlie body. 2. Tlie cornu majus of tlie left side. 3. The cornu minus of the same side. The cornua were ossified to the body of the bone in this specimen.