394 OF THE ABDOMEN, Some of tliem have a conical form, while others have a flattened or ti-iangular shape. They give to the internal surface of the intestine a velvety appearance. They consist of projections of the mucous membrane, covered by epithe- lium, and contain a network of capillary vessels, and lacteals or absorbent vessels. They are very distinctly seen, when a portion of the intestine is minutely injected and allowed to float in water or alcohol. The Glands, or Follicles op Lieberkuhn, are small crypts found in every part of the small intestine. ■ They are situated between the villi and around the larger glands. They are similar to the small tubuli observed in the mucous mem- brane of the stomach. The Glands of Brunner are small glandular bodies, situated in the cellular coat of the duodenum, forming small projections on the surface of the mucous membrane. They are about the size of hemp seed. Each gland is composed of several lobules, which open on the mucous surface through a common duct. In structure they resemble the salivary glands. The GlanduLuE Solitaries, Fig. 165, are small projecting bodies, observed along the whole track of Fig. 165. the small intestine. They are covered by villi, and surrounded by the crypts of Lieberkiihn. They have no excretory ducts, or open mouths. When they are cut into they are found to contain a whitish, granular substance. Their use is not known. -^ '^ ''^ Tj^g Glands of Peyer, Fig. 166, or Solitary Gland op the glandulcB agminatce, are observed THE Small Intestine, principally in the lower portion of the MAGNIFIED. (Bocbm.) fl -"^ 1 ,1 -1 -J. 4. xl,„ The surface is beset Tv-ith ilcum, and ou the Side opposite to the villi: tiie luouiiis of nu- attachment of the mesentery. They con- uuhHrnrsoslu:^'"- sist of patches varying in number from ten to thirty, or more, of an oval or ob- long shape, being from one to two or three inches in lengtli, and^half an inch in breadth. They have no excretory ducts. Each patch is supposed to be an aggregation of the solitary glands, and, like them, their function has not been ascer- tained. To examine them, the intestine should be laid open