334 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. hind or in front of the subclavian a,rtery. In the thorax, its course is similar to that of the superior cardiac. It also re- ceives filaments from the pneumogastric and recurrent nerves. It is generally the largest of the three cardiac nerves. The inferior cardiac nerve arises from the third cervical ganglion, and passes down behind the arteria innominata and aorta, and terminates in the deep cardiac plexus. It receives branches from the pneumogastric and recurrent. The cardiac ganglion is situated between the arch of the aorta and pulmonary artery, on the right side of the remains of the ductus arteriosus. It receives filaments from the superior cardiac nerves, and also from the pneumogas- tric. These filaments form the superficial cardiac plexus^ from which filaments, together with others derived from the deep cardiac plexus, proceed downwards to form a plexus which accompanies the right coronary artery on the heart. The deep cardiac plexus is formed by filaments from the superior cardiac nerves, more from the right than from the left, by the middle and inferior cardiac nerves, and filaments from the pneumogastric and recurrent. It is situated above the pulmonary artery, and between the arch of the aorta and the trachea; a portion of it is also situated between the right pulmonary artery and the bifurcation of the trachea. From this plexus some filaments pass in front of the pulmonary artery, to join others from the superficial plexus. The greater portion of them, however, pass down behind and between this artery and the aorta, to form a plexus, which acconi- panies the left coronary artery. Some filaments from this plexus also join the pneumogastric nerves, and with them go to the lungs. Dissection of the Ligaments of the Thoeax. The true ribs are joined to the sternum directly by cartilages, while the false ribs are connected to it indirectly by their car- tilages joining those of the true ribs. The sternal extremities of the ribs are excavated, and the cartilages are received into them, while the sternal ends of the cartilages of the true ribs are rounded, and received into concavities on the borders of the sternum. Synovial membranes are found between these cartilages and the sternum, except the first. They are con-