VESSELS OF ABDOMINAL PAEIETES. 357 The epigastric artery is the principal one to be avoided m dividing a stricture in either form of inguinal hernia. This is to be°done bj cutting upwards and parallel to the artery. The seai of stricture in indirect hernia maybe at the internal ring, or where the cord passes under the internal oblique muscle, or at the external ring. It occurs most frequently at the internal ring, and, next to this, where the cord passes beneath the muscle. In direct hernia, the stricture may occur at the external ring, or at the conjoined tendon, especially if the tendon be perforated by the bowel. There are other forms of inguinal hernia, as scrotal, con- genital, and encysted. Scrotal, is when the bowel has descended into the scrotum. The tumor in this form of hernia may acquire an enormous size. Congenital, is that form in which the bowel descends in the tunica vaginalis, while it yet communicates with the cavity of the peritoneum. Encysted, is when the bowel descends behind the tunica vaginalis, carrying with it a pouch of the peritoneum. The/ascz'a transversalis has been observed as forming an important part of the anatomy of inguinal hernia. It lines the internal surface of the transversalis muscle in other por- tions of the abdominal parietes, where it consists of but little more than a thin, delicate layer of areolar tissue, and requires no particular notice. The arteries, which supply the parietes of the abdomen anteriorly and laterally, are the internal mammary, the lower intercostal, the lumbar, the internal circumflex ilii, the arteria ad cutem abdominis, and the epigastric. The Internal Mammary enters the abdomen beneath the cartilage of the seventh rib, descends a short distance behind the rectus, and then perforates its sheath. While in the sheath, it gives branches to the muscle, and sends off branches which go to supply the integuments and the broad muscles. They inosculate freely with branches of the epigastric. The Intercostal leave the intercostal spaces, and pass between the internal oblique and transversalis muscles. They inosculate with the internal mammary, epigastric, and lumbar arteries.