550 THE LOWEE EXTEEMITY. ofe from tlie popliteal artery, which require to be noticed bix ot these are articular branches, and two are muscular ihe superior internal articular arteries, consist of two One oi these is sometimes called the great anastomotic artery, Fig 116 (20, oj)^ of the knee. It may arise from the femoral artery as it is passing through the tendinous sheath to be- come the pophteal; or it may have its origin still higher up. After perforating the adductor magnus, it divides into severai branches. One of these passes downwards behind the sar- torius muscle, in company with the internal saphenous nerve- another one passes downwards through the substance of the vastus internus muscle, and, reaching the inner border of the tendon of the quadriceps extensor muscle, just above the pa- tella, where it becomes subcutaneous, andcrossing transversely to the outer side, along the upper border of the patella, it anastomoses with the superior external articular branch. It sends branches to the anterior surface of the patella. One or two branches are distributed principally to the periosteum on the inner and anterior surface of the femur. One of these sometimes takes the place of the next artery to be de- scribed, or terminates by anastomosing with it. The lower superior internal articular artery, Fig. 239 (4), arises just above the internal condyle, passes horizontally inwards and around the condyle, to gain its anterior surface. It sends branches to the patella and to the synovial mem- brane, and other branches to the integument, and to anasto- mose with the preceding branch and one or two of the other articular branches. The superior external articular artery, Fig. 239 (5), arises just above the external condyle, and, passing under the biceps flexor muscle, divides into several branches; some of which are muscular, and others are periosteal. The former are ascending branches, and go to the biceps and the quadriceps extensor muscles. The latter are found ramifying on the condyle and the anterior surface of the lower part of the femur, and also on the outer part of the patella. They also anastomose freely with the other articular branches. The inferior external articular artery, Fig. 239 (s), arises oppo- site the articulation, and passing horizontally outwards in a line corresponding to the joint, and beneath the tendon of the biceps and the external lateral ligaments, divides into an ascending, a transverse, and a descending branch. The first