THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 254 The YENiE CoMiTES consist of two veins, one on each side of the artery; they communicate frequently with each other across it. Sometimes there is found a collateral vein open- ing into the vena3 comites, both in the upper and lower part of the arm. These veins are to be cut away in dissecting the artery. The Ulnar Nerve, Fig. 93 (3), passes down, at first, close to the inner side of the artery, but gradually diverges from it as it proceeds towards the notch between the inner con- dyle and the olecranon process, through which it goes to the forearm. It gives off no branches in the arm. It is ac- companied in the lower part of its course, as before men- tioned, by the inferior profunda artery. The Musculo-Spiral Nerve, Fig. 108 (is), cannot be traced at this stage of the dissection further than the fissure which it enters with the superior profunda artery in the tri- ceps extensor muscle. Before it enters the fissure it usually gives off two or three small branches, which go to the muscles and the skin on the inner part of the arm. The belly of the biceps muscle may now be divided near the junction of its two heads, and turned upwards and down- wards, to expose the external cutaneous nerve and the bra-, chialis anticus muscle. The nerve^ Fig, 108 (5), will be found passing obliquely downwards and outwards between the bi- ceps, and the brachialis anticus to become subcutaneous at the outer part of the bend of the arm. It supplies branches in its course to the coraco-brachialis, the biceps, and the bi'a- chialis anticus. Its cutaneous branches may now be traced for a short distance down on the forearm. The Brachialis Anticus, or Internus, Fig. 109 (1 e), arises from the whole of the anterior surface of the humerus, from the deltoid ridge to near the elbow-joint. It extends on both sides beyond the biceps, but more on the inner than on the outer side. It extends a little upwards in its origin on each side of the insertion of the deltoid. Its fibres converge to form a short tendon, which is inserted into the anterior and lower part of the coronoid process of the ulna. The tendon of the biceps lies partly upon it and to its outside. This muscle assists the biceps in flexing the forearm on the arm; it also withdraws the synovial membrane from the angle of