THE LOWER EXTREMITY. 528 Fig. 225. Two LUMBAB VERTEBRiE WITH THE Intervertebral Substance are SEEN FROM BEFORE.—By removing a portion of one layer (1) of the latter, another layer (2), is partly exposed, and the oblique direction of their fibres is made manifest. and below to the vertebrae, but not at opposite points, as they have, especially those of the outer lainiuge, an oblique direction, Fig. 225 (i, 2); they extend from the right to the left or from the left to the right, ac- cording as they are on the right side or left side of the median line, and according to the lamina that is examined, as in every alternate one their direction is reversed, so that the fibres of any two contiguous lamina decus- sate with each other. They are also curved, Fig. 224 (1,2), those situated externally, outwards, and those internally inwards. When the spine is lengthened and the vertebrte separated fur- ther from each other, both the obliquity and the curvature of the fibres are diminished. The same thing takes place on the side of the convexity when the spine is bent, and also on one side or the other when the spine is twisted. The central pulpy matter is constantly compressed, as is shown when a vertical section of two vertebras including the intervertebral substance is made, it immediately forming a projection beyond the surrounding cut surface. The same fact is shown by pushing an awl in between two vertebrge, when it will be forced partly back again. The expansion will be greater when the preparation has been for some time macerated or soaked in water. The property of elasticity which it possesses in so large a degree is an exceedingly important element in the construction of the vertebral column. The intervertebral substance is more abundant between the cervical and lumbar vertebrae than between the dorsal, hence these portions of the column possess a greater degree of mobility than the dorsal. In the aggregate, this substance forms about one-fourth part of the length of the spine be- tween the axis and the sacrum. In old age the intervertebral substance possesses less elas- ticity, being dryer aud less in bulk. The reverse is true in