216 THE UPPER EXTREMITY. This artery may be divided into three portions: one above the pectoralis minor, one below it, and another directly be- hind It. The relations of the w/j^jer division have already been described. In the middle part of its course it is sur- Pig. 92. 1. The deltoid muscle. 2. The hiceps. 3. The tendinous process given off from the tendon of the biceps to the deep fascia of the forearm. It is this process which sepa- rates the median basilic vein from the bra- chial artery. 4. The outer border of the brachialis anticus muscle. 5. The supinator longus. 6. The cornco-brachialis. 7. The middle portion of the triceps muscle. 8. Its inner head. 9. The axillary artery. 10. The brachial artery; a dark line marks the division between those two vessels. 11. The thoracica acromialis artery dividing into its three branches; the number rests upon the coracoid process. 12. The superior and inferior thoracic arteries. 13. The serratus magnus muscle. 14. The subscapular artery. The posterior circumfle.x and thoracica axil- laris branches are seen in the figure between the inferior thoracic and subscapular. The anterior circumflex is observed, between the two heads of the biceps, crossing the neck of the humerus. 15. The superior profunda artery. 16. The inferior profunda. 17. The anastomotica magna inosculating inferiorly with the anterior ulnar reeurrent. 18. The termination of the superior profunda, inos- culating with the radial recurrent in the in- terspace between the brachialis anticus and supinator longus. rounded by the axillary plexus, Fig. 93, and is never ligated at this point unless in cases of amputation. The loioer division is the most superficial. It can be reached here very readily from the axillary fossa. At first it usually lies between two roots of the median nerve^ and then behind and a little to the thoracic side of this nerve. The ■external cutaneous nerve is situated on its outer side, between it and the coraco-brachialis muscle, which it very soon per- forates. The internal cutaneous is seen on its inner side. This nerve is quite small, and should not be confounded with the