315 THE MEDIASTINUM. the superficial and deep cardiac plexuses, which will be de- scribed in connection with the contents of the superior medi- astinum. They accompany the coronary arteries only for a short distance, when they leave them to divide into branches to be distributed to the parietes of the heart. They can be seen for some distance in their course towards the apex of the heart, beneath the serous membrane; they are more distinct in a heart which has been macerated for a few days in alcohol. The student should now proceed to examine the contents of the POSTEEIOR MEDIASTINUM. They are readily exposed by dissecting the pericardium from the diaphragm, and detaching the pleura on each side as it is reflected from the pericardium to the vertebrEe and ribs. They consist of the oesophagus, the aorta, the azygos vein, the thoracic duct, and the pneumo- gastric nerves. The great splanchnic nerves enter this space just before they pass through the diaphragm. These parts should be preserved, to be referred to again in the examina- tion of the contents of the superior mediastinum, in which they are also found. The oesophagus occupies the anterior part of this space, immediately behind the pericardium. It has the leftpneumo- gastric nerve adhering to it in front, and the right behind. It perforates the diaphragm opposite the ninth dorsal vertebra. The aorta, in passing through this region, has a direction somewhat oblique from the left to the right. It is situated on the left side, and is partly covered by the left pleura. The branches which in gives off, in this part of its course, will be noticed at another time. It enters the abdomen between the crura of the diaphragm, where it rests on the eleventh and twelfth dorsal vertebrae. The vena azygos is placed on the right side; it is partly covered by the right pleura. It enters this space from the abdomen through the aortic opening in the diaphragm. The thoracic duct lies between the azygos vein and the aorta, and behind the oesophagus. It requires some care to be able to distinguish it from the areolar tissue around it. It passes through the diaphragm with the aorta and vena azygos. The splanchnic nerves will be seen on the sides of the bodies of the vertebrce gradually getting more m front of them to perforate the crura of the diaphragm. The contents of the Superior Mediastinum are numerous and their arrangement somewhat complex. The student in his examination of them, should pursue a systematic course