ANATOMY OF FEMOEAL HERNIA. 497 the outer, and the external iliac vein the middle one, while the inner one, which is shorter than the other two, is occapied by subperitoneal areolar tissue and a lymphatic gland, and is named the crural canal The pouch itself is the mfundibuli- form sheath of the femoral vessels, noticed m the dissection of the parts below Poupart's ligament. The crural canal should now be examined. To do this, the areolar tissue and lymphatic gland, if one be present, must, in the first place, be removed; the finger should then be introduced into, and gently pushed down to the saphe- nous opening, having first flexed the thigh on the abdomen and rotated it inwards. If the thigh be now extended and rotated outwards, the upper part of the canal will be constricted by Poupart's and Hey's ligaments being made tense, and the effect of the position of the limb upon the neck of a hernial tumor distinctly understood, as well as the importance of placing the limb in a proper position when attempting to return the bowel either by taxis or after an operation in case of strangulation. The upper orifice of the crural canal is called the crural or femoral ring, Fig, 209 (12). Its boundaries are, in front and on the inner side, Hey's ligament and Poupart's including Gimbernat's ligament; on the outer side, the femoral vein; and behind, the pubic bone covered by a lamina of fibrous tis- sue. These boundaries are exterior to the proper walls of the canal. Dropping the terms of Hey's ligament and Grim- bernat's ligament, it might simply be said that the fascia lata and Poupart's ligament are placed in front and on the inner side of the upper part of the crural canal, and must be re- garded, when considered in their relations to the neck of a hernial tumor, as forming one structure. The crural canal cannot be said to have any external orifice, unless the saphe- nous vein forms one in entering the sheath of the vessels. There is no artery of much size in the majority of cases that has any direct relation to the femoral ring. There is usually a small anastomosing branch which crosses over the ring to the obturator artery. This branch is occasionally met with of considerable size. The obturator artery not un- frequently arises from either the epigastric or external iliac, and passes inwards to reach the upper part of the obturator foramen. In this case it may be placed either above or be- low the neck of a hernial tumor; but, if it arises from the 42^^