27 GENERAL REMARKS. learn the parts dissected. The first is to be accomplished only by care and practice. Dissecting is not merely cnttmg. The parts must be exposed in a dissection clearly and with- out mutilation. When the student first begins to dissect it is generally on some muscle. He should proceed with this iust as slowly as shall be necessary to remove all the fascia which covers it, so as to leave the fibres of the muscle clear and distinct. If he commences on the abdomen, he should spend at least two hours or more in removing the skin and- fascia from the external oblique muscle. The fascia, which may be raised with the skin in his first dis- section, should be made tense by holding it with the forceps, or with the fingers, whenever it can be done, and the knife carried in the direction of the fibres of the muscles. No fascia should be left behind in the progress of the dissection to obscure the fibres, or to be removed afterwards in detached portions. If he learns to dissect the first muscle right, he will have no dif&culty afterwards in dissecting muscles in a manner satisfactory to himself and to his teacher. He should always see that the subject, or part, is placed in a position that will render the fibres of the muscle which he is dissecting tense. When this cannot be effected by position, hooks may be used for the purpose. When a part has been dissected, it should never be aban- doned until it has been so thoroughly studied and learned that the student can give an accurate description of it in his own words. It is better that he should not commit to memory the language used in the text-books which he reads, except such words as have a technical meaning. When the student has become familiar with the appearance and relations of parts, his attention should be directed to the practical appli- cation of this knowledge. If he has, for instance, examined the liver in situ^ and its relations to contiguous parts, he should then study what would be the effect upon these parts when it had increased to two or three times its natural size ; or, if an abscess should be formed in it, the different ways in which the pus might find an outlet. There is no place where he • can so well appreciate these things as in the dissecting- room, with the subject before him. As a subject is usually divided between several gentlemen, it is exceedingly desirable that each one should prosecute the dissection of the part assigned to him so as not to prevent