228 TUE UPPER EXTKEMITY. scapular. Tlie ramifications of this artery cannot be traced until the rliomboidei and levator anguli scapulae muscles have been dissected. It will be recollected, in dissecting off the trapezius and latissimus dorsi, that these muscles are perforated by the cu- taneous nerves of the back. If the student should wish to trace these nerves to their origin, he must dissect them out of the muscles as they are raised. The next muscles to be dissected are the rhomboidei major and minor, and the serrati postici superior and inferior. The Ehomboideus Majoe, Fig. 97 {12), arises from the spinous processes of the superior four or five dorsal ver- tebrie; its fibres pass transversely across to the base of the scapula, into which they are inserted from the spine to the inferior angle. The Ehomboideus Minoe, Fig. 97 (u), arises from the spinous processes of the inferior two or three cervical verte- brae, and is inserted into that portion of the base of the scapula which corresponds to the spine. The two rhomboidei might be regarded as a single muscle, their separation being often very indistinct. They draw the scapula backwards and some- what upwards; the lower part acting alone will rotate the scapula, so as to depress the acromion process. In dissecting off the rhomboidei, a little care is necessary not to raise with them the following muscle, which is partially covered by them. The Serratus Posticus Supeeioe arises from the spinous processes of the lower two or three cervical, and about the same number of the superior dorsal vertebr£e; it is inserted by three fleshy slips into the second, third, and fourth ribs. The action of this muscle is to elevate the ribs into which it is inserted. The Seeeatus Posticus Infeeioe, Fig. 97 (le), arises from the spinous processes of the two or three lower dorsal, and upper lumbar vertebra, and is inserted into the four inferior ribs. Its tendinous origin is closely connected with the latissimus dorsi. Its action is either to depress the lower ribs, and thus assist in expiration, or to fix them, and thus assist the diaphragm, which is an inspuratory muscle. Extending from one serratus muscle to the other, is a weU-niarkecf aponeurosis; it is called the vertebral aijoneurosis,