DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK. The Stylo-glossus, Fig. 59 (3), arises from the styloid pro- cess and stylo-maxillary ligament, and, passing downwards, inwards, and forwards, enters the side of the tongue, where it spreads out and divides into an internal and external portion. The latter runs to the apex, while the former takes a trans- verse direction, and terminates by intermixing with the in- trinsic fibres. The Hyo-glossus, Eig. 59 (4), arises from the body and great cornu of the hyoid bone, and enters the tongue between the lingualis and stylo-glossus. The greater part of this muscle is seen in the dissection of the submaxillary region. The Genio-hyo-glossus, Fig. 60 (4), is the largest of the lin- gual muscles. It arises from the lower jaw, near the symphysis. Some of its fibres pass downwards and backwards, and are inserted into the hyoid bone. The rest of the fibres, with the excep- tion of a few which spread out upon the side of the pharynx, go to the tongue. They have a vertical direction, and extend the whole length of the tongue near the median line, spreading out in the shape of a fan. At the base of the tongue, the genio-hyo-glossi muscles are separated from each other merely by cellulo-adipose substance. palato-glossus^^'S^Q noticed in the dissection of the palate. The arteries of the tongue are, the lingual and branches of the palatine and pharyngeal. The lingual, in the latter part of its course, is called the ranine artery. The sublingual^ com- monly a branch of the lingual, passes between the mylo-hyoideus and genio- hyo-glossus muscles, and sends branches to the sublingual gland and to the frasnum linguas. Branches 1 proceed from the lingual artery to every part of the sub- stance of the tongue. The nerves are supplied from the hypoglossal, glosso-pha- ryngeal, and the gustatory branch of the fifth. The hypo- Fig. 60. A View of the Undek Surface of the ToNctrE, WITH THE Muscles connect- ed WITH IT.—1, 1. The infe- rior surface of the tongue. 2. The OS hyoides. 3, 3. Ori- gin of the hyo-glossus muscle. 4, 4. The genio-hyo-glossus of each side dissected ofif and turned to one side. 5, 5. The white central vertical septum of the tongue.