126 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK. These form a chain, extending across the tympanum from the membrana tympani to the fenestra ovalis. The MALLEUS is situated next to the membrana tympani. It consists of a head, neck, handle, and two processes, long and short. The head is round and smooth above, and con- cave below, for articulating with the incus. From the nec/c, which, is flattened, the two processes arise; the short one is directed to the upper part of the membrana tympani, against which it rests; the long one, called the ]3rocessus gracilis, arises from the anterior part of the neck, and projects for- wards towards the Glaserian fissure. The laxator tympani muscle is inserted into it. The handle, or manubrium, has nearly a vertical position, and adheres closely to the fibrous layer of the membrana tympani, the radiating fibres of which diverge from it. It extends Fig. 42. it. it extends to the centre of the membrane, and curves slightly outwards. The INCUS is placed on the inner side of the preceding. It presents a body and two processes. There is a concavity on the body for the reception of the head of the mal- leus. The short process is of a conical shape, and directed back- wards to the opening into the mastoid cells. Its extremity is attached by a ligament. The bug process descends a little behind, and nearly parallel to the handle of tbe malleus, and a short dis- tance from it. Its lower end is curved inwards. The OEBICULARE is very fre- quently fixed to the extremity of the long process of the incus. It is round, and flattened like a disk. The STAPES presents a head, two crura, and a base. Its position is horizontal. The head articulates with the orbiculare, and the hose fits into the fenestra ovalis. The piosterior crus is longer and more curved than the o.nierior. Ossicles op the Left Ear articulated, and seen from the outside and below. m. Head of the malleus, below which is the constriction, or neck. g. Processus gracilis, or long process, at the root of which is the short process, h. Manubrium, or han- dle, sc. Short crus; and Zc, long crus of the incus. The body of this bone is seen articulating with the malleus and its long crus, through the medium of the orbi- culare a, here partly concealed, ■with the stapes, s. Base of the stapes. Magnified three diame- ters.