I 268 THE UPPER EXTREMITY. forepart of tlie forearm will apply equally to those on tLc back part. Most of them are antagonist muscles to those already learned. There are eleven, including the anconeus, and allowing no distinct muscle for the little finger. In arranging them according to their action, and comparing | them with the flexors and pronators, the student will find I two supinators opposed to the two pronators; three carpal extensors to the two carpal flexors; three extensors of the thumb, one for each joint, to the single long flexor; one common extensor of the fingers to the two common flexors, i The extensor of the index finger and the anconeus have no ' corresponding muscles in front. Six of these muscles are situated superficially, and may be dissected in the following order :— The Anconeus, Fig. 116 (i i), and Fig. 117 (4), is a small I triangular-shaped muscle, situated on the posterior part of j the elbow-joint. It arises from the external condyle of the 1 humerus, immediately below the origin of the lower fibres of the triceps extensor, and from the external lateral liga- ment ; it passes obliquely downwards and somewhat inwards, and is inserted into a triangular space on the upper and pos- terior part of the ulna. It assists the triceps in extending the arm, and might be considered an appendage to that muscle. It partly covers the elbow-joint posteriorly. The Supinator Longus, Fig. 116 (4), arises from the ridge which extends upwards from the external condyle, and from the external intermuscular septum of the brachial aponeurosis; its origin commences just below the insertion of the deltoid and ends about an inch and a half above the condyle. Its fibres terminate in a tendon about the middle of the forearm, which goes down to be inserted into the lower end of the radius at the base of the styloid process. It rotates the radius ■ backwards so as to supinate the hand. The Extensor Carpi Eadialis Longior, Fig. 116 (5), arises from the external condyloid ridge, immediately below the preceding muscle, and becomes tendinous near the junc- tion of the upper with the middle third of the forearm. The Extensor Carpi Eadialis Brevior, Fig. 116 (e), 'j arises from the external condyle, and from the aponeurosis ! which partly surrounds it. It becomes tendinous a little 1