482 FEMALE OEGANS OF GENERATION. the vagina and the erector clitoridis. They open by small ducts, about half an inch in length, close to the lateral and posterior carunculaa, by which they are usually concealed. The vulva is supplied with arteries derived principally from the internal and external pudic. The vagina receives branches from the internal pudic and uterine. Besides the veins that correspond to the arteries, there are several plexuses^ belonging both to the vulva and the vagina. Those of the vulva communicate with the vaginal, and these again with the hemorrhoidal. The vaginal are quite large; they are found on both sides of the vagina. The attention of the student should be directed especially to the great vascularity of these parts, and its influence on the pathological condition of them. The Ueethra, Fig. 205 (e), should be examined in con- nection with the anterior wall of the vagina. It is from one to one and a half inches in length, and corresponds to the membranoiis portion of the male urethra. Its direction is downwards and forwards. It is lined by mucous membrane which presents longitudinal folds and mucous crypts. The mucous membrane is surrounded by a layer of spongy erec- tile tissue, and this again by a muscular layer of circular fibres. Some of the longitudinal fibres of the bladder are prolonged into the walls of the urethra. It is susceptible of considerable dilatation, which greatly facilitates the removal of calculi from the bladder. It is in relation, above, with the crura of the clitoris, with the anterior ligaments of the bladder, and a plexus of veins. It perforates the deep peri- neal fascia, and also passes between its layers. The muscles of Wilson and Guthrie have the same arrangement as they have in the male. The perineum should be examined with reference to the support it affords to the parts placed above it, and also with reference to parturition. It is wedge-shaped ; the thick end or base corresponds to the integument, while the thin end is lost in the recto-vaginal septum. The bladder, Fig. 205 (4), in the female has the same struc- ture as in the male. It differs somewhat in its shape, being usually larger and more globular. This, however, may be owing to pregnancy, and to the habits of the sex, or the cir- cumstances which surround the female. The uvula vesic£e is not quite so large as in the male, which favors the dis-