SUPERFICIAL PARTS OP THE NECK. 183 hyoid membrane. This nerve can be exposed more con- veniently at another stage of the dissection of the neck. Having found this portion of it, the student may avoid destroying it as he proceeds. As the lower part of the inferior carotid region has already been dissected, the student will have no difficulty in tracing the arteries in its upper part. The common carotid usually bifurcates at a point nearly opposite to the superior border of the thyroid cartilage. The external is at first more internal than the internal carotid itself. It gives off the following branches before passing beneath the digastricus The Superior Thyroid, Fig. 65 (4), arises near the bifur- cation, passes inwards, forwards, and downwards, beneath the omo-hyoideus and sterno-thyroideus, to be distributed to the upper and anterior portion of the thyroid gland. It usually gives off the laryngeal branch, which goes to the thyro-hyoid space to enter the larynx; the cricoid branch, which rests on . the anterior crico-thyroid ligament; a branch to the sterno- cleido-mastoideus; and branches to the muscles with which it is connected. This artery is quite superficial in its course. The lingual arises just above the preceding, and passes up- wards and inwards to enter the submaxillary region. It is deep-seated in its whole course. ThQ facial artery comes off just below the digastric muscle, and goes up into the submaxillary region. The inferior or ascending pharyngeal arises near the bifur- cation and from the deep part of the artery, and goes upwards to the jugular foramen, through which it enters the cavity of the cranium, sending branches, as it ascends, to the pharynx and soft palate. The Occipital, Fig. 65 (13), arises from the posterior part of the artery, passes upwards and backwards, at first behind the digastricus, and then more horizontally beneath the sterno- cleido-mastoideus, trachelo-mastoideus, and splenius capitis, to reach the occiput. It emerges beneath the integument and fascia, just outside the cranial origin of the trapezius. It gives off branches to the muscles along its course, and, just before It ascends on the occiput, it sends downwards quite a large branch, called the arteria princeps cervicis; this branch descends on the back of the neck, and anastomoses with the transverse humeral. The occipital artery ramifies on the back of the head, beneath the skin.