331 SYMPATHETIC NERVE. spinal canal, and also from the muscles m the spma fossse on the back. By means of the azygos vems, a comrau nication is established between the two venae cavse. T-hes e veins are not supplied with valves, so that the blood ma y pass from one cava to the other in either direction. The Sympathetic Nerve may Fig- I4i. be seen in the thorax on each side of the vertebral column without any dissection. It consists of twelve ganglia on each side, and branches proceeding from them. The ganglia are situated near the heads of the ribs, and are covered by the pleura and a thin fascia. The first, second, and twelfth, are larger than the intermediate ones. The first is connected to the third cervical ganglion by filaments, which pass round the subclavian artery; some- times the two ganglia are joined to each other. The twelfth is joined by filaments to the first lumbar. The ganglia are also connected to each other by filaments. Their branches are external and internal. The external connect the ganglia with the intercostal nerves. They consist of two sets of fibres, deep and superficial. They resemble the spinal nerves in their appearance. The internal branches are distrib- uted in the mediastinal space, and in the abdomen. Those from the upper five or six ganglia pass in- A View of the Course and Termination op the Thoracic Duct.—1. Arch of the aorta. 2. Thoracic aorta. 3. Abdominal aorta. 4. Artoria innominata. 5. Left carotid. 6. Left subclavian. 7. Superior cava. 8. The two vena3 innoininatoa. 9. The internal jugular and subclavian vein at each side. 10. The vena azygos. 11. The termination of the vena azygos minor in the vena azygos. 12. The recep- taculuin chyli: several lymphatic trunks are seen opening into it. 13. The thoracic duct dividing, opposite the middle dorsal vertebra), into two branches, which soon reunite; the course of the duct behind the arch of the aorta and left subclavian artery is shown by a dotted line. 14. The duct making its turn at the root of the neck and receiving several lymphatic trunks previous to terminating in the poste- rior angle of the junction of the internal jugular and subclavian veins. 16. Tho termination of tho trunk of the lymplialios of the upper extremity.