OF THE PELVIS. 466 it to the bulb. The internal pudic itself may be exposed at the same time in this part of its course; it is partly con- cealed by the crus, and the ramus of the ischium. The artery of the bulb is distributed to the corpus spongiosum, being directed, after entering it from behind forwards'. It will now be seen that this artery, together with the transverse perineal and the inferior hemorrhoidal, has a transverse direction. The transverse perineal is necessarily divided in the lateral operation for stone in the bladder, while the artery of the bulb is avoided by not cutting too far _ forwards, and the hemorrhoidal by not extending the iucision^ too far backwards in the ischio-rectal fossa. The superficial perineal artery may or may not be cut in this operation. The position of the internal pudic may be noticed at this time with reference to the same operation. It will be observed that it lies on the outside of both the ischio-rectal fossa and the triangular space between the bulb and the crus penis, so that, occupying its normal position, it should never be cut in entering the bladder through the perineum. The arteries of this region are subject to variations as they are in every other part of the body. Instead of one there may be two arteries of the bulb; or this artery may be a branch of some other than the internal pudic. There may be several hemorrhoidal branches, when the one sitiiated anteriorly would almost necessarily be cut in the lateral operation for stone. The Glands of Cowper, Fig. 197 (*), should now be ex- amined. There are two of them. They are situated, each one just behind and a little below the bulb, being inclined a little to the side of it. Each is about the size of a pea, although they vary much in this respect. They have no proper capsules, but are placed between the two layers of the deep perineal fascia. They will be found by extending the dissection that was made for exposing the artery of the bulb a little deeper and further backwards. They are usually covered below by some fibres belonging to the muscles of Guthrie. Their excretory ducts open into the urethra, as was mentioned in the description of that organ. The student should not be discouraged if he does not find them in his first dissection of these parts. A third gland, situated below the arch of the pubes, and close to Cowper's glands, has been