608 THE LOWER EXTREMITY. tion, wliicli IS probably stronger than if botTi bones were connected at their lower extremities by osseous matter, so as to form but a single piece. Articular cartilage covered with synovial membrane, extends a very short distance upwards between these bones. The tihio-tarsal ariiculation, or anJde-jomt, is formed by the tibia and fibula above and on the sides, and the astragalus below and in the centre; it belongs to the class of gingly- moid articulations. The tibia presents a horizontal, concave surface with an antero-posterior ridge, and also a vertical surface on the outer side of the internal malleolus, while the fibula also furnishes a vertical surface on the inner side of the external malleolus. The astragalus presents two vertical surfaces, one for each of the malleoli, and another which is concave transversely, and convex antero-posteriorly. These surfaces are covered with articular cartilage and synovial membrane. They allow of flexion and extension, and con- siderable lateral movement. The ligaments of this joint con- sist of an internal and an external lateral, and an anterior and a posterior ligament. These ligaments, taken together, form a sort of a capsular ligament, with the fibres accumulated principally on the sides, constituting the lateral ligaments. The External Lateral Ligament, Fig. 264 (e, 7, e), connects the fibula with the astragalus and os calcis. It con- sists of three distinct fasciculi, which radiate from the exter- nal malleolus. The anterior passes forwards and downwards, to be inserted into the anterior and outer part of the astraga- lus; it is broader at its insertion than at its origin, and it is shorter than the other two. The posterior passes backwards and slightly downwards, to be inserted into the inner and posterior part of the astragalus; it is composed of parallel fibres arranged in several layers, being the strongest of the three fasciculi; the transverse tibio-fibular ligament is placed just above it. The middle fasciculus arises from the lower extremity of the external malleolus, between the origins of the other two, and passes downwards and a little backwards, to be inserted into the outer and middle part of the os calcis; the tendons of the long and short peronei muscles pass over it. The Internal Lateral or Deltoid Ligament, Fig. 263 (g), consists of a superficial and a deep layer. The former