APPENDAGES OF EYE OUTSIDE OF ORBIT. 45 the membrana nictitaus or the third eyelid in birds. The conjunctiva is perforated by the lachrymal ducts in the outer part of the superior palpebral sinus; by the Meibomian glands, along the inner edge of the lids; by the sebaceous follicles in the caruncula lachrymalis; and by the puncta lachrymalia near the inner extremities of the eyelids. The Lachrymal Gland, Fig. 6 (i), may now be exposed in the upper and outer part of the orbit. It should be studied from without and also from within the orbit. In structure it resembles the salivary glands. It consists of two lobes, an orbited and a iMlpebral. The former is about half an inch in breadth, and nearly three-fourths of an inch in length; its orbital surface is convex, and occupies the lachrymal fossa on the inner side of the external angular process of the frontal bone; its ocular surface is concave, and in apposition with the globe of the eye. The latter or palpebral lobe is prolonged into the upper lid as far as the attached border of the tarsal cartilage ; its under surface is covered by the con- junctiva, through which it can be seen when the lid is everted. The two lobes are separated from each other merely by fascia. The tears secreted by the lachrymal gland are poured upon the conjunctiva through from six to ten ducts; these are arranged in a line, and open on the inner surface of the upper lid. They may be detected by the application of a colored liquid, which will be absorbed into their mouths. The Puncta Lachrymalia, Fig. 6 (3), are two orifices, one in the free border of each eyelid at the inner extremity of the tarsal cartilage. They may be distinctly seen in the centre of two small eminences called the lachrymal papillae. They look somewhat backwards towards the eyebaU, in which posi- tion they are kept by the tensor tarsi muscle. A bristle can be readily introduced into them, and through them into the ducts which lead into the lachrymal sac. The Lachrymal Canals, or Canaliculi Lachrymales, Fig. 7, e, extend from the puncta to the lachrymal sac. Their parietes are of a dense fibrous structure, which keeps them constantly open for the passage of the tears. The inferior one is the shortest; it at first descends, then turns inwards and upwards to enter the upper and outer part of the sac ihe superior one is at first directed upwards, then inwards