ANTERIOE PART OF THE THIGH. 505 The femoral artery is accompanied by the Femoral Vein, which is at first placed to its inner side and on the same plane, but soon gets behind, and in the last part of its course, a little to the outer side of it. The saphenous nerve lies close to the outer side of it, except at its upper part. Small nervous twigs are usually met with either accompany- ing the artery, crossing it, or twining around it. The branches of the femoral artery to be examined next are the inferior external pudic and the profunda, or the deep femoral artery. Several small branches in the groin have already been dissected. The inferior external pidic, Fig. 206 (le), arises near the profunda, sometimes from the profunda itself, passes inwards over the femoral vein below its junction with the saphenous, and the pectineus muscle to the ramus of the pubes, and thence to the scrotum, in the male, or to the labium exter- num in the female. It perforates the fascia lata near the pubic bone. The Arteria Profunda, Fig. 213 (is), arises from the outer and back part of the femoral, about an inch and a half below Poupart's ligament; the point of its origin, however, varies very much in different subjects. It may not be more than half an inch below Poupart's ligament, or it may be two or three inches. At first it passes backwards and some- what outwards, and then directly downwards to the upper border of the adductor longus, beneath which it continues down to the lower third of the thigh resting on the adductor brevis and the adductor magnus. It perforates the last named muscle and its terminal branches are distributed to the back part of the thigh. In the last part of its course it is very deep seated, running behind and nearly parallel with the femoral artery. It gives off the following branches :— The external circumflex^ Fig. 213 (is), which frequently arises from the femoral artery, passes transversely outwards behind the rectus and in front of the psoas and iliacus mus- cles and divides into descending, transverse, and ascending branches. This artery and its branches behind and to the outer side of the rectus, can be traced more readily after that muscle has been dissected. The internal circumflex, Fig. 213 (12), which also occasion- ally arises from the femoral, is usually larger than the ex-