DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 182 and tlie submaxillary tlie submaxillary fossa, wbile tlie two fossae are separated by the mylo-hyoid ridge. In dissecting tlie upper part of the superior carotid region, the first thing which should be sought is the hypoglossal nerve. This enters it beneath the posterior belly of the di- gastricus, at a point almost directly below the angle of the lower jaw, passes downwards, forwards, and upwards, to enter the submaxillary region near the free end of the great cornu of the hyoid bone. It thus forms a curve in this region, the convexity of which looks downwards. The lowest part of this curve is about three-fourths of an inch below the digas- tricus. As it descends beneath the digastricus, it gives oft' the descendens noni. The Descendens Noni, Fig. 67, (4, 5), passes vertically downwards, receiving one or two branches from the second cervical nerve, or cervical plexus, by which a loop is formed; from the convexity of this loop, filaments are sent to the omo- hyoideus and sterno-hyoideus and thyroideus. The apparent origin of this varies in different subjects. Sometimes it seems to come from the pneumogastric, occupying, in this case, for a short distance, the groove behind and between the common carotid and internal jugular vein; again, it will be found leaving the hypoglossal high up in the parotid region. If there be any difficulty in finding the nerve in the upper part of this region, it is better either to find one of its branches and trace it upwards, or to trace the hypoglossal nerve itself up into the parotid region. In this way the student will be certain to find it. The descendens noni usually, near its com- mencement, winds round the occipital artery. As this nerve lies on the sheath of the common carotid, it is liable to be injured in ligating that artery. The Spinal Accessory Neeve passes through the upper and posterior part of this region, to perforate the sterno-cleido- mastoideus. It is is most readily found by carefully dissect- ing the inner and posterior surface of that muscle, and look- ing for the nerve as it enters it. Occasionally, the nerve passes beneath the muscle. The superior laryngeal branch of the pneumogastric may be found with the laryngeal branch of the superior thyroid ar- tery, between the hyoid bone and the thyroid cartilage. They pass beneath the thyro-hyoid muscle, to perforate the thyro-