DISSECTION OF THE THOHAX. 300 is separated by the contents of the posterior mediastinum. The apex looks forwards and to the left side; being nearly opposite to the junction of the sixth rib with its cartilage The axis of the heart has a direction from right to left, from above downwards, and from behind forwards. Before displacing the heart, the following points should be carefully observed:— The three great vessels, vena cava descendens, aorta, and pulmonary artery, will be seen at its base. The vena cava, Fig. 130 (5), descends on the right side to enter the upper part of the right auricle. The pulmonary artery^ Eig. 130 (13), prominent at its commencement, ascends from the su- perior and left portion of the right ventricle. The aorta, Fig. 130 (e), at first deep seated and partly concealed by the pulmonary artery, ascends between the other two. The right auricle, Fig. 130 (1), is applied to the aorta, and the left auricle Fig. 130 (2), to the pulmonary artery. Only a small portion of the left auricle can be seen while the heart is in situ; the pulmonary artery, the aorta, and a considerable portion of the right auricle being situated in front of it. A large part of the right auricle, Fig. 130 (1), can be seen without disturbing the position of the heart, of which it forms the upper and right portion. It presents anteriorly, and to the right, a smooth shining convex surface, which corre- sponds mainly to the right lung and to the diaphragm, just above which it is joined by the vena cava ascendens. It is separated, superficially, from the right ventricle by a groove, which is occupied by the anterior coronary artery and vein, and corresponds to the auriculo-ventricular septum. The right ventricle, Fig. 130 (3), forms a large part of the anterior surface of the heart. Its anterior surface, as now seen, is convex, and of a triangular shape; its lower border rests on the diaphragm, while its superior left border is sepa- rated from the left ventricle by a groove, Fig. 130 (11), which corresponds to the ventricular septum, and is occupied by the posterior coronary artery and vein; its base, as has been already observed, corresponds to the right auricle and the pulmonary artery. A small portion of the left ventricle, Fig. 130 (4), is seen to the left and above the right ventricle. It projects lower down than the right, and thus forms the apex of the heart.