THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 246 The Basilic Vein, Fig. 94 (4), will be found passing down the inner part of the arm. It is much larger than the cephalic; near the bend of the arm it receives the median BASILIC, Fig. 96 (0), which joins it from the radial side. The basilic now becomes the ulnar vein, and is to be traced down as far as the cephalic was dissected. The median basilic is to be followed to its termination in the median vein, which may now be exposed for two or three inches. . The Median Vein, Fig. 94 (4), will be seen bifurcating to form the median basilic and the median cephalic. The median vein, near its bifurcation, gives off a short trunk, which dips down to join the deep veins; this is named the Vena Communicans, Fig. 94 (5). The internal cutaneous, the lesser internal cutaneous, and the intercosto-humeral nerves, should be dissected with the basilic vein. These nerves are easily followed by making them slightly tense, when their course will readily be seen under the fascia. The Internal Cutaneous Nerve, Fig. 103 (e, 7), in the lower part of the arm, divides into an external and internal branch. The external division passes over the median basilic vein, and descends on the front of the forearm; while the internal passes over the inner part of the elbow, and winds round to the back part of the forearm. The Lesser Internal Cutaneous, Fig. 103 (9), descends on the inner aspect of the arm to the space between the in- ternal condyle and the olecranon process, sending off fila- ments in its course to the skin on the posterior part of the arm, and for a short distance below the elbow. Near the elbow, it gives off a filament to anastomose with the internal cutaneous. The intercosto-humeral^ Fig. 103 (10), is lost in the skin on the upper and back part of the arm. On the outside of the arm are usually two cutaneous branches, Fig. 103 (3) and Fig. 104 (5) from the musculo-spiral nerve. One of these generally accompanies the cephalic vein to the bend of the arm; the other descends more externally, and, passing over the elbow-joint, supplies filaments to the skin on the back and upper part of the forearm. The External or Musculo-Cutaneous, Fig. 103 (4), be- comes superficial just above the bend of the arm, and outside of the tendon of the biceps flexor muscle. A large branch