THE UPPER EXTREMITY, 218 in all seven branclies. These are named tlie superior and inferior tlioracic, the thoracica acromialis, the thoracica axil- laris, the subscapular, and the anterior and posterior cir- cumflex. The first named four are very irregular in their origin. The superior thoracic and the thoracica acromialis usually have a common origin just behind the upper border of the pectoralis minor. The distribution of these has already been described. The inferior thoracic and the tho- racica axillaris require no special notice. The three remain- ing branches are more regular in their origin. The Subscapular, Fig. 92 (i 4), usually arises opposite the lower border of the subscapularis muscle; it may come off higher up, or it may arise in common with some other artery. It runs a short distance on the lower part of the subscapu- laris, when it gives oS a large branch to go to the dorsum of the scapula; this is the arteria dorsalis scapuloe. It then con- tinues downwards and backwards on the posterior wall of the axilla to be distributed to the subscapularis, teres major, latissimus dorsi, and serratus magnus. The Anterior Circumflex may consist of one or two small branches, and frequently comes from the posterior cir- cumflex. It passes transversely outwards beneath the coraco- brachialis, biceps, and deltoid muscles, and over the anterior part of the surgical neck of the humerus. It is distributed to the muscles above mentioned, and to the shoulder-joint. The Posterior Circumflex is much larger. It passes behind the surgical neck of the humerus, and thus reaches the under surface of the deltoid, to which it is principally distributed. The student will not be able to trace these arteries, for the present, beyond the axilla. The Axillary Vein, Fig. 94 (2), lies to the thoracic side of the artery in the upper part of the axilla, but gets some- what in front of it in the lower part. The cephalic vein ter- minates in it just below the clavicle; the basiHc opens into it in the lower part of the axilla; sometimes the axillary vein seems to be a continuation of the basilic. The basilic may join the vence comites before it reaches the axilla. There are other veins which empty into the axillary; they correspond to the arteries which have been described, and require no particular notice.