352 OF THE ABDOMEN. quadrangular shape, also dimmish its size, and bind together its columns. There are other fibres beneath these, which ex- tend simply between the cdlumns. In cases of hernia, these fibres are stretched so as to allow the columns to be separated furtlier than is natural from each other. If the hernia be one of long standing, they are usually found considerably increased in size. The boundaries of the ring, as will now be seen, are the columns, one on each side, the body of the pubic bone be- tween the insertion of the columns below, and the inter- columnar fibres above. Beneath the internal column is found a set of fibres which arise from the linea pectinea, anterior to the insertion of the conjoined tendon of the internal oblique and trans- versalis, and pass upwards and inwards to be inserted into the linea alba. They form the triangular ligament. Turn down the tendon of the external oblique, and make it more or less tense with hooks, then carefully remove the areolar tissue from the internal oblique and cremaster muscles. The lower fibres of the internal oblique are frequently somewhat irregular in their position and direction, but a little care will suffice to trace them distinctly and loosen them ujd from the cord or separate them from the cremaster. The cord is next to be separated from its connections in the inguinal canal, and raised up with the tenaculum. The most difficult part of this dissection is to preserve the fascia transversalis in the posterior wall of the canal, and especially where it is re- flected from the internal ring over the cord. The position of the cord and the walls of the canal should now be care- fully examined. The Inguinal Canal, Fig. 150 (3, 3), is about an inch and a half in length. It extends from the internal to the external ring. Its direction is oblique, from above down- wards, from without inwards, and from behind forwards. Its boundaries are, in front, the tendon of the external oblique, with a portion of the internal oblique; below, by PouparCs ligament; behind, by the fascia transversalis externally, and the conjoined tendon of the internal oblique and transversalis internally; above, its boundary is more indefinite; it corre- sponds to the space between the tendon of the external ob- lique and the fascia transversalis, which includes the loiver borders of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles.