419 DISSECTION OF THE DIAPHRAGM. first two or three vertebras. These portions are named the crura, or jnUars of the diaphragm. They pass upwards and forwards, and at a short distance in front of the last dorsal vertebra are united by a fibrous band, which forms an arch over the aortic opening. Above this point they become muscular, and by a decussation of their inner fasciculi, partly form the oesophageal opening, and separate it from the aortic. They spread out, and finally end in the posterior part of the central tendon. The central or cordiform tendon is composed of three parts, called leaflets, or aU, Fig. 179 (i, 2, 3). The middle and an- terior one is usually the largest. It corresponds to the peri- cardium. The left one is the smallest, and is below the left lunsf. The fibres of this tendon interlace with each other, and°are also crossed in different directions by accessory fibres. There are three principal foramina in the diaphragm. The hiatus aorticus, Fig. 179 (11), is situated in front of the body of the last dorsal vertebra, and between the crura. It transmits the aorta, and sometimes one of the great splanchnic nerves. The oesophageal opening, Fig. 179 (12), is placed directly behind the cordiform tendon, which sometimes forms a part of its anterior boundary. It is to the left, and in front of the aortic opening. The decussating fasciculi of the crura form its posterior and lateral boundaries. It has been sup- posed that these fasciculi might act as a sort of sphincter muscle to the oesophagus, as it passes through this opening. The oesophagus and the pneumogastric nerves pass through it. The aortic and oesophageal foramina lead from the cavity of the abdomen into the posterior mediastinum. The foramen quadratum, Fig. 179 (13), is situated to the right side of the median line, and considerably anterior to either of the others. It is placed in the posterior part of the right leaflet, and is wholly surrounded by tendinous fibres; thus the vena cava is not liable to be compressed by the action of the diaphragm. It transmits the ascending cava and a few filaments of the phrenic nerve. The sympathetic, and the greater and lesser splanchnic nerves, and also the left azygos vein, pass through small foramina in the diaphragm. The diaphragm is a muscle of inspiration. When it acts,