319 CONTENTS OF MEDIASTINUM. verse, and descending portions, winch together ^rm wh^^tj denominated the arch of the aorta. At its commencement, tZZcUng portion. Fig. 137 (0, lies behmd the infundiba- lar process of the right ventricle and the pulmonary arteiy, Fig. 137. The Large Vessels which proceed from the root op THE Heart, with their Ke- LATioNS; the Heart has been removed.—1. The as- cending aorta. 2. The arch. 3. The thoracic portion of the desceilding aorta. 4. The artoria innominata, dividing into, 5, the right carotid, which again divides at 6, into the external and inter- nal carotid; and 7, the right siihclavian artery. 8. Tho axillary artery; its extent is designated by a dotted line. 9. The brachial artery. 10. The right pneumogastric nerve running by the side of the common carotid, in front of the right subclavian artery, and behind the root of the right lung. 11. The left common carotid, having to its outer side the loft pneumo- gastric nerve, which crosses the arch of tho aorta, and as it reaches its lower border is seen to give off the left re- current nerve. 12. The left subclavian artery becoming axillary and brachial in its course, like the artery of the opposite side. 13. The trunk of the pulmonary artery connected to the concavity of the arch of the aorta by a fibrous cord, the remains of the ductus arteriosus. 14. The left pulmonary artery. 15. The right pulmonary artery. 16. The trachea. 17. The right bronchus. 18. The left bronchus. 19, 19. The pulmonary veins. 17, 15, and 19, on the right 11. Intercostal arteries; tho branches trom tho iront ot the number 3 are pericardiac and oesophageal branches. but as it ascends it gradually approaches the sternum, from which the upper part is separated only by the pericardium, the remains of the thymus gland, and areolar tissue. It has the right auricle and the descending cava on the right side of it; the pulmonary artery, at first in front and then on the left side; and behind, the right pulmonary artery and veins.