266 THE UPPER EXTREMITY. ter the palm of tlie hand. It supplies branches to all the muscles on the front part of the forearm except the flexor carpi tilnaris. The anterior interosseous is the largest branch. The course of this is the same as that of the anterior inter- osseous artery, with which it will be noticed. Three muscles remain to be dissected on the front of the forearm; these are the flexor profundus digitorum, flexor longus poUicis, and the pronator quadratus. The first two lie parallel to each other, and occupy Fig. 114. the same plane; there is no very distinct line of demarcation or areo- lar interspace between them. The areolar tissue may be removed from the anterior surface of both of them at the same time. The Flexor Profundus, or, Per- FORANS Digitorum, Fig. 114 (4), arises from the upper two thirds of the ulna and the interosseous ligament contigu- ous to it, and sometimes by a small slip from the radius. It is a large muscle, occupying the inner two thirds of the anterior interosseous space; near the carpus it divides into four ten- i dons, which pass beneath the annular ligament to go to the last row of pha- langeal bones into which they are in- serted. It flexes the last phalanges, and otherwise assists the flexor sublimis in flexing the fingers and hand. The Flexor Longus Pollicis, Fig. 114 (5), arises from the radius, com- mencing just below the tubercle, and extending to within about two inches of its lower end; also from the inter- osseous ligament, and frequently by a The Deep Layer op Muscles of the Forearm.—1. The intornal lateral li- gament of the elbow-joint. 2. The anterior ligament. 3. The orbicular ligament of the head of the radius. 4. The flexor profundus digitorum muscle. 5. The flexor longus pollicis. 6. The pronator quadratus. 7. The adductor pollicis muscle. 8. The dorsal interosseous muscle of the middle finger, and palmar interosseous of the ring finger. 9. The dorsal interosseous muscle of the ring finger, and palmar in- terosseous of the little finger.