850 OF THE ABDOMEN. a smooth even appearance. This layer, Fig. 148 (4, 4), alone is sometimes spoken of as constituting the superficial fascia. The fascia is next to be dissected and reflected down- wards in the same manner, and to the same extent, as the skin. To preserve the intercolumnar or spermatic fascia, which is reflected from the margin of the external abdomi- nal ring down over the spermatic cord, it is better to raise the superficial fascia from the ring and cord by insinuating the handle of the scalpel or the finger under it, and sepa- rating it from the parts beneath. Poupart's ligament, from its origin to its insertion into the spine of the pubis, should be carefully cleaned, so as to be brought distinctly into view, and the cord should be raised for a short distance below the ring, so that it may be made more or less tense, and thus show more clearly how the intercolumnar fascia is connected to the ring. To raise the tendon of the external oblique, make an in- cision from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium transversely to within about an inch and a half of the linea alba, and another from this to the pubis on the inner side of the ring; then dissect it from the internal oblique and the cord. The first incision should not be carried beyond the junction of the two oblique muscles, as it is only the tendon of the external oblique that is to be turned down. If the handle of the scalpel be carried along the cord through the ring, the intercolumnar fascia will be seen coming from the edges of the ring to surround the cord. Fibres will also be observed extending transversely over the cord as it passes through the ring, and for a short distance below it; these are sometimes called the intercolumnar hands or fibres, Fig. 146 (is). Detach the intercolumnar fascia from the margin of the ring, and observe the manner in which it is formed. The External Eing, Fig. 148 (13), consists of a slit in the tendon of the external oblique, commencing from an inch to two inches above, and external to the pubis; the fibres di- verge as they pass downwards and inwards to be inserted, the loioer external into the spine of the pubis with Pou- part's ligament, and the up)per internal into the symphysis and the pubic bone on the opposite side. The term co- lumns or pillars, Fig. 148 (14, 15), has been appHed to these fibres. The fibres of the internal column cross those of the