276 THE UPPER EXTREMITY. arteries and nerves may be dissected at the same time. The nerves will be found to be more superficial than the arteries The tendons of the long flexors of the thumb and fingers" and the lumbricales, may now be examined. ' Beneath the annular ligament the tendons are surrounded by the carpal burs^, of which there are two; one for the tendons of the fingers, and one for the tendon of the thumb; The former projects between the different tendons, extends some distance above the annular ligament, especially behind, and is prolonged downwards in the form of four pouches, one for the two tendons of each finger. The bursa on the flexor tendon of the thumb extends much further, both above and below the annular ligament. A proper examination of this bursa requires a division of the annular ligament. This may be done now, or postponed until the muscles of the thumb and little finger have been dissected. The tendons of the digital flexors. Fig. 119, pass down in front of the phalanges; those of the sublimis to the second, and those of the profundus to the last row. They are kept in place by sheaths, composed of a dense fibrous structure, which is firmly attached to the margins of the groove on the palmar aspect of each of the phalanges of the first and second rows. In front of the articulations these sheaths are deficient or entirely absent. Each of these fibrous canals is lined by a synovial membrane, which is re- flected around the tendons. The tendons of the flexor sublimis split, Fig. 119 (s), nearly opposite to the middle of each phalanx of the first row, and then reunite to be inserted into those of the second. The tendons of the flexor profundus pass through the openings thus formed; above the slits they lie behind the tendons of the sublimis, but get in front below them; they are inserted j into the last row of phalanges. The tendon of the flexor longus poUicis passes over the trapezium, and between the two heads of the flexor brevis pollicis, and through a fibrous sheath to be inserted into the i last phalangeal bone of the thumb. ., The Lumbricales, Fig. 119 ?), are four small muscles ' which arise from the external sides of the tendons of the i; flexor profundus. Their tendons pass downwards and back- | wards over the radial side of the metacarpo-phalaugeal i