DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 66 calcareous bodies. It generally contains a small cavity. It rests on the tubercula quadrigemina, and beneath the poste- rior border of the corpus callosum. Directly behind the third ventricle are found the Tuber- cula Quadrigemina, Fig. 13, a, e. They consist of four round tubercles or elevations, separated on the surface by grooves, but joined at their bases. They occupy a plane in- clined obliquely backwards and downwards. The anterior and superior are called naies; the posterior and inferior are named testes^ and are smaller than the nates. They, with the posterior commissure, form the roof of the way from the third to the fourth ventricle, or the aqueduct of Sylvius. Before proceeding farther with the dissection, it will be necessary to remove the encephalon from the cavity of the cranium. It might be taken out before the dissection of the cerebrum is commenced. This is not necessary, however, if it can be examined when fresh, or if the subject has previously been injected with solution of chloride of zinc. To remove the encephalon, the subject should be placed on the back, with a block under the shoulders, so that the head can be depressed sufficiently to allow it to rest on one hand, while the vessels, nerves, &c., are divided with the other. In raising the anterior lobes, the hulhs of the olfactory nerves must be removed with some care from the cribriform fossse ; or they may be allowed to remain for the purpose of examining them afterwards in situ. The optic nerves must be divided at the sella turcica, just before they enter the optic foramina; also the internal carotids. Immediately behind the optic chiasm, which will now be seen, is the infundihulum, extending from the tuber cinereum, on the base of the brain, to the pituitary gland, which occupies the sella turcica; this may be cut across, if it be desired to examine the gland in situ., otherwise the scalpel may be carried around it so as to remove the greater part of it in connection with the infundibulum. The whole of the pituitary body cannot well be dissected out without cutting away the posterior clinoid processes. The infundibulum is very easily broken, hence some care is necessary to preserve it. The third pair of nerves will be seen perforating the dura mater behind, and outside of the posterior clinoid processes. The fourth pair run along the margin of the tentorium; they are very small,