615 LIGAMENTS OF THE METATAESUS. to the scaphoid with the three cuneiform, and to the cuneiform with each other. The same synovial membrane is also pro- long ed forwards between the cuneiform bones and the first, second, and third metatarsal bones. Fig. 265 (i c). The Tarso-Metataesal Aeticulation is formed by the cuboid and the three cuneiform bones, and the five metatarsal bones. The middle cuneiform bone is shorter than the other two, and hence the second metatarsal bone projects backwards between the internal and external cuneiform. In disarticu- lating the metatarsus from the tarsus, as in Hey's operation, it is important to recollect this arrangement. It will be seen that the internal cuneiform articulates with the first and second metatarsal, the second cuneiform with the second metatarsal, and the third cuneiform with the second and third metatarsal, while the cuboid is joined to the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones. These articulations allow some degree of mobility, especially when considerable force is used, as in jumping and leaping. The same is true of the articulations between the anterior five bones of the tarsus. Although the motion al- lowed by any single one of these articulations is very little, in the ao-o^reo-ate it amounts to considerable. The tarsus is joined to the metatarsus by dorsal, p)^'^''^^^^^ interosseous ligaments. Each metatarsal bone, except the second, is connected to the tarsal bone with which it articulates by a dorsal ligament; the second is joined to each of the three cuneiform bones by a dorsal ligament, and to each of the in- ternal and middle by a plantar ligament. The articulation of the first metatarsal bone is strengthened by fibres derived from the insertion of the tendons of the tibialis anticus and peroneus longus. The fourth and fifth metatarsal bones obtain their plantar ligaments from fibres derived from the sheath of the peroneus longus. The tendon of the peroneus brevis and the external division of the plantar aponeurosis assist in keeping the fifth metatarsal bone in its place. The inter- osseous ligaments are placed between the bones which they connect. The Metatarsal Bones are connected together at their tarsal extremities by three sets of ligaments, dorsal, interosseous, Sindplantar. The interosseous are very strong, passing directly from one bone to another. The dorsal and plantar ligaments