288 DISSECTION OF SPINAL CANAL AND CONTENTS. Fig. 126, The intra-spinal vessels consist of those which supply the walls of the canal, and the cord, including its membranes. The Arteries are derived from the verte- bral, the intercostal, the lumbar, and the lateral sacral. Those which are denominated the cm- terior and posterior spinal arteries arise from the vertebral near the occipital foramen. There are two posterior and one anterior. They sun- ply, principally, the upper part of the cord. The remaining arteries enter the canal through the intervertebral foramina, and reach the cord by passing along the roots of the nerves. There are usually three or four branches much larger than the others. These form a free anastomosis with the anterior and posterior spinal arteries. The Yeins of the cord leave the canal by passing through the occipital and interverte- bral foramina. Those which enter the cranial cavity terminate in the sinuses of the dura mater; the others are connected with the sacral, the lumbar, the intercostal, and the vertebral ^ veins. There are several plexuses of veins in the spinal canal outside of the dura mater. These are designated the anterior^ the lateral, and the p)osterior plexuses. There are two plexuses which extend the whole length of the canal. They are situated on the posterior sur- face of the bodies of the vertebrae, one on each side of the posterior common ligament. These plexuses all communicate freely with each other. An Anterior View of the Spinal Marrow, seen in its Whole Length, after Removal from the Spinal Canal.—1. Lines indicating the corpora pyramidalia. 2. Corpora olivaria. 3. Anterior face of the spinal marrow. 4. Anterior roots of the cervical spinal nerves. 5. Anterior roots of the dorsal nerves. 6. Anterior roots of the lumbar nerves. 7. Anterior roots of the sacral nerves. 8, 9, 10, 11. The anterior and posterior roots of the spinal nerves, united to pass out of the dura mater. 12. Dura mater of the medulla spinalis. 13. Ganglia on the cervical nerves. 14. Ganglia on the dorsal nerves. 15. Ganglia on the lumbar nerves. Ganglia on the sacral nerves. 17. Cauda equina. 18. Sub-occipiUl norvo. Ligamontum denticulatum. If). 19.