OF THE PELVIS. 420 the-lateral muscular portions descend, and the fibres assume nearly a horizontal direction. It also assists the muscles of the abdomen in compressing the abdominal viscera, &c. The cordiform tendon is subject to but very little movement. The LiGAiiENTUM Arcuatum Externum, Fig. 179 (5), extends from the transverse process of the first lumbar ver- tebra to the last rib. It forms a fibrous arch over the quadratus lumborum muscle. It is the upper border of the anterior lamina of the fascia lumborum. The LiGAMENTUM Arcuatum Internum, Fig. 179 (e), passes from the body of the second lumbar vertebra to the transverse process of the first. It forms a fibrous arch over the psoas magnus and the sympathetic nerve. Sect. III.—Dissection op the Pelvic Viscera. The Eectum. The Eectum, Fig. 167 (s), is the last portion of the ali- mentary canal. It occupies the posterior part of the pelvic cavity, and extends from the sigmoid flexure of the colon to the anus. In an antero-posterior direction it presents only a single curvature, which corresponds to that formed by the sacrum and os coccygis, until it reaches the lower part of the coccyx, where it is inclined a little backwards. The upper part of it is directed, laterally, from a point opposite the left sacro-iliac junction to the median line in the lower part of the hollow of the sacrum. It is from six to eight inches in length. It is cylindrical, but not sacculated, like the colon. The upper part of it is somewhat constricted, but the lower part, to within a short distance of the anus, is expanded into a pouch-like dilatation, below which it is again contracted. The rectum has the same number of layers in its walls as the other divisions of the intestinal canal, except the lower third, which has no serous covering. The muscular coat is much thicker than that of the colon or small intestine, re- sembling in this respect the oesophagus. The longitudinal fibres are not arranged in bands as they are in the colon, but are distributed equally on all sides, as