DISSECTION" OF THE NECK. 202 ^'K- 85. "by mucous membrane. Each of them is placed between the vocal chords of its own side, especially the superior, on the inside, and the thyro-arytenoid muscle on the outside. The sacculus laryngis is a projection of the ventricle up- wards on the outside of the supe- rior cord. Several mucous glands are found in these pouches, and which are pressed upon by the thyro-arytenoid muscles. The RiMA Glottidis is the space between the vocal chords of the two sides. Its form was spoken of in connection with the chords. This orifice and the glottis are subject to variations in size, but the infe- rior, or tracheal, opening of the larynx remains constantly the same, being surrounded by the cricoid cartilage. There is, beneath the mucous membrane around the glottis, an abundance of loose areolar tissue. In inflammation of these parts, se- rum is effused in this areolar tis- sue ; sometimes in sufficient quan- tity to cause great difficulty in respiration, or even death. The arteries of the larynx are derived from the superior and in- ferior thyroid; and it is abundantly supplied from these sources with arterial blood. The veins terminate in those in the immediate viciuity. Its nerves are the superior and inferior laryngeal branches of the pneumogastric, and a branch of the hypoglossal. The superior laryngeal enters the larynx either just above the thyroid cartilage, or through a foramen in this cartilage. It is distributed principally to the mucous membrane, although it sends some filaments to the muscles. The inferior laryngeal, A Vertical Section of the Larynx, to show its Internal Surface.—1. Section of tlio root of the tongue. 2. Os hyoides. 3. The muciparous gland of the epi- glottis. 4. Top of the epiglottic cartilage. 6. A section of its an- terior face. 6. A fold of mucous membrane from the arytenoids to the epiglotti?. 7. Superior rocal ligament. 8. >Section of thyroid cartilage. 9. Ventricle of Galen or Morgagni. 10. Lower vocal ligament. 11. Arytenoid carti- lage. 12. Inside of the cricoid cartilage. 13. Its posterior por- tion. 14. Lining membrane of the trachea. 15. End of the cornu majus of the os hyoides. 16. Cornu majus of the thyroid cartilage. 17. Mucous membrane of the pha- rynx. 18. (Esophagus. 19. Thy- roid gland.