DISSECTION OF THE SOLE OF THE FOOT. 593 serted, in common with the external head of the flexor brevis pollicis, into the outer part of the base of the first phalangeal bone of the great toe. Its action is to draw the great toe outwards towards the other toes; it may also, with the outer division of the flexor brevis pollicis, draw it downwards and outwards under the other toes. The Tbansveesalis Pedis, Fig. 254 (s), arises from the anterior extremities of the metatarsal bones of the four outer toes, passes transversely inwards between the flexor and inter- osseous muscles, to be inserted into the outer sesamoid bone with the adductor pollicis. Its action is to draw the outer toes towards the great toe, and prevent the metatarsal bones from spreading. The Abductor Minimi Digiti, Fig. 253 (7), arises from the external and inferior surface of the os calcis and the aponeu- rosis, which covers it; it passes forwards along tbe external border of the foot, and is inserted into the outer part of the base of the first phalangeal bone of the fifth toe. Its action is to separate the little toe from the others, and to assist in flexing it. The Flexor Brevis Minimi Digiti, Fig. 256 (3), arises from the sheath of the tendon of the peroneus longus muscle, from the cuboid and the fifth metatarsal bone, and, passing forwards and a little outwards, is inserted into the base of the first phalangeal bone of the little toe. Its action is to draw the little toe towards the others, and to assist in flexing it. There are seven interosseous muscles^ three of which are plantar or inferior^ and four dorsal or superior. They are found in the interosseous spaces,except the plantar, which are placed more or less on the under surfaces of the metatarsal bones. The plantar muscles are called adductors, while the dorsal are spoken of as abductors. The Adductor Tertii Digiti, Fig. 256 (1), arises from the inner side of the third metatarsal bone, and is inserted into the inner side of the base of the first phalangeal bone of the middle toe. Its tendon is also blended with the tendons of the extensor muscles of the toes. The Adductor Quarti Digiti, Fig. 256 (2), arises from the inner side of the fourth metatarsal bone, and is inserted 50*