232 THE UPPER EXTREMITY. The Occipitalis Major passes through the complexus, "beneath which he will find the jjosterior cervical plexus^ which is formed by communicating branches from the upper three cervical nerves. The first cervical or suhocciintal, is quite small; it is situated above the obliquus inferior, and the second cervical below it. The third cervical is smaller than the second, and the fourth is smaller than the third. The remaining cervical nerves increase in size from above downwards, and require no particular description. They may be traced to the intervertebral foramina as the deep muscles are dissected. The Posterior Dorsal Nerves are twelve in number. They divide into external and internal branches. The external branches are found in the areolar interspace between the lon- gissimus dorsi and the sacro-lumbalis. The upper six are expended upon the muscles, while the lower six are distributed to the muscles and integument. The eccferna^ branches increase, while the internal diminish in size, from above downwards. The lower six become cutaneous, while the up]per six are lost in the deep muscles of the spinal fossa. The Posterior Divisions of the Lumbar Nerves have the same general arrangement as the lower dorsal. The Posterior Sacral Nerves are five in number. The upper three divide into external and internal branches. The latter are small and muscular; the former are quite large, and become cutaneous, receiving a branch from the last ' lumbar. The posterior cervical and transverse humeral arteries are described in the dissection of the neck. The Occipital Artery enters the posterior part of the neck beneath the sterno-cleido-mastoideus, passes transversely under the trachelo-mastoideus and splenius, and between the latter and the trapezius becomes subcutaneous, and ascends on the back of the head. Fig. 65 (j 4). _ In its course it sends small branches to the muscles with which it is in relation. It sends off quite a large branch, named the arteria princeps cervicis, beneath the splenius, which descends on the back of the neck, and anastomoses with branches of the subclavian artery. It also sends a small branch to the dura mater; this passes through the jugular foramen.