POSTERIOR AND INN-ER PART OF THE LEG. 555 malleolus to the outer part of the dorsum of the foot, and divides into two branches, one to supply the external part of the little toe, and the other, the contiguous surfaces of the same toe and the fourth toe; the last-named division receives an anastomosing branch from the musculo-cutaneous nerve. When the peroneal communicans continues down the leg, it usually terminates in supj^lying branches to the outer part of the heel; it gives off branches to the integument as it passes down the leg. It also frequently sends off' a malleokir branch which, passing over the external malleolus, either anastomoses with, or takes the place of, a branch from the musculo-cutaneous. ^ .j The Internal Saphenous Nerve, Fig. 212 (e), Fig. 23'4- (2, 2), gives off a branch named the patellar on the inner side of the knee, which perforates the sartorius muscle, and passing downwards a short distance above the tendon of the sartorius, turns outwards and divides into ascending, middle, and descend- ing branches, which ramify on the anterior surface of the pa- tella, the ligamentum patellse, and the forepart of the tibia. After giving off the patellar branch, the saphenous passes over the tendon of the gracilis to join the internal saphenous vein, which it accompanies to the foot. Its connection with the vein is such as to render the dissection of either of theril somewhat difficult, as it twines around the vein, splits and runs a short distance on each side of it, and then unites again. In its course down the leg it sends branches, both externally and internally, to the integument. T^he internal filaments are short, and anastomose in the upper and post% rior part of the leg with filaments derived from a cutaneous branch given off from the internal saphenous just before it enters the tendinous canal formed by the adductor magnus, or from a cutaneous branch given oft' by the obturator nerve, which then takes the place of the one from the internal saphenous; in the lower part they anastomose with filaments from the external saphenous nerve. The external filaments are long, and descend obliquely outwards in front of the tibia. About three or four inches above the ankle, the in- ternal saphenous divides into a posterior and an anterior branch; the former passes directly downwards in front of the internal malleolus to the inner part of the foot, extend- ing as far as the sole, and giving, filaments in; its course to