572 THE LOWER EXTREMITY. ligament over the dorsum of the tarsus, and supplies the tendons of the same muscles with sheaths, binding them down at the same time to the tarsus, so that each is kept in its proper position. This layer of fibrous structure is con- tinuous laterally with the plantar fascia. The sheaths of these tendons are lined by synovial membrane, which is also reflected around the tendons themselves. The external annular ligament, Fig. 244 (is), extends from the external malleolus to the outer surface of the os calcis. It forms a sheath for each of the peronei muscles, which pass round the external malleolus. These sheaths, like the pre- ceding, are lined by synovial membrane. The annular liga- ments around the ankle-joint are extremely interesting, when viewed as a part of the mechanism of the ankle and foot. Without a knowledge of them it will be impossible for the student to understand properly the actions of the muscles, the tendons of which have a direction quite different from that of those portions in which their contractile power lies. There are four muscles on the anterior part of the leg, which should now be exposed. To do this the deep fascia may be divided by making a vertical incision, commencing about three or four inches below the knee and about three- fourths of an inch from the spine of the tibia, and extending it down to the annular ligament, which should be preserved for the present. The fascia should then be dissected laterally from the muscles beneath it, so that its attachments to the tibia and the fibula may be observed. Having done this, the muscles should be separated from each other, which should be done at first in the lower part of the leg where they are free. When the tibialis anticus is separated from the extensor longus digitorum communis below, the separation can be extended upwards to their origin by dividing that por- tion of the fascia, from the under surface of which they partly arise. The fascia cannot be dissected from the upper part of either of the above-mentioned muscles without mutilating them, and leaving a rough surface formed by the cut ends of the fibres. The fascia is here really a part of the muscle, being a part of its tendon of origin in an aponeurotic form. The Tibialis Anticus, Fig. 244 (s), is placed next to the tibia, occupying the inner part of the anterior interosseous fossa. It arises from the head of the fibula, from the inner