DISSECTION OF THE PENIS. 427 quarters of an iucli from tlie meatus; it is named tlie lacuna magna. A small, pointed catheter, or bougie, may enter one of tliese lacunae, especially if it shotdd happen to be unusually large. The meatus urinarius, Fig. 181 (19), is the external orifice of the urethra. It is a vertical slit in the lower and anterior part of the gJans. The spongy portion of the urethra is surrounded by the corpus spongiosum, and the upper part of it also by the acceleratores muscles. The CoEPUS Spongiosum, Fig. 181 (2 0), consists of a de- licate erectile tissue, which surrounds the spongy portion of the urethra. It is expanded posteriorly to form the bulb, and anteriorly, to form the gians penis. It is thicker below, and on the sides of the urethra, than above it. It is covered by a thin fibrous lamina, from the inner surface of which numerous processes or trabeculse project into its substance, and form there a fine network. The bulb is quite promi- nent, and projects backwards to the extent of three or four lines beneath the membranous part of the urethra. It is covered by a fibrous lamina reflected from the triangular ligament or deep perineal fascia. The Glans Penis, Fig. 182, forms the head of that organ. It is of a somewhat conical shape. Its structure is the same as that of the corpus spongiosum. Its base is oblique from above downwards and forwards, and is excavated behind for the reception of the anterior extremities of the corpora cavernosa, over which the margin of its base projects and forms the corona glandis. It is much longer above than be- low, where there is a slight groove for the attachment of the frcenum prcBputii. The CoEPOEA Caveenosa, Fig. 181 (i4),_form the body of the penis. They consist of a spongy erectile tissue, in- closed in a dense white fibrous membrane. They are firmly attached, posteriorly, to the rami of the ischia, and the descend- ing rami of the pubes. From these points of attachment they are directed upwards and forwards, increasing in size, to a point opposite the symphysis pubis| where they are joined to each other; Fig. 182. A ViETv OP THE Glans Penis injected. — 1. Portions of the corpora cavernosa. 2. The pre- puce turned back. 3. Itsfraanum. 4,4. Glan- dulas odoriferaa Tysoni. 5. Point of the glans pe- nis. 6. Prominences of the glans on each side of the fr.-cnum. 7. The fur- row which separates the sides of the glans. 8. Corona glandis.