ANTERIOR PART OF LEG, DORSUM OF THE FOOT. 577 ids, and then between it and the extensor longus digi- torum. Thus, it will be seen tljat the extensor poUicis is placed at first to the outer side, then in front, and lastly to the inner side of this artery, which, in the upper third of the leg, can have no relation to this muscle whose origin begins at the junction of the upper and middle thirds. The student should notice the distance of this artery from the skin, as it descends to the ankle, or the depth of an incision that would reach it in any part of its course; he should also observe how far from the spine of the tibia, and in what direction an incision should be made, for the purpose of ligating it in the living subject. Besides muscular branches which are not named, the anterior tibial artery gives off the anterior tibial recurrent, and an external and an internal malleolar branch. The anterior tibial recurrent branch, Fig. 245 (s), arises from the anterior tibial artery as soon as it has reached the ante- rior interosseous space. It passes upwards and inwards on the surface of the inner tuberosity of the head of the tibia, covered by the origin of the tibialis anticus; it then divides into branches, which anastomose with the inferior external and internal articular branches of the popliteal artery. The internal malleolar branch, Fig. 246 (i o), arises just above the anterior annular ligament, passes inwards and down- wards beneath the tibialis anticus, and divides into two branches, one of which enters the ankle-joint, while the other passes over the surface of the internal malleolus, below which, on the inner side of the foot, it anastomoses with branches of the internal plantar artery. The external malleolar branch, Fig. 246 (i i), usually arises near the anterior annular ligament; it varies, however, very much in its origin and distribution, and also in its size. It is distributed on the outer part of the foot, anastomosing with branches of the peroneal artery externally and with branches of the dorsal artery of the tarsus inferiorly; it usually gives off quite a large branch to the articulation of the ankle. The dorsal artery of the foot. Fig. 246 (7, 9), commences at the anterior annular ligament, being a continuation of the ante- rior tibial, and extends forwards on the tarsus to the first interosseous space, into which it dips to join the external plan-