44 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK. its extremities, Eacli one is attached to the margin of the orbit by a fibrous lamina^ which is continuous with the pe- riosteum. This fibrous layer, sometimes called the palpebral or broad tarsal ligament^ is thin at the inner part of the orbit, but quite thick and dense at the outer part. Besides the fibrous layer from the margin of the orbit, the tarsal cartilage of the upper lid has inserted into it the tendon of the levator palpebrss superioris muscle. The internal extre- mities of the tarsal cartilages are fixed by the tendo-palpe- brarum. The Caeuncula Lachrymalis, Fig. 4 (e), is a small red body situated at the inner angle of the eyelids, and in the centre of the lacus lachrymalis. It is composed of sebaceous follicles resembling the Meibomian glands. It secretes a whitish substance, which is often seen at the inner canthus. It is covered by a fold of the conjunctiva, which is per- forated by the external orifices of the follicles; several hairs usually project from it. It varies in color, as in health and in sickness. The Conjunctiva is divided into an ocular and £i palpebral portion. The former covers the anterior third of the eye- ball, with which it is loosely connected around its circum- ference, but becomes more closely adherent as it approaches the margin of the cornea. That it extends over the cornea can be very satisfactorily demonstrated. It is, however, so modified in its structure as to become perfectly transparent, and so intimately blended with the cornea, that it cannot be easily dissected off, especially from the centre of it. The latter, or palpebral portion, lines the internal surfaces of the lids, and is continuous over their free margins with the skin. It is closely connected to the posterior surfaces of the tarsal cartilages, where it covers the Meibomian glands, and is very vascular. The palpebral sinuses are formed by the reflection of the conjunctiva from the globe of the eye to the lids. In these sinuses, or culs-de-sac, it is very loosely connected to the areolar tissue beneath. At the inner canthus the conjunc- tiva forms a fold, called the plica semilwiaris. This is just outside the caruncula, and disappears when the globe is turned outwards; it may be regarded as the rudiment of