450 OF THE PELVIS. Fig. 192. The sacral plexus is more simple in its structure than any other belonging to the spinal system of nerves. The plexus lies on the anterior surface of the pyriformis muscle; in front, it cor- responds to the lower part of the rectum, from which it is separated by a fascia and branches of the internal iliac vessels. In ex- posing the sacral nerves and plexus, much care is requisite to preserve the nerves which arise from them, and which should now be traced to their destination if they end in the pelvis, and to their exit from the pelvis if they go to supply parts outside of it. To do this no specific directions can be given, as they vary so frequently in their origin and general arrangement; this is more particularly the case with the nerves which supply the viscera. These may arise partly from the second and third nerves, or partly from the plexus, or al- most wholly from the fourth and fifth nerves. They may go in part directly to the viscera which they supply, as the rec- tum, the bladder, and the prostate gland, in the male; and, in the female, to the blad- der, the uterus, the vagina, and the rectum; or they may, some of them at least, join filaments of the sympathetic nerve, as the hypogastric plexus, and, in company with them, reach the same organs. As they are so intimately connected with the hypogastric plexus and the filaments derived from it, the two sets of nerves should be examined A DiAGHAM SHOWING THE FORMATION AND BRANCHES OP THE SacRAL PlEXUS.— 1. The lumbo-sacral nerve, descending to join the sacral plexus, and giving oflf a large branch. 2. The superior gluteal nerve. 3. The anterior branches of the four upper sacral nerves. 4. The sacral plexus. 5. The internal pudic nerve. 6. The lesser sciatic nerve. 7. The great sciatic nerve. 8. The peroneal nerve. 9- The popliteal nerve. 10. Its sural branches. 11. The posterior tibial nerve dividing interiorly into the two plantar nerves, 12. 13. The anterior tibial nerve. U. The musculu-cutnneous nerve, its muscular portion. 15. Its cutaneous portion, lb. The external saphenous nerve, formed by the union of the commumcans poplUei, and cominunicans peronei.