DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 194 two arytenoid, and the epiglottis. Besides tliese, there are four small bodies, two of which are named the appendices, and two the cuneiform bodies. The Cricoid Cartilage, Fig. 73, is situated in the lower part of the larynx, and seems to belong partly to the larynx and partly to the trachea. It con- sists of a ring slightly, elliptical, its transverse diameter being less than its antero-posterior. Its lower bor- der is horizontal, and corresponds to the first ring of the trachea. Its upper border is oblique from before ■ backwards and upwards, making its vertical diameter about four times . greater behind than before. It has four articular facets, two for the ■ thyroid cartilage and one for each of the arytenoid. The former are situ- ated on its external surface, behind the centre and near the lower mar- gin. The latter are on its upper border behind, and about one-fourth ^ of an inch apart; they are convex and sloping laterally, being adapted to the articular facets on the bases of the arytenoid cartilages. Its ante- •ro-lateral surface is convex, and is principally occupied by the crico-thyroid muscle. On its posterior surface are ob- served two depressions, which give attachment to the crico- arytenoidei postici muscles. These depressions are separated by a vertical ridge, to which are attached some of the longi- tudinal muscular fibres of the oesophagus. Its internal sur- face is smooth and covered by mucous membrane. The Thyroid Cartilage, Fig. 74, forms the npper, ante- rior, and lateral parts of the larynx. It consists of two plates or aljB, which are joined at the median line in front, and separated behind nearly three-fourths of an inch. The augle ( formed by the junction of the alse anteriorly is more promi- ' nent above than below, and more in the male than in the female. It forms what is called the "pomimi Adami." On the external surface of each ala are two tubercles connected by Fig. 73. a Front View of the Cri- coid Cautilaoe.—1. Its in- ternal face. 2. Tlve cavity of the larynx as formed by this cariilago. 3. Its inferior sur- faco. 4, 4. The little heads or convexities for articulating ■with the arytenoids. 5, 5. The surface of the superior edge for the attachment of the lateral crico-arytenoid muscles.