358 OF THE ABDOMEN. The Lumbar divide into tlie posterior and anterior or ab- dominal branclies. The latter pass between the middle layer of the fascia lumborum and the quadraitus lumborum muscle, and thence between the internal oblique and transversalis muscles. ^ They anastomose above with the intercostal, in the middle with the internal mammary, and below, with the ilio- lumbar and internal circumflex ilii arteries. The Internal Circumelex Ilii, Fig. 151 (i 4), arises from the external iliac just behind, or a little above Poupart's liga- ment. It passes upwards and outwards to the anterior supe- rior spinous process of the ilium, where it divides into two branches. One of these ascends between the internal oblique and transversalis, to terminate in the muscles and integument, and to inosculate with the intercostal and internal mammary; the other runs along the crest of the ilium, and anastomoses with the lower lumbar. The arteria ad cutem abdominis has been noticed in connection with the fascia superficialis. The Epigastric, Fig. 151 (13), arises from the external iliac, just above Poupart's ligament, passes inwards and up- wards behind the inguinal canal, and between the fascia trans- versalis and peritoneum. It gets behind the rectus, enters its sheath, and passes up to the umbilicus, where, or a little above, it divides into branches to supply the muscle, and to anastomose with the internal mammary. It sometimes gives off the obturator and the internal circumflex ilii. Its usual branches are, a pubic, which goes behind the pubis; a cremas- teric, which enters the inguinal canal, and accompanies the spermatic cord to the testicle; a branch, to anastomose with the obturator when it arises from the internal iliac; some- times this branch is quite large, and passes near the femoral ring. The origin of the epigastric is subject to some varia- tion. It may arise from the femoral or from the external iliac, some distance above Poupart's ligament. The nerves which supply the abdominal parietes are the inferior intercostal and the anterior branches of the lumbar. The Intercostal Nerves, when they leave the intercostal spaces, pass forwards between the internal oblique and trans- versalis muscles as far as the rectus, the sheath of which they perforate. Besides muscular branches, they give off two sets of cutaneous branches, the anterior and the lateral The former leave the sheath of the rectus, and supply the integu-