OF THE ABDOMEN. 408 Fig. 175. ten to eigliteen of tliese cones, forming about one-fourtli part of the kidney. Each one is separate and distinct from the rest. They constitute what is called the medullary portions, while the remaining three-fourths is named the cortical or vascular sub- stance, Fig. 175 (2). The urine is secreted in the latter, which is much more vascular -than the former, as it requires blood not only for nourish- ment but to supply the elements of which the urine is formed. It is less firm and more easily broken up than the medullary substance, and is usually of a brighter red color. When the two substances are ex- amined with the microscope, they are both found to contain tubes. These commence, for the most part, by closed but dilated extremities in the cortical substance. They are at first very tortuous, but as they proceed to enter the base of a cone, they assume a straight direction. They are known in the cortical substance as the con- voluted tubes of Ferrein^ and in the cones as the straight tubes, or the ducts of Bellini. From the extent of sur- face on the base of each cone, it will readily be seen that the number of tubes which enter it must be very great, and, also, that the number, by the union which is constantly taking place, must be greatly diminished before they reach the apex of the cone. The tubes which converge to form by their junction one of the straight tubes, constitute a •pyramid of Ferrein. The corpuscles ofMalpighi, in the cortical substance, consist of tufts of vessels contained in the dilated extremities, and in cap- sular dilatations on the sides of the tubes of Ferrein. Each cap- sule is perforated by an afferent and an efferent vessel. The for- mer is an artery, and the latter a vein. After the vein leaves the a section of the kidney, surmounted by the supra" Kenal Capsule ; the swel- lings ON THE surface MARK THE ORIGINAL CONSTITUTION OF THE Organ of Distinct Lobes.—1. The supra-renal capsule. 2. The vascular or cortical portion of the kidney. 3, 3. Its tubular portion, con- sisting of cones. 4, 4. Two of the papillae projecting into their corresponding calices. 6, 5, 5. The three infundibula; the middle 5 is situated in the mouth of a calyx. 6. The pelvis. 1. The ureter.