190 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. Fig. 71. process of the occipital bone. It covers, in front, the articu- lation between the atlas and occiput. The Eegtus Capitis Late- EALis, Fig. 71 (i o), arises from the transverse process of the atlas, and is inserted into the jugular eminence, on the occi- pital bone. It separates the jugular vein in front from the vertebral artery behind. The action of the recti muscles is to support the head, or to bend it slightly forwards or laterally. The LoNGUS Colli, Fig. 71 (5, e), consists of three portions. The first arises from the central and anterior tubercle of the atlas, and passes down to be in- serted into the transverse pro- cesses of the third, fourth, and fifth cervical vertebree. The second arises from the transverse processes of the third and fourth cervical vertebrse, and goes down to be attached to the bodies of the upper three dor- sal vertebrEe. The third arises from the second and third cer- vical vertebree, and passes down to be inserted into the bodies of the lower four cervical and upper three dorsal vertebrte. This muscle supports the ver- tebral column. From the experience acquired in the dissection of one side, the student will be able to go over the same ground the second time with more satisfaction to himself. If some things have escaped his attention, or he has failed to obtain a dis- tinct and correct view of them in his first dissection, he will have the opportunity of remedying these defects in his second. And he cannot acquire too great familiarity with any of the The Pkjevertebkai, Grottp op Mus- cles OP THE Neck.—1. The rectus anti- cus major muscle. 2. The scalenus anti- cus. 3. The lower part of the longus colli of the right side; it is concealed superi- orly by the rectus anticus major. 4. The rectus anticus minor. 5. The upper portion of the longus colli muscle. 6. Its lower portion; the figure rests upon the seventh cervical vertebra. 7. The scalenus medius. 8. Scalenus posticus. 9. One of the intertransversales mus- cles. 10. The rectus lateralis of the left side.