ANTERIOB PART OF LEG, DORSUM OF THE FOOT. 579 wliicli are directed to the inner part of the foot are not named; they vary in number, size, and distribution. They anastomose behind with the internal malleolar braDch of the anterior tibial artery, and below with branches of the inter- nal plantar; those which go to the dorsum of the outer part of the foot are the following:— The dorsal artery of the tarsus, Fig. 247 (s), passes outwards beneath the extensor brevis digitorum and divides into several branches, which anastomose with the external mal- leolar branch of the anterior tibial, with the external plantar artery, and with the one next to be described. It varies in size and in the number of branches which it gives oif. The metatarsal branch, Fig. 247 (9), usually arises just be- fore the dorsal artery of the foot disappears in the interos- seous space. It passes transversely outwards in a line cor- responding nearly to thetarso-metatarsal articulations, forming an arch from which branches are given off to supply the in- terosseous spaces and the integument on the upper part of the toes. They are called the interosseous and digital arteries. There is one for each of the interosseous spaces except the first, which is supplied directly from the dorsal artery of the foot. Each interosseous artery divides into two digital branches, which are distributed to the opposing sides of the two toes which correspond to the artery. The relations and distribution of the three interosseous arteries are very nearly similar. They anastomose with branches of the correspond- ing arteries on the bottom of the foot. Each interosseous artery is joined by an anastomosing branch at each extremity of the interosseous space. The Deep Veins consist of those which accompany the arteries, each artery having its vence comites. They commu- nicate with the superficial or subcutaneous veins at different points. The venas comites are generally arranged so as to have one on the outer and one on the inner side of the artery which they accompany; they communicate freely with each other by means of branches extending between them across the artery. The deep veins are supplied with valves. The Anterior Tibial Nerve, Fig. 248 (2,3), is one of the terminal divisions of the external popliteal or peroneal, which it leaves between the peroneus longus and the external sur-