INTERNAL EAR, OR LABYRINTH. 127 These bones are connected to each other by capsular liga- ments, which contain synovial membranes. They are also connected to the parietes of the tympanum by three liga- ments. The head of the malleus is attached to the roof by a ligament; the short process of the incus is connected to the "opening into the mastoid cells, and the base of the stapes to the margin of the fenestra oralis, by ligamentous fibres. The muscles of the tympanum are the tensor tympani, the laxator tympani, and the stapedius. The TENSOR TYMPANI, Fig. 45, a, arises from the cartilage of the Eustachian tube and the contiguous portion of the sphenoid bone, and also from the bony canal which it occu- pies just above the septum cochleariforme. It enters the anterior part of the tympanum, and is reflected outwards, to be inserted into the handle of the malleus immediately below the processus gracilis. The LAXATOR TYMPANI is regarded very generally as liga- mentous, and not muscular in its structure. It is attached to the point of the processus gracilis, and passes through the Glaserian fissure to become connected with the internal lateral ligament of the temporo-maxillary articulation. Another laxator has been described extending from the upper part of the membrana tympani to the malleus. The STAPEDIUS arises from a depression on the pyramid, and passes downwards and forv,''ards to be inserted into the neck of the stapes. The tympanum is lined by a very thin delicate mucous membrane. This adheres closely to the periosteum beneatb it. It invests the small bones, and covers the vessels and nerves; is reflected into the mastoid cells, but not into the labyrinth; closes the fenestra rotunda, and the space between the crura of the stapes. THE INTERNAL EAR, OR LABYRINTH. The internal ear contains the peripheral expansion of the nerve of hearing. It lies deep in the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and consists of several compartments. From its complex character it has been called the labyrinth. Its compartments are the vestibule, the semicircular canals, three HI number, and the cochlea. The vestibule is s,ituated in