OF THE ABDOMEN. 844 Tlie Line A Alba, Fig. 146 (i 3), is a wMfce line extending from the symphysis pubis to the xiphoid cartilage. It occu- pies the space between the recti muscles, and is formed by a blending of the tendinous fibres of the broad muscles of the abdomen in the median line. Its breadth increases from below upwards. In pregnancy and dropsies of the abdomen, it sometimes acquires a greatly increased breadth. The umhiUcus is situated nearly in its centre. This consists of a dense ligamentous substance, to which the integument adheres very closely. It is the remains of the umbilical vein and arteries of the foetus. When it is necessary to cut into the abdominal cavity, as in the high operation of lithotomy, and in gastrotomy, or to puncture the parietes, as in ascites, it is generally done through the linea alba. The Linea Semilunaris, Fig. 146 (13), is a white line situ- ated along the external border of each of the recti muscles. It is caused by the absence of muscular fibres in this portion of the abdominal parietes. The LiNE^ Transversa, Fig. 146 (13), extend from the lioea semilunaris to the linea alba. There are usually four or five of them on each side. They are produced by tendin- ous intersections in the recti muscles. The External Abdominal Eing, Fig. 146 (15), is an opening in the tendon of the external oblique muscle, situated just above the spine of the pubis. It transmits the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament in the female. A fascia is reflected from its margin down over the spermatic cord. This opening and the parts around will be examined in the dissection of the inguinal region with reference to hernia. The tendon of the external oblique is perforated by nume- rous small foramina for the transmission of the cutaneous vessels and nerves. The external oblique may be raised by detaching it from the ribs and the crest of the ilium, and also from Poupart's ligament, if it be not desired to preserve the parts in the inguinal region for a special dissection; m the latter case the tendon may be divided by an incision extend- ing from the anterior superior spinous process of the ihum j transversely across to the linea alba. It is sometimes con- venient as when the subject cannot well be turned partly on one side, to raise this muscle by making an mcision through .