DISSECTION OF THE VESSELS AND NERVES. 443 The middle hemorrhoidal artery, Fig. 190 (12), arises from the internal iliac, sometimes from the inferior vesical or the internal pudic, passes to the side of the rectum, where it anastomoses with the superior and inferior hemorrhoidal arteries. It is very irregular in its origin, and sometimes is absent. The uterine artery arises from the internal iliac, and, pass- ing between the layers of the broad ligament, reaches the uterus just above the os tincaa. It then ascends on the bor- der to the fundus, giving off branches in its course, which ramify on the anterior and posterior surfaces of the uterus; some of these penetrate its substance, others anastomose in the median line with the corresponding branches on the opposite side. It sends small branches to the bladder and ureters. During the period of pregnancy, the uterine arteries attain to a great size, and become exceedingly tortuous. The ovarian arteries anastomose freely with the uterine. They arise from the aorta, and pursue a course downwards similar to that of the spermatic arteries in the male until they reach the "brim of the pelvis, when they are directed inwards to get between the layers of the broad ligaments. Each one penetrates the ovary at its attached border. In. their course to the ovaries they are very much convoluted. They send branches to the Fallopian tubes and to the round ligaments; the latter branches accompany the Fallopian tubes to their destination. The vaginal artery arises in common with the inferior vesical, or from the hypogastric, just before or after that artery. It passes downwards on the side of the vagina to near its external orifice, when it gets behind it, between the vagina and rectum, to anastomose with branches from the opposite side. It sends branches in its course to the bladder and the urethra, also to the rectum. The lateral sacral arteries, Fig. 190 (i 0), usually consist of two, a superior and inferior, on each side. They arise close to each other just above the gluteal. The superior passes downwards and inwards to the first sacral foramen, which it enters to reach the sacral canal, where it divides into two branches; one of these escapes from the canal through the correspondmg posterior sacral foramen, and is distributed to the muscles and integument of the back', while the other ramifies m the canal. The inferior descends in front of the