THE PLEURA. 297 Fig. 129. Tlic anterior is situated between the heart and the ster- num; the posterior between the heart and the spmai column; the superior, between the heart below, and the upper orifice of the thorax above, the sternum m front, and the spinal column behind; while the heart and pericar- dium occupy the middle. The mediastinal pleuraa form the lateral boundaries of each of these divisions. Thus it will be seen that while the heart is below the supe- rior mediastinum, and in the middle, it is directly between the anterior and posterior mediastina, as they are usually termed. The diagram, Fig. 129, representing a section of the thorax in the median line, shows the relative position of the four sub- divisions of the mediastinal space. The anterior mediastinum has been exposed by the longitudinal section, and removal of the sternum. It con- tains the lower portion of the remains of the thymus gland, areolar tissue, and some fat. As the diaphragm is deficient behind the xiphoid cartilage, this space is separated from the cavity of the abdomen only by areolar tissue, which accounts for pus sometimes passing from it into that cavity. The cavity of the pericardium can be reached, as in paracentesis pericardii, through this space, without opening either of the pleural cavities. The Phrenic Nerves should be noticed before examining the pericar- dium. They will be found passing through the middle mediastinum, from above downwards on the sides of the pericardium, between it and the pleura. They can usually be distinctly seen with- out dissecting off the pleura. The left is somewhat longer than the right, on account of the projection of the pericar- dium to the left side. They descend to the diaphragm, and ramify on its upper surface, between it and the pleura3; some filaments pass through the muscle, and ramify on its abdo- DlAGRAM OP THE THORACIC Mediastina. — a, h. Dorsal vertebrre. c. Sternum. d. Diaphragm, or lower orifiee of the thorax, e. Upper orifice of the thorax. 1. Anterior medi- astinum. 2. Middle mediasti- num ; figure is on tlio heart. 3. Posterior mediastinum. 4. Superior mediastinum.