ANATOMY OF FEMOEAL HERNIA. neurotic or tendinous fibres which arise to the outer side of the artery, and, arching over the mouth of the sheath, are m- serted into the linea pectinea; these fibres form what has been called the deep femoral arch. When observed from above they appear, in front of the sheath, to be a part of Poupart's ligament. When the fascia has been separated from these fibres, the handle of the scalpel can generally be carried down beneath them to the saphenous opening, and also to the outer side of it, so as to separate the falciform process of the fascia lata from the sheath. The parts in front of the sheath may next be divided and reflected off for the purpose of examining the sheath with its septa, and the artery and vein as they lie in it. The anterior crural nerve, Fig. 209 (i o), will be found four or five lines external to the artery, occupying a groove formed by the psoas and iliacus muscles. If the student will now review the parts which he has just dissected with reference to the protrusion of the bowel in hernia, he will have no difficulty in understanding the man- ner in which the protrusion takes place, and the new rela- tions the bowel acquires to the surrounding parts. He will observe that the bowel, in escaping from the cavity of the abdomen, first passes through the femoral ring and gets into the crural canal, carrying with it the peritoneum and the subperitoneal areolar tissue. If it remained in the canal, it would be called concealed femoral hernia,. It does not, how- ever, generally stop here, but forces its way through that part of the anterior wall of the canal which corresponds to the saphenous opening in the fascia lata, and then turns upwards and outwards over the falciform process, and sometimes over Poupart's ligament, beneath the superficial fascia and the skin, thus forming a curve, with the concavity looking upwards, and the convexity downwards. It will be seen that the bowel is now covered, proceeding from without inwards; first, by the shin; secondly, by the superficial fascia; thirdly, by the subperitoneal areolar tissue or t\iQ fascia propria; and fourthly, by \hQ peritoneum which forms the sac. The first two layers are obtained outside the femoral canal, and the other two, one within it, and one in the cavity of the abdomen. In reducing the bowel by taxis, it should be pushed d/jwn- wards, bacJctvards, and upwards, the lower extremity having