OF THE ABDOMEN. 416 two4liirds of Poupart's ligament, where it is continuous with the fascia transversalis, to the whole of the inner border of the crest of the ilium, to the ligamentum arcuatum ex- ternum, to the bodies of the lumbar vertebra, and to the brim of the pelvis. The lower part is thicker and more aponeuro- tic than the upper and inner part. It covers the psoas and iliacus internus muscles. The external iliac artery and vein lie in front of it. Where these vessels pass beneath Pou- part's ligament, a process of the iliac fascia is prolonged down behind them, which, joined to a similar prolongation of the fascia transversalis in front of the vessels, forms a funnel- shaped sheath around them. This will be noticed more par- ticularly in the dissection of the parts concerned in femoral hernia. It will be observed, from the attachment of the iliac fascia, that when pus collects beneath it, it will have a tendency to follow the psoas and iliacus muscles to the upper and anterior part of the thigh. The Psoas Magnus, Fig. 178 (i 3), arises from the margins of the bodies of the lower two dorsal and the upper four lum- bar vertebree, from the intervertebral substance, from the ligamentous bands which arch over the grooves on the sides of the bodies of the vertebrse, and from the bases of the trans- verse processes. The fibres proceed downwards and some- what outwards along the brim of the pelvis, beneath Pou- part's ligament, and end in a tendon which passes backwards and inwards over the capsular ligament of the hip-joint, and is inserted into the posterior part of the small trochanter. A hursa is placed between its tendon and the pubic bone and the capsular ligament. There is also a small hursa between it and the trochanter. The lumbar arteries and the nerves of communication between the lumbar and the sympathetic pass in the grooves on the bodies of the vertebra3, beneath the tendinous arches from which this muscle in part arises. The action of the psoas is to flex the thigh on the pelvis, or the body on the thigh. Prom the position of the trochanter minor this muscle rotates the thigh outwards before flexing it on the body. The Psoas Parvus is frequently wanting. When present, it is situated mainly in front of the psoas magnus. It arises from the bodies of the last dorsal and the first lumbar ver-