SPHENO-MAXILLARY REGION. 115 buccal branches have already been seen. The superior dental and infra-orbital come off just before the main trunk enters the pterygo-maxillary fossa. The superior dental branch penetrates the tuberosity of the superior maxilla to be dis- tributed to the molar and bicuspid teeth. The infra-orbital passes through the posterior part of the spheno-maxillary fissure to enter a canal in the floor of the orbit. The re- maining branches of the internal maxillary artery cannot be seen at this stage of the dissection. The internal maxil- lary vein corresponds with the artery and its branches. It communicates with the cavernous sinus and the facial vein. The posterior superior dental nerve arises from the superior maxillary in the posterior part of the spheno-maxillary fis- sure, and runs some distance on the tuberosity of the supe- rior maxilla, which it penetrates to reach the molar teeth. The Temporo-Maxillary Articulation should now be examined, so that the structures connected with it may be removed. They consist of an external and an internal lateral ligament, a capsular ligament, an iuterarticular fibro- cartilage, and two synovial sacs. The External Lateral Ligament, Fig. 84 (5), arises from the tubercle of the zygomatic process of the temporal bone, Fig. 34. and is inserted into the outer part of the cervix of the con- dyle of the lower jaw. The Internal Lateral Ligajient, Fig. 35 (4), arises from the spinous process of the sphenoid bone, passes downwards and forwards to be inserted into the inner border of the posterior dental foramen. It is longer than the external, and is separated from the bone by the internal maxillary artery, and the in- ferior dental nerve and ar- tery, thus preventing the in- ternal pterygoid muscle from pressing upon them when An External View op the Autictj- LATioN OP THE LowER Jaw.—1. The zy- gomatic arch. 2. The tubercle of the zygoma. 3. The ramus of the lower jaw. 4. The mastoid portion of the tomponil bone. 5. Tho external lateral ligament. 6. The stylo-maxillary ligament.