618 THE LOWER EXTREMITY. They will be found to occupy nearly the same plane with each other and with the gluteus minimus, except the obtu- rator externus. Before commencing the dissection of them, the student should be particular to see that the limb is rotated inwards and fastened in this position so that the muscles shall be kept tense. The Pyriformis, Fig. 219 (9), lies along the lower border of the gluteus medius, and not unfrequently some care is re- quired to find the line which separates them. It arises with- in the pelvis from several of the spaces between the anterior sacral foramina and from the contiguous portion of the ilium, also from the great sacro-sciatic ligament. Its fibres con- verge as they pass outwards and somewhat backwards to be inserted by a round tendon into the fossa on the upper and back part of the great trochanter. This muscle is sometimes pei'forated by the great sciatic nerve, or by a portion of it. The Gemellus Superior, Fig. 219 (10), is a small muscle placed immediately below the pyriformis. It arises from the spine of the ischium, and, passing horizontally inwards, is inserted into the trochanter major close to the pyriformis. It is sometimes wanting. The Gemellus Inferior, Fig. 219 ( 2), arises from the tuberosity of the ischium near the attachment of the great sacro-sciatic ligament. It is inserted also into the trochanter major. It is usually larger than the gemellus superior. The Obturator Internus, Fig. 219 (n), will be found placed between the two gemelli occupying the small sacro- sciatic foramen. The principal part of this muscle is situated within the pelvis, and will require for its complete dissection, as well as that of the pyriformis, a section of the pelvic parietes to be made. It arises from the internal surface of the innominatum around the obturator foramen, from the obturator ligament and from the outer surface of the aponeurosis which covers this muscle. Its fibres converge, pass downwards and_ out- wards through the small sacro-sciatic foramen and terminate in a tendon, which is inserted into the trochanteric or digital fossa in common with the gemelli. The gemelli, especially the inferior, and the obturator internus are frequently so