309 THE HEART. from the mitral valve having only two segments. The fibrous band which surrounds this opening furnishes an attachment for the muscular walls of the auricle and ventricle, and for the mitral valve. The aortic opening is round, and a little smaller than the mouth of the pulmonary artery. It is situated at the right anterior part of the base of the ventricle. There is here no infundibular prolongation upwards to join the aorta, as there is in the right ventricle to join the pulmonary artery, hence the mouth of the aorta is nearly on a level with the opening into the auricle. It is surrounded by a fibrous ring, which forms a medium of attachment for the middle coat of the aorta, the semilunar valves, and the muscular parietes of the ventricle. This ring, it will be observed, is on one side, common to the aortic and auricular orifices, and forms the only septum between them. Part op the Left Ventricle, and commencement of the aorta laid open to shotv the sigmoid Valves.—a. Portion of the aorta. V. Muscular wall of the left ventricle. 1,2, 3. Semilunar or sigmoid valves, c, Corpus Arantii in one of them, e. Thin lunated marginal portion or lunula, g, t, t. Sinuses of Val- salva, t, t. Mouths of the two coro- nary arteries of the heart, to. Anterior segment of the mitral valve, the fibrous structure of which is continuous above with the aortic tendinous zone, opposite the attach- ed margin of the sigmoid valve, marked 1. Opposite the valves 2 and 3, the tendinous zone receives below the muscular substance of the ventricle v. h. Larger chordae ten- dinae. o, o. Musculi papillares. Fig. 134. The semilunar ov sigmoid valves, and the sinuses of Valsalva, Fig. 134, have the same arrangement at the mouth of the aorta, as at the mouth of the pulmonary artery. The valves are thicker and stronger, while the sinuses are somewhat larger and more distinct. The corpora Arantii in these valves are particularly well marked. In the sinuses, behind the lelt and anterior valves, will be found the orifices of the coronary arteries.