ANTERIOE PART OF LEG, DORSUM OF THE FOOT. 575 to invert the sole of the foot; it may also assist in extend- ing the fifth toe, or in flexing the foot on the leg. The Extensor Pollicis Proprius, Fig. 244 (5), is placed between the tibialis anticus on the inner side, and the exten- sor longns digitorum on the outer side; the upper part of it is covered by these muscles. It arises from the inner surface of the fibula, commencing usually as high as the junction of the upper and middle thirds, and from the inter- osseous ligament close to the fibula; it may also be joined by a few fibres which arise from the lower part of the tibia. The fibres terminate in a tendon which, commencing higher in front than behind, passes first under the annular ligament, then forwards over the tarsus and the metatarsal bone of the great toe, to be inserted by two fasciculi into the base of the first phalangeal bone, and by one fasciculus into the base_ of the second phalangeal bone. Its relations to the anterior tibial artery are interesting, and will be noticed in the de- scription of that vessel. Its action is to extend the great toe, and to flex the foot on the leg; it may also assist in raising the inner border of the foot. The Extensor Brevis Digitorum, Eig. 244 (11), is placed on the dorsum of the foot, being the only muscle in that re- gion, except the interossei, that has its origin and insertion on the foot. It arises on the outer part of the foot from the os calcis and astragalus by a short round tendon and some mus- cular fibres. It passes obliquely forwards and inwards be- neath the tendons of the extensor longus digitorum and pe- roneus tertius to divide into four tendons, which are continued forwards to be inserted into the phalangeal bones of the inner four toes, the little toe having no tendon from this muscle. The one to the great toe is larger than either of the others; it passes over the dorsal artery of the foot just before it enters the first interosseous space, and under the tendon of the long extensor of the great toe, and is inserted into the base of the last phalangeal bone of the great toe. The other tendons get beneath the corresponding tendons of the long extensor of the toes, and become blended with them in forming the fibrous sheaths which cover the dorsa of all the smaller toes. The action of this muscle is to extend the toes. Its direction being obliquely from without inwards it counteracts the tendency of the long extensors to draw the toes towards the