THE HEAET. 305 few in number. They are attached, hj one extremity, to the walls of the ventricle, and by the other to the chords tendi- nece; they have been called the muscles of the heart. The fleshy columns give to the internal surface of the ventricle an irregular areolar appearance, and increase the extent of the lining membrane. The chm-clce tendinece are small tendinous cords which ex- tend from the third set of the columnse carnese to the tricuspid valve, Fig. 132, c; some of them, however, proceed directly from the parietes of the ventricle to the valve. These tendinous chords enter largely into the formation of the valve, which they traverse in different directions; some of them are inserted into the fibrous zone which surrounds the margin of the auriculo-ventricular orifice. They enable the fleshy columns to which they are attached to separate, in the first place, the tricuspid valve from the parietes of the ventricle, and thus allow the blood to get beneath it, and when the valve is forced upwards to close the opening they act as stays by preventing it from being carried into the auricle. The tricuspid valve, Pig, 132, c, consists of an annular fold reflected from the margin of the auriculo-ventricular orifice into the ventricle. Its free border is usually divided into three segments, but sometimes into four, or even more. It contains, besides the chords tendincEe, some fibrous tissue which projects into it from the margin of the opening into the auricle. Small fleshy masses are sometimes observed attached to its free border. The largest of the three seg- ments is placed between the openings into the auricle and pulmonary artery. This segment may, perhaps, prevent the blood from passing into the pulmonary artery during the filling of the ventricle. The tricuspid valve closes the open- ing between the auricle and ventricle, when the latter con- tracts to force the blood into the pulmonary artery. The auriculo-ventricular orifice is situated at the right and posterior part of the base of the ventricle. It is of an ellip- tical form, and is surrounded by a fibrous band or zone, to which the_ tricuspid valve and muscular fibres in the parietes of the auricle and ventricle are attached. Its antero-posterior diameter is larger than the transverse. The conus arteriosus, or irfundihulum, Fig. 132, a, is a pro- jection of the ventricle upwards to join the pulmonary artery. It IS situated at the anterior and left portion of the base The 26*