DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 172 turns inwards and dips beneath the jugular vein, common carotid artery, and pneumogastric nerve, to go to the thyroid gland, to which the greater part of it is distributed. It sends small branches to the oesophagus, the trachea, and to the larynx. The middle cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, when it exists, rests upon it. The AscENDENS Colli, Eig. 65 (25), is usually a branch of the thyroid; the point of its origin, however, varies; some- times it comes off as the thyroid turns inwards, and if it be large, causes the appearance of a bifurcation of that artery. It ascends upon the scalenus anticus on the neck, giving branches to this muscle and to the rectus capitis anticus major, and the levator anguli scapulas. It also gives oS branches to anastomose with the vertebral artery, and to enter the spinal canal along with the cervical nerves. The SuPEA-scAPULAR Artery, Fig. 65 (as), passes trans- versely outwards, just behind the clavicle, to reach the cora- coid notch; it does not usually pass through the notch, but immediately over the ligament which converts it into a fora- men. It is situated beneath the deep fascia, and in its course gives off a small branch which enters the thorax. On the dorsum of the scapula it anastomoses beneath the acromion with the arteria dorsalis scapulje. The Transverse Humeral, or Cervical, Fig. 65 (2 a), passes transversely outwards, but above the preceding, to the trapezius. It is distributed to the muscles on the back of the neck, and anastomoses with the arteria princeps cervicis, a branch of the occipital artery. Both of the last named arteries are to be studied in their relations to the operation for ligating the subclavian artery. The Internal Mammary Artery, Fig, 65 (22), arises from the lower surface of the subclavian, and very soon enters the thorax. It passes beneath the clavicle, the sub- clavian vein, and the phrenic nerve, before it gets behind the first rib. Its course in the thorax, and in the anterior walls of the abdomen, will be noticed in the dissection of those parts. It may be mentioned now that it anastomoses with several arteries, as the superior thoracic, the intercostal, and the epigastric. These anastomotic connections render its study important.