462 OF THE PELVIS. these have already been observed; they contain the levatores am muscles. The other two, which are situated, one above and the other below the deep perineal fascia, are now to be examined. The latter or lower one contains, besides some fat and areolar tissue, the superficial perineal vessels and nerves, the erectores penis, acceleratores nrinse, and trans- versi perinei muscles, and the bulb of the corpus spongio- sum the former or superior one contains the membranous portion of the urethra, including the muscles of Wilson and Guthrie, the prostate gland, the neck of the bladder, and the vesiculae seminales. The lower one is formed by the deep perineal fascia sending off a layer just behind the bulb of the urethra, which passes backwards to the rectum and ischio-rectal fossae, and then downwards, forming on each side the anterior boundary of the ischio-rectal fossa by uniting with the levator and obturator fascise; it is then reflected forwards beneath the transversi perinei muscles and before the ante- rior portion of the sphincter ani muscle, to be lost in the scrotum and in the superficial fascia on each side of it. The part which is reflected forwards is the superficial perineal fascia; it is attached, laterally, to the tuberosities and rami of the ischia, and to the rami of the pubes. To dissect this space, Fig. 196, two incisions should be made, commencing at a point about two inches and a half in front of the anus and extending them backwards, one to the tuberosity of each ischium or near to the anterior boundary of the ischio- rectal fossa. The fascia included between these two incisions is to be raised and reflected backwards as far as the anus and the ischio-rectal foss», but not detached until its connection with the deep perineal fascia has been examined; this cannot be done until the contents of the space inclosed by it and the deep fascia have been dissected. The remaining portions of the fascia are to be reflected laterally, and their attachments to the rami of the ischia and pubes observed. The super- ficial and transverse perineal vessels and nerves should now bs examined. The superficial perineal artery^ Fig. 194 (i i), enters this space just below the transversus perinei muscle, and passes for- wards along the inner border of the erector penis muscle. It is distributed to the perineum and scrotum. The transverse perineal artery, Fig, 194 (i i), arises sometimes