436 OF THE PELVIS. and the bulb. Some portions of the rectum are separated ±rom the surroundmg parts by a considerable quantity of adipose and areolar tissue. ^ As the Bladdee, Fig. 187 (3, 4, 5), varies in size accordincr as It IS empty or distended, its relations to contiguous parti are necessarily modified. When empty, it is in relation an- Fig. 187. A SlPE VlETV OF THE ViSCERA OF THE MALE PeLVIS, IN SITTI. ThE RIGHT SIDE OF THE Pelvis has been removed by a Vertical Section made through the Os Pubis near the Symphysis; and another through the middle of the Sa- crum.—1. The divided surface of the^os pubis. 2. The divided surface of the sacrum. 3. The body of the bladder. 4. Its fundus; from the apex is seen passing upwards, the urachus. 5. The base of the bladder. 6. The ureter. 7. The neck of the bladder. 8, 8. The pelvic fascia; the fibres immediately above 7 are given ofi" from the pelvic fascia, and represent the anterior ligaments of the bladder. 9. The prostate gland. 10. The membranous portion of the urethra, be- tween the two layers of the deep perineal fascia. 11. The deep perineal fascia formed of two layers. 12. 0«e of Cowper's glands between the two layers of deep perineal fascia, and beneath the membranous portion of the urethra. 13. The bulb of the corpus spongiosum. 14. The body of the corpus spongiosum. 15. The right crus penis. 16. The upper part of the rectum. 17. The recto-vesical fold of peritoneum. 18. The lower portion of the rectum. 19. The right vesicula semi- nalis. 20. The vas deferens. 21. The rectum covered by the descending layer of the pelvic fascia. 22. A part of the levator ani muscle investing the lower part of the rectum. 23. The external sphincter ani. 24. The interval between the deep and superficial perineal fascia; they are seen to be continuous beneath the number. 25. Peritoneum covering the upper and back part of the bladder. teriorly with the symphysis piibis, the pubic bones, and obtu- rator muscles; and when distended, with the anterior walls ♦ of the abdomen. In the latter case, the peritoneum is raised