DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. 455 An ovai-ian plexus accompanies each of tlie ovarian arteries from the abdomen; the ovaries receive.filaments also from the uterine nerves. . The uterine nerves are derived from the hypogastric plexus. They accompany the arteries as they ascend on the lateral borders of the uterus, to supply its fundus anteriorly and •posteriorly. From the neck of the uterus nerves proceed to the vagina to form the vaginal plexus. Dissection of the Perineum. The outlines of the perineal space are indicated by the boundaries of the lower strait of the pelvic cavity. These consist, in front, of the sub-pubic ligament, the descending rami of the pubic bones and the rami of the ischia; late- rally, of the tuberosities of the ischia; and behind, of the sacro-sciatic ligaments and the coccyx. The student should make himself perfectly familiar with the exact position of each one of these parts before he attempts the examination of this region; or he should have a ligamentous pelvis before him when he makes his first dissection of the perineum. He should also have a distinct idea of the position and relations of the following parts: The lower part of the rectum, the bladder, the prostate gland, the membranous portion of the urethra, and the deep perineal fascia or triangular ligament through which it passes, the bulbous portion of the corpus spongiosum, the crura of the corpora cavernosa, and the principal muscles in this region. If he cannot acquire this knowledge by reading a description of these parts with the aid of plates, he should make a special dissection of them. No student should expect to obtain a satisfactory knowledge of the anatomy of the perineum by making a single dissec- tion of it. When he has become fiimiliar with the parts enumerated above, he will find that the study of the fascise involved in the dissection will be greatly facilitated. He will observe that every reflection or attachment of the fascijB has a distinct relation to some one or more of these parts; ^ that they are designed to furnish a floor to the cavity of the pelvis, and to fix and keep the parts in their absolute and relative position. It will also be noticed in the progress of the dissection that they form the boundaries of severaf spaces