THE LOWEE EXTREMITY. 502 from tlie corresponding surface on the other side. This part of the fascia is called the external intermuscular septum. It separates the muscles on the outer from those on the back part of the thigh. Below, the fascia passes down in front of the knee. Internally, it is inserted into the linea aspera from the trochanter minor to the internal condyle. This part forms the internal intermuscular septum. As the dissection is continued, it will be found that the fascia lata sends in processes from its inner surface to form sheaths for the different muscles, and also for the femo- ral vessels. If, in removing this fascia, the student will first look at the drawing, Fig. 211, he will see the muscles which are to be exposed, and then, by dividing the fascia on each muscle, and in the direction of its fibres, he will have no difficulty in making a clear exposition of them. With a little care and patience, he will be able to do this, and, at the same time, preserve the principal vessels and nerves. The Sartoeius, Fig. 211 (s), arises ten- dinous from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium and from the notch be- low, passes obliquely downwards, inwards, and somewhat backwards, to the lower third of the thigh, and then directly down- wards to the inner side of the knee-joint, where it becomes tendinous, and, curving outwards round the joint, is inserted into the tibia just below and on the inner side of its tubercle. It covers the tendons of the gracilis and semi-tendinosus, and is con- nected to the deep fascia of the leg. The internal saphenous nerve will be seen The Muscles of the Antebior Femoral Region.—1. The crest of the ilium. 2. Its anterior superior spinous process. 3. The gluteus medius. 4. The tensor vaginEC femoris ; its insertion into the fascia lata is shown inferiorly. 5. The snrtorius. 6. The rectus. 7. The vastus externus. 8. The vastus internus. 9. The patella. 10. The iliacus internus. 11. The psoas mngnus. 12. The pectineus. 1.3. The adductor longus. 14. Part of the adductor magnus. 15. The gracilis. Fig. 211. 1