424 OF THE PELVIS. The uvula vesicce, Fig, 180 (4), is a slight elevation seen at the apex of the trigone, and near the orifice of the urethra. It is formed by a thickening of the submucous areolar tissue, and corresponds to the third lobe of the prostate gland. If the mucous membrane of the trigone be dissected off, a strong fasciculus of muscular fibres will be found situated at its base, extending between the orifices of the ureters; and also a fasciculus going from the orifice of each of the ureters to the uvula. The last have been called the muscles of the ureters, or the muscles of Bell, as they were described by him. A layer of dense, white fibrous tissue is found imme- diately beneath the mucous membrane in the trigone. It is on account of this structure, to which the mucous membrane is closely adherent, that no rug£e or folds are found in this part of the bladder. The JSfech of the bladder, although its limits are not de- fined by any natural lines of demarcation, may be considered as that part which is applied to the base of the prostate gland. It is surrounded above and laterally, on the outside of the mucous membrane, by a fibro-muscular tissue, which is sup- posed to act as a sphincter muscle. Many of the longitudinal fibres of the bladder are inserted into this structure. Dissection of the Prostate Gland. The Peostate Gland, Fig, 181 (?), surrounds the neck of the bladder and the upper portion of the urethra. It is of a conical shape, with its base applied to the bladder, _ Its trans- verse diameter is about an inch and a half, its antero- posterior an inch and a quarter, and its vertical from three- fourths of an inch to an inch. The antero-posterior diameter is in the direction of the urethra. Its relations to the sur- rounding parts are described with the pelvic viscera in situ. The urethra passes through the upper part of it, having only about one-third of the gland above it; it varies, however, a great deal in this respect. It consists of three lobes, two lateral and a middle. The latter is quite small; it is placed behind and between the other two, and is partly separated from them by a notch which is occupied by the common ejaculatory ducts. The uvula vesicae is situated dn-ectly above it. 7 i • i The prostate is composed of numerous granules, whicli are