495 ANATOMY OF FEMORAL HERNIA. doubling of the fascia on itself; it is easily found by trac- ing the saphenous vein upwards. The outer and upper boundary is formed by the crescentic border of the falciform process. This does not always present a well-defined mar- gin It may usually be found by drawing the semilunar margin downwards with the forceps or tenaculum, and thus making it tense. The inner boundary is formed_ by the ex- ternal surface of the pectineal portion of the fascia. In dissecting the saphenous opening, the student must bear in mind that the femoral vessels are not to be exposed, as it would destroy the infandibuliform sheath which has not yet been examined. The saphenous vein perforates the sheath, and hence it should not be traced at this stage of the dissection farther than to .the saphenous opening. The parts in the abdomen should now be examined. _As they have already been described in detail in connection with the other parts of the abdomen, it will only be neces- sary to notice them now in their relations to hernia. They consist of the peritoneum, the subperitoneal areolar tissue, and the fascia transversalis and iliaca. The peritoneum is the most internal layer, lying next to the bowels. It presents a depression or fossa bounded, on the outer side, by a fold caused by the remains of the umbili- cal artery of the foetus projecting inwards, and below by the horizontal ramus of the pubic bone. This fossa corresponds to the femoral ring. The subperitoneal areolar tissue is placed between the peri- toneum and the fasciae transversalis and iliaca. It connects the peritoneum and these fascise, and contains the epigastric, the spermatic, and the external iliac vessels, also the vas defer- ens, the genito-crural nerve, and lymphatics. It is not equally diffused between these membranes, but is more abundant in some places than in others. It, together with a lymphatic gland, fills the crural canal; this part of it forms what has improperly been called the septum crurale. This tissue is always carried down by the bowel in hernia, and is then converted into a well-marked membranous layer which has been designated the fascia propria. This should now be care- fully dissected^off from the fasciae and the other parts be- neath it. It will then be seen that the transversalis and iliac fasciae are united along Poupart's ligament from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium to near the external