612 THE LOWEE EXTEEMITY. groove is prolonged into the articulation formed bv the astragalus and the scaphoides. ^ The Posterior Ligament extends from the posterior part ot the astragalus to the upper part of the os calcis. The External Lateral Ligament arises from the outer and under surface of the astragalus, and passes downwards beneath the middle fasciculus of the external lateral ligament to be inserted into the outer part of the os calcis? The sheaths of the tendons of the long muscles which pass along the inner side of the os calcis, supply the place of an internal ligament. The astragalus is connected to the scaphoides by the astragalo-scaphoid ligament. To understand properly the articulation of the astragalus with the scaphoid bone the external and inferior calcaneo-scaphoid Fag. 266. ligaments should be considered. The ASTRAGALO-SCAPHOID LiGAMENT arises from the anterior and upper part of the astragalus, and passes forwards to be inserted into the upper surface of the scaphoid bone; it consists of a broad band of parallel fibres which cover in the articu- lation on the dorsum of the foot. It is covered by the tendons of the extensor muscles of the toes, and also by that of the tibialis anticus. The articulation of the astragalus with the scaphoid bone belongs to the class of enarthrodial joints, and is similar to that formed by the os magnum and the first row of bones in the carpus. It allows of a much greater degree of mobility than any other articulation in the tarsus, being a ball and socket joint. The cavity into The Ligaments op the Sole of the Left Foot.—1. The os calcis. 2. The astragalus. 3. The tuberosity of the scaphoid bone. 4. The long calcaneo-cuboid ligament. 5. Part of the short calcaneo-cuboid ligament. 6. The calcaneo-sca- phoid ligament. 7. The plantar tarsal ligaments. 8, 8. The tendon of the pero- neus longus muscle. 9, 9. Plantar tarso-metatarsal ligaments. 10. Glenoid liga- ment of the metatarso-phalangeal articulation of the great toe; similar ligaments are seen upon the other toes. 11, 11, 11. Lateral ligaments of the metatarso- phalangeal articulations. 12. Transverse ligament. 13. The lateral ligaments of the phalangeal bones of the great too; similar ligaments are seen upon the other toes.