THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 238 m this way, classified according to tlieir functions, tliey become an interesting portion of the animal economy. A knowledge of the exact relations of the muscles of the back to each other IS not so important as in many other parts of the body, where there are large vessels and nerves, or other important or£?ans m relation with them. Sect. III.—Dissection of the Shoulder. _ In detaching the upper extremity from the trunk, it is de- sirable to disarticulate the clavicle from the sternum; but it frequently happens that the dissection of the head and neck is not suflaciently advanced to allow of this, at least on both sides, without injuring those parts. In this case, the clavicle should be left attached to the trunk while the scapula is re- moved with the arm, by separating it at the acromio-clavicu- lar articulation. Even the removal of the scapula will inter- fere more or less with the lower part of the side of the neck, but not materially, if the back of the neck has been fully dissected. The vessels and nerves in the axilla should be tied together, so that they can be made tense by fastening them to something with hooks or twine. In dissecting the arm, no specific rules can be laid down in regard to the position. The student must select such position as will put the muscle or muscles which he is dissecting on the stretch, or allow him to trace with the greatest facility the vessels and nerves as he proceeds in his dissection. The anterior part of the Deltoid was. Fig. 90 (s), exposed with the clavicular portion of the pectoralis major; the re- mainder of it. Fig. 100 (i 3), may now be dissected by con- tinuing the dissection from before backwards. The skin may be raised first, so as to examine the deltoid fascia and to trace the supra-acromial branches, Fig, 103 (1), from the cervical plexus of nerves, and cutaneous hranches (2) from the circumflex nerve which is reflected over the posterior margin of the muscle; or the student may remove the skin and fascia from the muscle at the same time. This muscle is composed of very large fasciculi, each one of which seems to be a small muscle of itself It arises, tendinous and fleshy, from the outer third of the clavicle, from the acromion process and spine of the scapula;