307 THE HEAKT. The student should now proceed to the dissection of the left side of the heart, beginning with the auricle. To reach, this cavity, the apex of the heart must be drawn forwards and upwards. Make-^i vertical incision between the mouths of the pulmonary veins on the right and left side, and another from "this into the auricula. The Left Aueicle is of a cuboidal form, especially that portion which corresponds to the sinus of the right auricle. It is not quite so large as the right, but has thicker and stronger parietes. The apjiendix auriculce, Fig. 133, c?, is longer and more curved than that of the right auricle, but is not so large. Its junction with the sinus, or larger portion, is marked by a constricted orifice. The musculi pectinati are found only in this part of the auricle, and are less nume- rous than in the right appendix. Fig. 133. Heart sekn from behind, and HAVING THE LeFT AtTRICLB AND Ventricle opened. Parts in Left Auricle.—a. Smooth wall of auri- cular septum, c, c, c. Openings of the four pulmonary veins, d. Left auricular appendage, e. Slight de- pression in the septum, corresponding to the fossa ovalis on the right side. A probe is seen which passes down into the ventricle through the auricu- lo-ventricular orifice. Parts in Left Ventricle.—i. Posterior segment of the mitral valve, behind which is the probe passed from the left auricle. n, n. The two groups of musouli pa- pillares. o. Section of the thick walls of this ventricle, which may be compared with that of the walls of the right ventricle, r. Entrance of inferior cava into right auricle. The mner surface of the sinus is, for the most part, smooth. The septum auricularum, Fig. 133, a, presents no depression, or only a very slight one, corresponding to the fossa ovalis. When an openmg does exist between the auricles, a small valvular fold may be observed. The mouths of the pulvio- nary veins, Fig. 133, c, c, c, will be seen, two on the rio-ht and two on the left side. Sometimes the veins on the same