DISSECTION OF BACK OF THIGH AND THE HAM. 541 The one derived from the small sciatic, and descending on the back of the thigh, is called posterior femoral cutaneous branch, Fig. 285 (3, s). It gives off external and internal filaments in its course down the thigh. One of its terminal branches becomes subcutaneous in the popliteal space, and can be traced some distance on the back of the leg. The other terminal branch does not perforate the deep fascia until it reaches the back of the leg, where it usually ends by anas- tomosing with the external saphenous nerve. The super- ficial fascia may now be removed, when the fascia lata will be exposed. This is ^ig- 235. continuous above with the gluteal fascia or aponeurosis, on each side with the fascia lata, where it joins the internal and external intermuscular septa, and below with the deep fascia of the leg. It forms a sheath for the long muscles on the back of the thigh, and stretches across the pop- liteal space, so as to protect the vessels and nerves in that region; near the knee it is strengthened by fibres derived from the tendon of the biceps flexor and the vasti muscles. The fascia lata should now be divided along the median line, and reflected to each side, so as to expose .the parts be- neath it. Having removed the fascia lata, the small or lesser sciatic nerve should be traced down the thigh to the back part of the leg. The following muscles may be examined next, taking care not to destroy the great sciatic nerve. The Biceps Flexoe Ceueis, Fig. 215 (4, 5), as its name indicates, arises by two heads. The long head arises tendinous, in common with the semi-tendinosus, from the posterior and upper part of the tuber- osity of the ischium, from the lower part "Hm^ A View op the Internal Popliteal Nerve and some of its Branches on the Right Leg.—1. Tho internal popliteal nerve. 2, 3. The terminations of the ramus femoralis cutaneus posterior. 4, 5. The internal saphenous nerve. 6, 6. The ex- ternal saphenous or communicans tibialis. 46 3