SOFT PARTS ON THE UPPER PART OF CRANIUM. 49 The Eetrahens Auhem, Fig. 61 (e), is placed behind the ear. It generally consists of two or three fasciculi. It arises from the mastoid process, and is inserted into the posterior and lower part of the concha. It draws the ear backwards and enlarges the meatus. Having dissected the occipito-frontal muscle and the muscles of the ear, they should be removed. Beneath the occipito-frontal muscle, more or less loose areolar tissue will be observed', which facilitates the movements of that muscle on the pericranium. The pericranium is the external periosteum of the bones which it covers. It can be readily separated from the bone except along the sutures. The student should now carefully study the different layers which have just been examined with reference to wounds involving one or more of them, and especially in view of collections of pus between the different layers, or beneath the pericranium. The Temporal Aponeurosis occupies the whole of the temporal region. It arises from the temporal ridge above, and is attached below to the zygomatic arch. The lower part of it is divided into two layers, one of which is inserted into the outer, and the other into the inner border of the arch, thus leaving a triangular space between them, which is filled with adipose substance, and traversed by the middle temporal artery, and a small branch of the superior maxillary nerve. The temporal muscle arises partly from the under surface of this aponeurosis. It will be observed, that if pus should collect beneath the temporal aponeurosis, it would naturally seek an outlet beneath the zygomatic arch; or, if it should collect between the two layers above the zygoma, it would necessarily be confined to that space. The Temporal Muscle, Fig. 64 (i), lies beneath the tem- poral aponeurosis. It arises from the whole of the temporal fossa and ridge, from the inner surface of the aponeurosis and from the zygomatic arch. Its fibres converge, and passing downwards beneath the zygoma, are inserted by a strong tendon into the coronoid process of the inferior maxilla. The muscle increases in thickness as it descends. When the entire muscle acts, it raises the lower jaw; the posterior fibres can move it backwards, while the anterior fibres can draw it forwards. This muscle may also assist in l^roducing a rotary movement of the iaw.