292 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. ribs and their cartilages, and behind, by the last dorsal vertebra. Its circumference embraces the upper abdominal viscera, as the liver, the stomach, the spleen, &c. The diaphragm, which forms the septum between the abdominal and thoracic cavi- ties, is attached to nearly the whole of its margin. The oeso- phagus, the thoracic duct, the pneumogastric, sympathetic, and splanchnic nerves, the aorta, the ascending vena cava, and the azygos vein, pass through the diaphragm. The intercostal muscles should be examined before the cavity of the thorax is opened. They consist of two sets, the internal and external. The External Intercostals, Fig. 147 (4), extend from the vertebral articulations of the ribs to the costal cartilages. They arise from the outer lip of the lower border of each rib, except the last, pass obliquely downwards and for- wards, and are inserted into the corresponding lip of the upper border of each rib, immediately below their origin. The Internal Intercostals, Fig, 147 (s), extend from the angles of the ribs to the sternum. They arise from the inner lip of the lower border of each rib and its cartilage, except the last, pass downwards and somewhat backwards, and are inserted into the upper border of each rib, below their origin. An aponeurosis extends from the external to the ster- num, and also from the internal to the costo-vertebral articu- lations. A considerable portion of each of the intercostal muscles is tendinous, or aponeurotic. Their fibres have the same direction, respectively, as those of the external and in- ternal oblique muscles of the abdomen. The intercostal arte- ries and nerves pass between them. They act as muscles of inspiration or expiration, according as the first rib, or the lower ribs be fixed. The crossing of them adds to the strength of the thoracic parietes. The cavity of the thorax may now be opened for the study of its contents. This may be done in several ways. If it be wished to preserve the skeleton, the student can obtain a very good idea of the thoracic viscera and their relations by adopt- ing the following method:— Saw through the sternum in the median line, taking care not to injure the soft parts anderneath it. Then divide the intercostal muscles, and separate the costal cartilages, on each