THE LOWER EXTREMITY. phenous nerve. 5, 7. Peroneal cutaneous nerve. 640 Fig. 234. leg. With a httle attention, the student will be able to ascertain the best position in which to place the limb as he proceeds with the dissection. To expose the long muscles on the back of the thigh, the leg should be extended on the thigh, and the thigh flexed on the pelvis. To remove the skin an incision may be made through it in the median line ot the limb, beginning at the gluteal region and terminating about three or four inches below the knee-joint; but if the anterior part of the thigh has already been dissected, the in- tegument may be removed, by simply reflecting it either from the inner or the outer part of the limb. The superficial fascia in these regions is merely a continua- tion of the superficial fascia from the fore part of the thigh and the pelvis. There are no arteries that require any particular no- tice in this fascia; and the only vein of suf- ficient importance, and which Vas not seen in the dissection of the anterior part of the thigh, to be particularly noticed, is the ex- ternal saphenous. The external or short saphenous vein is a continuation of the external dorsal vein of the foot. It will be found, in this dissec- tion, extending up the back part of the leg in the median line, and entering the pop- liteal space to open into the popliteal vein. Sometimes quite a large venous trunk is found going from this vein to the upper part of the thigh, where it unites with a branch of the internal saphenous, or of the deep femoral vein. The cutaneovs nerves^ Fig. 234 (2, 2), on the back part of the thigh and in the ham are derived, on the inner side, from the internal cutaneous, and from the internal saphenous, or the obturator nerve; on the outer side, from the external cutaneous; and in the mid- dle, from the posterior femoral cutaneous. Plan of the Cutaneous Nerves on the Posterior Aspect of the Left Leg.— 1. Inner division of the internal cutaneous nerve. 2, 2. Branches of the long or internal saphenous. 3. A branch of the posterior femoral cutaneous; the offset above it in a direct line is a branch of the same nerve. 4, 6. Short or external sa-