EELATIONS OF THE ABDOMINAL VISCERA. 871 mination in the jejunum is seen on the left side of the me- sentery. Like the descending portion, it is only partly covered by peritoneum. The middle and lower portions of the duodenum are so fixed by their connections that they cannot Avell be displaced unless by the development of a tumor. The first portion may be drawn down more or less by the stomach. The small intestine below the duodenum consists of the jejunum and ileum. It is convex anteriorly and concave pos- teriorly. It occupies the umbilical and hypogastric regions, and extends laterally into the lumbar and iliac. It is at- tached to the posterior wall of the abdomen by the mesentery^ which extends obliquely across the spine from the left lum- bar region downwards to the right iliac. The mesentery is short at its extremities, but much longer in the middle, where it allows a great degree of mobility to the corresponding portion of the intestine. It contains between its laminaa the mesenteric vessels, nerves, and glands. The convolutions of the jejunum and ileum have no regular form. They are in contact with the anterior parietes of the abdomen, except when the omentum majus covers them, and are separated from the viscera above by the transverse colon and its meso- colon. They are usually found partly lodged in the pelvis, where they are in contact with the rectum and bladder, and in the female with the uterus. Their mobility is such that they can adapt themselves to any changes that may take place in the contiguous organs, or in the condition of the abdominal cavity. The large intestine consists of the coecum.^ colon, and rectum. The ccBcum is situated in the right iliac region. It is attached to the iliac fossa by the meso-c£ecum. It varies in length from an inch and a half to three or four inches. It rests on the iliac fascia, and has, in front and on the inner side of it, the convolutions of the small intestine; when dis- tended, it is in contact with the anterior abdominal parietes. The ap'pendix vermiformis cceci is joined to it inferiorly. It IS a small, hollow, cylindrical body, from two to four inches m length, and bound down by a fold of the peritoneum. The small intestine joins the large at the junction of the cgecum and colon. The colon is divided into the ascending, the transverse, and the descending portions; the latter includes the sigmoid Jlexure. The first division ascends through the right lumbar reo-ion