519 THE GLUTEAL REGIOlSr. blended together for some distance from their insertion as to seem to form but one muscle. With a little care, however, the student will generally be able to separate them with the handle of the scalpel near the small sacro-sciatic foramen. In passing through this foramen the tendon of the obtu- rator is reflected over a trochlear surface, which, as well as the tendon itself, is covered by synovial membrane and kept constantly lubricated with synovial fluid. The QuADRATUS Femoris, Fig. 219 (i 3), situated just be- low the inferior gemellus, arises from the posterior border of the tuberosity of the ischium, and passing horizontally out- wards, is inserted into the linea quadrati, a rough line on the great trochanter. It is a square-shaped muscle, having its fibres nearly parallel to each other. It is separated from the upper border of the adductor magnus by the internal circum- flex artery^ which should now be examined in the terminal part of its course. This artery, by its anastomosis with the sciatic, establishes a connection between the profunda femoris and the internal iliac artery. The Obturator Externus is exposed posteriorly by raising the quadratus femoris. It arises from the external surface of the obturator ligament, and from the bone around the obturator foramen. Its fibres converge and terminate in a tendon which passes horizontally outwards to be inserted into the lower part of the digital fossa, just below the inser- tion of the gemelli and the obturator intern us. The action of the last six muscles is very similar. They rotate the limb when it is extended, outwards, but abduct it in the sitting posture. When the limb is fixed, as in stand- ing on one foot, they act on the pelvis. In raising t'hese muscles, several small nerves will be ob- served penetrating them. The n£rve for the obturator infernus arises from the sacral plexus, winds around the spine of the ischium, and passes through the small sacro-sciatic foramen to reach the muscle. The nerve for the qvadratus femoris arises from the sacral plexus, passes downwards underneath the gemelli and obtu- rator internus, giving off' in its course filaments to the hip- jomt. Before terminating in the quadratus femoris, it sends