244 THE UPPEE EXTREMITY. The clavicle is connected to the coracoid process by two ligamentous fasciculi; the posterior and internal is named the Conoid, and the anterior the Trapezoid Ligament. They form really but a single ligament, the coraco-clavicular, Fig, 102 (2), They extend from the coracoid process to a rough protuberance on the under surface of the clavicle, and abou.t an inch from its acromial extremity. In front they are separated by a space which is filled up with areolar tissue, but posteriorly they appear as a single ligament. Sometimes quite a perfect joint is found between the cora- coid process and the clavicle which allows the latter to move ; on the former. The Coracoid Ligament, Fig. 102 (4), subtends the coracoid notch, converting it into a foramen. The Triangular, or Coraoo-Acromial Ligament, Fig. 103 (3), extends from the coracoid process to the acromion. Its coracoid attachment is much broader than the acromial. It fills up, in part, the notch between these processes and pre- vents the head of the humerus from being forced upwards between them. The CoRACO-HuMERAL LiGAMENT, Fig. 102 (e), extends from the coracoid process to the great tuberosity of the humerus. It may be considered as a part of the capsular ligament. The Capsular Ligament, Fig. 102 (5), of the shoulder- ' joint is attached above to the neck of the scapula, and below ! to the anatomical neck of the humerus. Its length allows the ! head of the humerus to be separated a short distance from the > scapula. Its strength is greatly increased by its connection 1 with the tendons of the supra-spinatus, infra-spinatus, teres minor, and subscapularis muscles. These tendons, however, do not add to the strength of the lower part of the ligament, and hence there is a predisposition to luxation of the head of the humerus downwards. "When the capsule is partly divided, the tendon of the long . head of the biceps flexor cubiti. Fig. 102 (7), will be seen passing over the upper part of the articular cavity. It is inside of the ligament, but external to the synovial mem- brane, which is reflected around it and prolonged an inch or more downwards in the bicipital groove, forming a pouch, ,