DISSECTION OF THE DIAPHEAGM. 417 tebrto, and from the intervertebical substance between them. The fibres pass downwards, and terminate in a thin flat ten- don, which is inserted into the brim of the pelvis and into the iliac fascia. As it descends it crosses the psoas magnus from without inwards. Its action is to render the iliac fascia tense, and, through it, Poupart's ligament. It may also assist in flexing the pelvis on the spine. The Iliacus Inteenus, Fig. 178 (i i), arises from the whole of the iliac fossa, from the ilio-lumbar ligament, from the an- terior spinous processes of the ilium and the notch between them, and from the capsular ligament of the hip-joint. The fibres converge and pass downwards and inwards to end in the tendon of the psoas magnus with which it is inserted into the trochanter minor, A portion of its fibres are inserted directly into the shaft of the femur just below the trochanter. Its action is similar to that of the psoas magnus. These mus- cles are concerned in walking; as, in raising and moving the lower extremity forwards. When they act on both sides and the thighs are fixed, they bend the body forwards. The DiAPHEAGM, Eig. 179, forms a muscular septum be- tween the thoracic and abdominal cavities. Its upper sur- face is covered by the pleuree and the pericardium, and is in relation with the thoracic viscera; its lower surface is principally covered by the peritoneum, and is in relation with the viscera of the abdomen. The peritoneum is easily re- moved by dissecting and peeling it ofi' before the cavity of the thorax is opened, as the muscle is then tense. It is usu- ally described as consisting of a greater and a lesser muscle, which are connected by a central tendon. The greater muscle^ Fig. 179 (i, 2, 3), forms the anterior and lateral portions ; the lesser muscle^ Fig. 179 (s, 10), forms the posterior part. The first arises from the ensiform carti- lage, the last true and all the false ribs, and from the liga- menta arcuata, externum and internum. Its origin from the ensiform cartilage consists of one or two fasciculi, with a small triangular space on each side, in which the anterior mediastinal space is separated from the abdomen only by peritoneum. _ Viscera of the abdomen may be forced through these spaces into the thorax, producing diaphragmatic hernia; or pus may escape from the mediastinum through them into