THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 242: \: The Teres Minor, Fig. 101 (e, 12), is quite a small muscle, and might be regarded as a part of the infra-spinatus. It arises from a depression on the dorsum of the scapula, near the inferior border, commencing about an inch from the pos- terior inferior angle, and from the infra-spinous fascia. It is inserted into the great tuberosity of the humerus, just below the insertion of the infra-spinatus. Its action is the same as that of the preceding muscle, with which it is sometimes in- separably connected. The Teres Major, Fig. 101 (9), was exposed, from before, in the dissection of the axilla; it may now be examined from behind. It arises from a rough surface on the dorsum of the scapula, near the inferior angle, and from the fascia covering it. Its direction, insertion, and relations to the latissimus dorsi, have been noticed. The long head of the Triceps Extensor Cubiti, Fig. 100 (e), is necessarily brought into view in dissecting the teres major. It may be noticed at the present time as one of the muscles connected to the scapula, and as forming a part of the anatomy of the region now being examined. In raising the infra-spinatus and teres minor, the siqjra-scapular artery and nerve are to be traced from beneath the acromion process. The do7-sal branch of the subscapular artery, by passing over the inferior border of the scapula and beneath the teres minor, also enters this fossa. These arteries anastomose freely with each other, and also with the transverse humeral, along the base of the scapula. Articular branches to the shoulder-joint, are derived from both the supra-scapular artery and nerve. The student should now review the parts which have been dissected about the shoulder. The muscles which have been raised should be replaced and their relations and functions carefully noted without the aid of a book. It will be observed that the deltoid, when placed in situ, covers the following parts: The outer portion of the shoulder-joint, and the upper part of the humerus, including its two tuberosities; the bi- cipital groove, containing the long head of the biceps, and anterior to this the coracoid process, and, to some extent, the muscles attached to it; and posteriorly the infra-spinatus, and teres, minor and major, near their insertions. He is now prepared to understand the position of the head