ARTERIES OF THE BRAIN. 87 to the great transverse fissure, and to the under surface of the posterior lobe of the brain. A short distance from its origin it is joined by the posterior communicating branch of the internal carotid. The Superior Cerebellar Artery, Fig. 18 (7), winds round the crus cerebri to the superior surface of the cerebel- lum. It is separated from the preceding artery by the third nerve, and accompanies for some distance the fourth nerve. It sends a small branch into the meatus auditorius internus. The Inferior Cerebellar Artery, Fig. 18 (5), arises from the vertebral, and passes round the medulla oblongata to the under surface of the cerebellum. It passes between the roots of the ninth nerve and in front of the glosso- pharyngeal and pneumogastric. It will be observed that a free anastomosis exists between the arteries at the base of the brain. The internal carotids are connected together by the anterior communicating artery, while they are both connected to the basilar by the two pos- terior communicating arteries. It is by means of these communicating arteries that the circle of Willis, is formed. It will also be noticed that no arterial branch of any con- siderable size penetrates the substance of the brain. The following parts are to be examined in the base of the cranium after the brain has been removed. The Dura Mater.—This membrane will be found to adhere very closely to the greater part of the base of the cranium. It sends out prolongations through the various apertures to be continuous with the periosteum, and to form sheaths for the nerves. It is firmly attached to the margin of the foramen occipitale, but does not adhere to the walls of the spinal canal. Its internal siirface is everywhere lined by the arachnoid. The falx cerebri was examined be- fore the removal of the brain, and the tentorium was neces- sarily cut in that operation. The student can, however, replace it, and retain it in situ with a few stitches, so as to get a very good view of it and its connections. The Tentorium, Fig.9 (e),forms a horizontal septum between the spaces occupied by the cerebellum and posterior lobes of the cerebrum. Its convex border corresponds to the transverse ridge on the inner surface of the occipital bone, extending