81 OTIIGIN OF THE CEREBRAL NERVES. each three roots—one arising from the fissure of Sylvms, a,n- other from the corpus striatum, and the third from the poste- rior convolutions of the anterior lobe. The last one is situated between the others, and consists of gray matter. The trunk formed by the union of these three roots runs forward about two inches on the under surface of the anterior lobe, and then swells into a bulb, which rests on the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. The olfactory nerves are of a prismatic form, each being lodged in a groove on the under surface of the anterior lobe, to which it is bound by the arachnoid membrane passing over it, but not around it. They are composed of white and gray substance, and are softer than the other nerves. The bulbs are called the olfactory lobes, and might very prop- erly be considered the true origin of the olfactory nerves. The filaments arise from the bulbs in two series on each side, and pass through the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, the outer series to the external wall, and the inner to the internal ■wall of the nasal fossa. The Second Pair, or Optic, Fig. 17 (2 s), arise from the tuber- cula quadrigemina, corpora geniculata, and optic thalami. The part between the origin of each nerve and the chiasm is called the optic tract. This is soft and flattened, and rests on the crus cerebri, to which it adheres slightly. The part anterior to the chiasm is round, and invested by neurilemma. The optic tracts converge towards the chiasm, while the optic nerves diverge as they proceed towards the orbits. The chiasm is formed by a decussation of the inner fibres of each nerve, while the outer fibres continue on without crossing. The chiasm is connected to the tuber cinereum by a few fibres. Transverse fibres have been described in this commissure. As the optic nerves pass through the optic foramina, the neu- rilemma is continuous with the periosteum lining the orbits; also with the sclerotic coat, as each nerve enters the ball of the eye. The Third Pair, or Oculo Motor, Pig. 17 (3 0), arise from the crura cerebri, near the pons Tarini. They can be traced into the substance of the crura, to the gray matter, or loci nigri. Each nerve consists of a round white cord, passes through the wall of the outer part of the cavernous sinus, and en- ters the orbit through the foramen sphenoidale, to be distri- buted to the superior, internal, and inferior recti muscles;