DISSECTION OF THE VESSELS AND NERVES. 449 tlie coccygeal nerve. They escape from the sacral or lower part of the spinal canal, through the anterior sacral foramina. The first and second nerves are quite large, and of nearly the same size. The first being joined by the lumbo-sacral, passes obliquely downwards over the pyriformis muscle to the sacral plexus. The second nerve proceeds more obliquely outwards than the first to join the plexus. The third nerve, as it goes to join the sacral plexus, has a still more oblique direction, being nearly horizontal. It is only about one-fourth the size of the first and second nerves. To the latter nerve it is connected by a filament, which will be seen passing over the pyriformis muscle. The fourth nerve is very much smaller than the third. A part of it only goes to join the sacral plexus. The rest of it sends branches to join the hypogastric plexus of the sym- pathetic nerve, one to join the fifth nerve, and others to supply the levator ani, the coccygeus and sphincter ani muscles. The fifth nerve usually passes through the foramen formed by the sacrum and coccyx. It is much smaller than the fourth, to which it is joined by a communicating branch; it sends a branch to the sixth nerve. The sixth sacral or the coccygeal nerve is generally very small; it emerges at the lower end of the spinal canal; from which point it should be traced. It will be observed that of the sacral nerves only the first three, and a part of the fourth, contribute to form the sacral plexus. Each one of them is joined to a ganglion of the sympathetic nerve by a communicating branch; they are also connected to each other by a similar branch. The Saceal Plexus, Fig. 192 (4), is formed, as has been seen, by the union of four whole nerves and portions of two others. The whole nerves are the last lumbar and the first three sacral; the parts are derived from the fourth lumbar and the fourth sacral nerve. The shape of the plexus is tri- angular; its base looks towards the foramina through which the nerves that form it escape from the spinal canal, while Its apex corresponds to the beginning of the great sciatic nerve, which is close to the lower part of the great sciatic toramen through which this nerve makes its exit from the pelvis. 38*