OF THE ABDOMEN. 86B part of the rectum to tlie parietes forming the meso-recium ; it also covers the w^jper and posterior part of the bladder, from which it is reflected behind to the rectum, and laterally and anteriorly to the parietes, forming the posterior lateral liga- ments of that organ. In the female it covers the anterior upp&r two-thirds of the uterus, and the whole of it, posteriorly, including the upper and posterior part of the vagina. As it is reflected from the uterus it forms several folds, as the broad ligaments laterally, the recto-uterine behind, and the vesico-uterine in front. Eelations of the Abdominal Viscera. Before describing the special anatomy of the abdominal viscera, we shall give a brief description of their relations to each other and to the surrounding parts. It is only in the dissecting-room that the student will be able to acqviire this knowledge in a manner that will make it satisfactory and useful to himself. The study of the special anatomy of most of the organs will require their removal from the ab- dominal cavity, which must necessarily destroy their relations to contiguous parts. In the upper part of the abdomen. Fig. 158, there are three organs, whose relations to the diaphragm, and through it to the lungs and heart in the thorax, should be carefully observed. These are the liver, the stomach, and the spleen. Of these only the liver has any direct relation to the right lung. It is received deeply into the concavity of the lung, ascending in expiration as high as the fifth, or even the fourth intercostal space. It necessarily rises and descends alternately in expiration and inspiration. Both the liver and the stomach are placed in apposition with the central part of the diaphragm, and are separated from the heart only by the cordiform tendon and the ad- herent portion of the pericardium. The s'pleen, the stomach, and a small portion of the left lobe of the liver occupy the concavity of the left part of the dia- phragm, and consequently are in relation with the left lung. They do not ascend quite so high as the liver does on the right side. It will be seen from the position of the liver that if it