DISSECTION OF THE VESSELS AND NERVES. 4il the gluteal, the ilio-lumbar, and the lateral sacral, while the former supplies the remaining branches or arteries. The ilio-lumbar artery, Fig. 189 (is), arises from the back part of the internal iliac, near its origin, passes outwards be- hind the external iliac artery and vein and the psoas mag- nus, to divide into a lumbar and an iliac branch. The former passes upwards, and sends ofi" branches to the psoas and quadratus lumborum muscles, to the spinal canal, and to anastomose with the last lumbar artery. The latter passes downwards and outwards as far as the crest of the ilium, where it anastomoses with the internal circumflex ilii; some- times it is found ramifying in the iliacus internus muscle, or beneath it on the surface of the bone. By means of this artery an anastomotic connection is established between the internal and external iliac arteries. The obturator artery, Fig. 189 (17), not unfrequently has its origin from some other than the internal iliac artery, as the external iliac, the epigastric, or the femoral. The course it takes to reach the inner part of the thigh will vary with its origin. When it arises from the internal iliac it passes hori- zontally forwards just below and on the inner side of the brim of the pelvis to the sub-pubic groove in the upper border of the obturator foramen. The obturator nerve lies above it, but follows the same course. When it arises from either of the other arteries mentioned above, it passes inwards over the brim of the pelvis, to enter the sub-pubic groove. When it has its origin from the femoral artery, however, it first passes upwards through the femoral ring, and then inwards. Its relations to the femoral ring are noticed in connection with the anatomy of femoral hernia. It usually gives off several small branches in the pelvic, in its course to the thigh; the most important of which is a branch that anas- tomoses with the epigastric; sometimes this is quite large, and deserves special notice from its relation to femoral hernia. Having passed through the obturator foramen, the obturator artery divides into two principal branches, an zniernal and external. These are distributed to the muscles on the inner and back part of the thigh. The external division sends a small branch through the notch at the lower part of the acetabulum to supply the hip-joint; by means of the ligamentum teres the head of the femur is partly supplied from this branch. x- ^ rr