DISSECTION OF ARTICULATIONS OF VERTEBE^. 525 mao-nus, and rectus femoris; on the inner side, the pectmeus, obturator externus, gracilis, and the adductors; above or on the outer side, the glutei and tensor vaginas femoris muscles; behind, the pyriformis, gemelli, obturator externus, and the quadratus femoris. Dissection of the Articulations of the VEETEBEiE. The vertebrae are connected above to the occipital bone, laterally to the ribs, and below to the pelvis. _ The _ costo- vertebral articulations are described in connection with the dissection of the thorax; the articulation of the vertebrae with the pelvis is described with the pelvic articulations. It is proposed now to examine the articulations of the vertebrae with each other, and with the cranium. The proper mode of making the dissections will be clearly indicated by the accompanying drawings. The ligaments which the vertebrae have in common should be examined first. They are the following:— The Anterioe Common Yeetebral Ligament, Fig. 220 (i), is placed in front and on the sides of the bodies of the vertebrae, extending from the axis to the sacrum. It presents a pearly white appearance, is thicker in the dorsal than in the cervical or lumbar regions, and divided into a central and two lateral bands, the latter being separated from the former by a series of foramina on each side, for the transmission of vessels, especially veins. It adheres very closely to the inter- vertebral substance and margins of the bodies of the verte- brae, while it is very loosely connected to the transverse grooves on the bodies. It is composed of fibres which vary in length, diminishing from the superficial to the deep-seated; the latter extend merely from one vertebra to another, while the former pass over four or five vertebrse. It is thicker where it corresponds to the grooves on the bodies of the ver- tebrae than it is elsewhere. The tendons of several muscles are blended more or less with it in different sections of the vertebral column. The Posteeioe Common Vertebral Ligament, Fig. 222 (3), is placed in the anterior part of the spinal canal,