FEMALE OEGANS OF GENERATION. 477 of tlie labia majora with the vagina and to extend upwards, gradually increasing in size and approaching each other. About three-fourths of an inch below the anterior com- missure each one bifurcates, or divides into two folds, an up2-)er and a lower, which unite in the median line with those of the opposite side. The duplicature formed by the junction of the two upper folds constitutes the prepuiium clitondis, Fig. 200 (4), while that formed by the two lower joins the glans clitoridis, or the anterior and lower part of the clitoris; it seems to correspond to the fr£enum of the pre- puce of the penis. The nymphsB vary very much in size in different persons; sometimes they are seen projecting beyond the labia majora, and then again they are so small that they can hardly be recognized as distinct bodies. They contain numerous small sebaceous follicles. The Clitoeis, Fig. 203 (7), corresponds to the penis in the male. It is placed below and in front of the symphysis pubis between the labia majora and above the urethra. It resembles somewhat in its formation the penis. It has two corpora cavernosa, which are connected by their crura to the rami of the ischia and pubes. It has no corpus spongiosum although it has a glans, which is situated on the anterior ex- tremities of the corpora cavernosa; it is composed of erectile tissue. The corpora cavernosa are formed nearly of the same tis- sues as the corresponding bodies in the penis. Each crus has a muscle resembling in its origin and insertion the erec- tor penis. It is called the erector clitoridis. Fig. 208 (e). The clitoris, also, has a suspensory ligament. The clitoris, like the nymphse, varies greatly in size. It is said to have be- come very much enlarged under the influence of certain habits, such as constant titillation. The Vestibule, Fig. 200 (5), is a smooth triangular surface, bounded laterally by the nymphas, below by the meatus urinarius, and above by the inferior folds of the nymphas. This space should be observed with reference to the introduction of the catheter; for when this surface is found, there will usually be but little difBculty in determin- ing the exact position of the orifice of the urethra. The MEATUS URINARIUS, Fig. 205 (7), or external orifice of