SUPERFICIAL PARTS OF THE NECK. -175 lower down. It receives the external jugular, wliicli usually enters it a little on the outside of the scalenus, or in front of it. The external jugular occasionally terminates in the inter- nal jugular. The veins corresponding to the supra-scapular and transverse humeral arteries enter the subclavian. The Scalenus Anticus Muscle, Fig. 71 (2), arises from the transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrae, and is inserted in a tubercle on the first rib. It draws the first rib up, or turns the head to one side. This muscle and the tubercle which indicates the point of its insertion furnish important guides for finding the subclavian artery, and, on this account, they demand the special atten- tion of the student. This muscle may now be detached from the rib and turned upwards, when the middle division of the subclavian artery is brought into view. It is in relation with the pleura, first rib, the lower cervical and first dorsal nerves, and the anterior and middle scaleni muscles. The Posterior Cervical Artery usually arises from the outer portion of this division. This artery passes transversely outwards to be distributed to the muscles on the back; some- times it is a branch of the transverse humeral. It is liable to be injured in ligating the subclavian artery between the scalenus anticus and the first rib. Outside the scalenus anticus is the Supra-scapular Nerve, which arises from the fifth cervical and passes down- wards and backwards, beneath the trapezius and omo-hy- oideus, to reach the coracoid notch of the scapula. It enters the supra-spinata fossa, and is distributed to the parts on the dorsum of the scapula. The third division of the subclavian artery and the nerves which form the brachial plexus are in this region. The artery passes over the first rib to terminate in the axillary. The nerves lie partly behind and above it, but in close rela- tion to it. The scalenus medius is sometimes perforated by one or more of them. The superior and long thoracic branches generally have their origin from these nerves above the clavicle. The Scalenus, Medius and Posticus, may be considered as a single muscle which arises from the transverse processes of the inferior six cervical vertebrae, and is inserted into the first and second ribs.