S'YMPATHETIC NERVE. 333 Branches from the sixth or seventh, and the eighth, ninth, and tenth ganglia on each side, pass downwards and forwards on the sides of the vertebraa to the lower part of the pos- terior mediastinum, where they unite into one cord called the great splatichnic nerve, Fig. 142 (12), which perforates the diaphragm to reach the semilunar ganglion, on the side of the coeliac artery. Sometimes it passes through the aortic opening. The lesser splanchnic nerve on each side. Fig. 142 (is), is formed by branches from the eleventh and twelfth ganglia; it passes through the cms of the diaphragm, and joins the solar plexus. A third splanchnic nerve sometimes arises from the twelfth ganglion, enters the abdomen, and goes to the renal plexus. The cardiac nerves and ganglion cannot well be dissected in the thorax, until the student has acquired a knowledge of the contents of the superior mediastinum. For this purpose two subjects will be required; one for the viscera, and another for the nerves. The frequent variation met with in the arrangement of the cardiac nerves renders the study of them more or less unsatisfactory. They are derived principally from three sources, the cervical ganglia, the pneumogastric, and the recurrent nerves. Those from the cervical ganglia are named the superior, middle, and inferior cardiac. These in their course are joined by filaments from the recurrent and pneumogastric. They all terminate in the cardiac plexuses, from which filaments proceed to form the coronary plexuses on the heart. The superior cardiac nerve on each side arises, usually, from the first cervical ganglion, passes down the neck behind the sheath of the carotid artery, and enters the thorax behind the subclavian; sometimes it crosses over the artery. In the thorax, it accompanies the arteria innominata on the right side to its origin, where it divides into two sets of filaments; one set passes in front of the aorta to reach the superficial cardiac plexus, while the other passes behind it to join the deep or great cardiac plexus. In its course in the thorax, it is jomed by filaments from the recurrent, and the middle and inferior cardiac nerves. The middle cardiac nerve arises from the middle cervical ganglion, or it may arise from the cord of the sympathetic, descends behind the carotid, and enters the thorax either be-