DISSECTION OF THE AXILLAKY KEGION. 213 nerves, Figs. 93, 94. The artery is situated between the vein on its thoracic side, and the nerves on its humeral side. The artery is deeper seated than the vein, and the nerves are situated on a plane deeper than it. In making this dissection, there is nothing destroyed which the student will have any occasion to examine afterwards; nor is it so complex as to prevent any one from making it, if he will exercise a little patience; and, when finished, he will have the satisfaction of seeing at once how the knowledge which he has acquired can be applied in practice; for he can now tell, from his own observation, which parts would have to be divided, what parts should be avoided, and how deep an incision would be required to reach the axillary artery in the upper part of its course. He has now a picture fixed in his mind^ made up of several details, which sustain a certain, relation to each other, and all of them to the main object in the whole group or picture. He will not be likely to forget the special anatomy of parts when their surgical relations are thus fixed in his mind. He sees, for instance, the clavicular portion of the pectoralis major, the manner in which it covers the pectoralis minor and the subcla,vius, with the space between them; how this space is filled up with a fascia which is perforated by small vessels and nerves; how the great arterial trunk, which is destined to supply nearly the whole of the upper extremity with arterial blood, enters the axilla; how the great venous trunk, which is required to return this blood, leaves the axilla; and how the nerves enter the same space preparatory to dividing and subdividing to go to -every part of the upper extremity. The pectoralis major having been separated from its con- nections, except its insertion, the pectoralis minor now comes into view, . The Pectoealis Minoe, Fig. 91 (12), arises from the se- cond, third, fourth, and fifth ribs, sometimes from but three, and is inserted tGndinons, into the coracoid process, near its free extremity. Its tendon is connected with the coraco-brachialis and short head of the biceps, and frequently by a fibrous band with the triangular, or capsular, ligament of the shoulder jouit. It forms a part of the anterior wall of the axilla, leavmg a space above and below to be formed by the pecto-