THE GLUTEAL EEGION. 617 Fig. 219. the body. It leaves the pelvis in company with the sciatic artery and the lesser sciatic nerve, and descends between the trochanter major and tuberosity of the ischium to the posterior part of the thigh. Sometimes the whole, or a part of it, perforates the pyriformis muscle. It usually gives off one or more small articular branches to the hip-joint. As it passes over the quadratus femoris, or a little below this muscle, branches are sent off from it to the muscles on the back of the thigh, including the adductor magnus. The lesser sciatic nerve, Fig. 218 (4), is derived from the sacral plexus. As it leaves the pelvis it lies at the inner side of the great sciatic nerve, but gets behind it as it de- scends to the back part of the thigh. Besides the inferior gluteal nerve, it gives off at the lower part of the gluteus maximus the inferior long pti- dendal nerve. It then conti- nues down the limb to the popliteal region and the upper part of the leg. The inferior pudendal nerve passes for- wards below the tuberosity of the ischium to reach the an- terior part of the scrotum. The internal pudic and the inferior hemorrhoidal nerves, Fig. 218 (3), wiU be seen at this stage of the dissection. The deep Muscles op the Gluteal Region.—!. The external surface of tho ilium. 2. The posterior surface of the r>q«<3ino- o-r^,-,r,^ +U„ • i? 3. The posterior sacro-iliao passmg _ around the Spme of ligaments. 4. The tuberosity of the the ischium and through the ischium. 5. The great or posterior sa- small sacro-sciatic foramen to enter, in company with the internal pudic artery, the pe- rineum. The following group of small muscles may now be examined as they appear in the dissection of this region 44 cro-sciatic ligament. 6. The small or anterior sacro-sciuticligament. 7. The trochanter major. 8. The gluteus mi- nimus. 9. The pyriformis. 10. The gemellus superior. 11. The obturator internus, passing out of the lesser sacro-soiatie foramen. 12. The gemellus inferior. 1.3. The quadratus femoris. 14. The upper part of the adductor mag- nus. 15. The vastus extcrnus. Ifi. Tho biceps. 17. The gracilis. 18. Tho se- mi-tendinosus.