150 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK. At tlie lower part of the faucial opening in the pharynx, are two fossos or depressions, situated between the root of thie tongue and the epiglottis, and separated from each other b}'- a fold of mucous membrane, called frasnum epiglottidis. These fossae are sometimes quite deep, and allow small bodies to lodge in them, which may give rise to irritation and spasmo- dic cough. In the anterior part of the laryngeal portion of the pharynx will be noticed the epiglottis, glottis, greater cornua of the hyoid bone, posterior borders of the alse of the thyroid car- tilage, arytenoid, and cricoid cartilages. The exact location of each of these bodies is deserving of particular notice. They will be considered separately in connection with the larynx. The hyoid bone seems to belong both to the tongue and the larynx. It will be described with the latter. Before leaving the cavities just described, it would be well for the student to study them carefully in their relations to each other, as in reference to introducing the stomach tube, extracting foreign bodies from the pharynx or oesophagus, carrying an instrument into the larynx, either through the mouth or nose, opening abscesses in the pharynx, removing polypi or tumors about the posterior nares, &c. Sect. XII.—Dissection of the Palate. The soft palate contains five pairs of muscles. These are exposed, and their arrangement seen by very little dissec- tion, which may be done after the removal of the pharynx. The palatine aponeurosis is a fibrous prolongation from the posterior margin of the hard palate. It diminishes in thick- ness as it descends towards the free border. It is connected with the tendons of the palatine muscles, and forms a sort of framework for the palate. The AzYGOS Uvul^, Fig. 57 (s), consists of two vertical fasciculi, which arise from the centre of the free border of the hard palate, and extend to the tip of the uvula. In ex- cising the nvula, the mncous membrane should not be made tense; if it be done, the fibres of this muscle may project from the wound after the membrane has retracted. The Levator Palati, Fig. 56 (2, 3), consists of a vertical