426 OF THE PELVIS. covered by an erectile elastic tissue, by tlie muscles of Wil- son and Guthrie, and by a layer of the deep perineal fascia. Ihe caliber of its anterior extremity is smaller than that of any other part of the urethra, except the external orifice. Fig. 181. A Longitudinal Section of the Bladder, Prostate Gland, and Penis, shotv- ING THE Urethra.—1. Tho urachus. 2. The rcoto-vcsical fold of peritoneum. 3. The opening of the right ureter. 4. A slight ridge, formed by the muscle of the ureter. 5. The commencement of the urethra : the elevation of mucous membrane immediately below the number is the uvula vesicae. 6. The prostatic portion of the urethra. 7. The prostate gland. 8. The isthmus, or third lobe of the prostate; immediately beneath which the ejaculatory duct is seen passing. 9. The right vesicula seminalis. 10. The membranous portion of the urethra. 11. Cowper's gland of the right side, with its duct. 12. The bulbous portion of the urethra. 13. The fossa navicularis. 14. The corpus cavernosum. 15. The right crus penis. 16. Near the upper part of the corpus cavernosum, the section has fallen a little to the left of the middle lino,- a portion of the septum pectiniforme is consequently seen. 17. The glans penis. 18. The lower segment of the glans. 19. The meatus urinarius. 20. The corpus spongiosum. 21. The bulb of the corpus spongiosum. The Spongy PoETioisr is about seven inches in length,.Fig. 181. It presents two enlargements: the bulbous, and the fossa navicularis. The former. Fig. 181 (12), is situated in the lower part and near its commencement, and the latter, Fig. 181 (13), which is a lateral dilatation, near the meatus. Just in front of the bulbous portion are seen, on the lower surface, the orifices of the ducts of Cowper's glands, Fig. 181 (11). Crypts, or lacunoi, are found distributed over the whole surface. Some of these are the external orifices of canals which run backwards from half an inch to an inch beneath the mucous membrane. A very large one is sometimes met with on the upper surface, and about three-