POSTERIOR AND INNER PART OF THE LEG. 567 tering the leg it would pass down in the sheath of the super- ficiaUajer of muscles; or, if it should form beneath the fascia which covers the deep layer of muscles, it might pass under the internal annular ligament and enter the sole of the foot. Thus it will be seen that the cavity formed by the sheath of the superficial layer of muscles communicates with that form- ed by the fascia lata of the thigh, while that formed by the sheath of the deep layer communicates with that formed by the plantar aponeurosis. He should examine the different arteries of this region, and study their relations to prominent points which can always be seen or felt in the living subject, and by which he will be enabled at any time to locate any one of these ves- sels ; and also, such points as will serve for gxddes in finding either one of the arteries in case he should ever have occasion to ligate them in his practice. Take, for example, the pos- terior tibial artery two or three inches below its origin; he should carefully examine its relations to the gastrocnemius and soleus muscles, in order to determine whether it could be reached better by cutting directly upon it through those muscles, or by detaching the soleus from the tibia or fibula, and then following the fiiscia which separates the superficial from the deep layer of muscles. He has already seen in the dissection of these parts that this fascia covered the artery; he has also seen the position of the nerve, so that he would be able to take this into consideration in deciding the best way to reach the artery without injuring the nerve. He should likewise study the relations of the same artery lower down; and, also, the peroneal artery. The posiiion of the tendons of the long muscles of the foot as they pass through the sulcus formed, on the inner side by the internal malleolus, and on the outer side by the tendo-Achillis and the os calcis, should receive special attention. It may happen to him some time that he will have occasion to divide one or more of these tendons. A short time devoted to the study of these parts, now they are before him, may prove to be of immense use to him at some future time, and he cannot neglect this opportunity to acquire this knowledge without doing himself great injustice, as well as those who will have a right to de- mand of him the application of it to themselves.