LIGAMENTS OF THE TARSUS. 611 most important. It is connected to the os calcis by three ligaments, the interosseous, the posterior, and the external. Fig, 265. A Vertical Section op the Ankle-Joint Anb Foot op the Eight Side.—1. The tibia. 2. Tiio astragalus. 3. Os calcis. 4. Tlie scaphoides. 6. The cunei- forme internum. 6. The metatarsal bone of the great toe. 1. The first phalangeal bone of the great toe. 8. The second phalangeal bone of the great toe. 9. The articular cavity between the tibia and astragalus, with its articular adipose sub- stance. 10. The synovial capsule between the astragalus and os calcis. 11. The calcaneo-astragaloid interosseous ligament. 12. The synovial capsule between tho astragalus and scaphoides. 13. The calcaneo-scaphoid ligament. 14. The calca- noo-cuboid ligament. 15. The synovial capsule between the scaphoides and cunei- forme internum. 16. The synovial capsule between the cuneiforme internum and the first metatarsal bone. 17. The metatarso-phalangeal articulation of the great toe, with the sesamoid bones below. 18. The phalangeal articulation of the great toe. The Interosseous Ligament, Fig. 265 (i i), is placed in a canal formed by a transverse groove on the under surface of the astragalus, and a corresponding one on the upper sur- face of the os calcis. It is a short, but very strong ligament, forming the principal ligamentous connection between these bones. Its fibres have more or less adipose substance inter- mixed with them. To obtain a good view of this ligament, a vertical section of the astragalus and os calcis should be made, so as to divide the ligament in an antero-posterior di- rection. These bones articulate with each other by mutual reception; the astragalus presents two articular surfaces; a concave one placed behind the groove, and a convex one anterior to the groove, while the os calcis presents two cor- responding articular facets. The articulation, posterior to the groove, has a distinct synovial capsule, Fig. 265 (i o), while the synovial capsule (12) of the articulation in front of the