84 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK. anguli oris, depressor labii inferioris, levator labii inferioris, and the platysma myoides. Tbey anastomose and interlace with the mental branches of the inferior dental nerve, form- ing the mental plexus. They also anastomose with the buccal branch of the inferior maxillary nerve. The muscles of the face are supplied principally by the facial, while the skin and mucous membrane derive their supply mainly from the fifth. 8. The Lower border of the parotid projects somewhat into the neck, and rests against the posterior belly of the digas- tricus, the stylo-hyoideus, and that reflection of the cervical fascia which is attached to the stylo-maxillary ligament, and forms a septum between the parotid and submaxillary regions. Near the angle of the jaw the cervical branches of the facial nerve escape from the gland, to be distributed in the upper part of the neck, while branches of the auricularis magnus, a branch of the cervical plexus, enter it. The temporo-max- illary vein will also be found here, leaving the gland to form the external jugular. The external carotid artery enters it on a plane deeper than the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, to divide into the temporal and internal maxillary branches. The internal carotid artery and the internal jugular vein with the eighth and ninth pairs of nerves, are situated behind the gland. 4. The Posterior border rests against the auditory pro- cess and concha of the ear above, and the mastoid process and stern o-cleido-mastoid muscle below. The posterior au- ricular artery and nerve emerge from beneath this border of the gland to get behind the ear. The gland must now be dissected so as to get a view of the vessels and nerves in its substance. The main trunk of the facial nerve may be easily found by tracing into the substance of the gland one or more of its branches which have already been described. It enters the gland shortly after leaving the foramen stylo-mastoideum, and, after passing upwards and forwards over the external carotid, divides into two principal branches, the Teraporo- maxillary and the Cervico-maxillary. The former subdivides into the temporal, malar, and buccal; the latter into the max- illary and cervical, Fig. 63. The Temporo-Maxillary division is connected by one or more branches with the temporo-auricular branch of the fifth pair. This last branch passes through the upper part of