GENERAL REMARKS. 26 a dead body. It may be safely averred that the student wbo has overcome his feeling of repugnance to dissecting, and acquired a fondness for it, will be much more likely, when he comes to practice, to avail himself of every opportunity which may offer to make a post-mortem examination than one who has not had the advantages which the dissecting- room affords. It is scarcely necessary to say that a thorough practical knowledge of anatomy is indispensable to the successful per- formance of surgical operations. No student should have a desire to graduate Avith the intention of practising medicine without feeling assured that he was qualified to perform, at least, a large portion of all the operations which might be required within the limits of his own practice. To be obliged to send a long distance for some one to operate in a case of strangulated hernia, after having exhausted all the means in his own power to reduce it, might be the indirect cause of the death of his patient, sphacelus of the bowel having taken place in consequence of delaying the operation. But it is not to be inferred that the knowledge of anatomy to be acquired in the dissecting-room is more essential to the practice of surgery than to the practice of medicine. Medical anatomy is in every respect as important as surgical anatomy. In regard to the time when a student should commence his dissections, I have no hesitation in saying that the sooner he does it after commencing the study of medicine, the better it will be for him. The time which he spends in reading on anatomy before he has had an opportunity of seeing the parts described is, in a great measure, lost. This, I believe, accords with the experience of nine out of every ten who have pursued this course. The quickest and easiest way to acquire a knowledge of a thing is to see it and handle it. A student will acquire a better knowledge of the abdominal viscera in examining them two hours in the dissecting-room than he could in reading a description of them for a week. And it is hardly necessary to say that names are learned with much greater facility when the things which they designate can be seen and inspected. This is especially true in anat- omy, in which so many things are named from their appear- ance, location, function, &c. The two great objects to be attained in the study of prac- tical anatomy are—first, to learn to dissect; and second, to