DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK. to be distributed to tlie integument covering tbe ala of tlie nose. The external nasal, or in/ra-trochlear, goes to tlie anterior and inner part of the orbit, beneath the tendon of the supe- rior oblique, where it divides into filaments to supply the integument of the upper part and side of the nose, the upper eyelid, and lachrymal sac. The Lenticular Ganglion, Fig. 22 (s), is a small reddish body, situated between the optic nerve and external rectus muscle, about half an inch behind the ball of the eye. Its size and shape vary in different subjects. Behind, it receives a filament from the nasal and the lower division of the motor oculi, and is usually connected with the sympathetic by a branch from the cavernous sinus. Anteriorly it sends off eight or ten ciliary branches, which pass along the outer and under part of the optic nerve to perforate the sclerotic coat. This small ganglion may readily be found by tracing one of the ciliary nerves backwards to its origin. The Ophthalmic Artery, a branch of the internal carotid, arises near the anterior clinoid process, and enters the orbit through the optic foramen, behind and exterior to the optic nerve, and crosses it to reach the nasal nerve, which it accom- panies to the inner and anterior part of the orbit, where it divides into its terminating branches. The following are branches of this artery:— The lacjirymal hranch arises between the superior and ex- ternal recti muscles, but soon joins the lachrymal nerve, and accompanies it to the lachrymal gland, Avhich it supplies. It also sends branches to the upper eyelid, to the conjunctiva, and one which perforates the malar bone to anastomose with the deep temporal arteries. It sometimes anastomoses -vNath the middle meningeal. The central artery of the retina penetrates the optic nerve about half an inch behind the eyeball, which it enters , through the porus opticus, to be distributed to the retina ■ and hyaloid membrane (Fig. 21). ] The supra-orhiial arises beneath the superior rectus, and ] passes upwards and forwards on the inner side of this muscle \ and the levator palpebras, joins the supra-orbital nerve, and, with it, goes to the forehead, sending a small branch to the frontal bone.