THE GLUTEAL EEGION, 511 Sect. II—The Gluteal Kegion. This region includes those parts which are fouod on the side and posterior part of the pelvis. To dissect it the subject must be placed on its face with the pelvis raised a foot or more by means of blocks. It is a matter of little consequence in what direction the incisions are made for the purpose of removing the integument unless it is intended to remove the fascia at the same time. In this case the inci- sions should be made so that the gluteus maximus muscle may be exposed by catting in the direction of its fibres.'^ To examine the cutaneous nerves the integument must be dissected off and the nerves traced in the superficial fascia and fat, which usually exists in great abundance in this region. The nerves are derived from the last dorsal^ the lumbar, and the sacral. These enter the gluteal region at different points. The gluteal branch of the external cuta- neous nerve enters it from the anterior part of the thigh just below the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium. Two branches, one from the last dorsal and another from the superior musculo-cutaneous, pass over the crest of the ilium, the former anterior to the middle of the crest, the latter more posteriorly. The posterior divisions of the last two lumbar are distributed principally to the skin in the gluteal region. There are two or three derived from the posterior divisions of the sacral nerves; also filaments from the lesser sciatic nerve. Beneath the superficial fascia will be found the gluteal aponeurosis. This is attached above and behind to the crest of the ilium, to the sacrum, and to the coccyx; in front and below it is continuous with the fascia lata. It is quite thin where it covers the gluteus maximus, but thick and dense over that portion of the gluteus medius which is not covered by the preceding muscle; the gluteus medius arises partly from its under surface; a layer of it passes beneath the gluteus maximus. It is separated from the great trochanter and the tuberosity of the ischium by synovial capsules. The Gluteus Maximus, Fig. 215 (2), is the first muscle to be dissected in this region. To expose it an incision should be made through the skin and fascia, if the skin has not been