106 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK. Durmg the early part of foetal life, tlie pupil is occupied by a membrane called the memhrana pupillaris; this, however, disappears in the human foetus about the seventh month, but in some of the lower animals continues some days after birth. The iris should now be detached from the ciliary ligament, and the position of the lens and the ciliary processes sur- rounding it, carefully noticed. The view presented in this stage of the dissection is important, as the student can now obtain a distinct idea of the relative position of the lens to the anterior border of the sclerotic coat, and be able to un- derstand the connection which exists between it and the framework of the eye, as well as the manner in which, by means of this connection, it is kept in its place. To separate the choroid coat from the retina, a small open- ing is to be made through it, near the posterior part of the eye. This may be done by detaching it with the point of the scalpel, being careful not to injure the retina beneath it. When the opening is made, the choroid coat may be easily removed by using two pairs of forceps, cutting away with the scissors, from time to time, portions of it which have been detached. In dissecting off this coat, it may be found convenient to place the eye in a shallow vessel containing water. The Choeoid Coat, Fig. 26, &, is composed of three layers, an external or venous, a middle or arterial (membrana Euy- schiana), and an internal or pigmentary layer. It extends anteriorly to the ciliary ligament and ciliary processes, with which it is intimately connected. Its inner layer consists of six-sided cells, which contain a granular substance. In some animals, the inner surface of the choroid coat presents poste- riorly a beautiful metallic lustre, known as the tapetum. As the choroid coat is removed, a layer of areolar tissue may be seen next to the retina; this is the membrana Jacohi; by some it is regarded as forming the outer layer of the re- tina. Sometimes it is with difficulty that this membrane can be exposed so as to allow of its demonstration, even as floc- culi floating in water; at other times it may be distinctly seen. As we approach the anterior border of the choroid coat, in the process of removing it, the termination of the nervous layer of the retina anteriorly will be observed; and also, in front of it, the ciliary processes, proceeding to join the hyaloid