CONTENTS OF MEDIASTINUM. 817 wards about an inch and a half, where it unites with the vena transversa to form the descending cava. The Vena Teansversa, Fig. 139 (14), commences behind the sternal extremity of the left clavicle, where it is formed by the union of the left subclavian and internal jugular veins; from this point it descends obliquely to the right, about three inches, to join the descending cava. It is usually somewhat larger than the innominata. It lies above the arch of the aorta, and rests on the great arteries which arise from it. It is separated from the sternum by the remains of the thy- mus gland and by areolar tissue. There are several small veins which open into the venas innominata and transversa. The former receives the right vertebral^ and generally the right internal mammary and inferior ih-yroid; the latter has opening into it the corresponding veins on the left side, and also the thymic^ the 'pericardiac^ the supe- rior phrenic^ and the superior intercostal. These veins vary very much in their termination in different subjects. The Vena Cava Descendens, Fig. 139 (10), commences opposite the first intercostal space, descends to near the car- tilage of the third rib, where it perforates the fibrous lamina of the pericardium, and thence continues down to the right auricle. It has the pleura and phrenic nerve on the right side, the aorta on the left, and the trachea, the right pulmo- nary artery, and superior pulmonary vein behind. Just be- fore it enters the pericardium it receives the vena azygos^ which passes up behind the root of the lung, and then bends forwards to terminate in the cava. The bronchial veins terminate, the right in the vena azygos, and the left in the superior intercostal. To obtain a good view of the vena azygos, the heart and lungs should be re- moved from the thorax. The Pneumogastric Nerves should now be examined. The right nerve enters the thorax between the subclavian vein and artery, crossing the latter nearly at a right angle; it then descends behind the vena innominata and on the side of the tra- chea to reach the groove between the latter and the oesophagus, in which it continues until it gets behind the root of the right lung. The left nerve enters the thorax behind the vena trans- versa, and between the subclavian and common carotid arte- 27*