THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 234 dorsal vertebras. It acts on the spine, and also on the ribs, as an expiratory muscle. ' The Spinalis Dorsi, Fig. 98 (4), lies on the inner side of the last muscle, with wbicli it is usually more or less blended. It arises from the spinous processes of the lower two or three dorsal vertebroB, and about the same number of lumbar ver- tebrae ; it is inserted into the upper dorsal. The QuADRATus LuMBORUM, Fig. 98 (i 9), should now be dissected, on one side at least, so that the relations of the fascia lumborum may be studied in connection with the mus- cles of the back. It may also be examined with the muscles in the posterior part of the abdominal cavity. It is situated between the erector spinas and the cavity of the abdomen. It arises from the posterior part of the crest of the ilium and the ilio-lumbar ligament. The fibres pass upwards, and are inserted into the transverse processes of the upper four lumbar and the last dorsal vertebras, and also into the vertebral half of the last rib. An additional set of fibres tisually arise from the transverse processes of the lower two or three lumbar vertebrae, pass obliquely upwards, and are inserted into the last rib. The action of this muscle is to depress or fix the last rib, to bend the spine to one side, or to assist in keeping it erect. The Fascia Lumborum is attached by three laminas to the vertebral column. The ])osterior lamina is blended with the tendon of the latissimus dorsi and serratus posticus inferior, and is consequently connected to the spinous processes. The middle layer is attached to the ends of the transverse pro- cesses ; while the anterior layer is attached to the bases of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebras, to the lower rib, and to the ligamentum arcuatum. The internal oblique and transversalis muscles are connected to the vertebral column through the medium of this fascia. The space between the middle and anterior lamiure is wholly occupied by the quadratus lumborum muscle. If pus should form in this space, it might pass upwards or downwards as far as the attachments of this muscle. If pus should collect in the space between the middle and posterior layers, it might travel upwards or downwards along the erector spinas which occupies this space. The difference ■ between the