DISSECTION OF THE VESSELS AKD NERVES. 445 owing to its liability to injury in cutting for stone and in other operations in the perineum. Before it leaves the pelvis it supplies branches to the levator ani muscle, the rectum, the bladder, the vesiculse seminales, and to the pros- tate gland. Its distribution in the female differs from that in the male. While within the pelvis in the female, besides sending branches to the bladder and rectum, it sends branches to the vagina; in the perineum the branches that correspond to those which go to the penis in the male are distributed to the clitoris. The INTERNAL ILIAC VEIN is placed on the inner side of the internal iliac artery with which it corresponds. It re- ceives the blood from the veins that accompany the branches of the internal iliac artery, and also from the vesico-prostatic plexus, including that portion of the blood contained in the hemorrhoidal plexus which does not find its way to the infe- rior mesenteric vein and thence to the portal vein. It has no valves. It is exceedingly important that every student should thoroughly understand the plexuses of veins con- nected with the rectum and genito-urinary apparatus. It will be seen that a part of the blood from these plexuses reaches the heart through the internal and common iliac veins and the vena cava, while another portion passes through the mesenteric and portal veins to the liver, and thence through the hepatic veins and vena cava to the heart. Each artery has its venae comites, which unite to open into their main trunk by a common orifice. The ilio-lumbar vein opens into the common iliac. It is united to the veins which escape from the spinal canal through the lower lumbar intervertebral foramina; also to a vein which lies in front of the last lumbar vertebra, and to the lateral sacral veins by an anastomosing branch. The middle sacral and the lateral sacral veins correspond to the arteries of the same names. The former arises in front of the coccyx, and passes upwards to terminate in the left common iliac vein. Not unfrequently a communicating branch is found connecting this vein with the hemorrhoidal plexus, and also with the vesical plexus. The latter consist of two or more veins, which open into the common iliac vein. The veins which accompany the gluteal, the sciatic, the