321 THE TEACHEA. the pleura; the pneumogastric and phrenic nerves, the vena innominata, and the sternal muscles are in front of it; the trachea and oesophagus are on the inside of it. The arteries just described vary a good deal in their origin from the arch of the aorta. The Pulmonary Artery, Fig. 137 (i 3), is from an inch and a half to two inches in length. It passes upwards, backwards, and somewhat to the left. At first, it is in front of the aorta, and then gets to its left side. Nearly the whole of it is covered by the serous layer of the pericardium. It divides into the right and left pulmonary arteries. At its bifurcation, the remains of the ductus arteriosus is found extending from it to a point on the arch of the aorta, nearly opposite to the origin of the left subclavian artery. The Eight Pulmonary Artery, Fig. 137 (15), is directed transversely to the root of the right lung. It is about an inch and a half in length. It passes behind the aorta and the vena cava descendens, and in front and a little below the right bronchus. In the root of the lung, it divides into three branches. The serous lamina of the pericardium is reflected upon a portion of this artery. The Left Pulmonary Artery, Fig. 137 (14), is quite short. It proceeds to the left lung in front, and a little above the left bronchus, and also in front of the descending portion of the aorta. It divides into two primitive branches. The Pulmonary Veins, Fig. 137 (19,19), consist of four principal trunks, two for each lung. These are formed by branches, which originate in the walls of the air-cells of the lungs. One of the right veins is formed by branches proceed- ing from the lower lobe, while the other is formed by branches from the middle and superior lobes. The/ormer has a trans- verse, and the latter an oblique direction towards the left auricle. In the root of the lung on each side, the veins are situated anteriorly, the bronchus posteriorly, and the artery m the middle. From above downwards, on the right side, the bronchus is situated above, the veins below, and the artery m the middle; while, on the left side, the artery is placed above, and the bronchus in the middle. The Trachea, Fig. 138 (7), extends from the fifth cervical vertebra above to the third dorsal below; it commences at