LIGAMENTS OF TIBIO-FIBULAR ARTICULATION. 607 in the superior articulation, the articular surfaces here are occupied principally by ligamentous fibres, which form the small or inferior interosseous ligament. Besides this ligament, they are connected by an anterior, a ^posterior, and a transverse ligament. The Anterior Inferior Tibio-Fibular Ligament, Fig. 261(3), arises from the outer part of the lower end of the fibula, passes upwards and inwards, spreading out so as to become quite broad, and is inserted into the outer and anterior part of the lower end of the tibia. It is composed of shining, parallel fibres which extend below the articular surfaces, so as to increase the depth of the cavity into which the astra- galus is received. The Posterior Inferior Tibio-Fibular Ligament, Fig. 262 (2), consists of a fasciculus of fibres which arises from the posterior and lower part of the fibula, and passes obliquely upwards and inwards, to be inserted into the posterior and lower part of the tibia. It is not so large as the preceding ligament. The Transverse Tibio-Fibular Ligament, Fig. 262 (3), arises from the fibula, below the origin of the posterior liga- ment, and, passing nearly transversely in- wards, is inserted into the posterior part of the internal malleolus. It increases the depth of the cavity formed by the tibia and fibula for the reception of the astragalus. The Small or Inferior Interosseous Ligament consists of fibres, intermixed with some adipose substance, which pass from the articular surface of one bone directly to that of the other. It is concealed by the anterior and posterior ligaments, which must be divided in order to bring it into view, both from behind and before. It adds greatly to the strength of this articula- A Posterior View op the Ligaments of the Ankle-Joint.—1. The lower part of the interosseous membrane. 2. The posterior inferior tibio-fibular li-ament 3. Ihe transverse tibio-fibular ligament. 4. The internal lateral ligament. 5. The posterior fasciculus of the external lateral ligament. 6. The middle fasciculus of ttie external Lateral ligament. 1. The synovial membrane of tho ankle-joint. 8