DISSECTION OF THE SPLEEN. 405 of the pancreas. It has a very white appearance when ex- posed in the substance of the gland. Its parietes are thm like those of the excretory duct of the submaxillary gland, ihe branches by which it is formed join it nearly at right angles. It is situated a little nearer to the anterior than to the poste- rior surface of the pancreas, and nearer to the lower than to the upper border. Unlike other excretory ducts, it terminates almost immediately after leaving the gland. Sometimes there are two ducts, which may or may not open separately into the duodenum. The lesser pancreas is merely the lower portion of the head. When there are two ducts, it is in this part of the gland that the second one is found. The vessels and nerves of the pancreas have been described with the gland in situ. Dissection of the Spleen. The spleen. Fig. 173, r, occupies the deep part of the left hypochondrium. It has an oval form, being flattened and somewhat excavated on its inner side. It varies greatly in size. It has a deep red or purple color, especially when cut into. Its structure possesses but little firmness, and is easily broken up by pressure. It may be lacerated by blows on the exter- nal surface of the left hypochondriac region. It presents a convex surface which looks towards the dia- phragm and lower ribs, and a flat, slightly concave one, which is in apposition with the left extremity of the stomach. Its upper extremity is larger and more rounded than the infe- rior, and its posterior border is thicker than the anterior. A fissure, or hilum, Fig. 173, v, is observed on its flat sur- face, being nearer to the posterior than to the anterior bor- der. This fissure is occupied by the vessels and nerves of the gland. The spleen has, besides the peritoneal, a proper fibrous co-, vering, which not only invests the entire organ, but sends pro- longations into every part of it, which, by interlacing, form a perfect network. It is also reflected in from the hilum around the vessels so as to form for them sheaths. It is elastic, quite strong, and may be"said to form the framework of the organ. The cellular arrangement formed by this struc-