\ THE EYEBALL. 103 tention. Its liability to disease and injury renders it an ob- ject worthy of special attention to the student. Having examined the outer tunic of the eye, the dissector will proceed to expose the second tunic, which consists of the iris, the ciliary ligament, and the choroid coat. This will require another eye. Holding the eye in one hand, make an incision through the cornea with a sharp scalpel, or puncture it with the scalpel near the centre, and insert the point of one blade of a pair of scissors through the puncture and cut to the margin, taking care to keep the point gently pressed against the inner surface of the cornea, so as not to injure the iris; having reached the edge of the sclerotic coat, the point of the scissors is to be insinuated between it and the ciliary ligament, and then between the sclerotic and choroid coats back to the posterior 'paxt of the eye. Success in mak- ing this incision depends mainly on keeping the point of the scissors applied to the inner surface of the cornea and sclero- tic coat as it glides over the iris, the ciliary ligament, and choroid coat. Two or three more similar incisions are to be mad6; tben seizing one of the sections of the cornea with the forceps, reflect it back to its connection with the sclerotica, and then, making slight tension, there will be little or no difficulty in separating the sclerotica from the ciliary ligament and cho- roid coat. The point of a scalpel may be used to facilitate its detachment from the ciliary ligament and divide the ves- sels which pass through the sclerotica to the choroid coat. When the other sections have been turned back in the same manner, a beautiful view of the iris, ciliary ligament, and choroid coat will be obtained. As the aqueous humor has escaped, the iris will rest against the lens and ciliary processes, thus obliterating the .posterior chamber of the eye. The anterior surface of the iris, with the pupil in its centre, should be observed; also its attachment to the ciliary ligament. The Ciliary Ligament, Fig. 26, e, is about a line in width, of a light color, and attached anteriorly to the iris ; posteriorly to the choroid coat; and by its external surface to the sclero- tica. It IS composed of fibro-cellular tissue ; it is not vascu- lar Itself, although it transmits the ciliary arteries to the iris