227 DISSECTiOlSr OF THE BACK. wliich a few additional fibres sometimes arise. Tliere is fre- quently a bursa between tbis part of tbe scapula and tbe muscle. It will be observed that tbe lower part of the muscle is inserted higher iip than the upper part, resembling in this respect the pectoralis major. The use of this muscle is to depress the arm and shoulder, and draw the arm to the side of the thorax; it may also rotate the humerus in- wards. When the arm is elevated and fixed, it raises the lower ribs, thus assisting in respiration. Between the lower border of the trapezius and the upper margin of the latissimus .dorsi, and behind the base of the scapula, is a triangular space, in which the rhomboideus major is seen. The trapezius is to be raised by detaching it from its origin, and reflecting it forwards. In doing this, the student must be careful that he does not at the same time raise the rhom- boidei muscles, which are situated immediately beneath the trapezius. In raising the latissimus dorsi it is difficult to avoid dis- secting up with it the tendon of the serratus posticus inferior. The connection of the tendon of the latissimus with the fascia lumborum at the posterior border of the external oblique should be observed. In raising the trapezius, the spinal accessory nerve. Fig. 63 (i s), may be traced ramifying beneath, and sending branches to it. It gets beneath the muscle a short distance above its clavicular attachment. The attachment of the omo-hyoideus to the superior costa of the scapula may be examined at the same time; also the supra-scapular artery and nerve^ as they enter the supra spinata fossa. These were traced to this point while dissecting the supra-clavicular region in the neck. The transverse humeral and posterior cervical arteries will be found beneath the trapezius and above the scapula. The first ascends, dividing into branches, which are distributed to the trapezius, levator anguli, scapulse, and splenius mus- cles, and anastomosing with the descending branch of the occipital. The other one passes backwards to near the pos- terior superior angle of the scapula, where it gets beneath the levator anguli scapula}, and descends along the base of the scapula and under the rhomboidei muscles. It supplies the muscles m that region, and anastomoses with the sub-