APPENDAGES OF THE EYE WITHIN" THE ORBIT. 93' The Superior Eectus Muscle, Fig. 23 (9), is now seen in the central part of the orbit. It arises from the upper and outer part of the optic foramen, and passes forwards to be inserted into the sclerotic coat of the eyeball, near its junction with the cornea. This is to be divided near its insertion, and turned back, observing at the same time the branch of the motor oculi nerve, which penetrates its under surface. Be- neath the superior rectus, and between the external and in- ternal recti muscles, is the most intricate part of the anatomy of the orbit. The areolar and adipose tissue found here must be gradually and cautiously removed. The Nasal Nerve, Fig. 21, with the ophthalmic artery and vein, crosses the ojotic nerve from without inwards. As this nerve enters the orbit between the two heads of the rectus esternus, it usually sends a small twig to the lenticular ganglion, and just as it passes over the optic nerve, gives off three or four ciliary branches, which ac- company that nerve on its inner side to perforate the sclerotic coat. The nasal nerve then continues its course to the inner part of the orbit, and forwards as far as the ant^ior ethmoidal foramen, where it divides into an external and inter- nal nasal branch. The in- ternal nasal passes through this foramen, and after run- ning a short distance on the cribriform plate of the eth- moid bone, enters the nose through a small foramen at the side of the crista galli. then ■ ■ Fig. 21. The Deep Nerves of the Orbit seen from above by removing the bone and DIVIDING THE Elevator op the Upper Eyelid and the Upper Rectus Muscle. —a. Internal pterygoid muscle, h. Tem- poral muscle, c. Cut surface of bono. d. Elevator of the eyelid and upper rectus muscle, e. Carotid artery. 1. Optic- nerve. 2. Fifth nerve. 3. Ophthalmic nerve. 4. Third nerve. 5. Sixth nerve. then contmues in a groove on the inner surface of the nasal bone-to its lower border, where it leaves the nasal cavity