DISSECTION OF THE VESSELS AND NERVES. 439 tegument, the common superficial fascia, the superficial pe- rineal fascia, and the ejaculatores urinse muscles. Dissection of the Vessels and Nerves in the Pelvic Cavity. The principal vessels and nerves in the pelvic cavity can be examined without removing any portion of the bones that form its parietes; to make a thorough dissection of them, however, the os innominatum on one side should be disar- ticulated and removed; or any portion of it may be cut away, including any part of the sacrum that may be found necessary in the progress of the dissection. The saw, or a mallet and chisel may be used for this purpose. To trace the vessels which supply the bladder and rectum, these organs should be moderately distended, the former with air, and the latter with cotton or tow. If the arteries be well injected but little difficulty will be encountered after the peritoneum has been removed, in exposing all the principal branches, as far as the organs which they supply or the openings through which they leave the pelvic cavity. The Middle Sacral Artery seems to be a continuation of the aorta greatly diminished in size. It extends in the median line from the bifurcation of the aorta to the coccyx, passing over the body of the last lumbar vertebra and the sacrum. In its course it gives oflF small branches, some of which anas- tomose with the lateral sacral arteries, and others enter the meso-rectum. The Internal Iliac or Hypogastric Artery, Fig. 189 (e), Fig. 190 (fi), furnishes most of the branches found in the pelvis. It arises from the bifurcation of the common iliac artery opposite the sacro-iliac symphysis, and descending into the pelvis terminates near the upper border of the great sacro-sciatic foramen. It varies in length from an inch to an inch and a half. Near its origin it is separated from the peritoneum by the ureter. The lumbo-sacral nerve lies be- hind it; the internal iliac vein is situated behind and a little to the outer side of it. In the foetus the internal iliac is continued to the umbilicus, where it becomes the umbilical artery. Commencing at the origin of the vesical artery a