THE UPPEE EXTREMITY. 224 tlie Other incisions through the skin are made. To expose the muscles by cutting down on them at once, or by dis- secting off the fascia after the skin has been removed, the incisions should be made in the direction of the fibres of the muscles. There is nothing in particular connected with the subcutaneous fascia on the back which requires notice, ex- cept the cutaneous nerves and vessels; and even these are not of sufficient practical importance to warrant the student, as a general thing, devoting much time to their dissection. The Nerves are derived from the posterior divisions of the spinal nerves. The first cervical gives off, ordinarily, no cutaneous branch. The second sends a large branch to the scalp, which accompanies the occipital artery. The third cervical usually sends also a small cutaneous branch to the back of the head. The rest of the cervical nerves ramify in the integument of the back of the neck. The cervical and dorsal perforate the trapezius, while the six lower dorsal perforate the latissimus dorsi and trapezius to reach the skin. Those below the dorsal perforate the latissimus dorsi. They perforate these muscles near the spinous processes, and for the most part are directed outwards. These nerves are easily traced from the intervertebral foramina, especially when a dissection is made for this purpose. They will be met with from time to time in the dissection of the muscles.- The Arteries are derived from the occipital, the trans- verse humeral, the posterior cervical, the intercostal, and the lumbar. It is not necessary to give any description of these arteries in connection with the fascia of the back. Extending from the occipital protuberance to the spinous processes of all the cervical vertebras, except the atlas, will be found yellow elastic tissue, named the ligamentum nuchcB. This is large in some of the lower animals, but in man it is often quite small and indistinct. Some of the muscles of the neck are attached to this ligament. It assists in support- ing the head. To dissect the Trapezius, Fig. 97 (i, 2), an incision may be made through the fascia, or through the skin and fascia at the same time, from the first dorsal vertebra, or near it, trans- versely across to the spine of the scapula. One flap may be dissected upwards and the other downwards until the whole