DISSECTION OF THE THOBAX. 326 artery. The apex of eacTi lung is round, and projects some distance above the first rib ; the right more than the left. The color of the lung varies at diflerent periods of life. In the child it is a pale red, while in the adult it is of a grayish blue, interspersed with dark spots, which increase in number as age advances. The posterior part after death usually presents, from hypostatic congestion, quite a dark hue. Lines may be observed on the surface of the lung through the pleura, which indicate the septa between the lobules. The right lung is somewhat larger than the left. The di- mensions of the two lungs are not precisely the same; the vertical diameter of the left lung is the greatest, while the base of the right is rather larger than that of the left. The lungs of the male are usually larger than those of the female. In proportion to their bulk the lungs are very light; this is owing to the air which is never wholly expelled from the cells after it has once entered them. "When cut into they have a spongy appearance, and when a portion is compressed be- tween the thumb and fingers the air can be felt escaping from the cells. The resiliency of the lung is well shown in the force with which it expels the air when it has been in- flated. This contractile power exists in the yellow fibrous tissue which enters into its structure. The lung contains in its structure all the elements which are found in its root. They consist of the ramifications of the pulmonary artery and vdns^ the bronchial arteries, veins, and the bronchi, together with nerves and absorbent vessels, and the parenchyma which holds all the other parts in situ. _ If a bronchus be traced into the substance of the lung, it will be found to divide and subdivide until it ultimately terminates in the air-cells. The mode of division observed is dichoto- mous; that is, the bronchus divides into two tubes, and each of these again divides into two others, and so on until the last division takes place. The structure of the bronchial ramifications, after the first two or three divisions, undergoes some modification. The cartilaginous segments, instead of being arranged on one side of the tube as in the trachea, are distributed on all sides of it, with their extremities overlapping each other. This ar- rangement continues to the last division, the segments, how- ever, becoming more and more imperfect until they dis-