SUPE.EFICIAL PARTS OF THE NECK. 179 below tLe symphysis of tlie chin. This muscle should be carefully detached from the mylo-hyoid ridge, and from the hyoid bone, and reflected to the opposite side, when the Mjpoglossal and gustatory nerves, and the duct of Wharton will be seen resting on the hyo-glossus. The duct, for a short distance after leaving the gland, is situated between these nerves, but nearer to the gustatory than the hypoglossal, which crosses it. The Duct of Whaetok is nearly two inches in length ; its walls are very thin in proportion to its caliber. It leaves the hyo-glossus, and gets at first between the genio-hyo- glossus and the sublingual gland, then between the gland and the mucous membrane, between which it continues to the fras- num of the tongue, just behind the incisor teeth. The student will have no difficulty in tracing this duct, if an incision be made into it near its origin, and a bristle introduced and carried through it into the mo^ith. Its proximity to the cavity of the mouth, in the latter part of its course, and the distensible character of its parietes, deserve notice, with refe- rence to ranula, or an enlargement of the duct from closure of its buccal orifice. The Genio-Hyoideus, Fig. 69 (e), is a small muscle which arises from the lower jaw, near the symphysis, and passes downwards and backwards, and is inserted into the hyoid bone. The two genio-hyoidei muscles are frequently so closely con- nected along the median line that it is not easy to separate them. The action of this muscle is nearly the same as that of the preceding one. After detaching this muscle from its origin, and reflecting it downwards, the anterior border of the genio-hyo-glossus will be seen. The genio-hyoid part of it may now be observed, but its connection with "the tongue must be examined when that organ is dissected. The sub- maxillary gland may next be removed entirely, when the hyo-glossus, the stylo-glossus, the stylo-pharyngeus, the lin- gual artery, and the sublingual gland, with a portion of the mucous membrane of the mouth, will be brought into view. The Stylo-Glossus, Fig. 70 (3), arises from the styloid process and stylo-maxillary ligament, passes downwards and forwards to be lost principally in the side of the tongue. As It enters this organ its fibres spread out, and a few of