RELATIOITS OF PELVIC VISCERA IN THE MALE. 437 up SO as to leave a non-peritoneal surface above the symphy- sis, when the bladder can be cut into for the purpose of re- moving calculi or evacuating its contents without injuring the peritoneum. It can also be perforated through the sym- physis. Posteriorly, it is in contact, above, with the rectum and with the small intestines, and, when filled, with the sig- moid flexure of the colon; below, with the vesiculse semi- nales, the vasa deferentia, and the rectum. Sometimes, and especially when empty, the recto-vesical cul-de-sac extends down to the prostate gland and interposes between the vesi- cal triangle and the rectum. It is through this triangular space that the bladder is sometimes perforated from the rectum. When this operation is performed it should be done close to the prostate gland to avoid the peritoneum, and in the median line, so as not to injure the vesiculse seminales and the vasa deferentia. Laterally, the bladder is in relation on each side above, with the remains of the hypogastric artery and the vas deferens; and below, with the levator ani muscle and the pelvic fascia. Its nech, Fig. 187 (7), is in apposition with the prostate gland. The bladder is retained in situ by ligaments, by fascia, and by the peritoneum. The ligaments of the bladder are designated the true and the false. The false consists simply of two folds of peritoneum, one on each side of the cul-de-sac between the bladder and the rectum; they are sometimes called the posterior ligaments of the bladder. The anterior true ligaments arise from the lower part of the p'ubic bones, and are inserted into the neck of the bladder. The lateral true ligaments are derived from the pelvic fascia, and will be described in connection with it. The Prostate Gland, Fig. 188 (2), is in relation, alove, with the anterior ligaments of the bladder; on the sides with the levatores ani, and helow, with the rectum. It is from two to two and a half inches above the anus. Its base corre- sponds to the neck of the bladder and its apex to the mem- branous portion of the urethra. The relations of the membranous portion of the urethra and the bulb will be described in this place preparatory to the examination of the perineal fascia. The MEMBRANOUS PORTION of the urethra. Fig. 187 (i 0), is situated below the arch of the pubes and extends from the 37*