DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 82 The Masseteric Fascia is much thinner than the parotid Anteriorly, it is lost in the subcutaneous cellular tissue, and below, in the cervical fascia. When pus is formed beneath this fascia, it has a tendency to pass into the neck. There are no vessels of any importance situated between the _ parotid gland and the skin. Some filaments of the auricularis magnus nerve may be traced upwards between the skin and the gland. The borders of the parotid, as now seen, should be loosen- ed up, and their relations carefully observed, 1. The Upper border is situated just below the zygoma. The temporal artery, and branches of the facial and fifth pair of nerves, Fig. 62 (3), emerge from beneath this border to ascend to the side of the cranium; the temporal vein. Fig. 2, enters the gland at this point. ' 2. The Anterior border extends from the zygoma to the angle of the lower jaw; it overlaps the masseter, more above than below. Coming from beneath this border will be found the following:— The Transverse Facial Artery is situated about a fourth of an inch below the zygoma. It arises in the sub- stance of the gland, from the temporal or external carotid, and crossing the upper part of the masseter, is distributed to the orbital and buccal regions. The Duct of Steno, Fig, 3 (2), will be observed just below the artery. It is about the size of a crowquill, and is formed by radicals proceeding from the lobules of the gland. It is about two inches in length, and in direction corresponds very nearly to a line drawn from the meatus of the ear to the centre of the upper lip. Its buccal orifice, which is very small, is opposite to the upper middle molar tooth, and near the centre of the line indicating its direction. It perforates the bucci- nator muscle at the anterior border of the masseter. The position of this duct should be noticed particularly, on account of its liability to be injured from accidents, and in surgical operations. The Glandula Socia Parotidis consists of a few lobules situated between the zygoma and the parotid duct, with which it communicates by a small duct of its own. It is sometimes wanting.