DISSECTION OF THE AXILLARY REGION. 219 Besides the thoracic nerves and the divisions of the axil- Fig. 94. lary plexus, there are two or three subscapular branches, the long tho- racic or external respiratory nerve of Bell, and the nerve of Wrisberg, to be noticed in this dissection, Fig. 93. The Subscapular arise from the outer part of the plexus, and rest on the subscapularis muscle, which, together with the teres major and latissimus dorsi, they supply. The Long Thoracic arises from the fifth and sixth cervical, and at ^first lies behind the axillary plexus, then gets between it and the serratus magnus, on which it rests as it de- scends, vertically, nearly to its lower border. It sends filaments to this muscle throughout its course. Re- collecting its relations to the serratus maa;nus, the dissector cannot well be at a loss in finding it. The Lesser Internal Cutaneous is a branch of the axillary plexus. It is sometimes called the nerve of Wi-isherg. At first it is behind the axillary vein, but soon gets to the inner side of it, when it gives off one or more branches to anastomose with the intercosto-humeral. It then passes down the arm on the inner side of the basilic vein, pierces the fascia The Superficial Veins on the Front of the Upper Extremity.—1. Axil- lary artery. 2. Axillary vein. 3. Basilic vein, where it enters the axillary. 4,4. Portion of the basilic vein which passes under the brachial fascia; a portion of the vein is freed from the fascia. 5. Point where the median basilic joins the basilic vein. 6. Points to the posterior basilic vein. 8. Anterior basilic vein. 9. Point where the cephalic enters the axillary vein. 10. A-portion of the same vein as seen under the fascia; the rest is freed from it. 11. Point where the median ce- phalic enters the cephalic vein. 12. Lower portion of the cephalic vein. 13. Me- dian cephalic vein. 14. Median vein. 15. Vena Communicans. 16. Cephalica- poUicis vein. 17. Subcutaneous veins of the fingers. 18. Subcutaneous palmar veins.