• TOPOGEAPHY OF THE PHAEYNX. 149 The posterior nares open into its upper part in a vertical direction. They are each about an inch in height, half an inch in breadth, and about three-fourths of an inch from the posterior wall of the pharynx; their surface is smooth, and they are sHghtly expanded, which facilitates the introduction of a plug, when this becomes necessary to arrest hemorrhage, and at the same time allows the plug to slip back into the^ pha- rynx, unless it be retained by the proper means in situ. It will be observed that in plugging the posterior nares, unless the plug be adapted to their shape, the lower part of the ori- fice may be closed whOe the upper part will be left open. The pharyngeal orifice of each Eustachian tube will be seen a short distance behind, and to the outside of the nasal orifice. It is on a plane about one-fourth of an inch above the floor of the nasal fossa. It is somewhat expanded in the shape of a funnel, which readily admits a probe, or a tube for injecting the tympanum. Quite a deep sulcus in the upper and outer part of the pharynx should be noticed. It is just behind, and separated from the Eustachian orifice by a ridge. The Soft Palate and the Uvula, Fig. 55, c, u, projecting from the centre of its free border, may now be examined. It is a muscular organ, firmly attached to the posterior margin of the hard palate, and projecting backwards and downwards into the pharynx; it serves to extend the floor of the nasal fossae and roof of the mouth in this direction. It diminishes in thickness from before backwards, and assumes an arched form, with the concavity looking downwards and forwards. When elevated, it has a horizontal direction, and its free border is applied to the posterior wall of the pharynx, so as to form a septum between its upper and two lower divisions. The palate is marked on both of its surfaces in the middle by a whitish line or raphe. The Uvula has a conical shape, varies very much in size, and consists principally of mucoiis membrane and areolar tissue, with a few longitudinal muscular fibres. It is pendu- lous, and, when not enlarged, its tip nearly touches the tongue, near the foramen ca3cum. Its areolar tissue is lia- ble to be filled with serum in inflammation of the throat, causing it to rest upon the tongue, and thus giving rise to a sense of titillation. Its weight, in these cases, may have a tendency to draw down the soft palate. 13*