OF THE PHAEYNX. 203 or remrrenf branch, enters the larynx at its lower and poste- rior part. It supplies, mainly, the muscles with involuntary motor filaments. The hypoglossal branch furnishes the laryn- o-eal muscles with voluntary m.otor filaments. Sect. IV.—Dissectiof of the Pharynx. The pharynx should be distended with hair, or something which may be had conveniently, for the dissection of its muscles. It is reached with more facility if the cervical ver- tebrte be first removed, or if a transverse vertical section of the cranium be made just in front of the occipital foramen. If the student has an opportunity to dissect but a single sub- ject, he should not sacrifice a good view of the topography of the interior of the pharynx, for the sake of getting a more distinct idea of its muscles by a special dissection. The following are the five muscles which enter more or less into the composition of its miiscular walls:— The Inferior Constrictor, Fig. 86 (7), and Fig. 87 (9), arises from the upper ring of the trachea, the cricoid cartilage, and the posterior part of the ala of the thyroid; the fibres radiate as they pass backwards to be inserted into the raph^, which is common to the constrictors of both sides. The lower fibres are nearly horizontal in their direction, and cor- respond to the superior circular fibres of the oesophagus. The superior fibres are oblique, and overlap the lower part of the middle constrictor. The Middle Constrictor, Fig. 86 (e), arises from the cornua of the hyoid bone, and from the stylo-hyoid ligament; its fibres radiate backwards, and are inserted into the raph€. The upper fibres overlap the lower portion of the superior constrictor, from which they are separated by the stylo- pharyngeus muscle, and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. It is connected to the base of the skull by the pharyngeal apo- neurosis. The Superior Constrictor, Fig. 86 (5), arises from seve- ral points, as the internal pterygoid plate, the pterygo-max- illary ligament, and the mylo-hyoid ridge of the inferior maxilla. Its fibres pass backwards to be inserted into the raphe, and also to be connected with the pharyngeal aponeu-