152 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK. tlie side of the tongue. Its middle portion forms tlie anterior half arch of the palate. It is situated immediately beneath the raucous memlDrane. The palato-joharT/ngeus, Fig. 57 (lo), is described with the muscles of the pharynx. The arteries of the soft palate, or velum palati, are branches of the superior and inferior pharyngeal, and of the internal maxillary. The nerves are derived from the ganglion of Meckel, and from the glosso-pharyngeal. The cartilaginous portion of the Eustachian tuhe may now be dissected. This tube, altogether, is about two inches in length. It establishes an open communication between the tympanum and pharynx. Its direction being downwards, forwards, and inwards, facilitates the escape of mucus from the tympanic cavity into the pharynx. The cartilaginous portion is about sixteen lines in length. It is much smaller where it unites with the osseous portion of the tube than at its pharyngeal orifice. It is attached to the sides of the groove formed by the petrous and spinous portions of the temporal and sphenoid bones. The outer and anterior part of the tube consists of a fibrous structure. The mucous lining of the tube is quite delicate, except at its orifice, where it resembles that of the pharynx. The position and large size of this opening deserve particular notice, with reference to the in- troduction of instruments. Sect. XIII.—Dissection of the Tongue. The Tongue is a muscular organ, capable of being moved in different directions, and of varying its form and dimensions. Divided in the median line, it presents two halves in every respect alike. It does not entirely fill the space within the curve of the teeth and alveolar processes. It diminishes in thickness from behind forwards. The anterior part of it is covered wholly by mucous membrane, and not only moves freely in the mouth, but can be protruded from it. The mucous membrane, with the papillas, were described with the topography of the mouth. The framework of the tongue consists of the hyoid bone, a hard cartilaginous substance situated in the median line,