THE LUNGS. 325 has eight or ten, and the right five or six cartilaginous rings. The Lungs (Fig. 139) have already been observed in situ in examining the pleurae. To obtain a good view of their form and external appearance, they should be inflated after their removal from the thorax. If they be not injured m their removal, they will retain the air a suflacient length of time to allow of a satisfactory inspection. Each lung presents three surfaces, a costal, a diaphragmatic, and a mediastinal. The costal surface is convex, and corresponds to the ribs and intercostal spaces, being in apposition with the pleura costalis. This surface presents two fissures in the right lung, which divides it into three lohes,_ Fig. 139 (21, 22, 23). The principal one commences behind, just below the apex, and extends downwards and forwards to the base near its inner margin ; the other, and smaller one, extends from this forward and somewhat downwards to the anterior border of the lung. The first one is much deeper than the last; it reaches entirely to the root of the lung. The left lung has but one fissure, which corresponds to the large one in the right; consequently, this lung has but ttoo lobes, Fig. 139 (24, 25). The number of lobes, however, is subject to va- riation in both lungs. The diaphragmatic surface is concave, and sloping from before backwards and downwards, so that the vertical dia- meter of the lung is considerably greater behind than before. The concavity of the right is deeper than that of the left, on account of the liver pushing the diaphragm higher up on the right side. The margin of this surface presents quite a sharp edge, which projects in between the diaphragm and the costal parietes of the thorax. The mediastinal surface is in contact with the pleura medi- astinalis. This surface in each has a concavity for the re- ception of the heart; the one in the left is the deepest, on account of the heart projecting more on the left than on the right side. The posterior border is round, and nearly straight from the apex to the base of the lung; while the anterior is sharp, oblique, and notched; the left for the apex of the heart, and the right for the right auricle; besides these notches, there is a small one on the right side for the de- scending cava, and another on the left for the subclavian 28