DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 237 muscles dnw tlie head backwards, or to one side. The large recti may assist in rotating it, or moving it on the axis. The Obliquus Capitis Inferior, Fig. 98 (i 5), arises from the spinous process of the second vertebra, goes upwards and outwards, and is inserted into the transverse process of the atlas. It moves the atlas round the odontoid process, and thus assists in rotating the head. The Obliquus Capitis Superior, Fig. 98 (14), arises from the transverse process of the atlas, and passes upwards and inwards, and is inserted into the occipital bone just above the insertion of the rectus major, which is partly covered by it. The upper part of this muscle is broad and aponeurotic. It bends the head backwards and to one side. After the muscles on the back of the neck have been dis- sected, the vertebral artery may be examined in its course through the transverse processes, and as it enters the foramen occipitale. It is accompanied by the vertebral vein. The gTcat number of muscles on the back, with their nu- merous attachments, renders this part of the body somewhat difficult of dissection and study. Few students have the time and patience to learn all these muscles and their attachments, and, when it is done, the knowledge thus acquired cannot long be retained. Yet the dissection of the back should not be neglected; it should receive a portion of the time and attention of every student. Instead of attempting to recollect the exact origin and in- sertion of each muscle, or any mere arbitrary division based upon their arrangement in layers or strata, he should-rather endeavor to fix them in his mind according to their individual or combined action. As, for example, he should arrange and classify in his own mind all those muscles which act directly or indirectly on the shoulder, and through the shoulder on the arm or on the walls of the thorax, as in respiration. In this way he will learn what muscles are at fault in displace- ments of the scapula,or in curvatures of the spine depending on a loss of antagonism in the muscles of the two sides, or of tone in those of both sides. All the muscles concerned in support- ing or moving the head should be grouped together as acting in unison, and also those which act on the vertebral column^ but not as acting on separate vertebras so much as on its cliflerent sections. When the muscles of the back are studied