468 OF THE PELVIS. splits to form the levator aod recto-vesical fasciae; a white line may be seen from the inside of the pelvis corresponding to this line of separation. As the fibres descend, the entire muscle IS inclined obliquely inwards, towards the median Ime of the perineum. The insertion of its fibres extends from the coccyx behind, to the perineal centre in front. Those in the middle part are inserted into the external sphincter and lower part of the rectum; the posterior fibres into the coccyx and a raphd extending from the coccyx to the anus; and the anterior fibres into the perineal centre and the rec- tum behind the bulb of the urethra. From the origin and insertion of this muscle, it will be seen that its pelvic surface corresponds to the prostate gland, the neck and lower fundus of the bladder, the vesiculte seminales, and the lower part of the rectum; and that, when both of the muscles act together, they tend to elevate, and at the same time compress, these organs; and, hence, they co-operate with the abdominal muscles in the evacuation of the faeces, the urine, and the contents of the seminal vesicles. The upper cavity or pocket is formed by a reflection of the two layers of the deep perineal fascia upwards to join the pelvic fascia on the prostate gland and vesiculse seminales. The muscles of Wilson and Guthrie, or the compressores urethrse, are placed between these two layers so as to inclose the membranous portion of the urethra. These two layers of fascia will be better understood when the muscles just mentioned have been described. The COMPEESSOEES, Or LEVATOEES UEETHR^, Fig. 196 (s, 9, 1 o), are composed of two sets of fibres. Those which compose the muscle of Guthrie arise on each side by a short tendon from the ramus of the ischium near where it joins the ramus of the pabes, and, passing transversely inwards, divide into two layers, each of which is inserted into a rapht^, the one above and the other below the membranous portion of the urethra, extending from the bulb to the prostate gland. Those described by Wilson form on each side a small fas- ciculus, which arises by a narrow tendon from the back part of the symphysis pubis about midway between the anterior ligaments of the bladder and the pubic arch, and, passing downwards, is inserted into the muscle of Guthrie. Both of these muscles are fan-shaped, being broader at their insertion