7.5 BASE OF THE BRAIN. part of tte crura cerebri, and thence to the optic thalami and tubercula quadrigeraina. The two olivary bodies are joined to each other behind the anterior pyramids, and form a part of the floor of the fourth ventricle. The CoRPOEA Eestiformia, Fig. 17 (zi), are observed be- hind the olivary bodies. They are separated from each other, below, by the posterior median fissure, and, above, by the fourth ventricle. They are a continuation of the posterior lateral columns of the spinal cord upwards to the ganglia of the cerebellum. The Corpora Pyramidalia Posteriora, or Innominata, are seen in the floor of the fourth ventricle, one on each side of the median fissure. Their fibres extend upwards to the cerebrum. The Arciform Fibres arise from the anterior pyramids, arid, curving round the olivary bodies, join the corpora restiformia. They are very irregular. Sometimes they are seen above and below the olivary bodies, and again they spread out over them. The grooves, between which the olivary body on each side is situated, are occupied by the roots of nerves. The BASE of the brain may now be examined. There are three subarachnoid spaces to be noticed, in the first place, on the base of the brain. The two lateral are formed by the arachnoid passing from the lower surfaces of the middle to the anterior lobes, without dipping into the fissures of Sylvius. The anterior is situated in front of the pons Varolii, and between the middle lobes. These spaces are filled with, loose areolar tissue, and are capable of containing a consider- able quantity of serum. The arachnoid, where it is reflected to form these spaces, is quite thick and strong. The under surface of the brain, it will be observed, presents an appearance very different from the upper. Taking the encephalon, the following prominent points will be noticed: On the sides, are the anterior and middle lobes of the cerebrum, separated by the fissures of Sylvius; behind the middle lobes, and separated from them by the trans- verse fissure, are the hemispheres of the cerebellum. Thus, the encephalon presents six promine7it parts, situated later- ally on its inferior surface. In the space between these parts, and occupying the centre, are the following, commenc- ing posteriorly: The medulla oblongata, situated betweeA