SUPERFICIAL PARTS OF THE NECK. 181 between the stylo-glossus, with which its fibres intermix, and the lingualis. The Lingual Artery, Fig. 65 (s), enters the submaxillary region a short distance outside the free extremity of the great cornu of the hyoid bone, and on a plane somewhat deeper. It almost immediately passes behind the hyo-glossus muscle, just above the cornu of the hyoid bone, to get between the genio-hyo-glossus and lingualis. The middle constrictor of the pharynx lies behind it, in the first part of its course. The situation and relations of this artery should be noticed with reference to the application of a ligature to it. The Stylo-Pharyngeus Muscle, Fig. 70 (4), arises from the styloid process, passes downwards and inwards to the pharjmx, which it enters between the superior and middle constrictors. The glosso-pharyngeal nerve runs along the side of this muscle between it and the stylo-glossus to the margin of the hyo-glossus, beneath which it passes to the base of the tongue, sending filaments in this region to the pharyngeal plexus. The dissector will find the stylo-pharyn- geus muscle a guide for finding this nerve. The Sublingual Gland, Fig. 3 (5), is the smallest of the three large salivary glands. It is situated near the symphy- sis of the chin, occupying a fossa on the inner side of the lower jaw. Its upper surface is covered by the mucous membrane of the mouth, between the incisor teeth and the tongue; below, it rests upon the mylo-hyoideus muscle; ante- riorly, it is in relation with the lower jaw. It is sometimes connected by a process with the submaxillary gland. Its excretory ducts are ten or twelve in number. They open into the mouth near the franum of the tongue. Sometimes they are caUed the ducts of Rivinus. A communication occasion- ally exists between these ducts and the duct of Wharton. The relations of the submaxillary and sublingual glands are worthy of particular notice. It will be observed that the submaxdlary is covered externally by skin, superficial fascia, platysma myoides, and deep fascia, while the sublingual is covered mternally by mucous membrane, and submucous areolar tissue. The mylo-hyoideus forms the principal sep- tum between them. They-are both in apposition with the lower jaw; the sublingual occupying the sublingual fossa