THE LOWER EXTREMITY. 556 the integument on each side of it; the anterior branch continues to accompany the saphenous vein to the dorsum of the foot, giving branches to the ankle-joint and to the sldn on the foot. The -posterior femorccl cutaneous branch of the small sciatic, Fig. 234 (3), terminates in filaments sent to the integument on the back of the leg, and also to anastomose with the external saphenous nerve. peroneal cutaneous hranch, Fig. 234 (s, 7), of the exter- nal popliteal nerve is distributed to the integument on the outer part of the leg. Having completed the dissection of the vessels and nerves, the superficial fascia should now be removed to expose the deep fascia. The deep fascia on the back of the leg is continuous with the deep fascia in the popliteal space, where it is strength- ened by fibrous expansions from the tendons of the biceps, the semi-tendinous, the gracilis, and the sartorius. It is at- tached laterally, to the fibula on the outer side, and to the itltr^i*' angle of tlie tibia on the inner side; below, it is con- nected to the internal annular ligament of the ankle. There is another fascia on the back of the leg, which separates the superficial from the deep-seated layer of muscles. This will be noticed when it is reached in the course of the dissection. .The internal annular ligament^ Fig. 241 (14), arises from fhe margin of the internal malleolus, and is inserted into the internal side of the os calcis and the plantar aponeurosis. It spreads out so that it is much broader below than above. .From its deep surface septa proceed inwards, to form several fibrous canals or sheaths for the tendons of the deep muscles of the back of the leg, and also for the posterior tibial nerve and vessels. The use of the fascia just described is to pro- tect the parts beneath it, and to form for the muscles sheaths, which increase their power of contraction; the annular liga- ment keeps the tendons which pass beneath it in their proper position. -ni{Fi»!ev1ihree following muscles constitute the superficial layer on the back of the leg. They are large, except the plantaris, and easily dissected. Two of them, as will be ob- served, arise from the femur above the articulation of the knee, and the third one arises from both bones of the leg, while, they all are inserted into the os calcis.