OP TH.E ABDOMEN. 862 The manner in which these regions are occupied, will be better understood after the viscera have been described. "We shall give here merely a general account of the location of the difi'erent organs, preparatory to the examination of the peritoneum, and in order that the student may obtain some idea of the position of the different viscera in the abdomen before he proceeds to the study of them separately. He can- not beconie too familiar with the exact situation and relation of each viscus in this cavity. In the upper' part of the cavity, Fig. 153, and in relation with the diaphragm, are the liver, the stomach, and the spleen. The liver alone occupies the left hypochondriac region; a part of the liver and stomach are situated in the epigastric region; the spleen and a portion of each of the other organs are found in the left hypochondriac region, ^'hepancreas is situated behind the stomach, extending from the spleen on the left to the concavity of the duodenum on the right. The kidneys are placed in the back part of the lumbar regions. The ccecum is in the right iliac region. The colon commences at the CEecum, passes upwards through the right lumbar region to the liver, then turns to the left and goes across the upper part of the umbilical, below the liver and stomach, to the left lumbar region, where it is in contact with the spleen; thence it descends, in front of the kidney, to the left iliac region, where, after forming the sigmoid flexure, it enters the pelvis and terminates in the rectum. The duodenum begins at the right extremity of the stomach, proceeds about two inches and a half to the right between the liver and colon, turns downwards behind the colon, and then passes to the left through the mesentery, to terminate in the jejunum. The remainder of the small intestine, consisting of the jejunum and ileum, is found principally in the umbilical region, and terminates in the caecum. The Peritoneum is the largest serous sac in the body. It presents two surfaces, an external and an internal; the latter is smooth and polished, being constantly lubricated with a serous exhalation; the/ormer, or external, is everywhere ad- herent. It is divided into a visceral and a parietal portion; and different parts of these, as will be seen, are designated by different names. Above the umbilicus, and in the median line, the parietal