OP THE ABDOMEN. 410 and their use is not known. They are usually classed with the thymus and thyroid bodies, and are supposed to perform some function connected with foetal life. In the foetus they are nearly as large as the kidneys. They are well supplied with bloodvessels. The abdominal viscera having been removed and examined, the student may now proceed to dissect the vena cava and the aorta, with such of their branches as have not already been noticed. The thoracic duct, the sympathetic cord, the branches of the lumbar plexus of nerves, and some of the deep muscles will also be included in this dissection. The AoETA, Fig. 177 (7), will be seen entering the cavity of the abdomen between the crura of the diaphragm, where it rests on the bodies of the last two dorsal vertebras. It ex- tends down to the fourth lumbar vertebra, where it divides into the common iliacs. It is placed somewhat on the left side of the bodies of the vertebrse over which it passes. The parts placed in front of it have been, for the most part, removed, or have already been examined. They are, the liver, the stomach, the pancreas, the solar plexus, the vena portse, the lower portion of the duodenum, the transverse colon, the transverse mesocolon, the small intestines, the mesenteiy, the aortic plexus, and the left renal vein. The vena cava ascen- dens, the thoracic duct, the vena azygos, and the right semi- lunar ganglion lie on its right side. On its left side are the left semilunar ganglion, the left supra-renal capsule, and the peritoneum, which covers the lower part of it, both in front and on the left side. The left lumbar veins pass hehind it. The Pheenic Arteries, Fig. 177, and Fig, 159 (1), arise from the aorta separately or in common, near the cceliac. The left one passes upwards and outwards behind the oesopha- gus, to ramify on the under surface of the left portion of the diaphragm. The right one passes behind the vena cava, and is distributed to the under surface of the right portion of the diaphragm. They anastomose with each other, and with branches of the internal mammary and intercostal arteries. They do not always, or both of them at least, arise from the aorta. The lumbar arteries, Fig, 159 (s), and Fig. 177, consist of four or five pairs. They correspond to the intercostal arteries. They arise from the posterior aspect of the aorta, and pass