THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 274 hand. Its action is to increase the depth of the hollow of the i palm of the hand. I Two cutaneous nerves, one from the ulnar, and the other \ from the median, are distributed to the skin in the palm. These branches were noticed in the dissection of the median and ulnar nerves in the lower part of the forearm, as passing over the annular ligament to the hand. Between the skin and the palmar fascia there is usually- considerable fat, which must be dissected from the latter. The fascia is of a triangular shape, narrow above and broad below. It is attached to the annular ligament above; be- low it divides into four processes, one for each finger, and each of these again is subdivided into two others, which dip down to be inserted into the sheaths of the tendons of the flexor muscles of the fingers, and the ligaments of the joints beneath. The first mentioned processes are connected by \ transverse fibres, which form arches over the lumbricales and the digital arteries and nerves. The fascia is bound i down by fibres which pass between the tendons to be f attached to the metacarpal bones. It is very thin over the muscles of the thumb and little finger. This fascia should be noticed with reference to the formation of pus beneath it, and punctured woands in the palm of the hand. The Superficial Palmar Arch, Fig. 112 (le), and its branches, are situated immediately beneath the palmar fascia. These, with the branches of the median and ulnar nerves, should I be dissected next. The arch is readily exposed by following the ulnar artery, or the superficialis volse, over the annu- lar ligament. It is situated nearly in the centre of the i palm, with its convexity looking towards the fingers. The i principal branches from the arch are the four metacarpal, j Three of these correspond respectively with the second, third, and fourth interosseous spaces, while the fourth one passes | down to the ulnar side of the little finger, t Each of these arteries, except the one which goes to the \ ulnar side of the little finger, divides at the lower end of the j space which it occupies, into two digital branches; these extend f along the contiguous sides of the fingers to their extremities. .! Those of the same finger anastomose freely with each >! other, especially in its pulpy portion. It usually requires some patience to dissect out these arteries in consequence ot ( ■i