DISSECTION OF AKTICULATIONS OF PELVIS. 537 are nearly transverse. One or two of the oblique fasciculi^ Fig. 232 (9), have been described as distinct ligaments. The ligament is situated deeply in the groove formed between the sacrum and ilium; it requires considerable time and patience to make a satisfactory exposition of all its fibres or fasciculi. A synovial membrane is sometimes found in this articulation, especially in the female, while a soft yellowish substance is sometimes met within it in the male. As it is occasionally desirable to disarticulate the os innominatum, as in making a dissection of the pelvic viscera, the student should be care- ful to ascertain the exact position of the symphysis, in front, and divide all the fibres of the anterior ligament, when a small scalpel can be carried through the cartilage which connects the two bones forming the joint. The two following ligaments connect the sacrum and coc- cyx to the ischium. They enter so largely into the formation of the pelvic parietes, and sustain such important relations to various parts, that the student cannot neglect to obtain a thorough knowledge of them without doing great injustice to himself. They should be carefully studied before he attempts to make a dissection of the pelvis or the pelvic viscera. Their value in the mechanism of the pelvis will be observed the moment that he contrasts an articulated pelvis, composed simply of the bones, with one prepared with these ligaments cleaned and retained in situ. The Posterior or Great Sacro-Sciatic Ligament, Fig. 233 (4), is of a somewhat triangular shape, with the lase attached to the posterior inferior spinous process of the ilium and to the border of the sacrum and coccyx, and the apex to the inner edge of the tuberosity of the ischium and to the ramus of the same bone. The obturator fascia is connected to the anterior or falciform portion of this ligament, which projects a little into the perineum, and serves to protect the internal pudic vessels. The posterior surface of this liga- ment is occupied by the origin of a part of the gluteus maxi- mus muscle, while the anterior surface is partly free, looking into the pelvic cavity, and partly in apposition with the short ligament. It is perforated by small foramina for the trans- mission of vessels. The Anterior or Small Sacro-Sciatic Ligament, Fio-. 233 (5), is attached behind to the side of the sacrum^ and