599 LIGAMENTS OF THE KNEE-JOINT. Fig. 259 (d), as was stated above, is usually found separating it, ju^t above its insertion, from the tibia. The ExTEKNAL Long and Short Lateral Ligaments, Fig. 258 (e, 7), are situated on the outer side of the joint. The long external lateral ligament arises from the outer and back part of the external condyle of the femur, close to the origm of the popliteus, descends anterior to the tendon of the biceps, and is inserted into the outer part of the head of the fibula. The short external lateral ligament arises nearer the back part of the external condyle, close to the origin of the tendon of the external head of the gastrocnemius, passes downwards, and is inserted into the posterior part of the head of the fibula. It is smaller, shorter, and deeper seated than the long ligament. It is connected to the semilunar cartilage, and sometimes ter- minates in the coronary ligament. The inferior external articular artery passes beneath both of these ligaments, and they are separated from each other by a fasciculus of fibres derived from the tendon of the biceps. The Internal Lateral Ligament, Fig. 258 (5), arises from the inner and posterior surface of the internal condyle of the femur, just below the insertion of the tendon of the adductor magnus. It passes downwards beneath the tendons of the sartorius, gracilis, and semi-tendinosus, from which it is separated by a bursa, to be inserted into the inner part of the head of the tibia. Its inner surface is in relation with the semilunar cartilage and synovial membrane above, and the inferior internal articular artery below. It is a broad, flat ligament, being much broader, however, below than above. The Posterior Ligament or Ligamentum Posticum, Fig. 258 (1), is composed of fibres which cross the articulation behind in different directions; a large proportion of them, however, have an oblique direction from the inner and poste- rior part of the head of the tibia upwards and outwards to the external condyle of the femur; many of these fibres are con- tinued from the tendon of the semi-membranosus, forming what has been called the ligament of Winslow. It forms the floor of the central part of the popliteal space. Anteriorly, it is in relation with the semilunar cartilages, synovial mem- brane, and the inter-condyloid notch. It is perforated by one or more foramina, for the transmission of the middle articular