273 THE PALM OF THE HAND. The Kadial Artery may now be examined in its course over the wrist. It winds round the external lateral ligament of the wrist-joint, below the radius, and enters a triangular space betAveen the tendons of the extensor muscles of the thumb; leaving this space, where it is covered merely by the skin and fascia, it gets between the metacarpal bones of the thumb and index finger, and then disappears between the two heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle, and enters the palm of the hand. It gives off the dorso-carpal branch, which passes transversely beneath the tendons, on the back of the wrist, to anastomose with the dorso-carpal branch of the ulnar. From the arch thus formed, branches pass up to anastomose with the interosseoxis arteries; others descend in the interosseous spaces to the fingers. The branch, in the second interosseous space, is sometimes quite large. Other small branches are given off from it to the back of the thumb and forefinger. The canals in the posterior annular ligament may now be examined. There are six of them altogether. They are lined by synovial membrane so as to allow the tendons to glide through them with perfect facility, while each is kept in its proper place. The synovial membrane usually extends some distance above and below the ligament. Between the different openings the ligament is firmly attached to the bone beneath. The examination of the dorsal interosseous muscles may be postponed until the palm of the hand has been dis- sected. The Palm of the Hand. To dissect the front part of the hand it should be placed with the palm upwards; the thumb and fingers should also be extended and fixed with hooks. It is immaterial in what direction the incisions are made for the purpose of removing the skin. In dissecting it from the inner part of the palm, it is to be recollected that the following muscle is inserted into the integument:— The Palmaris Brevis arises from the annular ligament and palmar aponeurosis, and passes, in fasciculi, transversely inwards, and is inserted into the skin in front of the meta- • carpal bone of the little finger near the inner border of the