67 THE CEREBRUM. and usually lie concealed just beneath its edge. _ Tlie fifth pair are large, and perforate the dura mater a little below the margin of the tentorium; they are readily exposed by cutting through the tentorium directly over them. The sixth pair are much smaller, and will be seen a little further back and nearer to the median line. The seventh 'pair are situated more externally, and nearer to the petrous portion of the temporal bone. The eighth pair consist of several fasciculi, and are a little nearer to the median line and further back than the preceding. The ninth pair will be observed near the foramen occipitale. These nerves must all be divided, as they are brought into view, with a sharp scalpel or with the scissors. The tentorium must be cut through on each side before all the nerves can be divided. The spinal marrow is to be cut across by carrying the scalpel as far down as convenient through the occipital foramen, care being taken, at the same time, to sever the vertebral arteries. Having divided all these parts, the brain is easily removed by carrying one or two fingers down so as to dislodge the medulla oblongata and cerebellum, while the whole is steadied and carefully supported with the other hand. It is hardly necessary to remind the student of the necessity of handling the encephalon with great care, in order to preserve it entire. If the cerebellum now be pushed a little backwards, and away from the testes, the valve of the brain and the processus cerebelli ad testes^ Fig. 13, n, will be seen. To obtain a good view of these, the student may divide the cerebellum in the median line and down to a level with the valve. Having examined the valve in situ, he may continue the incision to near the base of the cerebellum. Thus, dividing this organ need not interfere with its examination at another time. The interior of the Fourth Yentricle, Fig. 10, v, Fig. 16, will be distinctly seen by separating the two halves of the cerebellum. It consists of a lozenge-shaped space, situated behind and below the tubercula quadrigemina, which sepa- rate it from the third ventricle. Its boundaries are formed by the medulla oblongata, the cerebellum, and the cerebrum, so that it may be regarded as a space occurring incidentally between all these parts. The object to be gained by studying it as a cavity is simply to learn the location of the parts with which it is in relation. Its floor is formed by the upper and posterior surface of the medulla oblongata ; its roof is arched from above down-