THE LOWER EXTREMITY. 542 of which It IS separated by a bursa; the sliort head arises, muscular, from the linea aspera and the external intermus- cular septum, commencing where the insertion of the gluteus maxirnus ends, and extending down near to the condyle. The long head and the semi-tendinosus separate from each other about three inches below their common origin. The two heads unite to form a round tendon, which passes down- wards and outwards, and is inserted by two fasciculi into the head of the fibula. The long external lateral ligament of the knee-joint is placed between these fasciculi; some fibres extend from one of these fasciculi to the fascia of the leg, and some from the other fasciculus to the head of the tibia. The Semi-Tendinosus, Fig. 215 (e), arises, tendinous and muscular, from the tuberosity of the ischium in common with the long head of the biceps, passes at first directly down- wards, and then inwards, becoming tendinous a short dis- tance below the middle of the thigh. Its tendon, small and slender, passes around the inner side of the knee-joint, then forwards, and is inserted into the tubercle of the tibia. Its tendon, joined with those of the sartorius, gracilis, and semi- membranosus, form what has been called the gooseys foot. The appropriateness of the name of this muscle will be seen when the relative length of its tendon is noticed. The Semi-Membranosus, Fig. 215 (7, 7), arises from the posterior part of the tuberosity of the ischium, in front of the biceps flexor and semi-tendinosus and behind the quadratus femoris, and passes downwards and inwards to the inner and posterior part of the knee-joint, where its tendon divides into three processes, one of which is inserted into the apo- neurosis that covers the popliteal muscle; another, pass- ing under the internal lateral ligament, is inserted into the inner tuberosity of the tibia; the third one forms a part of the posterior ligament of the knee-joint or the ligament of Winslow; this part of it is inserted into the external con- dyle of the femur. The upper tendon is quite long, flat, and aponeurotic; the lower part of it consists of two lamina, from the opposing surfaces of which fibres arise to form the upper part of the belly of the muscle. The lower tendon is round and very short. By this arrangement of the muscular bellies of the semi-tendinosus and semi-membranosus, the symmetry of the back part of the thigh is preserved, the belly of each