284 THE UPPER EXTREMITY. beHnd, and is inserted into the semilunar and cuneiform bones. Fig. 124. The Ligaments of the Anterioii Aspect op THE Wrist and Hand.—1. The lower part of the interosseous raembrane. 2. The anterior inferior radio-ulnar ligament. 3. The anterior ligament of the wrist joint. 4. Its external lateral ligament. 5. Its internal lateral ligament. 6. The palmar ligaments of the carpus. 7. The pisiform bono with its ligaments. 8. The ligaments connecting the second range of carpal bones with the meta- carpal and the metacarpal with each other. 9. The capsular ligament of the carpo-metacarpal articulation of the thumb. 10. Anterior ligament of the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation of the thumb. 11. One of the lateral ligaments of that articulation. 12. Anterior ligament of the meta- carpo-phalangeal articulation of the index finger; this ligament has been removed in the other fingers. 13. Lateral ligaments of the same articu- lation ; the corresponding ligaments are seen in the other articulations. 14. Transverse ligament connecting the heads of the metacarpal bones of the index and middle fingers; the same ligament is seen between the other fingers. 15. Anterior and one lateral ligament of the phalangeal articu- lation of the thumb. 16, 16. Anterior and lateral ligaments of the phalangeal articulations of the index finger; the anterior ligaments are removed in the other fingers. The carpus is composed of eight bones, arranged in two rows; there being four in each row. The bones in tlie upper row, except the pisiform, are connected together by two dorsal and two palmar transverse ligaments^ and also by two interosseous fihro-cartilages. The pisiform is connected by a capsular ligament to the cuneiform, and by ligamentous fibres to the unciform and fifth metacarpal bone. The bones of the lower row are joined together by three dorsal, and three palmar transverse ligaments, and tivo interosseous fibro-cartilages. The two rows are connected to each other by dorsal 'and palmar, and external and internal lateral ligaments. The dor- sal and palmar ligaments consist of fibres which pass ob- liquely from the bones of one row to those of the other. The external lateral ligament extends from the scaphoid to theV trapezium. The internal lateral ligament connects the cuneiform and unciform bones.