ORIGIN OF THE CEREBRAL NERVES. 83 sinus, it is joined by one or two filaments from the sympa- thetic. They are much smaller than the third pair, but larger than the fourth The Seventh Pair, Fig. 17 (34), consist each of two nerves, the portio dura, or facial, and the portio mollis, or auditory nerve. The portio mollis is the largest of the two, and is situated behind the portio dura. It arises in the floor of the fourth ventricle by the linese transversa, and from gray neurine in the corpus olivare, passes round the restiform body to join the portio dura just below the crus cerebelli. The portio dicra arises from the corpus innominatum, near the calamus scriptorius, and passes through the corpus restiforme; it is joined by the auditory nerve, as before mentioned, and both pass outwards to the meatus auditorius internus. The portio mollis goes to the labyrinth of the ear, the portio dura to the muscles of the face, &c. The Eighth Pair, Fig. 17 (se), consist each of the glosso- pharyngeal, the pneumogastric, and the spinal accessory of Willis. The glossopharyngeal and pneumogastric arise on each side, by quite a number of filaments, in the groove be- tween the olivary and restiform bodies. The former is situated a little above the latter, and is much smaller. Their roots can be traced to gray matter—respiratory ganglion—in the posterior part of the medulla oblongata, and near to the floor of the fourth ventricle, upon which there are three or four small protuberances corresponding to the origin of these nerves. The spinal accessory arises from the side of the spinal marrow, between the roots of the cervical nerves, commencing as low down as the fifth or sixth cervical verte- bra. The round cord or nerve which is formed by these roots passes upwards behind the ligamentum denticulatum to the cavity of the cranium, entering it through the foramen occipitale, to join the two preceding nerves. It is very fre- quently connected by filaments to the first and second cervi- cal nerves. The eighth nerve leaves the cranial cavity through the jugular foramen, being separated from the internal jugular vein by a ligamentous band. The Ninth Pair, or Hypoglossal, arise by several fila- ments in the groove between the olivary and pyramidal bodies. Each nerve corresponds in origin to the anterior roots of the