DISSECTION OF THE SOLE OF THE FOOT. 591 external plantar artery above the short common flexor, and in the extei-nal sulcus as far as the commencement of the plantar arch, where it divides into a superficial and a deep- seated branch. Tlie superficial branch, which is cutaneous, is distributed to the little toe, supplying both sides of it, and to the outer part of the fourth toe. The deep branch passes in- wards and upwards across the metatarsus, forming an arch similar to that formed by the external plantar artery; it is distributed to the deep muscles. Frequently, it sends quite a large branch to anastomose with the internal plantar. It also sends filaments to the articulations of the tarsus and metatarsus. The Flexor Brevis Pollicis, Fig. 254 (5), arises from an aponeurosis which partly covers it, from the inner margin of the cuboid bone, from the external cuneiform, and from the tendon of the tibialis posticus. It divides into two bellies, which are inserted by short tendons into the sides of the base of the first phalangeal bone. A sesamoid bone is generally found in each of its tendons. The tendon of the long flexor of the great toe is placed between its bellies. The Flexor Accessorius or Massa Carnei Jacobi Syl- VII, Fig. 253 (3), arises by two heads; one, larger than the other, from the inner side of the os calcis, and the other from the un- der and anterior surface of the same bone; from these origins, the two heads pass forwards, soon uniting to form a single belly which is inserted into the outer, upper, and lower sur- faces of the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum just before, or as it divides into its four tendons. Its action is to assist the long flexor in flexing the toes, and to give a direction to the action of that muscle parallel to the axis of the foot. The connection between the tendons of the long common flexor of the toes and the long flexor of the great toe should now be examined, and their tendons dissected. The Lumbricales, Fig. 253 (4, 4), are four small muscles, which arise from the four tendons of the long common flexor near its division, and, passing along the inner side of them, each ends in a small flat tendon, which is inserted into the inner and dorsal surface of the first phalangeal bone, where it also joins the tendon of the long extensor of the toes. The action of these muscles is to adduct and assist in flexing the toes