OF THE PELVIS. 446 obturator, and the internal pudic artery, require no particular description, ^ The hemorrhoidal veins and plexus are situated in the pa- rietes of the lower part of the rectum. They consist of the superior, middle, and inferior hemorrhoidal c^eins, which empty, the superior into the inferior mesenteric, and the mid- dle and inferior into the internal iliac vein, or a branch of it. A venous network is found just beneath the mucous mem- brane, and close to the anus. Hemorrhoids are very fre- quently caused by the dilatation of the veins that form this network or plexus, as was noticed in the dissection of the rectum. The vesico-prostatic plexus, Fig. 199 (9), is situated in the upper pouch or pocket formed by the deep perineal and pel- vic fasci£e, by which the veins that form a portion of the plexus are prevented from becoming very much distended. It covers the prostate gland and the neck of the bladder. In cutting for stone, this plexus is necessarily more or less wounded, which may give rise to a good deal of hemorrhage, the amount depending on the condition of the veins at the time of the operation. Behind, it communicates with the hemorrhoidal plexus; in front and below with the veins which surround the membranous portion of the urethra; it also receives the contents of the dorsal veins of the penis. These veins, after passing through the sub-pubic ligament and deep perineal fascia, unite to form a single trunk, which divides these into a right and left vein, in order to join the prostatic plexus on both sides of the prostate gland. The veins from the dorsum of the penis are kept constantly open where they perforate the dense fibrous structure of which the sub-pubic ligament and deep perineal fascia are composed. They also communicate freely with the deep veins, or those which accompany the branches of the internal pudic artery. The spermatic veins were noticed in the dissection of the testicle. They communicate with the dorsal veins of the penis, and with the pudic veins. There is occasionally a communication existing between the spermatic vein and the portal system. The ovarian veins are formed by branches derived from the uterus, the ovaries, and the Fallopian tubes. They accom- pany the ovarian arteries, and have the same termination as the spermatic veins.