LIGAMENTS OF THE THORAX. 335 nected to the sternum by ligamentous fibres, Fig. 143 (5), which surround the articulations and spread out on the sui- faces of that bone. They add very much to the strength ot the bone, which, indeed, is covered on both sides by Fig. 143. strong ligamentous bands. It will be convenient to examine, at this time, the ligaments which join the clavicles to the first ribs, to the sternum, and to each other. The clavicle, on each side, is connected to the first rib by a single ligament, named the COSTO-CLAVICULAR, or the KHOMBOID, Fig. 143 (3). It arises from the lower border of the clavicle, close to the sternum, and is in- serted into the cartilage of the first rib. Its direction is inwards and forwards. The clavicle is joined to the sternum by ligamentous fibres, which wholly surround the joint. They are sometimes designated the anterior and posterior sterno-clavicular LIGAMENTS, Fig. 143 (i), but there is no distinct line of sepa- ration between them. They form a sort of capsular ligament. This joint is usually divided into two cavities by an inter- articular FiBRO-CARTiLAGE, Fig. 143 (4), and contains two distinct synovial sacs. The fibro-cartilage is attached to the clavicle above, to the sternum below, and to the sterno-cla-. vicular ligaments, anteriorly and posteriorly. It adds con- siderably to the strength of the joint. The two clavicles are connected together by an intercla- vicular LIGAMENT, Fig. 143 (2), which stretches across the sigmoid notch at the upper extremity of the sternum, the depth of which is, by means of it, somewhat diminished. All the ribs are joined directly to the vertebroa behind. With the exception of the first and the two last, each rib articulates, by its head, with the bodies of two contiguous' The Ligaments of the Sterno-Clavi- CDLAR ANP CoSTO-StERNAL ARTICULA- TIONS.—1. The anterior sterno-clavicular ligament. 2. Tbe interclavicular liga- ment. 3. The costo-clavicular, or rhom- boid ligament, is seen on both sides. 4. The interarticular fibro-cartilage, brought into view by the removal of tbe anterior and posterior ligaments. 5. The anterior costo- sternal ligaments of the first and second ribs.