DISSECTION OF THE FOREARM. 263 thumb to unite with the superficial palmar arch, or it may end in branches- to these muscles. Sometimes this branch is very large, and forms a considerable portion of the pa,lmar arch, or it may divide into digital branches. In this dissec- tion'the radial artery disappears under the tendons of the extensor muscles of the thumb. Sometimes the radial artery leaves the anterior part of the forearm, some distance above the carpus, and winds round the radius to the back of the limb. In this case the pulse cannot be felt at the wrist, at least on the radial side. The radial artery is accompanied by ven£e comites, one on each side of it. They require no particular description. The relation of the Eadial Nerve, Fig. 108 (is), to the radial artery, is such that it is required to be dissected and studied at the same time. It is, as has been seen, the anterior division of the musculo-spiral. It lies close to the inner side of the supinator longus in the upper two-thirds of the fore- arm, and is in direct relation with the radial artery only in the middle third. In the upper third the nerve proceeds from the outer part of the elbow, while the artery descends from the centre of the bend of the arm. From these points they converge so as to meet at the junction of the upper with the middle third. They separate again at the junction of the middle and lower thirds; the nerve passing beneath the supinator longus, and over the radius to reach the back part of the arm and hand. It is superficial in this part of its course. The nerve can generally be felt beneath the skin, during life, where it winds over the radius. The radial nerve on the dorsum of the hand, Fig. 114 (4), divides into an external and an internal branch. The external branch supplies the integument on the outer and back part of the thumb, and anastomoses with the external cutaneous nerve. The internal branch passes obliquely over the exten- sor tendons of the thumb, and is distributed to the integument of the index and middle fingers, and sometimes to the radial side of the ring finger, and the ulnar side of the thumb. It anastomoses with the dorsal branch of the ulnar. The Ulnar Artery, Fig. 112 (is), is situated on the inner side of the arm. Its upper third has an oblique direc- tion from above downwards, and from without inwards, and is placed beneath the pronator radii teres, flexor carpi radi-