THE LOWER EXTREMITY. 544 forating branches, including the terminal branch, require no particular description. Thej perforate the adductor muscles, and are distributed in the same manner as the first, of which they are sometimes branches, instead of arising directly from the profunda. The branches of the popliteal, as well as the popliteal itself, will be noticed at another time. The Great Sciatic Nerve, Fig. 192 (7), has been noticed in the dissection of the parts within the pelvis, and alfeo in the gluteal region. It enters the back part of the thigh, be- neath the lower border of the gluteus maximus, and resting on the quadratus femoris, being in a line midway between the tuberosity of the ischium and the trochanter major. For a short distance below the gluteus maximus it is subapo- neurotic, having no muscle between it and the integument. It then passes under the long head of the biceps, and con- tinues down the thigh, being inclined a little outwards, to the upper part of the popliteal space, where it divides into the internal and external 'popliteal nerves. This division sometimes takes place before it leaves the pelvis; or it may occur at any point after it leaves the pelvis. "When it divides in the pelvis, the upper division usually perforates the pyriformis muscle. It is surrounded by a large quantity of areolar tissue, and of adipose substance, if the subject be fat. Its position should be noticed with reference to acupuncture, or injuries of it, from whatever cause. It will be observed that it can be reached below the biceps without passing through any muscle, and also between that muscle and the gluteus maximus. Having examined the main trunk, it should now be traced from above downwards, to find the branches given off" from it. They consist of muscular and articular branches; the latter go to the knee-joint; two branches are distributed to the semi-membranosus; one to the semi-tendinosus; one to the long head, and one to the short head, of the biceps; and one to the adductor magnus. These nerves, except the one to the short head of the biceps, usually arise just as the sciatic nerve enters the back of the thigh, sometimes coming off" from it by a single trunk, and afterwards dividing. The adductor magnus is supplied principally by branches which come from the obturator nerve; the one that comes from the sciatic penetrates the inner border of the muscle some dis- tance below its origin. The branch which goes to the short