THE LOWER EXTREMITY. 504 quire time and patience. They should be carefully studied before tlieir dissection is commenced; and when begun the scissors as well as the scalpel and the hooks will be brought in requisition in the removal of the areolar tissue and the adipose substance in which they are imbedded. The femoral artery and vein have already been exposed in the infundibuliform sheath. The anterior crural nerve should be sought in the sulcus formed by the iliacus and psoas muscles; and when found it should be raised up and made tense, so that the direction of its branches may be dis- tinctly seen and more readily traced. ■ It is better to follow out the principal branches of the crural nerve before commencing the dissection of the vessels. This is readily done with the point of the scalpel, when they are rendered tense, separating them partly by cutting and partly by tearing. They consist of cutaneous aiid muscular branches. The former were described after they became subcutaneous in connection with the superficial fascia. The middle cutaneous was divided in raising the sartorius. The internal cutaneous descends to the outer side of the artery three or four inches, and then perforates the fascia lata. In this part of its course it gives off' several cutaneous filaments, some sro.all branches to the sartorius and to the sheath of the femoral vessels, and others to anastomose with the saphenous and obturator nerves. The saphenous nerve passes down on the outer side of the artery, but leaves it when the artery enters the popliteal region; it then proceeds to the inner side of the knee-joint and becomes subcutaneous. In the deep part of its course it gives off some cutaneous and muscular branches and also filaments to anastomose with other nerves. The muscular branches require no particular description. They will be found supplying the muscles on the outer side and fore part of the thigh; also, the pectineus, and in part the adductor longus, on the inner side. A large branch goes to the lower part of the vastus internus, which has been called the short saphenous nerve. The Femoral Artery, Fig. 206 (14), commences at a point' a little to the inner side of the middle of Poupart's liga- ment, and extends to the junction of the middle and lower thirds of thfe thigh, when it passes through a tendinous canal formed by the adductor magnus and the vastus inter- nus, to enter the popliteal space.