552 THE LOWEE EXTREMITY. Instead of one middle artery, there may be several smaller ones going to supply the same parts. Like those which have been described above, it may take its origin from some one of the other articular arteries; all the arteries around the knee- jomt vary niore or less in their origin, and also in their size. ■The patella is the centre of their anastomotic connections. The gastrocnemial arteries, Fig. 238 (2,3), arise from the back of the popliteal artery, nearly opposite the articulation, and passing downwards are distributed, one to each of the heads of the gastrocnemius. They are usually larger than the •.articular branches. They correspond to muscular branches given off from the popliteal artery, above the knee-joint, to be distributed to the muscles in the loAver part of the thigh. Sect. IY.—Dissection of the Posterior and the Inner PART of the Leg. To dissect the posterior part of the leg, the integument may be removed by making an incision from the popliteal space along the median line to the heel, and thence along both the inner and outer borders of the plantar surface of the foot to a point on each side below the malleolus. From this incision the skin can be reflected externally and internally sufficiently to expose all the parts in this region. The foot should be flexed on the leg so as to make the fascia, as well as the muscles to be dissected, tense. Although it is conve- nient to describe, at this time, the parts which correspond to the subcutaneous surface of the tibia, it is not necessary that the integument which covers this surface should be removed in connection with that on the back of the leg. It is better that the student should dissect specially for the internal sa- phenous vein and nerve, as there is nothing else of any im- portance on the inner part of the leg. The vein, if injected, pr filled with blood, is easily found and traced; but it is much more difficult to find the nerve, unless it was preserved when the dissection of the anterior part of the thigh was made. To dissect them on the leg, it is immaterial whether the subject be placed on the back or on the face; if on the back, the integument can be reflected from behind forwards, and the dissection can be made in connection with the back of the leg.