DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK. tongue on tlie inside of them. The lips are active agents in receiving food into the mouth, and the tongue is concerned in forcing it back into the pharynx. Both cavities are lined by mucous membrane, which is worthy of particular attention, as presented on the upper surface of the tongue, on the alveoli and hard palate, and in the other parts of the mouth. The Lips are composed of the following structures: The orbicularis oris forms the middle and larger portion of their bulk ; it is covered on the outside by skin and subcutaneous areolar tissue; and, on the inside, by mucous membrane and submucous areolar tissue. They are abundantly supplied with arteries and nerves. The labial glands are situated on their inner side. The lips never contain adipose tissue. Their great size in the African is owing mainly to the size of the orbicular muscle. The free borders of the lips in a state of health are of a bright red color ; but in an anaemic condition of the system, or when the blood recedes from the cutaneous capillaries, they present a pale appearance. The study of the lips is very interesting and important to the artist, as they have so much to do in giving expression to the countenance. The Cheeks are composed of the same elements as the lips; besides, they usually contain more or less adipose sub- stance. The principal muscle in each cheek is the bucci- nator. It is perforated opposite the second upper molar tooth by the duct of the parotid. Besides the small buccal glands beneath the mucous membrane, there are two quite large ones situated between the masseter and buccinator muscles; these are called the molar glands. The fulness or plumpness of the cheeks depends partly on the fat which they contain, and partly on the presence of the teeth. The mucous membrane of the lips and cheeks is re- flected upon the alveolar processes, where it is blended with the fibrous structure beneath. It is here thick and dense, and possesses very little sensibility, as shown in infants, and in old people who have lost their teeth. It connects on the two sides of the alveolus, between the teeth and over the interalveolar septa. The gums are supplied with mucous follicles. Tartar, as it is called, is a product of these follicles.