THE LOWER EXTREMITY. 510 below its spine, and to the outer side of the origin of the gracilis. It passes downwards, outwards, and a little back- wards, and is inserted into the upper part of the linea aspera. The adductor brevis should now be raised and turned downwards, and the deep branch of the obturator nerve, and the branches of the obturator artery, traced. ' The Adductor Magnus, Fig. 214 (12), is a very large muscle, forming a large portion of the fleshy mass on the inner and upper part of the thigh. It cannot be fully ex- aniined until the back part of the thigh is dissected". It arises from the ramus and anterior part of the tuberosity of the ischium, and from the descending ramus of the pubes. Its fibres pass outwards and downwards, and are inserted into the linea aspera through its entii-e length, and into a tubercle on the inner aspect of the internal condyle of the femur. Its upper fibres have nearly a transverse direction, while those below increase in obliquity from above downwards. The portion of the muscle which is inserted into the linea aspera, is separated from that portion inserted into the condyle by the femoral vessels and their sheath; its tendon is here con- nected to that of the vastus internus, so as to form a tendi- nous arch over these vessels as they enter the popliteal region. By observing the direction of the fibres of the inner portion of this muscle, it will be seen that, when it contracts, it can- not compress the femoral vessels. The perforating branches of the arteria profunda, with their accompanying veins, pass through openings formed in the tendon of this muscle. The action of the adductor muscles, including the pecti- neus, is to approximate the lower extremities; they will also assist in rotating the thigh outwards. The pectineus and adductor longus may assist in flexing the thigh on the pelvis, or the pelvis on the thigh. The obturator externvs is partly brought into view when the pectineus and adductor brevis are turned down. It will be described in the dissection of the posterior part of the pelvis and thigh. The psoas magnusand iliacus internus muscles should now be divided and reflected downwards, so as to expose in front the capsular ligament of the hip-joint. Fig. 214 (2).