DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 40 It is inserted into the aponeurosis of the compressor nasi. It causes the vertical ridge sometimes seen at the root of the nose. The integument of the nose is supplied with nerves from the infra-orbital and the internal and external nasal. The facial artery, after giving off the branches already- enumerated, ascends to the forehead between the eyebrows; its terminal branch is iCalled the .angularis. Sect. II.—Appendages of the Eye outside of the Oebit. The dissection of the orbital region will embrace those appendages of the eye which can be exposed and studied without removing any portion of the walls of the orbit. These consist of the orbicularis palpebrarum, corrugator su- percilii, and tensor tarsi muscles; the eyebrows, eyelashes, tarsal cartilages. Meibomian glands, conjunctiva, caruncula lachrymalis, lachrymal gland and ducts, puncta lachrymalia, lachrymal canals and sac, and nasal duct. The integument in this region should be removed by cut- ting in the direction of the fibres of the orbicularis, but in the first place the eyelids should be made tense by inserting beneath them cotton or tow, and then stitching their edges together. The Eyebeow, Eig. 4 (i), on each side, is situated just above the attached border of the Fig. 4. upper eyelid, and rests on the superciliary ridge of the frontal bone. It is gener- ally arched and covered with hairs, which have a direction from within out- wards. The integument is separated from the orbicu- laris and occipito-frontalis muscles by a thick, dense ceUulo-adipose layer. The eyebrows can be moved upwards, downwards, or towards each other. The Eyelashes, Fig. 4 (2), consist of three or four rows of curved hairs, growing from the free borders of 3 g A Front View of the Left Eye, mode- rately OPENED.—1 Tho supercilia. 2. The cilia of each eyelid. 3. Tlie inferior palpe- bra. 4. The internal canthus. 5. The ex- ternal canthus. 6. Tho caruncula lachry- malis. 7. The plica semilunaris. 8. The eyeball. 9. The pupil.