302 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. be seen coming from tlie lungs, and entering the left au- ricle.' Replacing the heart in tlie pericardium, the student should now proceed to its dissection, commencing with the Right Auricle. Make an incision from the vena cava descendens down to the vena cava ascendens, and another transversely from this to the left extremity of the auricle. The blood and coagula usually found in this cavity must be removed with a sponge and water. That portion of the auricle between the mouths of the vense cav£e is called the sinus venosus, while the elongated portion on the left is termed the auricula, or appendix auri- culce; from the shape of the* latter the term auricle has been applied to the entire cavity. The right portion of the walls of the sinus seem to be formed by the junction of the venaa cavje, and is nearly destitute of muscular fibres. The following are to be observed in the right auricle: The tubercle of Lower, the fossa ovalis, the annulus ovalis, or isthmus of Yieussens, the valve of Eustachius, the mouth of the coronary vein, the valve of Thebesius, the foramina of Thebesius, and the musculi pectinati. The tubercle of Lower is a smooth rounded projection, situated below and a little to the right of the mouth of the descending cava. It is formed by a slight thickening of the wall, and by the oblique manner in which the vente cavas join the auricle. The fossa ovalis, Fig. 132, i, is a depression situated just above the mouth of the ascending cava and on the auricular septum. It indicates the position of \hQ foramen ovale in the foetal heart, and appears to be formed by a prolongation upwards of the posterior wall of the ascending cava. In the upper part of this fossa a small valvular opening is frequently found in the adult heart, leading into the left auricle; from its oblique direction, probably no intermixture of the blood in the auricles takes place through it. The annulus ovalis, or isthmus of Yieussens, Fig. 132, s, con- sists of an elevation around the upper and left margin of the fossa ovalis. In some hearts it is very imperfect. I The vessels of the heart cannot be very satisfactorily traced unless they are injecredTand as this cannot well be done in the heart that is intended for dissection, another one will be required for this purpose.