APPENDAGES OF EYE OUTSIDE OF OEBIt" the eyelids. In the upper eyelid they are curved upwards, in the lower, downwards ; they are longer in the centre than at the extremities of the eyelids. Their bulbs are situated between the orbicularis and the tarsal cartilages. The Orbicularis Palpebrarum, Fig. 61 (7), entirely surrounds the fissure between the eyelids. It is divided into three portions, viz: the orbicular, the palpebral, and the ciliary. The orbicular is spread out around the base of the orbit, and rests, above, on the superciliary ridge and corrugator supercilii muscle; on the outside, on the tem- poral aponeurosis, and below, on the malar bone and zygo- maticus major and levator labii superioris muscles; its fibres are red and well marked. The palpebral and ciliary portions consist of a thin layer of pale fibres situated in the eyelids; the latter lies next to their free borders, and is somewhat thicker than the former. This muscle arises from the inter- nal angalar process of the frontal bone, the nasal process of the superior maxilla, and from the upper and lower border of the tendo-palpebrarum; from this narrow attachment the fibres proceed outwards, so as to embrace the base of the orbit and the fissure between the eyelids. It closes the eye- lids, as in winking, principally by depressing the upper one; this is done by the palpebral and ciliary fibres, which are involuntary in their action. It also presses the eyelids against the ball of the eye, and directs the tears towards the puncta lachrymalia. As its principal attachment is at the inner canthus of the eye, it draws the integument in that direction, and that above the orbit more than that below. It is separated in the eyelids from the skin by loose areolar tissue, which is very liable to serous infiltration. The Tendo-Palpebrarum, or Ligamentum Palpebra- rum, arises from the nasal process of the superior maxilla in front of the lachrymal groove, passes outwards and back- wards to the inner angle of the eyelids, where it divides into two parts, one to be attached to the upper, and the other to the lower tarsal cartilage. It is about two lines and a half in length, and crosses the lachrymal sac a little above its centre; its broadest diameter is at first vertical and then horizontal; from its upper and lower borders a fibrous lamina is reflected over the lachrymal sac, and is attached to the osseous margin which surrounds it. When the orbicularis