548 THE LOWER EXTREMITY. proceeds directly to tlie interior of the joint, perforating the posterior ligament. ^ The External Popliteal or Peroneal Nerve, Pio- 237, passes downwards along the biceps flexor muscle, in the outer part of the popliteal space, to the point opposite the tibio-peroneal articulation, when it turns outwards, and pene- trates the peroneus longus muscle just below the head of the fibula. While in this muscle, or placed between it and the cervix of the fibula, it divides into its terminal branches, the anterior tibial and the musculo-cutaneous, Fig. 248. These will be described in the dissection of the anterior part of the leg, and the dorsum of the foot. The peroneal nerve is rather more superficial in its course than the internal pop- liteal. It passes over the external condyle of the femur, and the external head of the gastrocnemius. It gives oft* articular and cutaneous branches; of the latter, the communi- cans peronei or the peroneal saphenous, is the largest. This usually arises a little above the knee-joint, and passing downwards on the inner side of the peroneal nerve, gets be- tween the gastrocnemius and the deep fascia, which it perfo- rates to unite with the communicans poplitei. Its junction with the communicans poplitei is not constant, and varies very much as to the point at which it takes place. It gives oiT several small cutaneous branches in its course down the leg. The other cutaneous branch, the peroneal cutaneous^ given oif by the peroneal nerve, descends behind the exter- nal condyle, and passing down on the outside of the leg, gives off branches which ascend and descend to supply the integument on that part of the leg. The articular branches correspond to the superior and inferior external articular branches of the popliteal artery. The superior external arti- cular branch sometimes arises from the sciatic nerve. It passes downwards in front of the sciatic nerve, when it arises from that nerve, and along the biceps flexor muscle to near the external condyle, then turns outwards above it to be distributed to the joint in company with the corresponding artery. The inferior external articular nerve usually has nearly the same origin as the preceding nerve. It passes down- wards in the outer part of the popliteal space to a point just below the external condyle, and then turns outwards to be