596 THE LOWER EXTREMITY. temal lateral ligaments, thus compensating for the want of greater breadth in the upper extremity of the tibia to meet the corresponding diameter of the femur. There is but one articular surface on the femur, which may be divided into three parts: a trochlear surface for the patella, and two orlicu- lar surfaces for the glenoid cavities of the tibia; the former is placed in the middle anteriorly, being continuous laterally and posteriorly with the latter, which are placed behind, one on each side of the inter-condyloid notch. The ^fenozc^ cavities on the tibia are entirely distinct from each other, being separated by a prominence called the spine of the tibia, and two de- pressions, one behind and the other before the spine; the in- ter-glen oid space thus formed corresponds to the inter-condy- loid notch ; by means of this arrangement, the two strongest ligaments in the joint, the crucial ligaments, are thrown into the central part of the articulation, thus presenting a very interesting feature in the mechanism of this joint. The whole of the posterior surface of the patella is covered by articular cartilage; in shape it is perfectly adapted to the trochlear surface on the femur, whether the leg is flexed or extended; the femur moves on the patella, as the latter, owing to its liga- ment being inelastic, is stationary whenever the quadriceps extensor contracts. From the shape, of the articular surfaces just noticed, it will be seen that flexion and extension are the principal movements for which they are adapted; if the tibia be fixed, as in standing on one leg, the femur may be slightly rotated, the internal condyle turning on its axis in the corre- sponding glenoid cavity, as if moving on a pivot. In examining the parietes of the knee-joint, it is better to divide them into six parts or o'egions, which require to be studied separately. By doing this, the student will be able to obtain a more satisfactory knowledge of the walls of this articulation. These parts are situated, one in front, two on each side, and one behind. The anterior region contains, in the upper part of it, the tendon of the quadriceps extensor muscle. Fig. 260 (2), in the middle the patella (3), and in the lower part the ligamentum patellae, and a considerable quantity of adipose substance (4). There are two bursce mucosce in this region; one between the patella and the integument, and the other between the liga- mentum patellar and the tibia, just above its tubercle (e). The lateral regions consist of an antero-lateral and a postero-