THE LOWER EXTREMITY. 584 more or less of the adipose substance attached to the apo- neurosis. The Plantar Aponeurosis or Fascia covers nearly the whole of the under surface of the foot. It presents a pearly white, shining appearance, which will enable the dissector to distinguish it from the integument, and hence to know when he has reached it in making the first incision through tlie skin, or when, during the progress of the'dissection, he is leaving nothing but the aponeurosis. It is divided into a middle, an external, and an internal iwrtion] the separation of these is indicated by two shallow grooves or sulci, caused, as will be seen, by the arrangement of the muscles which they cover. The middle portion is thicker than either of the others. It arises from the posterior inner tubercle on the under surface of the OS calcis, and extends to the metatarso-phalangeal ar- ticalation, where it divides into four parts. It increases in breadth from behind forwards, without, however, diminishing much in thickness. Laterally, its borders project upwards between the muscles which it covers and those covered by the internal and external portions, with which it unites to form two intermuscular septa; these are more perfect before than behind. Each of the processes, into which it divides ante- riorly, subdivides into two others, which are placed, one on each side of the corresponding metatarso-phalangeal articu- lation, so as to include between them the sheath and the tendons, one of the short and the other of the long common flexor of the toes, which pass through it; they terminate by becoming attached to the sheath, and to the ligaments of the joint. Laterally, the processes are imited to each other so as to form arches which correspond to the anterior extremities of the interosseou.s spaces, and beneath which the digital ar- teries and nerves, also the lumbricales and the interosseous muscles, pass to reach the toes. For some distance from its posterior attachment, its upper or deep surface is occupied by the origin of a portion of the fibres of the flexor brevis digitorum; this fiict the student must bear in mind when he comes to raise this portion of the aponeurosis; to do which, it should be carefully divided transversely, about an inch and a half from its origin, where it begins to be separated from the muscle by areolar tissue; the portion behind this pomt