POSTERIOR AND INNER PART OF THE LEG. 557- . The Gastrocnemius or Gemellus, Fig. 236 (4, 4), arises by two heads, an external and an internal. The internal bead, sometimes called the gemellus intermis, is longer and larger than the external. It arises, muscular and tendinous, from a depression and a rough surface around it on the outer and upper part of the internal condyle, and from a ridge that is formed by the bifurcation of the linea aspera; the external head or gemellus externus arises from the outer and back part of the external condyle, and from a ridge above it. The tendon of each head is quite thick and stout at its origin^ but spreads out as it descends behind the articulation of the - knee and on the side of the popliteal space, to join the one on the opposite side. The fibres which go to form the prin- cipal part of the belly of the muscle, have their origin on the anterior surfaces of these tendinous expansions. Most of the fibres which arise directly from the bone, end in a ten- dinous substance which is placed in the median line of the muscle, while those which arise from the tendon pass down^ wards to be inserted into the posterior surface of a broad aponeurotic tendon, which grad ually becomes narrower until it ends in the tendo-Achillis. The part of the belly formed by the inner head, is much thicker than that formed by the outer head. A synovial sac is frequently found between eacli head, most commonly the left one only, and the correspond- ing condyle; in some instances they communicate with the knee-joint. Sometimes a sesamoid bone, or fibro-cartilage, is met with in one or both of the heads behind the condyle. The posterior surface of the gastrocnemius is convex, while the anterior is flattened. It forms a considerable portion of the calf of the leg. The teudo AchiHis will be noticed jn connection with the soleus. ^.'^^ The next muscle to be dissected is the plantaris. This'is so small, and so closely connected to the gastrocnemius, that the student is very liable to overlook it unless his attention has been directed to it. The Plantaris consists of a small muscular belly termi- nating in a long slender tendon, the longest in the body. It arises from a rough surface above the external condyle, and from ligamentous fibres placed behind it, and passes dowiii wards on the inner side of the external head of the o-astro- cnemius, which partly covers it, and of which it frequently