808 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. side open into tlie auricle by a single orifice. The mouths of the pulmonary veins have no valves. The auriculo-ventricu- lar orifice is situated at the lower and anterior part of the auricle. _ To expose the cavity of the left venteicle, make two in- cisions from the apex to the base, along the septum ventricu- lorum. In doing this, care should be taken not to injure the parts within the cavity. To obtain a good view of the mitral valves, the flap thus raised may be divided into two by making an incision through its centre. The general appearance of the interior of the left ventricle is similar to that of the right, and it contains nearly the same number of things to be examined. The columncB carnece are not so numerous as in the right, but present the same general arrangement. They are divided into three sets, which are distinguished from each other in the same manner as in the right. Near the mouth of the aorta they are absent, and, consequently, the surface is here smooth. Those which have the chordae tendinese attached to them are larger and stronger than the corresponding ones in the right ventricle. The chordce tendinece are larger, but fewer in number. They connect the mitral valve to the fleshy columns, and at the same time enter into the structure of this valve, and con- tribute much to its strength. The mitral valve is situated at the auriculo-ventricular opening. Its structure is similar to that of the tricuspid valve. Its free margin is iisually divided into only two seg- ments. The term mitral has been applied to this valve from its fancied resemblance to a bishop's mitre. The right ante- rior segment is the largest. From its position at the base of the ventricle, it is capable of closing the opening into the aorta, or of assisting in closing the opening into the auricle. The left posterior segment is smaller, and, also, has less mobility. The auriculo-veyitricular orifice is smaller than the right. Its transverse diameter is greater than its antero-posterior. It is surrounded by a fibroiis zone, which is blended in front and to the right side with the fibrous zone which surrounds the aortic opening. When it is viewed from the ventricle, it appears more like a fissure than an oval opening; this results