174 DISSECTIOJT OF THE NECK. the two sides in the same ' subject; also in the num- ber of transverse processes through which it passes. " From the posterior part of the subclavian two branches arise, sometimes separately and sometimes by a common trunk—the superior intercostal and the profound cervical. The SuPERioE Inter- costal passes over the neck of the first rib and enters the superior inter- costal space; on the right side, it very frequently sup- plies the upper two inter- costal spaces. The Profound Cervi- cal passes backwards be- tween the transverse pro- cess of the seventh cervical vertebra and the first rib. It assists in supplying the deep muscles on the back. The small veins in this region corresjDond to the branches of the subclavian artery. The Phrenic Nerve, Fig, 67 (24), arises from the third and fourth cervical, and passes obliquely downwards and in- wards over the scalenus anticus to enter the thorax. The subclavian vein lies in front of it, and the internal mammary artery behind it. It communicates usually by one or two filaments with the descendens noni; it is also generally con- nected by a branch of considerable size with the fifth cervical nerve. As it crosses the scalenus it is bound down by fascia. The Subclavian Vein, Fig. 66 (14), extends from the sterno-clavicular articulation to the first rib, on the inner side of the scalenus anticus, which separates it from the subclavian artery. It is more superficial than the artery, and on a plane a View of the Vertebral Artery, Carotid and Arch of the Aorta, as given BY A Vertical Section op the Neck.—1. Commencement of the thoracic aorta. 2. The innominata at its origin. 3. The left subclavian. 4. The internal mammary artery. 5. The artery of the right side. 6. The inferior thyroid. 7. The vertebral in the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae. 8. Superior intercostal artery. 9. Left primitive carotid. 10. External carotid artery. 11. Superior thyroid. 12. The lingual, which has here a common trunk with the facial. 13. Internal carotid. 14. Origin of the aorta.