DISSECTION OF THE AXILLAEY EEGION". 215 surface of the outer part of the clavicle. It can draw the acromial extremity of the clavicle downwards and forwards, thus assisting other muscles in moving the shoulder in this direction; or when the shoulder is fixed in an opposite direc- tion, it can assist in elevating the ribs. This muscle is placed between two layers of the costo-clavicular aponeurosis. Its relations to the axillary vessels and nerves should be ob- served. The Axilla is now fairly exposed, the whole of its ante- rior wall being removed. The beginner will be able to dissect and study, at least, the principal vessels and nerves, preparatory to a more thorough investigation of its contents, in his future dissections of this region. Some of the lymphatic glands may be looked for before proceeding to dissect the vessels and nerves. There are several of these glands situated just behind the lower border of the pectoralis major, which are connected with the lym- phatics of the mammary gland. Another chain is found at the border of the latissimus dorsi; and others are scattered through the axilla. Not unfrequently these glands are met with in the dissecting-room enlarged from disease. In dissecting the vessels and nerves of the axilla, much may be done with the handle of the scalpel. They are im- bedded in loose areolar tissue, which can be separated from them without much cutting. A good deal of this can be done by introducing the scissors at different points with the blades shut, and then opening them; in this way there is no danger of cutting anything, and when properly done, no occasion for breaking any of the vessels or nerves. The Axillary Artery, Fig. 92 (9), extends from the first rib to the lower border of the tendon of the pectoralis major. It is a continuation of the subclavian. Its direction varies with the position of the arm. When the arm is de- pendent, it forms nearly a right angle with the subclavian; but when the arm is elevated to a right angle with the body, it forms nearly a straight line with that artery. The recol- lection of this fact may be of some importance in keeping the arm in a proper position, in reducing luxations of the humerus, especially if sufficient time has elapsed for adhe- sions to be formed.