rOF THE PELVIS. 472 nection tliat the cavity of the abdomen is protected acrainst effusions of urine in cutting for stone. The pelvic fascia, where it is reflected from the parietes of the pelvis to join the deep perineal on the sides of the prostate gland and neck of the bladder, forms, together with this fascia, a complete septum hetweexL the abdominal cavity and the space in which the incision is made in cutting for stone. The pelvic fascia may join the deep perineal so low down as to leave hardly space sufficient for making the necessary incision without wounding the fascia where it is covered by peritoneum. We have seen one instance in which it appeared to us that it would be almost impossible to avoid wounding the perito- neum in making an incision sufficiently large to remove an ordinary sized calculus. The higher up the junction be- tween the pelvic and deep perineal fascise takes place, the less danger there will be of injury being done to the perito- neum. What are sometimes called the lateral ligamoits of the Madder are those portions of the pelvic fascia which are reflected from the walls of the pelvis to the sides of the neck of the bladder. They are placed just behind the anterior ligaments. All the fasciae, or the different layers of fasciae belonging to the genito-urinary apparatus, and several connected with the lower part of the alimentary canal having now been examined, it will be observed that these fasciae are not only continuous with each other, but they can be traced from the pelvic fascia commencing above just as well as from the triangular ligament or deep perineal fascia commencing below; and this should be done by the student. Commencing with the pelvic fascia and tracing it down- wards from its origin at the brim of the pelvis, the student, after having dissected the perineum and studied the pelvic viscera, will have little or no difficulty in understanding its connections with other fascia, and its relations to the pelvic organs. Anteriorly he will observe the manner in which it is reflected to the neck of the bladder, and to the sides of the prostate gland, forming the anterior and lateral ligaments of the bladder, and also a sheath for the anterior portion of the vesical plexus of veins; also the manner in which it is con- tinuous downwards and forwards with the layers of the deep perineal fascia, as they are placed, one above and the other below the muscles of Wilson and Guthrie. When the at- tachments of the deep perineal fascia to the arch of the