286 DISSECTION OF SPINAL CANAL AND CONTENTS. Tlie large extent of articular surface in the carpus, is deser- ving of notice. The different joints should be opened by the student. This can be done after the soft parts have been dissected, without injuring the bones. Sect. Y.—Dissection of the Spinal Canal and its Contents. To lay open the spinal canal, the soft parts which cover the lamellje of the vertebr£e should be entirely removed. When this has been done, a mallet and sharp chisel may be used for dividing the lamellae on each side of the spinous processes; or, instead of the chisel, a saw may be used for this purpose. Bone-nippers will also sometimes be found useful. The liga- mentous attachments must be severed with the scalpel. The vertebral column should be made as convex, posteriorly, as possible, by placing blocks underneath the subject. If the calvaria and the posterior part of the occipital bone have been removed before opening the canal, the student will be able to obtain a very satisfactory view of the relations of the parts in the spinal canal to those in the cranial cavity. The contents of the spinal canal are the following: The dura mater, the arachnoid, the pia mater, the spinal cord, the roots of the spinal nerves, the spinal ganglia, and the intra-spinal vessels. The Dura Mater of the cord has the same structure as that of the brain, with which it is continuous through the occipital foramen; it has not, however, the same uses. It does not form an internal periosteum to the walls of the spinal canal, nor does it furnish sinuses for the transmission of venous blood, or send off processes to support difierent parts of the spinal marrow. It is separated from the parietes of the canal, more or less, by a soft, reddish, adipose and areolar tissue, and by plexuses of veins. It has fibrous attachments to the posterior common spinal ligament. Its external surface is generally smooth. In size it corresponds to the cord, being larger in the neck and the loins than elsewhere. It gives off processes, which surround the nerves as they pass through the intervertebral foramina. The lower part of it is divided into tubular pro-