364 OF THE ABDOMEN. having readied tlie spine, they again separate, the one to de- scend^ to invest the small intestines, and form the mesentery^ the other to ascend over the lower portion of the duodenum, and the pancreas to the under surface of the liver. Thus it will be seen that the posterior lamina of the gastro- hepatic or lesser omentum passes down behind the stomach to near the lower part of the abdomen, and returns again to the liver, passing over the transverse colon, a part of the duo- denum, and the parKreas. It is this lamina which forms the lesser peritoneal sac. Although applied to the anterior lamina from the liver to the spine, except where they separate to inclose the stomach and colon, they are nowhere continuous, except at the right border of the gastro-hepatic omentum. If the student will examine this border, he will find that the two laminae of the gastro-hepatic omentum are here con- tinuous around the hepatic vessels, and that behind it is an opening which leads into the lesser sac or pouch formed by the posterior lamina. This opening is called the foramen of Wimlow, Fig. 154 (9). It is through this foramen only that the posterior surface of the stomach, the anterior surface of the transverse colon and the pancreas, and the lobus Spigehi can be reached with- out destroying the continuity of the peritoneum. It has, in front, the hepatic vessels, behind, the ascending vena cava, above, the lobus Spigelii, and below, the superior transverse portion of the duodenum. The omentum majus, or gastro-colic omentum,. Fig. 153 (27, 2 7), consists of the two laminae which have already been de- scribed as passing down from the convex border of the stomach in front of the small intestine, and again ascending to the transverse colon. It has been compared to an empty sac within a sac, and although thin and transparent, it consists of two anterior and two posterior laminae. In the lower part of it the laminse adhere so closely to each other that it is difficult to separate them, and not unfrequently it presents a cribriform or net-like appearance. It usually descends lower on the left than on the right side. Between its laminiB are found vessels, and more or less adipose substance. Its most probable use is to facilitate the movements of the convolu- tions of the small intestine on themselves and on the ab- dominal parietes. In some cases, it extends but a very little distance below the colon.