OF THE ABDOMEN. 870 behind the posterior border of tbe left lobe of tbe liver, near tbe median line. The pyloric orifice is situated about three or four inches lower down in the abdomen, and to the right side. It corresponds nearly to the position of the gall- bladder. It is much nearer to the anterior parietes than the cardiac orifice, and hence tumors which have their seat near the pyloric orifice can be more easily felt than when near the cardiac. The junction of the stomach and duodenum is indicated by a circular constriction. The superior or concave border is occupied by the lesser omentum, and looks towards the liver. The convex border is in relation with the meso- colon behind, and is occupied with the commencement of the gastro-colic omentum. The position of the stomach is altered somewhat when it is distended. Its anterior surface then looks upwards, and its posterior downwards; its borders are also changed, the convex one is directed forwards, and the concave backwards. The student may now proceed to examine the connections of the duodenum. This can be done more satisfactorily if it, together with the stomach, be moderately inflated. For this purpose, a pipe may be inserted into the upper part of the jejunum. The duodenum presents three parts for study; a, superior transverse, a descending, and an inferior transverse portion. The first division commences at the pylorus, and extends_ about two inches upwards, backwards, and to the right side, in contact with the liver and gall-bladder. It is covered on both sides by peritoneum, and consequently is quite mov- able. The vena portse and the ductus choledochus communis pass behind it. The descending portion passes downwards about three mches, having the transverse colon in front and the concave border of the kidney and its vessels behind, the ascending colon on the outer side, and the head of the pancreas on the inner side. This portion is only partly covered by peritoneum. The biliary and pancreatic ducts open into its inner and posterior part near the middle. . „ , The third division is situated between the laminae ol tlie meso-colon. It passes from the right to the left across the right cms of the diaphragm, the vena cava, and the aorta The pancreas is placed above, and partly separated from it by the mesenteric vessels. It presents a slight bulging below the transverse colon, and near its commencement, its ter-