236 THE UPPER EXTREMITY. wards. Some of tlie lower muscles pass in part over tlie first rib below their origin, to be attached to the next one; these have been called the levatores longiores costarum. The Interspinales extend between the spinous processes. Between the dorsal vertebrae they can hardly be said to exist, and are very small in the lumbar region. In the neck, they are found in pairs, corresponding to the bifid condition of the spinous processes. Some of them pass over one or more vertebrae, and are called supraspinous. There is none be- tween the first two vertebras. The Intertrans VERS ALES, Fig, 98 s), are a series of short muscles, extending between the transverse processes. In the neck, they consist of two fasciculi, an anterior and posterior. In the dorsal region they are generally wanting, excepting between the last two vertebrse. In the lumbar region they are smaller than in the neck. They support the spine, and bend it to one side. Between the occiput and the upper cervical vertebrse are several small muscles, which are worthy of more attention than some of the preceding. They are deep-seated, and, to dissect them, the position of the head must be changed, so as to render them tense. This group of muscles is separated from the complexus by an aponeurosis and dense areolar tissue. They consist of two obliqui and two recti, on each side; between these will be found a triangular space, occupied by fat and areolar tissue, and containing, also, the posterior division of the suboccipital nerve, which is distributed to those muscles, a plexus of veins, and the vertebral artery. The Eectus Capitis Posticus Major, Fig. 98 (i 3), arises from the spinous process of the second vertebra, passes up- wards, and is inserted into the inferior transverse ridge of the occipital bone. It is of a triangular shape, being broad above and narrow below. It is covered by the complexus, and the superior oblique partly overlaps its insertion. The Rectus Capitis Posticus Minor, Fig. 98 (12), is a very small muscle, situated beneath the major. It ames from the \ spinous process of the first cervical vertebra, and is mserted into the occipital bone, between the inferior transverse ridge and the occipital foramen. The small recti muscles are situated nearer to the median line than the large. The recti i