DISSECTION OF THE AXILLAKY EEGION. 221 muscle, forming the inner or tlioracic wall of the axilla. It arises from the superior nine ribs by as many fleshy digita- tions, the inferior four or five of which project in between the heads of the external oblique, and is inserted into the whole length of the base of the scapula. The lower fibres pass up- wards and backwards, while the upper fibres have nearly a horizontal direction. This muscle is capable of acting either on the ribs or the scapula. When the ribs are fixed, it draws the scapula forwards. If the lower or upper part act separ- ately, it Avill rotate the scapula on its axis. If the shoulder be carried*backwards and fixed in this position, this muscle, especially the lower part of it, will elevate the ribs, thus co- operating with other muscles in expanding the thorax. That portion of it which arises from the second, third, and fourth ribs, is quite thin. Between it and the ribs and intercostal muscles is an abundance of loose areolar tissue, which allows of a free gliding movement. This muscle should not be divided until the dissector is ready to detach the arm from the trunk. It is not very easy to make a clean dissection of the serratus magnus unless the clavicle is disarticulated from the sternum, and detached from the first rib, so that the scap- ula can be drawn backwards and separated widely from the thorax. The SuBSCAPULAEis arises, Fig. 96 (19), from the whole of the thoracic surface of the scapula; the fibres converge as they pass upwards and forwards to form a short tendon, which is inserted into the lesser tuberosity of the humerus. It passes beneath the coracoid process, and over the neck of the hu- merus, its tendon being blended more or less intimately with the capsular ligament of the shoulder-joint. Between the tendon and neck of the humerus is a large bursa, which frequently communicates with the joint. Sometimes there are two or three intermuscular septa, which seem to divide the muscle into three or four parts. It assists in keeping the head of the humerus applied to the glenoid cavity; or, it ca^ draw the arm to the thorax, or rotate the h^merus inwards. The action of the muscles around the shoulder-joint should be studied, when they have all ^QQV- dissected, ^^s cqns^itut^ ing a group, The Teres Majoe arises, Fig. 96 (14), from a flat surface netir the inferior angle of the scapula: it passes forwards, and 19*