ANATOMY OF FEMORAL HERNIA, contain more or less fibrous tissue which connects it firmly to the fascia lata, especially to the surface of the falciform process and its crescentic border. Sometimes this connection between the two fascite is so intimate that in separating them it seems more like making an artificial division than follow- ing any natural line of separation. On account of its fibrous character, its close connection to the fascia lata, and the nu- merous small openings in it for the transmission of lympha- tics, this part of the superficial fascia has been described as a distinct fascia, under the name cribriform fascia. There is no good reason, however, why it should be so regarded or described. To raise the superficial fascia, in any part of the femoral region without getting through the fascia lata requires a good deal of care, and more particularly if the subject happens to be fat. No student should attempt to remove it with the expectation of preserving the subjacent parts entire unless he has previously obtained a clear idea of them from books or previous demonstrations. The parts which require the most care not to injure in the dissection are, the falciform process in front of the femoral vessels, its crescentic border, Hey's ligament, and the infundibuliform sheath where it cor- responds to the saphenous opening, and is perforated by the saphenous vein. In his first dissection of this region, the student had better remove the superficial fascia corresponding to these parts piecemeal. The fascia lata, Fig. 150 (i 7), Fig. 208, is the proper invest- ing membrane of the thigh. It is aponeurotic in structure, resembling in some parts a broad tendon. It forms a common sheath to the muscles of the thigh, and furnishes septa which pass between them and separate them from each other. It will be referred to from time to time as the dissection of the thigh is continued. In the region which is now being exa- mined, it constitutes a most important feature in the anatomy of femoral hernia. An opening occurs in it just below the inner portion of Poupart's ligament, through which the in- ternal saphenous vein passes to open into the femoral vein, and through_ which the bowel escapes in femoral hernia! This orifice is named the saphenous ojxning, Fig. 148 (2 0) The manner in "which it is formed is a little complex; or it is apt to appear so to the student. ' In describing this portion of the fascia lata, it must be pre-