OF THE ABDOMEN, 368 sions between tlie diaphragm and the lung should exist at the same time, the pus might find its way into the bronchial tubes. An effusion into the cavity of the pleura would press the liver downwards; or, in case of enlargement of the liver, the lung might be pressed upwards. Abscesses of the liver may open externally through the intercostal spaces, or lower down through the anterior parietes of the abdomen. The reflections of the pleurse and of the pe- ritoneum are such, that if an instrument should be carried horizontally backwards through the sixth or seventh inter- costal space, it would pass through the former eight times and the latter four times. It is mainly through the medium of the liver and stomach that the impulse of the heart is transmitted to the abdomi- nal parietes. The portions of these organs which correspond to the cordiform tendon of the diaphragm are subjected to scarcely any upward or downward movement. The spleen is pressed on by the contraction of the dia- phragm. This sometimes gives rise to pain in this organ after running. If it be enlarged, the pain may be greatly in- creased. It is in relation with the ninth, tenth, and eleventh ribs, through the medium of the diaphragm, and may be pressed on by them. The position of the spleen is deep iu the left hypochondriac region, and cannot be reached by pressure upon the external surface of the body, except through the lower ribs, or by pressing the hand upwards underneath them. The under surface of the liver is in relation with the right kidney, the upper and right part of the colon, the superior transverse portion of the duodenum, the stomach, and the pancreas. Hence hepatic abscesses may open into the colon, the duodenum, or the stomach. The gall-bladder rests on the pylorus or duodenum and the colon, which are frequent- ly stained with bile in the dead subject; gall-stones some- times escape by ulceration into the colon or duodenum It corresponds very nearly to the cartilage of the eighth or ninth rib, and is about two inches and a half to the right ot the median line or linea alba. . , • -^r, +i. The anterior surface of the stoinach is m relation witb the left lobe of the liver, the diaphragm, and the anterior walls of the abdomen. The posterior surface corresponds to the pancreas, the splenic vessels, the solar plexus, and the aorta.