OF THE PELVIS. 454 lower part of the great sacro-sciatic foramen; sometimes a portion of it pierces the pyriformis muscle. It will be exa- mined in the dissection of the back part of the pelvis and thigh. The sympathetic nerve, Fig. 142, presents in the pelvis several ganglia and plexuses. The ganglia are placed to the inner side of the anterior sacral foramina. Thej consist usually of five on each side. The upper one receives one, and sometimes two communicating branches from the last lumbar ganglion. The lower one on each side is connected by a filament to a single ganglion, called the ganglion impar; this is situated in front of the coccyx. The ganglia of each side are connected by communicating filaments to the sacral nerves, there being two for each ganglion and its correspond- ing'nerve; they are quite short. There are two hypogastric plexuses in the pelvis, between which there is no direct communication. They are formed by a division of the lumbo-aortic plexus" into two, a right and left. They are placed upon the sides of the principal organs in the pelvis, both in the male and female. They receive filaments from several sources in the pelvis, as the sacral ganglia, the inferior mesenteric plexus, and the ante- rior sacral nerves. Small ganglia are found where the sacral nerves imite with those of the plexus. Each hypogastric plexus gives off several plexuses; they are the following:— The vesical plexus is situated on the side and lower part of the bladder. It sends off two sets of nerves; the ascending, which supply the ureters and the upper part of the bladder both in front and behind; and the horizontal, which go to the lower part of the bladder, including the neck. Some of these continue over the prostate gland, forming the prostatic plexus. From these plexuses small filaments penetrate the structure of the bladder and prostate gland. From the side of the bladder and the ureter, nerves go to the vas deferens and to the vesicula seminalis, forming a plexus for each one of these organs. From the prostatic plexus nerves proceed to the urethra and to the spongy structure of the penis. They reach the dorsum of the penis by passing through the sub-pubic ligament. The rectum is supplied by the superior and middle hemor- rhoidal plexuses. The former comes from the inferior mesen- teric, the latter from the hypogastric plexus. These plexuses are intimately blended with each other.