DISSECTION OF THE SOLE OP THE FOOT. 587 Fig. 249. flexors of the toes. In doing this, unless the dissection is very carefully made, one or more of the small delicate tendons of the short common flexor will be destroyed. This is very apt to occur in the first dissection which the student makes of these parts. The aponeurosis, behind the first incision that was made, can easily be separated on the sides, but not on the tinder surface of the muscle. There is no necessity, however, for raising this part of it, as it can be raised with the muscle. To raise the muscle it may be detached from the bone and reflected forwards, or it may be divided near its centre and turned, part of it backwards and part of it forwards. The abductor pollicis may next be exposed. The internal apo- neurosis should be removed by dissecting it off in the direc- tion of the fibres of the abductor muscle. The Abductor Pollicis, Fig. 249 (3), arises from the os calcis, from the in- ternal annular ligament, from the plantar aponeurosis, and from the intermuscular septum between it and the flexor brevis digitorum. It passes forwards to end in a tendon which is inserted, in common with the internal division of the flexor brevis, into the base of the first phalan- geal bone of the great toe. Its action, as its name implies, is to separate the great toe from the others; it may also assist in flexing the great toe. This muscle may now be turned over, but in doing so some care is necessary to avoid injuring the plantar vessels and nerves which pass under that portion of it which arises from the os calcis and the annular liga- ment. They can be easily preserved and traced beneath the origin of this muscle, if the vessels and nerves on the „ Muscles in the Sole of the Foot ; this layer is ex- POSED BY THE REMOVAL OF THE Plantar Fascia.-1. The OS calcis. 2. The poi tcrior part of the plantar fascia divided transversely. 3. The abductor polHeis 4 The abductor minimi digiti. 6. The flexor brevis digitorum. 6 The tondTa of the flexor longus poll eis muscle. 7,7. The lumbricales. On the second and th.rd toes, the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum are seen pass ug thiwh the bifurcation of the tendons of the fle.xor brevis digitorum ^ tuiougu the