DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 1 I in part, the orbicularis palpebrarum, anastomosing with the facial nerve. The temporal portion^ after receiving a branch from the lachrymal nerve, passes through the malar bone to the temporal fossa, in which it ascends some distance, then perforates the temporal aponeurosis, and is distributed to the integument. It anastomoses with the facial in the temporal fossa. The eyeball may now be removed from the orbit, and the attachment of the ocular muscles to the sclerotic coat ex- amined. For this purpose, the ball should be distended with wax or some other material of sufficient firmness to preserve its shape. The insertion of the oblique muscles should be studied with reference to the axis of the ball, and the manner in which they would affect the eyeball when acting alone or in con- junction with the recti muscles. They would seem to be capable, of resisting the tendency of the recti to sink the eye- ball deeper into the orbit, and, at the same time, of steadying it when one or two of the recti act separately, as in turning the eye in a particular direction. They are evidently in- tended to act in conjunction with the recti, rather than by themselves. .4j.The contents of the sphenoidal fissure, the optic foramen, and cavernous sinus should now be examined. To do this the lesser wing of the sphenoid, with its attachments to the body of the bone, must be removed, if not already done. The optic foramen is occupied by the optic nerve, with the ophthalmic artery, which lies below and outside of the nerve. The sphenoidal fissure has passing through it the ophthalmic vein, the third, fourth, first branch of the fifth, and sixth nerves, and a filament from the lenticular ganglion, to the carotid plexus of the sympathetic. These are arranged as fol- lows : The fourth, the frontal, the superior division of the third and the lachrymal nerves, occupy the upper part of the fissure, and are situated, in relation to each other, as enume- rated, beginning with the fourth on the inner side. Immedi- ately below these are the nasal, and the lower division of the third, with the sixth beneath them. The ophthalmic vein or veins, occupy the lowest part of the fissure. The nasal, third, and sixth nerves as they enter the orbit, pass between the two heads of the rectus externus.