163 SUPERFICIAL PARTS OF THE NECK. The Sterno-Hyoideus, Fig. 64 (i e) and Fig. 69 (i 4), arises from the posterior surface of the sternum, sometimes in part from the sterno-clavicular ligament and the clavicle^ or the cartilage of the first rib. It passes upwards, and is inserted into the body of the hyoid bone. It is quite thin, and from half an inch to three-fourths of an inch in breadth. It is separated from its fellow on the opposite side by a thin layer of fascia, especially in front of the trachea and thyroid gland. The proximity of these muscles should be noticed with refer- ence to tracheotomy. The Omo-Hyoideus, Fig. 64(i6), is a digastric innscle; its two bellies being connected by a small tendon behind the sterno-cleido-mastoideus. Its posterior belly arises from the upper border of the scapula, near the coracoid notch, and sometimes from the ligament subtending the notch; its ante- rior belly arises from the body of the hyoid bone. The di- rection of each belly deserves notice. The anterior one, it will be observed, corresponds in its direction very nearly to a line extending from the body of the hyoid bone to the centre of the clavicle. The posterior belly is more transverse in its direction. The tendon, common to these two bellies, is situated in the deep cervical fascia, and so connected with it as to render the fascia tense when the bellies contract. Before dissecting the origin of the posterior belly, the an- terior and lower portion of the trapezius may be exposed, and detached from the clavicle and acromion process. This part of the trapezius, Fig. 64 (22), should be dissected now, so that its relation to the supra-clavicular region may be seen. The Sterno-Thyroideus, Fig. 69 (is), arises from the posterior surface of the sternum, and sometimes in part from the cartilage of the first or second rib. It passes upwards and is inserted into the oblique ridge on the ala of the thyroid cartilage. It is placed behind the sterno-hyoideus, project- ing some distance beyond its external border. It does not, however, like that muscle, approximate closely to its fellow on the opposite side, and hence it is not directly concerned in the anatomy of tracheotomy. It is considerably broader than the sterno-hyoideus. The Thyro-Hyoideus, Fig. 64 (1 r.), is a short muscle whicli arises from the thyroid cartilage, and passes over the thyro- hyoid space, and is inserted into the hyoid bone. It appears