THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 256 Fig. 110. pying about an inch, commencing at the lower part of the glenoid cavity, where it is slightly connected to the capsular ligament. The second head arises from the pos- terior part of the humerus, commencing just below the great tuberosity, and extending down to the external condyle, from which it also arises in connection with the anconeus; some of its fibres arise from the external intermuscular septum. The third and short- est head arises from the inner and back part of the humerus, commencing just below and behind the insertion of the teres major, and extending down to the internal condyle; some of its fibres come from the internal intermuscular septum. This head is some- times called the brachialis ex- ternus. These three heads unite above the middle of the arm, and form a large muscu- lar belly, which ends in a broad flat tendon, which is in- serted into the olecranon pro- cess, and connected with the aponeurosis of the forearm. This muscle, it will be seen, occupies in its origin nearly the whole of the posterior sur- face of the humerus. It ex- A Lateral View of the Deep-seated Muscles on the Back of the Arm. — 1. Section of the clavicle. 2. Fossa supra-spinata of the scapula. 3. Base of the scapula. 4. Coraco-acromial ligament. 5. Coracoid process. 6. Origin of the coraco-brachialis. 7. Section of the subscapularis muscle. 8. Head of the os humeri. 9. Section of the body of the scapula. 10. Origin of the longhead of the triceps. 11. Insertion of the latissimus dorsi. 12. Edge of the biceps flexor oubiti. 13. Coraco-brachialis. 14, 15. Origin of tho second head of the triceps. 16. Lower portion of the coraco-brachialis. 17. Body of the biceps. 18. Body of the triceps. 19. Origin of the third head of the triceps. 20, 21. Its middle portion, known as tho brachialis externus. 22. Brachialis anticus. 23. Its insertion. 24. Posterior ligament of the elbow. 25. 26. Origin of the flexors of the forearm. 27. Prolongation of tho tendon of tho biceps to the fascia brachialis. 28. Olecranon.