DISSECTION OF BACK OF THIGH AND THE HAM. 543 corresponding to the long tendon of the other. These two muscles form the inner hamstring, although the sartorius and gracilis are sometimes spoken of as hamstring muscles. The biceps flexor forms the outer hamstring. The tendons of these nmscles should be studied with reference to the opera- tion of tenotomy. They can be distinctly felt in the living subject, becoming very prominent when the leg is partly flexed on the thigh. The actions of the three muscles just described are the same as far as flexing the leg on the thigh, or keeping the axis of the pelvis parallel with that of the lower limb, as when standing. "When the leg is partly flexed, they can rotate it very little, the biceps outwards, and the other two inwards. Through the connection of the semi-membranosus with the posterior ligament of the knee-joint, it can draw the syno- vial membrane backwards. The arteries involved in dissecting the preceding muscles are principally branches of the profunda and popliteal. Those derived from the profunda are the internal circumflex and the perforating branches. The internal circumflex, Fig. 217 (s), reaches the back of the thigh by passing, first, between the pectineus and the capsular ligament of the hip-joint, to which it sends a branch through the notch at the bottom of the acetabulum, and then between the quadratus femoris and the adductor magnus. It divides into ascending and descending branches; the latter of which are distributed in part to the muscles just examined, and to the integument in this region; the former go to the muscles on the back and lower part of the pelvis, the gluteus maximus and the small rotator mus- cles. This artery anastomoses with the obturator, sciatic, and several others. perforating branches, Fig. 217 (i i, 12,13), vary in num- ber; being sometimes two and sometimes three, besides the terminal branch of the profunda. The first one perforates the adductor muscles a short distance below the trochanter minor, and, passing backwards partly around the shaft of the femur, divides into ascending acid descending branches; some of which terminate in the muscles of this region, and some go to supply the integument. It anastomoses above with the internal circumflex, externally with the external circumflex, and below with the next perforating branch. It usually sup- plies the femur with its nutritious artery. The other per-