134 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK. filaments, and these filaments reimiting, the tympanic plexus is formed. Before entering the tympanum, Jacobson's nerve is connected by filaments with the pneumogastric and facial nerves. This nerve joins the superficial petrosal branch of Jacobson, and thus forms a communication between the gan- glion of the glosso-pharyngeal and the otic ganglion. . Sect. X.—Dissection of the Nose. The nose is the organ of smell; it affords to the lungs an external communication which is constantly open for the transmission of air ; it furnishes a passage or common outlet to several cavities lined by mucous membrane ; it also con- tributes essentially to the perfection of the voice. It occu- pies a central position in the facial portion of the head. It has on each side of it the orbit above and the antrum High- mori below, and extends from the floor of the cranial cavity above to the roof of the mouth below. It opens anteriorly upon the face, and posteriorly into the upper part of the pharynx. It is divided into two compartments called the nasal fossos, which are separated by an osseo-cartilaginous septum. The term nose is more commonly applied to that portion which projects upon the face. The structure of the lower and most prominent portion of this is cartilaginous, while the upper part is osseous. The muscles, vessels, and nerves of the nose have already been described. The bones are the nasal and the nasal processes of the su- perior maxillas. The cartilages^ or fihro-cartilages, form the framework of the movable part of the nose. They furnish a structure of sufficient firmness to preserve the anterior nares patent, while their mobility is a protection against injury, and allows the nostrils to be closed or expanded. These cartilages consist of the sej^tal or middle, and two lateral upon each side, a superior and inferior, or aktr. The middle cartilage. Fig. 46 (4), forms the anterior septum of the nasal fossEe. The columna is the septum between the anterior nares. This cartilage is of an irregular triangular shape; its centre is not so thick as the margins, and is fre- quently inclined to one side or the other. Its upper and posterior border is attached to the vertical lamella of the