430 OF THE PELVIS. Dissection of the Testicles. The genital organs consist of the testicles, which secrete the semen, and the apparatus necessarytfor its transmission from the_ body; a part of their excretory apparatus, as the urethra, is common to both the genital and the urinary organs. The urethra, with the penis, has already been examined. Before examining the testicles, the coverings which they have independently of their proper tunics should be dis- sected. Being situated in the abdomen, in the early part of foetal life, they obtain these investments in their descent into the scrotum. If the student has become familiar with the coverings of the bowel in oblique inguinal hernia, he will have little or no difficulty in understanding the different layers which cover the testicle. They are the following, proceeding from without inwards :— The integument forms a pouch common to both testicles ; it is named the scrotum. It is very thin, of a dark color, more or less wrinkled, and covered with hairs. A ridge is seen in the median line, called the raphe; this is continued backwards in the perineum, and forwards on the under sur- face of the penis. The dartos is placed immediately beneath the skin, with which it is closely connected. It is continuous with the su- perficial fascia of the groin and the perineum. It forms two pouches, one for each testicle; the septum is attached above to the under surface of the penis. The dartos is composed principally of areolar tissue and non-striated muscular fibres. It supports the testicles, and when it contracts, necessarily corrugates the skin which is adherent to if. The intercolumnar or spermatic fascia is derived from the margins of the external abdominal ring. The upper part of this contains some fibres prolonged downwards from the in- tercolumnar fibres. The cremaster muscle consists in the scrotum of loops of scattered fasciculi connected together by condensed areolar tissue. The term cremasteric fascia has been applied to these fasciculi and the connecting areolar tissue. The fascia transversalis is prolonged around the spermatic cord into the scrotum, and forms one of the coverings to the testicle.