428 OF THE PELVIS, these portions of tliem are named the crura, Fig. 181 (15). They terminate anteriorly in a rounded extremity, without any line of se- paration between them. They present a groove on the under sur- face in the median line for the lodgment of the urethra, and one above, which is occupied by the dorsal vessels and nerves of the penis. Internally they are sepa- rated by the septum pectiniforme, Fig. 183 (3). This is a perfect septum posteriorly, bat consists, anteriorly, of fasciculi, which are connected above and below to the parietes common to the two bodies, resembling, as the name implies, the teeth of a comb. These fasci- culi are loosely connected together anteriorly by areolar tissue. From the incompleteness of this septum, and the intimate connection existing between the two bodies, they might be regarded as constituting but one. From the inner surface of the walls of the corpora cavernosa processes are sent internally, which intersect and unite with each other so as to form a complete network. Fig. 183 (e). The trabecular arrangement is much coarser in these bodies than it is in the corpus spongiosum. The traheculce contain more or less of yellow fibrous tissue. There is very little if any vascular connection between the corpora cavernosa and the glans penis. The Glands of Cowper, Fig. 181 (11), are two small bodies located just behind the bulb of the urethra. These ducts open into the urethra anterior to the sinus of the bulb; they are about an inch in length. The Skin which covers the penis is very thin, extensible, and free from hair bulbs. It is connected to the parts be- neath it by loose areolar tissue, which allows it to move on the parts which it covers with great facility. This areolar tissue contains no fat, but is very liable to be distended by serous effusions. It contains, on the dorsum, posteriorly, the Fig. 183. 3 4- A Section of the Corpora Cavernosa Penis 1,1, and Cor- pus Spongiosum Urethra 4.— 2, 2. Erectile tissue of the corpora cavernosa. 3. Septum pectini- forme. 5. Canal of the urethra. 6. Internal filaments of the cor- pora cavernosa which pass from the median septum to the external fibrous membrane.