130 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK. The septum between the scalas is called the lamina spiralis; this is partly osseous and partly membranous; it is spoken of as the lamina spiralis memhranacea^ and the lamina spiralis ossea. The osseous portion is attached by its inner border to the central column, or modiolus^ and in the dried prepara- tion looks like the thread of a screw. The upper extremity of this projects slightly from the central column, and forms the hamulus. Both it and the outer or membranous portion consist of two lamella, between which are placed filaments of the auditory nerve. The osseous lamina is broadest at the base of the cochlea, while the membranous is broadest at the apex. The modiolus is a column of a conical shape, with its base perforated by many small foramina, and traversed by several osseous canals for the transmission of the filaments from the internal meatus, which pass through the interior of this tube to get in between the lamellas of the lamina spiralis. Its apex is somewhat expanded, to which portion of it the term infundihulum is applied ; this again is covered over by what is called the cupola. The modiolus is not a distinct structure, but blended with the inner wall of the tube of the cochlea, and the inner border of the lamina spirahs. The helicotrema is a small opening between the scales ; it is situated immedi- ately beneath the hamulus. This is the only cormnunication between these semicylindrical tubes. The aqueduct of the cochlea opens into the scala tympani near the fenestra ovalis. The different cavities are lined by a very delicate fibro- serous membrane. The fibrous layer adheres closely to the bone, and answers the purpose of a periosteum; the serous layer secretes the perilymph^ or liquor Gotunnii. This lining membrane assists in closing the fenestra rotunda and the fenestra ovalis; it also forms the lamina spiralis membranosa. TheMEMBEANOUS Labyeinth is found only in the vestibule and semicircular canals. The vestibular portion consists of the utriculus, or common sinus, and the sacculu^. It is not certainly ascertained whether these two membranous cavities communicate with each other or not. The utriculus occupies the posterior part of the vestibule, and the sacculus the ante- rior and inferior parts. The membranous semicircular canals correspond with the osseous canals in number, in ampullas, and in their openings into the utricle. The membranous labyrinth is filled with a semi-fluid called the endolymph.