DISSECTION OF THE RECEPTAOULUM CHYLI. 415 second and third lumbar, pierces the psoas mnscle, and des- cends on its anterior surface, to divide into its genital and crural branches. The division may take place in the muscle. The genital branch enters the inguinal canal, and joins the spermatic cord, but does not form a part of it. It is dis- tributed to the scrotum, in the male, or the external labia in the female. The crural hranch passes through the crural ring, and is lost on the anterior part of the thigh. The Anterior Crural Nerve, Fig. 178 (s), arises prin- cipally from the third and fourth lumbar. It pierces the psoas muscle, and gets in the groove between it and the iliacus internus. It passes beneath Poupart's ligament, about half an inch to the outer side of the femoral artery. It sends small branches to the psoas and iliacus internus muscles. The Obturator Nerve arises from the third and fourth lumbar, and passes downwards on the inner side of the psoas muscle, and behind the external iliac vessels to the opening in the upper part of the obturator ligament. It is distributed to the muscles and integument on the inner part of the thigh. It also sends filaments to the hip-joint. Sometimes there is an accessory obturator nerve which arises from the third and fourth lumbar, and descends on the inner side of the psoas to the pubic bone, over which it passes to the thigh. It sends filaments to the pectineus and adductor brevis, to the hip-joint, and others to unite with the obturator nerve. A fasciculus from the fourth and the whole of the fifth lumbar nerve descends into the pelvis to join the sacral plexus and to form the superior gluteal nerve. It is named the lumho^sacral nerve. The Eeceptaculum Chyli, Fig. 141 (12), or the com- mencement of the thoracic duct, should be sought by the student. It is placed in front of the second lumbar vertebra, and between the right crus of the diaphragm and the aorta. The vena azygos is situated on the right side of it. It re- quires a little care to distinguish it from the areolar tissue around it. It is formed by the union of three or four lym- phatic trunks. The Iliac Fascia should be examined before the iliacus and psoas muscles are dissected. It is attached to the outer