UTEKUS. 485 tinuous at the uterine orifice with the lining membrane of the uterus, and is blended at its free extremity with the peritoneum . It affords the only instance in the body where a mucous and serous membrane are continuous, or where a serous cavity has an external communication. It is covered with ciliated and columnar epithelia; it also presents longitudinal xngse or plica). The muscular layer is a prolongation of the mus- cular tissue of the uterus. It consists of a longitudinal and circular set of fibres. The uterine orifice will be seen when the cavity of the uterus is exposed. The fimbriae are very frequently met with more or less obliterated by adhesions to each other, or to the surrounding parts. The uterus varies in size, and hence its dimensions vary as given by different writers. It is usually from two inches and a half to three inches in length, an inch and a half to two inches in breadth, and about three-fourths of an inch thick. In women who have borne children it is larger than in those who never have. It is divided into the fundus, body, and cervix. The fundus. Fig. 204 (a), is the part above the attach- ments of the Fallopian tubes; the cervix. Fig. 204 (c), is the lower part, being separated from the body, Fig. 204 {b), or the portion between the fundus and cervix, by a slight con- striction. Its weight varies from one to two ounces, accord- ino; as it varies in size. In form, it resembles a pear flattened on two sides, being a little more convex posteriorly than anteriorly. The cervix is constricted at both ends, being shaped like a wine-cask. The part that projects into the vagina is divided by a trans- verse fissure into an anterior and a posterior lip. The latter is not quite so thick as the former, but appears, when exa- mined in sit{t, to be a little more prominent, or to project a little more than the former, which is owing to the vagina being inserted higher on the cervix behind than in front. The vaginal orifice has been called the os uteri, os uteri exter- num, or OS tivcce, Fig. 204 {d), from a fancied resemblance it has to the mouth of the tench fish. It is exceedingly important that the student should obtain a correct idea of the cervix of the uterus when in a perfectly healthy state, in order that he may be" able to detect an^;; deviation from a strictly physiological condition. The time has been when a student could graduate in a respectable institution without feeling that he might be required at a 41*