444 OF THE PELVIS. pynformis muscle and sacral nerves and on the inner side of the anterior sacral foramina to the side of the coccyx. It gives off small branches which enter the sacral foramina, and have each one of them the same distribution as the superior lateral sacral artery. Besides the branches which enter the sacral canal, these arteries give off branches that anastomose with the middle sacral artery and ramify on the anterior surface of the sacrum; and also others which go to the pyriformis muscle and the sacral nerves. The gluteal artery, Fig. 190 (s), from its size, might be regarded as a continuation of the internal iliac. It escapes from the pelvis at the upper part of the great sacro-sciatic foramen between the gluteus medius and pyriformis muscles. In its course downwards and backwards it passes between the lumbo-sacral and the first sacral nerve. In the pelvis it gives off a nutritious branch to the ilium and one or more muscular branches. Having escaped from the pelvis it divides into a superficial and a deep branch, which will be noticed in the dissection of the gluteal region. The sciatic or ischiatic artery, Fig. 190 (i 4), varies in its origin. Not unfrequently it arises in common with the in- ternal pudic, from which it does not separate until just before it leaves the pelvis. It passes downwards in front of the pyriformis muscle and sacral plexus of nerves to the lower part of the great sacro-sciatic foramen, where it is placed between the pyriformis and superior gemellus muscles, having the great sciatic nerve on the inner side of it and the internal pudic artery behind it. It gives off" in its course in the pelvis the coccygeal branch, which perforates the great sacro- sciatic ligament and ramifies on the dorsum of the coccyx. As it leaves the pelvis, it sends off a branch named the covies nervi iscliiadici to accompany the great sciatic nerve. Its course and distribution outside the pelvis will be examined in the dissection of the gluteal region and upper and back part of the thigh. The internal pudic artery, Fig. 190 (13), has the same direc- tion and relations in the pelvis as the sciatic artery, which it accompanies to the spine of the ischium, around which it winds to enter the perineum. Its course and branches in the perineum will be observed in the dissection of that region. It is in some respects the most important branch given off from the internal iliac, to be studied. This is