DEEP PAETS OF THE NECK. geal branches of the pneumogastric and the pharyngeal branches of the glosso-pharyngeaL The pharyngeal branches contribute to form the plexus which supplies the pharynx and fauces; the laryngeal join the superior laryngeal nerve. Anteriorly, it gives off branches to join the eighth and ninth nerves, and to go to the external carotid, from which fila- ments proceed to accompany its different branches. These filaments have been called, from their soft texture, " nervi mollesP The superior cardiac nerve arises from the inner side of the ganglion, by one or more filaments, descends behind the carotid and alongside of the trachea, and, passing in front of the inferior thyroid artery, enters the thorax in company with the arteria innominata. In its course down the neck it communicates with the pneumogastric and its laryngeal branches, also with the middle and inferior ganglia. The middle ganglion sends branches to one or two of the cervical nerves, and to the pneumogastric. The middle cardiac nerve arises from this ganglion when it is present. It pur- sues a coiirse similar to the superior cardiac nerve. It com- municates with the recurrent laryngeal and superior cardiac. The inferior ganglion is dissected more satisfactorily in con- nection with the thoracic division of the sympathetic. The student must be prepared to meet with numerous variation? in the arrangement of the sympathetic nerve. It is impos- sible to give a description of it which will correspond exactly with any two dissections. But a general knowledge of the numerous connections of this nerve is essential to a correct idea of its functions, and the influence it may exert in various pathological conditions of the body. The muscles which may now be examined, are the follow- ing :— The Eectus Anticus Major, Fig. 71 (i), arises from the transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrae, passes upwards and is inserted into the cuneiform process of the occipital bone in front of the fora- men magnum. It presents a tendinous intersection, which gives attachment to many of its muscular fibres. Rectus Anticus Minor, Fig. 71 (4), arises from the trans- verse process of the atlas, and is inserted into the cuneiform