252 THE UPPER EXTREMITY.- as in flexion of the forearm. The dissection of the deep part of the tendon of the biceps may be postponed untU the vessels in this region have been examined. The Coraco-Brachialis, Fig. 107 (i i), may next be dis- sected. It arises from the coracoid process, and extends obliquely downwards to the middle third of the humerus into the inner part of which it is inserted, between the brachi- alis anticus and deltoid in front, and the triceps extensor behind. In dissecting this muscle, the student must be care- ful not to cut the external cutaneous nerve, which commonly passes obliquely through it from above downwards and out- wards. The coraco-brachialis elevates and draws the arm forwards, and in front of the thorax; it can also rotate it outwards. "When the arm and forearm are fixed, both this and the biceps can act on the scapula. The arteries which supply the biceps and coraco-brachialis muscles, are branches from the axillary and brachial; they do not require any particular description. The nerves are derived principally from the external cuta- neous. Before raising the biceps and coraco-brachialis, it will be proper to proceed with the dissection of the brachial vessels and nerves. The brachial artery, venm comites, and median nerve, should be dissected down the arm together. The nerve will be found at first, lying in front and a little to the outside of the artery, near to the coraco-brachialis muscle, but gradually, as it de- scends, getting to the inside of it. The external cutaneous nerve sometimes comes from the median, instead of the bra- chial plexus, and, not unfrequently, a branch is given ofi' from the median, which joins the external cutaneous beneath the biceps. The median nerve is sometimes found behind the brachial artery. The Brachial Artery, Fig. 92 (i o), is a continuation of the axillary. It extends from the lower borders of the ten- dons inserted into the bicipital groove to the bend of the arm where it divides into the radial and ulnar. It is not covered by any muscle throughout its whole course, unless it is overlapped by the belly of the biceps, when that muscle is unusually developed. It is in relation on the outside with the coraco-brachialis above, and the biceps lower down. Behind, it is in relation above with the tendons of the teres