DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 116 contracting. Some of its fibres which adhere to the cap- sule have been designated the short internal lateral liga- ment. Fig. 35. An Internal View op the Articula- tion OP TUB LowEK Jaw.—I. A section through the petrous portion of the temporal bono and spinous process of the sphenoid. 2. An internal view of the ramus, and part of the body of the lower jaw. 3. The in- ternal portion of the capsular ligament. 4. The internal lateral ligament. 5. A small interval at its insertion, through which the mylo-hj'oid nerve passes. 6. The stylo-maxillary ligament, a process of the deep cervical fascia. Fig. 36. The Capsular Ligament arises principally from the articular eminence and glenoid fissure, and is inserted into the neck of the condyle. It adheres closely to the interarti- cular fibro-cartilage, and keeps it in place. In front there is a deficiency in it for the insertion of the external pterygoid mus- cle. The Interaeticular Fi- bro-Cartilage, Fig. 36 (3, e), is placed between the glenoid cavity and the condyle of the jaw, dividing this space into two cavities. It is elongated transversely. Its margins are blended with the ligaments sur- rounding the joint, and in front with the tendon of the external pterygoid muscle. In this Sketch a section has been carried through the joint, in or- der to show the natural position of the interarticular fibro-carti- lage, and the manner in which it is adapted to the difference op form op the articulating surfaces. 1. The glenoid fossa. 2. The eminon- tia articularis. 3. The interarticular fibro-cartilage. 4. The superior syno- vial cavity. 5. The inferior synovial cavity. 6. An interarticular fibro- cartilage, removed from the joint, in order to show its oval and concave form; it is seen from below. There are two Synovial Membranes, Fig. 36 (4, 5), which line respectively the pa- rietes of the two cavities of this joint, the superior being the larger. The interarticular fibro- cartilage is sometimes deficient in the centre, in Avhich case