356 Of the abdomen. are two forms of inguinal hernia—direct^ or ventro-inguinal, and indirect, or oblique. In the oblique form, the bowel traverses the entire length of the canal passing through both rings ; in the direct, it escapes directly through the external ring, and does not pass through the canal. In Oblique Heenia, the course of the bowel and the dif- ferent coverings which it obtains in its descent, are as follows: Its course is similar to that of the spermatic cord. As the internal oblique overlaps the internal ring, it offers resistance to the entrance of the bowel into the't'anal, hence the bowel is forced downwards beneath the lower border of the muscle; in the canal, it is directed downwards, inwards, and somewhat forwards; when it leaves the external ring, its direction is towards the scrotum, along the course of the cord. The coverings which it gets are, first, the peritoneum at the inter- nal ring; this constitutes the sac; second, the transversalis, or infundihuliform fascia, as it enters the canal; third, the cremaster muscle, while passing through the canal; fourth, the inter columnar, or spermatic fascia, as it goes through the ex- ternal ring; fifth and sixth, the superficial fascia, and the in- tegument ; the last two coverings it receives entirely outside of the canal. The cremaster is usually found in front, and on the outside of the tumor; while the cord is generally situated behind, and on the inner side. The bowel almost necessarily gets between the cord and the cremaster, from their relative posi- tion in the upper part of the canal. In Direct Hernia, the coverings are the same as in indi- rect, with a single exception; the conjoined tendon of the in- ternal oblique and transversalis takes the place of the cre- master muscle. Sometimes the conjoined tendon is torn, or its fibres are separated so as to allow the bowel to pass through it; when this happens, it will not constitute one of the cover- ings. Another form of direct hernia is sometimes described, in which the bowel enters the canal between the epigastric artery and the outer border of the conjoined tendon. When the bowel passes through the internal ring, but is retained in the canal, it is called bubonocele, or concealed in- guinal hernia. In this case, the tendon of the external oblique will form one of the coverings.