464 OF THE PELVIS. and forming for each of them a sheath; it is connected pos- teriorly with the deep perineal fascia. _ The Erector Penis, Fig. 193 (e), occupies the outer por- tion of the space. It arises^ tendinous and fleshy, from the tuberosity and ramus of the ischium and the ramus of the pubes, passes upwards and forwards, and is inserted into the corresponding crus of the penis. It draws the crus down- wards and backwards, and probably facilitates the erection of the penis. The Accelerator Urin^, Fig. 193 (5), is situated to the inner side of the preceding muscle. It arises from the peri- neal centre, and from the raphe which extends forwards in the median line from the centre. Its posterior fibres pass upwards and forwards, embracing the bulb, and are inserted into the deep perineal fascia; the middle are inserted into a thin tendon above the urethra which is common to the ac- celeratores muscles; and the anterior fibres terminate in a ten- dinous expansion on the side and dorsum of the penis. Its action is to compress the urethra. The Transversus Perinei, Fig. 193 (7), is a small muscle which arises from the inner side of the tuberosity of the ischium, near the commencement of the origin of the erector penis, and is inserted into the perineal centre. It is frequently absent. Its action is to assist in keeping the centre of the perineum fixed; and it may, from the direction of its fibres, tend to draw it slightly upwards and backwards. A fasci- culus of fibres is sometimes met with here which has been denominated the transversus perinei alter. When present, this small muscle is usually situated deeper than the trans- versus perinei, being covered in by a thin layer of the deep perineal fascia. It arises from the rami of the ischium and pubes, and is inserted into the side of the bulb. It is not unusual to find irregular fasciculi of fibres in this space; sometimes apparently belonging to the transversus perinei, and again to the accelerator urinee, or levator ani. These muscles may now be raised, but not detached so that they cannot be replaced and viewed with reference to cutting down upon the membranous portion of the urethra. The bulb of the corpus spongiosum should be carefully separated from the perineal centre without destroying the deep perineal fascia at this point. A triangular space will