TOPOGEAPHY OF THE MOUTH. 143 reo-ards their thickness, and their relation to the month, the nose, the orbit, the pterygo-maxillarj fossa, and the face. The frontal sinus also demands attention, with reference to diagnosis, in diseases and injuries of it, and the proper treat- ment to be instituted, whether medical or surgical. Before dissecting the tongue, soft palate, pharynx, and larynx, the student'shoiild carefully examine the topography of the mouth, the fauces, and the pharynx. For this purpose, the head must be divided vertically, a little to one side of the median hue, so as to avoid injuring the septum of the nose, as before directed, and at the same time leave the uvula entire. The back of the neck should be dissected before this section is made, in order that the upper cervical vertebra3 may be divided with the head. It will not be necessary to divide the tongue or the larynx. The pharynx, however, should be opened along the median line posteriorly. Sect. XI.—Topogeaphy of the Mouth, Fauces, and Phaeynx. The Mouth is the first division of the alimentary canal. It is exceedingly important, on account of the several func- tions with which it is associated. The organ of taste is located here; the processes of mastication, insalivation, the articula- tion of sounds, and the commencement of deglutition, all take place in the cavity of the mouth. It is surrounded by movable walls, except the upper, and consequently is subject to great variation in its dimensions. When the lower jaw is applied to the upper, it is divided into two cavities; the outer one is situated between the cheeks and lips, and the teeth and alveolar processes; the inner one is enibraced within the cir- cumference of the teeth and alveoli. The former receives the saliva secreted by the parotid glands; while that secreted by the submaxillary and sublingual is poured into the latter, thus securing a proper intermixture of the saliva with the food. The external orifice of the mouth opens into the one, and the internal orifice opens out of the other into the fauces. The food is kept between the teeth until properly masticated, by the action of the lips and cheeks on the outside, and the