THE UPPEll EXTKEMITY. 210 continuous behind with tlie infra-spinata fascia and that of the arm or the brachial fascia. These fascias should be studied with reference more particularly to the formation of abscesses beneath them, • The deep fascia may now be raised by making an incision through it from the sterno-clavicular articulation to the in- sertion of the pectoralis major. The student, in this way, will be able to raise the fascia so as to trace its continuity as described above, at the same time that he exposes the pecto- ralis major. The deltoid fascia may be raised in the same manner from the deltoid muscle, although it will be sufficient to expose only the anteri^)r half of this muscle at the present time. The Pectoralis Major, Fig. 90 (?, i o), arises from the inner half of the clavicle, the anterior surface of the sternum, the cartilages of the second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth ribs, and by a slip from the aponeurosis of the external ob- lique. From this broad origin the fibres converge, and are inserted, by a flat tendon, into the anterior margin of the bicipital groove on the humerus, and into the brachial fascia. From the extensive origin and narrow insertion of this mus- cle, the student will see the necessity of the difference which exists in the direction of its fibres, and the effects of different portions of the muscle acting separately. The lower fibres are nearly horizontal, while the upper are vertical in their direction. The upper part of the muscle is inserted lower down than the inferior portion, which causes a sort of doubling of the tendon. The action of this muscle varies; if the clavicular portion alone acts, it will draw the arm up- wards and forwards, the sternal will move it directly forwards, while the lower part will draw it downwards and forwards; the entire muscle will bring the arm inwards and forwards. If the humerus be elevated and fixed, then the lower part of the muscle will raise the ribs and draw them outwards so as to assist in expanding the thorax. If the hand be supined, it is capable of pronating it by rotating the humerus inwards. The clavicular portion is usually separated from the costo- sternal by areolar tissue. This fissure is sometimes quite large, and extends some distance towards the insertion of the muscle; again, it is scarcely perceptible. An areolar inter- space also separates this muscle from the deltoid. In this