OF THE ABDOMEN. 372 to the Tinder surface of tlie liver. It lies at first on the an- terior layer of the fascia lumborum, and then on the kidney; the vertical portion of the duodenum and the convolutions of the small intestine are placed on the inner side, and the latter also in front of it when it is empty. Externally, it is applied to the wall of the abdomen. The lower part of it can be reached through the lumbar region without impli- cating the peritoneum. The transverse colon, sometimes called the arch of the colon, extends from the inferior surface of the right lobe of the liver to the spleen in the left hypochondriac region, where it is continuous with the descending colon. Its position is below that of the liver, stomach, and spleen. As it crosses the abdomen, it has to ascend to reach the spleen, as that organ is so much smaller than the liver. It is separated from the anterior abdominal parietes by the descending laminee of the omentum majus. The small intestine is below, and the meso-colon behind it. It frequently has attached to it numerous small pouches of peritoneum, which contain fat. These are called the appendices epiploicce. They are not known to perform any function. The transverse colon is allowed, from its position and attachments, a greater degree of mobility than any other portion of the intestinal canal; hence its direction and situation are subject to marked changes. It is sometimes met with passing down into the hypogastric region, and again ascending to the left hypochon- driac. The descending colon passes down through the left lumbar to the left iliac region. Its relations are similar to those of the ascending colon. It is somewhat longer, and is not as much covered by the peritoneum, hence it can be perforated with less danger of wounding the peritoneum; its posterior or non-peritoneal surface also corresponds to the fascia lum- borum higher up above the crest of the ilium, on account of the left kidney being situated higher than the right. The sigmoid flexure is generally found partly in the left iliac fossa and partly in the pelvis. It forms a double curve. From the length of its meso-colon it has more mobility than any other portion of the large intestine, except the transverse colon. Its direction is downwards, and from left to right. It is sub- ject to much variation in the length, direction, and position of its flexures. When it is distended with gas or fecal matter.