512 THE LOWER EXTREMITY. Fig. 215. The Muscles of the Glu- TRAL AND Posterior FEjroRAL Regions.—1. The gluteus me- dius. 2. The gluteus maxiinus. 3. The vastus externus, covered in by fascia lata. 4. The long head of the biceps. 5. Its short head. 6. The semi-tendinosus. 7, 7. The seini-inembranosus. 8. The gracilis. 9. A part of the inner border of the adductor magnus. 10. The edge of the sartorius. 11. The popliteal space. 12. The gastrocnemius muscle; its two heads. The tendon of the biceps forms the outer hamstring; and the sarto- rius, with the tendons of the gracilis, semi-tendinosus, and semi-membranosus, the inner hamstring. previously removed, from near the middle of the sacrum to a short dis- tance below the trochanter major. This incision should be made down to the muscle, so that its fibres or fasciculi, which are very coarse, may be distinctly seen. If the fibres are now made tense the student will have no difiiculty in exposing the muscle by dissecting one flap up- wards and the other downwards, being carefal to observe the direc- tion of the fibres. This muscle arises from the dorsum of the ilium above and behind the superior semicircular ridge, from the tubercles on the pos- terior surface of the sacrum, from the coccyx and the great sacro-sciatic ligament. Some of its fibres also arise from the aponeurosis of the gluteus medius. It passes obliquely downwards and outwards over the trochanter major, from which its tendon is separated by quite a large bursa mucosa. The lower part of the muscle is inserted . into the rough line which extends from the tro- chanter major to the linea aspera. The upper part is connected to the fascia lata of the thigh. A bursa se- parates its tendon from the vastus externus, and not unfrequently another one separates it from the tu- berosity of the ischium. Its lower border is free, and forms the loy^ev boundary of the nates or buttock, while the upper border is blended with the aponeurosis of the gluteus medius, and can be distinguished from this muscle only by observing the different direction of the fibres of the two muscles. When the gluteus