185 DEEP PARTS OP THE NECK. the superficial and deep fascias; but, as it ascends, it gradu- ally becomes deeper seated. Its size is not varied in this part of its course. Below the digastricus, the hypoglossal nerve and the occip- ital artery cross it in front, while the external carotid lies on the inner side of it. Above the digastricus, and in the parotid region, it is crossed in front by the glosso-pharyngeal nerve and the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus muscles, Pig. 67, which pass between it and the external carotid. It is also covered by the parotid gland, in which it is sometimes partially lodged. On its inner side are the pharynx and sympathetic nerve. Externally it is in relation with the internal jugular, the pneumogastric, the hypoglossal, and glosso-pharyngeal nerves. These nerves at first lie behind it, but soon get on the outside between it and the vein. The two latter, how- ever, do not continue in this connection down to the common carotid, but cross over in front of the artery, the one above, and the other below the digastricus, as before mentioned. Behind, it rests on the rectus capitis anticus major, separ- ated from it by fascia and by the pharyngeal and superior laryngeal branches of the pneumogastric, which pass inwards beneath it. The inferior or ascending pharyngeal artery runs at first on the inner side of the internal carotid, then behind it, up to the foramen lacerum posterius, or jugular foramen. The internal carotid is surrounded by a plexus of nerves. The relation of this artery to the pharynx is worthy of notice. It sustains nearly the same relation to the internal surface of the pharynx, as regards the intermediate structures, that it does to the external surface of the neck in the supe- rior carotid region. The Internal Jugular Yein, Fig. 67 (27), commences at the foramen lacerum posterius, and terminates by uniting with the subclavian to form the vena innominata. Near the foramen it is removed a short distance from the internal carotid,_ the intermediate space being occupied by nerves. 1 here IS also a small space between it and the common carotid m the lower part of the neck. This vein is a con- tinuation of the lateral sinus; it increases in size as it re- ceives collateral branches in its course down the neck It 16*