DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 235 location of a lumbar and psoas abscess will be learned in connection with the psoas fascia. _ _ The relations of the colon to the muscles and fascia m the lumbar region should be studied. It will be seen that the colon can be reached in this region by simply dividing the three laminee of the fascia lumborum along the external bor- ders of the sacro-lumbalis and quadratus lumborum._ The relation of the kidney to the muscles in this region, is also deserving of notice with reference to nephritic abscesses. _ The following muscles may now be exposed, by removing those last dissected:— .. The Semi-SpinALis Doesi and Colli, Fig. 98 (lo, u), might with propriety be considered a single muscle. _ They present the same arrangement in regard to their origin and insertion, and have a similar function. The semi-spinalis colli, arises from the transverse processes of the upper five or six dorsal vertebra3, and passes upwards and is inserted into the spinous processes of the second, third, fourth, and fifth cervical ,vertebras. The semi-spinalis dorsi arises from the transverse processes of all the dorsal vertebras below the fifth, excepting the last, and passes upwards and is inserted into the spinous processes of the lower two cervical, and the upper three or four dorsal yertebro3. These muscles co-operate with the erector spinas. Situated beneath the two last muscles are a series of small muscles, called, altogether, the multifidus spin^. They extend between the spinous and transverse processes. The upper one commences at the spinous process of the second cervical vertebra, and is inserted into the transverse process of the third. The last one extends from the spinous process of the last lumbar vertebra to the sacrum. The same muscle may extend over one or two intermediate vertebrae. The action of these is nearly the same as the last. •The Leva to RES Costarum, Fig. .98 (i 7), may be examined at the present time, although they are frequently considered as belonging to the external intercostal muscles. They con- sist of a series of small fan-shaped muscles, which arise from the transverse processes, commencing with the last cervical, and extending to the last dorsal. They pass downwards and outwards, and are inserted into the ribs between their angles and tubercles. They increase in length from above down-