DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 88 forwards to the base of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. Anteriorly it is attached to the petrous bone, and to the clinoid processes of the sphenoid. Its centre is some- what raised, so as to form an arch, and has attached to its upper surface in the median line the posterior extremity of the falx cerebri. Its attachments are such that it is kept in a state of tension, and is consequently well adapted to support the posterior lobes of the cerebrum and to protect the cerebellum. A large oval opening exists in it anteriorly, which establishes a communication between the compartment of the cerebrum and that of the cerebellum and the spinal canal. The Falx Cerebelli is a process of the dura mater, which projects into the fissure between the hemispheres of the cerebellum. Its upper and broadest extremity is at- tached to the under surface of the tentorium; its lower ex- tremity divides into two slips to embrace the foramen occipi- tale. Its posterior border is attached to the lower part of the vertical ridge of the occipital bone. The Sinuses, Fig. 8 and Fig. 19, of the dura mater are canals for the transmission of venous blood. They are veins which derive the fibrous layer of their coats from the dura mater; in form they difier from veins in other parts of the body, but not in structure. They have no true valves. Some of the small ones vary in number, but there are usually fourteen or fifteen altogether. Some of these are single and found in the median line, and some exist in pairs. The superior longitudinal sinus has already been described; also the inferior longitudinal sinus. The STRAIGHT SINUS IS situated between the laminae of the dura mater at the junction of the falx cerebri and tentorium. It is formed principally by the venae Galeni and inferior longitudinal sinus, and terminates in the torcular Herophih, sometimes by two orifices. The OCCIPITAL SINUS is in the attached border of the ialx cerebelli. Sometimes there are two of them. It collects the blood from the contiguous parts, and conveys it mto the The LATERAL SINUSES commence at the torcular Herophili and extend to the jugular foramina, occupying a groove on each side in the occipital, parietal, and temporal bones, i lae