DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 140 and with the skin through the anterior nares. On the septum and turbinated bones it is soft, thick, and very vascular; in other places it is blended with the periosteum, and might be called a fibro-mucous membrane. At the lower borders of the turbinated bones it forms quite thick folds; and at the inferior orifice of the nasal duct it forms a fold which has been spoken of as a valve. The spheno-palatine, ethmoidal, and anterior palatine foramina are covered over and con- cealed by it in the fresh preparation. The openings into the different sinuses are considerably diminished in size by it, and the periosteum beneath it. It has a columnar epithelium. In the sinuses, the mucous membrane is thinner, less vascu- lar, and covered by the squamous epithelium. Cilia exist upon its surface, both in the sinuses and nasal fossee. The following nerves are found in the nasal fossa. As there are no muscles to be supplied in this cavity, no motor nerves are required. The Olfactory, Fig. 52 (5), enters it from above by nume- rous filaments, which descend about an inch on the septum, and to the middle meatus on the outer wall. The filaments form minute plexuses beneath the mucous membrane. The exact manner in which they terminate is not known. By tearing off the mucous membrane, the filaments of the olfactory may be traced to their termination in this structtfre. It will be seen from the distribution of this nerve, that air loaded with odorous particles must reach the upper part of the nasal ca- vity in order to make an impression on the peripheral expan- sion of the nerve of smell. The olfactory nerve is spread out upon only a very small portion of the entire surface of the nasal fossa. The Spheno-Palakne Nerve, Fig. 52 (r), consisting usu- ally of several branches, enters the nasal fossa just behind the superior meatus, through the spheno-palatine foramen. Several small branches, called the external, are distributed to the mucous membrane on the outer wall of the fossa, some filaments reaching the septum; a much larger branch, called the internal or naso-jpalatine^ crosses over to the septum, and descends .first vertically, and then horizontally, to reach the anterior palatine foramen, or foramen incisivum, in which it is said to connect with the ganglion of Gloquet^ Fig. 52 (9); it