168 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. The veins go to form the tracheal plexus, which has been alluded to in connection with the anterior relations of the trachea. _ The anterior part of the larjoix may now be noticed, espe- cially the crico-thyroid space, as connected with the opera- tion of laryngotomy, A small artery crosses this space transversely, resting upon the anterior crico-thyroid liga- ment, and sending a branch through it to the mucous mem- brane. The anterior portion of the cricoid and thyroid cartilages should also be inspected in situ. When the parts in front of the trachea and larynx have been duly examined, the dissection is to be continued in a lateral direction. As the two sides of the neck differ in this region in some material points, the right side will be examined first, and the peculiarities of the left wiU be noticed in an- other place. The first thing to be sought in this region is the Aeteeia Innominata, Fig. 66 (i o). This will be found immediately beneath the sterno-clavicular articulation, covered by fascia. Only the upper portion of it will be seen in the dissection of the neck. When its bifurcation into the common carotid and the subclavian is found, the sheath of the former may be laid open to near its division into the external and internal caro- tids. Before doing this, however, the relation of the omo- hyoideus to the artery should be observed; also, the course of the descendens noni nerve, which lies upon the sheath com- mon to the artery and internal jugular vein. Some small nervous filaments will be noticed crossing the artery, and which are liable to be divided in ligating it. Having exposed the common carotid, the following parts will be found with- out difficulty:— On the outside, and running parallel to it, is the Inteenal JuGULAE. As this vein is traced downwards, it will be seen that it does not terminate at the commencement of the carotid, Fig. 66 (i e), but passes over the subclavian artery to join the subclavian vein, and with it form the vena innominata. By separating the carotid from the jugular vein, the pneumo- gastric nerve will be brought into view. It lies behind and between these great vessels, and in the same sheath. It may be traced downwards over the subclavian artery, where it gives off the inferior laryngeal branch, which winds round the