6*9 1190 " The first phalanx of the thumb requiring to be removed, an incision must be made on the back o the hand on the inside of the bone, commencing between the thiimb and the finger, carried down to the joint of the carpus and b Ight ov'er 'with a gentle slope to the outside A similar incisfon in the palm of the hand joins the point of this slope and the muscles are to be divided close to the bone The flap over the joint of the thumb, formed by the slope of the integu- ments, is to be pulled a little back, the external lateral liga- ment cut into, and the thumb bent and pressed a little inward, when it will readily be separated by cutting through the cap- sular ligament, and any adherent ligamentous or muscular fibres. The compression of the brachial artery is to be taken off, the vessels tied with single threads, and the parts brought together with adhesive strap and bandage."—Gt^^Ane on Gun- shot Wounds. In what manner would you amputate the metacarpal bones of the fore and little fingers at their carpal extremities ? 1191. " The outer fingers are easily removed at the joint, commencing from the outside, and when the ligaments on the inside are cut, dislocating them outwards."—Ihid. Is it not advisable to amputate through the metacarpal boneSy rather than remove them at their carpal joint ? 1192. The preserving the articulation inviolate especially supports the remaining fingers, and leaving a part of the me- tacarpal bone of the fore-finger is of great utility in giving strength and freer motion to the thumb."—Ibid. Var. 4.—Fractura phalangum composita. Compound fracture of the phalanges. What are the usual local results of a severe compound frac- ture of the jjhalangcs, if an attempt be made to preserve the finger? 1193. " Compound fractures of the phalanges are almost uniformly followed by most violent inflammatory action in all the tissues, terminating in disease of the joints, and in the death of the tendinous and fibrous tissues. The suppuration is profuse and unhealthy, and the infiltration of the soft parts extensive. The diseased action not unfrequently pervades the palm of the hand. In the great majority of cases, necessity for amputation arises sooner or \Q.ie\'J" —Liston's Elements. But as every case of compound fracture might not require re- moval of the finger, will you briefly distinguish between those that