78 one hand, rests the otlier upon the brim of the pelvis, and thus lifts the bone, as it is drawn towards the acetabulum, over its lip. For the napkin 1 have seen a round towel very conveniently substituted; and this was carried under the up- per part of the thigh and over the shoulders of an assistant, ■who then rested both his hands on the pelvis, as he raised his body, and lifted the thigh."—Ibid. Should the surgeon fail to lift the bone into the socket, he will sometimes succeed by rotating the head of the bone towards the acetabulum. Is any other method of rediiction sometimes practised ? 1226. Sir A. Cooper mentions another method, which, how- ever, he thinks inferior to the above. It is as follows: An extension is made by pulleys in a right line with the body, and at the same time'the great trochanter major is thrust for- ward with the hand, when the bone returns into its socket with a snap.—Ibid. Var. 3.—Dislocatio super osse pubis. Dislocation upon the pubes. What are the symptoms of this variety of femoral dislocation ? 1227. In this case " the limb is an inch shorter than the other; the knee and foot are turned outwards, and cannot be rotated inwards, but there is a slight flexion forwards and outwards ; but the striking criterion in this dislocation is, that the head of the thigh-bone may be distinctly felt upon the pubes, above the level of Poupart's ligament, on the outer side of the femoral artery and vein ; and it feels as a hard ball there, which is readily "perceived to move, by bending the thigh-bone."—Ibid. Is there any injury with which this luxation upon the pubes may be confounded ? 1228. " This accident might, bv an inattentive observer, be mistaken for a fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone; but the head of the bone felt upon the pubes will decide its na- ture."—Ibid. , • , 1 *i V It appears lo me that it is scarcely possible to mistake this dislocation, and therefore that it would be inexcusable in any surgeon to do so. ^, 7 „ In what manner ought the dislocation upon the pubis to oe reduced? , , 1 . • 1 ^„ .>+nM«. 1229 " The patient is to be placed on his side on a table , a girth is to be carried between the pudendum and inner part