40 parts, accompanied ^^ \^h j)ain, general and local bleeding will be required. ° Is the lower end of the humerus liable to compound luxation ? 10/0. bir A. Cooper gives a case of this kind in his Treatise on Dislocations, (p. 422.) " The condyles of the humerus were thrown inwards through the skin, the articulating sur- face, receiving the sigmoid cavity of the ulna, being com- pletely exposed to view. The ulna was dislocated backwards, and the radius outwards. The lateral and capsular ligaments were torn asunder, with extensive laceration of the parts about the joint, but the artery and nerve remained perfectly free from injury." The luxation was reduced, by the assist- ance of Mr. Key, in the following manner :—" The humerus, being firmly grasped above its condyles, making that part a fixed point, we gradually extended the fore-arm from the position in which it was found (at right angles), and the parts returned to their relative position ; but upon slightly moving the fore-arm they became displaced as before ; but the reduc- tion was effected a second time as above described." The arm was then placed in the semiflexed position, and retained in situ by the usual means. Gjsnus II.—Fractura. Fracture. SpjBCfES I. —Fractura simplex. Simple fracture. Var. 1.—Fractura articulationis. Fracture of the elbow-joint. What are the fractures commonly met with at the elbow- joint ? 1077- Fracture of the humerus immediately above the con- dyles ; fracture of the condyles themselves ; of the internal condyle ; of the coronoid process of the ulna, and of the ole- cranon. WJiat are the diagnostic signs of a fracture of the humerus oust above or through the condyles ? 1078. "The appearances of this accident are like those of dislocation of the radius and ulna backwards; and the mode of distinguishing the two injuries is by the removal of all the marks of dislocation on extension, and by their return as soon as the extension is discontinued. In general, also, these acci- dents are detected by rolling the fore-arm upon the humerus, when a crepitus may be felt just above the elbow-joint."—Sir A- Cooper's Treatise, ^c.