143 pitus, the case constitutes what is commonly called " Pott's ^T^^the only bone fractured in severe cases of this kind of o?Te tlbS rbSfoi ed to L fibula by ligament, is split U70 This disTocation ought to be reduced as early as pos- sible "The patient is to be placed upon a mattress, and is to rpsf on the side on which the injury has been sustained: the uf^eon IS t^n to bend the leg at right angles with the thigh, Ser to relax the gastrocnemii muscles; and an assistant, l^-asping the foot, must gradually draw it in a line wuth the fef The surgeon then fixes the thigh, and presses the tibia downwards, thus forcing it upon the articulating surface of the astragalus."-Sir A. Cooper's Treatise on Dislocations Should the surgeon not take the precaution of bending the leg there will be great difficulty in reducing this displacement. What is the subsequent treatment of this injury ? 1471 The limb, after reduction, is to be placed on its outer side in the bent position, and encircled with wet compresses and'tailed bandage. " Two splints are then to be applied; and each is to have a foot-piece to give support to the toot, prevent its eversion, and preserve it at right angles with the leg —Ibid. If inflammation ensue, it must be met by local and general blood-letting, purgatives, and low diet. What are the marks of a dislocation of the tibia forwards ? 1472. The foot appears shortened, the heel lengthened and firmly fixed, and the toes are pointed downwards. The lower extremity of the tibia forms a hard projection upon the upper part of the middle of the tarsus, under the projected tendons, and a depression is manifest before the tendo achillis. " The fibula is broken, and its fractured end advances with the tibia, and is placed by its side ; its malleolus externus remains in its natural situation, but the fibula is broken about three inches above it."—Ibid. Can you explain why the fibula should be broken instead of being dislocated ivith the tibia in both these injuries ? 1473. The lower end of the fibiila is not dislocated in either of these accidents, by reason of the very strong ligaments that maintain it in its natural position.