157 What ivould be your practice, if a cannon-shot tvere to strike and tear away a part of the os calcis f' 1526. Should the ankle-joint be untouched, Mr. Guthrie does not sanction amputation, but advises that all spicules of bone be removed, and early and free openings made for the dis- charge of matter. Such a case then should be laid in a large poultice, or enveloped in compresses wet with cold water, and if due attention be paid to the above directions, the limb will probably be preserved to be of considerable use. What treatment is required where a musket-ball has passed through the tarsus ? 1527. " To be able to judge if amputation be requisite, or indeed in the treatment of any severe wound of this kind, it will almost always be necessary to enlarge the original wound, Avhich, from the position of the soldier, may be said to be on the upper part or side of the foot. The splinters of bone are to be removed, if possible; the ball (if lodged) and extraneous substances are to be taken out; and if the bones, tendons, and blood vessels, are so much injured as to render the attempt to preserve them useless, amputation is to be performed ; but if the preservation of the limb be thought practicable, and it generally will be so in wounds from musket-balls, the attempt must be made under the most rigid antiphlogistic treatment, the local application of cold water from the first, and with free o])enings for the subsequent discharge."—Ibid. What primary treatment would be requisite, where a musket- ball has stmick and injured the metatarsal bones F 1528. "Musket-balls seldom injure the metatarsal bones so much as to require their removal with their toes Under the treatment above mentioned (1527), these wounds will in general be healed without further operation. Wounds from grape-shot occasionally render the removal of the metatarsal bone of the great toe at the tarsus necessary, although much should be done to save it. The little and adjacent toes are also sometimes removed at the tarsus; the middle ones but seldom, as it is not an easy operation to perform, in conse- quence of the natural close attachment of these bones, and the additional compactness they have required from the pres- sure of the shoe. I have never performed this last operation, and I think the removal of the pieces of bone, with free open- ings for the discharge, will in general supersede the necessity of doing it in these cases."—Ibid. Would not the age of the patient very much influence your de- cision in the treatment of compound fractures of the tarsus or metatarsus ?