150 1496. "There are some instances in which such a proceed- ing is absolutely necessary, and many reasons are given for adopting this practice in general."—Ibid. State those cases requiring such treatment. 1497. First, when the dislocation cannot be otherwise re- duced without great violence. Secondly, when the extremity of the bone is fractured obliquely, so that if reduced it imme- diately slips again from its natural position, as soon as the ex- tension is discontinued. What advantages result from this treatment ? 1498. First, by shortening the bones and relaxing the muscles, we shall probably prevent those spasmodic contrac- tions, which are frequently occasioned by the application of great force to replace the bones. Secondly, we shall diminish local irritation, as the curative process will go on more speedily from the sawn extremity of the bone than from the natural articular surface. Thirdly, " When the suppurative inflammation does occur, it is rendered much less, as there is not the same extent, by nearly one half of cartilaginous surface, to be removed by ulceration 5 and thus, by the diminution of the ulcerative and suppurative process, the constitutional irri- tation is much lessened."—Ibid. Is not the removal of the end of the tibia attended with hazard to the patient ? 1499. Sir A. Cooper does not recollect any case of unfavour- able termination from this practice; but, on the contrary, many unfavourable results where it had not been adopted But would not the certaint^j of a shortened limb and an anchy- losed joint strongly object to the removal of the end of the hone ? 1500. If it be admitted that the danger of the case is lessened, such objections ought not to weigh with us : besides, a shortened limb can be in great measure remedied by a deep sole to the shoe; and an anchylosed joint is as likely to take place in the one mode of treatment as in the other; and where anchylosis does take place, the obliteration of the joint is in some measure compensated by an increase of motion of the tarsal how^s.—Vide ibid. ^ 7., . -.j. Will not amputation below the knee be preferable to either mode of treatment ? 1501 It was once the practice of the surgeons of this country to perform amputation in compound dislocation of the ankle-ioint, as the best means of preserving the life of the pa- tient- but the experience of modern surgery deems such ex- treme practice unjustifiable in the majority of such accidents.