45 stances attending the fracture, but in the majority of cases we may attempt to save the limb. Having- removed all loose portions of bone, and cleansed the wound of any extraneous matter that may have found its way into it, its edges must be accurately brought together and kept in apposition " by plac- ing a piece of lint, dipped in blood, over tliem, supported by adhesive plaister, and a bandage lightly applied, wetted with spirits of wine and water." The arm must be supported by splints, as in cases of simple fracture j and as anchylosis in a greater or less degree takes place in almost every instance of compound fracture of the elbow-joint, the arm should be kept in the bent position, as being most convenient to the patient. Wliat is the treatment of compound fracture of the olecranon ? 1095. " In compound fractures of this bone, the edges of the skin must be brought into exact apposition j lint, embued with blood, must be applied on the wound with adhesive plaister over it, and union by adhesion must be effected if possible; but in other respects the treatment is the same as in simple fracture."—8ir A. Cooper's Treatise, ^c. You have stated that in the majority of cases of compound fracture of this Joint, the saving of the limb mat/ be attempted. What authority can you bring in support of this rule ? 1096. Many high authorities can be given in support of it. The following will suffice :—" In the most severe accident of this kind," says Sir A. Cooper, " the constitution is generally able to support the injury, if it be judiciously treated." " We have remarked," says Mr. Hammick, " that in the compound fractures of the humerus, communicating with the elbow- joint, which have fallen under our care, no patient has been lost during the inflammatory stage, or from tetanus, and if we could not ultimately succeed in saving the limb, we have always been able to bring it to such a state, that we could amputate with as great safety as in the first moments after the accident."—Practice!/ Remarks on Amputation 8cc State those compound fractures of the elbow-Joint that require primary amputation. ^ .1 ^^'^'i ^^i'^,^ wound enter the joint, cut off the head of either of the bones, and extensively divide the liga- ments. It will be better to proceed at once to amputation "— Guthrie on Gun-shot Wounds. 2dly. "If the artery at the bend of the arm be wounded or the joint of the wrist, or the carpal bones, be injured in addi