44 fore-ann is kept pronated, and the broken extremities are drawn towards the idna: by bringing the limb towards the supnie position, the ends come together, and the one bone is removed from the other. Fracture of the radius, near the distal extremity, produces displacement of the wrist, with great deformity; and this is increased by bloody effusion into the sheaths of the tendons, and into the superficial cellular tissue. In fracture of both bones, there is much deformity and shortening of the limb; the power of moving the hand is lost, the muscles are bruised and torn, and great swelling- soon results."—Ibid. What is the treatment of fracture of the shaft of either of these bones? 1092. When either of them is fractured near its head or at its middle, no difficulty will be experienced in retaining the broken ends in a natural position; but when either, especially the radius, is fractured at its distal extremity, the task is not accomplished so readily. Having reduced the fracture by an adequate extension, and the fore-arm brought to semi-pro- nation, the broken ends of the bone are to be kept in proper position by two splints, long enough to extend from the con- dyles of the humerus to the fingers. If the splints, that are applied, be shorter than this, the fracture will not be con- trolled, and deformity will be the result. State the treatment to be adopted when both bones are broken. 1093. " When both have given way, slight extension is re- quired, and the fore-arm is placed in the middle state between pronation and supination. Two pasteboard splints, softened in hot water, and padded with tow, are applied one on each aspect, from a little above the elbow to over the fingers; the outer should extend to the tops of the fingers, the inner need not pass the palm; they are retained by a roller."—LAston's Elements. If pasteboard splints be inadequate to keep the bones in position, wooden ones must be substituted. Species 2.—Fractura composiia. Compound fracture. Var. 1.—Fractura articulationis composita. Compound frac- ture of the elbow-joint. What would be your treatment of a compound fracture of the elbow-joint ? 1094. The treatment must of course depend on the circum-