139 mark made for that purpose. The flap is now to be held back, and the deep-seated muscles at the back of the leg di- vided in the track of the last incision. The interosseous liga- ment is to be divided by the catlin, interposed between the bones, the muscles protected by a retractor with three straps, and the bones sawed off, as advised in the common operation, the fibula being cut shorter than the tibia, and the spine ot the tibia being removed. The vessels are to be secured in the usual way; and Mr. Hey advises, when the crural nerve is found to lie on the inner surface of the flap, that it should be dissected out, and when gently extended, be divided near the extremity of the stump, that it may suffer no compression from the flap. In closing the wound, the straps of plaister should be so applied as not to press too much upon the tibia; the muscles of the calf of the leg should be well bandaged down from above the knee, and the flap always supported until firm union has taken place—Guthrie on Gun-shot Wounds, and Hey's Surgery. Is not theflajJ operation sometimes practised when amputation is performed four inches below the patella ? 1452. Many excellent surgeons always amputate the leg at the usual place in this manner. Such a practice obtains in St. Bartholomew's hospital. The surgeons of this institution first make the semicircular incision, and afterwards the flap. Order 3.—Tarso-digitalia. Emergencies occurring to the ankle and foot. What bones enter into the formation of the ankle-joint ? 1453. The tibia, fibula, and astragalus ; the tibia forming the inner, and the fibula the outer ankle. In what manner is the inferior part of the fibula articulated with the tibia ? 1454. The fibula, having been connected with the tibia throughout its whole length by the interosseous ligament, is, lower down, further connected by what is termed the inferior interosseous ligament, passing from the inner side of the ex- ternal malleolus to the tibia. Its lower end is articulated with the tibia, 1st, by the anterior ligament, passing from the lower part of the fibula to the fore part of the tibia ; and 2dly, by the posterior ligament, which passes from the back part of the malleolus externus to the back part of the tibia. This articulation is also strengthened by the tendons of those