108 very apex of tlie triangle fornied by the convergence of the triceps and vastus internius.—^m/yya on Aneurism. About three or four inches above this point, tlie incision througli the integuments and cellular tissue ought to be begun ; It IS then to be carried rather obliquely downward and in- wards, following, in short, the track of the inner margin of the sartonus, till we arrive at the point of its crossing the arterv, mentioned above. Proceed with the description of the operation oftvina the arterv at this part of the thigh. ^ ^ ^ y 1336. "Any large branch of the saphena vein is to be avoided, and the first incision is to expose the fibres of the sar- torius. The second incision is to separate the inner edge of the sartorius from the adductor longus femoris; and this merely divides the cellular tissue. The sartorius is then gently drawn outwards, and the sheath of vessels becomes exposed, in which, the artery, being more superficial than the vein, may be felt pulsating. A third incision opens the sheath, and this must be done with caution, as the sheath is to be divided over the artery. A septum is found between the artery and vein. The point of the silver knife nsay be here most safely used to further open the sheath, and to admit the probe. The probe is to be introduced under the artery with great care, to avoid injury to the vein, and to exclude any branch of the nerve, as'l have known thesaphenus nerve included in the ligature, and numb- ness produced in the course of the saphena vein. The probe being brought out at the wound, the ligature is then left under the artery. All this is to be effected with as little disturbance to the artery as i)ossible. The ligature is to be then tied, first passed through twice, and then only once, in making the knot secure."—^ir A. Cooper's Lectures, by Tyrrell. In what manner ought the wound to he treated ? 1337. When the ligature has been securely tied, cut off one of its ends, and leave the other hanging from the centre of the wound. Bring the edges of the skin exactly together, and secui'e them by adhesive plaister, leaving small interstices to permit the escape of discharge. Do not apply any bandage, and let the patient be carried to bed in the recumbent posture. Place the limb in a slightly bent position, rather on its outer side, and the foot is to be wrapped in flannel."—Ibid. You have not said any tiling of upx)lying a tourniquet to the upper part of the thigh, or of any other means to check hemorr- hage, in the event of a large vessel being ivounded during the operation.