102 embrace luid overlap it. Upon these the limb is to be placed, and at this point of time our attention must be occupied in ad- justmg the fracture and closing the wound. / would here ask you in what manner the loound is to be closed ? 1318. The treatment of the wound will depend upon its character. Should it be an incised wound from a sharp in- strument, let the edges be brought " gently into contact, though no closer than can be done by the easiest means," by adhesive straps, and over these place layers of dry lint j but should the wound be extensive and much lacerated, the appli- cations may be as follow:—"To the wound we first apply a piece of dry lint, and over that another, well soaked in a solution of gum-arabic, if gum cannot be procured, you may substitute the white of eggs. Over this a little flour may be dusted, then another layer of gum and lint may be laid on ; and lastly, two or three more of \mt."—Hammick's Practical Remarks, ^c. You may now proceed with your method of bandaging, S^c. 1319. Having closed the wound by one of these methods, and reduced the fracture by proper extension, the short calico compresses are to be folded around the thigh from the knee upwards, and the edges of the sheet turned in, " so as to form a protecting cushion on either side of the limb against the pres- sure of the common deal splints, which are to be secured by tapes: two splints will be all that are required ; one long enough to reach from above the trochanter major to below the knee-joint, the other from the fork of the thigh by the side of the scrotum, to the inner side of the knee, filling up all the hollows in every direction with tow, and protecting every part that is likely to be galled."—Ibid. Lastly, a sponge-full of cold water, or goulard-wash, may be squeezed out over the compresses, avoiding, of course, that part of them which covers the wound, in order that the adherent applications may not be detached. Some support should be interposed between the bed and bed-clothes that cover the fractured thigh, to promote evaporation, and keep the limb cool. State the circumstances which would forbid any attempts to save the limb in a compound fracture of the thigh. 1320. First, when the wheel of a loaded waggon, or the pressure of any pondrous body, fractures the thigh-bone into fragments, extensively lacerating and bruising the integu- ments, muscles, nerves, or blood-vessels, the case requires immediate amputation.—Pott.