104 Do you, then, wish to be understood, that when a musket-shot strikes and fractures that point of the femur, the case does not call for the primary operation, and may be trusted to the natural poioers ? 1322. Tliis treatment will be justifiable when the bone is not much shattered; but if it be much shattered, the danger is great; so that, says Mr. Guthrie, " a fractured thigh by gun- shot, even without particular injury of the soft parts, is one of the most dangerous kind of w^ounds that can occur."—Ibid. If a musket-ball have fractured the lower part of the bone, without injuring the knee-joint, is the primary amputation necessary ? 1323. " Wounds from musket-balls, injuring the lower part of the bone, without communicating with the joint, do not re- quire primary amputation; they are proper cases for delay, except there be great destruction of parts."—Ibid. What would be your treatment should a musket-ball be found lodged in the condyle of the femur, without further fracturing or much splintering of the bone ? 1324. " In all these cases the injury is comparatively simple in the recent state, and our duty is confined to watching the approach of inflammation, and removing any splinters, &c. that may present or come within our reach."—Hennen's Prin- ciples of Military Surgery. Absolute rest, cold applications, and the antiphlogistic regimen, will be of course necessary.—Vide 1041. Are there not considerations relative to the future comfort and conditiofi of the sufferer, which, in very equivocal and doubtful cases, would influence your decision either to amputate or endea- vour to save the limb ? 1325. If the accident happen in the field of battle, and " if the heat, of the weather be great, as in the summer of the Peninsula, Asia, America, the hospital to which the patient must be removed at some distance, the conveyance bad, or the wounded very numerous, it is better to amputate even in a doubtful case."—Guthrie on Gun-shot Wounds. On the contrary, if cool apartments in summer, good con- veyance, plentiful attendance, and good professional advice can be procured, we may attempt to save the limb. Should such a case occur in private practice, such an attempt will be still more encouraged. In severe compound fractures, ivhere there is the greatest dif- ficulty in deciding behueen the preservation or amputation of the limb,which alternative is best supported by the result of experience?