8 that vessel ought to be tied without delay (vide 340) ; if not it will be right to compress the transversalis humeri, the probable source of the hemorrhage, as it runs transversely near the clavicle towards the notch of the scapula. JVould not a liyature carried around the subclavian be pre- ferable to tying the axillary, with a view of at once restraining both sources of' the hemorrhage ? 973. Tying the subclavian at the usual point would avail nothing, as the inferior thyroid artery, from which the su- perior scapulary branch arises, takes its origin nearer the heart, and where it would be impracticable to reach it with safety to the patient. Ordjbr II.—Humeraria. Emergencies occurring to the upper arm. Genus I.—Dislocatio. Dislocation. Species I.—Dislocatio humeri simjjlcx. Simple luxation of the shoulder-joint. What are the ligaments that connect the head of the humerus to the glenoid cavity of the scapula ? 974. The capsular and the cotyloid are the only ligaments that connect this articulation. But are there not other parts that supply the place of liga- ments ? 975. Yes. This joint is held together principally by mus- cles ; one of which is inserted into the superior margin of the glenoid cavity of the scapula, three into the larger tubercle of the humerus, and one into the lesser tubercle. The first of these muscles is the long head of the biceps, which enters the joint from the bici|jital groove. The three next are the supra and infra spinatus, and the teres minor; and the last is the subscapularis. This arrangement, whilst it supports the capsular ligament, gives to the joint that variety of motion which it enjoys. In what directions might the humerus be forced from its natural position by violence ? 976. This bone may be dislocated in three directions prin- cipally ; downwards into the axilla, forwards under the pec- toral muscle, and backwards upon the infra-spinatus muscle; but of course the precise situation of the displacement cannot be defined, as this will vary according to the force applied. For