4-9 it conies ofl'at the upper end of the interosseous ligament, per ^ forates it immediately at its origin, and ramifies on the back part of the fore arm. The interossea anterior is given off from the ulnar at nearly the same point with the posterior. It is considerably the larger of the two, but only about half the size of the ulnar from which it springs. It runs close upon the interosseous ligament. Suppose the radial and ulnar arteries were wounded by a raking musket-shot, luhich lodged in the elboio-joint, what would be your treatment ? 1109. " Under certain circumstances of great extent of in- jury, as a ball passing from the wrist to the inside of the elbow-joint, it may be necessary to amputate."—Quthrie on Gun-shot Wounds. What would be your treatment of the same injury without the elbow-joint being involved ? 1110. "I would recommend in most cases, in the first in- stance, both vessels being secured at each end by regular in- cisions for the purpose, and the arm only removed when gangrene was commencing."—Ibid. If the muscles, composing the thick part of the arm only, be carried aioay by a cannon-shot, even with the division of one or more vessels, lohat treatment would such a case require ? 1111. Mr. Guthrie thinks the operation of amputation not imperiously called for, until circumstances may arise, de- manding it; such as gangrene in the part itself, the effect of contusion, or in the hand, from deficient support." If, from lohatever emergency, the amputation of the fore- arm be decided on, at ivhat point ought the operation to be per- formed ? . ^ 1112. If circumstances admit of a choice of situation, 'there are two places of general election; one near the joint of the wrist, in the lower third; the other near the elbow in the upper third of the nvm:'—Ibid. The former of these is to be preferred, if possible. Where ought the tourniquet to be applied ? 1113. On the humerus, as near to the elbow as possible. Describe the flap operation to be performed in the lower third oj the arm. 1114. ^' The arm being placed in the intermediate position between pronation and supination, with the thumb if it re- mam, uppermost, so that the radius and ulna are in one me, and firmly held by an assistant, a callin (two inches longer than the usual size, if it can be procured) is to be en^ E.