65 ease, and if the incisions be made lu the direction of t»'e bones and flexor tendons on the inside of the hand, when they are e- quired on that side, there will not much haemorrhage ensue ?hat cannot readily be commanded by the hgature, or a small graduated compress."—Ibid. What is the situation of that continuation of the ulnar artery, called the superficial palmar arch? 1175. "The arcus superficialis is placed with its convex side downwards, and extends obliquely trom the root of the metacarpal bone of the little finger, towards that of the first bone of the thumb ; being covered by the expansion termed aponeurosis palmaris."—F^/e's Compendium. State the ramifications of the superficial palmar arch, and their position. 1176. First, ''Several small branches are sent ott to the integuments and other superficial parts of the palm ; se- condly, a considerable branch, termed ulnaris profunda of the palm, which sinks near the root of the metacarpal bone of the little finger, and, inosculating with the palmar branch of the radial artery, assists in forming the arcus profundus ; thirdly, a branch to the inner side of the little finger ; fourthly, three large digital branches, which run opposite to the interstices of the metacarpal bones to the clefts between the fingers."— Ibid. Describe the ramification and position of the radial artery on the hand. 1177. "At the under end of the fore-arm, the radial artery turns back under the tendons of the extensors of the thumb ; then, getting between the roots of the metacarpal bones of the thumb and fore-finger, and perforating the abductor indicis, it divides into three principal branches, viz., the anterior magna pollicis, which runs along the side of the thumb next the fin- gers, and sometimes divides at its root into two branches, which supply both sides of it; the radialis indicis, which runs along the side of the fore-finger next the thumb, and the pal maris profunda, which crosses the hand between the roots of the metacarpal bones and flexors of the fingers, and forms an arcus profundus, from which branches go off" to the inter- ossei and other deep parts of the palm."—Ibid. Suppose that, either from the bursting of a gun, the catch of machinery, or the force of a musket-ball, two of the metacarpal hones were broken and comminuted, what would be your treat- ment ? 1178. It would not be " necessary to amputate as a pri-