22 is the prevention of sinuses round the joint, as they would ultimately pi-ove t\iVd\."~Guthrie on Gun-shot Wounds. But of ivhat use -would the enlargement of the wound be in a case ivhlch you consider to be of a favourable kind ? 1013. '^I'o enable nie to examine the nature of the injury as accurately, though at the same time as cautiously, as possible, lest I might have mistaken an injury, that might demand excision or an)putation, for one, that I supposed required neither. Describe the operation for excision of the head of the hu- merus. 1014. I make an incision in the centre of the deltoid muscle, parallel to its fibres, carrying it downwards as far as possible, and separating the edges of the wound to show the joint, the capsular ligament of which is generally open ; with the curved blunt-pointed bistoury I readily cut the attach- ments of the supra-spinatus, infra-spinatus, teres minor, subscapularis, and the long head of the biceps. I then disen- gage the head of the bone, and turn it out through the inci- sion, by pushing it from below with my fingers, or by any appropriate lever. The arm is then to be approximated to the shoulder, and retained in position by a proper bandage and sling."—Baron Larrey's Work on Military Surgery. Might any circumstances induce you to vary this mode of operating ? 1015. Should there be any suspicion, that the shaft of the bone may be fissured, I should be induced to make the inci- sion for extraction in such a direction, as would allow of its being converted into the operation of amputation, if required from the examination of the state of the bune. JVhat blood-vessels are endangered by the operation for ex- cision ? 1016. The axillary, the anterior and posterior circumflex arteries. State the relative position of these arteries to the insertion of the muscles you are obliged to divide. 101/. The axillary artery takes its course between the subscapularis and serratas major muscles, where it is surrounded by the lymphatic glands and fat, by the veins, and also by the large nerves, which form the brachial plexus. The anterior circumflex artery " is sent off from the axil- lary, between the subscapularis and teres major. It passes in a transverse direction, between the heads of the coraco-bra-