84 Will not the posture of the patient also sometimes aid you in distinrjuishinfj this injury ? 1247. Placing the patient on his feet will frequently dis- cover the shortening of the limb, which may be less evident in the horizontal position. Whilst standing, " the toes rest upon the ground, but the heel does not reach it; the knee and foot are everted, and the prominence of the hip is diminished. —^ir A. Cooper's Treatise, £fc. The slightest bearing on the injured side produces pain. You have stated that fracture of the neck of the femur with- in the capsule may be confounded with dislocation upon the dor- sum ilii; might it not be confounded with dislocation in other diVBCttOTlS ? 1248. This case may be also confounded with the luxation into the ischiatic notch, and upon the pubes, as in both these directions the leg will be shortened. ^ x. ^ By what marks could you distinguish these from the case of /radMre.?^ the luxation into the notch the toe will be turned inwards, and the limb will be rigid. In fracture the toe ^ylll be turned outwards, and the limb mobile. In the luxation upon the pubes there will be tumour of the groni, from the head of the bone being lodged and felt there. What degree of union is found to take place tn fracture 0/ the cervix femoris within the capsule ? . , , 1250 In persons of extreme old age, no union has been discovered to have taken place, neither can it be expected. In persons less advanced in age, and under favourable circum- stances, soft union may be effected; and where the accident happens (which is a rare example) in a younger person, and the ends of the fracture are but little displaced, ossific union may result. It must, however, be confessed, that according to all the evidence that has been adduced, non-union is the ge- neral rule, and union of any kind the exception. Can you explain the reason why no union can take place m nersons of extreme age ? , 1 u ..„„ ^1251. Union at this period of life cannot take place by rea- son of interstitial absorption, and the consequent inade(iuacy of the feeble powers of organization left in the bone, to repair "'"taTy'^uZlign a reason why union so rarely ^c^^^^f^^^^^ fracture of the cervix femoris under more favourable circum- ^stances, i e., in less advanced age, where the organizing power is not so impaired?