48 3(lly. Ca!)non-sliot seldom strike the fore-arm without doing such injury as demands amputation. If the fore-arm be carried away tlie operation is of course immediately necessary. ^ What would he ijour practice, where both bones are fractured, with the division of only one of the arteries ? ' 1104. This case would not justify amputation. "The artery should be fairly tied at both extremities as soon as the injury be ascertained, and which, perhaps, may even be only suspected, from the want of pulsation at the wvisV—Ibid. Gen. 3.—Vulnusproprium cubitale. Wound occurring to the fore-arm. At what part of the fore-arm does the humeral artery usually terminate ? 1105. At about an inch below the elbow, where it divides into the radial and ulnar arteries : it sometimes divides higher up the arm, anrl now and then the division takes place as high as the axilla. Describe the course of the radial artery. 1106. The radial artery, [)assing over the pronator radii teres, follows the course of the radial bone through its whole extent. It descends between the supinator iongus and flexor radialis, resting on the fle^^or Iongus pollicis. At the upper part of the fore-arm it is covered by the supi- nator Iongus. In its descent it becomes more superficial, and at the under part of the fore arm it lies close upon the radius, and immediately under the skin. What is the course of the ulnar artery ? 1107. At its upper part it sinks deep behind the jflexor muscles of the hand, and passes afterwards, for some way, between the flexor sublimis and profundus digitorum. Near the wrist it becomes more superficial, and runs between the tendons of the flexor carpi uhiaris and flexor digitorum pro- fundus, to the hand. Are there any other arteries of the fore-arm,, the relative posi- tion of which the practical surgeon ought to be acquainted with? 1108. The interosseal arteries may be wounded, the situa- tion of which the surgeon ought to know, in order to their being secured. Their position is as follows : The posterior interossea is a branch of the ulnar artery: