162 of the posterior tibial and the dor salts pedis of the anterior tibial artery ? 1545. A very free communication takes place between these arteries, by means of a branch called the ramus communicans which runs betwixt the metatarsal bones of the great toe and toe next. Is not the tendo-achillis sometimes wholly or partially lacerated ? 1546. Yes; this tendon is sometimes lacerated by an unex- pected and inordinate action of the gastrocnemii muscles when the patient feels the sudden sensation of rupture in the situation of the tendon, and immediately becomes incapable of walking. What would be your treatment of this accident ? 1547. The limb having been laid on its outside upon pil- lows, the knee is to be kept bent and the foot extended, in order to allow the ends of the ruptured tendon to come in contact. In this position the limb must remain till the tendon is re-united. Bandages and evaporating lotions will of course be necessary. Should the tendon be divided by a scythe or sabre-cut, what treatment would be required ? 1548. In such a case it is probable that the posterior tibial artery will be wounded. If so, the vessel must first be secured. The lips of the wound are then to be brought to- gether by strips of adhesive plaister, and, if necessary, by suture, and the case afterwards treated in the same manner as was recommended for the spontaneous rupture of the tendon. Should the anterior tibial artery be opened by an incised wound on the upper part of the foot, in what manner would you take up the artery ? 1549. In tying this artery, we must not forget to tie both ends of the vessel, otherwise there will still be bleeding from the inferior end, supplied by the ramus communicans, coming up between the two first metatarsal bones, as above men- tioned. In a wound of the plantar arteries, what would be your treat- ment ? 1550. We ought in the first place to endeavour to suppress the hemorrhage by wet graduated compresses and a roller, at the same time moderating the flow of blood into the arteries by the action of the tourniquet: if, however, this method