38 by the contortion inwai-ds of the fore-arm and hand. The olecranon projects, and can be felt behind the os humeri. Ex- tension of the arm is impracticable but by a force which will reduce the dislocation, and it cannot be bent to more than a right angle. It is an accident somewhat difficult to detect: but Its distinguishing marks are the projection of the ulna and the twist of the fore-arm inwards."—Ibid. ' In ivhat manner is this kind of displacement to be reduced ? 1068. " This dislocation is more easily reduced than that of both bones ; and the best method is to bend the arm over the knee, and to draw the fore-arm downwards. The reduction will then be easy, as not only the brachialis muscle will act in assistance, but the radius, resting against the external con- dyle, will push the os humeri backwards upon the ulna, when the arm is bent."—Ibid. Var.4.—Dislocatio radii anterior. Dislocation of the radius forwards. Describe the appearance of this accident. 1069. " The fore-arm is slightly bent, but cannot be brought to a right angle with the upper, nor can it be com- pletely extended. When it is suddenly bent, the head of the radius strikes against the fore part of the os humeri, and pro- duces so sudden a stop to its motion, as at once to convince the surgeon that one bone strikes against another. The hand is placed in a prone position ; but neither its pronation nor supination can be completely performed, although its prona- tion be nearly complete. If the thumb be carried into the fore and upper part of the elbow-joint, the head of the radius may be felt there ; and if rotation of the hand be attempted, the bone will be perceived to roll. This last circumstance, and the sudden stop to the bending of the arm, are the best diagnostic marks of the injury."—Ibid. What ligaments are ruptured in this injury ? 1070. The coronary, the oblique, the anterior part of the capsular, and a portion of the interosseous ligaments. Wliat is the most successful mode of treating this displace- ment ? 1071. Extension from the hand only, as this will act on the radius to the exclusion of the ulna from the force used, and thus reduce the displacement. " It is also right," says Sir A. Cooper, " in making the extension, to render the hand supine; as this position draws the head of the radius from the upper