53 before and behind the fore-arm, reaching from the elbow to the metacarpal bones. Vak. 2.—Dislocatio radii e carpo. Displacement of the radius at the wrist. What are the diagnostic marks of a displacement of the radius at the wrist ? 1124. The radius is thrown upon the fore part of the car- pus, and lodged upon the scaphoid bone and os trapezium. The outer side of the hand is, in this case, twisted backwards, and the inner foi'wards; the extremity of the radius can be felt and seen, forming a protuberance on the fore part of the wrist. The styloid process of the radius is no longer situated opposite to the os trapezium."—Ibid. What is the method of reduction in this accident ? 1125. The reduction is to be effected in the same manner as was recommended in the displacement of both bones at the wrist.—Fit^e 1123. Var. 3.—Dislocatio ulnce e carpo. Displacement of the ulna at the wrist. What are the appearances occasioned by displacement of the ulna alone ? 1126. " When this accident happens, the sacciform ligament is torn through, and the bone generally projects backwards without any accompanying fracture of the radius. It rises and forms a protuberance at the back of the wrist; and although it is easily pressed down into its natural position, yet as soon as the pressure is removed, the deformity returns, as the lacerated ligament has no longer the power to retain it in its place."—Sir A. Cooper's Treatise. Is there any peculiar mark as to diagnosis in this injury ? 1127. As in the displacement of the radius the styloid process is removed from the line of the trapezium, so in the luxation of the ulna its styloid process is removed from the line of the metacarpal bone of the little finger. How would you treat this accident ? 1128. The luxated end of the bone is to he pressed back into its articulation with the radius ; and in order to retain it there, splints are to be applied along the fore-arm against the palm and back of the hand; " the splints should be padded throughout, but upon the extremity of the ulna a compress of leather should be placed, to keep it in a line with the radius.