70 would justify an attempt to preserve, and those that would render it necessary to amputate the finger ? 1L94. If the bone protrude through the integuments at the back of the finger, without comminution, imj)ncation of the joint, or laceration of the flexor tendons, the preservative treatment is justifiable; but if there be comminution of the bone, laceration of the flexor tendons, or implication of the joint, primary amputation is required. At lohat point of the phalanx ought the operation to be per- formed ? 1195. " It is generally best to remove these bones at the joints ; it is occasionally necessary, where the injury just in- cludes the joint and no more, to saw them off below."— Guthrie on Gun-shot Wounds. What is the best mode of removing the first phalanx at the metacarpal joint ? 1196. A flap, if practicable, should be made from the back of the finger. With this view the joint is first to be ascer- tained ; and " from this point an incision is to be made along each side of the finger for about half an inch, in a semi-lunar form, and the angle of these two joined by a transverse inci- sion underneath, where a flap can be raised of sufficient size to cover the wound when the bone is removed. The flap being turned back, the extensor tendon divided, and the joint laid bare, a half semi-circular incision is to be made on the under part, so as to divide every thing down to the bone. The joint should now be a little bent, to shew its exact posi- tion ; the ligamentous attachment between the bones, on each side connecting it to its fellow, cut through; and the lateral ligament divided, when the joint will be easily dislocated. Two small vessels will often require a single thread; some- times even a pinch from the forceps will be sufficient to stop the hemorrhage."—Ibid. The flap is to be laid over the bone, and retained in situ by adhesive plaister. Should it be impracticable to take the flap from the back of the finger, it may be taken from beneath, or flaps may be formed on the sides of the phalanx by an elliptical incision, carried from the back to the front of the joint. Is not another mode of operating preferred by some eminent surgeons ? 1197. Sir A. Cooper adopts the folloM^ng method. " When it is necessary to remove the whole of a finger, I think it belter to saw off" the extremity of the metacarpal bone, rather