52 and but ft small surface of the cuneiform."—Sir A. Cooper's Ti'eatise. The wrist is strengthened on eacli side by the radio-carpal ligament, extending from the styloid process of the radius to the outer edge of the scaphoid bone ; and by the ulna-carpal, extending from the styloid process of the ulna to the cuneiform and orbicular bones. The radius is connected to the ulna by the interosseous, and by the sacciform ligaments. You have spoken of an inter articular cartilage; describe it more fully. 1120. The interarticular cartilage above alluded to, is placed below the radio-ulnar joint. Its outer edge is joined to the articular cartilage of the radius, and its inner edge is united to the ulna by ligament, which is attached to a cavity betwixt its styloid process and rounded extremity."—Ibid. In what ways may dislocation take place at the ivrist-joint ? 1121. There may be three kinds of displacement at this joint; dislocation of both bones, and of the radius or of the ulna only. Var. 1.—Dislocatio radii et ulnae e carpo. Displacement of both bones at the wrist. What are the appearances of a displacement of both bones ? 1122. " A considerable swelling is produced by the radius and ulna on the fore part of the wrist, and a similar protube- rance upon the back of the wrist by the carpus, with a depres- sion above it; the hand is bent back, being no longer in a line with the fore-arm. In the dislocation of the radius and ulna backwards, these bones are thrown upon the posterior part of the carpus, and the carpus itself is forced under the flexor tendons, which pass behind the ligamentum carpi an- nulare. In either case two swellings are produced, one by the radius and ulna, the other by the carpal bones, and these swellings are diagnostic of the accident."—Bir A. Cooper's Treatise. What would be your method of reduction ? 1123. "The surgeon grasps the patient s hand with his right hand, supporting the fore-arm with his left, whilst an assistant places his hands around the upper arm, just above the elbow; they then pull in different directions, and the bones become easily replaced."—Ibid. The bones are to be kept in their natural position by a roller made wet with cold lotion, and supported by splints placed