134 State the mode of securing it at the lower part of the leg. 1437. Here " the artery is easily found and secured behind the malleolus internus ; it is accompanied by the posterior tibial nerve, which lies on its fibular side, and must be avoided."—Ibid. " The artery runs a little nearer the heel than the tendons of the flexor communis ; a fascia braces down the artery, and the nerve is under the artery."—BelVs Operative Surgery. Should the peroneal artery be wounded, in what direction would you make your incision, in order to secure it by ligature ? 1438. " I should cut upon the vessel from the outer part of the leg, and seek it between the tibia and fibula, close to the fibula."—Sir A. Cooper's Lectures, by Tyrrell. To find this artery two hands' breadth from the heel, cut betwixt the gastrocnemius and peroneus longus, i. e. on the outside of the gastrocnemius, where it is becoming tendinous ; turn up the edge of the tendon ; you then find the flexor pol- licis covered with its sheath. If you seek for the fibular artery, by going deep in the leg without piercing this sheath, you find the tibial nerve, and may come on the tibial artery. To find the fibular, then, you cut down by the side of the fibula, and raise the fibrous origin of the flexor pollicis. We then find the artery by the acute edge of the bone, lying on the interosseous ligament, accompanied only by its vense comites.—BelVs Operative Surgery. Should the anterior tibial artery be wounded at its upper part, describe the manner of cutting doivn upon it, to tie it. 1439. " When wounded at the upper part of the limb, an incision must be made at the outer side of the tibialis anticus, to find it: a tenaculum or a pair of forceps must be employed to raise the wounded artery, to remove it from the interosseous ligament, and then two ligatures are to be applied upon it."— Sir A. Cooper's Lectures, by Tyrrell. Describe the method of tying it at the loiver end of the anterior part of the leg. . 1440. " When the anterior tibial artery is wounded low down in the leg, it must, when it is tied, be completely raised from the tendons of the tibialis anticus and extensor proprius pollicis, between which it is placed; both ends must be secured."—Ibid. „ , ^ -^j Is there any wound of the soft parts of the leg, unaccompanied by fracture of the bones, that would require immediate amputation? 1441. The following case, according to the authority of Mr. Culhrie, would require the primary operation.