159 are now to be removed by cutting into and dislocating each from the side, which facilitates the pertormance ot it Tl e arteries are now to be secured; any long tendons and loose capsular ligaments are to be removed with the knite or scis- sars, and the under flap, formed from the sole of the foot is to be raised up so as to make a neat stump, when brought in contact with the upper portion of integuments that were first tm-ned back ; the whole to be retained in this position by su- tures, adhesive plaister, and bandage:'—Ibid. But if the situation of the injury required it, might not the foot be amputated with equal facility nearer the ankle-jomt? 1535 Were it necessary from such a cause, the amputation of the foot may be performed at the junction of the calca- neum and the astragalus, with the cuboid and navicular bones, according to the practice of Monsieur Chopart. Describe the method of performing this operation. 1536. "The tourniquet having been applied, the surgeon is to make a transverse incision through the skin which covers the instep, two inches from the ankle-joint. He is to divide the skin and the extensor tendons and muscles in that situa- tion, so as to expose the convexity of the tarsus. He is next to make on each side a small longitudinal incision, which is to begin below and a little in front of the malleolus, and is to end at one of the extremities of the first incision. After hav- ing formed, in this way, a flap of integuments, he is to let it be drawn upwards by the assistant, who holds the leg. There is no occasion to dissect and reflect the flap, for the cellular substance, connecting the skin with the subjacent aponeu- rosis, is so loose, that it can easily be drawn up above the place where the joint of the calcaneum with the cuboides, and that between the astragalus and scaphoides, ought to be opened. The surgeon will penetrate the last the most easily, particularly by taking for his guidance the eminence which indicates the attachment of the tibialis anticus muscle to the inside of the os naviculare. The joint of the os cuboides and OS calcis lies pretty nearly in the same transverse line, but rather obliquely forward. The ligaments having been cut, the foot falls back. The bistoury, or scalpel, is then to be put down, and the straight knife used, with which a flap of the soft parts is to be formed, under the tarsus and metatarsus, long enough to a(hnit of being applied to the naked bones so as entirely to cover them. It is to be maintained in this posi- tion with three or four strips of adhesive plaister, which are to extend from the heel over the flap to the inferior and an-