147 V4R. A.—Dislocatto ossis ciineiformis interni. Dislocation of the internal cuneiform bone. In ivhat direction is this bone usually dislocated ? 1488 The bone is generally projected mwards, and a little upwards, being drawn up by the action of the tibialis anticus ^^Cm'this displacement be usually reduced, and if not, what treatment loould ijou adopt ? , i 1489 Displacements of the internal cuneiform bone, and probably of the others, rarely admit of being reduced ; and in such an event. Sir A. Cooper recommends "first, to confine the bone as much as possible in its natural position, by bind- ing a roller round the foot, and to keep the bandage wet with an evaporating lotion, until the inflammation has subsided, and then to employ a leathern strap, which can be buckled around the foot, so as firmly to confine the bone, untd the liga- ments are reunited." Have you any directions to give on the treatment of disloca- tions of the metatarsal bones from the tarsus, or of the toes from the metatarsus ? 1490. The connexion of the metatarsal bones with each other, and their irregular connexion with the tarsus, the second metatarsal bone especially being planted much deeper into the tarsus than the rest, prevent almost the possibility of the dislocation of the metatarsal bones from the tarsus ; and the dislocation of the toes from the metatarsus is so rare, as to render it unnecessary to say any thing on the subject in this place. For the treatment of such an accident, as well as of dislocation of the phalanges, the reader is referred to what has been said on dislocation of the fingers.—Vide 1135, and following. Var. 5.—JDislocatio tendinis peronei longi. Dislocation of the tendon of the peroneus longus muscle. Might not the tendon of this muscle be dislocated from the groove in which it runs behind the malleolus externus ? 1491. This accident is of very rare occurrence, yet by a sudden and inordinate action of the peroneus longus, its ten- Case.—A lady, tet. about thirty-five, whilst walking- across a field, felt some- thing suddenly give way with a snap at the outer ankle, wliich at once ren- dered her incapable of raising her leg, and caused her to believe that she had