33 chialis and biceps, and body of the os humen, immediately be o V the joint of the humerus It is dispersed upon the imiScles which cover it, and upon the periosteum and capsular "^^"^oltrcSumflex is a large artery, and '^ passes first beFween the subscapularis and teres major, and hen U i-L i^und between the back part of the os humeri and long head of he triceps and the deltoides It sends branches to the nedo'teum and ioint. to the short head of the biceps and t:^^X£Zis, to the triceps and subscapularis, and runs in a circular manner to the deltoides. —J^//e. , ■ Hoio could you avoid wounding these vessels m detaching the muscles from the head of the hone? 1018 The axillary trunk may be avoided by takmg caie to keep the cutting-edffe of the instrument next the bone, and the back towards the artery. The posterior cuxumflex will be avoided, if. in dividing the attachment of the teres minor, care be taken to keep the knife close to the head of the bone ; and the same rule obtains in dividing the attachments ot the subscapularis and supra-spinatus, with the view to avoid the trunk of the anterior circumflex."—Gw^Arze on Gun-shot Wounds. , r ^^ 1 r U The surgeon will be much assisted by feeling, betore he makes his incisions, for the pulsations of these arteries. With due attention to these rules, Mr. Guthrie says that " where the single incision is used, no vessel of any conse- quence will bleed." . . In a case requiring amputation at the shoulder-joint, when would you perform the operation—immediately after the reception of the injury, or after consequent inflammation shall have sub- sided ? 1019. As soon as possible after the injury has been received; as the early, or field operation, has been found, in military practice, to be by far the most successful. In proof of this, out of nineteen amputations at the shoulder-joint in the field, during the latter part of the peninsular campaign, eighteen were cured; and of the same number operated upon it in general hospitals, fifteen died. " All delay," says Mr. Cooper, " is improper, beyond the short period, during which the faintness, immediately arising from the injury^ usually lasts." —Dictionary of Practical Surgery. In what manner loould you command the circulation before you proceed to operate ? 1020. By making pressure upon the subclavian or axillary