89 Var. 3.—Fractura per irochanterem majorem. Fracture through the greater trochanter. At what period of life does this fracture generally occur? 1263. Oblique fracture of the femur through the trochanter major occurs at any period of life, and is usually occasioned by considerable violence. State the symptoms of this fracture. 1264. " The leg is very little, and sometimes not at all shorter than the other, and the foot is benumbed; in some cases the patient is unable to turn in bed without assistance, and the attempt gives him great pain. The broken portion of the trochanter major is, in some cases, drawn forward towards the ilium; in others it falls towards the tuberosity of the ischium, but is in general widely separated from that por- tion which remains connected with the neck of the bone. The foot is greatly everted : the patient cannot sit, and any attempt to do so produces excessive pain."—Sir A. Coopers Treatise on Dislocations. From the above statement it is clear that crepitation must with difficulty be discovered. What are the distinguishing marks of this variety of fracture? 1265. " A fixed state of the upper part of the trochanter, whilst its lower part obeys the motion of the thigh-bone; eversion of the foot, and the very perceptible altered position of the trochanter major, attended with crepitus under very ex- tended motion of the upper part of the limb, and \^ ith little diminution of its length."—Ibid. Might not shortening of the limb take place in this case under certain circumstances? 1266. " When the fracture happens below the insertion of the principal rotatory muscles, the lower portion of the bone is much raised by the action of the gluteeus maximus," and the limb is consequently very much shortened.- Ibid. What is the kind of union that results from this fracture ? 1267. " 1'his fracture unites very firmly, and more quickly than when the cervix is broken at the root of the trochanter, and the j)atient recovers with a very good use of the limb."-- Ibid. Var. 4.—Fractura epiphysis trochanteris majoris. Fracture of the great trochanter epiphysis. What are the symptoms of a fracture of the great trochanter epiphysis ?