116 Order 2.—Tibialia. Emergencies occurring to tlie knee and leg. Genus 1.—Dislocatio. Dislocation. Spec lEs 1.—Dislocatio simplex. Simple dislocation. Var. 1.—Dislocatio patella. Luxation of the patella. Of what bones is the Joint of the knee formed P 1359. The knee-joint is formed by the femur superiorly, patella anteriorly, and the tibia inferiorly. By what ligaments are these bones articulated? 1360. The joint is protected and articulated, first, by the capsular ligament, which proceeds from the condyles of the femur, attaches itself to the edge of the patella, and fixes its insertion around the head of the tibia; secondly, by the liga- mentum patellae, which is extended from the lower point of the patella to the tubercle of the tibia. Thirdly, by two external or femoro-fibular ligaments, which pass from the external con- dyle of the femur to the head of the fibula. Fourthly, by the internal lateral or femoro-tibial ligament, extending from the internal condyle to the head of the tibia. Fifthly, by the oblique or popliteal ligament, by some also called Winslow's ligament, extending from the external condyle of the femur to the posterior part of the head of the tibia. Sixthly, by the crucial ligaments, the anterior of which arises from the inner and back part of the external condyle, and extends obliquely downwards and forwards to a depression in the front part of the spine of the tibia ; the posterior from the internal condyle, and, crossing the former, attaches itself to the spine of the tibia, behind the anterior crucial ligament. This joint is also supported superiorly by the rectus, cruralis and vasti muscles, laterally by tendinous expansions, and posteriorly by the pop- liteus muscle.— Vide Sir A. Cooper's and Mr. Bransby Cooper's Treatises on this subject. In what directions may a dislocation of the patella take place? 1361. This bone may be displaced in three directions, viz. outwards, inwards, and upwards. What are the marks of the dislocation outwards and inwards ? 1362. A large projection upon the external condyle, and an nability to bend the knee, mark the external luxation. The luxation inward-i is less frequent. It is immediately known by the displaced patella forming a tumour upon the internal condyle, with the same inability to bend the knee.