90 1268. This fracture will be necessarily obscure when the muscles are not torn along with the fracture; indeed, it was impossible to detect it under such circumstances during the life of the patient, in a case that occurred to Mr. Key, of Guy's Hospital. When, however, the glutaeus medius, minimus, and upper part of the vastus externus, are torn through along with the fracture, the epiphysis will be found drawn upwards, and the nature of the injury easily detected. What treatment have you to recommend in this injury ? 1269. It is manifest that, should the epiphysis be considera- bly separated from the shaft of the bone, the case will be but little under our control, and that the most we can expect is fibrous union. Perfect rest should be enjoined for a sufficient length of time, and the leg maintained in the straight position. Var 5.—Fractura columnce femoris. Fracture of the shaft of the thigh-bone. Does not fracture sometimes occur to the shaft immediately beloio the trochanters ? 1270. This is sometimes met with. It is a fracture of very difficult management, and if the treatment be not judicious, great distortion ensues. What are the symptoms of this fracture? 3271. " The end of the broken bone is drawn upwards and forwards, so as to form nearly a right angle with the body, and the cause of this position is evidently the contraction of the iliacus iiiternus and psoas muscles, assisted by the pectinalis, and perhaps by the first head of the triceps."—Sir A. Cooper s Treatise on Dislocations, 6fc. Would you endeavour to press down the projecting bone ? 1272. Such a measure would be utterly useless, as it could in no wise preserve the bone in its proper place, and add only to the sufferings of the patient. State the treatment which ought to be adopted. 1273. " To prevent this horrid distortion and imperfect union, two circumstances are to be strictly observed: the one is to elevate the knee very much over the double-inclined plane, and the other to place the patient in the sitting posi- tion, supporting him by pillows during the process of union. The degree of elevation of the body, which is required, will be about forty-five degrees; but it may be readily ascertained by observing the approximation of the fractured extremities of the bones; and this position is requisite for relaxing the psoas and iliaclis muscles, and thus preventing the elevation of the