25 the operation has commenced, and let him with his eye mark the precise spot well: during the external incisions, the pres- sure need not, in the smallest degree, approach to violence. When the surgeon is about to make his dismembering cut, or that which, in removing the bone from the socket, divides the artery, firm, steady, and even powerful pressure, will be re- quired for the fourth of a minute, {Ibid.) or as long as may be necessary for securing the vessel " which almost always pro- trudes into the surgeon's fingers." Mr. Guthrie considers it of little consequence, whether the vessel be compressed or not prior to its division. . z , , 7 /. In what position should the arm of the patient be held for the operation ? . , 1 . i_ 1024. The arm should be raised to near a right angle with the body, which will enable the operator to examine the axilla, and ascertain if the artery can be compressed by the assistant. Describe the operation of amputation at the shoulder-joint. 1025. " To perform amputation at the shoulder-joint, I have for some time exclusively employed the mode by a flap, formed from the acromion to the centre of the axilla on each side by a gentle curve, first through the skin and cellular substance on the outside of the arm, then on the inner, so as to mark the flap and guide the future strokes of the knife ; then, Mnth a middle-sized amputating knife, I cut nearly down to the bone on each side. I then, taking the pointed slip of deltoid which remains attached to the acromion, lay it down quickly with a scalpel, so as to expose the head of the bone, which I now proceed to luxate : this is done with the greatest ease and certainty by throwing the shattered remains of the arm backward, and thus exposing the long head of the tendon of the biceps : by dividing this tendon and running the scalpel fairly along the groove, its back lying in it as in a director, we are at once conducted into the joint." " By carrying the scalpel fairly round, the capsular ligament is divided from the bone. Resuming the amputating knife, with one sweep in the axilla the two lateral flaps are united, and the limb removed.'^ —Hennens Principles, ^c. What number of arteries are usually tied in this operation ? 1026. Mr. Guthrie says, "In recent cases of injury, I have seldom had occasion to take up more than three arteries, and no cutaneous or other vessels besides those, divided by the last incision but the number of arteries will depend upon the vascular distribution peculiar to the individual.