99 the ischium, nearly opposite to the place where the incision commenced. " Bringing the knife to the outside of the thigh, he connects the point of incision, where he left off, with the place of com- mencement, by a gently curved line, by which means the outer incision is not in extent more than one-third of the size of the internal one. The integuments having retracted, the glutasus maximus is to be cut from its insertion in the linea aspera, and the tendons of the glutseus medius and minimus from the top of the trochanter major. The surgeon now placing the flat end of the knife on the line of the retracted integuments of the first incision, cuts steadily through the whole of the muscles, blood-vessels, &c. on the inside of the thigh. The artery and vein, or two arteries and vein, if the profunda is given oft* high up, are to be taken between the finger and thumb of the left hand, until the surgeon can draw out each vessel with the tenaculum, and place a ligature upon it. Whilst this is doing, the assistants should press with their fingers on any small vessels that bleed. The surgeon then cuts through the small muscles running to be inserted between the trochanters, and those on the under part of the thigh, not yet divided, and with a large scalpel opens into the capsular ligament, the bone being strongly moved outwards, by which its round head puts the ligament on the stretch. Having extensively divided it on the fore and inside, the ligamentum teres comes into view, and may readily be cut through. The head of the bone is now easily dislocated, and two or three strokes of the knife sepa- rate any attachment the thigh may still have to the pelvis. The vessels are now carefully to be secured. The capsular ligament and as much of the ligamentous edge of the acetabu- lum may be removed as can readily be taken away. The nerves, if long, are to be cut short, the wound well sponged with cold water, and the integuments brought together in a line from the spinous process of the ileum to the tuberosity of the ischium. Three sutures will in general be required, 'in addi- tion to the straps of adhesive plaister, to keep the parts toge- ther : the ligatures are to be brought out in a direct line be- tween the sutures; a little lint and compresses are to be placed over the wound, and on the under flap, to keep it in con- tact with the cotyloid cavity, and assist the union of the parts. A piece of fine linen is to be laid over them, and the whole retained by a calico bandage put round the waist and brought over the stump."—On Gun-sJiot Wounds. Would you not pare the cartilage of the acetabulum ?