1.52 Var. 2.—Dislocaiio ustrayuli composita, et oss'mni tarsi. Com- pound dislocation of the astragalus, and of the tarsal bones. What would be your treatment of a compound dislocation of the astragalus ? 1506. The treatment of this injury must depend on the cir- cumstances of the case. If possible, the displaced bone ought to be brought back to its proper position by extension of the foot, whilst the knee is fixed and the leg bent upon the thigh, and the reduction treated as was advised for tlie treatment of compound dislocation of the ankle-joint, at 1495 ; but if the reduction cannot be eifected, it will be best to remove the whole or part of the bone, as might seem most desirable, as this has been frequently done, and the patient h;is recovered a useful limb. Should a compoufid displacement of the astragalus be accom- panied by a rupture of the posterior tibial artery and laceration of the tibial nerve, what would be your practice ? 1507- I would not amputate in such a case; but remove the astragalus and secure the artery. This practice was adopted by Mr. Professor Green, and his patient recovered. WJiat treatment is required in compound displacements of any other of the tarsal bones ? 1508. The treatment must be conducted upon general prin- ciples. We ought always to endeavour to replace the dis- placed bone; and close the wound in the usual manner {vide 1495) ; but if it be impracticable to effect this, the projecting bone should be removed, or otherwise treated, as circum- stances shall require. What are the constitutional symptoms, which usually follow compound dislocation of the ankle-joint, or severe compound dis- location of the bones of the tarsus, when we attempt to preserve the limb ? 1509. " About twenty-four hours, or in two or three days, after the receipt of the injury, the patient begins to complain of pain in the head and neck, showing the influence of the accident upon the brain and spinal marrow. Loss of appetite, nausea, and often vomiting, indicate disorder of the stomach; the tongue is white, yellowish, or brown, according to the degree of irritation; the bowels generally become inactive, from a paucity of the secretions, not only from their mucous surface, but from the glands connected Avith them, as the liver, pancreas &c. The secretion from the kidneys is much diminished, and of a deep colour; the skin becomes hot and