86 wooden board, not too thick to feel cumbrous, and not too thin to be pliable or easily broken ; in breadth corresponding to the dimensions of the limb, in length sufficient to extend from two, three, or four inches, beyond the heel to near the axilla; deeply notched at two places at its lower end, and perforated by two holes at the upper. The splint, well padded, is applied to the extended limb, the ankles being protected by proper adjustment of the pads. The apparatus is retained by bandaging. A common roller is applied round the limb from the toes to near the knee, so as to prevent infiltration, which would otherwise follow pressure above by the rest of the ap- paratus. The splint is then attached to the limb, by involving both by a roller from the foot to above the knee ; and in doing this, the bandage, after having been turned round the ankle, should be passed through the notches, so as to be firmly at- tached to the end of the splint, thereby preventing the foot from shifting. A broad bandage is applied round the pelvis over the groin and down the thigh, investing all that part of the limb left uncovered by the previous bandaging. A broad band, like a riding-belt, is fastened round the pelvis, so as to bind the splint to the trunk, and thereby keep the broken surfaces of the bone in contact. A large handkerchief, or shawl, is brought under the perinseum, and its ends secured through the openings at the top of the board. It is evident that the splint being securely fixed and made as part of the limb tightening of the perineal band will extend the member, and preserve it of its proper length. By care and attention in applving the apparatus, and in adjusting the cushions about the ankle and perinseum, there is little or no risk of the skin eivinif way. The bandages will require to be re-applied once or twice during the cure, and the perineal band should be tightened frequently."—Ibid. 2 —Fractura cervicis femoris extra-capsularis. Fracture of the neck of the femur externally to the capsule. Describe the symptoms of fracture of the cervix femoris ex- ™ ?rf;::^ioms of this accident in some measure resemble those of fracture within the capsule, and therefore reouire ffreat care in the diagnosis. , , , „ i,„if " The iniured leg is shorter than the other by one half to threJ-quaiirs of Sn inch; the foot and toe on that side are everted, from the loss of support which the body of the thigh-