92 tliigh-piece by means of the screw, extension is kept up."— Ibid. Do you consider this plan preferable to placing the limb on its outside in the bent position? \'^77' Decidedly. " There is no possibility of treating frac- ture of the thigh with any satisfaction or credit on the outside of the limb with the knee bent; however attentively the splints are placed, shortening, eversion of the foot, and defor- mity of the whole limb, are sure to follow."—Ibid. What is generally the relative position of the fractured ends of the bone, when the shaft of the femur is broken just above the condyles ? 1278. The fractured end of the shaft projects, and the distal extremity, with the patella, is drawn up behind it, producing great deformity. Is there any appearance that would lead us to presume the fracture to be oblique ? 1279. In the oblique fracture the lower extremity of the shaft of the femur would probably pierce the rectus femoris muscle, and press against the integuments just above the pa- tella. A sharp point of bone in such a position would be suf- ficiently diagnostic of the nature of the fracture. WJiat mode of treatment does a fracture of this part of the femur require ? 1289. It will be absolutely necessary in this formidable ac- cident to keep up continued extension, to preserve that re- traction which might otherwise take place; and this will be best effected on the double-inclined plane by M'Intyre's splint. Vide 1276. WJiat would be your treatment should the sharp end of the shaft in oblique fracture have penetrated the rectus femoris muscle ? 1281. Our first object will be to reduce the fracture by steady and continued extension, and having done this, to maintain the bones in situ by extending and bandaging the limb upon M'Intyre's double-inclined plane, as has been just mentioned. . Should 7J0U have occasion to use the common splints in addition to the double-inclined plane, what ought to be their length rela- tively to the femur? 1282 They ought to be long enough to secure as much as possible the ends of the femur; if they be shorter than this and applied to the shaft only, they can have no power m steadymg the fracture.