126 part of the limb being rolled previously, to prevent infiltration : by tins simple apparatus, motion of the knee-joint, and of the ends ot the bones on each other, is completelv prevented; the Heel is raised, if necessary, for complete adaptation.—£/mew^* of tiurgery. ^esvribe the treatment of fracture of the shaft of both bones. 1409. " Fractures of the middle and lower portions of the bones," says Mr. Listou, " are treated more advantageously in the bent position, the angle being made more or less obtuse according to the degree of flexion most conducive to easy re- duction and retention. Extension is made on the limb, and the parts brought into as natural and handsome a shape as pos- sible; and in so doing, the appearance of the sound member should be kept in view. There is seldom any difficulty in ac- complishing reduction; tlie extending and counter-extending power need be but slight: the upper part of the limb is steadied by an assistant, whilst the lower is stretched and moulded by (he hands of the surgeon." The splint is the same as that recommended, when treating of fractured thigh, composed of a thigh and leg-piece, with a moveable foot board —the double-inclined plane, improved by Mr. M'Intyre, of Newcastle, and others. The foot-board is "fixed so as to make the leg-piece of the proper length, and the splint is secured at a convenient angle. It is padded by means of a cushion filled with fine chaff. The foot is rolled separately; the limb is then raised carefully, and laid down on the splint, placed quickly beneath by an assistant; it is retained in a proper position by the hands of the surgeon, whilst a roller is carried from the toes round the foot-board and along the limb to the knee. A broad roller is then made to surround the thigh and splint, and having been turned several times round the loins, is secured to the upper part of the cushion."—Elements of Surgery. Mr. Amesbury has invented an excellent apparatus for this kind of fracture, very much upon the same principle. I have lately seen two fractures of the leg—one a simple oblique, and the other a compound fracture—treated with Mr. Araesbury's apparatus, by Mr. Judd, of this town, both of which have ter- minated most creditably to this mode of treatment. Are not fractures of this part of the leg sometimes placed in the straight position? 1410. This position was warmly advocated by the celebrated John Hunter, and as warmly disputed by Mr. Pott, who con- tended for the superiority of the bent position. Each of these positions has, therefore, for a long time been practised by the