148 (Ion may burst the slieutli which confines it behhid tlie nial- leohis, and dislocate itself upon the lower extremity of the fibula, upon which it nuiy readily be felt lying in a diagonal direction across the bone. What is the treatment of this accident ? 1492. The foot is to be extended, and the tendon pressed back into the groove behind the outer malleolus, where it is to be confined by strips of adhesive plaister, carried around the foot, ankle, and leg, and further secured by compress and bandage, until the ruptured sheath becomes reunited. Spkcies 2—Dislocatio composita. Compound dislocation. Var. \.—Dislocatio tibia composita. Compound dislocation of the tibia. Wftat are the characteristic marks of a comjjowid dislocation of the ankle joint ? 1493. These accidents take place in the same direction as the simple dislocations, and the bones and ligaments suffer in the same manner as in those dislocations ; the difference, therefore, in these cases is, that the joint is laid open by a wound in the integuments and ligaments opposite to the laceration of the skin, by which the synovia esca])es, and through which the ends of the bone protrude.—Sir A. Coojjer's Treatise on Dislocations, 8$c. The bone, however, does not always protrude through the skin. W/iat is the primarij treatment of compound dislocations of the ankle-joint ? 1494. "The first object will be to suppress hemorrhage, if any of consequence exists. Of the two arteries, the anterior and posterior tibial, which are likely to be wounded, the former will be found most frequently injured, the latter gene- rally escaping; but in case of bleeding from either, it wdl be broken a bone. On my seeing her, sbe exclaimed, " I have certainly brokeu my leff " I immediately examined the limb, and perceiving no deformity with regard to thebones, and finding no crepitation by the most accurate exploration, I assured her that sbe was mistaken. This made no impression on tbe opinion sbe had formed ; and sbe again declared that a bone had given way. Un examining the limb still more carefully, T felt the round tendon of the pero- nen™lyin| across the lower extremity of tbe fibula, which at once explained 5ie tri^e n^ature of tlie accident. The foot being extended, t1>e tendmi «as readily pressed back into its natural position, which it regained vMtli a snap.