5 completely, is rolled in a shawl, and placed in the axilte ; it is retained by tying the shawl over the opposite shoulder, a soft pad being interposed between the knot and the skin, to ])revent excoriation, and is further secured by tying the ends under the axilla of the uninjured extremity, which should also be protected by a small cushion. A few turns of a roller or a handkercliief are placed round the arm and chest, to secure and fix the limb ; so the retentive apparatus is com- pleted. The shoulder is thus raised and removed from its unnatural position, and the fractured extremities of the cla- vicle, previously placed in accurate contact, are prevented from being again displaced. The elbow and fore arm should be supported by a sling."—Ibid. Is amj other local or general treatment necessary in this case ? 959. None whatever. Hoiv ivould you treat a compound fraciwre of the clavicle ? 960 Having reduced the protruded bone, and brought the lips of the wound (which is usually small) together by strips of adhesive ])}aister, the case is to be treated in every other respect as a simple fracture. What is the treatment of a compound fracture of the clavicle occasioned by gun-shot ? 961. " This bone is sometimes iniplicated in the most tre- mendous wounds, which from theii* inflammatory and slough- ing disposition, spreading to the thoracic viscera and to the shoulder-joint, have been productive of protracted tortures to the sufferer, rendering life a very dubious blessing indeed. The immediate preservation of existence has, in the fortunate cases, certainly depended on the profuse loss of blood; and the antiphlogistic regimen, with the utmost simplicity of dressing, has perfected the recovery."—Yide Hennen's Princi- ples of Military Surgery. Species 2.—Fractura scapula. Fracture of the scapula. Is a simple fracture of the body of the scapula easily detected ? 902. This fracture is of rare occurrence in civil practice, and is not readily ascertained, especially after the tumefaction of the parts. As there is little or no displacement, our diag- nosis must depend on crepitation, and on pain and difficulty in using the arm. Whcd treatment should be adopted in this case ? 963. " It is sufficient to restrain motion j and this is effected