98 What is the course of the sciatic artery as it escapes from the pelvis 1304. The sciatic artery, the largest of the iliac branc})es except the ghitaeal, goes through the under part of the ischil atic notch, accompanied by the nerve of that name, having the pyriformis muscle between it and the glutseal artery. It afterwards descends some way down the thigh, in company with the sciatic nerve, in the hollow between the great tro- chanter of the thigh-bone and tuber of the ischium, covered by the glutseus maximus muscle, to the under part of which it distributes its principal branches.—Fic?e Fife's Compendium. This artery is not compressible before the operation. State the relative position of the gluteal artery. 1305. " The glutseal artery is given oft' before the sciatic in the pelvis, comes out above the pyriformis muscle, and prin- cipally supplies the outside of the haunch. One large branch descends between the gluteeus maximus and medius towards the thigh, supplying these muscles.—GM//irie on Gun-shot Wounds. This vessel also is not compressible before the operation; " A branch or two may bleed during the opera- tion, but they are not of much importance."—Ibid. Will not the femoral vein generally require a ligature ? 1306. " The femoral vein is large, and will require a single thread to be placed over it."—Ihid. Describe what you consider to be the best method of amputating the thigh at tlie hip-joint. 1307. The following is Mr. Guthrie's mode of operating : — " The patient should be laid on a low table, or two field- panniers placed together, covered Avith a folded blanket to prevent the edges giving pain, and properly supported in a horizontal position. An assistant, leaning over and standing on the outside, should compress the artery against the brim of the pelvis, with a firm, hard compress of linen; such as is usually used before the tourniquet. He should also be able to do it with his thumb behind the compress, if it be found in- sufficient. " The surgeon, standing on the inside, with a strong pointed amputating-knife of a middle size, with the back curved, makes his first incision through the skin, cellular membrane, and fascia, so as to mark out the flaps on each side, commencing about four fingers' breadth, and in a direct line, below the anterior superior spinous process of the ileum in a well sized man ; and continuing it round, in a slanting direction at almost equal distance from the tuberosity of