21 ended successfully, without removing the Wmh; but I wil^ venture to assert, that the pain and inconvenience of the cure, the subsequent inability of the member, and its proneness to disease have infinitely counterbalanced the benefit derived from saving \t:'—He7vnens Principles, ^c. The description you have given of compound fractures of the shoulder-johit not demandiny operation, is by no means sufficiently defined, and requires to be further illustrated. 1011. Mr. Guthrie, from whose work the citation was prin- cipally taken, seems to be aware of this, when he says imme- diately afterwards, "There is, however, some difficulty in ascertaining this circumstance (partial injury of the bone,) to have taken place, even with a careful examination, as suffi- cient injury may have occurred within the capsular ligament to cause the bone to exfoUate, without being so obvious as to be immediately detected, or to indicate the necessity of any operation ; and as every exertion or motion of the part adds to the mischief already committed, it is advisable, even on the suspicion of such injuries, to desist from further examination, and treat the case as a simple one ; being one of those that ought to be deferred, until the subsequent processes of nature have pointed out the extent of the mischief, and her inability to overcome it."—Guthrie on Gun-shot Wounds. Dr. Hennen may be quoted in illustration of this point. " If the ball has only struck, fractured, or otherwise injured the head of the bone, without extensive laceration of the capsular ligament, injury to the great vessels or nerves, &c., the surgeon would be utterly unjustifiable, either in the am- putation on the field, by a joint operation, or in the excision of any part of it."—Pr-inciples of Military Surgery. What treatment does a ivound of this kind require ? 1012. "The rule of practice in general, where the ball passes out with little injury to the bone, is, I think, to enlarge the wound in the first instauce, to allow of moderate exami- nation by the point of the finger, if it cannot be done by the openings already formed. The most energetic antiphlogistic regimen is to be enforced, until suppuration is established; a clear depending opening is to be formed, if it do not exist, for the matter to be discharged, and any pieces of bone that appear loose are to be gently removed. The joint is not to be wantonly cut into at first, to see how much bone may be injured, but it is to be cut into, if necessary, to allow any piece of bone to be removed, that may become loose, and cannot be easily extracted. The principal point to attend to