Is this species of dislocation ever partial ? 946. Yes ; and in this case the anterior portion of the cap- sular ligament only being torn, tlie hone projects but slightly. How is this dislocation to be reduced, and the natural jjosition of the bone maintained ? 947- "The clavicle is easily returned to its place by pulling the shoulder backwards, because then it is drawn otf the sternum, and its end falls upon the cavity which naturally receives it; but if pressure in this position of the shoulder be uot made upon the fore part of the bone, it will be found still liable to project in some degree. The principle, therefore, upon which the extension is made, is to draw the scapula as far from the side as is practicable without inconvenience, and supporting the arm to prevent its weight from influencing the position of the bone. The first of these objects is best effected by the use of the clavicle bandage, and by the application of two pads or cushions affixed to it, which are placed in the axillae. These pads throw the head of the os humeri from the side, and cany the scapula and the clavicle connected with it outwards and backwards, and thus the clavicle is drawn into its natural articular cavity. "The second intention is effected by a sling."—Sir Astley Cooper's Treatise on Dislocation, ^c. Does the luxation backwards often occur ? 948. Sir Astley Cooper says, that he never met with an instance from violence, though he thinks that a blow upon the front of the bone might occasion it, by rupturing the rhomboid ligament and the capsular. He mentions one instance that occurred in the practice of the late Mr. Davie, of Bungay, in Suffolk, and which was occasioned by a distortion of the spine. This disease so advanced the scapula, as to push the sternal extremity of the clavicle from its position, backwards upon the oesophagus, and threaten obstruction to the tube. The end of the bone was on this account successfully removed by Mr. Davie. What are the principal ligaments that hold the clavicle to the scapula ? r 1 1 • 1 949. Strong ligamentous fibres passmg from the clavicle to the scapula—the capsular ligament, and the two coraco- clavicular, that fix the bone to the coracoid process of the scapula. , ^ ,7 7 • 7 1 How might a dislocation of the scapular end of the clavicle be detected ? . , . . j . 950. "The easiest mode of detectmg this accident is to