151 Were you called to a case of compound dislocation of the nnkle ioint either on the outer or inner side, in which the bones ive^-e shattered, or fractured obliquely, so that the reduction could not be maintained, what would be your treatment ? 1502 This state of things would not justify amputation in either point of view. I would in the first place remove the separate pieces of bone, and then smooth the ends of the shafts, that they may rest firmly upon the astragalus. Miaht it not be sometimes necessary to remove the lower extremity of the fibula, though remaining in its normal position, in such a case as ijou have just related ? _ 1503 Were this to be found loose, and an nnpediraent in the way of reduction, it ought to be removed. Sir A. Cooper removed the outer ankle in a case of compound dislocation, mentioned in his lectures, and the case terminated success- fully • he removed it by dividing the ligaments with a scalpel. You state that in the majority of cases of compound dislocation of the ankle-joint, amjjutation is not justifiable; what are the ex- ceptions, that require immediate removal of the limb ? 1504. First, advanced age, " when the powers of the con- stitution are not sufficient to support the extensive suppurative inflammation likely to follow the injury, but which the opera- tion of amputation does not expose the patient to." Secondly, " a very extensive lacerated wound, with much hemorrhage." Thirdly, the association of extensive comminution ot the tibia or tarsal bones, especially of the astragalus and os calcic. Fourthly, the division of the posterior tibial artery and nerve, along with extensive wound. Fifthly, *' extensive contusion of the surrounding soft parts, likely to occasion the formation of large sloughs," especially if it have been occasioned by the passing of the wheels of a heavy-laden carriage over the joint, or by the falling of a very heavy weight upon the limb."—Vide Sir A. Cooper's Lectures,, by Tyrrell. Do you consider the internal or external compound dislocation of the tibia the most dangerous to the patient ? 1505. The external dislocation, being generally accompa- nied with extensive injury to the soft parts as well as to the bones, will be the most hazardous, and will indeed often require amputation.—Vide ibid.