123 flexion of the joint; the heel is still raised, and the body sup- norted nearly in the sitting posture, '—loia. ^ S^ohat diagnostic marks could you discover a perper^drcular fracture of the patella ? lof^val nnr- 1393. By thi separation of the bone ^n^o two lateial poi- tions; for-although there will not be so ex ensive an intei- space as in the t?ansyerse fracture, there will be suffic ent to enable us to detect the nature of the case /.^ ^here should b^ not much separation, there will be crepitation. It ^ay also be suspected, by an inability to extend or bear upon the hmb. In what manner would you treat this fracture ? _ 1394. The treatment of this accident consists m placing the limb in an extended position, with a padded splint poste- riorly, to prevent any motion of the knee-joint; and in apply- ing *an evaporating lotion, until the swelling and pain have subsided; after which, a knee-cap, padded on each side ot the patella, should be buckled around the joint, the straps pass- ing above and below the patella.—Ibid. It appears to me, that the bones may be kept in closer ap- position by means of adhesive plaister spread on strips ot leather, which should be applied around three-fourths ot the circumference of the joint, beginning beneath the ham- strings, carrying them up in opposite directions, and crossing them upon the patella. Before the superior ends are laid down, extension should be made with them, in order to bring the fracture in as close union as possible. Wliat kind of union is generally effected in fractures of the patella ? 1395. In both cases ligamentous union is usually the result; but if it be possible to keep the broken edges of the bone in accurate contact, ossific union may be, and has been, effected. What are the signs of the head of the tibia being broken ob- liquely into the joint ? 1396. This fracture can be discovered by crepitation on moving the joint, by the fractured portion being moveable, and by the capsular ligament being more or less distended by the synovial fluid. In what manner would yoti treat this fracture ? 1397. The limb is to be placed in the extended position, "in which the extremity of the thigh-bone tends to keep the fractured bone in its proper situation." There must also be the application of a piece of wetted pasteboard and a bandage, as recommended for oblique fracture of the condyles of the femur.—Fif/e 1885.