32 moment advantageously pulled out by a tenaculum, and se- cured. The flaps are turned outwards and inwards, and par- ticularly the outer one, until the bone is cleared to the spot of election for sawing, which is then readily effected from the outside, without danger of doing mischief. The tendons of the latissimus dorsi and the teres major, inserted on the outer part, need not be cleared away too carefully, as they materially help to keep the bone steady luider the motion of the saw, and effectually prevent its splintering. There are few or no'ves- sels to tie : the flaps are brought forwards and upwards, and perfectly cover the stump; one suture below the end of the bone keeps the parts together, which form nearly a line from the acromion downwards."—Ibid. Sabatier advises the following method :—"With a straight bistoury the surgeon is to make a transverse incision down to the bone, a little above the lower extremity of the deltoid muscle. Two other longitudinal incisions, made along the front and back edge of this muscle, now form a flap, which must be detached and reflected. Lastly, the rest of the soft parts of the limb are to be divided by a circular cut, made on a level with the base of the flap, and the operation finished like a common amputation."—Mtdecine Operative. Before the performance of the circular operation, at what point ought the tourniquet to be applied ? 1049. " The tourniquet is to be applied in the usual man- ner, with a small pad in the axilla, with the screw above the acromion; it being advisable to have the strap acting as far distant as possible from the muscles and skin to be divided, that free retraction may take place, and no impediment be offered by the pressure of the tourniquet on the soft parts, while retracting them for sawing the bone."—Ibid. But will it not be best sometimes to operate without the use of the tourniquet ? "If the surgeon have the slightest confidence in himself, and the assistants are good, no tourniquet should be ajjplied, but the artery be compressed against the bone by the two fore- fingers."—Ibid. Describe the mode of performing the operation. J 050. The patient being properly supported on a chair, and the integuments being put on the stretch above and be- low by two assistants, a circular incision through the integu- ments is to be completed by one continued cut with the amputating knife, lightly held between the thumb, index and middle finger, in such a manner, that in finishing the incision