10 foi thiee or four minutes, when, under common circum- stances, the head of the bone is easily replaced; but if more orce be required, the handkerchief may be changed for a long towel, by which other persons may pull tl^hee still remaining in the ^^W\.r-Sir Astley CooJJr's Trec^isT - ^./T / ; j ''''^^''''^ '''''^ Strength be required, what method ivould you next employ ? 982 Tlie patient must be seated on a chair, and the scapula fixed by means of a round towel, or a thin sheet placed under the axilla, crossed upon the top of the shoulder, and then carried backwards on either side of the neck, for the purpose ot being held by those who are to make counter-extension A wet roller is then to be bound round the lower part of the upper arm, and upon this to be fastened the towel or shawl by which extension is to be made. « The arm should then be raised at right angles with the body, and if there be much difficulty in the reduction, it should be elevated above the horizontal line, more completely to relax the deltoid and supra-spinatus muscles. Two persons should then draw from the bandage affixed to the arm, and two from the scapula bandage, with a steady, equal, and combined force: jerking should be entirely avoided, and every aim at quick reduction should be discountenanced. ' Slowly and steadily' should be the word of command from the surgeon, who, after the extension has been kept up for a few minutes, should place his knee in the axilla, resting his foot on the chair upon which the patient sits. He should then raise his knee, by extendins" his foot, and placing his right hand upon the acromion, pu^sh it downwards and inwards, when the head of the bone will usually slip into its natural position."—Ibid. If from the resistance of the muscles, or the length of time the bone has been dislocated, this plan should fail of reduction, what other mode have you in reserve ? 983. The method of reduction by pulleys. For their appli- cation, " the patient is seated between two staples, which are screwed into the wainscot on each side of him. The ban- dages are then applied precisely as in the former mode, in which the extension is performed by men, and the force is applied in the same direction. The surgeon should first draw the pulley, as the class of people, usually summoned to his assistance, being ignorant of the principle upon which it is employed, would use too great violence. He should draw gently and steadily until the patient begins to complain of pain, and then cease, keeping up the degree of extension, and