115 hesive plaisters, carefully applied from below upwards, and from above downwards.—Fic^e Guthrie on Gun-shot Wounds. The ligatures are to be brought out as straight as possible, and over the plaisters is to be laid a layer of lint, spread with some simple ointment, and the Malta cross, which are to be secured by the end of the roller placed on the thigh. The stump thus dressed is to be a little raised and laid on a pillow. On proceeding to take up the femoral artery, should tjou unfor- tunately find the coats of the vessel in a diseased or ossified state^ in what manner would you secure it? 1355. By the needle. Mr. Hammick says, that in such a case " it is desirable to include a pretty good cushion of sur- rounding substance, to prevent its being cut through or yield- ing, which I have seen it do like a rotten pear; and yet that vessel has been effectually secured by including a good quan- tity of the surrounding surface."—Practical Remarks on Ampu • tation. Does the use of the needle always require that a considerable portion of the surrounding substance should be included ? 1356. On the contrary, when the needle is used to secure an artery, merely because it is beyond the reach of the forceps or tenaculum, as little of the surrounding substance as possi- ble must be included, due care being taken not to wound the vessel itself. Describe the mode of amputating the thigh at the lower third. 1357- The operation is to be conducted in the same manner as that recommended for the middle third, excepting that, in order to promote the retraction of the integuments, and to prevent their having any ill effect on the vessels of the stump, a longitudinal division, an inch and a half in length, is to be made through the integuments and fascia on each side.— Guthrie on Gun-shot Wounds. State the situations of the femoral artery on the face of the stump in the two last amputations of the thigh. 1358. When amputation has been performed at the middle of the thigh, " the artery will be found on the upper part of the stump, a little above and to the inside of the bone, between the sartorius and triceps muscles ; lower down in the Ihigh it will be on a level with the bone, and about one-third of the dis- tance above the knee it will be on the inside, and rather be- low the level of the bone."—Ibid.