93 Species 2.—Fractura composita. Compound fracture. Var. 1.—Fractura cervicis femoris composita. Compound fracture of the neck of the femur. What is the usual cause of compound fracture of the neck of the femur? 1283. The velocity of projectile bodies, such as gun-shot. Is this species of injury easily ascertained ? 1284. Wiiere the necl< of the bone is broken asunder, the nature of the case will be detected by the diagnostic signs of simple fracture, as stated at 1241 and 1258; but where a musket-shot penetrates the bone, Avithout breaking it asunder, the discovery of the true nature of the injury is extremely difficult. " In some of these cases," says Dr. Hen- nen, " the course of the ball is so obscure, and its place of lodgment so uncertain, that it can only be detected after death. I have seen balls lodged in almost every part of the trochanters, neck and head of the bone; and yet the most accurate examination during life did not lead to a discovery of their situation."—Principles of Military Sm^gery. Are not injuries of this kind, either within or near the hip- joint, extremely hazardous to life ? 1285. " The injuries occasioned by ball? lodging near or about the joint of the hip, are among the most serious of military surgery," much more those of the joint itself; " the fever, the profuse discharges, the tedious exfoliations, all tend to sink the patient, and are but too often fatal."— Ibid. What treatment would you adopt, should you be called early enough to discover a musket-ball lodged in the trochanter ? 1286. It is possible, if the surgeon is early called in, and can at once decide on the nature of the case, that the application of the crown of a trephine, aided by strong forceps, may ena- ble him to remove the ball, if thus lodged.—Ibid. State the compound injuries of the upper part of the femur that require primary amputation of the hip-joint. 128/. The cases which call for primary amputation, prin- cipally arise from grape or cannon-shot, or from the explosion of shells, by which the bones in the immediate vicinity of the joint are severely fractured, or the soft parts and blood- vessels extremely lacerated.—Ibid.