36 By what muscles is the elbow-joint supported ? 10(51. Anteriorly by the brachialis internus and tendon of the biceps, posteriorly by the anconeus and triceps, externally by the extensors, and internally by the flexors of the wrist. State the various dislocations which may occur to the elbow- joint. 1062. Both bones may be luxated backwards, or thrown off the condyles laterally. The ulna may be displaced separately from the radius. The radius may be dislocated baci<wards separately from the ulna; but the radius alone can be dislo- cated forwards.—Fic?e Sir A. Cooper's Treatise on Disloca- tions. Species I.—Dislocatio simplex. Simple dislocation. Var. 1.—Dislocatio radii et uln/B posterior. Displacement of both bones backwards. WJiat are the diagnostic marks of this dislocation ? 1063. The shape of the elbow is altered, as there is con- siderable projection posteriorly, formed by the ulna and radius, above the natural situation of the olecranon. On each side of the olecranon appears a hollow. A considerable hard swelling is felt at the fore part of the joint, immediately behind the tendon of the biceps muscle, formed by the extremity of the humerus. The hand and fore-arm are supine, and cannot be rendered entirely prone. The flexion of the joint is also in a great degree lost."—Sir A. Cooper's Treatise, ^c. In what manner ought this luxation to be reduced ? 1064, " The patient is made to sit down upon a chair, and the surgeon, placing his knee on the inner side of the elbow- joint in the bend of the arm, and taking hold of the patient's wrist, bends the arm. At the same time he presses on the radius and ulna with his knee, so as to separate them from the select, it is our boimden Aaty, previousli/ to the application of the ligature, to ascertain the precise position of the artei'j, and if it be found to lie imme- diately under the vein we have selected to puncture, we should go to another; if there be found no substitute, and we are constrained to open the vein that lies over the artery, we shall be enabled to prevent all danger of wounding- the latter, by holding the lancet between the fore finger and thumb so close to the point that there shall not be depth of blade enough to transpierce the vein, but enough to penetrate its cavity and rip it open. The wounding of the brachial artery in bleeding can always be avoided by common care and attention, and therefore its occurrence is without excuse.