13 What treatment is required after the bone has been reduced to its natural position ? 991. In recent cases it will be sufficient to support the bone in its natural position by a proper bandage and a sling; but in cases of long standing, where it has been necessary to employ considerable force, inflammation should be moderated by local bleeding, cold lotions, and by purgatives. Var. 2 —Dislocatio sub claviculd. Luxation beneath the clavicle. What are the symptoms of this variety of the luxation of the humerus ? 992. This variety is more easily perceived than the former. The axis of tbe limb is directed towards the middle of the clavicle, where, especially in thin persons, the head of the humerus can be distinctly felt, and its presence there can be proved by rotating the arm, when the protuberance will be seen to obey the motion. • In ivhat manner would you reduce the displacement ? 993. " In this, as in the former case, we can usually suc- ceed in effecting reduction by placing the foot in the axilla, and by extending the arm in like manner j excepting that, in this dislocation, the foot is required to be brought more for- ward to press on the head of the bone, and the arm should be drawn obliquely downwards and a little backwards ; but in those cases in which some days have elapsed before reduction has been attempted, continued extension will be necessary; and to employ it steadily and effectually the pulleys should be used. The same bandage is required as in the dislocation in the axilla, whether the power used be applied through the medium of pulleys, or directly by men. The arm should be bent to relax the biceps muscle; but the principal circumstance to be considered is the direction in which the boue is to be drawn, and the best direction is slightly downwards ; for if it be drawn horizontally, the head of the os humeri is pulled against the coracoid process of the scapula, and a difficulty created, which may be avoided. The principle, upon which the pulley is employed, and the manner in which the exten- sion is supported, is the same as in the dislocation into the axilla; but the direction is different, the arm being drawn obliquely downwards and backwards. The extension must be kept up longer than in the dislocation downwards, as the