66 The phalanges are joined to each other in the same manner by a capsular, anterior, and lateral lij,^iments, and tTes onhe"^^ ^'^'^ extensorteS: tatpuif"^''^ dislocation of the first phalanges usually 1137. " The first phalanges present a concave surface to receive the convex extremities of the metacarpal bones : and in consequence of the rounded surfaces of these bones extend- ing much further forwards than backwards, the first phalanx can scarcely be thrown into the palm of the hand, but is forced backwards on the metacarpal bones. This accident most fre- quently occurs to the thumb, and may be readily known by the deformity on the metacarpus, and by the extension of the tirst whdst the second phalanx is hent:'—Ibid. Is this displacement easij of reduction ? 1138. It is by no means easily reduced, if much time has elapsed from the time of the accident without any attempt at reduction. V Wliat is the best method of reducing this accident? 1139. The hand is to be first steeped in warm water for a considerable time, to relax the parts as much as possible; then a piece of thin wetted leather, wash-leather for instance, IS to be put around the first phalanx, and as closely adapted to the thumb as possible; a portion of tape, about two yards in length, is then to be applied upon the surface of the leather, m the knot which is called by sailors the close-hitch, for this becomes tighter as the extension proceeds. An assistant places his middle and forefinger between the thumb and fore- finger of the patient, and makes the counter-extension, whilst the surgeon, assisted by others, draws the first phalanx from the metacarpal bone, directing it a little inward, towards the palm of the hand. Extension should be supported for a con- siderable time, if necessary.—>Sir A. Cooper's Treatise, ^fc. . But are not such efforts sometimes unsuccessfxd ? 1140. Yes; and in the event of failure, the pulleys are to be tried in the following manner. " The leather and sailors' knot are to be applied as above, and a strong worsted tape is to be carried between the metacarpal bone of the thumb and the fore-finger; the arm is then to be bent round a bed- post, and the worsted tape fixed to it; a pulley is then to be hooked to the tape which surrounds the first phalanx, and extension is to be made : this mode is almost sure to succeed."—Ibid.