28 case of this kind during the Peninsular war, without other particular reasons."—Ibid. 4tlily If the artery be wounded with merely a splintering ot the bone, without complete solution of its continuity, or even if it be broken short across with little or no splintering the vessel should be secured above and below, and the event carefully watched."*—/*^/(/. State those cases of compound fracture of the shaft of the hu- merus that demand immediate amputation. 1034. 1st. Amputation is required in compound fractures, in which the bone is comminuted, and the soft parts are ex- tensively lacerated and contused. An injury of this kind may be caused by pressure of the wheel of a loaded waggon. 2dly. " If the artery be wounded with an extensive frac- ture, the operation is imperious."—Ibid. 3dly. If the bone be mashed with the muscles by an ob- lique stroke of a round shot, or the fore-arm be destroyed or carried away, amputation is required immediately."— What is the treatment of a compound fracture, in which the bone protrudes through the skin ? 1035. The fracture being reduced in the manner recom- mended at 1004, the lips of the wound are to be brought to- gether by strips of adhesive plaister, &c., and the bones held in coaptation by splints, as in the simple fracture (1004- 1005.) " The patient is then placed on his back in bed, and the splints are retained by slips of bandage, double, one end being passed through the loop and secured to the other by a running noose. This method of deligation affords facility for the removal of the splints, in order to examine into the state of the limb and dress the wound."—Liston's Elements. Should it be impracticable to reduce the protruded bone by ex- tension alone, would you remove it by the saw, or replace it by an incision ? 1036. If the protruded bone be extremely sharp-pointed, it may be removed by the saw; but if otherwise, it will be best to replace it by enlarging the wound. What is tJie primary treatment of a compound fracture of the shaft of the humerus., in which the bone is broken into fragments, * Mr. Guthrie does not bring- any case in support of this injury being- left to nature, yet he thinks the surgeon would be justified in including it within the preservative treatment. Should such treatment be successful, it must be imputed to the free anastomosis, that takes place between the branches of the brachial and those of the ulnar and radial arteries.