137 closing the wound is recommended by gentlemen of authority in the nrolVssion, I am satisfied it is very unsafe in military suvirery.—On Gun-shot Wounds. The ligatures, one end ot whfch having been cut off' close to the knot, are to be brought out opposite to the vessels which they secure A layer of lint, spread with spermaceti ointment, is to be laid over the plaisters, and the whole secured by a roller carried down from the middle of the thigh. Is it not sometimes the practice to saw both bones at once, in the same transverse line, and also to saio off the upper angle of the tibia ? ^ x- ^i, ki «■ 1447 Tlie first is frequently done by some ot the ablest surgeons, amongst whom is Mr. Guthrie ; in which case the surgeon in operating ought to stand on the inside of the liraib to be amputated, in order that he may more readily saw the fibula at the same time with the tibia, which diminishes the chance of splintering the fibula; for the bone is held much more steadily under the saw, when the tibia is undivided, whatever pains may be taken by the assistants to secure it.— Guthrie on Gun-shot Wounds. With regard to the removal of part of the tibia, if the spine of this bone be very sharp, and the patient very thin, it should be removed by the saw.—Ibid. You say that, if necessary, the tibia may be sawn off higher up than the usual point of election, viz., two inches and a half below the tubercle. How high, then, might the tibia be cut through ivith safety to the patient ? 1448. If the nature of the injury admit, that is, if the in- jury of the tibia do not extend into the joint, this bone may be sawn through as high as the tubercle for the insertion of the ligamentum patellse, and thus amputation above the knee, at once more severe and hazardous, may be avoided. This prac- tice is authorized by Baron Larrey, Mr. Guthrie, Mr. Ham- mick, and others, and will be found highly advantageous in military practice, and in emergent cases. Should the tibia be injured not so high up as to prevent this operation, and yet in such a manner as to lead us to suspect the extension of the fracture into the joint, how would you satisfy yourself on this point ? 1449. " An incision should be made on the tibia to ascer- tain this circumstance, and it need not interfere with the operation, if found to be practicable," which might be per- formed in the following manner:—The tourni(piet having been applied over the artery, as it perforates the triceps