18 dyles are laid hold of, and moved upon each other, or on the shaft:'*—Ibid. What is the treatment of fracture of the shaft of the hu- merus ? 1004. " In fracture of the middle of tlie shaft, coaptation is easily accomplished ; slight extension is made, by one hand grasping the elbow, 'vhilst by the other the bones are brought together, and the straightncss and outline of the limb restored. The proper position is readily maintained by two spUnts of bookbinder's pasteboard, one applied from over the acromion process to beyond the point of the elbow, the other from the axilla, and also passing over the elbow on the inside. Thus the neighbouring joints are fixed, and the muscles rendered inactive. The conjoined breadth of the splints should be sufficient to embrace the limb almost entirely, some space being left, so that when the swelling subsides they may neither meet, and consequently lie loose, nor overlap each other."—Listoris Elements. The splints may be softened with hot water, in order that they may accommodate themselves to the shape of the limb. But would the pasteboard, moistened in this manner, be a suf- ficient support to maintain the bones in apposition ? 1005. No ; and therefore, after having applied a roller aroimd the limb from the points of the fingers to the shoulder, in order to retain the pasteboard splints it will be necessary " to place a wooden splint on the outside, retained by an additional bandage, so as to steady the parts till the paste- board has dried, and formed a firm mould or case for the limb. Then the wood is unnecessary, and should be re- moved." This being done, " the fore-arm is bent at right angles, and the humerus fixed to the trunk."—Ibid. Does fracture at the distal end of the humerus require a dif- ferent treatment ? 1006. Fracture at the distal end of the humerus is ma- naged most conveniently with the limb in the straight position. The fragments are placed accurately together ; one splint is * Transverse fracture of the shaft, just above the condyles, is not uncom- mon in young persons. It is readily detected by the projection of the fractured end of the shaft against the integuments, ni consequence of the condyles being drawn upwards by the action of the triceps muscle. I have met with several instances of this kind, and havs always found it extremely difficult to maintain the natural position of the bones.