135 If the calf of the leg be wholly or in part torn away, and « if, in addition to the injury of the soft parts, the tibialis pos- tica and peroneal arteries be divided, amputation should be l)erformed, and the knee-joint preserved, which rnight by delay be implicated in the disease."—Gun-shot Wounds. At what points of the shaft of the bones is amputation usually performed? ^ , , . /• • i 1442. It has been usually performed at about four inches from the patella, or two inches and a half from the tubercle of the tibia, (though, if necessary, the tibia may be sawn off close to its tuberosity,) and sometimes lower down, by the flap operation. Describe the mode of operating through the calf by the usual circular incisions; but in the first place state the preliminary steps necessary to be arranged for the operation. 1443. The tourniquet having been applied at about one- third the length of the thigh from the knee, the patient is to be placed " on a table of a suitable height, and if he be greatly exhausted, allow him to lay back on blankets, with the shoulders a little raised ; or, if he should prefer it, he may be permitted to sit up, leaning his back against the breast of an assistant; in either way, about four inches of the lower part of the thigh should be beyond the edge of the table : the lower part of the limb is to be given in charge to an assistant, who, sitting on a stool in front, is to hold it so that he may bring, if possible, the foot on a level with the knee; but this can scarcely ever happen, excepting in recent accidents, from the contracted state of the ham by the flexors tendons of the leg: if we cannot do it to the full extent, we must be satisfied with it as far as we can : another assistant, standing on the inner side of the thigh, and leaning forward so as not to be in the way of the operator, takes strong hold, with one hand on each side of the calf, of the integuments of the leg about four inches below the tubercle of the tibia, so that the knee also may be steadied by his wrists," whilst he is pulling up the integuments. The surgeon (supposing the right leg is to be amputated) stands on the outside.—Hammick's Prac- tical Remarks. In the second place, describe the mode of amputating the limb. 1444. The assistant pulling up the integuments so as to put them upon the stretch, " the surgeon makes, with a full-sized amputating knife, a circular incision through the integuments only : the circle being finished, he dissects with the point of the same knife the integuments from the tibia, so as to free