27 Y\R 2 —Fractura cohmncB humeri composita. Compound ' ' * fracture of the shaft of the humerus. What is understood by a compound fraciure ? 1030 A compound fracture is signified when the frac- tured end of the bone is protruded through the skin, or when there is an external wound communicating with the ^^^Ar^not injuries at this part of the upper extremity attended with less hazard than similar injuries inflicted upon any other part of the extremities ? 1031. Yes ; " more serious wounds may be mtiicted in this space (between the insertion of the pectoralis major and the elbow-joint) and the arm preserved, than in any other part of the extremities, ai ising from the great command the surgeon has over it, from the bone being single, and its state capable of being distinguished with tolerable accuracy during the continuance of the complaint, from the muscles being few in mimber, and the interstices between them consequently less numerous, and from the great vessels being totally in our power."—Guthrie on Gun-shot Wounds. Do compound fractures of the shaft of the humerus frequently require amputation ? 1032 No ; " Considering the great frequency of wounds in this part of the arm, attended with fracture, amputation, as a primary operation, is but seldom required; and a just delay, to ascertain what nature, assisted by art, can do, is prudent."—Ibid. State those compound injuries of the shaft of the humerus that admit of the preservative treatment. 1033. 1st. Wiiere the bone is merely broken in two parts, and protrudes through a simple incised or lacerated wound, without further injuries of the soft parts. 2dly. Where the bone has been broken into several frag- ments, with contused and lacerated state of the soft parts, provided the artery be entire. 3dly. "A musket-ball passing through the centre of the os brachii, with considerable splinterings of bone, provided they do not reach as far as either of the joints, does not require the primary operation." " And this rule of practice is so general among military surgeons, that I believe no one of experience or surgical knowledge has ever proposed amputation in a