76 sees that every part of the bandage is upon the stretch, and the patient begins to complain, he waits a little, to give the muscles time to become fatigued 5 he then draws again, and when the patient suffers much, again rests, until the muscles yield. Thus he gradually proceeds until he finds the head of the bone approach the acetabulum. When it reaches the lip of that cavity, he gives the pulley to an assistant, and desires him to preserve the same state of extension ; and the surgeon then rotates the knee and foot gently, but not with a violence to excite opposition to the muscles, and in this act the bone slips into its place." It is sometimes necessary for the ope- rator to lift the bone, by placing his arm under it near the joint, when there is difficulty in bringing it over the lip of the acetabulum ; or a napkin may be passed under the bone, as near the head as possible, and by its means an assistant may raise it.—Sir A Cooper's Treatise, ^c. It should be remembered that from the extreme relaxation of the muscles, the head of the bone is not always reduced with an audible snap ; and that, from the same reason, after the reduction, great care is required in removing the patient to his bed. Should dislocation of the hip be complicated with fracture of the thigh, which injury ought first to be treated ? 1219. The fracture ought first to be attended to; and when the union of the bone has become sufficiently strong, an at- tempt at reduction of the luxation should be cautiously made; and this may be done at about five or six weeks after the ac- cident.—Ibid. What would be your treatment, should there be dislocation of the thigh on one side, and fracture of the thigh on the other ? 1220. " In such circumstances I have fixed some splints temporarily, but very firmly, upon the broken limb, and then turning the patient on that side, have proceeded to the reduc- tion of the dislocated hip in the usual way."—Ibid. Var. 2.—Dislocatio in incissuram ischiaticam. Dislocation into the ischiatic notch. Describe the anatomy of the ischiatic notch. 1221. The ischiatic notch is situated at the posterior part of the ilium. It is bounded anteriorly and superiorly by that bone; posteriorly by the sacrum, and inferiorly by the sacro- ^ciMtic ligament. It gives passage to the pyriformis muscle, the sciatic nerve, and to the glutseal, ischiatic, and pubic arte-