130' them for an inch or more, adapting it to the muscularity of the patient, tucking them upwards without entirely rolling tliein back ; then with the knife applied close to the edges, which will be about an inch from where they were first forced up fr om the muscles, he should make a bold stroke, so as to divide the muscles all around down close to the bone, and after freeing them a little more from the outer side of the fibula, a catlin is to be passed between the bones at the upper- most part, corresponding with the circular detachment: the bones being liberated from the muscles, a retractor is to be thrust in between the tibia and the fibula, and drawn forcibly upwards in such a way as to protect the integuments and muscular parts from the saw. The knee is to be turned in- wards, with the view of sawing through the fibula first, about half an inch shorter than the tibia. As soon as this bone is divided, which two or three movements of the saw will effect, the leg is to be placed with the tibia fairly uppermost, so that it may be sawn half an inch lower than the fibula, which ought to be as close as possible to the edge of the turned back integuments, and where the periosteum must have been pre- viously divided. The limb being removed, the muscles and coverings are brought forwards, to ascertain the nature of the stump, and after again exposing the surface, the arteries are to be secured."—Ibid. Hoiv many arteries ought to be secured before the tourniquet is slackened ? 1445. The anterior tibial, which will be found betwixt the tibia and fibula upon the interosseous ligament, the posterior tibial behind the tibia, and the peroneal artery behind the fibula. After these have been securefl, the tourniquet may be loosened, when the surales and any other smaller vessels may be tied. In what manner would ijou dress the stump ? 1446. " The tourniquet being removed, the smaller vessels tied, and the stump washed with cold water and dried, the integuments and muscles should be brought forward as much as possible, and the straps of adhesive plaister applied from side to side; that is, the wound is to be closed vertically, or nearly so, that the straps of plaister may not in any way press upon the fore part of the tibia, by which the protrusion of it will be avoided; an occurrence which, Mr. Guthrie ob- serves, almost immediately follows in military practice, when tlie line of approximation is horizontal, and the straps of plaister press upon the bone; and although this method of