ill ever, has generally adopted the ch'cular incision. It does not appear that the one has any decided advantage over the other, as in either case the bone may be removed from the aceta- bnlum, if, from the nature of the injury, such a step be found necessary. In amputating high up, at what distance from the upper end of the shaft would you saio the bone ? 1346. Even if the integrity of the bone allow of its being- left longer, it ought to be sawed off close to the lesser tro- chanter^ lest there follow a troublesome protrusion of the femur, Avithont being of any utility to the patient.—Guthrie on Gun-shot Wounds. Describe the flap-operation at the upper third of the thigh ? 1347. The following method is recommended by Mr. Guth- rie :—" The patient should be placed in a position nearly horizontal, on a low table, and properly supported. A flan- nel or calico roller is then to be fastened round the waist, and the inguinal artery compressed against the os pubis. The surgeon, standing on the inside of the left thigh, and the outside of the right, commences his incision through the inte- guments on the anterior part of the thigh, and carries it down with a gentle curve to the inner and upper part; he then makes the outer incision in the opposite direction, and brings it round luiderneath to meet the point where the other ceased: these should cut through the fascia, and the whole should be separated from any attachment to the parts beneath with the point of the knife, so as to admit of further retraction by the hands of the assistants. The muscles are then to be divided down to the bone, slanting upwards, in the direction of the first incision, and the femoral artery and profunda secured. The outer and under incisions are then to be made in the same Way; the whole is to be separated from the bone, and pressed upwards by common broad pieces of linen, as re- tractors, assisted by the hands, whilst the bone is sawed thi-ough, which is done without difficulty, either from the out or inside, as may be most convenient to the surgeon. The vessels are now to be secured, according to their im- portance, even to the smallest that bleed: the stump should then be washed with cold water, and well dried; the flaps are to be brought together, and retained by a suture in the middle, and good adhesive straps, the ligatures being brought out above, below, and directly forwards, as their course may point out. Compresses are to be laid upon the sides of the M'ound, and the whole supported by the bandage brought