128 It will be requisite also to apply strips of adhesive plaisters over the sutures ; and the heat of the part should be evapo- rated by cold lotion, applied by means of linen compresses and a bandage, lightly carried around the joint. The necessity of the straight position and positive rest is sufficiently obvious. Do you not consider jwultices and fomentations very objec- tionable as a primary treatment of this injury ? 1415. Sir A. Cooper objects lo these relaxing applications, as tending to prevent union of the wound; and Mr. Ham- mick recommends pieces of lint, dipped in a strong solution of gum-arabic, to be laid over the strips of adhesive plaister, in order to prevent even the lotions from coming in contact with the wound. State the primary treatment of compound fracture of the condyles of the femur or head of the tibia, extending into the joint. 1416. In the primary treatment of these most serious acci- dents, our conduct must be guided by two circumstances ; first, by the nature of the external wound, and secondly, by the nature of the fracture; for as an extensive, lacerated, and con- tused wound into the joint, without scarcely any reference to the degree of fracture, would require immediate amputation of the thigh, so woukl a comminuted state of the condyles of the femur or head of the tibia, with a very small wound opening into the joint, equally require the operation. If, how- ever, the bone should not be comminuted nor broken into pieces, and if, at the same time, the external wound be more of an incised than lacerated character, and can be brought into accurate replacement, an attempt may be made to save the limb by the treatment laid down at 1414, for compound fracture of the patella. You there state the use of the suture: is not great caution necessary in their application in this particular case ? 14\7. Undoubtedly. He must be most cautious not to run them through the synovial or fascial tissues. What treatment required when compound fracture of the knee-joint has been produced by a musket-ball ? 1418. " It is almost unnecessary to state, that the relief for wounds of this kind is to be obtained by amputating the limb; and from an extensive practice in wounds of the knee-joint, with fracture of the articulating surface of the femur or tibia," Mr. Guthrie "has no hesitation in declaring amputation to be imperiously demanded, and that it ought to be performed with the least possible delay, consistent with propriety."