103 Secondly " A cannon-shot in full force, breaking the bone in any way, with a wound of the integuments, will ahvays re- quire amputation; and if the integuments be not divided m consequence of the diminished velocity of the ball, it will yet in general be necessary, from the comminuted nature of the fr-cicture, and the total disorganization of the soft parts be- tween ; but these cases are of rare occurrence. —Guthrie on Gun-shot Wounds. , . Thirdly. " An injury of the artery, requiring an operation, accompanied by fracture of the bone of the most simple kind, is a proper case for immediate amputation; for although many patients would recover from either accident alone, none Avouid, I believe, surmount the two united, and the higher the accident is in the thigh, the more imperious is the necessity for amputation."—Ibid. Fourthly. " When the femur is shattered by a musket-ball, and there is every reason to believe the fracture extends into the joint, the case requires immediate amputation."—Ibid. Fifthly. " If the fracture did not communicate with the joint, when the middle of the body of the bone is broken into several large pieces, it is better to amputate before the inflam- matory symptoms come on than afterwards 3 for it must then be done higher up, or probably cannot be done at all."—Ibid. Does not the result of compound fracture of the femur in some measure depend on what part of the bone has been struck ? 1321. " The danger and difficulty of cure attendant on fractures of the femur from gun-shot wounds, depend much on the part of the bone injured; and in the consideration of these circumstances, it will be useful to divide it into five parts. Of these, the head and neck included in the capsular ligament may be considered the first; the body of the bone, which may be divided in three parts ; and the spongy portion of the lower end of the bone, exterior to the capsular ligament, forming the fifth part. Of these, the fractures of the first kind are, I believe, always ultimately fatal, although life may be prolonged for some time. The upper third of the body of the bone, if badly fractured, generally causes death at the end of six or eight weeks of acute suffering. 1 have seen few escape, and then not with a useful limb, that had been badly fractured in the middle part. Fractures of the lower or fifth division are in the next degree dangerous, as they generally affect the joint, and the least dangerous are fractures of the lower third of the body of the bone."— Ibid.