57 state the treatment of dislocations of the second phalan^. 1141. "The surgeon should grasp the back of the fiist pha ani with his firfgers, apply his thumb upon the fore part Sle dislocated phLn^, and then bend it upon the first as much as he possibly c^x\."—Ihid. Species 2.-Dislocatio composita. Compound dislocation. YAn.l.—Dislocatio articulationis carpi comp. Compound dislocation of the wrist-joint. What would be your treatment of a compound luxation of the 1142 Having reduced the bone or bones dislocated, accord- ing to the rules laid down for the reduction of simple luxation, the lips of the wound are to be brought together as accurately as possible, and a pledget of lint, dipped in the patient s blood, is to be laid over it. The parts are then to be retained in position by compresses, wet with evaporating lotion, and by a roller, wetted with the same, lightly applied. The arm should be supported by splints, and kept in absolute rest. Var. 2.—Dislocatio ossium carpi composita. Compound dislo- cation of the carpal bones. Should you be called to a case in which one or tivo of the carpal bones were forced out of their natural position, and the displacement complicated with wound, what treatment would you deem necessary ? 1143. In these cases, a carpal bone or tivo may be removed by dissection, and the patient may recover, with the preserva- tion of his hand and considerable motion of his fingers.—Sir A. Cooper's Treatise, ^c. Having removed the bone or bones displaced, the wound is to be closed, and the parts kept in the best state of union possible, by adhesive jjlaister, wet compresses, &c. &c. as advised at 1142. It will be also advisable to take blood from the arm. Should the displacement of the carpal bones be more exten- sive, and if there be moreover considerable injury done to the ligaments, tendons, ^c. loould you deem the life of the patient sufficiently safe under such treatment ? 1144. No; so extensive and complicated an injury would demand primary ami)utution.— Vide ibid.