64 bones of the carpus do not require amputation. I have .een numbers of them do well and recover with some 1 t e loss of tTar/n.le di'f ] '"f^^'^-'^ the tendons that maybe divided were going; but even this is in «=ome measure removed in time by the connexion there is between gL ^^"'^"^ hand."-G...W. on mat case, then, would demand the primary operation ? lJ/0. A comminuted fracture of the carpus generally, with extensive laceration and division of the tendons, blood-vessels &c., would undoubtedly require immediate amputation. Var. ^,~Fractura ossium metacarjn composita. Compound fracture of the metacarpal bones. Is there any unfavourable result to which compound fractures 0/ the metacarpal bones and lacerations of the hand are pecu - harly liable ? ^ 1171. Such injuries are particularly liable to locked-iaw and in order " to avoid this, in many instances the hand has been removed, when it might otherwise have been in part saved. —Guthrie on Gun-shot Wounds. But when one or two fingers might very probably be saved, ought not a reasonable hazard to be encountered ? J172. " The advantage of two or three fingers, or even the fore-finger, is so great, that much ought to be attempted and hazarded to save them,"—Ibid. In your attempts to save the fingers, what means ivould you adopt to prevent the serious results of tetanus or trismus ? 1173. Tetanus may be in some measure prevented by smoothing with a clean cutting scalpel, especially all lacerated fascial surfaces, " by freely cutting up the palmar aponeurosis, removing all spiculae of bone, and by keeping the wound open, preventing the collection of any matter under the fascia, or expansion of the tendons." It will be also of great im- portance to keep the bowels freely open by cooling pur- gatives. But in cutting up the palmar aponeurosis, will there not be great danger of wounding the subjacent arteries F 1174. The fear of wounding the arteries ought not to be in- dulged. It is, truly, advisable to avoid them, if possible, but this imramiity should not be acquired at the hazard of causing a greater evil; for they are secured, if injured, with tolerable