133 What is the course and relative situation of the anterior tibial Its course may be marked out by a line drawn from the inner border of the head of the fibu a to the rnidd e of the ankle-joint. It arises from the pophteal arteiy and immediately tm-ns horizontally forwards to reach the ante oi surface of the interosseous ligament. In donig so, it necessa- rily passes between the heads of the tibialis posticus muscle, and through the interval between the bones left unclosed by that membrane. In its course it rests for two-thirds of its extent on the interosseous ligament, and for the rest on the anterior surface of the tibia. In the upper part it is deeply seated, and in a manner overlapped by the tibialis anticus and extensor longus digitorum, the former being on its tibial, and the latter on its fibular side. Lower down, it lies between the extensor pollicis and tibialis anticus, and ultimately passes beneath the extensor pollicis, and is placed between the tendon of this muscle and that of the extensor communis digitorum. The anterior tibial is accompanied by two veins; the ante- rior tibial nerve lies to its fibular side for some way, as being derived from the peroneal nerve, but usually inclines in front of it, as it descends.—Fic^e ibid. State the mode of cutting down upon the posterior tibial artery in a ivound of that vessel. 1435. When hemorrhage takes place from a wound of this artery, the tourniquet is first to be applied above the knee, at the usual point of the thigh. " Then place the limb in a bent position, so as to relax the gastrocnemius muscle, which I should raise from its attachment to the tibia, so as to expose the artery and its accompanying nerve, which I should be careful to exclude, whilst I put two ligatures upon the wounded vessel, and afterwards should carefully close the wound, and unite by adhesion."—Sir A. Cooper's Lectures, by Tyrrell. After having detached the gastrocnemius and soleus Irom the tibia, we shall find the aponeurosis, which separates these from the deep-seated muscles, and beneath this aponeu- rosis the artery will be found. Should this vessel be wounded at the upper part of the leg, close to the origin of the anterior tibial, what would be your conduct ? 1436 A ligature ought to be put round the femoral artery, at the usual place; and if this did not stop the hemorrhage, the thigh must be amputated, as the safest course to pursue. Sir A. Cooper authorises this treatment.