15 The extension is to be made in the same direction as re- commended in luxation into the axilla—982. Species 2.—DisIocatio humeri composita. Comjiound disloca- tion of the humerus. What is the treatment of a compound luxation of the humerus ; that is, ivhen the displaced bone is forced by extreme violence through the integuments ? 996. Such a formidable case requires immediate reduction. " When the bone is replaced, lint dipped in blood is to be applied to the wound ; or if the wound be large, a suture should be employed, and then the lint applied : adhesive plaister should be used to support approximation, and the limb should be kept close to the side by means of a roller placed round the body, including the arm, and thus prevent- ing the least motion of the head of bone : by these means the suppurative inflammation may be prevented, and the cure may proceed without protracted sufl^ering, or any danger to the patient's life."—Sir Astley Cooper's Treatise, (SfC. Genus 2.—Fractura. Fracture. Species 1.—Fractura simplex. Simple fracture. Var. I.—Fractura articulationis humeri. Fracture of the shoulder-joint. What is the best mode of ascertaining that a fracture has taken place within the shoulder-joint ? 997. In this case " the patient is unable (o raise his arm, dislocated limb orer it, on the principle of the lever. Mr. Hooper, of near Worcester, whilst he was assisting- me in mj practice, reduced a dislo- cation forwards in a very clever manner. The scapula being- fixed, and a round towel being attached to the arm above the elbow, he placed himself within the other extremity of the towel, and kept up extension with the weight of his body against it, till he had overcome the resistance of the muscles, and reduced the bone. Before taking-leave of the important subject of dislocations of the shoulder, I would strongly impress upon the mind of the young surgeon the iiecessitv of paying great attention to the diagnosis of injuries of the shoulder, lest m a moment of indifference he might suffer a luxation of the humerus to pass undiscovered, and (what is worse) unreduced; an omission wliich must m a great degree, cripple the patient, and tarnish, if not destrov, his own reputation; and lest, from a want of due inve.stig-ation, he should mistake tractui-e lor dislocation, and use extension and lorce to the sufferine- and danger of the patient under his care. ^