144 IIoio ought Ihis dislocation to be reduced ? 1474. The patient having- been placed on his back, and the muscles being- relaxed by the bent position, as in the former case, *' one assistant grasps the thigh at its upper part, and draws it towards the body, another pulls the foot in a line a little before the axis of the leg, and the surgeon pushes the tibia back to bring it into its place."—Ibid. In what manner ought the joint, when reduced, to be kept in its natural position ? 1475. The heel being placed on a pillow, and the foot at right angles with the leg, the joint is to be held in position, first by wet compresses and tailed bandage, and further maintained by the application of two long splints, properly padded, and each having a foot-piece.—Ibid. M. Dupuytrea recommends one long splint only on the outside, properly bandaged to ihe foot and leg. Is not the tibia sometimes partially luxated forwards ? 1476. Sometimes partial displacement forwards occurs, in which the tibia rests partly on the astragalus and partly on the naviculare, instead of, as in the complet eluxation, upon the naviculare and inner cuneiform bone. What local symptoms distinguish the partial displacement ? l^yj' The foot is pointed downwards, and a difficulty is experienced in the attempt to put it flat on the ground ; the heel is drawn up, and the foot is in a great degree immove- able."—Ibid. The foot is of course not much shortened, nor the heel much lengthened, but the fibula is broken. Is it not difficult to ascertain the precise nature of this dislo- cation ? 1478. From the absence of much deformity and the pre- sence of considerable tumefaction, this variety of dislocation may be readily overlooked; the surgeon, therefore, ought to be very circumspect in his observations, and attentive in his manipulations, lest he remain ignorant of the real character of the injury, and the patient be rendered lame for life. In what manner would you reduce this kind of luxation ? 1479. In the manner advised for the complete dislocation of the tibia forwards at 1474. What are the diagnostic marks of a dislocation of the tibia 1480. ''The foot is thrown inwards, and its outer edge rests upon the ground. The malleolus extcrnus projects the