54 A roller should then he applied over the splints, to confine them with sufficient firmneas."—Ibid. Var. 4.—Dislocatio carpi ossium. Dislocation of the carpal bones. In ivhat manner are the carpal bones connected ? 1129. The eight bones of the carpus are joined to each other by short lig-anients, which pass from bone to bone, allowing but a very slight degree of motion of one bone upon another; but besides this mode of articulation, there is a trans- verse joint between the first and second row of carpal bones, forming a complete ball and socket. The ball is produced by the rounded extremities of the os magnum and os cuneiforrae; the cup by the scaphoid, lunar, and cuneiform bones. A liga- ment passes from one row of bones to the other, including this articulation."—Ibid. Are there any other ligaments which protect the carpus, and prevent their being displaced? 1130. The carpus is further protected by the ligamentum carpi annulare, anterior and posterior, which, by binding down the tendons of the flexor and extensor muscles upon the wrist, very materially prevent the displacement of the carpal bones. What are the dislocations of the carpal bones, most commonly met with ? 1131. Displacements of the carpal bones are not of common occurrence: but they sometimes happen : for example, the navicular bone may be pushed out of its situation upon the back of the carpus, and the os magnum and cuneiform bones, from relaxation of their proper ligaments, may be in some measure forced from their natural situation. What is the treatment of these cases ? 1132. In the former case, by extension and steady pressure, the dislocated bone is to be reduced, and kept in position, by compresses made wet with cold lotions, and by long splints and roller bandage. In the latter case, adhesive plaisters and a calico bandage will answer the purpose best. Var. 5.—Dislocatio ossium metacarpi. Dislocation of the metacarpal bones. By what ligaments are the metacarpal bones connected to the digital row of the carpal bones ? 1133. The metacarpal bone of the thumb is connected to