118 1368. There can hardly be such a case. Into what displace- ment can the bone be drawn in this direction, and by what means can the bone be drawn into it ? This supposed case occurs when the tendon of the rectus femoris is ruptured ; an accident which sometimes happens, but no material displace- ment of the patella follows.—Ibid. What treatment would such an injury require ? 13G9. The patient is to be placed in a sitting- posture; a cushion is to be applied upon the ligamentura patellae, and confined there by a roller passed round the head of the tibia. —Ihid. Var. 2.—Dislocatio tibia capitis. Dislocation of the head of the tibia. In what directions may the tibia be luxated? 1370. The tibia may be dislocated in four directions; out- wards, inwards, forwards, and backwards. What are the appearances of the displacement outwards ? 1371. This luxation is generally incomplete; nevertheless the deformity is considerable. " The tibia projects upon the outer part of the joint, the internal condyle upon the inner side, and the external condyle rests upon the internal semilu- nar cartilage."—Sir A. Cooper's Lectures, by Tyrrell. State the appearance of the luxation inwards. 1372. The head of the tibia projects inwards, the external condyle of the femur outwards; whilst the internal condyle rests upon the external semilunar cartilage. This luxation is also incomplete. What would be your method of reduction ? 1373. "The reduction in either instance may be readily effected by direct extension." The bones are to be kept in their normal position by splints and a wet bandage. What are the signs of the dislocation of the tibia forumrds ? 1374. In the recumbent position " the head of the tibia projects forwards, and the inferior part of the thigh-bone is depressed, being thrown a little to one side as well as back- ward ; the patella is drawn up by the action of the rectus muscle. The circulation through the popliteal vessels is ob- structed by the pressure of the femur posteriorly, so that the arteries below cease to pulsate, and the foot feels numbed from pressure upon the nerves."—Ibid. State the signs of the posterior luxation of the tibia.