95 preceding- kinds of accident, the result will be fatal, and the operation should not be performed."—Ibid. Would an injurij of the soft parts, however extensive, justify the performance of this operation ? 1290. " A very extensive injury of the soft parts of the thigh, if the bone be not broken, and the femoral artery not divided, does not authorize the operation, although the artery be laid bare for three or four inches of its course."—Ibid. Does not this formidable operation generally prove fatal in its results ? 1291. It must be confessed that it has not often been fol- lowed by recovery; and when we consider that one-fourth of the human body is removed by this amputation, we are not to be surpi'ised at such a result. Still, however, several cases of recovery from it are on record; and "these cases prov^e," says Mr. Guthrie, " that the operation is not only necessary, but practicable, and that it may be effected with success under certain circumstances. This being granted, it necessarily follows, that this operation ought to be recommended and performed in every case, in Avhich it can alone bring relief, or offer a prospect of success. No man should, therefore, be allowed to die, without its being proposed to him/' when found in so awful a catastrophe. Hoiv long after the reception of the injury ought the primary operation to be performed ? ^ 1292. " The sooner it is done on the field of battle, con- sistent with propriety, the greater will be the chance of suc- cess, for the patient cannot live to the period for secondary amputation. It is in this, and other operations high in the thigh, that the question of lime is most important; for haste is as injurious as delay, when improperly applied." State the condition of the constitution that would forbid the immediate performance of the operation ? 1293. " If the patient has suffered much loss of blood, or is in a state of syncope, or nearly approaching to it, unable to articulate, with a pulse scarcely perceptible, and the skin clammy and cold, an immediate operation would only hasten his death."—G?i^Ane on Gun-shot Wounds. Ought a patient with such a tremendous ivound, and in such a desperate condition, to be considered moribund, and therefore abandoned by the operator ? 1294. No. " If excited by stimulants and cordials, he will have some chance of recovering himself in an hour or two.