109 1338. The application of the tourniquet wouhl be absurd, as it would distend the femoral veins and mask the artery It may, however, be sufTcred to lie loosely around the hmb both during and after the operation. When there are assist- ants at hand, it will be enough that one of them be ready to compress the artery in the groin, if it be required. What is the treatment of a wound of the femoral artery high up in the groin ? ,1.^*1 - 1339. " The finger must be thrust into the wound, to stop the bleeding, until a compress can be applied upon the pubes and the vessel be secured."—-Sir A. Coopers Lectures, by Tyrrell. In wounds of the femoral artery in the middle of the thigh, does external hemorrhage always ensue, and if not, what would be your conduct in such a case ? 1340. Not always; " a large swelling will (sometimes) im- mediately form, and the artery will be deeply situated under a large coagulum. A free incision must be made, to give the surgeon ample room to proceed in securing the wounded ves- sel, a tourniquet being first applied. The direction of the in,- cision will be that required in the operation for popliteal aneurism (1334), only it must be more extensive. The coa- gulum, which is then exposed, must be scooped out from the wound by the fingers, and the parts be cleanly sponged. The tourniquet is then to be loosened, and the aperture in the ves- sel will be directly seen, when the tourniquet is to be again tightened, and two ligatures are to be placed aroimd the artery, one above and the other below the wound, an end of each thread being cut otF. The edges of the wound are to be approximated, so as to favour the union by adhesion." It is always right in these cases to divide the artery between the ligatures."—Ibid. What mode of treatment would you adopt in a wound of the popliteal artery ? 1341, " This vessel is so protected by the condyles of the os femoris, and so concealed behind the bone, that it is rarely lacerated; and when it is so, the wound must be highly dan- gerous, as it will be, probably, complicated with a division of the sciatic nerve." In tying the artery in the ham, there is some danger of including the sciatic nerve, as it is placed above the artery in cutting into the ham, and it must be carefully avoided: the artery must be drawn from the vein, where the large nerve is placed upon it. Mr. Cline once saw the nerve included in a ligature in the operation for pop- liteal aneurism, and the patient died in a few hours.—Ibid.