1.^8 1529. The age of the patient ought always to have weight in our (Idiberations; for whilst in a young man a wound of tl)is kuKl might not require the primary operation, the same injury in an old person might demand immediate amputation. hhould there be, along with comjjound fracture of the foot, hemorrhage from the arteries, what would he your practice ? 1530. Hemorrhage in such case does not authorize ampu- tation ; "for the incisions necessary to secure the bleeding vessels will not in general add much to the original injury, except they are very extensive indeed ; on the contrary, they will render the wound less complicated."—G?</Ane on Gun- shot Wounds. Do you consider acute tetanus a proper object for amputation of the foot? 1531. Amputation has not been found effectual in removing the symptoms of acute tetanus, and therefore ought not to be performed in such a case. What, then, are the compound fractures of the foot that require primary amputation ? 1532. Cases of compound fracture of the foot requiring im- mediate amputation are, 1st. When the foot has been torn off by a cannon-shot, or the explosion of shells ; 2dly. When the bones have been comminuted by the crush of a wheel, the fall of ponderous bodies, or the violence of machinery. At what point of the limb ought the ojieration to be performed ? 1533. The operation might take place below the knee, at the tarsus or metatarsus, according to the situation of the in- jury, " recollecting that it is of greater importance to pre- serve the great toe than any other." Describe the method of amputating the foot at the junction of the tarsus ivith the metatarsus ? 1534. "The joints of the metatarsus with the tarsus being well ascertained, an incision is to be made across the foot in the direction of the joints, but nearer the toes, and the integu- ment retracted back over the tarsus. From the out and in- side of the end of this incision, two others are to be made along the sides of the great and little toe for about two inches and a half, according to the thickness of the foot 3 and the ends of these two incisions are to be united by a transverse one down to the bone on the sole of the foot, by which the corners may be rounded off. The flap thus formed on the under part is to be dissected back from the metatarsal bones, including as much muscular flesh as possible, as far as the under part of the joints of the tarsus. The metatarsal bones