132 tlie popliteal artery. It commences at the lower border of the popliteus muscle, and terminates below the inner ankle in its division into the plantar arteries. " The course of the vessel is obliquely downwards and inwards, being placed above, midway between the bones of the leg, and below be- tween the inner ankle and the prominence of the heel."— Quain's Elements of Anatomy. What is the relative position of this artery ? 1432. "Its anterior surface," according to Dr. Quain, " rests successively on the tibialis posticus, the flexor longus digitorum, and interiorly, for about two inches, on the tibia, separated from it by some cellular tissue; posteriorly it is covered by the gastrocnemius and soleus, (the deep fascia being interposed) and further down by the fascia of the leg, as it is stretched from the tendo achillis to the border of the tibia. On each side lie its accompanying veins, and along its external or fibular side runs the posterior fibular nerve. It will be recollected that in the hollow, between the mternal malleolus and calcaneum, run three tendons, as well as the posterior tibial vessels. Their relative position may be stated as follows : the tibialis posticus and flexor longus digitorun) run close to the inner malleolus ; a quarter of an inch behmd these is the tibial artery, the nerve being a little posterior to it, and finally, about half an inch further backwards towards the heel, is the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis.' —Ibid. Describe the course and relative position of the peroneal artery. . . , a 1433. This vessel takes its origin from the posterior tibial, and runs down the posterior part of the leg in the direction o the fibula. Hence it has been called by some the fibular artery. It commences from about an inch to two inches below the lower border of the popliteus muscle, and descends almost perpendicularly towards the external ankle. Running tor a while parallel, and on the same plane with the posterior tibia artery it lies on the tibialis posticus muscle, and is coveied fo tl^ same distance by the soleus; as it descends, it inclines outwards to the fibula, and corresponds with the angle of union between it and the interosseous I'Sf^^^"''. J" ? of its course it is concealed from view by the flexoi longus poll cis " ' On reaching the lo^ver extremity of the interos- r li-ament which is about two inches or a lit le more SreS™^^ ankle, the artery usually di^v^^^^^^ branches,jiamed. from their situation, antenoi and posttiioi peroneal."—Ibid.