96 SO as to undergo the operation with a better prospect of suc- cess, or he will in that |)eriod sink and i\'w:'—Ibid. In the next place, describe the state of a patient under a similar injury, ivhich luill justify the immediate performance of the hip amputation, 1295. " If, on the contrary, he is brought to the surgeon, -although much alarmed and reduced by the sudden shock and loss of blood, with strong sensations of pain, expressed by his cries for assistance, convulsive motions of the limb and body, and the powers of the sensorium not destroyed, the operation . should be performed immediately; or, instead of becoming more calm and collected, he will gradually sink into the state of the first described, and be unable to bear the operation."—Ibid. Having stated what condition of the patient will probably ena- ble him to endure such an operation, and what ivill not, I would ask what ought to be the qualificatiom of the surgeon who ivould perform it ? 1296. " No surgeon," says the same author, " should at- tempt it, unless he is conscious of possessing great coolness, a presence of mind equal to any emergency, and a correct knowledge of the parts to be divided*." Does not the dread of hemorrhage in this case too much inti- midate the mind of the surgeon ? 1297. The dread of hemorrhage certainly too often shakes his hand, and embarrasses his judgment. This dread he must endeavour to overcome, othervfise he will not be adequate to perform an operation of this importance. Besides, the diffi- culty of controlling hemorrhage is not so great as to warrant such a dread. " The larger the artery the more easily it is secured, and the femoral artery the most readily of all. The smaller vessels only require the ends of the fingers to be placed upon them to stop the flow of blood; and this support, which hardly amounts to compression, is sufficient for vessels of considerable size, such as the branches of the glutasal, sciatic, and obturator arteries, to be divided in the course of the operation. The femoral artery in the groin can always be held with ease between the finger and thumb, or pulled out by a tenaculum, until a ligature be put around it."— Guthrie on Gun-shot Wounds. * This obsei-vation of Mr. Guthrie surely proves the duty of every surgeon to keep up his knowledge of anatomy, that he may be prepared to meet those serious emergencies which he may be called upon to treat at any hour of his professional life.