47 plaister, and the limb bandaged and supported, as in simple fracture of these bones. In what manner ought splints to be applied in compound frac- tures of the fore-arm ? 1101. '*The splints should be laid along the flat of the arm, one on each side, and not on the edges of the radius and ulna, as is sometimes done, by which the bones have been squeezed in, and have united together at one or two places by ossific union; so that the radius being joined to the ulna, the rota- tion of the fore-arm could never afterwards be performed." —Hammick's Practical Remarks, ^c. But can compound fractures of the fore-arm be always dis- posed of in this way ? 1102. Almost every case of compound fracture of the fore- arm will justify an attempt to preserve the limb; "for although the fore-arm is liable to more complicated injuries than the upper arm, still it is quite under our management. The two bones can be more easily got at, and pieces extracted with ease; the arteries, particularly the radial and ulnar, can be cut down upon, and except at the upper part, secured without any difficulty. The interosseal, ulnar, and radial arteries, can and ought to be fairly tied, whenever they bleed, at any sacrifice of muscular parts ; and the fascia may be di- vided freely in every direction, as it may be found to impede the discharge of matter, or cause other inconvenience to the patient. An advantage arises also from the number of the arteries supplying the lower part of the limb ; for if one be wounded, yet another, and perhaps two, remain to support and nourish the parts beneath, which, from the free com- munication of the palmar arches, is readily effected : morti- hcation of the fingers, therefore, seldom or never takes ^Wound^'''' '^"'''"^^ fore-arm."—Gw^^ne on Gun-shot Describe the cases of compound fracture of the fore-arm which will not admit of being left to the preservative mode of 1103. 1st. A comminuted fracture of both bones, with lace- ration of the muscles, arteries, and nerves, demands ampu- tation. Such an example may be furnished by the pressure of a waggon-wheel. i' o^uiu 2dly. Fracture of both bones by a musket-ball, with division of_the arteries, is a legitimate object for the operation."—