39 loith contusion of the soft parts, but from the artery not being wounded, not requiring immediate amputation ? 1037. The patient being put to bed, and the arm laid on a pillow, such fragments, as may be loose and detached, are to be carefully removed. The fractured parts are then to be brought into the best possible coaptation, and supported by proper dressings, bandages, and splints. Wiat bandage is most suitable for a case 0/ this kind ? 1038. It should be upon the principle of the many-tailed bandage, but less complex. The following will be found at once simple and practical. Let portions of old linen, about two inches and a half wide, and more than long enough to encircle the limb, be cut out and tacked together. As many of these as may be sufficient to comprise the extent of the injury, being made wet with cold lotion, are to be spread smoothly beneath the limb, and then be made to embrace the fracture in the same manner as the many-tailed bandage. This method will require less time in the application, and give more support. With what degree of tightness ought the strapping and the bandage to be applied ? 1039. In a case of this kind we ought to be most careful not to use any force in retaining the fracture in coaptation, lest Ave destroy the vitality of the contused soft parts, and cause sloughing. Mr. Hammick may be advantageously quoted on this point. "Never use any violence in bringing into contact torn-up integuments ; let them be coaxed gently together, or as near as they can be, and retain them by the simplest means : let your bandagesbe applied with the view of support, not com- pression."—Practical Remarks on Amputation, Fractures, 8^c. State the immediate treatment of a fracture of the shaft, where a musket-ball has passed through the centre of the hume- rus, ivith considerable splinterings of the bone. 1040. Should the shaft of the bone be broken asunder, all the splinters within our reach must be removed, and the case subjected to the same treatment as is laid doMai at 1037 ; but if the shaft be perforated only, the orifices should be lightly dressed, and the limb supported by bandage. The patient need not be kept in bed. What ivould be your treatment, should the ball be found to have lodged in the shaft of the bone ? 1041. "In some severe cases, where the ball lodges in the bone, particularly about the condyles, by making deep and cautious incisions before great swelling of the soft parts comes