12 ihJ acciclei't" "^'^'^ ''''' ''-'^''''^ <late of In comuUiny on the propriety of an attempt at reduction what are the circumstances that are to be considered? '^'"'''^''"''^ ^^'^^ thc slate of tl e parts-the degree of motion that has been acquired-and the treatment, if any, which has been adopted. If the movements be to such an extent as to favour the suppo- sition of the head of the bone having been furnished with a new recipient cavity, to which it has, in a great measure, accommodated itself, and that the glenoid cavity has, from disease, become altered, the surgeon can scarcely hope for advantage to his patient from attempts to break up the new articulating apparatus, and re-establish the old. The patient will be, most probably, put to a great deal of pain, anrj some danger, without experiencing improvement to the limb • indeed, the motions and power may prove less than before. In old men, too, force sufficient for reduction cannot be employed without great risk of laceration of nerves, blood- vessels, and muscles. But if the patient be young, the motions limited, and the articulation apparently not changed by solid effusion, reduction may be attempted with a fair prospect of success, and without injury. In all such cases however, the surgeon must watch every step of the pro- ceedings, and have sufficient experience to stop short of inflicting irreparable mischief. No standard can be fixed for the degree of force that is necessary and safe. He may be foiled, even after the most powerful efforts, in a dislocation of two or three weeks' duration ; whilst, by the use of but slight force, he may succeed in one of as many months."—Lis/o^z'* Elements. By what means could you diminish the power of the resisting muscles, previously to an attempt at reduction, in a protracted case ? 989. The patient should be bled, put into a warm bath at the temperatuj-e of 100 to 110 degrees, and be made to take one grain of tartarized antimony every ten minutes, till he becomes faint, when he should be removed from the bath, wrapped in a blanket, and placed in a chair for extension. Should you fail to produce syncope by these means, ivhat other remedy would you make use of? 990. The tobacco clyster; as this medicine "produces the most complete prostration of muscular power.—Liston's Elements.