122 dependent upon the degree of laceration of the capsular liga- ment and tendinous aponeurosis covering the bone What are the diagnostic marks of this fracture ? 1389. The separation of the patella, and our being able to press down the integuments upon the condyles of the femur between the fractured portions; by the free lateral motion of the upper portion, and by the inability of the patient to extend the limb, or support himself upon it. What are the next set of local symptoms that follow upon the accident ? 1390. "A few hours after the receipt of the accident, the part becomes tumid from extravasation of blood, and the sur- face presents a discoloured appearance from ecchymosis; this, however, subsides in a few days, but the joint enlarges from an increased secretion of synovia, and from effusion in consequence of inflammation."—8ir A. Cooper's Lectures, by Tyrrell. This injury is not accompanied with much pain or constitutional disorder. WJiat is the treatment of transverse fracture of the patella ? 1391. The first thing to be arranged is the position of the limb. The patient is to be laid on a mattress, and the injured extremity extended and placed on a well-padded hollow splint, long enough to reach from the middle of the thigh to the lower part of the calf of the leg. The heel should be raised, and the trunk somewhat elevated, in order to relax the extensor muscles of the thigh, and prevent the upper portion of the patella from being drawn upwards. The limb should be lightly bandaged to the splint, and the joint enveloped in compresses wet with evaporating lotion. Leeches also should be applied, if indicated by pain or tension.—Ibid, What treatment will be required to approximate and unite the broken portions of the patella ? 1392. As soon as the tension has subsided, and not on any account before, " a roller is to be applied from the toes to the knee, to prevent swelling of the leg; two pieces of broad tape (or of a common roller) are then placed on each side of the patella, in the direction of the limb, and two rollers are next bound round the extremity, one above, and the other below the knee-joint, confining the pieces of tape and having the two portions of bone betwixt them: the ends of the tape on each side are afterwards turned over the rollers, and tied so as to bring the rollers nearer to each other, and thus press the portions of the fractured bone as nearly as possible together; the splint is again applied and fixed to the limb, to prevent any