67 and a longitudinal incision is then to be made on each side of the two bones to be taken away, between the fingers and nto the palm of the hand, so as to jom the transverse cut in- side clre is now to be taken that the tendons runnuig to the fore and little fingers are not injured, as the soft parts, bdonging to the fingers to be removed, are cut through : the saw or tfephine is now to be applied, and the bones cu across. The l U\e flap, saved on the upper and under part, wd cover the sawed bones, and the skin saved on the sides wi l leave enough to cover the bones remaining, with the help ot a strap of adhesive plaister, so as to leave only a line of incision everv where."—Ibid. . . , ^ ^ ^j. Is not the metacarpal saw a defective instrument for the di- viding of these bones ? ^ .-c lu Tv/r.. 1183. Yes ; and so are saws of any kind ; as testified by Mi. Guthrie, and the best military surgeons. They are now su- perseded by the cutting pliers, an instrument much better adapted for this purpose. How ought this instrument to be used? 1184. "It is applied perpendicularly, and should always have its smooth surface in contact with the part to be re- tained, otherwise the cut part Avill be rough and irregular. •—Listons Elements. As it must be manifest, from the wound inflicted on the hand, that the flaps cannot always be formed as you have described, in what manner ivould you substitute other coverings ? 1185. In the majority of cases certainly, where the hand has been perforated, the integuments may be so lacerated as not to allow of the general rule being followed ; and there- fore the flap " must be kept either from the back part or inside, as may be most convenient, which in almost every case of the' hand will somewhat vary the first incision."—Gw^Arie on Gun-shot Wounds. In what manner would you remove one of the middle metacar- pal bones f 1186. The operation of removing a single bone will be the same as that for removing two, as described at 1182; but this will require more care, lest the articulation of the adjacent fingers be injured.— If there were no wound through the hand, what difference ought to be observed in the mode of operating ? 1187. " The knife is entered over the dorsal centre of the bone above the (injured) part, and carried straight downwards till near the articulation, when it is made to diverge for the