129 Is there no excej^tion to this rule ? 1419. This is a rule that admits of no exception ; compound fractures of the knee-joint by musket-shot invariably demand immediate amputation. Suppose a ball should lodge either in the head of the tibia or condyles of the femur, within the capsular ligament^ lohat treat- ment ivould be required ? 1420. If a ball have found its way into this situation, and cannot be easily extracted, Mr. Guthrie advises amputation, for the limb, if preserved, not be a useful one. But, he says, " if the ball lodge without the capsular ligament, and cannot easily be extracted, the wound should be healed as soon as possible; and although it may cause some little in- convenience to the knee-joint, it will preserve the limb and life of the patient, as I have seen in many instances; when a continuance of persevering eiForts to extract it would have exposed both to great hazard." Var. 2.—Fractura columnce ossium composita. Compound fracture of the shaft of the bones. What treatment is requii'ed for a compound fracture of both bones of the leg, unaccompanied by comminution of the bones, or extensive injury of the soft parts ? 1421. Should the upper portion of the tibia protrude through the integuments, our first step will be to ext nd the limb, in order to reduce and replace it to its natural position; but should this, from the narrowness of the opening, or what- ever cause, be found impracticable, ^' either the portion must be abridged by the saw or cutting pliers, or the wound must be enlarged. Sometimes the one mode is preferable, some- times the other; occasionally both are required. When the protruding portion composes but a small portion of the shaft, though perhaps of considerable length, it should be taken away; but when, on the contrary, it is more thick than long, it is better to enlarge the wound ; but on this subject no gene- ral rules can be laid &o\vnr—Liston's Elements of Surgery. As soon as the fracture is reduced, the wound is to be ac- curately closed by strips of adhesive plaister ; but in doing this we must be careful not to use too much force in bring- ing the edges together, lest their vitality be destroyed, and sloughing ensue. The limb is then to be laid upon a double- inclined plane, and treated in the manner advised for simple fracture.—Firfe 1409. ^ K