6 by passinj^ a bandage round the chest, over the scapula and round the urm."—Lis ton's Elements of Surgery. At 'what other points tnifjht this bone be fractured ? 964. " The acromion process, the spine, or the neck of the bone, may be fraclnrcd. A portion of the acromion may be separated along with the ligaments connecting the clavicle to it, in the accident of dislocation of the scapular extremity of that bone. The acromion may also be broken into fragments by heavy falls on the point of the shoulder."—Vide ibid. What ivoiild be the diagnosis in this kind of accident ? 965. "There is a slight appearance of flattening of the shoulder at first, and then great swelling. Crepitation is felt by pressing gently and alternately with the points of the finger over the fractured part,"—Ibid. The diagnostic marks in a case of fracture of the neck of the scapula, which may easily be mistaken for dislocation into the axilla, are three—" 1st, the facility with which the parts are replaced; 2dly, the immerliate fall of the head of the bone into the axilla, when the extension is removed ; and 3dly, the crepitus which is felt at the extremity of the coracoid process of the scapula, when the arm is rotated."—Sir Astley Cooper's Treatise on Dislocations, S^c. A simple method, therefore, of discovering this kind of fracture will be, first to raise and support the elbow, which will restore the natural appearance of the shoulder; and secondly, to rotate the arm, when supported, with one hand, whilst the other is placed on the coracoid process, which will immediately discover the crepitus. State the treatment required in this case. 9G6. The arm requires to be raised and supported by a sling. At the same time, should the acromion be broken into frag- ments by great violence, local bleeding, cold evaporating lo- tions, and the antiphlogistic treatment, will be also required. JVJiat are the usual causes of compound fractures of the sca- pula, and ivhat is their treatment ? 967- Gun-shot; and " such injuries of the scapula itself are not of a very serious nature. Balls make a clear passage through its broad plate, and the splinters occasioned by them are easily removed."—iJewzm's Principles of Military Surgery. The only treatment necessary for the injury of the bone, ab- stractedly, is perfect rest and simple dressings, but the general treatment will depend on the further consequences of the wound that has involved the scapula.—F?f?e Thoracic Emei-- gencies, p. 83.