31 Should the case be such as to require the primary amputation ? • . rtint 1 ave been sustained. But from one to tliree hlTwrnln most cases be found sufficient."-G««™ on Gun-shot Wounds. /■«? there ami exception to this rule , , , ^ ^ . 1046 Yesl In cases where the limb has been torn off by n cannon-shot, amputation should be performed rmmediately, u^tho u any delay whatsoever; - for although the patien may Lpear unable to bear it, the shock of the operation wdl not be^equal to the continuance of the suffering he is undergomg, which would soon prove fatal."—. , . . . ^ What modes of amputation are best suited to injuries of the uwer arm ? i i • 1047 Should it be necessary to saw the bone above the in- sertion of the pectoralis major muscle the flap operation should be adopted; if it can be done below this pomt, the circular incision is to be practised. ,7,7 Describe the manner in lohich the flap operation should be per- "^^^048. " The patient is to be seated, and compression made upon the subclavian artery, in the same manner, and with the same instrument, as in amputation at the shoulder, in pre- ference to using a tourniquet with a pad in the axilla, which is a source of great inconvenience in every step of the opera- tion: {Vide 1021) two incisions of a similar shape are to_ be commenced, one or two fingers' breadth below the acromion, as the case may require; the point of the inner one, instead of ceasing, as in the operation of the shoulder, a little below the pectoral muscle, is to be carried directly across the under part to meet the point of the outer incision ; so that the under part of the arm is cut by a circular incision, the upper in the same manner as in the operation at the shoulder : these inci- sions are only through the skin and cellular membrane, which has liberty to retract, but is not to be turned up. The deltoid and pectoralis major are then divided close to the inner inci- sion, and the opposite portion of the deltoid, with the long head of the biceps, on the outside, for the extent of the outer incision. A half circular cut on the under part, in the line of the skin down to the bone, clears it underneath, and shews the artery retracting with its open mouth, which is at this