113 to be cut with the point of the knife, and at the same time any attachment to the bones or muscles beneath, is to be sepa- rated, to allow of its complete retraction ; and on the un(ler part, where it is attached to the bone, it will always reqmre this assistance. The amputating-knife is then to be applied close to the retracted fascia and integuments, and the outer- most muscles are to be divided by a circular incision, with any portion of the fascia that may not have equally retracted; the edge of the knife, whilst it revolves round the limb, being constantly a little inclined upwards, so as to cut the muscles in an oblique direction. This incision completed, the knife is immediately to be placed close to the edge of the muscular fibres, which are cut through, and the remainder of the soft parts divided to the bone in the same manner." " The mus- cles attached to the bone are to be then separated, with a scal- pel, for about two inches and a half to three inches, in large thighs, by which means the bones will be fairly imbedded when sawed off. The common linen retractor is now to be placed on the limb, and the muscles steadily kept back while the bone is sawn through. The periosteum is to be divided by one circular of the scalpel, after the retractor is put on : the heel of the saw is then to be applied and drawn towards the surgeon, so as to mark the bone, in which furrow he will continue to cut with long and steady strokes, the point of the saw slanting downwards almost in a perpendicular direc- tion, until the bone be nearly divided, when the saw is to be lightly pressed upon, to avoid splintering it, which this man- ner of sawing will also tend to prevent. During this opera- tion, the thigh should be held steadily above, and in such man- ner below, that the part to be cut off does not weigh on the bone above ; at the same time it must not be pressed inwards or upwards, or it will prevent the motion of the saw, or splinter the bone."—Guthrie on Gun-shot TVotmds. Do you see any objection to the muscles being separated from the bone, as originally advised and practised by Mr, Guthrie? 1352. The only objection that can be made is the possi- bility of an arterybeing wounded, in dividing the muscles, close to the bone, and the difficulty that might occur in securing it. This accident, however, will be so seldom as not to prevent this practice being followed,—a practice highly creditable to Mr. Guthrie, and which has doubtless prevented protrusion of the bone in manifold amputations. Has any other m,ethod of operating been recommended, to ob- viate protrusion after amputation of the thigh ? I