46 3dly. A musket-ball passing through the elbow-joint, injuring the articulating ends of the humerus, radius and ulna, IS a fair ease for amputation."—/iec/. ' 4thly. " A wound from a cannon-shot, injuring the bones of the elbow-joint, demands immediate amputation, as the neighbouring parts are also generally much injured."—/die/. 5thly. «^ In old people, when much injury is done, there is often not sufficient strength to support the adhesive process, and amputation should be recommended."—A. Cooper's Treatise, &^c. ^ Might not excision of the heads of the bones of the elbow- joint be sometimes practised with greater advantage to the patient ? 1098. " In cases where the articulating surface of the con- dyles of the humerus is alone wounded, or the head of the radius and ulna are both destroyed, I would recommend," says Mr. Guthrie, the operation of sawing off the ends of the bones, as proposed by Moreau and Dr. JetFray, M'here due attention can be paid, in preference to cutting off the arm." But is not this an operation of such difficulty and hazard, as to be admissible only in cases manifestly ivell adapted to its use ? 1099. So great indeed is the difficulty and hazard of the operation of excision of the heads of bones at the elbow- joint, that, unless the surgeon feels sufficient confidence in his anatomical knowledge and surgical skill to perform it, he had always better amputate the arm at once. Besides, were the excision performed ever so adroitly, the result of such an operation would in all probability be unfavourable to the patient, and subject him at last to amputation. Var. 2.—Fractura columnce composita. Compound fracture of the shaft of the bones. WTiat is the ti'eatment of compound fracture of the fore-arm? 1100. If either or both of the bones protrude through the wound, they are to be immediately reduced; and if this be found impracticable, the surgeon must effect it by enlarging the wound; or should the ends of the fracture be spiculated, they may be removed by the saw. This step being effected, the lips of the wound are to be brought together by adhesive