161 Genus d.—Vulms propriwn pedi. Wounds connected with the foot. Bywhatartenes is the foot supplied? i,,,^.. 1543. By the anterior and posterior tibial, the lattei ot which is divided into the internal and external pjantar arteries. , ^ ^ • State the course of each of these arteries. _ 1544 " The dorsalis pedis, which is a continuation ot the anterior tibial artery, may be marked out by a line drawn ?rom tl^ inner border of the head of the fibula to the middle of the bend of the ankle, and thence continued onwards to the first metatarsal space."—QMcm's Elements of Anatomy. Ihe posterior tibial artery, having passed between the malleolus internus and tendo-achiUis, with the tibialis posticus, and flexor longus digitorum pedis, on its inner, and the flexor longus poUicis pedis and posterior tibial nerve, on its outer side runs in the hollow of the os calcis and behind the ab- ductor pollicis to the sole of the foot; and as it is about to go behind this muscle, it divides into the internal and external plantar arteries. These run under the aponeurosis plantaris, the flexors of the toes lying between them. The plantaris interna runs on the inner side of the sole, between the ab- ductor pollicis and fascia plantaris, to the root of the great toe where it sends a principal branch to its inner side, and then passing under the flexor longus poUicis, anastamoses with the arcus plantaris, and having bifurcated, gives one branch to the outer side of the great toe, and the other to the inner side of the toe next. The external plantar, the larger of the two, passes ob- liquely outwards, between the flexor brevis digitorum pedis and flexor accessorius, till it reaches the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe. It is now arched forwards between the flexors and metatarsal bones of the small toes, the trunk being continued to the root of the great toe, under the name of the arcus plantaris." " The arcus plantaris sends ofi" branches to the interosseal muscles; one branch to the outer side of the little toe, and three large digital arteries, which are forked at the roots of the toes, and run along the edges of these in the manner of the digital arteries of the fingers." Js there not a free communication betioeen the arcus plantaris