101 U will not be sufficient to restore the bone merely through the integuments : this will be of little or no tiVAil—Hammick s Practical Remarks on Amputations, ^c. , State your reason for preferring the enlarging the wound in protrusions of th e femur. . . 1314. " 1 always wish to avoid sawing ott any portion or bone, because the thigh must be to that extent shortened ; and wherever the bone is removed, it will be always followed with great swelling, and when the inflammatory stage is over, there will be profuse purulent discharge."—Ibid. In what position ought the limb to be placed ^ . . 1315. This will depend on what part of the bone is fractured. If the fracture be situated high up towards the trochanters, the position must be such as was recommended for simple fracture at that part of the femur, vide 1273 : if at the lower end of the shaft, just above the condyles, the position should be such as was "advised at 1280 and 1281; but should the injury be situated in the middle third of the thigh, Mr. Hammick recommends the limb to be placed in the straight position. His reasons are the following. " You will find, by the leg hanging down the lower side of the plane, that the knee will thrust up the inferior part of the bone out of its level, and that the upper part of the thigh will be disturbed by every movement of the body. The greatest objection to the double-inclined plane is, in a large suppurating fi-acture of the thigh, allowing the matter to insinuate itself, by its own gravitation, up amongst the muscles towards the nates, pro- ducing pain by its lodgment; and, should the limb require ultimately to be cut off, the muscles will be found in a flabby and unhealthy state, from the insinuation and soaking of the matter."—Ibid. Ought not the bed to be carefully py-epared for a fracture of the thigh ? 1316. It is a matter of great importance that the bed should be so arranged, that " it be not too hard to gall, nor too soft to sink down." The sacking also should be drawm quite tight.—Ibid. State the best method of supporting and bandaging the limb, ivhen placed in the straight position you have just recommended. 1317- I would adopt the plan advised by Mr. Hammick. Let two sheets be folded into a square of about two feet, and spread out upon it a regular transA erse row of short calico compresses ; the row being in length sufficient to envelop the whole thigh, and each compress being long enough to