11 conversing with the patient, to direct his mind to othei ohiects. In two or three minutes, more force should be applied, and continued until pain be again complained of, when the surgeon should again cease to increase the force; and thus he should proceed for a quarter of an hour at intervals slightly rotating the limb. He should, when he has applied all the extension he thinks right, give the string of the pulley to an assistant, desiring the existing degree of extension to be supported. Then, putting his knee in the axilla, and resting his foot upon the chair, he should gently raise and push back the head of the bone towards the glenoid cavity, when the bone will pass into the socket. This takes place generally without the snap, which is heard when other means are employed; yet both the surgeon and the patient are aware of some motion at the head of the bone at the time. If the pulleys be thus employed, the extension will be conducted infinitely more steadily and effectually than when performed by men."^—Ibid. Is it an increase of force that you have in view in the employ- ment of the jJuUeys ? 984. Not so much an increase of power, as the steady and uniform manner in which it is applied. Is there not hazard in using great force with the pulleys ? 985. " When excessive, there is a risk of the axillary nerves and artery giving way : such accidents have happened, and been accompanied with serious and even fatal conse- quences ; and from laceration of other tissues, the muscular, fibrous, or cellular, fatal inflammation and abscess have resulted. The surgeon is therefore called upon to exercise judgment and discretion ; not to continue extension to a per- nicious extent, and not to abandon attempts at reduction too soon, leaving his patient disabled for life."—Liston's Elements, Shoidd there be no fixed points in the sides of the apartment to receive a staple or screio, is there any other part of the apart- ment to which they could be fixed ? 986. " In apartments, where it is not convenient to place the pulleys in the walls, I have fixed them in the floor, on each side of the patient, who must, under these circumstances, sit upon the floor."—Sir Astley Cooper's Treatise. In how long a time after the accident has a luxated shoulder been reduced ? 987. Luxations of the shoulder-joint may be, and have been, reduced after the lapse of two or three months; but the difficulty increases, and the chance of success diminishes,