117 Does it follow that the capsular ligament must ahvays be torn by the dislocations ? . . i r 1363. Sir A. Cooper says, that « in either of these cases the ligament will be torn, unless there be some pi;evious disease; but this must depend on the extent of the displacemen If the bone be thrown much over the condyle, laceration will of course follow : if it be not so extensively dislocated, laceiation does not take place.* 7. 7 ^- 9 What is the mode of reducing these dislocations!' 1364. The limb being extended, and raised by the heel sui- ficiently high to relax the extensor muscles of the thigh, the displaced bone is to be pushed back into its normal position. What is the cause of the displacement of the patella upwards ^ 1365. The rupture of the hgamentum patellae; the imme- diate effect of which is the drawing of the patella upwards by the action of the rectus femoris muscle. What are the diagnostic marks of this accident ? 1366. The elevation of the patella upwards ; its easy motion from side to side; a deep impression above the head of the tibia, from the absence of the ligamentum patellae, and an impossibility of bearing upon or extending the limb. What is the treatment of this severe injury ? 1367. " In the treatment of this injury, local depletion and evaporating lotions are to be used, during five or seven days from its occurrence, and then a roller is to be applied around the foot and upon the leg, to prevent its swelling; the leg is to be kept extended by a splint behind the knee, and a bandage, composed of a leathern strap, is to be buckled round the lower part of the thigh ; to this is to be attached another, which is to be carried on each side of the leg, and under the foot, and is to be buckled to the circular strap ; thus the bone is gradually drawn down, so as to allow of an union of the ligament. In a month the knee may be slightly bent, and as much passive motion daily given as the patient is able to bear; by these means the ruptured ligament becomes united, and the patella retains its motion. During the time the bandage is worn, the patient is to preserve the sitting posture, in order to relax the rectus muscle, and to prevent its action upon the patella."— /Sir A> Cooper's Treatise on Dislocations, ^c. Do you acknowledge a dislocation of thepatellce downwards ? * Sir R. R. fell from bis horse, and dislocated the patella upon the outer condyle. After it was reduced, no disturbance or swellinfj of the joint fol- lowed, and in a very few days he was enabled to take his usual exercise without inconvenience.