94 The following exaiiii)les arc pronounced by Mr. Guthrie to require the primary operation :— 1st. " A grape or small cannon-shot may strike the fore part of the thigh, and without wounding the inguinal artery itself, may, in its passage to the neck of the femur, wound some large arterial branches, causing considerable hemorrhage: the wound shall not be large, and yet the chance of saving the life of the patient will be but very small indeed. 2dly. " A shell, bursting near a soldier, may drive a large piece, of an inch in thickness, and a pound or two in weight, into the inner part of the thigh, without wounding the femoral artery, yet fracturing the head of the bone; here several large vessels, and, perhaps, the great sciatic nerve, would be divided; and the only chance of life, in my mind, would be in the immediate removal of the whole. 3dly. " A piece of a shell may strike between the trochanter and the ilium, go through the neck of the bone, and tear its way out below the tuberosity of the ischium, destroying all the parts in its coiu'se, without either killing the soldier by he- morrhage, or by the shock of the blow to the constitution. 4thly. " When a cannon shot carries away the thigh above its middle, so as to exclude the more common flap operation close to the trochanter, it is almost always fatal," and requires the operation. 5thly. " A cannon-shot striking the outside of the thigh, tearing away the trochanter and surrounding parts, without wounding the femoral arery, or any great vessel that would cause any serious hemorrhage, or so great a shock to the con- stitution as to render the operation impracticable."—Guthrie on Gun-shot Wounds. But might not an injury of the neck of the bone by a musket- shot call also for the 2jrimary operation ? 1288. " Few surgeons would think of performing it for a wound by a musket-ball, although cases may occur that re- quire it; and the principal one that will render it necessary will be a fracture of the head or neck of the bone, with a wound of the great vessels, or some other arterial trunk, causing hemorrhage, and stuffing the thigh with h\ooA."—Ibid. Mr. Brodie performed this operation during the night, in St. George's Hospital, for a wound of this kind. Should you have reason to suppose the bones of the pelvis to be injured along with either of the foregoing injuries, ivould you deem the operation justifiable ? 1289. " If the bones of the pelvis are injured in any of the