124 Should thtre he oblique fracture of the head of fhp into t,.joiJ,^kut ouU totln/p'o^ttlft 1398. " The semiflexed position of the limb over a dnnhlp inclined plane will be best, as the weight of the h rthen counteracts the efforts of the muscles, which would otherwise draw up the inferior portion of the'broken bone '^ jir j Cooper's Lectures, by Tyrrell. ' Var. 2.—Fractura columncs ossium. Fracture of the shaft of the bones. What are the kinds of simple fracture usually met with in the shafts of these bones ? 1399 " Fracture " says Mr. Liston, " may occur at any part of the leg. One or both bones may give way, either transvei^sely or obliquely, according to the application of the torce The transverse fracture is produced by a direct blow, by a heavy body striking or falling on the limb, or by the lower part of the limb being fixed, whilst the bodv is in rapid motion. The oblique is caused by force applied iii the direc- tion of the bones, as when a person falls or leaps from a height and ahghts on one foot, the limb being extended and the body erect.—Elements of Surgery. When both bones are broken, does it follow that they shall be broken at the same point ? 1400. Not always ; for in an oblique fracture the tibia may be fractured a few inches from its lower extremity, and the fibula may be found broken at a short distance from its upper extremity,—both giving way at their weakest points, from the force having been received at the ends of the bones. Might there not be considerable difficulty in accurately ascer- taining such a fracture ? 1401. It might escape detection by a careless practitioner; but an attentive surgeon will never suffer such an injury to pass unexplored for the want of due manipulation. What are the appearances of the limb when the tibia is frac- tured at its upper etid, but below the tuberosity? 1402. There will be considerable displacement, particularly in the bent position of the knee, from protrusion of the upper end of the tibia, occasioned by the action of the extensor muscles.—Listen's Elements of Surgery. Is there much deformity when one bone is broken lower down in the limb ?