80 respect in different instances; but the position of the foot does not in this instance mark the accident. The bent position of the body, the separated l\nees, and the increased length of the limb, are the diagnostic symptoms."—Ibid. What is the best method of reducing this luxation ? 1233. " The reduction of this dislocation is, in general, very easily effected. If the misfortune be of recent occurrence, it is requisite to place the patient upon his back, to separate the thighs as widely as possible, and to place a girth between the pudendum and the upper part of the luxated thigh, fixing it to a staple in the wall. The surgeon then puts his hand upon the ankle of the dislocated side, and draws it over the sound leg, or if the thigh be very large, behind the sound limb, and the head of the bone slips into its socket:" or the thigh might be fixed by a bed-post, received between the pudendum and upper part of the limb, and the leg be carried inwards across the other."—Ibid. Is this method commonly successful without further fixing the pelvis ? 1234. No : it will generally " be found necessary to place a second girth or bandage round the pelvis beneath that which I have already described, and the ends of this second girth should be fixed to a hook or staple, on the sound side of the patient, to prevent any lateral motion of the pelvis at the time that the injured extremity is drawn across the sound limb; otherwise the motion of the pelvis, following that of the limb, may prevent the reduction."—>Sir A. Coopers Lectures, by Tyrrell. Should the bone have been longer dislocated, and the above method fail, have you any other in reserve ? 1235. In such an event, "it is best to place the patient upon his sound side, to fix the pelvis by one bandage, and to carry under the dislocated thigh another bandage, to which the pulleys are to be affixed perpendicularly; then to draw the thigh upwards, while the surgeon presses down the knee and foot, to prevent the lower part of the limb from being drawn with the thigh-bone. Thus the limb is used as a lever of very considerable power. Great care must be taken not to advance the leg in any considerable degree, otherwise the head of the thigh-bone will be forced behind the acetabulum into the ischiatic notch."*—>Sir A. Coopers Treatise, ^c. * It may not be unacceptable in tbis place to stale, tbat in persons of fibre, it will be right to attempt the reduction of a dislocated limb by a that in persons of lax rea-