81 Genus 2.—Fractura. Fracture. Species 1.—Fractura simplex, Var. 1.—Fractura cervicis femoris intra-capsularis. Fracture of the neck of the femur within the capsule. Is dislocation of the thigh-bone, or fracture at its upper part, the most frequent occurrence ? 12.36. The case of fracture is found to be the most frequent. At what points of the upper part of the bone do fractures ge- nerally take place ? 1237. Sir A. Cooper mentions three varieties of fracture at this part of the bone, viz., " 1st. That in which the fracture happens through the neck of the bone entirely within the capsular ligament; 2dly, A fracture external to the ligament, through the neck of the thigh-bone, at its junction with the trochanter major; by which the trochanter is split, and the neck of the thigh-bone is received into its cancelli; Sdlv, A fracture through the trochanter major, beyond its junction with the cervix femoris."—TVea^i^e on Dislocations. At what period of life does fracture, entirely within the cap- sule, usually occur ? 1238. This injury rarely occurs but in old age, when a slight accident may occasion it, owing to the brittleness of the bone from interstitial absorption. Is the male or female sex most liable to fracture ivitJiin the capsular ligament ■? 1239. " Women are much more liable to this species of fracture than men; we rarely in our hospitals observe it in the latter, but our wards are seldom without an example of It in the aged female. The more horizontal position of the neck of the bone, and the comparative feebleness of the fe- male constitution, are the probable reasons of this peculiarity." sonable extension at almost anj period after the reception of the iniury • but that in muscular persons such an attempt at a considerable distance of time from the accident, maybe productive of very injurious effects, such as the lace ration of muscles, the lesion of nerves, &c., and place the patient in a o-reater state of decrepitude than he ^vas in before. On this point Sir A. Cooper has Jeg^islated as follows:— "pci jias, "lam of opinion that three months after the accident for the shoulder and eight weeks for the hip, may be fixed as the period at which it would be imprudent to make the attempt at reduction, except in persons of ex tremelyrelaxedfibre, or of advanced age." ^ 'sous oi ex- 6