19 placed on the fore part, and another posteriorly. The fore- arm is kept in a state of supination. Species U.—Fractitra composita. Compovind fracture. Var. 1. Fractura articulationis humeri composita. Compound fracture of the shoulder-joint. TPTiat are the circumstances by which you could discover a compound fracture of the shoulder-joint, occasioned by gun- shot? 1007. This case will generally be sufficiently evident by the situation of the external wound, by the appearance of splin- tered bone, and by crepitation : it may also be ascertained by a careful investigation of the orifices through which the ball might have passed. But might not there be compound fracture of the joint from this cause, without the possibility of feeling crepitation ? 1008. Yes ; a musket-ball may pass clean through the head of the humerus without splintering the bone, in which case there could be no crepitation felt. The ease or difficulty of the diagnosis will of course depend on the kind of fracture the injury has occasioned. If the joint be broken into frag- ments, the case will be immediately manifest. If the ball shall have occasioned a less apparent injury of the humerus, without destroying its shape, our conclusion will be more difficult. What treatment is required in a compound fracture of the shoidder-joint ? 1009. The treatment of such a wound must ever depend on the degree of injury the joint has sustained. Some cases will demand immediate amputation, others the excision of the head of the humerus, whilst other less severe wounds of this kind we shall be justified in exempting from such decided measures. Btate the characters of each degree of compound fracture of this joint, and the treatment, that each shall require; viz. of the degree, that shall require no operation; of the degree, that shall require excisiofi of the head of the humerus; and of the degree, that shall demand immediate amputation. 1010. " The distinction," says Mr. Guthrie, when speaking of amputation at the shoulder-joint, between the necessity of the operation, and the possibility of avoiding it, requires, in many cases, the exercise of the nicest judgment, and a due consideration of attending circumstances 5 for there is no part