50 tered cbse to the inner edge of the radius, and brought out perpendicularly below at the inner edge of the uhfa; the knite IS to be carried forwards on a parallel line with the bones for half an inch, and then cut its way out with a gentle inclination, so as to leave a semicircular flap. The catlin is to be again introduced on the outside, at the same wound, and pushed out below in the same manner, the end of the knife being brought out at the wound made by the first incision, which is easily accomplished, as the point of it passes the ulna, by turning the arm a little inwards. The two flaps are to be turned back equally to the point of entrance of the knife, where the interosseal ligament, and any muscles or ten- dons not cut by the incisions for the flaps, are to be divided ; the bones are then to be cleared, the retractor run between them, the flaps kept back, and the two bones sawed across at the same time. The radial and ulnar arteries will be found on the inner flap, and as, by the inclined cut of the flap, they may be wounded by the edge of the knife higher than where they were absolutely divided, it is advisable to tie them high, and cut ofl^ with the scissors any long portion that may be be- low the ligature. The tourniquet may now be loosened or taken off", when the interosseal artery will show itself between the bones on the inside, and perhaps another on the outside. If the tendons hang long, they are to be cut ofl" with the scis- sors ; the wound being thoroughly cleaned with cold water, the two flaps are to be placed exactly in contact, each ligature being brought straight out, or at the corners, by a single end : some straps of adhesive plaister, a slight compress, and a few turns of a roller, retain them in their situation, and in a very short time, frequently a fortnight, the cure is accomplished." —Guthrie on Gun-shot Wounds. Should you select the upper third of the fore-arm for the operation, from the necessity of the case, in what manner ought the amputation to be performed ? 1115. The operation at this point should be done by the circular incision, as follows :—" The arm being placed with the thumb uppermost, an assistant must retract the integu- ments as much as possible, whilst the operator makes one circular incision through the integuments, which must be then fairly pulled up or separated from the fascia below for nearly an inch. The edge of the knife being inclined in- wards, the muscles on the inside should be divided at one slanting cut down to the bones ; the same on the outside and upper part: the bones are then to be cleared by separating