154 In lohut way would you discover this injury ? A\l. , u'u'' ^'^'^ct"!'^^ the tibia into the joint is to be hscovered " by crepitus at the ankle when the foot is rotated wards"' r' " inclination of the foot out- wdKis. It the fracture be situated just above the joint it niay be discovered by the lower end of the tibia slightly pro- jecting- over the inner malleolus. If the joint be obliquely fractured downwards and outwards, " the foot is sliihtly inchned uiwards, and the malleolus externus projects niore than It naturally would." What treatment would you adopt in simple fracture of the ankle-jomt? j 1514. I should employ the tailed bandai^e, with evaporating lotions. Sphnts should then be applied, " with a foot-piece to each, padded, so as to incline the foot inwards, and to bring the toe Hito its natural line with the patella." " The leg should be raised so as to bend and elevate the knee, and the limb should rest upon the gastrocnemius muscle and upon the heel. The splints will support the foot on each side, and the leg should be supported by a pillow reaching from the knee to beyond the foot, secured by tapes around h."~Ibid. WhM other fracture of the joint sometimes occurs? 1515. The outer portion of the lower end of the tibia is sometimes split off by jumping or falling from a great height^ the result of this is, that the tibia is dislocated inwards, and the foot is forced up between the bones of the leg. State the treatment that such a case requires. 1516. The foot is to be brought back again into its natural l)osition, and the case treated as a dislocation inwards.— Vide 1470. Var. 2.—Fractura ossium tarsi, metatarsi, and phalangum. Simple fracture of the tarsal and metatarsal bones, and of the toes. Have you any directions to give in the treatment of simple fracture of the tarsal bones ? 1517. Simple fracture of the tarsal bones is an extremely rare occurrence; and when such an injury takes place, no splint will be required, as the fractured bones will have ample support from each other. The only treatment necessary will bp to lay the limb in the straight position on a pillow, which should be made to supi)ort the leg and foot by tapes drawn round it transversely. Inflammation should be prevented