34 muscular parts relaxing from the return of warmth, hemorr- hage will pour forth from these vessels. You liad better in all such cases snip off the end of the projection, and imme- diately a start of blood will take place, convincing you of the necessity of tying the artery before you have closed your stump."—Practical Remarks on Amjmtatiom, ^c. Should the patient be losing a considerable quantity of blood from a vein, would you not secure the vessel ? 1052. If a large vein continue to pour out much blood, it must be secured, and this will be best effected by the needle; but in this mode of applying a ligature the greatest care must be taken not to include any branch of a nerve. Genus 3.—Vulnus proprium. Wound occurring to the upper arm. Describe the course of the brachial artery. 1053. " The brachial artery" says Dr. Quain, is placed along the internal and anterior aspect of the arm, extending from the lower border of the axilla to about a finger's breadth below the bend of the elbow. Its direction is downwards, outwards, and forwards, and may be marked out by a line drawn from midway between the borders of the axilla, to the middle point between the condyles of the humerus; so that in the first part of its course, the vessel is situated on the inner side of that bone, and inferiorly on its anterior aspect. Its external side is in apposition, in the upper half of the arm, with the coraco-brachialis, in the lower with the biceps, the border of which muscles somewhat overlaps it." What is the most frequent cause of this artery being wounded ? 1054. A want of care in the operation of phlebotomy. What treatment would you adopt in such a case ? 1055. The lips of the wound having been accurately closed by a small strip of adhesive plaister, a graduated linen com- press is to be laid over the puncture,- which may be confined in its proper situation by strips of the same kind of plaister long enough to encompass the arm. After this a calico roller is to be carried around the extremity, with a moderate degree of tightness, from the axilla to the palm of the hand. Should you deem it necessary, from its having been wounded from any cause, to tie this vessel, at what part of its course might this operation be best effected? 105G. This ought to be done in the wound itself, if suffi- ciently capacious, or the wound may be dilated for that pur- pose, as the vessel may be exposed and tied in any part of its course.