26 dmr'''^ ^^"^"^^"^ */««/^eref/ l\mh, slate what remains to be 1027. First, The vessels are to be secured. The axillary artei-y, which will be found amongst the plexus of nerves in the lo\ver third of the wound, should be tied with a ligature ot two good threads. "All pressure being now removed the anterior and posterior circumflex arteries will bleed, and must be secured." Jlie axillary vein, if it bleed, should be also secured by a single ligature. This being done, and all he- morrhage controlled, we cleanse the w'ound, and remove with the scissars any portions of nerves, tendons, or capsular liga- ment, which may be hanging loose, and which may impede union ; but the glenoid cavity ought not to be deprived of its cartilaginous surface. The sides of the wound are now to be bipught together with a suture, passed through the skin lying over the pectoralis major muscle, and the whole must be supported by strips of adhesive plaister and bandage, the ligatures being brought out direct "—Gw^Ane on Gun- shot Wounds. What are the advantages of the direction of the incisions from the acromion to the axilla ? 1028. "The incision then forms but one-line from the acromion downwards, curving at the bottom to the fore part of the chest, the skin at the axilla being always a little wrinkled, and much inclined to retract. The flaps of the del- toid meet firmly, sink a little into the hollow under the acromion, lie close upon the glenoid cavity and the coracoid process and from the pressure of the adhesive plaister and compress, with the evenness of the woimd, the skin of this part nearly unites by the first intention; the hollow round the glenoid cavity is comparatively small to what might be expected, and the consolidation in healthy subjects, where every thing has done w^ell, goes on steadily, so as not to leave any cause of future inconvenience."—Ibid. Should it be impracticable to form the flaps in this direction, from what other situation could they be derived ? 1029. "If," says Mr. Guthrie, "integuments cannot be saved from one point, they can from another, or from two or three different places, and be made to meet in apposition after- wards ; or if none can be procured any where, the artery must be secured fairly on the face of the wound, a slight compress laid on its course to give support, the wound dressed lightly, and the rising inflammation prevented or allayed by cold ap])lications."—Ibid.