105 1326. "/ amioell convinced^ says the late expenenced Dr. Henuen, " the sum of human misery loill be most materially lessened by permitting no ambiguous case to be subjected to the trial of preserving the constitution, eonyenience foi treatment and local circumstances, having their full weight in the iXecv^xonr-Principles of Military Surgery. Speoiks 3.- Vulnus proprium. Wound occurring to the thigh. What is the situation and extent of the femoral artery ? 1327 " The femoral artery is placed along the anterior and inner side of the thigh, extending from Poupart's ligament, where it is continuous with the external ihac, as tar as the junction of the middle with the inferior third ot the thigh, at which point it changes its name and relation to the hone, be- coming popliteal "—Quains Elements of Anatomy. Define the course of this vessel by a line drawn longitudinally along the anterior and inner surface of the thigh. 1328. " If the knee be semiflexed, and the limb rotated out- wards, so as to turn the flat or inner side of the thigh some- what forwards, the course of the vessel may be marked out by a line drawn, or a cord extended, from midway between the anterior .superior spine of the ileum and the symphysis pubis, to the lower border of the patella."—Ibid. Describe the relative position of the femoral artery in its ivhole course. 1329. "It lies first on the psoas muscle (supported on its inner border), which separates it successively from the os pubis, the brim of the acetabulum, and the hip-joint. Below this, the vessel rests on some branches of the profunda artery and vein, embedded in cellular tissue; these separate it from the pectineus and adductor femoris: it then passes over the adductor longus, and finally over the conjoined tendons of the latter and adductor magnus. Internally, it is in contact with the femoral vein, both vessels lying on the same plane in the first instance, where they are supported by the pubes; but when the vein sinks behind the artery, the latter comes into the contact with the adductor longus and sartorius muscles. Externally it rests against the psoas muscle, which separates it from the crural nerve; but after that muscle has sunk backwards to its insertion, three or four branches of the nerve come into contact with the slieath of the vessels. The anterior surface of the artery in the superior third of the thigh is covered only by the common integuments^ the