120 prevent it. The nature of this accident was first explained by the late celebrated Mr. Hey, of Leeds. In what manner is this partial luxation to be remedied ? 1379. The limb is to be bent as much as possible, that the cartilage may be at liberty to slip into its proper position. After this the limb is to be again extended, that the condyles may fall back upon the cartilage. This is a simple mode of treatment practised by Mr. Hey, and generally succeeds. Var. 3.—Dislocatio capitis fibula. Luxation of the head of the fibula. By what means is the fibula joined to the tibia ? 1380. The head of the fibula is joined to the tibia by the cap- sular, and the greater part of its length by the interosseous liga- ment ; its connexion is also strengthened by the various muscles situated betwixt it and the tibia. What are the signs of a dislocation of the head of the fibula, and lohat treatment would such displacement require ? 1381. When the head of the fibula is forced from its con- nexion into the tibia, the nature of the injury may be disco- vered by the shaft of the bone lying out of its collateral posi- tion with the tibia, and by a difficulty to raise or move the foot outwards. The primary treatment will be to reduce the dis- location, and to confine the bone in situ by wet compress and bandage. Species 2.—Dislocatio genu composita. Compound dislocation of the knee-joint. What are the local symptoms of compound dislocation of the 1382. Dislocation of the tibia in any of the four directions mentioned above, complicated with an external wound open- ing into the joint, through which the bone may or may not protrude. What primary treatment does such a case require ? 1383. Should the wound into the joint be extensive, or the luxation be aggravated by fracture, amputation ought imme- diately to be performed.—/Sir ^. Cooper.—Liston. But "should a case of compound dislocation of the knee occur, in which a very small wound only existed, admitting of ready closure, it would be right to attempt the preservation of the limb."— Sir A. Cooper's Lectures, by Tyrrell.