30 the trapezium by a strong capsular ligament, and the junction is farther strengthened by the muscles of the thumb. The four other bones of the metacarpus are connected by synovial membrane, and by dorsal and palmar ligaments pro- ceeding from the inferior extremity of the digital row, to be attached to the necks of the metacarpus. —Bransby Coopers Treatise on Ligaments. In what manner are the inferior extremities of these bones connected? ^ , , 1134. "The inferior extremities of these bones are con- nected by transverse ligaments, which are divided into two sets of fibres—one superficial, and the other deep 5 the latter are the shorter, and exclusively deserve the name ot mter- transverse, passing from one bone to the other, having their anterior faces crossed with four depressions, which answer to the passage of the tendons of the flexor muscles of the fingers, and to the lumbricales. The posterior surface is connected with the tendons of the interosseous muscles, and with the ligaments connecting the phalanges with the metacarpus; while the superficial fibres pass across all the metacarpal bones, excepting that of the thumb, and may be divided into dorsal and palmar transverse ligaments."—Ibid. State those dislocations of the metacarpal bones that most fre- quently occur, and the mode of their being reduced. 1135. " The luxation of these bones from the carpus is but of rare occurrence, even with respect to the metacarpal bone of the thumb and os trapezium, notwithstanding the extent and variety of motions of which the thumb is capable; but dis- placement does, however, sometimes take place in the meta- carpal bone of the thumb, which is thrown backwards upon the trapezium under its extensors. In this case, the capsular ligament is torn through. The means to be employed for it are merely forcible extension,"—Ibid. Var. 6.—Dislocatio phalangum manus. Dislocation of the phalanges of the hand. Describe the ligamentous union of these bones with the meta- carpus and with each other. 1136. " The round inferior extremity of the metacarpus is admitted into the cavity of the superior extremity of the first phalanx of the five fingers, and their joints are connected by anterior and lateral, which form capsular ligaments, and by a lining of synovial membrane."—Ibid.