24 ar^ry; and I .hould select an able assistant for this pur- and\7r^rLt!lT''^''T '""^i /^o^^rmio^ he most conveniently ana effectually made,^ and by what means ? 1021. Mr Guthrie observes, "as there cannot be a doubt ot tl;e possibjhty of compressing the subclavian artery above the clavicle, without inconvenience to the patient, and with perfect safety, it becomes the most eligible place, as the assistant, who performs this duty, is out of the way of the operator, and has the complete command of his instrument and the artery." The instrument, here alluded to by Mr Cruthrie, IS the handle of the common screw tourniquet padded with lint, to take off the sharpness of the edges - and the pad may be flistened on the handle by the strap being bound over it, as in the mode of packing up the instrument. 1 he pad may be further steadied by carrying the remainder of the strap across the folds and around the screw of the tourniquet, which will make it a very commodious and safe means for compressing the artery, As a general rule, with an instrument of this kind the artery may be compressed above the clavicle, about " midway between the acromion process and sternum; below the clavicle, it should be from a quar- ter to half an inch more outward towards the acromion." Dr. Hennen says, with reference to this question, " The point is incontrovertibly settled; the vessel can be com- pressed, as it runs over the first rib, with the greatest certainty, and by an expert assistant with the utmost ease." Would you not satisfy yourself, that by these means the circu- lation could be controlled, before ijou entrusted the compression to an assistant, however able he may be ? 1022. Certainly; no surgeon ought to commence the ope- ration before he has personally assured himself of this fact. WJien ought the compression to be made ? 1023. " Where the circulation is to be commanded by the pressure from the hand of an assistant, there is not only no necessity for the application of the key, boot-hook, or tourni- quet handle, usually employed, previously to beginning the operation ; but it is actually hurtful. The long-continued pressure is excruciating to the patient, and is often more the subject of his complaint than any other step of the business. It is also fatiguing to the assistant, who, by this means, begins to flag at the moment his strength and activity are most required."—Hennen s Principles. Let the assistant first try his power of compression, before