155 and combated by cold evaporating lotions, and leeches, with spare diet. What treatment will be required in simple fractures of the metatarsal bones and toes ? 1518. The same, for the most part, as was recommended in similar injuries of the metacarpus and fingers. Vide 1159. Spbcies 2.—Fractura composita. Compound fracture. Vau. \ .—Fractura articulationis malleolaris composita. Com- pound fracture of the ankle-joint. What is commonly the result of oblique compound fractures into the ankle-joint, and what treatment do they require ? 1.519. According to the opinion of Sir A. Cooper, " oblique compound fractures into the ankle-joint generally do \vell, if care be taken to produce adhesion of the wound, which is to be effected by applying lint, imbrued in blood, to the lacerated skin, and by leaving it there till it separates spontaneously. The same bandages and splints are required as in simple frac- tures (vide 1514), but the position must be varied according to the situation of the wound." Although an injury to this extent may commonly end ivell, are there not compound fractures of the ankle-joint, which, from their character, would not justify any attempt to preserve the limb? 1520. Yes; even the above case, in very advanced age, would require immediate amputation ; and if, with a compound frac- ture into the joint, there be much comminution of bone, and haemorrhagy from any large vessel, it will be proper to ampu- tate immediately, more especially if the patient be obliged to obtain his bread by his labour; for after recovery, under great comminution, the limb will bear but slight exertion." —Sir A. Cooper's Treatise on Dislocations, ^c. Should compound fracture of the ankle-joint be occasioned by gun-shot, whatxoould be your practice ? 1521. The treatment will depend on the extent of the frac- ture. If the tibia, or if the astragalus^ be in part fractured, cold applications and the strictest antiphlogistic regimen should be enforced, " and amputation only resorted to when it can no longer be avoided."—Guthrie on Gun-shot Wounds. " But if a musket-ball or grape-shot passes fairly through the ankle-joint, and the tibia and astragalus be both frac- tured in the track of the ball, it will be best to amputate the limb. Again, " If the shot should have passed laterally