112 down for tlie purpose, but not made to press upon the surface ol the ?>tum]}."—J did. When amputation is to be performed on either of the lower thirds of the thigh, what mode of operating ought to be preferred? 1348. In these situations the circular incisions are to be practised. By what means ought the circulation to be commanded in the operation ? 1349. It will be best in this operation to control the circu- lation by the tourniquet, especially in private practice, where the surgeon will have time at his command. The pad should be placed directly over the artery, and carefully fixed there, either by the bandage in which it'is contained, or by the strap of the tourniquet, if tlie pad be appended to it. Should the pad be contained in a bandage, independent of the tourniquet, the instrument is to be placed directly over the pad; and when the strap is tightened around the limb, and before he takes up the amputating-knife, he ought to assure himself that the strap and buckle are trustworthy, and that the instrument is free to act.—Guthrie on Gun-shot Wounds. In what manner ought the amputating-knife to be held, in order that the integuments and fascia may be divided by one i?icision ? 1350. This is an important point. The handle of the knife should be held by the thumb and fingers low enough towards its end, that in completing the circle around the limb it may play between the index and thumb. By observing this sim- ple rule, the surgeon can never fail of carrying his first incision around the limb in the most easy and accurate manner; whereas in grasping the handle close to the blade, the knife will hardly have liberty enough to effect it by one incision. In this respect I am bold enough to differ from Mr. Guthrie, and in performing the operation I have always experienced the greatest advantage in following this rule. Describe the operation by circular incisions. 1351. " The patient being placed as before, the assistants are carefully to retract the integuments upwards, and put them on the stretch downwards; by which means their divi- sion is more easily and readily accomplished. The surgeon, standing on the outside, passes his hand under the thigh and round above quite to the outside, where he begins his incision with the heel of the knife, and with a quick steady movement carries it round the thigh, until the circular of the skin, cel- lular membrane, and fascia, is completed. If the fascia should not be completely divided by the first circular incision, it is