17 possibility of moving the shaft of the bone in any direction, and by being" able to feel the fractured end of the humerus, when tilted upwards through the deltoid muscle. fVhat treatment does this case require ? 1001. The dislocation is irremediable. The fracture must be treated by " applying a roller from the elbow to the shoulder-joint, by placing a splint on the inner and the outer side of the arm," (the latter long enough to reach from the external condyle to the acromion,) and by confining these by means of a roller."—Sir Astley Cooper's Treatise. If the luxation be backwards or forwards, a cushion should be placed in the axilla, to throw out the fractured end of the bone ; but if downwards, the cushion will be unnecessary. The arm must be supported in a sling. « Var. 2.—Fractura columnae. humeri. Fracture of the shaft of the humerus. What are the characters of a fracture of the shaft of the humerus ? 1002. This fracture is either oblique or transverse, and there is considerable displacement. " The limb is always shortened to a certain extent, and the natural contour de- stroyed. The arm is useless, and bent towards the trunk, and the muscles are in a state of spasmodic contraction. The nature of the injury is at once most readily recognized. There is unusual and unnatural mobility of the arm, and distinct crepitation at the fractured point."—{Liston's Elements.) And these circumstances are accompanied with bloody swelling, as takes place in most fractures. What are the charactei's of a fracture of the inferior part of the shaft ? 1003. " When the inferior part of the shaft is broken, there is less displacement than when the fracture is towards the middle of the bone. Fracture above the condyles sometimes extends through these ; and the one may be detached from the other either with or without fracture of the shaft. When such an accident is suspected, the position of the condyles in regard to the ends of the bones of the fore-arm should be accurately observed. Flexion and extension of the fore-arm can be readily performed, though with pain; not so, when the bones are luxated. Crepitation is detected along the line of the fracture, during motion of ihe limb, and when the con- c