20 of military surg-ery in wliidi an operation can be performed with more advantage at the instant, or delayed for a few days, with the view of gaining- information, with more pre- judice" It is indispensable, therefore, that tbe statement reqnired should be made with the greatest j)ossible care. First, then, " a wound from a musket-ball, where there is only some23artial injury of the bone, may be left to be dis- posed of by natural process, as these cases frequently do well, and the patient preserves the use of the fore-arm."— Guthrie on Gun-shot Wounds, ^c. page 345. Secondly, " I recommend excision of the head of the humerus only under the following circumstances : where the head of the bone is destroyed by a musket-ball, with one or two small openings, the ball having passed fairly through, or that it remains sticking in the head of the bone : but I con- ceive it essential to the success of the operation that the body of the humerus should not be splintered, or even have one or more fissures extending- in its length."—Guthrie on Gun- shot Wounds. " If the head of the humerus is the only part injured, or if the injury does not spread to any extent along the shaft, it cer- tainly becomes the (hity of the surgeon to attempt to save the limb."—Hen7ien's Principles of Military Surgery. But Dr. Hennen thinks that before we proceed to excise the head of the bone with that view, that the probable state of the shaft ought to be deliberately considered; and that, should there be any doubt of its integrity, it would be right to take into our consideration, whether it would not be most prudent to let the removal of the head of the bone be always a secon- dary operation. Thirdly, " Injuries from musket-balls, penetrating the capsular ligament, attended with fracture and destruction of the head and adjacent parts of the humerus, and wounding the axillary artery, require immediate operation."—GM^/«ne on Gun-shot Wounds. Again, " if the wound and splinters of bone point out the head of the humerus to be totally destroyed, with fracture extending to its body, the operation ouglit to be performed, and the patient's future health preserved, in preference to the chance of an anchylosis taking place at the end of many months, with its destruction."—Ibid. " Extensive injuries of the joints form an urgent class of cases for immediate amputation." " I am well aware," says Dr. Hennen, " that some very favourable joint cases have