no In such a case it wouhl probahly be bettor to secure the vessel m the middle third of the thigh ^ ..nfr ^^Z' ""^J '^^''''''^^ which, though they miaht mt have fractured the bone, require primary a^nputationl ^ bygun-sbot, machinery, or other violent causes, are some- times so severe as to require immediate amputation. 1st. If a cannon-shot strike the back part of the thie-h and carry away the muscular part behind, and with it the great sciatic nerve, amputation is necessary, even if the bone be untouched; for although the wound might in some measure heal, the motion of the leg will be lost, and it would become ;"!!'PPO»"tiibIe burden to the patient."—G^^AWe on Gun- shot Wounds. 2dly. " A cannon-shot destroying the artery and vein on -^Ibid '^^^^^^^"^ injuring the bone, requires amputation." Should the artery and vein be wounded by a musket-ball, or a small canister-shot, without fracture, would you deem amputa- tion necessary ? 1343. When it is sufficiently evident that both vessels are wounded, amputation ought to be performed, or gangrene of the whole limb will soon become apparent. When you know from the hemorrhage that the artery is wounded, but have doubts with regard to the vein being involved in the injury, the artery must be cut down upon and secured at both ends! The vein is now to be examined, and if faund entire, the wound is to be closed in the usual manner; but if not, the limb ought to be amputated. When hemorrhage is pouring from the wound, can you not suggest some method of ascertaining lohether the vein is opened, as well as the artery, without cutting doivn upon the vessels, in order to save the patient this additional j)ain, in case you may deem it necessary to remove the limb ? 1344. If, by the application of the tourniquet, or pressing upon the artery on the pubes, the stream of blood, though not controlled, be changed in colour—that is, from a scarlet to a darker hue, and issue in a steady current instead of a jet, I should fairly conclude that the femoral vein was wounded along with the artery. Wlien amputation of the thigh is necessary in the upper third of its length, what is the best method of performing it ? 1345. Mr. Guthrie recommends the flap-operation, very similar to that performed at the hip-joint; Dr. Hennen, how-