9 example, if a less degree of force be applied than would ZT^ e bone under the pectoral muscle it may be found resting on the outer side of the coracoid process of the ^'^Se' the order of this dislocation, as it relates to the com- ^%^f «xLl~r:xn,a is by far .he „.st common, then that under the pectoral muscle and lastly that upon the dorsum scapula, which very seldom happens. Var. l.—Dislocatio in axillam. Luxation into the arm-pit. By lohat marks can the dislocation doivnwards be discovered ? 978. This can, in most cases, be instantly ascertamed at a single glance, by the change in the position of the axis of the humerus, which now leads to the axilla; by the want of the natural rotundity of the shoulder, occasioning a projection of the acromion, and a flattening of the deltoid muscle; by the patient not being able to raise his arm; but still more cer- tainly by detecting the head of the bone in the axdla upon raising the arm Ironi the side. What muscles mostly oppose the reduction of this kind of dis- location ? 979. The deltoid, supra and infra spinatus. — Vide bir Astley Cooper s Treatise, <SfC. In what direction should the arm be extended for reduction ? 980. At a right angle with the body, or directly hori- zontally rather than obliquely downwards, as in this position of the limb the above muscles will be in a relaxed state. At the same time the elbow is to be slightly bent, in order to relax the biceps. Were you called to a recent luxation of this kind, in a lonely situation, ivhere but little assistance could be pi'ocured, what is the method of reduction that you would first employ ? 981. I should proceed as follows :—" The patient should be placed in the recumbent posture, upon a table or sofa, near to the edge of which he is to be brought. The surgeon then binds a wetted roller round the arm, immediately above the elbow, upon which he ties a handkerchief. Then, with one foot resting upon the floor, he separates the patient's elbow from his side, and places the heel of his other foot in the axilla, receiving the head of the os humeri upon it, whilst he is himself in the half-sitting posture by the patient's side. He then draws the arm, by means of the handkerchief, steadily