114 of IfeLlT wlii; "^'^ f''^ '"'^'y recommended a mode ot opeiating, with a view to prevent protrusion, in preference o that ot cutting away the muscle from the bone. He say" " When you have cut the integuments, and your assistant has retracted them, you place the knife close to the i^ ract- ed integument, and with a sweep carry it down to the bone, and in the entire circle : this makes a uniform surface • but now let the assistant raise the limb up, till the femu? comes into a perpendicular position, and then you find the muscles fully retracted, and a large portion of the bone ex- posed. You now saw the bone horizontally. When you have done, you just see its cut surface, and when the stump is brought down, you see it no longer, and you never ought to see It again ; for if you do, it is a bad operation. When the limb is up, the bone perpendicular, and the saw horizontal, the effect of it will be to have no splinter of hone."—Clmical Lecture on Amputation, in Medical Gazette, Oct. 18, 1834 There certainly appears to be great utility in this method, and It is likely to answer the purpose for which it is recom- mended. In what manner are the vessels to be secured and the stump dressed? 1354. The retractor having been removed, the femoral ar- tery is to be first secured by means of a tenaculum, and a ligature formed of two strong threads. Any other large artery should be secured in the same way,* together with any arterial branch that may be manifest. The tourniquet may now be slackened, that we may perceive such other smaller vessels that may require the ligature, and these will be best secured by Asalini's tenaculum, or one upon that principle. If the vein continue to bleed, it had better be tied with one thread. If the cancelli of the bone should bleed freely, the thumb of the left hand, pressed steadily upon it, whilst the vessels are tying, will in a short time suppress it. Any inequality of bone may now be removed, and one end of each ligature cut off at the knot. Lastly, the stump is to be washed with cold water and dried ; the bandage rolled steadily down the thigh; the mus- cles and integuments brought forward and placed in apposition horizontally across the face of the stump, and retained by ad- * In one instance, after amputation at the middle third of the thig-h, I met with an artery (probably a branch of the profunda) quite as large as the superficial femoral, and lying so close to it, that I included both in one strong- ligature. The case teminated favourably.