85 1252. It might be explained from the almost impossibility to keep the fracture in apjjosition or at rest; from a want of vascularity in the surrounding tissues, especially in the head of the bone, which can only be supplied with arteries through the medium of the ligamentum teres ; and from the interven- tion of increased synovial fluid. To these causes the want of any union at all, or the fibrous texture that commonly unites the fracture, when union takes place, may be fairly attributed. Ought not the patient to be prepared to experience lameness after this kind of injury ? 1253. The surgeon should not forget to do this in justice to his reputation, as shortening of the limb and some degree of lameness invariably result from this accident. WTiat is the treatment of fracture of the neck of the femur ivithin the capsule in persons of very advanced age ? 1254. "In these cases the application of apparatus, with the view of adapting and retaining the parts, is productive of great annoyance, and is apt to produce either ulceration or slough- ing of the integuments at various parts; and confinement to one constrained position for a considerable time has a mis- chievous effect on the general health. Instead, the limb is placed in the easiest posture, either extended and slightly re- tained, or bent over a double-inclined plane formed by pillows, with the knee of the affected side fixed to the opposite; a broad band is j)assed round the trochanters and pelvis, so as to restrain motion without causing inconvenience ; and when pain about tiie thigh is troublesome, fomentation may be used. After some weeks, when the uneasy feelings have subsided, the position is changed, the patient is set up, and encouraged to move about, supporting the weight of the body upon crutches."—Liston's Elements. What treatment is required in cases supposed to be favourable to union ? 1255. "In more favourable subjects," savs Mr. Liston, " whether the fracture is suspected to be without or within the joint, either entirely or partially, the broken surfaces are to be brought in contact, and retained immoveably in apposition for a time sufficient to admit of union. The limb is put up in apparatus not requiring removal, and but little re-adiust- ment."—/^w/. ^ By what means can this treatment be the most effectually car- ried into execution ? 1256. " This can be effected only in the extended position " and by the following simple apparatus "This is a straight