87 bone sustains in consequence of the fracture; much pain is felt at the hip, and on the inner and upper part of the thigh, and the joint loses its usual roundness."—A. Cooper's Treatise on Dislocations, ^c. What are the diagnostic marks of this injury ? 1258. This injury may be distinguished by its being fol- lowed immediately "by ecchymosis, and very soon by inflam- matory swelling and great tenderness, accompanied by irrita- tive fever. As the retraction is very limited, crepitation is discovered by slight motion of the limb, without that exten- sion which is necessary to produce the mark in fracture within the capsule*; and the former accident is always at- tended with much greater severity of pain than the latter.—Ibid. Are there not other considerations that will materially assist the diagnosis ? 1259. Should the accident occur in a young person, or in a person under fifty years of age, (such ages being liable to this kind of fractiu'e) the surgeon will be warranted in the con- clusion that the fracture is either just external to the capsule, or through the major trochanter. Again, should the accident happen to a person above the age of fifty years, our diagnosis may be assisted by the consideration of the degree of violence that has occasioned it. If the cause has been slight, our opinion should lean to fracture Avithin the joint; if violent, then the injury is external to it.—Ibid. Is there any occurrence which might tend to obscure the diag- nosis in extra-capsular fracture ? 1260. It is that in wdiicb the upper fragment is driven a short distance into the cancellated structure of the bone, the ascent of which it not only prevents, but sometimes renders TIT* i° Dublin Medical and Chemical Journal, for November 1834, Mr. Robert Smith, Curator of the Museum of the Richmond Hospital, has published a paper, which was read before the Surgical Society of^Irelaud, disputing the doctrines of Sir A. Cooper on this subject. Mr. Smith asserts that there is less shortening- of the limb in intra-capsular fracture, and greater m the cxtra-capsular. In the former, that the degree of shortening varies trom a quarter of an inch to one inch ; in the latter, from one inch and a half to two inches and a half; and founds this opinion from his own experience and fifteen examples of fracture which occurred in the Richmond Hospital In thirteen of these the degree of shortening was carefully noted, and they were inspected after death. It must be acknowledged there is great diffi- culty ra diagnosticating with any thing like precision in these obscure cases. Sir A. Cooper may be incorrect, yet from the great pains he has taken to distinguish these injuries, and from the mass of respectable evidence he has brought to support his own opinion, I have chiefly selected his autho- rity for my text.