88 the restoration of the limb to its original length by extension a matter of extreme difficulty."—Mr. Smith on Diagnosis of Fractures in the Neck of the Femur;" Dublin Journal. This position of the fracture will obscure the diagnosis, not only by preventing the shortening of the limb, but by proba- bly pre> enting the feeling of crepitation also. What is the usual result of fracture external to the capsule ? 1261. Ossific union, from the reparative powers of the sur- rounding parts J supposing, of course, that proper treatment has been adopted : there will be, however, a shortening of the limb. How would you treat this species of fracture ? 1262. In the same manner as was recommended at 1256, for some kinds of fracture within the capsule, by Mr. Liston. " In the treatment of this injury," says Sir A. Cooper, " the principle is to keep the bones in approximation by pressing the trochanter towards the acetabulum ; and the length of the limb is preserved by applying a roller around the foot of the injured leg, and by binding the feet and ankles firmly toge- ther, so as to prevent their retraction, and thus cause the un- injured side to serve as the splint to that which is fractured, giving it a continued support. A broad leathern belt should also be buckled around the pelvis, including the trochanter n.ajor, to press the fractured portions of the bone firmly toge- ther ; and the best position for the limb is to keep it in a straight line with the body." The following is another treatment which may be adopted. " The patient being placed on a mattress on his back, the thigh is to be brought over a double-inclined plane, composed of three boards : one below, which is to reach from the tube- rosity of the ischium to the patient's heel, and the two others having a joint in the middle, by which the knee may be raised or depressed. A few holes should be made in the board, ad- mitting a peg, which prevents any change in the elevation of the limb but that which the surgeon directs. Over these a pillow must be thrown, to place the patient in as easy a posi- tion as possible. When the limb has been thus extended, a long splint is placed upon the outer side of the thigh, to reach above the trochanter major, and to the upper part of this is fixed a strong leathern strap, Avhich buckles round the pelvis, so as to press one portion of the bone upon the other, and the lower part of the splint is fixed with a strap around the knee, to prevent its position from being altered."—TVeaift^e on Dislocations, 6fC.