7 Genus S.— Vulnusproprium. Wound occurring in this region. To lohat kind of wound is the region of the scapula most subject? T>v rr cc^\^ 968 To sabre-cuts ; and, according to Dr. Hennen, "there are no wounds, if preserved from motion, which appear to unite with greater readiness, and less future inconvenience.' —Principles of Military Surgery. Are there any ivounds of this part which form an exception to such favourable results ? 969. Yes; punctured wounds, opening the supra-scapular arteries, are sometimes the source of fatal hemorrhage. ^ " I have met," says Dr. Heiinen, " with one curious case in a French dragoon, who was wounded, in the action of Morales, by a deep sabre thrust. He was reduced so low by repeated hemorrhage, that when staff-surgeon Dease and myself saw him, all hopes were at an end. Tlie wound had been secured by the twisted suture and by compress, which had partially stopped the hemorrhage. On examination after death, the supra-scapular artery was found to be punctured, and an aneurismal tumour, as large as an egg, was formed at the site of the wound."—Principles of Military Surgery. Can you account for such hemorrhages from the vascularity of the muscles of the scapula ? 970. The muscles of the scapulary fossa are plentifully nourished by blood-vessels of considerable size. The supra- spinatus is supplied by the ramus supra-scapularius, which is given off from the transversalis humeri, a branch of the thy- roidea inferior, and the infra-spinatus by the arteria dorsalis scapulffi inferior, a branch of the subscapularius : both these arteries, the ramus supra-scapularius and dorsalis scapulae inferior, freely communicate beneath the acromion, which, together with the vascularity of the parts, will sufficiently account for profuse hemorrhage following deep incised or punctured wounds over the scapula. Should you fail to check such hemorrhage by compress and bandage, lohat is the next step you loould take ? 971. The best treatment would be to lay open the wound freely, and secure the vessels that are pouring out their blood by ligature. Were you to fail in checking the bleeding by this treatment, and the life of the patient were in imminent danger from, loss of blood, ivhat other t7-eatment could you adopt as a dernier resort ? 972. If pressure on the axillary artery stop the bleeding,