51 the muscles from them, until it is obvious they will meet over them when sawed. The Interosseal ligament is next to be divided with the catlin, and the retractor passed between the bones, by which the integuments and muscles are to be well kept back, and the bones then saM^ed through at once, and the stump dressed as usual."—Ibid. Might not the flap operation be adopted at this point also ? 1116. Yes. " The operation may be performed nearly after the manner in which it was done lower down, save that the catlin is not used to make the semicircular flaps, but the lesser amputating knife, cutting obliquely from without inwards, until the flaps should be suflftciently large to meet with a thick cushion over the ends of the bones, when sawed off"; this method also makes a good stump, but I think the other pre- ferable for young operators, as it will better cover any defects, or avoid the appearance of irregularity on the face of the stump."—Ibid. Order 4.— Carpo-digitalia. Emergencies occurring to the. wrist and fingers, &c. Genus 1.—Dislocatio. Dislocation. Species 1.—Dislocatio simplex. Simple luxation. What bones enter into the formation of the ivrist-joint ? 1117. " The convex surfaces of the os scaphoides and the lunare are received into the cavity formed at the inferior ex- tremity of the radius, while the cuneiform bone is opposed to the under surface of the inter-articular cartilage ; all of which are covered by a synovial membrane."—B. Cooper on the Ligaments. Does the ulna contribute to the formation of the wrist-joint? 1118. The ulna is excluded from the general cavity of the capsular ligament; but it is connected to the internal part of the lower head of the radius by a joint, to allow of the rotatory motion of the latter bone. Describe the ligaments which connect the radius and ulna to the carpal bones, and to each other. 1119. " The capsular ligament passes from the edge of the articular cavity of the radius, and from the inter-articular cartilage of the ulna, to the three first bones of the carpus, surrounding a large portion of the scaphoid and lunar bones^