63 inff lotions should be applied, and the hmh should not be disturbed, unless the patient has symptoms of a suppurative process, when a small opening should be made in the bandage to allow of the escape of pus; but still the bandages should be suffered to remain. The patient should be bled from the arm, if the inflammation and constitutional irritation be con- siderable ; and under these circumstances leeches should be occasionally applied. but all active purging avoided."-^er ^. Cooper s Treatise, What do you mean to^ imply by the expression, ' unless the joint be fatally injured?" 1165. I allude to such injuries as require primary ampu- tation. Describe those injuries that require the operation ? 1166. First. " If the joint of the carpus be opened, and the radius, the scaphoides,and lunare, also destroyed,the operation is generally requisite."—Guthrie onGun-shot Wounds, ^c. Secondly. " If the ulna and radius be both injured in the same manner, amputation is necessary as a primary opera- tion."—Ibid. Thirdly. Primary amputation will be demanded, where the limb has been torn off at this point by a cannon-shot, ma- chinery, &c. Var. 2.—Fractura ossium carpi composita. Compound frac- ture of the carpal bones. What are the principal causes of compound fractures of these bones ? 1167. The bursting of gun-barrels, the force of machinery, the crushing of heavy carriage-wheels, and gun-shot, are amongst the chief causes of this injury. What would be your treatment of such a case ? 1168. It is scarcely possible to lay down any thing like pre- cise rules for the guidance of the surgeon, whose judgment must ever influence him, according to the peculiar circum- stances of the case. It may be, however, stated, that if the fracture be not comminuted, nor involving many of the bones, and if the tendons be for the most part whole, the preserva- tion of the limb may be justifiably attempted, and treated according to the rule laid down at 1164. Suppose a musket-shot had wounded the metacarpal range of these bones, what vjould be your conduct ? 1169. " Wounds by musket-shot of the lower range of