138 femoris, and the position of the patient and assistants being arranged, " the circular incision of the integuments is to be made in the usual manner, and the skin turned back; the muscles on the under part and outside are then to be divided and cleared from the bones, which are to be sawn off, the retractor having been used, to prevent injury to the muscles. The skin over the fibula is now to be separated from it, and the small amputating-knife, on account of its strength, and the ease with which it is managed, ap- plied close to the upper edge of the head of the fibula, where, by a little inclined motion of the hand, it may be easily cut from its articulation with the tibia. The large artery or arteries will be found in the ham, retracted behind the head of the bone, from whence they must be pulled out and cleanly se- cured, as well as any muscular branches that may bleed,"— Ibid. The wound is to be closed and bandaged in the man- ner recommended at 1446. Under what circumstances will it be desirable to perform the flap operation loio down in the leg ? 1450. When the surgeon has the choice of selecting his point for the removal of the leg, this mode of amputating is recommended " with a view of preserving a long stump, to which an artificial foot might be attached, and the deformity and inconvenience caused by the operation obviated as much as possible by art."— Ibid. The surgeon should therefore be influenced in his decision by the wishes and circumstances of the patient. In what manner ought the flap operation to be performed? 1451, In the first place the length of the leg must be mea- sured from the highest part of the tibia, to the middle of the inferior protuberance of the fibula, and a mark made upon the leg at the middle part of this line, to shew where the bones are to be sawed. A second mark is to be made an inch lower down on the tibia, as a guide for the transverse semicircular incision of the integuments on the anterior part of the leg; and a third mark should be made on the posterior part of the leg, to show the lowest point of the flap incision. These measurements having been made, the surgeon is to conimence by forming the flap with a small amputatmg- knife ; and in doing this, says Mr. Guthrie, the knife is to cut obliquely inwards and upwards, taking care to have it rather too long than too short. The flap being formed its angles are to be joined by the semicircular incision, which miTst be carried across the front of the leg in the line of the