131 If a musket-ball pass through the upper end of he tibia below the tubercle, and fracture the articulation of the head of the fibula, alloiving the bones to grate immediately below the knee, what ought to be the primary treatment ? 1428. This is a very dangerous injury, and m elderly men, who have drank hard, or have been free livers, Nvith bad con- stitutions, or who have been many years m tropical climates, Mr. Guthrie recommends immediate amputation, lest death may ensue from irritation ; but in young and healthy persons, he authorizes an attempt to save the limb by the strictest anti- phlogistic regimen, deferring the amputation till such a mode of treatment shall prove unavailing.—Ibid. State those cases of compound fracture of the shaft of the bones that absolutely require immediate amputation. 1429. 1st. If both bones be comminuted, with extensive contusion and laceration of the soft parts, from whatsoever cause the accident shall have proceeded, immediate amputa- tion will be necessary. 2dly. When the leg has been carried away by a cannon- shot, immediate amputation will be of course required. 3dly. " When both bones are seriously fractured with a wounded posterior tibial artery, that cannot be secured on moderate search, or the limb be injected with blood, amputa- tion is the best remedy to prevent further -—Gnthrie on Gun-shot Wounds. 4thly. "If the tibia and fibula be broken in two places by two distinct musket-balls, which have passed through the leg, it will, I believe, be better to amputate; for although it might be saved (and I have saved limbs under an injury of this kind), it would be a useless, inconvenient member, which the pa- tient, after some months of pain and inconvenience, would most readily part with."—Ibid. 5thly. If a piece of shell strike, and extensively lacerate, the calf of the leg, at the same time fracturing the tibia, im- mediate amputation is required.—Ibid. Species 3.—Vulnus proprium tibiale. Wound occurring to the leg. JVhat are the principal arteries of the leg ? 1430. The posterior tibial, the anterior tibial, and the pero- neal arteries. Describe the course of the posterior tibial artery. 1431. This vessel may be regarded as the continuation of