135 1403 In this kind of fracture there will not be much dis-- olacentn Indeed, attentive manipulation is often requn-ed ro de'^ct h^ - r^ToHerone perceived only when the lower and upper portions of the bone are pi-Issed on alternately, or during rotation of the foot -m^?. mat are the appearmces when both bones are fractured at the same point ? ^ j f^,.rv^;f,r ^nA tnmpfaf- 1404 There will be generally great deformity and tumetac tion The toe will be in the'majority of cases turned out- wards, and when the soft parts a- contused or acera^^^^^^ although the integuments be entire, the lower end ot the tiac tured bone will hang quite Ibid. r, i j What is the most frequent cause of fracture of the fibula, ana at what part of the bone does fracture most commonly occurj ^ 1406. The fibula is generally fractured by the ankle being pressed forcibly inwards and the foot outwards, by which the ankle is partially dislocated inwards, and the fibula, almost always, broken about two or three inches above the external malleolus. This is the most frequent fracture to wj,ich the fibula is liable, and constitutes what is commonly called Fott s fracture." ^ ,. /. ^ o What are the characteristic marks of this fracture ^ 1406. The peculiar appearance of the limb, occasioned by the projection of the internal malleolus, and the indentaton above the outer ankle,—the first, marking the partial disloca-^ tion of the lower end of the tibia, and the second, the point of fracture of the fibula, whose broken ends are bent inwards. Is it not important that due examination of the injurij should take place as soon as possible after its occurrence, with a view to detect its real nature ? 1407. This is very important; otherwise an injury, which at first may have been easily and accurately detected, will be so masked by tumefaction and inflammation as to render the discovery much more difficult, especially if one of the bones only be fractured. What would be your treatment of a fracture at the upper end of the shaft of the tibia ? 1408. Fracture of the upper part of the tibia, below its tu- bercle, should be placed in the straight position, to prevent projection of the upper portion by the action of the rectus femoris muscle. Mr. Liston advises that a hollowed splint of wood, extending from the middle of the thigh to near the heel, be applied behind, whilst one of pasteboard is placed on each side, and that all be secured by bandaging, the foot and lower