4 of the parts; the movements of the limb are limited and Dain- f\i\."—Liston's Elements of Surgery. WJiat is the treatment of this kind of injury ? 954*. "The parts may be brought into their original posi- tion by pressing the angle of the scapula towards the ribs, whilst the arm is much raised; and the bone is afterwards confined in its proper ])lace, by a broad bandage passed tightly round the chest.'—//^ec?. Gknus 2.—Fractura. Fracture. Species 1—Fractura clavicuke. Fracture of the clavicle. At ivhat part of the bone, and in what direction, do fractures of the clavicle usually take place ? 955. " It generally gives way about the middle. Tlie fracture, when occasioned by force applied to the acromial extremity, is usually oblique ; transverse when the force is applied to the shaft of the hone"—Ibid. Does this kind of fracture occasion much deformity at the time of its occurrence ? 956. "The displacement is in most cases great; but when the fracture is at the bend near the scapular extremity—a not very uncommon accident, disjunction of the fractured extre- mities is prevented by the attachments of the conoid and trapezoid ligaments. In ordinary cases, that fractured extre- mity projects which is attached to the sternum, whilst the scapular portion is depressed and carried forwards. In short, the scapular portion is displaced, the sternal is nearly m situ, though, from the depression of the former, the prominence of the latter appears to be the displacement. The arm falls forwards and downwards."— Is a fracture of the clavicle readily ascertained ? 957. Yes : by the deformity, by the local enlargement, by the shoulder being unnaturally approximated to the chest and depressed, by the motions of the arm being impaired, and by ^^Thl^before-mentioned fracture at the scapular end might not be so readily detected; in this our diagnosis will depend on crepitation, and on the motions of the extremity being impaired. 7 7 • 7 o What is the treatment of a fractured clavicU? 958 Having placed the bones in apposition a pad, hrm th^ugii of sofr material and large enough to fill the arm-pit \