58 Var. 3.~Dislocatio ossium metacarpi composita. Compound dislocation of the metacarpal bones. I^at is the primary treatment of this injury ? 1140. " These bones," says Sir A. Cooper, « are so firmlv articulated w th the bones of the carpus, that I have neve^ seen them dislocated but by the bursting of a gun, or by Ihe passage of heavy laden carriages over the hand : and in each of these cases there is generally so much injury produced, as to render amputation necessary. In the former of these acci- dents a bone, and sometimes two, are capable of being re- moved; and if It be necessary to amputate the middle and ring finger, the fore and little finger may be brought so nicely together, and secured in such exact adhesion, as to produce little deformity. ^ Should you be called to a compound dislocation of the thumb where the metacarpal bone was driven from its connexion with the trapezium, the whole mass of muscles connecting the thumb with the hand torn through, but the flexor longus pollicis and the ex- tensor longus pollicis remained entire, would you be justified in removing the thumb ? TiK^^^' ^ ^^^^ '^^^ occurred to Mr. G. Cooper and Mr. Brodie, m which preservation of the thumb was at- tempted and saved; it appears to me, however, that there was considerable hazard in the attempt, from tetanus which IS very apt to follow such an injury. Had the thumb been removed, the conduct of the surgeon would have been justified by the character of the accident. The integrity of the long extensor and flexor was the only ground on which preservation could be contemplated; and the end justified the attempt. If it be necessary from this kind of injury to remove the meta- carpal bone of the thumb, and the articulating surface of the trapezium should so jyroject as to prevent the integuments being drawn over it, what treatment would be required ? 1147. The projecting surface of the trapezium ought to be sawn ofl", and the integuments brought together over the remaining part of that bone; or should this not be advisable from the state of the integuments, a poultice may be laid over the wound, tluit it may heal by granulation.—A, Cooper^s Treatise,