68 formation of lateral flaps : the integuments in the track of the longitudinal wound are then dissected backwards, so as to ex- pose the bone completely, and the bistoury is passed round the bone throughout its whole extent, the edge being kept close to it, in order that the soft parts may be separated, and that without any unnecessary w'nhh of wound. Then the bone is clipped at the upper point with the cutting pliers; or the section of the bone may be performed before separation of the soft parts from its under surface, as by raising the cut end, this part of the operation may be facilitated."—Liston's Elements, In what manner ought amputation of the metacarpal bones of the middle and ring fingers to be performed at the carpal articu- lation ? 1188. " If the articulating heads must come out, a strong but thin scalpel is to be used, and pushed in between the bones, the ligaments being cut clean above, below, and at the sides : care should be taken, in the efforts to get out the heads of these bones, not to dislocate the other fingers, or to injure them as little as possible; and the cavity of the joint of the carpus should be covered by a flap or flaps, if they can be ob- tained."—Guthrie on Gun-shot Wounds. If along with the base of the metacarpal bones some of the second row of the carpal bones should be destroyed, and the in- jury be such as in your opinion to require amputation, might not the hand be removed at the wrist-joint ? 1189. Yes ; and in the following manner:—The tourniquet having been applied on the upper arm, and " the |)atient being seated in a chair, the surgeon first makes a circular in- cision with a catlin through the integuments, just over the bases of the metacarpal bones, which should include more of the integument upon the back of the hand than towards the palm ; he then dissects the skin back as far as the styloid pro- cess of the radius : the integument is held back by an assis- tant, whilst the surgeon takes hold of the hand he is about to remove; and feeling for the extremity of the styloid process of the radius, he passes the catlin into the joint between the radius and scaphoid bone, by dividing the external lateral ligament; and he completes the amputation by carrying the knife through to the inner side of the carpal joint. It will be necessary, before dressing the stump, to secure the ulnar and radial arteries by ligatures."—^ir A. Cooper's Lectures, by Tyrrell. Describe the mode of amputating the thumb at the carpal joint.