140 tnuscles, that pass over it, especially by those of the pcronei and that ot the extensor of the toes. By ivhat^ ligaments is the ankle-joint connected ? 14r>5. This joint is connected first by a capsular ligament; secondly, by the internal lateral or deltoid ligament, the apex of which is attached to the internal malleolus; " it then passes downwards, becoming broader as it descends, and is inserted into the inner side of the astragalus and os calcis 3dly. by an anterior ligament, which passes from the fore part of the tibia to the anterior surface of the astragalus; 4thly, by the perpendicular ligament of the fibula, passing from the inferior extremity of the fibula downwards, to be inserted into the upper part of the os calcis; 5thly, by the anterior liga- ment of the fibula, passing from the anterior part of the mal- leolus externus, downwards and inwards, to the fore part of the astragulus; and 6thly, by the posterior ligament of the fibula, passing from the back part of the malleolus externus to the posterior part of the astragalus.—VideBransby Cooper's Treatise on the Ligaments. It is further strengthened by tendons : by the tendo achillis, tibialis posticus, long flexors of the toes, and peronei, pos- teriorly j and by the tibialis anticus, extensor pollicis pedis, and extensor longus digitorum pedis, anteriorly. What bones constitute the tarsus ? 1456. The astragalus, upon which the tibia and fibula rest, the OS calcis which supports the astragalus, the cuboides, which is placed anteriorly to the os calcis, the os naviculare, placed before the astragalus, and the three cuneiform bones, which are situated anteriorly to the naviculare. The anterior surfaces of the cuboides and three cuneiform bones are arti- culated with the metacarpus. Sitate the ligaments which maintain the astragalus in its arti- culation with the OS calcis. 1457- These bones are held together by an interosseous ligament, connecting them generally; by a posterior ligament, arising from the back part of the astragalus, and passing ob- liquely inwards to the corresponding part of the os calcis ; and by an external ligament, passing from the external face of the astragalus to the outer surface of the os calcis.—Ibid. What ligaments connect the os calcis ivith the naviculare ? 1458. These bones are not articulated, but they are held to- gether by an inferior and an external ligament: the former is remarkably strong, and extends from the smaller tuberosity of