6^2 mat treatment is required, ivhere theTiead of a metacarpal bone IS broken off, and displaced? 1160. " In the treatment of tliis case, a large ball is to be placed m the hand, grasped by it, and the hand bound over It by a roller; and thus the depressed extremity of the bone is raised to its natural situation."—A. Cooper's Treatise. Var. 4.—Fractura phalangum manus. Fracture of the pha- langes of the hand. What have you to say on the character and treatment of sim- ple fracture of the phalanges ? 1161. Simple fractures of the phalanges are at once recog- nised by deformity, and easily treated. The fracture having been reduced, the bones are to be kept in their proper posi- tion by small splints of pasteboard, and a narrow calico roller. Species 2.—Fractura composita. Compound fracture. Var. 1.—Fractura articulationis carpi composita. Compound fracture of the bones of the carpal articulation. What is signified by a compound fracture of the carpal Joint ? 1162. Fracture of the bones, complicated with an external wound, penetrating the capsular ligament. What is the treatment of this injury ? 11G3. The primary treatment must depend on circum- stances. If the joint be not fatally injured, and there be dis- placement of the broken bones, such displacement must be reduced without delay, the %vound accurately closed, covered with lint soaked in the patient's blood, and the parts kept in proper position by adhesive plaister, wet compresses, and a bandage lightly applied. The fore-arm is then to be laid on a long splint, and the whole supported by a sling. What ivould be your conduct, if the lower extremity of the radius were comminuted, and the ulna dislocated, and thrust through the skin ? 1164. The ulna ought to be reduced; and if any loose pieces of bone can be felt at the extremity of the radius, the wound should be enlarged for their removal; and instead of fomentations and poultices, a quantity of lint dipped in the patient's blood should be applied round the wrist, lightly bound with a roller. The arm should be supported upon a splint, so as to be kept perfectly free from motion; evaporat-