107 veins, and by a quantity of cellular tissue, in which all these vessels lie embedded."—Ibid. At what situations may the femoral artery be tied? 1333. " The femoral artery may be tied on the superior or middle third of the thigh; the former situation," says Dr. Quain, is now universally preferred, because the operation in the latter is considerably more difficult of execution, with- out securing any equivalent advantage."—Ibid. Describe the mode of operating in the superior third of the thigh. 1334. "The limb being placed io the position pointed out at the commencement of these remarks, (1328), an incision is made through the integuments, beginning two inches below the midfUe point of Poupart's ligament, and carried perpendi- cularly downwards for three inches, or a little more, in a mus- cular fat subject. The fascia lata being exposed, a small part of it should be pinched up Avith the forceps, and cut across so as to form a small opening, into which a director is to be passed, in order that the fascia may be safely divided upon it. - The sheath of the vessels is thus brought into view ;^ a small part of which should be raised by the forceps and divided, the knife being held in the horizontal position. The vein in this situation will be found behind, and a little to the inner side of the artery ; on which account, in carrying the needle round the latter, its point is to be directed from within outwards, and cautiously insinuated between them, its surface being held close to the artery. Some difficulty is generally experienced in effecting this step of the operation. The point of the needle is said to be hitched on " some tough cellular membrane," which is pushed onwards, and requires to be divided before the needle can be fairly protruded. This resistance is owing to the sheath of the vessels, now loose after its division, and readily caught into a fold by the point of the instrument."— Ibid. At what j)art of the anterior and internal surface of the thigh would you make your incision for taking up the femoral artery in the middle third of the thigh ? 1335. The surgeon is to explore with his fore-finger the course of the artery from the crural arch downwards, and when he comes to the place where the vibration of the vessel begins to be less distinctly felt, this i)oint is to be fixed upon for the lower end of the external incision. The angle of the wound will full nearly on the inner edge of the sartorius, just where this muscle crosses the track of the femoral arten', and at the