119 1375 In this case there will be « a projection of the con- dyles of the os femoris anteriorly, a depression of the ligamen- tum patell83, the head of the tibia is seated behind the condy^s, and "he limb is shortened, the leg being bent forwards. - ^^Mr Professor Cooper, however, doubts the accuracy of this statement, as it respects the position of the leg, con^ it to be a mistake, especially as Boyer declares « ^at in the dislocation of the head of the tibia backwards, the leg is bent to a very acute angle, and cannot be extended again. —JJic- tionartj of Practical Surgery. . . ^ ^ ^• When this kind of dislocation is complete, what extent of in- jury takes place in the soft parts ? 1376. Such a degree of displacement would cause lacera- tion of the popliteus muscle, the ligamentum Winslowi, capsu- lar and crucial ligaments, and in all probability rupture of th<? ligamentum patellae or the tendon of the rectus femons. In what manner are these dislocations, fonvards and back- wards, to be reduced ? j j 1377. The dislocation of the tibia forwards is easily reduced by extending the thigh from above the knee, and by drawing the leg from the thigh, inclining the tibia a little downwards." —Sir A. Cooper's Lectures, by Tyrrell. The complete dislocation backwards may be reduced in the manner practised by Dr. Walsham, in a case of this kind, where the tendon of the rectus femoris was ruptured. It was effected as follows:—" Two men extended upwards, one from the groin, another from the axilla, whilst two others extended the leg from a little above the ankle in the opposite direction; and they gradually increased the force of their extension, till the bone was reduced. At the time of extension, Dr. Walsham directed the head of the bone to its natural situation. A roller was afterwards placed over the knee, and the limb was laid upon a pillow, and an evaporating lotion was constantly applied."— Ibid. Might not the femur be sometimes partially dislocated from the semilunar cartilages, and from ivhat cause ? 1378. Such a dislocation might, and does occur, to persons in whom the ligaments of the semilunar cartilages are in a re- laxed state, so as to allow the condyles to push the cartilages from their situation, and to come in contact with the head of the tibia. Under such circumstances, when an attempt is made to extend the limb, the edges of the semilunar cartilages