t 97 Wliat parts are divided in amputation at the hip-joint ? 1298. The integuments, cellular and adipose membrane, vaginal fescia, twenty-one muscles, the capsular and round ligaments, besides the blood-vessels and nerves. Wliat are the more superficial muscles, and ivhat are those more immediately surrounding the Joint, ivhich are cut through ? 1299. The more superficial are, the tensor vaginas femons, the sartorius, the rectus femoris, the gracilis, semi-tendinosus, semi-membranosus, triceps adductor femoris, long head of the biceps, and glutseus maximus—in all ten. Those surrounding the joint are, the glutaeus niedius and minimus, iliacus in- ternus, psoas, pectinaeus, obturator externus, quadratus femo- ris, obturator internus, gemini and pyriformis—in all eleven, and the whole twenty-one. " The knowledge of the inser- tions of these muscles will enable the surgeon to understand and obviate any difficulty that may arise in dislocating the head of the femur."—Guthrie on Gun-shot Wounds. What are the arteries which are divided in this opei'ation ? 1300. The femoral, the obturator, the ischiatic, and gluteeal arteries. State the relative position of the femoral artery at the upper part of the thigh. 1301. " At its first exit, it is situated superficially over the ball of the os femoris, having the inner edge of the common end of the psoas, and iliacus internus, between it and the joint. Further down, it is lodged deep in a hollow at the upper and inner part of the thigh, with the rectus and sarto- rius upon the outer, and the adductor femoris upon the inner side of it." As it issues from under the ligament, it has the anterior crural nerve on the outside, and the femoral vein on the inside. Can this artery be compressed prior to or during the operation ? 1302. " It may be compressed with certainty where it passes over the brim of the pelvis."—Guthrie on Gun-shot Wounds. Describe the course of the obturator artery after it has per- forated the obturator ligament. 1303. The obturator artery, after perforating the ligament, divides into branches, one set of which are dispersed upon the parts above the hip-joint, while another belong to the obtu- rator externus, and to the muscles which are situated at the uppc-r and inner part of the thigh. This artery is not com- pressible previously to the operation; but it is not of great size, H