J 06 superficial fascia, the inguitial gUmh, and the fascia lata, so that It IS comparalively superficial, and may be easily coui- pressed against the acetabulum and head of the femur In the middle third of the thigh, the vessel is more deeply seated as, in addition to the parts already mentioned, it is covered by tiie sartorius muscle, beneath which may be observed a fascia composed of oblique fibres, passing from'the adductor muscles to the vastus internus. This is thin superiorly, beginning where the sartorius overlaps the vessels, but gradually becomes dense and firm as it approaches the point at which the vessel passes through the opening in the adductor magmis."—Ibid. What is the relative situation of the femoral vein to the artery ? 1330. "As the vein descends, it gradually sinks backwards, coiling round the artery, so that on reaching the popliteal space it is situated to the outer side and behind that vessel." —Ibid. State therelativeposition of the cruralnerveto the femoral artery. 1331. The crural nerve, at its exit from the abdomen, lies about three-quarters of an inch to the outside of the artery, being separated from it by the breadth of the psoas muscle ; but when the muscle sinks backwards towards the trochanter minor, two or three branches of the nerve incline towards the artery, and accompany its sheath for some way ; of these, the largest, which from its ultimate distribution is called nervus saphenus, pierces the sheath, and lies on the superior and ex- ternal side of the artery, during the middle part of its course, whilst the vein is situated posteriorly and internally for the same extent. This nerve does not accompany the artery and vein, as they pass backwards through the adductor magnus ; it continues directly downwards to the inner condyle of the femur, and may be found between the tendons of the gracilis and sartorius muscles."—Ibid. Describe briefly the situation and primary course of the pro- funda artery. 1332. " The profunda arises from the external and posterior surface of the femoral artery, usually from an inch and a half to two inches below Poupart's ligament. It at first inclines outwards in front of the iliacus muscle, but soon changes its direction, running downward and backwards behind the femoral artery."—Ibid. The trunk of the profunda in this course lies at first on the psoas and iliacus muscles after their junction, then on the pectineus and adductor brevis, and finally on the adductor magnus. In the first part of its course, it is separated from the femoral artery by the femoral and profunda