83 1242. No. " Inversion not unfrequently happens in this form of fracture, although the opposite state is that which, from a consideration of the muscles involved, is d priori to be expected."—Liston's Elements. Can you explain the reason of the foot being sometimes in- verted ? 1243. In fracture" says Mr. Liston, "the muscles do not act as in a sound limb; and when the limb is once placed, the patient will not, by his own efforts, alter the position."— Ihid. Sir A. Cooper explains the inversion in the following man- ner:—" Several hours must elapse before this eversion as- sumes its most decisive character, as the muscles require some time to assume a determined contraction."—Treatise on Dislocations, ^c. Has not this occasional inversion of the foot sometimes misled the surgeon to consider the case a dislocation upwards ? 1244. Mr. Liston says that "the inversion of the limb pre- sents somewhat the appearance arising from the most common luxation;" and Sir A. Cooper states, "The surgeon having been called soon after the accident has happened, before the muscles had acquired that state of contraction to which they are liable, has been led (o mistake the nature of the injury, because the foot is not so decidedly everted as it after- wards becomes; and, for this reason, patients, even in hospital practice, have been exposed to useless and painful extensions." What ivould be your diagnosis on this point ? 1245. The case of fracture " possesses greater mobility, and has not the want of prominence occasioned by displacement ot the articulating extremity of the bone. The facility of lengthenmg the member, and the crepitation felt on a proper and more attentive manipulation, will remove all doubt."— Liston s Elements. fracture? '''''^^^^ ^"""^ diagnostic of the ^'^^ sometimes help the surgeon in his diag- nosis. The pam is felt in this accident in the upper a?d mner part of the thigh, opposite to the insertion of the iliacus and psoas muscles into the trochanter minor, or sometimes just below the point."—^Sir A. Cooper's Treatise, Sec. 'On examining the injured hip, motion to any extent can be eftected, though with excruciating suffering to the patient " —Liston s Elements.