61 by the upper end of the fracture beuig s^'-^^'^t?,^ .^^«™, f lower, by the action of the pronator quadra us. But the s i- geon should remember, that an ermr of th.s sor cannot bu fead to the mcapacity of the hand of his patient, and to h.s own disgrace. Vak. 2.-Fractura ossium carpi. Fracture of the bones of the wrist. Are not these bones sometimes subject to simple fracture ? 1155 This is an injury of rare occurrence, and is generally occasioned by the carpus being jammed by heavy bodies, or crushed by a wheel. It may be discovered by crepitation, produced by manipulating the bones. What mode of treatment does such an injury require ? 1156. Should there be any displacement, it should be im- mediatelv reduced; local bleeding should be employed and repeated^ as often as tumefaction and inflammation may re- quire it. The wrist is to be held together by wet compresses and bandage lightly applied, and the whole arm supported by a long splint placed in a sling. Var. 3.—Fractura ossium metacarpi. Fracture of the meta- carpal bones. By ivhat method could you discover fractures of the meta- carpus ? 1157. " On laying hold of the distal end of the bone sus- pected to have given way, placing the fingers over the shaft, and attempting slight motion, distinct crepitation is per- ceived."—Listons Elements. What appearances are produced, when the lower or digital head of a metacarpal boiie is broken off; for example, when {as it sometimes happens) this part of the metacarpal bone of the lit- tle finger is broken off by a pugilistic fight ? 1158. Such an injury would give the " appearance of dis- location of the finger, as the head of the bone sinks towards the palm of the hand."—Sir A. Cooper's Treatise. How ought the metacarpal fracture to be treated? 1159. " For the cure, motion of the parts must be prevented for a sufficient time, and inflammation warded ofi', when threatened ; there is little or no displacement (except in the latter case), and, consequently, retentive apparatus can be almost wholly dispensed with."—Liston's Elements.