79 of the thigh, and fixed m a staple a little before the line of the body. The pulleys are fixed above, the knee, as in the dislocation upwards (1218), and then the extension is to be made in a line behind the axis of the body, the thigh-bone being drawn backwards. After this extension has been tor some time continued, a napkin is placed under the upper part of the thigh, and an assistant, pressing with one hand on the pelvis, lifts the head of the bone, by means of the napkin, over the pubes and edge of the acetabulum."—J6ic?. Var. A.—Dislocatio in foramen ovale. Dislocation into the foramen ovale. State the anatomy of the thijroid foramen ? 1230. The thyroid foramen is formed by the ischium and pubes. It is situated below the acetabulum, and is somewhat near the axis of the body. It is filled by a ligament, which proceeds from the edges of the foramen, and has an opening in its upper and anterior part, to permit the passage of the obturator vessels and nerve. It is covered on its external and internal surface by the obturator externus and internus mus- cles.—Sir A. Cooper's Treatise, ^c. State the lacerations ivhich are caused by the head of the bone being thrust from the cotyloid cavity in this accident, and the precise situation in which the dislocated bone is found. 1231. " The ligamentum teres, and the lower part of the capsular ligament, are torn through; and the head of the bone becomes situated in the posterior and inner part of the thigh upon the obturator externus muscle."—Ibid, Describe the appearances of this accident. 1232. " The limb is in this case two inches longer than the other. The head of the bone can be felt by pressure of the hand upon the inner and upper part of the thigh towards the perineum, but only in very tliin persons. The trochanter ma- jor is less prominent than on the opposite side. The body is bent forwards by the tension of the psoas and iliacus internus muscles. The knee is considerably advanced : if the body be erect, it is widely separated from the other, and cannot be brought, without great difficulty, near the axis of the body to touch the other knee, in consequence of the extension of the glutsei and pyriformis muscles. The foot, though widely se- parated from the other, is generally neither turned outwards nor inwards, although I have seen it varying a little in this