60 muscle which draws it amongst the flexor tendons, where it can be (hstmctly felt.-Sir A. Cooper's Treatise, Sec Meiri/''"^'^' ''^^^^^'^^^^^^^^^^ «ccowpamet? by dislocations of 1152. Fractures of the lower end of the radius are not un- trequently accompanied by such: for example, simple frac- tui^e ot the lower end of the radius may be associated with dislocation of the lower end of the ulna, forwards or back- wards; and in either of these cases the deformity will of course, be increased. ^ ' Wliat is the treatment of simple fracture of the lower end of the radius, as described at \ \b\ ? 1153. Mr. Cline's practice was as follows: " When frac- ture of the radius happens just above the wrist-joint, you must be very careful in your treatment of it, to prevent the injury from leading to the permanent loss of the use of the fingers ; for so soon as the injury has happened, the pronator quadratus muscle draws the fractured end of the bone obliquely across the fore arm, amidst the flexor tendons: your object, therefore, in the treatment of this accident, is to prevent the action of the pronator from producing that effect; and the mode of treatment which you are to adopt is, to make the hand by its weight to oppose the action of that muscle. For this purpose, when the bone has been placed in its right po- sition, by drawing the hand in a line with the fore arm, apply a roller round the fore-arm to the wrist; then a splint upon the fore and back part of the arm, to reach to the palm and back of the hand, so as to preserve it in a half supine posi- tion; and confine the splints, by means of a roller, which should reach only to the wrist. Thus the hand, being allowed to hang between the ends of the splints, draws the end of the radius, so as to maintain a constant extension upon it, op- posing the action of the pronator quadratus muscle, and keeping the broken ends of the bone constantly in their place." Might not this kind of injury be sometimes mistaken for a sprain of the wrist ? 1154. Simple fi-actures of the end of the radius, unaccom- panied M'ith dislocation, may be, and sometimes have been, unfortunately overlooked and considered as mere sprains, the surgeon contenting l)imself with the application of an em- brocation, or of a simple roller made Avet with cold lotion; and he may be inclined to this opinion, by not being able to feel any crepitation, which is, in some instances, prevented