16 thouj^li with great pain it can be placed in any position that it occupies naturally : it can be abducted and raised perhaps to a greater extent and more readily than vvlien sound. "The shoulder is flattened, and the limb apparently length- ened. The elbow is readily put to the side. On raising the humerus, rotating it, and moving it to and fro, crepitation is distinctly perceived ; but not so readily after swelling has taken place. The swelling also obscures the apjjearances ob- served immediately after the infliction of the injury, the flat- tening of the shoulder, and the apparent elongation of the arm. " By the fingers of one hand, passed deep into the axilla, the head of the humerus can be discovered ; and on rotating the shaft of the bone with the other hand, grasping the elbow, and pushing upwards at the same time, crepitation is perceived, and the upper portion of the bone is ascertained to be unaf- fected by the rotation of the shaft. The nature of the injury is then sufficiently apparent,"— fListon's Elements) ; viz. that there is fracture of the head or neck of the humerus: but should the crepitation be deeper, and less distinctly felt by the hand in the axilla, " the surgeon is warranted in believing that the glenoid cavity has suffered, and that it has been pro- bably broken into fragments."—Vide ibid. Wliat mode of treatment does this case require ? 998. " Fractures of the glenoid cavity, the neck of the sea pula, and the neck of the humerus, are all treated by the same simple, though efflsctual, apparatus, as employed for injuries of the clavicle."—fFi^^e 958.; If the parts are at once placed in apposition, and accurately retained, no abstraction of blood, either general or local, is required at the time, and is not likely to be called for during any stage of the treatment."—Lis/ow'* Elements. Is it possible for a fracture of the neck of the humerus to co- exist ivith dislocation of the shoulder-joint ? 999. Such a coincidence is extremely rare, and it is difficult to imagine how an accident of this kind could take place at the same time; yet several cases are on record in proof ot the fact. Hov) could you discover the reality of such an instance ? _ 1000. The dislocation may be discovered by the projection of the acromion, the flattening of the shoulder, and by the tumor formed by the head of the humerus, whether beneath the pectoral muscle, in the axilla, or upon the dorsum scapulae ; and the fracture may be detected, if not by crepitation, by the