30 on, we may occasionally succeed in removing the metallic mass with a forceps or elevator, either unaltered or heat out into an irregularly angular shape. Sometimes, however, it is so firmly fixed, that it can he removed only by sawing the bone with the crown of the trephine, or other instrument. The accident is always highly serious; but it is possible, under circumstances of peculiarly good fortune, in a temperate sub- ject of sound constitution, to save the limb by the operation." —Hennefis Principles of Military Surgery. What is the treatment, if' the shaft of the bone be merely splin- tered, or simply broken across, and the brachial artery be wounded at the same time ? 1042. " If the vessel have thrown its blood directly out at the wound, without injecting the cellular membrane, it should be tied above and below ; but if pressure has been inconside- rately made upon the wound, and the arm injected with blood, it is very disadvantageous, and in a case of injured bone would determine for amputation."—Guthrie on Gun-shot Wounds. What antiphlogistic measures are required along with the pre- servative treatment, which you have recommended for compound fractures of the shaft of the humerus ? 1043. The measures to be adopted must depend on the state and effects of the injury. Should inflammation have taken place and caused symptomatic fever, general and local bleed- ing, &c. &c. may be necessary, always bearing in mind not to deplete the system too much in these severe cases, lest there- by the constitution be so weakened as not to be able to bear the discharges about to follow ; but should the accident have only just occurred, it will be sufficient to keep the parts well wet with cold water, poured on the compresses. Would cold ivater be suitable to every case of this kind ? 1044. " No. Cold does no good in any stage of inflamma- tion, when the sensation, accruing from the first application of it, is not agreeable to the feelings of the patient; when, in fact, it does not give relief; for if it produces a sensation of shivering, or an uncomfortable feeling of any kind, with stiff"- ness of the part, it is doing harm, and a change to the genial sensation of warmth will not only prove more agreeable, but more advantageous."—Ibid. " Nor ought cold applications ever to be continued, where the torpor, low temperature, and languid circulation in the limb, indicate a risk of gangrene. Hence, when a principal artery is tied, their employment is always wrong and hazardous."—Coq/?er'5 Dictionary.