91 upper part of the bone. In no other manner can the great deformity I have described be prevented. When by tliis pos- ture the extremities of the bones are brought into proper ap- position, and all projection of its upper portion is removed, either the splints may be applied which are commonly used in fracture of the thigh-bone, or, what is better, a strong leathern belt, lined with some soft material, should, by means of seve- ral straps, be buckled round the limb, and be confined by means of a strap around the pelvis."—Ibid. What are the symptoms of fractured femur at the middle third of the shaft ? 1274. The nature of this case is too plain to be mistaken : indeed, the eye of the surgeon will at once detect the fracture from the deformity of the limb, before he proceeds to confirm his opinion by any manipulation whatsoever. Would you at once adjust the displaced fractured ends of the bone, or proceed in the first place to reduce the sioollen or inflamed state of the limb ? 1275. I should immediately (in common phrase) proceed to " set the fracture*;" for " no greater absurdity and cruelty is conceivable than leaving the fracture unadjusted for weeks, making attempts to subdue consequent over-action, and then endeavouring to reduce and retain the bones at a period when otherwise they should have been firmly united."—Listens Elements. In tvhat position ought the limb to be placed, ivhen the thigh is fractured at the middle third? 1276. This fracture may be " managed easily and well on the double-inclined plane—M'Intyre's splint, the thigh piece of which is doable, the one portion sliding on the other, and made to shorten or lengthen, by means of a screw, without removal from the patient. To this the limb is secured by ban- daging from the toes upwards; the upper bandage, which should be broad, being continued close to the perinseum, and then passed several times round the loins. By elongating the * The fii-st question put to a suvg-eou by the friends of a patient who has met with the misfortune to break a bone, is—" Is the bone set, sir?" And should the surgeon answer in the negative, a want of confidence in his skill will be often the consequence, whatever argument he may make use of as to the necessity of first reducing the inflammation. Indeed, there is mucl] good sense on their side; for however advisable it may be to subdue tume- faction before any decided compression is applied, it nnist always be judicious and right to endeavour to place the fractured ends in apposition, this being of itself one grand means of diminishing irritation and inflammation.