66 mary operation for this cause alone, whatever cause may render it necessary afterwards ; on the contrary, the wound should be enlarged, the broken pieces of bone removed, and the most vigorous antiphlogistic measures adopted:'—Guthrie on Gun-shot Wounds. Should the hand be struck by cannon-shot, splinters of shells, or grape-shot, what treatment would such an injury require ? 1179. In this case, amputation of one kind or other is necessary, but seldom of the whole hand;" for example, when the metacarpal bones of the three innermost fingers are destroyed, " the thumb and fore-finger are worth preserving." Again; *' The little finger is occasionally to be kept when the two middle ones are sawed olf, and in taking away the two innermost fingers, the next metacarpal bone is not to be removed, if it even be a little injured: the tearing up of the integuments is not of so much consequence as is believed, and in performing the operation of removing any two bones, flaps may frequently be procured partly on one side, and partly on tlie other, when a whole one can be obtained from neither." —Ibid. What, then, would you consider a fair case of compoundfrac- ture of the metacarpal bones, for primary removal of the whole hand above the wrist ? 1180. If the flexor and extensor tendons be cut across and hanging out of the wound, the joint of the wrist opened, and the skin of the hand much torn; if there be also much hasmorrhage, although the blood may not be thrown out per saltern, and if the bones be totally destroyed, amputation is to " be performed as soon as possible, for the sooner the wound becomes a clean incised one, the better."—Ibid. Should the injury be such as to require the removal only of one or more of the metacarpal bones, at what point may the re- moval be effected ? 1181. The bodies of the metacarpal bones maybe cut across, or they may be removed at their carpal articulation, accord- ing to the circumstances of the case. Describe the operation of cutting across the shaft of the meta- carpal bones. 1182. " In the removal of the two centre metacarpal bones near their middle, two transverse incisions are to be made on the back and palm of the hand, a little nearer the fingers than where they are to be sawn through, and these incisions are to be exactly the width of the two bones; the skin is to be dissected back to the place where the bone is to be sawn.