82 State within what iieriod of advanced age this fracture usually occurs, and contrast it with the period at which dislocation generally happens. 1240. Sir A. Cooper observes, from a field of vast expe- i-ience—" This fracture rarely occurs under fifty years of age, and dislocation seldom at a more advanced period ; although there are exceptions to this rule, for I have myself once seen the fracture at thirty-eight years of age, but it was very oblique, and a dislocation of the thigh at sixty-two ; but the period of life between fifty and eighty years is that at which the fracture most usually occurs; for from the different state of the bone, the same violence which would produce dislocation in the adult, occasions fracture in old age." What are the diagnostic appearances of fracture within the capsule ? . 1 I, i. 1241. "The leg becomes from one to two inches shorter than the other; for the connexion of the trochanter major with the head of the bone, by means of the cervix, being de- stroyed by the fracture, the trochanter is drawn up by the muscles as high as the ligaments will permit, and consequently restsuponthe edgeof the acetabulum, and upon the ilium above it The difference in the length of the limbs is best observed by desiring the patient to place himself in the recumbent pos- ture on his back, when by comparing the malleoli it will be generally found that one leg is shorter than the other. 1 he usual state of the limb is, that the heel on the injured side rests in the hollow between the malleolus mternus and tendo achillis of the other leg; but there is some variety in this resnect- a fork is sometimes formed in the trochanter minor, which catches the neck of the bone, and prevents a greater ascent than half an inch. Another circumstance which marks the nature of this injury is the eversion of the foot and knee; and this state depends upon the numerous and strong exiernal rotatory muscles of the hip-jomt which proceed from the pelvis to be inserted into the thigh bone, and to which very feeble antagonists are provided: the ob- turatores the pyriformis, the gemini and quadratus the pect nal s and triceps, all assist in rolling the thigh-bone Kards, whilst a part of the gluteus medms and minimus and the tensor vaginae femoris, are the principal agents '"The ps7af and iliacus internus muscles may also in some measure assist the former in rolling the foot outwai-fls. /. the eversion of the foot invariable in this fracture ?