160 terior part of the leg."—Cooper's Dictionary of Practical Surt/ery. Wkat arteries willreqiiire ligature in this oj^eration ? 1537. Tlie anterior tibial on the instep, and the internal and external plantar arteries in the sole of the foot forming the flap. Will not the position of the wound frequently interfere ivith the above method of forming the flap ? 1538. The position of the wonnd \s iU often jjrevent the surgeon from following- prescribed rules, when he will have to act on his own judgment, and form the flap from the upper part of the foot, or in any other manner that may be indicated by the peculiar circumstances of the case. Should the foot require to be amputated, from comjmundfrac- ture of the distal ends of the metatarsal bones, might not the operation be performed through the bodies or shafts of the meta- carpal bones ? 1539. This may be and has been done, but by this method the stump will be much less defended than when the division is made at the joints of the metatarsus with the tarsus. In ivhat manner would you amputate either the external or in- ternal metatarsal bone ? 1540. This will best be done " by an incision round the root of the toe, terminating in a line on the outside of the foot, which is continued down to the joint of the tarsus. The integuments are turned back above and below from the me- tatarsal bone, which is to be dissected out with the toe at- tached to it, and the flaps brought together, so as to leave but one line of incision." This method of Sir C. Bell is acknowledged to be the best, and which, in a diseased Joint, can generally be adopted; but what would be your practice in a case of emergency, where perhaps the bone may be comminuted, and the soft paints ewtensivly lacerated ? 1541. Under such circumstances, in removing the meta- carpal bone I should so direct niy incision as to preserve such part or parts of the integuments as had sufl'ered the least in- jury, in order that the wound may be covered in the best pos- sible manner. Describe the method of amputating the phalanges of the toes. 1542. These operations are to be performed in the manner recommended for the removal of the fingers.— Vide 1193 and following.