130 Are not vesications a frequent result almost immediatety after the accidenty and if so, what treatment would they require ? 1422. Vesications are not unfrequently observed after vio- lent injuries of this kind, and the only requisite treatment will be, that they be covered in by compresses, wrung out with spirit lotion. Should the integuments be extensively torn up in front, and so displaced as not to admit of their being brought again into their natural position, the bones being at the same time fractured into several fragments, what ought to be the primary treatment? 1423. Such a case would not require the primary operation of amputation. Spicules and loose portions of bone should be removed ; the displaced integuments approximated by adhe- sive plaister, lightly applied, and by linen compresses wetted with spirit lotion, and the case treated in the usual way.— Vide 1409. Should the fibula be broken, and a considerable portion of it carried away, ivith extensive injury of the soft parts, what would be your conduct ? 1424. Such an injury does not require priminary amputa- tion, and therefore justifies the preservative treatment.— Guthrie on Gun-shot Wounds. What treatment would be required, where the tibia alone is fractured by a musket-shot ? 1425. In a case of this kind, so much support is afforded by the fibula, and such is the advantage of the superficial position of the tibia, that considerable fractures of the bone from musket- balls may be treated successfully, "the danger being greatest in the vicinity of the joints of the knee and ankle."—Ibid. Should such a fracture of the tibia be complicated with a loound of the anterior or posterior tibial artery, what would be your de- cision as to the primary treatment ? 1426. " A fracture of the tibia alone, with a wound of the anterior or posterior tibial artery by the same ball, does not authorize amputation, except the limb be stuffed with blood, and the incisions necessary to secure both ends of the bleed- ing vessel, leave, in addition to the fracture, so great an ex- tent of injury, that there be little or no probability of suc- cess."—Ibid. Should both bones be fractured, and only the anterior tibial artery ivounded, would you attempt to preserve the limb or am- putate it ? 1427. Such an injury would justify an attempt to save the limb.—Ibid.