3 place the finger upon the spine of the scapula, and to trace tliis portion of bone forward to the acromion, in which it ends; the finger is stopped by the projection of the clavicle, and so soon as the shoulders are drawn back, the point of the clavi- cle sinks into its place, but it reappears when the shoulders are let go. The point of the clavicle projects against the skin upon the superior part of the shoulder, and much pain is felt when it is pressed."—/Sir A. Cooper's Treatise, ^c. Wliat ligaments are ruptured by this accident ? 951. When the luxation is complete, the whole of the liga- ments just mentioned ; but when incomplete, the more inter- nal or conoid ligament may be left entire. What is the treatment of this case ? 952. " The assistant, standing behind the patient, puts his knee between the shoulders and draws them backwards and upwards, when the clavicle sinks into its socket. A thick cushion is then placed in each axilla, for three purposes : 1st, to keep the scapula from the side; 2dly, to raise the scapula ; 3dly, to defend the axillae from being hurt by the bandages, on which last account a cushion is employed on each side. Then the clavicle bandage is applied, and its straps should be sufficiently broad to press upon the clavicle, the scapula, and the upper part of the os humeri, to keep the former down, the scapula inwards and backwards, and the arm backwards and elevated. To secure these objects more effectually, the arm is to be suspended in a short sling, by which it is made to support the scapula in its proper situa- tion."—Ibid. What is the usual result of the treatment of luxations of the clavicle ? 953. In most instances some degree of deformity will re- main, and such a probability should be mentioned to the patient, to protect the character of the surgeon. Species 2.—Dislocatio scapula. Dislocation of the scapula. What other displacement may take place at this part of the body ? 954. '^The inferior angle of the scapula occasionally escapes from under the border of the latissimus dorsi, usually with some laceration of the muscular fibres. The displacement is occasioned by raising the arm above the head to an unusual extent. The angle of the bone projects considerably, and the muscle is felt playing beneath it more distinctly during motion