156 through the joint, with destruction of the lower head of .h. hbnia, thereby including the three bones, a n utut on necessary without (k\ay."—Ibid. '^'"I^uiation is posita. Compound fracture of the tarsus, metatarsus/and toes. Do ycu not consider comjwund fractures of the bones of the tarsus more dangerous to the patient than, ccBteris paribus; com- pound fractures of the carjms ? 1522. They are certainly so considered, and such an opinion «s borne out by the result of experience, as injuries of tlie tarsus, and indeed of the foot generally, are followed by more detective cures than similar injuries of the hand. TVhat are the more common causes of compound fractures of the foot? J. J J 1523. Musket-balls in military, and the pressure of carriage wheels and the fVdling of heavy weights in civil, practice. Bo not such injuries require the immediate and particular attention oj the surgeon ? 1524. " The treatment of these wounds," says Mr. Guthrie requires greater attention and more aid from surgery than IS necessary in other parts; for a musket-ball will seldom pa^^s through the foot without injuring a joint of some kind or wounding a tendon or nerve; and the injury to the fascia which IS very strong on the sole of the foot, and frequently covered by much thickened integument, is always attended with inconvenience. The extraction of balls, of splinters of bone, of pieces of cloth, and the discharge of matter, become more difficult, and often cause so much disease as to render am()utation of the foot ultimately necessary." Tetanus is also the frequent consequence of such injuries. For the above reasons, we should be most careful to examine every M'ound of the foot with the greatest attention, that the entrance of musket-balls, or of any extraneous matter, might be detected, and that whatever operative treatment might be deemed requisite, be done as soon as possible after the injury. Are not irounds of the foot from musket-balls very deceptive ? 1525. They are sometimes so; "for although the opening- be apparently too small to permit a ball to pass in, still I have several times seen one found at a later period, and the most serious consequences ensue from its not having been dis- covered sooner."—on Gun-shot Wounds.