100 1308. This would be bad practice; add in some measure to the sufferings of the patient, and be a sad los.-* of time. It is manifest that you have made choice of flaps, 'presuming the external injury to be such as to allow you to do so; but sup- pose this line of incision could not be adopted, what practice have you to recommend? 1309. " This operation being considered necessary, it must, like all others, be done with reference to the parts remaining uninjured ; but there is in general more choice in this instance than in many other operations; for the patient will seldom survive an injury, or the operation be recommended, in which there is not an opportunity of selecting the parts to be retained for the formation of flaps."—Ibid. What treatment of the patient will be necessary aftei' this severe operation? 1310. " The after-treatment will be the same as in other cases of amputation: the shock, however, of the iiijtn-y and the amputation will be so great, that antiphlogistic regimen, to the extent of blood-letting, will not be necessary. If the pa- tient be very low, cordials in small quantities, with opiateSj should be given, and a light nourishing diet,"—Ibid, Species 2.— Fractura columns femoris composita. Com- pound fracture of the shaft of the femur. What treatment would you adopt in compound fracture of the shaft of the femur ? 1811. " Compound fracture of the thigh, if circumstances do not forbid attempts to save the limb, is to be reduced and retained in the same way as the simple, the wound being attended to, and means taken to subdue inflammatory action." —Liston's Elements. Are there not cases of compound fracture of the femur, not re- quiring amputation,which cannot be reduced in the manner advised? 1312. It not unfrequently happens that the fractured end of the bone is so protruded as not to admit of reduction, and must be replaced bv enlarging the wound, or be removed by the saw. Which of these methods is to be generally preferred m com- pound fracture of the thigh ? . , *u 1313. The better practice in this case is to enlarge the wound, if, by so doing, the bone can be fairly got down into its place. But it must be recollected, that, m order to do this effectually, it will sometimes be necessary to enlarge the open- ing through the muscles also.