GENERAL OBSERVATIONS. Inences has been denominated the crista galli, because i No part of the language of osteology perhaps is more faulty than the no- menclature of the eminences. Thus, how unlike is the spme of the scapula to the spinous processes of the vertebra?, or the styloid process of the temporal to the diminutive projection called styloid of the radius ! Many emmences •which perform analogous offices have received different names : thus the emi- nences of the humerus, which give attachment to its rotating muscles, are called the great and small tuberosities ; while the corresponding parts of the femur have been denominated trochanters. Whilst therefore we retain the names consecrated by usage, we shall be careful to point out the more rational terms substituted by modern anatomists, and particularly by Chaussier. The size of the eminences of insertion is in general proportional to the number and strength of the muscles and ligaments which are attached to them. To be convinced of this fact, it is only necessary to compare the male and female skeleton, or that of a man of sedentary habits and that of a person devoted to athletic exercises. This remarkable correspondence between the size of osseous eminences and the strength of the muscles which are inserted into them, has given rise to the opinion that these eminences are foi-med by muscular traction. It is easy to refute this notion, and without entering into details which belong to general anatomy, we shall prove, by facts, that the osseous projections enter into the primordial plan of organisation, so much so, that they would have doubtless existed, even though the muscles had never exer- cised any traction upon the bones. I have twice had occasion to dissect the thoracic extremities of individuals, who in consequence of convulsions during their earliest infancy had suffered complete paralysis of these parts. The limb affected had scarcely the proportions of that of a child of eight or nine years, whilst the opposite limb was perfectly developed. Nevertheless in this atrophied limb the smallest, as well as the largest projections were perfectly marked. Moreover, very powerful muscles are often inserted into cavities, as, for instance, the pterygoid cavity of the sphenoid. Cavities of bones. Besides the great cavities of the skeleton, cavities in the formation of which many bones concur, and which are destined to lodge and defend the organs most important to life, there are a great number of smaller excavations formed in the substance of the bone itself. These cavities, like the eminences, are divided into two great classes, arti- ticular and non-articular. The articular cavities have received different names. 1. The term cotyloid designates the articular cavity in the haunch bone, be- * [ Also from xcfmri, a CTovrfi^ like a crowfi Ct^oS [Jiljd.