323 THE TRICEPS EXTENSOR CUBITI. The inferior fleshy fibres of this portion of the muscle are very short and horizontal, and seem to be continued by the anconeus. The internal head of the triceps (tertius cubitum extendentium, Vesalius; ancone interne, Winslow, g,figs. 116, 117.), which we denominate the vastus internus of the triceps brachii, might be called the deep and internal portion of this muscle, for, as we find with regard to the vastus internus of the thigh, it is almost entirely covered by the other two portions. Its origins are partly fleshy and partly tendinous. The fibres pass in different directions, the ex- ternal downwards and inwards, a few to the anterior surface of the aponeurosis of the external head, by which they are concealed, but the greater number directly to the olecranon, in front of the insertion of the other portions. The internal pass downwards and outwards, and terminate, some upon the inner edge and anterior surface of the tendon of the long head, but the greater number directly upon the olecranon, to the inside of that tendon. The lowest of these fibres are almost horizontal. Some of the deepest fasciculi are gene- rally given off from the body of the muscle to be inserted into the synovial capsule of the elbow joint. Relations. It is covered through nearly its whole extent by the hrachial fascia, and separated by it from the skin, through which it is distinctly de- fined ; it covers the posterior surface of the humerus, the back of the elbow joint, the radial nerve, and the deep humeral artery. It is separated from the muscles of the anterior region of the arm by the external and internal inter- muscular septa. Its long or scapular portion is in relation with the deltoid and the teres minor behind, and with the sub-scapularis, the teres major, and the latissimus dorsi in front. , Action. The triceps extends the fore-arm upon the arm, but in order that its long head may act with effect, the scapula must be fixed by other muscles. The power of this muscle is not so great as its size and the number of its fibres would indicate, on account of its disadvantageous insertion near the ful- crum. It is true that here, as in the case of the triceps femoris, nature has as much as possible counterbalanced this disadvantage by inserting the muscle, not into the apex, but into the back part of the olecranon. We even find, as we have said, a synovial bursa between the tendon and that part of the ole- cranon with which it is in contact. It would appear, at first sight, that the momentum of this muscle would occur during semi-flexion, but a little consi- deration would show, that, like the triceps femoris, it has, properly speaking, no momentum; and that the olecranon, which may be regarded as the ossified tendon of the muscle, always has the same relation to the ulna, whatever be the position of the fore-arm. It should also be observed, that this muscle has not nearly so much power during semi-flexion as during extension, because m the former case it is opposed by the flexor muscles, which in that position act with the greatest possible effect; while in the latter, when the arm and fore-arm form an obtuse angle, the extensor muscle has the advantage. I^astly, the predominance of the extensor over the flexors is less marked in the arm than in the thigh; and even supposing the extensor to possess more intrinsic power, it has less active force, in consequence of the insertions of the flexors being much more favourable, both as regards their distance from the Mcrum, and their nearer approach to a perpendicular direction. Thus flexion evidently predominates at the elbow, and extension at the knee. This, indeed, ought to be the case, for in the upper extremities the flexion of the elbow IS the movement of attraction and prehension; whUst in the lower ex- tremities the extension of the knee is an essential position in standing walking, running, and leaping. ^ •^^fifsuppose the possibility of rupture of the olecranon at its junction witn the coronoid process during violent extension of the fore-arm, an iT^T,. TiTT^^ analogous to fracture of the patella, or rupture of its ci- I °^ *"^''P' =^^^^^ts in drawing the humerus back- waros, and slightly adducts the arm. By means of its tendon of origin from ¥ 2