THE POSTERIOR SPINAL MUSCLES. 263 B 4 A ti,» cninnii-; m'ocesses: and on the outside, to the angle TZT^^enV"^^::^-^^^^^^ layers of the aponeuro^s of the transveS! In this way it is completely xnclosed m an osteo-fibrous sheath. Thoracic Portion of the Posterior Spinal Muscles. The transverso-spinalis muscle may be completely isolated from the others inthl reSn Wehave seen the distinction between the sacro-lumbalis and lon- eSus dorsi coLnenced at the upper part of the lumbar region ; m the back fheyTe completely separated by some loose ceUular tissue and the posterior branches of the dorsal nerves and vessels. . ^ ^ S thoracic portion of the sacro-lumbalis {b b', fig. 107.) consists of a con- tinuation of the vertical or external fibres of the common mass; as it proceeds upwids it becomes more and more slender, and is divided into a series of fasciculi which are inserted successively into the angles of the ribs, by means of tendilious prolongations, that extend for a considerable distance upon the posterior surface of the muscle. It was the existence of these aponeurotic pro- cesses the contiguous edges of which are often united, that induced Winslow to compare the muscle to a pahn leaf. In this manner the muscular fasciculi are soon expended, terminating at about the sixth rib, but the muscle itself is continued into the neck by means of accessory fibres, which may be exposed by turning the muscle outwards, after separating it from the longissimus dorsi (as at b') : twelve long thin tendons will then be seen to arise from the upper portion of the angles of the twelve ribs, and to pass outwai-ds and upwards : to these succeed fleshy fasciculi, which tenninate in aponeurotic processes, situated on their posterior surfaces, and having precisely the opposite direction. These accessory bundles (c c', fig. 107.; i,fig. 108.) have been very weU described by Diemerbroek under the name of cervicales descendens, and by Steno under that oimusculus accessoritis ad sacro- lumbalem; the four or five superior bundles form the transversaire grele of Winslow, and the cervicalis descendens of Albinus. The thoracic portion of the longissimus dorsi (e e',fig. 107.) is larger than the preceding muscle, to the inner side of which it is situated: it diminishes much less rapidly, because the common aponeurosis (d) is extended in the form of bands upon its posterior aspect, which afford attachment to additional fleshy fibres. This muscle is a continuation of the internal or articular, and the ex- ternal or transverse fasciculi, described as existing in the lumbar region, and is itself divided into three orders of fasciculi, one external and two internal. I. The external or costal fasciculi form the continuation of the transverse bundles of the lumbar portion of the muscle, and are inserted by very thin tendons into the space between the angles of the ribs and the summits of the dorsal transverse processes (e',fig. 107.). 2. The first set of internal or the spinous fasciculi are inserted into the spinous processes of the five or six superior dorsal vertebrae; and as they arise from tendinous bands attached to the summits of the spinous processes of the lower dorsal vertebrae, and of that of the first lumbar vertebra, Winslow considered them as forming a separate muscle, which he called le long Spineux du dos (spinalis dorsi, /, fig. 107.). 3. The second set of internal, or the transverse fasciculi, are a continuation of the articular fasciculi of the lumbar region; they constitute the principal ter- mination of the longissimus dorsi, and are attached by very long and thin ten- dons to the transverse processes of the dorsal vertebrae. The thoracic portion of the transverso-spinalis* (partly seen in fig. 108.) is reduced to a very narrow band, concealed by the longissimus dorsi: it arises by very long and delicate tendons from the lower dorsal transverse processes, and is inserted by others equally similar, long and slender, into the summits of * [This corresponds to the semispinalis dorsi, and to the dorsal portion of the multifidus spin® of Albinus.]