462 SPLANCHNOLOGY, The Suh-maxillary Gland. The sub-maxillary gland (m,fiff. 144.) is situated in the supra-hyoid region, and partly behind the body of the lower jaw : it is bounded by the reflected tendon of the digastricus, below which it almost always projects. Size and figure. It is much smaller than the parotid, but larger than the sub-lingual. It is oblong from before backwards, elliptical, irregular, and di- vided into two or three lobes by some deep fissm-es. Relations. On the outside and helow it corresponds to a depression on the inferior maxillary bone, in which it is completely lodged when the jaw is depressed. When, on the other hand, the head is bent backwards upon the neck, the gland appears almost entirely in the supra-hyoid region, and is in relation with the platysma, being separated from it by the cervical fascia, to which it is imited by cellular tissue of so loose a texture, that it may be called a synovial bursa. This surface of the gland is also in relation with the in- ternal pterygoid muscle and the numerous lymphatic glands situated along the base of the jaw. On the inside and above, it corresponds to the digastric, mylo-hyoid, and hyo-glossus muscles, and to the hypo-glossal and lingual nerves. The sub-maxillary gland almost always forms a prolongation of variable size and shape above the mylo-hyoideus. Sometimes the lobules of which it is composed are situated in lines, so as to appear like the Whartonian duct, or rather a second canal running parallel to it Most commonly this prolongation is of considerable size and irregular, and forms, as it were, a second sub-max- illary gland. . , . . , ^ ^ I.- u The most important relation of the gland is to the facial artery (a), wbicli runs in a groove on its posterior border, and upon the contiguous part of its ex- ternal surface. Sometimes this groove is prolonged forwards, and divides the gland into two unequal parts. We cannot avoid seeing the great analogy between this arrangement and that of the external carotid artery, with regard to the parotid gland. ., t ■ Structure This is identical with that of the parotid. Its investing fibrous membrane is weaker, and still more difficult of demonstration. The arteries are numerous, and arise from the facial and the lingual. The veins correspond to them. The lymphatic vessels are Uttle known, and enter the neighbouring glands The nerves are derived from the lingual and the myloid branch of the dental. I should remark that all the nerves proceeding from the sub- maxillary ganglion are destined for this gland. . , . The excretory duct of the sub-maxillary gland is called the Whartonian duct, although it was reaUy discovered by Van Home. It is formed by the suc- cessive union of all the small ducts proceeding from the lobules; it leaves the eland at the upper bifurcation of its anterior extremity, and consequently above the mylo-hvoideus, and is directed obliquely upwards and inwards, parallel to to the great hypo-glossal and lingual nerves. It is at first placed between the mylo-hyoid and hyo-glossus muscles, and then glides between the genio- hyo--lossus and the sub-Ungual gland, to the inner surface of which it is attached * I have never succeeded in determming whether it receives anj ex- cretory duct or ducts from this gland. Having reached the side of the fraenum Wu J the duct, which is sub-mucous in the whole of the portion corresponding to Ewrnguar gland, changes its direction, passes forwards and opens by an extremely narrow orifice upon the summit of a promment and moveable mnma f^und behind the incisor teeth. This orifice, which can scarcely be Le^ly the naked eye, was found to admit a hog's bristle in a particular case * rQpp A> MG in which the gland itself (w) hangs down, resting upon the hyo-glossus ; the diga^s'tric t^k l^yio-h/d^muselfs and half the lower jaw have been removed.]