MYOLOGY. 360 sition. I haye therefore thought it right to modify these names, and have at the same time included the pectineus among the adductor muscles. I consider therefore that there are four adductors, which I shall divide into superficial and deep; the two superficial are the pectineus and the first or long adductor; these I shall term the first and second. Superficial adductors. The two deep are the short and the great adductors, which 1 shall denominate the small deep adductor, and the great deep adductor. Strictly speaking we could only admit the existence of two adductors, one su- perficial, the other deep; and this mode of division would perhaps he preferahle. Dissection. This is common to all the adductors. Ahduct the thigh so as to render these muscles tense. Make an incision through the integuments from the middle of the femoral arch to the patella, and a semicircular incision at either end of this; preserve the vessels and nerves in order to examine their relations; tie and cut across the vena saphena where it enters the femoral vein ; divide the fascia lata, and dissect the muscles, which will then he brought into view. TTie First Superficial Adductor, or Pectineus. The pectineus (pecten, the pubes) is a square iv\^»g-127. muscle (w, fig. 126.), situated at the upper anterior and inner aspect of the thigh, on the inner side of the psoas and iliacus (c). Attachments. It arises (to, fig. 127.) from the spine and crest of the pubes, from the triangular surface in front of this crest, and from the lower surface of a very strong tendinous and arched pro- longation of Gimbemat's ligament, which is at- tached to the crest of the pubes, and is continuous with the fascia covering the muscle. It is inserted (w,fig. 127.) below the lesser trochanter, into the ridge extending from that process to the linea aspera. With the exception of the spine of the pubes, where there are always some weU. marked tendinous attachments, the fleshy fibres commence directly from the several origins: they proceed downwards, backwards, and outwards, and con- stitute a bundle which is at first flattened from be- fore backwards, and afterwards from without in- wards : the fibres of this after a short course converge, and are inserted into the internal bifur- cation of the linea aspera, in part directly, and partly through the medium of an aponeurosis which occupies the anterior surface of the muscle. Relations. The pectineus is covered by the deep layer of the femoral fascia and by the femoral vessels. It covers the capsular ligament of the joint, the small deep adductor, and the obturator extemus, from which it is separated by the obtu- rator vessels and nerves. Its outer border is pa- rallel with the inner border of the conjoined por- tions of the psoas and Lliacus, and is separated from them by a cellular interval, over which the femoral artery passes; so that were it not for the projection of this outer border, this vessel would be in im- mediate contact with the bone. Its inner border is in relation with the second superficial adductor, and is sometimes blended with it except below, where it is separated by an interval in which the smaU deep adductor may be se ;seen. It has