THE PHARYNX. 455 G G 4 The two principal charactei's of the buccal mucous membrane are the follow- ing : 1. The presence of an epidermis or epithelium* (as it is called in mucous membranes). This can be distinctly demonstrated by maceration, or by the action of boiling water or some acid ; by any of these means a pellicle is raised having all the characters of an epidermis. It is very thick upon the gums, the roof of the palate, and upon the tongue, where it forms a horny sheath to each papilla. To the existence of this membrane, and of the fluid with which it is constantly kept moist, we must attribute the possibility of applying, or rather running, a red hot iron over the surface of the tongue without burning the part. 2. The multiplicity of small subjacent glands so near to each other in some parts as to form a continuous layer. These glands should be carefully distinguished from the muciparous follicles or crypts, with which many modern anatomists have commonly confounded them. To these two characteristics a third may be added, peculiar to some portions of the buccal mucous membrane, viz. that it is supported by a very dense fibrous tissue, with which it is completely united. This fibrous layer is perfectly distinct from the periosteum, and from its presence the mucous membrane should be arranged among the fibro-miicous membranes. The Pharynx. The pharynx ((pdpvy^, the throatf ; 1, 2, 3, fig. 140.), long confounded with the CBSophagus under the common name of gula or oesophagus, is a muscular and membranous semi-canal, perfectly symmetrical, and situated in the median line: it is a sort of vestibule, common to the digestive and the respiratory passages, intermediate between the buccal and nasal cavities on the one hand, and between the oesophagus and larynx on the other. It is situated deeply in front of the vertebral column, extending from the basilar process of the occi- pital bone to opposite the fourth or fifth cervical vertebra and the cricoid cartilage. It therefore corresponds to the parotid, and partly to the supra- hyoid regions. Its dimensions deserve particular attention. It is smaller than the mouth, but larger than the oesophagus, which, compared to it, resembles the tube of a funnel. Hence it follows, that foreign bodies which have been able to pass along the mouth and pharynx, may be arrested in the oesophagus. In length it is from 4 to 4^ inches, which may be increased to 5^ or even 6^ by distension, and reduced to 2| by the greatest possible contraction, which is limited only by the contact of the base of the tongue with the velum palati rendered horizontal. The length of the pharynx, therefore, may be made to vary about 4 inches. The pharynx undergoes these extreme variations both in deglutition and in modulating the voice; in effecting which latter purpose it acts in the same way as the tube of a clarionet or flute. Thus considered, the entire length of the pharynx maybe divided into three parts—a nasal (1,^^. 140.), a buccal or guttural (2), and a laryngeal (3) portion. It may be easily seen that the variations m length afi"ect almost exclusively the buccal portion, into which the air IS received after escaping from the larynx. Now these variations in the length of the pharynx have the same influence over the compass of the human voice, as the differences in the lengths of the tubes of wind-instruments have upon the sounds produced by them. The breadth of the upper or nasal portion of the pharynx is measured by the interval between the posterior margins of the internal pterygoid plates • it IS about one inch, and is invariable. In the buccal portion the same diameter IS measured by the interval between the posterior extremities of the alveolar borders, and is about two inches : it may be diminished to one inch by the caviij'rorthe^^ "~ membranes ; that of the buecal t The term pharynx had no well defined meaning among the ancients : they sometime. „.»h It to designate the pharynx, properly so called ; sometimes the larynx. " used