THE EXTENSOR DIGITI MINIMI. 335 * See note, p. 389 metacarpo-phalangal articulations, the tendons become narrower and thickened, and eive off on each side a fibrous expansion, attached to the sides of the jointj they then enlarge again so as to cover the dorsal surface of the first phalanges, receive and are re-inforced by the tendons of the lumbricales, and opposite the articulation of the first with the second phalanx, they divide into three portions, one median, which is implanted upon the upper end of the second phalanx, and two lateral, which pass along the sides of the second pha- lanx, approach each other at the lower half of the dorsal surface of the second phalanx, unite by their neighbouring edges, and are inserted into the upper end of the third phalanx. Opposite the metacarpal bones they sometimes split into two or three small juxta-posed tendons, and at the lower end of these bones the tendons for the Uttle, ring, and middle fingers communicate with each other by expansions of variable size, and sometimes by a true bifurcation (see Jig. 121.). The tendon for the index fimger is alone free. The communica- tion of the tendon of the little with that of the ring finger takes place opposite the metacarpo-phalangal articulation, by means of a transverse band, which forms a projection under the skin. Lastly, we not uncommonly see a tendinous prolongation arising from the anterior surface of these tendons, and inserted into the upper end of the first phalanx. Belations. The extensor communis digitorum is covered by the fascia of the fore-arm, from which a great number of its fibres arise superiorly, by the dorsal ligament of the carpus and the dorsal fascia of the metacarpus, which separate it from the skin : it covers the supinator brevis, the three long muscles of the thumb, the extensor proprius indicis, the lower radio-cubital articulation, the carpus, the metacarpus, and the fingers. Action. This muscle extends the third phalanx upon the second, the se- cond upon the first, the first upon the corresponding metacarpal bone, then the carpus, and lastly the radio-cubital articulation. It is necessary for me to mention the independence of the muscular fasciculi proceeding to each finger: this is peculiar to man, and is much more remarkable in some individuals than in others. By continual exercise, the faculty of extending one finger without the others may be acquired. The tendon for the index is generally the only one not united to the others, and therefore the movements of this finger are by far the most independent. The Extensor Digiti Minimi' This is a very slender muscle (extensor proprius auricularis, Albinus, c, jig. 121.) placed on the inner side of the common extensor, to which it appears to be an appendix. It is difficult to trace its origin as far as the common tendon, with which it is connected only by an aponeurotic prolongation. Its fleshy fibres arise from this prolongation, and from a fibrous pyramid which separates it from the muscles of the deep layer, from the extensor communis digitorum externally, and internally from the extensor carpi ulnaris, and is completed superficially by the fascia of the fore-arm. The fibres constitute a small fu- siform fleshy belly, which accompanies the tendon (at least on one side), as far as the head of the ulna; there the tendon enters a special fibrous sheath formed behind the head of that bone ; it is then reflected inwards to the fifth metacarpal bone, behind which it is retained in a thinner sheath, which, like the preceding, is lined by a synovial membrane.* The tendon then splits into two bands, of which the external (or radial) receives the inner bifurcation of the extensor communis. The three tendinous prolongations becoming united, envelop, as in a sheath, the dorsal aspect of the first phalanx of this hnger ; having reached the articulation of the first with the second phalanx, they divide into three portions, which are attached precisely in the same manner as the tendons of the extensor communis. Actum. As its name indicates, this muscle extends the little finger. It