468 SPLANCHNOLOGY. great curvature, and a concave border or lesser curvature, a great cul-de-sac or tuberosity, an oesophageal extremity, and a pyloric extremity. The anterior surface {upper surf ace of some anatomists, s,fig. 155.), is directed forwards, and a little upwards. When inflated in the dead body with the abdomen open, it is turned directly upwards ; but such cannot take place, either in the living or dead subject, when the abdominal parietes are entire ; m which case the distended stomach passes in the direction of the least re- sistance, i. e. forwards and downwards, and its anterior surface cannot then be completely turned up. This surface is in relation with the diaphragm, and is separated by it from the heart; with the liver, which is prolonged upon it to a greater or less extent*; with the last six ribs, being separated from them by the diaphragm ; and with the abdominal parietes in the epigastrium — hence the name given to that region. It is not uncommon to find the great omentum turned upwards be- tween tlie stomach and the liver. When distended, the stomach has much more extensive relations with the epigastrium, or rather with the abdominal parietes, both in a vertical and transverse direction. All these relations are of the greatest importance ; and with the exception of those which concern the epigastrium, they are constant. In fact it rarely happens that the stomach precisely corresponds to the substernal or xiphoid depression, which has been called the pit of the stomach or the scrobiculus cordis, but which belongs neither to the heart nor the stomach. In exploring this depression, it is almost always the liver which is felt; the stomach lies lower down, and is generally below the ensiform appendix. The posterior surface {htferior surface of some anatomists, seen turned up at s,fig. 154.) is directed downwards and backwards, and is seen in the sac of the omentum, of which it forms the anterior wall. It has relations with the transverse mesocolon, which serves as a floor for it, and separates it from the convolutions of the small intestines ; with the third portion of the duodenum (e' to 6), by some of the older anatomists called the pillow of the stomach (ventriculi pulvinar); and lastly, with the pancreas (o). The duodenum, the pancreas, the aorta (a), and the pillars of the diaphragm (dd), separate it from the vertebral column, upon which it rests obliquely. These relations are modified by the emptiness or fullness of the stomach. The great curvature (the inferior or anterior border of some anatomists, cad, fig. 149.) is convex, and directed almost vertically downwards in the empty con- dition of the organ, and almost directly forwards when it is full; it gives at- tachment to the two anterior layers of the great omentum. It is in relation with the abdominal parietes and the car- tilages of the lower ribs, and lies along the transverse arch of the colon {t, fig. 155.), in front of which it advances when considerably distended; hence it was termed the colic border by Chaussier. In the distended state its relations with the abdominal parietes become much more extensive ; but even then I can scarcely believe the assertions of some, that the pulsations of the gastro-epiploic arteries can be felt by the finger in emaciated individuals. The lesser curvature (the superior or posterior border of some anatomists. » The relations of the anterior surface <3f the stomach wlA the liver are verv variable in extent - irsometimes reaches *ven to the gall bladder. 1 have seen a case in ivliich the g.ill Madder' adhered to the anterior surface of the st..n,ach, and therefore to the left of the pylon.s. and communicated with it bj an orifice through which bile and biliary calcuh were discharged.