78 OSTEOLOGY. The angle ■which the rami form -with the body of the bone, is named the angle of the jaw (m). It is a right angle in the adult, but very obtuse in the infant, as also in the carnivora and some of therodentia, this disposition enabling its muscles to act with gi-eater power. The rami of the inferior maxilla are terminated above by two processes ; the anterior, called the coronoid process (n) ; the posterior named the condyle (p). The coronoid process is triangular, and inclined forwards ; broad at its base, and pointed at its simimit; it gives attachment to the temporal muscle. The size of this process in the different species of animals bears an exact and con- stant proportion, both to the depth and extent of the temporal fossa, and to the strength and curvature of the zygomatic arch. The condyle articulates with the glenoid cavity of the temporal bone; it is an oblong eminence, the greatest diameter of which is directed slightly inwards and backwards. It is supported by a contracted portion, called the neck of the condyle {cervix) (o). This neck is turned inwards, in such a manner, that 'the condyle which it supports, does not project beyond the external plane of the ramus of the jaw ; it is also pretty deeply excavated internally to afford attach- ment to the external pterygoid muscle. The neck of the condyle is the weakest part of the inferior maxilla. Connections. The inferior maxilla articulates with the temporal bone, and lodges the lower range of teeth. Structure. The external surface of the inferior maxilla is composed of com- pact tissue ; the interior of the bone assumes the form of diploe, and is tra- versed for a great part of its extent by the denial or inferior maxillary canal, which transmits the vessels and nerves that are distributed upon the teeth of this jaw. This canal commences at the middle of the ramus, by a groove covered with a fibrous lamina, the only use of which, as it appears to me, is to protect the vessels and nerves, and to separate them from the internal pterygoid muscle. From this point it proceeds forwards and inwards below the mylo-hyoidean hne, the curvature of which it foUows; it gradually becomes contracted m diameter; and in the situation of the second small molar or bicuspid tooth, it divides into two canals, the larger of which is very short, and opens upon the external sur- face of the body of the bone at the mental foramen already described ; the other, very minute, pursues the original tract, and is lost near the middle mcisor tooth. In its passage the inferior dental canal communicates with the alveoli, by one, and sometimes two foramina, through which the vessels and nerves of the teeth are transmitted. The situation of the dental canal vanes much in different periods of Ufe. In the new-born infant, before the appearance of the teeth, it occupies the lowest portion of the jaw ; after the second dentition, it cor- responds prettynearly with the mylo-hyoidean hne : and after loss of the teeth, it runs along the alveolar border. In the inferior maxilla of the old subject, the anterior orifice of the dental canal, or the mental foramen, is close to the superior border of the bone. The dimensions of the dental canal are no less remarkable for their variations ; it is very large m the foetus, and in the child before the appearance of the second set of teeth; it dmumshes durmg adult aee, and is much contracted in the old subject. ■ ^ e ^=c;fio. Development. The inferior maxilla is developed by two points of ossifica- tion one for each lateral half. Antenrieth admits in addition three comple- tion, one J;^^" , condvle, one for the coronoid process, and one fTtKgT 4ri hte n^^^^^^^^^ them. The case is different, how- Ive. whh a poin of ossification described and figured by Spix, which forms evei, wiui a \>"'f'' border or rather of the dental canal. In a foetus f ^!V/' • tv Svs 1 have seen a kind of bony spiculum, which passed of about fifty y^^f;/thrb^^ ramus of the bone; on the one half :edfn».t\Xnirela? tKtremity o? tHs bony spiculum.