ODONTOLOGY. 232 » See note, p. 234. Differential characters of the upper compared with the lower molars. 1. Con- trary to -what was observed witli regard to the other teeth, the crowns of the lower great molars are a little larger than those the upper. 2. They are slightly bent inwards, while those of the upper great molars are quite vertical. 3. The iower great molars have only two roots, an anterior and a posterior. These roots are very strong and broad, flattened from before backwards, deeply grooved longitudinally, and bifurcated at the points. The upper great molars have, at least, three roots (^Jigs. 91 and 92.), one internal and two external. It •is very easy, then, to distinguish between the molar teeth of the two jaws. Individual characters of the great molars. 1. The first great molar is dis- tinguished from the other two by its size, in which it generally exceeds them. 2. The third great molar, or wisdom tooth, is distinguished from the first and second by its evidently smaller size ; by its crown having only three tubercles, two external and one internal; by its shortness ; and by its roots being, in certain cases, more or less completely joined together. However, even where the roots of these teeth are united, we always find the trace of the characters proper to the series of molar teeth to which they belong; i. e. the vestige of three roots, an internal and two external for the upper wisdom teeth, and of two roots, an anterior and a posterior for the lower No teeth present so many varieties as the last molares which, occasionally, even remain buried in the substance of the maxillary tuberosity. Fig. 93. Fig.9i- Structure of the Teeth. The crown of each tooth contains a cavity (d, figs. 93, 94.) corresponding with it in shape. This cavity is prolonged with con- tracted dimensions into the centre of the root, and opens by an orifice of variable size at the apex of the simple or compound cone, represented by the fang. The di- mensions of this cavity are in an inverse proportion to the age of the tooth; so that it is largest at the earbest .periods, but during the progress of years it becomes entirely obliterated. It contains a soft substance con- stituting the dental pulp. A tooth, therefore, is com- posed of two substances, an external hard or cortical portion, which is unorganised *, and an internal organ- — ised pulp. . ij 1, The dental pulp contained in the cavity of the tooth as m a mould, has the same form as the tooth to which it belongs. This pulp is connected with the dental vessels and nerves by means of a nervous and vascular pedicle, which after penetrating the dental cavity through the orifice in the apex of the root, and traversing the smaU canal, becomes continuous with it. i rom analogies, the accuracy of which will be seen in studying the developement of the teeth, the pulp may be regarded as a bulb or large papilla, and appears to consist ot a ne'rvous expansion traversed by a great number of vesse s. -^e-; derived from the internal maxiUary; the nerves belong to t^^ejnpenor and inferior maxiUary branches of the fifth pair. ^^''^^Zl^^^ln^^l^- demonstration on account of its tenuity, envelopes the pulp, which is ex T^^ slZ^e, is the seat of toothache, and it alone mi^^^^^^^^^^ all that has been said regarding the vitabty and sensibibty of the teeth.