ARTHROLOGY. 208 abduction, the head of the femur presses against the inner part of the capsular ligament; and, on account of the looseness of this ligament, the obliquity of the acetabulum, and the arrangement of the interarticular ligament, this move- ment may be carried very far without displacement, and is only limited by the meeting of the upper edge of the neck of the femur, -with the rim of the coty- loid cavity. But this very meeting may itself become the cause of luxation, and then the edge of the cotyloid cavity may be regarded as the fulcrum of a lever of the first order with unequal arms, the whole length of the femur being the arm, to which the power is applied, and the neck of the bone, that by which the resistance acts. In adduction, the femur moves in precisely the opposite direction: this motion is limited by the mutual contact of the two thighs, but "by means of slight flexion it may be carried so far as to throw one over the other. The great depth of the upper and external part of the cotyloid cavity, and the strength of the capsular ligament in the same directions, would seem to oppose all displace- ment. But it should be observed that falls upon the knees almost always happen during adduction of the thighs, for this is an instinctive movement of preserv- ation. However slight the adduction may be, the interarticular ligament is of necessity stretched; and from this it follows, as M. Gerdy has remarked, that the head of the femur is detached from the bottom of the cavity, by a kind of rolling of the round ligament upon it, and comes to press against the fibrous capsule. It may be conceived that luxation is necessarily preceded by ruptui-e of the interarticular ligament. 5. Circumduction consists in the transition from one of these motions to another. The femur circumscribes a cone, of which the apex is in the joint, whilst the base is described by the lower end of that bone. 6. Independently of the movements above described, the coxo-femoral ar- ticulation performs motions of rotation. This movement should be studied, both at the upper and at the lower part of the femur. At the upper part it is a motion of horizontal displacement, the radius being represented by the head and neck of the bone ; at the lower part it is a rotatory motion of the femur, not precisely upon itself, but upon an imaginary axis placed on the inside of, and parallel to, the shaft. It follows, that there can be no rotation in cases of fracture of the neck of the bone, and this is one of the diagnostic signs of that accident. Lastly, it may be observed that rotation is performed from without inwards, or from, within outwards: the latter is the more extensive and more natural movement; it is produced by a great number of muscles, and therefore during repose the point of the foot is slightly inclined outwards. The Knee Joint {figs. 78. to 81.). Preparation. 1. Make a crucial incision in front of the knee and dissect back the flaps. 2. Detach the aponeurosis of the thigh, preserving the fibrous band, which forms the continuation of the tensor vaginae femoris. 3. Remove the aponeurosis of the triceps on the sides of the patella, taking care to avoid opening the synovial capsule. 4. Remove the tendon of the biceps, and turn downwards the tendons of the sartorius, gracilis, and semitendinosus. 5. Re- move the popliteal vessels and nerves behind, and also the gastrocnemiL 6. After having studied the ligaments situated around the synovial capsule, iso- late the latter as much as possible by dissecting off the lateral ligaments, and the ligamentum patellae. 7. Open the synovial capsule above the patella. 8. Make ahorizontal section of the femur immediately above the condyles, and a vertical section from before backwards between the condyles. These two sections are intended to expose the crucial ligaments. The articulation of the knee belongs to the class of angular ginglymi. it is the largest and most complicated joint in the himian body. Articular surfaces. The lower end of the femur and the upper end of the tibia are the essential constituents of this joint, which is completed in front by