OSTEOLOGY. 46 the inferior fossec. In the rest of its extent there is spongy tissue between the two tables. The external table is much thicker and less brittle than the internal, which is named vitreous on account of its fragility. The spongy tissue is very abundant in the condyles and in the basilar process. Development. The occipital bone is developed from four points—one for the squamous portion, that is, the part of the bone behind the foramen mag- num ; one for each lateral condyloid portion of the occipital, and one for the an- terior or basilar portion. These four parts are considered by some anatomists as so many distinct bones, wliich they describe under the names of posterior or superior occipital, lateral occipitals, and anterior occipital or basilar bone. The first point of ossification appears in the squamous or back part of the bone, under the form of a small oblong plate placed transversely in the situ- ation of the protuberances. 1 have never seen this piece formed by two lateral points. The part of the bone of which we are speaking is always vi- sible towards the middle of the second month. The condyloid portions make their appearance next, and lastly the basilar portion, which I have never seen developed from two lateral points. In a foetus of two months and a half, the ossified part of this process presented the appearance of a linear streak, si- tuated exactly in the median line, and directed from before backwards. The four points of ossification are finally united at the foramen magnum. Anatomists, however, are not at all agreed respecting the number of points of ossification. Meckel admits eight for the posterior part of the bone, two for the condyles, and one for the basilar process. Beclard, on the other hand, admits only four in the posterior part of the bone. His opinion is founded upon the existence of four fissures or divisions at the circumference of this portion ; viz. one at the superior angle, which sometimes gives to the posterior fontanelle the lozenge shape of the anterior; one below, which is nothing more than a slight notch in the back of the foramen magnum; and two on each side, corresponding to the posterior lateral fontaneUes. The opinion of Meckel is perhaps grounded upon certain abnormal cases, in which this part of the bone is divided into a considerable number of pieces resembling so many Wormian bones united by suture. T/ie Frontal or Coronal Bone {figs. 11 and 12.). The frontal bone is situated at the anterior part of the skull, and above the face It is symmetrical, and represents a considerable segment of a hoUow sDhe're From its shape it has been compared to a shelL The superior three fourths are curved, placed vertically, but more or less inclined from downwards and forwards ; the inferior fourth is flat and horizontal. It has an anterior, a posterior, and an inferior surface, and three borders. The anterior cutaneous or frontal surface is smooth and convex ; there is a suture in the median line m young subjects, which in the adult is obUterated, leaving scarcely any trace of its existence, excepting at its ter- mination below. At this spot there is a promi- nence named nasal eminence or glabella (or middle frontal eminence) (l,^5f. 11.)- On the sides of the median line proceedmg from above downwards we observe two smooth surfaces; then the frontal eminences (2 2), two projections which are most strongly developed in young subiects; and below these on each side of the gla- •/• -Ano on arched elevation which forms the margin ot ^^^^