579 THE THYROID GLAND. lobes do not communicate, but all the granulations of each lobe communicate ■with each other. The thyroid gland has, therefore, a vesicular structure ; and we have seen that the glandular grains of all glands are spongy and porous, and that the products of their secretion may be accumulated in these pores. The glandular nature of the thyroid body is also shown by the viscid, limpid, yellowish fluid which pervades it in certain subjects, and which may be col- lected in sufficient quantity for chemical analysis; and also by the retention of this matter within a greater or less number of the vesicles when their orifices of communication with the neighbouring vesicles become obliterated. But in connection with this view regarding its glandular nature, we seek in vain for an excretory duct. If we examine the trachea and the larynx, or lay open the oesophagus, and then press the thyroid gland, we shall see that no fluid escapes into those canals. It has been asserted, indeed, that the excretory duct of the thyroid gland terminated in the foramen cacum of the tongue, in the. ventricles of the larynx, or in the trachea opposite its first ring; but, after the example of Santorini, we are compelled to reject these fancied and too hastily announced discoveries. I may here notice the intimate adhesion of the side of the thyroid gland to the first ring of the trachea. This can be very well shown by detaching the gland from behind forwards : it is of a fibrous nature, and I have sometimes thought that I saw a duct in the centre of it, passing through the membrane which connects the trachea with the cricoid cartilage, though I have never been able satisfactorily to demonstrate it. Still I do not think that the absence of an excretory duct should remove the thyroid from amongst the glandular organs; for I believe that there exist in the body glands without excretory ducts, as the thymus, the suprarenal capsules, and the thyroid body. The secretion of the gland is entirely absorbed, and fulfils certain unknown uses. Arteries. The size and the number of the arteries distributed to the thyroid gland indicate that somethiag more than a mere nutritive process must be carried on in it. The arteries are sometimes four, sometimes five in number : two superior arise from the external carotid; two inferior from the subclavian, and the fifth, or the thyroid artery of Neubauer, where it exists, arises from the arch of the aorta. The veins are proportionally as large as the arteries, and form so considerable a plexus in front of the trachea, as, in certain cases, to have prevented the com- pletion of the operation of tracheotomy. The lymphatic vessels terminate in the cervical lymphatic glands. The nerves are derived from the pneumogastrics, and the cervical ganglia of the sympathetic. A thin cellular membrane envelopes the gland, and sends very delicate pro- longations into its substance, where we find a very firm cellular tissue, always destitute of fat. Developement. The thyroid gland is developed in two lateral halves, which are afterwards united by a median portion. It is not uninteresting to re- mark, that this disposition, which is transitory in the foetus, represents the permanent condition of the gland in a great number of animals. During mtra-utenne life and infancy it is relatively larger than at subsequent periods Nevertheless, the changes \«hich it afterwards undergoes are not to be com- pared with those that occur in the thymus ; and we cannot say, as of the latter structure, that the existence of the thyroid body has any peculiar relations with foetal life. Functions. It is a secreting organ, but the uses of its fliiid are not known.