MYOLOGY. 264 the superior dorsal spinous processes, some pale fleshy fibres connectinc the two series of tendons. Connections. The dorsal portion of the posterior spinal muscles entirely fills the dorsal groove, limited on the outer side by the angles of the ribs. They are covered by several muscular layers, the nearest of which is formed by the two serrati postLci and their connecting aponeurosis, which completes the sheath enclosing the long muscles of the back: they are, moreover, sepa- rated from the skin by the rhomboid, trapezius, and latissimus dorsi. The Cervical Portion of the Posterior Spinal Muscles, the Transversalis Colli, and the Trachelo-mastoideus. Cervical portion of the sacro-lumbalis, or cervicalis descendens. The sacro- lumbalis, whose original fibres are found to terminate at and upon the sixth rib, is continued by means of its accessory fasciculi (c c',fig. 107.) up to the transverse processes of the four or five inferior cervical vertebrae (i,fig. 108.), into the summits of which it is inserted by very slender tendons. The number of these terminating fasciculi varies in a remarkable manner. Indeed, the splenius, the transversalis colli, the sacro-lumbalis, and even the levator anguh scapulae, are so closely connected, that upon examining their cervical insertions only, these might all be ascribed to a single muscle. The cervical portion of the sacro-lumbalis is covered by the levator anguli scapulae, and can only be exposed by turning this muscle outwards. The cervical portion of the longissimus dorsi, or the transversalis colli, and the trachelo-mastoid. The extent of the longissimus dorsi is limited to the back; its highest internal or spinous fasciculus seldom reaches the spinous process of the first dorsal vertebra: its highest external or costal fasciculus is attached to the second, sometimes even to the fourth rib, and its highest transverse fasciculus is inserted into the transverse process of the first dorsal vertebra. In some very rare cases a few internal fasciculi reach the cervical vertebne: I have seen one of them terminate by becoming attached both to the transverse process of the third cervical vertebra and to the complexus. The longissimus dorsi is, however, prolonged by accessory fasciculi as far as the third cervical vertebra. These fascicuU can only be identified by their direction (for they can never be completely separated from this muscle): they form a distinct muscle known as the transversalis colli (transversalis cervicis, Albinus, g g, fig. 107.). By reflecting outwards the upper part of the longissimus dorsi, they may be exposed, varying in number, and arising from the summits of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, sixth, and sometimes seventh and eighth dorsal vertebrae by long thin tendons, and inserted by other tendons into the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the five inferior cervical ver- tebra {I, fig. 108.): the transversalis colli is covered by the longissimus dorsi, the splenius, and levator anguli scapulae, and rests upon the trachelo-mastoid and complexus. The trachelo-mastoideus (complexus minor, ii,fig. 107.) may be regarded as another accessory muscle to the longissimus dorsi, -which it continues up to the head. In order to expose its origin the transversalis colli must be reflected outwards (as va.fig. 107.). It arises from the angles between the transverse and articular processes of the four inferior cervical vertebrae, by four small tendons; or sometimes by a continuous aponeurotic plane. From thence the fibres pro- ceed upwards, and form a small muscle which is inserted into the mastoid process, in a small furrow to the inside of the digastric groove. This small muscle is almost always interrupted by a tendinous intersection near its mastoid insertion. . -.^, j- The cervical portion of the transverso-spinalts.* While the preceding * If wc were to follow the ortler of super- imposition rigorously, the complexus should be described before this muscle, which cannot be brought into view until the former is removed.