THE TONGUE. 441 The Tonsils, or Amygdala. The terms amygdala {afivySaXia, an almond) or tonsils, are applied to a group of mucous foUicles {n, fig. 140.), which occupy the interval between the pillars of the fauces on each side. They are placed there on account of the necessity of lubricating the isthmus during the passage of the alimentary mass. Their form pretty nearly resembles that of an almond; they are directed ob- liquely downwards and forwards, and their size is exceedingly subject to either congenital or accidental variation. In some subjects they can scarcely be said to exist; in others theyfill up the whole amygdaloid fossa, and project more or less into the isthmus of the fauces, so as to impede deglutition, or even re- spiration. The compound tonsil results from its component follicles being collected into several distinct masses. The internal surface is free, and may be seen when the base of the tongue is depressed ; it is perforated by foramina, like the ligneous shell of an almond. These foramina, which vary in number and size, have been frequently mis- taken for syphilitic ulcerations. They lead into small cells, in which mucus sometimes collects, and is then ejected in hard fetid lumps, which have been erroneously supposed to be pulmonary tubercles. Its external surface is covered immediately by the aponeurosis of the pharynx*, and then by the superior constrictor. The tonsil corresponds to the angle of the lower jaw. Compression behind this angle, therefore, affects it at once, and causes pain in cases where it is in- flamed. It has an important relation with the internal carotid artery, especi- ally when that vessel describing a curve with the convexity directed inwards touches the tonsil. In front the tonsil is in relation with the anterior pillar of the fauces, and therefore with the palato-glossus muscle ; behind, with the posterior pillar, and accordingly with the palato-pharyngeus muscle. Structure. In structure the tonsils are intermediate between mucous foUicles and glands: they consist of an agglomeration of follicles, continuous with those at the base of the tongue. Groups of these follicles open into small cells or lacunae, which again open upon the internal surface of the tonsil by the fora- mina already described. The mucous membrane covers the inner surface of the tonsil, and, penetrating through the foramina, lines the interior of all the cells. The arteries are very large, considering the size of the organ. They are derived from the labial, the inferior pharyngeal, the lingual, and the superior and inferior palatine. The veins form a plexus round this organ, called the tonsillar plexus : it is a dependence of the pharyngeal plexus. The lymphatic vessels terminate in the glands found near the angle of the jaw ; hence the in- flammation or enlargement of those glands in consequence of inflammation of the tonsil. The lingual and glosso-pharyngeal nerves form a plexus outside the tonsil, which gives off some branches to it. The Tongue. The tongue, the principal organ of taste, is situated within the buccal cavity, and consequently at the commencement of the digestive passages ib,fig. 140.) behmd the lips, which in many animals are organs of prehension ; also behind the teeth, the organs of mastication, and below the organ of smell, which pos- sesses the sense of taste in the lower tribes, and is necessary in all animals for the perception of flavours. It is a muscular organ, free and moveable above before, and on the sides. It is retained in its position by ligaments which attach It to the os hyoides ; and, by muscles connecting it to the same bone, to „=n ""^J'''* aponeurosis explains why the tonsil always becomes cnlarjted inter, nally, and also why abscesses of this part never open externally. »-ui<irgea inter-