THE TRANSVERSALIS ABDOMINIS. 271 wards; those which arise from the crest of the ilium obliquely upwards and inwards becoming longer and more oblique anteriorly; those which proceed Tm SaJ the anterior^uperior spinous process of the ilium are horizontal; and lastlv those which arise from the crural arch pass obUquely downwards and TnwLis Th7posterior fibres terminate at the lower edge of the car- tiCes If the four inferior ribs, and ai-e continuous with the internal intercostal Ses in tlfintervals between the tenth and eleventh and eleventh and twelfth X ScatinTthe analogy between these muscles. I have often observed tt 'l^"!^^nfJo ihe lasfrib to be wanting, /he middle fibres which are the most numerous, terminate at the external edge of the middle layer of the anterior abdominal aponeurosis. The fibres arismg from the crural arch are few ln nier, pale, and fasciculated; some terminate at the puhes, passing behind the inguinal or external abdominal ring ; others proceedmg from the ring, in the male, form the cremaster muscle. . t,- . „ Belations. It is covered by the external obhque and behind by a small portion of the latissimus dorsi; and it Ues superficially to the transversalis The most important relations are thore of its inferior edge, with the mguinal ring of the external oblique, which it partly closes on the mner side, as Scarpa and Bichat have weU pointed out, and with the spermatic cord, which passes beneath it, and during the descent of the testicle draws with it some of the lower fibres of the muscles ; and hence the looped arrangement they assume. The cremaster. The loops so weU described by M. Jules Cloquet are very variable, and do not always appear tome to constitute the entire muscle. Ac- cording to this anatomist, the cremaster is nothing more than the lower fibres of the internal oblique, that had been intangled with the testicle during its descent, forming loops in front of the cord, the concavity of which is di- rected upwards, and which may be traced to the bottom of the scrotum. But I have often been convinced, from the examination of subjects in which the cremaster was much developed, that this muscle (b, figs. 109.137.) consists prin- cipally of a longitudinal fasciculus, partly derived, it is true, from the lower fibres of the internal oblique, but consisting partly also of proper fibres arising fi-om the crural arch, near the external pillar of the ring ; and that this fas- ciculus is lost upon the proper sheath of the cord, to which it is intimately united. The ofiice of this muscle is to raise the entire testicle. The slow ver- micular motion ohserved in the scrotum during the venereal orgasm, or from the action of cold, is not at aU connected with it. The actions of the internal oblique are, 1. Compression of the abdominal vis- cera ; 2. Depression of the ribs, and consequently flexion of the trunk ; 3. Ro- tation of the trunk, so that the fore part of the body is turned to the same side. The right internal oblique, therefore, co-operates with the left external oblique; when it acts with its fellow, the thorax is drawn directly towards the pelvis ; but if the chest is fixed, they move the pelvis upon the loins. The Transversalis Abdominis. Dissection. Make a horizontal section of the internal oblique ; 2. Dissect with care the two flaps of this muscle, following the direction of the fibres of the transversalis; 3. In order to obtain a good view of the costal attach- ments, open the abdomen and examine them on the inner surface of the ribs this may be omitted until the diaphragm is to be inspected. The transversalis abdominis, so named from the direction of its fibres, is situated more deeply than the two preceding muscles, and like them is irre- gularly quadrilateral (,b,fig. 110.). Attachments. It arises from the six lower ribs, from the anterior three- fourths of the internal lip of the crest of the ilium, and from the spinous and transverse processes of the lumbar vertebra;. It is inserted into the linea alba by means of the deep layer of the anterior abdominal aponeurosis. The costal attachments consist of fleshy digitations interposed between those of the dia-