538 SPLANCHNOLOGY. is situated below and behind the great cul-de-sac of the stomach, and not to the lett ot It; and it becomes horizontal instead of beine vertical, as when the stomach is empty. Structure. Besides two investing membranes, one serous, the other fi- brous *, the spleen consists of cells having fibrous parietes, and filled with a grumous fluid t of the colour of port wine dregs, of certain corpuscules not very distinct in the human subject, of a very large artery and still larger vein and of lymphatic vessels and nerves. ' The serous or peritoneal coat invests the whole spleen with the exception of the hilus, which corresponds to the gastro-splenic omentum. It gives a smooth appearance to the spleen, lubricates its surface, and, at the same time, fixes it to the neighbouring parts by the bands which it forms. Its internal surface adheres closely to the fibrous membrane. The proper coat of the spleen forms a sort of fibrous shell, which is strong notwithstanding its tenuity and transparency. This membrane is the seat of those cartilaginous plates which are so often found upon its surface, and which conceal its true colour. It is intimately united to the peritoneal membrane by its outer surface, and adheres still more closely by its inner surface to the tissue of the spleen by means of exceedingly numerous and dense fibrous pro- longations, which penetrate it in all directions, and interlace in every way, so as to form areolae or cells, the arrangement of which we shall hereafter examine. Further, the proper coat is not perforated at the hilus for the passage of the vessels ; but by an arrangement similar to that already no- ticed in the liver, it is reflected around the vessels opposite the hilus, like the capsule of Glisson, and is prolonged upon both the arteries and veins, forming sheaths which divide and subdivide like the vessels themselves, and receive the prolongations given off from the inner surface of the proper coat. This arrangement has been very well described by Delasonne (^M6m. Acad, des Sciences, 1754), and especially by Dupuytren (These de M. Assolant). It follows, therefore, that the basis of the spleen is composed of a fibrous struc- ture, consisting of an investing fibrous membrane, of fibrous sheaths which accompany the vessels in their divisions and subdivisions even to their ter- minations, and of prolongations arising from the inner surface of the mem- brane, interlacing in all directions, and attached to the outer surface of the sheaths. % The internal framework of the spleen is, therefore, an areolar tissue, which may be very well displayed by washing away the pulpy matter of this viscus by means of a stream of water; there will then remain a whitish areolar and spongy tissue. This is also very clearly shown by injecting it either with mercury or some coloured liquid, or even by inflating it with air blown through a puncture. The coats are then raised in different places, and after desic- cation the areolar structure becomes evident. This experiment also shows that the spleen is divided into a number of compartments, for without rupture only a small portion of the organ can be injected in this way. It appears then that the proper tissue of the spleen is composed of an areolar fibrous network and of a pultaceous matter, of the colour of port wine lees, — the splenic juice or matter, regarded by the ancients as one of the fundamental humours of the body called atra bills, and which modern chemists have not yet sufliciently examined. We have now to determine the arrangement of the cells, and the relation between these cells and the arteries, veins, and nerves. The splenic artery. No organ of so small a size, receives so large an ar- * See note, infra. t See note, p. 539. . I [This basis or framework is more or less developed in the different species of animals: it is much stronger in the horse than in the ox. The proper coat of the spleen, together with the sheaths for the vessels, and the prolongations or trabecula; given off from it, are highly elastic, and are generally stated to consist of yellow elastic tissue, not of ordmary fibrous tissue.]