634 SPLANCHNOLOGY. plicature for it; so that the kidney and the colon are in immediate relation. Still the left lumhar colon is not unfrequently entirely surrounded by the peritoneum, so as to have a duplicature behind it, caUed the left lumbar meso- colon. Along the whole course of the great intestine, the peritoneum usually forms a number of small folds containing fat, and named the appendices epiploicce. On the right side the peritoneum arrives at the cajcum, and may be arranged in one of two modes; it either entirely invests that portion of intestine, which is then very moveable; or else, and thiis is the most common arrangement, it passes immediately in front of the caacum, which is thus applied against the right iliac fossa, and is attached there by rather loose cellular tissue. The peritoneum sometimes foi-ms a small mesentery for the vermiform appendix, sometimes fixes it against the posterior surface of the caacum, or against the ileum, or lastly against the lower portion of the mesentery. Above the csecum the peritoneum covers the right lumbar colon, and has the same arrangements as on the left side. Such is the course of the sub-umbilical portion of the peritoneum. The superior or supra-umbilical portion of the peritoneum. We shaU trace the superior or supra-umbilical portion from the umbilicus ito the posterior wall of the abdomen, opposite to the mesentery and the lumbar mesocolon, to which points we have already traced the lower portion. Commencing at the umbilicus and proceeding upwards, the peritoneum (e) lines the anterior abdominal parietes ; on the right side it meets with the umbilical vein, or the fibrous cord to which that vein is reduced in the adult, covers it, and forms a falciform duplicature, named the suspensory ligament of the liver, or falx of the umbilical vein; this fold is of a triangular shape, its apex corresponds with the umbilicus, and its base with the upper surface of the liver, which is divided by it into two lateral portions or lobes.* From the umbilicus then, as from a centre, proceed four peritoneal folds, one superior or ascending for the umbilical vein, and three descending, one for the urachus and two for the umbilical arteries. From the anterior waU of the abdomen, the peritoneum is continued upon the lower surface of the diaphragm (/), and is arranged differently on the right and left sides and in the middle. ^ TJie right-or splenic portion. The peritoneum, after having lined the lower surface of the diaphragm as far as the vertebral column, is reflected upon the posterior surface of the vascular pedicle of the spleen, covers the posterior half of the internal surface of that organ, its posterior border, the whole of its ex- ternal surface, the anterior half of its internal surface, and the anterior surface of its vascular pedicle, from which it is prolonged upon the great end of the stomach, and becomes continuous with the anterior layer of the great omentum. The two layers which are applied to each other, one in front of and the other behind the vessels of the spleen, constitute the gastro-splenic omentum. Below the spleen, the peritoneum forms a horizontal fold, or septum, by which that organ is separated from the viscera below it. The middle or gastro-epiploic portion. In the middle the peritoneum lines the lower surface of the diaphragm, as far back as the cardiac extremity of the oesophagus, is reflected over the anterior surface of the stomach (s), and descends into the abdomen in front of the arch of the colon and the convolutions of the small intestine to form the anterior layer (n) of the great omentum. After descending towards the lower part of the abdomen for a distance, which varies in difi'erent individuals and at difi'erent ages, it is folded back- wards upon itself, and passes upwards to form the posterior layer (o) of the qreat omentum. Having arrived at the convex border of the arch of the colon (c) it covers the lower surface of that intestine, and passes horizontally backwards (5) to the anterior surface of the vertebral column, in front of * [Its lower free margin incloses the urafcilical vein, anU its upper or anterior border is at- tacliud to tlie abdomiual parietes.]