THE PENIS. mist is intended to compress the dorsal veins of the penis* in man and otlier SaJs but it is evident, on the one hand, that it cannot compress the veins of SVenis and on the other, as M. Lenoir has pointed out, that the dorsal veins of the penis ai-e cutaneous veins, .vhich do not communicate with those "'JlS" BeToTr-Lbo-cavernosus corresponds with the dartos, ft-om which Wsseparated by the superficial perineal fascia by a very thin layer of fat and by a proper fibrous sheath. Above, it is in relation with the bulb of the urethr^ which it embraces, Uke a contractJe sheath, resembhng the sheath around the stems of grasses. The inner border ^on muous with the muscle of the opposite side; so that, at first sight, it might be thought that there is but one bulbo-cavernosus.. i,, Uses Its attachment to the inner side of the corpus cavernosum enables it to separate the lower waU of that body from the upper, and consequently to induce the entrance of the blood. It therefore contributes powerfully to erec tion. On the other hand, by compressing the urethra, it accelerates the ex- pulsion of the urine and semen. The Pubio-iireihralia. This muscle, known also as the muscle of Wilson, because it was described by that anatomist, may be regarded as the continuation of the levator am. The two muscles arise from the middle of the sub-pubic arch, and descend first upon the sides and then on the lower surface of the membranous portion of the urethra, which they surround as in a ring. They are situated behind the triangular ligament, or deep perineal fascia.% When spasmodicaUy contracted, it is said that they may arrest the point of a catheter. » rXhe cotnpressores vena? dorsalis penis, according to Houston {Dublin Hasp. Reports, vol V ) arise from the rami of tlie pubes above the erectores penis and the crura ot the corpus cavernosum, expand into a thin layer, pass upwards, inwards, and forwards, and unite in a common tendinous band over the dorsal vein. They are separated by the crura from the erec- tores penis, of which muscles, he says, they might otherwise be regarded as portions ; the an- terior layer of the triangular ligament and the pudic artery are interposed between them and the muscles of Wilson.] . , ... ^ j t. i, i . xt t Dissertation sur quelques Points d'Anatomie, de Physiologie, et de Pathologic, No. cccxv. 1833 [The dorsal veins return the greater part of the blood from the glans penis and corpus spongiosum, as well as the skin, and are also joined by brandies from the corpus cavernosum. (See M. Cruveilhier's own description of these veins ; Angeiology.)] t [In the description of the muscles given by Wilson himsell (Med. Chir. Tram. vol. i. pp. 176, 177.), it is stated, that "the line of tendon connecting the two bellies of these muscles is in, ceneral very distinctly seen running from the apex of the prostate gland, along the under sur- face of the membranous portion of the urethra, until it enters the corpus spongiosum penis." From this it would appear, that the muscles discovered by him are placed between the two layers of the ligament, not behind its posterior layer. On the same plane with Wilson's muscles, i. e. between the layers of the ligament, are situ- ated two small transverse muscles, which arise, one on each side, by broad thin tendons, from the rami of the ischia, near their junction with those of the ossa pubis, immediately above the crura penis and their erector muscles; from thence the fleshy fibres pass transversely inwards and upwards, and are inserted along the median line of the upper and under surface of the membranous portion the urethra by means of two tendinous structures ; which extend, one above the urethra, from the fascia covering the prostate to the union of the crura penis in front of the triangular ligament, and the other below that canal, from the fascia on the prostate to the central point of the perineum: to this tendinous structure the vertical muscles of Wilson are also attached. The pudic arteries run either above or below these transverse muscles, the lower fibres of which pass below Cowper's glands, i. e. more superficially, when viewed from the perineum. These transverse muscles are described and figured by Santorini (Observ. Anat. ex. \ viii. t. 3. fig. 5.; also Septemdccim Tabula:, 1.16. fig. 1.), who states, however, that they are at- tached only to the lower surface of the urethra, behind the bulb ; he named them elevatores urethras, or ejaculatores. It has been recently shown by Mr. Guthrie {Land. Med. and Surg. Journ. 1833, pp. 491, 492. ; also. On the Anatmny and Diseases of the Neck of the Bladder and of the Urethra, 1834, p. 34. &c.) that the transverse muscles of Santorini are inserted, as already described, both above and below the urethra; and that the vertical muscles of Wilson are blended with them at their insertions: he therefore proposes to regard them as one muscle^ which has been termed the compressor urethrte.] VOL. I. R B