387 GENERAL REMARKS ON THE APONEUROSES. c c 2 with the suhcutaneous cellular tissue, from -which it is separated by the super- ficial veins, lymphatics, and nerves. The skin is therefore moveable upon these aponeuroses, excepting in some situations, as in the palms of the hands and soles of the feet, where it is intimately united to the fascia by prolongations from the inner surface of the cutis. What, indeed, would be the consequences with regard to the sense of touch, or in the attitude of standing, if the skm over those regions were as moveable as it is upon the thigh ? The same ad- hesion is also observed between the hairy scalp and the subjacent aponeurosis. The mobility of the skin upon the aponeuroses depends upon the following contrivance. From the inner surface of the skin are given off a great number of prolongations, which, having intercepted the areolffi containing the adipose tissue, unite together and expand into a membrane, which glides over the apo- neuroses and the superficial vessels and nerves: the subcutaneous membrane thus formed bears the name of the fascia superficialis: it is only distinctly seen in regions that are traversed by superficial vessels and nerves, as in the lower part of the abdomen, and on the extremities. 2. The deep surface of a general investing aponeurosis presents fibrous pro- longations passing between the different layers of muscles, and even between the muscles of which these layers are composed. Moreover, this surface and its several prolongations sometimes afford attachments to the superficial muscles, and sometimes it glides over the muscles and their tendons by means of a very loose filamentous cellular tissue—an arrangement that prevails throughout the greater part of the extent of this surface. Lastly, amidst aU these sheaths for the muscles, there exists a proper sheath for the principal vessels of the extremities. These aponeui'otic sheaths are not so exactly moulded upon the muscles as not to admit of the accumulation of a certain quantity of fat in their interior; nevertheless, their capacity is so far proportioned to the size of the muscles, that the latter, during their contraction, experience a degree of pressure from them which is highly favourable to their action, at the same time that it prevents aU displacement. In emaciated individuals these sheaths are no longer filled by their respec- tive muscles; and, without doubt, the want of a due compression upon the muscles has some influence in producing the weakness experienced by con- valescents, or by those wasted by some chronic disease. 3. The borders or circumferences of aponeuroses, incorrectly named their origin and termination, are either continuous with the aponeuroses of the ad- jacent regions, or are attached to the processes on the articular extremities of the bones, or result, in part, from the expansion of tendons. The aponeuroses are perforated by vessels and nerves, which, in such cases, are guided and protected by arches, rings, or canals of fibrous tissue : of this nature are the sheaths of the femoral artery and vein, and of the brachial artery and veins, the femoral arch, the canal and arch of the adductor muscles of the thigh, the arch of the obturator foramen, and the aortic arch of the dia- phragm ; these canals and arches tend to prevent any injury to the vessels and nerves by which they are traversed during the contraction of the muscles. We must not suppose, however, that the vessels are exempt from all pressure; for experience has proved that arteries are particularly liable to become affected with aneurism in the neighbourhood of such arches; as, for example, the po- pliteal and femoral arteries and the aorta. The muscular fibres, in fact, are not attached to these arches in such a manner as to dilate them in all direc- tions during their contraction, but rather in such a way as to elongate them in one direction and contract them in another. All the aponeuroses, whether of insertion or of investment, have their ten- sor muscle. With regard to the aponeuroses of insertion, this requires no proof; for the action of the muscle or muscles to which they afford attach- ment must necessarily render them tense. It is no less true, however, of the mvestmg aponeuroses, some of which have even a separate muscle for this purpose. Thus the occipital and frontal muscles are tensors of the occipito-