THE PANCREAS. 531 5. The tissue of the liver of the fcetus is of a pale red colour in the early periods, and of a deep brown near the full term of pregnancy; its colour be- comes lighter after birth. The liver contains a greater quantity of blood before than after birth. Its tissue is the less consistent, the earlier the stage of developement at which we examine it, and its softness is accompanied with great fragility. 6. The distinction between what are called the two substances of the liver is not appreciable during intra-uterine life. It only becomes apparent after birth. Functions. The liver is the secreting organ of the bile. The bile is secreted in the glandular granules by an unknown process. Doubts are still entertained as to whether the materials from which the secretion is formed are conveyed by the hepatic artery or the vena portse.* The opinion advanced by some modern authors, that the yeUow substance of the liver is the only part con- cerned in the secretion of the bile, and that the brown substance has other uses, is a purely gratuitous hypothesis. The bile traverses the several ramifications of the hepatic duct, and having arrived in the principal duct, it may either enter directly into the 'duodenum by the ductus choledochus, or it may pass into the gaU bladder by the cystic duct. This retrograde movement towards the gall bladder has much occupied the attention of physiologists: perhaps it may be explained by the narrowness of the duodenal orifice of the ductus choledochus, by the elas- ticity of that canal, and especially by the pressure exercised on its duodenal portion by the circular fibres of the duodenum. The gall bladder and the cys- tic duct are not indispensable to the elimination of the bile. Nothing is more common than to find the excretory apparatus of the liver in old subjects reduced to the hepatic duct and the ductus choledochus. Has the liver any other function besides that of secreting bile ? The dis- proportion existing between the size of that organ and of its excretory appa- ratus, and also the enormous bulk of the liver during foetal life, i. e. at a time when the secretion of bile is at its minimum of activity, are both in favour of the opinion that the liver has some additional function ; and if agam we consider that in the adult a very important system of veins is dis- tributed to the liver, and that in the foetus it receives the blood from the veins of the foetal portion of the placenta, we shall be led to presume that the un- known functions of this organ are in some way connected with the process of sanguification. The Pancreas. Dissection. The pancreas may be seen, through the gastro-hepatic omentum, after drawing down the stomach, without any dissection. In order to expose it turn the stomach upwards (see^?^. 154.), after having divided the two layers of peritoneum which proceed from its greater curvature to form the great omentum It may also be exposed by turning the arch of the colon upwtrds, and dividing the inferior layer of the transverse mesocolon. The excretorv duct IS situated m the mterior of the organ. In order to dissect it, the glandular substance which covers it must be very carefully removed, towards the middle and the right extremity of the gland. It may be injecied from the ductus choledochus, after the vertical portion of the duodenum has been in- cluded between two ligatures: when the duodenum is filled with the injection he pancreatic duct becomes filled in its turn. It may also be injected from t lT^' choledochus after having passed a ligature round the projectron or ampulla which is common to the two ducts "jci-uon The partcreas (,rav-«pe'as, all flesh) is a glandular organ annexed to the artery is only indirccll;/ concerned, i. e. after it has XrdPri nntriHnn ti^ i °^ '"'P»"<-" of the liver, and has entered the branche's'l^ Jl'^vl.^fjonlrand thus be^'o^'^taT'ul Ji^rf^