ARTICULATIONS OF THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. 155 superficial arc the longest. The deepest pass from one vertebra to the next, the superficial stretch over four or five vertebrae. ^x,- ^ , Posterior common vertebral ligament {a. Jig. 69.). This is thicker han the anterior, but has the same ^vhite pearly appearance. It commences at the occi- pital bone, and terminates at the sacrum. It resembles a fibrous band, which expands at the intervertebral sub- stances, and is contracted over the bodies of the vertebrae ; hence it has a regular festooned appearance. Its poste- rior surface is united to the dura mater at its upper part, but is separated from it by a delicate cellular tissue ~- throughout the rest of its extent. Its anterior surface ad- ■ heres intimately to the intervertebral substances; it is separated from the middle of the bodies of the vertebra by the veins, -which pass from the interior of the bone into the vertebral venous sinuses -which run along the edges of the ligament. Like the anterior common ver- tebral ligament, it is composed of several planes of fibres, the posterior of -which are the longest. It is formed of more compact tissue than the anterior. 2. The intervertebral substance or interosseous ligament {b,figs. 58, 59, 60. and 68.) consists of a kind of disc, -which fills up the lenticular space between the bodies of the vertebra, and might with propriety be called intervertebral disc. Each disc has the form of a double convex lens, and is so closely united by its upper and under surfaces to the corresponding vertebrae, that it is easier to break the bones than to destroy this connection. Its circumference adheres to the anterior and posterior common ligaments, and contributes to form the interver- tebral foramina. In the dorsal region it also fonns part of the angular facette which articulates with the ribs. The thickness of the intervertebral substance is not the same in all the regions of the spinal column, being greatest at the lower parts. The proportion between the thickness of the discs and the bodies of the vertebra; is not the same in all the regions. In the lumbar region the thickness of the disc is half that of the corresponding vertebrae ; in the dorsal region it is a third ; and in the cervical region it is a little more than a half. * The intervertebral substance is not equally thick throughout. From its lenticular form it must be thicker in the centre than at the circumference ; in the neck and in the loins it is thicker in front than behind ; in the back the opposite prevails, and by this inequality the discs concur in producing the al- ternate curves of the vertebral column. Abnormal curvatures are in a great measure caused by unequal thickness of these discs, and I have often had oppor- tunities to convince myself that compression of this substance on the side towards which the inclination takes place is the most common origin of the deformity. The thickness of the discs varies in different circumstances. Thus, after pro- longed standing in the erect posture, the height of the body becomes diminished from eight to ten lines, which is owing to compression of the intervertebral sub- stances. Each disc is composed of concentric layers 60. and 68.) closely pressed together at the circumference, but more separate towards the centre, where we find a soft spongy substance, moistened by a viscid fluid resembling synovia. This soft substance is nearer the posterior than the anterior aspect of the body of the vertebra; it escapes, and forms as it were, a heniia, when the parts are cut either horizontally or vertically. It varies much at different ages. It is moist, soft, spongy, and white in the infant and in youth, which accords -with the suppleness of the vertebral column at that period of life. At this time, also, we may inflate an irregular cellular cavity in it, which may be regarded as the rudiment of the large synovial cavity which these pans » A curious preparation may be m.ide, by taking away all the bodies of the vertebra; in a epuie softened by nitric acid. A column then remains, formed by the series of discs which may be compared with a column formed by the bodies of the vertebra;