588 SPLANCHNOLOGY. pelvis, and entered the cavity of the abdomen: its axis then exactly corre- sponds with that of the brim of the pelvis ; i. e. it is directed from the umbilicus to the lower part of the curvature of the sacrum. It has been said since the time of Celsus, that the upper part of the bladder is a little inclined to the left side, but I have not observed this. Shape. The bladder is ovoid, the great end being directed downwards, and the smaller upwards. Its shape diflFers according to age and sex, and in dif- ferent individuals. The sexual differences are not congenital; they seem to result from the pressure to which the female bladder is subjected during preg- nancy ; but the transverse enlargement and the vertical shortening of the bladder in a female who has borne children are not so weU marked as is generally said. Relations. In determining these, the bladder is divided into \he fundus, which is the highest and the narrowest part; the body, or middle portion, and the base, which is the lowest and the broadest portion. It has, moreover, like all hollow organs, an external and an internal surface. The external surface of the bladder is convex, and presents six regions 'for our consideration; the relations of which we shall now study, both in the col- lapsed and distended condition of the viscus. The anterior region, not covered by the peritoneum, is in relation with the symphysis and bodies of the ossa pubis, and with the internal obturator muscles, with which parts it is connected by a very loose serous cellular tissue, in stout persons more or less loaded with fat. Some fibrous bundles pass from the lower part of this region, and are at- tached to the sides of the symphysis ; they are called the anterior ligaments of the bladder, and are traversed by numerous veins ; they are a dependence of the superior pelvic aponeurosis {q,fig. 181.). (Vide Aponeukology.) In the female, on account of the absence of the prostate, the anterior region of the bladder passes below the symphysis, and advantage may be taken of this circumstance in the extraction of calculi. When the bladder is full, its anterior region cor- responds immediately with the parietes of the abdomen, and sometimes rises as high as the umbilicus. The practical conclusions to be derived from these relations refer to the examination of the bladder in the hypogastrium, to punc- ture of this organ in the same situation, to the high operation for stone, to the operation of dividing the symphysis, and lastly, to ruptui-es of the bladder in consequence of fracture of the pubes.* The posterior region of the bladder is covered by the peritoneum (a) throughout the whole of its extent; in the male it corresponds with the rectum (o), and in the female with the uterus. Some convolutious of the small intestine almost always intervene between the bladder and those parts. The lateral regions are also covered by the peritoneum; and passing upon each of them are found the umbilical artery in the foetus, and subsequently the ligament by which it is replaced, and also the vas deferens (<) in the male. When the bladder is perfectly contracted, there is some distance between it and that vessel and duct on either side. The relations of the lower region or base of the bladder, which are aU very important, differ in the two sexes. In the male it corresponds to the rectum, from which it is separated on either side in front by the vesicula seminalis (s) and the vas deferens, {t ) The only part in direct relation with the rectum is therefore the triangular space {fig. 186 ) comprised between the vesiculae (s s') and the vasa deferentia (/ /') of the two sides. It is of importance to remark, that the peritoneum, where it is re- flected from the rectum upon the posterior region of the bladder, forms a more or less deep cul-de-sac in the middle, and two smaU folds on the sides which have been improperly named the posterior ligaments of the bladder. W hen the bladder is much contracted, the peritoneum covers the whole of the space be- tween the vesicula: and the vasa deferentia; so that, properly speakmg, there is » \t has pven been nroposed to puncture the bladder through the symphysis, by means of a flattened troca? rbutrafficulty of coming exactly upon the symphysis w.U probably prevent the execution of this plan.