SPLANCHNOLOGY. hind by the cornicula laryngis, and by the summits of the arytenoid cartilaees (.a;, and the deep notch between them. The superior orifice is the widest part of the larynx, and admits foreign bodies which cannot pass through its lower portion. The epiglottis when de- pressed generally covers it completely, and may even overlap it at the sides. The inferior circumference of the larynx is perfectly circular, is formed by the cricoid cartilage, and is continuous with the trachea. Tlie mucous membrane and glands of the larynx. The mucous membrane of the larynx is a continuation of that of the mouth and pharynx. The larynx presents the only example in the body of an organ, part of whose external surface, namely the posterior, is covered with mucous membrane; and this de- pends upon the circumstance of its forming part of the parietes of the pharynx. The mucous membrane is disposed in the following manner: From the base of the tongue it is reflected upon the anterior surface of the epiglottis, forming the three glosso-epiglottid folds already described, one in the middle and one on each side; it adheres pretty closely to the epiglottis, is reflected over its free margin, covers its posterior surface, and penetrates into the larynx; on each side it passes from the epiglottis to the arytenoid cartilages, and becomes continuous with the pharyngeal mucous membrane, which covers the back of the larynx. At the superior orifice of the larynx it is reflected upon itself to form the aryteno-epiglottid folds, which con- stitute the sides of the supra-glottid region of the larynx ; it then covers the superior vocal cord, and lines the ventricle, sending a prolongation into its sup- plementary cavity. In the ventricle it is remarkable for its slight adhesion to the subjacent parts. It is reflected from the ventricle upon the inferior vocal cord ; there, as well as opposite the superior cord, it is so thin, that it does not conceal the pearly appearance of the ligament beneath, to which it adheres so closely that it is ditficult to separate them. Lastly, it covers the internal sur- face of the cricoid cartilage, and the middle and lateral crico-thyroid mem- branes. The laryngeal mucous membrane is characterised by its tenuity, its adhe- sion to the parts beneath it, and by its pale pink colour.* It is perforated by the openings of a number of mucous glands. Its extreme sensibility, espe- cially at the upper orifice and in the supra-glottid portion of the larynx, is well- known.f The aryteno-epiglottid folds, which include the ligaments of the same name, and some muscular fibres in the larger animals, are remarkable for the great quantity of very loose cellular tissue which they contain ; this fact explains their liability to a serous infiltration, called oedema of the glottis, which proves rapidly fatal. The glands of the larynx. The glands of the larynx are the epiglottid and the arytenoid. The thyroid gland, or body, cannot be considered as belonging to the larynx ; if it belongs to any organ, it must be to the trachea. The epiglottid glands. The name of epiglottid gland is generally given to the fatty mass already described as being situated between the thyroid carti- lage and the epiglottis ; and it has even been asserted that it opens by special ducts on the posterior surface of the epiglottis. But there is no other epiglottid gland, besides those situated in the substance of the epiglottis, which is perfor- ated with innumerable holes for their reception: these small glands are so numerous, that Morgagni (Advers. i. 2.; v. 68.) regarded them as forming a single gland; they aU open upon the laryngeal surface of the epiglottis by * TThe epithelium of the laryngeal mucous membrane is, in the greater p^t of its extent, columnar and ciliated. The cilia urge the secretion upwards ; according to Dr. Henle, they extend higher up in front than on each side and behind ; on the sides, for example as high as the border of the superior vocal cords, or about two lines above them, and ra front upon the posterior surface of the epiglottis, as high as its base or widest portion. Above these points the epithelium gradually assumes the laminated form, like that in t>e -"""'h P'>;Y^",VLp, .up t It has been observed, in experiments upon aninials and in introducing the canula after the operation of laryngotomy, that the sensibility of the mucous membrane beyond the glottis is much less acute.