QENERAL VIEW OF THE HUMAN BODY. 5 B 3 J»arts of their course certain greyish bodies, c&Meii. lymphatic ganglions or glands, and finally terminate in the -venous system.. C. The venous system arises from all parts of the body: it takes up on the one hand all those matters which, having been employed a sufiicient time as part of the body, must be eliminated from it, and, on the other hand, all those substances which are carried into the system, to contribute to its reparation: it is composed of vessels denominated veins, -which at various distances are pro- vided with valves, and at last unite in forming two large veins called vena cava, of which one, the superior, receives the blood from the upper part of the body ; the other, the inferior, brings back that which has ckculated in the lower portion. These two vense cavte terminate in the central organ of the circulation — heart, a hollow muscle, containing four contractile cavities : two on the right side, the right auricle and ventricle; and two on the left, the left auricle and ventricle, D. Next to these in order of function is the respiratory apparatus composed of two spongy sacs placed on each side of the heart, and occupying almost the whole of the chest: these are the lungs. They receive the air from a common tube, the trachea, which is surmounted by a vibratile organ, the larynx, which opens externally by the nose and mouth, and constitutes the organ of voice. £. From that ca-vdty of the heart which is called the left ventricle, arises a large vessel, the aorta : this forms the principal and primitive trunk of the whole class of vessels, named arteries, whose office it is to convey red blood to aU parts of the body, to maintain their heat and life. F. There still remains one other portion of the nutritive system — the uri- nary apparatus, consisting of, 1. The kidneys, organs which secrete the urine: 2. The ureters, by means of which the urine, as soon as secreted, passes off into a spacious receptacle, the bladder, from whence it is at intervals expelled along a passage which has received the name of urethra. Apparatus- of reproduction. The apparatus above mentioned is destined for individual preservation: the organs which secure the continuance of the species constitute the generative or reproductive apparatus. They differ in the male and in the female. In the male they are, 1. The testicles, ■which prepare the spermatic or fecun- dating fluid; 2. The vasa deferentia, tubes -which transmit this fluid from the • testicle where it is secreted to the vesiculse seminales, 3. The vesicula seminales, or receptacles of semen; 4. The ejaculatory ducts, through which the seminal fluid passes into the urethra; 5. The prostate and Cowper's glands, glandular appendages of the organs for the transmission of the semen; 6. Tlie penis, by means of which the fecundating fluid is conveyed into the interior of the geni- tal organs of the female. The generative apparatus in the female is composed of the following organs : 1. The ovaries, the function of which is to produce, or keep in readiness, the ovulum or germ ; 2. The uterine tubes, which transmit the genn when fecun- dated to the uterus ; 3. The uterus or womb, in which the product of conception remains and is developed during the period of gestation; 4. The vagina, a canal -which permits the passage of the foetus at its final expulsion; 5. As ap- pertammg to the system should be mentioned the mammary glands, which se- crete the milk destined for the nourishment of the new-born infant. Generai, Plan of the Work. There are two methods by which the numerous facts that come within the range ot anatomy may be explained. The different organs may be studied in men- order of superposition or in the topographic order, a. capite ad calcem; in mis way the most dissimilar parts are brought together, while others are se- E 1 ■ greatest analogy; or they may be considered in a phy- cS&cLZt'V^ T '"■der founded upon the same grounds as serve for the ciassihcation of functions. This is clearly the most rational, because it has the