SPLANCHNOLOGY. membrane. Diseases are sometimes observed to stop at the Une of separa- tion. We may add, that the folds upon the internal surface of the stomach are termed by the mucous membrane alone, the fibrous coat does not enter into them. Besides these folds, the mucous membrane presents numerous slight and tor- tuous/«?to«;s, dividing it into smaU spaces or compartments, which are either lozenge shaped, hexagonal, polygonal, circular, oblong, or irregular. Examined by the naked eye, the mucous membrane has a soft, spongy, to- mentose, or velvety appearance ; hence the name of villous or velvet-like mem- brane, by which it is still generally known. It is covered by a layer of mucus of variable thickness, which may be detached by friction with a coarse cloth. In order to avoid the inconveniences arising from this method, which is more or less injurious to the texture of the membrane, I have been accustomed to use a gentle stream of water, which at the same time that it completely washes away the mucus', clearly displays the papillary structure of the surface of the membrane. There are some stomachs which might be called granular or glandular, be- cause the mucous membrane has a granular appearance, so that at first sight it might be imagined that some small glandular bodies (like the salivary glands) were scattered over the internal surface of the stomach; but this glandular as- pect is merely apparent, depending upon the circular or semicircular direction of the furrows in the mucous membrane, which give a spheroidal character to the kind of islets that are intercepted between them. This granular appearance is seldom observed over the entire stomach; it rarely exists at the great ex- tremity. I have found it limited to the great curvature ; most frequently it occurs in the vicinity of the pylorus ; sometimes it is observed over all that part of the stomach which is to the right of the ossophagus. These granula- tions are particularly developed in the stomach of the pig. There is one remark upon which too much importance cannot be placed; and that is, the difference in the appearance of the mucous membrane of the great extremity of the stomach, and of the part situated to the right of the oesophagus. Sometimes the line of separation forms a perfect circle ; and this is a very remarkable fact, because in man, who has a single stomach, it may be considered as a rudiment of the division into the compound stomachs found in the lower animals ; for a multiple stomach results rather from some dif- ference in the structure of the mucous membrane, than from the existence of different compartments or distinct cavities. It will not be uninteresting to connect this remark, with what has been already stated regarding bilocular stomachs. We shall now examine the characters of the mucous membrane in the aso- phageal and in the pyloric portion of the stomach. In the oesophageal portion it is thinner, softer, and more vascular, and can only be separated in flakes from the subjacent parts. When the stomach con- tains any liquid after death, this part is converted into a sort of pulp, which becomes of a blackish colour from the action of the acids in the gastric fluid upon the blood contained in the vessels of the stomach. This is the vultaceous softening, which I regard as a post mortem change, but which has been erro- neously confounded with the gelatiniform softening. The second portion of the mucous membrane, i. e. the part situated to the right of the oesophagus, is thicker, stronger, and whiter, and may be separated entire from the other coats. Diseases often observe the line of separation between the right and the left portions of the stomach. Modem pathologists having attached great importance to the condition of the gastric mucous membrane, it has become highly interesting to determine its characters in the healthy state; these characters relate to its colour, its con- sistence, and its thickness. Colour. It is extremely difiicult to determine what is the natural colour oj this mucous membrane. The opinion generally maintained by tlie best author-