AUTHOR S PREFACE. concludeil by an examination of its relations to neighbouring parts, and of its uses. The individual or combined action of the muscles, for the pro- duction of simple movements, follows so naturally after their description, and presupposes so correct and positive a knowledge of their anatomy, that it can be treated of with propriety only in a work on anatomy. The com- pound movements necessary for the consecutive or simultaneous action of a great number of muscles come within the province of physiology. 2. The aponeuroses, those important appendages of the muscular system, are separately noticed, in connection with the muscles to which they be- long ; but I have also described them together under the head of Aponeu- rology. This combination of analogous parts possesses the twofold advan- tage of simpUfying the science, by enabUng one part to elucidate the structure of another, and of permitting us to discover the general laws according to ■which these structm-es are disposed. 3. With some modification, I have adopted that old division of anatomy, which treats of the viscera and organs, and which is known by the name of Splanchnology. The brain and the organs of the senses, which were included in this division in all anatomical works preceding those of Soemmering and Bichat, have been removed from it, and described with the other portions of the nervous system. The description of the heart, in like manner, will be found with that of the other organs of cii-culation. In short, the old classification of the viscera, according to their locality, that is, into those of the head, the neck, the chest, &c. has been replaced by a more physio- logical arrangement. Splanchnology will therefore comprehend a de- scription of the organs of digestion and their appendages, of the organs of respiration (among which is included the larynx, or the organ of voice), and lasilu., the genito-urinary organs. . To the inquiry, why I have departed from the usual custom ot placing splanchnolosy at the end of anatomy, I reply that, in order to study, with advantage, the vessels and the nerves, it is necessary to have a pre- vious acquaintance with the organs to which they are distributed. The importance of the parts described in this division, and the practical results which flow from even the most superficial knowledge of then-forms, connections, and inthnate structure, are at once my reason and excuse tor extending, to so great a length, this portion of the work ; and, moreover, it is necessary to state, that there are many medical practitioners who learn anatomy only from elementary works. , . , • »u„ The third and the last division treats of the organs of arculation,\u. tue heart, arteries, veins, and lymphatics ; and of the sensory apparatus, viz. the organs of the senses, the brain, and the nerves. , , . • 1 No part of anatomy, perhaps, has been better known than the arteries, since the appearance of Haller's admirable works ; I could neither have followed a better guide nor a more perfect model. „ „f imnort 2 The studv of the veim has acquired an unexpected degree ot import- ance in consequence of the works of various physicians on phlebitis ; and oir'knowkd'? of them has been much ex/ended by the researches of XDupvl^tren into the veins of the spine, and the excellent plates of this '''t^::^SS^>piJt^^^^o. abandoned since thevery reiSable pKicltioifs 'of Mascagni: I have endeavoured to a^^^^^^^^^^ u.,t ^r^rlif WW to be -nven to the assertions ot some moc ein \\ iiteis, rotlnrng th: frequent communication between the veins and the lymph- atics.