THE EXTENSOR PROPRIUS POLLICIS. 365 the metatarsal phalangal articulations, apply themselves to the inner edges of the corresponding tendons of the extensor hrevis, receive some expansions from the interossei and lumbricales, and are arranged in precisely the same manner as the extensor tendons of the fingers, forming a fibrous sheath on the dorsal surface of the first phalanx of the toes; and like these, havmg arrived at the articulations of the first with the second phalanges, each divides into three portions; one median attached to the posterior extremity of the second pha- lanx, and two lateral, which unite upon the dorsal surface of the second pha- lanx to be inserted into the posterior extremity of the third. Relatims. InternaUy this muscle is in relation with the tibiahs anticus, from which it is soon separated by the extensor proprius pollicis, and exter- naUy with the peroneus longus and brevis. It is covered by the fasciae of the leg and foot, and it covers the fibula, the interosseous ligament, the ankle joint, the extensor brevis digitorum, which separates it from the tarsus and metatarsus: lastly it covers the toes. Action. As in all reflected muscles, we must suppose the power to be exerted immediately after its reflexion, and in the direction of the reflected portion: in this way it will be seen, that it extends the third phalanges upon the second, and the second upon the first; and having produced this effect, it flexes the foot upon the leg. From its obliquity it also draws the toes out- wards, and turns the sole of the foot inwards. The Extensor Proprius Pollicis, The extensor proprius pollicis (rf, 128.) is an elongated, thin, flat muscle, placed in front of the leg, between the extensor longus digitorum, and the tibialis anticus. Attachments. It arises from the internal surface of the fibula, and slightly from the adjacent part of the interosseous ligament, within and behind the ex- tensor communis. This origin is situated at variable heights, but commonly not above the middle third of the leg. It is inserted into the posterior ex- tremity of the second phalanx of the great toe. The fleshy fibres arise di- rectly from the fibula and the interosseous ligament, and proceed at first vertically around, and then obliquely behind a tendon, which occupies the an- terior border of the muscle, and to which the fleshy fibres are aU attached in a sloping manner, like the barbs of a feather, as far down as below the proper sheath formed for it at the tarsus. From thence the tendon is re- flected at a right angle, proceeds obliquely and horizontally forwards and inwards upon the dorsum of the foot, passes along the dorsal surface of the first metatarsal bone and first phalanx of the great toe, to the latter of which it gives off a prolongation on each side, and is then inserted into the second phalanx. Rehtions. Internally, it is in relation with the tibialis anticus, from which it is separated behind by the anterior tibial nerve and vessels; and externally, with the extensor longus digitorum. Its anterior border, at first concealed between the preceding muscles, is soon situated immediately beneath the fascia, and during its contraction forms a projection, which it is important to know, because it serves as a guide in searching for the dorsal artery of the foot, which will always be found on the outer margin of the tendon: it may be called the muscle of the arteria dorsalis pedis. In the foot it crosses super- ficially to the extensor brevis digitorum. Action. It extends the second phalanx of the great toe upon the first, and that upon the metatarsus; when this is accomplished, it flexes the foot upon the leg. In consequence of its obliquity, it tends, like the preceding muscle, to turn the toes outwards, and slightly to elevate the inner border of the foot.