THE FEMORAL APONEUROSIS. 409 The external wall consists of the very strong sheath is, 136.) of the psoas anJmac^sT externally to this waU is situated the cmra nerve, a b>.nch o which perforates the sheath, and joins the vessels. Lowei down, the external wall is foiTued by the aponeurosis of the vastus internus. The Three Great Muscular Sheaths of the Femoral Aponeurosis. By means of the internal and external inter-muscular septa the muscles of the Interior region of the thigh are separated from those of the enor and internal regions; a weaker septum than the precedmg mtervenes between the muscles of the internal and posterior regions. It follows, then, that the femoral aponeurosis presents three great tendinous sheaths,-an anterior, an internal, and a posterior. . . ^ ^i, r.- „„ The great posterior sheath is undivided: it is common to the biceps, the semi-tendinosus and the semi-membrauosus. , n The great anterior and internal sheaths are subdivided into a number ot se- condary sheaths, inmost cases corresponding with the number of the muscles. The great anterior sheath. The sartorius has a proper sheath, remarkable for its prismatic and triangular form. The rectus femoris, or long head ol the triceps, is separated from the two vasti by a tendinous layer, very thin below, but strong above, and composed of vertical fibres. The tensor vaginse femoris is'contained in the strongest sheath m the human body, for it is formed by the fascia lata itself. The deep layer of this sheath is much thmner than the superficial; it commences at the anterior inferior spinous process of the ilium below the rectus, and may be regarded as the deep origin of the broad band in which the tensor vaginae femoris terminates : it is composed of vertical fibres, prolonged between the rectus and the vastus ex- ternus. Lastly, above and on the outside, we find the sheath of the psoas and iliacus (s'. Jig. 136.), which forms a continuation of the lumbo-iliac aponeurosis, or fascia iliaca. The great internal sheath furnishes a number of tendinous lamellae, which separate the different muscles of this region. Thus, there is a proper sheath for the gracilis, a common one for the pectineus and the adductor longus, one for the adductor brevis, and another for the adductor magnus. The sheath of the obtm-ator extemus is continuous with that of the adductor brevis; it com- mences by a very strong fibrous lamina or arch, which arises from the ante- rior edge of the pubes, and is directed obliquely outwards to the fibrous cap- sule of the hip joint. This arch conceals the anterior orifice of the obturator canal, and protects the obturator vessels and nerves. Lastly, the two vasti, which extend into all the regions of the thigh, have sheaths formed by the femoral fascia, where they are superficial, and by the internal and external intermuscular septa, and the posterior laminte of the other sheaths, in their more deeply situated portions. In the midst of the sheaths of the anterior and internal regions, we find the sheath of the femoral vessels already described. The Superior Circumference of the Femoral Aponeurosis. In front the femoral aponeurosis arises from the femoral arch, with which it is so perfectly continuous, as to render the arch tense : hence the plan, al- ready mentioned as proposed by Scarpa, of endeavouring to remove the con- striction in cases of strangulated crural hernia, by puncturing the femoral aponeurosis. But the mode of origin and continuity of this fascia with the femoral arch is not the same on the inner and outer sides. On the outside the iliac portion of the femoral aponeurosis (g,fig. 137.) arises by a single very thick layer; more internally, in the situation of the femoral vessels, it arises by two layers, one superficial, thin and perforated by foramina (the cribriform portion, d); tlic