142 OSTEOLOGY. Comparison of llie Lower Part of the Radius and the Lower Part of the Tibia. The quadrangular lower end of the radius corresponds to the equally quadrangular lower extremity of the tibia. The inferior articular surface of both is divided into two parts, by an antero-posterior ridge. The ulnar side of the lower end of the radius is hollowed into an articular cavity, in the same way as the fibular side of the lower end of the tibia. The styloid process of the radius answers to the internal malleolus of the tibia. Both extremities exhibit furrows for the passage of tendons. Comparison of the Hand and Foot. The back of the foot corresponds with the back of the hand, the sole with the palm, the tibial edge of the one with the radial edge of the other; the fibular and the ulnar borders are analogous; the tarsal extremity of the foot corresponds with the carpal extremity of the hand, and each has a digital ex- tremity. But amidst these features of resemblance, which are sufficient to establish the old adage, pes altera manus, we find also great differences. Thus the foot exceeds the hand both in size and weight, being longer and thicker, though it is narrower: this excess of volume does not affect the toes, which are incomparably smaller than the fingers; nor the metatarsus, but is confined to the tarsus, of which the carpus seems little more than a vestige. A second characteristic difference is the absence of the power of opposition in the great toe. As far as regards function, indeed, it may be truly said, that the want of this power constitutes a foot, and the possession of it a hand. A third difference results from the mode of articulation of the leg with the foot, for the leg does not articulate with the posterior extremity of the tarsus, but with its upper surface, so that a part of the tarsus projects behind the joint, and the axis of the foot forms a right angle with that of the leg. These remarks will suffice to show the general differences between the hand and the foot. Comparison of the Bones of the Carpus and Tarsus. While the carpus scarcely forms the eighth part of the hand, the tarsus con- stitutes half the foot. Its antero- posterior diameter, which is five or six inches, is three times greater than the transverse diameter, precisely contrary to what is the case in the hand. The tarsus resembles a vault, concave below, both in the antero-posterior and transverse directions ; and receives the leg upon its summit. The carpus is nothing more than a groove for tendons. It is mani- fest that the carpus is only the rudiment of the tarsus, which is not surprising, if we consider that the former is truly the fundamental part of the foot, and the basis of support to the whole body. "We shall examine in detail the analogies and the differences of these two constituent parts of the foot and the hand. They differ in the following respects: 1. There are eight bones in the carpus —there are only seven in the tarsus; 2. Each of the two rows of the carpus is composed of four bones—the first row of the tarsus consists of two bones, and the second of five; 3. The bones of the first row of the tarsus are placed one above the other, not arranged side by side as in the first row of the carpus • 4 One tarsal bone only enters into the formation of the ankle-jomt, while three of the carpal bones are concerned in the wrist-joint; lastly, the second row of the tarsus is subdivided into two secondary rows on the mside, a posterior, formed by the scaphoid, and an anterior, formed by the three cu- neiform bones. „ , . j ^ ^.i. * We shaU now compare the bones of these two regions, and for the want of their resemblance in shape, we shall have recourse to that of their mode of connection,—a method which is perhaps more constant and important than that which is founded upon a character so variable as figure.