SPLANCHNOLOGY. « ^^I'^TV ^"^^^"^ ^^'■y "1^'=^ «hape i all the superficial ones resemble a pyramid the base of which is at the surface of the lung ; the deep lobuleT lie a ong the bronchial tubes, have numerous facettes, and are exactly fitted to each otner like the fragments of mosaic work; but they are so irregular in form that it would be equally difficult and useless to give a descriptioS of them. ' Ihe lung then is a collection of an immense number of lobules, placed alone the bronchial tubes and pulmonary vessels, which serve as a support and frame- work for them and to which they are appended by pedicles ; they are united to each other by serous cellular tissue, and are all covered by one great cell lormed by the pleura, which merely unites together this great number of parts' Ihe problem of the texture of the lungs reduces itself therefore to the determination of the structure of a single lobule ; but the difficulty is rather postponed than got rid of, for each lobule is a little lung, receiving an air-tube and an artery, and giving out several veins and lymphatics. Before describing the arrangement of the air-tube, and the vessels in each lobule, we shall say a few words upon the structure of the lobule itself Each lobule is an agglomeration of cells and of vesicles, all of which communi- cate with each other. * These cells are always full of air. Their size isnot always the same ; M. Magendie has already shown that the pulmonary cells are smaUer in the infant than in the adult, and smaller in the adult than in the aged.f Nor IS the size of the different cells in the same lobule constantly imifonn. All the cells of the same lobule communicate, but they are not all equally per- meable. * Thus, in a given degree of inspiration, some cells only are dis- tended, while others require a greater degree of dilatation. The septa between the cells of a lobule are incomplete *, and consist of filaments or lamella; and the reticulated arrangement of the cells, which is so evident to the naked eye in the lung of the frog, seems to me to represent with tolerable accuracy the ap- pearance of the human lung under the simple microscope. With regard to the structure of the cells *, we cannot admit the existence of muscular fibres round them ; the anatomist is unable to demonstrate them, and physiology rejects them. The most probable opinion is, that they are formed of dense cellular tissue, or of an elastic fibrous tissue, and that the bloodvessels are ramified upon their parietes. The Air-tubes. The air-tubes of the lungs consist of the trachea, the bronchi, and their divi- sio7is. The Trachea. The trachea (from rpoxus, rough), or aspera arteria (b,figs. 170, 171.), is the common trunk of the air-tubes of the lungs ; it is situated between the larynx (a. Jig. 171.), of which it is a continuation, and the bronchi (p p'), which are nothing more than its bifurcation in front of the vertebral column, extending from the fifth cervical to the third dorsal vertebra. | In this situation, however, it is moveable, and may easily be pushed to the right or left side. This mobility has occasioned serious accidents in tracheotomy, and has led to the invention of an instrument for fixing the trachea. § Its direction is vertical; it occupies the median line above, but appears to be slightly deflected to the right side below. I have often seen it somewhat flexuous, but these slight deviations * See note, p. .WG. t Diseases have a remarkable influence upon their size; in chronic catarrh, and in some varieties of asthma, we find the pulmonary cells excessively dilated. Laennec has called this dilatation pulmonary emphysema. t The term trachea is derived from the roughness produced by the projection of the carti- lages of the windpipe. The application of the term arteria, by the ancients, to the vessels which carry red blood, arose from a serious anatomical mistake. These vessels being ha- bitually empty in the dead body, it was supposed that they contained air during life; and hence the name artery, which they still retain. ^ By a surgeon of the name of Buchot. Tlic mobility of the trache;i is an obstacle to Us puncture in the operation of tracheotomy