MYOLOGY. 308 oblique line: from these points the fibres pass in different directions, the ex- ternal almost vertically upwards, the internal obliquely up-wards and outwards (the obliquity increasing as we proceed inwards), and describing a curve with the concavity looking inwards. All these fibres are concentrated into a narrow and thick fasciculus, which terminates at the commissure on a plane anterior to the fibres of the buccinator and the orbicularis oris, being evidently con- tinuous with the canine and the great zygomatic. Relations. It is covered by the skin, beneath which it is clearly discernible, and it covers the quadratus menti, the platysma, and the buccinator. Some colourless fibres which intersect those of the quadratus at a right angle, and moreover follow the same direction as those of the triangularis, may be re- garded as a dependence of that muscle, to the inside of which they are situated. They terminate in the skin, like those of the quadratus. Action. It depresses the angle of the mouth, thus antagonising the canine muscle and the great zygomatic, with which it is continuous. The continuity of these muscles is so manifest, that they may be regarded as constituting a single muscle, "broad and triangular below—bifid above, to form the canine and zygomatic—and narrow in the middle, where it corresponds to the commissure. The internal fibres of the triangularis, from their oblique direction, are directly opposed to those of the canine muscle; but its external fibres have not a similar relation to those of the zygomaticus major. The Quadratus Menti, or Depressor Labii Inferioris. Dissection. Dissect back the skin covering this muscle, cutting obliquely downwards and outwards. , . The quadratus menli {p',.fig.\\Z.; q',fig. 114.), situated to the inside of the preceding, is of a square or rather lozenge shape. It arises from the external oblique line of the lower jaw, and is in a great measure continuous with the platysma, the fibres of which pass behind and sometimes through the triangu- laris. From this origin it proceeds obliquely upwards and inwards, therefore in an opposite direction to the triangularis, and is inserted into the skm of the lower lip, on a plane anterior to the corresponding half of the orbicularis ons. It is closely united to the skin, and covers the lower jaw, the mental nerve and vessels, the lower half of the orbicularis oris, and the muscle next to be described, with which it is intimately connected. It is separated from the muscle ot the opposite side by the prominence of the chin below, but is blended with it ^^°leti(m. It depresses the lower lip: from the obliquity of this muscle, it also draws outwards and downwards each half of the lower lip, which is theretore stretched transversely. The Levator Labii Jtiferioris. Dissection Evert the lower lip; divide the mucous membrane at its reflec- tion upon the lip from the lower jaw, so as to expose the origin of the muscle. In order to show its cutaneous insertion, carefully dissect off the skin covering the chin As the muscles of each side are blended m the median line, it is necessary to make a vertical incision from before backwards, opposite the ^^7h&^leTvatorS lU.) is asmaU conoid fascicuhjs facette on the side which is also given to this muscle. From thename mcisif mferie^^TTm^^^^ '""'/iTnto the sldn ffred and fasci'culated at its origin above, but pale. serted ^^^^J'^.^'^. " fasciculated below, where it is blended on the rs™J rheV^'sitTLsl. and on the outside with the quadratus ment.