DEVELOPMENT OF BONES. 23 • c 4 Throusrhoutthe whole time of development, the growth in length takes place inrougnouiine wuuic :„tp™ecliate cart lage, which separates the epi- chiefly by ossification ^J'';^2f^^long^nLll expansion of the ossified ^u^fXT rlf^mTSeltZ^^^^ has been satisfactorUy established shaft Itself. The fomei following experiment of Duhamel: - tt ne'ciles b inffi-dCth^^ of a bird at measured distances U is fo3 that after a certain time they become further separated, S prove thaUhe osseous cylinder has undergone an elongation. ''TlTZ ltdLes. 1. Am'ong the broad bones tto^e whic^i ar^^ symme^ trical often commence by two points placed one on each side of the median hie " The Symmetrical bones are developed sometimes from a single point of^ossification, as the parietal; sometimes by several as the emporal. One of he most remarkable circumstances in the development of broad bones is the sort of radiation by which the deposition of calcareous phosphate Stends, which spreads from the centre where the first osseous point was de- posited' and advances by divergent rays to aU points of the circuniference^ forming bony stride separated by intervals which are soon filled up by new osseous rays. As these rays are of unequal length, and are separated at the circumference by intervals of greater or less extent, it foUows that a broad bone in the process of ossification must have at its cuxumference a scaUoped or jagged border, like the toothed edge of a comb. It is this form of ossili- cation which gives rise to the serratnres of the sutures. The broad bones are proportionally much thinner m the early periods of os- sification than subsequently, because at first the spongy texture is scarcely de- veloped. At the time of birth the primary pieces of ossification not having united except in very few places, and the ossification which spreads from the centre of the bones not having yet reached the limits of their circum- ference, it follows, that the constituent parts of bones, and the edges of dif- ferent bones which are destined in the end to meet together, are at this period separated by cartilaginous, and in some measure membranous intervals, which in the cranium constitute the fontanelles. After birth, ossification spreads more and more m the broad bones ; at the same time they increase in hardness and thickness, appearing as if to separate into two plates or tables, the in- terval between which becomes filled with spongy tissue. The epiphysary or complementary points of ossification of some of the broad bones represent, in a certain degree, the epiphyses of the long bones. They occupy the circumference, and are thence named marginal epiphyses. Thus in the cartilaginous border of the haunch-bone, which represents the crest of the ilium, a point of ossification commences, and extending along its whole length forms a marginal epiphysis, which subsequently joins the rest of the bone, and in this respect is perfectly analogous to the epiphyses at the extremities of the long bones. The epiphyses then are not an exclusive attri- bute of the long bones, as Bichat maintained. They are found also in some of the short bones. But it would be indulging in a false analogy to class the Wormian bones, formed during the development of the cranium, with the epi- physes of the long and the broad bones ; for they have peculiarities which are never found in true epiphyses. Thus, 1. They are not joined by osseous union, as is the case with epiphyses, but always by suture. 2. There is no constancy in their time of appearance, nor in their figure which is irregular, nor in their size which is in general greater the earlier they have appeared, because they have then had longer time to extend themselves before meeting the neigh- bouring bones. From what has been said, we conclude that the broad bones have a two- fold mode of increase in breadth, namely, the successive addition of bony sub- stance to their borders, and the formation of marginal epiphyses. In every broad bone which is formed from several pieces, and which has on its surface a part for articulation, this last becomes Jhe centre in which the different pieces meet, and are ultimately joined when the ossification is completed