173 COSTO-VERTEBRAL ARTICULATIONS. The Coslo-vertebral Articulations (Jigs. 58. to 60. and 68.). Preparation. Saw the ribs across at their posterior angles. Remove with care the pleura and the subjacent ceUular tissue in front, and the muscles of the vertebral grooves behind. After having studied the superficial bgaments, expose, l.thecosto-transverse interosseous Ugament by a horizontal section of the rib, and the transverse process to which it is attached2. the costo- vertebral mterosseous ligament by a similar horizontal section, including one vertebra and one rib, and passing above the angular part of the JO™*- ^^'^^ last ligament may be also exposed by a, vertical section of the rib and the two vertebra with which it is connected. The costo-vertebral articulations have some characters which are common to them aU, and others that are peculiar to a few. General Characters of the Costo-vertebral Articulations. Articular surfaces. In this joint the head of the rib is applied to the angular surface formed by the two half facettes (f f',fig. 58.) upon the sides of the bodies of the dorsal vertebrae, so that each rib is articulated with two vertebrae (jcosto-vertebral articulation, properly so called) ; and in addition, the tubercle of the rib is apphed to the facette (g,fiys. 58. 60. and 68.) on the fore-part of the transverse process (costo-transverse articulation). With regard to the costo-vertebral articulation, it is to be remarked, 1. that it affords an example of a projecting angular facette received into a retreating angular facette, which has given rise to the mistaken notion that this joint is an angular ginglymus ; and 2. that in each articulation the lower half facette is twice as large as the upper. The surfaces of the costo-transverse articulation are, a convex facette be- longing to the tubercle of the rib, and a concave one belonging to the trans- verse process. Sabatier affirms that the articular surfaces of the transverse processes look forwards and upwards in the upper vertebras, and forwards and downwards in the lower, and directly forwards in those which occupy the middle of the column. This arrangement has been referred to in explanation of the mechanism of the dilatation of the thorax, by depression of the lower, and elevation of the upper ribs ; but tliis explanation is unfounded. In addition to the costo-vertebral and costo-transverse articulations, the neck of the rib (c,fig. 68.), without being in immediate contact with the trans- verse process, is in some degree united with it by symphysis. Means of union. These joints are examples both of symphysis and ar- throdia. Some of the ligaments are external to the articulation, the remainder are interosseous. 77ie ligaments external to the articulation are, the anterior costo-vertebral or stellate ligament, the superior and the inferior ligamentS; the posterior costo- transverse, and the superior costo-transverse. I. Tlie anterior costo-vertebral, or stellate ligament Q,fig. 58.) arises from the two vertebrae with which the rib is connected, and from the corresponding in- tervertebral substance. From these points its fibres converge, and are inserted in front of the extremity of the rib. 2 and 3. Besides the stellate ligament there are two small ligamentous bundles, a superior and an inferior, which extend from each of the vertebrae concurring to form the articulation, to the extremity of the rib. 4. The posterior costo-transverse ligament {m,fig. 59. transverse ligament of Beyer, posterior costo-transverse ligament of Bichat) is a fibrous band stretched from the apex of the transverse process in an oblique direction to the non-ar- ticular portion of the tubercle of the rib. 5. The superior costo-transver.ie ligament figs. 58, 59. costo-transverse of iioycr, infmor costo-transverse of Bichat) consists of a band, which arises from .ir*''' !^^?*'.''^^^. t'^'^ns^erse process, passes obliquely, and is inserted, not into the rib, which articulates with tnat process, but into the upper edge of the