■^'^ APONEUROLOGY. ated from the skin by vessels and nerves, to which it furnishes sheaths of greater or less extent. We may admit the existence of a superficial fascia between the vessels and the skin. Its deep surface presents various septa dividing its interior into a certain number of thin sheaths for the several muscles. It is composed almost en- tirely of circular fibres, some of which have a somewhat spiral direction • these fibres are intersected at right angles by others passing vertically downwards to the fascia of the fore-arm. The brachial aponeurosis is so loose as to permit the free exercise of the muscles contained within it, yet sufficiently tense to prevent their displacement. It is slightly thickened on either side, along the outer and inner borders of the humerus, and gives off in those situations two very strong intermuscular septa,—one external, the other internal. These septa are in every respect ana- logous to those of the femoral fascia, and divide the brachial sheath into two great compartments,—an anterior, containing the muscles on the anterior aspect of the arm, viz. the biceps, the brachialis anticus, and the coraco-brachialis, also the upper or brachial portion of the supinator longus, and the extensor carpi radialis longior ; the posterior compartment belongs to the triceps. The external intermnscular septum arises from the anterior border of the bi- cipital groove, by a narrow and very thick extremity, blended with the poste- rior margin of the tendon of the deltoid: it reaches the outer border of the humerus, expands and becomes somewhat thinner, and separates the anterior from the posterior muscles, more especially the triceps from the brachialis an- ticus, affording atttachments to them both. It is perforated very obliquely by the musculo-spiral or radial nerve, and the superior profunda artery, which at first lie behind, but are afterwards in front of it. The sheath of this nerve and artery establish a free communication between the interior and posterior com- partments already alluded to. ^ The internal intermuscular septum, broader and thicker than the preceding, but like it of a triangular form, arises from the posterior border of the bicipital groove, below the teres major, is continuous with the tendon of the coraco- brachialis, crossing it at a very acute angle, and becoming partially united to and blended with it, proceeds along and adheres closely to the inner border of the humerus, and terminates at the inner condyle or epitrochlea of that bone. Both of these septa are formed by bands and fibres given off in succession from the corresponding borders of the humerus, and they both afford attach- ments to the brachialis anticus in front, and to the triceps behind. The ulnar nerve is anterior to the internal septum in the upper part of the arm, but perfor- ates it, and remains in contact with its posterior surface, passing between the attachments of the triceps. From these two great sheaths the proper sheaths of the muscles proceed. First, the deltoid has its proper sheath: another thin aponeurotic layer, gra- dually becoming thicker from above downwards, consisting almost entirely of vertical fibres, and forming one of the origins of the aponeurosis of the fore-arm, separates the biceps from the brachialis anticus : again, the brachial vessels and the median nerve have a special sheath, which also receives at its upper part the basilic vein, and the ulnar and internal cutaneous nerves ; this is the brachial canal, the counterpart of the femoral canal; it establishes a communi- cation between the cellular tissue of the axilla, and that in the bend of the elbow : lastly, a tendinous layer separates the upper half of the long head of the triceps from the other portions of that muscle : the sheath of the coraco- brachialis is given off from the inner edge of the biceps. We must consider as dependences of the common brachial investment, the several sheaths furnished by it to the cephalic, basilic, and median veins, to the branches of the internal cutaneous nerve, and to the superficial ramifica- tions of the musculo-cutaneous nerve. AVlien an artery or a vein previously situated under an aponeurosis becomes subcutaneous, the perforation in the aponeurosis is almost always of an arched form. The brachial aponeurosis has no muscle analogous to the tensor vagina;