188 OSTEOLOGY. only applies to the last four, for the ungual phalanx of the great toe is in size at least douhle that of the thumb. I cannot conclude this description without remarking that the articular surface of the posterior extremity of the meta- tarsal phalanges, as weU as of the anterior extremity of the metatarsal bones, is prolonged further upwards than the corresponding surfaces on the meta- carpal bones and phalanges of the fingers; this arrangement allows a greater extension of the toes, and is an important element in the mechanism of progres- sion. Development. The first, second, and third phalanges are developed from two points of ossification ; one for the body, and one for the metatarsal extremity. The epiphysary points of the second and third phalanges are so small, that their existence has been doubted by many anatomists. The osseous points of the bodies of the first phalanges are much later in appearing than those of the metatarsal bones, not being visible in general imtil from the second to the fourth month ; the first phalanx of the great toe is an exception, its ossification commencing from the fiftieth to the sixtieth day. The epiphysary point of the first phalanges does not appear until the fourth year. The bodies of the second phalanges are ossified almost at the same time as those of the first; the epiphysary point of their posterior extremity is not visible imtil from the sixth to the seventh year. The bodies of the third phalanges are ossified before those of the second and the first; an osseous point appears in them about the forty-fifth day, excepting in the little toe, where it is much later. The ungual phalanx of the great toe is remarkable as being ossified before all the other phalanges of the toes. It is developed from a point which does not occupy the centre, but the summit of the phalanx. The epiphysary point of the posterior extremity appears about the fifth year in the great toe, and about the sixth year in the other four. The epiphysary points of the phalanges are not united to the bodies until the age of seventeen or eighteen years. General Development of the Inferior Extremity. The most characteristic feature of the lower extremity in the fatus is the comparative lateness of its development, which is most remarkable at the early periods We have already stated the periods at which each pomt of ossification appears in the different bones, and the times at which they are united, and it now only remains for us to point out some pecuharities of development which have not been included in the description of the bones. From the observations of Bichat, it is generaUy admitted that the neck of the femur in the foetus and the newly-born infant is proportionaUy shorter than in the adult, and forms almost a right angle with the shaft of the bone ; that the body of the femur is ahnost straight; and that its extremities are pro- portionaUy much larger than they become subsequently. As we before ob- served with regard to the upper extremities, all these assertions are at variance wTth the results of our observations. The same reflections apply equally to the bones of the leg, the torsion of which we believe to exist to the same degree m the f(ptus and in the new-born infant, as in the adult. After bS, the development of the lower limbs proceeds more rapidly than .V, . ft^r^TAner and the final proportions are not attamed until the age of I 1 Tn tRed the phalanges of the toes are often anchylosed ; but this P""- ^ikl tS dSocations^f the^oes, and some deformities of the tarsus and union, like the dislocatio^^^^^^ ^ ^^^^ occasioned by tight ret-d'the mS: J/S^coVlete immoLity in which the parts are main- tained.* - mntr ronsult a verv curious memoir, by Camper, on tlie incon- * On this subject the ff^^f^^^f Xch he Attributes, 1. the shortening of the second toe ; veniences arising irom tight ^hof.To this we may add the luxation, outwards, ^of rr^^'p^oV^eTreat'to: ["ndtr luxation, inwards, ^of the first phalanx of the se- cond, and sometimes of the third toe.