THE TEMPORALIS. 311 X 4 almost entirely fleshy bundle, which passes vertically do^nw^ris, and is in- Sed beMnd the preceding into the external surface of the ramus of the jaw. Lastly the zygomatic arch being reversed, we see a still smaller fleshy fasci- cXs arising directly from its internal sui-face, and passing/or«;ar& to be Ltrterro^he oS surface of the coronoid process, and into the tendon of Tif covered by the skin, from which it is separated by a small fascia and oihetimes by a prolongation of the platysma; behind, it is covered bfth; parotirgird,^^^^ palpebrarum and zygomaticus m^or above, ft is cl-ossed at right angles by the divisions of the facial nerve the transverse artery of the face, and the Stenoman duct. It coy^^s the ramu of the jaw, the temporal and the buccinator muscles, from the latter of which it is separated by a collection of fat. Its anterior edge, which is prominent beneath the skin, has an important relation below to the facial artery, which may be compressed against the bone immediately in front of it. The parotid gland embraces its posterior border. rw Action The action of this muscle is very powerful. Its strength in different animals may be in some degree measured by the size of the zygomatic arch, and by the prominence of the lines and projections on the angle of the jaw. Its momentum, i. e. its period of most powerful action, occurs when the jaws are slightly separated, because its angle of incidence with regard to the lever is then nearly perpendicular. The general direction of the fibres of the masseter muscles, obliquely downwards and backwards, is highly advantageous, as re- n-ards the trituration of the food, for during the contraction of the two muscles the lower jaw is moved upwards and forwards. This same obliquity explains the action of the muscle in producing luxation of the jaw; for as its insertion is further hack than it would have been had the fibres been vertical, it follows that however slightly the jaws may be separated, the condyle is placed in front of the axis to which all the fibres of the masseter may he referred ; and when this muscle contracts, it increases the peculiar movement performed by the condyle in becoming dislocated forwards. T?ie Temporalis. Dissection. Having sawn through and turned back the zygoma, remove the fascia covering the temporal region, and the fat surrounding the insertion of the muscle into the coronoid process. In order to gain a view of the deep surface, detach the muscle, either from above downwards, by scraping the periosteum from the temporal fossa, or from below upwards, after having sawn through the base of the coronoid process. The temporal muscle {e',fig. 114.) or crotaphyte, so named because it occupies the whole of the temporal fossa (^Kp6ra<pos, the temple), is a broad radiated muscle, resembling a triangle with the base turned upwards. Attachments. It arises from the whole extent of the temporal fossa, and from the inner surface of the superficial temporal fascia, and is inserted into the edges and summit of the coronoid process. The fleshy fibres all arise directly, either from the temporal fossa, or from the inner surface of the fascia, which, being attached above to the entire length of the temporal semicircular line, and below to the upper edge of the zygomatic arch, is very tense, and thus affords a solid and very strong surface of origin. From these two parts the fleshy fibres converge, and proceeding downwards, the anterior obliquely backwards, the posterior obliquely forwards, and the middle vertically, form a fleshy mass which gradually increases in thickness until its fibres are attached, partly to the external, but chiefly to the internal surface and borders of the terminal aponeurosis. The fibres of this aponeurosis, which are very strong, and radiated at its commencement, are collected into the form of a very thick tendon, inserted into the coronoid process, and called the coronoid tendon. The temporal muscle, in its course from the temporal fossa to the coronoid process,