127 THE TIBIA. Internal structure. The patella is entirely composed of spongy tissue, covered in front by a thin layer of compact substance, which forms a very remarkable exception to the generality of short bones, in presenting well-marked parallel vertical fibres. Between these fibres are numerous vascular openings. Development. The patella is developed from one point only. In a few rare cases, as Rudolphi has observed, there are several points. The ossification of the patella commences about the age of two years and a half. The Leg, The Tibia {fig. 52.). The tibia, the larger of the two bones of the leg, is situated between the femur, which rests upon its upper end, and the foot on which it is supported. Next to the femur, it is the largest and longest bone of the skeleton. Its upper extremity is expanded, the shaft is narrower and of a triangular pris- matic form. The lower extremity is also expanded, but to a much less degree than the uppei-. The smallest part of the tibia does not exactly correspond with the middle of the shaft as in the femur, but at the junction of the lower with the two upper thirds and in this place fractures, produced by contre- coup, are most frequent. The direction of the tibia is vertical, contrasting thus with the femur, which, as we have seen, slants obliquely downwards and inwards. In individuals whose thigh bones are very oblique, the tibiaj have a du-ection downwards and outwards. In a well-formed skeleton the two tibiae are pai-aUel. With regard to its axis, the tibia presents a double inflexion, so that the upper end is turned outwards and the lower slightly inwards. When this last inclination is excessive it gives rise to bowed legs. Lastly, it is slightly twisted at its lower part. Like all long bones it is divided into a body and extremities. The boay or shaft has the figure of a triangular prism ; and this form, which is observed in almost all long bones, is in none so marked as in the tibia. We have therefore to consider three surfaces and three edges. The internal surface (a, fig. 53.) is covered at the upper part by an aponeu- Fig.hi. Fig. 53. rotic expansion (called patte d'oie*, or goose's foot') : in the rest of its extent it is immediately under the skin. This superficial situation of the internal surface partly explains the facility with which this bone may be broken by direct violence, and also the frequency of caries, exostoses, and ne- crosis. It is broad above, and gradually diminishes towards the lower part. Its three superior fourths look inwards and forwards ; its lower fourth looks directly inwards. The external surface (6) presents in a great part of its extent, but especially above, a longitudinal excavation, the depth of which corresponds to the size of the tibialis anticus, to which it gives attachment. Inferiorly, the external surface of the tibia turns forwards ((f), and this deviation corre- sponds with the altered direction of several tendons, which are placed at first on the outside of the bone, and afterwards pass in front of it. There is in fact a constant reciprocity between alterations in the direction of bones, and changes in the course of neighboui'ing tendons. The posterior sujface is also broad above, and progress- ively diminishes downwards. On it we observe near the upper part, 1. An irregular line, running obliquely down- wards and inwards ; to this line many of the deep-seated muscles on the back of the leg are attached. 2. Above this line a triangular surface covered by the popliteus muscle which separates it from the popliteal artery. 3. Below the same line, the orifice of the nutritious canal which runs and semil l'ZCLos^^^Zt::.f °f 'he sartorius, gracilis