428 SPLANCHNOLOGY. The MouTfi and its Appenbages. The mouth* is a cavity situated at the entrance of the digestive passages. It occupies the lower part of the face] and is situated between the two jaws below the nasal fossse, between the cheeks, behind the lips, and in front of the pharynx. It constitutes a very complicated apparatus, in which are performed the several acts of masti- cation, tasting, and insalivation, the commencement of the act of deglu- tition, and the articulation of sounds. The dimensions of the buccal ca- vity are greater than those of the succeeding portion of the alimentary canal; hence bodies may be intro- duced into it which are too large to pass through the constricted parts of that canal.f The size of the mouth presents every intermediate degree between complete closure with the jaws in contact, and leaving no in- terval between them, and extreme expansion, when the buccal cavity represents a quadrangular pyramid, the base of which is directed forwards, and the apex backwards. An increase in the capacity of the mouth may also be eflfected in the transverse direction by the distension of the cheeks, and in the antero-posterior direction by a projection of the lips forwards. In studying the relative proportions of the several diameters of the buccal cavity, it is found that none of them predominates in man, while in the lower animals the antero-posterior is by far the longest: this depends partly on the great size of their nasal cavities, and partly on the length of their jaws. In connection with this subject, we may remark that in the animal series there is an inverse ratio between the size of the cavity of the cranium and that of the gustatory and olfactory cavities. vascularity ; the network of capillary vessels in the dermis becomes closer or denser near its surface; the lymphatic vessels also form a network in the same situation ; but the epithelium, though organised, is, as stated in the text, perfectly extra-vascular. Mucous membranes are also more or less abundantly supplied with nerves. When boiled they yield no gelatine, or rather only as much as would proceed from the cel- lular tissue and vessels they contain. The fluid secreted by them, or mucus, is viscid, trans- parent, and colourless, miscible with, but not soluble in water, and not coagulated by heat. It contains, besides the desquamated epithelium scales, proper granular globules, inch in dia- meter, and having a very close resemblance to the globules of pus. According to Berzelius, mucus consists of water, a few salts, albumen, and a peculiar animal substance, which he cills mucous matter. This latter, when dried, swells on being placed in water, but, like fresh mucus, is insoluble in that fluid, either hot or cold ; it is slightly soluble in dilute acetic and nitric acids, and in caustic alkalies. The peculiarities presented by particular portions of the mucous membranes, and the struc- ture of the papillie, villi, follicles, &c. found in some parts of them, will be separately noticed, as opportunity offers.] * The meaning of the word mouth, in anatomy, differs from the ordinary acceptation ol the term, which is usually applied, not to the buccal cavity, but to its orifice. t As a general rule, the proportion between the different parts of tlio alimentary canal is such, that the upper portion will not admit bodies too large for the lower; and though the buccal cavity forms an exception to the rule, it is because the food, whilst it remains in that situation, is under the influence of the will.