337 THE EXTENSOR BREVIS POLLICIS. ticulation, the annular ligament of the radius, the ulna, and a small portion of the supinator brevis. Action. It extends the fore-arm upon the arm, aild vice versa; from its oblique direction, it can also rotate it inwards. Muscles of the Deep Layer. Dissection. This is the same for all the muscles of the deep layer of the fore-arm, and consists in removing the muscles of the superficial layer, espe- cially the extensor communis digitorum and the extensor digili minimi. The Abductor Longus Pollicis. The abductor longus pollicis (extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, i,figs. 121,122.) is the broadest, thickest, and most external muscle of the deep layer (le grand abducteur, Bichat). Attachments. It arises from the ulna below the origin of the supinator brevis, from the interosseous ligament, from the radius, and from a tendinous septum between it and the extensor longus pollicis. It is inserted into the upper end of the first metacarpal bone. From the above-mentioned origins the fleshy fibres proceed obliquely downwards and outwards, constitute a flattened fusi- form belly, and are successively attached to the posterior surface of an apo- neurosis, which becomes condensed into a flat tendon ; this tendon turns round the radius, crossing over the radial extensors of the carpus, and at the same time ceasing to receive any fleshy fibres; it is then received into the outer groove on the lower end of the radius, conjointly with the tendon of the ex- tensor brevis pollicis, a small fibrous septum intervening between them, and finally is inserted into the first metacarpal bone. This tendon is almost always divided longitudinally into two equal parts, and not unfrequently the division extends up to the fleshy portion. Of these two divisions one is inserted into the first metacarpal bone, the other furnishes attachments to the abductor brevis poUicis. Relations. It is covered by the extensor communis digitorum and extensor digiti minimi: it lies immediately under the fascia, from the outer side of the radius to its termination. It covers the interosseous ligament, the radius, the tendons of the radial extensors of the carpus, and the outer side of the wrist joint, where it may be easily distinguished under the skin. Action. It extends and abducts the first metacarpal bone : for a long time it was called the extensor of the thumb; but its chief use is, as Albinus first remarked, m abduction. Winslcw observes that, from its obliquity, it can act as a supinator ; lastly, it assists in extending the hand. The Extensor Brevis Pollicis. This muscle (extensor primi internodii poUicis, I, figs. 121, 122.) is situated internally to the preceding, which it exactly resembles in figure and direction, and with which It was for a long time confounded (partie du premier extenseui^ du pouce SaO ' ^""^ '^^'^'^^^ <^P«^^* extenseur ^""T^^-^ '■'""'i'; occasionally from the ulna, and from the interosseous TtfSj "T'f'^ ""^^ ''PP^'' ^""^ °f the first phalanx of the thumb. tendinous fibres, the fleshy fibres proceeding from f"""^^" fasciculus, having a similar arrangement to thatTf he preceding muscle ; its tendon is received into the same fibrous shea h biU rhet^phlirxl''"'"" ^ "P'^' ^""^ iusSdi Relations. The same as those of the abductor longus. VOL, I °