THE FLEXOR BREVIS DIGITI MINIMI. 341 Z 3 and more obliquely outwards; they all converge to form a thick fleshy bundle, which is inserted through the medium of the internal sesamoid bone into the first phalanx of the thumb. Relations. Its inner two thirds are deeply situated, and covered by the tendons of the flexor profundus digitorum, by the lumbricales, and by an apo- neurosis, which, becoming continuous with the deep interosseous fascia, con- stitutes the sheath of the muscle. It is subcutaneous near its lower border. It covers the first two interosseous spaces, from which it is separated by a very strong aponeurosis. It is again subcutaneous behind, also along its lower border, which may be easily felt under the fold of skin, extending from the thumb to the index finger. Action. It is an adductor; it draws the thumb towards the median line or axis of the hand, represented by the third metacarpal bone. Muscles of the Hypothenar Eminence, or Muscles belonging to the Little Finger. These muscles correspond exactly to those of the thumb : the reason that three only are described is, that the one which represents the adductor of the thumb is situated in the fourth interosseous space, and is, therefore, classed with the interosseous muscles, to be hereafter described. All the muscles of the hypothenar eminence are inserted into the inner side of the first phalanx of the little finger, or into the third metacarpal bone. We find also a cuta- neous muscle in this region, viz. the palmaris brevis. The Palmaris Brevis. This is a very thin square muscle (caro qusedam quadrata, 6 118.) situ- ated in the adipose tissue covering the hypothenar eminence. It arises from the anterior annular ligament of the carpus, and the inner edge of the middle pabnar fascia, by very distinct tendinous fasciculi, succeeded by equally dis- tinct fleshy bundles, which pass horizontally inwards, and terminate in the skm. Relations. It is covered by the skin, to which it adheres intimately, espe- pecially by its inner extremity (le palmaire cutan^, Winslov}) ; it covers the muscles of the hypothenar eminence and the ulnar artery and nerve, from all of which it is separated by the internal palmar fascia. Action. It corrugates the skin over the hypothenar eminence. The Abductor Digiti Minimi. It arises from the pisiform bone, and from an expansion of the flexor carpi ulnaris, by tendinous fibres; these are succeeded by a fusiform fleshy belly *V•^f;.J , P^^^^ verticaUy along the internal (or ulnar) surface of the fifth metacarpal bone, and is inserted by a flat tendon into the inner side ot the first phalanx of the little finger. Relations It is covered by the external palmar fascia, and covers the op- ponens digiti mmimi. ^ hai''""' ''^ denotes, it abducts the Uttle finger from the axis of the The Flexor Brevis Digiti Minimi. x,vlSl\ZTrL^\^t .119-) is.situated on the outer or radial border of the The1wo^m[,M J distinguished by arising from the unciform bone, bet^rth "''Z separated by the ulnar vessels and nerves, which pass between them in order to penetrate into the deep palmar reeion In nf^f! othfr V/ H '^'•^«tio'^..-'ertions, and relations 'thrie esTsemSe eacli other; they have accordingly been described by Chaussier as a singTe musc£