THE INTESTINES. 499 Direction. Particular attention should be paid to the direction of this bowel, as an anatomical fact from which practical inductions of the greatest interest may be derived. It is not straight, but is curved both in the antero- posterior and lateral directions. In the antero-postcrior direction it follows the curve of the sacrum and coccyx, to which it is closely applied; it is, therefore, concave in front and convex behind (see fig. 181.). Opposite the apex of the coccyx it bends slightly backwards, so as to terminate about an inch in front of that bone. By this very remarkable inflection, it is separated from the vagina in the female, and from the urethra in the male. The lateral inclination. On the left side of the base of the sacrum, and op- posite the sacro-iliac symphysis, the rectum passes downwards, and to the right side, until it reaches the median line opposite the third piece of the sacrum. It then passes forwards, still in the median line, and forms a slight curve with the preceding portion. It has been frequently said that the lower part of the rectum does not occupy exactly the median line, but deviates a little to the right: this is not unfrequently the case at the lower part of the sacrum, but it always regains its original position before its termination. There are, however, some important varieties in the curvature described by the rectum. Thus, it is not uncommon to see the upper part of the gut twisted like an italic /S before reaching the median line ; and in this case it is difficult to determine whether the twisted portion belongs to the rectum, or to the sigmoid flexure of the colon. In several of the cases of unnatural position of the sigmoid flexure, which I have already mentioned, the rectum com- menced ou the right side of the base of the sacrum, and passed downwards, and towards the left side. In one case, where the sigmoid flexure was in its natural position, the rectum passed almost transversely to the right side, as far as the right sacro-iliac symphysis, and then proceeded very obliquely to the left side. The situation of the upper part of the rectum on the left of the median line, has been often quoted in explanation of the relative frequency of inclinations of the uterus to the right side, and also of the greater or less amount of difficulty in parturition, according as the occiput of the foetus is turned towards the right or the left. Foi-m and size. The rectum is cylindrical, not sacculated, and has no bands like those observed in the other portions of the large intestine. Its external surface is covered with a uniform layer of well-marked, fasciculated, longitu- dinal fibres, which give it some resemblance to the oesophagus. At its com- mencement, its caliber is somewhat smaller than that of the sigmoid flexure, but it gradually increases towards the lower end. Immediately before its ter- mination at the contracted orifice, called the anus, the rectum presents a con- siderable dilatation, or ampulla, capable of acquiring an enormous size ; so that, in certain cases of retention of the fajces, it has been found occupying the entire cavity of the pelvis. Relations. Behind, the rectum corresponds with the left sacro-iliac sym- physis and the curve of the sacrum and coccyx ; it is attached to the sacrum above by means of a fold of peritoneum, called the meso-rectum, and is sepa- rated from the sacrum and the sacro-iliac symphysis by the pyriformis muscle, the sacral plexus of nerves, and the hypogastric vessels. Those portions of the rectum which project laterally beyond the coccyx are in relation with the levator ani muscles, which form a sort of floor for it. In front, the_ rectum is free in its upper portion, but is adherent below ; its relations vary m the two sexes, and are of the greatest importance in a sur- gical point of view. In the male its upper or free portion (o,fig. 181.) corresponds to the poste- rior surface of the bladder (h), from which it is separated, excepting in cases of retention of urine, or of considerable dilatation of the rectum by convolu- tions of the small intestines. Its lower or adherent portion is in immediate relation, m the middle line, with the inferior fundus (bas-fond) of the bladder K K 2 '