SPLANCHNOLOGY. surround the ovarian arteries; others proceed from the hypogastric plexus, and are formed by some of the anterior branches of the sacral nerves, and bv branches from the lumbar ganglia of the sympathetic. Developement. It is generally agreed that the body of the uterus is always bihd, or two-horned, in the embryo, up to the end of the third month ; and that towards the end of the fourth month the two halves are united to form a single cavity.^ I have not observed this in the earliest periods of intra-uterine life. Daring foetal life the uterus, instead of presenting the same form as it sub- sequently possesses, is decidedly larger at the neck than in the body : at this- period the broadest part of the uterus is its vaginal extremity. After birth, and up to the time of puberty, the developement of the uterus is almost stationary ; so that, according to the observations of Roederer, which are confirmed by Professor Duges, it is from twelve to fourteen lines long in the new-born infant, and only an inch and a half at ten years of age. At puberty the uterus rapidly acquires its full dimensions, and at the same time becomes the seat of a periodic and sanguineous exhalation, the occurrence of which constitutes menstruation. In old age the uterus becomes atrophied, and altered in shape; the cervix and body are separated by a much more decided constriction. These two parts of the uterus seem to become more independent of each other. The lips of the OS tincffi are generally effaced in old women. The tissue of the body preserves its softness, whilst that of the neck acquires an extreme density. The situation of the uterus is very different at di£Fei-ent ages. In the foetus it projects beyond the brim of the pelvis, and is in the abdominal cavity ; after birth, and in consequence of the developement of the pelvis, it seems gradually to sink into that cavity. At the age of ten years the fundus of the uterus is on a level with the brim ; afterwards it is lower down. In old women it is ge- nerally inclined to one side, or reversed upon the rectum. Functions. The uterus is the organ of gestation ; the fecundated ovum is deposited in its cavity, and there meets with the most favourable conditions for its developement. The uterus is also the principal agent in the expulsion of the foetus. The Vagina. The vagina is a membranous canal, extending from the vulva to the uterus ; it is the female organ of copulation, and also forms the passage for the men- strual blood, and the product of conception. It is situated in the cavity of the pelvis between the bladder and the rectum,, and is held in that situation by tolerably close adhesions to the neighbouring parts, but still is so loose that it can be everted like the finger of a glove. Direction. It is directed obliquely forwards and downwards, i. e. it coincides with the axis of the outlet of the pelvis ; and as the direction of the uterus cor- responds with the axis of the brim, these two parts form an angle or curvature with each other, having its concavity directed forwards. Shape and dimensions. The vagina is shaped like a cylinder, flattened from before backwards, and having its walls in contact, as may be seen upon apply- ing the speculum. It is from four to five inches long *; sometimes it is much shorter, I have seen it as short as an inch and a half. This congenital short- ness must be distinguished from the apparent shortness produced by prolapsus uteri. •£ • The vagina is not of the same diameter throughout. Its lower ormce is tnC; narrowest part, whUe its upper extremity is the widest. In females who have borne children the bottom of the vagina forms a large ampulla, in which the speculum may be moved about extensively, and in which, also, a considerable quantity of blood may accumulate during hfemorrhage. It is moreover a di- latable canal, as is proved during parturition ; and is at the same tune elastic, * [Trom the nature of the curve formed by the vagina, its anterior wall is shorter than the posterior.]