APONEUROSIS OF THE LEG. 411 the tensor vagina femoris, from which it can be distinguished only by the horizontal direction of its fibres. Beneath this very thick layer we find a thin one, composed of fibres stretch- ing from the external tuberosity of the femur to the patella; and, lastly, another thm layer belonging to the synovial membrane. Structure of the Femoral Aponeurosis. It is thin behind and on the inside, thicker in front, and extremely thick on the outside of the thigh, where indeed it may be said to exceed aJl other fibrous membranes in thickness and in strength. This thickened portion is bounded in front by a line extending vertically downwards from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium. Its limits behind are no less distinctly defined: hence the name given to it of the broad band {fascia lata). This great density is owing to some very strong vertical fibres, arising from the front of the crest of the ilium. It is connected with the great force and tendency to displacement of the vastus externus. We may add, that the femoral aponeurosis is composed of horizontal fibres, sometimes regularly parallel, as in its thinnest portions, and sometimes inter- secting each other. These horizontal fibres are even seen opposite the broad band on the outer side, from which they are distinguished by their direction. There is a very beautiful preparation of this aponeurosis in the museum of the Faculty of Medicine: similar preparations should be made by those who wish to obtain a good idea of the tendinous sheaths and the shape of the muscles of the thigh. It is to be made by removing all the muscles from their sheaths by means of longitudinal incisions, and substituting for them a quantity of tow, which must be taken out when the aponeuroses are completely dried. The form of the sheaths exactly represents that of the corresponding muscles. A tolerably accurate idea of these sheaths may also be obtained by cutting across each sheath and the muscle which it contains, in a fresh subject. The circumference of the section of the portion of the sheath that becomes visible after the retraction of the muscle, will give an excellent idea of the figure of the different sheaths, which are all angular and polyhedral like the muscles, but never rounded : during health they are completely filled by the muscles, which in emaciated persons, on the contrary, do not occupy more than a half, a third, or a sixth, of the area of their sheaths. Such is the femoral fascia. Its tensor muscles consist of the tensor vaginje femoris and the glutaeus maximus, the tendon of which is received between two layers of this fascia. Aponeuroses of the Leg and Foot. Aponeurosis of the Leg. The aponeurosis of the leg forms a strong general investment for the whole leg, excepting the internal surface of the tibia, which is covered by it only at its lower part, a little above the malleoli. Its external surface is separated from the skin by the superficial vessels and nerves, several of which perforate it, either directly, or after having run for a short distance in its substance. The external saphenous vein and nerve re- ceive from it a complete sheath. Its internal surface covers all the muscles of the leg, and does not adhere to them excepting above and in front, where it gives attachment to the tibialis amicus and the extensor communis digitorum. From the internal surface there proceeds on the outer side of the leg, two principal tendinous septa, one situated between the muscles of the anterior tibial region and the peronei the other between the peronei and the muscles of the posterior region of the leg. There are therefore three principal sheaths in the leg, —an anterior nn internal, and a posterior. The latter is subdivided into two other sheaths by a