GENERAL OBSERVATIONS. H those of the thoracic. The longest bones are in the upper part of the limhs; it mav be said indeed that the length of bones is in the direct ratio of their ^rSLty to the trunk. The diameter of the long bones is smaUest in their Sr Vromlh s part, as from a centre, they graduaUy increase in volume, and at their extremities Lre much enlarged, so as to present a diameter double or treble that of the shaft. Every long bone, therefore, presents a bicomcal form. i. e. is shaped Uke two cones united by their summits. A long bone consists of a sAa/i and extremities. The ^P^g is ahnost" always prismatic and triangular; so much so, that m this respect the bones seem to be an exception to the general rule of organised bo^es which have usually a rounded form, and to approach nearer that of the mineral kinsdom, the characteristic shape of which is angular. The extremities of long bones are enlarged, that they may serve, l.for articulations; 2. for the insertion of ligaments and muscles ; 3. for th£ reflec- tion of tendons, the direction of which they alter. Eadi extremity presents a smooth articular surface, covered with cartilage in the fresh state, and not per- forated by any foramina, and a non-articular portion, rough, pierced with aper- tures, and covered with eminences and depressions. , Of broad or flat bones. These bones, intended to form the parietes of cavities, are more or less curved, and present, for consideration, a circumference and two surfaces ; the internal concave, the external convex. No single broad bone constitutes a cavity ; there are always a certain number united for this purpose. Some broad bones are alternately concave and convex on the same surface, as the haunch bones. In flat or broad bones there is no accurate correspondence between the inequalities, ridges, or depressions of the two surfaces. Thus the iliac portion of the haunch bones, instead of presenting a convexity on the inner surface, to correspond with the external iliac fossa, is hollowed out into another depression, the internal iliac fossa. In like manner, in the cranium certain impi-essions and eminences exist on the internal surface, while the external is uniformly convex and almost smooth. The parietal, and even the occipital protuberances, would be twice or three times more prominent if the interior concavity were faithfully represented by a corresponding external prominence, and if this concavity were not in a great measure hollowed out from the substance of the bon£. The circumference of broad bones being intended either for articulations, or for insertions, is for this purpose greatly thickened. Thus the parietal bones, which are very thin at their centre, become considerably thicker at the cir- cumference. The broad bones present at their circumference sometimes a simple enlargement, when it is intended for muscular insertions only; for ex- ample, the haunch bones : sometimes indentations of various kinds, and sinuosities, when it is to serve the purpose of articulation; for instance, the bones of the cranium. Of short bones. These are principally met with in the vertebral column, the carpus, and the tarsus; in fact, wherever great solidity is required in con- nexion with slight mobility: several of them are always grouped together; their form is extremely irregular, but generally cuboid; they have also numerous facettes for articulation. The non-articular portion is rough for the insertion of ligaments and tendons. Regions of bones. There are so many objects to be considered on the sur- face of a bone, that it is necessary, in order to prevent the omis^on of any essential detail in the description, to divide the surface into a certain number of parts or regions, which should be successively examined. These diflferent parts or regions have been denominated faces, borders, and angles. Thus in the prismatic and triangular shafts of long bones, there are three faces and three borders to be considered ; in the flat bones two faces and a circumference, which is again subdivided into borders and angles fonned by the meeting of these bor- ders. There are six faces in the short bones. These faces and borders are named sometimes from their situation superior, inferior, anterior, posterior, &c.i