THE ORGANS OF RESPIRATION. General observations.-The Lungs and Pleura. - The Trachea and Bronchi -Developement of the lungs.-The Larynx-its structure, developement, and functions.—The Thyroid gland. After describing the digestive apparatus, the object of which is to elaborate solid and Uquid materials for the reparation of the waste that occurs in the body, and at the same time to present a vast surface for the absorption of those materials, we naturally turn to the consideration of the apparatus of respiration, the object of which is to renew the vital properties of the blood by the action of atmospheric air in the lungs. This latter apparatus, which is much less complex than the former, is com- posed, 1. of the lungs, the essential organs of respiration ; 2. of the thorax, a cavity forming a sort of bellows, and having walls capable of alternately ex- panding and contracting ; 3. of a tubular apparatus, by which the lungs com- municate with the external air, and which consists of the bronchi, trachea, larynx, pharynx, and nasal fosses; for it is only accidentally, so to speak, and in order to render respiration more certain, that air is allowed to pass through the mouth. The thorax has been already described (see Osteology and Myology), and also the pharynx, which is common to both the respiratory and digestive passages. The nasal fossae, situated at the entrance of the respiratory passages, form the natural passages for the introduction of the air, and at the same time serve for the reception of the organ of smeU, by which sense we may consider the qualities of the air are examined. Their bony framework^ has been al- ready described under osteology. The pituitary membrane which covers the irregular surfaces of these fossae will be described in the article devoted to the organs of the senses; we shall only consider, in this place, the lungs, the trachea, and the larynx. The Lungs. The lungs (jpulmones; irveu^wi/, from wew, to breathe; p p,figs. 155.170, 171.) are the essential organs of respiration. WhUst the presence of an alimentary canal is the attribute of all animals, that of lungs is limited to those ver- tebrata which live in the air, different modes of respiration prevailing in the other classes. Number. The lungs are two in number; but as the air which penetrates them is received from one tube, and the blood circulating through them is de- rived from one vascular trunk, they must be regarded as separated parts of a single organ; by ihis arrangement, respiration is rendered certain, and its unity maintained. Situation. The lungs are situated (p p, fg. \55.) in the thoracic cavity, which is in a great measure occupied by them, and effectually protects them from the action of external agents ; they are placed on each side of the heart (/i, figs. 155. n-e, 171.), with which physiologically they are so directly con- nected ; they are separated from each other by the mediastinum (m) ; hence the independence of the two cavities in which they are contained. Being separated by the diaphragm from the stomach, the liver, and all the other ab- dominal organs, they are so inclosed in all directions as not to be liable to dis- placements, or rather such displacements are only partial, and due to a loss of substance in the walls of the cavity in which they are placed. Size. The size of the lungs necessarily corresponds exactly with the