OSTEOLOGY. 64 Anterior or ethmoido-frontal region. In this region we observe, in the middle, the ethmoidal fossa, in which is the foramen caecum ; the crista galli (o) ; the ethmoidal grooves, and the foramina with which they are perforated ; the eth- moidal fissure, for the ethmoidal or nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve ; the eth- moido-frontal sutures, running from before backwards ; the orifices of the internal or- bitary foramina; and the trace of the eth- mo-sphenoidal suture, running transversely. Laterally we see the orbital plates (i), remarkable for the prominence of their mamillary projections, and traversed by small grooves for the ramifications of the middle meningeal artery; and the fronto- sphenoidal sutures (before c), which mark the union of the lesser wings of the sphe- noid (c), with the orbital portion of the frontal bone (fi). The orbital plates sup- port the anterior lobes of the brain. The middle region exhibits in the centre a fossa, in which we observe the depression for the olfactory nerves, the optic groove, and olivary process (before d) ; the pituitary fossa (d), deeply excavated behind ; the quadrilateral plate (behind d); the cavernous grooves ; and the anterior and posterior clinoid processes. On the sid£s we find very deep fossee, which correspond with the midd'.e lobes of the brain, called viiddle lateral fossce of the base of the cranium ; they are broad externally, narrow internally, and are bounded in front by the posterior edge of the lesser wings of the sphenoid (e), and behind by the su- perior border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone (/)) . They are formed by the superior surface of the petrous portion, the internal surface of the squamous portion of the temporal, and the superior surface of the great wings of the sphenoid. They present, successively from before backwards, the sphenoidal fissure (or foramen lacerum superius) ; the foramen rotundum or superior maxillary (2) ; the foramen ovale (3) ; the foramen spinosum (4) ; the internal orifices of the anterior lacerated foramen, and carotid canal (before 5), and the hiatus Fallopii. We see here also the union of the sphenoid with the squamous and petrous portions of the temporal bone, forming the sphcno- temporal (i and e) and petro-sphenoidal sutures. This fossa is traversed from behind, forwards and outwards by a groove (i 4), which commences at the foramen spinosum, passes along the external border of the sphenoid, or rather is hollowed out from the spheno-temporal suture, and divides into two branches: the anterior, the larger, proceeds to the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone with the anterior ramified groove in which it becomes continuous; the posterior is directed horizontally backwards to the posterior mferior angle ot the parietal bone. In some cases the portion of the groove which extends from the foramen spinosum to the summit of the lesser wing of the sphenoid, almost equals in diameter the lateral grooves, and it is then almost always pierced by foramina: it contains the middle menmgeal artery, and a large vein. Posterior region of the base of the cranium. This region presents, in the LihrsJ^rwhrci\ffl,lid byposterior surface of the petrous portion of the emporal bone, almost the whole of the encephalic surface of the occi- pitS bon^and the posterior inferior angle of the parietal. We find here the