SPLANCHNOLOGY. 502 "When the rectum is empty it coutracts upon itself like the oesophagus, and its walls are in contact. The fibrous coat of the large intestine offers no peculiar characters. The mucous coat of the large intestine has no valves: the semilunar crests, or ridges which separate the cells of the colon, are formed by all the coats. The irregular folds or wrinkles observed on this membrane are completely effaced by distension. The mucous membrane is not unfrequently protruded through the muscular fibres, so as to form small sacs having narrow necks, and containing masses of indurated faeces. At first sight such sacs resemble a varix. They are very common in the aged, and are probably the result of habitual constipation. When examined with the microscope and under water, in the same manner as the mucous membrane of the small intestine, the inner surface of the large intestine is seen to have no vUli, but we find exactly the same appearance as in the mucous membrane of the stomach, viz. an alveolar or honeycomb arrange- ment. * The openings or pores of this mucous membrane are innumerable; and supposing that they Eissist both in exhalation and absorption, it may be conceived with what rapidity these processes must be carried on in the large intestine. It is also studded with a number of follicles (tanquam stellae firma- menti, Peyer), which are depressed and perforated in the centre *, and in a great number of subjects, especially in the old, have a black colour. These follicles are never collected into patches, as in the small intestine, but are al- ways solitary. They are often inflamed, though the rest of the membrane is healthy. It is easy then to distinguish the large from the small intestine, simply from the characters of its mucous membrane. The limit between the two is at the free margin of the ileo-csecal valve; all preceding this has the characters of the mucous lining of the small, all that comes after, of that of the large in- testine. We find dense patches of follicles in the vermiform appendix, the whole of which is sometimes lined with them. The mucous membrane is more loosely united to the fibrous coat in the rectum than in any other part of the large intestine. This looseness is most marked at its lower part, and hence a protrusion of this membrane only may occur, as in the oesophagus; and this must be carefully distinguished from prolapsus of the entire rectum. I should also remark that the capillary veins are much developed at the lower part of the rectum, and, when much larger than usual, constitute what are called hsemorrhoidal tumours. Vessels and nerves. The arteries of the caecum, the vermiform appendix, the ascending colon, and the right half of the arch, are supplied by the superior mesenteric; the rest of the colon and the rectum receive blood from the in- ferior mesenteric. The rectum also receives a branch from the internal iliac, called the middle hsemorrhoidal, and a branch from the internal pudic, called the inferior hsemorrhoidal. Some small ramifications are also furnished to the great intestine by the gastro-epiploic, splenic, capsular, and spennatic arteries. The recttmi exceeds all other parts of the large intestine in the Pig 162 * [In the stomach this character is due to the presence of the al- veoli, in the bottom of which the perpendicular tubuli open. In the large intestine, however, there are no pits ; but the alveolar appearance is produced by the openings of numerous tubes, ana- logous in form and direction to the tubuli of the stomach, and to the crjrpts of Lieberkuhn in the small intestine. The follicles of the large intestine difler from the solitarj-glands of the jejunum and ileum, in being always open. Each follicle is much dilated below, but has a narrow orifice. Injig. 162. the upper drawing represents a vertical section of a follicle (magnified), sur- rounded by the perpendicular tubes ; the lower is a magnified super- ficial view, showing the depression and opening in the centre, and the orifices of the surrounding tubes. ,. . • , The epithelium of this mucous membrane is cylindrical or co- MaRnified. luinnar.J