SPLANCHNOLOGY. Functions. The larynx is the organ of voice. Numerous experiments upon living animals, and many surgical facts, show that the vocal sound is produced exclusively in the larynx. The lungs, the bronchi, and the trachea perform, ■with regard to the voice, the office of an elastic conductor of air, capable of contraction and dilatation, of shortening and elongation. The thorax acts like a pair of bellows, by which the air is driven into the larynx with any wished for degree of force ; and hence the quantity of air passing through the larynx, and the rapidity with which it moves, may vary to a very great What then is the mechanism of the voice ? Is it the same as that of a horn {Dodart), of a stringed instrument {Ferrein), of a flute (Cuvier), of a reed in- strument (Biot and Mayendie), or of a bird-call* {Savart) ? Is it produced by the vibration of the tense vocal cords, or merely by the vibration of the air whilst passing through a narrow opening, which is itself incapable of vibrating ? We shall leave these questions to the decision of physiologists. It is sufficient for our purpose to know that the action of the muscles of the larynx and the ar- rangement of the vocal apparatus are perfectly fitted to produce either dilata- tion or contraction of the glottis ; and such is the mechanism of this part, that, from the rotatory movement of the arjrtenoid cartilages, the vocal cords are always rendered tense, whatever may be the other actions of the muscles. The voice as it issues from the larynx is simple, for the larynx is, with re- gard to the voice, what the mouth-piece is in the flute, or the reed in the bassoon; but during its passage through the vocal tube, composed of the epi- glottis, the pharynx, the isthmus of the fauces, the mouth, and the nasal fossae, the voice becomes modified. According to a very ingenious theory of M. Magendie, the epiglottis re- sembles those soft and moveable valves which M. Grenie places in the pipes of an organ, to enable the sound to be increased without modifying the tone. The isthmus of the fauces resembles the superior larynx of birds, which consists of a contractile orifice that can be diminished, and even closed at pleasure ; and it is principally owing to this mechanism, that the small glottis of birds can execute such an extensive range of notes. We know, in fact, that the tone of a wind instrument is reduced an octave lower, by completely closing the lower orifice of the tube, and that when it is only partially closed, the tone is depressed in proportion. Now the isthmus of the fauces acts ex- actly like the superior larynx of birds. On watching a person who wishes to utter a very low note, we see that he depresses and flexes the head slightly upon the neck, so as to approximate the chin to the thorax : by this means the vertical diameter of the isthmus of the fauces is diminished, the larynx being carried upwards, whilst the velum palati is depressed: and from this we may judge of the important part performed by the velum, in producing mo- dulations of the voice. If to this we add the changes which may be effected in the length and diameter of the pharynx (see Pharynx), and if we remember that by dimi- nishing by one half the length or diameter of the tube or body of a wind instrument, its tone is raised one octave, we shall be able to understand how the human voice can execute so extensive a scale of notes, although the glottis is so small. The voice is also modified while traversing the buccal and nasal cavities. Do the nasal fossae favour the resonance of the voice ? or does the air when passing through them, merely give rise to certain sounds denominated nasal? The latter opinion, which is supported by Mr. Gerdy, appears to me the most consistent with facts. MM. Biot and Magendie had already correctly » A bird-call is a cavity with elastic ■walls, perforated upon the two opposite sides. The cavity is represented by the ventricles, and the openings by the intervals between the vocal cords. It a tube capable of contracting and dilating be fitted to such an instrument, an infinite variety of sounds may be produced.