•FIGURE OF THE MUSCLES. 245 be seen that the number of the muscles greatly exceeds that of the tones; the reason of this is, that each bone acts as a lever in a great variety of move- meats, whilst each muscle acts only in a very limited number of motions. Volume and Substance of'the Muscular System. Of all the systems of organs in the body the muscular is predominant both in substance and in volume. This great mass of muscular apparatus is a ne- cessary consequence of the unfavourable position of most of the levers repre- sented by the bones. There is very great variety in different individuals, as regards both the volume and substance of the muscular system. Compare in this respect the glutseus maximus of a robust man, and the same muscle in a thin nervous individual, much emaciated, but yet in perfect health, for still greater differences are produced by disease : size and strength of the mus- cular system may also be natural or acquired, partial or general. Partial pre- ponderance is most usually acquired, and is commonly the result of exercise. To be convinced of this, it is only necessary to inspect the muscles of certain regions, in individuals whose employment requires the special exercise of those parts. The preponderance of the muscles on the right side is produced solely by the habit of using this side more than the other; it is not, as has been al- leged, the result of congenital difference. Lastly, the size of one or the other region of the muscular system, in dif- ferent animals, is in relation either with their instinctive propensities, their mode of feeding, or their natural attitude, or with some other important pecu- liarity in their organisation. Hence we find, 1. in the lion, the tiger, and other carnivorous animals that tear their prey in pieces, the muscles connected with the inferior maxilla, the most highly developed; 2. in the bear, which is a climbing animal, the muscles of the back; 3. in the hare, whose mode of progression is by successive leaps, the muscles of the hind limbs ; 4. the muscles of the wing in birds; and 5. those of the lower extremities and the vertebral grooves in man, to whom the erect position is peculiar. Figure of the Muscles. The figure of the muscles is determined upon the following data :— 1. From a comparison of them with geometric figures or with familiar objects. 2. From the respective arrangement of their surfaces, edges, and angles; 3. from their being symmetrical or otherwise. In this latter resj)ect there is a remark- able difi'erence between the osseous and the muscular systems: many bones are symmetrical, or azygos, whilst ahnost aU the muscles, on the contrary, are asymmetrical and arranged in pairs. 4. From the relative proportion between their three dimensions ; from this latter consideration, muscles have been di- vided into three classes, viz. long, broad, and short, concerning each of whicb we shall make some general remarks. The long muscles are chiefly met with in the Hmbs. Their length is some- times considerable ; and the longest are always most superficial. Very lone muscles generally pass over several articulations, and can therefore assist in moving them all. This great length of certain muscles has also another ad- vantage, VIZ. that It enables them to obtain a fixed point of attachment upon a less movable part, as the trunk, from which they can then act upon the more moDiie parts : such is the case with the muscles that move the thigh or the leg J^ong muscles are either simple or divided. Sometimes the division occurs at me more movable attachment; sometimes at that which is habitually fixed "^^'^P^ parietes of cavities; they are quadrilateral, tZv .tf ^I attachment are on the trunk ; and triangular, when they extend from the trunk to the extremities. When several bro^ mJLles and tWsarr''^^^'^^^ "^"""^ ^^^^^^^ '^^'^ those of another Tan anS and this arrangement by forming a sort of interweaving, greatly augments the K 3