MYOLOGY. 286 sternum, and the clavicle, and raises the trunk upon the ai-m. It is therefore one of the chief agents in climbing. Its action upon the ribs renders it an im- portant auxiliary in cases of laborious inspiration. Hence the attitude of an asthmatic patient, -who always places himself so as to keep the humeri fixed. The Pectoralis Minor Dissection. Detach the clavicular insertion of the pectoralis major, and divide that muscle in the middle by a vertical incision; reflect the two flaps, taking care to remove, at the same time, the loose cellular tissue which invests its deep surface. The pectoralis minor (e,fig. 110.) is a thin, flat, triangular muscle, having its internal edge serrated (serratus anticus, Alhinus"), and occupying the anterior and upper part of the thorax and shoulder. It arises from the third, fourth, and fifth ribs by three delicate, shining, tendinous prolongations, lying super- ficially to the intercostal muscles; to these succeed three fleshy fasciculi, which unite and converge, so as to be inserted by a flat tendon into the anterior margin of the coracoid process near its summit. Relations. It is covered by the pectoralis major, from which it is separated by the thoracic vessels and nerves: its posterior surface is in relation with the ribs, the intercostal muscles, the serratus magnus, the cavity of the axilla, and therefore with the axillary vessels and nerves. This last relation is of great importance, and sometimes renders the section of this muscle necessary for the ligature of the axillary artery. Attention should also be directed, 1. to its upper border, which is separated from the clavicle by a triangular interval, broad on the inside and narrow on the outside, in which the same artery may be tied; and 2. the lower border of the muscle extends downwards beyond the pectoralis major. Action. Most commonly it acts upon the scapula (musculus qui scapulam antrorsum agit, Vesalius). With its fixed point at the ribs, it evidently draws the scapula forwards and downwards, and forcibly depresses the apex of the shoulder. As a depressor of the shoulder, it acts in conjunction with the levator anguli scapuliE and rhomboideus, but antagonises those muscles considered as elevators of the entire scapula: it is also opposed to the rhomboideus when moving the scapula forwards. With its fixed point at the scapula, this muscle elevates the ribs to which it is attached. The Subclavius. Dissection. Raise the clavicle by carrying the apex of the shoulder upwards; divide the pectoralis minor, and remove the fibrous membrane, descendmg from the clavicle, and immediately investing the muscle. In order to expose its external or clavicular insertion, saw through the clavicle m the middle; divide the muscle at the same point, and reflect the external half with the correspond- insr portion of the clavicle. j ♦„ The subclavius {g,fig. 110.) is a long, thm, fusiform muscle, apphed to the lower surface of the clavicle, by which it is concealed (musculus qui sub cir^cula occultatur, Fabricius Hildanm). It arises from the cartdage of the Srib, and is inserted into the inferior and external surface of t^e cla^acle Its costal attachment consists of a cervical tendon, from which the fleshy fibres proceed outwards, backwards, and upwards, and are mserted mto the ''"iS^Sls '^TLTowr^raW by the clavicle, which is grooved beneath for