THE PELVIS IN GENERAL. 119 I 4 on the inside, and joins the descending ramus of the pubes; this is the as- cending ramus of the ischimn (e, fiy. 48.). The hmits of these three pieces are marked before complete development by three cartilaginous lines united like the letter Y, at the bottom of the cotyloid cavity (see^y. 48.),jvhich is the place where the three primitive osseous points meet, and this fact has comributed, m no small degree, to estabUsh that la^v of osteogony which we noticed in our general remai-ks, viz. that when an articular cavity exists upon the surface of a bone which is developed from several points, these points always unite m ThrfoUowins are the complementary points: 1. one at the bottom of the acetabulum, pointed out by M. Serres* and shaped like the letter Y ; 2. the marqinal epiphysis, which occupies and forms the entire length ot the crest ot the ilium ; 3. the epiphysis of the tuberosity of the ischium, which stretches along the ascending ramus; 4. and 5. two epiphyses, which do not seem constant; one occupies the anterior and inferior spinous process of the ibum, the other, still more rare, occupies the angle of the pubes. , • , • The ossification of the os coxse commences first in the ilium, in the ischium next, and in the pubes last. The osseous germ of the ilium appears on the fiftieth day, that of the ischium at the end of the third month, and that of the pubes at the end of the fifth month. At birth the ossification of the os coxas is not far advanced ; the acetabulum is in a great measure cartilaginous. The ascending ramus of the ischium, the descending ramus of the pubes, and the entire circumference of the ilium, are also cartilaginous. These three pieces are united together from the thirteenth to the fifteenth yeai-. At the same time, the secondary points of ossification appear, and successively unite with the primitive. This union is completed from the tenth to the twentieth year ; the epiphysis of the crest of the iiium alone remains separate until the age of twenty-two, twenty-four or even twenty-five years. The Pelvis in geneeax. The sacrum, the coccyx, and the haunch bones, having now been described, we are enabled to study the bony cavity which they concur in forming. It is called the pelvis (Jig. 48.), and forms for the lower extremities an osseous girdle, analogous to that which the shoulders form for the upper extremities. The pelvis or basin, so named because it has been compared to a vase, is a large, irregular, bony cavity, open above and below, which supports the vertebral column behind, and is itself supported by the thigh bones on the sides and in front. In an adult of ordinary stature the pelvis divides the body into two equal parts. In the foetus the part of the body above the pelvis is much longer than that below; in adults of large stature, on the other hand, the part below is considerably longer than that above. The pelvis is symmetrical but of a very irregular figure ; we may say upon the whole, that it forms a truncated cone, presenting, 1. an upper part or great pelvis, oval transversely, much expanded on each side and notched in front; 2. a sort of contracted canal below this upper part, which is called the little pelvis. When the pelvis is examined in the skeleton, it has not the horizontal position which it presents when resting on the tuberosities of the ischium and the extremity of the coccyx. It is znc/medwith regard to the axis of the body. The obliquity of the pelvis is not the same throughout, and we have therefore to consider two axes, one for the great, and one for the little pelvis. The axis of the great pelvis is directed obliquely downwards and backwards, and is re- * This point of ossification has been regarded as the vestige of a bone peculiar to marsupial animals, and named marsupial bone; but this view is incorrect; for, according to Ciivier this fourth piece is found in marsupials themselves at the bottom of the cotyloid cavity, whereas the a^mls'^' hone is a superadded portion of the skeleton which supports the pouch in these