528 SPLANCHNOLOGY. The ductus communis choledochus. The ductus communis choledochus iXo>^V, bile, 5oxJ>J, containing ; c c,Ji(). 169.) the last excretory canal of the bik-, seems to be formed by the union of the hepatic (<) and the cystic ducts («). Another, and perhaps more simple, man- ner of viewing the excretory canals of the liver would be to consider the hepatic duct as giving off to the right, after a certain course, the cystic duct, which, after passing backwards, dilates into an oval ampulla to form the gall blad- der ; and the ductus chole- dochus as nothing more than the continuation of the he- patic duct. The direction of the ductus choledochus is in fact the same as that of the hepatic duct, i. e. obliquely downwards, a little to the right, and backwards : there is no line of demarcation between these two ducts: in the natural state there is no marked difference in their diameters : the ductus choledochus, when collapsed, is about as large as a moderately sized goosequill. The same causes give rise to dilatation of the ductus choledochus and of the hepatic duct. I have seen the former as large as the duodenum. {Anat. Pathol, avec planches.) Its length is from two to two inches and a half. Relations. In the first part of its course, before it reaches the duodenimi, the ductus choledochus is included in the gastro-hepatic omentum, in front of the vena portse, and below the hepatic artery, having the right gastro-epiploic artei'y along its left side, and surrounded by loose cellular tissue, a great number of lymphatic vessels, and several lymphatic glands. Having reached the duodenum, opposite the first flexure of that intestine, it passes behind and to the inner side of its second portion, and is there received into a groove, or more commonly into a complete canal, formed for it by the pancreas. Lastly, it penetrates very obliquely into the substance of the duodenum, about the middle of its second or vertical portion, perforates the muscular coat, passes between that and the fibrous coat, then between the fibrous coat and the mucous membrane, elevating the latter when distended with bile or by a probe, and after a course of about seven or eight lines between the coats, opens into the duodenum, about the lower part of the second portion, at the summit of a nipple-like eminence (above e'), which is more or less prominent in different subjects. In this third portion of its course the ductus choledochus is in relation with the pancreatic duct (m), which is situated on its left. Opposite the base of the eminence above mentioned, the two ducts unite, or rather the pancreatic duct opens into the ductus choledochus ; so that, at its termination, the latter may be regarded as a canal having a triple origin, viz. an hepatic, a cystic, and a pancreatic* into the gall bladder, has advanced very singular views concerning the formation and uses of the bile. The bile, according to him, is formed in the gall bladder, and carried by the cystic duct into the hepatic duct and the ductus choledochus. By his theory, the bile which readies the liver through the hepatic duct, assists greatly in sanguification. .This opinion, altogether erroneous as it is, has perhaps exercised a great influence in science, by contributing to cr.i- dicate the idea of the bile being an acrid, corrosive, and essentially injurious, excrementitial lluid. * Hence the definition of Soemmering: "Ductus choledochus,idesl.ductus hepalicus.ct/sUciis. el pnncrt'aticus, in mium conflali" {Cnrpor. Hum. Fabric, torn. vi. p. 18G.)