MYOLOGY. 338 Action. It extends the first phalanx upon the first metacarpal bone, and then ■becomes an abductor and extensor of the metacarpal bone of the thumb. The Extensor Longus Pollicis. This muscle (extensor secundi internodii pollicis, m.,figs. 121,122.) is much larger than the extensor bre-vis, within and parallel to which it is situated. It arises from a considerable extent of the ulna, from the interosseous ligament, and from the tendinous septa dividing it from the extensor carpi ulnaris, and the extensor proprius indicis : it is inserted into the upper end of the second phalanx of the thumb. The fleshy fibres form a flat fusiform bundle, directed obliquely like the preceding muscle; they terminate in succession around a tendon, which emerges from them at the carpal extremity of the ulna, enters a special osteo-fibrous sheath, and crosses obliquely over the tendons of the two radial extensors, being separated from the tendons of the abductor longus and extensor brevis pollicis by an interval which may be readily distinguished through the integuments, and gives rise to the hollow on the outer side of the wrist, commonly called the salt-cellar. The tendon next crosses obliquely over the first interosseous space, gains the inner edge of the first metacarpal bone, and then that of the first phalanx, upon which it is expanded, and pro- ceeds to be inserted into the second or ungual phalanx of the thumb. Relations. Its general relations are the same as those of the preceding muscle. Action. Its uses are also the same ; but it acts in a special manner upon the second phalanx of the thumb, which it extends upon the first before exerting any influence upon this last-mentioned bone. It has less power in abduction than the preceding muscles. The Extensor Proprius Indicis. This is an elongated fusiform muscle (indicator, Albinus, r, fig. 122.) like the preceding, below and paraUel to which it is situated. It arises from the ulna, the interosseous ligament, and a septum intervening between it and the extensor longus polUcis : it is inserted into the two last phalanges of the index finger The fleshy fibres proceed obliquely from their origins and terminate around a tendon, which they accompany as far as the sheath of the extensor communis digitorum : into this sheath the tendon enters, and, havmg escaped from it, crosses obliquely over the carpus and the second interosseous space, becomes situated on the inside of the tendon given off to the mdex finger by the extensor communis, unites intimately with that tendon opposite the lower end of the metacarpus, and terminates with it in the manner already indicated. Its re?a«w;(s are the same as those of the precedmg muscles. Action. It enables the index finger to be extended independently of the others, and hence, without doubt, arises the particular use of that fanger. 1 should add, that the union of its tendon with the one furnished by the com- mon extensor is so intimate, that its independence of action would have been much kss had not the fleshy fasciculus of the common extensor destmed for it been itself almost isolated. MUSCLES OF THE HAND. Tlie abductor brevis pollicis. - Opponent pollicis. - Flexor brevis Jj*- - ductor vollicis — Palmaris brevis.—Abductor digtlimznimu—Mexor brevis TguIIn^L-Opponen. digiti minimi.-The interosseous muscles, dorsal and THE mujcles of the hand occupy the entire palmar region Th^^^ ^nrf^aSurttsetnTh^^^^^^