551 THE LUNGS. N N 4 The proper Tissue of the Lungs. The pulmonary tissue appears like a spongy or vesicular texture the cells of v hich are filled with air. This is rendered apparent by the most simple in- nection of he surface of an inflated lung, either with the naked eye or with a'len l iScroscopical examination of sections of a dried lung shows the existence of this cellular or vesicular texture in the most evident manner throughout the entire organ. The difPerent shapes of the ceUs and their un- equal size may also be distinguished. , , . But what are the relations of the cells with each other ? Do they communi- cate throughout the whole extent of the lung, or only within a determinate space, or are they independent of each other? In order to resolve these questions, it is necessary to examine the lung of a large animal, of the ox for example the sfucture of which is similar to that of the human lung, on which the same observations may be subsequently repeated. We then observe that the surface of the lung is traversed by lines, dividing it into lozenge-shaped compartments ; and if the lung be previously inflated, it will be seen that the surface is slightly depressed opposite these lines, but that it bulges out between them. If, by means of a delicate tube, air be blown under the pleura, or if the luug be forcibly inflated through the trachea, so as to rupture some of the vesicles and°produce emphysema, we then perceive that the lines bounding the-lozenge- shaped intervals correspond to thin layers of very delicate but tolerably loose cellular tissue, which divide the lung into a large number of groups or cells, which may be completely separated from each other by dissection, until at last we arrive at the pedicles by which they are united into a common mass. These groups of cells are the lohules of the lung; the cellular tissue uniting them is the interlobular cellular tissue, which is extremely delicate, never loaded with fat, but often infiltrated with serosity, and is subject to emphysema. A great number of lymphatic vessels traverse this cellular tissue : they are often visible to the naked eye, and are always easily injected; they pass deeply into the substance of the lung. The pulmonary lobules do not communicate with each other, but each is per- fectly independent of the rest. This fact is shown by inflation ; it is most dis- tinctly proved by dissection; and an examination of the lungs of the foetus will remove all doubts concerning it. The pleura and the interlobular cellular tissue having but little strength in the foetus, the lobules become separated without dissection, resemble grapes attached to their foot-stalks, and hang from a com- mon stem, formed by the divisions of the bronchi and the pulmonary vessels. This independence of the lobules is also proved by pathological anatomy : thus we continually find one lobule infiltrated with serum, with pus, or with tubercular matter, in the midst of perfectly healthy lobules. Each lobule then is a small lung, and may act independently of those by which it is surrounded. I have satisfied myself by a great number of experi- ments, that the lobules are not all equally permeable to the air, and that a moderate inflation of the lungs, made as much as possible within the limits of an ordinary inspiration, does not perhaps dilate one third of the pulmonary lobules. I have observed, and this fact appears to me of great importance, that the most permeable lobules are those of the apex of the lung; and this perhaps will explain the greater frequency of tubercles in that situation. * There are some lobules in the lung which are kept as it were in reserve, and only act in forced inspirations, f • It IS rather too much to say that pneumonia almost always attacks the base of the lungs ■ this disease has no special locality ; it perhaps as often affects the apex as the base. ' t In ordinary respiration, perhaps not more than one third of the lung is in action : exercise and yawning are probably required, from the necessity for bringing the whole lung into action I bus a great number of tubercles may exist in the lung, without manifesting their presence bv impeding ordin.iry respiration. It is in violent inspiration, in exercise, in efTorts of the voice and in all movements during which the whole of the lungs is called into play, that we dptei-f the existence of a lesion in the central organ of respiration. "v-h-li