ARTICULATIONS OF THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. 161 Mechanism of the Vertebral Column. The vertebral column being at once an enclosing and protecting cylinder for the spinal marrow, a column for transmitting the weight of the trunk and the upper extremities to the legs, and an organ of locomotion, its ana- tomical structure must be examined in reference to these three uses. The Vertebral Column considered as the protecting Cylinder of the Spinal Cord. The vertebral column performs the oflSce of a protecting cylinder, by virtue of its solidity, ensured by the bodies of the vertebra in front, by the projection of the spinous processes behind, which ward ofP, so to speak, all external ob- jects, and the prominence of the transverse processes at the sides. By means of these arrangements, the spinal cord is inaccessible, excepting by a sharp instrument, which might penetrate either in front through the inter- vertebral substances, or on the sides through the intervertebral foramina, or, lastly, behind through the intervals between the spinous processes, and between the laminae. Another condition of solidity is provided by the number of pieces of which the vertebral column is formed. For in all cases, where the column is subjected to shocks, each articulation becomes the seat of a de- composition of the force; a part is employed in producing a slight displace- ment of the articular surfaces, and is therefore entirely lost as far as regards the transmission of the shock. If, on the contrary, the vertebral column had been formed of one single piece, the transmission of shocks would have been unbroken, and thus the frequent cause of concussion and fracture. Lastly, the breadth of the articular surfaces by which the bodies are united, the strength and pliability of the intervertebral substances, the vertical direction of the articular processes, contrasted with the horizontal direction of the articular surfaces of the body, and the species of dove-tailing which results from it, are also most favourable conditions for the protection of the spinal marrow. The Vertebral Column, considered as an Organ for transmitting the Weight of the Trunk. The anatomical arrangements adapted to this purpose are the following: 1. The progressive increase in size of the vertebral column, from the apex to the base. This disposition is particularly observable in the first two pieces of the sacrum, which are proportionally much larger in man than in the lower animals. 2. The articulation of the vertebral column with the posterior part of the pelvis, by which the centre of gravity of the trunk is carried backwards, and the maintenance of the equilibrium is aided, by counter-balancing the weight of the thoracic and abdominal viscera, which, instead of uniformly surrounding the column, are all placed in front. 3. The alternate inflexions of the vertebral column, which allow more ex- tensive oscillations of the centre of gravity of the column, than would have been practicable had its direction been altogether rectilinear, and which also augment its power of resistance in the vertical direction. 4. The length of the spinous processes, which thus afford a more favourable, oecause a longer lever to the extensor muscles, which maintain the column A-K . absence of these processes in infancy is one of the causes of the difficulty of standing at that period. Tcif;). J***^ existence of the soft matter in the centre of the intervertebral discs Z« compression of the column by affording a liquid, and there- of thkT '°^°'^P'"essible point d' appui, as Monrd has remarked; the truth is leneZll 1%"^^"^^. submitting a portion to powerfiil compi-ession. It generally beheved, it .s true, that the diminution of height, which follows