553 THE LUNGS. only existed when the neck was bent upon the thorax, they disappeared during ^""nl^Mnsions. The length of the trachea equals that of the space between the fifth cervical and the third dorsal vertebra, and is therefore from four to five inches ; but it varies according as the larynx is raised or depressed, and as the neck is flexed or extended. The difference produced in its length, by the utmost elongation and shortening, may be about half us entire length, i. e. from two inches to two inches and a half; its shortening is hmited by the contact of its cartilaginous rings. * • •■■ >• The diameter of the trachea is determined by that of the cricoid cartUage ot the larynx; it is much wider in the male than in the female, and after than before puberty. Individuals who have been many years labouring under chronic catarrh have the air passages remarkably large, especially the trachea. The mean diameter of the trachea is from ten to twelve lines in the male, and from nine to ten in the female. The trachea is not of equal diameter through- out ; it is almost always dilated at its lower extremity where it bifurcates. In some subjects it gradually increases in size from above downwards, and re- sembles a sort of truncated cone, with the base below. External surface, form and relations. In front and on the sides the trachea is cylindrical (^^.170.), but is flattened behind (^c?. 171.), so that it re- sembles a cylinder, the posterior fourth or third of which has been renioved. The external surface is rough, and as it were interrupted by circular ridges, which correspond to the cartilaginous rings. The relations of its external surface must be examined in the neck and in the thorax. Belations of the cervical portion {x,fig. 140.). la front the trachea is in rela- tion with the thyroid body, the isthmus of which being sometimes very narrow and sometimes very largely developed, covers a greater or less number of the rings of the trachea. In general, the first ring of the trachea is above the isthmus of the thyroid. Below the thyroid body the trachea is in relation with the sterno-thyroid muscles, the edges of which are separated only by the linea alba of the neck ; also with the cervical fascia, the thyroid plexus of veins, a considerable quantity of cellular tissue, the thyroid artery of Neubauer, when it exists, and the brachio-cephalic artery, which always passes a little above the supra-sternal notch. AU these relations are of the greatest importance in re- ference to the operation of tracheotomy. On the sides the trachea is embraced by the lateral portions of the thyroid body, and therefore, in diseases of that organ, the corresponding part of the trachea is deformed, flattened on the sides, and elliptical or even triangular. The compression of this canal may be carried so far as to produce suffocation. The common carotid artery and the pneumo- gastric nerve are in contact with it on either side ; and hence the possibility of wounding that artery in the operation of tracheotomy. A great number of lymphatic glands are situated upon the sides of the trachea, and may become so large as to prevent the passage of the air. Lastly, all the relations of the trachea, excepting those with the thyroid body, take place through the medium of a very loose cellular tissue in which this canal is embedded. Behind, the trachea is flat and membranous, and is in relation with the oeso- phagus, which projects a little beyond it on the left side, and separates it from the vertebral column. The left recurrent nerve is situated in the groove fonned between the trachea and the oesophagus in this direction ; the right recurrent nerve lies behind the trachea. The immediate relation of the trachea with the oesophagus explains why ♦ The elongation and shortening of the trachea is much more limited in man than in birds m which the rings of the trachea are moved by longitudinal muscles, and can be drawn within each other ; in the greatest possible degree of shortening three rings overlap each other so as to equal only one in height; and therefore the trachea of a bird may be diminished bv two thirds. T hese peculiarities of structure arc connected with the different uses of the parts • the trachea in man and other mammalia merely conveying the air (un portcvail), while' thn trachea of birds conveys the voice (K»jpo»7f-tioi.r).