THE LIVEK. 527 bladder, and into the cystic duct. Moreover, these valves are opposed neither to the entrance of the bile into, nor to its exit from, the bladder. Structure. Proceeding from -without inwards, we find that the gall bladder is composed of, 1. a peritoneal coat, which is reflected from the lower surface of the liver upon the bladder, completely invests its fundus, forms a more or less incomplete covering for its body and neck, and is continuous with the anterior layer of the gastro-hepatic omentum. 2. An areolar fibrous coat, which forms as it were the framework of the bladder, and prevents its sudden distension, though it will yield to a long-continued distending force ; but I have not been able to see the muscular fibres admitted by some authors, and which can be so easily demonstrated in the larger animals, the ox in particular. 3. An internal mucous membrane, the principal characters of which I have noticed when speaking of the internal surface of the gall bladder: it presents some folds, which may be easily distinguished from the borders of the alveoli, because they are readily effaced by distension. After the most attentive examination, I have been unable to recognise any crypts or follicles. The gall bladder receives one very considerable artery, the cystic branch of 1 the hepatic. The cystic vein terminates in the vena portee. The lymphatic vessels are very numerous and easily demonstrated; they are sometimes tinged by the colouring matter of the bile. Its nerves are derived from the hepatic plexus. The cystic duct. The cystic duct {s,fig. 169.), or excretory duct for the bile, is the smallest of all the biliary canals : it is not uncommon, however, to find it of an equal or even larger size than the others; in which case there has always been some obstacle to the flow of the bile through the ductus communis choledochus (c). It commences at the neck of the gall bladder, passes down- wards and to the left side for about an inch, and unites at a very acute angle with the hepatic duct (€). It is not straight, but inflected, and, as it were, sinuous. Relations. It is situated in the substance of the gastro-hepatic omentum, in front of the vena cava, the cystic artery being on its left side. Its internal surface is remarkable for its valves, which are indefinite in number ; according to Soemmering there are from nine to twenty, but this appears to me to be au exaggeration ; I have counted from five to twelve. These valves are concave at their free margins, irregular, alternate, oblique, transverse, sometimes even vertical, and united together by small oblique valves. In order to understand their structure, a cystic duct must be examined imder water, or rather an in- flated and dried specimen. This alternate arrangement of the valves, some- times gives a spiral appearance to the inner surface of the cystic duct. * These valves, which only exist in man, perhaps on account of the erect position pecu- liar to him, are not efi'aced, like the valves in the neck of the gall bladder, by such dissection as will allow of straightening of the duct. Small calculi are occasionally met with in the intervals between the valves, giving to the cystic duct a nodulated appearance, and intercepting the flow of the bile. More- over, the valves of the cystic duct are not more opposed to the descent than to the ascent of the bile. It is even probable that they facilitate the ascent of the bile into the gall bladder by supporting the column of liquid, like the valves of the veins. Perhaps they are also intended to retard the course of the bile from the gall bladder towards the ductus choledochus. From their appearing sometimes to have a spiral arrangement, M. Amussat has advanced a very ingenious opinion — that the ascent of the bile is effected by a contrivance like an Archimedes' screw. But an Archimedes' screw only causes the ascent of a liquid when a rotatory movement is communicated to it, and how can such a movement be performed by the cystic duct? f ^'''q'""" spiralis fiibrica: imaginem ferrc." (Ilallcr, torn. vi. liv. xxiil. + Another opinion, foiinikd upon tiie existence of tlie valves, is tliat of Badiiiis who lip liovMig that he hail shown that tlic valvc^s prevent the ascent of the bile from tlie hepatic duct