THE KIDNEYS. 583 P P 4 they reach the mediiUary substance, are termed the cortical ducts, or the con- '''''Y:^rS^SS'^ei the tubes of BeUini under the mic^scope believed that each of them formed a pyramid analogous to those of the tubular sub- stance aSd that each of these secondary pyramids consisted of about a hmidred ducts hence the tubes of the tubular substance have been named the pyramids of Ferrein *, in contradistinction to the pyramids of Malpighi. , , We shaU now examine the structure of the tubular and the cortical sub- ^^'^Structure of the tubular substance. The tubular substance, which at first sight looks like muscular tissue, from its red colour and arrangement m lines, evidently consists of tubes or ducts. . In fact an examination under the simple microscope, of a section made per- pendicularly to the axis of the tubes, demonstrates the existence of a number of small openings, each corresponding to a tube; and if, while the eye is hxed upon the section, the kidney be compressed, urine wiU be seen to exude from all points of the cut surface. Direct injection of the ducts, by means ot a tube containing mercury, introduced at hazard into the tubular substance, will fill all the tubes in whatever direction the instrument may be dii-ected. The ingenious experiment performed by Galvani, who tied the ureters of birds, and by this means obtained an injection of the tubes with the white matter of their urine, leaves no doubt of the existence of these tubes. Lastly, the tubes themselves are collected together in the papillaj, and open either over their entire surface, or in a small depression which some- times exists at their summits. Structure of the cortical substance. The cor- tical substance is tubular and granular. The granules are regularly disposed around the con- voluted tubes of Ferrein. f On examining a thin slice of uninjected kid- ney by the simple microscope, we perceive a great number of oval and spheroidal granules {c",fig. 180.), the acini of Malpighi, which may be separated from each other by maceration; and those granules which have been cut through present that spongy appearance, resembling the pith of the rush, which seems to belong to all glands. When the section is vertical, these cor- I , ^ , puscules are seen appended to the tubes of. i-^ j\ / Ferrein, like grapes upon their stalk. ยง MaKnifiecuixtjtunlt V^^^els and nervcs. The renal artery is re- * See note, infrd. t According to Ferrein, these convoluted tubes form, by their numerous anastomoses, a net- worlc, in the meshes of which the granules are contained. 1 This is a plan, rather than an actual representation. ยง [The uriniferous tubes, commencing at their orifices upon the surface of the papillae, pass up into the tubular portion of the kidney, dividing and subdividing dichotomously several times '(n, fig- '80.), so as to constitute fasciculi of straight and radiating tubes : these are the pyramids of Ferrein, a considerable number of which are united to form one of the pyramids of Malpighi (A, fig. 179.). At the base of the latter the fasciculi spread out, and the straight tubes become the convoluted tubes of the cortical substance (flg. ISO.)- In the human kidney, the tubuU uriniferi are said by Weber to be of a nearly uniform dia- meter throughout their entire course (averaging j^th of an inch); and all appeared to him to end in loops (6 ft), none in free and closed extremities (as at 6'): according to Krause, they ter- minate in both ways. In either case, however, they form a closed system of tubes, independent