237 DEVELOPEMENT OF THE TEETH. a prolongation into each alveolus {alveolo-dental periosteum), that forms a fibro- mucous sac upon each follicle, perforated at the bottom of the socket for the passage of the dental vessels and nerves. As these prolongations or sacs are intimately connected to the gingival membrane, by pulling gently upon the' latter we can raise the foUicles from their receptacles, and completely lay bare the alveoli. . . The: follicle or dental, germ consists essentially of a membrane, containmg a sort of pediculated papilla, known as the bulb or dental pulp. 1. The viembrane of the follicle, after having clothed the sac just described as lining the alveolus, is reflected upon the vessels and nerves which form the pedicle of the bulb, and appears to be prolonged upon the bulb itself: this, however, has not yet been demonstrated. The membrane of the follicle, there- fore, resembles the serous membranes in forming a shut sac, the inner surface of which is free and smooth, and the outer adherent. A transparent viscid fluid occupies the space between the bulb and the alveolar portion of the membrane. The following is the order in which the follicles of the first set of teeth appear. Towards the middle of the third month of foetal life there are four distinct folUcles in each jaw; at the end of the third month a third follicle appears in each half of the jaw, and a fourth and a fifth towards the end of the fourth month. 2. Of the dental bulb. In the earliest stages the membrane of the dental foUicle only contains a fluid, which is at first reddish, and afterwards yellowish white ; but towards the third month a small body makes its appearance, rising as a papilla from the bottom of the alveolus.* This papilla is abundantly sup- plied with vessels and nerves, and progressively increases in firmness and in size. A very thin pedicle, consisting of the dental vessels and nerves, affords attachment to it, so that it is suspended like a grape. This papilla, dental bulb, or pulp, gradually acquires the characteristic form of some particular tooth, of which it presents an exact model, constituting the nucleus around which the tooth itself is deposited. The first part developed upon this papilla is the crown of the tooth, on which we already find indications of the va.rious eminences and depressions su'bsequently exhibited by it. The developement of the hard portion commences towards the middle of pregnancy. The production of the ossiform matter upon the surface of the bulb is effected by a process of secretion f : it begins by the deposition of some small laminae, or very delicate scales (1, fig. 99.) upon each projection of the pulp: they are at first pliable and elastic, but gradually become more consistent. These laminae or scjQes constitute so many formative points for the tooth, and From the preceding observations it follows, that the pulps and sacs of both the temporary and permanent teeth have a common origin from the gastro-intestinal mucous membrane ; that a papilla is first formed, afterwards surrounded by and sunk into a follicle, which latter is then converted into a closed sac ; and hence the origin of the terms, papillary, follicular, and sac- cular, applied to these several conditions. It moreover appears, that all the temporary teeth, and also the anterior permanent molar, originate from the primitive denial groove ; and that all the permanent teeth, except the anterior molar, are developed from cavities of reserve commenced during its secondary condition. For an account of the changes occurring in the pulps and sacs of the two sets of teeth, during tha saccular and eruptive stages, the reader may now referto the text; remembering, however, that the term follicle is there applied to the entire dental germ in its saccular condition, con- « T? °'^ '^'oss'i sac and its contained pulp.] [The papilla of a temporary tooth appears even before the formation of the open follicle, and + rn-u''''- prior to its conversion into a shut sac. (See note, p. 2.'i.').)] i\ A t 'i""''? " 'ong<f regarded, by the best authorities, as a secretion from the surface of hrL f tv.''" <'namel as a similar product from the parietal layer of the lining mem- I I ^ microscopic examination of these two structures in their perfect condition Th» , ' "l?"^ sufficient to throw considerable doubt on the old opinion adopted in the tejit It i,oi 1, °' Schwann into their mode of developement have again elucidated the subiect' It nas Been observed that thn olnhni»= in fh„ „f n.„ j^ntal pulp arc primitive nucleated organic tissues; that at the surface of dicular arrangement, but still contain I correspond in size (not to the tubull)