ODONTOLOGY. 240 » Sec note, p. 235. Second or Permanent Teeth. Phenomena which precede the eruption* The second dentition consists of the eruption of the teeth called permanent, to distinguish them from the temporary teeth. They are thirty-two in number, so that there are twelve additional teeth in the second set. In this dentition, as in the former, we have to study the phenomena which precede, accompany, and follow the eruption of the teeth. The follicles or germs of the second set of teeth correspond to the row of teeth already formed, bony septa intervening between them. They have the following relations with the follicles of the provisionary teeth. 1. The follicles of the additional teeth in the second set, viz. the three last molars, are situated in the same curve as the milk teeth, but they occupy of necessity the lateral extremities of these curves (Jig.lOQ.'). 2. The follicles of those teeth of the second set that replace others of the first, are, on the contrary, situated precisely behind the teeth to which they correspond (a, figs. 100, 101, 102.). These follicles are at first contained in the same alveoli as the temporary 7 r^. i, teeth; but after a cer- >> Ftg. 100. M 2. • J ± tarn tune septa are gra- dually formed between them, proceeding from the bottom of each al- veolus towards its ori- fice (figs. 101, 102.). Nevertheless, for a long time after the forma- tion of these septa, the temporary (a a\ fig. 102.) and the permanent C6'6) alveoli communicate by tolerably large ori- fices (c' c'yfigs. 101,102.), through which proceed the cords {c,fig. 102.) connect- ing the two teeth. The follicles of the permanent teeth do not sensibly differ in their mode of developement from those of the provisionary teeth, only the increase of the vascular system of the former coincides with the progressive atrophy of the vessels of the latter. Phenomena which accompany their eruption. As long as the developement of the permanent teeth can be effected in a direction towards the bottom of their sockets, the temporary teeth remain uninjured; but when the growth of the permanent teeth influences their upper edges, the alveoli of the first set are compressed, and afterwards destroyed at the parts corresponding to the crowns of the permanent teeth (see ^^.101.). After this time the alveoli of the first and second sets form common cavities: the roots of the milk teeth being com- pressed by the crown of the permanent teeth, un- dergo a loss of substance, become loosened, and may be detached by the slightest effort, each tooth being retained in its place only by the sort of ring formed by the gum around its neck. The shedding of the milk teeth is not always effected in the way we have described, viz. by a previous destruction of their root. Sometimes, in fact the permanent tooth does not penetrate into the alveolus of the corresponding milk tooth; but this alveolus is gradually waited «wfv hv the constantly increasing developement of the neighbouring per- LanL?Utt case, the milk teeth may fall without destruction of J?!?, rnn?rwbich howcvcr, are then almost always slender, and, as it were, aSrTpWed Sme 'cSmpSon, either exercised upon the pai-ietes of the tern- Dorarv sockets, or upon the roots of the milk teeth, is almost indispensab e for Their exp^sion. When, in fact, the permanent tooth deviates from its Fig. 101.