74 OSTEOLOGY. nervous filament, and forms part of the anterior orifice of the nasal fossa;; it unites with the lateral cartilage of the nose. The internal (J)) edge is thick above and hevilled, so that, when approximated to the other bone, the two constitute a furrow, in which the nasal spine of the frontal and the perpen- dicular lamella of the ethmoid bone are received. The external (c) edge is somewhat longer than the internal, is slightly bevilled on the outer table, and indented for articulation with the ascending process of the superior maxilla, ■which rests upon it. Connections. The two bones are articulated together; they unite also with the frontal, the ethmoid, and the superior maxilla, and likewise with the lateral cartilages of the nose; they afford passage to the vessels which establish a communication between the skin of the nose, and the mucous membrane of the nasal fossaj. Internal structure. The nasal bones are thick and cellular m their upper parts, thin and entirely compact in their lower, and are traversed by nervous and vascular grooves. . Development. The nasal bone is developed ft-om one single osseous point, which appears before the end of the second month. Ossa Unguis, or Lachrymal Bones {figs. 31, 32.). These are the smallest bones of the face ; they are thin like paper, and have Fig.ZX. Fig.32. the transparence, tenuity, and even the shape of a nail, from which circumstance one of their names has been de- rived. They are situated at the internal and anterior part ¥7 of-the orbit; their figure is irregularly quadrilateral; they 0¥ are two in number, and therefore asymmetrical. They have two surfaces and four edges. ^ The external or orbital surface (fg. 32.) is divided into n two unequal parts by a vertical ridge (a b), which terminates below in a sort of hook. The portion anterior to the ridge is narrow, and marked by a porous groove (c), which when joined to the channel on the as- cending process of the superior maxilla forms the lachrymal groove (hence the name of lachrymal bone).* The portion (d) of the os unguis, which is posterior to the ridge, completes the inner wall of the orbit. , , .s i.- The internal or ethmoidal surface (Jig. 31.) presents a ^^oy, (a' b) which corresponds to the external ridge; the portion (c') m front of the furrow forms part of the middle meatus; behind is a rough surface (d')^h^eh covers the an- tprior cells of the ethmoid. ... .^-l. ^t. Of the four borders, the superior (aa') is rough, and articulates with the internal orbital process of the frontal bone ; the inferior (b b ) articulates with he inferior turbinated bone, by a small tongue which passes backwards and which contributes to form the nasal canal, and with the interna edge of the S.Hal surface of the superior maxillary. The anterior edge (e e;) unites with theScending process of the maxillary bone; and the posterior edge (Jf), sUghtirdenticXted, joins the orbital portion or lamma papyracea of the eth- ^"Cmnections. The os unguis articulates with the frontal, the ethmoid, the su- ^^■^n.-r TTifurUlarv and the inferior turbmated bone. 4e osunguisconsists of a verythinlayer of compac tissue, and Afructwre. 1 lie o 8 . f j^iportance to note its tenuity and IS the most J-^^K °? ^^^^ the operation for fistula lachrymaUs. . 'Xe^;;^SrTV: T:;^! is 0.^1 at the commencement of the third month, from one single point. glands nor passages.