THE INTESTINES. 481 As the internal surface and the structure of the duodenum are very analogous to those of the jejunum and ileum, I shall postpone their description until I have noticed the external conformation of the rest of the small intestine. The Small Intestine^ or Hie Jejunum and Jkunu The small intestine, properly so called (c d,Jig. 139.; i i i,fig. 155.), or the je- junum and ileum, consists of that portion of the alimentary canal which fills almost the whole of the ahdomen, occupies the umbilical, hypogastric, iliac, and lumbar regions, and is surrounded, as it were, more or less completely by the large intestine (e/5rA,^if. 139.; atd,fig. 155.). Its upper extremity (j",^^'. 161.), is continuous, without any Fig. 155. line of separation, with the duodenum. The distinction between the two parts is established by the angle which the mesentery forms with the mesocolon, or rather by the point where the superior mesenteric vessels cross over the small intestine. Its lower extre- mity (rfj^gr. 139.; ijig.l&\.) enters at a right angle into the large intestine. The old division of the small intestine into the jejunum and ileum should be ba- nished with other anatom- ical niceties, for it is found- ed only upon trivial dis- tinctions ; and although the upper part of this intestine differs in many respects from the lower, still the alteration takes place by imperceptible gradations. * So that Winslow, unable to find any real diiference, established a purely con- ventional distinction, by proposing to call the upper two fifths the jejunum, and the lower three fifths the ileum. No portion of the alimentary canal is so moveable as the small intestme, properly so called. It is exceedingly loosely attached, or, as it were, sus- pended from the vertebral column by a large fold of the peritoneum, called the mesentery (the attached portion of which is seen at m, fig. 161.), which, being broader in the middle than at either extremity, gives an unequal mobility to the different parts supported by it. The smaU intestine is displaced with great facility. The circular boundary described around it by the large intestine, is only ex- act above, where the mesocolon and the arch of the colon {t, fig. 155.) com- pletely separate it from the stomach (s), the liver (? ), the spleen {k), and the duodenum. But below, between the caecum (c,fig. 161.) and the sigmoid flexure „„L'''J'^;"'''""'''?Ji* in'e?"ne is called jVJamwn, because it is generally found empty • thp ^Z .l be<=?"!? >t has been supposed chiefly to occupy the ^liac regions or on ?o tu™, to twistr' disposition, which, fiowever, is Common to it with the other'(^'Ll" VOL. I. 11