THE KroNEYS. 585 Almost aU the vessels are destined for the cortical substance, the tubular substance scarcely receiving any branches * : the vessels of any one lobule do not communicate mth those ofthe adjacent lobules. I^ectiSrthrown into the ureter does not enter the urmiferous ducts, or at '"Se5ir'¥he'surface of the kidney in the/cBtus in the lower anCSti^fixrrowed and lobulated. Each lobule ,s formed by the "edulla^ substance covered by a layer of the cortical substance. After birth the fur- rtsTre ;S and^he surface of the kidney becomes plane and smooth Thfs change takes place during the first three years after birth; neverthe- less the lobular arrangement not unfrequently continues for nine or ten years and even during the whole period of life. " When the kidney is the seat of disease, and more particularly when it is distended from an accumulation of urine within the calyces and pelvis, the lobular arrangement re-appears. Each lobule is then converted into a pouch, which is perfectly distmct from those in contact with it. The kidney is proportionaUy larger m the foetus than in the adult. . ■ Functions. The kidneys are the secreting organs of the urine. Ihe urine is secreted by the cortical substance, and as it were filtered by the tubu- lar substance; for perfectly formed urine is found in the former situation. The mechanism of this is not better known than that of other secretions; its rapidity is explained by the great quantity of blood received by the kidneys. TJie Calyces, Pelvis, and Ureter. Dissection. Remove the fat from the sinus, and study the arrangement of the pelvis and calyces externally. Divide the kidney from the convex border towards the hilus. The calyces (c c c',fig. 179.) are funnels {ivfundibula), or rather small mem- branous cylinders, embracing the bases of the papillae by one of their ex- tremities, almost in the same manner as the corolla of a flower embraces the stamina and pistil, and uniting at their other extremity with the adjacent calyces to form the pelvis of the kidney. They vary in number like the papillae, or even more so, for two or three papillse frequently open into the same calyx. Whatever their number may be, they generally unite into three trunks, a superior, a middle, and an inferior, which correspond to the three groups of lobules, into which the kidney may be divided. These three trunks unite to form the pelvis. The external surface of the calyces is in relation with a great quantity of fat, and with the divisions of the renal artery and vein. The pelvis (p) is a small membranous pouch, situated behind the renal ar- tery and vein, opposite the deep notch in the posterior border of the hilus, so that when seen from behind, it projects completely beyond that fissure. It is elongated from above downwards, and flattened from before backwards, and may become greatly dilated from retention of the urine, or from renal calculi: almost immediately after its commencement it becomes smaller, and takes the name of the ureter. In certain cases it would appear that there is no pelvis, and that the ureter succeeds immediately to the two or three trunks formed by the union of the calyces. The pelvis is therefore nothing more than the expanded or infvmdibuliform commencement of the ureter. The ureter {ohphv, urine ; u,figs. 179. 181. 199.) is the excretory duct of the kidney, and extends obliquely from the pelvis of that organ to the inferior fundus (has fond) of the bladder. It is generally single on each side, but * [The vessels {c,flg. 180.) of the tubular portion run parallel with the tubuli from the cor« tical substance to the papilla;; they were mistaken by Ruysch for the tubuli themselves, which were, therefore, supposed by him to communicate with the arteries in the glomeruli.]