THE THYROID GLAND. 577 observed that the voice becomes nasal, only when it traverses these pas- The voice becomes articulate in passing through the mouth, i. e. the vocal sound is interrupted, and modified by the more or less rapid percussion of the lips and tongue against the teeth and the palate. Articulate voice is very distinct from speech. Animals which differ much from man in the conformation of their vocal organs, the parrot for example, may be made to articulate; but speech is the peculiar attribute of man, be- cause he alone is possessed of intelligence. The Thyroid Gland. The thi/roid gland, or thyroid body, is a glanduliform organ, the uses of which are unknown : it is situated, like a crescent with its concavity directed up- wards, in front of the first rings of the trachea, and upon the sides of the larynx. In describing this organ in connection with the larynx, I follow the usual custom, which has arisen not from any direct relation between their func- tions, but from their contiguity to each other. The thyroid body varies much in size in different individuals; there are few organs which present greater varieties in this respect. The sexual differences in the size of this organ, like all those relating to the vocal apparatus, are very well marked, but in an inverse manner, that is to say, the thyroid body is larger in the female, in whom it forms a rounded projection, which assists in making the thyroid cartilage in that sex appear still less prominent. Climate, and more especially certain qualities in the water used as drink, have a remarkable influence upon its size, which, in many cases of goitre, is enormous. These differences in size affect either the whole of the gland equally, or only one lobe, or occasionally the middle portion alone. The weight of the thyroid body, which is about an ounce, may be increased to a pound and a half, or even more. Form. The thyroid body is generally composed of two lateral lobes or comua, united by a contracted portion, flattened from before backwards, and called the isthmus. The varieties in shape principally affect the isthmus, which may be very narrow, long or short, regular or irregular, or entirely absent, or it may be as thick and as long from above downwards as the lobes themselves. I have seen one case in which the thickest part of the thyroid gland was in the middle, and the lobes terminated above in a very narrow point. The opmion of the ancients, and which is also met with in Vesalius, that the human subject has two thyroid glands, no doubt arose from the narrow- ness or absence of the isthmus, or rather from the separation and complete independence of the two lobes in a great number of animals. The surface of the thyroid body is smooth and well defined, and sometimes divided into lobules by superficial furrows. We shall examine in succession the relations of the middle and lateral portions: — The middle portion or isthmus is convex in front, and is separated from the skin by all the muscles of the sub-hyoid region. Behind, where it is concave, it is in contact with the first rings of the trachea. Moreover, this middle portion descends to a greater or less distance in diflFerent subjects, and some- times so low, that there is not room to perform tracheotomy between it and the sternum. Each lateral lobe is convex in front, and corresponds with the muscles of the sub-hyoid region : in particular I ought to mention the sterno-thyroid bv which It is directly covered, and the breadth of which seems to be nronor VOL. I. p P ^ ^