407 THE FEMOKAL APONEUROSIS. D D 4 muscles of the leg, as they are passing upon the dorsal or plantar surface of the foot; the plantar and dorsal fascia of the foot; and, lastly, the fibrous sheaths, which maintain the tendons in contact w^th the phalanges of the toes. We shall describe these in succession. The Femoral Aponeurosis, or Fascia Lata, After the remarks which we have already made upon the aponeuroses ge- nerally, it may be easily conceived that the muscles of the thigh, which are so numerous, of such great length, and so loosely united together, and almost all of ■vrhich are reflected to a greater or less amount over the knee, require to be kept ia close contact with each other and with the bones; hence the necessity for the femoral aponeurosis, consisting of a large fibrous sheath, that confines without compressing the muscles, and the strength of which is directly proportioned to the force of the muscles, and their tendency to displacement. Its super- ficial or subcutaneous surface {g h,fig. 137.) is separated from the skin by a very thin fibrous layer, the fascia superficialis (not shown in fg. 137.), which can be more easily demonstrated immediately below the femoral arch, and along the saphenous vein. Between the femoral aponeurosis or fascia lata and this superficial fascia, which results from the union of the fibrous pi'olongations given oS by the deep surface of the skin, the subcutaneous vessels and nerves tske their course, and communicat e with the deep vessels and nerves, either by simple openings or by fibrous canals, of variable length. Under this fascia also are situated the superficial lymphatic vessels, and glands of the groin. A great number of the superficial nerves of the thigh have special sheaths, wlich are hollowed out, as it were, in the substance of this aponeurosis. The femoral aponeurosis is perforated with a great number of foramina op- posite the femoral vessels, from Poupart's ligament to the entrance of the vena saphena (x) into the femoral vein (y). These foramina, which occupy a trian- gular space, of which the base is above and the apex below, are intended for the passage of a great number of lymphatic vessels, which pass through it to join the deep set. This has been called the sieve-like portion of the fascia lata, or -he fascia cribriformis (v): it has been said by some, that the aponeurosis is altogether wanting in this situation.* We not unfrequently find a lymphatic gland occupying one of the foramina. The most remarkable of all these openings is undoubtedly that (i) for the vena saphena interna, where that vessel enters the femoral vein, at the upper part of the thigh, eight or ten lines below Poupart's ligament. The margin of this opening, which has been improperly called the inferior orifice of the crural canal, can only be demonstrated in its lower half, on account of the ahnost com- plete absence of the aponeurosis above it: this is the reason of the semilunar form of the portion of the fascia over which the vein passes. The deep surface of the fascia lata gives off a great number of prolongations, which pass between the muscles, and form their proper investments or sheaths. The largest of these prolongations form two lateral septa, called the inter- muscular septa, which extend from the fascia to the linea aspera ; each has the torm of a triangle, having its base directed downwards and its apex upwards ; tliey are extremely thick, especially below. The Intermuscular Septa of the Femoral Aponeurosis. Of these there are two, one internal and the other external. I he internal intermuscular septum. This serves at once as a septum, an aponeu- bv*a *™ Hvnr nf? S"'"""'"™ f?s<;ia is regarded, not as belonging to the fascia lata, but as formed border7of ?hp I'^nh"""""''' ""e subcutaneous vessels, adherenT to saDhenon/nnJnln ?''P''^"''",s opening in the fascia lata, and perforated by those vessels TIip bufe "perCeZl''left 7''/"^'° T.'"^' f"™""'" (' > '"^"6'' "hich that vein p.mes bounded mern-il^^^^ hv M,„"l? P""'*^ P'"""""^ "f ">e fascia lata, and is iCnrCserthe lef ^si.wUf « "^'^^SnoUhc iliac portion, or the falciform process of "urns (sec the lelt side ofjig. 137. where the cribriform fascia has been entirely removed) 1