SPLANCHNOLOGY. 434 The Palatine Arch and the Gums. The palatine arch, or the hard palate ia,fiy. 140.), constitutes the upper wall of the buccal cavity. It has the form of a parabolic arch, bounded in front and on either side by the teeth, and behind by the velum palati, into which it is continued without any distinct line of demarcation. Upon it we observe, in the median line, an antero-posterior raphe, at the anterior extremity of which is a tubercle corresponding to the lower orifice of the anterior palatine canal. This tubercle has been incorrectly stated by physiologists to be endowed with a peculiar sensibility ; on each side and in front there are transverse ridges, more or less marked in different individuals, which represent the still more highly developed ridges, bars, or calcareous concretions, which render the surface of the roof of the palate in some animals so rugged. Posteriorly the roof of the palate is perfectly smooth. Structure. The constituent parts of the palatine arch are, an osseous frame- work, a fibro-mucous membrane, a layer of glands, with vessels and nerves. The framework consists of the bony palate already described: it is thicker in front than behind, and is held up in the middle by the sort of column formed by the vomer and the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid, and behind and on each side by the vertical portions of the palate bones, and by the pterygoid processes. We have already noticed the asperities which it presents, and which appear to have no other object than to secure the intimate adhesion of the fibro-mucous membrane to the bones. The palatine and gingival membrane. This mucous membrane is remarkable for its whitish colour; for the thickness of its epithelium, especially in front; for the thickness and density of its chorion, which even approaches to that of the corresponding tissue in the skin; for its close adhesion to the bones, into which the chorion sends off well-marked fibro-cellular prolongations ; and lastly, for the great number of orifices with which it is perforated, especially behind. This excessive thickness of the palatine membrane, however, is ob- served only anteriorly, and most particularly so behind the incisor teeth. The glandular layer. In the median line the palatine membrane is blended with the periosteum of the bones, but on each side it is separated from it by a very thick layer of glands, which are sometimes arranged in regular rows along the antero-posterior groove presented by the palatine arch. These palatine salivary glands are exactly similar to the labial and buccal glands already described; they are much more numerous behind than in front, and open upon the membrane by a number of orifices, visible to the naked eye. There are often two openings much more distinctly marked than the rest, situated one on either side of the posterior extremity of the median raphe. The gums. The description of the peculiar tissue of the gums, to which some allusion has been made in speaking of the teeth, naturally follows that of the palatine membrane. The term gums {qvKo) is applied to those portions of the buccal mucous membrane which surround the teeth. They are dis- tinguished from the rest of that membrane by their intimate adhesion to the periosteum, by their thickness, and especially by their almost cartilaginous density, which enables them to resist the shocks of hard bodies during masti- cation. ' In this latter respect, and in regard to their want of sensibility, the gums closely resemble the contiguous portions of the palatine membrane. They commence about a line from the base of the alveoli, their limits being marked by a scalloped ridge. Having reached the free margins, i. e. the base of the alveoli, the gums continue their course for the space of about a line beyond that point, as far as the neck of the teeth, where they become reflected upon themselves. The point of reflection is a free border of a semi- lunar shape, corresponding to the indented, and as it were festooned, border of each alveolus. The denticulations or longest portions of the gums correspond to the intervals between the teeth, in which situation the processes of the gum,