THE INTESTINES. 489 knowledKe of the ^.ork of Pechlin, described and figured them under the title o{ glandular agminatm so accurately as to leave nothing to be desired These agminated glands are arranged in elhptica patches (y?^. 158 ) the long diameter of which corresponds with the Fig. 158. direction of the intestine: they are pierced with holes, or small depressions, so that they have a honeycombed appearance ; and hence has arisen the name of plaques gaufrees, under which I believe I was the first to describe them: they are all situated on the border opposite to that by which the mesentery is attached to the intestine; that is, along the convex border of the intestine, and never along the concave border, nor even upon either side. They are chiefly found toward the end of the small intestiae ; they become more and more scattered as we approach the duodenum, in which, however, Peyer once met with a single patch. Their number varies considerably, twenty, thirty, and even more having been counted. Are they ever entirely wanting ? The difficulty of detecting them in some subjects has led to their being rejected altogether, or considered as the results of a pathological condition; but this opinion is clearly at variance with observation. Again ; these patches are not constant either in situ- ation, form, or dimensions. Sometimes they assume the appearance of bands two or three inches in length {fig. 158.), and sometimes they form circular or irregular clusters. The largest are found near the ileo-csecal valve. It is not rare to find the termin- ation of the small intestine surrounded by a circular patch; in other cases, the patches terminate some inches above the ileo-csecal valve, and their place is supplied by simple follicles. These patches are generally contained in the substance of the mucous mem- brane, to which they give a much greater density, so that in these situations it will bear to be scraped. In some cases they appear to be imbedded in the fibrous coat. They should be examined both from the external and internal sur- faces of the mucous membrane.* When they are filled with their secreted fluid, and are examined by transmitted light, they may be compared to the vesicles in the skin of an orange: this observation may be easily made in the day. They evidently consist of collections of glands, exactly resembling the solitary glands (fig. 159.). Each depression appears to be the orifice of one of the follicles, which are quite independent of each other; so that we sometimes find two or three altered in the middle of a patch, which is otherwise perfectly healthy. Lastly, villi are found upon the patches of the glandulse agmi- nata;: they occupy the intervals between the depressions.f • [Thctir contents arc sometimes tr.insp.irent, and they are then very difficult of detection 1 t [In/g. 159., representing part of a patch of Payer's glands magnified, are seen some of the Fig. 159. IMagnified.