THE TONGUE. '^4'' be caUed after M Baur, the lingual nucleus {noyau bngual), we find a verj ?Wn layer of red fibres s tuated above, a somewhat thicker layer on each s,de and ™ch tWcke? layer below ; the lateral and inferior layers belong to the transve se fib^^^^^^^ tongue: antero-posterior vertical section sliow that Sre are fibres running from one end of the organ to the other, and wiU also Slay the venicalfibrfsalreadymention we can demonstrate the existence of longitudinal fibres ^^^^^^g/™7„\\Vf'1^^ the apex of the tongue; of vertical fibres passing from the 'o Je lower surface - and of transverse fibres extending from one side to the other. ana oAer ksectionswiUconfirmthis statement. ThoughMalpighi*, in amemoir of great interest, had very exactly described and figured the arrangement of the three order^ of fibres in the tongue of the calf; though Steven proved their existence in the human tongue, and Bidloo had carried his observations stiU fui-ther; and although Massa had recommended that to facilitate tms investigation the tongue should be previously boiled, or should be examined after putrefaction had commenced; still almost aU anatomists, including Mailer, neglected this subject, until MM. Baur, Gerdy, and Blandin directed attention to It ahnost at the same time. From the examination of the boiled tongues of the ox, the sheep, and man, I have observed the foUowmg facts : — 1 Under the papillary membrane, which, as I have said before, has aknost the density of cartilage, there is a series of fibres running from before back- wards. These fibres appear to rise in succession from the papillary membrane,, and form a layer, which is thicker in front, where the fibres are coUected into a small space, than it is behind, where they are scattered and pale. In the ox they traverse the yellowish glandular-looking substance found at the base of the tongue. This thin layer is described by Malpighi, and has been called the superior or superficial lingualis muscle :— 2. On the lower surface of the tongue, between the genio-hyo-glossus and the hyo-glossus, we find a longitudinal bundle, reaching from the base to the apex. This thick bundle was first described by Douglas under the name of the lin- gualis muscle; it might be called the inferior lingualis. The lingual muscle of authors generally! is a small muscular fasciculus, situated on the lower surface of the tongue, between the stylo-glossus (u, fig. 143.) and the genio-hyo-glossus (a). It arises from the base of the tongue, in an indistinct manner, amidst an intricate mass of muscular fibres; from thence it passes forwards, and ter- minates at the apex of the tongue, where it unites with the fibres of the stylo- glossus. It shortens the tongue, and depresses its point. 3. On either side of the tongue we find two layers of oblique and very thin fibres, crossing each other. The superficial layer consists of fibres passing forwards and downwards, the deep layer of fibres running obliquely forwards and upwards. These two layers can only be seen towards the base. They are more easily shown in the ox than in man. "We also find along each side some antero-posterior fibres, continuous both with the stylo-glossus and the palato-glossus. 4. Lastly, the dissection of the lingual nucleus of a boiled tongue enables us most distinctly to separate the vertical and transverse fibres already noticed as being seen in the difierent sections of the tongue. The transverse fibres form a slight concavity above ; the vertical fibres converge a little from above down- • It is not unwortiiy of notice, tliat Malpiglii commenced upon tlie tongue tliat series of re- searclies into tlie structure of organs, which has made hira as it were the founder of textural anatomy. t [From this statement Albinus must be excepted; the «aWj of that anatomist corresponds exactly with the muscle described by Douglas.]