OSTEOLOGY. 126 above the tubercle for the adductor magnus, already described. The external tuberosity (w) is less prominent, and presents two depressions separated by a tubercle, which may be easily felt under the skin in emaciated subjects. Connections. The femur articulates with the innominatum, which transmits to it the weight of the body, and with the tibia upon which it rests, and is in contact with the patella. Internal structure. Like all long bones, the femur is compact in its shaft and spongy at the extremities; its medullary canal is the type of canals of that kind. Development. The femur is developed from five points; of these three are primitive, viz. one for the shaft, and one for each extremity; two are epiphysary, one being for each trochanter. A bony point first appears in the shaft, from the thirtieth to the fortieth day; the osseous germ of the lower extremity is visible in the centre of the cartilage, during the last fifteen days of foetal life. The constancy of the appearance of this point is of great importance in forensic medicine, because its existence proves at once that the foetus has reached the full term. The third point is seen in the head of the femur, at the end of the first year after birth. The neck has no separate osseous centre; it is formed by an extension of the shaft. The nodule of the great trochanter is developed from three to four years after birth; that of the lesser trochanter, from the thirteenth to the fourteenth year. The order of union of these parts does not coincide with that of their ap- pearance ; it commences after puberty, and does not terminate until after the growth of the body is completed. The lesser trochanter, the great trochanter, and the head, are successively attached to the bone about the eighteenth year. The lower extremity, which appeared first, does not join the shaft until the twentieth year. The Patella (^Jig. 5\.). The patella or rotMla, so named from its rounded shape, resembling a wheel, is, both from its size, and the functions which it performs, the most important of those bones, which have been called sesamoid (from a-ri<Tiifj,ri), on account of their resemblance to the sesamum seed, and which are found in the neighbour- hood of various articulations that are subjected to much pressure. It is situated in front of the knee, and is moveable when the leg is extended; but fixed and veiy prominent when the leg is flexed upon the thigh. It is the most variable of all the bones, both in its absolute size, and in the proportion of its different dimensions. It is flattened in front and behind, and presents an anterior and a posterior surface, and a circumference. The anterior or subcutaneous surface (,l,fg. 51.) is convex, and covered by a very thick layer of fibrous tissue, intimately adherent to the bone. The posterior or femoral surface (2, Jig. 51.) corresponds exactly to the pulley on the lower extremity of the femur. We observe on it, 1. an articular ridge (a:) sloping downwards and inwards, and corresponding to the groove of the trochlea, which presents the same obliquity; 2. on each side of this ridge d concave articular surface, which is moulded upon the corresponding condyle of the femur ; and as the external condyle of the femur is the larger, the ex- ternal articular surface (y) of the patella is much greater than the internal. From this inequality, it is easy at once to distinguish the right from the left pateUa, ^ ... The circumference oi the patella resembles a curvilinear triangle; its thick base, directed upwards, gives attachment to the tendon ot the extensor muscles of the leg; and its apex (z) turned downwards, and somewhat pointed, gives attachment to the ligamentum patellae. Its sides are thin, and give attachment to some aponeurotic fibres; so that, excepting its posterior surface, which is articular, the whole patella is enveloped in fibrous tissue, a circumstance which is in accordance with its peculiar mode of development, and has an important influence over its reunion when fractured.