ARTICULATIONS OF THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. 159 of the atlas (\); and a slightly convex, vertically oblong fa<;ette on the fore par^^oflhe idimoid process (2). Both surfaces are incrusted w.th car ,lage, and there is also a very loose synovial membrane v.ith subjacent adipose tissue^ The joint is strengthened by some ligamentous fibres, arranged in the form of ^ T%ndesmo-odontoid articulation. This joint is formed by means of the ^ ^ transverse or anmilar ligament (/, Jigs. bS and ' 64.), a ■^ery thick and compact bundle of fibres, flattened before and behind, and stretched transversely between the lateral masses of the atlas, passing behind the odon- toid process, and closely embracing it like a . half ring. The anterior surface of this liga- ment is concave, and polished like cartilage ; . ^ it is in contact with the posterior surface of the odontoid process (2, Jig. 64.), wHch is covered with cartilage, and is almost always furrowed transversely, i.e. in the direction of its movements. Ihere is a very loose synovial membrane in this joint, which is prolonged on the sides of the odontoid process, as far as the odontoid ligaments. The posterior surface is covered by the posterior occipito-axoid ligaments* (o,Jig. 64.; see Jigs. 63 and 64.). From its upper edge a fibrous band is detached, which is fixed to the occipital bone, in front of the occipito-axoid ligament, by a narrow extremity. Another fibrous band (see Jigs. 63 and 64.) of greater length than breadth proceeds from its lower edge, and is attached to the posterior surface of the axis; hence the name crucial has been given to the annular ligament by some authors. The extremities are inserted into two tubercles on the inside of the lateral masses of the atlas. There is a very remarkable circumstance connected with this ligament, viz. that its lower circumference belongs to a smaller circle than its upper, so that the odontoid process is very firmly retained in the ring which this ligament contributes to form, and this arrangement accords with a sort of constriction at the base of the odontoid process. Union of the Articular Processes of the Atlas and the Axis. This is a double arthrodia. The articular surfaces of the atlas are plane, circular, and horizontal, but looking slightly inwards; those of the axis are also plane and horizontal, looking slightly outwards, and of greater extent than the preceding. They are retained in their place by a fibrous capsule ( g, figs. 61. and 63.), which is very strong, especially in front, and sufiiciently loose to per- mit the extensive motions which take place at this joint: it is formed of vertical and parallel fibres. The synovial capsule is very loose, and projects beyond the surfaces of the bones in every direction, but particularly in front. It almost always communicates with the synovial membrane of the joint between the transverse ligament and the odontoid process. Union of the Occipital Bone and the Axis. Although the occipital bone and the axis are nowhere contiguous, and are not, therefore, articulated, yet they are imited very firmly by means of strong ligaments, extending from the occipital bone to the body of the axis, and also to the odontoid process. Preparation. Remove with care that portion of the dura mater which cor- responds to the first two vertebrae ; the occipito-axoid ligaments lie under it. Then detach the transverse ligaments, remove the anterior arch and lateral masses of the atlas, so that nothing remdns excepting the occipital bone and the axis. • If the student is only provided with one preparation for the examination of all these joints liRamenu""'^ to study these ligaments before dividing them, in order to expose the transverse