THE POSTERIOR SPINAL MUSCLES. 261 atlas. By its insertions into the second and third cervical vertebrae it tends to rotate these in the same direction. When the two muscles act together, the head is drawn directly backwards. The splenius is therefore an extemor and rotator of the head and of the neck ; it assists in supporting the head m the erect position, and prevents it from inclining forwards in obedience to the force of gravity. Tlie Posterior Spinal Muscles. As these muscles are arranged in a peculiar manner, we shall adopt a me- thod of description in some measure different from that which we have else- where employed. ^ -l. The posterior spinal or long muscles of the back (see fig. 107.) are three in number, viz. the sacro-lumbalis, the longissimus dorsi, and the transversa- SpiTlClIlS TlVUSclSt These three muscles, which extend the entire length of the spine, form a very large muscular mass, completely filling up the corresponding vertebral groove. This mass is small at the lower part of the sacral groove, becomes much enlarged in the loins, then diminishes in the back, and again acquires a considerable size in the neck. Chaussier has given a description of them under the collective name of the sacrospinal muscle ; and they have also been denominated the erector spina. I shall describe the three muscles together; but in order to adopt some ar- rangement in a matter so complicated, I shall divide them into three portions, viz. a lumbo-sacral, a thoracic, and a cervical. Lumbo-sacral Portion of the Posterior Spinal Muscles. Dissection. 1. Render this portion of the muscle tense, by placing a block under the abdomen: 2. Divide by a vertical incision the trapezius, splenius, rhomboideus, latissimus dorsi, and serrati postici; reflect the divided portions inwards and outwards. A young subject, from ten to twelve years of age, is best adapted for the study of these muscles, from the facility with which the different fasciculi may be separated. For the same reason, one that is much infiltrated with serum is preferable to one in which the parts are dry. The lumbo-sacral portion is usually called the common mass of the sacro- lumbalis and longissimus dorsi. It forms the fleshy part of the loins, and is called the fillet in the lower animals : it is the most highly developed in man, in whom it exerts a constant and powerful action during the erect posture : it appears to be the common origin of the posterior spinal muscles, whence the name of common mass : it fills up entirely the lumbo-sacral groove, and even pro- jects backwards and laterally in robust subjects. It is of small size in the sacral region, is much enlarged at the middle of the lumbar region, at the upper part of which it again diminishes, so as to re- semble two cones united by their bases. Attachments. The common mass arises from the whole extent of the sacro- iliac groove, and from the anterior surface and external border of an extremely strong aponeurosis, formed of parallel vertical fibres, and strengthened by a superficial layer directed obliquely. This aponeurosis of origin for the posterior spinal muscles (d,fig. 107.) is inserted on the inside to the sacral ridge, to the summits of the spinous processes of the lumbar and three lower dorsal verte- brse, and to the corresponding supra-spinous ligaments: on the outside, to the series of eminences representing the transverse processes of the sacral verte- brae, and to the back part of the crest of the ilium: it gives attachment to many of the fibres of the glutaius maximus. It is short on the outside, and very long on the inside, reaching in the latter direction to the middle of the dorsal region under the foi-m of paraUel and regular bands {d,fig. 107.). Arismg from these different origins the common mass appears at first ex- tremely simple in its composition, consisting of fibres passing vertically up- 8 3