479 THE INTESTINES. The Duodenum. Dissection When the abdomen is opened, the first portion only of this intes- tine is visible ; the second is hid by the ascending colon; the third is seen m the cavity of the omentum. The second is brought into view by turning aside the colon The third portion, which is the most difficult to demonstrate, may be exposed in two ways, either by cutting through the inferior layer of the transverse mesocolon, or by turning the stomach upwards after havmg di- vided the layers of the great omentum, which are attached along its greater *^"^Thrrf«orfe7!Mm {m^Ka UktvXov, p b,fig. 154.), so caUed by Herophilus (Galen, Administr. Anat. lib. vi. c. 9.), on account of its being about equal in '. 154. length to the breadth of twelve fingers, commences at the pylorus and ter- minates without any precise line of demarcation^ to the left of the second lumbar vertebra, at the point where the small intestine enters into the me- sentery, or rather opposite the superior mesenteric artery (m) and vein which pass in front of it. Its fixed position, its structure, and its curvatures, have led to its being described separately.* It is difficult to determine its precise situation with regard to the abdominal parietes. It is not exclusively confined to any one region, but occupies in suc- cession the adjacent borders of the right hypochondrium and the epigastrium, of the right lumbar and the umbilical regions, and of the epigastric and um- bilical regions. The duodenum is found more deeply situated in proportion as we recede from the pylorus, and hence the difficulty of exploring it through the parietes of the abdomen. It is fixed firmly in its place by the peritoneum, by the me- senteric vessels and nerves, which bind it down, and by the pancreas. This fixedness is one of its principal peculiarities, and is indispensable in conse- quence of its relations with the ductus communis choledochus; for had it been moveable like the rest of the small intestine, incessant obstructions to the flow of the bile would have occurred. It follows also that the duodenum can never form part of a hernia; its first portion may, indeed, be displaced, for it IS less firmly fixed than the remainder, and is sometimes dragged out of its proper situation by the pyloric extremity of the stomach. tl.o S™,™"'"'""' of ductus communis choledochus, as the lower limit of