THE STERNO-CLEIDO-MASTOIDEUS. 291 u 2 end of which they cover; those next in front are partly continuous with the triangularis oris, and partly with the quadratus menti; the anterior fibres ter- minate at the external oblique line of the lower jaw, and the most internal intersect with those of the opposite side. The posterior fibres,-which are lost upon the skin of the face, are the rudiments of a remarkable fasciculus, an accessory of the platysma, found in some subjects. It is directed obliquely downwards from the region of the parotid gland to the angle of the lips. San- torini described it under the name of risorius novus. Relatims. These two muscles occupy the whole anterior region of the neck, excepting the median line, where they leave a triangular interval, having its base below, and occupied by a very dense fibrous tissue, forming a species of raphe, which is found in the median line throughout the body. This is the linea alba of the neck, from which the different component layers of the cervical fascia take their origin. The platysma is intimately connected with the skin, but it does not adhere equally throughout; it is united closely below, but much more loosely above, where the intervening cellular tissue is always adipose, and capable of con- taining a large quantity of fat, as we find in individuals who have what is called a double chin. There are no lymphatic glands between this muscle and the skin; they are all situated beneath the muscle. The relations of the deep surface of the platysma are very numerous. It covers the supra and sub- hyoid, and the supra-clavicular regions, being separated from all the structures beneath it by the cervical fascia, to which it is united by loose cellular tissue, seldom containing any fat. If we examine these relations in detail, we find, proceeding from below upwards, that it covers, 1. the clavicle, the pectoralis major, and the deltoid; 2. In the neck, the external jugular vein, and also the anterior jugulars where they exist, the superficial cervical plexus, the sterno- mastoid, the omo-hyoid, the sterno- or cleido-hyoid, the digastric, and the mylo-hyoid muscles, the sub-maxiUary gland, and the lymphatic glands at the base of the jaw. In front of the sterno-mastoid, it covers the common carotid artery, the internal jugular vein and the pneumogastric nerve; behind the stemo-mastoid, it covers the scaleni muscles, the nerves of the brachial plexus, and some of the lower nerves of the cervical plexus. 3. In the face, it covers the external maxillary or facial artery, the masseter, and buccinator muscles, the parotid gland, &c. Action. The platysma is the most distinctly marked vestige in the human body of the panniculus carnosus of animals; and it can produce slight wrinkles in the skin of the neck. Its anterior border, especially at its inser- tion near the symphysis menti, is the thickest part of the muscle, and therefore projects slightly during its contraction. It is one of the depressors of the lower jaw; it also depresses the lower lip, and slightly the commissure of the lips. It therefore assists in the expression of melancholy feelings, but It IS antagonised by the accessory portion, which draws the angle of the lips upwards and a little outwards, and thus concurs in the expression of pleasur- able emotions; hence its name, risorius. The Sterno-cleido-mastoideus. Dissection. Divide the skin and the platysma from the mastoid process to the top of the sternum, in an oblique line, running downwards and forwards, reflect the two fiaps, one forwards and the other backwards, taking care to remove at the same time the strong fascia which covers the muscle. In order to obtain a good view of the superior attachments, make a horizontal incision along the superior semicircular line of the occipital bone. .i^j!t\f!^''''^'\^'''"f'^°''^ ^^3.) occupies the anterior and lateral re- gions ot the neck. It is a thick muscle, bifid below, and narrower in the bner end o°ftt'f''r^- ""T ^^^7 distinct masses, from the inner end of the clavicle, and from the top of the sternum in front of the foui--