431 THE LIPS. the lips so that by a rare exception a portion of this mucous membrane is habiUially exposed to the external air. It adheres more firmly at the free ^dffe of the lip than elsewhere.* . , , The glandular layer. This is a thick layer, situated between the mucous and the muscular layers, and causing an elevation of the former. It consists of small spheroidal glands, of unequal size, placed close to each other, but per- fectly distinct; when examined with a lens they resemble small salivary glands, each being provided with an excretory duct, opening by a separate orifice upon the posterior surface of the mucous membrane.f These are true labial salivary glands, and not muciparous follicles. The muscidar layer. This is composed essentially of a single proper muscle, the orbicularis oris, into which almost all the muscles of the face are in- serted, viz. the levator labii superioris aleeque nasi, the levator labii superioris, the depressor alse nasi, the naso-labialis, and the zygomaticus minor (where it exists) for the upper lip; the quadratus menti and the levator labii inferioris for the lower lip ; the buccinator (which we have regarded as forming the or- bicularis by its bifurcation extending to both lips), and the zygomaticus major, the triangularis oris, the levator anguli oris, and the risorius of San- torini (where it exists) to the commissures. Including the orbicularis oris, there are twenty-five muscles. The differences presented by the free edges of the lips in diflFerent individuals depend upon variations in the thickness of the corresponding portion of the orbicularis. No fibrous tissue enters into the composition of the lips and their commisr sures, which are exclusively formed of fleshy fibres: hence they are extremely extensible, a circumstance of which the surgeon avails himself in operating upon parts situated in the buccal cavity and pharynx. Vessels, nerves, and cellular tissue. Few parts are so abundantly provided with vessels and nerves as the lips. The arteries of the lips are derived from two principal sources : the coronary arteries arise from the facial; the buccal, infra-orbital, and alveolar arteries destined for the upper lip, and the mental artery for the lower lip, arise from the internal maxillary. The sub-mental artery, a branch of the facial, and the transversalis faciei, a branch of the tem- poral, also give off some ramifications to the lips. The veins bear the same names, and follow the same direction as the arteries; the lymphatic vessels, which are little known, terminate in the glands at the base of the jaw. The nerves are derived from two distinct sources, viz. from the fifth and the seventh pairs of cranial nerves. The cellular tissue contained in the substance of the lips is essentially of a serous nature. It is liable to a considerable amount of serous infiltration; but even in the fattest individuals, it contains only a very small quantity of adipose tissue. Developement. According to Blumenbach and most modern anatomists, the upper lip is originally developed from three points or three distinct parts—one median and two lateral. Some have even gone further, and have maintained that the median point itself is originally formed of two lateral halves, which be- come united at a very early period. This hypothesis is founded partly upon the nature of the divisions in simple and double hare-lip, each of which has been as- sumed to be nothing more than an arrest of devolopement; also, upon the mode of developement of the superior maxillary bones, the alveolar border of which, it is said, is composed of four pieces—two median or incisor, and two lateral; and lastly, upon the permanent existence of these divisions in some animals. In opposition to this view, however, we may state, first, the absence in the human foetus of distinct bony pieces, corresponding to the ossa incisiva of the lower * [The mucous membrane upon the free borders of the lip is provided with papillte. Its cni- theliiitn, and, indeed, that of the entire mouth, is squamous.'i t When these orifices are obliterated, the dilated excretory ducts are transformed into siUlvarv cysts, which may acquire a very large size. """^ly