117 OS cox^. the eroove 2. On the inside of the obturator foramen is a square surface (k fias 47 and 48 \ broader above than below, oblong in a vertical direction, and i;;Jfor the in rti^^ of several muscles of the thigh This >s contmuous below with another surface (,l,fi9- ^^-l ^roader inferiorly than above, which extends obliquely downwards and outwards, then curves upwards and eimi^ nates below the cotyloid cavity. This surface which bounds the obturator foramen below, is intended for muscular insertions. t* • The internal or pelvic surface 48.) of the os coxffi is concave. It is di- vided into two parts, a superior which looks upwards, and an inferior which looks backwards, by a prominent horizontal ridge (m n o, fig. 48.), which torms the lower boundary of the internal iUac fossa. Above this ndge, which we shaU afterwards see forms the greatest part of the inlet of the pelvis, we tnd, proceeding from behind forwards, 1. a very prominent and rough tuberosity {r), intended for several ligamentous attachments: 2. an irregular articular sur- face, broader above than below, and called the auricular surface (s) ot the os coxiE, from a supposed resemblance to the concha of the ear ; it looks down- wards and inwards, and articulates with a corresponding surface on the sa- crum : 3. more anteriorly, and on a higher plane, a deep and regular excava- tion, correctly denominated the internal iliac fossa (t). This fossa which is broad and smooth, is occupied by the iliacus muscle. At its lower part there is a nutritious foramen, which does not correspond with that on the outside of the bone. Below the horizontal ridge, which divides the internal surface of the os coxae into two halves, we observe, proceeding from without inwards, and from behind forwards, 1. a smooth quadrilateral surface, broader above than below, slightly concave, and sloping from atove downwards, inwards, and forwards; the front of this surface cori-esponds to the depression at the bottom of the cotyloid cavity : 2. behind this surface, a large notch, which will be noticed when describing the circumference of the bone: 3. in front, the inner open- ing of the obturator foramen, at the upper part of which is the commencement of the groove ah-eady described: 4. inside the foramen a quadrilateral surface, narrower below than above, where it forms a plane, sloping downwards and backwards, which corresponds to the bladder: 5. below the same foramen, a smooth surface. The circumference of the os coxa; is very irregular, and consists of a series of alternate projections and notches. We shaU describe four borders in this cir- cumference ; a superior, an inferior, an anterior, and a posterior. The superior border or crest of the ilium (u v, figs. 47 and 48.) is curved like the italic letter S; it is directed from before backwards, is rough, thick, and convex; we shall describe it as having two lips and an interstice, that we may be able to point out with precision the numerous muscular insertions of which it is the seat. It is not equally thick in its whole extent; the anterior extremity is thick, it is then contracted a little; about two inches behind this extremity it is considerably enlarged; and stUl more posteriorly there is a second enlargement even greater than the former. The inferior border (w x y', fig. 47.) which looks inwards is the shortest; it commences at the most sloping part of the os coxae by a large rough tuberosity, called tuberosity of the ischium x), which gives attachment to almost all the muscles on the back of the thigh ; the weight of the body rests upon it in the sitting posture. Proceeding from this tuberosity towards.the inner part of the os coxae {x y), the lower border becomes flexuous, irregular, and slightly twisted upon itself; it passes obliquely inwards and upwards, and contributes to form the pubic arch (^x y x, fig. 48.), Above this oblique portion the border presents a vertical elliptic surface, which unites with the corresponding surface on the opposite bone, and forms the symphysis pubis (y y', fig. 47, 48.). The lower border of the os coxae consists, therefore, of two portions; an oblique, which foms part of the arch, and a vertical, which forms part of the symphysis. The anterior border (« y',figs. 47, 48.) commences at the anterior extremity 13