MYOLOGY. 378 artery ; and its inner surface with the first metatarsal bone, the tendon of the peroneus longus, and with the flexor brevis poUicis. Action. It is a powerful adductor and flexor of the great toe. The Transversus Pollicis Pedis. This small transverse bundle (I'abducteur transverse, Cruveilhier, u. Jig. 133) forms an appendage of the preceding muscle, and is represented in the hand by the transverse fibres of the adductor pollicis; it extends from the fifth me- tatarsal bone to the external sesamoid bone of ^he metatarso-phalangal articu- lation of the great toe. This muscle, which is of variable size, arises externally from beneath the head of the fifth metatarsal bone, by a tendinous and fleshy tongue, which is directed transversely inwards, is strengthened by other fibres arising from the anterior transverse ligament of the metatarsus, and from the interosseous aponeurosis, and is inserted into the outer side of the first phalanx of the great toe, where it is often blended with the attachment of the oblique adductor. Relations. It is in relation below with the tendons of the long and short flexors of the toes and with the lumbricalis, and above with the interosseous muscles. It is lodged in the anterior part of the deep concavity of the me- tatarsus, and is provided with a proper sheath. Actions. It adducts the great toe, and draws the head of the metatarsal bones towards each other. External Plantar Region. The Abductor Digiti Minimi. Dissection. This is common to the abductor and the flexor brevis. The first is exposed by simply removing the external plantar fascia, and the second by removing or reflecting down the first. The abductor digiti minimi (v,fig. 131.) is of the same form, the same struc- ture and almost the same size as the abductor pollicis, and extends from the OS calcis to the first phalanx of the litttle toe. It arises by tendinous and fleshy fibres from the external posterior tuberosity of the os calcis, from the outer side of the internal posterior tuberosity, and from an aponeurosis occupying the upper surface of the muscle. The fleshy fibres having arisen in succession from these different points, proceed obliquely round a tendon, from which they emerge, opposite the posterior extremity of the fifth metatarsal bone. 1 he fleshy beUy of the muscle appears to end at this point, but it is continued by other fibres, arising from the upper surface of the external plantar fascia, and inserted either into the common tendon, or separately by the side of this tendon into the outer part of the first phalanx of the Uttle toe A small fleshy bundle is frequently detached from the body of the muscle, and im- planted into the posterior extremity of the fifth metatarsal bone, together with a prolongation of the external plantar fascia, which serves as a tendon for it. Action. It is an abductor and flexor of the little toe.