397 THE CRURAL ARCH. Not the linea alba, by a considerable number of bloodvessels and nerves, frequently the component fasciculi have between them especially near he femoril arch, Unear or triangular spaces of variable size, through which the fibres of the internal oblique are visible. The component fasciculi are also interspcted at riffht angles, and as it were bound down, by other tendinous S Swcf a^e mor^or L developed in different individuals, and are most usuaUy situated in the neighbourhood of the femoral arch. Having made these preliminary observations we shall now describe in detail 1. the lower margin of the aponeurosis of the external obhque or the femoral arch; and 2. the inguinal ring and canal. . „ ^ i ■ui;^,,^ The femoral, or crural, arch. When the aponeui-osis of the external obhque has arrived opposite aUne extending from the anterior superior spmous process of the ilium to the spine of the pubes, it suddenly terminates, becomes thickened and is reflected (a a', ;?^.137.) from before backwards upon itself. The reflected border ^5fs. 136, 137.) has been vari- ously denominated the femoral or crural arch, the reflected margin of the tendon of the external oblique, Poupart's ligament, and the ligament of Fallopius. This arch, which is stretched like a cord, corresponds to the fold of the groin, and defines the limits of the abdomen and the lower extremity : it forms the anterior border of a consider- able triangular space, which is completed by the ilium {\,fig. 136.) on the outside, and by the OS pubis (2) be- hind. This space establishes a communication between the lower extremity and the abdomen, and is occupied (proceeding from without inwards) by the psoas and iliacus muscle (i to i), the crural nerve (n), the femoral artery (a) and vein (v), and the pectineus muscle. * The crural arch is directed somewhat obliquely downwards and inwards ; and as its outer third is more oblique than the inner two thirds, it describes ex- ternally a slight curve, having its concavity directed upwards. Its lower or reflected border is continuous with the fascia of the thigh. This adhesion occa- sions the tension of the arch, as may be shown by cutting the femoral fascia at the point of its junction with the arch: hence the precept of Scarpa, who re- commended incisions to be made in this situation, in order to relieve the con- striction in femoral hernia. The free margin of the reflected portion of the aponeurosis, of which the femoral arch consists, is continued backwards into the iliac fascia («') ex- ternally ; and internally, into the fascia transversalis (0- Externally near the psoas and iliacus, (beyond a', fig.\37.) the posterior or reflected portion of the arch is closely blended with its anterior or direct por- * This is not represented in the woodcut.