295 u 4 THE DIGASTRICUS. it is embraced by the tendinous arch of the preceding muscle, passes vertically upwards, and is i7iserted into the posterior surface of the body and part of the great cornu of the os hyoides. , ^ c ■„! i„„„„ „„a Relations. It is covered by the two muscles of the superficial layer, and covers the thyroid cartilage, and the thyro-hyoid membrane. Action of the muscles of the suh-hjoid region. These muscles are the most simple, both in structure and in action: they aU concur in depressmg the lower jaw; but if the lower jaw is fixed they produce flexion of the head. The fixed points of aU are below, viz. at the sternum on the mside, at the clavicle in the middle, and at the scapula on the outside. This arrangement not only bestows particular uses upon each, but renders the common action ot all more certain. Thus, the omo-hyoid at the same time that it depresses the OS hyoides, carries it backwards and towards its own side. Where the two omo-hyoid muscles act together, the os hyoides is directly depressed, and torced backwards against the vertebral column. The sterno-hyoid and the sterno- thyroid prolonged by the thyro-hyoid, draw the os hyoides directly downwards. The principal use of the thyro-hyoid is to move the os hyoides upon the thyroid cartilage, in which movements the upper part of the cartilage is carried behind the os hyoides, the curve described by which is always greater than that formed by the cartilage. The muscles of the sub-hyoid region never assume as their moveable points either their sternal, clavicular, or scapular at- tachments. MUSCLES OF THE SUPRA-HYOID REGION. The digaslricus. — Stylo-hyoideus. —Mylo-hyoideus. —Genio-hyoideus. ■ Their action. The muscles of this region, taken in the order of super-imposition, are the digastric, the stylo-hyoid, the mylo-hyoid, and the genio-hyoid. The Digastricus. Dissection. Remove the platysma, reflect the mastoid insertion of the sterno-mastoid; detach and raise the sub-max- illary and the lower ex- tremity of the parotid gland. The digastric muscle biventer maxillse infe- rioris, Albinus,p p, figs. 113 and 114.), so named because it consists of two fleshy bellies, united by an intermediate ten- don, reaches the whole extent of the supra-hy- oid region, from behind forwards. It is in some respects the type of di- gastric muscles. It is curved upon itself, form- ing the arc of a circle, with the concavity di- rected upwards. It arises from the di- gastric groove in the mastoid process, and from the anterior edge of that I)rocess, in front of the sterno-mastoid ; it is inserted into the side of the sym-