APONEUROLOGY. Inguinal canal or passage. The inguinal ri?ig (in) is the anterior or cuta- neous orifice of an oblique passage, formed in the substance of the lower edge of the inferior parietes of the abdomen opposite the crural arch, and destined to transmit the cord («) of the spermatic vessels in the male, and the round ligament of the uterus in the female. This passage, which modern writers only have correctly described, has been styled by them the inguinal canal (t c m). Its length varies from an inch and a half to two inches and a half; it is di- rected obliquely downwards, forwards, and inwards. The inguinal canal is formed in reality by the groove resulting from the reflection backwards of the aponeurosis of the external oblique (at a), the posterior border of which groove is continuous with the fascia transversalis, and its anterior border with the aponeurosis of the external oblique itself. We may then consider this passage as having an inferior concave wall (at a) formed by the groove of reflection; an anterior wall, formed by the aponeurosis of the external oblique (shown turned downwards at d) ; and a posterior wall, formed by the fascia transversalis (c). There is no superior wall, or rather it is supplied by the lower margins of the internal oblique (e) and transversalis (/) muscles, ■which occupy the groove of the crural arch, and receive from it externally numerous points of attachment. Internally the margins of these muscles are separated from the groove by the spermatic cord, or the round ligament. It has been supposed that this canal is lined by a funnel-shaped prolongation of the fascia transversalis. The peritoneal or internal orifice (t. Jigs. 110. 137.) of the inguinal canal is much less accurately defined than the external, or rather its inner border alone is well defined, consisting of a concave fibrous edge formed by the fascia transversalis, and somewhat analogous to the concave edge of Gimbernat's ligament. The strangulation of the intestine in inguinal hernia sometimes occurs against this edge. The peritoneal orifice of the inguinal canal is closed by the peritoneum, and the epigastric artery runs along its inner border. The testicle, which is originally situated within the abdomen, descends through the inguinal canal; so also do those herniae, commonly called oblique inguinal hernise, in order to distinguish them from the direct or internal inguinal hernise. The anterior aponeuroses of the ohliquus internus and transversalis. The apo- neurosis of the internal oblique commences at the Unea alba, and immediately divides in its upper three fourths into two layers, one of which passes in front, and the other behind the rectus {r,fig. 134.). The lower fourth passes entirely in front of the same muscle without division (as shown in fig. 135.). The anterior layer is very closely united with the aponeurosis of the external oblique (at b), from which it can be distinguished only by the direction of its fibres. In some parts there is even a true interlacement between the tendinous fibres of these two muscles; the lower or undivided portion of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique may, on the contrary, be easily separated from that of the external oblique. The posterior layer of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique is no less intimately blended with that of the transversalis (at c), from which, also, it is to be distinguished by the direction of its fibres only. At the outer border of the rectus muscle the anterior layer of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique separates from that of the external oblique, and the posterior layer from that of the transversalis, and then immediately unite together, and give origin to the fleshy fibres. The outer margin, therefore, of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique exactly con-esponds to the outer border of the rectus, and is directed vertically. - . , ■, ^ i The aponeurosis of the transversalis (ffigs. 134, 135.) is the deepest layer of the anterior abdominal aponeurosis : it is very narrow above, increases in breadth as far down as opposite the crest of the ilium, and then progressively diminishes towards its lower portion. It commences at the Unea alba, and is divided into two portions,—one inferior (below s,fig. 110.), consisting only ot