VERTEBRAL COLUMN. 31 The important modifications which the transverse processes of the dorsal ver- tehrsD present, are evidently connected with the nature of their functions, which are not only that of affording points of insertion to muscles, but also of sup- porting the ribs with which they are articulated. 3. In the lumbal' region, the transverse processes (4, fig. 5.) are thm narrow lamina;, flattened from before backwards. They are situated in a plane anterior to that which the transverse processes of the dorsal vertebrae occupy, and almost correspond with that of the ribs, with which also they have numerous other analogies: hence the name costiforin processes given them by some anatomists.* The characteristics then of the three kinds of transverse process are, in the cer- vical region, a grooved projection with a foramen at the base ; in the dorsal region, a strong process inclined backwards, tubercidated, and articular at the extremiti/; in the lumbar region, a small, thin, blunted projection. It is therefore extremely easy to determine the situation of a vertebra by the transverse process. The truth of what we formerly remarked will be now evident, viz. that a vertebra is distinguished as cervical, dorsal, or lumbar, by the form of all its constituent parts. Uniform in their fundamental type, these bones present in each region, and in each part, certain differences adapted to their respective uses. Characters proper to certain Vertebrce. We have now noticed, 1. the general characteristics of the vertebrae, by means of which they may be recognised from aU other bones; 2. the peculiar distin- guishing characters of the vertebrae in each region. We have now to examine in each region those vertebrae which are distinct from all the others of that part of the spine. The place of each vertebra might, strictly speaking, be de- termined by comparing it with all the other vertebrae of the same region : in this way those who are accustomed to articulate skeletons acquire surprising readi- ness. But a few vertebrae only possess sufficiently characteristic peculiarities to determine their situations without comparison with the others. It is only in the vertebrae at the extremity of each region, and which on account of their position have a mixed character, that such distinctive and individual attributes can be observed. The first, second, and seventh cervical vertebrae, the first, eleventh, and twelfth dorsal, and the fifth lumbar, require special description. First Cervical Vertebra, or Atlas {fig- 6.). In the first vertebra, or atlas, the place of the body is supplied by an arch (a g), flattened from before backwards, the anterior arch of the first vertebra. Its convexity turned forwai-ds is marked by a tubercle (a), the an- terior tubercle of the atlas. Its concavity, c looking backwards, presents an oval facette, slightly hollowed for articulation with the odontoid process of the second vertebra. The superior and inferior borders afford attach- 2 ment to ligaments. The foramen of the first vertebra is much larger than that of all the others. The antero-posterior diameter, which in the neck and back is six lines, and in the loins eight, is here fourteen; the transverse diameter eleven lines in the neck, seven in the back, and ten in the loins, is here thirteen. This remarkable extent of all the diameters is not simply owing to the size of the spinal marrow * The description wliicli we have given of the transverse processes is in accordance with that usually found in works on human anatomy. Several modern anatomists, however, do not admit of the arrangement which we liave adopted. Frora tlie existence of cervical and lumbar ribs in the skeletons of many vertebrated animals, they maintain that in man, the anterior half of the cervical transverse processes, and the thin plates of the lumbar transverse processes, re- present the ribs of the dorsal region ; while the parts truly analogous to the dorsiU transvofse processes arc, 1. in the cervical region the posterior half of the transverse process; 2. in the lumbar region those projections which we have called apopliysary tubercles.