340 MYOLOGY. The Flexor Brevis Pollieis, It is difficult to point out the limits of this muscle, or rather they have hither- to been quite arbitrary. Its inferior attachment has been usually divided be- tween the external and the internal sesamoid bones (Boyer, TraiU d'Anatomie. torn. ii. p. 307.; Bichat, Anatomie Descriptive, torn. ii. p. 272.); but vre shall consider that portion only which is attached to the external sesamoid bone, as belonging to this muscle, referring the entire fleshy mass that is inserted into the internal sesamoid bone to the adductor poUicis.* This division is moreover established by the tendon (I, Jig. 120.) of the flexor longus poUicis. Proceeding then from below upwards, in the dis- section of the flexor brevis (,t,Jigs. 119, 120.), we shall see that it is triangular, much larger than the preceding two muscles, bifid above, and channelled in front. It arises by tendinous and fleshy fibres from a process on the trape- zium, from the lower edge of the annular ligament, from all the reflected portion of that ligament forming the sheath of the flexor carpi radialis and extending as far as the os magnum, and from the os magnum itself by a por- tion which is usually distinct. From these different origins the fleshy fibres proceed downwards and outwards, the internal being the most oblique; and, converging so as to form a thick fasciculus, are inserted, through the medium of the external sesamoid bone, into the first phalanx. Relations. It is covered by the external palmar fascia, which is prolonged in front of it: it covers the tendon of the flexor longus poUicis, and more internally those of the common flexor. It also covers a small portion of the outer border of the adductor poUicis, and the tendon of the flexor carpi radi- alis. Its outer border, or rather side, is in relation with the short abductor, from which it is easily separated, and with the opponens, sometimes being con- tinuous with it. Its inner border is distinct from the adductor below, but is confounded with it at its origin. Its tendon of insertion into the phalanx is covered by that of the short abductor, which lies externally to it. From its attachments it might be caUed trapezio-phalangal, and, from its uses and posi- tion, the opponens internus. Action. It is evidently not a flexor poUicis, but, like the preceding muscles, it draws the thumb forwards and inwards ; and it acts more decidedly in pro- ducing the latter efi"ect, because it is inserted in a more favourable manner than the other muscles. This, therefore, is also an opponens muscle. Muscle hiserfed into the Inner Side of the First Phalanx of the Thumb. The Adductor PoUicis. This is the largest of all the muscles of the thumb («, figs. 119, 120.); it is very irregularly triangular ; and arises from the entire extent of the ante- rior border of the third metacarpal bone, from the anterior surface of the os magnum, from the anterior and upper part of the trapezoides, from the ante- rior part of the trapezium by a tendinous and fleshy fasciculus, and from the palmar interosseous fascia near the third metacarpal bone. From these dif- ferent origins the fleshy fibres proceed, the lower horizontally, the rest more • The arranEement T have adopted Is founded upon the inferior attachments of the muscles; fnr at their orieins they are so blended that their division is more or less arbitrary. I divide ih^ m.isrii ar fasciculi connected with the thumb, therefore, into two sets, viz. those proceeding the •"""^"'''J^'f "7/'"^i^^^^ bone and to the outer side of the first phalanx of the hZb anTZse exteSg ffom the carpus to the inner side of the same phalanx The first f wh^rh tniffhrhe reearded as a single muscle, comprises the abductor brevis, the opponens, '^'.S M i fl^vof LviJ the other ^^^^ the abductor pollieis, which I regard as the first ^;»fn,ir interosseous m^^^^^ 'he first set Is common, viz. to carry the thumb Forwards and i"^ therefore, all muscles of opposition (perhaps no muscles are so forwaras ana ^r Vhi thenar eminence): the mUscle formed by the second set is really SduX'as its nlm°e im^Hes. and ?o are all the palmar interossei, Long which it should be included-