OSTEOLOGY 98 The Clavicle {fig- 41.). This lione performs so important an office in the mechanism of the thoracic f extremity that, upon its presence in a cer- tain number of animals, and its absence in j^^^siB^ others, the extremely important distinction * between claviculated and non-claviculated animals Ivas been founded. The clavicle, so called from its supposed resemblance to a key, occupies the superior and anterior part of the thorax, and forms the anterior portion of the shoulder ; it is placed horizontally between the sternum, which is its fulcrum, and the scapula, the movements of which it follows. Its length varies in dif- fei ent individuals, and more particularly in the different sexes ; in the female it is generally longer than in the male. It is a long bone, and forms one of a pair, and is consequently asymmetrical; its inner end {e,fig. 41.) which is the larger, is rounded ; lU outer end (tf) is flattened from above downwards, and it enlaro-'es progressively from without inwards like a cone. Its direction should be carefully studied. Proceeding from its outer end, which is very thin, we find it describing a curve with the concavity forwards {d a),- it then changes its direction, and describes a much larger curve with the concavity looking backwards (a e). The clavicle therefore has two alternate curvatures, re- sembling'an italic S, an arrangement which has the advantage of giving strength to the bone, since each curve becomes the seat of a decomposition of forces which greatly diminishes the violence of shocks directed against it from without inwards. The clavicle may be divided into a body and extremities. The body (a) presents two surfaces, one superior, and one mfenor; and two borders, an anterior and a posterior. . The superior surface (a) of the body, is placed almost immediately under the skin, and offers an extensive and ill-protected surface to the action of fo- reign bodies ; this is one of the causes of the great frequency of fractures of this bone. This surface is covered by the skin, the platysma myoides muscle, and numerous filaments of the cervical plexus of nerves.* Hence direct blows upon the clavicle are accompanied with severe pain, on account of the compression of the nerves of this plexus. We find on this surface near its inner end, a tubercle for the insertion of the sterno-mastoid muscle ; it has also some inequalities for muscular attachments on the outside. The inferior surface, broad externally, and narrow internally like the pre- ceding, is marked by a groove running longitudinally, and lodges the subcla- vian inuscle Near the inner extremity of this surface, there is sometimes a fecettT wh ch articulates with the first rib. Near the outer end there is a very rou 'h tXrosity, and an irregular line directed obliquely from within out- wids and from behind forwards : they are both intended for the msertion of Ttr^nl' ligaments which unite the clavicle and the scapula. The mternal thu-d of this See corresponds to the first rib, which it embraces and cros es at a ferv acuran'le? The middle third corresponds to the first intercostal space, J ^ wWW is senarated hy the brachial plexus, and the axillary vessels ; Jre-^rtl ilirdlsTn rSatio'n to the coracofd process and the articulation of '''T^:1^er^oflXT)-^^^'^^ i« thin externally, becomes expanded into a JS^ t^al^Se '''''^^JtZ^iA^l^^^^^ - 'tstwo inner tHrds, and convex and flnri the body of the clavicle itself travcrsea by a nerve of the cer- • It is not uneommon to find the oooy ui viial plexus.