SPLANCHNOLOGY. muscle forms the inner side of a triangular space already described (p. 456 ) (.tne muxillo-pharyngeal), the outer side of which is formed by the ramus of the lower jaw and the internal pterygoid muscle (6, fig. 141.), and which is oc- cupied by the internal carotid artery, the internal jugular vein, and the pneu- mogastric, hypo-glossal and spinal accessory nerves. Its internal surface {fig. 141.) is in relation with the pharyngeal mucous membrane, with the levator palati (c), which it separates from the circum- flexus palati (rf), and with the palato-pharyngeus (e). Action. It is a constrictor. Remarks. From the preceding description it follows, 1. That the constric- tors of the pharynx form three super-imposed or rather imbricated muscular layers. This imbrication, or overlapping, is so arranged, that the projections (very slight it is true) formed by the upper margins of the constrictors are on the outer not on the inner surface of the pharynx; and this has perhaps some relation to the downward course of the alimentary mass.* 2. That the thickest part of the muscular layer formed by the constrictors is opposite the buccal portion of the pharynx, where the lower and middle constrictors overlap ; and that the thinnest part is in the nasal portion, which is formed by the superior constrictor alone. 3. That the pharyngeal insertions of all the constrictors are upon a single line, the median raphe, whilst their points of origin are exceed- ingly numerous, viz., commencing from below, the cricoid cartilage, the thy- roid cartilage, the great and lesser cornua of the os hyoides, the base of the the tongue, the mylo-hyoid line, the buccinato-pharyngeal aponeurosis, and lastly the pterygoid process. The Extrinsic Muscles, The extrinsic muscles of the pharynx are generally two in number, the stylo-pharyngeus and the palato-pharyngeus. The latter has been already described among the muscles of the velum palati. It is by no means un- common to find several supernumerary muscles. The Stylo-pharyngeus. This muscle (r,figs. 143. 147.), which is round above and broad and thin below, arises by tendinous and fleshy fibres from the inner side of the base of the styloid process, or rather from the vaginal process suiTounding that base. From this point it passes downwards and inwards, becomes wider and flattened as it enters the pharynx between the middle and superior constrictors, to spread out beneath the mucous membrane. Its upper fibres ascend, the middle are transverse, and the lower fibres descend to terminate along the posterior border of the thyroid cartilage f (see fig. 143.). These fibres, together with those of the palato-pharyngeus, form the fourth muscular layer of the pharynx. Rela tions. Before entering the pharynx, the stylo-pharyngeus is in relation on the outside with the stylo-glossus muscle (a), the external carotid artery, and the parotid gland; on the inside with the internal carotid and the internal jugular vein. Its most interesting relation is with the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, which runs along its outer side. Some branches of the nerve often pass through it. In the pharynx it is covered by the middle constrictor, and it lies outside the superior constrictor, the palato-pharyngeus, and the mucous membrane. Action. It raises the larynx and the pharynx. Supernumerary Muscles of the Pharynx. Among the supernumerary extrinsic muscles of the pharynx, I shall notice 1. a fasciculus pointed out by Albinus, which I have often met with : it arises * In the construction of pipes or tunnels for the conveyance of water, &c. each piece is re- ceived into that below it; an opposite arrangement would facilitate the blocking up of the pipe. t Some anatomists affirm that they have seen fibres from this muscle reaching the base of the tongue, the epiglottis, and the os hyoides.