THE UTERUS. 623 ligament, a species of mesentery the folds of which beaome separated, and ^^^AenllTorS^^^^^^ existence of a mucous membrane ,,non the k^ternal surface of the uterus has been denied by those anatomists 7ho ia^ernlen after parturition, especially by Morgagni and Chaus- lier and so also, by those who do not admit the presence of a mucous mem- brane lles'siL be demonstrated over a certain space. But the existence of a muTous membrane on the internal surface of the uterus appears to me in- contestablv proved by the following considerations:— • v j S every organised cavity which communicates with the exterior is hned by a mucoas membrane; why, therefore, should the uterus form an exception to this rule Secondly, by dissection it is shevra that the mucous membrane of the vagina is continued into the neck of the uterus, and then mto the body ; but in this latter situation it is destitute of epithehum.* Notwithstanding the difficulty of dissecting this membrane on account of its tenuity, and its close adhesion to the tissue of the uterus, its presence is demonstrated by the fol- lowing observations : under the microscope, the internal surface of the uterus presents a papillary appearance, but the papniaj are very smaU ; it is provided with follicles or crypts, from which mucus may be expressed by a number of points, and which 'form small vesicles when distended with mucus, m conse- quence of obstruction or obliteration of their orifices. Thirdly, it is extremely vascular, and presents a capillary net-work of the same appearance as that of the other mucous membranes; and lastly, it is constantly lubricated with mucus. Pathological observations also show, that the internal surface of the uterus, like all mucous membranes, is liable to spontaneous haemorrhages from exhalation, without breach of continuity, to catarrhic secretions, and to those growths which are denominated mucous, vesicular, and fibrous polypi: and it is generally admitted that, where there is an identity of disease, there is also identity of structure. During pregnancy the elements of the mucous membrane are separated; the vessels become penicillate, and greatly increased in size; but in proportion as the uterus returns to its original dimensions, the mucous membrane regains its primitive form, and its dissociated elements approach each other. It seems as if this membrane was destroyed by a true exfoliation, and then entirely reproduced. The arteries of the uterus are derived from two sources ; the principal, called the uterine, arise from the hypogastric ; the others proceed from the spermatic or ovarian arteries to the borders of the uterus, and are distributed upon it: both sets are very tortuous. The veins are remarkable for their enormous size during pregnancy and after parturition. The term uterine sinuses has been given to the large veins which are then found in the substance of the organ ; and this term is not altogether without foundation, for these venous canals are formed by the lining membrane of the veins which adheres to the proper tissue of the uterus, just as in the si- nuses of the dura mater it adheres to the fibrous tissue of that membrane. The lymphatics, which have been well examined only during pregnancy and after parturition, at which time I have often seen them full of pus, are, like the veins, extremely large (see Anat. Path, avee planches, liv. xiv.) ; they form se- veral layers in the substance of the uterus, the most superficial of which is the most developed. They terminate in the pelvic and lumbar lymphatic glands; some accompany the ovarian veins. The nerves, as seen in the pregnant condition, have been well described and figured by Tiedemann. Some of them are derived from the renal plexus, and * [The mucous membrane of the uterus contains numerous tubular glands, or crypts re- sembling, in form and direction, the tubuli of the stomach, and the crypts of Lieberkuehn found in the intestinal canal. The epithelium of this mucous membrane is, according to Henl^ co lumnar, and also ciliated from the fundus to the middle of the cervix uteri; below that point it passes into the squamous form of epithelium found in the vagina and on the labia ]