597 THE TESTICLES. Q Q 3 cremaster. It is very well marked in the young and vigorous, but becomes partially atrophied in the aged* . . n .i, wi. We have already seen (vide Obliquus interims abdominis. Myology) that the cremaster is essentiaUy formed of fibres arising directly from the groove of the crural arch, on the outer side of the inguinal canal. The loops formed by the lower portions of the obliquus internus and transversalis are, where they exist, completely distinct from it. The cremaster and the tunica erythroides, which is an expansion of it, are the agents of the sudden upward movement of the testicle, which is very distinct from the slow vermicular motion resulting from the action of the dartos. In a patient whose urethra was extremely irritable, I found that the introduction of a bougie was followed by a sudden and long- continued elevation of the testicles, with a separation of their lower ends. This movement was entirely independent of the dartos and scrotum, which re- mained flaccid and pendent in front of the thighs. When the cremaster reaches the testicles, it expands into a number of fas- ciculi, distributed over the surface of the fibrous coat, and inserted, in the lower animals, by well marked tendinous fibres, which, however, I have never been able to discover in man. In hydrocele, these fibrous bundles resemble small cords, which, as Sir A. Cooper judiciously remarks, may be mistaken for veins. The common fibrous coat. This membrane is very distinct from the tunica vaginalis, which lines its inner surface ; it forms a common covering for the testicle and the spermatic cord; it is thin and transparent, narrow along the cord, and expanded below, so as to cover the testicle. At the inguinal ring it divides into two laminae ; one of which, almost always incomplete, is attached to the circumference of the ring, whilst the other seems to be prolonged within the canal, where it is, however, very difficult to follow it. Modern anatomists regard this fibrous tunic as a prolongation of the fascia transversalis, which would be dragged down with the testicle during its descent. The tunica vaginalis, or serous coat. The tunica vaginalis is a shut sac, and presents two portions; one, parietal (p, fig. 183.), lining the fibrous coat, the other, reflected or testicular (y), which covers the testicle, without that organ being contained within the sac. The intimate union of the serous and fibrous coats of the testicle affords an example of a fibro-serous membrane, analogous to the dura mater and the pe- ricardium. As the refiection of the tunica vaginalis upon the testicle takes place at a variable height, it follows that a greater or less portion of the cord is covered by this coat. The arrangement of the tunica vaginalis on one side of the epididymis differs from that on the other. On the outer side it immediately invests the epididy- mis, is then reflected from it, becoming applied to the part reflected from the opposite side of the epididymis, and forms a cul-de-sac, by which the middle of that body is completely separated from the upper border of the testicle. At the bottom of this cul-de-sac are some small openings, leading into a back cavity. It forms, therefore, a fold like the mesentery, at the middle of the epididymis, the two ends of which, however, are closely applied to the testicle. On the inner side it rises higher upon the cord than on the outer side, and is separated from the epididymis by the vas deferens and the spermatic vessels. It is easy to detach it from the fibrous coat, where it is reflected upon the testicle, but it adheres closely to the epididymis and to the tunica albuginea. Its internal surface, free and smooth, exhales a serous fluid, the morbid ac- cumulation of which constitutes the disease called hydrocele. In most animals the tunica vaginalis communicates with the peritoneum at all ages ; but in man this communication exists normally, only during intra-uterine life. Afterbirth the two cavities are perfectly distinct. If, from any cause, this separation is not completed, the tunica vaginalis may form either a hernial sac, containing * J-^u ;? extremely well developed in the stallion ; in which animal it is easy to establish the distinct.on between this muscle and the lower libves of the internal ob iouc the loops ol which do not exist in all subjects. ""-i-iiiai ouuquc, tne