THE CLAVICLE. 99 H 2 rough in its external third; its relations are very important: the subclavian vein runs along it, and it also corresponds to the subclavian artery and the brachial plexus. From this it may be conceived how dangerous fractures of the clavicle might become, if the sharp end of the fragments should penetrate among the nerves or the vessels; it may also be imagined, how forcible de- pression of the clavicle, by compressing the vessels which are distributed to the upper extremity, may suspend the circulation there; and, lastly, we can understand how it is easy to apply a ligature to the subclavian artery, by cutting along the middle of the clavicle. There still remains one important relation to be noticed, viz. the propinquity of the apex of the lungs, from which circumstance it becomes possible to ascertain the sonorousness of this portion of the lungs by percussion on the clavicle. Extremities. The external or acromial end (d) of the clavicle is thin, and flattened from above downwards; it presents a very narrow elliptical facette, which looks downwards and outwards, and articulates with a corresponding surface on the scapula. This is the weakest part of the bone; it lies almost immediately below the skin, and is much exposed to external violence, by which it is sometimes broken. The internal or sternal end (e), on the contrary, is the thickest and strongest part of the bone, and might with propriety be named the head of the clavicle ; it articulates with the sternum, projecting beyond the concave articular surface of that bone in all directions. There are many varieties both of size and direction in the body and ends of the clavicle. By inspection of the inner or outer ends of the clavicle, even in the living body, we may judge at once whether the individual has been en- gaged in a laborious manual emplo3rment. I have been able from the simple circumstance of a marked preponderance of size in the inner end of the left cla- vicle, to declare a priori, and correctly, that the individual on whom I observed it was left-handed. In some clavicles the inner half resembles a quadrangular pyramid. In the female the clavicle is much more slender, and the curvatures are less pronounced, than in the male : the strength and degree of curvature of this bone are proportionate to the laborious and continued exercise of the upper extremity. It may, therefore, be easily conceived how much importance should be attached in forensic medicine to the characters of a bone, the ex- amination of which would of itself be sufiicient to determine whether the body to which it belonged were male or female, and whether the person had been engaged in a laborious manual occupation, or the contrary. Connections. The clavicle articulates with three bones, the sternum, the scapula, and often with the first rib. Internal structure. With regard to its structure, the clavicle appears to hold a middle place between the long bones and the ribs; like the first, in fact, it possesses a meduUary canal; but it approaches the stinicture of the ribs in the contracted dimensions of this canal, and the spongy nature of its ends. In ex- amining many clavicles belonging to the collections of the Faculty of Medicine, I was never able to meet with one that had traces of a medullary canal ex- tending throughout its entire length. Development. The clavicle makes its appearance at a very early period, about the thirtieth or thirty-fifth day: its dimensions, compared with those of the other bones of the thoracic extremities present considerable variations at different ages. In the second month of foetal life the clavicle has already ac- quired nearly three lines in length; at this time it is at least four times the length of the humerus and femur. After the commencement of the third month It IS not more than half as long again as these bones. At the end of the third month it is still longer than the humerus, which does not exceed it iintil the fourth month. Lastly, m the foetus at the fuU period the humerus does not exceed the clavicle in length by more than a fourth, while in the aauit It becomes twice as long.