612 SPLANCHNOLOGY. part of the urethra, opposite the base of the prostate, and obstructing more or less completely the commencement of that canal: this tubercle was named by Lieutaud, la luette vesicate {uvula vesicoe) ; by Sir Everard Home, an enlarge- ment of the middle lobe of the prostate. But, in the first place, this prominence only exists in disease; and, secondly, there is no middle lobe, unless that term be applied to the slightly grooved, and, therefore, thinner portion by -which the two lateral halves of the prostate are united. Relations of the ejacidatory ducts with the prostate. The ejaculatory ducts (d^fig. 186.), which lie close to each other, are received into a sort of conical canal, formed in the prostate. Some loose cellular tissue separates them from the substance of the gland, of which they are altogether independent; it was chiefly to the portion of the prostate which is situated above this canal that the name middle lobe was given by Home. Density. The density of the prostate is considerable, and yet the tissue of this gland is friable, and can be very easily torn after having been once di- vided. It is of the greatest importance to remember this friability in performing the operation of lithotomy. The prostate, in fact, is the only obstacle to the extraction of the calculus ; and when this gland has been divided in its antero- posterior diameter, the bladder itself may be torn with the greatest facility. Structure. The structure of the prostate can only be properly studied in the adult. In certain cases of hypertrophy without alteration of tissue, its cha- racters are, as it were, exaggerated. It consists of a collection of glandular lobules, which may be subdivided into granules pressed close to each other in the midst of a tissue that appears to me to be muscular, for it is continuous with the muscular coat of the bladder, and bears the most perfect resemblance to it in cases of hypertrophy. From these granules, which are generally of unequal size, small excretory ducts proceed, and unite into an irregular number of pro- static ducts, that open not upon the verumontanum itself, but upon its sides (see Jig. 182.), in the whole extent of the lower wall of the prostatic portion of the urethra, or prostatic siuus. I have assured myself of the existence of these ducts and their orifices in many cases where I have found them filled with in- numerable small calculi, resembling grains of brownish sand. The orifices of the prostatic ducts may be easily detected by pressing the gland, when the fluid secreted by it will be observed to exude at several points. The membranous portion. The membranous portion of the urethra (,c,fig. 181.) extends from the prostatic portion to the bulb, and passes upwards and for wards.* It is in relation above and laterally with the arch of the pubes, from which it is separated by some considerable veins, or rather by a sort of erectile tissue; below it corresponds with the rectum, but is separated from it by a triangular space, having its base directed forwards and downwards, and its apex back- wards and upwards. It is generally in this triangular space that the urethra is divided in the operation of lithotomy. Its upper concave surface is about an incli long ; its lower surface is from four to six lines. This difference in length is caused by the bulb projecting backwards upon the lower surface of the membranous portion of the urethra. This part of the canal is embraced laterally and below by the two muscular bundles which have been already described as the muscles of Wilson; and also by the transverse muscular fasciculi described by Santorini and Guthrie. The spongy portion. The spongy portion (Z) constitutes the greatest part of the length of the urethra; it commences opposite the symphysis pubis by a very considerable expansion, caUed the bulb (below I), and terminates at the extremity of the penis by another and stiU larger expansion, which constitutes the glans penis. * rThp membranous portion perforates both layers of the triangular ligament, about an inch hMoL thpTrch of the nSb"s (see^. 138.); but as the two layers are separated from each other H„ nw H^hpTrpa?er dL? of this ponion of he urethra is included between them ; a vep- small nanhsuLTed'Sd ?he posC[J,r layer: both layers are prolonged over the urethra, one forwards and the other backwards.]