363 THE TIBIALIS ANTICUS. powerfully exerted diiriug equestrian exercise; it is by their means that the horse is fii-mly grasped between the knees. The two superficial adductors and the adductor brevis are also flexors, because their insertions are posterior to their origins. All the adductors are, as it were, rolled around the femur during rotation inwards. MUSCLES OF THE LEG. The tibialis anticus.—Extensor communis digitorum.—Extensor propriuspollicis. — Permmis longus and brevis. — Gastrocnemius, plantaris, and soleus. — Popliteus. — Tibialis posticus. —Flexor longus pollicis. The muscles of the leg may be divided into those of the anterior, those of the external, and those of the posterior regions. Muscles of the Anterior Kegion of the Leg. The muscles of the anterior region of the leg are the tibialis, the extensor communis digitorum, and the extensor proprius pollicis pedis. The anterior peroneus, or peroneus tertius, when it exists, is nothing more than an accessory fasciculus of the extensor communis. The Tibialis Anticus. Dissection. Make a vertical incision through the skin trom tne anterior tuberosity of the tibia to the middle of the inner border of the foot; dissect back the two flaps of skin, and expose the fascia of the leg; divide this fascia vertically, commencing from the middle of the leg, and terminating at the lower end of the tibia, taking care to preserve the annular ligament: prolong the dissection and separation of the fascia as far upwards as possible ; lastly, remove the fascia on the dorsum of the foot, which covers inferiorly the tendon of the tibialis anticus. The tibialis anticus (a, fig. 128.) is a long, thick, prismatic, and triangular muscle, placed superficially along the outer side of the tibia. Attachments. It arises from the crest which bounds the anterior tuberosity of the tibia on the outside, and from the tubercle terminating this crest above; from the external tuberosity of the tibia, and the superior two thirds of its external surface, which presents a depression proportioned to the strength of the muscle; from all that portion of the interosseous ligament situ- ated to the inner side of the anterior tibial vessels and nerves ; from the deep surface of the fascia of the leg; and lastly, from a tendinous septum intervening be- tween this muscle and the extensor communis digit- orum. It is inserted into the tubercle on the first or internal cuneiform bone, and sends off a tendinous expansion to the first metatarsal bone. It arises from the internal surface of an osteo-fibrous ' quadrangular pyramid formed by the tibia, the fascia of the leg, the interosseous ligament, and the inter- muscular septum; from these points the fleshy fibres proceed vertically downwards, and terminate around a tendon which commences in the substance of the muscle above its middle third; the anterior fibres cease at the lower third of the muscle, the posterior accompany the tendon to the point where it passes under the dorsal ligament of the instep (seen in fig. 128.). As soon as the tendon appears on the anterior border of the muscle, it is deflected forwards in a similar manner to the external surface of the tibia, and follows the same ob- Ftg m.