SPLANCHNOLOGY. certain transverse muscular fibres, extending from one end of each rinir to the other, and also occupying the intervals between the rings. The existence 01 these muscular fibres, which I have seen forming a laye? half a Swck m certain cases of chronic catarrh, cannot be doubted. It is evident that their ZZ Z r *'l^^r^^-.-^l^ °f the rings towards each other, and tEte narrow the trachea, the aimmution in the width of which is limited bv the contact of the ends of the rings. ^^^uueu uy me The longitudinal yellow fasciculi. In the membranous portion of the trachea between the muscular and the mucous layer, are situated a great number of £ t yellow fasciculi, which at first sight resemble longitudinal tolds, but are not at all effaced by distension ; these fasciculi adhere to and produce an elevation of the mucous membrane, and opposite the bifurcation of the trachea they also divide, and are continued into the bronchi The nature of this tissue is not weU known ; it can only belong to the mus- cular or to the yeUow elastic tissue, though I would rather incline to the latter opinion. According to either supposition, its use is to prevent too great an elongation of the trachea and the bronchi; actively in the one casef and bv virtue of Its elasticity in the other. Not unfrequently some longitudinal fasci- culi are found behind the cartilaginous rings. The tracheal glands. If we carefuUy examine the posterior surface of the tracbea, we find a certain number of ovoid flattened glands (see Jig 171) placed upon the outer surface of the fibrous membrane ; and by removing this membrane we see a tolerably thick but not continuous layer of similar glands between the fibrous and the muscular coats ; and moreover, if either the inner or the outer layer of the fibrous tissue, situated between the cartilaginous rings, be removed, a series of much smaller glands wiU be found between these layers, occupying the intervals between the rings, and even extending behind them. The mucous membrane. This is a continuation of the mucous membrane of the larynx ; it is remarkable for its tenuity, which permits the colour of the subjacent parts to be seen through it, and for its intimate adhesion to the structures covered by it. The longitudinal folds of which some authors speak, do not exist; the yellow longitudinal fasciculi have been mistaken for them. Lastly, it presents a great number of openings, from which mucus can be ex- pressed. These openings are nothing more than the orifices of the excretory ducts of the tracheal glands.* The vessels and nerves. The arteries of the trachea are derived from the superior and inferior thyroid. The veins are generally arranged thus: some venous trunks running along the inner surface of the trachea beneath the mucous membrane, receive on each side, in the same manner as the vena azygos, small veins corresponding to the intervals between the cartilaginous rings, and then terminate in the neighbouring veins. The lymphatic vessels are very numerous ; they enter the surrounding glands, which are of considerable size. The nerves are derived from the pneumogastrics. Structure of the Bronchi. The structure of the bronchi is exactly the same as that of the trachea. The left bronchus has ten or twelve cartilaginous rings ; the right has five or six. They both possess transverse muscular fibres, longitudinal yellow fasci- culi, glands, &c. Their arteries generally arise directly from the aorta, and * SIructure of the trachea. [The muscular fibres of the trachea are of the involuntary class (see p. 426.), and are attached to the internal surface of the ends of the rings: the longitu- dinal fibres exist all round the trachea, but are collected into bundles on its membranous portion only; they are believed to consist of elastic tissue. The glands of the trachea and bronchi are compound ; its mucous membrane is covered with a columnar epithelium, and is-provided with cilia, which urge the secretions upwards towards tiie larynx.]