THE LARYNX. 575 very distinct orifices, from which a considerable quantity of mucus can be pressed. TIipsp were well described by Morgagni, who very J^tlT^Zi Tt^^^ glandular' mass situated in the Sance of the aryteno-epiglottid fold. They are arranged m two hnes, uled at an angle, X the letter L * the vertical Une runs along the anterior surface IfTe fr^tenoid cartilage and its corniculmn, and produces a shgh prominence, perfectly distinct from that made by the cartilages; the horizontal Te is less pr'ominenl and is situated.in ^^^^-^^^^^ l^^lZ^LJ noid elands open separately upon the internal surface of the laiynx. Ve"nd nerves. The arteries are derived from the superior thyroid a branch of the external carotid, and from the inferior thyroid, a branch of the subclavian. The veins enter the corresponding venous trunks. The lymphalw vessels, which are little known, terminate principally m the glands of the supra- hyoid region, if we may judge from the frequency of their inflammation in cases of acute laryngitis, &c. _ . , „ • The nerves are branches of the pneumogastric, viz. the superior and the in- ferior or recurrent laryngeal. The superior laryngeal nerves are not exclusively distributed to the muscles caUed constrictors of the glottis (the arytenoideus and the crico-thyroidei) ; nor do the inferior laryngeals belong exclusively to those caUed dilators (the crico-arytenoidei postici and laterales, and the thyro- arytenoidei), as a celebrated physiologist has affirmed. (See Neurology.) The peculiar rotatory movement of the arytenoid cartilages somewhat interferes with any classification of these muscles into dilators and constrictors. Developement. The evolution of the larynx is remarkable in this respect, that after having attained a certain size, it undergoes no appreciable change until the time of puberty. The ventricles are as yet so slightly developed that their existence has been denied. The prominence of the os hyoidesin some measure conceals that of the larynx. M. Richerand {Mem. de la Societe Med. d' Emula- tion, torn, iii.) has proved that there is no very remarkable difference between the larynx of a child at three years of age and of one at twelve. Up to the age of puberty the larynx presents no trace of the sexual differences, which afterwards become so evident; and to these anatomical conditions are owing the shrillness and uniformity of the voice in the youth of both sexes. At the period of puberty, at the same time as the genital organs, the larynx increases so rapidly as to attain its full developement in the space of one year ; the voice then loses its uniformity, and acquires its peculiar timbre and quality, and then also the sexual differences in the vocal apparatus become manifest. Is it from an unequal developement of the different parts of the larynx, or from want of a certain degree of education, that the voice at this period is so discordant, especially in singing, or breaks, as it is said ? The simultaneous developement of the genital organs and the larynx has led to the opinion, that they stand to each other in the relation of cause and effect; and observation has established that the vocal apparatus is in some measure under the influence of the generative organs ; for in eunuchs the larynx re- mains as small as it is in the female. (M. Dupuy tren, Mem. de la Soc. Phil. torn, ii.) At the age of puberty the size of the glottis is increased by one third in the female, and is nearly doubled in the male. After puberty, any changes which the larynx may undergo are the result of exercise, not of developement properly so called. Ossification of the cartilages of the larynx is not always the effect of age. I have seen it at the thirtieth year, quite independently of disease. Chronic inflammation of the larynx induces a premature ossification of the cartilages. The thyroid has the greatest tendency to this change, then the cricoid, and lastly the arj-tenoid cartilages : I have never observed it in the epiglottis. " Gnomonis, sed obtusanguli figuram utervis acervus habot." {tlaller.)