THE TRICEPS FEMORALIS. 357 and superficial, viz, the vastus externus; the other internal, anterior, and even external, viz. the vasttis interims : it is much smaller than the vastus externus, and is partly covered by it and by the rectus. The external portion or vastus externus (5, figs. 124. to 127.). . This is the largest portion of the triceps femoralis. It arises from a projecting border or horizontal crest, situated at the base of the great trochanter, and from a ver- tical edge in front of that trochanter, which forms a continuation of its an- terior border, and sometimes presents a very prominent tubercle: in the angle formed by these two attachments is situated the tendon of the glutaeus medius. It also arises along a line running from the great trochanter to the linea as- pera; and from the whole extent of the external lip of the linea aspera itself. All the preceding origins are effected by means of a broad aponeurosis which covers the superior three fourths of the muscle, and from the deep sur- face of which almost all the fleshy fibres proceed. Lastly, some of these arise from the tendon of the glutaeus maximus, and from the tendinous septum in- tervening between the vastus externus and the short head of the biceps. From these origins the fleshy fibres proceed, some vertically downwards, the others somewhat obliquely downwards and forwards, the lowest being the shortest and the most oblique ; they form a large bundle, which partiaOy covers the an- terior portion of the vastus intemus, but is separated from it by vessels, nerves, and cellular tissue. After a course of variable length, some of the fleshy fibres are attached to the deep, but the greater number to the superficial, surface of another equally strong aponeurosis: this becomes thickened and contracted into a flat tendon, which is sometimes divided into thick parallel bands, emerges from the fleshy fibres at the external margin of the rectus, and is in- serted into the outer half of the upper border of the patella, being blended on the inner side with the rectus and the vastus intemus. The lower fleshy fibres which arise from the inter-muscular septum are attached directly to the outer border of the patella.* The internal or anterior portion, vastus intemus (t and u, fig. 127.), is much smaller than the external, and surrounds the femur. Its inner portion lies im- mediately under the fascia, and is the only part which is generally described as the vastus internus (t,figs. 126. 127.). Its anterior portion is covered by the rectus, or long portion, and is usually called the crureus (cruralis, Alb., u, fig. 127.) Its outer portion is covered by the vastus externus, with which many of its fibres are blended ; but they may always be separated by cutting along the outer margin of the middle aponeurosis. Thus defined, the vastus intemus arises from a rough oblique line, extending from the front of the neck of the femur to the linea aspera, and from the internal lip of the linea aspera itself, in front of the adductor muscles : both of these origins are efi'ected bv means of an aponeurosis, which is weaker and smaller than that of the vastus ex- ternus, and is blended with that of the adductors, concurring with it in the formation of a canal for the femoral artery. It also arises from almost the whole of the intemal, anterior, and external surfaces and from the two anterior borders of the femur; lastly, the lower fibres arise from the internal inter- muscular septum. From these different origins, the fleshy fibres pass in various directions; the external inwards, the middle vertically, and the intemal, wh:ch are the most numerous, downwards, forwards, and outwards; they thus torm a fleshy belly, thicker below and within, than above and without, and are successively attached to both surfaces, and especiaUy to the posterior surface ot a broad aponeurosis, which is covered by the tendon of the vastus externus, but can be easily separated from it. The inner fibres are attached to the anterior surface of the aponeurosis, and terminate very regularly opposite a vertical line, running parallel to the inner margin of the rectus femoris. ihe aponeurosis extends over the anterior surface of the middle portion of rectu^I'Xch"l°ine7bfk^n\'S'"''r '^f^^^-perfectly di.stinct from the tendon of the lus, wnicn 18 lined by it; and also from the expanded tendon of the vastus intemus A A 3