ANTERIOR ANNULAR LIGAMENT OF THE CARPUS. 419 and extensor brevis pollicis; 2. and 3. two distinct sheaths opposite the radius,— one for the two radial extensors of the carpus, the other for the extensor longus pollicis, which sheaths become blended together lower down into a single completely fibrous sbeath ; 4. a fourth sheath, stronger than the prece- ding, for the extensor communis digitorum and the extensor proprius indicia; 5. an entirely fibrous sheath for the extensor digiti minimi; 6. a very strong sheath for the extensor carpi ulnaris, which is prolonged below the ulna, and accompanies the tendon as far as the fifth metacarpal bone. All these sheaths are lined by synovial membranes*, which extend some distance above the dorsal annular ligament, and, on the other hand, accompany the tendons very far down, sometimes even to their insertions. The dorsal aponeurosis of the metacarpus is a continuation of the dorsal an- nular ligament: it is composed of a very thin layer of transverse fibres, and separates the extensor tendons from the subcutaneous vessels and nerves. A very loose, extensible, and elastic cellular tissue takes the place of the synovial membranes over these tendons, and greatly facilitates their movements. The Anterior Annular Ligament of the Carpus. The deep groove upon the anterior surface of the carpus is converted into a canal by a very thick fibrous band, viz. the anterior ligament of the carpus (.9'fig- 118.). It commences internally by two well marked origins, separated from each other by the ulnar nerve, one being from the pisiform bone and the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, the other from the unciform bone. The first bundle passes downwards, the second transversely, and their united fibres some of which are transverse and others interlaced, terminate at the trapeziuru and the scaphoid, giving off an expansion to the fascia covering the ball of the thumb, with which they are continuous. This ligament is continuous above with the fascia of the fore-arm, which is much thickened in this situation: it receives, in front, the expanded tendon of the palmaris longus, and terminates below in the palmar fascia. Its anterior surface gives attachment to most of the muscles of the thenar and hypothenar eminences. A small portion only of this ligament is generally seen and described, viz. the free portion. If it is wished to obtain a perfect conception of it, the muscles attached to its' anterior surface should be carefully removed; it will then be seen, that on the outside It describes a curve having its concavity directed inwards, in order to be at- tached to the scaphoid and the trapezium, and that the sheath of the flexor carpi radiaUs is contained in its substance: this sheath is entirely fibrous above and partly fibrous and partly osseous below, where it converts into a canal the' groove on the trapezium. While there are almost as many synovial membranes as there are sheaths under the dorsal hgaments of the carpus, on the palmar aspect nine tendons with the median nerve form but a single bundle, which is lubricated by one or two synovial membranes. This synovial membrane* presents a curious ar- rangement, subject moreover to numerous varieties. It lines the posterior sur- face of the anterior annular ligament of the carpus, is prolonged above and below that hgament, and is reflected (without passing between the different ten- dons) upon the anterior surface of the bundle formed by them and by the median t^Zt ^ i° """^'^ t° ^'^'^urate idea of the m^nf'^T^^ membrane, cut across the tendons at the lower will "^,1 ^'"l*''™ "P«° the palm of the hand: it bordor'?t,^f K^^f '^''"^"^l membrane is reflected upon the ulnar Sn^more^^^^ "^^^ ^^^^ Posterior surface of this bmidle. passing more or less between the tendons, and separating them from each other ^rnln. V reflected upon the groove thecaSis prolonged upwards and downwards much farther than it ^s in front and dil * See note, p. 389.