312 MYOLOGY. undergoes a sort of reflexion over the groove at the base of the zycoraa. I mr?/^r/''° "'"^^"l^'- ™g from \he lower separate tendon into the internal border of the antlrior surf;ce of the ramusVf Relations. It is covered by the skin, the aponeurosis of the occipito-frontalis the anterior and superior auricular muscles, the superficial tempLal arterie^' veins, and nerves, and more immediately by the superficial temporal apol neurosis, the zygomatic arch, and the masseter. It covers the temporal foTsa. he external pterygoid muscle, a small part of the buccinator, the interaal maxil- ary artery and the deep temporal vessels. Its thickness is in prSortTon to the depth of the temporal fossa, and the strength of the coronoid procesf Action. The strength of the temporal muscle, therefore, may be in some de- gree measured by the depth of the temporal fossa, and the size of the coronoid process This fact may be demonstrated by an examination of these regions in the skeletons of carnivorous animals, in which the elevators of the lo^er iaw are most highly developed. The use of the temporal muscle, like that of the masseter is to elevate the lower jaw, but the mechanism of its action is dif- ferent. In fact, the masseter raises the jaw by a direct action ; the temporal muscle, on the contrary, raises it by a sort of swing viotion, acting principaUv upon the back part of the coronoid process. In a word, the temporal muscle acts upon the vertical arm of the bent lever represented by the maxillary bone, while the masseter, on the contrary, acts upon its horizontal arm the movement depending on the action of the temporal muscle: the lower jaw resembles the curved lever represented by the hammer of a bell. THE PTERYGO-MAXILLARY REGION. The pterygoideus intemwt. — The pterygoideits externus. The muscles of this region are the external and the internal pterygoids. TJie Pterygoideus Interims vel Magnus. Dissection. Separate the face and that part of the cranium which is situated anterior to the vertebral column from the remainder of the skuU, and divide the face into two lateral halves by an antero-posterior section. This muscle may also be dissected in the following manner: saw through the lower jaw verticaUy at the junction of the body and ramus ; remove the zygomatic arch ; cut through the base of the coronoid process and the neck of the condyle, and then disarticulate the latter. Fig. 115. The internal pterygoid (a, fig. 115.) is deeply seated in the zygomatic fossa, along the inner surface of the ramus of the jaw (tertius musculus qui in ore latitat, Vesalius). It is thick, and qua- drilateral, and in its form, structure, and direction, bears a remarkable re- semblance to the masseter; hence Wins- low called it the internal masseter. Attachments. It arises from the ptery- goid fossa, from the hamular process, at the apex of the internal pterygoid plate, and from the lower surface of the py- ramidal process of the palate bone : and is inserted into the inner surface of the angle of the lower jaw. Its origin con- sists of a tendon resembling that of the masseter, prolonged upon the internal surface, and into the substance of the