FACE IN GENERAL. 85 o 3 vertical diameter approaches the nose, and the symphysis of which is now c lique from behind forwards and downwards, impress upon it a peculiar ct racter. The obliquity of the chin just mentioned, is precisely the reverse that which exists in the foetus. State of the Lateral Regions in different Ages. These regions undergo the fewest changes of aU; for if on the one hand, the development of the maxillary sinus tends to increase the prominence of the maxillary tuberositv in the adult, on the other, the inclusion of the dental germs in the superior maxiUa, during fcetal life, compensates for the want of the sinus. State of the Posterior Region of the Face at different Ages. In the guttural portion, this region presents in the foetus and the infant the following circumstances:—the posterior borders of the rami of the jaw are very ' oblique, instead of being abnost vertical, as in the adult; the pterygoid processes and the posterior nasal openings are also directed very obliquely downwards and forwards, instead of vertically, on account of the absence as yet of the maxillary sinus, which during its development carries them backwards. From the obliquity of the posterior border of the ramus of the jaw, it follows that the articular surface of the condyle which surmounts it looks backwards instead of upwards. In the horizontal or palatine portion, the inferior region of the face has pro- portionally less extent from before backwards than in the adult, on account of the obliquity of the pterygoid process, and the slight development of the max- Ulary sinus. We perceive then how great an influence the varying conditions of these sinuses exercise over the whole configuration of the face, at the dif- ferent periods of life. It may be easily conceived that the cavities of the face must undergo im- portant changes, during these alterations in the shape of the face which we have been describing. The most remarkable is the tardy development of the nasal fossae compared with that of the orbits. It may even be said that they proceed in an inverse ratio. The orbital cavity, intended to receive the globe of the eye which is already highly developed at the time of birth, is of great capacity. This magnitude it owes entirely to the rapid growth of the frontal and sphenoid bones; because the malar bone and the superior maxilla contribute but little towards it, and the height of the ethmoid is so small, that the vertical diameter of the orbit, which depends upon that of the ethmoid, is less considerable than its transverse diameter. The nasal fossae, which are very small in the foetus, gradually acquire an increased extent of surface, by the growth in height of the ethmoid, the palate bone, the superior maxillary, and the vomer, and by the augmented size of the turbinated bones ; and their surface is still farther extended by the enlargement of the maxillary, sphenoidal, and frontal sinuses, and the ethmoidal cells. The development of the frontal sinus, it may be ob- served, is owing chiefly to the separation of the two tables of the bone, the anterior of which is almost always thrown forwards, the posterior remaining stationary. There are, however, some examples on record, in which it was evident that the sinus was formed almost exclusively by the retrocession of the posterior table.