ARTHROLOGY. 218 strong, constitute the principal means of union of these joints, and occupy all the rough portions of the corresponding facettes. They so closely unite the bones, that, even when the dorsal ligaments are removed, it is not easy to open the joints. The synovial membrane is merely a portion of the general synovial membrane of the tarsus. Articulations of the Scaphoid with the Cuneiform Bones. Articular mrfaces. The scaphoid presents the only example in the body, of a single articular surface being divided into three facettes by well-marked ridges. Each of these facettes is triangular, and corresponds to a surface of the same form on one of the cuneiform bones. The base of the triangular facette for the first cuneiform bone, is below : the bases of the other two are above (3, jig. 80.). Means of union. 1. Dorsal ligaments. There are two for the first cuneiform bone, a superior id,fig. 83.), and an internal ie,figs. 83 and 84.) ; and only one for each of the others (fffig. 83.). The dorsal ligaments of the first cuneiform bone pass directly backwards ; those of the other two are stretched obliquely forwards and outwards. 2. Plantar ligaments. A very strong plantar liga- ment (a. Jig. 82.) extends from the tubercle of the scaphoid to the correspond- ing tubercle of the fij-st cuneiform bone ; it is blended with the tendon of the tibialis posticus, which furnishes a considerable expansion that crosses the di- rection of the tendon of the peroneus longus, and extends to the third cunei- form and the corresponding metatarsal bone; it may be considered as an inferior ligament of the tarsus. The name of plantar ligaments can scarcely be given to some irregular fibres ib,Jig. 82.), passing from the lower surface of the scaphoid to the second and third cuneiform bones. A synovial membrane, common to the three articulations, is contmuous with that of the three cuneiform bones. Articulation of the Third Cuneiform Bone with the Cuboid. This articulation resembles in every respect those of the cuneiform bones. The means of union are a dorsal ligament {g,fig. 83.), consisting of a very strong transverse bundle; an interosseous ligament, which occupies the entirenon-arti- cular portion of the corresponding surfaces; and an lU-defined p/antor ligament, consisting of some irregular transverse fibres. The synovial membrane com- municates with that of the cuneo-scaphoid articulations. Articulation of the Scaphoid with the Cuboid. The scaphoid and the cuboid often unite by a smaU facette. The means of union are an oblique dorsal ligament {i,Jig. 83.); a very strong mterosseous hga- rn7occupying the whole of the corresponding surfaces of the bones, except- rnfihe smaU portions which are contiguous; and a very thick transverse ing the ,™ somewhat obliquely from the tuberosity of the i::^ZirC.:^t 'l^^^ ngaments eU^even when there are no arti- cular facettes. Articulation between the Two Rows of the Tarsal Bones. loiS^T, hPtwppn the two rows consists of the articulation of the The articulation J^^J^^^^ ^^^^^ ,,leis, the articulation of the os calc.s 'i^,^Sl'£>^XtlSX union of the os calcis to the scaphoid by means of several ligaments. 1 Articulation of the Astragalus with the Scaphoid.