VERTEBRAL COLUMN. 35 D 2 the projection of which is anterior. This angle is denominated the prcmwntory, or the sacro-vertebral angle {d. fig. 1.): it is an important object of study, both with reference to the mechanism of standing, and m the practice of mid- wifei-v.* The sacrum is curved upon itself, from behmd forwards, so as to present an anterior concavity. It is the largest of all the bones of the vertebral column ; hence the name oi great vertebra appbed to it by ffippocrates. It is proportionally more developed in man than in any other mammiferous animal, which is connected with the erect bipedal attitude and the sitting attitude which belong to him in a special manner.f The form of the sacrum is that of a quadran- gular pyramid Avith a trunpated apex, the base looking upwards. It is symmetrical like all the median bones, and presents for consideration an anterior, a posterior, and two lateral surfaces, a base, and & summit. The anterior, pelvic, or rectal surface (fig. 8.) forms part of the cavity of the pelvis. Its concavity varies much in different individuals, and in the two sexes : but on this latter point there is great diversity of opinion among anatomists. Some believe that it is greater in the female, whence it is said results the advantage of a larger capacity of the pelvis, and consequently an increased facility for the passage of the head of the foetus durmg parturition. Others, on the contrary, contend that the male sacrum is more curved, and that of the female almost straight; and they argue that, had the opposite been the case, the coccyx which forms a continuation of the curve of the sacrum would have been directed forwards, and thus diminished the antero-posterior diameter of the outlet of the pelvis ; whereas, with a slight curve of the sacrum, the coccyx has no tendency to project, but is easily bent backwards during labour. | In order to determine the validity of these opposing statements, I have compared a great number of sacra from both sexes, but I could never detect any difference sufficiently marked or constant to be considered as charac- teristic of the sex. The anterior concavity of the sacrum is interrupted by four transverse pro- jections (1111, fig. 8.), which correspond with the points of union of the sacral vertebrae, and are analogous to the intervertebral prominences. The first is sometimes so prominent, that it might be mistaken for the sacro-vertebral angle in an examination per vaginam. On each side of the median line, are the anterior sacral foramina (2 2 2), four in number, the two superior much greater than the two inferior. They give passage to the anterior branches of the sacral nerves, to the sacral veins, and some smaU arteries. External to these are grooves for the nerves, and the attachment of the pyramidalis muscle. The anterior surface of the sacrum is contiguous to the rectum which follows its curvature. Posterior, spinal, or cutaneous surface. Its convexity is exactly proportioned to the anterior concavity. 1. In the median line it presents the sacral ridge, formed by a continuation of the spinous processes of the vertebral column. This is often entire in its whole length, but sometimes interrupted: it bifurcates * The sacro-vertebral angle is most remarkable in man, because he alone is destined for the erect posture. By this angle the impetus of movement transmitted from the vertebral column to the sacrum is In part destroyed. In midwifery it explains the rarity of median positions of the vertex. t Birds which, like man, are biped, are also remarkable for the size of their sacrum. X A very great curvature of the sacrum diminishes not only the antero-posterior diameter of the inferior, but also that of the superior aperture of the pelvis ; and it thus opposes tlie ascent of the uterus from the true into the false pelvis. Accoucheurs cannot too carefully study the varieties presented by the curvature of this bone. The sacrum is often affected by a species of rickets, when the other bones of the pelvis are free from deformity ; .and this fact may be easily explained by a reference to the uses of this bone in supporting the whole weight of the trunk.