ARTICULATIONS OF THE SHOULDER. 181 N 3 of the circumference of the articular surface of the clavicle, obliquely do-wn, wards and inwards to the circumference of the articular surface of the sternum. The capsule is not of equal thickness throughout; it is thinner and somewhat looser in front than behind, which may partly account for the more frequent luxations of the clavicle forwards than backwards. 2. The inter-clavicular ligament {m, fig. 69.), consisting of a very distinct bundle stretching horizontally above the fourchette of the sternum, from the upper part of the inner end of one clavicle to the inner end of the other. This ligament, which is much nearer the posterior than the anterior part of the joint, establishes a sort of continuity between the clavicles. It is the only direct means of union between the two shoulders. 3. There are two synovial capsules in this joint. That which is between the sternimi and the inter-articular cartilage is more loose than that between the cartilage and the clavicle. The Costo-clavicular Articulation (fig. 69.). The articulation between the clavicle and the cartilage of the first rib is an arthrodia. It is formed between an articular surface, which almost always exists on the lower surface of the clavicle, and a corresponding facette on the upper surface of the inner end of the first rib, at its junction with the cartilage. There is, in this articulation, a synovial membrane, which is loose, especially behind. There is only one ligament, —the costo-clavicular (g,fig. 96.), a thick strong bimdle of fibres, quite distinct from the tendon of the subclavius muscle, which is placed in front of it. It is fijced to the inner part of the first costal car- tilage, and is di^^cted very obliquely upwards and outwards, to be inserted into the under surface of the clavicle, to the inner side of the articular facette. Mechanism of the Sterno- clavicular Articulation. This articulation is the moveable centre of the motions of the shoulder, and of the whole upper extremity ; and hence the utility of an inter-articular car- tilage, to obvi^e the efi'ects of blows or pressure: hence also the wearing away of this cartilage, the deformity and wasting of the articular surfaces, the depression of the right sternal facette, and lastly the difference in the size of the sternal extremities of the right and left clavicles. This articulation, like all those effected by mutual reception, admits of mo- tions in every direction, —viz. upwards, downwards, forwards, backwards, — and of circumduction, resulting from the preceding, but not of rotation. 1. Movement of elevation. In this the sternal facette of the clavicle glides downwards upon the corresponding surface of the sternum; the inter-clavicular ligament is relaxed; the cartilage of the first rib comes in contact with the mner extremity of the clavicle, limits the degree of elevation, and prevents dis- placement. 2. Movement of depression. In this the sternal end of the clavicle glides in the opposite direction; the articular surfaces of the costo-clavicular articulation P^^^s jt^o°gly against each other, and limit the extent of this movement. It should be remarked, that in this movement the subclavian artery is compressed between the clavicle and the first rib, sometimes so completely as to arrest the circulation in the limb. 3 In the movement of the shoulder backwards, the inner end of the clavicle gimes forwards upon the surface of the sternum ; the anterior part of the or- Dicuiar capsule is stretched; and if the movement is carried beyond a certain point the capsule is torn, and the clavicle dislocated forwards. ^^tLJl ^^^Mward movement of the shoulder, the inner end of the clavicle gucies backwards. The anterior part of the orbicular ligament is relaxed, and the Lpn ! as also the inter-clavicular ligament, which, as we have ^een, is nearer the back than the front of the joint. In this motion luxaUon