COMPARISON OF THE EXTREMITIES. 143 Comparison of the Metatarsal Row of the Tarsus with the Metacarpal Row of the Carpus. The metatarsal and the metacarpal rows are evidently more analogous to each other than the first rows of each region, and have therefore heen chosen for the purpose of establishing the paraUel. • i *• 1 The cuboid is manifestly analogous to the os uncifoi-me ; their relative po- sitions are the same ; their forms are in a great measm-e similar; and while the cuboid is attached to the two last metatarsal bones, the os unciforme arti- culates with the two last metacarpal. This analogy bemg admitted we shaU find in the three cuneiform bones the representatives of the three other bones of the second row of the carpus, viz. the trapezium, the trapezoid, and the os "'o" W™'must admit here that the analogies now become much less evident. Nevertheless, the third cuneifonn bone, which from being in contact with the cuboid should represent the os magnum, which is contiguous to the os unciforme, does so far agree, that it articulates with the third metatarsal bone, as the os magnum does with the third metacarpal; and, what is sufficiently remarkable, the thii-d cuneiform has a slight connection with the second metatarsal, as the OS magnum has with the second metacarpal. Although, therefore, we do not find in the third cuneiform bone any thing approaching to the size of the os magnum, or resembling the remarkable head of that bone, we should not on that account hastily conclude that they have no analogy. We shall explain afterwards how this fact should be interpreted : we only wish it to be admitted in this place, that the base or metacarpal portion of the os magnum is repre- sented by the third cuneiform bone. 3. The second cuneiform bone, which corresponds to the trapezoid, supports the second metatarsal, as the trapezoid supports the second metacarpal. 4. The first cuneiform bone, which supports the first metatarsal, corresponds to the trapezium, which supports the first bone of the metacarpus. All these analo- gies, it must be confessed, are very imperfect, and founded rather upon the con- nections than the forms of the different bones. In fact, what resemblance is there between the three large cuneiform bones aU cut into facette-like wedges and aU so like each other in shape, and the bones of the carpus to which we have compared them ? Above aU, what comparison can be established between the third cuneiform, which exactly resembles a wedge, and the os magnum, which has a rounded head ? There is nothing in the metatarsal range of the tarsus which represents the rounded head which belongs to the metacarpal row of the carpus ; but the following considerations, which did not escape the notice of Vicq-d'Azyr, wiU serve to solve the difficulty. 1. It is an observation which applies with sufficient generality to the whole skeleton, that when two bones move upon each other, one being provided with a head, and the other with a cavity, the head moves upon the cavity, not the cavity on the head. Thus, the femur moves upon the os innominatum ; the humerus upon the scapula. 2. The hand, in the performance of its functions, almost always moves upon the fore-arm. In the movements of the hand, the metacarpal row of the carpus moves upon the first row, and therefore the me- tacarpal row presents the head. On the contrary, in the movements of the hones of the tarsus during progression, the bones of the first row always move upon those of the second or metatarsal row; and consequently, instead of finding a rounded head in the second row, we meet with it in the first. Proceeding thus by the method of exclusion, it now only remains for lis to establish the analogy between the bones of the first row of the carpus on the one hand, and the scaphoid, the os calcis, and astragalus on the other. The analogies here are very equivocal, and are not agreed upon amone an- atomists, ox- 6