OSTEOLOGY. before all or nearly all the rest. The junction of the pieces of ossification is not complete till about the age of twenty-five years, at -which time the lower epiphysis of the femur unites with the body of the bone. General mode of Ossification of Eminences and Cavities. M. Serres in a very remarkable work has given, under the title of General Laws of Osteogeny, the results of his observations concerning the development of azygos or median bones, and of eminences and cavities; and with a rapid notice of these, we shall conclude what is to be said on the points of ossification. 1. By the law of symmetry, which according to M. Serres governs the deve- lopment of all bones situated on the median line, every such bone is originally double, that is, composed of two separate halves, which advancing to meet each other are at last joined. Thus there are originally two osseous halves of the spinal column, and two demi-sterna. The basilar portion of the occipital, the body of the sphenoid, the cribrifrom plate of the ethmoid, the vomer, and the spinous processes of the vertebrae, have according to this view originally been double. But this law has many exceptions. Thus, although some of the pieces of the sternum are commonly formed from two lateral points, the first and the last are always or almost always developed from a single point in their middle. The bodies of the vertebrae are most commonly formed from a single primitive nucleus : the same is the case with the basilar portion of the occipital, the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid, the vomer, and the spinous processes of the vertebrae. Instances of incomplete division of bones on the median line must not be adduced in proof of the existence of two primitive points of ossification. 2. Every eminence, according to M. Serres, is developed by a special point of ossification. This is true generally : but how many eminences are formed merely by the extension of ossification from the piece which supports them! Where, it may be ask^d, is the special point of ossification for the articular processes of the vertebrae, the coronoid process of the ulna, the external and internal protuberances of the occipital, &c. ? There are even double eminences developed from a single point, as the condyles of the femur. 3. Every cavity is formed by the union of at least two pieces of ossification; so that, when a bone furnished with a cavity consists of several pieces, the place of junction of these pieces is at the cavity. Thus the three pieces of the OS innominatum meet together at the cotyloid cavity. The same law, accordmg to M. Serres, regulates the formation of the foramina and osseous canals of every kind, as the medullary cavity of the long bones, all the canals for vessels and nerves, as the carotid, vidian, &c.: according to the same law, all the fora- mina in the bone of the skull are foi-med originally of two halves. But the facts are opposed to this doctrine when applied so universally. Progress of Ossification in the three Kinds of Bones. 1. In the long bones. Ossification commences in their middle part. A small cylinder of bone ap- pears, narrow in the middle, expanded at the ends, tubular withm, perforated already with the nutritious foramen which is vei-y obvious, and receives very large vessels. This Uttle cylinder grows graduaUy thicker and longer, ex- tending towards the extremities of the bone which it reaches about the time of birth : whilst at this period the ossification is so far advanced in the body of the long bones, their extremities are not yet osseous. It is only at later periods varying in different bones, that an osseous nucleus appears in the cartilaginous extremities, increasing and encroaching upon the portion of car- tilage which separates it from the bony shaft until that cartilaginons pa.tition craduallv becoming thinner, is at last itself mvaded by the ossification. All fhe lon/bones have two essential or principal epiphyses to which comple- mentary%p°physes are sometimes added. The phalanges * are an excepu^^^^^ they have only one. It is this process which is named junction ?f the epiphyses The time of its completion is not confined to any very defimte hmits, but it is over by twenty or twenty-five years. • [Also the clavicle, the metatarsal, and usually the metacarpal bones.]