THE LIVER. 511 dence affords but little support to such ideas, which are rather the result of preconeerved notions respecting tl,e functions of the liver and the influence of thP hilp than the fruit of positive observations. ' It var Js mu^^^^ si.e'according to the state of its circulation ; .h^^^^ vessels, and especially the ramifications of the vena porta, are empty, the tis- sue of he live/shrinks, and its surface becomes, as it ^ere, wrinkled J^ hen on the other hand, the hepatic vessels are injected, the organ m in a state of turSscence. I h^ve often been struck with the increase in the size of the K! produced by an injection pushed forcibly and continuously into the vena ^°The size of the liver, as influenced by age and disease, deserves particular attention. I shaU point out the influence of age under the head of develope- ment We shaU then see that the liver is largest during mtra-uterme lite; and that it is proportionally larger at periods nearer to that of conception : hence it arises that the greatest relative size of the liver is coincident with the least amount of biliary secretion; and we may therefore conclude, that this organ has some other use besides that of secreting bile. When diseased, the liver has been found to weigh from thirty to forty pounds, but the enormous size in these cases is almost invariably owmg to the developement of accidental tissues. Some cases, however, have been recorded, of simple hypertrophy of the liver without any organic disease, in which the size acquired was prodigious. In opposition to this we must notice the state of atrophy * in which the liver is shrivelled, and not more than a third, fourth, or even a sixth of the natural size. In one subject in which the umbilical vein remained pervious, and the subcutaneous abdominal veins were dilated and varicose, the liver weighed only about half a pound. The specific gravity of the liver is, to that of water, as fifteen to ten. Figure. The liver is a single and asymmetrical organ, of such an irregular form as to defy description. We shall compare it, with Glisson, to a segment of an ovoid, cut obliquely lengthwise, thick at its right extremity, and pro- gressively diminishing towards the left, which terminates in a tongue. Its shape is represented by the sort of mould formed by the right half of the diaphragm, and bounded below by an oblique plane directed upwards, and to the left side (fig. 161.). No organ is more exactly moulded upon the surrounding parts, nor under- goes changes in form with greater impunity, either from external pressure, or from that exercised upon it by other viscera: it may even be said to be, as it were, ductile or malleable under the influence of a slowly-exerted pressure. The injurious effects of very tight lacing are chiefly experienced by the liver. A circular constriction and a fibrous thickening of this organ opposite the base of the thorax, sometimes afford evidence of this compression; its transverse and antero-posterior diameters become diminished, and its vertical diameter is increased ; it projects more or less below the base of the thorax, descends as low down as the right iliac fossa, and may even touch the brim of the pelvis without any structural lesion. In these cases its upper surface becomes ante- rior, and its lower surface posterior. There are but few female subjects without some deformity of the liver; and therefore the type of the organ must be sought for in the male, f No practical conclusions then can be derived from the shape of the liver ; and I am almost inclined to agree with Vesalius in saying, that it has no determinate form, but accommodates itself to the surrounding parts. In a few rare ex- ceptions we find the human liver divided into lobules by deep fissures, as it is in a great number of animals. The errors which have for a long time ex- isted upon this subject, even since the time of Vesalius, arise from a blind re- * We cannot admit the proposition of Soemmering,—" Quo sanior lioino, eo minus ejus liepav est." t Scemmcring, without giving any reason, says, " In scxu masculo magis, minus infeminco costis istis ledum latet." (Corpor. Hum. Fabric, t. vi. p. 1C3.)