MYOLOGY. 280 Tlie Quadratus Lumborum. Dissection. Expose the posterior surface, by carefully detaching the common mass of the posterior spinal muscles ; and to view the anterior, open the abdomen and remove the viscera. This muscle is inclosed in a sheath formed by the anterior and middle layers of the posterior aponeurosis of the transversalis abdominis; divide this sheath, and the muscle will be completely laid bare. The quadratus lumborum (m m, fig. 111.) is quadrilateral in shape, and broader oelow than above ; it is situated in the lumbar region, on the sides of the ver- tebral column, between the crest of the ilium and the last rib. Attachments and direction. It arises from the ilio-lumbar ligament, and from about two inches of the adjacent part of the iliac crest, by aponeurotic fibres, which on the outer side especially are very long. These fibres are bound down by others, crossing them at right angles, and give origin to the fleshy part of the muscles, which proceeds upwards and a little inwards, in the following manner: — 1 Some of the fibres pass vertically upwards, and are inserted into the last rib, to an extent which varies in different individuals. 2. Others are directed very obliquely inwards, and divide into four fleshy bundles, inserted by means of a similar number of tendons into the summits of the transverse processes of the four superior lumbar vertebrae. 3. There is most commonly a third plane, anterior to the preceding, and consisting of fibres, which arise from the summits of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, and fifth lumbar vertebrae, and are inserted into the lower edge of the last rib. Connections. The quadratus lumborum somewhat resembles the rectus ab- dominis, in being inclosed and bound down in a very strong tendinous sheath ; it has therefore no direct relations. In front are the kidney, the colon, the psoas, and the diaphragm ; behind, is the common mass of the spinal muscles, beyond which its outer border somewhat projects, especially below. Its most important relations are with the kidney and the colon. It is the guide for the necessary incisions in operations performed in this region, particularly in nephrotomy. Action. With its fixed point at the crest of the ilium, this muscle depresses the last rib, by means of its costal insertions, thus acting as a muscle of ex- piration, and it inclines the spine to its own side, through the medium of its vertebral attachment. With its fixed point above, it inclines the pelvis to its own side. LATERAL VERTEBRAL REGION. The inter-transversales and rectus capitis lateralis. — Scaleni. The lateral muscles of the vertebral column are the inter-transversales of the neck and loins, the rectus capitis lateralis, and the scaleni. The quad- ratus lumborum already described belongs also to this region. *. The Inter-transversales and Rectus Capitis Lateralis. The inter-transversales muscles exist only in the neck and the loins ; in the back, they are represented by the intercostals, an additional proof of the analogy between the ribs and the cervical and lumbar transverse processes. Many celebrated anatomists, however, admit the existence of inter-transverse muscles in the back, but they are nothing more than deep-seated fasciculi of the transverso-spinalis. 1. Inter-transversales of the neck (o to o, fig. 112.). There are two of these muscles in each inter-transverse space, au anterior and a posterior. They are snuill quadi'ilateral muscles, one arising from the anterior, the other from