618 SPLANCHNOLOGY. folded fringes terminate around a circle somewhat narrower than the ad- joining portion of the tube: this circle constitutes the free orifice, or ostium abdommale of the tube. The outer portion of the tube will admit the end of a moderate-sized catheter, whilst the inner portion will scarcely admit a bristle. The diameter of that portion of the tube which traverses the uterine walls is capillary, and it is very difficult to detect with the naked eye its uterine orifice, or ostium uterinum (o o,fig. 189.). As the canal of the tube opens into the uterine cavity on the one hand, and into the cavity of the peritoneum on the other, it forms a direct communi- cation between the two ; and hence certain cases of peritonitis have been sup- posed to depend upon the passage of a flu'd from the uterus into the peritoneal sac. Not very unfrequently the fimbriated orifice of the tube is obliterated ; in this case the tube becomes dilated like a cone, having its base directed outwards, and it also becomes much more flexuous. When opened longitudinally, and placed under water, the outer or wide portion of the tube presents longitudinal folds of unequal breadth, and touch- ing by their free edges. There is no valve, either in the course or at the orifices of the tube. Its narrow portion is hard to the touch, inextensible, and closely resembles in appearance the vas deferens; its wide portion is collapsed, and its walls are thin and extensible. Structure. The peritoneum adheres closely to it, and forms its outer coat; it is lined by a mucous membrane, which can be easUy shown in the whole extent of the broad and folded portion, and appears to form of itself the lon- gitudinal folds already described. This lining membrane is continuous, on the one hand, with the uterine mucous membrane, and on the other, with the peritoneum, at the fimbriated extremity of the tube ; it thus presents the only example in the human body of the direct continuity of a serous and mucous membrane. Between the peritoneal and the mucous coats is found a proper membrane, which appears to be a prolongation of the tissue of the uterus, and is probably muscular.* Uses. The Fallopian tubes, which represent in the female the vasa defer- entia in the male, serve not only to transmit the fecundating principle of the male, but also to conduct the fecundated ovum into the uterus. These uses are proved by the sterility of females in whom the tubes have been tied; and lay the occurrence of tubal foetations, in which the fecundated ovum is arrested in the cavity of the tube, and there passes through the several stages of de- velopement. The fimbriated extremity of the tube is intended to embrace the ovary during the act of fecundation, and to apply itself to the spot from which the ovum is to be detached; it follows, therefore, that any adhesion of the ovary or of the tube, which prevents this, acts as a cause of sterility. The Uterus. The uterus (uter, a leather-bottle), matrix (mater), or womb, is the organ of gestation. It is situated (w, fig. 190.) in the cavity of the pelvis, in the median line between the bladder and the rectum, and is retained in that position by the round and broad ligament on each side, and by the upper end of the vagina below. The looseness and extensibility of its connections enable it to float, as it were, in the cavity of the pelvis, and to be moved to a greater or less extent. The facility with which it can be drawn towards the vulva in certain surgical » [MusculSr fibres have not yet been demonstrated in the human subject, though in some animals circular and longitudinal contractile fibres have been found. The epitheb'um of the mucous membrane is columnar and ciliated; by the action of the cilia the contents of the tubes are urged towards the uterus: Dr. HenlS has found cilia on both surfaces of the fimbria:.]