636 SPLANCHNOLOGY. third portion of the duodenum (d), the anterior surface of the pancreas (p) the lobulus Spigehi and the anterior part of the vena cava, and arrives at the transverse fissure of the liver, opposite the foramen from which we began to trace it. ° It follows, therefore, that the great omentum, notwithstanding its thinness and transparency, consists of four perfectly distinct layers, two of which united together in front and two behind constitute the parietes of a cavity called the posterior cavity of the peritoneum, or the sac of the omentum. We may, however, describe the omentum in a different mode, as follows : Two layers of peritoneum applied to each other pass off from the transverse fis- sure of the liver, separate along the lesser curvature of the stomach in order to inclose that organ, again unite along its greater curvature, then pass down- wards, and, opposite the brim of the pelvis, are reflected backwards upon them- selves, and proceed upwards. Having reached the convex border of the colon, they separate to receive that intestine between them, become re-united at its concave border to form the transverse mesocolon, and then separate finally. The inferior layer is reflected downwards to become continuous with the right layer of the mesentery ; the superior is reflected upwards to cover the third portion of the duodenum, the pancreas, and the lobulus Spigelii, and then be- comes continuous with the rest of the peritoneum at the foramen of Winslow.* General description of the peritoneum. From the preceding description it follows that the peritoneum forms a continuous membrane, so that if it were possible to unfold all its duplicatures, and to detach it entire from the surface of all the organs covered by it, it would form a large membranous sac without an opening. Nevertheless, in the female, there is a remarkable interruption at the point corresponding to the free extremity of the Fallopian tube ; in which situation we find the only example in the body, of a serous and mucous mem- brane being continuous with each other. The peritoneum has two surfaces, an external and an internal. The internal surface is free, smooth, and moist, and is the seat of an exhalant and absorbent process, which in the natural condition exactly counterbalance one another. The external or adherent surface lines the parietes of the abdominal cavity, covers most of the abdominal viscera, of which it forms the external or common coat, and is in contact with itself in the different folds formed by the perito- neum. The attachment of this surface is effected by means of cellular tissue, the character of which varies in different situations. We shall examine the external surface of the portion of the peritoneum applied to the abdominal parietes, or the parietal peritoneum; of that upon the viscera, or the visceral peritoneum; and also of that forming the different folds. The parietal portion of the peritoneum. Upon the diaphragm it is attached by a very dense cellular tissue ; nevertheless, it may be torn off in dissecting that part. Upon the anterior wall of the abdomen it adheres most strongly oppo- site the linea alba and the sheath of the rectus muscle, and more loosely op- posite the crural arches than in any other part. Still it is not very difficult to separate the whole of the membrane corresponding to the parietes of the abdomen. In the lumbar region the adhesion is extremely loose, and also in the iliac fossse on the front of the vertebral column : the same is the case in the cavity of the pelvis. The cellular tissue on the outside of the peritoneum, which most anatomists have regarded as forming the external tissue of that membrane, sends pro- longations through the numerous openings with which the walls of the abdomen are perforated. These prolongations connect the sub-peritoneal cellular tissue with that of the lower extremities on the one hand, and with the cellular tissue external to the pleura on the other. The peritoneum is supported throughout » In many subjects the existence of the sac of the omentum may he demonstrated bj; intro- ducing a l^/ge citheter into the foramen of Winslow, and hy blowing carefully through it; the air v"ll enter between the two anterior and the two posterior layers of the ef<^ato™f"^"^ form a large and more or less regular bladder. For this exiierimcnt to succeed, the omentum must be perfectly uninjured, and free from adhesions.