366 MYOLOGY. External Region of tue Leg. la this region are found the peroueus longus and peroneus brevis muscles. The Peroneus Longus. Dissection. This is common to both muscles. Remove the skin on the outer side of the leg ; make a vertical incision through the fascia ; reflect the two flaps, in orderto arrive at thetendinous septa dividing the peronei from the muscles of both the anterior and posterior regions of the leg. To expose these muscles in the foot, remove the outer portion of its dorsal fascia, and divide obliquely inwards and forwards all the muscles of the plantar region, from the groove of the cuboid to the posterior extremity of the first metatarsal bone. The peroneus longus (,e,figs. 128. to ISO.) is a long thick muscle, prismatic and triangular at its upper part, and superficially situated on the outer side of the leg (peroneus primus, Spigelius). Attachments. It arises externally from the outer and anterior part of the head of the fibula; from a small portion of the contiguous part of the external tuberosity of the tibia; from the upper third of the external surface of the fibula ; and from the anterior and posterior borders of that bone, by means of very strong tendinous septa, interposed between it and the anterior and pos- terior muscles of the leg ; lastly, from the fascia of the leg superiorly. It is inserted into the posterior extremity of the first metatarsal bone, on the outer side of which a process exists for this purpose. From these very numerous origins, the fleshy fibres proceed vertically and form a bundle (e,fig. 130.), thick above, thin and flat below, and terminating in a tendon which is at first concealed in the substance of the muscle, but ap- pears in the form of a band on its outer side a little above the middle of the fibula, and becomes narrower and thicker as it proceeds. The tendon soon leaves the fleshy fibres, and accompanies the external sui-face ot the fibula as it turns backwards (peroneus posticus. Rial), then passes behind the external malleolus in a groove common to it and to the peroneus brevis, and is reflected forwards and downwards to the outer side of the os calcis, upon which it is held by a separate sheath. Having reached the outer side of the cuboid bone it is again reflected, enters a groove running obliquely inwards and forwards upon the lower surface of that bone {e,figs. 132, 133.), where it is retained by a very strong and compact sheath, and continues its oblique course without any deviation, along the lower surface of the tarsal bones as far as the pos- terior extremity of the first metatarsal bone. In this way the tendon of the peroneus longus undergoes a double reflection, first, behind the external mal- leolus, in which situation a thickening or knot is often seen, and secondly at the cuboid bone, opposite which a sesamoid bone almost always exists. There are also three fibrous sheaths, and three synovial membranes belonging to this tendon, one behind the external malleolus, one upon the outside of the OS calcis, and a third under the cuboid bone. Relations. In the leg, the peroneus longus is covered by the skin and the fascia of the leg: it covers the peroneus brevis. In front, a tendinous septimi intervenes between it and the extensor longus digitorum: behind, another in- termuscular septum exists between it and the soleus above, and the flexor proprius below. On the outside of the foot, its tendon corresponds to the skin externally, and to the os calcis internally. In the plantar region, it is covered below by" the entire thickness of the soft parts, and corresponds above to the inferior tarsal ligaments. Action. As we have already so frequently observed, a reflected muscle acts as if the power were applied at the point of reflection. In this way, by trans- ferring the power to the outer end of the groove on the cuboid bone, we shall find that the foot is abducted, or rather rotated outwards by this muscle; by