OSTEOLOGY. U2 The posterior half of the hase of the cranium presents, in the vicdian line and m an order from behind forwards, the external occipital protuberance (a), the external occipital crest (a c), the foramen magnum (rf), and condyles (e), the basilar process (re), and the transverse suture, which results from the ar- ticulation of the body of the sphenoid with the truncated inferior angle of the occipital bone —the spheno-occipital suture. On each side we observe the inferior occipital protuberances, presenting cer- tain variations in size in different subjects, to which Gall has attached great importance in his craniological system. These protuberances are bounded above by the superior semicircular line of the occipital bone (6); they are crossed in the middle by the inferior semi-circular line {g), which is separated from the preceding by muscular impressions. Between the inferior semi- cir- cular line and the occipital foramen, are also a number of inequalities for the attachment of muscular fibres. Still more anteriorly is the posterior condyloid fossa, and occasionally the posterior condyloid foramen {g). Outside the con- dyles are the jugular surface (i), the eminence of the same name, and thepetro- occipital suture, running obliquely from behind forwards and inwards (i /*), without any indentations, or even complete juxta-position of the bones, and terminating behind in a large irregular opening (before i), the posterior lace- rated foramen, which is divided into two parts by a tongue of bone : the an- terior is the smaller, and transmits the eighth pair of nerves; the posterior is larger, and is called the jugular fossa, from its receiving the enlarged com- mencement (sinus or diverticulum) of the jugular vein. The petro-occipital suture terminates in front in another irregularly triangular opening, the anterior lacerated foramen (k), which is closed by cartilage, and forms, in fact, a fonta- nelle between the edges of the occipital, temporal, and sphenoid bones. In front of the petro-occipital suture is the inferior surface of the petrous bone, with its numerous asperities ; then, still proceeding from behind forwards, we find the mastoid process (/), the digastric groove (?n), the stylo-mastoid fora- men (7), the styloid and vaginal processes, the inferior orifice of the carotid canal (u), and the petro-sphenoidal suture, at the external termination of which the osseous portion of the Eustachian tube opens by an orifice directed obliquely forwards and downwards. Thus all the sutures of the posterior half of the base of the cranium meet in the anterior lacerated foramen. From its internal angle the spheno-occipital suture stretches across to the same part of the opposite foramen. The petro- sphenoidal suture sets out from the external angle, and becomes continuous with the fissui'e of Glasserus; and the petro-occipital suture extends from the posterior angle to the occipito-mastoid suture, which it joins at an obtuse angle: all these sutures are formed by juxta-position, and not by mutual reception as those of the roof of the skull. The lateral regions of the cranium are bounded behind by the lambdoid suture ; in front by the external orbital process ; and above Iry the temporal ridge. This region more or less rounded in different subjects is, nevertheless, the flattest part of the vault of the skull. Proceeding from behind forwards, we observe, 1. themastoid region comprehending the mastoid foramen (9,^,9.21.), the external auditory meatus, the glenoid cavity, and the transverse root of the zygomatic process : 2. the temporal region or fossa, concave in front, convex behind, bounded below by the zygomatic arch, which projects considerably from the head, more especially in carnivorous animals, and by a ridge which separates it from the zygomatic fossa. The temporal fossa is traversed by nu- merous sutures, arranged in the following manner. Thefronto-parietal or coronal suture (c b,fiq. 22.) descends verticaUy ; from its inferior extremity two others proceed, one in front, the spheno-frontal, the other behind, the spheno-panetal. Each of these soon divide into two branches. From the spheno-panetal the spheno-temporal descends, and terminates in the fissure of Glasseras; the tmiporo- parietal (b i rf) passes horizontally, and becomes continuous with the lambdoidal suture (d f). The spheno-temporal and temporo-parietal sutures are, eaclj, part of the squamous suture. From the spheno-frontal suture the two following