THE (ESOPHA.GUS. 405 described by some anatomists as existing m animals and in man.* The longi- tudinal fibres seem to arise, at least in pait, from the posterior surface of the cricoid cartilage, in the median line, between the two posterior crico-arytenoid mTelesTthey e;idently become continuous below with the longitudinal mus- cular fibres of the stomach. The first muscular ring of the cesophagus appears to arise from the cricoid cartilage ; it has been designated the crtco-cesophageus. There is no sphincter, as some anatomists have affirmed, round the lower ex- tremity of the oesophagus. , , , u, „ „ The mucous membrane. As Bichat has remarked, the mucous membiane of the oesophagus is perhaps, next to the buccal, the thickest in the alimentary canal. By a remarkable exception (also observed m the rectum) its outer surface is united to the adjacent membrane by a very loose cellular tissue; so that the whole mucous cylinder may be removed entire from the sort of mus- cular sheath in which it is contained. It has even been said that the muscular coat can force the mucous membrane downwards by its contraction, so as to produce a projecting rim around the cardiac orifice of the stomach, analogous to that which is formed at the anus in prolapsus. The longitudinal folds of the mucous membrane are not caused by the contraction and elasticity of the cir- cular fibres of the muscular coat, but depend upon a peculiarity of structure. If the first hypothesis be correct, why should not the mucous membrane also present transverse folds from the action of the longitudinal fibres, for the ex- tremities of the oesophagus are not so fixed, nor is its tension so great that it could not be shortened by the action of these fibres. Besides the longitudinal folds, there are also in the oesophagus a number of wrinkles analogous to those of the skin, and therefore irregular; they appear to me to be caused by the elasticity of the muscular fibres. The mucous membrane of the oesophagus has a thick epithelium, which may be easily shown by maceration and the action of acids, or even without pre- paration, and which terminates at the cardiac orifice of the stomach by an irregularly fringed or festooned border, f When examined by the microscope the free surface of the mucous membrane presents a number of small linear ridges, running vertically, and united toge- ther by other oblique ridges, so that the whole surface has a reticulated aspect. These ridges are formed by papillae or villosities, the arteries and veins of which have been accurately figured by Bleuland. The surface of the mucous membrane is raised in various places by small, oblong, and flat glands found here and there over the entire oesophagus. They were first described by Steno, and should be carefully distinguished from the oesophageal lymphatic glands: the latter are external to the oeso- phagus, and in certain animals frequently contain small entozoa : they have been supposed to open into the oesophagus, and to deposit within it a fluid containing these animalcules, which some physiologists have regarded as the chief agent in digestion. Any communication, however, between these lymph- atic glands and the cavity of the gullet is purely accidental. The true oesophageal glands are very numerous. \ In the oesophagus there is only a trace of the fibrous membrane, which forms the framework of the alimentary canal; it adheres to the muscular coat, and is, therefore, but loosely attached to the mucous membrane. There is no external serous membrane; it would not have yielded to the instantaneous dilatation required in the oesophagus. The two laminae of the posterior mediastinum corresponding to its sides, may be regarded as forming the rudiment of a serous coat. Vessels and nerves. The oesophageal arteries are numerous, and arise from several sources. They may be distinguished into the cervical, proceeding * [These fibres are obviously spiral in the ruminant, and many other mammalia.] t [The epithelium is, in fact, continued on through the rest of the alimentary canal, but be- comes thinner, and assumes a dift'erent character : in the cesopliagus it is squamous.] t [Especially around the lower extremity of the gullet.] vol.. I. H H \