THE PENIS. 605 t),nt of the deferent vessels, excepting that the external coat is thinner; in the Vwi^E n he- ..See of .he walls of .he s.mi..l wsicles^ thin and very dilatable in this situation. By the junction of the two, wnicn ?cLs at a very acute angle, the ejaculatory duct (d) is formed: this passes throuk the prostate (which is shown divided in the figure), upwards and forward paraUel to and in contact with its fellow of the opposi e side, but witio"?;ofnTu4ati with it. The ejaculatory ductshave very t^^^^^^^^^^ but thev are tolerably wide, and very dilatable ; closely applied to each ottier, tkey opL sepaiW the enlarged extremity of the .6r«monfa««m, one on the right, the other on the left (fig. 182.). The Penis. The penis, the organ of copulation, is situated in fi-ont of the symphysis pubis. When collapsed, it is flaccid, and forms a curve with the concavity lo9king downwards; but during erection, it is large and hard, and forms a curve with its concavity turned upwards. ... .., It is cylindrical when collapsed, but has a triangular prismatic form, with blunt edges, when in the opposite condition. Two of these edges are lateral, and are formed by the projection of the corpus cavemosum; the other is anterior, and corresponds with the canal of the urethra. Its posterior extremity is at- tached to the pubis ; its anterior extremity forms a conical enlargement, caUed the glans, on which is seen the orifice of the urethra. Structure. The penis consists essentially of the corpus cavemosum and the canal of the urethra, the expanded extremity of which forms the glans penis. Some proper muscles are attached to it; it receives large vessels and nerves, and it is covered by integument. The skin of the penis and prepiwe. The skin of the penis has several pecu- liarities : thus, it is very thin, although not so thin as that of the scrotum and the eyelids. In this respect it contrasts remarkably with the thick hairy skin which covers the cushion of adipose tissue situated over the symphysis ; it is generally of a browner colour than that of the rest of the skin ; it has no hair bulbs visible to the naked eye ; it is extremely moveable, being capable of gliding forward upon the corpus cavemosum, of forming a covering for tumours in the scrotum, and also of folding upon itself when the penis is reduced to its smallest dimensions. This great mobility of the skin is owing to the loose- ness of the subcutaneous cellular tissue, which is continuous with the dartos, and appears to me to be of the same nature ; like that structure, it never con- tains fat, but may become infiltrated with serum. The prepuce. The skin of the penis forms a non-adherent sheath for the glans, upon which it advances, and either projects beyond it or not, according as that part is flaccid or distended. At the free border of this sheath the skin does not terminate abruptly, but is reflected upon itself, assumes the cha- racters of mucous membrane, and passes backwards as far as the base of the glans, so as to line the inner surface of the cutaneous layer. Opposite the constriction or neck surrounding the glans, the mucous membrane or reflected skin again becomes reflected over the glans, to which it forms a closely ad- herent covering, and at the margin of the orifice of the urethra becomes con- tinuous with the mucous membrane lining that canal. The non-adherent sheath which covers the glans is called the prepuce.' * [Beneath the mucous membnine covering the constriction behinil the corona glandis, are situated clusters of small sebaceous glauda, named ^landuUe Tysoni, or odorifcra:.}