327 Y 4 THE FLEXOR SUBLIMIS DIGITORUM. of the carpus upon the first, and this upon the fore-arm ; at the same time at incUnes the hand towards its ulnar side. Its rmmenturn, as well as that of the preceding muscle, occurs during semi-flexion of the hand upon the fore-arm. Dissection. The Flexor Suhlimis Digitorum. The portion of tWs muscle, situated in the fore-arm, is exposed hy cutting, across the middle, and turning aside the pronator teres, the flexor carpi radlalis, and the palmaris longus, which form a superficial layer in front of it. With a Uttle care the origin of this muscle may he separated a.s far as the inner condyle of the humerus. In removing the pronator teres, it is necessary to he extremely careful to avoid dividing the radial origin of the flexor suhlimis, which forms a very thin prolongation under the pronator. The cdssection of the pabnar and digital portions of the muscle is the same as that of the flexor profundus. . Divide the anterior annular ligament of the carpus vertically, and remove the palmar fascia : examine the disposition of this structure opposite the heads of the metacarpal bones, and also the relations of the tendons of the flexor suhlimis and flexor profundus in the palm of the hand; then dissect the digital sheaths, which must be divided in order to display the singular manner in which the tendons of the flexor subbmis bifurcate and turn round, so as to embrace the corresponding tendons of the flexor profundus. The^exor superficialis, suhlimis, or perforatus (e e,Jig. 118.; e, fig. 119.) is a broad, flat, thick muscle, divided into four portions below. It arises from the internal condyle or epitrochlea of the humerus, and from the ulnal^ and radius, and is inserted into the second phalanges of the fingers. It arises from the epitrochlea by the common tendon, from a rough surface m the fore part of the inner side of the coronoid process of the ulna, and also from about two inches of the radius. This latter origin consists of ten- dinous fibres attached to that oblique portion of the an- terior border of the bone, which extends inwards to- wards the bicipital tuberosity, and from which arise the supinator brevis above, the flexor longus pollicis below, and the muscle we are now describing in the middle. A great number of fibres also arise from the broad apo- neurotic septa which divide this muscle from the flexor carpi ulnaris, and from the other muscles of the super- ficial layer, viz. the pronator teres, the flexor carpi ra- dialis, and the palmaris longus. From these different origins the fleshy fibres proceed vertically downwards, forming a broad and thick belly, which is almost immediately divided into four portions. These at first are in juxta-position, but soon become arranged in two layers, like the tendons of the extensor communis, viz. one anterior and larger, consisting of the divisions for the median and ring fingers (the latter not being so strong as the former), and another pos- terior, formed by the divisions for the index and little finger. Each division is, indeed, a small muscle, having its own particular tendon, around which the fleshy fibres are arranged, at first regularly, and afterwards on one side only: they are thus semi-penniform muscles. The two posterior divisions are not so distinct as the anterior, and have a peculiar arrangement: they generally constitute two small digastric muscles ; that is to say, a fleshy belly terminates upon a flat tendon, which, becoming enlarged, gives origin jn its turn to a new fleshy belly. The four tendons, after emerging from the fleshy