SPLANCHNOLOGY. Several of them are alternate, and seem to be disposed in a spiral manner • but there is no general rule in this respect; their free edge is sometimes directed towards the pylorus and sometimes towards the ileo-ciEcal valve. Their di- rection is very irregular; they yield to any impulse that maybe communicated to them, and their free edge passes either upwards or downwards, according to circumstances. When examined upon a dried specimen, they resemble very much the diaphragms in optical instruments. _ The valvulae conniventes are fonned by folds of mucous membrane, with- in which we find some loose cellular tissue, different kinds of vessels and nerves. Inflation, by raising the mucous membrane, completely effaces them. The fibrous coat presents a slight thickening opposite the bases of these valves. The valves, notwithstanding the ease with which they are moved, must in some manner retard the passage of the food, without offering any decided re- sistance to it, for that would become a cause of obstruction, and give rise to serious accidents. Their chief use, perhaps, is to increase the extent of sur- face : according to Fabricius they double the surface of the intestine, Fallopius says they increase it three times, and Kew six times. Soemmering has given the somewhat conjectural opinion, that the surface of the intestinal mucous membrane is greater than that of the entire skin. {Corpor. Hum. Fabrica. t. vi. p. 295.) Although not peculiar to the human species, they are much more developed in man than in the lower animals. Besides the valvulse conniventes, the mucous membrane of the small intestine presents some irregular folds, which are effaced by distension. The Papillx, or Villi. _ Preparation. \. Place the opened intestine in water, exposing it to a strong light, and agitate the fluid. A stream of water previously received upon the membrane, wUl remove the mucus, which sometimes forms a tenacious sheath around each papilla.* 2. Roll up a portion of the detached mucous membrane, taking care to turn the adherent surface inwards. 3. Evert a loop of intestine, so that the peritoneal coat may be on the inside: stretch it upon a cylinder, and then agitate it in a cylindrical vessel, so as to float out the valves. The papilla'., or villi, are much more developed in the small intestine than in any other part of the alimentary canal, with the exception of the tongue. Fallopius has the honour of having discovered them. They were well de- scribed by Helvetius, Hewson, and Lieberkuhn, but still more accurately of late by Albert Meckel. When examined by the naked eye and under the microscope, the internal surface of the intestine appears to be roughened by an immense number of prominences or villi (^figs. 157. 159.), resembling very close short grass, or a very hairy caterpillar. In some animals, as in the dog, and especially in the bear, the villi are so numerous and so long, that they in some degree re- semble the filamentous roots of plants. They are found through the whole length of the small intestine, and cover the valvulae confliventes, as well as the intervals between them. They vary in length: according to Lieberkuhn, they are one fifth of a line; their maximum length appears to be about four fifths of a line : and I have even found some in the duodenum, which when extended were a line in length. Their number is very considerable, and attempts have been made to determine it. Lieberkuhn computed them at 500,000. Several Germans have taken up the subject; allowing 4000 to every square inch, by a calculation, the exactness of which I have not verified, there would be a million altogether. I have not observed any well-marked difference as regards the number of the villi, between the commencement and the termination of the small intestine. It appears to me that the number and length of the viUi is much greater in carnivora than in herbivora. The otter has been said to have the largest villi of any animal. Their form varies much. In the majority of animals which I have examined, as the dog, cat, calf, and bear, they are filiform. In the * A. Meckel recommends that the mucus should be removed by plunging the intestine first in an arsenical solution, and then in water impregnated with sulphuretted hydrogen ; but the continued action of a stream ol" water is far preferable.