MYOLOGY. 270 Relations. The external oblique is covered by the skin, a considerable quantity of adipose tissue, and behind by a small portion of the latissimus dorsi. It covers the internal oblique, the anterior extremities and the carti- lages of the seven or eight inferior ribs, together with the corresponding ex- ternal intercostal muscles. The most remarkable relation is that of its poste- rior border with the outer edge of the latissimus dorsi. Most commonly this border is covered by the latissimus dorsi; but sometimes a triangular space exists between them, which has been much noticed since Petit described a hernial protrusion in it, which he called lumbar hernia. Action. The external oblique performs a threefold action:—1. It compresses the abdominal viscera during any exertion, or in expulsion of the faeces, in labour, &c: 2. it depresses the ribs, and thus indirectly flexes the vertebral column: 3. from its obliquity, it rotates the vertebral column, through the medium of the ribs, so that the fore part of the trunk is turned to the opposite side. When the two muscles act together, the thorax is inclined directly for- wards. Hitherto we have supposed that the moveable point of the muscle is at the ribs : if, on the contrary, the thorax be fixed, it then draws the pelvis upwards, and rotates the vertebral column, so that the fore part of the pelvis is turned to the same side as the contracting muscle. The Obliquus Internus, and the Cremaster. Dissection. Divide the external oblique across the direction of its fibres, I. e. downwards and backwards. The small or internal oblique of the abdomen (obliquus ascendens, 75, ^g'. 106. and a, fg. 110.) is abroad ir- regularly quadrilateral muscle, much broader in front than be- hind, and smaller and thinner than the preceding. It occupies the anterior, lateral, and pos- terior parts of the abdomen. Attachments. It arises from the spinous processes of the lumbar vertebrse, from the an- terior three fourths of the in- terval between the borders of the iliac crest, and from the crural arch (Poupart's liga- ments). It is inserted into the lower edges of the cartilages of the ninth, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth ribs, and into the linea alba by means of the middle layer of the anterior abdominal aponeurosis. The spinal fibres take their origin through the medium of the posterior ab- dominal aponeurosis: they are few in number. The iliac portion of them arise by very short tendinous fibres, and those which proceed from the crural arch arise from the sort of groove situated on its upper surface. From this threefold origin the fibres proceed in different directions; the pos- terior almost vertically up-