107 THE RADIUS. At birth, the extremities are entirely cartilaginous; they do not begin to ossify untU the sixth year, the lower one having the priority The corouoid process is formed by extension of the ossific point of the shaft. The nodule of the olecranon appears about the seventh or eighth year The upper extremity is united to the shaft from the fifteenth to the sixteenth year; the lower from the eighteenth to the twentieth year. The Radius {fig. 45.). The radius, so named because it has been compared to the spoke of a wheel, is situated between the humerus and the carpus, on the outside ot the ulna, to which it is contiguous above and below, and fi-om which it is separated in the middle by the interosseous space. It is some- what smaller and shorter than the ulna, and has a vertical direction. It is a long and asymmetrical bone, prismatic and triangular in its shape : its lower end is the larger, and its shaft is slightly curved; it consists of a shaft and extremities. The shaft (o), smaller above than below, presents a slight cui'v- ature with the concavity looking inwards : this circumstance in- creases the distance between the radius and ulna, i. e. the inter- /■Vg.45. Il l I osseous space. It has three surfaces, an anterior, a posterior, and an external, and three edges. The anlerior surface (o), narrow '! II above and broad below, presents (above o) the orifice of the nu- tritious canal, which, like that of the ulna runs upwards, or in an opposite direction to that of the humerus. It is somewhat excavated, and gives attachment to many deep-seated muscles of the fore-arm. The posterior surface also slightly hollowed, gives attachment to se- veral of the deep-seated muscles on the back of the fore-arm. The external surface, convex and rounded, is of equal breadth in almost its whole extent, and presents near the middle a rough surface for the insertion of the pronator teres. * Of the three edges one is anterior, the other posterior, and the third internal: the anterior edge (i r s) is blunt superiorly ; it commences below a marked projection, named the bicipital tuberosity, or tubercle of the radius (t); from this point it passes obliquely outwards, and terminates below, in front of another eminence called the styloid process (a) of the radius. The posterior edge, less prominent than the anterior, forms a scarcely perceptible demarcation betweeen the two surfaces which it separates; it is pretty well marked in the middle of the bone, but hardly distinguishable above and below. The internal edge {ty) is sharp, and has the appearance of a ridge; it commences below the bi- cipital tuberosity, and extends to a small articular cavity (jf), on the inner side of the lower end of the bone. This edge gives attachment to the interosseous ligament in its whole extent. The superior or humeral extremity (u), called also the head of the radius, ex- pands in form of a shallow but regularly shaped cup, the cavity corresponding with the small head of the humerus, which it partially receives. It is bounded by a circular border with a vertical articular surface (u), varying in breadth in different points, being nearly three lines broad on the inside where it is in contact with the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna. The head of the radius is supported by a constricted portion, or neck (w), of a cylindrical form, and five or six lines in length, which is obliquely directed from above downwards, and from without inwards. At the junction of the neck and body of the radius, on the inside, we see a very marked process, called bicipital tuberosity (f). Its posterior half is rough, where it gives attachment to the tendon of the biceps ; the anterior is smooth and the tendon of the biceps glides over it, before reaching its point of insertion. _ The inferior or carpal extremity {x), which is the largest part of the radius IS irregularly quadrilateral. Its lower surface is articular, smooth, concave,'