APPENDAGES OF THE ALIMENTARY CANAL. 509 appearance simultaneously. These characters are first observed in the trans- verse arch of the colon. . . , . i-i * The valvulse conniventes of the smaU intestine do not appear until about the seventh month, and they are very slightly developed at birth. It is not uninteresting to remark, that the condition of the fcBtus, in th.s respect re- sembles that of animals, ^hich never have valvulae conniventes. The viUi however, can be observed as early as the third month. Meckel considers that they are developed from folds of the mucous membrane, the surfaces of which become notched. At the same period, according to that author, vilh are very apparent in the large intestine ; but, after the seventh month, they dimmish in number and size, while those of the small intestine remain, even if they do not increase. At first it is impossible to distinguish the several coats of the intestine: the serous and the mucous membrane can alone be recognised. The intestine is perfectly transparent. . , , .i. The threat omentum first appears during the third month, along the convex edo-e of the stomach, like a smaU and very thin border. Fat is never found within it before birth; nor are the appendices epiploiccE developed until after that event. . At birth, the intestinal canal presents the same characters as it afterwards possesses. The small intestine is already provided with rudimentary valvule conniventes, with well marked villi, and with very evident solitary and ag- minated glands. The large intestine, which is much developed, is distended with meconium ; the csecum is shorter than it afterwards becomes, the vermi- form appendix is larger, and the ileo-caecal valve has the same appearance as in the adult. The mucous membrane of the large intestine is already cha- racterised by its solitary follicles and alveolar appearance. In the large intestine of the foetus we find, instead of faecal matter, a thick, viscid, inodorous, and dark green substance, which fills the bowel more or less completely. This is the meconium, so called from the Greek word fj-i^Kcov a poppy, because it bears some resemblance in colour and consistence to the juice of that plant. Its quantity increases towards the period of birth. The time at which it first appears has not been ascertained : I have found it in foetuses of four or four and a half months, but then it only occupied the rectum. From the seventh to the ninth month it is accumulated in the sigmoid flexure, and diminishes in quantity towards the ileo-csecal valve. The vermiform ap- pendix is not unfrequently found distended with this matter. The small in- testine also contains a mucous substance; but it is less abundant and less viscid, sometimes colourless, and sometimes yellowish or greenish. The changes which take place in the intestinal canal after birth, affecting its caliber, its situation, and its length, appear to me to depend upon its be Jijr more or less distended with gas and fsecal matters, and on its being displaced in consequence of adhesions, increase of size, or displacement of other organs I have proved that in females who have had children, the intestines present more varieties in situation than in males. We may add, that these differences in position are much more frequently observed in the large than in the small intestine. APPENDAGES OF THE ALIMENTARY CANAL. The liver and its excretory apparatus. — The Pancreas. — The Spleen. The appendages of the sub-diaphragmatic portion of the alimentary canal are the liver and pancreas, two glandular organs which pour their secretions into the duodenum, and the spleen, which may be regarded as an appendage of the liver.