350 MYOLOGY. internus. The gemellus superior is often wanting, and the inferior is fre- quently double. I have several times seen the superior terminate in the tendon of the pyriformis, and the inferior in the tendon of the obturator internus. Action.. They rotate the thigh outwards. Their relations with the synovial capsule of the obturator internus led to their being designated marsupiales by Cowper; and by Portal, le muscle capsulaire de la capsule du tendon de I'obtu- rateur interne. The Quadralus Femoris. This muscle (i, fig. 125.), shaped like a parallelogram, is situated immediately below the gemellus inferior. It arises from the external border of the tu- berosity of the ischium, in front of the semi-membranosus, from which it is separated by adipose tissue. From this point the fibres proceed horizontally outwards, parallel to each other, and are inserted into " an oblong ridge * pro- jecting partly from the back of the root of the great trochanter, and partly from the femur immediately below it;" but above the attachment of the adductor magnus, with which, at first, it appears to be continuous, but from which it is always separated by the internal circumflex vessels. This muscle is sometimes wanting; but very frequently its pelvic attach- ments are prolonged as far as the ascending ramus of the ischium; in which cases it is twisted inferiorly upon itself so as to oppose a surface, not a border, to the adductor magnus. Its relations behind are the same as those of the preceding muscles; in front, it covers the obturator externus and the lesser trochanter, from which it is often separated by a synovial capsule. The Obturator Externus, Dissection. The lower or horizontal portion of the obturator externus is exposed, by dividing the quadratus femoris into two equal parts by a vertical incision. In order to see the upper or pelvic portion, it is necessary to detach the gracilis, pectineus, psoas, iliacus, and adductor brevis. This is a triangular flat muscle (e, fig. 127.), of the same shape, but thinner and smaller, than the obturator internus, and like it reflected, though at an ob- tuse angle. It arises from the circumference of the obturator foramen, from the obturator ligament, and from the tendinous arch which completes the sub-pubic canal for the vessels and nerve. It is inserted into the deepest and lowest part of the digital cavity of the great trochanter. The fleshy fibres arise directly, the lower ones proceed horizontally outwards, and the upper obliquely downwards, backwards, and outwards; thus converging they form a fleshy belly which turns round the neck of the femur, and terminates in a tendon that passes horizontally outwards, to be inserted into the digital cavity below the gemelli and the obturator internus. Relations. Its outer and anterior surface is in relation with the pectineus, the adductors, the psoas and iliacus muscles, and more externally with the neck of the femur and the lower part of the capsular ligament of the hip joint. Its inner and posterior surface is in contact with the obturator foramen and the quadratus muscle. Action of the preceding Muscles. The last six muscles are evidently rotators of the thigh outwards. The pyri- formis the gemelli, and the obturator internus, which are ahnost always united at their insertions, would deserve the name of quadri-gemini, given by the older anatomists to the gemelli, the pyriformis, and the quadratus. When they take their fixed point upon the femur, as, for example, in standing upon one * rM Cruveilhier states the insertion of the quadratus femoris to be into the iiiter-trochan- teric line The description in the text, copied from Albinus, gives a more accurate idea of the insertion of this muscle.]