139 COMPARISON OF THE EXTREMITIES. Comparison of the Superior and Inferior Extremities. We have hitherto omitted the applications of that species of coraparative anatomy by which different organs of the same animal are compared with one another Those analogies which exist between the various parts that compose the ti^nk, could not,%ith propriety, be included m ^ ^ork on descnptn^^^^ anatomy. But we do not deem it proper to apply the same rule to the paraUel between the upper and lower extremities ; for that is founded on such nume- rous and striking points of analogy, and has become so much a subject of in- struction, that we should consider it a serious omission did we here neglect giving a brief notice of it. The upper and the lower extremities are evidently constructed after the same type, but present certain modifications corresponding to the difference of their functions. I should remark in this place, that some of these analogies are very manifest and satisfactory, and greatly facilitate the remembrance ot important anatomical detaUs; while others are far-fetched and wholly destitute of useful application: these will be passed over with a simple notice. shall now compare in succession the shoulder and the haunch, the humerus and the femur, the fore-arm and the leg, the hand and the foot. Comparison of the Shoulder and the Pelvis. Before the time of Vicq-d'Azyr, anatomists were in the habit of considering the clavicle and the scapula among the bones of the upper extremity, but re- garded the OS innominatum or haunch as belonging to the trunk; and yet the most simple reflection is sufficient to establish the analogy between the shoulder and the haunch. In order the more readily to appreciate the points of resem- blance and difference between these parts, it is advisable to follow the method adopted by Vicq-d'Azyr, of studying the shoulder reversed; or, what is the same thing, to compare the aspect of the shoulder which corresponds to the head, with that of the pelvis, which answers to the coccyx ; remembering at the same time, that for a long period after birth the haunch-bone is formed of three distinct pieces—the ilium, the ischium, and the pubes. 1. The shoidders form an osseous girdle, intended to form a point of support for the upper extremities, in the same manner as the haunch does for the lower extremities. The girdle formed by the shoulders is interrupted in front in the situation of the stemum, and behind, opposite the vertebral column; hence there are two shoulders, while the haunch-bones constitute one united whole. The shoulder, therefore, and consequently the arm of one side, are completely independent of those of the other, but the two lower extremities have a solid bond of union. 2. The second point of difference relates to the comparative dimensions of the pelvis and the shoulder. The great size of the pelvis, the thickness of its edges, the depth of its notches, and the prominence of its eminences, contrast strongly with the slender construction of the shoulder, and the thin edges of the scapula, and are in harmony with the uses of the lower extremities. 3. The broad portion of the scapula is analogous to the iliac portion of the 08 innominatum; the internal iliac fossa is analogous to the subscapular fossa. 4. The supra and infra-spinous fossae correspond to the external iliac fossa; but the ilium has no part analogous to the spine of the scapula. 5. The axillary border of the scapula answers to the anterior edge of the os mnominatum. The spinal border is analogous to the crest of the ilium. The superior border of the scapula corresponds to the posterior border of the os innominatum; and the coracoid notch on this border, with the coracoid ligament which converts it into a foramen, are analogous to the sciatic notch, and the sacro-sciatic ligaments. 6. The glenoid cavity is evidently analogous to the acetabulum; according