OSTEOLOGY. 110 Bones of the first or Anti-brachial Bange. What I have just said of these bones does not apply to the pisiform, which is distinguished from all the others by particular characters, and merits a special notice. With regard to the rest *, yiz. the scaphoid (a), the semilunar (i), and the cuneiform (c), it may be remarked, 1. that they articulate by their upper surfaces with the fore-arm, forming a sort of interrupted condyle, i. e. one consisting of several pieces, which is received into the cavity formed by the lower end of the radius and ulna. Each of the bones contributes to form this condyle, by means of a convex surface, consequently, the superior surface of the bones of the first rank is articular and convex. 2. They articu- late by their lower surfaces with the bones of the second rank, which on the inside oppose to them a large head formed by the os magnum and unciform, and on the outside a shallow con*lrity which corresponds to the trapezium and the trapezoid. In accordance'with this, the lower surface of the first row presents on the one hand a concavity which receives the head, and on the other a convexity which corresponds to the cavity. Three surfaces, belonging to the scaphoid, the semilunar, and the cuneiform unite to form the cavity, which receives the head belonging to the second row. There is, therefore, a broken cavity, i. e. one formed of several pieces. The scaphoid being the largest of the bones of the first row, and corresponding by itself to the most convex part of the head of the second row, is more deeply excavated than the two other bones; this has given it the form of a boat, whence the name of scaphoid {aKo.^)], a boat). The semilunar, which cor- responds to the summit of the head, presents from before backwards a conca- vity which has given it its name ; the cuneiform, on the contrary, corresponds to the least convex part of the articular head, and has an almost plane sur- face. One bone only, the scaphoid, answers to the concavity formed by the tra- pezium and trapezoides, and it accordingly presents a convex surface at the point of union. Therefore the lower surfaces of the bones of the first row are concave, and the lower surface of the scaphoid is partly concave, and partly convex. 3. The bones of the first row of the carpus unite with each other by plane surfaces ; those of the scaphoid and semilunar, which join, are very small; the contiguous surfaces of the semilunar and the cuneiform are much largei'. The semilunar and the cuneiform, which occupy the middle of the row, ar- ticulate not only with each other, but also with the scaphoid and the pisiform ; and each, therefore, has two lateral surfaces, so that the two middle bones of the row have fom* articular facettes. The scaphoid, which is the outer bone of the first row, articulates internally with the semilunar, but externally it has a projecting process, which may be easily felt under the skin, and which increases the depth of the anterior groove of the cai-pus. This eminence constitutes the external superior process of the carpus. 4. The bones of the first row forming part of the concavity in front, and of the convexity behind, have their anterior surfaces much smaller than their posterior; both are rough, and serve for the insertion of ligaments. The pisiform (d) is not in the same rank, and has only one articular surface, which unites with the corresponding surface on the cuneiform. The whole of the rest of its surface is intended for the insertion of ligaments and tendons. Its name is derived from its irregularly rounded form. It is placed on a plane anterior to that of the other bones of the first row, and forms the internal superior process, which is the most prominent and the most superficial of all the processes of the carpus. * It is necessary, in order to follow this description, and obtain from it all the advantage which it can afTord, to study at the same time an articulated carpus especially one in which the joints are exposed behind, some ligaments remaining in front.