CLASSIFICATION. 153 partly fibrous. Examples : articulation of the atlas and axis (e,fig. 64.), of the radius and ulna (^figs. 71 and 72.). Ligaments. An annular ligament. Motions. Rotation. 6. Arthrodia. Characters. Articular surfaces, plane, or nearly so Examples : aHiculaiior,^ of the carpal and tarsal bones i figs. 75 and 84.), and of the articular processes of the vertebrce (^g,figs. 61 and 63.). , . Ligaments. Fibres placed irregularly round the joint. Motions. Gliding. II. Synarthroses. Characters. Articular stirfaces armed with teeth or other inequalities, -which are mutually dovetailed, and from which the name of suture is derived. Ex- amples : articulations of the bones of the cranium (figs. 21, 22, and 23.). Mea7is of union. Remnant of the cartilage of ossification, which is gradually encroached on during the progress of age.* There are no incrusting cartilages, synovial membranes, ligaments, nor mo- tions. Monro enumerates seven kinds of sutures, and these might still be multi- plied, if we regarded all the Varieties presented by the articular surfaces. Three kinds may be admitted with propriety: 1. indented sutures; 2. squamous su- tures; and 3. harmonic sutures; the distinctions depending upon the articular surfaces being provided with teeth, or overlapping like scales, or being simply rough and in juxtaposition. These even are only unimportant varieties. Monro added the schindylesis, or ploughshare articulation of Keil. We shall content ourselves with simply mentioning it; and we also omit the division gomphosis (y6iMpos, a nail), which is appropriated to the mode of implantation of the teeth; because the teeth are not bones, and are lodged in the jaw, not articulated with it. III. Amphiarthroses, or Symphyses. Characters. Flat, or nearly flat, articular surfaces, which are partly in con- tact, and are partly continuous by means of fibrous tissue. Examples: arti- culation of the bodies of the vertebra (b, fig. 58.), symphysis pubis (e, fig. 77.), sacro-iliac symphyses (fi,fig. 76.). Means of union. Interosseous and peripheral ligaments. Motion. Very slight, gliding; an arthrodia is a necessary element of an amphiarthrosis. Thus, in the symphysis pubis the bones are partly in contact, partly continuous. ARTICULATIONS OF THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN, Articulations of the vertebrce with each othe^- — Those peculiar to certain ver- tebra.— Sacro-vertebral, sacro-coccygeal, and coccygeal articulations.—Arti- culations of the cranium—of the face—of the thorax. The articulations of the vertebral column (figs. 58, 59, and 60.) are divided mto the extrinsic and the intrinsic. The first comprise the articulations of the vertebral column with the head, the ribs, and the ossa innominata. The in- trinsic comprise the articulations of the vertebraj with each other. These last are also divided into those which are common to all the vertebrae, and those which are peculiar to some. We shall describe each in succession. whn nffi^m!1f ""ejected this kind of articulation, adopting the opinion of Columbus, wno ainrms tliat there can be no joint where there is no motion.