ARTICULATIONS OF THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. 163 M 2 ferior articular processes of each vertebra move upwards upon the superior articular processes of the vertebra below. The laminse are separated, so that the rachidian canal, especiaUy in the cervical region, becomes accessible to penetrating instruments. • 2. In extension, the anterior common ligament and the anterior fibres of the intervertebral discs are stretched; the posterior fibres of the disc are relaxed; the soft central matter is pushed forwards; the yellow, supra-spinous, and inter-spinous ligaments are relaxed. The lower articular processes glide downwards upon the superior articular processes of the vertebra below. This motion is not extensive; it is limited by the anterior common ligament, and the meeting of the spinous processes. 3. In the movements of lateral inclination, the discs are compressed on the side to which the inclination takes place, and the central pulp is forced to the other side. These motions are limited, not only by the meeting of the trans- verse processes, but even before these touch, by the resistance of the inter- vertebral substances, and of the lateral bundles of the anterior common ligament. 4. Circumduction. This motion, the centre of which is in the lumbar region, appears at first sight very extensive, because a portion of the movement at the hip joint is generally ascribed to it. In reality, it is very limited, and re- sults from a succession of the preceding motions. 5. The movement of rotation is effected by the twisting of the intervertebral substances. Although the motion of each disc is very slight, yet the simul- taneous twisting of them all produces a general movement, by which the an- terior surface of the column is turned slightly to the sides. It is however, upon the whole, very limited; and although in the erect posture the trunk of the body can describe a semicircle, the greater part of this motion takes place at the hip-joint. All the regions of the vertebral column do not equally participate in these general motions. They are most extensive in the cervical region, where we observe, 1. flexion, which may be carried so far as to make the chin touch the upper part of the sternum; 2. extension, so that the neck may be turned back- wards ; 3. lateral inclination, until the head nearly touches the shoulder; 4. rotation, which is greater here than in any of the other regions, notwith- standing the presence of the lateral hook-like processes or ridges. * These- motions may be to such an extent as to cause luxation, which can only take place, without fracture, in the cervical region, on account of the almost hori- zontal direction of the articular processes. The general movements are most limited in the dorsal region. 1. Flexion is rendered impossible by the presence of the sternum. The presence of this bone in the different species of animals attests the immobDity of the dorsal portion of the column, in the same manner as its absence is an indication of its mobUity. 2. Extension is prevented by the meeting of the spinous processes, which are longer and more closely imbricated in this than in any other of the regions. 3. Lateral movements are rendered impossible by the ribs, which would be forced against each other if this motion took place. 4. As all the preceding motions are the elements of circumduction, it may be easily conceived that this can scarcely take place. 5. The same obstacles oppose the movement of rotation, which is also prevented by the position of the articular processes, which are directed vertically, and whose surfaces on the right and left sides are not upon the same plane. The thinness of the intervertebral substances in Wh"^^ '■egion accords with all these arrangements in limiting mobility. What has been said regarding the immobility of the dorsal region applies only to the upper part of this region. The dispositions at the lower part are bodi^of'thp'v/j'fli^?,''" '."<=°"«'=' "otion of 'he obstacle resulting from the lateral ridges on the dUarUculated skd^^^^^^^^ '\Xr^°Z'':^'S- °J '."h""'™' 'VT ""Tl" ^'""^ °" count of the intemrtebral disc ^ '""'"'''^ '"""^ ""^ y^n^br^ above, on ac-