510 SPLANCHNOLOGY. The Liver. The liver (tl'fiijs. 155. 161.) is a glandular organ intended for the secretion ot bile. Moreover, it is to this organ that the blood of the abdominal venous system is earned m the adult, and that of two systems of veins in the foetus It IS situated near the duodenum, L e. the portion of the intestinal canal into which the bile is poured ; it occupies the whole of the right hypochondrium advances into the epigastrium, and even sUghtly into the left hypochondrium' It IS protected by the seven or eight lower ribs on the right side, which defend It from external violence; and it is separated from the thoracic organs by the diaphragm. It is supported by folds of the peritoneum connecting it with the diaphragm, and regarded as suspensory Ugaments ; by the stomach and in- testines, which form a sort of elastic cushion for it; and by the vena cava, which is intimately adherent to it. These means of support and attachment allow of slight movements to and fro, and even of certain changes of position, not amounting to displacement. Thus it is depressed during inspiration, and'pro- jects a httle below the edges of the costal cartUages; it is raised during ex- piration ; it sinks slightly downwards during the erect posture, and backwards, or in the direction in which its own weight would drag it, according to the way in which the body lies during the horizontal position ; it is pushed up- wards by tumours in the abdomen, and downwards by effusions in the chest. The disturbed sleep to which many individuals are subject when lying upon the left side, is attributed to the pressure of the liver upon the stomach; and to the dragging of the liver upon the diaphragm has been ascribed the sensation of hunger, as well as the relief of that feeling produced by tying something tight around the abdomen. These notions are, however, purely hypothetical; and generally, in solving such questions, the exact state of ful- ness of the abdomen, and of the mutual action and reaction of the abdominal parietes and viscera, has not been sufficiently taken into account. True dis- placements of the liver are very rare, and hepatocele (hernia of the liver) is the result of an imperfect developement of the walls of the abdomen. Size. The liver is the largest and heaviest of all the organs of the body ; and indeed, in the human subject, it exceeds in weight and in size aU the other glands together. It is not true, as the ancients declared, that the liver is larger in man than in any other animaL But the opinion maintained by many natu- ralists, that there is, in the animal series, an inverse ratio between the size of the liver and the developement of the respiratory organs, so that this organ is much larger in reptiles and fishes, whose respiration is slight, than in birds and mammalia, which respire vigorously, is not altogether devoid of foundation. The liver weighs from three to four pounds, thus forming one thirty-sixth of the whole weight of the body according to Bartholin, and one twenty-fifth ac- cording to others. Its longest diameter, the transverse, is from ten to twelve inches ; its antero-posterior diameter is from six to seven inches; and its vertical diameter in the thickest part from four to five. These dimensions are extremely variable, but are always inversely proportional to each other. In a great many livers the transverse diameter is the shorter, and the vertical the longer. Few organs present a greater variation in size and form in different in- dividuals than the liver. I am certain that the relative proportion between different livers may be as much as one to three, in the absence of all disease. It is pretty generally believed, that a large liver occasions such modifications in the whole system, as will give rise to a particular temperament. But it may be doubted whether there is any proof, that the bilious and melancholic tem- peraments, are speciaOy accompanied by a large liver, or that hypochondriasis in particular is the result of a predominance of that organ.* Anatomical evi- * Hippocrates sometimes gave the name of hypochondria to tlic liver, and hence no doubt the term hypochondriac.