THE BICEPS. 319 backwards into the triangular space between the supinator longiis and the pro- nator teres, and is then so folded and twisted upon itself that its anterior sur- face becomes posterior, its internal margin becomes anterior, and its external margin at first posterior and then superior. This folding and torsion are of extreme utility in preventing displacement of the muscle, which thus fastens down itself. The tendon of insertion having given off from its anterior surface and external margin a broad aponeurosis, constituting the principal origin of the fascia of the fore-arm, glides over the bicipital tuberosity of the radius, from which it is separated by a bursa, and is inserted into the posterior part of that process. Relations. The upper third of the two heads of the biceps as well as the coraco-brachialis, and the axillary vessels and nerves, are contained in the cavity of the axilla, between the pectoralis major and the deltoid in front, and the latissimus dorsi and teres major behind. In this part of its course the short head of the biceps is in relation with the coraco-brachialis on the inside, "and behind with the sub-scapularis, which separates it from the shoulder-joint; a bursa intervenes between these two muscles. The tendon of the long head is in contact with the head of the humei-us, and surrounded by the synovial membrane, which isolates it from the cavity of the joint, and accompanies it for a greater or less distance along the bicipital groove. Below the axilla the biceps is subcutaneous in front, the brachial fascia intervening between it and the skin, through which it is very clearly defined; behind, it is in relation with the musculo-cutaneous nerve, and the coraco-brachialis and brachialis anticus muscles ; on the inside, with the brachial artery and its accompanying veins and with the median nerve, all of which lie along its internal border, by the pro- jection of which they are protected. The tendon is embraced at its insertion by the supinator brevis, and it is separated from that of the brachialis anticus by a bursa. Great attention should be paid to the relation of this muscle to the brachial artery. I am accustomed, when speaking of the surgical anatomy of these parts, to call the biceps the satellite muscle of the brachial artery. It is worthy of remark, that the relative positions of the long and the short head are altered as the humerus is rotated inwards or outwards; in rotation inwards the long head is placed behind the other, or even crosses to the inner side oi it; but in rotation outwards the interval between the two heads is considerably increased. Action. The biceps flexes the fore-arm upon the arm, and at the same time supinates it. This last effect results from the insertion of the muscle into the inner and back part of the bicipital tubercle of the radius. The momentum of the biceps occurs during semi-flexion of the fore-arm; its inser- tion being at that period perpendicular to the lever, the disadvantage arising from its proximity to the fulcrum is then counteracted. The length of its fibres explains the extent of the movement of flexion. By means of its sca- pular attachments the biceps acts upon the arm, either secondarily, after bending the fore-arm, or primarily, when the fore-arm is extended. By means of both its heads it carries the arm forwards, and thus co-operates with the anterior fibres of the deltoid and coraco-brachialis. The two heads also assist in strengthening the shoulder joint. The long head forms a sort of fibrous arch, which supports the head of the humerus and retains it in the glenoid cavity. The short head, together with the coraco-brachialis, fonns a continuation of the hook of the coracoid process, and protects the anterior and inner part of the joint. The biceps is, as Winslow first showed, one of the principal supinators of •f , It is in this movement that the tendon glides over the bici- pita tuberosity of the radius by means of the intervening bursa. This tube- rosity is almost entirely intended for the tendon to glide over; it is therefore hX tlf T'^'S*^-.^'"^^ ''^^'''^ granulations, as pointed out by Halkr, are found upon the synovial bursa of the tendon. ^ When the fore-arm is fixed, as in climbing, the biceps flexes the arm upon