THE UTERUS. 621 Pnn^Pnltal deficiency of the cavity of the uterus is very rare. My colleague, PrSessor Sstat Sy sent me a specimen, in which there ^vas no trace of Tca^fty in the b^dy of the uterus, although the cavity of the neck remamed The female to whom it belonged had never menstruated. It is unnecessary to "VhfcSu7o"tt"neck (/. to n) represents a cylinder flattened from before backwardr jnd has upon its anterior and posterior walls certain ridges, which formTpon'eachwallilong the whole length of the neck a tolerably regular S dia?column, from which proceed, at more or less acute angles, a certain mimber of smaUer columns* which project to a greater or less degree. The whole appearance resembles that of a fern-leaf, and has been caUed the arbor It generally disappears after the first labour, at least only traces of it are left' Nevertheless, it not unfrequently found perfect even after several accouchements, —a circumstance of some importance m legal medicine. The internal surface of the body of the uterus is much more vascular than the neck This difference is particularly observed in females who have died during a menstrual period, in whom the vessels of the body of the womb are much developed, and that organ itself is swoUen and softened, while the cervix retains its accustomed whiteness and consistence. Another character of the uterine cavity is the existence of a greater or less number of transparent vesicles, which were mistaken by Naboth for ova (ova of Naboth), but are only muciferous follicles. They exist both in the body and neck of the uterus, but are more numerous in the neck, near the vaginal orifice, and only become apparent when the mucus accumulates in them from obliteration of their orifices. They are sometimes much enlarged, and have then given rise to the opinion that some more serious disease has existed. The orifices of the uterine sinuses, described by the older anatomists at the fundus of the uterus, cannot be detected. They are only to be seen after delivery in the situation where the placenta had been attached. The parietes of the unimpregnated uterus are from four to six lines in thickness. The thinnest part is at the entrance of the Fallopian tubes, where they are not more than two lines thick. The parietes of the cervix are thinner than those of the body. Structure of the uterus. The constituent parts of the uterus are, a proper tissue, an external peritoneal coat, an internal mucous membrane, and some vessels and nerves. The proper tissue is of a greyish colour, very dense and strong, and creaks under the knife like cartilage. The body appears less consistent than the neck, but this depends upon the fact of its being more frequently the seat of sanguineous congestion. It is composed of fibres, i. e, it has a linear arrange- ment. It may be asked, with regard to the nature of these fibres, do they consist of fibrous tissue ? are they muscular, or are they analogous to the yellow tissue of the arteries ? The following considerations will determine this question:— The walls of the unimpregnated uterus appear to be composed of a fibrous tissue, traversed by a great number of vessels. During pregnancy, or in con- sequence of the developement of tumours, or the accumulation of fluid in the cavity of the uterus, its proper tissue acquires all the properties of the muscular tissue, as it exists in the viscera of organic life, and, like it, is endowed with contractility. Can, therefore, the presence of a foetus or a foreign body in the uterus cause a transformation in the tissue of that organ ? f Assuredly not; but the great influx of blood into the uterus, and the consequent distension and de- velopment of its fibres, reveals a structure which before was concealed by the state of condensation and atrophy kept up by inactivity. * These rugiE, which vary considerably in their arrangement, have been described in detail by Haller, Boyer, and others. t 1 conceive that I have proved by facts, that only three tissues, viz. the muscular, the ner- vous, and the glandular, are never the products of organic transformations. IViAe Essai sur VAnatomic Pathol. ItflG.)