THE LARYNX. 561 the thymus diminishes. In the last two months of pregnancy the lung is completely developed, and fit for performing respiration. The weight of the lung in the foetus and in the adult presents some differ- ences, -which are well worthy of attention. During the whole period of intra- uterine life, the foetal lung is specifically heavier than water; but as soon as the infant respires, it becomes much lighter, and floats in water. Yet the absolute weight of the lung is sensibly increased; because it receives a much greater quantity of blood than it did previously. Before birth, the absolute weight of the lung to that of the whole body is as 1 to 60 ; after biith, it is as I to 30. It follows, therefore, that lungs which float in water, and which have acquired a much greater absolute weight than they would have had in the foetus, must belong to an infant that has re- spired. After birth the lung participates in the developement of the rest of the body. At the time of puberty it acquires the proportions which it subse- quently presents. I have not observed that the lungs are smaller and lighter in the aged than in the adult. The colour of the lungs varies considerably at difierent periods. In the earlier periods of developement, the lung of the foetus is of a delicate pink colour ; subsequently it becomes of a deep red, like lees of wine, and remains so until the time of birth. After birth, it again becomes of a pink colour. StiU later, from the tenth to the twentieth year, black spots become visible at different points along the lines which form the lozenge-shaped intervals on its surface. These spots subsequently unite into lines or patches, which give to the greyish surface of the organ a mottled appearance. The developement of the black matter is so clearly the effect of age, that it is very rare not to find small masses of it in the apex or some other part of the lungs in the old subject. It is worthy of notice, that the black matter appears simultaneously on the surface of the lung, and in the lymphatic glands situated at its root, and along the bronchi. With regard to structure, it may be observed, that during the four or five earlier months of gestation, the pulmonary lobules are perfectly distinct from each other ; they may be separated by very gentle traction, on account of the weakness of the pleura and cellular tissue which unites them, as compared with the pulmonary tissue itself. The cartilaginous rings begin to be visible after the third month. Functions. The lungs are the essential organs of respiration ; that process by means of which the blood, though dark and unfit for supporting life be- fore entering these organs, becomes red and vivifying. For the accomplish- ment of this function, the lungs receive, on the one hand, the atmospheric air, and on the other, the venous blood, the whole of which, in the human subject, passes through the lungs. The air is not drawn in by any power resident in the pulmonary tissue itself, but by the muscular action of the parietes of the thorax; the blood is propeUed into it by the right ventricle of the heart. While the blood undergoes the changes above mentioned, the atmospheric air loses a portion of its oxygen, which is replaced by carbonic acid gas. The manner in which these changes in the blood are eff'ected is not yet well known. The Larynx.* It is necessary to have several specimens, from subjects of different ages and sexes, so as to be able to. examine the general relations of the larynx in its J.lTrZffS ^•''""gs essentially to the functions of relation, and therefore Bichat describes iu TufZl^w J^ apparatus of locomotion ; but the anatomical connectionsbetwVen tL lamfx and the respiratory organs are such that a animals provided with lunes have a larunv oi// i3w the larynx disappears where the lungs cease to exist ^ VOL. I. O O