THE SPLEEN. 535 M M 4 The Spi-een. The spleen (cr,rXV, lien; k, fig. 154.) is a spongy and vascular organ, the functions of which, though little known, appear to be connected with those of the abdominal venous system. x . , i, v j ■ v i,- j It is deeply situated (A, figs. 155. 161.) in the left hypochondrium behind and to the left of the great end of the stomach, to which it is united by a fold of peritoneum, called the gastro-splenic omentum. It is also retained in its place by the peritoneum, which is reflected upon it from the diaphragm *, and by the vessels which enter and pass out from it. Being suspended rather tlian fixed to certain movable parts, the spleen necessarily participates m their movements; and the contraction or relaxation of the diaphragm, as well as the alternate distension and collapse of the stomach, exert an undoubted influence upon it; but these slight and temporary changes of position do not constitute a true displacement. _ It may even be said, that displacements of the spleen, which are very rare, are almost always congenital. Thus Haller has seen this organ situated at the left side of the bladder, in an infant one year old ; Desault has found it in the right cavity of the thorax in a foetus at the full time, I do not here aUude to cases of complete transposition of the viscera, nor to cases where the change of situation depends on enlargement of the spleen, or on displacement of the stomach, f I have mentioned elsewhere that I have found the spleen in the umbilical region. Accidental adhesions of the spleen are so frequent, that they deserve to be mentioned. They are sometimes filamentous, and sometimes cellular, and they render painful the slightest changes of position in this organ, from vio- lent contractions of the diaphragm, or from great distension of the stomach : these adhesions are almost always the sequelse of intermittent fevers; Number. The spleen is single in the human subject. The supernumerary spleens occasionally met with near it are nothing more than small ovoid or spheroidal fragments of the spleen, which at first sight might be taken for lymphatic glands. I have never seen more than two supernumerary spleens in man. It is said that they are more frequent in the foetus than in the adult: this opinion is erroneous. % It has been said that ten, twelve, and even twenty-three supernumerary spleens have been observed. Without denying the possibility of the fact, I am inclined to doubt its occurrence. As the spleen is always multiple in a great number of animals, supernumerary spleens in man may be regarded as the last trace of such an arrangement. With regard to the examples of congenital or accidental absence of the spleen mentioned by some authors, it should be remarked, that they were ac- companied with serious diseases of the abdomen, and that small adherent spleens, lost in some measure among the surrounding organs, may easily have escaped notice in a not very close examination. Size and weight. There is no organ which varies more than the spleen in regard to size and weight. These differences may be referred to the follow- ing heads:— Individual differences. It is in vain to attempt to establish a relation be- tween the size of the spleen and that of the liver, or between the size of the spleen, and the stature, weight, constitution, and habits of the individual. § * [This reflection is called the ligamentum phrenico-Uenale. The spleen is also connected by the peritoneum to the arch of the colon.] + The great end of the stomach is the most fixed part of that viscus, on account of its con., nection with the (esophagus. Changes of position in this organ affect partly the portion be- tween the pylorus .ind the cardia, and partly the pylorus itself. % It is true that a greater number of cases of supernumerary spleens in the foetus have been recorded, than in adults ; but the fact is easily explained, if we consider th.it in the fcetus su- pernumerary spleens cannot escape notice, whilst they are often diiTicult to be seen in the adult on account of tlie fat with which the omenta are loaded. ' § The spleen is proportionally larger in man than in the lower animals. It has been said as if