56 OSTEOLOGY. observed about the forty-fifth day. The angles are the last parts of the bone which are developed : their absence gives rise in part to the six fontanelles of the cranium. Tlie Temporal Bones ( fgs. 19 and 20.)- The temporal bones are so called from being situated in the locality of the temples. They are two in number, and occupy part of the sides and base of the cranium, below the parietal bones, above the inferior maxillary, in front of the occipital, and behind the sphenoid. The temporal bone contains the complicated apparatus of the organ of hearing. Its figure is very irregular, and therefore, in order to facilitate the descrip- tion, we shall consider it as divided into three parts; the squamous, the mastoid, and the petrous portions. Squammis portion. The squamous portion has the form of a semicircular p. jg scale {ale, figs. 19 and 20.), bearing a ' considerable resemblance to one of the valves of certain shell-fish : it occupies the anterior and superior part of the bone. It is by far the thinnest part of the craniimi; and hence the common but well-founded notion of the danger of blows upon the temple, although this danger is much les- sened by the presence of the zygomatic arch and the temporal muscle. The external surface (J, fig. 19.) forms part of the temporal fossa; it is smooth, con- vex, and marked by vascular furrows. At its lower portion is situated the zijgomatic process (m n) {C^vyviio, \ imn), so called because it unites the sides of the cranium to the face : it is also named ansa capitis, and is one of the longest processes of the skeleton. At its origm it is broad and directed outwards; it then gradually dimmishes in size, and bends so as to turn horizontally forwards and a little outwards : it is flattened from without inwards. The external surface is convex, and may be easily traced under the skin ; the internal surface is concave; the superior border convex and thin; the inferior concave, thick, and much shorter; and the ex- tremity (m) is cut from below upwards and forwards, and denticulated for a - tachment with a corresponding surface on the malar bone. The base of this process is grooved above, and serves as a pulley for the reflection of part of the temporal muscle. Posteriorly it separates into two portions or the m- ferior (o) of these is the larger ; it is transverse, covered with cartilage, and bounds the rienoid cavity inftont, serving also to increase the articular surface in the ioint^of the lower jaw. The superior {n) is longitudinal or antero- posteriorTn its direction : it also is bifurcated, one branch directed upward^ and forming part, of the temporal semicircular Une, the other passing between the aSrf meatus and the glenoid cavity. At the pomt of junction of the two roots the^e is a tubercle which gives insertion to the external lateral bga- rTnt of the l(^er i^aw. Between the two roots we observe the glenoid cavity malleus (process of Raw). . [The eorda tyn,paul. according to the author passes through a .pedal orifice hy the s,de ol the glenoid flssufe. See description of the ear, infrA.^