THE CRANIUM IN GENERAL. 59 only part to be noticed is the external auditonj meatus (y), which is situated Snd the glenoid cavity. It is rough inferiorly for the insertion of the car- tilage of the ear; and the canal, which is more contracted in the middle than at either extremity, takes a curved direction, the concavity looking downwards and forwards : it is chiefly formed by a curved plate, named the auditonj pro- cess, which constitutes the posterior half of the glenoid cavity. The summit of the pars petrosa {v,fig.20.) is very irregular, and truncated : it presents the superior orifice of the carotid canal, and forms part of the an- terior lacerated foramen. . , „ , • „^ ^i, > Connections. The temporal articulates with five bones : — viz. three of the cranium, the parietal, occipital, and sphenoid; and two of the face, the malar and the inferior maxillary : we might add also the os hyoides, which is attached by a ligament to the styloid process. , , . ■ Internal structure. The squamous portion is compact throughout, excepting towards the circumference, where traces of diploe may be seen. Ihe petrous portion is still more compact and hard, resembling in density the teeth, or certain ivory-Uke exostoses. The mastoid portion is hollowed out into large cells, and is very Uable to be affected by caries. In the description of the organ of hearing, we shaU notice the cavities which exist m the petrous portion: the nervous and vascular canals wiU be described with the nerves and vessels which traverse them. (For the aqueduct of Fallopius, see the description of the facial nerve.) Development. The temporal bone is developed from five points of ossi- fication : the squamous, petrous, and mastoid portions, the auditory canal, and the styloid process, being each distinct. The first osseous point which appears, is situated in the squamous portion, and is visible towards the end of the second month. Immediately afterwards the petrous portion exhibits a bony nucleus, stretching from its base towards its apex. The third point in order is that of the circle of the tympanum, a kind of ring channelled aU round for the membrana tympani. This circle, at first almost horizontal, becomes gra- dually more and more oblique : it is incomplete above, and the two extremities which are applied to the squamous portion, cross each other, instead of uniting. In many auiraals the ring of the tympanum constitutes a distinct bone, named the tympanic bone. The fourth point of ossification appears in the mastoid portion during the fifth month. The last which becomes visible is that of the styloid process: it also remains distinct throughout life in the lower animals, and is called the styloid bone. It is not uncommon to find it in the same con- dition in the human subject. The development of these five pieces does not advance with equal rapidity. The petrous portion is most quickly completed. The mastoid, squamous, and petrous portions become united during the first year. The styloid process is attached to the rest of the bone at the age of two or three years; at birth the glenoid cavity is almost flat, on account of the absence of the auditory canal, and the slight development of the transverse root of the zygomatic process. The ulterior changes which take place in the temporal bone depend on the completion of the auditory canal and glenoid cavity, the increasing size of the mastoid process, and the obliteration of the projections, and filling up of the hollows on the surface of the petrous portion. It is worthy of remark, that traces of the union of the base of the petrous portion, with the squamous and mastoid portions, are visible in individuals of the most advanced age. The Cranium in general. The different bones which we have described unite in forming the cranium, an osseous cavity which incloses the brain, the cerebellum, and the annular protuberance. It is situated above the face, is the most elevated portion of the skeleton, and forms a continuation of the vertebral column. The form of the cranium is that of an ovoid, flattened below and at the sides, and with the