ARTHROLOGY. ISO Mechanism of the Acromio- and Coraco-davicular Articulations. The acromio- and coraco-clavicular articulations perform well-marked fflidintj movements: and in addition the scapula rotates forwards and backwards upon the clavicle to a considerable extent. In order to have a correct idea of these motions and their mechanism, it is necessary to procure a shoulder with the bgaments still attached, and to rotate the scapula backwards and forwards. It will be then seen that the scapula turns round an imaginary axis passing through its middle. The looseness of the posterior half of the orbicular and of the coraco-clavicular ligaments permits this rotatory motion; of the two coraco- clavicular ligaments, one limits the rotation forwards ; while the other, which, as we have observed, runs in an opposite direction, limits the rotation backwards. Although these motions are pretty extensive, they never give rise to disloca- tion, which can only be produced by falls on the top of the shoulder, the coraco-clavicular ligaments being lacerated if the luxation be complete. In- complete luxations may however take place without laceration of these liga- ments. The Sterna-clavicular Articulation {fig. 69.). The articulation of the inner end of the clavicle is composed of the sterno- clavicular and the costo-clavicular articulations. Preparation. Saw through the clavicles vertically at their middle, and also the first ribs at corresponding points ; and meet these two sections by a hori- zontal division of the sternum. In order to see the interior of the sterno-cla- vicular joint, open the fibrous capsule along the edge of the sternum above, or rather make a horizontal cut, which will divide it into two parts,' an upper and an under. In order to examine the costo-clavicular articulation, open the synovial mem- brane behind. The sterno-clavicular articulation belongs to those which are formed by mutual reception. Articular surfaces. The articular surface of the sternum is transversely oblong, concave in the same direction, and convex from befor^ backwards ; it looks obliquely upwards and outwards, and is situated on the side of the notch on the upper part of the sternum. 1. The articular surface of the clavicle is oblong from before backwards, slightly concave in the same direction, and convex transversely. From the respective configuration of these surfaces a mutual jointing results, and the short diameter of the one corresponds to the long diameter of the other; so that the end of the clavicle overlaps the surface of the sternum in front and behind, and the surface of the sternum projects beyond that of the clavicle on the inside and the outside.* 2. There is an inter-articular lamina of cartilage (i,fig. 69.) between the articular surfaces, which is moulded upon them, and is very thick, especially at the edges. It is sometimes perforated in the centre, f It is so closely united by its circumference to the orbicular ligament, that it is impossible to separate them: it adheres below to the cartilage of the first rib, and above and behind to the clavicle. Means of union. These are, I. The orbicular ligament (I, fig. 69.). This name may be given to the fibrous capsule which surrounds the joint in all di- rections. The fibres which compose it have been regarded as forming two distinct bundles, known by the name of anterior and posterior ligaments ; but it is impossible to distinguish between them. Fibres proceed from all parts * Bichat considers that this arrangement of the articular surfaces predisposes to luxation ; it appears to me to have a precisely opposite efifect, as it permits the surfaces to move upon each other to a considerable extent without being separated. , , , . , t In a greiit number of cases this ligament ir found partially wasted by the continued pres- sure to which the joint is subjected.