SPLANCHNOLOGY. diffeienrsuWtf X^'^'' ''^""eh with difierent degrees of facility in or Um^d St? ^" '•eg'^'-g'tation, however, only takes place with gaseous back^ann?h T' ^^''^ a greater degree of consistence cannot pass back and therefore the reflux of fajcal matter is impossible * ^ bv AlhilTf Tf' tte ileo-ceecal valve was perfectly demonstrated a dittpXH • I t .e^^'^Ple and remove the peritoneal coat from a distended intestine, at the point where the ileum enters the large bowel we twi ""''Vf ^'^'^e most distinctly, that the small intestine seems to sink in there; and if by means of careful and gradual force we attempt to disenga-e ^hfr^^Ju^ i"""^^- 'T'^'''''' " ""^y ^« it ^ere, from the colonic lf V,f°f '""^^ ^\'^''^ ^""^ ^ '^"•i t^en, on inspecting the inside of the large intestine, we shall find that the valve has altogether (Usappeared, and that the ileum communicates with the caicum and colon bv a laree aperture. The precise structure of the valve is as foUows : — it is composed of the cir- cular muscular fibres of the Ueum, which are prolonged as far as its free edge + • of the fibrous coat, and of the mucous membrane. A similar fact has been ob- served regarding this mucous membrane to one we have already several times noticed in descnbmg the alimentary canal, viz. a sudden change in its cha- racter opposite the free margin of the valve. That portion of the membrane which lines the surface turned towards the large intestine has aU the cha- racters of the mucous membrane of that bowel, while that lining the surface directed towards the ileum has those of the mucoug membrane of the smaU intestine. The limit between them is generally observed in diseases. The appendix vermiformis. The appendix vermiformis {v, figs. 139.160,161.), so named from its resemblance to an earth-worm, commences at the posterior lower and left portion of the caecum, of which it may be considered an ap- pendage {the cacal appendix) ; it resembles a small, hollow, and very narrow cord (duodecies nascente cob angustior says Haller). In length and in direction it presents much variation : its length is from one to six inches. It is some- what wider at its point of junction with the caecum, than in any other part, and is in general about the diameter of a goose-quill. Its direction is sometimes vertically downwards, sometimes upwards, and often tortuous. I have found it spiral, and at other times contained in the substance of the mesentery, parallel to the ileum, and only free at its extre- mity. In some subjects it is funnel-shaped, widening out to become con- tinuous with the caecum, which, in such cases, is very narrow. Its situation and relations are equally variable. Thus, most commonly, it occupies the right iliac fossa, near the brim of the pelvis : it is attached to the caecum and to the iliac fossa by a triangular or falciform fold of the peritoneum, which extends only to one half of its length, and allows it a greater or less capability of move- ment. It is still more moveable when it is entirely surrounded by the peri- toneum, and has no mesentery. From this it may be conceived, that it may enter into the formation of herniae, and may be twisted around a knuckle of the small intestine so as to cause strangulation. It is often turned back behind the ascending colon, between that intestine and the kidney: in one case of this kind I found the free extremity of the appendix in contact with the lower sur- face of the liver. I have also once seen it turned up behind the lower end of * Nevertheless, if we consider that the large intestine must always be very much distended in order to produce a reflux of gases and liquids, it may be questioned whether the passage of gaseous or liquid matters from the large to the small intestine can take place during life. I have been able to determine the mechanism of the resistance ofTered by the valve from the effects of distension. The two segments are turned back, the lower one upwards, and the upper one downwards; their corresponding surfaces become convex, and they are pressed to- gether the more and more forcibly in proportion to the amount of distension. In some sub- jects distension may be carried so far as to rupture the longitudinal bands, and yet not over- come the obstacle. In most cases the free edge of the lower segment glides from right to left under the upper one, which remains immoveable; and the gas and liquids escape with more or less facility, according to the degree of disturbance in the parts. t [The longitudinal mu.scular fibres and the peritoneal coat pass directly from the small to the large intestine, without entering into the formation of the valve.]