THE LIVER. 517 elevated height. In fatty degeneration of this organ, the liver retains the im- pression of the finger, and its fragility is in a great measure lost. Olive green and slate coloured livers are dense, their molecules are much more closely united, and they are lacerated with difficulty. Texture. Before the admirable works of Glisson and Malpighi, anatomists were in the habit of saying with Erasistratus, that the liver, like all other organs of a complicated structure, was a parenchyma, a vague term intended to imply the effusion of a particular juice around a series of vessels. Mal- pighi showed, in opposition to the assertion of Warthon, that the liver is a conglomerate gland; he examined the glandular granules (the lobules of Kier- nan), which Ruysch subsequently, by means of his beautiful injections, appeared to convert into vessels. Anatomists are still divided between the opinions of these two eminent observers, concerning the intimate structure of the liver, as well as of all other glands, some believing it to be granular, others that it is vascular. We have to consider the coverings and then the proper tissue of the liver. The coverings of the liver. These are two in number, viz. a peritoneal coat and a proper fibrous membrane. The peritoneal coat forms an almost complete covering for the liver ; the posterior border, the transverse fissure, the groove for the vena cava, and the fossa for the gall bladder, are the only parts that are destitute of this coat The peritoneum, from being reflected upon the liver from the diaphragm, con- stitutes the several folds called the falciform, coronai7, and triangular ligaments, of which we have ah-eady spoken. By means of this membrane, which is always moist, the liver is enabled to glide upon the adjacent parts without friction. We frequently find cellular adhesions between the liver and sur- rounding structures, which do not positively impair its functions. The peri- toneal coat adheres intimately to the proper membrane^ The proper or fibrous membrane is very well seen over such portions of the liver as are not covered by the peritoneum, and from these points it can be easily traced over the whole of the remainder of the organ. It constitutes the immediate investment of the liver; its outer surface is adherent to the peri- toneal coat, and its inner surface is connected with the tissue of the liver by means of fibrous prolongations interposed between the granules (lobules), affording to each a distinct covering. It passes into and lines the transverse fissure, and is prolonged around the corresponding divisions of the vena portse, the hepatic artery, and the biliary ducts, so as to form cylindrical sheaths for those groups of vessels, and for all their further divisions and subdivisions. These sheaths constitute the cap- sule of Glisson, which we must therefore regard as a dependence of the proper fibrous coat. The internal surface of these sheaths is united to the vessels only by a very loose cellular tissue. Their external surface adheres inti- mately to the tissue of the liver by fibrous prolongations, which interlace in everj' direction, and form distinct coverings for the deep-seated granules, analogous to those which we have already stated are produced from the proper coat. The liver therefore is traversed in all directions by very delicate fibro- cellular prolongations, forming a vast network in which the granules are contained. This proper coat moreover is fibrous f, not muscular as Glisson be- lieved. It may be said with truth to constitute the skeleton or framework of the liver ; for it affords a general covering for the organ, it is prolonged around the vena porta;, the hepatic artery and the biliary ducts, and it furnishes a fibrous or cellular covering for each of the granules composing the proper tissue of the liver. The fibrous cells thus formed become very distinct in certain cases of hepatic disease. In fact, this fibrous tissue not unfrequently becomes ' [It is composed of dense cellular or fibro-celliilar tissue ; for its use, see note, p. 521.] I> L 3