APONEUROLOGY. 414 bands, -which are themselves bifurcated almost immediately, so as to embrace the flexor tendons of the four outer toes. Becoming moulded on the sides of these tendons, they furnish those of each toe with an ahnost complete sheath, ■which is attached to the upper and lateral borders of the anterior glenoid liga- ment of the corresponding metatarso-phalangal articulation, and becomes con- tinuous with the tendinous sheath of the corresponding toe. These four sheaths are separated by three arched openings, through which proceed the lumbricales and interosseous muscles and the plantar vessels and nerves. There is a perfect analogy between the middle plantar and the middle palmar aponeu- rosis ; but the former is by far the stronger. It constitutes, indeed, a true ligament for the foot, offers a powerful resistance to the forced extension of the phalanges upon the bones of the metatarsus, and supports the antero-pos- terior arch of the sole of the foot. I have known exceedingly violent pain to be produced by distension, and probably laceration of some of the fibres of this aponeurosis. The margins of the middle plantar aponeurosis are curved upwards, ■ so as to embrace the flexor brevis digitorum on each side ; they become con- tinuous with the external and internal plantar aponeuroses, and form septa between the muscles of the middle and those of the external and internal plantar regions: in front these septa are complete, but only partial behind. The upper surface of this fascia gives attachment, posteriorly, to the short flexor of the toes: the proper tendinous expansion of this muscle appears to be given off from the upper surface of the plantar aponeurosis. Some transverse fibres strengthen this fascia in front, and I shall also notice some other transverse fibres, perfectly distinct from the preceding, which form a true transverse ligament for the four outer toes : it is situated opposite the middle of the lower surface of the first phalanges, and is admirably adapted for opposing their dislocation. The external and internal plantar aponeuroses. The external plantar apo- neurosis, very thick behind and thin in front, gives attachment by its upper surface to the abductor muscle of the little toe, and is bifurcated at the posterior extremity of the fifth metatarsal bone. The external division of this bifur- cation is very strong, is inserted into the enlarged posterior extremity of the fifth metatarsal bone, and may be regarded as a powerful medium of connec- tion between that bone and the cuboid. The internal plantar aponeurosis is thin in comparison with the external; it commences behind. by an arch, ex- tending from the inner malleolus to the os calcis ; its inner margin is attached to the corresponding border of the tarsus, and is continuous with the dorsal annular ligament and with the dorsal fascia of the foot; its outer margin is blended with the middle plantar fascia, or rather is reflected upwards, to com- plete the sheath for the internal muscles of the foot. These three plantar fasciae just described form three sheaths, which are quite distinct in their anterior five sixths, but communicate with each other behind. The internal plantar sheath includes the abductor and the short flexor* of the great toe, which are separated from each other by a layer of fibrous tissue ; it also contains the internal plantar artery and nerves. The external plantar sheath includes the abductor and the flexor of the little toe, which are also separated by a tendinous layer. Lastly, the middle plantar sheath includes the short flexor of the toes, the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum, the flexor accessorius, the lumbricales, the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis, the oblique adductor f, the transversus pedis, and the external plantar vessels and nerves. The sheath of the flexor brevis digi- torum is completed above by an aponeurotic layer, which separates it from the tendons of the long flexor and from the accessorius. A proper sheath exists tor the oblique adductor f, and a subdivision of the same sheath for the transverse * r/. e. The inner half of the flexor brevis poUicis of anatomists generally .J t [Including the outer portion of the flexor brevis pollicis of most anatomists.]