SUPERIOR MAXILLARY BONES. 69 two unequal parts by a horizontal square plate, ^hich intersects it at right receivcQ, ana wuiua pic obliauelv upwards ana backwards. This palatine or incisive canal,M is single below ^^-J double above Ihe an ierior edge of the palatine process is very terior opening of the nasal fossa;: the posterior edge beviUed at the expense of he superior table, supports the horizontal portion ot the palate bone. That Trt of the internal surface of the maxillary bone which is situated below hrpalatine process, is of no great extent: it forms part of the arch of Se palat '1 furro^, mor^ or less delp, and bounded by P™J-i-g^f4-;;7 alonVr the external border of the palatme process, and protects the postcuor pa S vessels and nerves. The mucous membraneof the palate covers this region of the bone The part of the internal surface (n) of the superior maxillary bone which is above the palatine process, belongs to the nasal fossa: it is covered bv the pituitary membrane. We observe here from before backwards, 1. the internal surface (c) of the ascending process (a) : 2. below the inferior ridge, a smooth surface which forms part of the inferior meatus of the nose : 3. tne inferior orifice (behind c) of the lachrymo-nasal groove, sometimes converted into a complete canal by a bridge of bone: 4. the opening of the maxillary sinus (s), which appears wide in a detached bone, but m its natural con- nection is contracted by prolongations of the palate bone, the ethmoid, the inferior turbinated bone, and the os unguis, all of which are articulated with the circumference of this opening; it is still further diminished when the bones are covered by their pituitary membrane. At its lower part, this orifice pre- sents a fissure in which a lamina belonging to the palate bone is received: this method of articulation has received the name of Scliindilesis. At the upper part are small cells, which unite with the ethmoid : behind the orifice is a rough surface, which articulates with the palate bone : and, lastly, a groove, which forms part of the posterior palatine canal. The orifice which we have just described leads intj the interior of a cavity, denominated maxillary sinus, or antrum of Highmore, although it had been before very accurately described by Vesalius. It is hollowed out from the sub- stance of the maxillary bone, and has the form of a pyramid, the base of which corresponds with the internal surface of the bone; the summit with the malar process; the superior wall with the floor of the orbit; the anterior wall with the fossa canina, and the posterior with the maxillary tuberosity. These two last mentioned walls are traversed by linear projections or ridges, which correspond with the anterior and posterior dental canals. There is also one ridge upon the superior wall: it indicates the passage of the infra-orbitary canal. The extreme te- nuity of this superior or orbitary wall is an anatomical fact of great importance, because it explains the influence which tumours developed in the sinus exert upon the organs contained in the cavity of the orbit. The septum between the sinus and the bottom of the alveoli is also so thin, that an histrument can easily penetrate into the sinus in this situation. This remark applies particularly to the alveolus of the canine tooth. The anterior border {g a, figs. 24 and 25.) of the superior maxilla presents be- low a vertical portion (g d), surmounted by a small eminence called the -.lasal spine (a) : it is then hollowed out into a deep notch (a b), to form half the an- terior orifice of the nasal fossoe; and, lastly, becomes continuous with the anterior edge (b a) of the ascending process. The posterior border is vertical and very thick : it articulates below with the