THE KIDNEYS. ^81 P P 3 IToXS kT^e/^^^^^^ as to reduce it to a drachm and a half Wrachm^^ it appear to be lost among the surroundmg ZT^StrvrlZI of this fat distinguishes such a case from one of con- '%ttZ7:2u:. 'Thrtfssae of the kidney is harder than that of other g£lTVfragUity accounts for its laceration by direct violence, or by a con- cussion produced by a fall from a great height. Its coLr is that of the lees of red wine, somewhat analogous to that ot the muscular tissue, but offers several different shades. Kcure The shape of the kidnev may be weU compared to a bean, with tne hiluf'rned inwards. This foiW enables us to consider its two surfaces and '''^SrThe anterior surface of the kidney is directed slightly outwards ; it is convex t, and is covered by the lumbar colon but sometmes only by the peritoneum, the gut lying to its inner side ; on the left side it is also in re at on with the spleen and the great tuberosity of the stomach, and on the right side with the liver and the second portion of the duodenum. _ The relations of the right kidney with the liver are more or less extensive ; sometimes it is entirely covered by the liver ; in other instances it is inclined downwards, and has no relation with that organ. The gall-bladder sometimes lies upon the anterior surface of the right kidney through the whole ot its ex- tent. Lastly, I have seen the kidney in immediate relation with the parietes of the abdomen, through which it could be easily felt. As practical inferences from these relations, we would notice the difliculty of exploring the kidneys from the anterior surface of the abdomen, on account of their deep situation, also the possibility of an abscess of the kidney opening into the colon. . The posterior surface is less convex than the anterior, and is turned inwards ; it corresponds with the quadratus lumborum, from which it is separated by the anterior layer of the fascia of the transversalis muscle ; with the diaphragm, which separates it from the two or three lower ribs; and with the psoas, which intervenes between it and the vertebral column. These relations explain the possibility of exploring the kidney in the lumbar region through the quadratus lumborum, account for abscesses of the kidney opening in the lumbar region, and for the escape of renal calculi in the same direction, and form the grounds on which the operation of nephrotomy has been proposed. It is of importance to remark, that the relations of the kidneys with the ribs are variable in extent, and that sometimes they do not pass beyond the last rib. The circumference of the kidney presents an external border, convex, semi- elliptical, and directed backwards ; an internal border, directed forwards, and deeply notched in the middle to form the fissure of the kidney (hilus renalis, h, fig. 179.). This notch is more marked behind, where it corresponds with the pelvis of the kidney, than in front, where it corresponds with the renal vein; it is from fifteen to eighteen lines in depth. If we separate the edges of this fissure, we expose a deep cavity containing fat, and called the sinus; in which are seen the pelvis of the kidney (p), the calices (cc c'), and the divisions of the renal artery and vein. The upper end of the kidney is directed inwards, and is more or less com- pletely embraced by the suprarenal capsule; it is generally larger than the lower end, which is directed sUghtly outwards, and projects beyond the last rib. * I do not speak here of enlargement of the kidneys from disease. Many examples of ex- treme enlargement will be found in my work on Pathological Anatomy, liv. i. xviii. t Not unfrequently the fissure of the kidney is found on the anterior surface of that organ. In one case of this Kind the right kidney occupied the ri);ht iliac fossa ; it had two arteries, a superior, which proceeded directly to the fissure, and an inferior, arising from the angle of the bifurcation of the aorta, In front of the middle sacral artery, and terminating at the lower ex- tremity of the kidney.