OSTEOLOGY. 122 The inferior or perineal strait, inferior orifice or outlet of the small pelvis, presents three deep notches separated by three eminences, so that when the pelvis is placed upon a horizontal plane, it appears to rest as it were upon three feet. Of these notches one is anterior, viz. the arch of the pubes (xyx); the others are lateral and somewhat posterior, they are the ischiatic notches {v' z, fig. 47.). The arch of the pubes is angular in the male, but rounded in the fe- male, forming a true arch which receives the occipital bone of the foetus in the great majority of labours; it is formed on each side by the ascending ramus of the ischium, the edge of which is somewhat everted, so that the head of the foetus when passing under the arch glides over a sort of inclined plane, instead of being in contact with the edge of the bone. The transverse diameter of the pubic arch near the upper part has been calculated at one inch; that of the lower part x,fig. 48.) at three inches. The two lateral notches are formed behind by the sacrum and the coccyx ; in front, by the sciatic notch of the os innominatum; they are therefore called also the sacro-sciatic notches. They are very deep, and reach almost to the superior strait of the small pelvis. Of the three eminences which separate the notches, the posterior is formed by the coccyx, and the two anterior by the tuberosities of the ischia, which are situated on a lower plane than the first; from this peculiar arrangement, the whoje weight of the body, in the sitting posture, rests upon the tuberosities of the ischia, and not at aU upon the point of the coccyx. The diameters of the lower aperture of the pelvis are, in reference to parturition, of equal impor- tance with those of the upper, and have been accurately determined. The antero-posterior diameter, or cocci-pubic, so called because it extends from the symphysis pubis to the point of the coccyx, is four inches, but may be increased to four inches and a half by depression of the coccyx. The transverse or hisciatic diameter, which stretches between the tuberosities of the ischia, is four inches, which is invariable; and lastly, the two oblique diameters, which extend from the middle of the sacro-sciatic ligament on one side to the tuber- ositv of the ischium on the other, are also four inches each. These dimen- sions, which are taken from a well-formed female pelvis, are greater than in the male. Excavation. The excavation or cavity of the true pelvis is formed, 1. Behind, by the sacrum and coccyx, the concavity of which varies in different indivi- duals, but is generally shallower in the female than in the male. The height of these two bones is four inches and a half; the greatest depth of their concavity from ten to twelve lines. 2. In front, by the symphysis and back part of the pubes, forming a plane inclined downwards and backwards ; outside the pubes is the'inner opening of the obturator foramen. 3. On the sides, the excavation is formed by two smooth planes inclined downwards and inwards; they are about three inches and a half in height, and are bounded behind by the sciatic ^°It is of great consequence to notice these two inclined planes, because they perform an important part in the mechanism of parturition. The diameters of the excavation being of little value in an anatomical point of view, the stu- dent is referred to works on midwifery for an account of them. The superior circumference or base of the pelvis looks forwards, and is formed behind by the sacro-vertebral angle; on each side by the upper border of the ilium and in front by the anterior border of the same bone. It presents, 1. m front'a vast notch (« u, fig. 48.), in which we observe in the median line the upper liquely upwards and outwards, to the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium («), where it terminates j 2. behind, the great circumference of the pelvis presents the sacro-vertebral angle, and on each side a small notch between the vertebral column and the back of the crest of the ilium ; 3. lateraUy, we ob-