SPHENOID BONE. 49 side, over which the olfactory nerves pass. 2. A transverse gi-oove optw groove (6), on which the commissure of the optic nerves rests and which is continuous on each side with the optic foramen (11).* 3 A deep quadri- lateral fossa (c), in which the pituitary gland is lodged, called the^e^/a cica, supra-sphenoidal, or piluilary fossa. 4. On the sides of this fossa two grooves, named cavernous or carotid grooves, because they correspond to the cai-otid arteries and cavernous sinuses. Anteriorly the cavernous groove gives attachment to the ligament of Zinn, a tendon which gives origin to three muscles of the eye. Near its anterior termination, and between it and the pituitary fossa, \s th^ viiddle clinoid process], generally nothmg more than a simple tubercle, but sometimes sufficiently developed to unite eithei' with the anterior or with the posterior clinoid processes, the former case being the more common. 5. Behind the pituitary fossa we observe a quadrilateral plate {,d), directed obliquely from above downwards and backwards; its anterior sur- face forms part of the fossa, its posterior surface is continuous with the basUar groove, its lateral edges are notched for the sixth pair of nerves, and the su- perior border which separates the basUar groove and the pituitary fossa^ pre- sents, at each extremity, an angular process (e), the posterior clinoid (from kKIvv, a bed, from a supposed resemblance of the anterior and posterior clmoid processes to the four corners of a bed). 6. From the lateral and anterior parts of the body of the sphenoid arise two triangular processes (n o, n o), flattened above and below, extremely thin and fragile, and directed transversely : these are denominated the orbital or lesser ivings of the sphenoid (ala minores), or the wings of Ingrassius, from the anatomist who first gave a good description of them. The superior surface of these processes is flat, and corresponds to the anterior lobes of the brain; the inferior surface forms part of the roof of the orbits; the anterior edge is bevilled below, and rests upon the posterior border of the frontal and the ethmoid ; the posterior edge is thin and sharp externally, thicker internally, and divides the anterior and middle fossse of the base of the cranium; the summit (o) is pointed, and' hence the processes are sometimes called ensiform or xiphoid; the base presents the internal orifice of the optic ca- nal or foramen (1), which is directed outwards and forwards, and gives passage to the optic nerve and the ophthalmic artery. The base of the lesser wing terminates behind in a projecting angle (n), which forms the anterior clinoid process; and behind this is a deep notch, sometimes a foramen, for the carotid artery. Occasionally the anterior are united to the posterior clinoid processes by a long bridge of bone. All the part of the sphenoid in front of the sella turcica, including the smaller wings, forms the anterior sphenoid of some modem anatomists ; the remaining portion of the bone constitutes the posterior sphenoid. The separation of these two parts, which is but temporary in man, existing only during the early months of fcBtal life, is permanent in quadrupeds. The inferior or guttural sicrface of the body (fig. 14.) presents, in the me- dian line, a ridge or crest, called the beak ^ ' y__, of the sphenoid or rostrum ((/); it is more prominent anteriorly than posteriorly, is received into a groove of the vomer, and is continuous with the anterior ridge of the body of the bone. On each side is a deep furrow concealed by a lamella (on each side of g), under which the edges of the vomer are insinuated. At the bottom of this fur- row is seen the orifice of a temporarj' ca- nal, which exists only in young subjects, * fThe groove is formed on an eminence named tiie olivary process.! Wiien tVie middle clinoid processes arc united with tne posterior, they are then also joined to the anterior. VOL. I. E