469 THE STOMACH. H H 3 is full; and it then embraces the vertebral column in its curvature, being separated from it by the aorta and the pillars of the diaphragm (see fig. 154.) ; it also embraces the small lobe of the liver or the lobulus Spigelii, the coeliac axis (0, and the solar plexus of nerves. The great extrmiity or great cul-de-sac of the stomach (the bottom or great tuberosity, from c to the dotted line,^5'. 149.), comprises all that portion which is to the left of the cardiac or oesophageal opening ; it is a sort of semi-sphe- roid, applied to the base of the cone formed by the rest of the stomach ; it is the highest and the largest portion of that organ ; it is almost entirely absent in camivora ; it is very large in herbivora, and of a medium size in man. There are also many individual varieties in the size of this portion of the stomach; I have met with some instances in which it was not larger than it is in car- nivora. It is in contact with the spleen (Ay^5'. 154.), (hence it is called the splenic extremity by Chaussier), with which it is connected by a fold of the peritoneum, called the gastro-splenic omentum, and by the vasa brevia. When the stomach is distended it comes into close contact with, and is as it were moulded upon, the spleen (see fig. 161.). From this relation a great number of physiological inferences may be deduced.* The great cul-de-sac occupies the left hypochon- drium, and corresponds also in the greater part of its extent to the left half of the diaphragm, which is in accurate contact with it, and separates it from the lungs above and from the last six ribs in front. It is more or less elevated, according to the degree of distension of the stomach ; and from this we can easily understand that difficult respiration may be caused by too large a meal. Lastly, it may be stated that the great extremity of the stomach has relations behind with the pancreas, and with the left kidney and suprarenal capsule. The (esophageal extremity (o, fig. 149.). The oesophagus opens into the stomach at different angles, according to the emptiness or fullness of that or- gan. The situation of this opening, which is improperly denominated the cardia (cor, heart), is at the left extremity of the lesser curvature, to the right of the great cul-de-sac, and opposite the oesophageal opening in the diaphragm. It is embraced (c,fig. 154.) in front by the left extremity of the liver, which sometimes forms a half circle round it, and behind by the lobulus Spigelii-. It is surrounded by a circle of vessels and some nerves. Examined exter- nally the lower end of the oesophagus is continuous with the stomach, with- out any other line of demarcation than that depending upon a difference in size and direction. The peritoneum is directly reflected from the diaphragm upon the (Esophagus and the stomach, and forms the gastro-diaphragmaticfold (hgamentum phrenico-gastricum, Soemmering).-^ The pyloric extremity (pylorus, from iriiArj, a gate, and oSpoy, a keeper ; p, figs. 149, &c.) is situated at the right extremity of the stomach. It forms the apex ot the cone, and presents a circular constriction or strangulation, which exactly defines the limits between the stomach and duodfenum. About an inch from this constriction the stomach is much curved, so as to form a de- cided 6enc?, and presents a dilatation, on the side of the great curvature corre- sponding to an internal excavation, called by Willis the antrum pylbri, and by others the small cul-de-sac of the stomach (from d to the dotted line e). Not un- commonly we find a second dilatation near the first, and a third, still smaller, on the side of the lesser curvature, resulting from the bend formed by the stomach The pyloric extremity of the stomach is directed to the right side backwards and upwards, and sometimes even a little to the left when the stomach is much distended. foUows allTplaTelemfoVS o^^^ I'h'"'^ connected with the spleen, that it necessarily four times its'^ naS size wi, K^ri in^M." ""^t 5^;'^ a'^■■'«.<-- >» ^^'"^'he spleen, three o^