SPLANCHNOLOGY. labii superioris aloBque nasi: the lower lip is bounded in the median line bv a transverse depression situated between it and the chin, called the mcnto-labial turrow, which is remarkable for the perpendicular direction of the hairs grow- ing upon It; on each side it is separated from the cheeks by the proiectinir inner margin of the triangularis oris. • j b The line or furrow which separates on either side the lips from the cheek commences at the ala of the nose, and is called the naso-lahial line*: it would be more appropriately named the bucco-labial line or furrow. The boundaries between the lips and the cheeks are then entirely artificial: the two lips, taken together, represent an ellipse, the longest diameter of which is transverse. The free borders of the lips. The free borders of the lips are rounded, are covered by a red integument intermediate in character between skiu and mucous membrane, and are marked by folds or wrinkles directed at right angles to the length of the lips, and produced by the contraction of the orbi- cularis oris muscle. These free borders, which are as it were everted, espe- cially that of the lower lip, present anteriorly a well-marked line of separation between the skin and the mucous membrane; they describe an undulating line, which attracts the attention of the painter more than that of the anatomist. The chief characters of the free margin of the upper lip are, a slight pro- jection in the middle Line, and a slight depression on either side: those of the free border of the lower lip are a median depression and two lateral pro- jections ; on meeting together, these borders come into accurate contact, and completely close the opening of the mouth. The free margins of the lips are, moreover, their thickest part, and they are thicker in the middle than at each extremity; their thickness also varies greatly in different individuals. In general, thick lips are regarded as indicating a scrofulous diathesis; but in forming an opinion upon this subject, it is necessary to distinguish carefully between size resulting frorn hypertrophy of the muscular layer, and that which is caused by an excess of skin and cellular tissue. In the Ethiopian race, the size of the lips is entirely due to the great developement of the muscles. The commissures. The lateral extremities of the free margins of the lips are thin, and by their union form the angles or commissures of the lips (from committo, to join together). The anterior orifice of the mouth. The free edges of the lips intercept a transverse fissure, viz. the anterior opening of the mouth. The variable size of this orifice in man has given rise to the distinctions of middle-sized, large, and small mouths: the difference, however, is confined to the opening, and does not at aU affect the buccal cavity properly so called. The anterior opening of the lips is also exceedingly dilatable, and accordingly admits the introduction of very large bodies, and renders the exploration of every part of the cavity of the mouth comparatively easy. Structure of the lips. The lips are composed of two tegumentary layers, one cutaneous, the other mucous ; of a muscular layer; of a series of glands; and of vessels, nerves, and cellular tissue. The cutaneous layer. This is remarkable for its density and thickness, for the size of the hair follicles, which are partially situated beneath it, and for its intimate adhesion to the muscular layer; so that it is impossible to separate them by dissection without encroaching upon one or the other. This laj er may be regarded as the framework of the lips. It is endowed with an exqui- site sensibility, and, in many animals, possesses so delicate a sense of touch, that the slightest movement of the extremities of the long hairs with which it is provided, at once warns the animal of the presence of approaching objects. The mucous layer. This is remarkable from the existence of an epithelium upon it, which can be very easily demonstrated. It covers the free edge of * Mucli importance is attached to this furrow in semeiology. It is termed the abdominal line, because it becomes remarkably distinct in diseases of the abdomen