OSTEOLOGY. 40 Lateral surfaces. These present, 1. in front, the sides of the bodies of the vertehroj and their transverse grooves, which are deeper at the sides than in front, also deeper in the loins than in the neck and back; 2. in the dorsal region, facettes for the costo-vertebral articulations ; 3. still more posteriorly the intervertebral foramina. The largest of these foramina is the one situated between the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebras: from this point they gradually diminish in size to the upper part of the back : in the cervical region again, they are somevrhat larger ; and in the sacro-coccygeal they are double, with an anterior and a posterior opening*, in consequence of the lateral conjunction of the false vertebrae of the sacrum. In general their dimensions are in pro- portion to the size of the veins which communicate between the intra and the extra-vertebral venous system. Between these foramina are the transverse processes which contribute to form the sides of the posterior grooves, and, between the transverse processes, the articulating processes are visible. The base and the summit of the vertebral column have been already con- sidered, in the special description of the atlas and the fifth lumbar vertebra. Vertebral canal. This canal, into which the intervetebral foramina open, follows all the curves of the spinal column, but does not altogether correspond in shape with its external figure. Tt may be even said that its dimensions, at diiferent heights, bear an inverse proportion to those of the column; thus while the canal is most capacious in the neck, the column, on the other hand, is largest in the loins. It has been said that the widest portions of the canal correspond with the enlargements of the spinal cord : but this is not correct. The capacity of the canal is proportioned to the mobility of the respective por- tion of the column, so that in the most extensive movements, the spinal marrow is effectually guarded from compression: thus it is largest in the neck and loins, and smallest in the back and sacrum. The canal is almost equally well protected in front and behind: anteriorly by the bodies of the vertebrae, posteriorly by the spinous processes, which, as it were, ward off mischief from the spinal canal. Laterally it is defended by the articular and transverse processes. Behind, on each side of the median ridge, it is protected by the laminaj, the intervals of which are filled up by what'are named the j/elloiv ligaments. Any loss of security, occasioned by the existence of these yellow ligaments, is compensated by the followmg cir- cumstances TheUgaments are very short, so that the edges of thelanunaj are almost contiguous. 2. In the neck, where the intervals are greatest, the laminae are so incUned that the inferior border of the one above overlaps the su- perior border of the one below. 3. In the loins, where the intervals are nearly as great, the laminee are small, and their place is in a great measure occupied by the lateral masses and the pedicles, which are proportionally increased in development. It is impossible for an instrument to penetrate into the canal in the lumbar region, excepting between the spinous processes. The same dif- ficulty exists in the cervical region during extension, on account ot the imDri- catton of the lamiuEB. During forcible flexion, however, an mstrument may enter between them, when directed from below upwards. Internal Structure of the VertebrcB. Excepting the thin external layer of compact tissue, the bodies of the ver- , Kr^ nve almost entirely composed of open spongy texture. The different processes onTe other hLd, have a considerable quantity of compact tissue ; processes, ou '-"'^ " undergo any enlargement, they are cellular. The fatn^tSSS^^^^^^ tissue, /his abundance of the spon^ tissueTplains the fact of the weight of the spinal column bemg so m- considerable in proportion to its size.