423 E E 4 INTERNAL STRUCTURE OF ORGANS. au important point in tteir history. These varieties of position depend upon con-enital or upon accidental displacement, either affecting the particular orsan only, or consequent upon displacement of the neighhourmg organs ; or they may result from a change in the size of the organ itself. Size. The absolute size of an organ is determined by linear measurements, by the quantity of water which it displaces, and by its weight; its relative size, by comparison with bodies of a known size, or with other organs. The size of organs is subject to a great number of varieties. These depend either on age, as in the liver, testicles, and thijmus gland; on sex, temperament, or on individual peculiarities; also on the state in which an organ is found,—tor example the uterus, penis, and spleen. Lastly, there are some pathological variations, which should not be omitted in a treatise upon descriptive anatomy. Figure. The figure of the organs treated of in splanchnology appears to follow these rules. The double organs do not exactly resemble each other on the right and left sides of the body. The single organs, occupying the median line, are symmetrical; but most of those which are removed from that line are not symmetrical. Nevertheless, symmetry is not so completely wanting in the viscera belonging to nutritive life, as stated by Bichat, for the stomach and the small and great intestines may be divided into two equal halves. In regard to their forms, organs are compared in general either with familiar objects, or with geometric figures. Thus a kidnei/ is said to resemble a kidney- bean, and either lung, a cone. In very irregular organs, we merely describe the sm-faces and the borders. We shall not find in the viscera the same con- stancy of form as exists in the organs of relation. Direction. The direction of an organ is determined in the same manner as that of the bones and muscles, viz. by its relations with the imaginary planes surrounding the body, or with the mesial plane. Relations. The figure of an organ being determined, its surface is then divided into regions, the relations of which are accurately ascertained. These regions are generally termed surfaces and borders. As the situation of many organs is subject to great varieties, their relations must also vary. Too much cannot be said of the value of an accurate knowledge of these relations, from which a number of the most important practical inferences may be derived. The Internal Conformation or Structure of Organs, The surface of an organ being well understood, we next proceed to the study of its structure, comprising its colour, its consistence, and its anatomical elements. Colour. The colour both of the surface and the substance of an organ require to be studied. All variations of colour should be very carefully noted. Age and disease have much influence over it; and it is often difficult to dis- tinguish positively between its physiological and pathological condition. Consistence. The consistence, density, and fragility of organs are connected with their structure. The specific gravity or density of a single organ only, the lung, has been accurately studied, and that in a medico-legal point of view. In estimating the consistence and fragility of organs we can only approximate the truth. It is desirable that some more methodical and accurate means should be devised for the estimation of these qualities. Anatomical elements. The determination of the immediate anatomical ele- ments, or tissues, which enter into the composition of an organ, together with their proportions and their arrangement, constitutes the knowledge of its structure. Every organ has either a cellular, fibrous, cartilaginous, or bony framework. Some organs are provided with muscular fibres, or even with distinct muscles; they all contain the several kinds of vessels, viz. arteries, veins, and lymphatics; and they all possess nerves. The glandular organs have ex- cretory ducts. In explaining the structure of organs, we shall generally confine ourseh-es