OSTEOLOGY. 106 sertions ; towards its lower part it bends slightly forwards, becomes rough, and terminates in front of a pointed eminence caWed the styloid process (m) : it com- mences above by a very marked projection (n), on the inside of an eminence named the coronoid process of the ulna. The posterior edge commences below the olecranon by a bifurcated extremity ; it terminates insensibly towards the lower fourth of the bone; this edge may be felt beneath the skin throughout its whole extent. The superior or humeral extremity {b) of the ulna presents a considerable en- largement ; it is hollowed in front into a hook-like cavity, which articulates with the trochlea of the humerus, to the shape of which it is adapted. This cavity, which forms almost half the circumference of a circle, is called the great sigmoid cavity {b g h) of the ulna, because it has been compared to the letter sigma of the Greek alphabet. It has a vertical branch, which forms the olecranon process (b), and a horizontal one named the coronoid process (A). There is a sort of constriction at the place (3) where these two branches meet; this is the weakest point of the upper end of the ulna, and is consequently the almost in- variable seat of fractures of the olecranon. The olecranon (i), so named from ciAc'i/j), the elbow, and Kpavov the head, because it constitutes the most prominent part, or head of the elbow, presents, 1. a posterior surface, smooth above, and rough and irregular below, where it gives insertion to the triceps ; 2. an an- terior or articular surface, divided by a vertical ridge into two lateral parts of unequal magnitude; 3. two borders more or less rough, in different subjects, which afford attachments to the triceps muscle ; 4. a base, with the constriction we have before described ; 5. the summit having the form of a curved beak, which is received into the olecranal cavity of the humerus during extension of the fore-arm. The horizontal branch of the sigmoid cavity, or the coronoid process (h), presents, 1. a rough inferior surface C0> on which the brachialis anticus muscle is inserted; 2. a superior surface divided into two unequal parts by a ridge, which is a continuation of that which divides the articular surface of the ole- cranon ; 3. an internal rough edge (71), bent inwards, and giving insertion to the internal lateral ligament of the elbow joint; 4. an external edge marked by a small cavity which is oblong from before backwards, and slightly concave in the same direction, and is called the lesser sigmoid cavity (A) of the ulna : below this small cavity is a rough, triangular, and deeply excavated surface, to which the supinator brevis muscle is attached; 5. an anterior sinuous edge, with a projection or beak which is received into the coronoid cavity of the humerus during flexion of the fore-arm. The lower extremity of the ulna presents a small rounded enlargement (c), which has been called the head of the ulna. We observe on the outside an articular facette (I), convex, and elongated from before backwards, which is received into a corresponding concave sui-face on the lower extremity of the r-idius On the inner side of this head a vertical cylindrical process arises, ca\lei stuloid process of the uhia (m), the point of which gives attachment to the internal lateral ligament of the wrist joint. The head of the ulna presents below a smooth surface which articulates with the cuneiform bone, a moveable fibro-cartilao-e being interposed ; it isseparated from the styloid process behind bv a groovelfor the passage of a tendon, and on the inside by a slight irregular depression to which the triangular fibro-cartilage is attached. • Connections. The ulna articulates with the humerus, the radius, and the "/2rS S«ci«re. The shaft of the ulna is compact; the two extremities are oplhilar esneciallv the upper, the olecranon process of which resembles a short ronfbothirfSmandstruct^re. Sometimes even as Rosenmuller has observed, this process constitutes really a short bone, entirely separated from the ulna Devdopment. The ulna is developed from three points ; one for the shaft, and one forTach extremity. The osseous point of the body appears first, from ^e thltf-fiftSo t^Jf^^^^^^^^ day, or a little later than that of the humerus.