ARTICULATIONS OF THE RIBS. 177 and has suggested the idea that it is the most moveable of aU the nbs; but the articulation of its tubercle with the transverse process of the first dorsal ver- tebra, and the tightness of its ligaments, sufficiently explain why this opinion ThrmOTements which take place in the second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh costo-vertebral articulations, do not differ sufficiently to require any special mention. Movements of the Chondro-stemal Articulations. In these articulations, there is even less gliding than in the preceding. The anterior extremity of the first rib, or rather of the cartilage which forms its continuation, is the least moveable of aU; more commonly, it is completely fixed on account of its continuity with the sternum, —a circumstance which neutralises the favourable conditions for mobility presented by its posterior extremity. The eleventh and twelfth ribs, whose anterior extremities are con- nected only to soft parts, are the most moveable. The mobility of the ribs in front decreases from the lower to the upper part of the thorax; to this rule the second rib is an exception, chiefly on account of the two synovial membranes at its chondro-stemal articulation, which permit of greater motion. Movements of Hie Cartilages upon each other. The movements of this kind are restricted to the sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, and tenth ribs, the cartilages of which alone are articulated to each other; they are simple gliding motions ; and the ribs thus connected are always moved simultaneously. Movements of the entire Rib. The movements of the entire rib are composed, 1. of those which take place at the sternal and vertebral articulations ; and 2. of those which result from its own flexibility and elasticity. We shall endeavour to reduce the subject to its most simple elements. Let us suppose, then, that the ribs are straight, in- flexible levers: from their oblique position in reference to the vertical axis of the spinal column, their elevation will increase the width of the intercostal spaces; for it is a law of physics, that lines which are oblique with regard to another line, and parallel to each other, become further separated when they are placed perpendicularly to that line. A second eflfect of the elevation of this oblique lever is the advancement of the anterior extremity of the rib, and con- sequent increase of the antero-posterior diameter of the thorax. But as the ribs are curved levers, in assuming the horizontal position, their concavity must come to be directed perpendicularly to the median plane formed by the me- diastinum. It may be shown geometrically, that the concavity of an arc which falls perpendicularly upon a plane, includes a greater space than when it falls obliquely. * The arcs of the ribs, however, have not all the same curvature : each rib has its own peculiar perimeter, and it maybe proved that the more curved the rib, the greater is the projection outwards which it forms when elevated. Lastly, as in some ribs the ujjper border forms the segment of a smaller circle than the lower, the movement of projection outwards is proportionally greater in these than in the other ribs. This assertion may be experimentally proved by imitating the movements of elevation and depression on the second rib. f IS the ribs and their cartilages were inflexible levers, the movements of ele- vation would be much restrained; but their flexibility admits of more extensive * Borelli, t. ii. p. 177. ,l■,r^nI''^,V1®^^"'■^""'"'' Haller. it appears that the second rib is the most elevated rn?fs'SXUh\^t!,Ul;^7?L''^trf" " that its exce^'ri^'?;;r- VOL. I. „■