GENERAL OBSERVATIONS. " B 4 ever since the time of the Alexandrian school, formed the commencement of '^^KsTntTjthe transcendental anatomists have particnla.-ly engaged Jn fL .?nrlv Of the osseous system, doubtless on account of the facihty with wMch mL b tnve tT^^^^^^^^^ and from their labours, though in many respects wnicnu may "'^'""^ ^ ', ig^ge has been obtamed of some of the rrtr;:fTst:oi:gy"Thir^^^^^^^^^^ —d notice from the older anatomists^^ the admirable researches of Cuvier respecting fossU animals, osteoti; fas becom^^e of the most maportant bases of comparative anatomy and S-y. By the study of bones the anatomist has been enabled to deter- mine °ener^a and^pecies, no longer existing on the face of the globe and_ to give as it were new Ufeto these old and disjointed rehcs of the antediluvian animal kingdom. Thus the fossil bones, deposited m an invariable order of supposition in the crust of the earth, have been transformed into monuments more authentic than historical records. i, „f General vieiv of the skeleton. The bones form a system or whole, of which the different parts are contiguous, and united to each other. The only ex- ception to this ride is the os hyoides, and yet the hgaments by which it is con- nected with the rest of the system are evidently the representatives of the osseous pieces, which in the lower animals connect this bone with the tem- ^°The assemblage of the bones constitutes the skeleton. It is called a natural skeleton when its different parts are connected by their own ligaments; an ar- tificial skeleton, on the other hand, is one of which the bones are jomed together by artificial connexions, such as metallic wires, &c. The result of this union is a symmetrical and regular structure, essentially composed of a central coliunn, denominated the vertebral column or spine, which tenninates superiorly in a considerable enlargement — the cranium, and in- feriorly in certain immovably united vertebrse which constitute the sacrum and coccyx. To this column the following appendages are attached: 1. In front of and below the cranium a complicated osseous structure, the face, di\'ided into two maxillee, the superior and inferior. 2. On each side twelve bony arches, flexible, elastic, and curved — the ribs, which are united in front to another column, the sternum. These parts taken together form the thorax. 3. Four prolongations, called limbs or extremities, two superior, or thoracic as they are termed, because they correspond with the chest or _ thorax, and two in- ferior or pelvic, so named on account of their connexion with the basin or pelvis, but better named abdominal extremities. The thoracic and abdominal extremities are evidently modifications of the same fundamental type, and are essentially composed of the same number of analogous parts, viz. 1. An osseous girdle, the superior constituted by the bones of the shoulder, the in- ferior by the pelvis. 2. A part which may be in some measure regarded as the body of the limb, viz. the humerus, in the thoracic extremity, the femur in the abdominal. 3. A manubrium or handle, to use an expression of Galen, above the forearm, below the leg. 4. Lastly, digitated appendages which form the extremities, properly so called, viz. the hand and the foot. Number of the bones. Authors do not agree respecting the number of the bones. Some for inetance describe the sphenoid and the occipital as forming only one bone, while most anatomists consider them two distinct bones. Some admit three pieces in the sternum, which they describe separately. Many, after the example of the older writers, divide the haunch into three distinct bones— the pubes, the ischium, and the ileum: others recognise five pelvic, or sacral vertebras; three or five parts of the os hyoides: and lastly, the ossa sesamoidea and the ossa wormiana are omitted by some, but by others are reckoned in the enumeration of the bones. The ideas of certain modern authors with respect to the development of the bones, instead of dispelling the uncertainty which attaches to the enumeration