SPLANCHNOLOGY. 484 and have been found in the sacs of hernia;. These divierticula are usually much nearer the lower than the upper part of the small intestine. They are formed by all the coats of the bowel, and are very different from mere protru- sion of the mucous membrane through the muscular coat, of which I have seen one example in the duodenum, and which I have often met with in other parts of the small intestine. In a subject which I recently examined, the small intestine presented about fifty spheroidal tumours, of unequal size, all situated along the mesenteric side of the gut, and formed by protrusions of the mucous membrane through the muscular fibres. Structure of the Small Intestine. Dissection. This structure must be studied upon a distended and moist por- tion of intestine, upon a distended and dried specimen, and also upon one in- verted and distended. It is also of importance to study the mucous membrane under water, with the assistance of a strong lens. Injections thrown in first by the veins and then by the arteries, are also useful in developing its structure.* The small intestine, as well as the stomach, is formed of four coats or membranes, which, proceeding from without inwards, are the serous, muscular, fibrous, and mucous coats. The serous coat. The arrangement of this coat upon the duodenum differs from that upon the rest of the small intestine. The peritoneum is applied to the first portion of the duodenum in the same way as upon the stomach, i. e. it covers it entirely, excepting in front and be- hind, where there is a triangular space devoid of this coat. Like the stomach, this first portion gives attachment to the great omentum in front, and to the small omentum behind. The fold of peritoneum which passes from the liver to the duodenum has been improperly called the hepatic ligament of the duode- num. The peritoneum merely passes over the front of the second and third portions of the duodenum, so that the posterior surface of the intestine is in immediate contact with the parts with which it is in relation, and is very per- fectly fixed. The peritoneum forms a complete sheath for the small intestine, properly so called, excepting along its concave border, where the two layers which consti- tute the mesentery separate from each other, so as to include the bowel. In this situation we find a triangular cellular space, exactly resembling those which we have already described along the curvatures of the stomach, and performing a similar ofl5ce, viz. that of remedying the slight extensibility of the peritoneum, and permitting the intestine to imdergo sudden dilatation to a great extent. We should have a very incorrect notion of the dilatability of the intestine if we imagined that it is limited by the triangular space along its concavity, for when the bowel is much distended, the mesentery itself becomes separated into its two layers to allow of such distension. Of this I am con- vinced, from having measured the antero-posterior diameter of the mesentery both before and after inflation of the bowels. The cellular tissue which unites the peritoneal to the muscular coat is extremely delicate, and its adhesion to the latter coat increases in proceedmg from the concave to the convex border of the intestine. Although the peri- toneal coat is very thin, and so transparent that the muscular fibres may be seen through it, yet it has considerable strength. The muscular coat is composed of two layers of involuntary muscular fibres, one superficial, the other deep. The superficial layer is the thinner; it consists of loneitudinal fibres placed around the bowel in a very regular manner, and forming a continuous plane. I have never found these fibres more numerous at the mesenteric than at the convex border. This layer of fibres is almost alwavs removed with the peritoneal coat, to which it adheres very mtimately. From their white colour and shining appearance under the serous membrane, they have been supposed to be of a tendinous nature. * The internal surface qfthe small intestine will be noticed witli the mucous membrane.