229 THE INCISOR TEETH. facial angle. The axis of all the teeth is slightly inclined, so as to converge somewhat towards the centre of the alveolar curve. The length of the teeth (that is, of their crowns) is very nearly uniform. The advantage of this arrangement in preventing one tooth from projecting beyond another, is very obvious. When the teeth are not equal in length, mastication is evidently imperfect; and therefore the principal object, in cases of fractui-e of the lower jaw, is to prevent the inconvenience that would arise from irre- gularity of the dental edge, and which is actually observed when the fragments unite in a wrong position. The teeth are only separated from each other by very small triangular intervals, so that they are almost contiguous. When the intervals are very considerable, mastication is imperfect. The general form of the teeth is that of a slightly elongated cone, flattened in opposite directions, the base of which is formed by the crown and turned towards the free edge of the dental arch, whUe the summit, formed by the simple or compound root, presents an opening that penetrates into the cavity of the tooth. The conical form of the root, and the accuracy with which the alveolus is moulded upon it, have a twofold result; viz. that the effort of mastication is disseminated over all points of the socket, and that no pressure is ever experienced at the extremity which receives the vessels and nerves. The differences presented by the teeth, more especially in the crown, have led to their arrangement into three classes ; viz. incisors, canine, and molars .- the latter have been subdivided into the great and small molars. The crown of the incisor teeth (figs. 85, 86.) resembles a wedge with the sharp border shaped like a chisel; as their name implies, they serve the pur- pose of cutting the food. The crown of a canine tooth {figs. 87, 88.) forms a cone with a free pointed apex; these teeth serve to tear the food, whence their name of laniaires: Hunter called them cuspidati, from their having only one point. The crown of a molar tooth (figs. 89 to 92.) is cuboidal, the free ex- tremity being provided with tubercles or points, intended to bruise the food as in a mill. The small molars, which have only two tubercles, are called by Hunter bicuspides (figs. 89 and 90.). Man alone, of the entire animal series, is possessed of the three kinds of teeth in an almost equal state of develope- ment. The Incisor Teeth (Jiffs. 85 and 86.). These are eight in number, four in either jaw. They occupy the middle of the dental arches, and consequently the anterior extremity of the lever of the third order, represented by each half of the jaw. Their position is unfavour- able, and consequently they are intended only to divide substances that offer but httle resistance. This class of teeth attain their utmost developement in rodentia; as in the rabbit, beaver, &c. General characters. The crown (a) is wedge-shaped; its anterior surface (fig. 85.) is convex, and the posterior concave; its sides ■ (fig- 86.) are triangular; its base is thick and continuous with the root, and its free edge sharp, somewhat broader than the base, and cut obliquely upwards and backwards in the upper teeth, and downwards and forwards in the lower. This ob- liquity of the surfaces by which the incisors of the two jaws correspond, is the result of their constant friction upon each other, for they cross like the blades of scissors. The cutting edge of an incisor tooth, before it is worn down, is marked by three small denticulations. The root (b) has the form of a cone flattened on the sides; the anterior border is thicker than ally exists on -r''""""- ^^'^'^^^^ ^^"'""'^ ^""^ fis- 86.), occasion- timps thp n^- f 'appearing to indicate an original division ; and some- tJnfis the pent of the root is bifid. Two curved lines, having their con- Q 3