396 APONEUROLOGY. small and very distinct cord, wliicb appears to form a septum between the recti muscles; it increases in thickness as it proceeds downwards from thi' umbilicus to the symphysis, and may be easily felt under the skin in emaci- ated individuals. We may add, that the fibres of the linea alba have no re- semblance to the yellow elastic tissue ; they are neither extensible nor elastic, at least in the human subject. Its uses entirely refer to its capability of offer- ing resistance. The pyramidales are its tensor muscles. The Four Layers of the Anterior Abdominal Aponeurosis. From each side of the linea albU {a, fig. 134., a diagram representing a ho- rizontal section of the abdominal parietes) two fibrous layers proceed outwards,—one anteriorly, the other posteriorly, to the rectus muscle (r). The anterior layer (6) having arrived near the outer border of the muscle, subdivides into two other layers,—one superficial, constituting the aponeurosis of the external oblique {d); the other deep, forming the anterior layer of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique (e). The % " posterior layer (c) is also simple as far as the outer border of the rectus, and then separates likewise into two layers,—one anterior, which becomes united with the aponeurosis of the in- ternal oblique (e), and is regarded as the pos- terior layer of that aponeurosis ; the other posterior, which continues its course outwards from the rectus, and forms the aponeurosis of the transversalis muscle (/). We shall describe these different parts in succession. The aponeurosis of the external oblique. This is the most superficial layer, and is of a quadrilateral figure (a, fig. 109.); it is broad below, where it cor- responds to the interval between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium and the linea alba, becomes narrower immediately above, and again expands at the upper part, but to a less extent than below. It is covered by the skin and the superficial fascia, and it covers the apo- neurosis and the anterior portion of the fleshy fibres of the internal oblique. It adheres intimately to the aponeurosis of the internal oblique, as far as the vicinity of the outer border of the rectus, excepting below, where the two fasciae are perfectly distinct, and can be easily separated throughout their en- tire extent. Its external margin, slightly concave and denticulated, presents irregular prolongations, with which the fleshy fibres become continuous. A line extend- ing from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium to the extrem- ity of the cartilage of the eighth rib, will indicate with tolerable accuracy the direction of this margin, which appears to be divided into two layers,—one superficial, very thin, and continuous with the proper cellulo-fibrous sheath of the muscle; the other deep, and giving origin to fleshy fibres. Its upper margin is narrow, and cannot be exactly defined; it often gives attachment to some fibres of the pectoralis major. Its lower margin consists of two very distinct portions,—one extendmgfrom the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium to the spine of the os pubis, is caUed the femoral arch (p p',figs. 136, 137.) ; the other, stretching between the spine and the symphysis pubis, of^^rs for consideration the pillars and the ■cutaneous orifice of the 2njf«jWca7ia/(m,,^(7S. 109. 136, 137.). The aponeurosis of the external oblique is composed of tendinous fasciculi, directed obliquely downwards and inwards, like the fleshy fibres with which they are continuous. It is also perforated, especially in the neighbourhood of