176 ARTHROLOGr. anterior wall of the thorax had been divided for an anatomical preparation I should remark, also, that the flexibility of the ribs and their cartilages permits great depression of the sternum without fracture ; and this explains the pos- sibility of contusion, and even rupture, of the heart, lungs, or great vessels ■without fracture of the bones of the thorax. The degree of resistance of the anterior wall of the thorax may be also considerably varied, by the state of relaxation or contraction of the muscles, which should be considered as active and contractile supports to the arch, of which the sternum forms the key stone. •2. In the case of lateral pressure or blows, the thorax resists, like an arch, the vault of which is represented by the convexity of the twelve ribs, and its pillars by the sternum in front and the vertebraB behind. External violence cannot act upon the whole side of the chest at once, as it does upon the front, and therefore the ribs offer a more partial resistance laterally, and are accor- dingly much more easily broken by direct blows. In this case, also, as in the former, when the elevator muscles of the ribs are in action, the resistance is considerably increased; and individuals have been then able to bear enor- mous weights, which would, in all probability, have fractured the ribs, had the muscles been relaxed. What has been said above of the manner in which the ribs withstand violence, is not however applicable to the false ribs, which having no fixed Doint on the sternum, are depressed into the abdominal cavity. Mechanism of the Thorax, with reference to Mobility. The thorax is not equally moveable throughout. The middle which cor- responds to the heart, and is formed by the sternum and vertebral column, has a very limited degree of mobility, while the sides which correspond to the lungs are endowed with the power of extensive motion. The movements of the thorax consist of alternate dilatations and contractions, from which its mechanism has been compared to that of a pair of bellows. They result from the motions which take place at the costo-vertebral and chondro-sternal articulations, and at the articulations of the cartilages with each other. We cannot explain the movements of each rib and of the entire thorax, without first analysing the motions at each of the above joints. Movements of the Costo-vertebral Articulations. These articulations permit only very limited gliding motions. In these movements, each rib represents a lever which moves upon the fulcrum afforded by the vertebral column. It may describe the movements, 1. of elevation ; 2. of depression ; 3. it may be carried inwards ; 4. it may be carried outwards ; 5. it may perform a revolving motion, around the cord of the arc which it re- presents. These different movements, which are very obscure in the imme- diate neighbourhood of the joint, are more evident the greater the distance is from the posterior end of the rib. The means of union between the ribs and vertebree are so strong, that luxation of the ribs is impossible, and the causes which would tend to produce it would break the neck of the rib. Each rib is capable of performing all these motions; but as they vary in de- gree in the different ribs, we must examine them comparatively in the series of costo-vertebral articulations. The eleventh and the twelfth ribs possess the most extensive power of motion. They owe ttis, 1. to the circumstance of their being scarcely at all united to the very small transverse processes ; *> to the loose state of their ligaments; and 3. to the almost perfect flatness of their articular surfaces. The extent of their movements inwards and out- wards should be also noticed. We shaU find these movements, but less pro- nounced, in the eighth, ninth, and tenth ribs, but they scarcely exist in the first *^The"hape of the head of the first rib is undoubtedly favourable to mobility,