45 OCCIPITAL BONE. i'li'.lO. rough surface, the jugular surface {i, Jig. 21.), which gives attachment to the '^^hTSwlTr^l^M^^^^^^^ ifi9. 10.),in CO— with all the other 1 ne internal f ^^^^^ cranium, is lined by the dura mater. It presents, 1. The internal orifice of the occi- pital foramen ( 1, fig. 10.), which is lai-ger than the external. 2. Before the foramen the basilar groove (2), sloping gently from above down- wards and backwards: the sides of the groove are marked by other very small grooves, which concur in forming the inferior petrosal groove. 3 On each side the occipital foramen, and to- wards the fore part, is a projection (3 3) which corresponds with the condyle, and particularly with the anterior condyloid canal. 4. A httle more external and posterior is a small portion of a groove (4), which contributes to form the ter- mination of the lateral sinus. 5. Behind the foramen are the four occipital fossa, two superior or cerebral (5 5), and two inferior or cerebellar (6 6), separated from each other by a crucial ridge. The vertical branch of this ridge 5 a) joins the termination of the sagittal groove above ; below it s formed by the internal occipital crest (7). The horizontal branches (ff 6) cor- respond with the grooves for the lateral sinuses of the dura mater The in- .ternat occipital protuberance (g) is situated at the confluence of the four branches. The right and left lateral grooves are rarely of the same size and depth; the right is generally the larger, and forms by itself the contmuation of the sagittal or longitudinal groove. , ^, The circumference presents four borders and four angles. The superior or parietal borders (a b, a b}, which are remarkable for the length of their indentations, articulate with the posterior borders of the parietal bones forming the lambdoidal suture. , The inferior or temporal borders (6 c, b c) are divided into two equal por- tions by the jugular eminence (d), which articulates with the temporal bone. The part (6 d) above this eminence is slightly denticulated, and united to the mastoid portion of the temporal bone; the part (d c) below is thick, sinuous, but without indentations, and articulates by juxta-position with the petrous portion of the temporal. In front of the jugular eminence is a deep notch, sometimes divided into two parts by a process of bone, which contributes to form the posterior lacerated foramen. The superior angle (a) is acute, and is received into the retreating angle, formed by the. posterior borders of the parietal bones. Its place is sometimes supplied by a Wormian bone. In the young subject the posterior fontanelle is placed here. The inferior angle (c) is truncated and very thick ; it forms the basilar process, which presents a rough articular surface for union with the body of the sphenoid. The connexion is established by means of a cartilage, which becomes ossified at a very early period, so that many anatomists de- scribe the sphenoid and occipital as one bone. * The lateral angles {b b) sre very obtuse, and are received into the retiring angle formed by the union of the parietal with the temporal bone. At these angles the lateral and posterior fontanelles are situated. Connexions. The occipital articulates with six bones—the two parietal, the two temporal, the sphenoid, and the atlas. Structure. The part of this bone which forms the occipital fossse consists ahnost exclusively of compact tissue. It is here extremely thin, especially at * A reference to Comparative Anatomy would seem to justify tliis view, for in some inferior animals the b.xsilar process and the sphenoid are hut one piece.