227 Q 2 ODONTOLOGY. Circumstances in which the teeth differ from bones. — Number. — Position. — External conformation. — General characters. — Classification — incisor — canine — molar. — Structure. — Development. The teeth, the immediate instruments of mastication, are those ossiform con- cretions, which surmount the edges and are implanted in the suhstance of both jaws. The teeth are not bones, though, from possessing an apparent analogy to them, they have long been considered as such. They differ from bones m many respects. 1. With regard to position. The teeth are naked and visible at the surface, ■whilst the bones, and this is one of their most important characters, are covered by periosteum. 2. In anatomical characters. The teeth consist of a bulb or thick papilla sur- rounded by a calcareous envelope, composed of two substances, the enamel and the ivory. This calcareous envelope is not traversed by vessels, nor can any trace of cellular tissue be discovered in it. 3. In regard to their mode of developement. In the teeth the formation of the hard or ossiform matter takes place by successive depositions, from the cii'- cumference to the centre; whilst bones are developed in a precisely opposite direction. No nutritive changes are carried on in the teeth as in bones. More- over the teeth are renewed by means of the second dentition; but there is no analogous phenomenon in the developement of bone. 4. In physiological relations. The teeth do not participate in the diseases of bone, being susceptible only of chemical and physical alterations ; nor is the period of their existence, like that of the bones, of equal duration with the life of the individual. 5. In regard to chemical composition. They contain a much larger proportion of saline matters, and the enamel is entirely destitute of gelatine. All these circumstances prove that the teeth are not bones. We shall now show that they belong to the epidermoid system, and are analogous to the nails and hair. 1. When examined in the lower animals, they are found to present an unin- terrupted series, from such as closely resemble horns or nails, to such as present the most perfectly characteristic appearances of bone. 2. They have a la- mellated structure, like the nails and hair: in some animals this is very mani- fest, but is rendered obscure in others from the abundance of calcareous de- posit. 3. They are developed in the same manner as horns, nails, and hair. 4. Like them, they present no nutritive phenomena; they are formed layer after layer, and undergo no renewal of their constituent parts; they are* inorganic bodies, the products of transudation. 5. According to M. Geoffroy St. Hilaire, the beak of birds, which is evidently a horny structure, belongs to the dental system. Number. In young subjects, at the period of the first dentition, there are twenty teeth, ten in each jaw : in the adult there are thirty-two, sixteen in each jaw. Man, therefore, during the course of his life has fifty-two teeth, twenty temporary, and thirty-two permanent. The varieties in the number of the teeth are either the result of a deficiency or au excess. The varieties/rom deficiency consist, 1. in the absence of aU teeth, examples ot which have been recorded by Fox and Sabatier; 2. in the absence of a great number of teeth, as occurred in an individual who had only the four incisors in each jaw. These deficiencies are chiefly observed to affect the posterior molares, and frequently they are merely apparent in them, from the teeth re- maming concealed within the alveoli for a much longer period than usuai * See note, p. 234.