ATTACHMENTS OF THE MUSCLES. 247 are only in contact ^ith the hones by their extremities or their tendons : the deep-seated muscles alone correspond to the bones by their entire length Llatimis of the muscles to each other. The muscles are ™f d ;P°° other in successive layers; each muscle is covered by a sort of fi^ro-cellukr sheath ; and a loose and moist cellular tissue is interposed .between the M- ferent sheaths, so as to facilitate the gliding movement and independent con- traction of each muscle. This isolation of the muscles does not exist through- out their entire length ; several are often blended together in one common in- sertion, from which they proceed as from a centre, afterwards separating fiom each other. This community of attachment is prmcipaUy observed in those muscles that perform analogous ofaces, or that, usuaOy at least, act simul- taneously. Most muscles are inclosed in a separate fibrous sheath, which iso- lates them in their actions and also in their diseases. Of this, we shall fmd remarkable examples in the rectus abdominis and sartorms. With regard to the relations of their edges, the muscles are sometimes contiguous throughout their entire course, and sometimes separated by intervals, generally ot a tri- angular figui-e; and principally imponant in surgical anatomy, because incisions, for the exposure of vessels, are almost always made in such intervals. Relations of muscles to the vessels and nerves. The muscles serve to protect the vessels and nerves, not only in consequence of the thickness of the layers which they form in front of them, but also by the resistance they oppose during their contraction to external violence. Near the centre of a limb there isgeneraUy a considerable cellular interval between the muscular layers, which is intended for the principal vessels and nerves. The existence of such spaces prevents the injury which these vital parts would sustain from compression during the contraction of the muscles. It is also worthy of notice, that when- ever a vessel passes through the body of a muscle we find an aponeurotic arch or ring, which is non-contractile, and in some degree, therefore, obviates the danger of compression during the action of the muscular fibres. I say in some degree ; because in order to render compression of the vessels impossible, the muscular fibres, attached to these rings, must have proceeded from them as from a centre, diverging in all directions. In this case the action of the muscles would not change the form of the rings, but would tend to increase their diameters in every direction. It is found, however, that they are invari- ably elongated in one direction and diminished in another, when the fibres of the muscle contract. BernouiUi, indeed, has shown that it is impossible to change the form of a circle, by making one of its diameters greater than the others, without, at the same time, diminishing its capacity ; because, within a given periphery, the most regular figures have the greatest capacity, and the circle is more regular than either the oval or the ellipse. On the whole, however, it must be understood, that the contraction of the fibrous rings does not, in any material degree, impede the circulation. It should also be remarked, that a distinct fibrous sheath surrounds the ves- sels and the nerves, serving to isolate and protect them amid the various muscles by which they are surrounded. Most of the arteries have accompanying muscles, which may be called their respective satellites : thus, the sartorius is the satellite muscle of the femoral artery, the biceps of the brachial, the stemo-mastoid of the carotid, &c. Attachments or Insertions of Muscles. The attachments or insertions of muscles constitute one of the most impor- tant points in their history, and one which requires to be studied with the greatest care, because the uses of a muscle can be determined from a know- ledge of its insertions alone. The?e insertions should be considered in two points of view: 1. as to the direct insertion of the muscular fibres into the tendons, aponeuroses, or other structures; 2. as to the insertion of the tendons and aponeuroses into the levers represented by the osseous system. R 4