THE SUPERCILIARIS. 301 superior maxilla, and fiom the internal and loTver third of the base of the orbit. Fron/the^e origins the fleshy fi^^^^ pass outwards, dividing into two halves, an upoer, which describes concentric curves with the ^"/'f ^l^y'^^^.^f^'^^J^;:.^- wards, and a lower also describing concentric curves but with concavity directed upwards (duo palpebrarum musculi, Vesahus). Each of these halves fs subdivided into two sets of fibres, an external set surrounding the base of the orbit, and an internal or palpebral belonging to each eyelid: hence the distinction drawn by Riolanus between the orbicular,., and the oj ^"'; pebraUs muscles. The external fibres (formmg the orbicukr portion) describe a complete ellipse. I have never met with the fibrous intersection at the outer part of the eye, mentioned by some anatomists The palpebral or ciliary fibres, forming the proper palpebral portion, arise from the bifurcation of the tendon, and describe concentric arcs, which are united on the outside at an acute angle to a cellular raphe. _ , , . , e Relations. The orbicular portion is closely united to the skm by means ot a fibrous and adipose tissue, which is very compact over the upper, and loose over the lower, portion of the muscle ; it is connected with the skin of the eye- lids by a serous cellular tissue, remarkably susceptible of infiltration. It covers the lachrymal sac, the corrugator supercilii muscle, the orbital arch, the maxillary bone, the temporal muscle, and the superior attachments of the zygomaticus major, of the levator labii superioris alaeque nasi, and of the levator labii supe- rioris. It is separated from the conjunctiva by a fibrous membrane and the tarsal cartilages. Its circumference is blended with the pyramidalis nasi on the inside, with the occipito-frontalis and corrugator above, but is free below; occasionally it gives off a few fibres from its outer border, some of which form the zygomaticus minor, and others of a paler colour terminate in the skin Actions. The orbicularis acts in the same manner as all other sphincters, that is to say, the circular fibres, of which it is composed, contract towards the centre ; but as the fleshy fibres have their fixed point at the straight tendon, and still more at the internal insertions, it follows that during the contraction of this muscle it is thrown in some measure inwards, and by it the integu- ments of the forehead, the temple, and the cheek, are drawn towards the inner angle of the eye. The intimate adhesion between the skin and the upper half of the muscle explains why, during its contraction, that part is rendered more apparent beneath the skin than the lower. The palpebral portion contracts independently of the orbicular, a fact that confirms the distinction made by Riolanus. Nor is this all; the contraction of this palpebral portion, or palpe- bralis muscle properly so called, is habitually involuntary, whilst the contraction of the orbicular portion is subject to the will. The palpebral fibres are pale, and resemble the muscular fibres of the alimentary organs *; the orbicular fibres are red, like those of the muscles of animal life. When the palpebral fibres contract, they do not produce the occlusion of the eye, by a concentric ap- proximation of the fibres, but by bringing together the free edges of the eye- lids, the only method permitted by the tarsal cartilages. The curve described by the muscular fibres of the lower being smaller than that formed by those of the upper eyelid, it follows that the closing of the eyes depends principally upon the latter. The Superciliaris. Dissection. Make a vertical incision in the median line between the frontal muscles; tiu-n back carefully the frontal and the orbicularis muscles from within outwards. The superciliarii (corrugator supercilii, Albinus, a', fig. 114.), is a narrow and tolerably thick fasciculus, generally of a deeper red than the orbicularis, and situated along the superciliary arch, with the direction of which it corre- » See note *, p. 309.