SPLANCHNOLOGY. they are of a whitish colour ; their surface is rough, and as it were cracked, and IS olten covered with very dark-coloured cicatrices, which have been incorrectly regarded as remaius of ruptures in their external coat, to allow of the escape of the fecundated oviun. ^ The ovary is free in front, behind, and above ; but is attached by its lower border to the broad ligament, by its outer end to the trumpet-shaped extremity ot the Fallopian tube, and by its inner end to the corresponding side of the uterus, some lines below the upper angle of that organ, by means of a liga- mentous cord, called the ligavient of the ovary (c) ; which was for a long time re- garded as a canal {ductus ejaculans), intended to convey an ovarian fluid into the uterus. The tissue of this ligament strongly resembles that of the uterus and seems to be a prolongation from it.* ' Structure. The ovary is composed externally of a dense fibrous coat, covered by the peritoneum, which adheres so closely to it, that it cannot be detached; and, internally, of a spongy and vascular tissue, the areola; of which seem to be formed by very delicate prolongations from the external coat; in the midst of this tissue (the stroma, from o-rpai/ia, a bed) the Graafian vesicles are depo- sited. These vesicles vary in number from three or four to fifty. The structure of the ovary is most evident in the recently delivered female. At that time its tissue, expanded, and, as it were, spongy, appears to me to resemble that of the dartos, and is traversed by a great number of vessels. I have also seen, in re- cently delivered females, the ovaries from twelve to fifteen times larger than usual, and converted into a sac, having very thin parietes, which were easily torn; the ovary itself was of a spongy, vascular, and diffluent texture, in the midst of which the vesicles were seen unaltered. The vesicles are nothing more than small cysts of variable size, with very thin transparent walls, adhering to the tissue of the ovary, and containing a limpid serosity, either colourless or of a citron yellow. According to Von Baer, the most superficial vesicles, which approach the expanded extremity of the Fallopian tube, contain a floating body, which was imperfectly seen by Malpighi, and constitutes the germ or ovum.f I have often met with ovaries destitute of vesicles ; but then they had un- dergone some change, that of induration for example. May the absence of these vesicles be regarded as a cause of sterility ? The corpora lutea, according to the observations of Haller, consist of the re- mains of vesicles that have been ruptured in consequence of the act of impreg- nation ; they are brownish-yellow masses, of a tolerably firm consistence, and which I have found as large as a cherry-stone in females recently delivered. These bodies have been ascertained to exist in females who have never borne children, and this anomaly has been explained by supposing that they may be produced in consequence of masturbation. We would remark, however, that there is no constant relation between the existence of these bodies and the oc- currence of fecundation. In some females who have had many children, no * It has even been stated that this so called efferent duct of the ovary divides into two branches, one of which opens directly into the uterus, while the other rups along its border, and opens near the os uteri. t [The vesicles of De Graaf vary from the size of a pea to that of a pin's head ; they have two tunics, one external and vascular, the other, called tlie ovi-cripstde, which, according to Schwann, is lined internally with epithelium (membrana granulosa, Baer). In each vesicle there is usually but one ovum; which at first occupies its centre, but in the mature condition approaches the inner surface of its internal coat, and surrounded by a granular covering (tunica granulosa, Barry), is held there by retinacula (.Barry). The ovum is a perfectly spherical body, of uniform size (about f^^th of an inch in diameter); it consists of a thiclc but very trans- parent coat (zona pellucida, Valentin; chorion, IVagner), which surrounds the substance of the yolk ; within the yolk is situated the germinal vesicle of Purkinj§ (about ,jlj,th of an incli in diameter), and within that the germinal spot of Wagner (about jj^th, or ^jlpth of an inch). The changes incidental to impregnation, according to Dr. Barry, commence in the germinal spot and vesicle. For further information, and for a list of works upon this subject, see MUller's Physiology translated by Dr. Baly, and Wagner's Physiology translated by Dr. WiUis.]