SPLANCHNOLOGY. 530 tissue of the liver more or less atrophied by tlie compression to which it has been subjected. Developement of the liver. The developement of the liver is one of the most important subjects in its history. Under this head we have several points to consider: — 1. The time of its appearance is anterior to that of any other organ *: in the first days of intra-uterine life it may be distinguished by its colour in the midst of the cellular mass ■which represents the foetus. 2. In size the liver is relatively larger as it is examined at an earlier period of developement. Thus, according to Walter, in the embryo of three weeks it forms one half the weight of the whole body. This enormous proportion is maintained during the first half of intra-uterine life. After this period its growth is slower, while that of the other organs is proportionally increased, so that at birth the weight of the liver is one eighteenth that of the whole body, f After birth the liver undergoes an absolute diminution; some authors have even affirmed that a comparison of the weight of the liver in new-born infants and in children of nine or ten months old, gives a difference of one fourth in favour of the former. It is generally said that the difference in size affects the left rather than the right lobe ; but this has not appeared evi- dent to me. Towards the age of puberty the liver has the same relative bulk as at later periods. Attempts have been made to ascertain the propor- tion between the weight of this organ and that of the body, and it has been said that it forms one-thirty sixth part of the whole body. But what relation can be established between two terms, one of which, viz. the weight of the body, is subject to continual variations ? In old age the liver is smaller than in the adult, a diminution apparently in unison with that which occurs in all the other organs. 3. The differences in the situation of the liver are connected with its vari- ations in size : thus, in the first half of iutra-uterine life, the liver occupies the greatest part of the abdomen, and is in relation with certain regions in which it is not found at more advanced stages. In the earliest periods it descends as low as the crest of the ilium, and when the abdomen is opened it presents the appearance of a red mass, beneath which are placed the other abdominal viscera. During the second half of intra-uterine life and at birth it occupies only a part of the abdomen ; but it still corresponds to a considerable extent of the abdominal parietes: hence the ease with which it is ruptured by pressure upon the abdomen of a new-born infant. One fact, on record, seemed to me to prove, that in a first labour, where the feet presented, the pressure of the genital organs of the mother was sufficient to produce this result. (Vide Proces-verbal de la Distribution des Prix de la Maternite, 1832.) In the earliest periods the falciform ligament of the liver corresponds to the median line of the body; at birth it is a little to the right of that line, and is afterwards removed still further in the same direction. 4. The great size of the liver during intra-utt-rine life is connected with the existence of the umbilical vein, by which the foetus receives the blood returned from the placenta, that is to say, all the blood necessary for its nutrition. The rapid diminution of the liver after birth is probably owing to the obliteration of this vein. It is a very remarkable fact, that the persistence of this vein m the adult is not accompanied by an unusually large liver. In one particular case of persistence of the umbilical vein the liver was of a very small size. (^Anat. Path, avec planches, liv. xvii.) * rin n.B pnihrvn of the bird the liver is developed by a conical protrusion of the walls of the inLuna can^ in\o Agranular mass or blastema.'^ (Sei MUllcr's hys. by Baly, p. 448.) The rSents oTthe ce?ebro-spinal axis, of the heart and of the intestinal canal appear previously to 'l^havl had occasion to notice at the Maternite, the very great differences in the size of the livtr inlnfants at birlli for which I have been unable to find any sufficient reason There arc some well formed in^^^ in whom the liver at birth is not relatively larger than that of adults.