SPLANCHNOLOGY. Within the lung, as well as at its root, the pulmonary arteries and veins always accompany the bronchial tubes. The three vessels may be distin- guished from each other upon sections of the organ by the following cha- racters:—the ar<«-^ remains open, or rather so, and is of a white colour; thQ bronchus is also open, but of a more or less rosy colour, and contains a irothy mucus, which may be pressed out of it; the vein is collapsed, and much more difficult to be seen than the artery. The relations of these three kinds of vessels have not appeared to me to be constant. Notwithstanding the investigations of Haller, the arrangement of the bronchial with regard to the pulmonary arteries and veins is not well known.* I ought to notice the easy communication between the arteries and the pul- monary veins and bronchial ramifications. The coarsest injection pushed with moderate force passes with the greatest facility from the arteries into the pulmonary veins and the bronchial tubes f ; only inflamed portions of the lung have appeared to me to be impermeable. The hjmphatic vessels, both superficial and deep, are very numerous; they terminate in the bronchial and tracheal glands, the number and size of which sufficiently declare their importance. The black colour of these glands only begins to appear from the tenth to the twentieth year. The nerves of the lungs are principally derived from the pneumogastrics, but they receive some branches from the ganglionic system. They form a large plexus behind the bronchi, with the divisions of which they penetrate into the substance of the lung. I should observe that there is only one great pulmonary plexus common to the two lungs; and on this circumstance, the sympathy between the two is without doubt partially dependent. Developement. According to Meckel, the lungs are among the latest organs to appear in the foetus ; they can only be distinctly recognised amidst the other contents of the thorax, towards the end of the second month of intra- uterine existence. J The lung is smallest at the earliest period of its developement. Its place appears then to be occupied by the thymus, which is the only organ that is seen when the thorax is opened, the lungs being situated behind it, upon each side of the vertebral column. The developement of the lung takes place in an inverse ratio to that of the thymus; the lung increasing in proportion as * [The following are the results of Reisseisen's observations on this subject. The branches of the pulmonary artery accompany the bronchial tubes, and do not anastomose until their ter- mination in a dense network of capillaries upon the walls of the air cells: these capillaries have very thin coats ; they are about one twentieth the diameter of a pulmonary cell, and the meshes which they form are scarcely so wide as the vessels themselves. From this network arise the branches of the pulvionary veins, which unite into larger and larger trunks, so as to correspond with the divisions of the pulmonary artery; these veins have no valves, and their caliber is not greater, perhaps less, than that of the artery. Such is the chief mode of distribution of the pulmonary artery and veins; but both vessels, as indicated below, also communicate with the bronchial arteries. The bronchial arteries are the nutrient vessels of the lung ; some of their branches are dis- tributed upon the air tubes and to their lining membrane, even as far as the air cells, upon all the pulmonary vessels and nerves, and to the bronchial lymphatic glands; whilst others, passing between the lobules, or upon the surface of the lung, anastomose with twigs from the pul- monary artery, and form, with the branches of the pulmonary vein, a vascular network in those situations, but more particularly beneath the pleura. The branches distributed to the larger bronchia and vessels, and to the lymphatic glands, and also some of the vessels composing the superficial network, terminate in the bronchial veins, which, however, cannot be traced very deeply into the substance of the lung. But by far the greater number of the bronchial arteries end in the pulmonary veins; for example, those distributed deeply to the smaller air tubes and pulmonary vessels, and to the air cells, and nearly all the vessels which enter into the for- mation of the interlobular and superficial network.] t [This is due to rupture of the pulmonary vessels, which have exceedingly delicate coats, and are perhaps less supported by surrounding tissue than the vessels of other organs.] % [The developement of the lungs has been traced by various recent observers in frogs, birds, and mammalia, including man; according to Rathke and Miiller, it closely resembles, in its early stages, that of the compound glands. In mammalia, the lungs appear at first as a pro- tuberance upon the anterior part of the cesophagus, consisting of a soft mass, like the primitive blastema of a gland: within this substance a more opaque portion is formed, from which while lines extend, dividing and subdividing, and terminating in enlarged extremities; these are ac- companied by bloodvessels, and are at first solid, but soon become hollowed out, into the trachea, bronchi, bronchial tubes, and air cells.]