MYOLOGY. 362 thigh (^Jig. 127.). It arises from the whole extent of the ascending ramus of the ischium, from a small part of the descending ramus of the pubes, and from the apex, i. e. the lowest portion, of the tuberosity of the ischium. It is inserted into the whole extent of the interval between the two lips of the linea aspera, and into a very prominent tubercle upon the inner condyle of the femur, above the depression for the insertion of the tendon of the inner head of the gastrocnemius. Its origins, especially those from the ischium, which are the principal, can only be seen on the posterior surface of the muscle (see Jig. 125.). They consist of tendinous bundles, giving origin im- mediately to fleshy fibres, which form an extremely thick mass, directed downwards and outwards, and presenting coarse bundles, almost as large and as easily separable as those of the glutaeus maximus. The muscle soon divides into two portions, or rather into two distinct muscles—an internal and an external. The internal portion (2, Jigs. 125. 127.) forms the inner border of the ad- ductor magnus, the original course of which it foUows. About the lower third of the thigh, its fibres are received into a tendinous semi-cone, open on the outside, and terminating in a shining tendon, which is inserted into a well marked tubercle on the upper and back part of the internal condyle of the femur. Throughout its whole course, this tendon lies close to the aponeurosis of the vastus internus. The external portion (2', Jig. 125.) abandoning the primitive direction of the muscle, is directed outwards, and separates into thick bimdles, which are in- serted into the whole extent of the interval between the lips of the linea aspera, by means of a very large aponeurosis, which is intimately united to the tendons of the other adductors, and forms a series of arches (see Jig. 125.) for the pas- sage of the perforating arteries. These two divisions of the adductor magnus are separated below by the femoral artery and veins and their sheath, and are generally distinct for a con- siderable extent, and sometimes entirely so. 1 have met with a case of this kind. That portion of the muscle which was inserted into the internal con- dyle arose entirely from the apex of the tuberosity of the ischium ; whilst the origin of that portion which was attached to the linea aspera, took place from a prominence situated on the external side of that tuberosity, and pro- jecting outwards from it, and also from the ascend^g ramus of the ischium, and the descending ramus of the pubes, externally to the gracilis muscle. The superior fibres (^Jig. 125.) are horizontal, and forming a distinct and, as it were, a .radiated bundle, turn in front of the succeeding fibres, and are inserted into the line leading from the great trochanter to the linea aspera internally to the glutsBus maximus. Relations. The adductor magnus is covered by the superficial adductors and by the small deep adductor : it covers the semi-tendinosus, the biceps, the semi-membranosus, and the glutaeus maximus. Its inner border is bounded by the gracilis above, and by the sartorius below : its upper border is in contact with the obturator externus (e,Jig. 127.) on the inside, and with the quadratus femoris (i,fig. 125.) more externally. Its most important relation is that with the femoral artery and vein, which pass through it before reaching the pop- liteal space At the place where this perforation occurs, we observe a ten- dinous arch, or rather canal, into which the fleshy fibres are inserted; and so, also, where the perforating arteries pass through this muscle. Action of the adductor muscles. The muscles we have just described are both flexors and rotators outwards; but their principal office, as their name indicates, is to perform adduction, a very energetic movement as might be anticipated from the strength of the muscles concerned m its production. M e have seen, indeed, that the line of origm extends from the il»o-Fctine^ eminence, as far as and including the tuberosity of the ischimn; and ^at the insertions occupy the entire length of the hnea aspera, the two branches of its uperS bif^^^^^^^^ and the inner condylo of the femur. These muscles are