B B 3 THE URETHRA. ^'^^ The occupies the highest part of the pubic arch, and fills the interval r.e, por5»':.^ch -.^.Uy covered i. » ineUned to eonSder the melbr. to be mueb more curved th.. .t actually ... wp indo-pd of it onlv bv the external appearance oi the canal. "T^he i if eSraJe^ below and upon the sides by the ^^^^^-^^^Z muscles which have numerous points of msertion upon it. Between these r £'aSttbdbwefindcowW^ '^'^i'^^'':^r::s:TrSSJf in front, becoming continuous with the spongy portion: the angle ot umon ot Se crura of the corp- cavernosum may be assigned as its an ^ ^^^^^^ The qlands of Cowper. These are two small rounded bodies i,gg,fi9s. 168. 181 182 ) (so called after the anatomist who has given the best description of them), s tuated against the bulb, in contact with which they are retained by a tolerably dense layer of fibrous tissue.* From each of these glands, which are of variable dimensions, an excretory duct proceeds, and after a course ot an inch and half or two inches, opens into the canal of the urethra upon the sides of the spongy portion (c, fig. 182.), passing obliquely through its parietes.-j- In front of the bulb, the spongy portion of the urethra enters the groove on the lower surface of the corpus cavernosum, and is m relation below, in the first part of its com-se, with the bulbo-cavernosi muscles, which separate it from the ceUular tissue of the scrotum, and more anteriorly with the skm ot the penis. t.- -u j? The glans, so called from its shape, is the conical enlargement which lorms the extremity of the penis. It is covered by the prepuce, which is united to it below by means of the fraenum ; its base projects considerably beyond the end of the corpus cavernosum, and forms what is called the corona glandis. This circular projection is grooved perpendicularly throughout its entire extent by somejarge nervous papillae, which are visible to the naked eye. The base of the glans is cut very obliquely, so that its upper surface is twice as long as its lower. Below, and in the median line, the corona glandis presents a groove in which the frsenum is received. At the extremity of the glans is situated the orifice of the urethra, meatus urinaruis, a vertical fissure, three or four lines in extent, and placed in the same line as the fraenum, from which it is separated by a very short interval. Some- times this orifice is placed exactly opposite the frsenum, and, like it, is directed downwards : this malformation constitutes what is called hypospadias. Internal surface of the urethra. Upon this surface {see fig. 182.) we find no trace of the distinction established between the different portions of the urethra, considered from without, except that the prostatic portion of the canal is of a white colour, whilst all the rest of it is of a more or less deep violet hue. ^ Dimensions. Opposite the prostate the urethra becomes dilated, sometimes to a considerable extent (sinus prostaticus); at the commencement of the mem- branous portion it suddenly contracts, and then continues cylindrical as far as the glans, where it again dilates so as to form the fossa navicularis (o), and terminates by an orifice, which is the narrowest part of the entire canal. J In order to obtain more exact ideas of the comparative dimensions of the different portions of the urethra, M. Amussat inflated this canal, and then carefully removed aU the structures superadded to its proper parietes, so as to » [They are placed between the two layers of the triangular ligament; the transverse muscles of Santorini cover them below, and the arteries of the bulb (ef, ^g. 168.> cross above them : they are compound glands. ] t 1 have never seen the gland called by Littre the .mti-prostatic ; nor have 1 seen the third gland of Cowper, which is said to be situated below the arch of the pubes. * [Three dilatations in the urethra arc usually described, viz. the prostatic sinus, the sinus of the bulb, and the fossa navicularis. The first and the third of these are described above ; the second is at the commencement of the spongy portion, in the inferior wall of the urethra.''