MYOLOGY. 382 ation in the two arrangements. Thus, by the term muscles of the arm, in the topographical order, we mean the muscles which occupy the region of the arm, as the deltoid, biceps, &c.; but in the physiological arrangement, the same term is applied to the muscles which move the arm, viz. the pectoralis major, latissimus dorsi, &c. Muscles of the Vertebro-cranial Column. These are divided into the extensors, the flexors, and the lateral muscles or lateral flexors, which incline the vertebral column to one side or the other. There are no rotators ; for rotation is performed by the extensor muscles. Extensors. These occupy the posterior region of the vertebral column. They consist on each side of, 1. the posterior spinal, or long muscles of the back, divided into the sacro-lumbalis, longissimus dorsi, and transverso-spinalis; 2. of the transversalis colli and the trachelo-mastoideus, which may be re- garded as accessory fasciculi to the longissimus dorsi; 3, of the splenius, or representative of the longissimus dorsi of the neck and head; 4. of the com- plexus, or transverso-spinalis of the head; 5. of the inter-spinales, in which the two recti postici of the head may be included; 6. of the obliquus major, or spino-transversalis of the atlas ; 7. of the obliquus minor, or transverso-spinalis of the head. Flexors. These are situated on the anterior region of the vertebro-cranial column. The most important of these muscles are carried forwards, and at- tached to the sternum, and to those long transverse processes called the ribs. They are on each side, 1. the rectus abdominis; 2. the sterno-cleido-mas- toideus. The other muscles that cooperate in flexion occupy the deep ante- rior cervical region, viz. 1. the rectus capitis anticus major; 2. the rectus capitis anticus minor ; 3. the longus colli. Lateral muscles. These are, 1. the inter-transversales of the neck and loins, among which I include the rectus capitis lateralis ; 2. the scaleni anticus et posticus ; 3. the quadratus lumborum. Muscles of the Ribs, or of the Thoracico-abdominal Parietes. These are I the inter-costales, externi and interni, which are both elevators and depressors ; 2. the small accessory muscles, viz. the infra-costales of Ver- heven and the supra-costales, or levatores costarum, the latter being always elevators; 3. the serrati postici superiores, which are elevators; 4. the serrati Dostici inferiores, depressors; 5. the triangularis sterni, or small anterior serratus also a depressor; 6. the diaphragm, a muscular septum, the contraction of which increases the vertical diameter of the thorax, and draws the ribs inwards. The muscles of the abdominal parietes are so intimately connected m action with those of the thorax, that the description of the former naturally follows that of the latter. The abdominal muscles, then, may be regarded as muscles of expiration, and are aU depressors of the ribs. There are, 1. the obliquus extemus which is nothing more than a large external intercostal muscle, ex- tSS between the ribs Ld the pelvis ; 2. the obliquus mternus, which may fe Srded as a large internal intercostal muscle, of which the cremaster is •i drpSnce; 3. the transversalis, which we may consideT as forming with the diaphragm a single muscle, interrupted by its costal attachments. Muscles which move the Lower Jaw. A = f>,» hnnpq of the upper jaw are immoveably articulated together and to the As the muscles. The muscles of the face do not belong toZT' but Le TrL Seourmuscles, attached to the different bones only for to them, ""^t^'^j^f j^'i'^g^ OTiffins. The lower jaw, on the contrary, is pro- 'irrrt^oSS'^o^^^^