THE INTESTINES. 485 11 .3 It is difficult though by no means important, to determine exactly whether the sme fibre 'reach the whole length of the intestine or whether they are m- en4pTed atTntervL. It is generaUy admitted that they are interrupted, and Et thet ex remities are received in the spaces between other fibres ThfLrSe^ of muscular fibres is thicker than the preceding, and consists of circffS-es, either parallel or crossing each other at very acute angles. They appear to me to describe complete circles, and to have their ends united. Thpv have no tendinous intersections. . The JibrZ coat is intermediate between the muscular and mucous tunics, and presents the same characters as m the stomach. , The mucous or papillary membrane. Its extaiial surface adheres to the fabrous membrane by a loose cellular tissue, which is Uable to serous, sanguineous, and purulent infiltration. The emphysematous or (Edematous condition may be imitated in the dead body, by everting a portion of bowel and distending it either with air or water. The tenuity of the mucous membrane displayed in these experiments has led to the opinion that this coat is nothing more t^ian an epithelium, a continuation of the epidermis of the skin, and that the fibrous coat represents the cutaneous dermis. Its internal surface is free, and is covered with niore or less mucus: it is remarkable for its duplicatures or valves, caMei valvules conniventes; for its highly developed papillcB, and for the ar- rangement of its/oZZt'cZes. TTie Valvules Conniventes (^Valvules Intestinales). Dissection. Evert the small intestine, so that its external surface becomes internal, and then plunge it in water ; or, what is better, lay open the bowel, and examine its internal surface under water. Also study a portion of intestine inflated and dried. Hitherto the mucous membrane of the alimentary canal has only presented to our notice certain folds which are intended to facilitate the dilatation of that canal, as in the oesophagus and stomach, and which are completely effaced by distension. The folds of the mucous membrane of the small intestine fulfil another purpose; and although they must, undoubtedly, in some measure assist in the elongation and dilatation of the bowel, yet they are never entirely effaced, however far this extension in length or width may be carried. These folds deserve a special description. They are called valvules conniventes or the valves of Kerkringius, although Fallopius had given a complete description of them before that anatomist. Kerkringius gave them the name of conniventes (conniveo, to close partially). They commence in the duodenum (see fig. 169.), an inch or sometimes two inches from the pylorus; and it is not un- common to find them preceded by some vertical folds. They are few and small at first, but become very numerous and very large towards the end of the duodenum and the commencement of the small intestine properly so called. From the upper two fifths of that intestine they gradually diminish in number, and become less regular and less marked towards the lower part of the small intestine ; sometimes they are altogether wanting in the last two or three feet of the bowel. In some rare cases I have seen valvulae conniventes as far down as the ileo-cEBcal valve ; in no part are they sufficiently numerous to have a true imbricated arrangement. These valves are placed perpendicularly to the axis of the intestine, and describe one half, two thirds, or three fourths of a circle ; but they seldom form a complete ring. They are broader in the middle, being from two or three lines in width, than at their extremities, which are slender. In order to ascertain their dimensions, they must be placed under water, or studied upon a fresh portion of intestine. They are generally parallel, incline towards each other by their extremities, bifurcate, and send off small verticular oblique prolongations. Sometimes we find small valves placed be- tween the larger ones. Some of them are suddenly interrupted so that they might be supposed, at first sight, to have undergone some loss of substance.