602 Structure. SPLANCHNOLOGY. When the tunica vaginalis, which gives the epididymis a smooth appearance, is removed (as in fig. 185.), the latter resem- bles a cord, so twisted upon itself' that it would appear impossible at first sight to disentangle it. This cord is hollow, as may be shown by injecting mercury or a co- loured liquid into it through the vas deferens. The canal or duct which forms the epididymis is not unfrequently found distended with semen ; and then we may ascertain by simple inspection, as well as by injecting it, that it is of a determinate size, and that its parietes- are thin and semi-transparent. The epididymis is intimately connected with the body of the testicle by its head only; the other means of at- tachment between the two parts consisting exclusively of rather dense cellular tissue and a fold of the tunica vaginalis. The head of the epididymis is united to the testicle by several ducts, the number of which varies from ten to thirty. They form several groups, which emerge from the the corpus Highmori, and immediately afterwards become convoluted, so as to form the head or globus major of the epididymis. These vessels, which are called the vasa efferentia, or coni vasculosi (d), are per- fectly distinct at their exit from the corpus Highmori; but after a short course in the globus major, they unite into a single canal, the numerous convolutions of which constitute the vermi- form body called the epididymis. It is possible, by careful and minute dissec- tion, to unravel this duct, the folds of which, shaped like the figure 8, are united by very dense cellular tissue. Monro, who even counted the nimiber of its inflections, has calculated its length to be about thirty-two feet.* It is supplied with arteries, and some veins and numerous lymphatics issue from it. Its nerves are derived from the testicular, and accompany a small branch of the hypogastric artery, which has been named the deferential artery by Sir Astley Cooper. Not unfrequently a dense cord, having the same structure as the vas deferens, is found proceeding from the epididymis; this cord is the vas aberrans. (^Haller.) The supernumerary ducts of this nature, injected with mercury by Haller, extended for a few inches into the cellular tissue of the spermatic cord. The Vas Deferens. The vas deferens (t,figs. 181. 184—186.), the excretory duct of the tes- ticle, extends from the epididymis to the ejaculatory duct {fig. 186.), which may be regarded as a continuation of it. It commences at the point where the caudal extremity of the epididymis becomes separated from the testicle. The following is a description of its very complicated course. In its first or testicular portion it passes from behind forwards and upwards along the upper border of the testicle, almost parallel with the epididymis, from the inner edge of which it is separated only by the spermatic arteries and veins. In this first portion of its course, the vas deferens pretty closely resembles a braided cord, and is, moreover, folded a great number of times, like the canal of the epididymis. The second., funicular or ascending, portion of the vas deferens forms part * [The average length of the vasa efferentia is stated by Lauth to be eight inches ; they diminish in size as they approach the canal forming the epididymis, which they enter at inter- vals of about three and a quarter inches from each other. The length of tliat canal is, accord- ing to the same author, about twenty-one feet.]