89 THE KIBS. FiS- 38. The Ribs (1 to 21, Jiff. 38.)- The ribs (rostcB, from custodes, as if, according to the explanation of Monro, ^ they were the guardians of the organs of the chest) are osseous arches stretched from the ver- tebral column to the sternum. Their posterior four-fifths con- sist of bone, the anterior fifth is cartilaginous. The osseous portion is the rib, properly so called; the cartilaginous por- tion is named the costal car- tilage. The ribs are 24 in number, 12 (1 to 12) on each side. Sometimes there are 26, thir- teen being on each side, and then these supernumerary ribs are formed either from a part of the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra, or of the transverse process of the first limibar, which affords an evident proof of the ana- logy existing between these parts. Sometimes, but more rarely, there are only 22 ribs, an anomaly pointed out by Galen. In this case, we some- times find two adjacent ribs united throughout their entire length, sometimes the first rib in a rudimentary state, being properly formed posteriorly, but having its anterior extremity lost among the muscles, or united to the second rib. The ribs are divided into two classes: 1. those which extend from the ver- tebrae to the sternum, the true ribs, sternal or vertebrosternal ribs (1 to 7); 2. those which do not reach the sternum, the fabe, asternal or vertebral ribs (8 to 12). The last two false ribs 1[H12) are caRed Jioating, because their anterior extremity is moveable in the fleshy parietes of the abdomen. The ribs are designated numerically first, second, &c. counting from above downwards. It should, however, be observed, that in many surgical works, the ribs are counted from below upwards, which is the easiest method on the living subject. The ribs have certain general characters which distinguish them from all other bones, and certain proper characters, by which one is known from another. General Characters of the Ribs. The ribs resemble flattened bony arches, of about six lines in breadth, and one in thickness, and of lengths varying according to their situation. The first rib is almost horizontal, and the others in succession slope gradually more obliquely from behind forwards, and from above downwards, their anterior extremities being on a much lower plane than the posterior. Considered with regard to their axes, i. e. their absolute direction, the ribs represent portions of a circle which successively increase to the eighth, and diminish again to the twelfth: their curvature is not regular, the posterior part representing the segment of a much smaller circle than the anterior. They are generally twisted upon themselves,