68 OSTEOLOGY. Fit;. 24. the same name. External surface {fig. 24.). Proceeding from before backwards we observe a small fossa in which the myrtiform muscle (depressor labii superioris et ala; nasi), is inserted, and which is bounded externally by the ridge which forms the al- veolus of the canine tooth : a deeper fossa, named fossa canina or irifra orbitalis, surmounted by the orifice of the infra orbitanj canal (o) : —and more posteriorly a vertical ridge, which separates the fossa canina from the maxillary tuberosity (m). This protuberance, which is most prominent before the appearance of the wisdom tooth, is traversed by small canals, the posterior and superior dental, which transmit vessels and nerves of From the anterior part of this region a long vertical process arises, the ascending or nasal process (a b) of the superior maxilla. It is of a py- ramidal shape and flattened. Its external surface is smooth, and presents the openings of certain vascular canals which communicate with the interior of the nasal fossa;, and some inequalities for the insertion of the common elevator of the upper lip and ala of the nose. On the internal surface (fig. 25.) we observe in succession from above downwards a rough surface, which assists in closing the anterior cells of the ethmoid; a horizontal ridge to which the middle turbi- nated bone is attached; a concave surface, which forms part of the middle meatus of the nose; and another horizontal ridge for articulation with the inferior tur- binated bone : like the external, this surface also is perforated by foramina, and marked by arterial furrows. Its anterior edge (a b, figs. 24, 25.) thin, and bevelled internally, is applied to the nasal bone. The posterior edge is thick and marked by the lachrymo-nasal groove, which forms part of tbe lachrymal groove above, and of the nasal duct below. It has two edges or lips : the internal, which is very thin, articulates with the os unguis and the inferior turbinated bone; the external, which is rounded, gives attachment to the straight tendon -and some fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum muscle. The direction of the lachrymo-nasal groove is slightly curved; the convexity being internal and in front, the concavity ex- ternal and behind. The summit of the nasal process is truncated and serrated for articulation .with the nasal notch of the frontal bone. Superior or orbital surface (e,fig. 24.). This is the smallest of the three surfaces. It forms almost the entire floor of the orbit; it is triangular, and slightly oblique from within outwards, and from above downwards, and pre- sents a groove behind, which is continuous with the infra-orbitary canal. This last-named passage, at first a mere channel, afterwards a complete canal, passes from behind forwards and inwards, bends down and opens at the upper part of the canine fossa. Before its termination, it gives off a smaU canal, the anterior and superior dental, which runs in the anterior waU of the maxiUary sinus, and transmits the vessels and nerves which are distributed to the incisor and canine teeth Sometimes this branch of the canal opens into the maxillary smus. In many subjects I have seen it curve backwards, and conduct a communicating branch between the infra-orbitary and palatine nerves as far as the maxiUary tuberosity. The orbital surface is bounded by an external edge, which forms part of the spheno-maxil- lary fissure; by an internal edge, which articulates with the OS unguis, the os planum of the ethmoid, and the palate bone : and by an anterior edge, which forms part of the rim of the orbit. At the external termination of this edge is a very irregular eminence, appearnip as if part of the bone had been broken off: this is the malar process, which corresponds with the summit of the maxiUary sinus, and is articulated with the malar bone. At the internal extremity of the orbital edge, we find the ascend- ing process already described. ^ ^ ^ „ s rpy, .f^ce is divided into Intermd or naso-palatme surface (fi<J- 2.).y. 1 ws sunact