402 APONEUROLOGY. The Posterior Abdominal Aponeurosis. The posterior abdominal aponeurosis is much smaller and of less importance than the anterior : it consists of three layers, one anterior {h, in diagram, fig. 134.), and very thin, which commences at the base of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae, and passes in front of the quadratus lumborum (17) ; another, middle (i), and much stronger, commencing at the summits of the same transverse processes, and passing behind the quadratus lumborum ; and a third, posterior (A), -which arises from the summits of the lumbar spinous processes, and passes behind the sacro-lumbalis, longissimus dorsi, and transverso-spinalis muscles (s). This last mentioned layer is connected both -with the internal oblique (e) and -with the transversalis muscles (/), and is blended -with the aponeuroses of the serratus posticus inferior, and of the la- tissimus dorsi (I). The two anterior layers are connected with the transver- salis only. The posterior abdominal aponeurosis has, therefore, nearly the same relation to the quadratus lumborum and the common mass of the sacro- lumbalis, longissimus dorsi, and transverso-spinalis muscles, that the anterior aponeurosis has to the rectus muscle. The Lumbo-iliac Aponeurosis. The lumbo-iliac aponeurosis, or fascia iliaca of modem authors, forms the tendinous sheaths of the abdominal portion of the psoas and iliacus muscles, and is therefore bifurcated at its upper part. That portion which invests the psoas commences at the tendinous arch of the diaphragm, already described as em- bracing the upper end of this muscle. The iliac portion arises from the whole extent of the inner border of the crest of the ilium. The circumflex ilu artery is situated in the substance of this iUac portion, at its ongm. The internal margin of the fascia iliaca is attached to the sides of the lumbar vertebra;, and lower down to the brim of the pelvis: it is arranged in arches, which give nassage to the lumbar vessels and to the nervous cords, establishing a com- munication between the lumbar plexus and the lumbar ganglia of the sympa- thetic nerve. The centre of each arch is opposite to the groove on one of the bodies of the lumbar vertebra, the intervals between the arches corresponding with the intervertebral substance. The largest arch extends from the last lumbar vertebra to the brim of the pelvis, and is opposite to the base of the sacrum. The obturator and lumbo-sacral nerves pass under it. Opposite the femoral arch, the fascia iliaca adheres intimately to the outer part of Poupart's ligament; but towards the median line it separates from that ligament, passes behind the femoral vessels, and forms the posterior half %'£titZ7lv^%e fascia is prolonged upon the thigh; on the out- side S) t completes the sheath of the psoas and ilmcus, accompanies them as far as the lesser trochanter, and becomes continuous with the ihac portion Ta fia 137 ) of the femoral fascia; on the inside, it forms the posterior wall ?sfiQ 136 ) of the canal for the femoral vessels, and forms the deep layer or xn ^<>'''''i''fZ^''l'XSX^^ are subjacent to this fascia, excepting one trv'sma 1 cord ^hir^erfSes it at the side of the sacrum and becomes verj small cora, ^""^ J; , rpiliilar tissue The femoral vessels are situated Structure, i he iPP^r P^" fpmoral arch It is formed of well marked in tWckness as It appro^^^^^^^^^^ ^ „f the psoas