THE BLADDER. "fhe'lr^l" S.^ ?br"te »o« common i. .he posterior regio. of 1 he uregaiai «rciua t,.i„one the muscular layer consists of trans- ?eareXther. and forming^ perfectly regular nKnP The transve^ thick bundle stretching between the orifices of the urete;s has bee^ regarded by Sir C. Bell as the muscle of the ureters. Its Contraction, by enkrling theiJorifices, will facilitate the entrance of the unne '""'T^'te^sphincter of the bladder is appUed to a muscular ring which is con- tinlous w "hThe eircuL fibres of the body of the ladder a.d is situa^^^^^^ the opening of the urethra. The vagueness and disagreement n the desciip- fons of thfs sphincter sufiiciently prove that no very distinct structure of he Mnd exists at the neck of the bladder. Winslow describes some fibres arising Lm the ossa pubis, and embracing the sides of the vesical orifice, as the sphincter muscle, but they evidently belong to the levator am. I is certain however that in the neck of the bladder there is a thm external layer of longitudinal muscular fibres, and also a deep and very thick layer formed of circular fibres; both layers seem to be continued into the prostatic portion of the urethra. The mucous coat is extremely thin *, of a whitish colour, and presents some smaU papiUffi. It is so difficult to demonstrate its follicles, that their existence has been denied; but, with a little attention, they may always be found m the neighbourhood of the neck of the bladder, and upon the trigone. I have seen them in all parts of the bladder, under the form of vesicles, m certain cases ot disease. The mucous membrane is moulded upon all the ridges of the mus- cular coat: it sometimes dips between the muscular bundles, and forms cells, in which calculi are often lodged. Bladders of this kind are called sacculated; and moreover are almost always fasciculated, i. e. the muscular fibres are so highly developed, as to raise up the mucous membrane into ridges. The cel- lular tissue uniting the muscular and the mucous coats is tolerably loose, se- rous, and extremely delicate. Vessels and nerves. The vesical arteries arise either directly from the hypo- gastrics, or from their branches. They are variable in number. The veins form a very remarkable plexus around the neck of the bladder, which is pro- longed upon the sides of the inferior fundus, and terminates in the hypogastric veins. The lymphatic vessels are, for the most part, situated between the mus- cular and the peritoneal coats, and terminate in the hypogastric lymphatic glands. The nerves are derived from the hypogastric plexus, which is composed both of ganglionic and spinal nerves ; and hence the bladder is partly subject to and partly beyond the influence of the will. Developement. The bladder of the foetus is remarkable for the predominance of its vertical over its transverse diameters, the latter being very short. This fact, added to the imperfect developement of the pelvis, explains why the entire bladder projects above the brim of the pelvis at this period of life. The inferior fundus does not exist. The summit is gradually continued into the urachus, which is then much larger than at subsequent periods, and of which the bladder appears to be merely an expansion. According to some authors, the bladder is relatively larger, and, according to others, smaller before than after birth. In the early periods of infancy the bladder retains the characters which it had in the foetus, and many important surgical inferences may, therefore, be drawn from its more extensive relations with the abdominal parietes. In proportion as the pelvis is developed, and, also, perhaps, in proportion as the * [This and all the other portions of the gcnito-urinary mucous membrane have an epithe- lium, which approaches to the columnar in character.]