185 ARTICULATIONS OF THE ELBOW. tensive in front than behind,-a circumstance tending greatly to facilitate the prehension of external objects, which is the chief purpose of the upper ex^e- Lties. This predominance of the forward motions has been already noticed m the sterno-clavicular articulation, and wUl be found also in many others^ Rotation. In this movement the humerus does not turn upon its own but upon an imaginary axis, directed from the head of the humerus to the epi- trochlea,paraUeltothebone. The manner in whichfte rotatory muscles em W the head of the hnmerus is highly favourable to this motion, by compensating fortheshortnessof the neck, which serves as alever for the rotatory movements. The Humero-cubitax Articulation, or Elbow-joint {figs. 71 and 72.). Preparation. 1. Remove carefully the brachialis anticus muscle ; 2. Detach the tendon of the triceps from above downwards without opening the synovia capsule ; 3. Remove the muscles which are attached to the internal and external tuberosities, keeping in mind that the lateral ligaments are intimately connected with the tendons of these muscles. This articulation belongs to the class ot trochlear joints (angular ginglymi). Articular surfaces. On the humerus we find, 1. an ahnost perfect trochlea or pulley, presenting two edges, of which the internal is the more prominent, so that when the end of the bone rests upon a horizontal plane, its shaft is di- rected very obliquely from above downwards and inwards ; 2. the small head, or articular condyle separated from the trochlea by a furrow which is also articular ; 3. two cavities, a posterior which is very deep, and is intended to receive the olecranon process, and an anterior which is shallower, and re- ceives the coronoid. The articular surfaces of the fore-arm are, 1. The greater sigmoid cavity of the ulna, which exactly embraces the trochlea ; 2. the glenoid cavity of the radius, which receives the small head of ttie humerus. The means of union consist of four liga- ments, — two lateral, an anterior, and a posterior. 1. The external lateral ligament (a, fig. 71, 72.) is blended with the tendon of the supinator brevis; it is of a triangular form, and stretches fi-om the external tube- rosity of the humerus to the annular liga- ment with which it becomes continuous, and which seems to be in part formed by it. Some fibres of this ligament are also inserted into the outer part of the sigmoid cavity of the ulna. This connection of the lateral with the annular ligament is of great importance, with reference to the production of luxations of the upper end of the radius. * 2. The internallateral ligament {b,fig. 71.) is composed of three bundles, which com- mence at the internal tuberosity of the humerus and radiate, the anterior from behind forwards to the inner side of the coronoid process, the middle vertically downwards to the inner edge of the same process, and the posterior backwards to the inner edge of the o£cranon. 3. The anterior ligament (c) is a very thin layer, in which however three orders of fibres can be recognised. The first directed vertically form a bundle * The luxations of the radius upon the ulna in dislocations of the elbow result from this connection of the external lateral with the annular ligament.