OSTEOLOGY. 92 The Costal Cartilages (V to \T,Ji.g. 38.). The flexibility and elasticity of the ribs is partly owing to their structure, but more especially to the costal cartilages which prolong them in front. There are twelve costal cartilages distinguished numerically as first, second, third, &c.; they are separated from each other by intervals, which are vei^y considerable at the upper part of the thorax, but gradually diminish as we proceed downwards : it is not very uncommon to meet with thirteen cartilages on one side, at other times there are only eleven. We sometimes find two car- tilages, which are joined together, and articulated with the sides of the sternum; when there are thirteen cartilages, the supernumerary one generally exists be- tween the third and fourth ribs ; it is thin and as it were rudimentary ; it does not form the continuation of any rib, and terminates insensibly in the muscles. The first seven cartilages (1 to 7) articulate immediately with the sternum; and hence the name of sternal given to the ribs with which they are connected. Of the other five cartilages, the last two (11 12) have no connection with those that precede them; and from this circumstance the name floating has been given to the last two ribs. General Characters of the Costal Cartilages. All the costal cartilages are flattened like the ribs, and precisely resemble in breadth and thickness the bones to which they are attached. The external end is received into a cavity hollowed out in the anterior extremity of the rib: their internal or sternal extremity, which is much narrower than the external, is angular, and articulates with the corresponding angular facettes of the sternum. Their anterior or cutaneous surfaces are slightly convex, and covered by the muscles of the anterior region of the trunk, to many of which they give attachment. Their posterior or mediastinal surfaces are slightly concave. Their superior and inferior edges bound the intercostal spaces, and give attachment to the muscles of the same name. They are altogether dis- tinct from articular cartilages, and have a peculiar tendency to ossify, this pro- cess taking place partly on the surface, and partly from within outwards. Differential Characters of the Costal Cartilages. The costal cartDages increase in length from the first to the seventh and some- times to the eighth, which in this case articulates with the sternum; they di- minish in length from the seventh to the twelfth. This difference depends on the circumstance that the osseous parts of the upper ribs terminate anteriorly in a line directed obliquely from above downwards, and from within outwards, and that the sternum is only about half the length of the lateral wall of the thorax, so that only the first four or five cartilages could join this bone, did not the others bend upwards, so as to reach its sides or join the lower edge of the cartilage abovethe first three cartilages alone therefore follow the same di- rection as the bony rib. The flrst cartilage differs from all the others by its shortness, its thickness and breadth, and its tendency to ossify ; it is almost always bony in the adult; it is often continuous with the sternum, but is some- times only contiguous. The second and third costal cartilages cannot be distin- guished from each other, bat they differ from the rest, in being joined at right angles with the sternum, in not being bent, and in being as broad at their sternal as at their costal extremities. The fourth cartilage becomes bent upwards after having followed the direction of the rib for a little way. The length and curvature of the cartilages of the fifth, sixth, and seventh ribs, progressively in- crease : the seventh is at least three inches long, while the fifth is not more than thirteen or fourteen lines ; their inner ends become successively narrowed, so as to correspond with the diminishing cavities on the edges of the sternum; the borders of the fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth costal cartilages articidate together, and present for this purpose articular facettes supported by emmences. The