34 OSTEOLOGY. or posterior root of the process is thick, tubercular, and exactly similar to a dorsal transverse process, while the anterior is thin and rudimentary, excepting in cases where it is separated from the body of the bone, and forms a super- numerary rib.* The foramen in the base of the transverse process is very rarely absent, but is most commonly small: in one case only I have found it double. It is never traversed by the vertebral artery. First Dorsal Vertebra. This vertebra resembles the cervical, in having its body surmounted laterally by two hook like processes or ridges, but in all other respects it is strictly analogous to the other dorsal vertebrae. It should be also observed, that the body presents an entire facette for the first rib, and a third or fourth part of another for the second. Eleventh and Twelfth Dorsal Vertebrce. The eleventh dorsal vertebra presents on each side of the body an entire facette for the eleventh rib. Its body is very large, and the place of the trans- verse process is supplied by a tubercle. The twelfth dorsal vertebra {c,fig. 1.) resembles the lumbar in its body, which is scarcely smaller than that of the lumbar vertebrtB, and of which the trans- verse diameter begins to predominate. The spinous process is horizontal, strong, and quadrilateral. The transverse processes are represented by trfbercles, which, like those of the preceding bone, are evidently continued in the lumbar region by those tubercles which we have denominated apophysary. Lastly, the body presents entire articular facettes. It is distinguished from the eleventh dorsal vertebra by the curved surface of the inferior articular processes. Fifth Lumbar Vertebra. The inferior surface of the body slopes very obliquely downwards and for- wards The transverse processes vary in size, but are generally much larger than those of the other lumbar vertebrae; the inferior articular processes, which are further separated from each other, have a flat surface, and look di- rectly forwards. , . ^ ,- These are the only vertebrae which in each region present peculiarities. Excepting the first and second cervical, which have many characters quite foreign to the vertebrae of the region to which they belong, it might be said of those peculiar vertebra; which have been specially described, that their peculi- arities are comprehended in the general statement that those vertebrae which are placed at the limits of any two regions possess characters belonging to both regions. Vertebra of the Sacro-coccygeal Region. All the vertebrse of this region, nine in number, are in the adult state united into two bones : the five superior form the sacrum, the four inferior the cocci,x. The Sacrum (d, e,fig. I and 8.). The sacrum has received its name from the alleged practice of the w= of offerin- this part of the victim in sacrifice. It occupies the nostertr and SSi part'of the pelvis, behind the point where this cavity posterior ana me v arrangement advantageous for the ^recf ptition It I inSd, like a wedge, between the two haunch bones, erect posiuou. ii. vertebral column, below with the coccyx. lepreseS by thrsacrU forms an obtuse angle with the Imnbar column, . This circumstance is one of the facts appealed to with most Success by those who make the distinction of transverse and cosliform processes.