THE FEMUR. 1^5 Se Srio7 S ch is also sUghtly concaye. The upper edge is ^ery sbort Seen these two, by a projecting ridge which unites them, and which is caUed the mter-trochanteric line. . , fomnv The great trochanter (m) is situated at the outer ajid upper part of the temm . ■ It is on a lower level than the head, and nearly in the same axis as the shalt which it prolongs upwards. It is of considerable size, and forms a very marked prominence under the skin. It should be carefully studied m its re- lations ; 1. with the crest of the iUum, beyond which it projects on the outside; 2 with the external condyle of the femur; 3. with the external malleolus, be- cause these relations constantly serve as a guide, both mthe diagnosis, and the reduction of dislocations of the femur, and of fractures of the neck or shaft of that bone. The great trochanter, which is intended solely for muscular insertions, is of a quadrUateral figure, flattened from without inwards, and presents, 1. an external surface, which is convex, and terminates below m a proiectmg ridge for the vastus extemus, and is traversed by an oblique line running downwards and backwards, to which the gluteus medius is attached ; 2. an internal surface, on which we find a depression called digital, or trochan- teric cavity; 3. a superior border, to which the gluteus minimus is attached ; 4. an anterior border, which is often surmounted by a large tubercle; and 5. a posterior border, which gives attachment to the quadratus femoris. The lesser trochanter (w) is situated on the inside, behind, and below the base of the neck of the femur ; it is a sort of conoid tubercle, and gives attachment to the common tendon of the psoas and iliacus muscles. The lower end of the shaft of the femur is of considerable size : it is broad, transversely flattened in front and behind, and divided into two convex arti- cular processes, called internal (r) and external (s) condyles of the femur. The external condyle is in the same line as the shaft of the femur. The internal condyle projects on the inside of the axis of the bone, and below the external condyle, so that when both condyles rest on the same horizontal plane, the femur is directed obliquely downwards and inwards. The two condyles are separated behind by a deep notch, called inter-condyloid notch {o,fig. 49.) ; in front their union forms a sort of pulley, the femoral trochlea (t,fig. 50.), on which the patella rests. That portion of the trochlea which belongs to the external condyle is larger, more prominent, and higher than that which belongs to the internal. Each condyle has three surfaces, 1. the lower surface, arti- cular, convex, and rounder behind than in front, is in contact with the tibia and the patella ; the lower surface of the internal condyle is more prominent behind than that of the external: 2. the internal surface of the external con- dyle, and the external surface of the internal condyle are deeply excavated, and give insertion to the crucial ligaments : 3. the internal surface of the in- ternal condyle and the external surface of the external condyle present two enlargements, called tuberosities of the femur. The internal tuberosity (u) is the larger, and has behind a depression situated