617 FALLOPIAN TUBES. corpora lutea can be detected, and, on tlie other hand, a corpus luteuni has been found in a girl of five years of age. , The bloodvessels veins of the ovary correspond e^^actly with those of the ^^'Sts?' Without precisely determining the part performed by the ovaries in repi^duction, it may be said that they are indispensable to that function. Extirpation of these bodies is followed by sterility. And, again ovarian foeta- tion proves that fecundation may occur withm the ovary. The use of the Graafian vesicles in generation is not well known.* The Fallopian Tubes. " The lubce uterinm (ff, fig. 188.) are two ducts, situated in the substance of the ■upper margin of the broad ligament. They are also called the tubse Fallopianse f, the Fallopian tubes, after Fallopius, who first gave a good description of them ; they extend from the upper angle of the uterus to the sides of the cavity of the true pelvis. Situation and direction. Floating as it were in the cavity of the pelvis, be- tween the ovaries behind, and the round ligaments (g g) in front, they pass transversely outwards, and at the point where they terminate, bend backwards and inwards, in order to approach the outer end of the ovary, to which they are attached by a small ligament. Each Fallopian tube is straight in the inner half of its course, but describes certain windings in the remaining outer portion, which are so considerable in certain cases, and especially when the tube has been the seat of chronic inflammation or of dropsy, as to resemble in some degree the windings of the vas deferens. Moreover, accidental adhesions of the expanded extremity very frequently give it an entirely different direction from the one it usually takes. The tubes may be drawn down with the ovaries into a hernial sac, as I have several times observed. The length of the Fallopian tubes is four or five inches, but it sometimes • varies on the two sides. The canal in their interior is very narrow along their inner half, but gradually enlarges as it proceeds outwards to their ter- mination, which is expanded and divided into irregular fringes, like the calyces of certain flowers: this expanded end constitutes the mouth of the trumpet, or the fimbriated extremity (e) of the Fallopian tube. lu order to obtain a good view of this structure, it is necessary to place the tube in water, and then a number of fringes or small shreds of unequal length will be seen floating in the liquid, and consisting of folds divided unequally, and sometimes forming two or three concentric circles. It is generally said that one of these fringes, longer than the rest, is attached to the outer end of the ovary ; but this con- nection appears to me to be effected by means of a small ligament. All these * See note, page 61G. t [Literally the Fallopian trunipcts, fvom their expanded abdominal extremities.]