MYOLOGY. 334 » See note, p. 389. Action. No muscle in the body is so completely rolled around the lever that it is intended to move, for it forms five sixths of a cylinder; it is therefore the chief agent in supination, and the supinator longus can only be regarded as an accessory. Muscles of the Posteeiok Region of the Foee-aem. The muscles of the posterior region of the fore-arm constitute two very dis- tinct layers, one superficial, comprising the extensor communis digitorum, the extensor digiti minimi, and the extensor carpi ulnaris; the other deep, com- prising the abductor pollicis longus, the extensor brevis and extensor longus pollicis, and the extensor indicis. Muscles of the Superficial Layer. One mode of dissection is common to all these muscles. Make a circular incision through the skin at the lower part of the arm ; pronate the arm, and make a perpendicular incision from the external condyle of the humerus to the third metacarpal bone, entirely dividing the sub-cutaneous cellular tissue down to the fascia; remove this fascia by careful dissection, except where it is very adherent. Trace the tendons of the extensor muscles along the back of the fingers. TTie Extensor Communis Digitorum. The extensor communis digitorum (6, fig. \2l.), situated at the back of the Fib 121 fbre-arm, simple above and divided into four portions ■ below, arises from the external condyle of the hume- rus, and is inserted into the second and third phalanges of the four fingers. Its origin consists of a tendon common to it, and to the extensor carpi radialis brevior, extensor digiti minimi, and extensor carpi ulnaris. This tendon consists of a four-sided pyra- mid, and is formed by the fascia of the fore-arm, by a lamina separating this muscle from the extensor carpi radialis longior, by another lamina separating it from the extensor digiti minimi and the extensor carpi ulnaris, and lastly by another situated between it and the supinator brevis. The fleshy fibres arising from the interior of this pyramid form at first a thm, but afterwards a much larger muscle, which becomes flattened from before backwards, and soon divides into four fascicuU. The two middle fasciculi, mtended for the middle and the ring fingers, are stronger than those destined for the index and Uttle fingers, z. e. the two extreme fascicuU, which, lower down, become placed in front of the middle fascicuU. In this manner they all pass under the dorsal ligament (r fin 121.) of the carpus in a proper shea,th After leaving this sheath, in which they are provided with a synovial capsule* extending both above and below the dorsal Ugament, the four tendons become situated on the samfXne and diverge from each other ; the two SidKdons proceed along the backs of the cor- resDonding metacarpal bones; the external and in- Sal tendons (6' b',fi9.121.) correspond to the inter- V Pross obliquely in order to assume a posiUon behind osseous spaces, which they cro h ^ Having reached the the heads of the metacarpal bones to wm j-