MYOLOGY. 352 Itquely downwards and a little outwards, and terminating on the anterior surfece of an aponeurosis which extends for a considerable distance on the posterior surface of the muscle, and which gradually becomes contracted so as to form the terminal tendon. Just where these fleshy fibres are about to terminate (Z, Jig. 125.), the aponeurosis receives upon its anterior surface and external edge the fleshy fibres of the short head, or femoral portion of the biceps. This por- tion of the muscle {V, fig. 125.) arises from the greater part of the interval between the two mar- gins of the linea aspera, and the posterior surface of the external inter-muscular septum of the thigh ; it passes downwards, inwards, and back- wards, to be attached to the' common tendon al- most as far as its insertion. This insertion is not confined to the head of the fibula, but extends also to the external tuberosity of the tibia by means of a strong division of the tendon, which, at the same time, gives off an expansion to the fascia of the leg. The insertion into the fibula is ef- fected on the outer side, in front of and behind the external lateral ligament of the knee joint, which ligament it embraces in a bifurcation. Relations. The biceps is covered by the glu- taeus maximus and the femoral fascia. It covers the semi-tendinosus, semi-membranosus, and vas- tus externus. It is in relation, also, with the great sciatic nerve, which is placed at first ex- ternally, then in front, and lastly on the inside of the muscle; finally, its short head is in relation with the popliteal vessels. The biceps forms the external border of the: popliteal space; near its termination it is in re- lation with the outer head of the gastrocnemius and with the plantaris longus muscle. Action. The biceps flexes the leg upon the thigh. When this movement is completed its long portion extends the thigh upon the pelvis. From its obliquity downwards and outwards, it rotates the leg outwards during semiflexion; but this rotation is impossible when the leg is extended, in consequence of the tension of the crucial ligaments. The fixed point of this muscle is as often below as above, and it then performs an important part in the mechanism of standing ; for it tends to prevent the in- dividual from falling forwards, because it holds back the pelvis. When the pelvis is thrown quite backwards, this muscle can then flex the thigh upon the leg. The Semi-tendinosus. The semi-tendinosus (m, figs. 124, 125.) so named on account of the great length of its tendon, is situated on the posterior and mternal aspect of the thigh. Attachments It arises from the tuberosity of the ischium, and is inserted into the anterior tuberosity of the tibia. Its origin (m fig 125.) consists of a tendon common to it and the long head of the biceps, which is prolonged m the form of an aponeurosis, upon the external (or popliteal) border of the muscle. Some of the fleshy fibres are attached directly to the tuberosity of the ischiuni. Having arisen in this manner, it enlarges and constitutes a fusiform buncUe, which passes at first verticaUy downwards and then obhquely inwards. About four or five fingers' breadth above the knee joint it termmates m a