FACE IN GENERAL. 83 outwards, and from before backwards; its verticd diameter is for the most part, Su ^perpendicular to the horizon ; but is sometimes rendered slightly obUque by he projection of the frontal sinuses. At the apex ot the orbit is the union of the sphenoidal, the spheno-maxiUary, and pterygo-maxillary fissures. The Nasal Fossa. These foss« are two in number, separated from each other by a vertical septum directed from before backwards ; they are situated m the middle^ of the face, and are prolonged into the interior of several of the bones of the face and cra- nium by means of the cavities caUed sinuses. To describe theu-situation more exactly, we may say, that they are placed below the anterior andnoiddle part o. the base of the cranium, above the cavity of the mouth, between the orbits, and the canine and zygomatic fossa of each side. In order to have an exact idea, either of the dimensions or the shape of the nasal fossa!, it is necessary to have recoui-se to horizontal and vertical sections: of which the latter should be made both from before backwards and from side to side. With regard to their dimensions the nasal fossae (see figs. 22. and 37.) pre- sent 1 a vertical diameter, larger in the middle than before or behind : 2. a transverse diameter much shorter than the other two, and graduaUy con- tracted* from the lower to the upper part, on account of the obhquity of the external wall: 3. an antero-posterior diameter, which measures the whole of the interval between the anterior and posterior openings of the nares. The nasal fossffi have a horizontal direction, but are nevertheless slightly inclined backwards and downwards ; this is caused by the sloping of the in- ferior wall and the obliquity of the body of the sphenoid, which forms part of the superior wall. They are irregular cavities, and have four walls, — a superior, an inferior, an internal, and an external, and two orifices, an anterior and a posterior. The superior wall or roof of the nasal fossa presents a concavity looking down- wards ; it is formed, 1. in front by the proper bones of the nose, and in a small degree by the nasal spine of the frontal bone; 2. in the middle, by the cribri- form plate of the ethmoid: 3. behind, by the body of the sphenoid. In this wall are two transverse sutures, namely: before, the suture which indicates the union of the nasal and frontal bones, and behind, that which marks the union of the ethmoid and sphenoid. At the back part of this wall the opening of the sphenoidal sinus is seen. The inferior wall or floor, much broader but shorter than the superior, pre- sents a transverse concavity, it is directed from before backwards, and slightly from above downwards, which arrangement concurs in determining the obli- quity of the nasal fossse. It is formed, in front by the superior maxilla, behind, by the palate bone; a transverse suture marks the union of these bones. Near its anterior extremity, and at the side of the median line, the floor of the nasal fossae shows the superior orifice of each branch of the anterior palatine canal (^r, fig. 22. and o, fig. 37.). The internal wall (see fig. 22.) formed by the septum, is generally flat, but sometimes concave or convex, according as it is bent to one or the other side.f We find here the suture which indicates the union of the vomer with the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid (S4,fig. 22.) ; the septum in the skeleton is deeply notched in front, and this notch (1 4 8) which is formed above by the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid, and below by the vomer, is occupied in the fresh state by a cartilage, called the cartilage of the septum. ' This progressive contraction of tlie nasal fosste from below upwards, and the obliquity o( the extern.il wall, ought to be remembered during the introduction of instruments into the nose.' t Sometimes the deviation of the septum is so considerable that the internal touches the ex- ternal wall, and consequently there is great difficulty in the passage of the air. This circum- stance has given rise in some cases to a suspicion of the existence of polypus. G 2