ARTHROLOGY. 172 the inter-articular cartilage, acts simultaneously upon them. The other parts of the joint are affected in the folio-wing manner :—during depression of the lower jaw, the exiernal lateral ligament is stretched ; the upper synovial cap- sule is distended behind, but readily yields on account of its laxity. The spheno-maxillary hand, or internal lateral ligament, which is inserted at an almost equal distance from the condyle which is carried forwards, and from the angle of the jaw which is carried backwards, remains unaltered, being neither stretched nor relaxed. When the depression is carried too far, either from the effect of a blow upon the bone, or during a convulsive yawn, the condyle is dislocated into the zygomatic fossae, tearing the supesior synovial capsule, and carrying with it the inter-articular cartilage.* This mode of displacement is impossible in the infant, for from the obliqiiity of the ascending ramus of the jaw the upper part of the condyle looks backwards, and in order to be luxated forwards would have to traverse a much larger space than it does even when the mouth is opened to the greatest possible extent. 2. In elevation, the condyle rolls backwards upon the transverse process into the glenoid cavity. The external lateral ligament is relaxed. The obstacles to too great an elevation are, 1. The meeting of the dental arches; 2. The presence of the vaginal process, and the anterior wall of the auditory meatus ; and it is very probable that the extensive movements of the jaw in the old subject when the teeth are lost, arc permitted by the size of the glenoid cavities. Without that portion of the glenoid cavity which is behind the fissm-e of Glas- serus, the toothless alveolar edges of the aged could never be brought in con- tact. . The forward motion is not, like the preceding, the motion of a lever m which the jaw turns upon its axis ; it is a horizontal movement in which the condyle is brought under the transverse root of the zygoma. A preliminary and in- dispensable condition to this movement is a slight depression of the whole of the lower maxilla. In this movement all the ligaments are stretched; if it were carried too far, the coronoid process would strike against the bone in the zygomatic fossa, and this circumstance would prevent the possibility of luxation of the condyle. The backward motion requires no special remark. The lateral movements differ from the preceding in the mechanism by which they are effected. In the first place, the whole bone does not move from its place. One of the condyles alone escapes from its socket, while the other re- mains in the glenoid cavity. The bone, therefore, turns upon one of the con- dyles as on a pivot. _ . , . , j i The external lateral Ugament of that articulation in which the condyle moves is much stretched. . ^ .i, The lateral motions would have been much more extensive, had not the two condyles mutually obstructed each other, in aU movements but that of de- pression, by reason of their opposite directions. This may be shown by sawing a maxilla through the middle, and moving each of the halves. Moreover the styloid and vaginal processes and the spine of the sphenoid prevent displace- ment inwards. Articitlations of the Thorax. The articulations of the thorax comprehend, 1. the costo-vertebral articula- tions; 2.thechondro-stemal; 3. the articulations of the cartilages of the nbs with each other ; 4. the junction of the cartilages and the nbs. « This luxition would be much more cnmmor were it not for the inter-articular cartilage whici by afways Tccompiiying the condyle, presents a smooth surface, over which the latter may glide in returning into its proper cavity.