Ill THE METACARPUS. Bones of the second or Metacarpal Bow. The bones of the second row are much larger than those of the first; they form, in fact, the support of the metacarpus. In the first row, the outer hone, namely the scaphoid, is the larger; in the second, the two inner hones, viz. the OS magnum ((/) and unciforme (/). Superior surfaces. We have already stated that the surface of the second row, which articulates with the first, presents a head and a cavity. The head is formed almost entirely by a spheroidal eminence, named head of the os magnum ; this is supported by a constricted portion, or neck, below which is the bodi/, the largest part of the bone ; this head of the os magnum is truncated at its inner part, and appears to be completed by a portion of the os unciforme. The con- cavity presented by the bones of the second row is constituted by two bones, the trapezium (e) situated on the outside of the carpus, and the trapezoid (i) placed between the trapezium and os magnum. The inferior surfaces correspond to the bones of the metacarpus. Taken together, these surfaces form a sinuous and angular line, which by itself would I seem to prove the impossibility of dislocation of the metacarpus. The tra- pezium supports the first metacarpal bone; the trapezoid, the second ; the os magnum the third; and the os unciforme the fourtli and fifth metacarpal bones. Th.eposterior surfaces of the bones of the second row form part of the con- vexity of the carpus ; the anterior surfaces are narrower, and correspond with its concavity. There is a process on the anterior aspect at each extremity of the second row ; the internal belongs to the unciform bone, and resembles a hook, the concavity of which looks outwards, and corresponds with the flexor tendons ; the external belongs to the trapezium, and forms a much less prominent hook than that of the unciform; on its inside there is a deep oblique groove for the passage of the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis, and it forms the external inferior process of the carpus. Lateral surfaces. The bones of the second row are joined together by broad . plane surfaces, partly articular, and partly non-articular. The two middle bones, viz. the trapezoid and the os magnum, have each two lateral articulai surfaces, inasmuch as they are articulated with each other, and since the os magnum is united to the imciforme, and the trapezoid to the trapezium The extreme bones of this row have only one side articular. Each of the middle bones, therefore, has four articular surfaces, a superior, an inferior, and two lateral; each of the extreme bones a superior, an inferior, and one lateral. Development of the Carpal Bones. All the bones of the carpus, without exception, are developed from single pomts. The ossific points appear very slowly; all the bones are cartilaginous at birth. Towards the end of the first year, the cartilages of the os magnum and the unciforme show a bony point in the centre. The osseous point of the cuneiform appears from the third to the fourth year; those of the trape- zmm and semilunar, from the fourth to the fifth; and those of the scaphoid and the trapezoid from the eighth to the ninth year. The pisiform does not become ossified until from the twelfth to the fifteenth year; in fact, it is the latest to ossify of all the bones of the skeleton. The Metacarpus (k lt',Jig. 46".). The five bony columns which rest upon the carpus form the metacarpus ■ tney are long bones placed paraUel to each other, and constructed on the same model, with very slight differences. Together they form a sort of square grating, the intervals of which are larger, on account of the disproportion cx-