MYOLOGY. SIX or seven of the converging fasciculi, which act with greater energy than the others, it follows that their action predominates even when the whole muscle contracts. The serratus raagnus is then a depressor of the entire shoul- der and an elevator of its apex. It is more especially concerned than any other muscle in supporting a burden upon the shoulder. In order that the action of the serratus may be directed upon the scapula, its costal attachments must be fixed: this requires the simultaneous contraction of the oblique muscles of the abdomen to maintain the ribs in a depressed posi- tion, and of the diaphragm and transversalis to prevent their projection out- wards. This simultaneous contraction occurs during all great efforts. When the fixed point of the serratus magnus is at the scapula, its upper portion becomes a muscle of inspiration, its middle one of exspiration, and its lower one of inspiration. The greater power of the latter has been the cause of the antagonising action of the middle portion being overlooked; and the serratus magnus is, with great justice, regarded as the most powerful accessory muscle of inspiration : hence the various attitudes of asthmatic persons, who instinctively take a position which fixes the scapula, either by seizing a cord suspended from the top of the bed, or by bending forwards, and leaning on their elbows and forearms, or by resting their upper extremities on two lateral supports. The Inter-eostales, Externi and Interni; the Supra-costales and the Infra-costales. Dissection. In order to examine the external intercostals, and the supra- costales (levatores costarum), the scapula and all the muscles which cover the thorax must be removed ; to expose the internal inter-costales and the infra- costales, it is necessary to saw through the middle of the dorsal vertebrae and the sternum in a vertical direction, and to tear off the pleura from one side of the thorax, which may be very easily accomplished by the fingers. The intercostal muscles, as their name implies, occupy the intervals betveen the ribs: there are two in each intercostal space, and therefore as many pairs as there are spaces. They are divided into external and internal. They represent two very thin muscular layers, of exactly the same width as the spaces to which they be- long ; taken together, they also occupy the entire length of those spaces, but not separately, for the external intercostals extend only from the costo-verte- bral articulations to the commencement of the cartilages of the ribs, while the internal intercostals commence at the angles of the ribs behind, and extend forwards to the stermmi. A very thin aponeurosis is prolonged from the free margin of the one forwards and of the other backwards to the end of the in- tercostal space. The external muscles, which I have generally found thicker than the internal, arise from the lip of the groove on the lower border of one rib, and the internal from the inner lip of the same groove, as well as from the corresponding costal cartilage ; they are both inserted into the upper border of the rib below. The superior attachments consist of fleshy and ten- dinous fibres and lamellse, all of which proceed downwards to the rib below ; those of the external layer obliquely forwards, and those of the internal layer much less obliquely backwards. The inferior attachments are similar in structure The tendinous fibres of the intercostal muscles are very long, and much more numerous than the fleshy fibres: hence the intercostal spaces possess considerable strength, to which the crossing of the two layers also ^^^Behtions The external intercostals are covered by the two pectorals, the serratus magnus, the serrati postici, the latissimus dorsi, the sacro-lumbahs, and the external oblique ; they are superficial to the internal intercostals, and are separated from them by the intercostal vessels and nerves and by a very thin fibrous layer. The internal intercostals are covered by the external and