THE TRIANGULARIS STERNI. 289 by the aponeurotic layer continuous with them anteriorly. Internally they are in relation with the pleura, which from the angles to the tuberosities of the ribs is in apposition with the external muscles. The infracostal muscles of Verheyen consist of small muscular and apo- neurotic tongues, variable in number and length, which extend from the inner surface of one rib to the inner surface of the next, and sometimes also to the second or third rib below. They are sometimes vertical, but often oblique, like the internal intercostals, of which they may be regarded as portions. Supra-costales (levatores breviores costarum of Albinus, o to o, fig. 107.). These are small triangular muscles, situated at the back part of the intercostal spaces. They are accessories of the external intercostals, resemble them in being half tendinous and half fleshy, and appear to form a continuation of them. There are twelve on either side. Each arises from the summit of the transverse process of a vertebra, and proceeds in a radiated manner down- wards, to be inserted into the back part of the upper border and external sur- face of the rib below. The fibres of these muscles have the same direction as those of the external intercostals, but they are more oblique, especially on the outside. The first arises from the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra, the last from that of the eleventh dorsal. Some of these muscles have two digitations, one disposed in the ordinary manner, the other attached to the next rib below. The latter, called the long supracostals (levatores longiores, Albinus and Holler'), form a transition between the levatores breviores and the serrati. Morgagni met with all the levatores united together, so as to form a very regular ser- rated muscle. They are covered by the longissimus dorsi and sacro-lumbalis, and they cover the external intercostals. Action. The contraction of the intercostal muscles tends to approximate the ribs ; and according as the upper or the lower ribs are fixed, they act as muscles of inspiration or of expiration. It has never been denied that the external intercostals are muscles of inspiration, but the crossing of the two muscular layers has given rise to the opinion that they oppose each other in action ; and hence arose the celebrated dispute between Hamberger and Haller. It is easy to understand that the slight difference existing between their attach- ments, with regard to their distance from the fulcrum, could not counter- balance the effect of a difference in the relative fixedness of the ribs, and that the intercrossing of these muscles has no other object than to increase the strength of the parietes of the thorax. As the first rib is much more fixed than the last, it follows that it must serve as a fixed point for the first intercostal muscle, which will consequently raise the second rib ; this wiU then become the fixed point for the third riK and so on. The scaleni often take their fixed point upon the vertebraj and then assist in elevating the first rib. The quadratus lumborum depresses the last rib, wnich may then serve as a fixed poiut for the others during expir- The levatores act very effectuaUy in raising the ribs; for being attached so near to the fulcrum, the slightest movement produced in the posterior ex- tremity of the rib becomes very sensible at the other end. I agree with Bo- reui {De Motu Animal, tom. ii. p. 158.) that the intercostals act even during the most easy respiration. This can be observed upon our own persons, and also in in(bviduals in deep sleep. The ribs will be seen distinctly carried out- wards, and the sternum raised. The Triangularis Sterni, or small Anterior Serratus. anfieafoff'thfif^^^'^""^y their junction with the cartilages, ana tear ott the pleura with the fingers. ^ ti,» c /'"l""^"'"'"'? represents the levatores costarum in front, or rather vo^ I '"''^ difference^that it occupies the internal instead of