562 SPLANCHNOLOGY. natural situation ; its cartilages separated from each other, its ligaments and muscles, its vessels and nerves, and its mucous membrane. The larynx is a sort of box (jyixis cava) or cartilaginous passage, consisting of several moveable pieces, which forma complex apparatus intended for the organ of the voice. It is situated {v, fig. 140.) in the median line, in the course of the air passages, opening into the pharynx (3) above, and being continuous -with the trachea (x) below : it occupies the anterior and upper part of the neck, below the OS hyoides, the movements of which it follows, and in front of the vertebral column, being separated from it by the pharynx : it is covered by the muscles of the sub-hyoid region which intervene between it and the skin ; and it is therefore very liable to wounds, and may easily be reached by the surgeon. Its mobility allows of its being raised, depressed, and carried forwards or back- wards ; all of which movements are concerned both in deglutition and in the production of different tones of the voice. It may also be carried to the right or left side ; but these lateral displacements are most commonly produced by external violence, or by the growth of timiours. Dimensions. The larynx appears like an expansion of the trachea, and has therefore been denominated its head, caput aspera artericB. The exact deter- mination of its dimensions, according to age and sex, or in different individuals, and their relations to the various qualities of the voice, would be extremely interesting in a physiological point of view. Its greater size in the male than in the female, and the developement it undergoes in both sexes, but especially in the male, at the period of puberty, are among the most remarkable phe- nomena in the hiunan economy. Form. It is cylindrical below, like the trachea, but is expanded above, and becomes prismatic and triangular. It may therefore be compared to a three- sided pyramid, the truncated apex of which is directed downwards, and the base upwards ; it is perfectly symmetrical. As the larynx is a very complicated organ, I shaU describe in succession the numerous parts which enter into its composition. Being intended to admit of the continual passage of the air in the act of respiration, it must therefore pre- sent a constantly pervious cavity, having strong and elastic walls ; but as it is also the organ of the voice, it requires to be provided with a moveable apparatus, subject to the will. We accordingly find in it a cartilaginous skeleton or framework, much stronger than that of the trachea; certain articulations and ligaments, and a vocal apparatus composed of four fibrous bands, or vocal cords ; muscles, which move the different pieces of the cartilaginous skeleton, and produce certain changes in the vocal apparatus indispensable for the production of sounds ; a mucous membrane, lining its inner surface ; glands, which pour out their fluid upon that surface ; and, lastly, certain vessels and nerves. We cannot enter upon a general description of the organ, imtil we have studied separately its constituent parts. The cartilages of the larynx. These are five in number ; of which three are median, single, and symmetrical, viz. the cricoid, the thyroid, and the epiglottis, and two are lateral, viz. the arytenoid, of which the cornicula laryngis are merely appendages. The cartilaginous nodules, described by some authors under the name of the cuneiform cartilages, and situated in the membranous fold extending from the arytenoid cartilages to the epiglottis, do not exist in the human sub- The cricoid cartilage. The cricoid or annular cartilage (c c', ^^^s. 173 to 177.) forms the base of the larynx ; it is much thicker and stronger than any of the others. Its form is that of a ring, whence its name (kpIkos, a ring); it is narrow in front (c, fig. 173.), where it resembles a ring of the trachea; it is three or four times broader or deeper behind (c' and c,fig. 175.), where it fonns by itself alone the greater part of the larynx, being there about an inch in height. Jn front, its external surface is subcutaneous in the median line; on each side, it gives attachment to the crico-thyroid muscle, and presents a smooth process (»n.