300 MYOLOGY. The Aiiricularis Posterior. This muscle (d', fig. 113.) is much more decidedly marked than the pi e- ceding, and is composed of two or three distinct fleshy fasciculi (tres retrahentes auriculam, Albinus), which extend from the base of the mastoid process, and sometimes also from the occipital bone, to the lower part of the concha. Action. To draw the auricle backwards. MUSCLES OF THE FACE. All the muscles of the face are arranged in groups around its several openings, and may be classed either as dilators or constrictors. The nostrils alone have no constrictors. The eyelids must be opened and closed entire, without the production of any folds ; the nostrUs must remain constantly open, for the skin around these orifices has within it a corresponding lamina of cartUage, which gives it the necessary tension, strength, and elasticity, and into which the muscles are in- serted. There is no such arrangement at the orifice of the mouth, the muscles being there inserted into other muscles. From the three openings around which the muscles of the face are grouped, these may be arranged into three distinct regions, viz. the palpebral, the nasal, and the buccal. Muscles of the Palpebral Eegion. Orbicularis palpebrarum. — Superciliaris. — Levator palpebrce superioris. The muscles of the eyelids are divided into constrictors and dilators. There is one constrictor, viz. the orbicularis palpebrarum, to which the corrugator supercilii is an accessory ; there is also one elevator, viz. the levator palpebrsE superioris. The Orbicularis Palpebrarum. Dissection. Make an elliptical incision through the skin round the base of the orbit; dissect successively the upper and lower half of the muscle, pro- ceeding from the adherent towards the free border of each eyelid. It is of more importance here, than in any other situation, to dissect the skin parallel to the fleshy fibres. When the external surface of the muscle has been studied, detach it carefully from the subjacent parts, and reflect it inwards. The orbicularis palpebrarum le',Jig. 113.) forms an elliptical zone of variable size round the eyelids, and also an extremely thin layer upon them. It is a sphincter, and, like all muscles of this kind, is composed of circular fibres; but, as a special exception, it is also provided with a remarkable tendon of origin, named the straight tendon of the orbicularis: this isabouttwo lines in length, and half a line in breadth, arises from the ascending process of the superior maxilla, anteriorly to the lachrymal groove, and passes in front of the lachrymal sac, where it divides into two imequal parts, an upper and smaller, and a lower more capacious; sometimes it corresponds entirely to the upper part of the sac. At first It is flattened from before backwards, but is then twisted upon itself, so as to present one surface upwards and another downwards. Opposite the inner ano-le of the eyelids, this tendon, which is also called the palpebral ligament, becomes°bifurcated, and each division is attached to the inner end of the cor- responding tarsal cartilage; from the posterior surface of the tendon a very strong aponeurotic lamina is given off. and forms the outer wall of the lachry ma sac - this is the reflected tendon of the orbiadans palpebrarum. Fleshy fibres proceed from the Interior and posterior surfaces, and from the borders ot the straight endon, and also from the anterior border of the reflected tendon ; but the Ser number arise by well-marked tendinous prolongations from he exteS orbital process of the frontal bone, from the ascending process of the