MYOLOGY. 354 cellular tissue of the pelvis at the sciatic notch, and below with the fossa of the ham. It is in this direction that purulent matter so readily escapes from the pelvis. The greater part of this interval is destined for the great sciatic nerve, which, however, is soon accompanied by the popliteal vessels. Actio7i. Precisely similar in nature to that of the preceding muscle, but much more powerful. The momentum of all these flexor muscles occurs, on the one hand, during semi-flexion of the leg upon the thigh; and, on the other (j. e. when their lower attachments are fixed), during semi-flexion of the thigh upon the pelvis. External Region. The Tensor VagincB Fenioris. Dissection. In order to expose this muscle, it is sufficient to make a vertical incision through the thick tendinous layer given off from the anterior portion of the crest of the Uium, and to dissect back the two flaps of that aponeurosis. The tensor vagina femoris (le muscle du fascia lata, o, fig. 126.) is the largest of all the tensor muscles of aponeuroses: it is a short, flat, quadrilateral muscle, contained vrithin the substance of the fascia lata, and occupying the upper third of the external region of the thigh. It arises from the anterior part of the outer margin of the crest of the ilium, and from the outer border of the an- terior superior spinous process of the ilium, between the sartorius and the glutseus medius, by means of a tendon which also furnishes some points of attachment to the anterior fibres of the last named muscle. From these points the fleshy flbres proceed downwards and a little backwards, and, at about the upper fourth or third of the thigh, terminate in a series of small tendinous bundles, the anterior of which become continuous with the fascia lata, while the posterior cross obliquely over the vertical fibres of the fascia, with -which they are very soon blended. Relations. It lies between two layers of the fascia lata, the external layer being much thicker than the internal. It is covered by the skin, and it covers the glutffius medius, the rectus, and the vastus extemus. Its anterior border is in contact with the outer edge of the sartorius, but is soon separated from it by a triangular space, in which the rectus femoris may be seen. Action. It is a tensor, not only of the entire femoral fascia, but particularly of the very dense portion or band of the fascia lata, which, being continuous with it may be regarded as an aponeurotic tendon to this muscle (muscle aponeurotique de la bande large, Winslow), and which is inserted into the outer tubercle of the anterior tuberosity of the tibia, and into the adjacent part of its external tuberosity. When the tensor vagina; is in action, this band com- presses the vastus externus, which has so great a tendency to displacement; by means of this band also the muscle acts upon and extends the leg. Lastly, as a rotator of the thigh inwards ; it is but httle concerned, however, m the production of this movement, which, as I have already said, is chiefly efl'ected by the anterior fibres of the glutsei medius and minimus. Anterior Region. The Sartorius. n;<,<,eciion This is common to all the muscles of the anterior and inner rerions of the thigh. Make a horizontal incision along the femoral arch, and another perpendicularly from the middle of that to the anterior tuberosity of tC tibia Dissect the fascia of the thigh with care. As all the muscles of the a^teriV and inner region are separated from each other by distmct sheaths. EdLecLn^^^^^^^ simply in opening.these sheaths -ccessively a^^^^^^^ mo^ng the ceUular tissue that fills up the mter-muscular spaces. It is neces-