SPLANCHNOLOGY. foreign bodies arrested in the guUet may produce sufFocation, and renmre the performance of tracheotomy. * The softness and flexibiUty of the trachea opposite the oesophagus have appeared to some physiologists to be intended merely to facilitate the dilatation ot the latter durmg the passing of the food; but we shall see that the air-tubes contmue to be membranous behind, even where they have no relation with the oesophagus, and comparative anatomy, which shows the trachea to be cylindrical m the bird, and angular behind in the ox, the sheep, &c. most completely refutes this opinion. ^ Relations of the thoracic portion of the trachea. In the thorax, the trachea occupies the posterior mediastinum. It corresponds m front, proceeding from above downwards, with the sternum and the sterno-thyroid muscles; with the left brachio-cephalic vein (c, fig. 170.); with the brachio-cephalic artery (A), an aneurism of which may open into the trachea: its left side is as it were embraced between the braehio-cephaUc artery (/i), and the left common ca- rotid 0); ■with the back part of the arch of the aorta {g), which rests imme- diately upon it, and hence the dyspnoea which so generally accompanies aneu- rism of the aorta, and the frequency of its bursting into the windpipe; and lastly, lower down, with the bifurcation of the pulmonary artery, which corre- sponds with that of the trachea. The trachea is in relation behind with the oesophagus, which separates it from the spinal column; and on the sides with those portions of the pleuras which form the mediastinum, with the pneumogastric nerves, and with the upper part of the recurrent nerves. In aU its thoracic portion the trachea is surrounded by numerous lymphatic vessels and glands, and by a loose and very abundant cellulai- tissue, which communicates with that of the cervical region. These lymphatic vessels and glands with the loose cellular tissue are the parts immediately adjoining the trachea; and it may readily be conceived that enlargement of the glands may be productive of serious consequences. Internal surface. The internal surface of the trachea is of a rosy colour, and presents the same circular ridges as the external surface, but they are more distinct. It is also remarkable in its membranous portion for the pro- jection of certain vertical fasciculi, to which we shall again refer when speak- ing of the structure of these parts. The Bronchi. The bronchi {^p6yxos, guttur, p, p, fig. 171.) are the two branches formed by the bifurcation of the trachea, which spread out from each other at a right or a slightly obtuse angle; one (p) is intended for the right, the other for the left (p') lung. A tolerably strong triangular ligament exists at the angle of the bifurcation, and seems intended to prevent too great separation of the bronchi. The bronchi differ/rom each other in many respects ; first, in width. The right bronchus is much wider than the left, and its diameter is not much less than that of the trachea. In a female, whose trachea was ten lines in diameter, the right bronchus was eight, and the left five. This difference in width corresponds with the difference in the size of the two lungs, and may afford a tolerably correct measure of that size: they differ also in length, the right bronchus being one inch in length, the left two: also in direction, the right bronchus passing less obliquely than the left, probably because it enters the corresponding lung sooner than the latter; and lastly, in their relations. Thus, the right bronchus is embraced by the vena azygos, whicli forms a loop immediately above it, in order to terminate in the vena cava superior. The left bronchus is embraced above by the arch of the aorta (g^)," and has an important relation with the oesophagus behind, which it crosses obliquely. Both are connected with the pulmonary plexus of nerves; both