THE LARYNX. 573 n.-fflPMcnrx! of the alottis. The glottis is the narrowest part of the larynx, and hefc th da^gCK^^^ introluction of a foreip hody into it and from the format on of fflse membranes in this situation. The only action of the mtnn^c muscles of the larynx is to dilate or contract the opening of the glo tis. We Tve seen that, wi^h the exception of the crico-thyroidei, they are aU in some mei^ure collected round the crico-arytenoid articulation, the movements of which determine the dimensions of the glottis. u ■* „^ -hocc The individual differences which constitute the tenor, baritone, or hass voices in singing depend upon the size of the glottis ; to which, also, must be attributed the difference between the male and female voice, and the change produced in its tone at the time of puberty. A deep voice coincides with a large glottis, and a shriU voice with a small one. In the adult male the antero- posterior diameter of the glottis is from ten to eleven hnes, in the female it is only eight lines ; in the male the greatest transverse diameter is from three to four lines, in the female from two to three lines.* From these dimensions it may be understood how a louts dor might pass edo-ewise through the glottis, and thus faU into the trachea. In a case of this kind, most of those who were called in consultation rejected the idea of the presence of the coin in the windpipe, because, said they, the glottis cannot admit it. The patient died in about a year, and the louis d'or was found in the Venlricle of the larynx. Between the superior and inferior vocal cords of each side there is a cavity, called the ventricle or sinus of the larynx {v,fig. 176. 178.) ; it is oblong from before backwards, and of the same length as the cords ; its depth is determined by the interval separating the cords from the thyroid cartilage, or rather from the thyro-arytenoid muscle, which forms the bottom of the corresponding ventricle. The opening of the ventricle is some- what narrower than the bottom, is elliptical in its longest diameter, and has admitted the introduction of a foreign body. To each ventricle there is a supplementary cavity, which is acciu-ately described and figured in the works of Morgagni.f This cavity resembles in shape a Phrygian cap; it has a broad base opening into the ventricle, and a narrow apex; it is found at the anterior part of the ventricle, and is prolonged on the outer side of the superior vocal cord between it and the thyroid cartilage, upon the side of the epiglottis. Its dimensions vary much. In one case its vertical diameter ■was six lines, and it was divided into two parts by a transverse band. The circumferences of the larynx. The superior circumference of the larynx {fig. 178.) is much wider than the inferior, and presents the following objects : —the superior angular border of the thyroid cartilage, and the great comua in ■which it terminates; behind the thyroid cartilage, the epiglottis (i); and between the cartilage and the epiglottis, a small triangular space filled by a compact fatty mass, which has been incorrectly described as the epiglottid gland. I have already said that this fatty mass is bounded above by a fibrous membrane, extending from the epiglottis to the posterior surface of the os hyoides. Behind the epiglottis, ■we find the upper orifice of the larynx, which must not be confounded with the glottis ; it slopes obliquely from before backwards and from above downwards, having the form of a triangle, with its base directed forwards and its apex backwards, consequently in the opposite direction to the glottis. This orifice is formed in front by the free margin of the epiglottis, which is slightly notched ; on each side by the upper part of the lateral margin of the epiglottis, and by the free edge of the aryteno-epiglottid fold (6); and be- * These measurements are taken at the level of the inferior vocal cords; the transverse diameter is rather longer opposite the superior vocal cords. t I first saw this cavity in a patient affected with larjjngeal phthisis, in whom it was very much developed. 1 then examined the larynx in other individuals, and found it to be con- stant. I did not then know tliat Morgagni had pointed it out and figured it. {Advcrs. i. Episi Anat. viii.) '