AUTHOR'S PREFACE. vii A 4 nilio certa ex principih certis exorta. Sciences are divided into^the meta- physical, the mathemalical, and the natural; but since the two former are not connected with our present subject, we shall du-ect attention to the natural sciences only. . . . . The object of the natural sciences, or of physics, taken in its widest signi- fication is a knowledge of the materials of which the universe is composed, and of the laws by which they are governed. They ai-e subdivided into the physical, and the physiological or zoological. The physical sciences take into consideration all the phenomena pre- sented by inorganic bodies; they comprise, I. Astronomy, which studies the heavenly bodies as they revolve in space, and estimates, by the aid of numbers, the laws by which their movements are governed ; 2. Physics, properly so called, or the study of the properties of matter in general; in aid of which, experunents are performed in order to exhibit phenomena in every possible light, and calculation is employed to render fruitfiil the re- sults of experiment ; 3. Geology, or that science which studies the surface of the globe, and the successive strata which are met with in its interior ; which goes back far beyond all historical traditions, brings to light, as it were, the very depths of the eaith, and traces with a sure hand the history of the globe, and the various revolutions it has undergone ; 4. Chemistry, which consists in the study of the reciprocal actions of bodies, when re- duced to then- atomic condition. The zoological or physiological sciences embrace all the phenomena pre- sented by living bodies. The science of botany examines into the structure and functions of plants ; but zoology, properly so called, investigates the organisation and the hfe of animals. The examination into structure or organisation constitutes anatomy. Physiology embraces the study of func- tions or of life. The facts presented to us in the zoological are of a totally different cha- racter from those comprised in the physical sciences. Inorganic bodies, in fact, are governed by constant and immutable laws, acting in perfect harmony with each other ; but living bodies are subject not only to phy- sical, but also to vital laws, the latter of which are constantly struggling against the former. This struggle constitutes life; death is the triumph of the physical over the vital laws. In consequence, however, of this con- tinual strife, derangements of structure and disordered functions very often occur ; and these become more frequent and more complicated, in pro- portion as the organisation is more highly developed, and the animal more elevated in the scale of creation. A knowledge of these derangements and of the proper means for re- storing both organisation and life to a healthy condition, constitutes the science of medicine; and the station which I have just assigned to tliis most important branch of zoological science will prove, better than any arguments, that the study of the physiological or healthy state of organi- sation and of life should precede that of their pathological or diseased conditions ; and that anatomy forms the first hnk in the chain of medical science. Each science has its own methods of investigation, and its peculiar ele- ments of certainty. Metaphysics and moral philosophy have a metaphysical and moral certainty. The mathematical sciences set out from a small number of self-evident propositions or axioms founded upon the nature of things, proceed gradually from the known to the unknown, and trust to problems already demonstrated as to so many axioms, by means of which, as steps, they again ascend towards new truths. The natural sciences',