OSTEOLOGY. 114 together. The three columns which compose each finger successively decrease in size, and are known by the numerical appellations, of first, second, and third. The first, which articulates with the metacarpus, is also called the metacarpal phalanx (t I'); the second, the middle phalanx (ni); and the third, which supports the nail, the ungual phalanx (n «')• '^^^ thumb alone has only two phalanges, an ungual, and a metacarpal. Chaussier has named the phalanges, phalange, phalangine, and phalangette, counting from the base to the ends of the fingers. These denominations he has found very serviceable in the methodical designation of the muscles of the fingers. The first Phalanx (IV). The first phalanx belongs to the class of long bones, and presents to our notice, 1. a body resembling a half cylinder cut along its axis, and slightly curved upon itself, so as to present a concavity in front; the dorsal surface is cylindrical, and covered by the tendons of the extensor muscles ; the anterior surface is slightly channelled for the partial lodgment of the tendons of the flexor muscles, its edges are sharp and give attachment to a tendinous sheath, which converts the channel above mentioned, into an osteo-fibrous-canal for the flexor tendons of the fingers ; 2. an upper or metacarpal end, transversely oblong, and presenting a small glenoid cavity for the head of the corresponding metacarpal bone; 3. a lower end, forming an articular pulley Such are the general characters of the first phalanx, but they are modified in each finger. Thus the phalanx of the middle finger is the longest; those of the index and ring finger come next. The first phalanx of the thumb is the largest in proportion to its length ; the first phalanx of the little finger is the most slender; it is also the shortest, excepting that of the thumb. The second Phalanx (m). The second phalanx difi'ers from the first by its smaller size, and the shape of its upper end, which is fitted to the trochlea on the lower end of the first phalanx The edges of this phalanx are thick and rough above, where they give insertion to the tendon of the superficial flexor of the fingers. The thumb has no second phalanx. The third Phalanx (n n'). This bone to which so much importance has been attached in na.tural history* supports the horny part with which the ends of the digits in animals are arm^d, and the nails in man. It is shaped thus. the upper end is trans- versely oblong, exactly resembling the upper end of the second phalanx; from [his part it contracts like a cone; afterwards it becomes much enlarged and flattened from before backwards, and ends with the shape of a horse-shoe rough in front where it supports the pulp of the finger smooth behind and kdented on the edges. The migual phalanx of the thumb is much larger Sn S of the othfr fingers; that of the middle - nf the index and ring finger are almost equal; and that of the little linger is the smit It is very ^cult to distinguish the phalanges of the right from those of the left hand. Development of the Phalanges. TbP nhalanees are developed from two points; one for the body and lower The P^al^'l^es are ae p development is common to the £.TecoTi i tHrrpM^^^ The osseous point of the body appears * see the interesting memoir of M.Dumeril. mme-i DmertaUon sur taaemiere Pl.a,an,e dans les Mammtfercs.