THE FASCIA TRANSVERSALIS. 401 the lower fourth of the aponeuroses, and passing in front of the rectus (as in Jig. 135.); the other superior (above s, fig. 110.), which passes behind the rectus (as mjig. 134.), and is formed by the upper three fourths of the apo- neurosis. Its external margin is convex, and gives origin to the fleshy fibres of the muscle. Its anterior surface is closely united to the aponeurosis of the internal oblique, beyond which it passes on the outside : its posterior surface is loosely connected with the peritoneum, excepting in its lower fourth, which, as already stated, passes in front of the rectus muscle. The tendinous fibres of the transversalis, which have the same direction as its fleshy fibres, are oc- ca.sionally found not to terminate abruptly behind the lower part of the rectus ; but the aponeurosis merely becomes thinner, and its fasciculi separated from each other. The Fascia Transversalis and Sub-peritoneal Aponeurosis. In order to complete the description of the anterior abdominal aponeurosis, it only remains for me to describe the fascia transversalis, which I regard as a I thickened portion of the sub-peritoneal fascia. The fascia transversalis (seen at a' and c,fig. 137.) was first pointed out by Sir Astley Cooper, but has been more correctly described by Lawrence and J. Cloquet: it commences below at the reflected border (a a') of the crural arch, so that it may be regarded as a thin prolongation of the reflected portion of the tendon of the external oblique. It also frequently arises from the brim of the pelvis, as weU as from the crural arch. From these points it passes upwards, becoming more and more attenuated as it approaches the umbilicus, at which point it cannot be distinguished from the sub-peritoneal aponeu- rosis. The fascia transversalis is situated between the abdominal muscles and the peritoneum. Its internal margin is continuous with the outer border of the rectus muscle ; and its external margin, which gradually becomes thinner, is blended with the sub-peritoneal aponeurosis. The only part deserving a special description, is that portion which lies between the outer border of the rectus muscle and the abdominal opening of the inguinal canal. In this si- tuation it assists in strengthening the parietes of the abdomen, -which are here remarkably weak ; and it is to the existence of this fascia that we may attri- bute the extreme rarity of direct inguinal hernise *, which, in fact, can only result from a congenital weakness, or a relaxation of this fascia. A very interesting portion of the fascia transversalis is an infundibuliform prolongation, given off fi-om it to the spermatic cord. It is impossible, in- deed, to conceive the descent of the testicle to occur without its pushing before it a portion of the fascia, which then constitutes the immediate investment of the cord, upon which the cremaster muscle (Jb,fig. 137.) is spread out. The peritoneal orifice of the inguinal canal is, therefore, the superior opening of the infundibuliform process, furnished by the fascia transversalis to the tes- ticle and its cord. The Sub-peritoneal Aponeurosis. The peritoneum, throughout the whole extent of the abdominal parietes, is strengthened on its outer surface by a very thin tendinous layer, the existence of which may serve to explain why abscesses, formed in the parietes of the abdomen, so seldom open into the cavity of the peritoneum; and on the other hand, why collections within the peritoneal cavity so seldom open externally. - * f ■ ^"""'^ occurring dir(!c% downwards and forwards tliroiigli the inguinal rine (m 78^.1.37.), and not di'scending along the inguinal cnn«/.] ® ' vol,. I.