THE PECTORALIS MAJOR. 285 From these different origins the fleshy fibres proceed outwards in different directions; the upper fibres obliquely downwards, the middle transversely, and the lower fibres obUquelij. These last are folded backwards, so as to form a sort of groove, which embraces the lower border of the pectoralis minor. It appears, then, that the pectoralis major is composed of three very distinct por- tions, which are sometimes separated by a greater or less quantity of cellular tissue. These three portions in converging are so disposed, that the upper overlaps the middle, and this again the lower portion, the fibres of which are twisted upon themselves, so that the lowest in front become the highest behind, and vice versa.* They are all inserted into the anterior lip of the bicipital groove by means of a flat tendon, about fifteen lines in breadth, which is continuous with the anterior edge of the tendon of the deltoid. The stnicture of this tendon commands particular attention, and can only be examined after having divided the muscle across, and turned the external half outwards. It will then be seen that it is composed of two laminae, placed one before the other, sometimes blended together, but generally distinct, or united only by their lower edges, so that they form a groove opening upwards. The anterior lamina is the thicker, and receives the clavicular and middle portions of the muscle; the deep layer affords attachment to the lower portion. It is not uncommon to find the two lamina; separated by the tendon of the long head of the biceps, the groove for which they then contribute to form. The entire tendon is broader and thicker below than above, and gives off, both forwards and back- wards, an aponeurotic expansion, constituting one of the chief origins of the fascia of the arm.f Relations. It is covered by the platysma myoides, the mammary gland, and the skin. Its deep relations are of the greatest importance. On the thorax, it covers the sternum, the ribs and their cartilages, the pectoralis minor, the subclavius nauscle, the serratus magnus, and the intercostals. It forms the anterior wall of the axilla, and is in relation with the brachial plexus and axillary vessels, and with the cellular tissue and lymphatic glands of that re- gion. Its external border is nearly parallel to the anterior edge of the deltoid, being separated from the latter by a linear or triangular cellular interval, in which are situated the cephalic vein and acromial artery. Its lower border is thin towards the median line, thick and tendinous externally ; it forms the anterior border of the axilla, and gives rise to a projection under the skin, proportionate to the developement of the muscle. Its inner border intersects in the median line with the muscle of the opposite side, and is continuous below with the linea alba. Uses. The pectoralis major is essentially an adductor of the arm; at the same time It rotates it mwards, and draws it forwards. It is by the action of this muscle that the forearms are crossed, and that one hand is placed on the oddo- °, u^^":. ^*'/PP\^ clavicular portion conspires with the anterior fibres of the deltoid and with the coraco-brachiahs in elevating the humerus and carrying it forwards. If the arm be at a moderate distance from the side and its lower extremity be fixed, as is the case in faUmg on the elbow when the arm is directed outwards this muscle acts upon the humerus as upon a lever of the third order, of which he fulcrum is below, the power in the middle, and the resistance above, and t hen tends to dislocate the head of the humerus with great force, because^n this position Its insertion IS perpendicular to the lever «^<tuse in When the humerus is fixed, the pectoralis major acts upon the ribs, the distinct, and terminate in i .sm^^ll flnX,^ 'l'*' Pectoralis ma;or, from which it was perfectlv tendon 'was continued along Th" innfr^sidT^^fihot^i'TdrAll^r'fL"^ °^ muscll." Thj^ cular septum, from which It received a Bmall n^l., ? 'i i a° aponeurotic inter-mus- the cpitrochlca. received a small ncshy fasciculus, and was ultimately inserted into