281 THE SCALENI. the posterior mavgin of the groove on the transverse process below : from these origins the fibres proceed vertically upwards, and are inserted into the transverse process of the vertebra above. They are • / separated from each other by the anterior branches of "I^^^^S- the cervical nerves, and by the vertebral artery, the /^ffl™!^^ i ^^^^^ which they serve to complete. Behind, gBM^y^ they are in relation with the posterior spinal muscles, ^ilHiw splenius, the levator anguli scapulaj, the trans- versalis colli, and the cervicalis descendens; and in part with the rectus capitis anticus major. ^ 2. F.ectus capitis lateralis (6, fig. 112.). ^ This muscle may be regarded as the first posterior inter- trans versalis of the neck, and the rectus capitis anti- cus minor, which we shall presently describe as the first anterior inter-transversalis. The comparative size of the rectus lateralis is not opposed to this view, for it is connected with the increased developement of the corresponding cranial vertebra. It arises from the transverse process of the atlas, and proceeds directly upwards to be inserted into the jugular surface of the occipital bone, immediately behind the fossa of that name. This muscle separates the jugular vein, with -which it is in contact in front, from the vertebral artery to which it is contiguous behind. 3. Inter-transvei-salis of the loins. The absence of any groove upon the lumbar transverse processes would lead us at once to infer that in this region there must be only one muscle in each inter-transverse cpace. There are, therefore, five on each side. The first extends from the transverse process of the last dorsal to that of the first lumbar vertebra ; and the last from the transverse process of the fourth to that of the fifth lumbar vertebra. Action. These little muscles, by drawing the transverse processes towards each other, incline that portion of the vertebral column with which they arc connected towards their own side ; that is, the cervical muscles with the rectus lateralis incline the head and neck, and those of the lumbar region act upon the loins. The Scaleni. Dissection. These muscles are in a great measure displayed in the ordi- nary dissection of the anterior and posterior cei-vical regions. In order spe- cially to expose them upon an entire subject, it is sufficient to dissect off the skin on the sides of the neck, and to remove the omo-hyoid, the nerves the cellular tissue, and the sub-clavicular lymphatic glands. But in order to de- monstrate the inferior attachments of these muscles, the upper limb must be scarified by disarticulating the clavicle at its sternal end, or still better by sawing the clavicle through the middle, dividing the great and smaU pectoral muscles, raismg the sterno-cleido-mastoid, detaching the serratns maenus, and drawing the apex of the shoulder forcibly backwards. The scaleni occupy the sides and lower part of the neck, extending from the two upper ribs to the six lower cervical vertebrae, sometimes to the atlas also, ihey are, therefore, fasciculated like all the other vertebral muscles Anatomists are not agreed concerning their number. Albinus enumerated nve on each side; Sabatier reduced these to three; but we agree with M toZT' A anatomists, in admitting the existence of two only, an an- n HpLJ'k-'' P"'';^""^- M. Chaussier has followed the example of Riolanus in describing only one, which he calls costo-trachelien. ' teri^r lonallTT '^""''^"^C^'112, 113,and 114.) might be temed the an- hTpe thoS ; T^r""'" sufficientlyindicates its triangular Shape, though It rather resembles a cone with the base below, and the apex