THE AURICULAR MUSCLES. 299 of the cranial bones), being separated from it by a quantity of moist cellular tissue, which admits of a considerable degree of mobility of the integuments, and is so elastic that it returns to its original situation after being displaced by any movements of the hairy scalp. The superficial surface of this muscle is covered by the skin, and is united to it by a very dense, almost fibrous cel- lular tissue, in which are ramified the numerous vessels and nerves of the cranial integuments. ... Action. The occipital portion is a tensor of the epicranial aponeurosis, which when stretched affords a fixed point for the frontal portion. This latter raises the upper half of the orbicularis palpebrarum, elevates the eye- brows and the skin over the root of the nose, and has a great effect m the ex- pression of emotions of delight. This muscle produces the transverse wrinkles on the forehead, which give to the countenance of individuals who are habitually gay, a peculiar expression, that is often imitated by painters. These transverse wrinkles do not extend over the triangular interval, which separates the two fleshy bellies of the muscle in the centre of the forehead. The occipito-frontalis must be regarded as an elevator of the upper eyelids ; it is blended with the orbicularis palpebrarum in the same manner as the labial muscles with the orbicularis oris. In this respect the occipito-frontalis is assisted by the levator palpebrse superioris, and antagonised by the corru- gator supercilii and orbicularis palpebrarum. Can this muscle erect the hairs on the head ? It is certain that it can move the entire hairy scalp, for many individuals are able tc do this at wiU; but it appears to me that the ex- pression, the hairs stand on end, as regards man, is merely figurative, and is derived from what occurs in the lower animals, in which this erection of the hair is very manifest. Perhaps, however, the skin itself may produce this effect by the same mechanism as that which gives rise to goose skin. The Auricular Muscles. Dissection. Be very careful in dissecting the superior and anterior auri- cular muscles, which are extremely thin, and consist only of a few colourless fibres. To render them as tense and prominent as possible, it is necessary to draw the ear away from the muscle to be examined. All these muscles are rudimentary in man, in whom the external ear is almost immoveable. They may all be considered as dilators of the audi- tory meatus, to which there is no constrictor or sphincter in the human sub- ject : certain animals, however, possessing a very delicate sense of hearing, have constrictor muscles, which draw together and move the different pieces forming the cartilaginous portion of this canal. The auricular muscles are three in number: a superior, an anterior, and a posterior. TTie Auricularis Superior. This muscle, which is extremely thin and of a triangular form (h',fig. 113.), occupies the temporal fossa. It arises from the external border of the epicra- nial aponeurosis, of which it seems to be a dependence ; from this origin its fibres converge, and are inserted into the upper part of the concha. It is covered by the skin, and lies upon the temporal fascia. Action. To raise the ear (attollens auriculam, Albinus). The Auricularis Anterior. .'^^isj^^scle {c',fig. 113.) is still thinner and less marked than the preceding, with which It is continuous. It is also triangular, and arises from the outer edge of the occipito-frontalis, and the cellular tissue covering the zygomatic "^f^i!" V r converge from their origin, and are inserted into the front ot the helix. It is covered by the skin, and lies upon the temporal fascia trom which it is separated by the temporal artery and vein. Albims)' ''"^^ auricle forwards and upwards (anterior auriculfc.