27 VERTEBRAL COLUMN. D The articular processes (5 5) arise from the lateral portions of the arch near its junction with the body of the vertehra: their direction is m general vertical, i. e. perpendicular to the direction of the articulating surfaces of the body, which are horizontal. They are four in number, two superior or ascendmg, and two ivferior or descending; they are placed symmetricaUy on each side of the median line, and are covered with cartilage m the fresh state, to torm a movable joint with the articular processes of the adjacent vertebra ; they project beyond the level of the bodies of the vertebra;, so that their articula- tions correspond with the intei-vertebral substances. Hence the vertebral column presents two successive series of articulations, one constituted in iront by the union of the bodies, the other behind by the articular processes. E. The transverse processes (4 4) are lateral prolongations, which arise Irom each side of the vertebral ring, pass horizontally outwards, and vary in length and size in the different regions. _ i -u i,- j F. In front of the articular and transverse processes, immediately bebind. and at the side of the body of the vertebra, are four notches cut m the lateral parts of the ring {7, figs. 4 and 5.) : the inferior are generally deeper than the superior, but their depth varies considerably in the different regions. The part of the vertebral ring between the upper and lower notches is reduced to a sort oipedicle; it is the weakest part of the vertebra, and consequently it is the prLucipal seat of torsion in curvatures of the spine. The constituent parts of a vertebra are therefore, 1. In the median line, the body, the foramen, the spinous process, and the lamina; 2. On each side, the articular and transverse processes, the notch, and the pedicle. The Fig. i Characters peculiar to the Vertebrce of each Region. characters distinctive of the vertebrae of each region of the spine are most marked in those placed in the middle of the respective region, for at its extremes the vertebra3 acquire intermediate or mixed cha- racters belonging to the two regions near the confines of which they are situate. It may be remarked that the vertebra; of each region may be at once recognised by one single distinctive character: thus the cervical vertebra; are always known by a foramen in the base of the transverse processes (a, fig. 2.) ; the dorsal vertebrjB by facettes hollowed out on the sides of the bodies (6 6, fig. 4.) ; and the lumbar (Jig. 5.) by the absence of the two preceding marks. The cha- just mentioned might then sufiice as mere distinctive marks, but they would not answer the pui'poses of exact anatomical description. Indeed, a vertebra is cervical, dorsal, or lumbar, rather in virtue of its entire form and structure than by reason of any single circumstance per- taining to it. We shall examine in regular order each part of a vertebra, as it exists in the different regions. Bodies of the Vertebrce in different Regions, ■ The first distinctive character is their size. This progressively increases from the cervical to the lumbar region (a, b, c, d,fig. 1 ) : taking the size of the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae as unity, that of the dorsal would be two thirds, and that of the cervical one half. racters