'^^^ SPLANCHNOLOGY. »ng«e, as some hijlor,™ h„e rel.t.i Nor do I bdLe, ZwiS.io'; The «ze of the tongue, though variable in different individuals is alwavs fo fi^r.r'V'^ '° '^'^"''''^'^ 1°^" j'^^ = it is not large enough to fiU the buccal cavity completely when the jaws are closed. It haf not be!n atisfactordy proved that too large a tongue is the cause of certain defects in speech However, a natural size is not absolutely necessary for the exeJcise of Its functions for these are performed even when considerable portions have been removed from its apex and sides. p^iuuus udve Direction. Its anterior portion is horizontal, behind, it slopes downwards and backwards, and curves abruptly, so as to become vertical and reach [he OS hyoides, which in some measure constitutes its base. This direction, which is maintained so long as the tongue is within the mouth, is somewhat altered ra?se°d P™*™*^^"^' t^e° becoming horizontal, and the os hyoides Figure Examined without any anatomical preparation, the tongue appears of an oval figure, having its great end behind. Its form is determined; and as it were measured, by the parabolic curve of the lower jaw, by which it is circumscribed When separated from the neighbouring parts it represents an ellipse, with its long diameter from before backwards. It is perfectlv symmetrical, flattened above and below, narrow and thin in front, and in- creasing m thickness and in breadth from before backwards. Its figure which has Itself become a term of comparison, does not appear to be essential tor the articulation of sounds, a function that would at first appear to be peculiarly connected with this form. The tongue presents for our consideration an upper and a lower surface two edges, a base, and an apex. ' Tlie upper surface or dorsum of the tongue. This is free in the whole of its extent, corresponds to the roof of the palate, and is divided into two lateral halves by a median furrow, which often limits the progress of disease. It is covered by in- numerable eminences, which render it very rough; these should be distinguished into such as are per- forated, viz. the glandular eminences, and such as are entire, and have no orifice, viz. the papilla (papilla, a nipple). The perforated eminences, or lingual glands, im- properly classed among the papillae, and known under different names, may be distinguished by their circular openings, which are perfectly visible to the naked eye ; by their being situated only at the base of the tongue; by their rounded form, and their having no pedicle ; by the arrangement of the mucous membrane, which passes over with- out adhering to them * ; and lastly by dissection, which most distinctly reveals their glandular na- ture. These lingual glands, moreover, are not follicles, but true glandular organs, analogous to the labial and buccal glands. They form a V- shaped ridge, strongly marked in some subjects, and bounded in front by the ridge (a a, Jig. 142.) of the same shape, formed by the caliciform papillae. • [/. e. without being closely united to their outer surface, as it is to that of the papills. The mucous membrane, as in all glands, is really prolonged into their interior.]