121 THE PELVIS IN GENERAL. The exlernat surface of the pelvis must be examined in front, behind, and °°*^!£So. region. 1. In the median line we observe the symphysis pubis (t/y, fig. 48). varying irom lit- teen to eighteen or twenty lines in length, always longer in the male, and resembling a vertical column. It is obliquely directed downwards and backwards, which direction is peculiar to man ; in all other animals, as Cnvier has remarked, it is placed horizontally. 2. On each side we find the descending ramus of the pubes (k), which is irregularly quadrilateral, and gives attachment to several mus- cles. 3. Outside the pubic column there is, on each side, the obtu- rator foramen (h). , ., ^ ^i. ■ Posterior region. On this we observe, 1. the ridge of the sacrum in the median Une; 2. and on each side the sacral grooves, which are much deepened above, because the back part of the ilium projects behind the sacrum: we find here, also, two ranges of eminences, corresponding to the articular and trans- verse processes, and likewise the back of the sacro-iliac articulation. Each lateral region is formed by the external iliac fossa, the acetabu- lum, and a considerable portion of the body of the ischium below this cavity. The internal surface of the pelvis is divided into two parts; an upper, which is much expanded, and constitutes the great or false pelvis, and a lower, more contracted, named the small or true pelvis. These two portions of the same cavity are separated by a circular prominence, formed in a great measure by the horizontal ridge (m n o), which we have described as constituting the lower boundary of the internal iliac fossee. The whole space circumscribed by this line has been named the brim, superior orifice, or superior strait of the pelvis. The great pelvis presents, 1. in front, an extensive notch (wy' u) ; 2. behind, the sacro-vertebral angle or promontory of the sacrum (below c?) ; 3. and on the sides, the internal iliac fossse (1 and t), which form an inclined plane on each side, fitted to direct the weight of the viscera which rest upon them, inwards and forwards. The small pelvis is a cavity the apertures of which are contracted, and there- fore named straits, and the middle portion is expanded, and called excavation. We shall, therefore, examine separately its superior opening or upper strait, its inferior opening or lower strait, and its middle portion or excavation. The superior strait or brim is irregularly circular, and has been compared to an oval, an ellipse, or a curvUinear triangle ; but none of these descriptions can give any correct idea of its shape. The circumference, commencing behind, at the articulation between the sacrum and the fifth lumbar vertebra, is formed by the projection of the anterior edge {g d) of the base of the sacrum, by the horizontal ridge (m n), on the inner surface of the iliac bones, by the pectineal line (n a), and terminates in the spine of the pubes. (o) The superior strait has four diameters; an antero-posterior, a transverse, and two oblique. The antero- posterior or sacro-pubic diameter { dy' ) is generally four inches La length ; the transverse (m m), which is the longest, is five inches ; and the two oblique(n g), which are measured from the eminentia ilio-pectinea on one side, to the sacro- iliac symphysis on the other, are four inches and a half These measures are taken from a well-formed female pelvis, and it is chiefly in the female Uiat they are important, on account of their reference to the process of parturition. In the male, all the diameter? of the upper strait are smaller.