MYOLOGY. 284 The Longus Colli, Attachments, direction, and relations. The longus colli (^g g, figs. 112. and 114.) as before stated, is composed of three very distinct sets of fasciculi: 1. the transverso-spinalis, -which, arising by flat tendons from the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the fifth, fourth, and third cervical vertebrse, unite so as to form a considerable fleshy bundle directed upwards and inwards, occupy the hollow on each side of the median line of the axis, and are inserted into the anterior tubercle of the atlas, which may be regarded as the repre- sentative of an anterior spinous process; 2. The anterior spino-transversalis, the least numerous of all, arise from the bodies of the three superior dorsal vertebras by very slight tendinous expansions, proceed upwards and outwards, and are inserted into the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the fourth and third cervical vertebrae; 3. The spinalis which arise, to the inner side of the preceding fasciculi, from the bodies of the three upper dorsal and four lower cervical vertebrae, and from the intermediate ligaments, and having described a slight curve, are inserted into the crest of the axis, and into the third cervical vertebra. The longus coUi is elongated and fusiform in shape; it supports the pharynx, the cesophagus, the internal carotid artery, the in- ternal jugular vein, and the pneumogastric and great sympathetic nerves : it covers the vertebrae to which it is attached. Action of the Muscles of the deep Anterior Cervical Region. When the head is thrown back, these muscles restore it to its original posi- tion. The rectus anticus major tends to flex the head, and from its obliquity to rotate it, so as to turn the face to its own side. The rectus minor incUnes the head to its own side. The longus colli flexes the atlas upon the axis, and rotates it so as to turn the face to its own side. The same muscle also rotates the lower part of the neck, so as to turn the face to the opposite side; and, lastly, it is a direct flexor of the cervical region. THORACIC REGION. The pectoralis major. — Pectoralis minor. — Subclavius. — Serratus magnus. — intercostales. — Supra-costales. — Infra-costales. — Triangularis stemi. The Pectoralis Major. Dissection. Separate the arm from the side. Make a horizontal incision from the top of the sternum to the front of the arm on a level with the lower border of the axilla, including iu this incision a fascia, which adheres closely to the fleshy fibres. Reflect one of the flaps upwards and the other downwards, by dissecting parallel to the fibres, i. e. transversely to the axis of the body. The pectoralis major (c c,fig. 109.), is a broad thick triangular muscle, situ- ated at the upper and fore part of the thorax and axilla. It arises from the anterior border of the clavicle and anterior surface of the sternum, from the cartilages of the second, third, fourth, and more particularly those of the fifth and sixth ribs, from the osseous portion of the last mentioned rib, and from the abdominal aponeurosis: it is inserted into the anterior margin of the bicipital groove of the hiunerus. The clavicular origin consists of short tendinous fibres attached to the entire breadth of the anterior border of the clavicle, for about the inferior third, or half of its extent. The sternal attachment consists of aponeurotic fibres, which, mtersectmg with those of the opposite muscle, form, in front of the sternum, a very thick fibrous layer, sometimes ahnost completely covered by the muscular fibres, which, m certain individuals, advance nearly to the median line. The costal origins consist of very thin tendinous laminEB, and the attachment to the abdominal aponeurosis is blended with that of the rectus abdominis.