MYOLOGY. 844 palmar fascia. A distinct cellular line, or rather an aponeurotic septum, in- tervenes between one of their lateral surfaces and the corresponding pahnar interosseous muscle ; the other lateral surface is in relation through its entire length with the metacarpal bone on -which it is implanted. Action. These muscles are evidently abductors of the first phalanges of the fingers, the axis of the hand being taken as the point of departure. Their insertion into the extensor tendons explains why previous extension of the fingers is necessary to the movement of abduction. Theirs* dorsal interosseous muscle merits a special description. It is larger than the others, on account of the greater size of the space occupied by it; it is flat and triangular, and arises by two origins, separated not by a perforating branch but by the radial artery itself. A fibrous arch completes the half ring formed by the interval between the first two metacarpal bones for the passage of this artery. The external head of the muscle arises from the upper half of the inner border of the first metacarpal bone; the internal from the entire length of the external surface of the second metacarpal bone, and from the ligaments which unite it to the trapezium. From these points the fleshy fibres proceed, forming two thick bundles, which are perfectly distinct above, and converge to a tendon, that is attached to the outer side of the first phalanx of the index finger. Relations. It is covered behind by the skin; it corresponds m front to the adductor and flexor brevis pollicis, excepting below, -where it is subcutaneous. Its lower edge, directed obliquely downwards and inwards, is immediately subcutaneous, and crosses the corresponding edge of the adductor pollicis at a very acute angle. The Palmar Interossei. These, like the preceding, are short, prismatic, triangular, and penniform muscles. They are three in number ( p p p, fig. U3.) according to most authors, but four if we include the adductor poUicis. They all occupy the palm of the hand as their name indicates, and extend from the entire length of one of the metacarpal bones bounding the interosseous space in which they are situated, to the first phalanx of one of the corresponding fingers, and to its extensor tendon. They arise from about the anterior two thirds of the lateral surface of only one metacarpal bone; they are therefore covered behind by the dorsal inter- ossei which, being attached to the entire lateral surface of the other metacarpal bone', project equally into the palm. Lastly, their insertions into the phalanges and their extensor tendons correspond precisely withthoseof the dorsal interossei. Relations They are covered by the flexor tendons and by the muscles ot the palmar region : each is in relation behind with a dorsal interosseous muscle ; on one side, with the dorsal muscle of the corresponding finger ; and on the other, with the metacarpal bone from which it arises. Action They are evidently adductors, as regards the axis of the hand, ana, like the dorsal interossei, they bind down the extensor tendons ; they can only act effectually when the fingers have been previously extended. MUSCLES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITIES. Thb muscles of the lower extremity may be arranged in four groups, vi.. those of the pelvis, of the thigh, of the leg, and of the foot. MUSCLES OF THE PELVIS. Action of these muscles. . , 1 \.f thp nplvis are divided into those occupying the posterior and Sre^c^^/inlttafi-gtn. The former are very numerous, consisting