^'^^ SPLANCHNOLOGY. IhZ ?• l°Tr P^'"' ^°Sle, and form a very thick fasciculus. From these points they pass honzontaUy backwards and outwards, and terminate in the following manner. The thick fasciculus above mentioned is inserted into the outer surface of the anterior process of the arytenoid cartilage, and into a depression on the outer side of the base of that cartUage, between the two processes. The upper fibres are attached to the outer border of the arytenoid cartilage. In the larger animals, the upper fibres of the muscle evidently proceed to the epiglottis, and form the thjro-epiglottideus of some authors. Relations. On the outside it corresponds with the thyroid cartilage from which It IS separated by loose and sometimes adipose cellular tissue: on the vnsidsTX is in contact with the vocal cords and the ventricle of the larynx Ihe thickest part of the muscle corresponds with the inferior vocal cord and is almost the only cause of its projecting into the interior of the larynx This fasciculus may even be considered as contained within the substance of the inferior vocal cord, and the two structures are so closely adherent, that great care is required to separate them. Many anatomists, indeed, have thought that the fibres of the thyro-arytenoideus terminate in the vocal cord, which they therefore regarded as the tendon of the muscle; but the cord and muscle may always be completely separated. Action. It carries the arytenoid cartilage forwards, and would thus seem to relax the inferior vocal cord, as HaUer believed: " Cartilagines guttales (the ary- tenoid) antrorsum ducunt, glottidem dilatant, ligamentorum glottidis tensionem minuiint:' (Elementa Physiol, t. iii. liv. 9. p. 387.) But if we consider the mechanism of the crico-arytenoid articulations, and the mode of insertion of the thyro-arytenoid muscles into the outer side of the bases of the arytenoid cartilages, we shall perceive that, at the same time that these cartilages are carried forwards, they undergo a partial rotatory movement, by which their anterior processes are turned inwards. The ligaments of the glottis are there- fore rendered tense, and approximated towards each other. This movement may be carried to such an extent that the anterior processes may touch, and the antero-posterior diameter of the glottis be diminished accordingly. * The thyro-arytenoideus is then both a tensor and a constrictor of the glottis. This, moreover, was the opinion of both Cowper and Albinus, but Haller attempted to refute it. f The sudden action of the thyro-arytenoid muscle, pressing upon the ven- tricle of the larynx, may expel any mucus collected within it. The Arytenoideus. Dissection. Remove the mucous membrane and glandular masses which cover it behind. Detach it along one of its borders, so as to be enabled to examine its thickness. _ The^ arytenoideus (a, fig. 171.) is a single, short, thick, trapezoid muscle, situated behind the arytenoid cartilages, and filling up the concavity on their posterior surfaces, as well as the interval between them. It arises from the whole length of the outer border of the right arytenoid cartilage, and is inserted into the corresponding part of the left. Some of the fibres arise from the upper border of the cricoid cartilage. The fibres have a triple direction, and form three layers, which have been regarded as so many distinct muscles. The two more superficial layers are oblique, and cross each other; one pass- ing from the base of the right arytenoid cartilage to the apex of the left, and the other following the opposite direction; they constitute the arytenoideus obliquus of Albinus : both of these layers are thin. * [The effect of this will be as stated by Haller, to relax the vocal cords, which is considered by the latest observers to be the action of these muscles.] t Loc. cit. " CQtn magni viri glottidem dixerint ab istis miisculis arctari, cxperimcnto facto diducere didici. Neque potest illc ad latus cartilaginis arj tainoida: musculus termiuari qtiin earn rimam diducat."