129 THE FIBULA. drilateral process, flattened on the outside and the inside, and called the ternal malkuiun (/). This eminence, which bends inwards, forms a marked prominence at the lower and inner part of the tibia. When the posterior sur- face of the tibia is laid upon a horizontal plane, the two tuberosities of the upper end of the bone rest upon that plane, while the internal malleolus ad- vances considerably forwards; it is therefore upon a plane anterior to that of internal tuberosity of the tibia; this depends upon the torsion of the lower part of the bone. The internal siirface {1} of the malleolus is convex, and is placed immediately under the skin j its external surface forms part of the in ferior articular- cavity of the tibia. Its anterior edge is rough, and gives at- tachment to ligamentous fibres ; its posterior edge, which is thicker than the anterior, presents a groove running obliquely downwards and inwards, and sometimes double, along which the tendons of the tibialis posticus and flexor longus digitorimi pass. The base of the malleolus is united to the shaft of the bone. The summit, which is truncated and slightly notched, gives attachment to the internal lateral ligament of the ankle joint. Connections. The tibia articulates with the femur, the astragalus, and the fibula ; it articulates also with the patella, but indirectly by means of the liga- mentum patellae. Internal structure. The shaft consists of compact tissue, and has a large medullary canal. The two extremities are spongy, and are pierced by a great number of vascular foramina. Development. The tibia is developed fro^ three points; one for the body, and two for the extremities. Sometimes there are fom\ Beclard once saw the internal malleolus developed from a separate point. The ossific point of the shaft is the first to make its appearance; it commences between the thirty- fifth and fortieth day, almost at the same time as that of the body of the femur; sometimes it is even earlier, as in one case observed by myself. The bony germ of the upper extremity makes its appearance generally towards the end of the first year after birth. I have never seen it before birth. The ossifi- cation of the lower extremity commences during the second year. The in- ternal malleolus is formed by a prolongation of this extremity. The union of all the parts of the bone is not finished until the period of complete deve- lopment of the body, that is, from the eighteenth to the twenty-fifth year ; it always commences with the lower extremity, which is the last to become bony. It is of importance to remark, that the superior epiphysis of the tibia does not form the whole of the upper end of the bone, but only a sort of ho- rizontal plate which supports the articular cavities; and the same is true of almost all articular extremities. It should also be observed, that the anterior tuberosity of the tibia is formed by a vertical prolongation of the plate which forms the superior epiphysis. It would appear, that in some subjects this an- terior tuberosity has a distinct centre of development. The Fibula {fig. 53.). The fibula or perone (from trepSvn') is so named because, according to Sa- batier, it has been compared to a sort of clasp or brace, in use among the ancients. _ In order to understand the description of this bone, it is necessary to place It exactly in the position which it occupies in the skeleton.* It is situated on the outside of the tibia below, on the outside and to the back of the same bone above. It is as long as the tibia, but is extremely slender; it is indeed the i.hn„ill„'"r!i-*'',"l'"''° «lccmed it unnecessary to Indicate the position in which each bont nnn„ . because a glance at an articulated slieleton would suffice to enable the student remaA-Jhl? • ^"^"^ "V*''*"; however, forms an exception, on account o(iU flit enod er,l?>, Ti ""^T' "'f^' ""'^ correctly, it is necessary to place the inwards and i'^^lu "'*'; "'^^t *e articular surface on that part be turned fSmirds cdge(«)of the eminence which forms this lower end should look VOL. I.