COMPARISON OF THE EXTREMITIES. 141 there is obIv a trace; and two tuberosities, which are analogous to the tro- chauteis and like them, give attachment to the rotator muscles of the hmb. 5^Ae humeVis howe^el the two processes are much more closely ap proximated, being only separated by the bicipital groove Lastly, the great tuberosity of the himierus causes the prominence of the shoulder, in the same manner as the great trochanter causes the prominence of the hip. Comparison of the Leg and Fore-arm. The fore-arm is that portion of the upper extremity, which is represented by the leg in the lower. Each is composed of two bones; but while the leg is essentially constituted by the tibia, which alone enters into the formation of the knee-joint, and the greater part of the ankle-joint, both the radius and the ulna contribute, almost in an equal degree, to that of the fore-arm; and al- though the ulna forms the greater part of the elbow-jomt, the radius, by a sort of compensation, is the chief bone of the wrist-joint. _ • ^i Although the general analogy between the fore-arm and leg is sufliciently striking, it is not so easy to trace the corresponding parts in detail. Anato- mists are much at variance on this subject, particularly as to which bone ot the fore-arm corresponds to the tibia. . _ _ Vicq-d'Azyr, from a consideration of the elbow and the knee-joints, came to the conclusion, that the ulna is analogous to the tibia, and the radius to the fibula. M. de BlainviUe, on the contrary, reflecting on the relations between the leg and foot, and the fore-arm and hand, and considering that the tibia is placed on the same line with the great toe, and the radius with the thumb, and also that in the fore-arm the radius constitutes the chief part of the wrist- joint, and that in the leg the tibia is most concerned in the ankle-joint, is of opinion that the tibia and the radius are analogous parts. We shall adopt what is true in either opinion, and reject what appears to us too unconditionally stated or incorrect; and therefore, considering, 1. that neither of the bones of the leg resembles, by itself, one of the bones of the fore-ai-m, 2. that each bone of the leg has some characters, both of the ulna and of the radius, 3. that the natm-al position of the fore-arm being that of pronation, and that the leg being in a state of constant pronation, it is in- correct to compare the fore-ann when supinated with the leg when in the opposite position, 4. that comparative anatomy has shown, in ruminating animals, the upper extremity of the ulna to be blended with the radius, and a slender process on the external aspect of the fore-arm resembling the fibula, we are inclined to believe, that the upper end of the tibia is represented by the upper half of the ulna, and the lower half of the tibia by the lower half of the radius; whUe the fibula is represented by the upper part of the radius and the lower part of the ulna. If we enter into details, we shall see how plausible this comparison is ia reality. Comparison of the Upper Half of the Ulna and the Upper Half of the Tibia. The horizontal portion of the great sigmoid cavity of the ulna is repre- sented by the upper end of the tibia, and the crest which separates the two surfaces of the cavity is analogous to the spine of the tibia. The patella and the olecranon are constructed after the same type; the mobility of the first, and the fixture of the last, are not essential differences. The body of the ulna is prismatic and triangular, like that of the tibia; its internal surface is super- ficial and almost subcutaneous, like the anterior surface of the tibia; its posterior edge (crest of the ulna) is prominent, and represents the crest of the tibia; it is equally superficial, and serves as a guide in the diagnosis and co- aptation of fractures. As in the tibia, the crest of the ulna is continuous with a triangular tuberosity, which may be called the posterior tuberosity of the ulna, and is analogous to the anterior tuberosity of the tibia.