102 OSTEOLOGY. coracoid process, two for the acromion, one for tlie posterior border, and one for the inferior angle. The osseous point of the body appears towards the end of the second month of utero-gestation in the infra-spinous fossa, under the form of an irregularly quadrilateral plate of bone, on the surface of which we cannot perceive any vestige of the scapular spine. It is not until the third month that this process becomes apparent; and at that period the ossification has made so little progress towards the upper part of the bone, that the spine, which subsequently is situated below the upper fourth of the scapula, is then suflBciently elevated to project beyond the upper part of that bone. The spine is never developed from a separate point, but sprouts as it were from the posterior surface of the bone. . , • 1. V The osseous point of the coracoid process appears sometimes at birtn, but generally during the first year. _ The osseous germ of the base of the acromion process, which has a rounded form, is developed before the fifteenth year. That of the summit of the acromion does not become visible, until from the fifteenth, to the sixteenth year; that is the time at which the coracoid process is united to the body of the bone. It is very variable in its shape, being sometimes like a narrow band, sometimes forming by itself the greatest part of the process. The osseous point of the inferior angle of the scapula is developed during the course of the fifteenth year. , , , The osseous point of the vertebral border extends along the whole posterior costa as a long marginal epiphysis, analogous to that which we shaU after- wards describe as existing on the haunch bone. It is not formed till the seven- teenth or eighteenth year. ^-i xi. The union of these different osseous points does not commence until the fifteenth year, at which time the coracoid process becomes joined to the body of the bone The other points unite at various periods, which have not yet been determined with much exactness. The osseous point of the vertebral border remains the longest separate of all. The union of all these pomts is not completed until the time when the growth of the body is terminated. Tlie Shoulder in General. Considered as forming only one piece, the shoulder represents a bony girdle intended to serve as a fulcrum to the upper extremities. This girdle is in- comnlete in front opposite the sternum, and behind in the region ot the vertebral column. From this it follows, that the two shou ders are mde- pendeni in their motions, while the pelvis, which forms an analogous structure for the lower extremities, is a continuous whole, the difierent parts of which cannot mlve upon each oiher. The shoulders are fixed upon the upper part of thP thorax and so greatly increase its apparent dimensions, that the chest, wLn they ^rTattached, rJsembles a cone with the base upwards while in its True shape it is a cone ;ith the base below. The shoulder is moulded exactly upon the thorax in front and behind; on the outside it is separated from it by an interval which forms the apex of the axilla. Thl Pircumstance which principally determines the transverse breadth of the Thecucumstancewmc p V y clavicle-in the male it is the ?°"l^rofThe scat^ The lei^^^^^^^ clavicle and the width of the chest breadth th^capula^ ine g ^^.^ connected with the [arS^LS'Ve —fand the greater development of the scapulee in the Se eTdently corresponds with his greater muscular power. General Development of the Shoulder.