Fig. 96. magnified three diameters. During the fourteenth week, a small cres- • DEVELOPEMENT OF THE TEETH. '235 DEVELOPEMENT OF THE TeETH, OK ODONTOGENY. The study of the developement of the teeth is one of the most interesting parts of their history. It embraces the description of the phenomena that pre- cede, accompany, and foUow the eruption of the first and second sets of teeth. First, Temporary, or Provisional Teeth. Phenomena which precede their eruption* If the jaws of a foetus of t^o or three months be examined, it wiU be seen that they are marked by a broad * CThe earliest stase in the developement of the teeth, described in the text, is that in which theTntal'ulps are f ftuatedlt the bo'ttom of closed sacs , jt has long been fam.har to anatom sts and is now called the saccular stage. A condition antecedent to this n which 'nyuture sacs are as vet ooen follicles, was first described by Arnold, but we are indebted to Mr. Goodsir (Ed^i &S Surg. Journ. No. cxxxviii.) for the following connected history of the origin of the pulps and sacs ot the temporary and permanent teeth: — . „r , r„f„, ,h„,,t Origin oj the pulps and sacs of the temporary teeth. In the upper jaw of a foetus about the sixth week, between the lip and a semicircular lobe constitutmg the early condition of the palate, is situated a depression of the form of a horse-shoe. During the seventh week, this begins to be divided by a ridge (commencing from behind) into two grooves, of which the outer torms the recess between the lip and the future external alveolar process, whilst the inner constitutes the primitive dental groove. The mucous membrane along the floor of this groove is then thickened and from it a single papilla is developed, and subsequently four others arise from the external lip of the groove, in either half of the jaw. In the mean time, membranous lammffi projecting from the external lip, and at first only partially surrounding the papillae, unite with similar but smaller processes from the internal lip, so that each papilla (p, ■i,fig. 97.) becomes enclosed in a separate follicle (/, 3, ^g. 97.), communicating with the cavity of the mouth and lined by its mucous membrane. The papilla; now increase in size, and gradually assuming the form of the future temporary teeth, sink within the yet open follicles. At this period, the edges of the latter appear to be developed into opercula (o, i,fig. 97.), which difier in number and arrangement according to the shape of the crowns of the dlllerent teeth, there being two for the incisors, three for the canine, and four or five for the molars. The formation of the bony alveoli, by the developement of an external and internal alveolar process, and of inter-alveolar septa, closely follows the preceding changes in the soft parts. The order and lime of appearance of these ten papillas in the upper jaw are as follow: —first, those of the anterior temporary molars during the seventh week; of the canine teeth at the eighth ; of the central, and then of the lateral incisors about the ninth ; and in the tenth week those of l\\e posterior molars. The formation of the inter-foUicular septa, and the other changes in the papilla;, follicles, and alveolar borders, described above, proceed in the same order, and are completed about the thirteenth week. The condition of the upper jaw at that period, con- stituting the end of the follicular stage in the developement of the temporary teeth, is seen in 96., in which the follicles are shown as if held open; the diagrams 1 to 5 in fig. 97., re- presenting perpendicular sections across the jaw, may serve to illustrate the successive changes in the mucous membrane, from the commencement of the groove to the completion of the follicles. ccntic depression (c, 5, fig. ^7.) is formed immediately behind each of the follicles, the mouths of which are now closed by their opercula, but without adhesion ; the lips of the groove, which at this time is called the secondary dental groove, are now applied to each other (6, 97.). With the exception of the ten depressions just mentioned, and a small portion situated beyond the posterior temporary molar follicle, adhesion of every part of the groove now takes place, proceeding from before bnckw.irrts. The follicles are thus converted by the fifteenth week into shut sacs (s, l,fig. 97.), wlillst the enlarged papillae constitute the dental pulps (p, 7). The relation of the parts in this, the saccular, stage in the developement of the temporary teeth, is represented at 7, fig. 97. Independently of a few subordinate difl'erences, the ch.mges in the lower jaw are similar, and occur in the same order, each step in the process being somewhat later than the corresponding one in the upper. Origin of the pulps and sacs of the permanent teeth. It has been stated above, that, during the general adhesion of the dental groove occurring at the fifteenth week, the part posterior to the second temporary molar follicle (in either half of the jaw) still remains open ; in this situ- ation a pajjilla, sunk in an open follicle, appears during the sixteenth week. At the twentieth, the fundus of this follicle is converted into a sac, and the papilla into the pulp of the anterior permanent molar tooth, which is thus the earliest to appear of those of the second set, and is lurthor char.-ictcrised by being developed (like the papillae of the temporary teeth) from the nrimitive dental groove, and on the same level with tliem. At the end of this week tlie hitherto open portion of the groove is entirely closed by adhesion of its lips, but its walls still remain dis- Fig. 96.