THE VAGINA. 625 and contracts after delivery, so as almost to return to its original dimensions. It would appear, also, to be capable of a vermicular contraction Relations In front, wliere it is slightly concave, it corresponds to the infer or fundus of the bladder, to which it is united by very dense filamentous ceUuIar tissue resembling the dartos; it cannot be separated from the urethra, which anoears to be hoUowed out of the substance of its walls. The close adhesion of the va-ina to the bladder and urethra accounts for these latter organs always foUowfng the uterus in its displacements. Behind, the vagina corresponds with the rectum, through the medium of the peritoneum in its upper fourth, and im- mediately in its lower three fourths. It adheres to the rectum by cellular tissue resembUng the dartos, and analogous to that existing between it and the bladder, but much looser, so that the rectum does not follow the vagina in its displace- ment The sides of the vagina give attachment to the broad ligaments above, and to the superior pelvic fascia and the levatores ani below, and they are in relation with the ceUular tissue of the pelvis and with some venous plexuses. Internal surface. The internal surface of the vagina is covered with an epithelium whicb can be very easily demonstrated, and which is prolonged as far as the os uteri, where it terminates by a sort of indented margin, in the sanie manner as the epithelium of the oesophagus ceases at the stomach. * This surface presents on both walls, but especially in front and near the orifice of the vulva, some transverse ruga;, or rather prominences, which very nearly resemble the irregular ridges upon the palate; they all pass from a median prominent line, which is often prolonged like a median raphe along the whole anterior wall of the vagina; the raphe on the posterior wall is not so well marked. These two median raphes are called the columns of the vagina. They are the remains of the median septiim, which generally co-exists with a bifid uterus, but exists sometimes independently of it. The transverse rugae of the vagina are very numerous in the new-born infant and in virgins; they are partially effaced after the first labour, at the upper part of the vagina, but always remain at the lower part. These rugse are not folds, and do not appear to assist in the enlargement of the vagina. The upper extremity of the vagina embraces the neck of the uterus, upon which it is prolonged without any line of demarcation, and forms a circular trench around the os tincee, which is deeper behind than in front. The lower extremity, or opening into the vulva, presents a corrugated trans- verse projection in front, which is exposed by separating the labia and nymphfe; it narrows, and seems even to close the entrance of the vagina. In virgins, the orifice of the vulva is provided with a membrane, concerning the form and existence of which there have been numerous disputes; it is called the hymen, and is a sort of diaphragm interposed between the internal genitals on the one hand, and the external genitals and urinary passages on the other. This membrane is of a crescentic shape, having its concavity di- rected forwards, and closing up the posterior and lateral parts of the vagina: it sometimes forms a complete circle, perforated in the centre. Its free mar- gin is fringed; it varies in breadth in different individuals, and thus regulates the dimensions of the vaginal orifice. The hymen sometimes forms a com- plete membrane, constituting what is called imperforate vagina. The hymen is composed of a duplicature of mucous membrane, varying in strength, and containing within it some cellular tissue and vessels. The debris remaining after its laceration constitute the carunculce myriiformes, which vary in number from two to five. Structure. The walls of the vagina consist of an erectile spongy tissue in- terposed between two very strong fibrous layers, of which the external is the thicker. Around this erectile tissue we find a tolerably thick layer resembling the tissue of the dartos condensed. I cannot agree with some anatomists in admitting an identity of structure in the walls of the vagina and uterus, for in * [In both of these situations the epithelium does not cease, but is merely chansred in its cha- racter (see notes, p. 623.).] VOL. I. 8 S