483 THE INTESTINES. I I 2 often been struck with the shortness of the small intestine in cases of hernia, accompanied with retention of the contents of the gut above the strangulation. Some authors have attempted to establish a relation between the length of the intestine and the stature of the individual; and it has been affirmed, that the former is four or five times the height of the body. But differences in stature have not a uniform relation to the length of the alimentary canal. Lastly, individual varieties in the length of the small intestine do not appear to have any influence upon the activity of the digestive process. Caliber. The caliber of the small intestine, properly so called, is not the same throughout. It is greater at the commencement than at the termination of the intestine. When moderately distended by inflation, I have found it six inches and four lines in circumference at its commencement, four inches and two lines at the middle, and three inches and a half a little above its entrance into the large intestine; but at the point of entrance itself it is dilated to about four inches and a half. The small intestine, therefore, is funnel-shaped—a form Avhich must facili- tate the rapid passage of its contents, by causing them to proceed from a wider into a narrower space. Lastly, the caliber of the small intestine presents many varieties. When any obstruction occurs to the passage of its contents, it may attain the caliber of the large intestine. In certain cases of marasmus, when it contains no gases, it becomes so contracted that the tube is completely obliterated. Figure and relations. The smaU intestine is cylindrical; a section of it is al- most circular. Its posterior border, to which the mesentery is attached, is con- cave ; it is thrown into slight folds, as every straight cylinder must be, when it is bent into a curve. Its anterior border is convex, free, and corresponds to the abdominal parietes, being separated from them by the great omentum *, which seems intended to contain the whole mass of the intestinal convolutions. When the omentum is wanting, as in the foetus, or in cases of displacement from its being rolled up into a cord, the small intestine is in immediate contact with the parietes of the abdomen. The lateral surfaces of the different convolutions of the small intestine are in contact with each other. As these surfaces are convex, they intercept tri- angular spaces before and after them, in which either effused blood, or serum, or pus, or false membranes, are sometimes collected. The small intestine corresponds to all the regions of the abdomen, excepting those of the upper zone. Not uncommonly we find it escaped from under the omentum, and situated between the liver and the abdominal parietes, or reaching into the left hypochondrium. It is immediately forced, as it were, in any di- rection in which there may be an opening.f More or less of the small intestine is always found in the pelvis ; in the male between the bladder and the rectum, in the female between the bladder and the uterus, and between the uterus and the rectum. In several persons who were emaciated from chronic diseases, and in whom the vertebral column could be plamly felt through the parietes of the abdomen, I have found almost the whole, and, m some cases, even the whole, of the small intestine within the pelvis, con- tracted and ahnost entirely void of air. When one portion only of the smaU mtestme is m the pelvis, it is invariably the lower part. When any large mass is developed in the abdomen, as in pregnancy, or in encysted dropsy of the ovarium, the small intestine passes upwards and late- rally, becomes diffused, fills up every space, and ahnost always escapes com- pression in the most remarkable manner. r uncommon to find in the small intestine, appendices or diverticula, lUce the lingers of a glove, which are sometimes two or three inches in length, t U?-^-' M^-.*^® ^reat omentum has been removed.] it i. Thi^nnrn J f 51 found in diaphragmatic hernia;; it constitutes perineal hernia- md I diWdef °' •=^'="P^' 'he pelvis when the lower wall of t^al eavHy