SPLANCHNOLOGY. anil ramollissement of the body of the uterus, is so common that M. Mayer regards it as normal. nelvk n^fr^J ligaments may be regarded as foiming across the cavity of the coitained TV,-''' ^^'''^ "^erus and its appendages are contanLff til W ^/f"^ divides the cavity into two portions; one anterior, conta ning the bladder, the other posterior, in which are situated the rectum, ana almost always some mtestinal convolutions. Besides the broad ligaments there are also the ligaments of the ovary and the round ligaments, proceeding from the sides of the uterus. Ihe round ligaments (g g) have a fibrous appearance, but are evidently con- tinuous with the tissue of the uterus. They arise from the side of the uterus, below and in front of the FaUopian tubes, pass upwards and outwards in the anterior fold of the broad ligament, to the abdominal orifice of the inguinal canal, into which they enter, being accompanied by a prolongation of the peritoneum which forms around them a cylindrical sheath, called the canal of JSuck. In females far advanced in life, this sheath may be traced as far as the external orifice of the inguinal canal. Besides the uterine fibres which enter into its composition, the round liga- ment also contains a great number of veins, which may become varicose, es- pecially near the external orifice of the inguinal canal, where they sometimes simulate a hernia. The upper border, or fundus (i), of the uterus is convex, and is directed up- wards and forwards; it is covered by convolutions of the small intestine; when not distended it never reaches as high as the brim of the pelvis, and cannot therefore be felt by the fingers in the hypogastric region. The lower or vaginal extremity of the uterus, caUed also the os tinea from its shape, is directed downwards and backwards; it is embraced by the vagina, into which it projects, and is divided by a transverse fissure into two lips, one anterior, the other posterior. The os tinea is small, and perforated by an almost circular opening («), in females who have not borne children ; but in those who have been mothers, it forms a more considerable projection, and its fissure is more marked and longer transversely.* In some females the OS tineas is of considerable length, and as it were hypertrophied, although the uterus is healthy. The anterior lip is thicker than the posterior, which is a little longer than the other. It frequently happens that in old females every trace of the lips of the OS tincse disappears; the orifice alone remains, and in some cases even that is obliterated. In such a case the vagina terminates in a cul-de-sac, at the bottom of which a round and yielding point may be felt. This disappear- ance of the two lips is much more common than the elongation of the neck of the uterus, which was pointed out by my venerable colleague M. Lallemand. Cavity of the uterus. The cavity of the uterus is extremelj' small in com- parison with the size of the organ ; its figure is that of a curvilinear triangle; its walls are in contact, and are smooth, and covered with a layer of mucus. We shall examine it in the body and neck of the uterus. The cavity of the body of the uterus (u,fig. 189.) is of a triangular form, p;^ ]gg and has an opening at each angle. The inferior opening (ostium internum, h) establishes a free communication between the cavities of the body and neck; it is often obliterated in old women.f The other two orifices (o o) are those of the Fallopian tubes ; they are scarcely visible to the naked eye, and are situated at the bottom of two funnel-shaped cavities formed at the superior angles of the uterus, and constituting the remains of the division of the body of the uterus into two halves or cornua. This division, which is normal in many animals, is some- times met with in the human female. * I have seen the os tinea liicerated and assured in different directions, in consequence of •"t'This™bliteration, which c.iuses retention of mucus and blood and consequently distension