SPLANCHNOLOGY. believe, in front of the vertebral column; or rather, as others imaffine, in that portion of the cord which is next the umbilicus. ^ Embryologists agree in stating that, in the earliest periods of its develope- nient, the mtestinal canal is not contained in the abdominal cavity, but onlv Its two extremities; all the intermediate part, i. e. almost the whole of the canal, is situated within the umbiUcal cord, which at that time is very con- siderably enlarged. The whole intestinal canal is not included in the cavity of the abdomen until towards the middle of the third month. This fact is quoted in explanation of congenital umbilical hernia, which would be considered merely an arrest of developement. I must here remark that this situation of the intestines, in a cavity formed within the umbilical cord, does not seem to me to have been clearly established; that there are a great number of cases where no such arrangement exists; that in other cases there is only a loop of the intestine in the substance of the cord; and lastly that the cases in which such an arrangement has been observed, if not ex- amples of actual disease, may at least be regarded as instances in which the developement of the anterior wall of the abdomen had been retarded.* Dimensions of the intestinal canal The earlier the period of developement, the shorter and narrower is the intestinal canal. Its length at first appears to correspond to that of the vertebral column, a relation which is natural and permanent in a great number of the lower animals. The canal soon becomes flexuous, and its vrindings become more numerous in proportion as it increases in length. From the third to the fourth month, its curves are analogous to those which it subsequently describes : at the sixth month, the due proportion between the different parts of the canal is established. At the earlier periods, the small intestine has a much greater caliber in proportion to the large in- testine, than it afterwards presents; and, on the other hand, the large intestine is relatively longer than at subsequent periods. The division into the large and the small intestines does not exist at first. There is no ileo-csecal valve, no cajcum, and no appendix vermiformis; but these three means of distinction appear simultaneously from the second to the third month.f The csecum and the vermiform appendix are not distinct from each other, but present the appearance of a sort of funnel. The appendix, though at first small, is gradually developed, and becomes proportionally greater than it is afterwards ; its caliber is nearly one half that of the small intestine. If it be not quite correct to say with Haller, that the csecum does not exist in the fcetus, yet it must be admitted that, at this period of existence, it is nothing more than the expanded base of the vermiform appendix; and the developement which it acquires after birth may, to a certain degree, be regarded as the mechanical effect of the weight of the fsecal matters in di- lating its cells. The anterior cells of the CiECum, on account of its vertical position, undergo a relatively greater amoimt of dilatation ; and from this the vermiform appendix, which corresponded at first to the centre of the lower end of the csecum, is turned backwards, inwards, and to the left side towards the ileum. The csecum and the appendix do not occupy the right iliac fossa until the fourth or fifth month ; before that time they are situated in the neighbourhood of the umbilicus. For the first four or five months of intra- uterine life, the large intestine is not sacculated; so that its external surface is exactly similar to that of the small intestine, the only means of distinguishing one from the other being the situation of the vermiform appendix. About the fil'th month, according to Morgagni, the three longitudinal depressions, and the transverse folds or depressions and intermediate protuberances, make their * [The presence of a portion of the intestinal canal within the umbilical cord, at some period of developement, is constant not only in man but in several quadrupeds, and cannot be merely accidental.] t Haller, who in this and many otlier passages seems to have foreseen the law of unity of organisation, says, "Eadem primordialis liominis fere fabricu est qua; quadrupedum." (Lib. xxiv. p. 116.)