STRUCTURE OF MUSCLES. 249 In the greater number of muscles, on the contrary, although one of the at- tachments is most commonly fixed and the other movable, yet their relative condition may be changed, and they may become alternately fixed and mov- able ; it is therefore necessary, in explaining the action of a muscle, carefully to notice the supposed mobiUty or fixedness of the different attachments at the time. • T_ X. In comparing such attachments as are habitually fixed with those that are constantly movable, we shaU observe that the former are either numerous or spread out by means of aponeuroses, whereas the latter consist of very accu- rately circumscribed tendons. The figurative expressions of head and tail, given to the ends of a muscle, refer to this arrangement. The fixed attach- ment of a muscle is usually blended with those of several others, while the movable one is distinct.* In order to facilitate our description we shall inva- riably designate the fixed attachment of a muscle, its oriyin, and the movable attachment, its termination or insertion. Structure of Muscles. Muscles are composed of two kinds of fibres : 1. of red or contractile fibres, which form the muscular tissue properly so called; 2. of white, strong, and non-contractile fibres, constituting the tendons and aponeuroses. In speaking of the ligaments, we mentioned the general properties of tendons and aponeu- roses as belonging to the fibrous tissues; we shall now make a few remarks on the peculiar characters of muscular tissue. 1. Colour. Muscular tissue is of a reddish colour, the intensity of which varies in different muscles and in different individuals. This colour is not an essential character even in the human subject, for the contractile fibres of the intestinal canal are very pale f; stiU less is it so in the lower animals, some of which have the entire muscular system perfectly colourless. The red colour of the muscular fibre is independent of the blood contained within the vessels of the muscle. 2. Consistence. The consistence of the muscular fibres varies in different subjects : in some it is soft and easily torn; in others it is firmer and more re- sisting, and retains for some time after death a degree of rigidity which yields with difficulty to forcible extension. Structure The muscles may be divided into bundles or fasciculi of different orders, and these again into distinct fibres, which are visible to the naked eye. and rendered more apparent, either by dissection, or by the action of alcohol, of diluted nitric acid, or even of boiling watei'. They are of a variable shape, resembling prisms of three, four, five, or six sm-faces, but are never cylin- drical. Their length also varies in different muscles, in but a few of which do they extend parallel to each other throughout the entire length of the fleshy belly. Each muscle is surroimded by a sheath of cellular tissue, which also pene- trates into its substance, and surrounds both the fasciculi and fibres. This cellular tissue permits the free motion of the different fasciculi upon one another, whilst it serves at the same time to isolate each and combine the whole. X The chemical analysis of muscular tissue shows that it is composed of a small quantity of free lactic acid {Berzelius) ; gelatin; some salts; osmazome * [Tliis assertion must be taken with some limitation. We shall find many exceptions to this + rrv, P'oo*'"' in the description of the muscles.] Jifh th '"^°'"/>t="7 muscular tissue, of which the above-named fibres afford examples, are Tm.m^ exception of the heart, of a much paler colour than the voluntary muscles, to which tms division of the present woA exclusively refers,] It I, ""^ microscopic structure of the voluntary muscles, or those of animal life our Hithnr "nnf^'TM'*"" the smallest/«seic«/! (correspowling with the prismatic fibres of ''.the secondary fasciculi of IMuller). tlie size of which varies in different a mlfnrm Hi„ r"*'? tramversely-sMatedflbrcs{the primitive fasciculi ofMuller), havinii a uniform diameter w all muscles in the same species, and being themselves composed of st 11