112 OSTEOLOGY. isting between the size of the middle part and the ends of these bones. These intervals are denominated interosseous spaces. The metacarpal bones are five in number, distinguished by the names of first, second, &c. They ai'e not perfectly uniform, either in situation, length, or shape. The metacarpal bone of the thumb, for instance, is situated upon a plane anterior to that which the others occupy ; instead of being parallel, it is directed obliquely outwards and downwards, and hence the interosseous space between it and the second metacarpal bone is triangular. This arrangement is connected with the movement of opposition, which is the characteristic feature of the hand. The metacarpus presents a palmar or anterior surface, concave transversely, and slightly so from above downwards, which corresponds with the palm of the hand; a dorsal convex surface, the back of the hand; an external or radial edge, which is short, obliquely directed outwards and downwards, and corresponds to the thumb ; an ulnar edge, short and straight, which corresponds with the little finger ; a superior or carpal ex- tremity, which presents a very sinuous ai-ticular line, to fit the opposite surface of the carpus ; and an inferior or digital extremity, formed by five heads flattened on the sides, and intended to articulate with the corresponding fingers : this lower extremity forms a broken articular line: it is curved, with the convexity downwards, and the first metacarpal bone does not appear to belong to it. General Characters of the Metacarpal Bojies. The metacarpal bones belong to the class of long bones, having the same form and structure ; each consists of a body and two extremities. The body is prismatic and triangular, and slightly curved, so as to present a concavity on the palmar, and a convexity on the dorsal aspect. ' Of the three surfaces of the body, two are lateral, and correspond to the interosseous spaces ; the third is on the back of the hand, and is covered by the tendons of the ex- tensor muscles* Of the edges, two are lateral; the third is anterior, and cor- responds with the palm of the hand. The upper or carpal extremity is large, and has five surfaces, an anterior and a posterior, for ligamentous insertions, and three articular ; of the three articular surfaces one is at the end of the bone, and unites with a corresponding surface on a carpal bone ; the two others occupy the sides of the extremity, and unite with corresponding surfaces of the adjoining metacarpal bones. In some metacarpal bones the lateral facettes are double on each side. It is necessary to distinguish such of these lateral facettes as are intended to unite with bones of the carpus, between which one of the metacarpal bones is, as it were, wedged, from those which are exclusively intended for the articulation of the meta- carpal bones with each other. , , „ , -j The lower or digital extremity resembles a head flattened on the sides, or a cmdvle oblong from before backwards, with an articular surface of greater extent on the palmar than on the dorsal aspect, i.e. admitting of greater flexion than extension ; it is marked both intemally and externally by a de- pression, behind which is a rough projection for the attachment of lateral "^ITe^there any peculiar characters by which the difi-erent metacarpal bones may be distinguished? This question we shaU now examme. Differential Characters of the Metacarpal Bones. following characters ^-1^^^^^ it been looked in front behmd bke the p g ^ ^ belonging to the meta- upon o°e of tho e bones ^^^^^^ metacarpal bones by the Setrmusdes, S inferior or digital extremity also has a. exact