OSTEOLOGY. 108 irregularly triangular, and divided by a small antero-posterior ridge into two parts, an internal which articulates with the semilunar bone of the wi-ist, and an external which, articulates with the scaphoid. In the outside of this surface, we observe a pyramidal, triangular process, slightly bent outwards; this is the styloid process (s) of the radius, shorter and much thicker than the styloid process of the ulna, and like it giving attachment to one of the lateral ligaments of the wrist joint. The circumference of this end of the bone ex- hibits in front some inequalities to which the anterior ligament of the wrist is attached; behind and on the outside, it is marked by the following tendinous grooves, viz. proceeding from without inwards, 1. an oblique groove on the external surface of the styloid process, which shows the trace of a longitudinal division marking out two secondary furrows; 2. a groove bounded by project- ing edges, and subdivided into two secondary ones by a longitudinal ridge, less elevated than the lateral border; 3. a somewhat deeper groove, also divided into two secondary furrows of unequal dimensions, by a very prominent line.* On the inside (», the lower end of the radius is shghtly excavated, to articu- late with the carpal extremity of the ulna. Connections. The radius articulates with the humerus, the ulna, the sca- phoid and semilunar bones. Internal structure. The two extremities of the radius are cellular, and are covered by a very brittle layer of compact tissue: the shaft is almost en- tirely formed of compact tissue, and has a very narrow medullary canal. Development. The radius is developed from three points, one for the body, and one for each extremity. The osseous point of the body appears some days before that of tbe ulna; the lower extremity is developed about the second year : the upper at nine years. The upper extremity, which is last m begin- ning to ossify, becomes united to the body of the bone about the twelfth year, whilst the lower extremity is not joined until from the eighteenth to the twentieth year. The Hand {fig. 46.).. The hand is the last part of the upper extremity. It is the organ of touch and of prehension ; and as it serves both tor pur- poses which demand great force, and for such as require extreme delicacy, its osseous part is so constructed as to combine great solidity with great mobility. It is composed of twenty-seven bones, exclusive of the sesamoid bones, rhe hand exists only in man and in the ape; and its importance is so great, that it has been considered by naturalists as establishing a fundamental cha- racter of the species. Man alone constitutes the class of bimana, the apes form the class quadru- mana ; but in the hand of the ape, compared with that of man, we find great inferiority. The hand, considered as part of the skeleton is composed of five series of small columns. Each series consists of four pieces, excepting the outer one, which has three only. The five series of columns converge so as to unite with a bony mass, composed of eight bones (a tot) articulated their junction the base of the hand or the wrist. , — . - ..J^arpus. The five columns (A k), next the carpus, It Sd thetmVS« '^'"^ '""^ Fig. 4(). together, and forming by ,hall point out the tendon which occupies each of All enumei^tions of this kind, the adv.-,nt.-.ges of wh.ch 1US Tt'd'evo'tcirto myology. « In the description of the . u enunier.itions oi mis k""'. "V";f r;; ;i;,. VniiYp these primitive and secondary Rrooves. A" J already known, will hnd a place m the table we do n" t dispute, when the bo"esjmd muscles are ^^^^ muscular msertio, . be- 7Z end of ?he useful in tixing the attention upon the objects cause,instead described.