548 SPLANCHNOLOGY. nght lung which corresponds to the right auricle (m) and the vena cava su- perior(see^5r. 170.). We can obtain an accurate idea of the manner in which the lungs are excavated for the reception of the heart, only by examininir them when inflated; we are then struck with the propriety of the expression of Avicenna, who called the lung the bed of the heart. We can also under- stand how diseases accompanied with enlargement of the heart may directly influence the respiration, by reducing the size of the lungs. These organs, it may be remarked, are here in apposition with the heart through the me- dium of the pericardium and the pleura. I should not omit to mention their relation with the phrenic nerve, which is affixed closely to the pericar- dium by the pleura. In the foetus the lungs are in relation anteriorly with the thymus gland, which presses them backwards. The anterior border is thin and sinuous, presenting on the left side two notches, one inferior and very large, corresponding to the apex of the heart; the other superior and small, for the subclavian artery. On the right side there are also two notches, but smaller than those on the left; an inferior for the right auricle, and a superior for the vena cava superior. The posterior border {fig. 171.) is the thickest part of the lung. It fills the deep costo-vertebral groove situated at each side of the dorsal portion of the spine. The base is concave, and exactly moulded upon the convexity of the dia- phragm (x, fig. 170.); it is therefore a little more excavated on the right, than on the left side. Its circumference is very thin, and slightly sinuous. Like the diaphragm, the base of the lung forms an inclined plane from before backwards and downwards ; and it occupies the deep angular groove formed behind, between the diaphragm and the parietes of the thorax. On account of this obliquity of its base, the vertical diameter of the lung is much greater behind than in front; and as the posterior border is the largest part of the organ, it may be conceived that an examination of the lung should be directed chiefly to this part. It is of importance to form a correct idea of the manner in which the base of the right lung and the convexity of the liver are ar- ranged with regard to each other. The liver is, as it were, received into the concavity of the base of the lung so completely, that the posterior part of this base is almost on a level with the lower surface of the liver. The relation of the liver with the base of the lung, which is only separated from it by the diaphragm, explains how abscesses and cysts of the liver may burst into the lung. The apex is obtuse, and projects above the first rib, a very strongly marked impression of which is found on its anterior surface. I have observed that the height of the portion which passes above the first rib varies in different subjects. In several I found it from an inch to an inch and a half. In an aged female, in whom the base of the thorax was extremely constricted, the apex of the lung (i. e. the part bounded below by the depression corresponding to the first rib) was two inches in height. May not the mechanical pressure of the inner edge of the first rib upon the apex of the lung exercise some influence in the very frequent developement of tubercles in that region ? In order to form a correct idea of the apex of the lung, that organ must be pre- viously inflated. The whole surface of the lung is free, smooth, and moistened with serum; it is connected with the rest of the body only by its root, which attaches it to the bronchi and the heart, and by a fold of the pleura. It is very rare to meet with lungs free from adhesions upon their surface, so that the older ana- tomists regarded these adhesions, whether filamentous or otherwise, as natural formations.