41 VERTEBRAL COLUMN. The venous canals are larger in the vertebrjE than in any other bones. They are for the most part arranged within the body of the bone in the following manner. A single canal directed horizontally, and from behind foi-wards, com- mences at the posterior surface of the body of the vertebra ; at the distance of a few lines from its commencement, it divides into two, three, or four canals, which diverge from each other, and terminate partly upon the anterior sur- face of the bone, partly in the cells in its interior : aU these canals are lined by a thin layer of compact tissue, and perforated by foramina. Development. The development of the vertebral column comprises, 1. That of the ver- tebrte in general; 2. That of certain vertebrae which differ from the rest; and 3. That of the column considered as a whole. Development of the vertebra in general. Each vertebra is developed at first from three points of ossification *, viz. one median for the body, and ttvo lateral for the rest of the vertebral ring. To these primitive points are added, at different periods, five secondary or epiphysary points, viz. one for the summit of each transverse process, one for the summit of the spinous process, and two for the body, the one on the superior surface, the other on the inferior surface, where they form two very thin plates, so that at one time the body of every vertebra of the spine is in fact a triple disk. Lastly, there is a complementary point for each apophysary tubercle of the lumbar vertebrae. The first osseous points generally appear in the laminae ; they precede, by some days, the deposition of bone in the bodies. This law, however, as Beclard has remarked, is by no means general. The first ossific points are visible from the fortieth to the fiftieth day ; that in the body occupies the centre of the cartilage, under the form of an osseous granule, which extends horizontally, so as to present a lenticular aspect. The points of ossification of the laminae appear in the situation of the future trans- verse and articular processes. The complementary osseous points are not formed until the fifteenth or eighteenth year. Sometimes, however, as Bichat has observed, the point for the summit of the spinous process is included among the primitive nuclei, and in such cases it is situated at the place where that process becomes continuous with the laminae. The lateral osseous points are always united together before joining the body of the bone: this union commences about a year after birth ; they are not united with that of the body until about four years and a half. The lateral points are so joined to the central one that they form the sides of the body, and in the cervical region, from their more rapid increase, they con- stitute of themselves fully two-fifths of the body of the vertebra. It is then on the body of the vertebra, or on what is essentially the articular part of the bone, that the three primitive points are united together. The epiphysary points of the transverse and spinous processes, are joined to the rest from the twentieth to the twenty-fifth year; the union of the epiphysary laminae of the bodies is not completed until from the twenty-fifth to the thirtieth year. Development of particular vertebra. Those vertebrae which present great difi"erences of form, present striking differences also in their mode of develop- ment ; such are the atlas, axis, seventh cervical vertebra, first lumbar, and those which constitute the sacrum and coccyx. Atlas. Modern anatomists admit five or six points of ossification for this bone ; one or two for the anterior arch, two for the lateral masses, and two for the posterior arch. I have never observed more than two lateral points, the same n„r »""t?mist8 admit two primitive points for tlic body of the vertebra. It would exceed m.r limits to give an account of the discussions to which tfiis question of ostcogenyTas givS