ARTICULATIONS OF THE PELVIS. 201 The sacro-iliac articulation belongs to the class of symphyses or amphi-ar- tlirosGS* The articular surfaces are formed on the sacrum and os innominatum, and are partly contiguous and partly continuous. The contiguous surfaces of these two bones are anterior to the others, and are shaped like an ear, with the convex edge turned forwards ; hence they are called the auricular surfaces. The parts which are rendered continuous by means of ligamentous fibres consist of the entire space comprised between the auricular portion and the posterior border of the OS innominatum, and of all the lateral surface of the sacrum not occu- pied by the auricular facette. The continuous portions are both marked with very rugged eminences and depressions. These articular surfaces are aJso re- markable from being sinuous and alternately concave and convex, and from their presenting a well-marked obliquity in two directions, viz. from above downwards, and from before backwards and inwards, so that the sacrum is, as it were, wedged between the ossa innominata both in a vertical and an antero- posterior direction. Means of union. The auricular surfaces are covered with cartilage, which is thicker upon the sacrum than on the os innominatiun, and is remarkable for the roughness of its surface, which contrasts with the smooth appearance of other articular cartilages. There is a distinct synovial membrane in this joint in the infant and pregnant female, but it can scarcely be detected in the adult and the aged. The ligaments are, 1. an anterior sacro-iliac ligament (b,figs. 76, 77.) — a very thin layer which passes in front of this articulation, |sFi;;.76. and composed of fibres stretched transversely from the gacrum to the ilium. 2. A superior sacro-iliac ligament {4:, fig. 52.)—a very thick bundle, extending transversely from the base of the sacrum to the contiguous portion of the ilium. 3. An interosseous ligament, which forms the strongest bond of union in this joint, composed of a great number of ligamentous fibres, stretched horizontally from the Uium to the sacrum, crossing each other, and filling up almost the whole of the deep excavation com- prised between the two bones ; these fibres leave small intervals between them ■which are occupied by fat, and traversed by numerous small veins. One of these bundles merits a special description : it consists of a long and strong band extending almost vertically from the posterior superior spinous process of the ihum to a thick tubercle on the third sacral vertebra; it may be called the posterior vertical sacro-iliac ligament. 4. The ilio-lumbar ligament {c, figs. 76, 77.) may be considered as belonging to this joint; it extends from the summit of the transverse process of the fifth lumbar vertebra to the thickest part of the crest of the ilium, that is, to the enlargement situated about two inches in front °*^^^POsterior superior iliac spine. It is a thick and very strong triangular Symphysis Pubis. Preparation. This requires no special directions: only, in order to become ac^uaintea with the respective extent of the contiguous and continuous portions backwards ^'"^ ^'^ '^^^^ ^ horizontal section, and also a vertical one from before rlirTiitr''''*-'"',?"'''^'"'^*^^'-^- ^'•e «val, having their longest diameters directed vertically ; they are flat and obUquely cut from behind forwa?S and