THE LARYNX. 571 The third and deepest layer is very thick; it is composed of transverse fibres and forms the anjtenoideus transversus of Albinus. None of the fibres reach the cornicola. Under the name of the aryteno- epMottideus musc'lr fibres have been described extending from the aryte- nolfmuSle loX margin of the epiglottis. Some fibres of the arytenoideus are also said to be continuous with the thyro-arytenoideus. Bdatims. Behind, with the mucous membrane and some glandular masses which adhere to the muscle by means of loose cellu ar tissue ; in front ^^^^ in relation with the posterior surface of the arytenoid cartilages, and m the intei-val between them with a thin fibrous membrane, extending from the upper border of the cricoid cartilage to the whole extent of the inner borders of the arytenoid cartilages. ^ r -ui „ Action. It would appear, at first sight, that this muscle must forcibly ap- proximate the two arytenoid cartilages, and therefore constrict the glottis ; but if we remember that it is attached to the outer borders of these cartilages, we shaU understand that, besides drawing them together, it must produce in them such a movement as wiU carry their anterior processes outwards, and stretch the vocal cords, but at the same time separate them from each other. And if we caU to mind that the thyro-arytenoideus occasions an exactly op- posite movement, it will be understood that the simultaneous action of the two muscles must produce tension of the cords, and, at the same time, fix the processes. Having thus obtained a knowledge of the cartilages of the larynx, the arti- culations by which they are united, and the muscles which move them, we shall now proceed to give a general description of this organ. TTie Larynx in general. The larynx, the general position of which has been already described, pre- sents certain differences in its dimensions, depending either upon the individual, upon sex, or upon age. These differences affect both the whole of the larynx and its constituent parts. Thus, the larynx of the female may always be distinguished from that of the male, by being smaller, i. e. about two thirds the size of the male larynx; and by the angles and processes of its cartilages being less pro- minent, and their depressions less marked. These differences are connected with the characters of the voice, and affect principally the dimensions of the glottis. The individual differences in the size of the larynx have not been thoroughly examined. The differences depending on age wiU be noticed when speaking of its developement. The larynx presents for our consideration an external and an internal surface. Hie external surface of the larynx — anterior region {fig. 170.). In the me- dian line we observe a vertical ridge, formed by the angle of the thyroid car- tilage ; beneath this the crico-thyroid membrane, and stiU lower the convexity of the cricoid cartilage. On the sides we find the oblique laminae of the thyroid cartilage, a portion of the cricoid covered by the crico-thyroid muscle, and the thyro-cricoid articulation. Subcutaneous in the median line, where it is only separated from the skin by the linea alba of the neck, the external surface of the larynx is covered on each side by the muscles of the sub-hyoid region, the inferior constrictor of the pharynx, and the thyroid gland. The superficial position of the surface enables us to examine its different parts through the integuments, and renders it liable to wounds. Its still greater proximity to the skin in the median line has suggested the operation of laryngotomy. Foslerior region {figs. 141. 171.). In the median line we observe a prominence * [When acting together with the lateral crico-thyroid muscles, this is certainly their action.]