SPLANCHNOLOGY. 426 and, on the other, are reflected upon the organs contained therein *, without, however, including them within their own proper cavity. A serous membrane may be compared to a balloon, or rather to a double night-cap; its internal surface is free, smooth, always moistened with serosity, and its parietal and visceral portions are in contact with each other : its ex- ternal surface is adherent.f 2. Beneath the serous coat is situated the muscular coat, consisting of two layers,—one superficial, composed of longitudinal fibres ; the other deep and composed of circular fibres. These fibres are colourless, like almost all the muscles of nutritive or organic life.f 3. The fibrous coat, interposed between the muscular and mucous coats, may be regarded as constituting the framework of the alimentary canal. It con- sists of dense areolar cellular tissue.§ 4. The mucous coat or membrane forms the internal lining of the digestive canal. Every cavity having a communication with the exterior is lined by a mucous membrane, so called on account of the mucus with which it is constantly lubricated. In mucous membranes generally, we find, 1. a dermis or chorion. 2. Papillce or villosities, which give them a velvety appearance; hence the designation papillary, villous, or velvety membrane frequently given to them. 3. On the outer surface of the dermis we find a very dense network of capillary vessels, which may be completely injected from the veins, but less easily and less completely from the arteries. 4. Either follicles or small closed sacs are seen here and there in the substance of mucous membranes ; but they are not essen- tial, as the name follicular, given to these membranes by Chaussier and some other anatomists, would seem to indicate. All mucous membranes are covered by an extremely delicate pellicle, which may be readily detected by means of a simple lens. Injections made by the arteries and veins never penetrate it, nor is it reddened by inflammation. I * [Hence the terms parietal and visceral, applied to these two portions of a serous membrane (,seejig. of the testis, letters p and v). In consequence of the existence of an aperture in the free extremity of each Fallopian tube, the peritoneal cavity in the female is an exception to the general rule, that serous membranes form shut sacs, not communicating with the external medium.] t [Serous membranes are transparent, colourless, extremely thin, and highly distensible and elastic. They are composed of a basis of cellular tissue, loose and connected to the adjacent tissues externally, more or less condensed towards the inner and free surface of the membrane, and covered with an extra-vascular epithelium, consisting of a single layer of nucleated cells, flattened into the form of scales, and arranged parallel to that surface. Cilia have been detected on many serous membranes, as on the peritoneum and pericardium of the frog; on the same parts, and also on the pleura and lining membrane of the ventricles of the brain in certain mammalia; and in the latter situation in man. Bloodvessels ramify in the subserous cellular tissue, but do not penetrate far towards the free surface, where they are entirely wanting. Lymphatics also exist in the subserous tissues, but have not been found in the membranes thera- seVes ; nor have nerves been traced into them. The fluid secretion found in serous cavities appears to be of an albuminous nature.] , ■„ t.t t, i n I [The involuntary muscular fibres of the alimentary canal (accordmg to Dr. W. Baly) consist of bands, varying from ^^th to j^th of an inch in diameter, apparently formed of flattened tubes in the parietes of which are seen, at irregular intervals, numerous transparent oval or linear bodies sometimes very diflicult of detection : they are believed to be the nuclei of the primitive cells, from which the fibre itself is developed. These fibres contain no varicose fila- ments nor do thev present any transverse stris, like those of animal life (see p. 249.). More- over although they have a parallel arrangement in the fasciculi into which they are collected, the fasciculi themselves are irregularly interlaced, at the same time that they all pursue a com- "'rhe'rauscular coat of nearly the entire alimentary canal consists essentially of these invo- luntary or organic muscular fibres ; but at the commencement and termination of the canal, where the mSscular systems of animal and organic life come into relation with each other this tunic appears also to consist of fibres resembling those of the voluntary muscles. Thus at the iinner nart of the oesophagus, fibres containing varicose filaments, and possessing the cross K wCTe detected by Schwann ; and it has been shown by Valentin and Ficinus, that these exisl'aTl along theVsop^^^^^^^ that indistinctly striated'fihres are found even at the cy- S^ic end oi* thi stomach'^ of m'any mammalia, and of man. Similar fibres were observed by ''TFuisVequrmV^'aneTlthecX'^^^^ its white appearance, has been termed (like all other white textures) the nervous tunic]