SPLANCHNOLOGY. of n" I!"^-!^ '•'■"'f'"'' "^^^'^ yanuhs? In examining a section of the liver ot a pig with the simple microscope, I have seen most distinctly that each trra- nule has a porous and spongy appearance, like the pith of the rush or elder so that the proper tissue of the liver resembles a sort of filter. This appearance was much more distinct in livers which I had injected with walnut oil either pure or coloured blue. The colouring matter thrown into the vena portaj was as It were, mfiltrated into the spongy tissue of the liver. ' If we endeavour to ascertain the structure of the liver by means of injections we shaU see what was observed by Soemmering, that whichever vessel be injected, whether the hepatic artery, the duct, the vena porta>, or the hepatic vein (provided only the injection be thin, as for example coloured glue size or spirits of turpentine, or better still a strong aqueous solution of gamboee)' there will not be a single granule into which the injection will not have pene- trated ; and moreover, that the Uquid thrown into one vessel wiU pass either into one, two, or aU three of the others ; and the facility with which this takes place, proves that the different orders of vessels communicate with each other directly, and not through the medium of cells or small cavities.* In a foetus, or an infant that has died immediately after birth, an injection through the umbilical vein gives similar results. I have never been able to force the liquid into the lymphatic vessels, at least without rupturing the tissue of the liver. Air driven into the vessels penetrates more easily than hquids into the lymphatics, no doubt on account of its greater subtlety. It follows, then, that in each granule there is an arterial radicle, a radicle of the vena portae, one of the hepatic vein, and one of the duct, probably some lymphatic vessels, and a nervous filament. The aggregate has been represented by Soemmering as having some resemblance to the arrangement of a Damask rose.f All the different vessels communicate freely with each other.J ■' Fig. m. liver, the capsule of Glisson, the capsules of the lobules, and the coats of the different vessels derive their nutrient arteries, which terminate in veins that enter the vena porta;. But few arterial branches enter the lobules themselves. The hepatic duct also has its vaginal branches, but it is doubtful whether they anastomose ; they are formed by the union of the inter-lobular branches (d rf, fig. 168.), which do appear to anastomose, and are derived from the biliary ducts, which pass out at the surface of the lo- bules. The several divisions of the hepatic veins are termed the hepatic venous trunks, the sub- lobular veins, and the m<ra-lobular veins. The inft fl-lobular veins U,flg. 1G6.; /i,fig. 1C7.), of which but 07ie, independent of the rest, emerges from the centre of the base of each lobule, open into the sub-lobular veins (A A), through the thin walls of which can be seen the polyedral bases of the lobules, and the central orifices (i' i') of the inter-lobular veins. This appear- ance is peculiar to the sub-lobular veins, the canals for which alone are formed by the bases (c c) of the lobules. The portal canals (g, fig. 165.) are formed by their capsular surfaces, "and the openings (A) seen in the interior of the small divisions of the vena portae, correspond to the inter-lobular spaces, not to the centres of the lobules. The sub-lobular veins anastomose with each other (this the divisions of the vena porta; never do), and unite to form the hepatic venous trunks (//, fig. 166.), into which no intra-lobular veins open, nor do the bases of any lobules rest upon them.] * [From this statement the ducts must be excepted ; they do not communicate with the blood- vessels. (See note, p.524.)] t " Quilibet acinus hepatis e glomeroso constat, vel e particulis arterias, vena; portariun, veiiie hepatic!E, ductus biliferi et vasorum absorbentium, cujus formam rosa; sic dicta' Daniasccua; imaginem pingere nobis licet." {Corp. Hum. Fab. t.vi. p. 180.) % See note, p. 524.