THE BICEPS CRURIS. 351 foot, they become rotators of the pelvis, and turn the anterior surface of the trunk to the opposite side. They are only rotators when the limb is extended; in the sitting postui-e, they become abductors Winslow, who first demon-, strated their use in abduction in the semiflexed position, attached great importance to the connection of so many of these muscles with the capsular ligament, which he believed prevented pinching of the capsule during the 'different movements of the joint . . „ ,, t,t The insertion of these muscles is exceedmgly favourable. Moreover, we shall find that besides the glutaius maximus and the posterior fibres of the elutaius medius and minimus, they have many other muscles as accessories m rotation. The effects produced by the contraction of the two obturators can be easily understood, if we bear in mind that the action of a reflected muscle is to be calculated from the point of reflexion, leaving the rest of the muscle out of consideration. Thus, with regard to the obturator intemus, the sciatic notch acts as a pulley, and may be regarded as the fixed point. MUSCLES OF THE THIGH. The biceps cruris. — Semi-tendinosus. — Semi-membranosus. — Tensor vagince femoris. — Sartorius. — Triceps extensor cruris. — Gracilis. — Adductor muscles of the thigh. The muscles of the thigh are divided into those of the posterior region, viz. the biceps, the semi-tendinosus, and the semi-membranosus ; those of the external region, viz. the tensor vaginas femoris and the vastus extemus; those of the anterior region, viz. the sartorius, the rectus, and the triceps extensor cruris of authors; and lastly, those of the internal region, viz. the gracilis, the pectineus, and the three adductors. PosTEEioE Region. T/ie Biceps Cruris. Dissection. This is the same for the biceps, the semi-tendinosus, and the semi-membranosus. Place the subject upon its face, with a block under the pelvis, and allow the leg to hang over one side of the table. Make an incision from the middle of the space between the tuberosity of the ischium and the great trochanter, to the interval between the two condyles of the femur. Both the skin and the fascia of the thigh must be divided in this incision. Cau- tiously remove the cellular and adipose tissue suiToundingthe subjacent muscles, the relations of which with the popliteal vessels and nerves must be carefully studied. In preparing the superior attachments of these muscles, the gluteus maximus must be divided in the middle, perpendicularly to its fibres. The biceps femoris (biceps cruris, Albinus, I, figs. 124, 125.), so named be- cause it consists of two fleshy bodies or heads above, is a long large muscle, situated on the posterior and external aspect of the thigh. Attachments. It arises from the tuberosity of the ischium and the linea aspera of the femur ; and is inserted into the head of the fibula, and slightly into the external tuberosity of the tibia. Its origin from the ischium (I, fig. 125.) is common to it and the semi-tendinosus ; it takes place not from the tuberosity properly so caUed, but from the highest and most external part of the tube- rosity, above and behind the adductor magnus, and immediately below the gemeUus inferior. It arises by a tendon which is seldom completely free from muscular fibres. This tendon, at first very thick and separated from the tuberosity of the ischium by a synovial bursa, expands into an aponeurosis which gives origm to the fleshy fibres of the biceps by its external edge and posterior surface, and to those of the semi-tendinosus by its internal surface Lp to this point the biceps and semi-tendinosus are blended together so as to iorm a single fleshy belly, which, after extending from two to four inches is divided into two portions : one posterior and external, constituting the Zo«« W or ischial^ portion of the biceps; the other anterior, forming the origin of the semi-tendmosusrwhich we shall next describe. Arising thus in succtssion, the fleshy fibres of the long head of the biceps form a futiform belly passing X