593 SUPRARENAL CAPSULES. when the kidneys occupy the pelvic region, the capsules undergo not the slightest change in their position, and no longer have any connection with ^^^iviimber. There are two suprarenal capsules: it is said that two have been found on each side. , Size They vary much in size in different individuals : sometimes they are so smaU that they can scarcely be distinguished from the fat by which the kidney is surrounded; at other times they are very large. In a case where the two kidneys were very smaU, I found the suprarenal capsules much larger than usual. It has been said that they are larger in the negro than in the Caucasian race. I have examined two negroes, and did not find them un- usually large. In the fcetus they are proportionally larger than in the adult. I have found them very large in several females far advanced in years. The two capsules are not of the same size. Eustachius affirms that the right is larger than the left; but I have generally found the reverse. Their weight is about one drachm. Form. I shall follow the example of M. Boyer, in comparing these supra- renal capsules to a helmet, flattened on its anterior and posterior surfaces, and embracing the upper end of the kidney by a narrow and concave surface. The relations of its anterior surface are different on the right and the left side. On the right side it is in relation with the liver, to which it adheres by a tolerably dense cellular tissue, so that the capsule is always removed in con- nection with that organ. This relation between the liver and the capsule is much more constant and intimate than that between the capsule and the kidney. A small depression, already described as existing on the lower sur- face of the liver, to the right of the vena cava ascendens, is intended for the reception of the capsule. On the left side the capsule is in immediate relation with the pancreas, and is indirectly connected with the spleen and the great end of the stomach. The posterior surface is in contact with the highest part of the pillars of the diaphragm, opposite the tenth dorsal vertebra. The great splanchnic nerves and the semilunar ganglia are situated behind, and on the inner side of the capsules, to which they send off so many branches, that Duvemoy regarded these organs as the ganglia of the renal nerves. Their convex, thin, and slightly sinuous border is directed inwards and up- wards. Their concave border is thick, and almost always deeply grooved. The surface of the capsules is invested by a thin layer of fat, which it is ex- tremely difficult to remove, on account of the numerous fibrous and vascular prolongations that pass into it from the capsule; certain furrows, either con- taining vessels or not, and varying in depth and extent, traverse the surface of this organ, especially in front. Cavity. It is still doubtful whether the suprarenal capsules have a cavity in their interior, as their name would seem to indicate. It is certain that in the gi-eater number of subjects, on dividing them in different directions, they are found to consist of two laminffi applied to each other, and united as by an adhesive substance, a sort of dark-coloured, false membrane; and that these laminEB are reflected inwards opposite the concave border, so as to form a projection like a cock's comb in the interior of the capsule. The colour of the external surface is yellowish, or rather mottled with large yellow and brown spots. The internal surface, or rather of the parts which are in contact, is chestnut brown, or bistre colour of different shades, so that I am induced to compare its appearance with that of an apoplectic cyst. It seems as if in this, as in the other case, blood had been effused, and then absorbed. The internal surface is also rough, and as it were lacerated ; a sort of yel- lowish, or chestnut-coloured pulp may be scraped off it. I have seen roundish, pulpy vegetations springing from several parts of this surface, sections of which presented a yellowish colour, mottled with brown. VOL. I. Q Q