302 MYOLOGY. spends. It arises by one, often by two or three portions from the internal portion of this arch; proceeds upwards and outwards, describiDg a slight curve, having its concavity downwards, and is blended with the orbicularis palpe- brarum at about the middle of the arch of the orbit. From this arrangement Albinus described it as a root of the orbicularis. According to some authors it terminates in the skin of the eyebrow (cutaneo-surcilier, Dumas); but I have always found it attached to the deep layer of the orbicularis muscle. Relations. It is covered by the pyramidalis nasi, the orbicularis palpebrarum, and the occipito-frontalis, and it covers the os frontis, the supra-orbital and frontal arteries, and the frontal branch of the ophthalmic nerve. Action. This muscle corrugates the eyebrow, and draws it downwards and inwards. It is, therefore, regarded as the principal agent in the expression of grief. The repeated contraction of these muscles in irascible individuals gives a character of severity to the countenance, from the constant approximation of the eyebrows, and the permanence of the vertical wrinkles formed between them. The Levator Palpebra Superioris. Dissection. Remove the roof of the orbit by two cuts with a saw, meeting at an acute angle opposite the foramen opticum ; detach the bone with care, so as to leave the periosteum untouched; cut the periosteum from before back- wards, and separate the frontal nerve which passes above and parallel to the muscle, which may then be separated carefully from the superior rectus muscle of the eye. The levator palpebrce superioris (see description of the eyelids) is an elongated, flat, triangular, and very thin muscle, placed in the orbital cavity, directed horizontally from behind forwards, and curved at its anterior extreniity, so as to form a concavity directed downwards. It arises from the inferior sur- face of the lesser wing of the sphenoid, immediately above the optic foramen, and from the sheath of the optic nerve, and is inserted into the upper border of the tarsal cartilage. Its sphenoidal origin consists of a small tendon, and its attachment to the sheath of the optic nerve is a fibrous ring common to all the muscles of the eye. From these points the fleshy fibres proceed for- wards forming a broad thin bundle, increasing in width and dimimshmg in thickness towards its tarsal insertion, which is effected by means of a broad ^^°ReMiom. Covered by the periosteum of the orbit, from which it is separated by the frontal branch of the ophthahnic nerve, covered also by some adipose tissue and by the fibrous membrane of the upper eyelid, it covers the superior rectus of the eye and the conjunctiva. , , v r Action. It raises the upper evelid. Its reflection over the globe of the eye explains that pecuUar motion of the eyelid by which its upper edge is buried below the orbital arch. The relaxation of this muscle suffices for the de- pression of the upper eyeUd in passive closure of the eyes, while the active occlusion depends on the contraction of the orbicularis. There is no analogous muscle for the lower eyehd, which scarcely concurs either in opening or shutting the eyes. NASAL REGION. The pyramidalis nasi.--Levator lahii superioris alaque vasi. - Transversalis, or triangularis, nasi. - Depressor alee na^i. - JSaso-lahialxs. rr„^ r«„<:plP« of this region are the pyramidaUs nasi, the levator labu su- ^er"i;L" S transversahJL triangulaxis nasi, the depressor ala. nasi, or myrtiformis, and the naso-labialis of Albinus. The Pyramidalis Nasi, n r T'vnr.B finwn unon the dorsum of the nose the internal fibres of the'lTcfprfi Jtdls^ the scalpel parallel to these fibres, which have a vertical course.