MYOLOGY. 384 The adductors are, 1. the pectoralis major; 2. the latissimus dorsi; 3. the teres major. The rotators are, 1. the external, -viz. the infra-spinatus, and the teres minor; 2. the internal, viz. the sub-scapularis. Muscles which move the Leg upon the Thigh. These are divided into flexors and extensors. The flexors are, 1. the biceps femoris ; 2. the semi-tendinosus ; 3. the semi-membranosus; 4. the popliteus ; 5. the sartorius ; 6. the gracilis. ExtensioTt is performed by one muscle only, viz. the triceps femoralis, the long head of which is formed by the rectus femoris, and the other two heads by the triceps cruris of authors, viz. the vastus externus and vastus internus, including the crureus. I should remark that aU these muscles which arise from the pelvis perform the double function of moving the leg upon the thigh, and the thigh upon the pelvis. 3Iuscles which move the Fore-arm upon the Arm. These are divided into flexors and extensors. The flexors are the biceps and the brachialis anticus. The extensors are, 1. the triceps (of which the Icmg head resembles the rectus femoris); 2. the anconeus. Muscles which move the Radius upon the Ulna. These are rotators inwards, or pronators, viz. 1. the pronator teres, 2. the pronator quadratus ; and rotators outwards, or supinators, viz. 1. the supinator longus, 2. the supinator brevis. The pronators occupy the anterior region, the supinators the posterior region of the fore-arm. Muscles which move the Hand upon the Fore-arm. These arc divided into flexors and extensors. The flexors are, 1. the flexor carpi radialis; 2. the palmaris longus ; 3. the flexor carpi ulnaris. The ex- tensors are, 1. the extensores carpi radiales, longior et brevier; 2. the extensor carpi ulnaris. Adduction and abduction are also performed by these muscles. Muscles which move the Fingers. These are divided into extensors, flexors, adductors, and abductors. The extensors are, 1. the extensor communis digitorum; 2. the extensor digiti mi- nimi ; 3. the abductor longus pollicis; 4. and 5. the extensor brevis and extensor longus pollicis ; 6. the extensor proprius indicis. Tte flexors are, 1. the flexor sublimis digitorum; 2. the flexor profundus digitorum, and its accessories the lumbricales ; 3. the flexor longus pollicis. The extensors and the flexors of the fingers are all situated m the fore-arm; the adductors and abductors belong to the hand: they consist of the interossei, which are seven in number, four dorsal, constituting the abductors, and three palmar, which are adductors. , , , o m. Other muscles are also superadded to the thumb and the httle fanger. Ihe muscles superadded to the thumb are, 1. those which constitute the thenar eminence (baU of the thumb), viz. the abductor brevis, the opponens, and the flexor brevis; 2. the adductor poUicis, which is nothing more than a palmar interosseous Muscle. The muscles superadded to the little finger constitute the hypothenar eminence (ball of the little finger), and form, as it^^ere, si repetition of those of the thenar eminence, viz. the abductor brevis, the flexor brevb, and opponens. But although three only are thus described, it is because