THE SUPRA-SPINA.TUS. 315 cellular interval; but is frequently in contact with it. The cephalic vein and a small ai-tery define the limits of the two muscles. The posterior border is thin above, where it is applied to the infra'-spinatus muscle, and becomes thick and free below. The inferior angle of the deltoid is embraced by the brachialis anticus. Issues are generally established over this situation. Remark. The structure of this muscle has been patiently investigated by some anatomists, who have counted the exact number of its component fas- ciculi. These are separated by fibro-cellular prolongations, like the fasciculi of the glutEEus maximus; sometimes even the muscle is divided into three distinct portions above, viz. a clavicular, an acromial, and a spinal. Eighteen or twenty small penniform fasciculi, the bases of which are generally turned upwards, are collected into a small space by mutually overlapping each other, and are united by their terminating tendons. Albinus admits ten of these bundles which he has described separately. Action. The deltoid elevates the shoulder (elevator, attollens humerum). From the threefold direction of its fibres, it has a different action, according to the particular set of fibres employed. The middle fibres raise the humerus directly, the anterior raise and carry it forwards, the posterior raise and carry it back- wards. When the arm is raised, Bichat states that the anterior and posterior fibres can depress it; but I do not think this possible. There has been no example recorded of luxation from the over action of this muscle. When the arm is fixed, as in the act of climbing, the shoulder is moved upon the head of the humerus. The trapezius must be regarded as the most powerful an- tagomist of the deltoid, since the scapulo-clavicular attachments of both muscles are the same. Thus we have seen that the diaphragm and the transversalis abdominis are separated only by their costal insertions. The most complete antagonism follows from such an arrangement, for then one fibre is, as it were, opposed to another, having exactly an opposite direction. The action of the deltoid is however less powerful than might have been supposed from its size; it is, in fact, parallel to the lever on which it acts. Whilst almost aU other muscles have a momentum, occui'ring at the period when their fibres are inserted at the most favourable angle, the deltoid, properly speaking, has none ; it is parallel to the lever during the entire period of its action. This is the reason why the elevation of the arm is so feeble a movement; and why contraction of the deltoid is always accompanied by con- siderable fatigue. The Supra-spinatus. Dissection. Take off the trapezius, and in order to see the whole extent of the muscle, remove the clavicle, and saw through the base of the acromion. The supra-spinatus (r,fig. 106.) is a thick triangular muscle, broad on the inside, narrow without, occupying the supra-spinous fossa, and retained therein by a strong aponeurosis, which completes the osteo-fibrous sheath in which the muscle is inclosed. Altachiients. It arises from the internal two thirds of the supra-spinous fossa, and is inserted into the highest of the three facettes on the greater tuberosity of the humerus. Its origin from the supra-spinous fossa is partly tendinous and partly fleshy, and some fibres arise from its aponeurotic invest- ments. From these points the fleshy fibres converge to a tendon, which is lound among them, where the muscle reaches the upper part of the joint, and which IS slightly reflected over the head of the humerus before reaching its insertion. This has not the shining appearance of other tendons, but has the dull aspect of many ligaments; it is blended with the fibrous articular capsule, trom which it cannot be separated near its insertion. It may even be regarded as torming the upper part of the capsular ligament. lieiations. It is covered by the trapezius, the clavicle, the coraco-acromion ligament, and the deltoid; and it covers the supra-spinous fossa, the supra-