THE LINEA ALBA. 395 supra-umbilical is about a quarter of an inch in breadth Its transverse di- mensions are much increased in persons whose abdomen has been greatly dis- tended. Thus, during and after pregnancy and certain dropsies, it m some cases acquires a considerable breadth, and does not return to its original size even after the distension has ceased to exist. In a female who died a short time after deUvery, I found the linea alba three inches across at the ^^ilicus. and fifteen lines in the narrowest part. In cases of this kmd the hnea alba forms a sort of long pouch, which receives the mtestmes, and becomes very prominent dm-ine the contraction of the recti. The linea alba presents several elUptical openings for the passage of nerves and vessels. In these foramina round masses of fat are developed, which dilate them, and drawdown the peritoneum into them, or are absorbed m consequence of emaciation, and thus open an easy way for the production ot hernia of the linea alba. Of aU these orifices, the most remarkable is the umbilical ring, which gives passage to the umbUical vessels in the fcetus, but becomes cicatrised after birth, at least in the majority of subjects. _ The situation of the umbilicus varies at different ages. The middle point of the length of the body is situated above the umbilicus before the sixth month of fcetal existence, and corresponds with it after that period. In the adult it is situated below the umbilicus. Its situation with regard to the abdomen varies in different individuals. Thus, the umbilical cicatrix, which is generally a little below the middle of the abdomen, is sometimes exactly in the middle. I have even seen it at the point of junction of the lower with the upper two-thirds. This cicatrix, moreover, is much stronger than the neighbouring _ parts. Thus, an umbilical hernia, which in a new-born infant always occupies the navel itself, in an adult is almost invariably situated a little above the umbi- licus. Still it occasionally yields, either in cases of dropsy, or of hernia; and I have records of several instances of hernia in the adult, that have oc- curred through the umbilical ring. The linea alba is in relation, in front, with the skin, which adheres more closely to it than to the neighbouring parts, especially opposite the umbilicus. In the male it is separated from the skin below by the suspensory ligament of the penis, which sometimes extends as far as the middle of the space be- tween the pubes and the umbilicus: behind, it is in relation with the perito- neum, separated from it, however, by the remains of the urachus, and by the bladder itself, when that viscus is distended. It is, then, through the linea alba that the bladder is punctured in cases of retention of urine, and that the incision is made in the high operation of lithotomy. The peritoneum does not adhere more closely to the umbilicus than to the other parts of the abdo- men, and therefore umbilical hernise, like all others, are invariably provided with a proper sac. The upper extremity of the linea alba is attached to the ensiform appendix, a flexible, elastic, cartilaginous body, constituting, as it were, a transitional structure between the sternum and the part we are now describing. The lower extremity corresponds to the symphysis pubis. K we examine the structure of the linea alba, we shall see that it is formed by the intersection of the layers of the anterior abdominal aponeuroses. One remarkable circumstance is, that the intersecting fibres do not stop at the median line, but pass from one side to the other ; so that the tendinous fibres of the external oblique of the right side, become the tendinous fibres of the internal oblique of the left; and again, that the intersection occurs not only from side to side, but also from before ,backwards. Below the umbilicus the point of intersection is elevated by some longitudinal fibres, constituting a * Some cases are on record of the persistence ot the umbilical vein, and consequently of the umbilical ring. I have narrated a case where a subcutaneous abdominal vein, prodigiously de- veloped, became continuous with the vena cava, which was also very largo. {Anat. Path. 1 xvi pi. 6.)