443 THE TONGUE. All the other eminences of the tongue are papiUaj which we may describe as the larqe and the small. ,. , Thelarge vapillw are called caliciform : they are arranged in two hnes (a a, fig. 142.), united like the Umbs of a V, open in front. Their number varies from sixteen to twenty, some of which are placed n-regularly. HaUer has seen them forming two rows on each side. Their size is also variable, but they are larger than all the other papiUas. Each papilla forms a truncated and inverted cone, the base of which is free, and the truncated apex adherent, fpapiUEE truncata;, Haller; papilles boutonnees ou a tete, Boyer}. Ihey are placed in a sort of calyx or cup, or surrounded by a circular trench : hence the name of papiUse circumvallatse (papilles caliciformes, Cuvier). The border or rim of this cup is itself a circular papilla.* • ^an At the angle of union of the two rows of these glands is a blind opening which is frequently wanting, and generally known as the foramen caecum of Morgagni (lacune de la langue, Chaussier). Several anatomists of the last century affirmed that certain supposed salivary ducts, which were afterwards shown to be merely veins, had their termination in this foramen ; it is now generally considered to be a cul-de-sac for the reception of the secretion from several follicles; but it appears to me to be only the cavity of a calyx, the papilla corresponding to which is very imperfectly developed. When the papilla is more developed, or the calyx less deep than usual, the foramen cajcum is said to be wanting. The small papillcB. These occupy all that part of the dorsal surface of the tongue, which is in front of the V-shaped ridge formed by the papillae cir- cumvaUatae ; they present many varieties. Some of them are conical, others filiform; some are pointed like a reed, and others are lenticular or fungiform, that is, flattened at the top and supported by a narrow pedicle: but the conical or filiform are evidently the most numerous, for they occupy of themselves the anterior portion and the apex of the tongue, whilst all the other varieties are disseminated between them. They are directed obliquely backwards, so that by rubbing the tongue slightly from behind forwards, they may be brushed up, and their exact shape and length ascertained. This oblique direction is much more marked in the lower animals than in man. The conical papiUse are sometimes arranged in regular or irregular lines, so as to give the tongue a fissured appearance. Sometimes even several papillae are united in a line, so as to form a jagged ridge. We may add, that there is very great variety both in the shape and arrangement of the lingual papiUaj.f The lower surface of the tongue is free only in its anterior third, the muscles which connect the tongue to the neighbouring parts being attached to the posterior two thirds. On the free portion, which we shall alone notice here, is observed a median furrow, more distinct than that on the upper sur- face. At the posterior part of this furrow is a fold of mucous membrane, called the frcenum lingua, which is sometimes prolonged to the apex of the tongue, and prevents the movements of that organ, both in the act of sucking and during articulation: hence the necessity for the operation, known as the di- vision of the fraenum. On each side of this furrow are seen the ranine veins, on which the ancients performed venesection; also an antero-posterior pro- jection formed by the lingual muscle. * The want of an uniform nomenclature for the papilla of the tongue has occasioned great oliscurity. I do not know two authors who agree in this respect. M. Boyer calls the lingual glands, ■papiUes lentimlaires ; the caliciform papillae, papilles boutonnees ou H t4te ; and applies the term papilles conigucs to the papillse generally known by that name. Gavard called the glands, papilles muqueitses ; and the caliciform papittsE, papilles fungiformes. M. H. Cloquet appears to have contounded both the glands and the caliciform papillae under the name of pa- pilles lentieulaires; the papilles fungiformes, according to him, are irregularly disseminated over the edges and apex of the tongue. The use of the term conical papilla, is the only point in which they are all agreed. t [AH these kinds of papilla; are extensions of the mucous membrane, and are therefore com- posed of similar elements. The papillae vallata: contain many loops of vessels, the papilla> conica; in general only a few ; all are abundantly supplied with nerves.]