DEVELOPEMENT OF THE TEETH. 243 formed by a species of crystaUisation. * The diseases of the teeth offer nothing incompatible with this theory, for, with the exception of toothache and the sen- sation of being set on edge, which are evidently seated m the pulp, the other alterations of which the teeth are susceptible, are either mechanical lesions, such as splitting, cracking, wearing, &c. or chemical changes, as the dry or moist caries, or, lastly, alterations appearing to have their seat in the hard substance of the tooth, but which are reaUy situated elsewhere. Of this nature are the incrustations with tartar, the product of a vitiated secretion, attributed by several anatomists, and especially by M. Serres, to some small foUicles, the function ot which, before the eruption of the teeth, is to produce a fluid to soften the gum preparatory to its perforation by the teeth. Again exostosis and spina ventosa of the teeth evidently depend upon irregular secretion of the enamel and ivory. The consolidation of fractures of the teeth is explained by the formation of new layers resembling those which have been seen surrounding buUets in the substance of an elephant's tusk Lastly, the colouration of the teeth, from the action of madder, is only observed in the layers deposited during its use, and therefore does not prove the existence of any nutritive process in these organs, such as takes place in bone. With regard to the evolution of the teeth in two distinct sets, it may be in- quired what is the object of such an arrangement. Without entering here into the discussion of final causes, it cannot be denied that the second set of teeth would not accord with the comparatively small size of the jaws in the foetus. Use. 1. The teeth are the immediate agents of mastication. The incisors cut, the canine tear, and the molars grind the food; the position of each being regulated by the resistance they have to overcome. 2. The teeth form a kind of elevated border, which prevents the constant escape of saliva from the mouth. 3. They assist in rendering sounds articulate, by affording a fixed point to the tongue in the pronunciation of certain consonants, called by gram- marians dental. 4, The teeth furnish important characters for zoological clas- sifications. Indeed, as they bear a necessary relation to the mode of feeding in different animals, a circumstance that exercises so great an influence over their entire organisation, it may easUy be conceived, that the form of the teeth is, to a certain extent, one of the characters by which a summary idea is conveyed of the nature of that organisation. At the same time, it is necessary to guard against the evidently erroneous conclusions, which some philosophers have de- lighted in deducing from the arrangement of the dental apparatus in man, with regard to his fitness for a purely animal, or exclusively vegetable diet. Above all it should be remembered, that the mechanical ingenuity of mankind must always form an indispensable element in the solution of every problem of this nature. * [It IS necessary in some degree to modify this definition of tlie hard portion of the teeth which, though extra-vascular, and, on that account, probably subject neither to interstitial ab- sorption nor nutrition, cannot be regarded with propriety as unorganised or crystalline bodies.] R2