SPLANCHNOLOGY. 438 The Muscles of the Velum Palali. Dissection. This is common to all the muscles of the soft palate It is merely necessary to remove the mucous membranes and the subjacent elands in order to study the arrangement of these muscles, and to follow the £cend- mg and descending fibres which emerge from or enter into the velum. The Azygos Uvuloe, or Palato-slaphylini. The palato-staphyUni (a, fig. Ul.) are two smaU, fleshy, cylindrical bands Fiif. u\. P^^<=ed in contact, one on each side of the median • line, and extending from the posterior nasal spine, or rather from the aponeurosis continuous with it^ to the base of the uvula. They are covered by the mucous membrane of the nose, under which they form a projection, and they cover the leva- tores palati. The two muscles, from their juxta- position, appear, at first sight, to form a single rounded muscle, to -which the names, azygos uvulce, columella musculus teres, have been given. Action. To raise the uvula. The Levator Palati, or Peristaphylinus Intemus. Dissection. Remove the mucous membrane from a vertical ridge which exists along the outer border of the posterior orifice of one of the nasal fossa;, behind the Eustachian tube; then re- move the mucous membrane covering the upper surface of the soft palate. The vertical portion of the levator palati (le petro-salpingo staphylin, Winslow; petro-staphylin, Chauss., c,figs. 141. 146.) is situated upon the outer side of the posterior orifice of the corresponding nasal fossa; its horizontal portion is in the substance of the velum: it is thick, narrow, and rounded above, expanded and triangular below. It arises by short tendinous fibres from the lower surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone near its apex, and from the contiguous part of the cartilage of the Eustachian tube. From these points its fibres pass obliquely downwards and inwards, turning round the outer side of the tube. At the outer border of the velum palati the muscle becomes horizontal, and its fasciculated fibres diverge, so as to cover the whole extent of the antero-posterior diameter of the velum. The anterior fleshy fasciculi are inserted by short tendinous fibres into the posterior border of the aponeurosis of the soft palate. The others also ter- minate by very short tendinous fibres, which are blended in the median line ■with those of the opposite side, immediately below the azygos uvulae. Relations. It is covered by the mucous membrane of the pharynx and soft, palate ; its vertical portion is in relation, on the outside, with the circumflexus palati and the superior constrictor muscles, and its horizontal portion with the palato-pharyngeus. It forms the uppermost muscular layer of the soft palate. Action. It raises the velum (elevator palati mollis, Albin., Soemm.). The length of its fibres, its direction, and its shape, render it well fitted for this pur- pose. It should be remarked that the tendinous portion of the velum scarcely participates in the movement of elevation. The Circumflexus or Tensor Palati, or the Peristaphylinus Extemus. This is a thin, flat, and reflected muscle (le pterygo- or spheno-salpingo sia- \i\\y\\n,Winsl.; pterygo-staphylin, Chauss.'), and is tendinous for a considerable