25 THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. General characters of the ^'^rtehra.-Characters v<^culiar to^^^^^ • each region. - Characters proper to certain vertebra;. -Vertebra; of the sacro coccygeal region.- The vertebral column in general. —Development. The vertebral column (from the Latin word vertere, to turn, because the body turns round this as an axis), spine, or rachis, is that long, flexible, hollow, bony stem, the principal lever of the body, which affords support to al- most the entire skeleton, and at the same tmie shields and protects the spinal marrow. It is situated at the posterior and median portion of the trunk, extendmg from the cranium to the pelvis, where it termmates in two os- seous pieces, the sacrum and coccyx, which may in fact be regarded as a continuation of the column. The sacrum and the coccyx have been separated from_ the vertebral column merely on account of the osseous junc- tion of the vertebrae of which they are composed.* It is articulated with the base of the cranium at the part where the posterior joins the two anterior thirds of this cavity : it corresponds with the posterior portion of the pelvis, an arrangement most favourable for maintaining the erect position. The vertebral column is situated behind the aliment- ary canal in man, above it in the lower animals. In front are suspended the organs of respiration and circulation, to which it affords protection, and which constantly tend to incline it forwards: to its sides are attached the ribs and the extremities, the thoracic having an indirect and movable, the abdominal a fixed, connexion. From the limits here assigned to the vertebral column it follows that this part of the skeleton extends the whole length of the trunk, forming the entire osseous support of the neck and loins, the posterior column of the thorax, and even the posterior wall of the pelvis. Hence it is divided into four regions, viz. a cervical, a dorsal or thora- cic, an abdominal, and a pelvic or sacro-coccygeal region. The vertebral column {fig. 1.) is composed of twenty- six bones piled above each other : the last two have re- ceived the names of sacrum and coccyx, and the others which constitute the vertebral cohimn, properly so called (a fZ) are denominated vertebrae: they have also been called true vertebra, as distinguished from the false ver- tebrae, which by their osseous imion form the sacnim (d e) and coccyx (e /). The sacrum is composed of five of these false vertebrte, and the coccyx of four, in a rudiment- ary state. The description of these latter bones will be deferred in the mean time. The first seven true verte- brte form the cervical region (a b) ; the twelve which succeed constitute the dorsal (b c) ; and the last five the lumbar region (c d). There are occasionally, but very rarely, some varia- tions in the number of vertebras. In a few cases only six cervical vertebrae have been found, and Morgagni • The same is true of anchylosis, as of certain differences of form and development, viz. that llicy lead to the CBtabliuhment of varieties, but cannot form the ground of total separation.