SPLANCHNOLOGY. bo,^in?^^^?P'^'?^^°* °^ muscular ring of the pylorus, and of the neigh- bouring part of the stomach in aged persons. i-ttncijoB The stomach is the organ of chymification, or of that process by wnicn the tood is converted into a homogeneous grey pulp, called chyme. For mat purpose it is evidently necessary that the food should remain for some tune in this organ, and the elasticity of the muscular coat of the oesophagus and ot the ring at the pylorus, are sufficient to prevent its regurgitation into tne gullet, or its passage into the duodenum. When the process is completed, however, the peristaltic contraction of the muscular fibres of the stomach over- comes the resistance of the pylorus ; in eructation, regurgitation, and vomiting, the same peristaltic movements are assisted by the contraction of the diaphragm and the abdominal muscles. Chymification is a chemical, or at least a molecular, action, and is effected by means of the gastric juice, mixed with the salivary and oesophageal secre- tions. These fluids are acid.* The influence of the nerves upon digestion has been ascertained by inge- nious experiments, the results, of which however have been interpreted in various ways. The Intestines in general. The term intestine, in its widest signification, is applied to the whole ali- mentary canal; but, in a more limited sense, it means that long and frequently convoluted tube, extending from the pylorus to the anus, and occupying al- most the whole of the abdominal cavity. The intestines have been divided according to their caliber into the small (b to d,fig. 139.) and the large (e to i); this distinction, which is applicable to most animals, is anatomically established in man, by a difference in size, by the sacculated character of the large intes- tine, by a difference in direction, by the presence of a valve, by the existence of a csecum and of a vermiform appendix, and, lastly, by a difference in structure, especiaUy in the muscular and mucous coats. The same distinction is recognised in physiology, and upon equally good grounds, for the small intestine is essentially concerned in the formation and absorption of the chyle, while the large intestine is the organ of defecation, f These differences will be rendered more apparent from the description of these two important parts of the alimentary canal. The Small Intestine. The small intestine includes all that part which is situated between the stomach and the large intestine (6 to d,fig. 139.). According to HaUer, Bichat, and their followers, the upper portion, called the duodenum (b to c), should be abstracted from the small intestine, which, according to them, would commence at the termination of the duodenum. It appears to me that the former defini- tion should be adhered to, on account both of the absence of any real line of separation between the duodenum and the rest of the small intestine, and of their similarity in structure and function. The small intestine is divided into three parts, the duodenum, the jejunum, and the ileum. The division between the duodenum and the rest of the small intestine is definite, but that between the jejunum and the ileum is altogether arbitrary; so that we shall follow the example of Haller, Soemmering, and others, in describing the jejunum and Ueum together (c to d), under the name of the small intestine, properly so called. * [The saliva, though sometimes acid, is usually alkaline.] t The division into a small and large intestine exists among all vertebrated animals; but no animals, excepting the ourangs and the wombat, have both a ca;cum and an appendix vermi- formis. In some we find one caecum, or several ca;ca; in others one or more vermiform ap- pendices ; others have neither ctecum nor appendix, but a valvular fold and a well-marked change in diameter indicate the limit between the small and l.irgc intestines. In some, again, the only diflerence consists in a change of diameter.