ARTHROLOGY, 162 upon prolonged standing or walking, is the result of mechanical compression of the intervertebral discs, and an absolute diminution of their thickness ; but it appears more conformable to the laws of physics to admit, that the diminution in the height of the vertebral column depends upon the increase of the cur- vatures, unless we admit Monro's hypothesis of the absorption of part of the liquid contained within the discs. 6. The presence of the yellow ligaments, which by their elasticity con- tinually oppose the causes which tend to bend the body forwards, and which are for each of the vertebra what the posterior cervical ligament is for the head. 7. The existence of the vertebral canal, which has the same advantage as the cylinder of long bones, of increasing the strength without increasing the weight. 8. The mode of articulation of the vertebral column with the head, which is doubly advantageous, both as regards, the place occupied by the articular surfaces, and their direction : 1. The articular surfaces correspond to the point of junction of the posterior with the two anterior thirds of the head. The posterior third of the head contains a large portion of the encephalic mass, while the tvro anterior thirds are chiefly formed by the face, which, in com- parison to its size, is of little weight. From this it follows, that the weight of the posterior third almost counter-balances that of the two anterior thirds of the head. 2. The almost horizontal direction of the condyles in the human subject permits the head to rest upon the summit of the vertebral column, without having a necessary tendency, or at least a very slight one, to inclme forw^ards, as invariably takes place in animals whose occipital condyles are vertical, and situated entirely on the back of the head. Yet, notwithstanding these advantageous conditions of the atlantal articulation, the part in front of the condyles is somewhat heavier than that behind ; and this difference, though slight, is sufficient to cause flexion of the head, when left to itself, either during sleep or after death. The Vertebral Column considered as an Organ of Locomotion. The vertebrge perform upon each other certain oscillatory or balancing movements in all directions, by means of the pliability of the intervertebral substances*; but they are so obscure, that their existence can scarcely be re- cognised, or their character examined on a small portion of the column. In order to understand them, the entire spine must be examined. Movements of the entire column. These are, 1. Flexion, or the movement for- wards: 2. Extension; 3. Lateral incUnation; 4. Circumduction, m which tne column describes a cone, of which the apex is below, and the base above; 5. Rotation on its axis, or torsion of the vertebral column. In the analysis of the motions of the column, it is necessary to distinguisn carefully between the actual and the apparent motions; the first are much less extensive than would be imagined at first sight, the greater part of the ap- parent movements taking place at the articulations of the pelvis with the thiffhs In these movements of the whole, the column represents a lever ot the third order, an elastic arch in which the resistance is at the upper ex- remi^, the fulcrum at the lower end, and the power apphed m the middle^ Eadi v;rtebra, on the contrary, represents a lever of the first order, in which the power and the resistance are at the anterior and posterior extremities of *n'rrl—.7?.Sol!^^^^^^^ most extensive of all, the anterior commt 7gam:nt is rflfxed; the anterior part f J« j/.^^^^^^^^^^ U romnressed- the soft central portion is pushed backwards; the posterior fi^rTo^th: discs are slightly sWched, as are ^->^XC^r T~ ligament, the supra-spinous, inter-spmous, and yellow ligaments. The m . Thus the uniting media of the vertebra serve also as means of locomotion.