364 MYOLOGY. lique course, after having left the common sheath of all the muscles of the anterior region of the leg. Another sheath, which is nothing more than the condensed dorsal fascia of the foot, receives the tendon at the point where it passes vertically downwards, to be inserted into the tubercle of the first cunei- form bone. Relations. The tibialis anticus is covered by the fascia of the leg and the dorsal fascia of the foot; on the inside it is in relation with the external surface of the tibia; on the outside, at first with the extensor communis digitorum, and then with the extensor proprius pollicis, from which it is separated behind by the anterior tibial vessels and nerves. Action, It flexes the foot upon the leg ; and from the obliqmty of its tendon it raises the internal border of the foot, and consequently produces that sort of rotation inwards at the articulation of the two rows of the tarsus which we &ave already alluded to. It tends also to adduct the ankle joint, and is con- sequently opposed to dislocation outwards. The absence of a proper sheath for this muscle, explains the considerable projection formed by its tendon during contraction, which may serve as a guide to the preliminary incisions in liga- ture of the dorsal artery of the foot. Spigelius called this muscle the musculus catenee, because fetters applied around the ankles of criminals press chiefly upon the projection formed by its tendon. The Extensor Longus Digitorum Pedis, and the Peroneus Tertius vel Anticus. Dissection. Remove the fascia of the leg and the dorsal fascia of the foot. This is an elongated, semi-penniform, and reflected muscle (be. Jig. 128.), flattened from within outwards, single above, and divided into four or five tendons below. Attachments. It arises from the external tuberosity of the tibia, on the outer side of the tibialis anticus ; from the whole of the internal surface of the fibula in front of the interosseous ligament, and slightly from that ligament; from the upper part of the fascia of the leg, and from the tendinous septa interposed be- tween this muscle and the tibialis anticus within, and the peroneus longus and brevis without. It is inserted into the second and third phalanges of the last four toes. . •,• • From these numerous origins the fleshy fibres proceed m different directions; the superior vertically downwards, the rest obliquely downwards and forwards, the lowest being the most oblique ; they all terminate around a tendon, which appears upon the anterior border of the muscle below the upper third of the leg. This tendon soon divides into two portions : one internal, and itself sub- divided into three tendons for the second, third, and fourth toes; the other external, and generally split into two tendons, one of which is intended for the flfth toe,'while the other is flxed to the posterior extremity of the correspond- ing metatarsal bone. This last subdivision is often wanting; it is but im- perfectly separated from the fasciculus belonging to the fifth toe, to which it almost always sends off an accessory tendon : it has been generaUy described as a separate muscle, under the name of the peroneus tertius or anticus ic,fg. 128.). I have thought it right, however, to connect this muscle with the extensor longus digitorum (6), from which it can be so imperfectly separated that it has been designated by Cowper, pars extensoris digitorum pedis longi; and by Morqagni, quintus tendo extensoris longi digitorum pedis .... ^ . The extensor communis is directed vertically as far as the ankle jomt, where it enters a sheath common to it and the fle*er-proprius polhcis, is next re- flected under this sheath, becomes horizontal, passes obhquely inwards and opposite the tarsus, is received into a much stronger proper sheath after leavmg which the five tendons separate so as to cover the dorsal surface of the meta- Tar ^ bone of the toes, to which they correspond. In this course they cross he extensor brevis dig torum at a very acute angle, reach the dorsal surface of