MYOLOGY. 368 and spino-articular group, have their fulcra upon the spine, and are inserted into the articular and the transverse processes or ribs, they conspire in erect- ing the vertebral column, and keeping it in that position. But from their ob- liquity they produce a slight movement of rotation, those fibres -which are at- tached to the articular processes having less effect than those connected with the transverse processes. In this movement the front of the body is turned to the side on which the muscles are situated. When the muscles of both sides act together the spine is extended directly backwards. The splenius, which is the representative of the longissimus dorsi for the neck and head, acts in the same way, but with greater effect. Thus by the contraction of the left splenius, the face is turned to the left side, and the head is drawn back- wards and to the right side. The obliquus inferior also acts in the same di- rection. When the two splenii and the two inferior oblique act together, the head is inclined directly backwards. 4. The fixed insertions of the transverso-spinalis being at the articular or transverse processes, and their moveable points at the spinous processes, be- sides the common effect of erecting the vertebral column they are also able to rotate it, so that the anterior region of the trunk is turned to the opposite side. From its obliquity this muscle is the principal rotator of the vertebral column. The complexus, which is its representative in the neck, acts upon the head in the same manner, but in a more remarkable degree. Thus, by the contraction of the complexus of the left side, the face is turned to the right side, and the head is inclined backwards upon the left side, so that in rotation it acts in a precisely opposite direction to the splenius. When all these muscles act together the trunk is simply drawn erect. The superior oblique assists the complexus in the movements of the head. Lastly, we may now understand the successive actions which take place along the whole extent of the posterior spinal muscles. The sacrum and the iliac bones furnish a fulcrum for the fasciculi which move the lumbar region: this latter being fixed, then becomes the fulcrum for those that move the dorsal region, and so on to the head, which alone has independent muscles. It is im- possible to extend backwards the dorsal region, and the lower part of the cer- vical, without at the same time erecting the lumbar region; but the head may be moved at will, independently of the vertebral column. The posterior spinal muscles maintain in equilibrium the weight of the whole trunk; hence the lassitude experienced in the back, but especially in the loins, by long-continued standing, walking, or even sitting without a sup- port to the back; and hence the relief afforded by the recumbent posture. Rotation we have seen scarcely exists in the loins, the back, or the lower part of the neck; but at the upper part of the neck it is very extensive, and here the rotator muscles are proportionally strong, and directed very ob- liquely. MUSCLES OF THE ANTEBIOK ABDOMINAL REGION. The obliquus externus abdominis. — Obliquus internus and cremaster. — Trans- versalis abdominis. —Rectus abdominis. —Pyramidalis. The muscles of the anterior abdominal region are, the external oblique, the internal oblique, the transversalis, the rectus, and occasionally the pyramidalis; being ten in the whole, five on each side. The Obliquus Externus Abdominis. Dissection. 1. Make an incision through the skin of the abdomen extend- ing from the cartilage of the eighth rib obliquely downwards and inwards, dividing at the same time the very firm layer of cellular tissue, which imme diately covers the muscle. 2. During the preparation of this, as well as all the other abdominal muscles, place a block under the loms, and in the dissec- tion follow exactly the direction of the muscular fibres.