MYOLOGY. 262 107. wards. But if the aponeurosis be detached from its spinal insertions, and turned outwards, it will be seen that the common mass is essentially composed of two portions — one internal and anterior, the lumbosacral portion of the transverso-spinalis; and the other external and posterior, the lumbosacral por- tion of the sacro-lumbalis and longissimus dorsi. 1. The lumbosacral portion of the transversospinalis * occupies all the sacral groove, and that part of the lumbar groove situated within the articular pro- cesses. It is perfectly distinct in the loins, being separated from the common mass by loose cellular tissue traversed by vessels and nerves. It arises from the articular processes of the lumbar vertebrae by flat tendons, directed ob- liquely inwards and upwards, and terminating upon the posterior surface of the muscle : by the union of their contiguous edges an aponeurosis is formed, which is itself blended along one of its borders with the deep surface of the common aponeurosis of origin. From these tendons the fleshy fibres arise, and having united into bundles, terminate by other tendons at the spinous pro- cesses of the vertebrae above. In the sacral region this portion of the trans- verso-spinalis is less distinct, but it may be easily seen that it occupies the whole of the sacral groove, and that the corresponding portion of the aponeu- rosis of origin affords attachments to it alone. 2. The external and posterior portion of the common mass, or lumbosacral portion of the sacro-lumbalis and longissimus dorsi, is entirely without the sacral groove, but occupies that part of the lum- bar groove situated on the outer side of the articular processes. It arises, 1. from all the lumbar portion of the common aponeurosis ; 2. from an extremely strong tendon, which is attached to the posterior superior spinous process of the ilium j 3. from the posterior fourth of the crest of the Uium, internally by ten- dinous, and externally by muscular fibres. The thick fleshy mass proceeding from these difierent origins is disposed of in the following manner:—the greater part of the fibres pass directly upwards to the dorsal region, forming the proper com- mencement of the sacro-lumbalis (a a, fig. 107.). The remaining fibres are directed forwards, and are arranged into two sets of bundles, one of which is inserted into the summits of the transverse processes, form- ing the external or transverse fasciculi ; and the other into the tubercles of the articular processes, forming the internal or articular fasciculi. These two sets of fibres consti- tute the proper origin of the longissimus dorsi (d d, fig. 107.). Relations. The common mass is co- vered behind by the united aponeuroses of the latissimus dorsi and serratus posticus inferior, and by the posterior layer of the aponeurosis of the transversalis ; in front, it corresponds to the lumbar groove, the inter-transversales muscles of the loins, and the middle layer of the aponeurosis of the transversalis, which separates it from the quadratus liunborum; on the inside, * [This corresponds to the inferior or lumbo-sacral fasciculi of the multifidus spina:.]