ARTICULATIONS OF THE METATARSUS. 221 these bones, and it is easy to comprehend why they are super-imposed, and not arranged in mere juxta-position. But the astragalus is not placed horizontally above the os calcis, foi- it inclines inwards, downwards, and forwards; and from this circumstance, even in standing upon the soles of the feet, the weight of the body is distributed between the os calcis and the anterior range of the tarsus, which is itself subdivided into two rows, but only on the inside, because it is there chiefly that the weight of the body is transmitted by the astragalus. In one attitude, this weight is communicated by the astragalus exclnsively to the front row, viz. in standing upon the point of the foot; and it is then that the division of the tarsus into several bones is especially useful m preventing the injurious effects of shocks transmitted from below. There is an immense difference also, as regards their effects on the system, between falls upon the heels, and those upon the points of the feet. The mechanism of the tarsal articulations, with respect to mobility, should be first studied in the two ranges separately, and afterwards in the articulation of the two rows together. 1. The bones of the first range, viz. the astragalus and the os calcis, glide upon each other from before backwards and from side to side. The lateral glidings assist in the torsion of the foot, which, however, is cMefly performed at the articulation between the two rows. The antero-posterior glidings take place under the follo wing circumstances: when the weight of the body presses upon the upper part of the astragalus this bone slips a little forwards, and the foot has a tendency to become elongated, or flattened from above downwards, as Camper has remarked. When the pressure ceases,the astragalus returns to its original position. The truth of the assertion, that the foot is an elastic arch, is chiefly established by reference to the nature of the astragalo-calcanian joint. 2. The bones of the second row are capable of such very slight gliding movements, that they may be considered as forming but a single piece. How- ever, the articulation between the scaphoid and the cuneiform bones is somewhat more moveable than those of the cuneiform bones with each other and with the cuboid. 3. The chief movements of the tarsus take place between the two rows, and the articular surfaces are there very favourable to mobility; for there is in one part a head received into a cavity (at the astragalo-scaphoid articula- tion), and in another a mutual reception (at the calcaneo-cuboid articulation). These movements consist of a sort of torsion or rotation, by means of which the sole of the foot is carried either inwards or outwards. Assisted by slight lateral motions of the astragalo-calcanian joint, they constitute what is called adduction and abduction of the foot. They are generally attributed to the ankle-joint; but, as we have seen, that articulation is limited to flexion and ex- tension ; the sprains, therefore, which result from too extensive movements, either outwards or inwards, take place at the articulation of the two tarsal ranges, and not at the ankle-joint. When the movement of torsion is carried too far, the external malleolus is forced somewhat outwards; slight gliding mo- tions occur at the tibio-fibular articulations; the elasticity of the fibula is called into play; and, if the violence be immoderate, the fibula is fractured. Tarso-metatarsal Articulations (Jigs. 82 to 84.). In the formation of these joints the wedge-shaped tarsal extremity of each metatarsal bone is opposed to one of the bones of the tarsus, the corresponding th ^eing plane and triangular. The first metatarsal bone articulates with the farst cuneiform; the second metatarsal with the second, and slightly with the hrst and the third cuneiform bones; the third metatarsal with the third cuneitorm; the fourth and fifth metatarsal with the cuboid. From this there results an angular articular line, commencing on the outside at the projection tormed by the tuberosity of the fifth metatarsal bone. This line is directed oDUquely forwards and inwards; it forms an angle at the third, and again