THE LUNGS, 545 of the right hmg. In determining the size of the lungs, we must hear in mind, that the lung as well as the thoracic cavity gains in one direction what it loses in another: elongated lungs, which are regarded as particularly liable to phthisis, have not seemed to me to be smaller than the lungs of a person of similar stature but having a broad chest. The weight of the lungs must be examined with reference to their specific gravity and to their absolute weight. The specific gravity of the lungs is less than that of any other organ, and even much less than that of water. Their lightness depends on the great quantity of air which penetrates them in every direction, so that the lungs rise to the surface of the fluid in which they are im- mersed. The specific gravity of the lungs presents some important differences depending on age. Thus, before birth, and in an infant that has died during- birth without having respired, the lungs sink in water; on the contrary, they swim when the infant has breathed ; not because any change has taken place in the intrinsic nature of the organ, but because the air has insinuated itself into the cells. The estimation of the specific weight of the lungs constitutes what is called in legal medicine the hydrostatic test. In the adult the lung always floats, notwithstanding any efforts which may be made to expel the air contained in the pulmonary cells; it seems as if the air enters in some way into the composition of the lung, and even in vacuo it cannot be completely extracted. The specific gravity of the lungs varies also from disease. Thus, lungs infiltrated with serum, or indurated by inflammation, being completely or partially deprived of air, on the presence of which their lightness depends, assume, in a greater or less degree, the appearance of compact organs, such as the liver or the spleen. The absolute weight of the lung varies from similar causes. From age : thus, although the specific gravity of the foetal lung is much greater than that of the adult, yet its absolute weight is considerably less. In infants that have not breathed, the weight of the body is to that of the lungs as 60 to 1 on an average, whilst in those that have breathed, the proportion is as 30 to 1, so that the changes in the lungs resulting from respiration are such as to double their weight. We may easily conceive the great importance of this fact in legal medicine. This method of estimating the weight of the lungs is known by the name of the static test. The absolute weight of the lungs varies much in disease. Healthy lungs are very light; diseased lungs may become eight or ten times heavier than natural, without increasing in size. The lungs almost always becoming engorged at their posterior border during the last moments of life, their weight must not be estimated from an ordinary corpse. It must undoubtedly have been from the examination of engorged lungs that authors have stated their average weight to be four pounds. Colour. The colour of the lungs varies according to age and disease. In the fcetus they are reddish-brown ; after birth rosy white ; in the adult and in the aged they are greyish-blue, and amost always marked by black spots, form- ing pomts, lines, or patches, and describing polygons more or less regular in figure. These black patches, which become much more numerous in advanced age, co-exist with the black deposits in the bronchial glands, and probably depend upon the same cause ; they lie below the serous covering of the lungs, and are very superficial, excepting in disease. The posterior part of the lung IS usuaUy of a reddish-brown colour, because it is distended with blood and serum. It has not been shown that this is altogether a post mortem con- dition, and the necessary consequence of the position of the corpse upon its back; many facts would, on the contrary, induce us to admit that it occurs antecedently to death. Density, crepitation, and cohesion. The lung, a spongy or aerial organ so to speak, is the least dense of aU the organs in the body; it yields to the pressure of the hand, and, if no cause prevents the escape of the air, it loses very much of its original size. I have remarked, when speaking of the spleen that, under pressure, that organ emitted a peculiar noise, or rather gave dse to VOL. I. N N