296 MYOLOGY. physis menti, below the sub-mental tubercles, into the whole extent of the di- gastric fossa. It is also attached to the os hyoides by means of an aponeurotic expansion. ^ Its origin from the mastoid process is partly fleshy, and partly tendinous, the tendon being prolonged for some distance upon the upper border of the muscle. The fusiform fleshy belly produced in this manner passes forwards, inwards, and downwards, into the interior of a sort of fibrous cone, forming the commencement of the intermediate tendon. This tendon, which is about two inches in length, follows at first the direction xjf the muscle, almost always perforates the stylo-hyoid muscle, and is then received into a fibrous ring attached to the os hyoides, and lined by a synovial capsule. This fibrous ring is often wanting. A broad aponeurotic expansion proceeds from the inter- mediate tendon and is fixed to the os hyoides. When this is united to the corresponding structure on the opposite side, they form a very strong, trian- gular aponeurosis, called the supra-hyoid aponeurosis, which occupies the in- terval between the. two muscles, and serves as a kind of floor for the other muscles of the supra-hyoid region. After having passed through the fibrous ring, the tendon changes its direction, and is reflected at an obtuse angle up- wards and forwards, to terminate in another tendinous cone. From the interior of this cone the fleshy fibres of the anterior belly take their origin. This belly is not so strong as the posterior, and is inserted by separate tendons, some- times intersecting those of the opposite side, into the whole extent of the digastric fossa, below the sub-mental tubercles. Some fibres are often blended with those of the mylo-hyoid. It is not uncommon to see a smaU fascicidus arising from the os hyoides, and strengthening the anterior belly. The two anterior bellies are sometimes united by a raphe, and by a small transverse fibrous bundle. Relations. It is covered by the platysraa and stemo-mastoid, the parotid and the submaxillary glands, the latter of which it embraces by the concavity of its upper border: it covers the muscles which arise from the styloid process, the mylo-hyoid muscle, the internal jugular vein, the external carotid artery, and its labial and lingual branches, the internal carotid, and the hypo-glossal nerve, which lies parallel with and beneath the intermediate tendon of the muscle. Its action is very complicated: when the posterior belly contracts alone, the OS hyoides is carried backwards and upwards; the anterior belly carries it forwards and also upwards. When the two bodies of the muscle contract at the same time, these opposite effects are destroyed, and the os hyoides is carried directly upwards. In all these motions, the lower jaw must be fixed. If the os hyoides is fixed, the posterior belly becomes a depressor of the jaw, on account of the reflection of the muscle; the anterior and the posterior bellies can incline the head backwards, but this inclination of the head backwards during mastication, and when the jaws are separated, depends on the action of the posterior extensor muscles of the neck: lastly, the anterior belly of the digastric is the tensor of the supra-hyoid fascia The Stylo-hyoideus. Dissection. Detach the posterior belly of the digastric. This is a small and very thin muscle (g', ^Jfs. 114.;? q,figs. 143 and 147.) like all those which are attached to the styloid process. » It arises from the back of the styloid process, at a short distance from the apex, and opposite the insertion of the stylo-maxillary ligament. This origin consists of a small tendon, which terminates in a fibrous cone, from the interior of which the fleshy fibres commence. These proceed downwards, forwards, and inwards, and form a bundle which is almost always perforated by the tendon of the digastric. Occasionally the fibres pass only in front of that