628 SPLANCHNOLOGY. where they commence upon the inner surface of the labia majora, and they enlarge gradually as they converge towards each other in front. At the cli- toris, they become slightly contracted, and bifurcate before their termination. I be lower division of the bifurcation is attached to and continuous with the glans of the clitoris; the upper division unites with that of the opposite side, and forms a hood-like fold above that body, called the preputium clitoridis. rhe nymphfE are provided with very large crypts, which are visible to the naked eye, and secrete an abundance of sebaceous matter. They vary much m size, according to age: thus, in new-born infants, they project beyond the labia majora, principally on account of the imperfect developement of the latter. They also vary in different individuals; in some females being extremely small, and in others always projecting beyond the labia majora; and lastly, in different countries; for in certain African nations, among the Hottentots for example, they are of a disproportionate length, and constitute what is called in females of that race the apron. The clitoris is an erectile apparatus, forming a miniature representation of the corpus cavernosum of the penis. Its free extremity is seen in the anterior part of the vulva, about six lines behind the anterior commissure of the labia majora, and resembles a tubercle situated in the median line, covered, as by a hood, with the upper divisions of the bifurcated nymphae, and continuous with the lower divisions of the same. This tubercle, which, though imperforate, has been compared to the glans penis (glans clitoridis), is generally very small. Sometimes, however, it is very long, so as to have excited a suspicion of the existence of hermaphrodism. In one instance that came under my observ- ation, the free part of the clitoris was two inches long, and extremely slender. Like the corpus cavernosum in the male, the clitoris arises from the ascend- ing rami of the ischia by two roots, which expand and converge until they arrive opposite the symphysis, where they unite and form a single corpus caver- nosum, flattened on each side ; this, after passing for some lines in front of the symphysis, separates from it, and forming a curve with the convexity directed forwards and upwards, and the concavity downwards and backwards, gradually becomes smaller towards its free extremity. It has a suspensory ligament precisely resembling that of the penis, and ischio-cavernosi muscles, similar to but smaller than those of the male. We have already said that the constrictor vaginae, which represents the bulbo-ca- vernosi of the penis, has a similar arrangement to those muscles, i. e. it passes upon the sides of the clitoris, and then becomes continued on to its suspensory ligament. The last circumstance which completes the analogy between the clitoris and the corpus cavernosum of the penis is the reception of the canal of the urethra into the V-shaped interval formed by the union of the two crura of the clitoris. The corpus cavernosum of the clitoris forms a longitudinal ridge between the labia majora, extending from the anterior commissure to the glans of the clitoris. The meatus urinarius. About an inch below and behind the clitoris, we find in the median line immediately above the projecting margin of the opening of the vagina the meatus urinarius, or the orifice of the urethra, which constantly appears closed. The mucous membrane of the vulva. The mucous membrane lining the vulva is continuous, on the one hand, with the skin at the internal surface of the labia majora, and with the mucous membrane of the vagina on the other ; upon the labia majora and nymphae it has a great number of sebaceous follicles visible to the naked eye, and yielding a cheesy odorous secretion; and also mucous follicles, which are most numerous near the meatus urinarius, and open into culs-de-sae, the orifices of which are visible to the naked eye, and are often large enough to admit the blunt extremity of a probe. Development. In the foetus the labia majora are small, and separated from each other by the nymphaj, which are much larger in proportion, and also by