310 MYOLOGY. dependeiitly of the effect produced in the instrument from the passage of a co- lumn of air. Examples of this are observed in playing on the horn, trumpet, &c. If we examine tiie muscles of the face in connection with their influence in producing emotional expressions," we shall find that they are often almost com- pletely removed from the influence of the will, as, for example, where those emotions are not simulated; but that sometimes, on the contrary, their con- traction is altogether voluntary, as in those individuals, who either by profes- sion or habit are accustomed to imitate feelings which they do not really experience. Nevertheless, it should be remarked, that although the outward expression of every passion may be produced at will upon the face, yet there is always a great difierence between the natural emotion and the fictitious representation. On the whole, the general expressions of the countenance may be regarded as varieties of two great types,' viz. those of the cheerful and those of the melancholy emotions. The cheerful emotions are expressed by the expansion of the features, i. e. their retraction from the median line, a movement that is due to the occipito-frontalis, the levatores palpebrarum, and especially to the great zygomatic muscles. The melancholy passions, on the contrary, are ex- pressed by the approach or concentration of the features towards the median Une, which is chiefly effected on either side of the face by the corrugator supercilii, the depressor anguli oris, the common and proper elevators of the upper lip, the levator labii inferioris, and the quadratus menti. On account of the intimate connection between the skin of the face and the facial muscles, which, from the nature of their insertions, are in some measure identified with it, the frequently repeated contraction of one or more of these muscles occasions folds or wrinkles of the skin, that remain during the in- tervals of those contractions and after they have entirely ceased. And thus the continual experience of grave or cheerful emotions, with their characteristic expressions of countenance, at length impresses a peculiar and permanent stamp upon the features, so that those who are in the habit of closely observing such circumstances may in some degree judge of the disposition of an indi- vidual from an examination of his physiognomy. This is the only foundation of the system of Lavater. MUSCLES OF THE TEMPORO-MAXJLLAKT REGION. The viasseter and temporalis. 'J'he muscles of this region are four in number; two on each side, viz. the masseter and the temporal. The Masseter. Dissection. Make a horizontal incision along the zygoma, and a vertical one from the middle of this to the base of the jaw ; dissect back the flaps, taking care not to divide the Stenonian duct, which passes over the muscle. In order to see the deep surface, saw through the zygoma in two places, and turn it outwards. • , , The masseter (s, fig. 113.) is a short and very thick muscle, of an irregularly quadrilateral form, situated upon the side of the face. Attachments. It arises from the lower edge of the zygoma, and is inserted into the outer ssrface of the angle and ramus of the lower jaw. Its origin from the zygoma consists of a very thick aponeurosis, which embraces the anterior borders of the muscles, and is composed of several planes of super- imposed fibres, which are prolonged upon its surface and in its substance for a considerable distance. The fleshy fibres proceed from the inferior surface and the borders of this aponeurosis, obliquely downwards and backwards, and are inserted into the angle of the jaw, either directly or by means of very strong tendinous fibres. Not unfrequently a small triangular fasciculus is detached forwards to the inferior border of the body of the bone. The fleshy fibres arising from the posterior portion of the zygoma constitute a short, sniaU, and