448 SPLANCHNOLOGY. The arteries consist of the proper lingual, which are very large in com- parison to the size of the organ, the palatine, and the inferior pharyngeal. rhe veins form two sets, as in the limbs, and for the same reason—a super- ficial set independent of the arteries, and a deep set accompanvine those •vessels. r j o The lymphatics enter the deep lymphatic glands of the supra-hyoid region. The 7ierves are very large, and are derived from three sources, viz. from the ninth pair or hypo-glossal; from the lingual branch of the fifth pair ; and from the glosso-pharyngeal division of the eighth pair.* The cellular tissue of the tongue is partly serous and partly adipose; the serous portion is chiefly situated in front, the other is more abundant behind. The tegumentary membrane and glands. The tegumentary membrane of the tongue is a continuation of the mucous membrane of the mouth. It is thin and slightly adherent in almost all its non-papillary portion, and becomes very thick and strongly adherent wherever the papillae exist. The edges of the tongue are occupied by numerous small glands, continuous with the sublingual glands, and opening upon the lower wall of the mouth by small excretory ducts. Developement. The tongue is visible in the youngest embryos. Its early developement has reference to its functions, for it is an essential agent in suction, and is consequently brought into use immediately after birth. The tongue is not double or bifid at first; in the earliest embryos it presents the appearance of a single tubercle. Uses of the tongue. The tongue has two very distinct uses. It is the organ of taste, and it is also a moveable organ. In this place we shall consider it in the latter capacity only. The movements of the tongue are concerned in the prehension of food, in suction, in mastication, in tasting, in deglutition, in ar- ticulation, and in playing upon wind-instruments. In order to fulfil such a variety of uses, it is organised so as to be capable of moving in every direction. Its movements are either extrinsic or intrinsic. The extrinsic movements, or those of the whole tongue, may be ascertained from our knowledge of the single or combined actions of its extrinsic muscles. Thus it may be protruded from the mouth, drawn back into that cavity, in- clined to the right or to the left side, directed upwards or downwards, or carried into any intermediate position. In its intrinsic movements it may be con- tracted transversely by the transverse fibres, diminished in length by its lon- gitudinal fibres, and contracted vertically, and rendered concave by its vertical fibres ; lastly, its apex can be carried upwards by the superior, and downwards by the inferior longitudinal fibres. By far the most varied, precise, and rapid motions of this organ are required in the articulation of sounds, in which it is one of the chief agents. In con- sequence of this use, which is by no means the result of a special conformation (for by constant practice, animals, whose tongues are very different from ours, may be taught to articulate), the tongue is associated with, and becomes one of the principal instruments of the mind. It is the organ by which thought is most commonly expressed. This use is peculiar to man. * The ninth nerve is distributed to the muscles, the lingual nerve to the mucous membrane of the anterior part and sides, and the glosso-pharyngeal to that of the base of the tongue. (See Organ of Taste.) . . . ^ T have lately seen a considerable branch of the facial nerve termmating m the tongue ; it was "iven off from the facial nerve at its exit from the stylo-mastoid foramen, crossed obliquely in front of the styloid process with which it was in contact, passed in front of the stylo-pharyngeus muscle externally to the tonsil, and parallel to the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, which was situ- ated behind it, communicated with that nerve by several arches, and divided into two branches at the base of the tongue, one of which ran along the edge of that organ, and the other anas- tomosed by a loop with the glosso-pharyngeal: from this loop some filaments passed off, to be distributed in the usual manner. The opposite side did not exhibit a corresponding arrangement.