559 THE LUNGS. named bronchial. The veins of the right bronchus enter the vena azygos ; oblong, curved, terminated by very elongated angles, and so arranged that they can overlap and be mutually received between each other. They are also united together by fibrous tissue. This arrangement of curved and angular seg- ments exists as far as the last bifurcations of the bronchial tubes ; but the size of the segments gradually diminishes, so that they soon form only narrow bnes, and ultimately mere cartilaginous points. The fibrous and membranous con- stituents of the cylinder preponderate more and more over the cartilaginous laminffi, which disappear beyond the ultimate bifurcations of the bronchial tubes, being found last at the several angles of bifurcation : the ultimate bron- chial ramifications are altogether membranous. The mucous membrane is prolonged to the very last ramifications, -where it becomes extremely thin. The longitudinal elastic fasciculi, which were limited to the membranous portion of the bronchi, are expanded over the entire surface of the bronchial tubes beyond their first subdivision. The muscxdar fibres, which are confined to the membranous portion in the trachea and bronchi, be- come circular on the inner side of the bronchial ramifications, and form an uninterrupted but very thin layer, precisely resembling the circular fibres of the intestinal canal.* When we consider, on the one hand, the arrangement of the cartilaginous segments, which appear as it were shaped expressly for the purpose of fitting between each other at their extremities, and of constituting an apparatus capable of being moved, and on the other the existence of circular contractile fibres on the inner surface of these segments, we cannot doubt that they are moved upon each other, the extent of such motion being measured by the space they have to traverse in order to come into contact. When this is effected, the canals must be almost completely obliterated.! Besides the trachea, the bronchi and the bronchial ramifications, which may be regarded as forming the framework of the lungs, these organs receive two sets of arteries, viz. the pulmonary and the bronchial; and give out two sets of veins, also called pulmonary and bronchial. A very great number of lymphatics arise from their interior, and from their surfaces, and they are penetrated by important nerves. The size of the pulmonary artery is equal to, if not greater than, that of the aorta; the bronchial arteries appear to be distributed upon the bronchi and their ramifications, which they exactly follow. The pulmonary veins correspond with the pulmonary artery : they are two in number for each lung. The bronchial veins correspond with the bronchial arteries, and terminate in the vena azygos on the right side, and in the su- perior intercostal vein on the left. * Structure of the bronchi and their branches. [According to Reisseisen, the fibrous cylinder gradually degenerates in the smallest bronchial tubes into cellular tissue ; according to the same author, the longitudinal elastic and the circular fibres can be traced as far as the tubes can be opened. The contractility of the pulmonary tissue on the application of galvanism, recently observed by Dr. C. J.B. Williams, establishes the muscularity of the circular fibres of the bronchial tubes. The mucous membrane, ns in the trachea, has a columnar and ciliated epithelium ; it of course enters into and lines the pulmonary cells ] t These anatomical facts explain, in a remarkabio manner, all the phenomena of nervous asthma, nervous suffocation, &c. The Pulmonary Vessels and Nerves.