SPLANCHNOLOGY. 482 of the colon (/), it descends into the pelvis, and, extending laterally, passes in front of the colon in both the right and left lumbar regions. This excessive mobility is one of the most characteristic and important facts re- garding the small intestine, which, in some measure, floats iu the abdominal cavity, yielding to the slightest impulse or concussion. Of all the viscera it is the most frequently involved in hernia. It is liable to invagination, i. e. one portion may be received, as into a sheath, into that immediately succeeding it. When any organ in the abdomen becomes enlarged, the small intestine yields, and passes in the direction where there is least resistance. It appears to partake of the mobility of fluids. It collects together, or spreads out; it moulds itself upon the adjacent parts, and fills up every space, so as to elude all causes of compression ; and by means of this admirable contrivance, the abdomen ac- commodates itself without inconvenience to the occasional enormous develope- ment, either natural or diseased, of the organs contained within it. Direction. We have seen that the upper or supra-diaphragmatic portion of the digestive canal is straight. The stomach presents one slight curve. The duodenum has two decided curves, and the rest of the small intestine pursues a not less flexuous course. The following is the direction of this intestine : commencing at the duodenum (j, fig. 161.), it passes forwards and tothe left side; it is then folded a great number of times upon itself, and, at its lower part, it passes transversely from the left to the right side, and a little upwards, in order to enter at a right angle (i) into the great intestine. The numerous foldings or turnings (gyri) of the smaU intestine upon itself have received the name of convolutions; they are moulded upon each other, without intermixing or becoming entangled, so as to form a mass which so closely resembles the surface of the brain, that the term convolutions has also heen applied to the winding eminences of that organ. Each convolution represents an almost complete circle. In the complexity presented by the numerous windings of the small intestine, it appears to be very difficult to assign to it any general direction ; nevertheless, if we con- sider that the small intestine commences to the left of the second lumhar ver- tebra, and terminates in the right iliac fossa, it wiU be seen that its general direction coincides with that of the membranous fold (m,fig. 161.), which sup- ports it; that is, it may be expressed by an oblique line running downwards from the left to the right side. If, however, we examine the particular di- rection of the convolutions, we shall find that they all present a concavity towards the mesentery, and a convexity towards the panetes of the abdomen, so that each resembles the half of the figure 8. In consequence of this arrange- ment, the intestine may become folded without much change in its position either in advance or otherwise ; and hence the great number of folds which can be placed between two points so near each other as the left side of the second lumbar vertebra and the right iliac fossa, the distance between which is not more than four inches. , , „ , „•...• i Dimensions The determination of the length of the small intestine, properly so caUed, has at aU times been a subject of interest. Meckel says that it vanes from thirteen to twenty-seven feet, including the duodenum. According to my observations, it varies from ten to twenty-five feet in the adult* The length of the small intestine, compared to that of the large intestine, is generally as five to one The different results which have been obtained by various authors may be exDlained partly by individual varieties, and partly by the mode in which ?he mtsureme'n^ made. Thus, a more or less Pe^f ^epar^tion o the Jut from the membranous folds which support it would lead to different re- mits Zt another and less understood cause of difference is the influence of he caUber of the intestine upon its length. The caliber and the length have always an inv rse ratio to each other. Of this we may be easily convinced by strongly inflating a portion of gut which has been previously measured. I have in another M ; m a third 18 ; in a fourth20 ; and in a hfth 2i.