THE BRACHIAL APONEUROSIS. 415 adductor It is formed above by the interosseous aponeuroses, and below by a thin layer attached to the circumference of the deep hollow m which the ad- ductors are lodged. Lastly, the inferior interosseous aponeurosis is remarkable for its thickness, and for the septa which it gives off between the interosseous muscles The sheaths into which the flexor tendons of the toes are received opposite the phalanges, resemble so exactly those of the fingers, that I shall not an- ticipate what will be said hereafter regarding the latter. We find the same system of synovial membranes, and the same loose, membranous, and exten- sible cellular tissue for the flexor tendons of the toes, as for those of the fingers. In all sheaths that are partly osseous and partly tendinous, we find a synovial membrane * ; but, on the other hand, there is nothing more than a loose cel- lular tissue in situations where a tendon or muscle glides in the interior of a confining aponeurosis. The Aponeuroses of the Upper ExTREsnTT. These comprise the aponeuroses of the shoulder ; the brachial aponeurosis ; the aponeurosis of the fore-arm; the dorsal and anterior annular ligaments of the carpus ; the palmar aponeurosis ; and, lastly, the sheaths for the tendons of the flexor muscles of the fingers. The Aponeuroses of the Shoulder. These are the supraspinous, the infra-spinous, the sub-scapular, and the del- toid aponeuroses. The supraspinous aponeurosis is a thick layer of fibrous tissue, attached to the entire circumference of the supra-spinous fossa, and converting it into a sort of osteo-fibrous case, that serves as a sheath for the supra-spinatus muscle, to which it also afibrds several points of attachment. This tendinous layer is gradually lost, externally, under the acromio-coracoid arch. The infra-spinous aponeurosis is an equally dense and strong fibrous lamina, attached to the entire margin of the infra-spinous fossa, and completing the osteo-fibrous sheath of the infra-spinatus muscle: it is continuous on the out- side with the brachial fascia, and gives off from its anterior surface a thick septum intervening between the scapular attachments of the teres major and those of the teres minor, and also some thinner septa interposed between the teres minor and the infra-spinatus, and between the different portions of the infra-spinatus muscle itself. The deltoid aponeurosis. The infra-spinous aponeurosis having reached the posterior border of the deltoid muscle, splits into two layers : of these, the superficial layer invests the deltoid, and terminates in the brachial aponeurosis; the deep layer continues to cover the tendon of the infra-spinatus, and becomes attached to the tendon of the short head of the biceps. Some very loose cel- lular tissue, or even a synovial bursa, separates this aponeurosis from the head of the humerus, and the tendons inserted around it. The sub-scapular aponeurosis is a very thin membrane, which completes the sheath of the sub-scapularis, and gives the muscle some points of attachment It is fixed to the entire margin of the sub-scapular fossa. T7ie Brachial Aponeurosis. The brachial aponeurosis commences above at the clavicle, the acromion, and the spine of the scapula, and is continuous with the infi-a-spinous aponeurosis: on the inner side it arises from the tendons of the pectoralis major and the latissiinus dorsi; and, in the interval between them, from the cellular tissue of the axilla: it envelops the arm as far down as the elbow, where it becomes con- tinuous with the fascia of the fore-arm, and is attached to the different bony pro jections presented by the surface of that joint. Its superficial surface is separ- • Sec note on Aponeukology, p. 389.