SPLANCHNOLOGY. 584 markable for its enormous size, in proportion to that of the kidney, for its origin from the aorta being at a right angle, and for its shortness. There are sometimes two or three renal arteries, and two are not unfrequently found twisted spirally around each other. When the kidney is situated in the iliac fossa or in the pelvis, the renal artery or arteries generally arise from the common iliac. The renal vein is as large in proportion as the artery, and passes in front of it into the vena cava. The lymphatic vessels are but little known. The nerves are very numerous, and are derived from the solar plexus; be- sides which, the lesser splanchnic nerve is distributed directly to the kidney. The spermatic nervous plexus is formed by branches from the renal plexus, and this may explain the close sympathy between the testicle and the kidney. The great number of ganglionic nerves distributed to the kidney may accoimt for the peculiar character of the pain experienced in this organ. Injection of the renal vessels. A very coarse injection thrown into the ar- tery will return by the veins. One thrown into the vein will return by the ureter, and not by the artery.* Having filled the artery with red injection, the vein with blue, and the ureter with yellow, I observed the following fects: — The renal artery divides into several branches within the sinus, where it is surrounded with fat; these branches pass between the calyces, and then be- tween the cones of the tubular substance, proceeding as far as the commence- ment of the cortical substance, without giving off any smaller branches: at that point, however, they divide and subdivide so as to form a vascular net- work, the meshes of which are quadrilateral, and of different sizes, inscribed within each other. The largest of these meshes embrace the entire base of each pyramid; the smaller pass in different directions through the substance of the bases. In order to obtain a good view of this arrangement, it is necessary to divide an injected kidney along its convex border, and scrape away the tubular sub- stance, which is so soft as to be easily removed. We shall then perceive that the arterial and venous network, corresponding to the base of each cone, is surrounded by a very thick fibrous sheath, apparently prolonged from the fibrous coat, which passes into the hilus. All the tubular substance being thus removed, the remaining cortical portion of the kidney presents the ap- pearance of a series of perfectly distinct alveoli, each of which corresponds to a cone of the tubular substance. A very beautiful preparation may thus be made. It remains for us to inquire how the arteries terminate. A number of vessels proceed from the convexity of the vascular network above described, traverse the cortical substance, become twisted like tendrils of the vine, and appear to terminate in small red masses, regularly arranged along the convo- luted tubes of Ferrein. These small red masses are formed by the penetration of the injection into the cavity of each granule, as may be seen by examining a section of the kidney with a lens, f If both the artery and the vein be in- jected in the same kidney (and it is of importance that the vein should be injected before the artery, in order to prevent a mixture of the two injections), we shall see that the matter injected by the vein circumscribes that injected by the artery. of the bloodvessels, which merely ramify on their parietes. They are hned with a mucous membrane, continuous with that on the papilla, and having a columnar epithelium. The acini of Malpighi, or granules of M.Cruveilhier (c"}, are not of a glandular nature ; they consist entirely of minute convoluted arteries, which terminate in the veins, but have no direct communication, as was formerly supposed, with the uriniferous tubes ; they arc caUed the glo- meruli.] * [This is the result of rupture.] , t See note, suprd.