THE STERNO-HYOIDEUS. 293 u 3 both muscles act together, they flex the head directly upon the neck, and the neck upon the chest. Their action is particidarly manifested in an attempt to raise the head while lying upon the back. Still there is a position in which this muscle may become an extensor of the head, viz. when it is thrown very far backwards; and this effect is owing to the nature of the upper insertion, which is situated somewhat behind the fulcrum of the lever represented by the head. This muscle affords one of the most remarkable examples of the co-opera- tion or simultaneous action of several muscles, in order to give effect to the action of one. Thus, in order that the stemo-cleido-mastoid may act most advantageously upon the head, it becomes necessary that the sternum being the fixed point, should be maintained as immoveable as possible, and this can only be effected by the contraction of the recti muscles of the abdomen. These latter in their turn require a fixed point at the pelvis, and this renders necessary the contraction of the glutaji, the serai-tendinosus, the semi-mem- branosus, and biceps femoris on either side ; and lastly, for the action of these, the legs require to be fixed by means of their extensor muscles. This remarkable simultaneous .contraction of so many muscles, necessary for the action of but one, has been extremely well illustrated by Winslow. It has many important results both in physiology and in pathology. MUSCLES OF THE INFRA-HTOID REGION. The sterno-hyoideus. — Scapula- or omo-hyoideus. — Sterno-thyroideus. — Thyro-hyoideus. The muscles of the infra-hyoid region are four in number on each side, viz. the sterno- or rather cleido-hyoid; the omo-hyoid; and the sterno-thyroid, which is continuous above with the fourth muscle, viz. the thyro-hyoid. The Sterno-hyoideus. Dissection. This is extremely easy, and is the same for aU the muscles of this region. The only caution necessary is that the clavicular and sternal attachments of these muscles should be studied from their posterior aspect only, and that the trapezius must be removed in order to expose the scapular attachments of the omo-hyoid, The sterno-hyoid (1< figs- 113 and 114.) is a flat, thin, ribbon-like muscle, which is sometimes double on each side. It arises from the inner end of the clavicle, and is inserted into the os-hyoides. Its inferior attachment is liable to some variations; most commonly it is connected with the back part of the inner extremity of the clavicle and with the inter-articular cartilage; some- times with the outer side of that extremity ; and sometimes with the circum- ference of the clavicular surface of the sternum. From this origin the fleshy fibres proceed parallel to each other, upwards and inwards, to be inserted by short tendinous fibres into the lower edge of the body of the os hyoides on the side of the median line and to the inside of the omo-hyoid, wiih which it is often blended. Immediately above the clavicle this muscle is often divided by an aponeurotic mtersection, which is united to that of the opposite side and forms, as It were, a transverse bridle. Relations. It is covered by the platysma, the sterno-mastoid, and the cervical tascia It covers the deep-seated muscles, the thyroid body, the crico-thyroid ana thyro-hyoid membranes, from which it is often separated by a bursa mu- cosa, the crico-thyroid muscle, and the superior thyroid artery. The inner cages ot the two sterno-hyoid muscles are generally separated by a fibrous rapfte, but they are sometimes blended together; and thus render the operation 01 tracheotomy more difficult. This impediment may, however, be overcome by keepmg accurately in the median line.