75 TURBINATED BONES. Tlie inferior Turbinated or inferior Spongy Bones (flffs.SS,3A: and dijig- 37.). The inferior turbinated bones, so called on account of their curved figure are 1 he interior turoinaie ^.^^^^^^ ^^^^^ external waU ot the nasal fossaj {d,fig. 35.), below the ethmoid, whence the name sub-ethmoidal turbinated bones. They are two in number, asymmetrical, and their greatest diameter is directed from before backwards. They have two surfaces, two edges, and two extremities. , . -3 o-, n ■ The internal surface {fig. 34. and d, fig. 37.) is convex, and looks towards the septum of the nose, which it sometimes touches when that part deviates from the straight direcfton ; the external surface (fig. 33.) is concave, and forms part of the middle meatus. Both are rough and as it were spongy, which has given rise to the assertion that these bones form an exception to the general rule of the spongy tissue being in the interior of bones : this appearance, however, is owing to the multiphcity of canals intended for nerves, and more particularly for veins which expand over the bone. The superior or articular edge {a be d,figs. 33, 34.) is very irregular, and presents from before backwards —1. a thin edge (a 6) which articulates with the ascending process of the superior maxilla : 2. a small emi- nence bearing the name of nasal or lachrymal process (6), which articulates by its apex with the os unguis, and by its two edges with the two lips of the as- cending process of the superior maxillary to complete the nasal canal: 3. a curved plate, caDed auricular process (e, fig. 33.) by Bertin, who compared it to the ear of a dog; this plate is directed downwards, and applied .partially upon the orifice of the maxillary sinus, which it assists in closing: 4. behind this process we find a thin edge (e d,figs. 33, 34.), which articulates with a small ridge on the palate bone : 5. between the auricular and the lachrymal pro- cesses, are small prominences which unite with the ethmoid. The inferior ov free border (a «f) is convex, and thicker in the middle than as its extremities; it is separated from the floor of the nostrils by an interval (ni o,fig. 37.) of uncertain extent, a circumstance to be remembered during the introduction of instruments into the nasal fossae. The anterior extremity (a) is a little less pointed than the posterior (d), which distinguishes the bone of the right from that of the left side. Connections. The inferior turbinated bones articulate with the superior maxiUary, the palate bones, the ethmoid, and the ossa unguis: they have im- portant relations with the inferior orifice of the nasal canal, which they defend from the contact of foreign bodies. Structure. Their external spongy appearance depends upon the multitude of canals with which their surface is furrowed, bat they are almost exclusively formed of compact tissue. Development. Their ossification commences about the fifth month of foetal life, by a point situated in the centre. The Vomer (Jig. 35. and \0,fig. 22.). The vomer is so called from its supposed resemblance to a ploughshare. It is situated in the median plane, and forms the pos- terior part of the septum of the nostrils. It is thin, flat, and quadrilateral, and has two surfaces and four edges. The surfaces are placed laterally (as at o, fig. 35.), and are generally plane, but they are often bent to one side or the other, and are then convex concave in opposite directions —; they are always smooth and covered by