SPLANCHNOLOGY. mosTaiffort"tl*'? "•^•"^'•ane "^^ly. and thus leave them of al- most uniform thickness, instead of being very unequal. According to this To^fhJr""*'""' ""^''^^ liowever, is not free from objectiol he ht DorZ tLt fl,"'"''"'^"'*/^'! "-^ ^"1^°^' the membranous portion, that the canal, after being contracted opposite the bulb, again expands at the spongy portion, and then gradually contracts as it proceeds forwards He aemes the existence of a dilatation opposite the fossa navicularis ; and attri- butes the dilated appearance of that part to the fact of the tissue of the glans Demg very dense, and closely adherent to the mucous membrane of the urethra so as not to allow it to collapse, like that of the other parts of the canal However, the extreme dilatabiUty of the waUs of the urethra render an exact determination ot its dimensions less important than might be imagined Besides the extensibility of the tissues, there is another anatomical condition which favours the extreme dUatability of the urethra, viz. the existence of longitudinal folds on the inner surface of the canal, which are effaced by disten- sion These folds must not be confounded with certain small longitudinal fas- ciculi which he beneath the mucous membrane throughout the whole extent of the canal, and appear to me to be of a muscular nature. The whole of the inner surface of the urethra presents a number of oblique orifices, which lead into culs-de-sac of variable depths. These sinuses, the orifices of which are always directed forwards, are sometimes large enough to receive the extrem- ities of bougies ; they were very well described by Morgagni, and therefore they are generaUy called the sinuses of Morgagni. 1 have seen them more than an inch long. No glands open into them.* The verumontanum, or crest of the urethra. The lower wall of the membranous portion of the urethra presents, in the median line, a crest, which has been named the verumontanum, caput gallinaginis, or urethral crest (o to d). This crest commences in front by a very delicate extremity ; is directed backwards along the median line, and terminates at the anterior part of the prostatic por- tion by an enlarged extremity (a), upon which the ejaculatory ducts open by two distinct orifices. From this posterior extremity several radiated folds pro- ceed on either side, called the frcena of the verumontanum, which are lost iu the opening of the neck of the bladder; they were carefully described by Lan- genbeck. The prostatic ducts open at the sides of the verumontanum. Structure of the urethra. A very fine transparent mucous membrane, of an epidermic character, lines the inner surface of the urethra; and is continuous, on the one hand, with the mucous membrane of the bladder, and on the other with that covering the glans. It is also continued through the ejaculatory ducts, into the vasa deferentia and the vesiculae seminales. f The structure of the urethra, as regards the coats external to the mucous membrane, is not the same in the different portions of the canal. In the prostatic portion, we find the same elements as in the bladder, which seems as if it were continued into the cavity of the prostate. The deepest layer of the muscular coat of the bladder is prolonged between the mucous membrane and the prostate, while the other layers form different planes which penetrate into the substance of the gland. The membranous portion would be more correctly denominated the muscular part of the canal, for it is surrounded by a layer of muscular fibres. A plexus of veins surrounds these muscular fibres. The spongy portion {If,fig. 182.; c,fig. 187.) has a similar appearance to that of the cavernous body; it is an erectile structure, composed of a fibrous frame-work, formed by numerous prolongations interlaced in all directions, so * [One of these sinuses or lacunse, larger than the rest, and situated on the upper surface of the fossa navicularis, is called the lacuna magna ; they appear to be mucous crj-pts.] t [It is prolonged into the ducts of Cowper s glands and the prostate, into the vesicula semi- nales, vasa deferentia, and tubuli seminiferi, and through the ureters into the uriniferous ducts ; in the female it also lines the vagina, uterus, and Fallopian tubes ; the whole forms the genito-iirinary system of mucous membranes : it is covered throughout with an epithelium, which in the male generative apparatus approaches the columnar form.]