SUPERIOR MAXILLARY BONES. 67 The Wormian bones are not always visible in the interior of the cranium : m some cases they are as it were incrusted in the substance of the bone, at the circumference of which they are observed. ^ ^ , , , ■ Their mode of development resembles that of the broad bones, i. c it pro- ceeds by radiation from the centre to the circumference. According to Beclard, they are not developed until five or six months after birth: at their junction with the surrounding bones they form sutures, which are the first to become effaced in after life. , . , », , i. From all that has been said regarding this class of bones (which are m a manner accidental, for they are neither constant in number nor m their ex- istence), it is evident that they can be only considered as supplemeniary points of ossification, and not as performing an important office in contributing to the solidity of the cranium, as the name cUs de voute, given to them by some ana- . tomists, would seem to indicate. Progress of Development in the Adult and the Aged. The cartilaginous lamina which separates the bones at first, gradually be- comes ossified. The sutures become so serrated, that it is almost impossible to separate the bones, without breaking some of their teeth. At the same time that the bones increase in breadth they augment in thickness; the diploe, which at first did not exist, is developed between the two plates. In the adult several bones already begin to join by osseous union ; of this we have an example in the sphenoid and occipital, which at an early period form one bone. In the aged the traces of the sutures are in a great measure effaced, so that in certain cases the whole skull would seem to be composed of one entire piece. The continuity of some bones is occasionally such, that the venous canals of the one communicate and open directly into those of the other. It is not un- common to find the bones of an old subject thin and translucent like horn in a greater or less extent. This diminution of thickness, added to the increasing fragility of the osseous tissue, affords an explanation of the ease with which the skulls of old people may be broken: and the continuity of the bones explains the possibility of the fracture being much extended. The Face. The face is that very complicated osseous structure, which is situated at the anterior and inferior part of the head, and is hollowed out into deep cavities for the reception of the organs of sight, smell, and taste, and for the apparatus of mastication. The face is divided into two portions, the upper and the lower jaw. The lower jaw is formed by one bone only; the upper jaw consists of thirteen bones. But although this circumstance tends to establish a great difference between the two, yet it must be remarked, that all the parts of the upper jaw are so immovably united, that in appearance they form only one bone; and, more- over, that it is essentially formed by one fundamental piece, the superior max- illary bone, to which all the others are attached as accessory parts. Of the fourteen bones which constitute the face, two only are median or single: viz. the vomer and the inferior maxilla. All the others are double, and form six pairs, viz. the superior maxiUary, the malar, palate and proper nasal bones, the ossa unguis, and the inferior turbinated bones. The superior Maxillary Bones {figs. 24? and 25., with the Palate Bones). They are two in number, united to a certain extent in the median line, and form almost the whole of the upper jaw. Their figure is very irregular: they belong to the class of short bones. They have three surfaces, an external, an internal, and a superior ; and three borders, an anterior, a posterior, and an in- ferior. F 2