PHYSIOLOGICAL ARRANGEMENT OP THE MUSCLES. 381 As in the hand, the dorsal interrossei are abductors, their origins heing situated externally to the axis of the foot; the plantar interrossei again are adductors: hut the axis of the foot must be supposed to extend through the second, and not through the middle toe. As we observed in the hand, the dorsal interossei project into the plantar region, by the side of the plantar muscles; and so narrow are the interrosseous spaces in the foot, that these dorsal muscles are much more completely situ- ated in the plantar, than those of the hand in the palmar region. The plantar interossei corresponding to the fourth and fifth toes, arise not only from the lower two thirds of the internal or tibial side of the corresponding metatarsal bone, but also from the lower surface of the posterior extremity of the same bone. It follows, therefore, that the interosseous muscles, viewed from below, appear one continuous muscle, in which it would be difficult to separate the muscles of each space, if the interosseous plantar fascia did not give off prolongations between them ; elsewhere, a cellular line defines the limit between each plantar and dorsal muscle. Again, as in the hand, the dorsal interossei arise from two corresponding metatarsal bones at once, but more especially from the lateral surface of that metatarsal bone, which is directed from the axis of the foot: as in the hand, also, their posterior ex- tremities are perforated by the posterior perforating arteries, the first being perforated by the arteria dorsalis pedis. The plantar interossei arise from only one of the metatarsal bones, and from the lateral surface that is directed towards the imaginary axis of the foot; moreover, they do not arise from the entire thickness of the bone, but only from its inferior two thirds, since the upper third is covered by the dorsal muscle. The following are the general relations of the interossei: they are separated above, from the tendons of the extensors, by a layer of fibrous tissue, and by the dorsal interosseous fascia; and below from the proper muscles of the foot, by the deep plantar interosseous fascia, which is much stronger than the corresponding structure in the hand, and gives off septa between the different pairs of interosseous muscles. PHYSIOLOGICAL ARRANGEMENT OF THE MUSCLES. However important it may be to become acquainted with the order of super- imposition, or the topographical arrangement of the muscles, it is no less ne- cessary to study the retrospective uses, in other words, the physiological arrangement of these organs.* In order to obtain as much as possible the advantages of each of these two methods, having already described each muscle in its topographical order, I shall now give a table of the muscles, ar- ranged according to their physiological relations. It is important to observe that the terms, muscles of the arm, of the thigh, Sfc. have not the same accept- loLa"arrTM Jp^'ln^'*'Tv!^ '"'^L"?^^ '° P"'"''''"" topographical to the physio- no^ Dcrmit T?f,P ™n Ji^^ only objection which can be urged against the'latter is, that it does oKT few reXZ^^^^^^^ be dissected upon the same subject; but this objection applies miiht surelv h? sTrifi^,? ''I,""'"' ''•'8'?"' '^'''^ ■ P"'"' superficial muscles on one side "ated Zscls «hm>ld ,fnf h ^^"^ is no reason why tfie examination of the deep- fore direct students tn rtfii^^f^^^^ superficial ones have been studied. I there- others X/t"ht"phy°iXTcalofde^^ topographical, and :t