THE THORAX IN GENERAL. 93 cartilages of the eighth, ninth, and tenth ribs graduaUy diminish in length ; ex- ternally they have the same breadth as the rib, and decrease as they pass inwards so as to terminate by a pointed extremity, which is appUed to the lower edge of the rib above. The cartUages of the eleventh and twelfth ribs are extremely short, especially that of the twelfth, which is only a few lines in length ; their internal free extremity loses itself, so to speak, in the substance of the abdominal parietes, so that they are altogether unconnected with the other cartilages. The Thorax in general. The sternum, the ribs, and the whole dorsal region of the vertebral column, form the frame-work of a large visceral cavity, the thorax, intended to contain and protect the chief organs of respiration and circulation. It occupies the upper part of the trimk, between the thoracic extremities ; its boundaries are very well defined above, but below there is not any line of demarcation in the skeleton, between the cavities of the thorax and abdomen ; or rather the bony thorax is common to the thoracic and abdominal viscera. We shall see after- wards that these two cavities are separated from each other by a moveable and muscular septum, called the diaphragm. With regard to capacity, the thorax holds a middle place between the cavity of the cranium and that of the abdomen. In each individual, the capacity of the thorax is exactly proportional to the volume of the lungs ; and as, in general, voluminous lungs co-exist with a highly developed muscular apparatus, it follows that the size of the thorax is no equivocal sign of a vigorous consti- tution. The thorax differs much from the abdominal cavity, in regard to its extensibility, being only capable of very limited alternate movements of dila- tation and contraction. In the structure of the thorax we find the twofold condition of solidity and mobility in so perfect a degree, that the frame-work of which it is composed is equally fitted to serve as a protecting structure and a respiratory apparatus. This limited dilatability contrasts, on the one hand, with the almost indefinite extensibility of the abdominal cavity, and on the other with the absolute want of extensibility in the cranium. We should form a very incorrect idea of the dimensions and shape of the thorax, Lf we were to judge of them by its external aspect while still covered by the soft parts, and surrounded by that species of girdle which is formed by the shoulder round its upper part; for we should then conclude it to be a trun- cated cone, with the base above. On the contrary, when the surrounding parts are removed, the thorax represents a cone, the base of which is in precisely the opposite direction, that is below. The height of the thorax cannot be measured with exactness, because it varies according to the depression or elevation of the muscular septum, which intervenes between the thoracic and the abdominal cavities. We can only say, that the bony frame-work should be divided into two parts, a superior or supra-diaphragmatic, which belongs to the chest pro- perly so called, and contains the lungs and heart; and an inferior, which forms part of the cavity of the abdomen, and contains the liver, the spleen, the kidneys, the stomach, the duodenum, and part of the colon. It should be also remarked, that the supra and sub-diaphragmatic portions of the thorax con- stantly vary in their respective proportions ; and that these variations of height principally take place at the sides, the middle remaming always nearly the same. The transverse diameters increase rapidly from the upper to the lower part of the thorax. The same is true of the antero-posterior diameters, and these also sensibly increase opposite the concavity of the dorsal region of the spme. The antero-posterior diameters are much greater laterally than in the median line, where they are diminished by the considerable projection of the bodies of the dorsal vertebra;. This shortness of the antero-posterior diameters between the sternum and the vertebral column, is in proportion to the small size ot the heart, which is situated in this region, as compared with that of the lungs which occupy the sides.