251 USES OF MUSCLES. of shortening. There is no oscillation in a muscular fibre during a normal '°¥h^Son*euroses and the tendons take no part in the contraction: they are eniely paS The degree of shortening, of ^vhIch the muscular fibre is suscSe cinnot be precisely determined; as far as we know, the short- Sg and consequently the extent of the resulting movement is proportional to th! length of the fibre. A distinction should be drawn between the force tithe velocity or rapidity of muscular contraction Again, the velocity is yery different from the extent of motion t the latter depends upon the length of the fibres; the former has no connection with it, but varies accordmg to the constitution of the individual, and is probably dependent on a more or less rapid influx of nervous influence. a„„^^/i;^„ The muscular force is composed of a great number of elements. According to Borelli, an intrinsic and an effective force may be distmguished m each muscle. The intrinsic force is that power which the muscular fibres woald exert if they were in the most favourable position for contraction ; the ettect- ive force is measured by the result. The estimation of the force of a muscle presupposes a knowledge, 1. of the number of its fibres; 2. of their quality or constitution ; 3. of the nature of the lever upon which it acts; 4. of the angle of incidence of the muscle upon that lever ; and 5. of the angle of incidence of the fibres with respect to the imaginary axis of the muscle. 1. Each muscular fibre, being distinct from those around it, may be considered as a small power; it may therefore be easily conceived, that the greater the number of fibres in any muscle, the more energetic will be its contraction. 2. The quality and constitution of the fibre, and the intensity of the stimulus, have no less an influence upon the contractile force of a muscle than the num- ber of its fibres. To be convinced of this, it is sufficient to compare the energy of movement in an individual excited by anger, with that in one who is calm. 3. The determination of the kind of lever f, represented by the bone upon * The observations of Rogerus tend to show that rapid contractions and relaxations are constantly taking place in muscles, especially during their contraction. (Tr.) " De Perpetua Fibrarum Musculanum Palpitatione," 1760. t A lever, in mechanics, signifies an inflexible rod ca- pable of turning round a point. The point upon which the lever turns is called the fulcrum (J, figs. 103,104,105.); the cause of motion is called the power (p); and the ob- stacle to t)e surmounted is the resistance (r) ; the space between the fulcrum and the power is the power-arm of the lever; the space between the fulcrum and the weight, is the resistance-arm of the lever. There are three kinds of levers, distinguished by the respective arrangement of the three parts :—1. A lever of the first order (fig. 103.) has the fulcrum between the power and the resistance ; 2. A lever of the second order (Jig. 104.) has the resistance between the fulcrum and the power ; 3. A lever qf the third order (fig. 105.) has the power between the resistance and the fulcrum.