MUSCLES OF THE PHARYNX. 459 Action. It is simply a constrictor in its lower portion : its upper fibres act as a constrictor, a depressor, and a tensor of the posterior wall of the pharynx; it can also raise the larynx and carry it backwards. The Middle Constrictor. This is a membranous triangular muscle (v,figs. 141. 147.) situated in the middle of the pharynx, upon a plane anterior to the preceding. It arises from the oshyoides, and is inserted into the posterior median raphe (hio-pharynqeus). It arises from the os hyoides inthe following manner:—1. trom the whole extent of the upper surface of the great cornu below the hyo-glossus (0, from which it is separated by the lingual artery ; a great many fibres arise by a tendinous origin from the apex of this cornu; 2. from the lesser cornu and the contiguous part of the stylo hyoid ligament. From these different origins, which form the external truncated angle of the muscle, the fleshy fibres diverge in various directions; the inferior passing downwards, the middle transversely, and the superior upwards: the latter are much more oblique and more numerous than the others, and terminate in a pointed extremity, which never reaches as high as the basilar process. Relations. Its external surface is in a great measure superficial, and is in relation with the muscles of the prs-vertebral region, through the inedium of the cellular investment of the pharynx. It is covered, in the rest of its extent, by the inferior constrictor and the hyo-glossus. It covers the mucous mem- brane of the pharynx, the superior constrictor, the stylo-pharyngeus, and the palato-pharyngeus. Its upper margin may be distinguished from the superior constrictor by its projecting slightly behind that muscle, and by the stylo- pharyngeus (r), which lifts up this border in penetrating into the pharynx. Action. It is a constrictor of the pharynx, and can draw the os hyoides upwards and backwards. The Superior Constrictor. This is a quadrilateral muscle (g,figs. 141. 147.) occupying the upper part of the pharynx: it arises from the pterygoid process, the mylo-hyoid ridge, and the base of the tongue ; and is inserted into the posterior median raphe, (jpterygo-pharyngeus, buccinato-pharyngeus, mylo-pharyngeus, and glosso-pharyn- geus, Santorini). It arises, 1. by tendinous fibres, from the lower third of the margin of the internal pterygoid plate and its hamular process ; 2. from the contiguous por- tion of the palate bone, and the reflected tendon of the circumflexus palati; 3. from the buccinato-pharyngeal aponeurosis, which extends from the ptery- goid process to the posterior extremity of the inferior alveolar arch * ; 4. from the posterior extremity of the mylo-hyoid line ; 5. the fibres which are said to arise from the base of the tongue are nothing more than those fibres of the genio-hyo-glossus, which Winslow has described as le genio-pharyngieru These are the same fibres, so difficult to demonstrate, which Valsalva and Santorini have regarded as forming a particular muscle, denominated by them the glosso-pharyngeus. From these different origins the fleshy fibres curve backwards, and then pass transversely inwards ; the superior form a sort of arch, having its con- cavity directed upwards {see figs. 141.147.), and are inserted into the cephalo- pharyngeal aponeurosis: they fonathecephalo-pharyngeus muscle of some authors, which is said to be continued from one side to the other without any inter- mediate raphe. This muscle forms a very thin layer, the fibres of which are paler and less distinct than those of the other constrictors. Relations. Its external surface is partly covered by the preceding muscle, and has behind, and on the sides, the same relations as the phaiynx. This * As this same aponeurosis gives attachment to the buccinator, it may be conceived tliat the contraction of that muscle cannot be altogether without effect upon the pharynx.