fig. 92. Q 4 THE MOLAR TEETH 23) Fig. so. Fig.SO. The molars are divided into two classes, according to their difference in size, and the number of tubercles upon their grinding surfaces. The smaller are caUed entail molars or bicuspides; the larger, great molars or mvlticuspides It should be remarked that in the first dentition, all the molars without exception are multicuspides. . , • -i. j> • The small molarsor bicuspides (figs. 89 and 90.) are eight m number ; four in each jaw, two on the right, and two on the left side. They are distmguished by the names first, second, &c. • They are situated between the canme teeth and the great molars. The small molars of the upper jaw correspond to the canine foSSSB General characters. The crown (a) is irregularly cylindrical, flattened from before backwards, with its long diameter directed trans- versely. The anterior and posterior surfaces, which corre- spond to the two neighbouring teeth, are plain (see fig. 90.). The internal and external (fig. 89.) surfaces are convex; the free or grinding surface is armed with two tubercles or points separated from each other, by a furrow. Of the two tubercles the external is the larger. The crown of the small molars has been compared to that of two small canine teeth united. The root (b) is generally simple, but sometimes double or bifid. When simple, it has a deep vertical groove upon each side; when it is bifid, the separation is never so deep as in the great molars. Differential characters. The lower bicuspides are distinguished from the upper by their smaller size, by a slight projection of the crown inwards, and by the external tubercle being worn down. In the upper bicuspides the two tubercles are separated by a deep fuiTow ; in the lower, on the contrary, the furrow is more shallow, and the tubercles are sometimes united by a ridge. The second upper bicuspid has generally two roots (figs. 89 and 90.), by which it is distinguished from the others. The first lower bicuspid, somewhat smaller than the second, has most commonly but one tubercle, viz. the external. This gives it more resemblance to a canine tooth. The great molars or multicuspides (figs. 91 and 92.) are twelve in number; six in each jaw, three on one side, and three on the other. They are named numerically, proceeding from before backwards, first, second, and third. The last is also called dens sapientice, on account of its tardy appearance. They occupy the most remote part of the alveolar border. General characters. The crown (a) is pretty regu- larly cuboid. The anterior and posterior surfaces (see fig. 92.), by which these teeth correspond, are flat; the external and internal surfaces (fig. 91.) are rounded. The grinding surface is armed with four tubercles (dentes quadricuspides), separated by a crucial furrow, which is oc- casionally replaced by small depressions. In some teeth a fifth tubercle may be found. In almost all the tubercles are of unequal size, and cut into fa- cettes. The crown of the great molars resembles two small molars united. The root (b) is always compound ; it is most commonly double or triple, and, in this case, one of the roots has a longitudinal furrow. Sometimes it is divided into four or five parts, variable both in length and direction. The roots are either divergent or parallel; and occasionally, after separating, they approach each other again, curving like hooks, so as to embrace a more or less consi- derable portion of the jaw-bone. Such teeth (which are called dents bartees) it is impossible to extract, without pulling away the included portion of the jaw also. Each root of these teeth exactly resembles the single roots of the teeth already described, with the exception of being smaller.