SPLANCHNOLOGY. nam and the root of the lung, is called the anterior mediastinum (m, fia 155 >i * f "^"t ^^'-''f 1 "median, like the posterior mediastinum, but is til l ^"■^'^^^^d^. ^°<i to the left side, an arrangement that is connected with the oblique position of the heart, which encroaches more upon the left than the right cavity of the thorax. It foUows from this that the upper part ot the anterior mediastinum (pp,fig. 170.) is behind the sternum, whilst its lower portion is behind the left costal cartilages, and hence the interior of this mediastinum may be reached, without opening the cavity of the pleura by in- troducing an instrument close to the left border of the sternum, opposite the fifth rib. The anterior mediastinum is narrow in the middle, and expanded above and below, Uke an hour-glass. The upper cone or expansion is very much developed in the foetus, and is occupied by the thymus gland, which is afterwards replaced by cellular tissue: the lower cone or expansion is much larger, and contains the heart and pericardium, the phrenic nerves, and in front of the heart a large quantity of cellular tissue. This latter, which is so abundant in the anterior mediastinum, communicates freely above with the cellular tissue in front of the neck, and below with that of the abdominal parietes, through a triangular interval existing in the dia- phragm behind the sternum. This double communication explains how the pus of an abscess formed in the neck or in the mediastinum may reach the surface in the epigastric region. The pleura has two surfaces, one an external, the other internal. External or adherent surface. This does not adhere with equal firmness to all the parts which it covers. The pleura costalis is but slightly adherent, and may be separated from the ribs and the intercostal muscles with the greatest ease. It is sometimes raised in the situation of these muscles by subjacent adipose tissue. It is strengthened by a layer of fibrous tissue, which, notwith- standing its tenuity, performs an important part in diseases of the chest; it explains why abscesses formed in the parietes of the thorax so seldom open into the cavity of the pleura, and why effusions into the pleura are so rarely discharged externally. The diaphragmatic pleura is more adherent than the costal. We sometimes find here, especially round the pericardium, some large fatty appendages, resembling the appendices epiploicse of the great intestine. The pleura is extremely thin upon the lungs (pleura pulmonalis), where it is not strengthened by any fibrous tissue ; and although it is more adherent here than the parietal pleura, still it can be easily demonstrated. The me- diasiinalpleura is united to the parts contained within the mediastinum by very loose cellular tissue, but it adheres more firmly to the sides of the pericardium, to which the phrenic nerves are closely applied. The internal orfree surface is smooth f, moistened with serum, and in contact with itself throughout its entire extent, as is the case in all serous membranes. The adhesions so commonly met with here are altogether accidental. The structure of the pleura is cellular. J It is doutbful whether it receives any arteries and veins. The vascular network, which is sometimes so highly developed after pleurisy, does not belong to it, but is situated upon its external surface. No nerves have been traced into this membrane. Uses. Each pleura forms an investment for the corresponding lung, separates it from the parietes of the thorax and from the other viscera, and at the same time facilitates its movements upon the walls of the thoracic cavity by means of the serosity, which is constantly exhaled and absorbed at its intenial surface. * According to Meckel, the anterior mediastinum is the portion of the septum situated in front of the heart, just as the posterior mediastinum Is the part situated behind that organ. t [It Is covered with a squamous epithelium, and cilia have been observed upon it in some of the mammalia.] t [Beneath the pleura another cellular layer may be demonstrated: and m the lung of tlie seal and leopard an elastic coat is said to exist.]