THE HUMERUS. 103 H 4 Fig. 43. curvature ofthe fetal clavicle, atatime when all the long bones are still straight, prove the rapidity with which this part of the skeleton is developed On the other hand, the size of the scapula, which is already considerable and the very advanced state of ossification of the part that sustains the glenoid cavity, which enables it very soon to afford a sufficient resistance to the movements of the hume- rus, equally concur in demonstrating the same fact. This rapid development can- not be attributed to the near vicinity of the heart and great vessels, because the sternum and the cervical vertebrffi, which are still more closely approximated to the centre ofthe circulation, are proportionally much slower m their ossification. The Aem. The Humerus {Jig. 43.). The humerus, or bone of the arm, is situated between the shoulder and the forearm, at the side of the thorax. It is the longest and the strongest of all the bones of the upper extremity. It is pro- portionally shorter in individuals of the Caucasian or white races, than in the Ethiopian, which in this respect presents some analogy to the Ape tribes. Its direction is vertical, that is, parallel to the axis of the trunk, but with some degree of obliquity downwards and inwards. This obliquity is much greater in the femur, the bone of the lower extremity which corresponds with the humerus. The distance between the humeri is much greater in man than in quadi'upeds, cor- responding with the different shape of the thorax, which, as we have before observed, is flattened from before backwards in the human subject, and laterally in quadrupeds. The hu- merus is not curved as regards its axis, but it presents a very marked curvature of torsion, which gives rise to a remarkable groove, that lodges the deep artery and the radial nerve as they turn round the bone'm a part of their course. The humeiTis is a long asymmetrical bone, presenting for examination a body (a) and two extremities {b c); the upper of these is rounded, and is called the head (6). The lower half of the body of the humerus is prismatic and triangular; the upper is cylindrical. It has three sur- faces an external, an internal, and a posterior, and three edges. an external, an internal, and an anterior. The external surface {d e) presents, 1. a remarkable mus- cular impression, shaped like the letter V, with the point turned downwards ; this is the deltoid impression (d), and is generally situated below the upper third of the bone, but sometimes at the middle: 2. the groove of torsion (/) directed obliquely downwards and foi-wards, the depth of which is always proportional to the prominence of the deltoid mark. Below the groove the external surface (e) looks forwards, and is slightly con- cave. The internal surface (a) is an oblique plane, looking forwards and inwards ; the brachial artery runs along it, and therefore it is of importance to be well acquainted with the obliquity of the surface, in order that when it is necessary to compress the vessel force may be applied in the proper direction. Its upper part which looks forwards, is broader than the lower which is turned inwards. On this surface we observe, 1. the bicipital groove (g) which will be particularly noticed afterwards,; 2. the principal nutritious foramen (v) of the humerus, ■which passes downwards into the interior*; 3. an obscui'ely marked impression for the coraco-brachialis muscle. * There are some varieties in the situation of the nu'.ritious foramen, external, or even posterior surface ofthe bone. I liave seun it on tlie