493 THE INTESTINES. Ueum instead of passing upwards, is directed downwards, and then the angle nf rHdence is changed. A circular depression indicates the limit between the two intestines. Bdow, upon the free^ extremity or cul;de-sac of^the^^c^Bcun, of incidence is changed. IS seen1?^v";mifot%F"^^^^^ behind and on the left side, afew 'Thetlg^^^^^^^^^^^ or .nucous surface of the c.cum is in ac- cordance wTth that of its external surface: thus, three projecting ridges cor- respond with the three longitudinal bands ; some cavities or pouches with the promberances; and some transverse projecting folds forming incomplete septa, which are easily seen in a dried specimen, correspond with the parallel de- pressions. Upon this surface, to the left and a little behmd, we also find the ileo- cecal valve (a b,fig. 160.), and the orifice (o) of the vermiform appendix {v). The ileo-clcai valve. This is also caUed the valve of Bauhin, from the name of the anatomist to whom its discovery is attributed, although it had been described before his time. To obtain a perfect knowledge of it, it should be examined upon a fresh specimen under water, and also upon an inflated ana dried intestine. . , In a fresh specimen, when viewed from the caecum, it presents the appear- ance of a projecting cushion, oblong fi-om before backwards, and fissured in the same direction. It is a membranous and moveable cushion, and was incorrectly compared by Riolanus to the pyloric ring. It has two lips and two commissures ; the two lips are in contact, except during the passage of the contents of the bowels. Two folds, proceeding from the two commissures, one of which is anterior and the other posterior, are lost upon the corre- sponding surfaces of the intestine. The posterior fold is much longer than the anterior; Morgagni called them the freena of the valve. When viewed from the ileum it presents the appearance of a funnel-shaped cavity directed upwards, and to the right side. In a dried intestine, the ileo-csecal valve is seen to consist of two prominent valvular segments, projecting into the caecum, so as to form an angular ridge. The upper or ileo-colic segment (b,fig. 160.) is horizontal; the lower, or ileo- ccEcal (a), forms an inclined plane of about 45°, and both are parabolic. The upper segment is fixed by its adherent _^ convex border, to the semicircular line, along which the Fig. 160. ^^ /W upper part of the tube of the ileum is united with the ~ colon ; the adherent border of the lower segment, which is also convex, is continuous with the semicircular line of junction between the lower half of the ileum and the caecum. The free borders of the segments are directed towards the right side, and are semilunar ; they are united at their extremities, but in the middle leave between them (between a and b) an opening like a button-hole, which becomes narrower as the intestine is more distended. The diameter of this opening is in proportion to that of the small intestine. The free border of the lower segment is more concave than that of the upper. When examined from the ileum, the valve presents an angular excavation, exactly corresponding to the projecting edge found in the cavity of the large intestine. The lower surface of the upper valvular segment is slightly concave ; the corresponding surface of the lower segment is slightly convex. This double Ueo-csecal valve differs widely from the ring of the pylorus ; it ofiers no obstruction to the passage of the contents of the small into the large intestine; but in ordinary cases it wUl not permit their regurgitation from the latter into the former. The lower or ileo-caecal segment is elevated so as to prevent reflux from the cjecum, and the ileo-colic segment becomes depressed and opposes any return of the contents of the colon. Still, from a great number of experiments which I have performed on this subject, I am satisfied, that both water and air injected into the large intestine most frequently overcome the