403 THE DEEP PERINEAL APONEUROSIS. D D 2 is distinguished from it only by the different direction of its fibres ; it is in- serted by spreading out at the side of the pelvic brim into a tendinous arch ■which lines this brim, and with -which the psoas parvus and the ihac fascia are continuous above, and the pelvic fascia below. Few aponeuroses are more deserving the attention of anatomists than this, on account of the practical consequences resulting from its arrangement. In fact, notwithstanding its tenuity, it forms a boundary between the sub-perito- neal and sub-aponeurotic cellular tissue, which is very rarely passed by inflam- matory action. When inflammation terminates in suppuration, the pus, whether it be beneath the peritoneum, or beneath this fascia, descends towards the fe- moral arch ; but if the inflammation be sub-peritoneal, the femoral vessels lie behind the purulent collection; and should it be sub-aponeurotic, the vessels will be in front of it. The latter is especially the case in abscesses, following caries of the vertebrae. The Aponeuroses of the Pelvis. The aponeuroses of the pelvis should be distinguished into the pelvic, properly so called, and the perineal: the former constitute essential parts of the pelvis, and are deeply seated. The others belong to that part of the floor of the pelvis which is called the perineum. I shall commence with the description of the latter. The Aponeuroses of the Perineum. These are two in number, —one superficial, the other deep. The Superficial Perineal Fascia.* Dissection. Remove the subcutaneous adipose tissue very cautiously, layer by layer, commencing the dissection along the edges of the pubic arch. Thjs aponeurosis (which is very distinct from the fibrous laminae, intercept- ing spaces filled by fat, and forming what is called the fascia superficialis), is of a triangular shape, and consists of well marked transverse fibres. The outer margin of each half of the fascia is attached to the descending ramus of the OS pubis and the ascending ramus of the ischium: its inner margin is lost at the raphe, along the median line : its posterior margin is bounded by a line, extending from the tuberosity of the ischium to the anus; it corresponds with the posterior edge of the transversus perinei muscle, and appears to be reflected behind it, so as to line the corresponding perineal or ischio-rectal fossa.f Relations. It is covered by a prolongation of the dartos, to a greater extent in the median line than on each side; also by the subcutaneous adipose tissue, which is thicker behind than in front, and by the sphincter ani, above which it terminates in the median line : it covers the transversus, the bulbo-caver- nosus, and the ischio-cavernosus muscles, the fibrous sheaths of which may even be regarded as a prolongation of this aponeurosis. It also covers the superficial perineal vessels and nerves, which are sometimes lodged within its substance. The existence of this membrane explains why, in cases of per- foration of the urethra, the urine is infiltrated forwards, and very rarely backwards. The Deep Perineal Aponeurosis. Dissection. Remove with great care the ischio- and bulbo-cavernosus and the transversus perinei muscles. This aponeurosis, which was well described by M. Carcassone under the name of perineal ligament, and called by modern writers the middle perineal fascia, appears to me perfectly distinct from the aponeuroses of the pelvis. It •ciribed this falcia" '''' ^' Traill d'Anatomic Chirur^icale, (Iret de- t Sec note, p. 400.