THE PYRAMIDALISo 273 Relaiinns. This muscle is contained in a very strong tendinous sheath, ■which is formed hy the anterior abdominal aponeurosis, is tliicker in front than behind, much stronger below than above, and completely isolates the muscle. Below and behind, this sheath is deficient, in which situation the muscle (passing through the openings, fig. 110., in the aponeurosis of the trans- versalis) rests directly upon the peritoneum; the upper and posterior part of the sheath is also wanting, so that the muscle is in immediate contact with the cartilages of the fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, and ninth ribs, and with the cor- responding intercostal muscles. The ILnea alba occupies the interval between the two muscles, which is much larger above than below the umbilicus ; but the most important of all the relations of the rectus is that of its posterior sur- face with the epigastric artery, which we shall hereafter notice./ Actions. This muscle, having its fixed point below, and its moveable at- tachments divided between the fifth, sixth, and seventh ribs, depresses the whole thorax, and consequently the vertebral column. Few muscles are so favourably situated as the rectus, which both acts upon a very long lever, and is inserted at right angles to the part to be moved. As the rectus forms a curve, the convexity of which is directed forwards, and cannot contract without becoming rectilinear, it follows that the first effect of its contraction is the compression of the abdominal viscera; hence it assists in expelling the contents of the bladder, rectum, and uterus ; it aids in expiration, by depressing the ribs and by keeping them fixed, when the tho- rax is dilated, it assists in the performance of any effort. When the fixed point is above, the rectus becomes a flexor of the pelvis. What are the uses of the intersections ? It is generally stated that their efiect is to increase the number of fibres, and thereby augment the force of the muscle ; and in support of this a principle is adduced, which is incontes- tible in itself, viz. that the power of a muscle is in a direct ratio to the number of its fibres; for if each fibre represent one partial power, the more of these the greater must be the total power. But it has been overlooked, that this law only applies to fibres arranged side by side, not to those which are placed end to end. In fact, it may be experimentally shown, that when two equal forces are applied to a lever, parallel to each other, they produce double the efi'ect either would have done separately; but if one be made continuous with the other, and both are then applied to the same lever, they only producp an efi'ect equal to that of either per se. These intersections, therefore, do not in- crease the power of the muscle ; nor do they diminish the extent of motion, for the sum of the contractions of the small muscles into which they divide the recti, is equal to that of an undivided muscle. What then are the uses of these intersections? Can it be intended, as Bertin has said, to associate the oblique muscles with the recti, by means of the intimate adhesions existing between them and the aponeuroses ? * The Pyramidalis. The pyramidalis (d,fig. 110.), a small triangular muscle which is often de- ficient, occupies the lower part of the abdomen on each side of the linea alba. It arisesjTom the pubis and the anterior ligament of the symphysis by ten- dinous fibres from which the fleshy portion proceeds upwards, the mternal nbres vertically, the external obliquely upwards and inwards, and terminates Dy a pointed extremity which is attached to the linea alba, and forms the apex ot tue muscle, the base being at the os pubis. It is covered by the aponeuroses dom?n "so tH'whL'Ilf'^ adhesions as true points of attachment for tlie muscles of the ab- creTof ?he il a^'^hr '/hX mP^^^^^^^^ ''T, oj^^V "P^n the pube., but also upon the brings forward this fnrfntJln """^"^"^ °l abdominal aponeuroses. Professor Berard, who corrlctirobsprvJ;. th.J^.l"''".,,'??'"'''" (IKpert. GAu'r. des Sc. Med. art. Abdomen\ MSd tes t i 'n^fi^^^^^^^^ "^heres to the rectus. In thesamrartic?e muscles. ' satisOed that the intersections increase the power of the recti VOL. I.