104 OSTEOLOGY. The posterior surface is smooth, round, and much broader below than above; it is covered by the triceps. Of the three edges, the anterior (A i) is a rough ridge, round and blunt below, bifurcated above, so as to form the two borders of the bicipital groove (g), which is one of the largest and deepest of all the tendinous grooves in the body, and lodges the tendon of the long head of the biceps. The two borders (the exter- nal (A) and the internal (k) are very prominent and rough, and afford attach- ments to powerful muscles. It should be remarked that the anterior branch of the V, represented by the deltoid impression, is blended with the anterior edge of the bicipital groove, and greatly increases its prominence. The other two edges of the humerus, viz. the external (d Z) and the in- ternal (v r) are blunt and scarcely distinguishable in their upper two-thirds, but sharp and prominent at their lower parts, especially the external edge, which curves forwards and gives attachment to a great number of muscles. This edge is also interrupted in its course by the groove of torsion. The lower or cubital extremity (c) of the humerus is flattened from before backwards, with a transverse diameter four times longer than the antero-pos- terior. It presents a series of eminences and depressions arranged in the same transverse line, viz. counting from without inwards, 1. an external tuberosity (I) called epicondyle by Chaussier, which forms a continuation of the outer border, and gives insertion to almost all the muscles on the back of the forearm: 2. the small head (m) of the humerus (Awmera/ condyle of Chaussier), a rounded eminence, bent forwards and oblong from before backwards. The small head articulates with the radius and is surmounted in front by a superficial depression intended to receive the rim of the shallow cup-like cavity on the top of the radius, 3. An articular furrow (n) extending obliquely from behind forwards, and from without inwards, and separating the small head from 4. the trochlea(c) or articular pulley of the humerus, which is also directed from behmd forwards, and from without inwards, is excavated like the groove of a pulley m its long diameter, and the inner border of which descends much lower than the outer. This trochlea articulates, with a corresponding surface on the ulna, and is surmounted in front by a smaU cavity named coronoid (o), and behind by a much larger depression, the olecranoid cavity. These two cavities, the anterior of which receives the coronoid process of the uMa during flexion of the fore- arm and the posterior, the olecranon, during its extension, are only separated from each other by a very thin translucent lamina of bone, which is sometimes perforated, so that they communicate with each other. 5. The internal tuberosity or epitrochlea (r)* which is bent inwards, is much more prominent than the external, forming a projection which can be easily felt under the skin, and gives attachment to ahnost all the muscles situated on the anterior aspect of TheTup^nor or scapular extremity of the humerus, much larger than the inferior nresents, 1. the head (i), a sphenoidal eminence, forming about one- tWrd o?a Se. It articulates with the^lenoid cavity of the scapula and is bounded in the two upper thirds of its circumference by a circular furrow The constriction resulting from this furrow has been improperly cal ed the InatZical v^ck of the humerus (s). The only part which could possibly be considered Is the neck, is a portion of the bone which projects on the inner consiaerea as l ie ' ^ ^ j f importance not to confound the dSulafcETc i n mentioned, ageing called the anatomical circular consmcxion ^^^^^ ^^^^^ nothing more . F.pl.™,bl«i, l»m U. upon, — VX- >' l!pl«o»W'. "l"".»" an eminence.