TEMPORAL BONES. 57 The internal surface of the squamous portion (g. Jig. 20.) presents a concayity ine iniernai surja proportionally greater than the convexity on the outside : it is marked by the ordinary inequah- ties, and is generaUy traversed towards the upper part by a horizontal vascular furrow, running from before backwards. The circumference (a b c) forms about three- fourths of a circle: it is very obliquely cut in- ternally in its two posterior thirds, which unite with the parietal: the anterior third is thicker and bevilled externally, it unites with the sphenoid. Mastoid portion (c e d, figs. 19 and 20.) The mastoid portion is very prominent in adults, but only slightly developed in young sub- iects : it occupies the posterior and inferior part of the bone. ^ The e.ta-nd surface (fig. 19.) is convex, and rough, tei-minating below and in front in a nipple-shaped process, the mastoid process (e). Inside ot ttus is a deep groove called digastric {fossa digastrica), because it gives origin to the muscle of that name. Still more internally there is a very small groove, pa- rallel to the last, in which the trachelo-mastoid muscle is inserted. Uehmd tlie mastoid process we observe the mastoid foramen, an opening which transmits the mastoid artery and vein, but which is subject to numerous varieties m its size and position. Above the process is a rough surface, for muscular attach- ments. „ , , , 1 J. ■ The internal surface is concave, and forms part of the lateral and posterior foss£B of the cranium; we observe on this surface a deep and broad semi-cy- lindrical gi-oove (h i,fig. 20.), which lodges the greater portion of the lateral sinus. At the bottom of this groove the mastoid foramen opens by one or more apertures. There is generally a considerable difference in size between the grooves on the right and left side of the head. The circumference, very thick and indented, unites in front with the cir- cumference of the squamous portion, forming a retiring angle (c), which is occupied by the posterior inferior angle of the parietal bone, and then curves round in a semicircle to join the occipital bone by means of a thick uneven edge. Petrous portion; Rocherov pyramid{c i d v,fig. 20.) Petrous process. This part of the bone is placed between the squamous and the mastoid portion, re- sembling a pyramid projecting forwards and inwards into the cavity of the cranium. Its name sufficiently indicates the extreme hardness of its osseous structure,—a circumstance very important in relation to its functions (for this part of the bone serves as the receptacle of the vibratory apparatus of the ear), and at the same time calculated to explain the frequency of fractures in this situation. It has the form of a truncated pyramid with three faces, separated by three borders. The inferior surface, which is seen at the base of the cranium, is very irre- gular, and presents the following objects, in an order from without inwards: — 1. A long, slender process (A) generaUy from twelve to fifteen lines, sometimes two inches in length. This process, which has been denominated styloid, is, in man, usually continuous with the rest of the bone, but occasionally it is articulated by a movable joint, as in the lower animals, where it is always se- parate, and is known by the name of styloid hone. 2. Behind this process, belrween it and the mastoid, is a sort of fossa, at the bottom of which we find, besides one or two accessory foramina, the stylo-mastoid foramen ( y,fig. 21.), the inferior aperture of a canal improperly called the agwe- f/uc< q/Pa//o;5zM*, which transmits the facial nerve. 3. Inside of the styloid process, and the stylo-mastoid foramen, is a triangular surface, called the ju- * [Fallopius knew that this canal tranimitted a nerve ; he named it aqueduct merely on ac- count of its direction.]