APONEUROLOGY. ilWn ?f ^' "flf-. P""^'" P""^^"" ^'^'•^'^ '^^ continuous with the fascia "idca {_s,ji^g. 136.), covers the pectineus, and sends off a prolongation between tt^at muscle and the psoas. This deep layer forms the posterior wall of the canal oi the femoral vessels. On the inside of the thigh, the femoral aponeurosis arises from the body ot the OS pubis, and the ascending ramus of the ischium. On the outside and behind, it arises from the crest of the ilium by very nu- merous vertical fibres, which are strengthened, especiaUy behind, by other horizontal fibres. Between the posterior superior spine of the iUum and the crest of the sacrum, there is a tendinous arch, which is common to the femo- ral fascia and the aponeurosis of the long muscles of the back. TTie Glutaal Aponeurosis. The glutseal aponeurosis forms the upper and back part of the femoral fascia. It covers the glutseus medius, in which situation it is extremely thick, and IS continuous with the broad band of the tensor vagina} femoris. Having reached the upper border of the glutaeusmaximus, it is divided into two layers,— one superficial and very thin, which covers the outer surface of the glutseus maximus, becomes thinner below, and continuous with the femoral fascia; the other deep and thicker, especially above and behind, where it affords attach- ment to the glutseus maximus, and is blended with the great sacro-sciatic liga- ment. It becomes very thin where it separates the glutseus maximus from the deep-seated muscles. A synovial capsule intervenes between this fascia and the great trochanter, and another between it and the tuberosity of the ischium. It presents a very remarkable opening, called the glutceal arch, for the pas- sage of the glutseal vessels and nerves. Lastly, over that portion of the glutseus maximus which enters into the formation of the corresponding perineal fossa, it acquires a great degree of thickness; and, at the lower border of the muscle, is blended with the superficial layer of the glutseal fascia. The Inferior Circumference of the Femoral Aponeurosis. The femoral aponeurosis terminates below, around the knee joint, where it becomes continuous, partly with the fascia of the leg, and partly with the fibrous structures covering this articulation. Concerning the arrangement of these fibrous laminae, we shall offer a few remarks. Behind, the femoral aponeurosis passes over the popliteal space, and is con- tinuous with the fascia of the leg. In front it is prolonged over the patella, from which it is separated by a synovial bursa; it is very thin, and is continued in front of the ligament of the patella, upon which it forms a thin layer of transverse fibres. On the inside it is at first blended with the sheath of the sartorius, and then with the horizontal portion of the tendon of this muscle ; it crosses the fibres of that portion perpendicularly, and becomes continuous with the fascia of the leg. Llnder this layer of fibrous tissue we find, on the inside of the knee, another very dense layer, formed by vertical tendinous fibres derived from the vastus internus, and inserted into the upper part of the inner suiface of the tibia, beneath the tendon of the sartorius. This fibrous layer, which may be re- garded as the lower or tibial insertion of the vastus externus, occupies the in- terval between the internal lateral ligament of the knee joint and the patella. Its vertical fibres are crossed by others at right angles, extending from the internal tuberosity of the femur to the corresponding margin of the patella. Lastly, under this we find another very thin layer, belonging to the synovial capsule On the outside the femoral aponeurosis is blended with the broad band of