ARTHROLOGY. 156 exhibit in fishes. In old age it becomes dry, friable, and yellowish or brown. Monro attributes the elasticity of the vertebral column to the displacement of this soft central substance in the different movements ; for, according to his theory, the movements of the bodies of the vertebra; take place upon it as upon a moveable pivot or a liquid fulcrum. The intervertebral substance is called a cartilaginous ligament by Vesalius ; by others a cartilage ; and by Bichat afibro-cartilage; but they evidently belong to the fibrous tissues. This may be shown by macerating a portion of the spinal column for some days, or even by rubbing the surface with a rough cloth. It will then appear that this pretended fibro-cartUaga is nothing more than a series of concentric fibrous layers, strongly compressed together: that each layer is formed of parallel fibres, directed very obliquely from the lower surface of the vertebra above to the upper surface of the vertebra below, and regularly crossing with the fibres of the next layer (Jb', fig. 58.). This regular crossing, which we shall meet with in other parts, is evidently very conducive to solidity. Union of the Articular Processes. These articulations are arthrodice. Articular surfaces. The corresponding surfaces are covered by a thin layer of cartilage. The means of union consist of some irregular ligamentous fibres (rf d, fig. 60.), which surround the outside of the joint, and are more numerous in the dorsal and cervical regions than in the loins. These articu- lations are provided with synovial membranes of gi'eater extent in the cervical than in the other regions. Union of the Laminm. The spaces between the vertebral laminee are occupied by ligaments of a Fiif. 60. particular description, which are called yellow ligaments, liga- menta subflava, on account of their colour. They are com- posed of two halves united at an angle like the laminse (c c, fig. 60.). Their lower edge is implanted upon the upper edge of the laminse below, and their upper edge is attached to the anterior surface of the corresponding laminse. From this it follows, that the height of the ligamenta subflava is much greater than would be necessary to reach from one lamina to another ; it is abnost equal to that of the corresponding ver- tebral lamina. Their length is measured by that of the laminse, and is con- sequently greater in the neck than in the back and loins. They are of greater thickness in the loins than in the back and the neck, and the thickest part corresponds to the base of the spinous process. There are also some reinforcing bundles, which constitute a sort of median yellow ligament. Their anterior surface is separated from the dura mater by cellular tissue, and by veins. It is remarkable for its smooth and polished appearance Their posterior surfaces are in contact with the vertebral laminse, which cover them almost completely, except in the cervical region, where they mar be seen between the laminae, when the head is slightly mcUned forwards; this circumstance renders it possible for a penetrating instrument to enter between the cervical laminae, while it is almost mipossible m the dorsal and ^irac!are"°These ligaments are composed of paraUel vertical fibres very closelv arranged. They are extensible, and, when stretched, mimediately re- cover themselves, and are therefore very elastic They are as strong as or- dinary Ugaments. Their extensibdity is brought mto action during flexion of the virtebral column, and their elasticity during extension. They have great efi-ect in maintaining the erect posture, which would otherwise have le- quii-ed a constant expenditure of muscular power.