214 ARTHROLOGY. {e,fig. 79.)- They are both very strong, and composed of thick, shining, parallel fibres, which pass obliquely downwards and outwards from the tibia to the fibula. They are almost always divided into two distinct bundles. They are both re- markable from descending beyond the articular surfaces, so that they increase the depth of the cavity for the reception of the astragalus. The synovial mem- hraiie of this articulation is a prolongation from that of the ankle-joint. The interosseous ligament consists of fibrous bundles, mixed with adipose tissue, which unite the two triangular surfaces so firmly that the fibula is sometimes fractured in attempting to rupture the ligaments. 3. Interosseous Aponeurosis. ^ The name of interosseous ligament is given to an aponeurotic septum (JT, Jigs.t 79 and 80.), placed between the muscles of the anterior and those of the pos- terior aspect of the leg; it should rather be regarded as serving to multiply the points of insertion for fibres of those muscles, than as a means of union between the bones of the leg. It is narrower below than above, and is com- posed of fibres running obUquely downwards and outwards from the outer edge of the tibia to the longitudinal crest on the inner surface of the fibula. As in the interosseous ligament of the fore-arm, we find some other fibres crossing the former at an acute angle. The septum thus formed is interrupted above and below for the passage of the tibial vessels ; the peroneal artery and veins traverse the lower opening; the anterior tibial artery and veins pass through the upper. Mechanism of the Peroneo-tihial Articulations. The fibula is only capable of almost imperceptible gliding movements upon the tibia. This arrangement is directly connected with the mechanism of the ankle-joint. Ankle, or Tibio-tabsal Joint {figs. 79 and 80.). * Preparation. Cut and turn back the tendons that are reflected round the joint, and remove the sheaths of those tendons by which most of the ligaments are covered. The tibio-tarsal articulation belongs to the class of angular gmgbjmi. Articular surfaces. Both bones of the leg participate in this joint, their lower extremities being united to form a transversely oblong socket, of which the tibia constitutes by far the greater part. On this articular surface there is an antero-posterior ridge, corresponding to the groove of the trochlea on the astragalus, and separating two shallow cavities. The socket is bounded by the malleoli on each side. The internal or tibial malleolus corresponds to the internal lateral articular surface of the astragalus.; and the external or fibular malleolus, to the external lateral facette of the same bone. The superior articular surface of the astragalus is a trochlea; it is oblong from betore backwards, thus contrasting with the cavity on the lower extremity of the leg, which is transversely oblong. This trochlea presents a shallow depres^on, running from before backwards, and having an external and an internal edge, the external being the more elevated of the two. The puUey of the astragahis is conTnuous with its lateral articular surfaces, of which the external is by fai- %h7mear.s of union are three external lateral Ugaments, two internal lateral ligaments, an anterior (.r,fig. 80.) and a posterior {s,fiy. 79.) bgament, and a "^Th^externdhteral or peroneo-tarsal ligaments are three in number; they all nropeed from the fibula, either to the astragalus, or the os calcis. ^ i TieZeMeral ligament, properly so cafled (ligamentum fibula, me- , ,j 1, tv,of in nrrtpr to studv this as well as all the other articulations effi- cientW^t^irag^e^ataiut■ trb;'r^ovi& two Joints, of which one i, opened, whiUt the other has its ligaments untouched.