225 ARTICULATIONS OF THE TOES. Mechanism of the Metatarso-phalangal Articulations. Like all condyloid joints, these admit of movements in four principal di- rections, and therefore are also capable of circumduction. Extension or flexion backwards can be carried much further than in any other similar joints. The lateral movements of abduction and adduction are very limited. Let us examine what takes place during each of these movements, in which the glenoid cavity of the first phalanx glides upon the head of the corre- sponding metatarsal bone. In flexion, the first phalanx glides downwards upon the head of the metatarsal bone ; the extensor tendon and the upper part of the synovial capsule, are stretched by the projecting head; the upper fibres of the lateral ligaments are also stretched; these fibres then limit the motion, which nevertheless may be carried so far that the phalanx may make a right angle with the metatarsal bones. In extension, the phalanx glides upwards upon the head of the corresponding metatarsal bone; the superior fibres of the lateral ligaments are relaxed, whilst the inferior are stretched : these latter and the inferior ligament evidently limit the motion." In all subjects it may be carried so far as to make an obtuse angle behind ; in some so as even to form a right angle. The movements of abduction and adduction are limited by the meeting of the toes. Mechanism of the Phalangal Articulations. As the mechanism of these joints is in every respect identical with that of the fingers, we shall refer to what has been said upon that subject, merely re- marking that, either from original construction, or from the continued confine- ment of the toes in tight shoes, their movements, which consist exclusively of flexion and extension, are much more limited than those of the fingers. Note on Arthrology. [It has been considered advisable to include in a single note the following observations on the general anatomy of the several tissues that enter into the construction of the articulations: — Cartilages (p. 148 ). The substance of the articular cartilages, in many joints, appears to be arranged ra masses placed side by side, and perpendicularly to the surface of the bone, and hence the fibrous character presented by them after slight maceration: nevertheless, they are com- posed of pure cartilage, unmixed with fibrous tissue. When viewed under the microscope cartilage is found to consist of a transparent substance, in which are imbedded numerous cor- puscles, either placed singly, or aggregated in groups. The intermediate substance is homo- geneous m youth, but becomes more or less laminated as age advances. The corpuscles which are, in fact, metamorphosed primitive cells, are of irregular forms, contain nuclei and nucleoli, and are somewhat flattened near the surface of the cartilage. Occasionally, several are seen occupying a distinct cavity in the intermediate substance. Their average size is •J-.th of an inch in length, by ^th in breadth. Neither nerves, bloodvessels, nor lymphaticlf^re found W the articular cartilages ; which, although non-vascular, can scarcely be considered unor- ganised. Cartilage contains 66 per cent, of water ; its principal solid constituent is an animal matter resolved by boiling into a peculiar variety of gelatinf called chondrin : it also coSs •altsof soda, lime, magnesia, and potash. a.so contains The inter-articular cartilages having free surfaces (as those of the knee-joint), are comoosed of true cartilage interwoven with fibrous tissue, which particularly abounds at their attached marg ns. The mter-vertebral substances, and M other interosseoL cartilZeV h"ye a s^^^^^ of ^wTu""' " ^''^'T proportion of fibrous tissue. From the two aSoS elements of which these structures consist, they are called fibro-cartilaees. atoraicai elements the H^-f^p^'"'' '"I*" surrounding the glenoid and cotyloid cavities, generally described with ine ligaments, are also composed of fibro-cartilaginous tissue ucMunuea wiin comoonpnffihfJJp'■^ T,'''' ''^j9^}fr,^'e.''mcnts consist entirely of fibrous tissue, the obvious tCrof ceUalar tissue'^-n^-f'"''^.'^ P""""' .•"j=r<'SCoplc filaments, exactly simiirr^o few vessels and niiv»» Ik Aponeubology, infrh). they are supplied with but very conveS into gelatin ,;;£^f,i?,°g"'"'" '"e remainder befng almost entird^ weTus^n ohfvi^illf l'"*"f' "".^'"^ "ga^onta subflava are composed, differs in minute a« chieflv of nPn^^n/fiV"*^'"'- ""^ fibrous tissue of ordinary ligaments It consk?»