SPLANCHNOLOGY. wanting in them. Others, again, are very favourable for that purpose. The toUicles are rendered more apparent by plunging the intestine into acidulated water. They must be examined from the internal surface of the mucous membrane, and also from its external surface by removing the serous, muscular, and fibrous coats by which they are covered. In the study of the duodenal glands, this last method of investigation is absolutely necessary. The follicles are generally divided into two kinds, the simple or solitary and the agminaled; to these we shall add the duodenal glands. The duodenal glands. These, properly speaking, are the glands of Brunner. This anatomist, who had already made some curious experiments upon the pancreas, says, that, having partially boiled the duodenum, he observed upon its internal membrane some granular bodies, which he has had figured, resembling the solitary follicles in the neighbouring portion of intestine. To this collection of granules he gave the name of the second pancreas. Further observations have shown, that in the upper half, or upper two thirds of the duodenum, there is a layer of flattened granular bodies, perfectly distinct from each other, however close they may be. This layer must not be confounded with the glanduli- form arrangement of the duodenal villi; it can only be well seen after having removed the three outer coats. These granular bodies are nothing more than small (compound) glands, which, when examined with a powerful lens, present all the characters of the salivary glands. These glands do not cease abruptly, but become few and scattered towards the lower end of the duodenum; so that it is by no means inconsistent to admit that the solitary follicles of the rest of the intestinal canal may be of a similar nature.* The solitary follicles, or glandulce solitarice, are generally known in the present day as the glands of Brunner {Disput. de Gland Duoden. Heidelberg, 1687, 1715), although that anatomist only described the glands or follicles of the duodenum, which he said diminished in number below that portion of the intestine, and disappeared altogether in the jejunum. It is therefore by an extension of the author's meaning that we speak of the glands of Brunner as occupying the termination of the small intestine, the stomach, and even the large intestine. The gland ulae solitarise present the appearance of small rounded granula- tions, like millet seeds, projecting upon the internal surface of the mucous membrane, without any distinct orifice, and covered with villi (^fig. 157.) ; they are found upon the valvulse conniventes, as well as in the spaces between them. Their number is very considerable; so that in certain diseases where they become more prominent than usual, they might be mistaken for a confluent eruption. It is a mistake to say that they diminish in number from the upper towards the lower part of the small intestine, the contrary being nearer to the truth. When examined with the simple microscope, they have appeared to me to be hollow and filled with mucus, f The agminated follicles, or glandular plexuses, are more generally known as the glands of Peyer, although both the solitary and agminated glands were described by that anatomist. Pechlin noticed them under the name of vesicu- larum agmina. "Willis, Glisson, Malpighi, Duvemey, and Wepfer have given more or less complete descriptions of them ; but Peyer {De Glandulis Intes- tinorum. J. C. Peyer, 1667, 1673), when still a young man, and without any Fig. 157. » [According to Dr.Boehm (De Gland.Intestin. Strwct.penitiori), this is not tlie case, tlie compound glands of Brunner not exist- inc below the commencement of the jejunum.] t r Fie 157 is a solitary gland magnified; it is represented, after Boehmf'as a ctorrf vesicle, filled with whitish matter, which con- tains granules smaller than those of mucus. Villi are seen upon the free surface of its capsule, and it is surrounded by the crypts of Lieberkuhn (the mouths of which are indicated by the dark. i snots), which have no communication with the vesicle itsclt (suo also note, p. 490.).]