298 MYOLOGY. But the most important action of these muscles relates to the elevation of the OS hyoides. This elevation is an indispensable element in the act of deglutition, and also in the protrusion of the tongue. Thus the os hyoides is carried up- wards and backwards by the stylo-hyoid muscles and by the posterior belly of the digastric, upwards and forwards by the anterior belly of the digastric and by the mylo- and genio-hyoids, and directly upwards by the combined action of all these muscles. The base of the tongue, of which the os hyoides constitutes, in some degree, the framework, is associated with it in all these movements, which take place at different periods of deglutition : thus the move- ment upwards and forwards is effected during the period when the alimentary mass is driven from the cavity of the mouth into the pharynx, which enlarges for its reception. The direct elevation takes place when the mass is passing, and the movement upwards and backwards occurs after it has passed, so as to prevent its return into the mouth. "When the lower jawis fixed against the upper, and the os hyoides is also fixed by the sub-hyoid muscles, the muscles of the supra-hyoid region assist in flexing the head. Lastly, the os hyoides is elevated during the production of acute, and depressed during that of grave, vocal tones. MUSCLES OF THE CRANIAL REGION. Occipito-frontalis. — Auricular muscles. The muscles of the cranial region are the occipito-frontalis and the auricular muscles. The Occipito-frontalis. Dissection. Shave the head, and make a horizontal incision above the super- ciliary arch; make a second incision in a vertical direction from before back- wards, and reaching from the former to the superior semicircular line of the occipital bone ; be very careful not to dissect away the epicranial aponeurosis, nor the fibres of the muscle; commence the dissection at the fleshy fibres, which adhere less intimately to the skin than the aponeurosis. The occipito-frontalis (epicranius, ^/5inM«,a'a'.^jf. 113.) is sometimes re- garded as one muscle with two bellies; sometimes as a combination of two separate muscles, the occipital and the frontal. It covers the roof of the skull. We shall describe the occipital and frontal portions only; the aponeurosis will be elsewhere noticed. (Vide Aponeurology.) 1. The occipital portion, or occipital muscle, covers a great part of the occi- pital bone, and is situated over the superior occipital protuberance. It is thin and quadrilateral. It arises from the two external thirds of the superior semi- circular line, and from the neighbouring part of the mastoid process of the temporal bone, and is inserted into the posterior border of the cranial aponeu- rosis, of which it may be regarded as the tensor. The occipital attachment is composed of tendinous fibres; the fleshy fibres proceeding from which pass upwards in a parallel direction, and, after a short course, terminate in the aponeurosis. 2. The frontal portion, or frontal muscle, is placed at the front of the cranium ; it is thin, and irregularly quadrilateral like the preceding It is attached above to the cranial aponeurosis, and terminates below in the following manner: — 1 The internal or median fibres are prolonged into a fleshy band, which con- stitutes the pyramidalis nasi; 2. the fibres next on the outside are continuous with those of another muscle, viz. the levator labii superioris ateque nasi—to the outside of these fibres, the muscle is attached to the internal orbital pro- cess • 3 the greater number of the fibres are blended with those of the orbi- cularis palpebrarum. The upper border of the muscle, which is attached to the aponeurosis, forms a semicircular line, that, in many individuals, causes a pro- iection under the skin. .i „ Relations. The occipito-frontalis covers the roof of the skull; hence the name of epicranius {Albinus). It rests upon the pericranium (the periosteum