SPLANCHNOLOGY. 556 that of the bronchi themselves and of the trachea. They represent, indeed a complete cyhnder, which is not truncated behind; and the cartilages, instead'of forming rings, have another arrangement, which I shall point out when speaking 01 their structure. ° Relations. The first divisions of the bronchi are surrounded even in the substance of the lung by very numerous and dark coloured bronchial Ivmphatic glands, enlargement of which is a very frequent result of chronic bronchitis and may cause suffocation. The bronchial ramifications, as I have said, support the pulmonary lobules which are applied to and moulded upon them, and are united to them by very loose cellular tissue. The following are their relations with the branches of the pulmonary artei7 and veins : — the artery always accompanies the bronchial ramification, and is situated behind it; the vein is often separated from it; the artery and vein are not unfrequently found interlaced around the corresponding bronchial tube. Relations of the bronchial ramifications with the pulmonary lobules. Each pul- monary lobule has its bronchial tube. This tube is cylindrical, of uniform diameter throughout, and entirely membranous; having entered the lobule, it dilates into a small ampulla, and disappears. There can be little doubt that these small ampullae have deceived Malpighi, Reisseisen, and others, who have stated that the bronchial tubes terminate in culs-de-sac ; so that, according to these authors, each pulmonary cell is the termination of a particular bronchial tube. But it is evident that such cannot be the case, for, on the one hand, the bronchial tubes are not sufficiently numerous, and on the other it can be shown that only a single bronchial tube enters into each group of cells or each lobule. If we inject with tallow a lung, which has previously been deprived of air, either by an effusion in the chest during life, or by an artificial one after death, it will be seen that the injection is divided into small globules or rounded tubercles, which correspond to so many pulmonary cells, and that these glo- bules are all connected with a common pedicle, corresponding to the bronchial tube. Reisseisen who has made this injection, thinks that the granular appearance of the injected matter represents the culs-de-sac, into which it had penetrated.* * [.\ccording to Reisseisen, each small bronchial tube, on entering its corresponding lobule, f divides and subdivides in a cer- tain uniform order into nume- rous twigs (I, Jig.\72.), which, extending towards the surface of the lobule, gradually decrease in diameter, but increase in num- ber, and at length terminate in clusters of short free closed and rounded extremities (cc); these are the pulmonary cells, which vary from ,'5th to j^jth of an This view of the minute struc- ture of the lung, which is opposed inch in diameter. Not only are the several lobules independent of each other, hut the cells of each lobule have no communi- cation with one another except indirectly through the twig or twigs from which they proceed. Minute structure of tlie lung.