AUTHOR'S PREFACE. xi 4. The work of Soemmering on the organs of the senses, constitutes perhaps the highest title to fame possessed by that great anatomist; and it might even be said that he has left nothing for his successors to accom- plish, did not the constant study of a science of observation unceasingly proclaim this important truth, that it is in the power of no man to declare, beyond this lunit thou shalt not pass. The brain and the nerves, to which so many able and laborious inquirers have lately directed their attention, have been my favourite objects of in- vestigation ; on account of their importance, and perhaps, also, from the difficulties attending their study. Not satisfied with simply tracing the nerves to the vai'ious organs- in the body, I have studied them in the interior of those organs, and have endeavoured to ascertain the precise branches that are distributed to each particular part. I may add, that, in order to facilitate the dissection of the nervous sys- tem, and, indeed, of all the other parts of the body, I have presented, whenever it was necessary, a short account of the best method of prepa- ration. With regard to the general spirit of this work, I have been anxious to render it classical; and have avoided, most scrupulously, that species of induction and analogical reasoning, which, in a great measure, constitutes philosophical anatomy. To this kind of anatomy, I have never even intro- duced any allusions, except when its general ideas and views (almost always ingenious, but usually bold and speculative) might elucidate our own subjects. All the descriptions have been made from actual dissections. It was only after having completed from nature the account of each organ that I consulted writers, whose imposing authority could then no longer confine my thoughts, but always excited me to renewed investigations wherever any discrepancy existed. Anatomy being, as already stated, the basis of medical science, we should greatly misapprehend its nature, did we not consider it the chief of the accessory sciences of medicine. Without it, the physiologist rears his structure upon sand ; for physi- ology is nothing more than the interpretation of anatomy. It is anatomy that guides the eye and the hand of the surgeon; that inspires him with that ready confidence, which leads him to search amongst structures, whose lesion would be dangerous or mortal, for some vessel that must be tied, or for a tumour which must be extirpated. Nor is it less indispensable to the physician, to whom it reveals the seat of diseases, and the chans^es of form, size, relation, and texture, which the affected organs have under- gone. Anatomy is moreover the science which, of all others, excites the greatest curiosity. F the mineralogist and the botanist are so eager, the one to determine the nature of a stone, the other to ascertain the characters of a flower ; if the love of their particular science induces them to undertake the most dangerous voyages, in order to enrich it with a new species, what ought to be our ardour in pursuing the study of man, that masterpiece of creation, whose structure, possessed of both delicacy and strength exhibits so much harmony as a whole, and displays so much perfection in Its parts! . . r And whilst contemplating this marvellous organisation, in which all has been provided and pre-arranged with such intelligence and wisdom that no single fibre can acquire the slightest addition, or undereo the'least diminution of power, without the equilibrium being destroyed and dis-