AUTHOR'S PREFACE. again, are founded upon observation, and observation is merely the evidence of our senses ; hence arises the necessity of exercising them, in order to increase their acuteness and their activity. Facts, therefore, constitute the elements of the natural sciences ; and then reasoning follows, founded upon those facts and upon analogy. It would be absurd to study the natural sciences after the same method as metaphysics. It may readily be understood, that as the purely physical sciences are based upon constant phenomena, mathematics are directly applicable to them, and hence they are termed physico-mathematical sciences; but in the zoological sciences, effects are continually varying, according to their causes. Any attempts, therefore, to apply the art of numbers to the elements of medicine, would be to imitate the philosopher, Condorcet, who entertained the whimsical notion of subjecting moral probabilities to the test of mathematical precision ; who was anxious to substitute a + 6 for either oral or written legal testimony ; who admitted half proofs and frac- tional proofs, and then reduced them to equations, by means of which he supposed he could arrive at arithmetical decisions, regarding the lives, the fortunes, and the characters of his fellow-men. It must, however, be reluctantly confessed, that we can acquire a know- ledge only of the surfaces of a body ; and that to say we are acquainted witta its texture, is to state in other words, that we have a knowledge of the smallest surfaces comprised within its general surface. Sight, touch, &c. the only means of investigation by which we can appreciate the qualities of matter in general, can recognise nothing but surfaces, appearances, and relative properties. Absolute properties they are unable to detect. With our organisation, we shall never know of what material objects essentially consist, but only what they are in relation to ourselves. This work being essentially of an-elementary nature, and in some measure adapted for the lecture-room, I have endeavoured to confine myself withui narrow limits, and strictly to avoid all considerations which are not mi- mediately connected with the anatomy of organs. At the same time I have not forgotten, that this work was mtended for the student ot medicine, and not for the naturalist; I have, therefore, been induced, in the following pa^es, if not expressly to indicate, at least to direct attention to the more immediate appUcations of anatomy to physiology, surgery and medicine. The objects which I have constantly had in view have been to exhibit the actual state of the science of anatomy ; to present its numerous facts in their most natural order ; to describe each fact clearly, precisely, and methodically ; to adopt such a method as would form an easy guide to the student and not involve him in confusion ; and lastly, to give to each detail its peculiar value, by invariably directing particular attention to the more important points, instead of confounding them with matters of less consequence, in an indigested and monotonous enumeration ot tacts. The following is the order in which the principal divisions of the subject ^''Thel^sJ'dLtion comprises Osteology, Arlhrology or Syndesmology, and ^ToSoay which, notwithstanding the great number of works on