374 MYOLOGY. from the fascia of the tibialis muscle, are separated from each other by the peroneal vessels) ; from a tendinous septum between it and the peroneus longus and brevis ; and from a small portion of the lower part of the interosseous ligament. From these numerous points of origin, the fleshy fibres pass obliquely downwards and backwards, around a tendon which occupies the en- tire length of the muscle, and may be seen at the lower part of the leg, through a thin layer of muscular fibres. These fibres terminate abruptly behind the ankle joint, at the oblique groove on the astragalus, in which the tendon is lodged; it then turns into a groove on the os calcis, forming a continuation of the preceding {fig. 133.), and situated below that for the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum, and dips into the sole of the foot. It is retained in these two grooves, which run obliquely downwards, inwards, and forwards, by a very stronn- and continuous sheath {fig. 132.). In the sole of the foot, the tendon is deeply situated (p.^jf. 131.), passes forwards, and crosses {p,fig. 132.) at an acute angle above the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum, to which it gives off a considerable fibrous prolongation. It is then received in a groove formed between the flexor brevis digitorum, and the oblique adductor of the great toe, passes below the anterior glenoid ligament of the metatarso-phalangal articu- lation of that toe, between the two sesamoid bones, and is received into the osteo-fibrous sheath of the first phalanx, to be inserted into the posterior extremity of the second. . Relations. It is covered by the soleus, being separated from it by a tascia, which increases in thickness as it passes downwards; it is also covered by the tendo AchiUis ; it covers the fibula, the tibialis posticus, the peroneal artery, and the lower part of the interosseous ligament. Externally, it is in relation with the peroneus longus and brevis ; internally, with the flexor longus digi- *°™™iow. It flexes the second phalanx of the great toe upon the first, and this upon the first metatarsal bone ; having produced these movements, it then extends the foot upon the leg. From the obliqmty of its fleshy belly at has a tendency to turn the great toe and the foot outwards. In this respect it anta- gonises ihe flexor longus digitorum and the tibiahs posticus The very strong fendinous expansion which unites it to the long flexor of the toes consohda es the two muscles; in fact, it is very uncommon to find either of them acting m- dependently. MUSCLES OF THE FOOT. The extensor brevis digitorum. — Abductor pollicis pedis. - Flexor brevis pollicis vedis —Adductor poUicis pedis. — Transversus -polhcis pedis. — Abductor minimi digiti. — Flexor brevis minimi digiti. — Flexor brevis digitorum.-^ Flexor accessorius.—Lumbricales. — Interossei. The muscles of the foot are divided into those of the dorsal and plantar as- pects ^d the interossei. The muscles of the plantar aspect may be again subdivided into three regions, viz. those of the middle plantar region those Tthl internal plantar region, and those of the external plantar region f sinele muscle occupies the dorsum of the foot, viz. the extensor brevis di^i- TSl The muscles of the internal plantar region are four m number, viz. r.^flnpTor Sexor brevis, and the oblique and transverse adductors of the gr^^Joe S^^^^ be'regarded as forming part of the "tSScsK:external plantar region are the abductor and the flexor '^Tt ltk""nhe region are theflexor brevis digitorum, the flexor '"^^ri:^.^ — te seven in number, and are divided into the dorsal and plantar.