569 THE LARYNX. the posterior sui-face of the thyroid cartilage ; some of them are continuous with the inferior constrictor of the pharynx {w,fig. 147.). It is covered by the sterno-thyroid muscle and the thyroid gland, and it covers the lateral crico-arytenoid and the thyro-arytenoid muscles. The bnei borders o^^ crico-thyroid muscles are separated from each other by aTrkngular space, broad above and narrow below, in which the crico-thyroid "ThracirKot yet weU determined. By taking their fixed point upon the cricoid cartilage, it appears to me that they would move the Ayroid ca_r- tilage in such a way as to increase the antero-posterior diameter of the glottis, and thus act as tensors of the vocal cords. The Crico-arytenoideus Posticus. Dissection. This muscle is exposed by removing the mucous membrane from the posterior surface of thetorynx. , , , » It is a triangular muscle (g, \figs. 171. 177.), situated at the back of the cricoid cartilage. Its fibres arise from the lateral depression, which we have described on the posterior surface of the cartilage, and pass in different di- rections ; the upper fibres are the shortest, and are almost horizontal; the middle are oblique, and the lower are nearly vertical; they aU converge to- wards the posterior and external process on the base of the arytenoid cartilage, behind the crico-arytenoideus lateralis. Relations. It is covered by the mucous membrane of the pharynx, to which it is very loosely united, and it covers the cricoid cartilage. Action. It is a dilator of the glottis. It carries the base of the arytenoid cartilage backwards, outwards, and downwards, and thus renders the inferior vocal cord tense. Kg. 177. The Crico-arytenoideus Lateralis. Dissection. Remove with care one of the lateral halves of the thyroid cartilage (as in fg. 177.). It is impossible to separate this muscle from the thyro-arytenoideus. This is an oblong muscle (/), situated deeply under the thyroid cartOage. Its fibres arise from the side of the upper border of the cricoid cartilage, in front of the crico- arytenoid articulation ; from this point they proceed ob- liquely upwards and backwards, to be inserted into the posterior and external process of the arytenoid cartilage, by a tendon common to them, and to the thyro-ary- tenoideus. It is covered by the thyroid cartilage and by the crico-thyroid muscle, and it covers the lateral crico- thyroid membrane (d). The Thyro-arytenoideus. Dissection. The same as for the preceding. This muscle may be dissected from the interior of the larynx, by removing the vocal cords. I describe the thyro-arytenoideus and the crico-arytenoideus lateralis sepa- rately, merely in accordance with custom, for in no instance, not even in large animals, such as the ox, have I ever been able to separate them com- pletely. They have the same arytenoid insertion ; their fibres are situated upon the same plane, without any line of demarcation, and they fulfil the same uses. We might, therefore, unite them under the name of the thyro-crico- arytenoideus. The thyro-arytenoideus (e) is abroad muscle, very thin above, and very thick below. It arises on each side, from about the lower two thirds of the retreat- ing angle of the thyroid cartilage. The greater number of its fibres arise