88 OSTEOLOGY. two ribs. The last piece is the only exception, being common to the articu- lation of the sixth and seventh ribs. If there be more osseous points than one in an intercostal space, these, as Albinus has remarked, are invariably placed laterally, not one above the other. There are, therefore, four primitive pieces in the body of the sternum, and each of these is sometimes formed by one point of ossification ; at other times by two lateral points. The following is the order in which the ossification of the body of the sternum proceeds : the two upper pieces first appear from the fifth to the sixth month of foetal life; the third is visible at the sixth month ; the fourth most commonly makes its appearance after birth, but sometimes towards the end of gestation. In the ossification of the body of the sternum, we more frequently find ex- amples of two symmetrical nodules placed on opposite sides of the median line, than in the development of the manubrium. Union of the points of ossification of the body. In considering the union of the different parts which compose the body of the sternum, it is necessary to make a distinction between the lateral conjunction, that is, the union of the osseous points which are situated on each side of the median line, and the vertical conjunction, or the union of the pieces of the sternum properly so called. The lateral conjunction, or the union of those osseous germs which form a pair in the same interval, always precedes the vertical conjunction. The vertical conjunction, or the union of the pieces of the body of the sternum together, commences with the two inferior portions. After this union, the body of the bone consists only of three parts. The second piece then unites with the lower; the sternal foramen is found sometimes at the junction of these last mentioned parts, sometimes at tbe place where the two lateral points of the fourth and of the third portion of the body are united. The first piece of the body is not imited to the two others until from the twentieth to the twenty-fifth year. It should be observed that the union of the divisions of the body of the ster- num takes place precisely in the inverse oi-der of their appearance. In fact, the appearance of the osseous points proceeds from above downwards, their union from below upwards; a fact which verifies an assertion formerly made, viz. that the order of development of osseous points is not always correlative to the order of conjunction. 3. Ossification of the (/.ppendix. This is generally accomplished by one nodule: sometimes there are two, and then they are rarely symmetrical. The process commences in the upper part of the cartilage, and very rarely extends through the whole. The time of appearance of the osseous point is extremely variable; sometimes it is visible towards the third or fourth year; sometimes not until the twelfth or even the eighteenth year. In adult age, the sternum is composed of the three parts, the development of which I have just noticed, and which the ancients considered and described as distinct bones. From the fortieth to the fiftieth year, and sometimes later, the appendix becomes united to the body, which very rarely joins the manubrium; when such is the case, the union is more apparent than real; for if the bone be cut vertically, the articulation is apparent, under a very thin layer of osseous matter. . . .~ . ■ ■„ , From what has been said of the numerous varieties of ossification, it will be evident that it is impossible to assign to this bone a limited number of osseous points. To those which have been noticed, I would add two others, described by Be'clard under the name of supra-sternal points, which I have seen once only in the sternum of an adult, in the form of pisiform nodules, placed on each side of the semilunar notch of the sternum.