456 SPLANCHNOLOGY. contraction of the constrictor muscles. The breadth of the laryngeal portion is measured, first, by the interval between the summits of the great cornua of the OS liyoides, where it is about one inch and near two lines ; then by the interval between the superior cornua of the thyroid cartilage, which is an inch and two or three lines; and lastly by the interval between the inferior cornua of the same cartilage, about eleven or twelve lines. The contraction of this laryngeal portion may be carried to complete obliteration of the cavity. Both the buccal and laryngeal portions, therefore, are capable of contraction, and this always takes place in deglutition, in order to force down and compress the alimentary mass. Contraction of the buccal portion also takes place in the modulation of sounds : it exerts the same influence over the compass of the human voice as the contraction of the tubes of the flute or clarionet does over the notes of those instruments. The antero-posterior dimensions of the pharynx are not subject to the same variations as the transverse and vertical, on account of the presence of the vertebral column. Its enlargement in this direction is produced during that period in the act of deglutition when the larynx and os hyoides are carried forwards and upwards, and its diminution at the time when the same parts are carried upwards and backwards. The antero-posterior diameter of the pha- rynx depends upon the length of the basilar process of the occipital bone. Figure. The pharynx does not form a complete cavity with distinct and separate walls, but rather half or two thirds of a canal, which is completed in part by several organs otherwise not belonging to it. Moreover the pharynx, from its commencement down to the larynx, is habitually open, and in a state of tension ; its walls are never in apposition—an important circumstance in re- ference to the continual passage of air through its nasal and buccal portions. This -tension depends on its attachment to the basilar process, and to the fixed points at its sides, and also upon the tendinous structure of its upper portion. Opposite the larynx, the tension ceases to exist. The pharynx, as well as all other hollow organs, presents an external and an internal surface. The external surface. This is in relation behind by a plane surface with the vertebral column (see fig. 140.), from which it is separated by the long muscles of the neck and the anterior recti of the head. It glides by means of some very loose cellular tissue upon the fascia covering the muscles of that region ; and when from the effect of inflammation this cellular tissue becomes dense, the movements of deglutition cannot be performed, and dysphagia is the result. The relation of the pharynx to the vertebral column accounts for congestive abscesses of the neck sometimes opening into the pharynx. At the sides the pharynx is separated from the internal pterygoid muscle by a triangular space,' broad below and narrow above, occupied by the internal carotid artery, the interaal jugular vein, and the pneumogastric, glosso-pha- ryngeal, hypo-glossal, and spinal accessory nerves, all being surrounded by very loose cellular tissue. The sides of the pharynx are also indirectly in relation with the parotid gland and the styloid muscles. Lower down, the pharynx corresponds to a great number of lymphatic glands, and to the external caro- tid artery and its branches. _ _ The internal surface. In order to examine this surface it is necessary to open the pharynx from behind by a vertical incision. We shall then perceive that this structure only exists behind and at the sides, but that in front it pre- sents agreat number of openings {see figs. 140,141.), the arrangement of which is of great interest. „ , , Proceeding from above downwards, we find 1. the two posterior openings of the nasal fossse (1), quadrilateral in form, having their longest diameter vertical, and separated from each other by the posterior edge of the septum. On looking into them we see the posterior extremities of the turbinated bones and the terminations of the several meatuses. 2. The upper surface of the velum palati (c a), forming an inclined plane, which directs the mucous secretions