Z 2 THE OPPONENS POLLICIS. 33i) to the little finger, and are the abductor, the flexor brevis, and the opponens. The pabnaris brevis may be included m this region. described with the tendons of the flexors of the fingers. Muscles of the Thenar Eminence, or Muscles belonging TO THE Thumb. I divide these into three muscles inserted into the outer side of the first phalanx of the thumb, or into the first metacarpal bone, and a single muscle inserted into the inner side. The former are the abductor brevis, the op- ponens, and the flexor brevis; the latter consists of the adductor, m which 1 include a part of the flexor brevis of authors generally. Muscles inserted into the Outer Side of the First Phalanx of the Thumb, or into the First Metacarpal Bone. Dissection Make an oblique incision from the middle of the annular liga- ment of the carpus to the outer side of the first phalanx of the thumb, and a circular incision round the wrist; detach the flaps, raise the external and middle paknar fasciae, and then cautiously separate the muscles of this region, which are recognised by the following characters. The Abductor Brevis Pollicis. This is the most superficial of the muscles constituting the ball of the thumb {q,fig- 119.). It arises by tendinous and fleshy fibres from the os sca- phoides, from the upper, anterior, and external part of the anterior annular ligament of the carpus, and almost always.from an expansion of the tendon of the abductor longus pollicis. It is a small, thin, flat muscle, passing out- wards and downwards, and inserted by a flat tendon into the outer side of the first phalanx of the thumb. A very narrow cellular line separates it on the inside from the flexor brevis, which is situated on the same plane. It is co- vered by the external palmar fascia, and it covers the opponens muscle, from which it is distinguished by the direction of its fibres, and by a thin inter- vening aponeurosis. Action. It draws the thumb forwards and inwards, and therefore might be termed the superficial opponens. From its attachments it might be called scaphoido-phalangal. The Opponens Pollicis. The opponens pollicis (r,figs. 119, 120.), a small triangular muscle, ai-ises from the trapezium, and the anterior and external part of the anterior an- nular ligament of the carpus, in front of the sheath of the flexor carpi radi- alis. From these origins, which are partly fleshy and partly tendinous, the fleshy fibres radiate downwards and outwards, the highest being the shortest and the most horizontal. They are inserted into the entire length of the outer border of the first metacarpal bone. This muscle is covered by the abductor brevis, which projects a little be- yond it on the outside, and from which it is separated by a more or less dis- tinct aponeurosis. It covers the first metacarpal bone and its articulation with the trapezium. Action. It draws the first metacarpal bone inwards and forwards, thus op- posing it to the others, as its name indicates. From its attachments it may be called trapezio-metacarpal.