422 SPLANCHNOLOGY. General observations on the viscera.—External conformation.— Structure.— Developement.—Functions Dissection. Splanchnology, (from (nr\dyx''ov, viscus) is that division of anatomy which treats of organs more or less compound in their structure. Some of these are contained within the three great visceral cavities (the viscera), whilst others are situated without these cavities (organs, properly so called). * The brain, the spinal cord, the heart, and the organs of the senses, are ge- nerally included in this division. I have thought it advisable, however, to confine myself here to the description of the digestive, respiratory, and genito- urinary apparatus. The organs of the senses, the brain, and the spinal cord, will be studied more advantageously in connection with the rest of the nervous system, and the heart with the other organs of the circulation. As the organs we are about to examine have few relations with each other, they do not admit of such extended and important general remarks as those which preceded the osteological and myological divisions. I shall content myself with explaining briefly the method in which the description of each organ should be pursued. Every organ presents for consideration its external conformation, its in- ternal conformation or its structure, its developement, and its functions. The External Conformation of Organs. The description of the external conformation of organs includes that of their nomenclature, number, situation, direction, size, shape, and relations. Nomenclature. The nomenclature of organs has not been subjected to so many changes as that of the bones and muscles ; the names adopted by the oldest authors have been retained in modern science, and are even used in common language. The names of organs are derived, 1. from their uses, as the asophagus (from olio, I convey, and (payw, I eat); also, the lachrymal and the salivary glands: 2. from their length, as the duodenum: 3. from their direction, as the rectum -. 4, from their shape, as the amygdala (the tonsils): 5. from their structure, as the ovaries: 6. from the name of the authors who have best described them, as the Schneiderian membrane, the Fallopian tubes: lastly, they are conventional words, for example, the tongue, the liver. Sec. Nuviber. Some organs are single ; others exist in pairs. Varieties in number are very common, both by excess and by defect. Thus three kidneys have been found in the same individual, and there is often only one. Ex- amples have been recorded of individuals having three testicles; one is un- common. Lastly, varieties by excess almost always result from the division, and those by defect from the union or fusion, of organs. Situation. This must be considered with regard to the region of the body occupied by an organ, i. e. its general or absolute situation; and also with re- gard to its relations with neighbouring organs, i. e. its relative situation. Thus, when it is stated that the stomach occupies the left hypochondi-ium and the epigastrium, its absolute or general situation is indicated ; but when it is added that this viseus is situated between the oesophagus and duodenum, below the diaphragm, and above the transverse mesocolon, its relative situation is implied. . . ... , , . Many of the organs are subject to varieties of position ; and this constitutes * AH the viscera are organs, but all the organs are not viscera. The word viscus is probably derived from vescor, I eatj because a great number of the viscera are engaged m the tunctions of nutrition.