THE INGUINAL RING AND CANAL. 399 outer border. The crural nerve (n) Ues behind and externally to the artery being separated from it only by the iliac fascia (.')• (^'niral hernia descend through the inner portion of the crural ring.* .. „ ^, The femoral arch is formed by proper fibres, arising from the anterior su- perior spinous process of the iUum; and also by those fibres of the aponeurosis of the external obUque, which, after having arrived at the arch, change their direction, become refiected inwards, and are coUected together, so as to form a strong and tense cord. ., - , • i. t,- The inquinal ring and canal. On the inner side of the spme of the os pubis, between the spine and the symphysis, the aponeurosis of the external obhque divides into two almost paraUel, or at least very shghtly diverging, bands, which leave between them an opening for the passage of the spermatic cord m the male, and of the round ligament in the female. This opening is the in- guinal ring (m, figs. 109. 136, 137.), and the bands which form its hmits are called the pillars (o p, figs. 136, 137.). The inguinal ring is oval or trian- gular ; its greatest diameter has the same direction as the fibres of the external oblique, viz. obliquely downwards and inwards. Its base corresponds to the interval between the spine and symphysis pubis. Its apex is not always well defined, and is generally truncated by fibres which pass at right angles to its pillars. From the upper part of the margin of the ring a tendinous prolong- ation is given ofi", which accompanies the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament in the female. Of the pillars one is external or inferior, the other internal or superior. The external pillar {p) is attached, not to the spine of the os pubis, but into the fore part of the symphysis : this pillar is nothing more than the internal ex- tremity of the direct portion of the femoral arch. Moreover, some anatomists consider Gimbernat's ligament as the reflected portion of the external pillar. The internal pillar (o) is broader than the external, and intersects the cor- responding structure of the opposite side in front of the symphysis, not unfre- quently some fibres of the right internal pillar intersecting those of the left external pillar. • See note, p- 398.