ARTICULATIONS OF THE FINGERS. 199 o 4 phalanx gUdes backwards upon the head of the metacarpal bone supporting it: this head corresponds almost entirely with the glenoid hgament. The posterior fibres of the lateral ligaments are relaxed, and the anterior stretched. The motion is evidently limited by these anterior fibres and by the glenoid hga- ment, the upper edge of which forms with them a narrow ring that surrounds the neck of the corresponding metacarpal bone. According to the relative size of this ring, and the comparative looseness of the glenoid ligament, will the movement of extension be more or less con- siderable. In all persons it may be carried so far, as to form an obtuse angle behind; in some, untU a right angle is formed; and m a few, even so far as to produce an incomplete luxation, reducible by the slightest muscular effort. If extension be carried beyond these limits (for which, however considerable violence is necessary) the head of the metacarpal bone escapes from the kind of coUar, formed by the superior border of the glenoid ligaments, and the an- terior fibres of the lateral ligaments, sometimes by extensively lacerating it, but at others only by stretching it very much; in both cases the first phalanx is dislocated backwards, or the metacarpal bone forwards. When the coUar is not torn, reduction is almost impossible, because the glenoid ligament is al- ways interposed between the articular surfaces. Adduction and abduction consist of simple lateral glidings, limited by the meeting of the other fingers. Articulations of the Phalanges of the Fingers. These are puUey-like joints, or perfect angular ginglymi. There are two articulations of this kind in each finger, but only one in the thumb. Articular surfaces. The lower end of the first phalanx, flattened from be- fore backwards, presents a trochlea, broader on the palmar than on the dorsal aspect, and prolonged much further in front than behind. The trochlea of the phalanx resembles the lower end of the femur, with this difference, that its two condyles are not separated from each other. The upper end of the second phalanx, also flattened from before backwards, presents two small glenoid cavities separated by an antero-posterior ridge. The ridge corresponds to the groove of the pulley, and the glenoid cavities to the two condyles. Means of union. 1. A glenoid ligament i_y,fig. 74.), exactly resembling that which exists in the metacarpo-phalangal articulations, and performing the same office of deepening the glenoid cavity, which by itself only imperfectly receives the pulley of the first phalanx. 2. Two lateral ligaments, an internal (2), and an external (z'), arranged precisely in the same manner as the lateral liga- ments of the metacarpo-phalangal articulations. They are attached to tubercles situated behind the lateral depressions, on the lower end of the first phalanx, and pass obliquely forwards, to be inserted both into the glenoid ligament and the second phalanx. There is no posterior ligament, its place being supplied by the extensor tendon. This tendon is disposed in a peculiar manner: in gen- eral, it gives off a prolongation (w) from its anterior aspect, which is inserted into the upper end of the second phalanx, so that this bone presents a some- what similar arrangement behind, as it does in front with the flexor tendon. The synovial capsule is precisely similar to that of the metacarpo-phalangal joints. The foregoing description applies equally well to the articulation of the second with the third phalanx. There is often a sesamoid bone in the substance of the glenoid ligament of the two phalangal joints of the thumb. Mechanism of the Phalanges. Thefingers are essentially the organs of prehension and of touch. In the mechanism of touch the fingers are moved over the surfaces of bodies, and are moulded upon even their slightest inequalities, sometimes acting together, sometimes separately, seizing and moving between them, as between the blades ot sentient forceps, even the most delicate objects. For the performance of this