ARTICULATIONS OF THE KNEE JOINT. 213 front, and to prevent painful pressure in the kneeling posture. Its other and chief uses are connected with the functions of the triceps extensor muscle, m the tendon of which it is developed. It is moveable and depressed durmg ex- tension of the leg, but during flexion it becomes prominent and faxed. Eolation. When the leg is semi-flexed upon the thigh, it can be very slightly rotated inwards and outwards. These movements are performed not upon the external but upon the internal condyle as a pivot, so that the external part of the head of the tibia glides forwards during rotation inwards, and back- wards during rotation outwards. The difference in the part performed by the two condyles in the movement of rotation, does not depend upon any peculi- arity of structure in the joint, but exclusively upon the arrangement of the acting forces, as we shall see when treating of the muscles. Rotation inwards is limited by the mutual contact of the crucial ligaments, whose decussation is increased during this movement. Rotation outwards is more extensive, be- cause in this movement the ligaments are uncrossed and become parallel. We shall see hereafter that the biceps is the agent of rotation outwards, and the popliteus of rotation inwards. Peroneo-tibiai- Akticulations (Jigs. 79 and 80.). Preparation. 1. Remove carefully the muscles of the anterior and posterior regions of the leg, which will expose the interosseous ligament, and the an- terior and posterior ligaments of these joints. 2. In order to see the interior of the articulations, saw through the two bones in the middle, and then sepa- rate them. 3. To gain an idea of the interosseous ligament of the inferior articulation, saw perpendicularly through the lower ends of the bones of the leg so as to divide them into an anterior and a posterior portion. The tibia and the fibula, which are contiguous at their extremities, are sepa- rated from each other along their shafts, the interval being occupied by an aponeurosis, improperly called the interosseous ligament. We have, then, a supe- rior and an inferior peroneo-tibial articulation, and an interosseous ligament or aponeurosis. 1. Superior Peroneo-tibial Articulation. This articulation is an arthrodia. The articular facette of the tibia, looking downwards and outwards, is situated behind its external tuberosity. The fa- cette of the fibula looks upwards and inwards; it occupies the inner part of the upper end of the bone. The means of union are two ligaments — an anterior ig,fig. 80.) and a posterior (d,fig. 79.). They are composed of parallel fibres, directed obliquely downwards and outwards from the external condyle of the tibia, to the head of the fibula. There is generally a distinct synovial mem- brane for this joint, but sometimes it is a prolongation from the capsule of the knee. 2. Inferior Peroneo-tibial Articulation. This articulation is an amphiarthrosis, that is, it is formed between surfaces that are partly contigw)us, and partly continuous. The former consists of two articular facettes, narrow from above downwards, and oblong from before backwards; of these one is convex, and situated upon the internal surface of the lower end of the fibula above the malleolus; the other is concave and contmuous with the inferior or tarsal articular surface of the tibia. They are both covered with cartilage. The continuous surfaces are rough and much more extensive; they are triangular in shape, having their bases directed down- wards : the one situated upon the fibula is convex, that upon the tibia is slightlv concave. o j The means of union are, two ligaments external to the joint, and an interos- seous ligament connecting the two triangular surfaces just mentioned. Of the two external ligaments, one is anterior (i,fig. 80,), and the other posterior V 3