115 THE HAUNCH. I 2 successively in the first, second, and third phalanges, from the fortieth to the fiftieth day. The order of succession is not subjected to any certain rules. Bony points are found at the same time in the ungual and metacarpal phalanges, and prior to those of the middle phalanges. The ossific points of the upper ends of the phalanges appear successively in the first, second, and third pha- langes some time after birth, from the third to the seventh year. The epi- physary point of the third phalanx is generally developed before that of the second. The epiphyses do not join the bodies of the bones until from the eighteenth to the twentieth year. General Development of the Superior Extremity. The thoracic limb in the foetus and the infant is remarkable for its dimensions, which are proportionally much greater than in the adult. This early develop- ment and size are particularly evident when compared with the slow develop- ment of the lower limb; the resulting disproportion is in an inverse ratio of the age, that is, it is greatest in early life. The thoracic limb of the foetus differs from that of the adult in many other respects besides dimensions. Thus, the two extremities of the humerus are proportionally much larger and altogether car- tilaginous, though the difference does not appear to me so great as has been imagined. The lower end of the bone is especially remarkable for the size of the small head, which forms a very marked protuberance in front, and projects considerably beyond the puUey or trochlea. In the fore-arm, the upper end of the radius is situated much farther forwards than in the adult; which agrees with the position of the small head of the humerus. This circumstance merits careful notice, because it is one of the predisposing causes of dislocation of the head of the radius forwards, the ligament which keeps it back being scarcely able to overcome its tendency in that direction. For the same reason, displacements of the head of the radius are much more frequent in the infant than in the adult. The carpus, almost completely unossiiied at birth, is composed of the same number of cartilages as there are bones afterwards. The metacarpus, on the contrary, is ossified long before birth, but this rapid development, common to the whole thoracic extremity, is most remarkable in the phalanges. Bichat appears to me to have greatly exaggerated the changes which take place in these bones during the progress of age. I am certain that the torsion of the humerus, and the curvatures of the radius and ulna, and also the inter- osseous space, exist equally in the new-born infant as in the adult, and in almost the same proportions. THE INFERIOR OR ABDOMINAL EXTREMITIES. The haunch. — Os coxa. — The pelvis. — Development. — Femur. — Patella. — Tibia.—Fibula.— The foot.— The tarsus and tarsal bones.— The metatarsus and metatarsal bones.— The toes. — Development of the lower extremities.— Comparison of the upper and lower extremities.— Os hyoides. The inferior or abdominal extremity is divided, like the superior, into four parts, viz. the haunch, the thigh, the leg, and the/oo<. The Haunch. The haunch, which is analogous to the shoulder, is composed of only one bone, the os coxeb or os innommatum. Although the haunch bones are united with the sacrum to form the pelvis, they alone are analogous to the shoulder for the sacrum only forms the same part with reference to the lower extremity" that the dorsal vertebrae constitute for the upper.