THE VELUM PALATI. '437 F F 3 represented by the anterior pillar, and then passes obliquely downwards back- w5, Soutwards, to its termination on the -des ofthe P^-y-; The^J^° posterior pillars constitute the free margm of the velum. They project much LX inwards than the anterior pUlars, so that when the base of the ton^e xs depressed in the Uving subject, both sets of pi lars ^^J.f^!^" ?l'^^;3 time, like double curtains, placed on different planes. Each of these pillars renresents a trianele, having its base below and its apex above. _ 'ThTlygl^^^^^^^ From the direction of the ^ntmor and po^^^^^^^^^ piUars they approach each other above, and are ^^P^^^ed by a considerable interval below This interval, which is partly occupied by the tonsil « maj be caUed the amygdaloid excavation. In order to have a good idea ot it, it is necessary to make a vertical section of the head from before backwards A sort of recess wiU then be observed, narrow and shallow above but very broad and deep below, especiaUy when the tonsil (n) is smaU. The base of this tossa corresponds anteriorly to the base of the tongue (6), then to the epiglottis {i), the larynx, and the walls of the pharynx: the bottom of the fossa corresponds to the angle of the lower jaw and the lateral portion of the supra-hyoid region, where it is separated from the skin only by a thin layer of soft tissues. Ihe dunensions of this fossa always remain the same above, but are very variable below, according as the tongue is retained in the mouth or protruded. The isthmus faucium. The posterior orifice of the buccal cavity is caUed the isthmus fawium (2, figs. 140, 141.). It is a sort of passage between the buccal and the pharyngeal cavities, bounded below by the base of the tongue, above by the free margin of the velum palati, divided into two arches by the uvula in the middle, and the two piUars on each side. This posterior orifice of the mouth, though very dilatable, is less so than the anterior opening of the same cavity. It may be contracted, and even completely closed, not only from inflammation of the tonsils and arches of the fauces, but also from the con- traction of the muscles which enter into the formation of the velum and its pillars. This may be seen by watching the movements of the isthmus of the fauces, in a person who will submit to such an examination. These differences in the dimensions of the isthmus are concerned not only in deglutition, but also in the modulations or articulations of the voice. Structure. In the velum palati we find an aponeurotic framework; also certain muscles by which it is moved, which are either extrinsic or intrinsic. The intrinsic muscles are those constituting the azygos uvulffi, viz. the palato- staphylini; and the extrinsic muscles are four on each side, two descend- ing, viz. the levator palati, and the circumflexus or tensor palati, and two ascending, viz. the palato-glossus and the palato-pharyngeus. We also find in the soft palate a thick layer of glands, vessels, nerves, and cellular tissue ; and lastly, a covering of mucous membrane. The aponeurotic portion. The aponeurotic portion, or rather the principal aponeurosis, is extremely dense, and continues the hard palate backwards: it is generally regarded as an expansion of the reflected tendons of the tensores palati, but it is in a great measure formed of proper fibres continuous with the fibrous tissue, which prolongs backwards the septum narium, the outer borders of the posterior orifices of the nasal fossae, and the fibrous portion of the Eustachian tube. Below this aponeurotic membrane there is another fibrous lamella, continuous with the fibrous tissue found in the hard palate. The framework of the upper half of the velum palati may therefore be said to be formed of two fibrous layers, one superior, the other inferior, between which the glandular layer is situated. Lastly, a small fibrous band extends from the nasal spine to the uvula, along the median raphe upon the lower surface of the velum, producing a slight elevation of the mucous membrane. This little band sends off a prolongation between the glands of the velum, which separates the right half of the soft palate from the left.