152 ARTHROLOGY. the -want of unity in the basis of the classification, which is sometimes founded upon the shape of the surfaces, sometimes on the motions. By adopting the shape of the articular surfaces alone, as a basis, we shall find the arrangement of the ligaments and the motions to be in some measure dependent upon this. On this principle we shall divide all the joints into three classes: 1. the diarthroses (Slapdpou')*, or those which are formed by bones, the surfaces of which are contiguous, but free ; 2. synarthroses {(tvv, with), or all the joints whose surfaces are continuous ; 3. amphiarthroses, or symphyses, (&IJ.(pa!, both), or those joints whose surfaces are partly contiguous, and partly continuous by means of fibrous tissue. 1. Diarthroses. Characters. Contiguous or free articular surfaces, shaped so as to fit ex- actly upon each other, and each provided, 1. with an incrusting layer of car- tilage ; 2. with synovial membranes; 3. with peripheral ligaments ; joints always moveable. This class is divided into six subdivisions : — 1. Enarthrosis. Characters. Ahead, or portion of a sphere, more or less completely received into a cavity. Examples : hip and shoulder joints {Jig. 76. and figs. 69 and 70.). Ligaments. A fibrous capsule. Motions. In every direction; viz. flexion, extension, abduction, adduction, circumduction, and rotation. 2. Articulation by mutual Reception. Characters. Articular surfaces concave in one direction, convex in the direction perpendicular to the first, and so fitted as to embrace each other reci- procally. Example : articulation of the trapezium with the first metacarpal bone {m,fig. 75.). Ligaments. Two or four ligaments, or rather an orbicular or capsular liga- ment. Motions. In all directions, like the enarthroses, excepting rotation. 3. Articulation by Condyles, or Condylarthrosis. Characters. An elongated head, or condyle, received into an elliptical ca- vity. Examples: articulation of the fore-arm and hand {fig. 75.), of the lower jail) and the temporal bone {fig. 65.). Ligaments. Two or four ligaments. Motions. In four directions; viz. flexion, extension, abduction, and circum- duction, but no rotation. There are always two principal movements in these joints. 4. Trochlear Articulation, or Ginglymus. Characters. A mutual reception of the articular surfaces. The pulley or trochlea belongs to this mode of articulation. Examples : the elbow {figs. 71 and 72.) the knee {fig. 78.), thejoinU of the phalanges {figs. 73 and 74.). _ Ligaments. Two lateral ligaments always placed nearer the side ot flexion than that of extension. Motions. Two motions in opposite directions. 5. Trochoid Articulations, f Characters. An axis received into a ring, which is partly osseous, and : ?hl rr^lddlt'^I'^o S'^'Tot joint, corresponds to the simple or double lateral gingrAus o?modcrn^^nat^ or the rotatory d.arthrosis of the anc.c.U.