THE DIAPHRAGM. 275 The vertebral origin consists of two tendons, formed by several smaller vertical tendons situated in front of each other, which are blended with the anterior common ligament of the spine. To these tendons two thick fleshy bundles succeed, which pass vertically upwards, become gradually thicker and broader, give oS a fasciculus to each other, and are inserted into the posterior notch in the aponeurosis, having the form of a trefoil leaf, which forms the centre of the muscle, and is therefore called the central aponeurosis of the diaphragm (J), fig. 111.), or cordiform tendon. These two fleshy bundles and their tendons (c, c), are named the pillars, crura, or appendices of the diaphragm. The right cms is anterior, larger, and descends lower down than the left. Each pillar is occasionally divided into two very distinct secondary pillars, and the trace of this division is always visible in the opening which gives passage to the great splanchnic nerve. The two pillars of the diaphragm leave between them an interval divided into two portions or rings, by the fleshy fasciculi which they mutually give to each other. The communicating fasciculus from the right pillar is anterior, and larger than that from the left. Of the two openings or rings between the pillars of the diaphragm, the lower or aortic (d) is para- bolic, and gives passage to the aorta, the vena azygos, the thoracic duct, and sometimes also to the left great sympathetic nerve. Like all orifices through which arteries pass, it is aponeurotic in its structure, being formed by the tendons of the pillars of the diaphragm at the sides, and above by a fibrous prolongation of those tendons which arches over and completes the ring: — the upper or oesophageal opening (e) gives passage to the oesophagus and the pneumo-gastric nerves ; it is elliptical, and altogether muscular. In one sub- ject, however, I found the upper part tendinous ; and in another a smaU mus- cular fasciculus proceeded from the edge of the orifice, and was lost upon the coats of the oesophagus. HaUer has twice observed the same peculiarity. A fibrous prolongation proceeds oiltwards from the tendon of each crus, and is fixed to the base of the corresponding transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra, so as to form an arch on each side (fig. 111.), under which the upper end of the psoas muscle passes (ligamentum arcuatum proprium). Another aponeurotic arch, which has been improperly called ligamentum arcuatum {ligament cintre du diaphragme), for it is nothing more than the upper edge of the anterior layer of the aponeurosis of the transversalis muscle folded upon itself, extends from the outer extremity of the preceding arch to the lower border and apex of the last rib ; under it passes the superior portion of the quadratus lumborum muscle (^5". 111.). From both these arches, muscular fibres pass forwards, and are inserted into the corresponding part of the cordi- form tendon. Indeed, the five tendinous arches which we have just described, viz. the aortic in the middle, and the two on each side for the psoas and quadratus lumborum muscles, give origin to all the fleshy fibres which ter- minate at the posterior notch of the central tendon of the diaphragm. The existence of these arches led Haller and Soemmering to reckon three or four crura on each side. The cordiform tendon in which the preceding muscular fibres are inserted, serves, in its turn, as the origin of other fibres which con- stitute the vault of the diaphragm. This central aponeurosis (6), to which so much importance was attached by the ancients under the name of the phrenic centre, and which some modern anatomists regard as the central point of the entire aponeurotic system of the human body, occupies the middle of the vault ol the diaphragm, immediately below the pericardium, with which its circum- terence is blended in adults, but from which it may be easily separated in young subjects : it is a sort of aponeurotic island, surrounded on all sides by muscular fibres, and converting the diaphragm into a true digastric muscle in torn. It resembles a trefoil leaf, with a notch in the situation of the pedicle- l^lt T^'^^ "^^^'^ ^ ""'"9' ^<^°fi^^: the middle leaflet is the largest, the & ^ ^"^^ smaUest. Between the right and thi middle vena cav.*° t??"*"? (/); sometimes converted into a canal for the inferior vena cava. This orifice is entirely tendinous, and of a quadrangular shape X w