17 GENERAL OBSERVATIONS. two distinct parts .—1. The medullary membrane ivhich lines the walls of the canal; 2. The fatty tissue, properly so called, or the medullary liquid. The membrane, highly vascular, serves to nourish the mterual layers of the bone: it possesses great sensibility and a high degree of vitality. The fatty tissue, on the contrary, is altogether insensible. If a probe be introduced into the centre of the medulla of a long bone in a Uving animal, no sign of pam is evinced so long as the instrument does not touch the walls of the cavity; but whenever the waUs are rubbed or scratched, the pain becomes excessive, and is manifested by piercing cries and violent struggles. The proportion between the thickness of the walls of the cylinder, and the diameter of the medullary canal, varies not only in different individuals, but in the same person at different periods of life. In the aged, the thickness of the walls is proportionally much less than in the adult: this is one cause of the great fragility of the bones in old age. Sometimes in the adult the walls are so thin, that the bone breaks by the slightest force: in such cases there is in some sort hypertrophy of the medulla and atrophy of the bone. It is in such cases that fractures occur from the simple effect of muscular contraction, or even from moving in bed. It is in the central canal of long bones that those very delicate osseous filaments are observed, which, interlacing with each other, and forming large meshes, give rise to that variety of spongy tissue which has received the name of reticular, and which appears intended to give support to the medulla. The compact tissue diminishes, and the cells increase in number, the greater the distance from the centre of the bone, so that the extremities are entirely com - posed of spongy substance covered by a thin layer of compact tissue. It ap- pears that the compact tissue which forms the shafts of the bones, divides and subdivides into lameUaj, in order to form the cells of the extremities. It is easy to perceive the advantage of a spongy structure in the usually voluminous extremities of the long bones : they could not have been compact without a great increase of weight, while the additional strength thus acquired would have been redundant and altogether useless. The cells of the spongy substance are filled by an adipose tissue, similar to that which exists in the bodies of long bones: from its greater fluidity it has been denominated medullary juice. Internal structure of broad bones. If the surface of a broad bone be scraped, or if the bone be sawn across perpendicularly or obliquely, it will be found to consist of two lamellce or tables, separated by a greater or less thickness of spongy tissue. Hence the two plates are insulated, and one may be fissured or broken without injury to the other. The thickness of the compact laminse and of the spongy tissue is not uniform throughout the whole extent of a broad bone. At the centre, for example, there is scarcely any spongy tissue, and hence the transparency of the bone at this part. Towards the circumference, on the contrary, the spongy tissue forms a very thick layer. In the bones which form the vault of the cranium, the spongy substance takes the name of diploe (SnrXSos, double), because it occupies the interval between the two tables. _ From what has been said regarding the internal structure of broad bones. It is evident that their distinctive character depends as much upon their internal as their external conformation, and therefore the ribs, which according tO' their external characters seem rather to belong to the long bones, have been classed among the broad, because they exhibit in their internal structure the characters of the latter kind of bones. Internal structure of short bones. The extremity of a long bone, if separated from the shaft, would represent a short bone, both in its external and internal conformation for a short bone is a spongy mass, covered by a thin layer of compact tissue. , To their spongy structure the short bones, as well as the ex- tremities of the long, owe their specific lightness. It should be observed, that what has been said concerning the internal struc- VOL, I. Q