SPLANCHNOLOGY. excretory ducts pour their secretion into the mouth, i. e. the parotids hetween the cheeks and the teeth, the sab-maxillary and the suh-lingual glands behind the lower incisors on each side of the apex of the tongue. This distribution of the means of insalivation between the two cavities into -which the mouth is divided, deserves the attention of physiologists. The Buccal Mucous Membrane. The buccal mucous membrane is continuous with the skin at the free edges of the lips ; it lines their posterior surface, and is reflected from them upon each of the maxillary bones forming a cul-de-sac or trench, and in the median line a small fold called the frsenum of the lips. About a line and a half, or two lines, fi-om the free border of the lips, it changes its character and constitutes the gums, which are reflected upon themselves so as to become continuous with the fibro-mucous membrane, called the alveolo-dental periosteum. In the lower jaw the mucous membrane passes from the alveolar border to the lower wall of the mouth, and from it to the under surface of the tongue. At the point of reflection Ln the median line, it forms the frsenum lingua;. From the under surface of the tongue, the mucous membrane passes over its edges and upper surface, where it presents the peculiarities already described ; and in being reflected from the base of the tongue to the epiglottis it forms three folds, the glosso-epiglottid, so as to become continuous on the one hand with the mucous membrane of the larynx, and on the other with that of the pharynx. In the upper jaw it is extended from the upper alveolar border upon the roof of the palate, passing over the anterior and posterior palatine canals, which it closes but does not enter. From the roof of the palate it passes upon the velum, and is continuous with the nasal mucous membrane at its free edge. On the sides it forms two large folds for the pillars of the fauces, lines the amygdaloid excavation, covers the tonsil, and becomes continuous with the mucous membrane of the base of the tongue and of the pharynx. At the sides of the buccal cavity the mucous membrane is reflected from both the alveolar borders upon the inner surface of the cheeks, and thus foi-ms two trenches. At the anterior edge of the ramus of the jaw, behind the molar teeth, it is elevated by a salivary gland which marks the limit between the cheeks and the pillars of the fences. Inside this prominence it forms a cul-de- sac. The buccal mucous membrane sends off prolongations into the numerous canals which open into the mouth. Thus on the floor of the mouth there are two for the Whartonian ducts and several for the small ducts of the sub-lingual glands. Two others are seen on the inner sides of the cheeks for the ducts of Steno ; and it is also clear that it must penetrate into the thousands of other orifices with which the mouth is studded (those of the buccal, labial, palatine, and other glands). But in all these prolongations its structure is modified, and it becomes exceedingly thin. It has been proved that it lines not only the larger ducts, but even their minutest subdivisions. Thus there is a kind of parotitis which consists in inflammation of the lining membrane of the ex- cretory ducts of that gland; and then all the canals are filled with muco- puriform secretion, which escapes by the buccal orifice when the gland is com- pressed. The numerous openings on the surface of the tonsil are formed by the prolongations of this membrane into the cavities situated in its interior. Although the different parts of the buccal mucous membrane are continuous, they do not all possess the same characters. Compare for instance, in regard to their density, thickness, and closeness of adhesion to the subjacent tissues, the mucous membrane of the gums and palate with that of the bps and cheeks, or the membrane covering the lower with that upon the upper surface of the tongue, or the mucous membrane of the free edge of the velum palati with that of the arches and the amygdaloid excavation.