48 OSTEOLOGY. this notch is the anterior surface of the nasal spine. On each side we observe the orbital arch (c </), more sharp and thin towards its outer end. At the junction of the internal with the two external thirds of this arch, is situated a foramen (e), or more frequently a notch converted into a foramen by a liga- ment ; it is called the superciliary or supraorbital foramen, and gives passage to the frontal vessels and nerves.' At the bottom of this notch there are gene- rally one or more vascular openings, which lead into the diploe, and are the terminations of venous canals, which run for a considerable way within the bone. The orbital arch terminates on each side by a process; the inner one, internal orbital process ((Z), is broad and thin, and articulates with the os unguis ; the external (c) is thick, and unites with the malar bone. Connexions. The frontal is articulated with twelve bones—the two parietal, the sphenoid, the ethmoid, the two nasal, and two malar bones, the ossa unguis, and the two superior maxillary. Internal structure. The vertical portion and external orbital processes are very thick -, the horizontal part is very thin, and hence the facility with which instruments can penetrate the cranium through the roof of the orbit. It contains large cavities, frontal sinuses (a, figs. 23 and 24.), which open in the ethmoidal notch, and add greatly to the thickness of the bone at its lower part. They are separated by a septimi, which is often bent to one side, and is generally imperfect. The capacity of these sinuses is very variable ; they often extend throughout the whole of the orbital plates, almost to the edge of tne sphenoid. The study of these sinuses, which are connected with the organ of smelling, is of great importance in determining the facial angle. Development. The frontal bone is developed from two lateral points of ossification, which appear about the middle of the second month, and com- mence in the orbital arches. At this time the edges are in approximation below but above are separated by an angular interval, which forms the anterior angle of the anterior fontanelle. The two pieces are united by suture during the first year; it is gradually effaced afterwards, bemg longest visible at its inferior termination, though it is uncommon to find it permanent throueh life. Independently of these general changes, which the bone under- goes in the course of its development, there are also certain peculiar alterations in which the sinuses are concerned. These cavities make their appearance during the first year, and gradually increase in size, not only up to the period of manhood, but even to old age. The Sphenoid Bone (^figs. 13 and U.). This bone has received its name from the Greek word <T^h' (a wedge), because it is inserted like a wedge between the other bones. It is situated at Because ^ o ^^fgyjop ^nd middle part of the base of ■■^mfp^-X. ■ -fv. ^-^^-^4^^.. the cranium l^fig. 23.). Almost aU anatomists agree in considering it as a separate bone; but Soemmering and Meckel describe it as united with the occipital, under the name of basilar or spheno-occipital bone. It is a single and symmetrical bone, consisting of a bodt/ f ^ or central part, from which spring, on each . Fig. side, two horizontal portions, the greater and 1 ■ o ^ffhp onhenoid- and below two vertical columns, the pterygoid pro- £=7crp.red to a to. ,ith extended .rings. W. shaU con.ide, " ^S'tiro? S?jJ.f "tSio.. f,m, and .Wore p„»»,. » surfaces. „„,/>,/.^ (nfnd fia 13.). Proceeding from before