THE UTERUS. 619 operations, and its displacement during pregnancy, when it rises into the nrr" t^lf^^^^iy downwards and backwards, i e it CO ncides with fhe axis of the brim of the pelvis. Its direction is liable oVequent variations, the history of which belongs to midwifery ; but one of them vTz the obliqui y downwards, and from the right to the left side, is so ?eq"'en ihat it has been regarded as natural, and, according to some ana- tomists appears to be connected with the position of the rectum on the left of\WeTvis In pregnancy this inclination is almost constant, and has some reLlon with the mos! usual position of the child, viz. that m which the occiput is tui-ned towards the left acetabulum of the mother. Number The uterus is single in the human species -, it is double in most animals The cases of double uterus observed in the human subject are nothing more than bifid uteri, or such as are divided by a septum : this state may exist either in the body of the uterus alone, or at the same time m the body and neck, and even in the vagina. ^ • • i Size The size of the uterus varies according to age, and certain physiolo- gical conditions peculiar to this organ. It is very smaU until puberty, and then acquires the size which it subsequently presents. In females who have borne children it never returns to its original size. It becomes enormously enlarged during pregnancy, or from the developement of certain tumours. In old age it becomes atrophied, and is sometimes as small as it is in new-bom infants. The following are the measurements of the uterus after puberty : — length, two and a half to three inches; breadth at the fundus sixteen to eighteen Unes, at the neck six lines ; antero-posterior diameter, or thickness, six lines.* Weight. The weight of the uterus is from six to ten drachms at puberty, an ounce and a half or two ounces in females who have had children. I have seen it from one to two drachms in aged females, in whom it had become atrophied. At the end of pregnancy the weight of the uterus is from a pound and a half to three pounds. Form. The uterus is shaped like a small gourd, or a pear flattened from before backwards. It is divided into a bochj (m), and cervix or neck (A) ; the distinction between these two parts being established by a more or less marked constriction. Relations. These must be studied in front, behind, on the sides, at the upper border or fundus, and at the lower or vaginal extremity. The anterior surface is covered by the peritoneum in its upper three-fourths, and is indirectly in relation with the posterior surface of the bladder, from which it is often separated by some convolutions of the small intestine ; in its lower fourth it is in immediate contact with the inferior fundus of the bladder, and is united to it by rather loose cellular tissue. The latter relation explains why cancerous affections of the uterus so often extend to the base of the bladder. The posterior surface is entirely covered by the peritoneum, and is in relation with the anterior surface of the rectum, from which it is often separated by some convolutions of the small intestine. This surface is much more convex than the anterior; it may be examined from the rectum. Its sides are slightly concave, and give attachment to the broad ligaments (dd', dd'); which are two quadrilateral folds of peritoneum, extended trans- versely from the lateral borders of the uterus to the sides of the pelvis. Their upper margin is divided on each side into three folds or ridges, formed in the following manner—a posterior fold formed by the ovary (a) and its ligament (c), an anterior one by the round ligament {g), and a middle fold by the Fallopian tubes (./"). Hence some anatomists have described three wings (ate vespertilionis) in each of the broad ligaments. * [The body of the uterus at Its thickest part, viz. immediately below the fundus, is from eight to twelve lines thick.]