SPLANCHNOLOGY. 582 Fig. 179. Structure. Make a vertical section of the kidney from its convex to its con cave border. Detach the proper capsule in the same direction! t^^t Zl arteries veins, and ureter, in different kidneys, and also in the same kidney Inject also the unniferous ducts. ".luutj. The proper coat. The kidney has no peritoneal covering. The remarkable fetty mass m which it is embedded is called the fatty capsule of the kidnev ^ Pro^'ided with a proper fibrous coat, the external surface of which adheres to the fatty tissue, by means of fibrous lamelte passing through It; Its internal surface is adherent to the tissue of the kidney, throueh the medium of a number of small prolongations, which are very easily lacerated. The tissue of the kidney. The kidney differs from other glands, all of which present a homogeneous and granular texture, in being composed of two substances ; one of these is external, cortical, or glandular (a o), the other internal, medullary, or tubular (6 b b). Some anatomists have described a third substance, the mamillated; but the papillee (dd) of which it is composed belong to the tubular substance. The following is the respective arrangement of these two sub- stances :— The cortical substance forms a soft, reddish, sometimes yellow layer, of a granular appearance, and about two lines in thickness, which occupies the surface of the kidney, and sends prolongations, in the form of pillars or septa from one to three lines thick, between the cones of the tubular substance. The tubular or medullary sub- stance is redder, and presents the appearance of striated cones or pyramids, (the pyramids of Malpighi), the bases of which adhere to the cortical substance, while their free apices are turned towards the sinus, where they appear like papillEB. BeOini, and before him Berenger di Carpi, considered the fibres or striaj of the medullary substance as so many uriniferous tubes (the tubes of Bellini'), and hence the term tubular substance. It follows, then, that the kidney is divided into a number of compartments, corresponding to the number of cones of tubular substance ; there are from ten to twenty of these compartments, which represent the temporary lobules of the human foBtal kidney, and the permanent lobules in the kidneys of the greater ■number of animals.f The kidney, therefore, is formed by the union of a greater or less number of small kidneys, applied together, and connected within a common investment. We shaU see presently, that, in reference to the circulation, these small kidneys are entirely independent of each other. Although the distinction between the two substances is well marked, it is easy to see that some of the fibres or striae of the tubular structure penetrate the cortical substance in a flexuous course, and reach the surface of the organ. This fact was clearly shown by Ferrein, who considered the striae to be the excretory ducts of the granules. These cortical and flexuous portions of the tubes, which become straight a.s soon as Section of kidney.* * This figure is a plan, not an actual representation of the structure of the liidney. t In some animals tlie kidney resembles a bunch of grapes.