586 SPLANCHNOLOGY. sometimes double, and that under two very different circumstances-, for example, -where the two kidneys are united into one, a double ureter is almost mvariably found; and, secondly, when, there being two kidneys, one of them IS divided into two very distinct portions. In the latter case the two ureters are often united into one, after a course of a few inches. There is then no pelvis properly so called, and the two ureters may be regarded as the prolonga- tion of the two trunks of the calyces, which remain separate longer than usual. The ureter is a cylindrical tube having whitish, thin, and. extensible pa- rietes. and varying in size from that of a crow's to that of a goose's quill. The most contracted portion of the canal is that situated in the substance of the parietes of the bladder. Occasionally.it presents at various parts of its extent some circumscribed dilatations, which seem to indicate that the course of the urine had been for a time arrested. This canal, is liable to extreme dilatation when any obstacle occurs to the passage of the urine : I have seen it as large as the small intestine. ., , j , Each ureter is directed obliquely downwards and inwards, as far as the, side of the base of the sacrum : from this point (fig. 181.) it passes downwards, forwards, and then inwards iu,fig. 186.), to the lateral part of the inferior fundus (a) of the bladder, where it enters between the muscular and mu- cous coats, and passes obliquely for about ten lines within the substance of that organ, to one of the posterior angles of the trigone, at which point it opens by an orifice narrower than the canal itself, and having the form of a parabolic curve with its concavity directed inwards. Relations. In proceeding from the pelvis of the kidney to the base of the sacrum, the ureter passes along the anterior margin of the psoas, and is co- vered by the peritoneum and by the spermatic vessels, which cross it very obliquely. The right ureter is in relation with the vena cava inferior, being situated on its outer side. Opposite the base of the sacrum, each ureter crosses the common iliac, and then the external Uiac artery and vein of its own side. In the pelvis, the ureter is applied to the parietes of that cavity, is covered by the peritoneum, and crosses in succession the umbilical artery, or the cord by which it is replaced, the obtm'ator vessels, the vas deferens (t,fig. 181.) in the male % and the upper and lateral part of the vagina in the female. That portion of it which is contained within the substance of the walls of the bladder corresponds indirectly with the neck of the uterus; and this im- portant relation explains why carcinoma of the neck of the womb is so fre- quently accompanied with retention of urine. I have also observed that the ureters of all females who have died after delivery, or during the last months of pregnancy, are remarkably dilated. Internal surface. The internal surface of the calyces, pelvis, and ureters is white, smooth, and has longitudinal folds, which are effaced by distension. There are no valves, either at the opening of the calyces into the pelvis, or of the pelvis into the ureter, or in any part of that canal. Structure. The calyces, the pelvis, and the ureter have all the same struc- ture : they are formed by two membranes ; an internal membrane, continuous with the vesical mucous membrane, very thin, and even having the appear- ance of a serous membrane ; it is reflected from the calyces upon the papillse, and is prolonged into the uriniferous tubes : an external membrane, which is very thick, and supposed to be a continuation of the external coat of the kidney, and therefore to be fibrous. Others regard it as muscular f ; I be- lieve that it is formed of a tissue analogous to the dartos. Some arteries and veins, probably also some lymphatics and nerves, are distributed upon the calyces, the pelvis, and the ureters, but do not require any special descrip- tion. * Passing to its outer side. , . . ■ , t [In some quadrupeds the ureter drstmctl.v contracts on applying a stnnnlus.]