SPHENOID BONE. T.l the middle fossa of tlie base of the cranium, is concave, quadrilateral, and nmrked by cerebral impressions and vascular furrows. Towards its mner part, and Voceeding from before backwards, we observe, 1. the mperior lta:^illary foramen (3), or foramen ro,iundum, directed obhquely forward and outwards which gives passage to the superior maxillary nerve; 2 the in- Sr»rfary forami, ov foramen ovale (4), which perforates the bone £ctly from above downwards, and transmits the ij^^^^.^o^^^^^^^^^l'^'^ ^JJ,^ ' 3. the foramen spinosum, or spheno-spinosum (5), which is the smallest ot the whole, and gives passage to the middle meningeal artery. External or iemporo-zygamatic surface. This surface is divided into two parts by a transverse ridge; the superior or temporal (/,/jr. 14.) forms part ot the fossa of the same name, and gives attachment to the temporal muscle ; the inferior (p) forms the upper part of the zygomatic fossa, and gives attach- ment to the external pterygoid muscle. On this last part we perceive the in- ferior orifices of the oval and spinous foramina. Anterior or orbital surface. This surface {w w) is four-sided and smooth, and forms the greater part of the external wall of the orbit. Its superior border unites with the frontal bone; the inferior forms part of the spheno- maxillanj fissure. The internal border contributes to form the sphenoidal fissure, and has a small tubercle near its inner termination. The external joins the malar bone. Internal border. This border is convex, and commences m front by a triangular and very rough surface (yy,fig. 13.), which articulates with a cor- responding surface on the frontal bone; it then forms part of the sphenoidal fissure (2), and finally bends outwards to join the petrous portion of the temporal bone; in this place it is grooved for the lodgment of the cartilaginous portion of the Eustachian tube. The sphenoidal fissure, or foramen laceruvi superius (2 2, figs. 13 and 14.), partly formed in the way we have described, is completed by the lesser wing of the sphenoid. Wide at its internal extremity, it becomes narrow at its outer end, where it is closed by the frontal bone at o. It gives passage to the third, fourth, the ophthalmic branch of the fiftjh, and the sixth pair of nerves, to the ophthalmic vein, and to a prolongation of the dura mater. At the internal extremity of the fissure, there is a furrow, which is occasionally converted into a foramen for the passage of a recurrent branch of the ophthalmic artery, which goes to the dura mater. '1 he external border is concave, bevilled on the outside superiorly and on the inside inferiorly, for articulation with the temporal bone. The anterior extremity is very thin (behind y, fig. 13.) and bevilled on the inner side for articulation with the anterior and inferior angle of the parietal. The posterior extremity presents a vertical process (z), the spine or spinous process of the sphenoid, which is received into the angle formed by the union of the squamous and petrous portions of the temporal bone, and gives attachment to the internal lateral ligament of the inferior maxilla, and the external or anterior muscle of the malleus. Connections. The sphenoid articulates with all the bones of the cranium, and with the palatine, vomer, and malar bones of the face. Structure. The most remarkable circumstance in the structure of the sphenoid, is the presence of the sinuses, which convert the body of the bone into two or more cells (."j, fig. 22.). The compact tissue prevails in the lesser and the greater wings, and in the pterygoid processes, the thick part only of these containing spongy substance. _ Development. In the foBtus, as we have already mentioned, the sphenoid is divided into two quite distinct parts: — 1. An anterior sphenoid, consisting of the lesser wings and the portion of the body which supports them ; and, 2. A posterior sphenoid, formed of the greijt wings and the part of the body which corresponds to the sella turcica. E 2