GENERAL REMARKS ON THE APONEUROSES. 389 c c 3 organs situated beneath them. They yield to gradual distension, but then be- come thinner and weaker, and can only imperfectly fulfil their proper offices. 3. They are totally inelastic, and therefore when distended beyond a certain point never return to their original dimensions. Of this we have an example in the condition of the abdominal parietes after utero-gestation, or ascites. 4. The low degree of vitality they possess, explains why they are so slightly involved in inflammation or other morbid conditions of the adjacent structures, and also the fact of their establishing limits beyond which these diseases seldom pass. They are insensible to all ordinary stimuli, but become painful when they are violently overstretched. The plantar fascia, under such circumstances, becomes extremely sensitive. Having made these general remarks, we shall now describe, in succession, the principal aponeuroses of the human body.* * Note on Aponenrology. [The analogy existing between the cellular and aponeurotic invest- ments of various organs, renders it advantageous to consider in this place the general anatomy of the CL'lhtlar ixndjibrurai tissues. The ultimate elements of both these kinds of tissue are precisely similar, though somewhat diS'erently arranged in each ; they consist of delicate transparent lilaments, varying in diameter from jjjijijth to ugj;];"' of ^° imh, and having a peculiar sinuous or undulating direction ; they are insoluble in cold water, but by long continued boiling are almost entirely converted into gelatine. In cellular tissue these undulating filaments are arranged side by side, either into larger com- pound and flexuous fasciculi, or into thin transparent laminae, which cross and intersect one another in all directions, so as to leave interstitial cavities or areolae, freely communicating with each other, and moistened by an albuminous fluid. The tissue thus formed, more properly called areolar, or filamentous, is of a greyish aspect, and highly elastic ; the latter property depending not on any innate elasticity in the ultimate filaments, but on the sinuous disposition of those filaments, and of the fasciculi into which they are collected. But few vessels, and still fewer nerves, are believed to terminate in this tissue. It is continuous over the whole body ; hence the great extent to which it may be affected with diffuse inflammation: it also invests' and isolates parts, forms the matrix of nearly all organs, and the basis of many membranes ; and is called, according to its position, investing, intermediate, penetrating, parenchymatous, or submembranous. The characters above described are most strongly marked in the loose cellular tissue, examples of which are met with in the axilla, under the subscapular muscle, between the free surfaces of muscles and their sheaths, behind the kidneys, &c. In other situ- ations it is more condensed, as in the subserous, submucous, and subcutaneous cellular tissues • in the latter of these, or the superficial fascia, and also in the cutis itself, it approaches to the fibrous tissue both in density and in the mode of arrangement of its elementary filaments, and IS therefore termed Jibro-cellutar tissue. From this variety the transition is natural to the fibrous tissues, properly so called. }n fibrous tissue the undulating primitive filaments are also arranged side by side into fas- ciculi, which differ from those of cellular tissue in being much larger, more dense and more opaque, and in being straight instead of flexuous. They are white, shining, strong, and almost inelastic, qualities depending on the compact parallel disposition of the component filaments and the slight amount ot elasticity in particular on the absence of sinuosity in the compound tasciculi. According to the manner in which these fasciculi or fibres (as they are termed) are arranged and combined, we have either the membranous or the fascicular form of fibrous tissues In the mcmhrimous form there are some which closely resemble the fibro-cellular membranes already alluded to, and consist of the shining fibres crossing each other in all directions (with- out anastomosis), and intermixed with more or less condensed cellular tissue : for example the thinner investing aponeuroses, the capsular ligaments, the pericardimn, tunica albuginea, peri- ?nH n™,;- '"""'"s, again, the fibres are more parallel, though still intersected, and commned with cellular tissue, as in the fascia lata of the thigh, and in other strong invest- ng aponeuroses In the aponeuroses of insertion of the broad muscles, and in the expanded terminations of tendons there is scarcely any cellular tissue, whilst the parallel arrangement is ^ Vri"""'l'-'^' I'ltter attains its utmost perfection in the round ligaments, itself ""^^ "'"'^'^ constitute thejascicular form of fibrous tissue, and the type of the tissue Pr-m'?nf^'®'''1''^fK™1^'''" "^"^ few nerves and vessels. The distribution of a branch of the fourth Wnojir 7 u f Vt""^"' text, has been confirmed by other anatomists. ». Vh . periosteum, but they merely divide in that membrane, so as to enter the bone at a great number of points. ,\Z^!; o/<mto»s (classed amongst the fibrous tissues by M. Cruveilhier) display a ten- ThPvW„f■■'"'I "e^f 'heir attachments to the bones. enXlin™ 'it ? According to Dr Ilenle, however, their interior is not covered by an muscles w \ hT'^y"""''' membranes, formed between the tendons of pro ect ni^nnl^ tendons and bones (pp.346, 347. 349.), and between the skin and tv are also de«r, , . ^. '' 'uST ""^ I?-'"''"'^ the olecranon, &c. according to the same author- reimble n f.mrHnn ?i '^P^helmm. t would appear, therefore, that although these cavities PnnT.t ? unction the true synovial membranes, they dlifer anatomically from them am? hmvnvl.^I y °^ sacs formed in the general cellul,-ir texture of the body. Such bui s^i^^