473 THE STOMACH. cular tunics, and then to evert the stomach and remove the mucous membrane. This experiment will also very clearly show the great strength of the fibrous coat, which, even thus unsupported, can bear considerable distension ; while, on the other hand, when this coat has been divided, the remaining membrane or membranes burst through the opening thus made. This coat should not be confounded with the dermis of the mucous meni- brane, for it adheres much more strongly to the muscular coat, into which it sends numerous prolongations, than to the mucous membrane, with which it is connected only by loose cellular tissue. The fibres of this coat have not a parallel arrangement like those of aponeu- roses and fibrous sheaths, but they form a very dense network, the filaments or lamellae of which can be separated by inflation or infiltration. It is con- cerned in a very important manner in chronic diseases of the stomach : it is very liable to hypertrophy; and, in certain cases, acquires a thickness of several lines. The mucous membrane. The history of this membrane is curious. It was for a long time confounded with the mucus, by which it is covered, being re- garded as merely a dried layer of that secretion.* It was pointed out by Fal- lopius, who applied to it the very appropriate appellation of the velvet-like tunic'; but it was first described as a separate membrane by Willis, under the title of the glandular tunic. The discovery was confirmed by the beautiful injections of Ruysch, who gave it the name of epithelium; to which term, however, he did not attach the same meaning as modern authors. It was afterwards regarded as an epidermic membrane, analogous to the epidermis of the skin f, and capable of being thrown oS and renewed. In recent times it has been supposed "to be concerned tanquam omnium lerna malorum; and has become in the present day the object of a great mmiber of most interesting researches. The mucous membrane of the stomach presents an adherent and a free sur- face. The adherent surface is united to the fibrous coat by cellular tissue, so loose as to permit very free motions. The free surface has the following cha- racters. When the stomach is strongly contracted, it forms a number of folds (seefig. 150.), the principal of which are longitudinal; these folds disappear when the organ is distended, as may be shown in an everted stomach. Their only use is to allow of the rapid distension of this organ, a condition that could not have been attained in any other mode, in consequence of the .slight elasticity of the mucous coat. These longitudinal and temporary folds, which are perfectly distinct from the permanent folds observed in other parts of the alimentary canal, are most strongly marked near the pylorus; they are extremely regular, sometimes straight and sometimes flexuous ; and they proceed parallel to each other from the cardiac towards the pyloric orifice. They are intersected more or less obliquely by other winding folds of different degrees, which often give an areolar appearance to the internal surface of the stomach. _ From this arrangement it follows that dilatation of the stomach occurs prin- cipally in a direction across its long axis ; the resources for dilatation in the direction of its axis are much less numerous. Of all the folds of the mucous membrane, the most important is undoubtedly that called the pijloric valve, which is often nothing more than a mere elevation of the membrane by the sphincter muscle. J This circular fold is equally opposed to the regurgita- tion of food from the duodenum into the stomach, and to its passage from the stomach into the duodeniun ; it is completely effaced bv distension, and it be- longs as much to the duodenum as to the stomach. Its upper half has the characters of the gastric ; the lower half offers those of the duodenal mucous • Riolanus states positively (Anthropol, l.ii. c. xii. p. 171.) that the stomach, like the intes- tines, IS composed ol three coats, viz. a common external membrane, a nervous, and a muscuHr on\h'e"inside " " adherent mucus, consisting of the thickest part of the chyle, lines it t Such was the opinion of Haller, lib.xix. p. U2 fibr-fs'] "'"""^ consists of the mucous membrane, the colliilar coat, and the circalnr muscular