96 OSTEOLOGY. trachea, the CESophagus, the thoracic duct, the large arteries and veins of the head, neck, and thoracic extremities, the apex of the lungs, and several muscles of the neck. The inferior circumference or base, is very wide, at least four times larger than the preceding, and, like it, broader transversely than from before back- wards. It presents, 1. in front, a wide notch, the borders of which are formed by the cartilages of the seventh, eighth, ninth, and tenth ribs, but are incom- plete between the tenth and eleventh, as also between the eleventh and twelfth ; at the apex of this notch is the ensiform cartilage; 2. behind, we find on each side of the vertebral column a notch of much smaller dimensions than that in front; it is caused by the great obliquity of the twelfth rib, which forms an acute angle with the spine. The inferior circumference of the thorax is con- nected with muscles, by numerous attachments. The great mobility enjoyed by the lower aperture of the thorax, which, as we have seen, is subjected to alternate movements of dilatation and contraction, contrasts remarkably with the almost absolute immutability of the superior aperture. The lower opening presents certain varieties in dimension which are observed chiefly during inspiration, or are occasioned by accidental causes of dilatation, such as pregnancy or the accumulation of fluids in the abdominal cavity. ■ This variability of its dimensions has reference to the compressibility and dilatability of the abdominal viscera. Such an alteration at the upper opening would have caused serious inconvenience by compressing the trachea and the vessels. General Development of the Thorax. The shape and dimensions of the thorax vary considerably at difierent periods of life ; it is of great importance to be well acquainted with these, because they bear constant relation to changes in the organs contained within the cavity. One of the most remarkable characteristics of the foetal thorax, is the pre- dominance of the antero-posterior over the transverse diameter; at this age, we find the sternum very far separated from the spine, and forming a consider- able projection in front. • This arrangement coincides with the largely deve- loped state of the heart, and an organ denominated the thymus gland, which are both situated in the middle of the thorax; and also with the smaU size of the lungs, which are situated lateraUy. Another marked feature m the chest of the foetus is the absence, or at least the sUght depth, of those grooves which we have described as peculiar to man, and intended to lodge the posterior edge of the lungs. The absence of these puhnonary grooves produces, as a necessary consequence, a want of those external projections on the back of the_ thorax, which we find in the adult corresponding with the grooves on the interior These two characteristics, viz. the predominance of the antero-posterior diameter, and the absence of the grooves, both depend on the same Qause, viz. the slight degree of curvature of the ribs in the fcetus. At a more advanced period the curvatures increase, the posterior grooves are eraduaUy developed, the antero-posterior diameter is dimimshed, and the transverse proportionaUy increased, so that there is less difference in the abso- lute capacity of the thorax than would at first sight appear, for the difi-erences we have noticed are in a great measure referrible to the comparative predomm- ance of one or other diameter. We should also remark, that in the f(E us he vertical diameter, particularly at the sides, is much shorter on account of he I^expanded state of the lungs, and the elevation of the diaphragm by the ab- '"TlTl^o'cIr'umferences Ukewise present remarkable differences. In the fcBtus thrsuperior opening has a greater extent from before backwards than ?ans;erselv Sh is precisely the opposite of what is observed in the adult ¥rXbr' Tperture is extremely wide in every direction; and this accords wit^the large size of many of the abdominal viscera at this age, and particu- larly of the liver.