THE MAMMiE. ^31 8 S 4 * fi,- ;f oT„1 then sends more or less loose prolongations into its sub- mvestmentfor It, and then senas^ the great quantity of fibrous stance, and unites ^^^^j""^ J^mm^^ gland is to be ascribed. Sometimes ilrergfm^eSttfTe — of puberty is confined entirely to Se fibrouf tLue ; in such a case the organ may acquire an enormous size, the ItndSissue d sappears, and the mamma is transformed mto a many-lobed fihrnus mass which has been sometimes mistaken for a degenerated lipoma. Th!aZos^fsL The alveoli on the outer surface of the mamma are finPd wS masses of fatty tissue, which are separated by fibrous lammsE ex- Sn/f^om the gland to the skin. The ceUs in which these masses are con- a£ do no^comlunicate with each other, and hence the frequency of circum- scribed abscesses in the mamma. The relative quantities of fat and glandular issue have aa inverse ratio to each other. The great size of the mamm^ n some men is owing to developement of the fatty tissue. HaUer says that i is anTsseTal element in the structure of the gland, and that he has several times seen lactiferous ducts arise from it. j • i TL Lci,/aro«. ducts. If the mamma of a female who has died dunng lac- tation be divided, the milk wUl be seen to exude from a number of points, as from the pores of a sponge; these points correspond to sections of the thin, whitish, semi-transparent excretory ducts of the mammary glands which are called lactiferous or galactophorous ducts. They arise from the lobules, and perhaps also from the fatty tissue, as was thought by HaUer *; they unite successively like the veins, converge from the circumference to the centre traverse the substance of the gland, and at length form a variable number of ducts, which reach the centre of the gland, opposite the areola. In that situation they acquire their utmost size, and form considerable ampulla; or dilatations, between which scarcely any intervals are left. According to some anatomists the number of these ampuUse is not less than twenty ; 1 have never counted more than ten. They are of unequal size. At the base of the nipple they become contracted, straight, and parallel, and open upon its sum- mit by orifices, which are much narrower than the ducts themselves. Thus then, although there is no reservoir properly so called in the mammary gland, the ampullce above described may be regarded as such; with this difference only, that instead of one reservoir there are several. The lactiferous ducts, moreover, are surrounded, both in the mammilla and opposite the areola, with a dartoid tissue, the existence of which explains the state of orgasm and erection of the nipple, as well as the expulsion of the milk in a jet when the gland is excited. There is no trace of the cavernous structure described by some anatomists as existing in the nipple. The lacti- ferous ducts do not communicate with each other in any part of their course; neither in their terminating canals, nor in their ampuUaj, nor in their smaller ducts ; this may be proved by mercurial injections, or by filling each duct with a differently coloured injection. The mammary gland, like most others, is therefore divided into a certain number of distinct compartments, which may perform their functions independently of each other. Injections also show that the lactiferous ducts have no valves. Their structure is little known. It is generally admitted that they consist of an internal membrane continuous with the skin, and which must be analogous to the mucous membranes, and of an external fibrous coat, which I am inclined to regard as analogous to the tissue of the dartos. The arteries of the mamma arise from the thoracic, especially that which is called the external mammary, also from the intercostals and the internal mammary. The veins are very large, and of two kinds, subcutaneous and deep; the latter accompany the arteries, the former are visible through the skin. The lymphatics are very numerous, and enter the axillary glands. The * [Our present knowledge of tlie minute structure of glands has proved Hie inaccuracy of this supposition of HaUer.]