»4 OSTEOLOGY. The external wall (Jiy. 37.), remarkable for its anfractuosities, is formed by the ethmoid (Jb c), the os unguis, the palate bone (in y). the superior maxillary (s u o), and the inferior turbi- nated bone (d). It presents from above downwards, 1. the superior turbinated bone, superior concha, or crnicha of Morgagni (Ji), in front of which is a rough square surface; 2. the superior meatus (between b and c), at the back part of which we find the spheno-pala- tine foramen (n), and the opening of the posterior ethmoidal cells ; 3. below the superior meatus, the middle turbinated bone, or middle concha (c) ; 4. below, the middle meatus (between c and d), at the back of which is the opening of the maxillary sinus already described {see maxillary bone, ^ig'. 25.): and in front, the infundibulum (s, Jig. 37.) which leads into the anterior ethmoidal cells; 5. the in- ferior turbinated bone, or inferior concha (d); G. the inferior meatus (in o), in which we find the inferior orifice of the nasal canal. The anterior and posterior openings of the nasal fossae have been described with the anterior and inferior regions of the face. General Development of the Face. The development of the face is not effected solely by an equable increase of its dimensions; for certain regions are at one period of life predominant, at another period relatively smaller, which circumstances give rise to very cha- racteristic differences of form at different ages. State of the Anterior Region of the Face at different Periods of Life. In thefaitus. The upper part of the face shows a remarkable predomin- ance, dependent upon the early development of the frontal bone and the great capacity of the orbits. . The middle portion, or the superior maxilla, on the contrary, is very much contracted by the absence of the maxillary sinus and canine fossa; the vertical dimensions of the superior maxilla and of the palate bone are so smaU, that the edge of the orbit and the alveolar border are almost contiguous. We should mention here that the prominence of the alveolar border, which stiU mcloses all the germs of the teeth, is the principal cause of the absence of the canine fossa. Lastly the inferior maxilla is contracted in its vertical diameter, like the supe- rior and like it, presents a decided prominence in front, by reason of its in- closing the germs of the teeth in the alveoU. The inclusion of the denta^ germs also by causing the alveolar border to project, produces a degree of obliqmty downwards and backwards of the symphysis; to these causes of the snmU ex- tent of the vertical dimension of the face, we must add also the mconsiderable height of the ethmoid at this period. i„„„i „f The transverse dimensions of the face are very considerable at the level of the orbits; at the lower part of the face on the contrary, they are proportion- allv much less than in the adult. T-h^ cha acteristics,then, of the face of the foetus are, 1. the smallness of its vertical^mension; 2. the predominance in size of its upper over its lower ^^'^^ In the adult, the development of the maxillary sinus, the widening and vertical extension of the alveolar arches, give to the face the expression which '''^"irt'aM tEoK'thr^^h, and.the disappearance of the alveolar eiae part vTstore to the face the expression which it had m the fetus; but S elongation and prominence of the chin, which from the dmiinution of the