"^50 SPLANCHNOLOGY. of dense cellular tissue, and is dissected off with great difficulty in an attemct to remove the entire gland. On the itiside it is reduced to a mere border, -which corresponds to the styloid process, and the muscles and ligament connected with it. It sends off a con- siderable prolongation into the space which separates the styloid process and its muscles from the internal pterygoid ; but the most important relation of this border is with the external carotid artery, for which it furnishes a groove and sometimes even a complete canal. Its upper extremity corresponds to the zygomatic arch and the temporo-max- illary articulation. Its lower extremity fA\s up the interval between the angle of the jaw and the sterno-mastoid, and is separated from the sub-maxiUary gland (m) by a very thick fibrous septum. Besides the relations already indicated, the parotid has others with the ves- sels and nerves which traverse it at different depths : these may be called its intrinsic or deep relations. Thus the external carotid artery almost always perforates the gland near its inner side ; the temporal artery (see fig. 144.), the transversalis faciei, and the anterior auricular, which commence in the sub- stance of the gland, also traverse it in various directions. We also find within it the temporal vein, which is a communicating branch between the external and internal jugulars; the tmnk of the facial nerve is at first placed behind the gland, then penetrates it, and divides into two or three branches, which again subdivide and traverse it in all directions. The auricular nerve, a branch of the cervical plexus, also passes through it very superficially.* The parotid gland, by a remarkable exception, always contains in its substance, a little below the surface, several lymphatic glands, which may be readily distin- guished by their red colour from the proper tissue of the gland. It may be imagined that a morbid developement of these glands may have often been mistaken for disease of the parotid itself. Structure. A thick fibrous membrane covers the parotid glands, and sends prolongations into it which divide it into lobes, and these again into glandular lobules. The actual structure of the gland, therefore, depends upon the nature of these lobules; and without entering into details which belong more properly to general anatomy, it may be stated that it has been shown, by the aid of the simple microscope, that each lobule is a porous spongy body, some- thing like the pith of the rush, and provided with afferent vessels, viz. the arteries; and efferent vessels, i. e. the veins and excretory ducts, f The relations of the nerves and lymphatic vessels with these granules have not been accu- rately determined. The parotid arteries are very numerous : some of them arise directly from the external carotid; others from its branches, more particularly from the superficial temporal, the transversalis faciei, and the anterior and posterior auricular. The veins have similar names, and follow the same direction as the arteries. There is a parotid venous plexus. * These relations prove the almost absolute impossibility of cx- P' M!^ ./ia tirpating this gland by a cutting instrument, and of comjiression I'lg. H5. j^^^ after Desault's method, for the cure of salivary fistulsE. Compres- sion, which is extremely painful on account of the number of nerves passing through it, can only affect its superficial portion. t [VV^eberhas succeeded in distending with mercury the ducts (rf, fig. 14.'i.) of the parotid gland in the infant, and has shown that they terminate in closed vesicular extremities (c), abont f^jjgth of an inch in diameter, three times that of the capillary vessels ramifying upon them. See MUllcr's Physiology, translated by Baly, p. 447., and MiiUer on the Glands, translated by Solly, p. 69—(Tr.) In the early embryo of the sheep, this gland consists of a canal which opens into the mouth by one extremity, but is closed at the otlier, and has nnmerous short hollow branches projecting from it into a granular blastema ; as developement advances, the blastema is absorbed, and the ramified canal, increasing in length, becomes still more ramified, so as to form the ducts with their closed vesicular iMayniiUil lifty limes. terminations.]