466 SPLANCHNOLOGY. from the inferior thyroid; the thoracic, given off either directly from the aorta or troni the bronchial and intercostal arteries, and sometimes from the internal mammary ; and lastly, the abdominal, arising from the coronary artery ot the stomach, and the inferior phrenic. ' The veins terminate in the inferior thyroid, the superior cava, the azygos the internal mammary, the bronchial, the phrenic, and the coronary of the stomach. •' The lymphatic vessels enter the numerous glands which surround the oeso- phagus. The nerves are very numerous, and are derived from the pneumogastrics, which surround the oesophagus with a series of loops; these are joined by some branches from the thoracic ganglia of the sympathetic. The developeme/it of the oesophagus presents nothing worthy of notice. Functions. The oesophagus is intended to convey the food rapidly from the pharynx to the stomach. This function is performed by its longitudinal fibres shortening the passage, and by its circular fibres contracting it successively from above downwards during deglutition ; in vomiting or regurgitation, the contraction proceeds from below upwards. The Stomach. The stomach (yacrriip, ventriculus), one of the principal organs of digestion, is that wide dilatation (s, fig. 139.) of the alimentary canal, intervening be- tween the oesophagus (a) and the duodenum (6 e), in which the food is col- lected and converted into chyme. Situation. It is situated at the junction of the upper tenth with the lower nine-tenths of the alimentary canal, between the organs of deglutition and those of chylification. It occupies the upper part of the abdominal cavity (s,figs. 155. 161.), almost entirely fills the left hypochondrium, and advances into the epigastrium, as far as the limits of the right hypochondrium.* It is maintained in its place by the oesophagus and duodenum, and also by some folds of the peritoneum, which connect it with the diaphragm, the liver, and the spleen. The stomach is, therefore, less subject to displacement than most of the abdominal viscera. It may even be generally stated, that almost all the changes in the relative situation of this organ, are the results of dis- placements or alterations in the size of those organs which are conuected with it. I do not here refer to examples of complete transposition of the viscera, nor to those cases of malformation of the diaphragm, in which the stomach has been found in the thorax. Fig. 148. » [In order to facilitate the description of the vis- cera contained in the abdominal cavity, anatomists have adopted the following artificial division of that cavity into several regions: — The abdomen is first divided into three zones by two horizontal lines, one (a a,fl^. 148.) extending bet^veen the most pro- minent points of the cartilages of the ribs, and the other (4 b) between the crests of the iliac bones. The superior zone is called the epigastric, the mid- dle the umbilical, and the inferior the hypogastric. These three zones are then subdivided by two ver- tical parallel lines, drawn from the cartilages of the eighth rib down to the centre of Poupart's liga- ment. The epigastric zone is thus divided into two hypochondriac (11) and a middle epigastric region (2); the umbilical into two lumbar (3 3), and a middle umbilical region (4); and the hypogastric into two iliac (55), and a middle hypogastric region (G).]