140 OSTEOLOGY. to Vicq-d'Azyr, the coracoid and the acromion processes are represented by the tuberosity of the ischium and the pubes, -with this remarkable diiFerence only, that the two processes of the shoulder are separated from each other by the large acromio-coracoid notch, while in the pelvis the ischium and the pubes are united, and, instead of including a notch, form the circumference of a fo- ramen, the obtui'ator. This analogy is not universally admitted; for the ischium being intended to sustain the weight of the body when sitting, bears no resem- blance in this respect to the shoulder. One of the most striking analogies be- tween the shoulder and the pelvis is that of the clavicle and the horizontal portion of the pubes ; with this difference, that the clavicle is articulated with the scapula, while the pubes is united by bone to the ilium. Without forcing an analogy, we may trace a similitude between the symphysis pubis, and the union of the clavicles by means of the interclavicular ligament. Comparison of the Arm-bone and the Thigh. In order to make the parallel exact, we must remember the relative situation of these two bones, and compare the right femur with the left humerus; and the side of flexion, that is, the posterior aspect of the first, with the side of flexion or the anterior aspect of the second. This bemg determined, we must place the linea aspera of the femur in front, and the humerus in its natural position. The humerus is much smaller than the femur, being about a third shorter, and only half the weight and bulk. The humerus is placed vertically, and almost parallel to the axis of the trunk; in this it contrasts with the marked obliquity of the thigh-bones, which touch each other at their lower ends. The humeri are separated from each other by a greater distance than the femora; this dif- ference depends on the conformation of the human thorax, which is flattened in front and behind, while in quadrupeds it is flattened on the sides, and per- mits the approximation of the humeri, which serve as pillars of support to the fore part of the trunk. _ . . . The humerus is not curved like the femur, but, on the other hand, it is much more twisted, and presents an oblique groove, which does not exist in the femur. We shall compare in succession the shafts and the extremities of these bones. . „ „ , , *i 1. Comparison of the shafts. The posterior surface of the humerus exactly corresponds to the anterior surface of the femur, being, bke it, smooth and rounded The external surface resembles the external plane of the femur, with some differences ; the impression for the gluteus maximus is evidently ana- loeous to the deltoid impression. The internal surface is in contact with the brachial artery, as is the internal surface of the femur with the femoral artery. The anterior edge is a sort of linea aspera, analogous to that of the femur, and, like it, terminating by a bifurcation at its upper part. 2 Comparison of the lower ends of the bones. Although the differences between these parts are very marked, we can yet detect, m the one bone, traces of all the more important points of structure observed in the other. Thus the in- ernS Ind^xternal tuberosities of the humerus evidently resemble those of he femiT and they are both intended for the insertion of muscles and liga- !nltr^he trochlea of the humerus resembles that of the femur, with this ; tbnt^n the femui- the two borders of the pulley diverge from each SrSn?X?in^^t^^ they are paralfel throughout. In front othei benintt, wmue trochlea, we find depressions, which are manifestly and behind the amoral trocmea, w p^ ^ analogous to the "1^^^^^^ '^e may explain the existence without admitting ^^/"^'^^'^^""f l^^^^ is no representative in the of the small ^ead of the »^ fore-arm unite with the a ^^TTs^^':^, sli^porttd by a neck, of which, however