SPLANCHNOLOGY. 608 Muscles of the Penis. These are eight in number, four on each side, viz. the ischio-cavemosus, the oulbo-cavenwsus, the pubio-urethralis, and the ischio-bulbosus. The Ischio-cavernosus, or the Erector Penis. The ischio-cavernosus ic,fig. 163.) is an elongated muscle, situated upon the corresponding root of the corpus cavernosum ; it is curved upon itself, and is aponeurotic in part of its extent. It arises from the inner lip of the tuberosity of the ischium, below the trans- versus perinaai, by tendinous and fleshy fibres, and also from the surface of the root of the corpus cavernosum. From these points its fibres pass inwards, and are inserted, after a short course, into the edges of the upper surface of a very strong, shining, and fasciculated aponeurosis, having its fibres directed from behind forwards, which covers the corresponding root of the cavernous body, upon which it is then prolonged. The fleshy fibres, terminating at the edges of the aponeurosis, form two bundles ; one, internal, and extending upon the inner side of the root, the other external, which passes on the outer side of the same, and is prolonged, much further than the internal fasciculus, upon the ca- vernous body. In order to see the structure of this muscle, it is necessary to make a longitudinal incision into the aponeurosis, which entirely covers its lower surface; we then observe a muscular layer, which is tolerably thick behind, but thin in front, and is formed partly by the original fibres, and partly by others arising from the root of the corpus cavernosum itself. Relations. Below, with the cellular tissue and the dartos ; above, with the root of the corpus cavernosum, upon which it is closely applied; on the inside, with the bulbo-cavernosus, being separated from it by a triangular space, the base of which is directed backwards. Uses. It acts solely upon the corpus cavernosum, drawing the root of the penis downwards and backwards; instead of compressing the root of the corpus cavernosum by the contraction of its fibres, it tends, on the contrary, to dilate its cavity, by separating the lower from the upper wall, and in this manner facilitates erection. The Bulbo-cavernosus, or Accelerator Urince. This muscle {d,Jig. 163.) is much larger than the preceding; it is situated'm front of the anus, extending along the lower surface of the bulb and the spongy portion of the urethra, upon which it seems to be moulded. It arises in front of the sphincter ani by a median fibrous raphe, which is common to the two muscles of this name, and which appears to arise from the bulb, to which it adheres closely ; whilst the external fibres arise from the pos- terior margin of the triangular ligament, or deep perineal fascia, and frequently from the rami of the ossa pubis, opposite that margin. From this double origin the fibres pass forwards, and terminate in the following manner: the outermost fibres form a thin layer upon the lower surface of the triangular ligament, and are inserted by short tendinous fibres to the inner side of the root of the corpus cavernosum; the middle fibres, which are larger, are directed obliquely inwards, and are inserted by very distinct tendinous fibres im- mediately in front of the point of junction of the roots of the corpus cavernosum, in the sort of groove between that body and the urethra; the innermost fibres are the longest; thev pass directly forwards, and, at the point where the penis is bent in front of the pubis, are inflected outwards (,e,fg. 163.), pass upon the sides of the penis, and terminate on its dorsal surface, becoming continuous with the suspensory ligament. The last named termination appears to me to constitute the muscle described by Houston ; which, according to that anato-