506 SPLANCHNOLOGY. Its moveable attachvwnts are to the side of the prostate, the bladder and the rectum, to the point of the coccyx, and to the fibrous raphe extending from that point to the sphincter. The fibres arising from the symphysis pubis are concealed by the pubio-prostatic ligament * : they are few in number, short, and directed inwards, backwards, and downwards, to form a bundle (tha pronlalic), ■which was described by Santorini as the levator proslutce, and by Winslow as le prostatique superieur. The fibres arising from the spine of the ischium are blended at their origin with those of the coccygeus, and pass transversely in- wards to the point of the coccyx. The origins from the upper part of the oh- tui-ator foramen and from the brim of the pelvis take place by means of the pelvic aponeurosis, which divides and receives the muscle between its two layers (i. e. the superior pelvic and the obturator fascisB). These fibres, the hindermost of which are the longest, all pass inwards, describe a curve having its concavity directed upwards, and are divided into the vesical, anal, and prcE-coccygeal. The vesical fibres pass upon the sides of the inferior fundus (bas-fond) of the bladder. I have never seen them terminate on the vesiculffi seminales. The anal fibres having reached the sides of the rectum, above the sphincter, pass backwards, and meet behind the bowel. They constitute a half ring on each side, prolonging the sphincter upwards without any distinct line of demarcation. The prce-coccygeal fibres are directed backwards, and form a thick fleshy layer, occupying the interval between the coccyx and the sphincter, and completing the lower wall or floor of the pelvis. In the female there are also vaginal fibres. Relations. Its upper or internal surface is covered by the superior pelvic fascia, which separates it from the peritoneum and the organs contained in the pelvis. The obturator fascia intervenes between its lower or external sur- face and the internal obturator muscle, from which it is separated below by a large triangular space, narrow above and broad below, and fiUed with adipose tissue. Its posterior part is in relation with the glutaius. Action. It serves as a muscular floor for the pelvis. It raises the prostate, the inferior fundus of the bladder and the anus, and counteracts the effect of the diaphragm and abdominal muscles during violent exertions. It assists powerfully in the expulsion of the urine, the seminal fluid, and the faeces. As the largest portion of the muscle occupies the sides and the back of the rectimi, its especial use is to expel the contents of that bowel: this is efiected by the prse-coccygeal fibres of both muscles elevating the rectum, and by their anal fibres drawing it forwards and upwards, and compressing it on the sides. Functions of the large intestine. In the large intestine, the alimentary substances acquire the odour and all the other characters of the faeces; any remaining nutritious matter or chyle, which they may contain, is absorbed, and they be- come hardened and moulded in the cells of the colon. Absorption is suffici- ently active in the large intestine, to enable life to be supported for a consi- derable period by means of nutritive enemata, in persons who cannot receive food into the stomach. The large intestine acts also as a reservoir; its long course, its curvatures, and its easily yielding character, enable it to contain a great quantity of matter, and prevent the inconvenience of constant deffecation. The appendix vermiformis has no use in man ; it is merely the trace of a largely developed intestine in herbivorous animals. The rectum is the final reservoir, and one of the agents in the expulsion of the fajces, the presence of which gives rise to a sensation that informs us of the necessity for evacuating them. The sphincter, in general, opposes this evacuation, until it is determined upon by the wiU. The expulsion is effected by the action of the rectum, assisted by the diaphragm and the abdommal muscles. *n e bv tlie anterior folds of the recto-vesical fascia, from wliicii the fibres in question partly arise, and by which t\wy are separated from the levator aui: the posterior layer of the triangular ligament is in relation with tlieni in front.]