241 DEVELOPEMENT OF THE TEETH. natural direction, and consequently does not press upon the milk tooth, this latter remains, and forms a supernumerary tooth. We cannot, then, doubt the influence of this compression upon the fall of the milk teeth; but anatomists are not agreed as to the immediate cause of the destruction of the temporaiy alveoli, and of the roots of the teeth contained within them. How does this compression act? Does it produce the fall of the milk teeth in a purely me- chanical manner, or does it effect this indirectly by the destruction of the dental vessels and nerves? One author believes the latter to be the principal cause; but what we have already said regarding the want of vitality in the teeth, will abundantly prove that the wearing away of the alveolus and the milk tooth is the result of mechanical pressure. At the same time it should be observed, that, since the destruction of the roots of the milk teeth leaves no debris, a process of absorption must therefore be performed, the exciting cause of which is undoubtedly the compression above alluded to. It is not necessary, as some authors have believed, to assume the existence of a peculiar absorbent apparatus, appropriated to this office. The teeth of the first dentition are shed in the space comprised between the sixth and the eighth year, the fall of each tooth taking place in the same order as its appearance. Blake was the first to point out the existence of a cord (Cyfig. 102.) passing from tlie follicle of the perma- nent tooth, along a small long canal (c' c'), behind the alveolus of the milk tooth, and becoming con- tinuous with th-e gum. It has been supposed that the canal, and the cord placed within it, were intended to direct the tooth during the progress of its eruption. Hence the name of iter dentis given to the canal, and gubernaculuni dentis applied to the cord, which Has been ingeniously compared by M. Serres to the gubernaculum testis. This cord appears to me to be solid *, not hollow; it is very well marked in the incisor teeth, but forms a mere thread in the molars. Upon the whole, the in- fluence exerted by the iter dentis and gubernaculum upon the direction of the permanent teeth during its eruption, is by no means constant. Order of eruption. The first permanent teeth which appear are the firsi great molars; they precede the other permanent teeth by a considerable interval, and immediately succeed the milk teeth, co-existing with them tor some time ; they have been, therefore, unproperly classed among the fii-st set of teeth in some anatomical treatises. The first great molars are known by the vulgar name of seven years' teeth. The eruption of the permanent teeth takes place in the same order as that of the milk teeth. Below are stated the periods at which each pair are protruded: — Fig. 102 Middle lower incisors Middle upper incisors Lateral incisors First small molar Canine teeth Second small molar Second great molar Third great molar from 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 28 to 8 years. 9 — — 10 — 11 — 12 — 13 — 14 — 30 A rising from the adhesion of the sides of the elongated part of the cnvity of rescrro.]