447 THE GENIO-HYO-GLOSSUS. and lingual branch of the fifth. On the inside, it corresponds to the lingual artei-y, which never passes between the two portions of the muscle, to the genio-'hyo-glossus, and to the middle constrictor of the pharyux. Action. It depresses the corresponding edge of the tongue, and draws it towards the os hyoides. When the tongue has been protruded from the mouth, it assists in drawmg it backwards. When the two muscles act together, the tongue is depressed and contracted in its transverse diameter. The Gmio-hyo-glossus. This is the largest of the extrinsic muscles of the tongue: it is thick, triangular, and as it were radiated (a, fig. 143.). It arises from the superior genial process of the inferior maxilla by a sort of tendinous tuft, from which the fleshy fibres immediately proceed as from a centre, radiating backwards in different directions. The posterior fibres are attached to the os hyoides, either directly or through the medium of a membrane. They constitute the superior genio-hyoideus of Ferrein. The more anterior fibres expand upon the sides of the pharynx, occupy the interval between the os hyoides and the stylo-glossus, and immediately cover the corresponding portion of the pharynx, or rather the amygdaloid excavation. These fibres, which are very distinct (I was acquainted with them before I was aware that they had been described by others), constitute the genio-pharyngiens of Winslow. The fibres, which are next in order, proceeding forwards, all belong to the tongue, and traverse the whole length of that organ. The most anterior fibres, which are the shortest of all, having reached the lower surface of the tongue, curve forwards, and terminate near its point. All the others pass perpendicularly upwards and turn a little outwards, so as to terminate in the papillary mucous membrane at the side of the median line. Relations. On the inside it corresponds to its fellow, being separated from it by cellular tissue frequently loaded with fat. The two muscles are perfectly distinct, and separable until they enter the substance of the tongue, beyond which point they cannot be separated from each other. On the outside it is in relation with the sublingual gland, the mylo-hyoideus, hyo-glossus, stylo- glossus, and lingualis muscle. The hypo-glossal nerve perforates this muscle between its genio-pharyngeal and lingual portions. Its lower margin corre- sponds to the genio-hyoideus, from which it is separated by a very delicate layer of cellular tissue. Its upper margin is subjacent to the mucous membrane, of which it occasions a prominence on each side of the frEenum. Action. By its hyoid fibres it raises the os hyoides and carries it forwa.rds ; by its pharyngeal fibres it draws the pharynx forwards and compresses its sides ; by its posterior lingual fibres, as well as the hyoid, it carries the base of the tongue, and consequently the whole organ forwards. This is the muscle by which we are enabled to protrude the tongue from the mouth. By means of its anterior or reflected fibres, the tongue, when protruded, is drawn back into the mouth; lastly, by its median liagual fibres, the tongue is made into a groove ; when one muscle acts alone, it is protruded to the opposite side. Such, including the palato-glossus, already described, are the extrinsic muscles of the tongue: I shall not include among them the mylo-glossus of the older anatomists, and described also by Heister and Winslow, because it ap- pears to be nothing more than that portion of the superior constrictor of the pharynx, which is inserted into the mylo-hyoid ridge; nor yet the glosso- epigloitideus, a veij large muscle existing in the lower animals, which has been described by Albums in the human subject as a dependence of the genio-hyo- glossus. After the most careful examinations I have never been able to meet with it. Vessels, nerves, and cellular tissue. The cellular tissue of the tongue re- ceives arteries and veins, and from it issue both veins and lymphatics.