THE ffiSOPHAGUS. 463 between tlie pharynx and the stomach, i. e. the space hetween the fifth cervical vevtebi or?he cricoid cartilage, and the tenth dorsal vertebra In regard to lis S.r ov diameter, the cEsophagus is the narrowest pai-t of the alimentary canal lis diameter is not uniform throughout, the cervical portion* being certainly the narrowest; and therefore foreign bodies which are too large to Ss through the alimentary canal, are generally arrested in the neck. Thewidest nortion of the oesophagus is its lower end. . ^ The « ophagus'is capable of a certain degree of dilatation as is P/oved ^ the passage of large foreign bodies for a considerable distance through it (Mel. d'Hevin, A?ad. Roy. de Chirurgie), sometimes even as far as the stomach. That this dilatability, however, is very limited, may be inferred from the pain caused by swaUowing too large a morsel, and also from the stoppage of foreign bodies in the gullet. Nevertheless, in some cases, from external pressure upon, or from stricture of, some part of this canal, it becomes greatly enlaro-ed above the seat of obstruction, and forms a sort of ampuUa or dilata- tion resembling the crop in gallinaceous birds. In one case I found a sort of pouch, or diverticulum, of the mucous membrane, of considerable size, pro- truding between the separated muscular fibres, and at first sight resembling the crop of gallinaceous birds. An example has been recorded of dangerous suffocation occasioned by the pressure of alimentary matters in a cavity of that kind. Figure. The oesophagus is cylindrical, and differs from the rest of the ali- mentary canal in never containing any air, so that (when at rest) its parietes are always in contact. It is somewhat flattened, and as it were compressed, at its upper part; but below it always presents the appearance of a solid cylinder, or a dense firm cord. This appearance exists through its whole extent in some animals, the horse for example. Like all hollow organs, the oesophagus presents two surfaces, an external and an internal. The external surface. In its long course the oesophagus has many relations, all of which are of great importance, and must be examined in the neck, in the thorax, and in the abdomen. In its cervical portion {y,figs. 114. 140.) the oesophagus is in relation in front with the membranous portion of the trachea (x), beyond which it projects a little on the left side. The cellular tissue uniting these two canals is most con- densed above. All that portion which projects beyond the trachea comes into relation with the left sterno-thyroid muscle (n, .^jf. 114.), the thyroid body (2), the left recurrent laryngeal nerve, and the inferior thyroid vessels, which cross it at right angles. The relation of the oesophagus to the trachea explains how foreign bodies arrested in the former passage may compress the trachea, and impede or even prevent respiration. The deviation of the oesophagus to the left is the reason for selecting that side for the performance of oesopha- gotomy. Behind, it corresponds to the longi colli muscles and to the vertebral column, being united to them by loose cellular tissue, so that it is enabled to execute those movements, which are necessary for the performance of its func- tions. Laterally, it corresponds to the thyroid body, the common carotid artery, and the internal jugular vein ; hut these relations are somewhat modified on each side in consequence of the deviation of the oesophagus. Thus the relations of the oesophagus with the left common carotid are much more immediate than those with the right. The left recurrent nerve lies in front of the oesophagus, the right nerve a little behind it. Its thoracic portion (o,fig. 161.) is situated in the posterior mediastinum, and is in relation in front, commencing from above, with the trachea, then with its bifurcation, and slightly also with the left bronchus, which crosses it obliquely, and which may be compressed by it during the retention of a foreign body, (an example of this accident has been recorded by Habicot); lastly, it is [Opposite the cricoid cartiljige.]