379 THE FLEXOR BREVIS DIGITORUM. riiis is 77(6 Flexor Brevis Digiti Minimi. a small fleshy fasciculus {x, figs. 131, 132 133.), situated along the a small ncsny ^^^^^^^^ )^^^^^^ gfth metatarsal bone, and forming a continuation of the series of interosseous muscles, with which it was for a long time con- founded (interosseus, Spigelim): it extends from the second row of the tarsus, and from the f-Jth me- tatarsal bone, to the first phalanx of the little toe. It arises from the ligamentous layer covenng the plantar surface of the metatarsal row of the tarsal bones, and from the posterior extremity of the fifth metatarsal bone; it is inserted into the outer side of the first phalanx of the little toe, or, more cor- rectly, into the posterior edge of the glenoid liga- ment of the metatarso-phalangal articulation of that toe. Some of the fleshy fibres will he found at- 7 tached to the entire length of the external border of the fifth metatarsal bone; and these sometimes form a small and very distinct muscle, representing the opponens digiti minimi of the hand. Relaiims. It is covered below by the plantar fascia, which is here very thin, and also by the ten- don of the abductor digiti minimi; it is in relation above with the fifth metatarsal bone and the first plantar interosseous muscle. Action. The same as that of the preceding muscle with regard to flexion, but its action is less powerful and less extensive. Middle Plantar Region. The Flexor Brevis Digitorum. Dissection. Remove the plantar fascia, which is intimately united to this muscle posteriorly. The flexor brevis digitorum (y, fig. 131.) a short thick muscle, narrow behind, and divided into four tendons in front. It arises from the inside of the external tuberosity of the os calcis, from the upper surface of the middle plantar fascia, from a special tendinous expansion occupying the lower surface of the muscle, and appearing to be a dependence of the plantar fascia; and, lastly, from an aponeurotic septum, situated between it and the muscles of the external plantar region. It forms a fleshy belly, which is narrow and thick behind, passes directly forwards, increases in breadth, and soon divides into four, some- times only into three fasciculi, constituting as many small and perfectly dis- tinct penniform muscles, the long and delicate tendons of which emerge from the fleshy fibres before reaching the metatarso-phalangal articulations, be- come flattened, and are then situated below and in the same sheath with the tendons of the flexor longus. Opposite the first phalanx each tendon of the short flexor bifurcates, to allow the passage of the corresponding tendon of the flexor longus, is formed into a groove, becomes re-united above the latter tendon, and once more bifurcates, in order to be inserted along the borders of the second phalanx (hence it was named perforatus by Spigelius, and le perfore du pied by Winslow). The short flexor of the toes is therefore analogous to the superficial flexor of the fingers. Relations. It is covered below by the plantar fascia and the skin ; it is in relation above with the plantar vessels and nei-ves, with the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum, and with the flexor accessorius and the lumbricales, from