513 THE LI VEIL to meet with accidental adhesions between the liver and the diaphragm, con- sisting either of cellular filaments in the form of bands, or ot cellular tissue of a greater or less density. rr..- ■ The inferior or plane surface (pars sima, 11, fig. 154. &ndjig. 164.). 1 his is much more complicated th'an the upper surface, and upon it the hepatic vessels enter and make their exit from the liver. Certain eminences and depressions, or fissures of variable depth, are met with here, which have led to the division of the liver into several lobes; but that kind of division, which in animals appears to enable the organ to adapt itself to the form of the viscera of the abdomen, and has probably some relation with the conformation of the heart, cannot be said to exist in man. * This lower surface is directed downwards and backwards, and sometimes directly backwards : it presents for our consi- deration, in the first place, an antero-posterior fissure, or fissure of the umbilical vein, called also the longitudinal or horizontal&ssare {uh,fig. 164.), which extends from the anterior to the posterior border of the liver, and is divided by the trans- verse fissure (d p), meeting it at a right angle, into two halves, one anterior, the other posterior. The an- terior half lodges the mi umbilical vein in the M fcetus f, or the fibrous cord (u), to which it is reduced in the adult: the posterior half •V tdim^wsiv L, lodges the ductus ye- nosus in the foetus, or the fibrous band (u), by which it is replaced after birth. The anterior half of the longitudinal fissure is much deeper than the posterior, and is often converted into a complete canal by a sort of bridge formed by a prolongation of the substance of the liver: when incomplete, this bridge is always situated near the transverse fissure: it often consists of a band of fibrous tissue. Even when quite com- plete, it invariably presents a notch near the anterior border of the liver.J The posterior half of the longitudinal fissure inclines more or less obliquely to the left of the lobulus Spigelii (3), gives attachment like the transverse fissure to the gastro-hepatic omentum, and communicates with the fissure for the vena cava superior (c), behind the lobulus Spigelii. The existence of this fissure has been the chief cause of the division of the liver into the right or great lobe (1), and the left lobe (2), also termed the middle-sized lobe by those anatomists who admit as a third lobe the small lobe, the lobule, or the lobulus Spigelii (3). This division of the liver into two lobes is also marked on, the upper surface, as we have already seen, by the sus- pensory ligament. Of these lobes the right is much larger than the left; the former occupies the right hypochondrium ; the latter the epigastrium and left hypochondrium (^9. 161.). The proportion between the right and the left lobe cannot be precisely determined. The left lobe is sometimes reduced to a thin tongue, while at other times it is almost half the size of the right lobe. » The ancients admitted four lohes in the liver, which they distinguished by the singular names of mensn, porta^ eladivs, and U7tp;n7.K. + [The term uml)ilical fissure is olten restricted to this part of the longitudinal fissure • the posterior half is then called the fossa of the ductus venosus.] t [This bridge was purposely divided in the liver from whU-hJlir. \M. was drawn.] VOL. 1. L 1,