529 THE LIVER. Internal surface of the ductus hepaticus and ductus choledochus. The internal surface of both the hepatic duct and the ductus choledochus is characterised by the absence of valves, though traces of valves are occasionally met with in the ductus choledochus ; by the absence of the alveolar structure observed in the gall bladder ; and by having a multitude of openings or well marked pores, which are considered as belonging to muciparous follicles, and are apparently formed by an interlacement of fasciculi, having a fibrous character, and in- tersecting each other at very acute angles. The ductus choledochus and the hepatic duct are of uniform caliber throughout their whole length. The ductus choledochus is contracted a little in its third or duodenal portion ; it dilates into an olive-shaped ampulla, opposite the base of the papilla in the duodenum, and opens by an extremely small orifice or mouth: hence the reason why biliary calculi are so frequently arrested in the ampulla of the ductus choledochus. From the narrowness of the duodenal orifice of the ductus choledochus, from the moveable or yielding nature of the eminence upon which it opens, and from the oblique course of the duct through the substance of the walls of the duodenum, it follows that the bile and the pancreatic fluid may pass freely from the ductus choledochus into the duodenum, but cannot regurgitate from the duodenum into the duct. On this subject I have made several experi- ments. I have forcibly injected both water and air into the duodenum, in- cluded between two ligatui'es, but nothing entered into the biliary canals: on the other hand, I have injected the same fluids from the gall bladder into the duodenum, which I was thus able to distend at pleasure. But then, on compressing the bowel thus distended with great force, I have never been able to cause the slightest reflux into the biliary canals.* At the union of the cystic and hepatic ducts there is a very long spur- shaped process, formed by the lining membrane reflected upon itself. At the junction of the ductus choledochus and the pancreatic duct there is also a similar process, which I have seen extending down to the duodenal orifice. In neither situation do these processes prevent the fluid of one canal from passing into the other. Thus, the cystic bile might flow back into the hepatic duct, the pancreatic fluid might regurgitate into the ductus choledochus, and on the other hand the bile might enter the pancreatic duct, if these canals were not habitually full. Moreover, the spur-shaped process, between the ductus choledochus and the pancreatic canal, cannot arrest the flow, either of the bile or the pancreatic fluid, by being applied to the orifice of the one or other duct. Structure of the biliary ducts. All the biliary ducts have a similar structure : - they have an internal mucous membrane, continuous on the one hand with the lining membrane of the gall bladder, and on the other with that of the duo- denum ; it is thin, and provided with slightly developed papillse f; a proper membrane, composed of a dense areolar tissue, generally regarded as fibrous, but which appears to me analogous to the tissue of the dartos condensed ; a cellular layer connecting these canals to the surrounding parts; and lastly the peritoneum, which forms a very incomplete accessory tunic for them. Thus constituted, the biliary ducts have very thin walls, so that they col- lapse like veins, and are extremely dilatable. In certain cases of retention of the bile we find the ductus choledochus and the hepatic duct as large as the duodenum, the divisions of the hepatic duct dilated in proportion, and the i„^^l°TiT»?'l-r°* another no less incontestable, viz. the pass.igc of lunibnci into the biliary ducts ? The reason is, that the lumbricus is a foreign body, which has a power of selection and is able to overcome an obstacle, to seek for the oriBce of the due us choledochus, and to introduce itself within it. uuccus + [Numerous follicles are found in the ductus communis and in the hepatic duct, and all its subdivisions; according to Mr. Kiernan, even in the smallest that can be examined In the ilofg^ppri?c?s&fThnucfo' '"'"^ "'""•■"'"'^ longitudi„al'?ow^ VOL. I.