600 SPLANCHNOLOGY. Fig. 184. called it the nucleus of the testis) in denying that it contains any canals; or rather with Swammerdam, in regarding those canals that do exist in it, as destined exclusively for the arteries and veins. If, after dividing the testicle along its convex border, we reflect the tunica albuginea, we shall see that near the upper border the filaments (a a,fiq. 184 ) which constitute the substance of the testicle enter (6 b) numerous spaces existing in the tunica albuginea at this part, pass towards the thickening (i) ot the upper border, traverse it (c) from its posterior to its anterior extremity and then uniting together into a greater or less number of tubes, perforate (d) the tunica albuginea opposite the head of the epididymis (e). The corpus Highmorianum, moreover, exists only in the anterior half of the upper border of the testicle (see i.fig. 184.). All the bloodvessels reach the testicle at this point, and having entered it there, divide into two sets ; one of these is situated in the substance of the fibrous coat, so as to form its sinuses (the tunica vasculosa), and furnishes a multitude of vessels, which are given off from it in succession, and are distributed to the substance of the gland.* Among these vessels, I would particularly notice one tortuous artery which passes from before backwards along the upper border of the testicle. The other set of vessels perforate the corpus Highmorianum directly, and pass from the upper to the lower border of the testicle. The corpus High- morianum then is a thickening of the tunica albuginea, which occupies the anterior half of the upper border of the testicle, and is perforated by the filaments composing the proper tissue of the testicle, and also by a great num- ber of bloodvessels. Proper tissue. The proper substance of the testicle resembles a soft yel- lowish pulp, grooved by a multitude of small tense and strong columns, which divide it into a great number of masses or lobules (a a. Jig. 184.). These small columns are nothing more than the vessels given off from the tunica albuginea.f Each lobule represents a pyramid, the apex of which is directed towards the upper border of the gland, and the base towards its lower border. The lobules consist of a collection of extremely delicate fi^laments, folded a very great number of times upon them- selves, so as to resemble the granules of glands, and have in fact been described as such by some anat- omists.J These filaments are the seminiferous tubes, which were injected by Haller and Monro from the vas deferens. I have in vain attempted to perform the same expeMment; the mercury never passed be- yond the epididymis. It has been said that each lobule is formed by one or two tubuli, and the number of these tubes has been calculated at 300. Each tubulus is said to be 16 feet long, and ^^th of an inch in diameter. According to Monro's calculation there would be 5000 feet of tubuli seminiferi in the small space occupied by one testicle. * [According to Sir Astley Cooper, many of the arterial vessels pass along the septa, extend- ing from the inner surface of the tunica albuginea to the mediastinum, and then turn bacli and are distributed upon the lobes. The principal veins arise upon the larger ends of the lobes, pass up to the mediastinum, and perforate it.] t [Sir Astley Cooper has described fibrous columns which extend from the inner surface of the tunica albuginea, and unite with similar prolongations given off from the mediastinum testis, and forming the sides of the cells described by M. Cruveilhier (p. 599.). From these columns lateral membranes proceed, so as to form septa between the larger masses of glandular structure, whilst other finer membranous extensions enclose the small lobes in separate pouches. The larger bloodvessels are supported by the columns, and the smaller ones ramify upon the membranous septa and pouches.] , t Riolanus described a fibrous thickening of the proper coat of the testicle. The description given by Highmore is very confused ; he describes a hody obscure aut omntnd non cavum, which appears to perforate the tunica albuginea, and to convey the semen to the epididymis : he has also represented as opening into this canal certain parallel vessels, which he considered to be an artery and a vein.