SPLANCHNOLOGY. 532 duodenum, with which it has immediate relations : it is situated transversely and deeply behind the stomach, and in front of the lumbar vertebra;. Form and size. In form the pancreas resembles no other gland; it is transversely oblong, flattened from before backwards, large at its right ex- tremity, where it presents a sort of angular expansion like a hammer, and gra- dually tapering towards its left extremity : hence the division of this organ mto^ a head, body, and tail. Its long or transverse diameter is measured by the interval between the concavity of the duodenum (e e) and the spleen {li). The size and weight of the pancreas present many varieties. Its weight is generally from two to two and a half ounces, but may reach six ounces. The pancreas is sometimes found atrophied, and in one case of this kind it did not exceed an ounce in weight. Relations. Its anterior surface, convex and covered by the peritoneum, is in relation with the stomach, which moves freely upon it. In certain cases of dis- ease, adhesion between the pancreas and the stomach takes place; so that in chronic ulceration of the latter we find the pancreas supplying the place of large portions of the walls of the stomach which had been destroyed. When the stomach is situated lower down than usual, the pancreas has relations •either with the liver, or with the anterior walls of the abdomen, from which it is separated only by the gastro-hepatic omentum ; so that it may be felt with the greatest ease through the abdominal parietes.* In such cases even experienced practitioners have not unfrequently been led to infer the presence of scirrhus of the pylorus. The pancreas is also in relation in front with the first portion of the duodenum, and with the angle formed by the ascending and transverse colon. Its posterior surface is concave, and corresponds to the vertebral colimin, opposite the first lumbar vertebra: it is separated from the spine, however, by the splenic and the superior mesenteric veins, and by the commencement of the vena porta;. The two last mentioned veins are lodged in a deep groove, or rather almost complete canal, formed in the pancreas, which also includes the superior mesenteric artery and its surrounding plexus of nerves. A gi-eat number of lymphatic vessels and glands, the pillars of the diaphragm ((/ d), the vena cava on the right side, and the aorta on the left, also separate the pancreas from the vertebral column. To the left of the spine it is in relation with the left suprarenal capsule and kidney, and the corresponding renal vessels. The relation of the pancreas to the aorta is important; it is through the pancreas that the pulsations of that vessel are felt in the epigastrium, in emaciated individuals, and it is here that the vessel may be compressed. Its upper border is thick, and is grooved for the reception of the splenic artery, which often runs in a sort of hollow canal formed in the substance of the gland through its entire length. It also has relations with the first por- tion of the duodenum (e), with the lobulus Spigelii, and with the coeliac axis (0- The thickness of this border has led some anatomists to say, that the pancreas is prismatic and triangular. Its hwer border is much thinner than the upper, and is bounded by the third portion of the duodenum, from which it is separated on the left by the superior mesenteric vessels (m, the artery). Its right, or duodenal, or great extremity is in contact with the duodenum and the ductus choledochus. This extremity presents a very remarkable arrange- ment ; it is curved upon itself from above downwards, like the duodenum, by the concavity of which it is circumscribed; then, having reached the third portion of the bowel, it passes transversely to the left, behind the superior me- senteric vessels, and forms the posterior waU of the canal in which they are « This condition mav be foretold: it occurs whenever the vertebral column can be felt im- medi^telv behind theT^netes of the abdomen. I have never met«Tth it exceptmg m emacate.l ^^divMnals where a "r^^^^^^ of the small intestine occupied the cavity.of the pelvis. It is probably iL tS by the small intestino contafncd in the pelvis, that occasions the low position of the stomach.