SPLANCHNOLOGY. spect for the assertions of older anatomists, who, having dissected few human subjects, were accustomed to confound in their descriptions the structure found m animals with that observed in man. The liver presents for consideration a superior or convex surface, an infe- rior or plane surface, an anterior and a posterior border, a base, and a sum- mit. The superior surface {pars gibba) is convex and smooth, and in contact with the diaphragm, which is moulded exactly upon it: this convexity is not regular, but much greater on the right than on the left side, where the sur- face is almost flat {fig. 161.). This surface is dirided into two unequal parts (Z /) by a falciform fold of peritoneum (1 to 2), called the falciform or sus- pensory ligament of the liver, which seems to be principally intended to protect the umbilical vein, and which is never put upon the stretch during the natural state of fulness of the abdomen. One or more fissures are not unfrequently found running from before backwards upon the upper surface of the liver; and I am sure that these fissures, in explanation of which Glisson and Femel have advanced some very singular opinions, are due, at least in some cases, to the pressure of projecting folds of the diaphragm. The falciform ligament forms the line of separation between the right (/') and the left {t) lobes, a purely nominal distinction, which results from the old habit of admitting several lobes in the liver, and is retained here only for the sake of conformity to custom. The portion of the liver situated to the left of the suspensory ligament is always smaller than that upon the right. The convex surface of the liver is bounded behind by the reflection of the peritoneum upon it from the diaphragm. It is separated by the diaphragm from the heart, the ribs, and the base of the right lung. Its relations with the base of the right lung are very extensive ; the base of the lung and the con- vexity of the liver are exactly fitted to each other: this may be shown by making a vertical section from before backwards, upon the right side of the trunk, when the liver will be seen to be received, as it were, into a deep exca- vation in the base of the lung. This relation explains why abscesses and cysts of the liver may burst into the lung, and why abscesses of the lung point towards the liver ; why the liver may increase in size in the direction of the thorax, and push up the lung as far as the third or even the second rib ; and why eS"usions into the pleura may force the liver downwards in the abdo- men ; and also why peritonitis, confined to the region of the liver, is sometimes mistaken for pleurisy at the base of the thorax. The relations of the liver with the seven or eight inferior ribs, account for the impressions which are often seen upon its surface ; and also explain the facts, that violent blows upon the ribs may bruise this viscus; that pointed instruments thrust into the inter- costal spaces on the right side may wound it; and that abscesses of the liver point and open between the ribs. The relations of the convex surface of the liver with the abdominal parietes, which are so extensive in the new-born infant, and still more so in the foetus, are generally confined in the adult to a variable extent of the epigastrium, and to a small space below the edges of the ribs on the right side {fig. 155.). In certain conformations of the liver (almost always acquired), and in such diseases as are attended with an increased size of the organ, these relations become much more extended; and even in the absence of any disease, the liver is not unfrequently found to extend into the neighbourhood of the um- bilicus, or even into the right iliac region. In the erect posture the liver has a tendency to project below the ribs ; and therefore the sitting posture, with the upper part of the body inclining forwards, and resting upon some object, is the most favourable one for exploring this organ.* It is by no means rare * In an old woman, whose liver was deformed but healthy, and projected below the ribs, I was able to diagnosticate, by mediate percussion, the existence of a knuckle of intestine be- tween the liver and the parietes of the abdomen. Very lately 1 found a large loop of the transverse arch of the colon between the right lobe and the abdominal parietes, and a loop of the small intestine between the left lobe and those parietes.