564 SPLANCHNOLOGY. geal mucous membrane, and corresponds in part to the thyro- and crico-ary- tenoid muscles. Its upper border is horizontal and sinuous, and gives attachment to the hyo- thyroid membrane in its whole extent. It presents a notch {e,fig. 173.) in the median line ; which is shallower, but broader and more rounded, in the female than in the male. On the sides there is a small prominence, which forms a continuation of the superior tubercle, and is often wanting. More posteriorly we find on each side a slight notch, bounded by certain processes, called the great or superior cornua (s,Jig. 173, 174.) of the thyroid cartilage. The lower border is sinuous, and shorter than the upper, and hence the py- ramidal shape of the larynx. It presents a slight median projection, to wHch the crioo-thyroid ligament is attached; in the rest of its extent, it gives in- sertion to the crico-thyroid muscle, and presents a rough eminence, which forms a continuation of the inferior tubercle ; and more posteriorly, on each side, a slight notch, bounded by the lesser or inferior cornua (I, fig. 173. 175.) of the thyroid cartilage. Its posterior borders (s r, fig. 174.) are slightly sinuous, give attachment to the stylo-pharyngei and palato-pharyngei, and rest upon the vertebral column. As the thyroid cartilage projects behind the upper portion of the larynx, it may be regarded as protecting the larynx by its posterior borders resting upon the vertebral column. The cornua of the thyroid cartilage are four in number, two superior and two infer ior, and appear to be prolongations of the posterior borders of the cartilage. They are all rounded, and are bent inwards and backwards ; the upper or great cornua (s) are generally the larger, and are united by ligaments to the os hyoides'; the lower or lesser cornua (/) are usually smaller, and articulate with the cricoid cartilage. The arytenoid cartilages. The arytenoid cartilages (a, figs. 173.175 to 177.) are two in number*, are situated at the upper and back part of the larynx, and have a pyramidal and triangular form ; they are directed vertically, and bent backwards like the lip of an ewer, whence their name (apuTaim, a funnel). Their posterior surface ( fig. 175.) is triangular, broad, and concave, and receives the arytenoid muscle ; their internal surface is lined by the mucous membrane of the larynx; their anterior surface (fig. 173.) is convex, narrow, rough, and furrowed, and corresponds to the series of glands called the arytenoid glands, and to the superior vocal cord; their base is very deeply notched, articulates with the cricoid cartilage, and is terminated by two processes ; one posterior and external (/), which gives attachment to the lateral and posterior crico-arytenoid muscles; the other is anterior (a), pyramidal, and more or less elongated, has the inferior vocal cord attached to its point, and it forms a fourth, or almost a third, of the antero-posterior diameter of the alottis ; their apex is surmounted, or rather formed, by two very small and delicate cartilaginous nodules (</), which are bent inwards and backwards, and incurvated, so that they almost touch —they are called the conncula Thev were very correctly described by Santorini, under the name of the sixth and seventh cartilages of the larynx. They are now g^^^raUy known as the tubercles of Santorini, the capitula or cornicula laryngis. 1 hey appeal to me constantly to exist, sometimes closely united with the arytenoid cartilages, Td not moving at aU upon them, and sometimes perfectly distinct and very "^^Th^lllalottis. The epiglottis (eVl, upon, andTAoiTrls, the glottis; i figs-lli to 178 f or lingula, fonSing a moveable and highly elastic valve, is a fibro- cartUaginois lamina, situated {i, fig. 140.) behind the base o the to^^gue, a^d S front of the superior opening of the larynx, not upon the glottis, as its name would seem to indicate. . It was for a long time beHeved thfj^e.c existed on.^^^^^^^^^ larynx was f-^X^ ^-^^^^ whe^ admitted three cartilages n t Wx,-The' th;rd^^ and the arytenoid.