SPLANCHNOLOGY. Differences from phjsiological conditions. The spleen is often found small wrinkled, shrunk, or as it were withered and collapsed; a state that certainly supposes the opposite condition of distension. In other cases the spleen is large, and looks as if it were stretched. Ought we then to admit with Lieu- taud *, that the pressure from the distended state of the stomach during diges- tion diminishes the size of the spleen, which on the other hand becomes the seat of an afflux of blood in the intervals between the occurrence of that pro- cess. This idea is perhaps erroneous as far as regards the periods of collapse and turgescence ; but it is correct as to the principal fact, viz. the alternation of those two opposite conditions. Differences from age. The spleen is proportionally smaller in the foetus than in the adult, and in the adult than in the aged. Differences from disease. The morbid differences in the size of the spleen suggest most important considerations. In a great number of patients suffer- ing with intermittent fevers, more especially when this organ is already en- larged from previous attacks, it is manifestly swollen during each access. Hypertrophy of the spleen may proceed to an extraordinary extent; so that this organ, which in the natural condition is withdrawn so deeply into the left hypochondrium as not to be seen on opening the abdomen, in certain cases fills almost the whole of the abdominal cavity ; while its weight, which varies from two to eight ounces in the healthy condition, may be as much as ten, twenty, or thirty pounds; one case, indeed, has been recorded, where the spleen weighed forty-three pounds. Atrophy of the spleen is very rare. I have seen it reduced to the weight of two drachms. The specific gravity of the spleen is, to that of water, as 1160 to 1000. The spleen, both upon the surface and in the interior, most commonly re- sembles in colour the dark lees of wine. This colour, however, presents many varieties from a deep brown red to a pale grey. When the surface has been some time exposed to the air, it becomes bright red, like the surface of venous blood soon after its abstraction. Age, the kind of death, and diseases, have much effect on the colour of this organ, the different parts of which are not always of a uniform tint. I have seen a spleen of a deep chesnut brown hue. Consistence. One character of the tissue of the spleen is its extreme fri- ability. In general it may be lacerated by the pressure of the finger, to which it commimicates a feeling of crepitation, and emits a sound, like the crackling produced by bending tin. The spleen may be regarded as the most friable of all organs excepting the brain. Thus examples have been recorded of its laceration from blows, or falls upon the abdomen, and even from a general concussion, or from the contraction of the diaphragm and abdominal muscles during violent exertion, &c. The consistence of the spleen also varies much in different individuals, and in diseases ; indeed, the most important alterations of this organ may be re- ferred to either increased or diminished consistence. In induration, which is o-enerally accompanied with hypertrophy, the tissue of the spleen is compact, brittle, and dry,- and breaks like a piece of compact resin. In softening, carried to its highest degree, the spleen is converted into an inorganic pulp, exactly resembling a healthy spleen broken down by the fingers, and contain- ing a greater quantity of fluid than natural. This state is often observed after it .were possible to establish a relation between two such variable terms as the weight of the spleen and the body, that the former is ^th of the latter. * Lieutaud asserts that he has constantly found the spleen larger when death has occurred whilst dieestion was going on in the stomach, th.m when it has happened after that process had been completed ; but the spleen varies so much in size, tliat we cannot compare the spleen of one subject with that of another. An nigenious expcrunent has been made the result ot which is opposed to Lieutaud's opinion : out of four newly born puppies, bclongmg to the same litter, two were Itept without food, whilst to tlie other two milk was given: on kUUng tiiem tlieir spleens were all found of the same size.