94 OSTEOLOGY. Antero-posterior flatleni7ig. The cone represented by the thorax, is flattened from before backwards. Tliis flattening appears to be connected with the ex- istence of the clavicle ; for we meet with it in all animals provided with this bone, while in those in which it does not exist, the flattening is lateral, i. e. from one side to the othei\ The shape of the thorax is subject to many varieties, as respects different individuals, age, sex, &c. Of the individual varieties some are compatible with health; others are pathological and constitute malformations, the history of which belongs to the subject of diseases of the chest. Sometimes they are con- genital ; at other times they are the result of accidental circumstances which have modified the primitive conformation. In some subjects the lateral exceeds the antero-posterior flattening, and the sternum is prominent, as we habitually see it in the thprax of phthisical patients. Many individual varieties of conformation of the thorax are the effect of frequently repeated, or permanent compressions exercised on the bony cavity. I have seen infants, in whom the thorax was perfectly well-formed at birth, but had been deformed and flattened on the sides by pressui-e from the hands of the nurse. If there be, in fact, a time when the slightest external pressure may be productive of permanent deformity, it is during the first years of life. The. efi'ects of a strong and permanent constriction are also manifest in a very evi- dent manner, in the alterations of the form of the thorax consequent upon the use of stays. This species of constriction affects principally the lower part of the chest; so that the fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, and tenth ribs are pressed forwards and inwards, because the length and flexibility of their cartilages allow them to yield readily ; and all the viscera which correspond to this species of girdle, undergo very marked alterations in their direction, and even in their figure and position. Thus, the liver, the spleen, and the stomach, are forced upwards and compress the lungs, which, in their turn, are pushed to the upper part of the chest, and have a tendency to pass considerably beyond the level of the first rib : 2. the stomach becomes more obUque : 3. the transverse arch ot the colon is often forced downwards; the pregnant uterus acqmres an obhque direction In an old female, whose thorax was so contracted below as to pre- sent the appearance of a barrel, and bore witness to the use of a very tight corset, the cartilage of the seventh rib, on the right side, was in contact with that of the opposite rib; the xiphoid appendix was strongly depressed, and pushed behind the cartUages of the seventh and eighth ribs which touched each other Some varieties of conformation depend upon deviations of the vertebral column ; they evidently belong to pathological anatomy, and need not occupy our attention. In the female, the chest resembles a cone with a larger base but of less height than in the male. There are certain varieties at different ages, which will be noticed m the history of the general development of the thorax. As the thorax does not form a regular cone, when we speak of its ax« being directed obHquely from above downwards, and from behind forwards we only Ser to its anterior waU; the posterior and lateral bemg altogether devoid of * W?Snow consider in detaU the external and the internal surface of the thorax; the kiferior circumference or base, and the superior circumference or summit, resulting from its conical form. External Surface of the Thorax. On tlii. surface we find an anterior, a posterior, and two lateral regions. i.cU„ed '''Z:^'''''^Z 'me^I^7o,So'ol the thi™. I, presents.