202 ARTHROLOGY. outwards. They are therefore separated by a triangular interval, the base of which is directed forwards, and the apex backwards. We should observe con- cerning this articulation, that there are many varieties in the respective extent of the contiguous and continuous portions of the articular surfiices. Some- times they are almost whoUy continuous; at other times, on the contrary, they are nearly altogether contiguous. I have observed this latter disposition in a very remarkable degree in the symphysis of a young woman who died in the sixth month of pregnancy. . ,. The means of union are the following:—-1. An anterior pubic ligament (d fiq 7G) —a. very thin fibrous layer, the posterior portion of which is blended with the interosseous ligament: it is composed of fibres extending from the spine of each os pubis obliquely to the anterior surface of the opposite pubic bone; those from the left side pass in front of those from the right. 2. A posterwr pubic ligament, extremely thin, and covering the prominence formed by the ossa pu- bis behind, at the place of their articulation. This prominence, which is very marked in old subjects, seems to be produced by a jutting out of the posterior table of the bone backwards, apparently caused by the pressure of one articular surface upon the other; these surfaces being, as we have described, in contact behind but separate in front. In a female who died of peritonitis soon after delivery, I found this posterior prominence of the pubes formmg a sort of spine of some Unes in diameter from before backwards. 3. A superior pubic hga- ment (e fiq. 76.), very thick, and continuous on each side with a fibrous cord, that covers the upper edge of the os pubis, and effaces its irregularities. 4. An inferior pubic or triangular ligament (f,fig. 76.), which is exceedingly strong; it forms a continuation of the anterior and interosseous hgaments, and is corn- nosed of interlacing fibres : this Ugament renders the angle formed by the ossa TuS obtuse, and gives to the arch of the pubes that regular curve presented by it to the head of the foetus during labour. 5. An interosseous (>'^f; J which occupies the whole non-contiguous portion of the art cular surtaces, Ind vari^sTeatly in thickness in different individuals. This hgament forms ?he prTnctS^mea^ns of union between the bones of the pubes and is composed of fiCrwhich cross each other Uke those of the intervertebral substances. Of the Sub-pubic or Obturator Membrane, and the Sacro-sciatic Ligament. We include the description of the obturator and sacro-sciatic ligaments in the account of th^ articulations of the pelvis, simply remarking that they can scarcely be considered true Ugaments, but rather aponeuroses, yhich se^e can ''^'^'J-J'j' „„„;„tes of the pelvis, without contributing any thing to the margin of the ^''turator ioidui« , surfaces give attachment to the sKrSr'riS°s:aS.ri- - ^ " the pelvis. . ,.„„.„, (i fing 76, 77.) arises from a ridge situ- The great -acro-.m««c J^^^^"^^^^^^^^ aium, and also from the as- ated on the internal lip the tubero y^^^^^ considerable extend tofve%oTr p;:2^cis