ARTICULATIONS OF THE CARPUS. Mechanism of the Radio-carpal Articulation. This articulation belongs to the condyloid class, and has, therefore, four mo- tioL viz Con! extension, abduction, and adduction, and by passing from elidef bXa rds upon the louver end of the fore-arm. The posterior hgaments £d the extin or tendons are put on the stretch. When the movement of flexion h ca^TiedSar^Etionmay take place by laceration of the posterior hgaments, Lnd then the ro;er end of the two bones of the fore-arm pass m front of the arttcSar surface of the bones of the first row of the carpus. It should however be observed, that the possibility of dislocation of this joint has been doubted 2 In eTtension, the condyle formed by the carpus rolls forwards upon the lo4r end of the fore-arm; and as the articular surface of the carpus reaches further on the back than in front, it follows that extension may be carried farther than flexion: it is limited by the strong anterior ligaments, and also by the lateral ligaments, which, as is generaUy observed, are attached nearer to the side of flexion, than to that of extension. _ n., a It should also be remarked, that extension is the easiest motion ot the hand upon the fore-arm: this may be readUy understood from the great power whicli the hand possesses when it forms a right angle beHnd with the fore-arm. _ 3. In abduction the condyle formed by the carpus rolls in the direction of its length, i. e. transversely and from without inwards, while the radial edge of the hand is inclined towards the radial edge of the fore-arm : this motion is limited by the mutual meeting of the styloid process of the radius, and the ex- ternal process of the scaphoid. 4. In adduction the ulnar edge of the hand is bent towards the ulnar edge of the fore-arm; the motion is limited by the meeting of the summit of the styloid process of the ulna and the cuneiform bone, and also by the tension of the external lateral ligament. It may be easily conceived, that in the lateral movements, which are per- formed in the direction of the long diameter of the articular surfaces, disloca- tion must be very diflScult, and that when it does occur it must be incomplete. The movement of circumduction is nothing more than a succession of the dif- ferent motions which have been already pointed out. The hand describes a cone, of greater extent behind, that is, in the direction of extension, than in front, or in the direction of flexion. It is also stiU more restricted in adduc- tion and abduction. Articulations of the Carpus (figs. 73 to 75.). These articulations comprise, 1. the articulations of the bones of each row together ; and 2. the articulations of the two rows. Articulations of the Bones of each Mow. Preparation. 1. Remove the extensor and the flexor tendons; 2. Separate the hand from the fore-arm, then the first row from the second, and lastly the bones of both rows from each other, examining their means of union, before completing the separation. Articular surfaces. The articulations of the bones of each row are amphi- arthroses, and consequently present one part continuous, and another con- tiguous. The bones of the first row correspond to each other by oblique sur- faces, those of the second row by vertical and more extensive surfaces. Means of union. Two classes of ligaments belong to these joints: the one * We should observe that it is almost impossible to separate the mechanism of the carpal .■utioulations from that of the radio-carpal joint; the latter is noticed here by itselT only in order to conform with the anatomical divisions.