ARTICULATIONS OF THE CARPUS. 193 between the two rows, and extends transversely from the os unciforme to the trapezium, passing in front of the neck and the head of the os magnum. Be- sides these ligaments we also find, 1. An anterior ligament (/, fig. 75.) which is very thick, and stretches from the anterior surface of the os magnimi by diverging rays to those three bones of the first row that form the enarthro- dial cavity, in which the head of the os magnum is received, viz. the sca- phoid, the semilimar, and the cuneiform. 2. A posterior ligament (?", fig. 74.), which consists merely of some fibres extending obliquely from the bones of the first row to those of the second. On the inside and the outside of this carpal enarthrosis we find an ar- throdia. On the inside is the articulation of the cuneiform (3, fig. 73.) with the unciform (7) bone, constituted by plane surfaces and strengthened by a very thin posterior ligament, an anterior ligament much thicker than the pre- ceding, and an internal lateral ligament (c). On the outside is the articulation of the scaphoid with the trapezium and the trapezoid. The articular surface of the scaphoid (1) is a sort of head or elongated convexity, and those of the trapezium (4) and the trapezoid (5) are two facettes, that unite in forming a concavity, into which the convexity of the scaphoid is received. This small articulation is strengthened by tivo anterior ligaments, both of which proceed from the scaphoid, and are connected one to the trapezium, and the other to the trapezoid, and two posterior arranged in a similar manner with the pre- ceding, but much thinner. A single synovial capsule (see fig. 73.), very loose, especially behind, covers the corresponding articular surfaces of the two rows. But it is also provided with small culs-de-sac, which penetrate into the intervals between the bones of each row, there being three below, and two above. Mechanism of the Carpus. The mechanism of the carpus must be considered as providing both for strength and mobility. The conditions favourable to strength are, 1. the number of bones in the carpus ; 2. the reciprocal dovetailing of the two rows; 3. the numerous ligaments connecting the bones of each row together. The carpus, therefore, has power to resist the most violent shocks, chiefly on ac- count of the expenditure of force at each of its numerous articulations. With regard to mobility, the movements between the bones of each row must be distinguished from those which take place between the two rows. 1. The partial movement between the component bones of each row is scarcely ap- preciable, and requires no consideration. 2. The mobility of the two rows upon each other is, however, more marked. The enarthrodial articulation of the head of the os magnum can only perform forward and backward motions, tor the arthrodial joints on each side prevent any lateral movements. Mecliamsm of the carpal enarthrosis. The movement of extension is very limited on account of the resistance of the anterior Ugaments. The move- ment of ^mon, on the contrary, is much more considerable: it may be carried sufficiently far to cause luxation of the head of the os magnum backwards. Ihe slight structure and the looseness of the posterior ligaments, and also the looseness of the synovial membrane behind, explain the facility of the forward motions It IS of importance to remark that the carpal enarthrosis performs a TkriofP-^'* ^^""."^ ^^"'l' then even the radio-carpal arti- of ttie carpus!""" mechanism Metacarpal Articulations. theT^shStf "^-J?^^ ^T' ^'■^.""ite'l at their extremities, but separated alons Jheir S£i exTr'eSs.'"""' articulations, 1. of their carpal, and 2 of TOL. I.