ARTHROLOGY. 178 motions than -would arise from the mobility of the articular surfaces. The result of this flexibility is a twisting motion, -which occurs principally in the cartilage, and during which the rib acts like a lever. This movement of torsion or of rotation in a rib round an axis, represented by the cord of the arc which it forms, is in a direct ratio to the length of the rib and its cartilage. We shall now examine the movements of the thorax in general. Movements of the Thorax in general. The general movements of the thorax -which result from those partial motions we have been engaged in considering are, 1. A movement of dilatation, cor- responding with the act of inspiration; 2. A movement of contraction, corre- sponding with that of expiration. 1. The dilatation of the thorax is caused by the elevation of the ribs. By this movement, the anterior extremity of each rib is carried forwards, and the antero-posterior diameter of the thorax is thus increased; the most excentric portion of the rib is carried outwards, and the transverse diameter of the thorax is thereby augmented. There is a sort of antagonism between the upper and lower part of the thorax, with regard to the direction in which the increase in its capacity is effected: in the upper part the transverse diameter is most augmented; in the lower, the antero-posterior diameter. So long as the elevation of the ribs is effected through means of the costo- vertebral articulations, and the flexibility of the ribs and their cartilages, the sternum scarcely participates in the motion; but when the elevation is carried beyond a certain point, the sternum is carried upwards with the ribs; and the first rib which may be looked upon as the prop of the sternum, also partici- pates in the motion. The sternum does not perform an angular motion during its elevation, as Haller imagined ; the whole of it is carried forwards at once, retaining its pri- mitive direction, as Borelli had previously well pointed out. We have as yet only spoken of the increase in the capacity of the thorax in the antero-posterior and transverse directions; its enlargement vertically is produced by a totally different mechanism, viz. the contraction of the dia- phragm combined with the elevation of the ribs: we shall notice this afterwards. 2. The contraction of the thorax is effected by the depression of the ribs. This is produced, 1. by their own weight; 2. by the elasticity of their carti- lages, which being no longer maintained in a twisted condition, in consequence of the relaxation of the muscles engaged in elevating the ribs, react, and restore the ribs to their original position, so that, as Haller has ingeniously re- marked, the rib and the cartilage are alternately the cause of their respective movements ; 3. by the action of the muscles of expiration. ARTICULATIONS OF THE SUPERIOR OR THORACIC EXTREMITIES. Articulations of the shoulder. — Scapulo-humeral. — Humero-cubital. — liadio- cubital.—Radio-carpal. — Of the carpus and metacarpus. — Of the fingers. Akticcxations of the Shouldeb. The two bon es of the shoulder are articulated together; the cla-vicle is also united with the sternum and the first rib. There are therefore two orders of articula- tions, 1. the intrinsic articulations of the shoulder, viz. the acromio- and coraco- clavicular articulations; 2. the extrinsic, or the sterno- and costo-clavicular. The Acromio- and Coraco-clavicular Articulations. The clavicle is articulated, 1. with the acromion by its external extremity, the acrmnio-clavicular articulation; 2. with the coracoid process by its lower surface, the coraco-clavicular articulation. Preparation. Remove the skin, the cellular tissue, and the muscles which surround the joints; separate the acromion from the spine of the scapula; re- move in succession the difierent layers of the superior acromio-clavicular li- gament, so as to be able to judge of its thickness. Make a verticiU section ot