THE CRANIUM IN GENERAL. 63 Spheno-frontal |spheno-jugal. the Cranium. Syndesmology.) Internal Surface of the Cranium. lu order to examine the internal surface of the cranium, it is necessary to make two sections, one horizontally from the occipital protuberance to the gla- bella {fig. 23.), the other vertically _JU-|j^lji^p^ along the median line from before suture. It receives the superior longitudinal sinus in its entire extent; and contains the internal orifices of the parietal foramina. On each side are the frontal fossa, corresponding to the protuberance of the same name, and the internal surface of the fronto-parietal (coronal) sutui'e (b c, fig. 22.) ; the encephalic surface of the parietal bone {b d f c), and the parietal fossa ; the lambdoid suture (d /), and the superior occipital fossa. We may remark that the fossce are deeper than -would seem to be indicated by the external prominences, because they are partly formed at the expense of the bone itself; and that the sutures are less deeply denticulated on their internal than on their external aspect. Lastly, the whole internal surface of the vault of the cranium, but especially that of the parietal bones, is traversed by ramified grooves (6 i), partly for veins, partly for arteries; the venous grooves, which are not perceptible in all subjects, but which are very large in some, are distinguished from the arterial, as M. Breschet has pointed out, by their being perforated by numerous fora- mina. The hose of the cranium (fix/. 23.), presents three series of fossse, or three re- gions, arranged as it were in steps upon an inclined plane, from before back- wards, and from above downwards. * The malar bone is often called the jugal bone, and hence the names of fronto-iucal and upheno-jugal. " ■8 backwards (fig. 22.). In the median line, proceeding from before backwards, we observe the frontal crest or ridge, and the longitudinal groove, stretching from the frontal crest, along the roof of the skull to the internal occipital protuberance. In this groove, which is of no great depth, we find a line which indicates the place of union of the two pieces of the frontal bone during the early periods of life, and the internal surface of the sagittal