355 THE SARTORIUS. sary to preserve the vessels in order to obtain a good view of their relations : avoid opening the vena saphena, as it generally contains a large quantity of blood, the escape of which will impede the dissection. If the vein should be opened, it must be tied above and below the.orifice, and then cut across. When the superficial muscles have been studied, they must be divided in the middle, in order to expose the muscles of the deep layers. The sartori^us (p, Jig. 126.), so named on account of its uses, crosses diagonally over the anterior and then the inner part of the thigh to the top of the leg. It is the longest muscle in the body, both as regards its total length, and more especially in reference to the length of its fibres ; whence the name of longus given to it by Riolanus. This is the case even although it be measured by a line stretched di- rectly between its two extremities. '■ Attachments. It arises from the anterior supe- rior spinous process of the Uium, from the upper half of the notch below that process, and from a tendinous septum between the muscle and the fascia lata. It is inserted into the inner margin of the crest of the tibia, situated beneath the liga- mentiun pateUee. Its origin consists of some ten- dinous fibres which are more marked behind and on the outer side than in front and within. The fleshy fibres commence almost immediately, and form a flat riband-like muscle (fascialis, Spigelius), which in reality is prismatic and triangular, as well as the tendinous sheath in which it is en- closed. The muscle increases in breadth as far as the lower third of the thigh, and passes ob- liquely downwards, inwards, and a little back- wards; it becomes internal and vertical at the lower third {p, figs. 124, 125.), and reaches the back part of the inner condyle of the femur, to turn round the knee joint, tendinous fibres having already commenced on the anterior edge of the muscle. The fleshy fibres terminate precisely where the muscle changes its direction to pass for- wards. The flat tendon by which they are suc- ceeded is at first narrow, but becomes considerably . expanded, to be inserted into the crest of the tibia, m tront of the tendons of the semi-tendinosus and gracilis muscles, with which It IS united, so as to form what is called thepatte d'oie (goose's foot). A synovial membrane separates it from the tendons of these muscles. A considerable tendinous expansion is given ofi' from its lower edge, and contributes to form the inner part of the fascia of the leg. Relations The sartorius is the most superficial muscle in the anterior aspect of the thigh: it lies beneath the feboral fascia, and covers the psoas ana macus, the rectus, the vastus internus, the adductor longus, the gracilis, the adductor magnus, and the internal lateral ligament of the knee joint. The Doraersot this muscle deserve particular attention, because incisions for liga- Lt^L • 1 f'Poi'al artery must be made along them. Its most important re- thp f™!! ^'^^J^^ ^^""'■''^ ""'^^"^ ; it is the satellite muscle of Swards aTthe lS"°r^ T^' ''"'""'"^ ^'^^'"S turned Xx toVe base of tT^'f • ^'^'^ represents a perpendicular drawn from the ti^ k in r i triangle. In the middle third of the thigh, the ar- tery IS in relation, farst, with the inner border, then with the posterior surface