OSTEOLOGY. 72 is continuous with the external edge of the horizontal plate. 6. The superior or sphenoidal border is connected with the sphenoid in almost the whole of its extent. It presents a deep notch forming three fourths or sometimes the entire spheno-palatineforamen {6,fig. 25.; o, figs. 26,27.; n, fig. 37.), which corresponds with the spheno-palatine ganglion, and gives passage to the vessels and nerves of the same name. This border is surmounted hy two processes, an anterior or orbital (4, fig. 25. ; a, figs. 26, 27.), and a. posterior or sphenoidal {5, fig. 25. ; in, figs, 26, 27.). The sphenoidal process is the broader, particularly at its base, but is not so elevated as the anterior: it presents three facettes, an internal, which forms part of the nasal fossa; an external, which is visible in the zygomatic fossa; and a superior, which articulates with the sphenoid, and presents a groove which contributes to form the pterygo-palatine canal. The orbital process, inclined outwards, and supported by a constricted portion or neck, has five facettes. Three of these are articular, viz. the internal (lu, fig. 27.), which is concave, and unites with the ethmoid, covering and com- pleting its cells ; the anterior (p,fig. 27.), which joins the maxillary bone ; and the posterior (_q,fig. 26.), which is united to the sphenoid by certain asperities surrounding a cell, which exists in the substance of the process and communi- cates with the sphenoidal sinus. The other two are non-articular, viz. the su- perior (r,fig. 26.), which forms the deepest part of the floor of the orbit, and the external {s,fig. 26.), which forms part of the zygomatic fossa, and is sepa- rated from the preceding by a small edge, which constitutes a portion of the spheno-maxUlary fissure. Internal structure. The palate bone is compact throughout, excepting in the palatine process, where it is thick and cellular. Connections. The palate bone articulates with its fellow on the opposite side, with the maxillary, the sphenoid, the ethmoid, the inferior turbinated bone, and the vomer. Development. This bone is developed from a single point of ossification, which appears from the fortieth to the fiftieth day, at the point of union of the vertical and horizontal portions, and the pyramidal process. During its de- velopment the bone appears as it were crushed down, so that the vertical portion is shorter than the horizontal, and there is a marked predominance in the antero-posterior diameter. This disposition is in accordance with the shortness of the vertical diameter of the superior maxilla. The Malar Bones (Jig. 28.). The malar bones, called also cheek, jugal, or zygomatic bones, are situated in the superior and lateral part of the face: their form is that of a very irregular four-sided figure. They have #<# Pig- 2«. three surfaces, an anterior, a posterior, and a superior; four borders, and four angles. The anterior or cutaneous surface (a) looks outwards, is convex and smooth, and presents the openings of several foramina (/t), named malar, which are intended for nerves and vessels. This surface gives attachment below to the zygomaticus major muscle. It forms the most pro- minent part of the cheek, and is covered only by the skin and orbicularis pal- pebrarum muscle: it is consequently much exposed to injury. The superior or orbital surface (6) is supported by a thick curved process, the orbital process, which arises from the bone almost at a right angle. This surface is concave, and of small extent: it forms part of the orbit, exhibits the internal openings of one or more malar foramina, and terminates behind by a rough, serrated edge, which articulates above with the frontal and sphe- noid boni, and below with the superior maxiUary The same maxillary edge presents in the middle a retiring, smooth angle, which constitutes the anterior extremity of the spheno-maxillary fissure.