GENERAL VIEW OF THE HUMAN BODY. 3 we ascend in the scale, we find tlie layers which separate these two teguments become more and more increased in thickness, and cavities are at length formed between them. Nevertheless, however widely these membranes may be separated from each other, and however different they may be m external aspect, there are abundant analogies to estabUsh uneqmvocaUy their common ""under the skin there is a layer of adipose ceUular tissue, which gently elevates it, fills up the depressions, and contributes tofimpart that roundness of form which characterises all animals, and particularly the human species. In some parts, there are muscles inserted into the ski», which are intended for its movement; these are the cutaneous muscles. In man they are very in- considerable, and are confined to the neck and face, where they play an ini- portant part in giving expression to the physiognomy : but m the larger ani- mals they Une the whole skin, and in certain classes, of very simple organisa- tion, they constitute the entire locomotive apparatus. The superficial veins and lymphatics traverse the subcutaneous cellular tissue : the latter at various parts of their course pass through enlargements denominated lymphatic gangUons, or lymphatic glands, which are grouped to- gether in certain regions. . Below the cellular tissue are the muscles, red fleshy bundles arranged in many layers. In the centre of all these structures are placed the bones, inflexible columns which serve for a support to all that surrounds them. The vessels and the nerves are in the immediate neighbourhood of the bones, and consequently removed as much as possible from external injury. Lastly, around the muscles and under the subcutaneous adipose tissue are certain strong membranes, which bind the parts together, and which, by prolongations detached from their internal surface, separate and retain in their situation the different muscular layers, frequently each particular muscle: these envelopes are the aponeu- roses. Such is the general structure of the limbs or extremities. If next we examine the trunk, we find in its parietes a similar structure, but more internally are cavities lined by thin transparent membranes, named serous, on account of a liquid or serosity with which they are moistened. In these cavities are situated organs of a complex structure, called viscera, of which we shall give a rapid enumeration in an order conformable to the offices they perform in the animal economy. The human body, as well as that of other organised beings, is composed of certain parts, denominated organs (opyavov, an instrument), which differ from each other in their structure and use, but are all combined, for the double purpose of the preservation of the individual, and the continuance of the species. To accomplish these purposes, the organs are distributed in a certain number of groups or series, each of which has a definite end to fulfil. This end is de- nominated a, function: the series of organs receives the name of an apparatus. Of those necessary for the preservation of the individual, some are designed to place him in relation with external objects, and these constitute the apparatus of relation: the others are destined to repair the loss, which the parts of the body are constantly suffering; they form the apparatus of nutrition. The apparatus of relation may be subdivided into two classes: 1. The appa- ratus of sensation. 2. The apparatus of motion. Apparatus of sensation. The apparatus of sensation consists : 1. of the or- gans uf sense; 2. of the nerves; 3. of the brain and spinal cord. The organs of the senses are, I. Tlie skin, which possesses sensibility, the exercise of which constitutes tact. The skin being placed under the direction of the will, and rendered mobile in consequence of the peculiar mechanism of the human hand, is called the organ of touch. 2. The organ of taste, the neat B 2.