ARTICULATIONS OF THE PELVIS. 203 together, it becomes very narrow and thick, and is directed upwards and inwards ; it then expands considerably, and is inserted into the edges of the sacrum and coccyx, and even shghtly into the posterior-extremity of the crest of the ilium. Its upper edge is continuous with the aponeurosis, extending over the pyriformis muscle. It is covered by the gluteus maximus, to which it af- fords insertions, and is situated posteriorly to the small sacro-sciatic ligament. Thesmall sacro-sciatic ligament(m, figs. 76,77.), placed in front of the preceding, and ex- tremely thin, arises from the summit of the spine of the ischium, passes inwards, and be- coming thinner, is lost upon the anterior surface of the great sacro-sciatic ligament. The two sacro-sciatic ligaments divide the great sacro- sciatic notch into two distinct foramina: the upper (n,fig.77.) is very large, and shaped like a triangle with the angles rounded ofP, and is in a great measure filled up by the coccygeus and pyriformis muscles ; it gives passage also to the great and small sciatic nerves, to the ischiatic vessels and to the gluteal and internal pudic vessels and nerves, and to a large quantity of cel- lular tissue. That form of hernia which is called sciatic takes place through this foramen. The lower {o,fig. 77.) is much smaller it is situated between the spine and tuberosity of the ischium, and gives passage to the obturator in- temus muscle, and to the internal pudic vessels and nerves. Mechanism of the Pelvis. The mechanism of the pelvis should be regarded in four distinct points of view!— 1. as affording protection to the contained viscera ; 2. in relation to the part which it performs in the mechanism of standing and progression; 3. in connection with the phenomena of parturition ; and 4. in reference to the motions which take place at its articulations with other bones, and those between its own component parts. 1. Mechanism of the pelvis considered as a protecting structure. The following are the conditions in the structure of the pelvis, having reference to its office as a protector of the contained viscera: —1. behind; the presence of the sacrum, which is itself protected, as well as the nerves that pass through it, by the great prominence of the posterior iliac tuberosities which project considerably be- yond it; 2. on the sides, by the crest of the ilium, and the prominence of the trochanters, which so often preserve the pelvis from external violence; 3. in front, the means of protection are much less efficacious, in consequence of the vast notch which is situated in this region. The partial absence of the bony parietes in front has reference to the great variations in size which the viscera of the pelvis can undergo, and which would have been incompatible with the existence of an osseous cincture, incapable of dilatation. The absence of bony walls in the situation of the three great notches, presented by the outlet of the pelvis, is also unfavourable to its so- lidity ; but it has many other important uses, particularly in the mechanism of labour. The pelvis, especially at its upper part, where it is most exposed to injury, is enabled to resist external violence by virtue of its vaulted construc- tion. Part of the impulse also is lost in producing the slight degree of gliding motion permitted at the symj)hysis pubis. Where, however, the power of re- sistance possessed by the pelvis is overcome, it will be seen at once that the parts most liable to fracture are the ascending rami of the ischia at their junc- tion with the descending rami of the ossa pubis. 2. Mechanism of the pelvis with regard to standing and progression. The part