SPLANCHNOLOGY. ■^J^Z'ihl ^r"^ confirmed by the microscopical observations of Rocderer and the chemical experiments of Schwilgue ; and also by the results furnished Srp^r^r ? ^^'"^ ^'^"^'^ and longitudinal muscular nores in the uteri of some animals, even when not in a gravid condition.* I he nature of the fibres of the uterus being determined, we may now ex- amme their direction. Some anatomists agree with Malpighi and Monro, that they have no regularity in their disposition, but are interlaced in an inex- tricable manner. It must be confessed that, in the unimpregnated uterus such is the case ; but during gestation, the arrangement of the greater number ot fibres can be traced.-f In the body the external thin layer is composed of two median vertical tascicub, one on each surface of the uterus ; of another fasciculus occupying the tundus, and of some obhque ascending and descending fibres, which converge towards the FaUopian tubes, the round ligaments, and the Ugaments of the ovaries, which contain prolongations of these fibres.f This first, or superficial layer, belongs exclusively to the body of the uterus. The deep layer of the body consists of two series of circular fibres ; each series forming a cone, the apex of which corresponds to the Fallopian tube, while the base is directed towards the median line, and is there blended with that of the oppo- site side. The neck is composed entirely of circular fibres, which intersect each other at very acute angles. The facts furnished by comparative anatomy perfectly accord with the pre- ceding description. Thus in the uterus of a sow, which had littered, I found that the cervix was composed exclusively of circular fibres; and that the cornua (aduterum of M. Geoffrey St. Hilaire), which represent the body of the uterus of the human female, were formed by two layers of fibres, one external and longitudinal, the other deep and circular. From this arrangement we may therefore conclude, that the human uterus results from the union of two cornua, which communicate directly with each other, instead of opening separately into the cavity of the cervix. When examined in the state of pregnancy, the tissue of the uterus is found to be traversed by venous canals, or uterine sinuses, which are of very con- siderable size, especially opposite the attachment of the placenta. This great number of vessels gives to the tissue of the uterus the appearance of an erectile or cavernous structure, having muscular parietes.§ The external or peritoneal coat. The peritoneum, after covering the posterior surface of the bladder, is reflected upon the anterior surface of the uterus, of which it covers only the upper three fourths, the lower fourth being in im- mediate contact with the bladder. At the fundus of the uterus, it passes to the posterior surface, which it covers entirely, is prolonged a short distance upon the vagina, and is then reflected upon the rectum. The broad ligaments are formed by a transverse duplicature of this coat. Two falciform folds, formed by this membrane betweeen the bladder and the uterus, are called the vesico-uterine ligaments, and two others, between the uterus and the rectum, are named the recto-uterine ligaments. The peritoneum adheres very loosely to the borders of the uterus, but much more closely as it approaches the median line. When enlarged during pregnancy the uterus becomes covered with the peritoneum of the broad * [The muscular fibres of the gravid uterus have been described by Dr. Baly (translation of Miiller's Physiology). Like other inorganic muscular fibres, they have no transverse striae ; they are much broader than those of the alimentary canal, and taper very much at their ex- tremities, which are sometimes split into two or three points : the corpuscules upon them are comparatively small.] t Hunter, Anatomia uteri. Rosemberger in Schlegel, Syllog. Oper. Minor, ad Ariem Obstetric. Lipsioe, tom. ii p. 296. Memoire present6 S I'Acad^mie de Medecine, par MmeBoivin. Oct. 1821. % I. e. in the gravid state. § This combination of the erectile and muscular tissues is found in the penis of the horse, and, perliaps, also, in that of man.