137 THE TOES. the internal cuneiform bone. There is no ai-ticular surface on the circumfer- ence of the first metatarsal bone. In this point it resembles the first metacarpal bone, and by this and its great size it is distinguished from all the others. The fifth 'metatarsal bone (m, fig'. 54, 55.) is the shortest after the first; it has only one lateral articular face on its tarsal extremity. On the opposite side of this extremity, -viz. on the outside, we observe a large process, process of the fifth metatarsal hone, shaped like a triangulai- pyramid, and directed obliquely backwards and outwards, into which the peroneus brevis is inserted. This process may be easily felt under the skin, and serves as a guide in the partial amputation of the foot at the tarso-metatarsal articulation. Another character- istic of the fifth metatarsal bone is the great obliquity outwards and backwards of the articular face on its posterior extremity. The second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones are difitinguished from each other by the following characters. The second is the longest, and also the largest after the first; it articulates with the three cimeiform bones by its posterior extremity, which is dovetailed with them. The third and the fourth metatarsal bones are of almost equal length; their apparent difference in an articulated foot depends chiefly on the fact, that the articulation of the fourth with the cuboid is on a plane poste- rior to that of the third with the external cuneiform bone. Lastly, they may be known from each other by the presence of two surfaces, on the inside of the posterior extremity of the fourth metatarsal; one being for the external cuneiform bone, and the other for the third metatarsal bone. Development. The metatarsal bones are developed from two points ; one for the body, and one for the anterior or digital extremity. The first metatarsal bone is the only exception to this rule, for its epiphysary point is situated at the posterior extremity.* The osseous point of the body appears first during the third month, according to the majority of authors, but about the forty-fifth day, according to the observations of Blumenbach and Beclard. It is com- pletely developed in the foetus at the full period. The epiphysary point makes its appearance during the second year. The union of these parts does not take place untU the eighteenth or nineteenth year, and is not simultaneous in all the bones of the metatarsus. The epiphysis of the first metatarsal bone is the first to unite with the body. An interval of a year sometimes intervenes be- tween the union of this epiphysis and those of the other foui" metatarsal bones. The Toes {n o r,n r. Jigs. 5't, 55.). The resemblance between the phalanges of the fingers and those of the toes is so complete, that we cannot do better than refer to the description already given of the former, for details respecting the latter. At the same time it should be remarked, that the phalanges of the toes appear, as it were, atrophied, or stinted in growth, when compared with those of the fingers, excepting the great toe, wliich in all its parts preserves the large dimensions of the inner side of the foot. The first or metatarsal phalanx (n to n') resembles closely the metacarpal phalanx of the fingers. The middle phalanx (o) is remarkably small and short : it would almost appear to consist of the extremities alone, the body being ab- sent. At first sight it might be taken for a pisiform bone, or rather for one of the pieces of the coccyx ; but the presence of anterior and posterior articular laces is sufficient to mark the distinction. The ungual phalanges (r r') of the toes resemble in form, but are much smauer than the corresponding parts of the fingers. This remark, however, low betwe™?hn°^„?7f?'P?"v?' "'^^-Vfj observed in the hand, and renders the ana- clMc • for . metatarsal bono of the great toe and the metacarpal of the thumb extremely may add that ^Tn™''f' ••'/u""='^ resemble the first phalanges of the fingm ? St at tip, I, UM ? '"'J'^'^'^J appeared tome that there was a very thin eniuhvsarv point at the digital extremity of this bone, which soon united to the body epipnysar^