594 SPLANCHNOLOGY. The name of alrabiliary capsules, given to them by Bartholin, is undoubt- edly derived from the deep brown colour of their internal surface. That anatomist regarded them as small pouches or capsules, and thought that they were the reservoirs of the blackish fluid (sanguis niger, ^arCAoZzn; succus atrabiliaris, atramentum glandulosum, Lecat.), to which the ancients gave the name of atrabilis. Structure. The suprarenal capsules consist of two substances: one ex- ternal or cortical, yellowish, and striated, which forms almost the whole thick- ness of the capsule; and an internal or central portion, presenting the ap- pearance of a soft layer of a deep chestnut brown colour, and traversed by numerous vessels. The striated arrangement of the cortical layer, which is so easily seen in large animals, is frequently effaced in the human subject, where the capsule appears reduced to a thin yellowish lamella, folded back upon itself. The lobular character of the surface is only apparent, and de- pends upon the furrows formed in it for the vessels. The granular structure, admitted by most of the authors who have called these organs glands, has not been clearly demonstrated. A fibrous membrane, analogous to the proper coat of the kidney, covers the suprarenal capsules. The capsular arteries are very numerous and very large, in proportion to the size of the organ ; they are divided into the superior, arising from the phrenic, the middle, proceeding directly from the aorta, and the inferior, furnished by the renal arteries. The veins are very large, and soon pass into the vena cava; the anterior furrow is chiefly intended for them. It has been supposed that they open directly into the cavity of the capsule, on account of the facUity with which this latter may be distended by injecting air or any fluid into the veins. But it is probable that in such cases laceration has occurred. The veins of the right capsule enter the vena cava inferior directly ; those of the left enter the renal vein of the same side. The lymphatic vessels are little known. The are very numerous ; they are derived directly from the semilunar ganglia and solar plexus, and also from the renal plexus. It is in vain to search for the excretory duct, admitted by several anatomists; and de- scribed by some as entering the pelvis of the kidney, and by others as ter- minating in the testicle in the male, and in the ovary in the female. Developement. The suprarenal capsules are relatively much larger in the foetus than in the adult, and they are remarkable in this respect, that their size is inversely proportioned to that of the kidneys. They are distinct as early as the second month of intra-uterine life, and at that time exceed the kidney both in weight and size. This predominance continues during the whole of the third month; at the fourth, the kidneys and the suprarenal capsules are of equal size ; at the sixth month, the capsules are not more than half as large as the kidneys ; at birth, not more than one-third. The existence of a cavity is not more evident in the foetus than in the adult. In the aged, the suprarenal capsules are sometimes very large, and their colour is always yellow at this period of life. Uses. The uses of the suprarenal capsules are unknown ; we are even ig- norant whether they should be classed among the glands. The great number of vessels with which they are supplied, and the numerous nerves distributed upon them, sufiiciently prove that something more than mere nutritive changes must occur within these organs. Their pathological anatomy, which still re- mains to be investigated, may perhaps throw some light upon this obscure point of physiology.