THE SERRATI POSTICI. 259 B 2 114.), situated at tbe posterior and lateral part of the neck, is an elongated bundle, having its upper portion flattened from without inwards, and divided into three or four fasciculi, whilst the lower part is flattened from behind forwards. Attachments. It arises from the posterior tubercles of the transverse pro' cesses of the three or four superior cervical vertebrae, externally to the sple- nius, and behind the scalenus posticus ; it is inserted into the superior angle of the scapula (whence its name), and into all that portion of its internal costa situated above the spine. The cervical attachments of this muscle consist of four tendons, to which suc- ceed an equal number of fleshy fasciculi, at first distinct, but afterwards united into one bundle, which proceeds downwards, backwards, and outwards, and spreads out to be inserted into the scapula by short aponeurotic fibres. Relations. It is covered by the trapezius, the sterno-mastoid, and the skin ; and it lies superficially to the splenius, the sacro-lumbalis, the transversalis colli, and the serratus posticus superior. Action. When its upper attachment is fixed, this muscle carries the pos- terior angle of the scapula upwards and forwards, and consequently rotates that bone so as to depress the apex of the shoulder. It conspires with the rhom- boid and the trapezius in elevating the entire shoulder, and with the rhomboid in depressing its apex, in this respect acting as an antagonist to the trapezius. When the fixed point is below, which must be very rarely, it inclines the neck backwards and to its own side. TJie Serrati Postici. These are two in number, a superior and an inferior. Dissection. 1. To expose the superior muscle, divide and reflect the tra- pezius arid the rhomboid, and draw the scapula forwards; — 2, To display the inferior, raise the latissimus dorsi with great care, as its deep aponeurosis is blended with that of the serratus posticus inferior; — 3. Preserve the thin aponeurosis extending between the two serrati muscles.* 1. The serratus posticus superior is situated at the upper and back part of the thorax, and is of an irregularly quadrilateral figure. Attachments. It arises from the ligamentum nuchae and the spinous pro- cesses of the seventh cervical and of the two or three upper dorsal vertebree and is inserted into the upper borders of the second, third, fourth, and fifth ribs. The vertebral attachment consists of a very thin aponeurosis, the fibres of which are parallel and inclined downwards and outwards. From this aponeurosis, which constitutes at least the inner half of the muscle the fleshy fibres proceed m the same direction, and almost immediately divide into four digitations, which are inserted into the ribs by means of short tencUnous fibres. The superior digitation is attached near the angle of the corresponding rib, and each of the others at successively greater distances from it 2. The serratus posticus inferior {lyyvaho-CQSiaXis, Chaussier, g, fig. 106.) is also of an irregularly quadrilateral form, and is situated at the lower part of the back, and the upper part of the loins. It arises from the spinous processes of the two lower dorsal and three upper lumbar vertebra, and is inserted into the on.»LT r ' °^ '^^e vertebral or internal attachment consists of an aponeurosis similar to that of the preceding muscle, but its hbres have an mverse direction, i. e. obliquely outwards and upwards. From fibres rr'T"' .1^'"^ ^"^'^ ^^^^ °f the muscle, the fleshy cressiveW ^ " • direction, and divide into four flat digitations, pro- KT^lfl '^'"'^''•"g '° si^e from above downwards, which are inserted into of itsil/ "''"i-" °f .tendinous laminae, the superior digitation near the anSe of Its corresponding rib, and the others successively further beyond it ^ ap}ncullsi''T^^^^^^^^ "■■'^ '''"ived the name of the vcrlchr.l