FACE IN GENERAL. 79 It follo,vs,tl,eref««, that Ihe inferior maiilla U dev.Ioped from four points of "-^iriior ^xilla tales p^^^^^^^^^^^^^ fhp nortion -which supports the incisor teem , ii is yivuauiy. Boint of he dental canal, mentioned ahove, appears at the same time. From the Shiothf sixtieth dky, each half of th«^,^-%^^^^ ^l^e^^ ^ a o-roove common to the dental canal and the alveoh. At a later P^^rioa, tne groove becomes Tery considerable, and is divided into alveoli by septa, which Tfirst aTTncompfete but afterwards become perfect; the alveoh and their spnta occuDV at this time the entire depth of the bone. . ^r. v The poE ossification described by Spix, is united to the rest of the bone from the fiftieth to the sixtieth day. (Spix affirms that it remains separate uiitU the fourth month). The two halves of the maxilla are joined together during he first year after birth. The traces of this union exist for some time bu are afterwards effaced; in the lower animals the suture remains throughout life The changes which the inferior maxilla undergoes after birth, relate, 1. to the angle which the ramus forms with the body of the bone, which is very obtuse at birth, and becomes a right angle after development is completed: 2 to the alterations effected in the body of the bone, by the first and second dentitions, the loss of teeth in the aged, and the subsequent absorption and disappearance of the alveoli. The Face in general. Having already noticed the situation of the face, we shall now proceed to examine its dimensions, figure, and regions. Dimensions of the Face. In order to form a just idea of the dimensions of the face, it is necessary to examine a skull cut vertically from before backwards (asin^^. 22.). We then perceive that the face is comprised within a triangular space, which is bounded above by an irregular line that separates it from the cranium; in front by the face, properly so called; and below by a line passing below the symphysis menti. If a Une be drawn above the inferior maxilla, and under the arch of the palate, when prolonged backwards, it will be in the plane of the foramen magnum; for the cranium having much less depth in fj'ont than behind, a horizontal line, which touches the cranium behind, is separated from it in front by the entire height of the upper jaw. The vertical diameter, which extends from the frontal protuberance to the chin, is the longest of all the diameters of the face. It gradually diminishes from before backwards. The transverse diameter is of considerable extent in the situation of the cheeks, but diminishes above and below this point. The antero-posterior diameter stretches above from the nasal spine to the basilar pro- cess ; below it is greatly contracted ; and at the level of the chin only measures the thickness of the symphysis. With regard to the dimensions of the face as a whole, we shall only refer to what has been already stated concerning the inverse proportion of the area of the cranium, and that of the face in different species of animals.* The face represents a triangular pyramid, and offers for consideration three surfaces or regions ; an anterior, a superior, and an inferior. • Vide of the cranium in gRnoral; of the facial angle of Camper; the occipital angle of Dau- benton, and the measurement of Cuvier, p. fiO.