SPLANCHNOLOGY. It, and in others forms a fold or lumbar mesocolon. The ascending and descending colon may be included among the most fixed portions of the ali- mentary canal. In front of it are the parietes of the \ abdomen, from which, ex- \ cepting when greatly dis- \ tended, it is separated by \ the convolutions of the , small intestine. Behind, it / is in immediate relation 1 with the quadratus lum- borum and the right kid- ney, no layer of peritoneum intervening. It is united to these parts externally by loose cellular tissue. This relation accounts for the bursting of abscesses of the kidney into the colon, and explains the possibility of reaching the colon in the lumbar region, without wounding the peritoneum. On the left side, advantage has been taken of this fact in attempting to form an artificial anus. On the inside and on the outside it is in relation with the convolutions of the small intestine; and on the inside also with the psoas muscle, and with the second portion of the duodenum. The transverse colon, or arch of the colon. This (0 is the longest portion of the large intestine ; it extends from the ascending to the descending colon, from the right to the left hypochondrium, and generally occupies the adjacent borders of the epigastric and umbilical regions. It is not unfrequently found opposite the umbilicus, and even in the hypogastrium. Its right extremity corresponds to the gall bladder {g), its left is below the spleen (Ji). It de- scribes a curve having its convexity directed forwards, and its concavity back- wards I hence the name, arch of the colon. In some subjects it is two or three times its ordinary length, and hence it presents various inflections. I have seen its middle portion descending as low as the umbilical or hypogastric re- gion, and even reaching the brim of the pelvis: in other cases it descends parallel to, and on the inner side of, the ascending colon, and then passes up- wards again, or it describes curves of different extent. The arch of the colon is supported by a very remarkable fold of peritoneum, called the transverse ■mesocolon, which forms a horizontal septum between the small intestine below, and the stomach, the Uver, and the spleen above. The extent of this fold, which is one of the largest of all those formed by the peritoneum, explains the great freedom of the movements of the transverse colon, which, next to the small intestine, is the part of the alimentary canal most frequently found in hernia. Relations. Above, it has relations with the liver (t), which generally pre- sents a slight depression, corresponding to the angle formed by the ascending and transverse colon; with the gall bladder {g), whence the discolouration of the right extremity of the arch from the bile : it is not rare to find the gall