578 SPLANCHNOLOGY. tioncd to tlie size of the lobe: in many cases of goitre, I have seen this muscle twice or three times as broad as in the natural state. On the inside, each lateral lobe is concave, so as to be applied to the side of the trachea and cricoid cartilage, to the lower and lateral part of the thyroid cartilage, to the lower part of the pharynx, and to the upper part of the oesophagus. The two lobes, together with the middle portion or isthmus, form a half or sometimes three- fourths of a canal, which embraces all those parts ; an extremely important relation, which explains how, in certain goitres, the trachea is flattened on the sides, deglutition is impeded, and true asphyxia by strangulation is the final result. Behind, each lateral lobe corresponds with the vertebral column, from which it is separated, on the outside, by the common carotid artery, the in- ternal jugular vein, and the pneumogastric and great sympathetic nerves, which, according to the size of the gland, are either covered by it, or are merely in relation with its outer surface. The upper extremity of each lateral lobe terminates in a point, and hence the two-horned figure assigned to the thyroid body ; it is situated on the in- side of the carotid artery, in contact with the lateral and back part of the thyroid cartilage, and sometimes extends nearly to its upper border. Its lower extremity is thick and rounded, descends to a greater or less distance in dif- ferent individuals, and corresponds to the fifth, sixth, or seventh rings of the trachea: it is situated between the trachea and the common carotid. The inferior thyroid artery enters the gland at its lower extremity. Its upper border is concave and notched in the middle ; the superior thyroid arteries run along it. A prolongation extends from this border, which has been correctly represented by Bidlpo, and named the pyramid by Lalouette. It almost always exists ; it passes perpendicularly upwards, either on the right or left side of the median line, and presents numerous varieties in several respects Thus it varies in its origin, sometimes arising from the isthmus, and sometimes from one of the lobes at one side of the isthmus; also in its termination, sometimes ending opposite the notch in the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, sometimes opposite the thyro-hyoid membrane, and at other times even on a level with the body of the os hyoides; but always firmly adherent either to the membrane or the bone. It also vanes in its structure • sometimes it is a fibrous cord, and sometimes a reddish Unear band which has all the appearances of a muscular fasciculus, and has even been'described as a muscle ; it often consists of a series of granules arranged in a line; sometimes again we find, in the middle, or at one end of the cord a elanduliform enlargement, exactly resembling the tissue of the thyroid ffland • lastly, it may be double, or bifurcated, or even completely wanting; in which'case, however, there exists a glanduliform mass of a certain height This prolongation, in which I and many others have m vain attempted to fand an excretory duct, is evidently of a compact nature. Is it the remams of a foetal structure, or the trace of a normal disposition in some animals ? The lower border of the thyroid body is convex, more or less deeply notched in the centre, and is in contact with the inferior thyroid arteries. SMre The proper tissue of the thyroid gland is of a vanable colour, somftimes resembUng the lees of port wine, and sometimes of a yeUowish hue n of tolerably ^rl consistence, and feels granular. This organ presents all L anatomical characters of glands, and like them may be separated by dis- secti^ X glandular grains ; but with this difference, that these grains com- mSdcatrwith each other, whilst, in ordinary glands, they are independent ThToommmication of the glandular grains may be shown in the foUowing 2Ler~ e of a mercurial injecting apparatus be i-erted into tbe ^vrnid "jrland the mercury will enter into and distend the cells and after a Per aTn tfiTSl the g^^^^^^ be injected : it is easy to satisfy the mind that th mercury S no fnfiltrated into the ceUular tissue,, but i^eontamed >n ^le fssu^ of the gland itself, in the centre of the granulations. The right and left