THE CUBOID BONE. 133 responding one of the astragalus, but follows the same direction backwards and inwards. The whole of the non-articular portion of this surface projects be- hind the astragalus ; it is flattened on the sides, and slightly concave from be- fore backwards. Its length varies in different individuals, and is the cause of the varieties in the projection of the heel. 2. The lower or plantar surface {fig. 55.) is rather an edge than a true surface ; it is directed obliquely up- wards and forwards. We observe here, at the back part, two tuberosities, the internal of which is much larger than the external; both serve as places of insertion for muscles, but their principal use is to support the weight of the body behind, and they essen«jaHy constitute the heel {d,fig. 56.) in the human subject. 3. The external surface is superficial, which "accounts for the fre- quency of injuries of this bone on its outside, and explains also the possibility of reaching it with surgical instruments. It is convex, and narrow in front, where it presents two superficial grooves separated by a tubercle (s, figs. 54 and 55.). These grooves afford a passage to the tendons of the peroneus longus and brevis. On the anterior and superior part of this surface we find also another tubercle, which is a guide to the surgeon in the partial amputa- tion of the foot, recommended by Chopart. 4. The internal surface {fig. 56.) is deeply grooved for the passage of several tendons, and also for the nerves and vessels which are distributed to the sole of the foot. It presents in front and above a projecting eminence, like a blunt hook, in a shallow groove, below which the tendon of the flexor longus poUicis pedis glides. This emi- nence has been called the small process of the os calcis (e, fig. 56.), also susten- tacidum tali, because the anterior and internal articular surface, which supports the astragalus, is on its upper pai-t. 5. The anterior or cuboid surface is the smallest. It is concave from above downwards, and articulates with the cu- boid. It is surmounted on the inside by a short projection, directed horizon- tally forwards*, above which the third articular surface for the astragalus is situated when it exists. The whole portion of the os calcis which supports the anterior or cuboid surface bears the name of great process of the os calcis {t,figs. 54 and 55.). 6. The posterior surface is shaped like a triangle, with the base downwards; its lower part is rough and irregular, and gives attachment to the tendo AchiUis, the upper part, over which the same tendon glides, being smooth and polished like ivory Second Row of the Tarsus. The bones of the second row are five in number ; on the outside it is formed by the cuboid alone, but on the inside it is subdivided into two secondary rows; a posterior, formed by the scaphoid, and an anterior, composed of the three cuneiform bones. This subdivision of the inner portion of the tarsus, by multiplying the articulations, has the effect of diminishing the violence of shocks, or of pressure upon the foot, especially on the inner side. Tlie Cuboid Bone (/, Jigs:. 5^ and 55.). The cuboid which ranks as the third bone of the tarsus in point of size, is situated at the outside of the foot, and appears like a continuation of the great process of the os calcis. It is more regularly cuboid than any of the other tarsal bones, and has six surfaces. 1. The upper or dorsal surface {fig. 54.) is covered by the extensor brevis digitorum pedis, and looks somewhat outwards. ^- Ihe lower or plantar surface {fig. 55.) presents on its fore part a deep groove (/), running obliquely inwards and forwards, for the tendon of the peroneus longus. Behind this groove, the posterior lip of which is very pro- minent, are impressions for the ligament which connects the cuboid and the os contJi rt1.H'i?M.' P';''\o"P'«<»'. which might be called smaU anterior process of the os calcis in Tman^ »opi?t^; operTon'^' ^"''""^^ "''"""^ -entlon..d:mc.ritsltico?nThrpe™