47 FRONTAL BONE frontal eminence by a sort of crest running upwards and backwards (a): it forms the anterior part of the temporal fossa. i •„ k *i. The anterior surface of the frontal bone is separated from the skin by the frontal, orbicular, and corrugator superciUi muscles, and the anterior portion of the cranial aponeurosis. . „,-j,n„ „ The infJor or orbito-etlmoidal surface (fig. 2.) presents in the middle a large rectangular notch (6), which extends the whole length of this surface from before backwards. This notch, which is named eth- moidal, because it receives the ethmoid bone, has, 1. In front, and in the median line, a pro- longation, denominated the nasal spine (7): this spine is rough in front for articulation with the proper nasal bones: behind it is marked by two grooves, separated by a ver- tical ridge; the ridge joins the perpendicular lamella of the ethmoid, and the two grooves form part of the vault of the nasal fossae. 2. Farther back and on each side is the large opening of the frontal sinuses. 3. The two borders of the notch are marked with (6 d, b d) incomplete cells, which join with those of the ethmoid. 4. On the same borders there are two or sometimes three small grooves, which contribute to form the anterior and posterior internal orbi- tary canals. On each side of the notch is the orbital plate (9 9), triangular and concave, especially towards the external margin, where there is an excavation for the lachrymal gland {foss(R glandula laclmjmalis). At the internal margin there is a small depression for the attachment of the cartilaginous pulley, in which the tendon of the superior oblique muscle of the eye is reflected. The posterior or cerebral surface is concave, and marked by eminences and depressions corresponding to the sulci and convolutions of the brain, and by furrows for arterial branches. In the median line is a longitudinal groove, the sides of which unite below, and form the frontal ridge, which terminates in a foramen, called foramen cceciim. The ridge is sometimes absent, and oc- casionally the place of the foramen is occupied by a notch, completed by the ethmoid, as already described. On each side of the median line are the frontal jfossce, which are deeper than the corresponding eminences on the out- side seem to indicate : below are the orbital prominences, which look directly upwards, and forma retiring angle* with the frontal fossae ; they are covered with acuminated eminences, which are received into the anfractuosities of the brain. The superior or parietal border (b a b) is semicircular, denticulated, and cut obliquely at the expense of its internal plate above, and of its external below, and at the sides. In the middle, it forms a very obtuse angle (a), which is received into the retiring angle formed by the parietal bones. In young subjects this angle is wanting; in its situation the anterior angle of the anterior fontanelle is placed. The inferior or sphenoidal border {b b b) is very short, thin, and straight, interrupted by the ethmoidal notch, and adapted to the smaller wings of the sphenoid. It terminates externally, at its junction with the superior border, by two triangular surfaces slightly indented, which articulate with the greater wings of the sphenoid. The anterior or orbito-nasal border {cc,fig.\\.) presents in the centre the nasal notch (d d), articulated in the middle with the nasal bones, and at the sides with the ascending processes of the superior maxillae. At the bottom of This retiring angle measures pretty exactly the facial angle.