118 OSTEOLOGY. of the crest of the ilium by an eminence for muscular insertion, which can be always easily felt under the skin; it is the anterior superior spinous process qf the ilium («). Below, is a notch (u u'), which separates this process from another eminence for the insertion of the rectus femoris; it is called anterior inferior spinous process of the ilium («'). Below this last process is a notch or angular groove (ii' n), over which the iliac muscle glides: on this situation the anterior border changes its direction, and from being vertical becomes hori- zontal. The horizontal portion of the anterior border presents then a smooth concave surface inclined forwards, and shaped like a triangle, with the base outwards. This triangular surface, which is covered by the pectineus muscle, presents, 1. an anterior edge (*,fig- 48.), continuous with the anterior lip of the obturator foramen ; 2. a posterior sharp edge, called crest of the pubes (* *,figs. 47 and 48.), a continuation of the horizontal ridge which we have described as forming the lower boundary of the internal iliac fossa ; 3. a base presenting the eminentia ileo-pectinea {n n) which corresponds to the femoral artery, and upon which this vessel should be compressed, care being taken to direct the force obliquely downwards, and backwards, that is, perpendicularly to the surface of the bone ; 4. the summit of the triangle has a sharp eminence, which in emaciated subjects forms a marked projection under the skin. This eminence, called spine of the pubes (o), gives attachment to the rectus abdominis, and must be distinguished from the angle of the pubes (y'), which is a right angle formed by the meeting of the anterior and inferior borders. The posterior border (u w, fig. 48.) of the os coxse commences at the pos- terior extremity of the crest of the ilium by a sharp eminence, named poste- rior and superior spinous process of the ilium (v, figs. 47, 48.) ; below is a notch which separates it from another eminence, the posterior inferior spinous pro- cess of the ilium (u')- Below this is a very large notch, the sciatic notch of the coxa (v z,fig. 47.), which contributes to form the great sciatic notch which we shall notice in the general description of the pelvis. This notch is terminated below by a sharp ridge, called ihe sciatic spine (z) ; as this spine sometmies projects inwards, can it, as some have imagined, press upon the foetal head when it is clearing the lower outlet of the pelvis ? Between this spme and the tuberosity of the ischium (2 w) is a smaU but weU marked groove, over which the tendon of the obturator internus passes. _ Internal structure. Like all broad bones, the haunch bone is composed ot spongy substance contained between two lamina; of compact tissue; at the bottom of the acetabulum, and in the double concavity of the iliac fossa;, it is thin and semi-transparent; it is thick at the circumference, the crest of the ilium, the upper and back part of the acetabulum, the articular portion ot the Dubes, and more particularly at the tuberosity of the ischium. Connections. The os coxse unites with its feUow of the opposite side, with the sacrum, and with the femur. . Development. The os coxa; is developed from three primitive, and fave secondary points of ossification. The three primitive pomts remam distinct until a very advanced period, and therefore both ancient and modem anato- mists have incorrectly described them as separate bones, under the names ot t/l" and plbes. The i/.W (1,^,. 48.) comprehends the i^^per par. of the acetabulum, and the broad cui-ved and triangular sui-face above it. 1 he fJes f2) coiises, 1. the inner part of the acetabulum; 2. the horizontal, CismatiJ anTtriangular column that bounds the obtui-ator foramen above, andTh chls called the body of the pubes (/) ; 3. the vertical descending Wh flattLed in front an^ behind, which bounds tbe same foramen on the In.idP and is called the descending ramus of the pubes {li,figs 47, 48.). -Sllw comprises, 1. the lower part of the acetabulum; o I vertTcal coh^^^ thick, prismatic, and triangular, which forms the 2. a vertical coiumii, vcij t>,P nhtnrator foramen on the outside: this is \"''^rf*^^t^' 'iiTt 47 2d Is ) 3 aTascending branch, sloping ZS, gtitrS^S-blli. wh^ch bounds the foramen below and