SPLANCHNOLOGY. Sometimes the orifice of this sheath is so narrow as to prevent its being S "-P^^"^"^ during erection. This co'nstiLes wS IZ,1. TT ,<^ircumcision, an operation which consists in removing an Tpwc T ''^ P'''P"<^*'' ^ general custom amon^the Jews, and is now recognised among the operations of surgery Ihe length of the prepuce varies in different individuals; in some it is very snort, and only covers one half or the posterior third of the glans. Ihe term fraimm prmputii is applied to a triangular fold of mucous mem- brane, which IS reflected from the prepuce upon the furrow on the lower surface of the glans, below the urethral orifice. Sometimes the prolongation of the fricnum as far as the orifice renders erection painful, and requires a slight operation, called section of the frajnum. ^ The cellular tissue, between the cutaneous and mucous layers of the prepuce partakes of the characters of the subcutaneous cellular tissue of the penis - its looseness enables the prepuce to be unfolded, and this takes place more or less completely dunng erection. The corpus cavernosum. The corpus cavernosum, so named on account of Its structure, forms the greater portion of the penis : it commences behind by a bifurcated extremity, forming its roots, or crura. Each root arises immediately on the inside, and above the tuberosity of the ischium, by a vei7 slender extre- mity, a.nd gradually increasing in size, passes forwards and inwards along the ascending ramus of the ischium and the descending ramus of the pubes, to both of which it adheres intimately. At the symphysis the two roots unite. The triangular interval between them is occupied by the canal of the urethra. The corpus cavernosum results, therefore, from the union of two distinct conical roots ; and on this account the older anatomists distinguished two cor- pora cavernosa: but the communications existing between its two halves are opposed to any such distinction. The corpus cavernosum is cylindrical, and presents a longitudinal groove above, in which are lodged the dorsal vessels and nerves of the penis, and a broad and deep groove below, in which the urethra is situated. The anterior extremity is obtuse, and is embraced by the base of the glans, with which it does not appear to have any vascular communication. Structure. The corpus cavernosum is composed of a very strong fibrous cylinder, filled with a spongy or erectile tissue. The fibrous cylinder. The external coat is of a fibrous nature, and is re- markable for its thickness, which is one or two lines; for its strength, which is such that the corpus cavernosum will bear the whole weight of the body without breaking, as may be proved experimentally upon the dead body ; and for its extensibility and elasticity, properties which do not belong intrinsically to the tissue itself, but depend upon the areolar disposition of its fibres, f Septum of the corpus cavernosum. The interior of the cavernous body is di- vided into two lateral halves by an incomplete septum, formed of very strong vertical fibrous columns, which are much thicker and more numerous behind than in front This median septum (septum pectiniforme, b,fig. 187.), between the two halves of the corpus cavernosum, is not complete : it appears to be in- tended to prevent too great a distension of this part during erection. The spongy or erectile tissue. An areolar tissue (a a), the meshes of which contain a greater or less quantity of blood, occupies the interior of the fibrous cylinder of the corpus cavernosum. This tissue, which is the chief agent in erection, consists of an interlacement of veins, supported by prolongations or trabecules, given off from the inner surface of the fibrous membrane. » When this malformation exists, if the prepuce be drawn back over the base of the glans it cannot be returned ; this condition of the parts, and the sort of strangulation resulting from it, constitutes what is known by the name oipara-phymosis. t [The outer coat of the corpus cavernosum and the trabeculs, in its interior, consist of ten- dinous fibres, mixed with some elastic tissue. In the penis of the horse there arc pale red fibres, differing from cellular, tendinous, and elastic tissue, but which, according to Miiller, do not possess muscular contractility.]