376 MYOLOGY. The muscles inserted into the inner side of the first phalanx of the great toe, are the abductor brevis and the flexor brevis. They are distinct at their origins, but are often blended at their insertions ; so that Winslow united them together under the name of le thenar du pied. The Abductor Pollicis Pedis. This muscle (le court adducteur,* Cruveilhier, r, fig. 131.) is the most super- ficial in the internal plantar region ; it arises on the inside, from the internal posterior tuberosity Fig. 131. of the OS calcis; from the internal annular liga- ment imder which the posterior tibial vessels and nerves pass ; from the upper surface of the internal plantar fascia; and from the lower surface of a tendinous expansion, which occupies the entire extent of the deep or superior surface of the muscle. From these points, the fleshy fibres pro- ceed to the circumference of a tendon (r,figs. 132, 133.), which emerges from them inferiorly near the first cuneiform bone, but is often accompanied by them superiorly as far as its insertion into the internal sesamoid bone, opposite the first phalanx of the great toe. Belations. It is covered below by the uitemal plantar fascia, and is divided from the muscles of the middle plantar region by a tendinous septum which gives attachment to some of its fleshy fibres. It is superficial to the flexor brevis pol- licis, the flexor accessorius, the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum and that of the flexor longus poUicis, the tarsal insertions of the tibialis anticus and posticus, the plantar vessels and nerves, and the internal articulations of the tarsus. Action. It is, properly speaking, a flexor of the great toe. The Flexor Brevis Pollicis Pedis. Adopting a similar plan in the definition of this muscle as in that of the short flexor of the thumb, I shall describe as the short flexor of the great toe, that portion (s,fig. 133.) only of the flexor brevis of authors, which ex- tends from the second row of the tarsus to the internal sesamoid bone of the metatarso-phalangal articulation of the great toe, and shall refer to the oblique adductor that portion (t) which is attached to the external sesamoid bone. This change appears to be warranted by the rule already laid down for the distinction of muscles. Community of the fixed points of origin is not suffi- cient to establish the unity of two muscles, provided their moveable insertions are distinct. A cellular interval and the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis establish anteriorly the line of demarcation between the flexor brevis and the adductor obliquus pollicis. According to this view, the flexor brevis pollicis (s, figs. 131, 132, 133.) arises from the second row of the tarsus, particularly from the cuboid and the third cuneiform bones, by some tendinous fibres which are formed by a con- tinuation of the inferior ligaments of the tarsus, and are common to this muscle and the internal portion (0 of the oblique adductor of the great toe. The tendon of the tibialis posticus (n,fig. 133.), or rather the prolongation which this tendon gives off to the fourth metatarsal bone, also furnishes some points of origin. The fleshy fibres proceeding from these difi'erent attachments form * See note, next page.