370 MYOLOGY. of the external border of the fibula, and the upper third of the posterior sur- face of the same bone. The tibial origins (i') take place from the oblique line on the posterior sur- face of the tibia below the popliteus, and from the contiguous portion of the aponeurotic expansion of that muscle; from an aponeurosis which arises from the middle third of the inner border of the tibia, and is prolonged upon the anterior surface, within the substance of the muscle; and lastly, by a few fleshy fibres from a tendinous arch extending between the head of the fibula and the oblique line on the posterior surface of the tibia. From these different origins, the fleshy fibres pass in different directions to the anterior surface and edge of an aponeurosis, which covers the posterior surface of the muscle, be- comes narrower and thickened as it proceeds downwards, unites with the terminal tendon of'the gastrocnemius about the middle third of the leg, and is soon blended with it to form the tendo Achillis. In order to study accurately the structure of the soleus, divide it longi- tudinally at the side of the raphe or tendinous septum, existing in the middle of the lower half of this muscle, and then by scraping off some of the fleshy fibres, it will be seen, that a dense fibrous septum given off by the terminal aponeurosis, separates the muscle into two equal halves, and forms with that aponeurosis two tendinous senai-cones, in the interior of which the fleshy fibres are received. It will now be understood why Douglas, who had de- signated the gastrocnemius the two external and superficial heads of the great extensor of the tarsus, should call the soleus the two internal and deep heads of the same muscle. There are, in fact, two principal aponeuroses of origin, and two hollow tendons of insertion; each aponeurosis of origin covers almost the entire anterior surface of the corresponding half of the muscle. Relations. It is covered by the gastrocnemius, which projects beyond it on both sides, but especially on the inner side, and from which it is separated by the plantaris. It is thickest immediately below the largest part or belly of the inner portion of the gastrocnemius, and consequently it prolongs the swelling of the calf downwards. It covers the muscles of the deep layer, viz. the flexor communis digitorum, the flexor proprius pollicis, and the tibiahs posti- cus • it also covers the posterior tibial and the fibular vessels and nerves. The tendo Achillis. The tendo AchilUs (Z, fiys.}29, 130.) results from the union of the tendons of the gastrocnemius, plantaris, and soleus. It is termed ' =n the following manner: the terminal aponeurosis of the gastrocnemius, shortly after leaving the fleshy fibres, is intimately united to that of the soleus, which still continues to receive fleshy fibres upon its anterior surface and its edges, and gradually becoming narrower, is soon joined by the antero-posterior sep- tum of this muscle. All these tendinous fibres are coUected together to form the strongest and largest tendon in the body, known by the name of the tendo i/X which after a course of about an inch and a half or two inches glides ^ver th; smooth surface presented by the superior two thirds of the back of the OS calcis, with the intervention of a synovial bursa, and is expanded a l.ttle in order to be inserted into the rough surface on the lower part of the same ^°^c<ion of the qasb-omemius and soleus. These muscles extend the foot upon the leff In no other part of the body do we find so advantageous an arrange- rnpnt for anTmmense developement of power. 1. These muscles are very We and parSarly remarkable for the number of their fleshy fibres, m V v^lpPt thev exceed aU other muscles in the body. 2. The mode of which respect they exceed au absolutely perpendicular. 3* W^Lve herl a k^^^^^^^ the second order, in which the fulcrum is at the of thrtoe. the resistance in the middle of the foot, being represented by II -Sf If The bodv resting upon the ankle joint, and the power at the ex-