120 OSTEOLOGY. presented by a line passing from the umbilicus, towards the lower part of the curvature of the sacrum ; the axis of the little pelvis, on the contrary, is directed downwards and forwards, and is represented by a line passing from the upper part of the curvature of the sacrum, through the centre of the lower opening or outlet of the pelvis. From the direction of these two axes, it follows that the line of direction of the pelvis is a curve with the concavity forwards, and which is pretty correctly represented by the curvature of the anterior surface of the sacrum. This sort of incurvation of the pelvis is an anatomical fact of the greatest consequence, not only on account of the important office which this part of the skeleton performs in the mechanism of standing, but also because without an acquaintance with it, it is impossible to understand the mechanism of natural labour, the curved canal of the pelvis being the path which the infant has to traverse in passing out of the cavity. The obliquity of-the pelvis varies at different ages and in different in- dividuals : it is pretty exactly measured by the prominence of the sacro-ver- tebral angle. In the infant the pelvis deviates greatly from the horizontal direction; its upper aperture looks almost directly forwards.: in the adult it looks much more upwards; and in the aged it again looks forward, as in the infant, but from a very different cause. In the foetus the superior aperture is turned forwards, even when the body is upright: at this age the obliquity of the pelvis is inherent in its form; but in the aged, the pelvis looks forward, because the trunk is curved in the same direction, and tends towards a horizontal position as in quadrupeds. Thus, in the foetus the pelvis has an obliquity which depends on form; in the aged the obliquity depends upon attitude. The human pelvis is much larger than that of any other animal; and this larger size is connected with the important office it performs in maintaining the erect posture of the trunk. There is no part of the skeleton, the form and dimensions of which so readily discriminate the sex of the individual; in the male the height predomi- nates ; in the female, the breadth. By comparing the distance between the crests and the anterior and the posterior spinous processes of the ilia, and between the obturator foramina, in the two sexes, we find that the transverse dimensions are much greater in the female ; the same is observed in the antero-posterior di- mensions, which may be easily proved by measuring the distance between the symphysis pubis, and the sacro-vertebral angle, and the distance between each obturator foramen and the sacro-iliac symphysis on the opposite side. We should add, that in the female, 1. the iliac fossse are larger, and turned more outwards than in the male; hence the prominence of the hips; 2. the crest of the iUum is not so much twisted in form of the itaUc S; 3. the interval between the symphysis pubis and the acetabulum is greater; this is partly the cause of the OTeat prominence of the trochanters, and the separation of the femora, which lives the female a peculiar gait in walking; 4. the superior strait or brim is wider in every direction ; 5. the tuberosities of the ischia are more separated, and the symphysis pubis is not so deep; 6. the obturator foramen is triangular; 7 the arch of the pubis is rounded, wider, and more curved, while in the male it is triangular and narrower; 8. the inner edges of the ascending rami of the ischia are prominent, and look less directly downwards than m the male. Such are the differences of the pelvis as regards sex; we see that for the most nart they may be comprehended in the foUowmg proposition : — The female pelvis exceeds the male in its horizontal diameters; the viale pelvis exceeds the female in its vertical diameters. Regions of the Pelvis, TTndpr this title we shall examine in succession the external and internal suSace of £ pelvis the upper circumference or base, and the lower circum- ference or summit.