520 SPLANCHNOLOGY. hepatic vena portaj {p, 164.); and that these branches subdivide and spread into all parts of the liver, some forwards, and others backwards, but all following a transverse direction. The capsule of Glisson, as we have seen, is developed around this vein; so that in sections of the liver, the branches of the vena portae can always be recognised by these two characters — a trans- verse direction, and the presence of the capsule. Remains of the umbilical vein. We can easily conceive the arrangement of these remains, if we consider that in the foetus, the umbilical vein {u,fig. 164*.), proceeds from the placenta to the longitu- dinal fissure of the liver; and at the point where this is intersected by the trans- verse fissure, divides into two branches, one of which, under the name of the duc- tus venosus (rf), passes directly to the veua cava (c), at the point where it traverses the posterior border of the liver; while the other is continuous with the hepatic vena portse (p), which, as we have seen, occupies the transverse fissure. The por- tion common to the umbilical and portal veins remains pervious in the adult; but it then belongs exclusively to the vena portse. The ductus venosus then becomes a mere fibrous cord (u, fig. 164*.), as weU as the trunk of the umbilical vein itself (u). It is not rare to find the trunk of the umbilical vein persistent in the adult, from an abnormal communication between it and the veins of the abdominal parietes. (See Anat. Path., avec planches, liv. xvii. pi. 6.) No example has been recorded of a persistent ductus venosus. Arteries. The hepatic artery is a branch of the cceliac axis {t,Jig. 154.), which also furnishes branches to the spleen and the stomach; and although a difference in the origin of an artery does not occasion any difference in the blood within it, yet this community of origin is not the less remarkable, for it seems to denote a community, a coincidence, or a connection of function. Moreover, as the nervous plexuses are supported upon the arteries, it follows that the nerves of the spleen, stomach, and liver, are derived from a common plexus, the coeliac. We frequently find a seconi hepatic artery arising from the superior mesenteric. I must not omit to mention the smallness of the hepatic artery in comparison with the size and mass of the liver. In this respect few organs present so great a disproportion: compare for example the kidney and the renal artery, look at the muscles, and I may almost say at the bones. The small caliber of the hepatic artery enables us to determine a priori, that it cannot serve both for the nutrition of the organ and for the secretion of the bile. Lastly, it exactly follows the ramifications of the vena portae and the biliary ducts, and the capsule of Glisson is common to it and to those two sets of vessels. The hepatic veins. The hepatic veins, the efferent vessels of the liver, are not proportional to the size of the hepatic artery, but to that of the vena portae. Proceeding from all points of the liver, and converging towards the fissure of the vena cava, the hepatic veins {hh',fig. 164.), empty themselves into that vein (c), especially near the posterior border of the liver. It follows, thereifore, that the direction of the hepatic veins and of their divisions is from before backwards, while that of the divisions of the vena portae is transverse.* This direction, and the absence of the capsule of Glisson, on account of which the walls of these veins are directly adherent to the tissue of the liver, so that the veins themselves remain patent, while the sections of the vena portae collapse, are the two charaqters by which the divisions of the hepatic veins * At least in the prineipal trunks ; for tliero ai n ii great miitiher of r.imifications of the hepatic veins wliieh pass tr.insversely.