192 ARTHROLOGY. IS extended between the corresponding surfaces, the interosseous ligaments; the other set are peripheral, and are divided into pahnar and dorsal. The palmar and dorsal ligaments are fibrous bundles stretched transversely or obliquely, from each of the bones of the carpus to those which are con- tiguous to it. The dorsal are much thinner than the palmar. The interosseous ligaments are not disposed in an exactly similar manner in the two rows, and we shall therefore examine them separately. 1. Those of the first row (e e,Jig. 73.) occupy only the upper part of the corresponding facettes ; they are nothing more than small fibrous bundles, one extending from the scaphoid (1) to the semilunar (2); the other from the semilunar to the cuneiform (3) ; they are sometimes partially interrupted, and present openings, which establish a communication between the general synovial membrane of the car- pus and that of the radio-carpal articulation. 2. The interosseous ligaments {d d d) of the second row are much thicker than those of the first; the whole non-articular portion of the corresponding facettes gives insertion to these ligaments, which are very compact, and of a much more dry and close texture than the reddish tissue connecting together the bones of the first row. It follows, therefore, that the bones of the second row are more firmly united than those of the first, whose interosseous ligaments are loose, and permit a certain degree of mobility. The articulation of the pisiform bone with the cuneiform merits a special description. Articulation of the Pisiform and Cuneiform Bones. For this articulation, the pisiform bone presents a single articular surface, which unites with the anterior facette of the cuneiform bone. There are four ligaments in this little joint: 1. too inferior (e, fig. 75.) -which are very strong ; viz. an external, stretched obliquely from the hook-like process of the unciform bone to the pisiform; and an internal, vertical, which is inserted into the upper end of the fifth metacarpal bone: 2. two lateral ligaments, broad and thin, which strengthen the synovial capsule in front and behind. The synovial capsule is most commonly a small isolated pouch; and some- times it is a prolongation of the radio-carpal synovial membrane. Articulation of the two Rows of the Carpus together. The articulation of the two rows of the carpus together presents an enar- throsis in the middle, and an arthrodia on each side. The articular surfaces consist of a head or spherical eminence received into a cavity, constituting the enarthrosis, and of plane surfaces on the mside and the outide which form the arthrodia. The head is formed by the os magnum (6 /i<7.73.) and the superior process of the os unciforme (7): the cavity is conSuted by the inferior surfaces of the scaphoid(l), the semihinar (2), and the cSorm(3) bones. This cavity, which is deeply notched .n front aaid behind, is completed in these situations by two ligaments-an a»tenor and a posterior, wHch might be caUed glenoid ligaments, considering their position on the edge of a cavity, and their use in increasing its depth Tht p Jslerior glenoid Ugammt is composed of transverse fibres, which are m- serted into the first row, closing up the posterior notch The anterior glenoid ligament, much stronger than the other, belongs to the second roS • Tt is confounded with the anterior ligaments of the articulation.