ARTHROLOGY. 198 Means of union. On account of the disproportion just noticed as existing between the articular surfaces of this joint, the glenoid cavity of the first phalanx not being equal to more than one half of the articular surface on the metacarpal bone, that cavity is provided with a ligament, called the anterior ligament {u,Jig. 75.) by Bichat, but -which I would denominate the glenoid liga- ment, and which serves principally to complete the cavity of reception. This ligament is situated on the palmar aspect of the joint; it is very thick, and as compact as cartilage; it is formed by intersecting fibres, and is continuous by its edges, partly with the sheaths of the ilexor tendons, partly with the trans- verse metacarpal ligaments, but chiefly with the lateral ligaments of the joint. It is grooved in front to correspond with the flexor tendons, and concave be- hind to fit the convexity of the head of the metacarpal bone ; it is firmly fixed by its lower edge to the anterior margin of the phalangal articular surfaces, of which it appears to form the continuation ; its upper edge is free, or rather very loosely connected by some ligamentous fibres to the inequalities sur- mounting the head of the metacarpal bone in front, and it is so accurately adapted to the contracted neck which supports the head of this bone, that, by this arrangement alone, the articular surfaces are maintained in contact. But there are also two very strong lateral ligaments {v,fgs. 73. and 75.), an internal and an external. These ligaments are insei-ted, not into the lateral depression existing on each side of the head of the metacarpal bones, but into the tu- bercles behind this depression; the ligaments therefore are directed obliquely downwards and forwards, under the form of flattened bands, which become broader, and terminate in the glenoid ligament on the sides of the phalanx. There is no dorsal ligament properly so called; its place is evidently sup- plied by the corresponding extensor tendon (v},Jig. 74.). It is not uncommon to see a small fibrous band extending from the anterior surface of the tendon, and attached to the metacarpal end of the first phalanx. The synovial capsule is extremely loose, especially on the aspect of exten- sion : it does not adhere to the tendon, but is folded upon itself during exten- sion, and is stretched during flexion : It lines the inner surface of the lateral ligaments, and is reflected upon the articular cartilages. Metacarpal-phalangal articulation of the thumb. Two sesamoid bones {t, fins. 73. and 75.), are annexed to this articulation in front, and are constantly found in the glenoid ligament; they afi'ord insertion to the lateral hgaments and to all the short muscles of the thumb. , ^ If we examine these articulations in connection, we shaU find that tney are disposed in a curved line, with the convexity looking downwards. 1 his cur- vature is sUghtly interrupted at the articulation of the fourth metacarpal bone, which is not on a level with those of the index and the middle fingers. Mechanism of the Metacarpo-phalangal Articulations. We shall take as an example the metacarpo-phalangal articulation of the thumb From the arrangement of the articular surfaces, it is evident that tms articulation can execute movements in four principal d^^e^tions and conse- Quentlv those of circumduction also. From a simple inspection of the surfaces U St be inferred that the movement of flexion must be very extensive wlS t that of extension (or flexion backwards) and the lateral motions of Ibduction and adduction must be exceedingjly Umited. The arrangement of the ligaments amply confirms these suppositions. Inflexion the first phalanx gUdes forwards "P°" °J ^^^^^^ J- * ■Wr.-nn ■ tlip pxtcusor tcudon and the oack oitne syno\iai TpsuL^iTftr tXd S the Fojecdng head of this bone : the posterior fibres SrhfrSg'^d the^ffielTrs than by the others. In extension the