NASAL BONES. 73 The posterior or temporal surface is concave, and presents a smooth surface behind, which contributes to form the temporal fossa, and on which one or more malar foramina open; and a rough surface in front, which unites with the malar process of the superior maxilla. Of the four borders two are superior ; of these the anterior or orbital (d e), is semi-lunar, rounded, and blunt, and forms the external third of the base of the orbit: the posterior or temporal (e /), is thin and curved like the letter S. and bounds the temporal fossa in front. Of the two inferior borders, the an- terior or maxillary (d g), is very rough,and articulates with the maxillary bone : the posterior or masseteric (gf) is horizontal, thick, and tubercular, and gives attachment to the masseter muscle. Of the four angles, the superior or frontal (e), which is much elongated, and vertical, is the thickest part of the bone, and articulates with the external or- bital process of the frontal bone : the posterior or zygoviatic (/), broader and thinner than the preceding is serrated, and slants downwards and backwards for articulation with the zygomatic process of the temporal bone, which rests upon it. The internal or orbital angle ((/), looks inwards and forwards, is very acute and articulates with the superior maxillaiy, near the infra-orbitary canal. The inferior or malar angle {g) looks downwards, is obtuse, and xmites with the outer part of the malar or jugal process of the superior maxillary. Internal structure. The malar bone is almost entirely compact, possessing spongy tissue only in the anterior and inferior edge, and in the part where the orbital portion is given off. It is constantly traversed by a canal, called zygomatic. This passage is generally simple, but sometimes double or even multiple, and opens by at least three orifices. The superior or orbital orifice is visible on the surface of the same name; the next or external zygomatic fo- ramen is on the cutaneous surface of the bone ; and the third or internal zy- gomatic on the inner surface of the vertical portion. Connections. The malar bone is articulated with the superior maxillary, the frontal, the sphenoid, and the temporal. Development. It is developed from one point of ossification which appears about the fiftieth day of foetal life. The ulterior changes which it undergoes do not require particular notice. The Nasal Bones {Jigs. 29, 30.). The nasal bones are two in number, asymmetrical, and very small in the Fin. 2n. Fig 30. l"i™an subject; they are closely contiguous to each other, n <t sometimes united into one piece superiorly. They are situated ^ at the upper and middle part of the face, and form, as their name indicates, the osseous part of the nose, of which they constitute the root. They are directed obliquely downwards and foi-wai-ds, but with various degrees of inclination in dif- ferent subjects; and hence the vai-ieties in the shape and ^ prominence of the middle or bridge of the nose. Their <^ figure is rectangular and oblong; they are thick and narrow above, broad and thin below; and have two surfaces, an anterior and a pos- terior, and four edges. The anterior or cutaneous surface {fig. 29.) is covered only by the skin and pyramidalis nasi muscle, and hence the ease with which these bones are fractured ; it is concave above, flat or even convex below: the orifice of a vas- cular canal is always very distinctly seen, which is variable in its situation sometimes single, but often accompanied by others of smaller size. The posterior or pituitary surface {fig. 30.) is concave, and forms the anterior part of the roof of the nostrils : it is marked by vascular and nervous furrows and m the fresh state is covered by the pituitary membrane. Of the four edges, the superior {a, figs. 29, 30.), short, thick, and serrated, ar- ticulates with the nasal notch of the frontal bone. The inferior {d) verv thin and more elongated, has a slight notch in the centre for the passagi of a