THE SERRATUS MAGNUS. 287 compression to which these parts would have been otherwise exposed between ''!4£''mtn1tsSd"point is at the first rib it depresses the clavicle, and ■JZ^lrrXressor o/the shoulder; it tends ^Iso to p^^^^^^^^^ the clavicle forcibly against the sternum; so, also, ^.^^^^^''^^ ^^^^^^^ it occasions the external fragment to "^e upon the in ernal. Whe^^^^^^ point is at the clavicle, it assists m elevatmg the first nb, and is, theretore, arranged among the muscles that act in impeded inspiration. The Serratus Magnus. Dissection. Having removed the two pectorals, saw through the clavicle at its middle; press the scapula backwards, directmg its axillary edge outwards remove with care the ceUular tissue occupying the axilla especiaUy that against the axillary vessels and nerves, and near the costal attachments ot the muscle itself, in order to see the internal surface of which the subject must be turned, and the vertebral costa of the scapula drawn outwards. The serratus magnus («, fig. 106., d, 109., and /, 110.), very broad, quadri- lateral, and serrated along one of its borders, occupies the side of the thorax, and extends like a muscular girth from the ten upper ribs to the vertebral costa of the scapula. Its costal attachments consist of nine or ten digitations arranged in a curve, having its concavity directed backwards. The first digitation, which is very large, arises both from the first and second ribs, and from an aponeu- rotic arch between them; from thence the fibres proceed upwards, outwards, and backwards, and are inserted into the inner surface of the posterior and superior angle of the scapula, near the levator anguli. This digitation is the narrowest part of the muscle ; it differs in direction from the remainder, and is separated from them by a cellular interval; hence it has been termed the superior portion of the serratus magnus. The second, third, and fourth digita- tions arise in an oblique line, running downwards and forwards from the second, third, and fourth ribs. These are the largest and the thinnest of all the digitations; they proceed horizontally backward, and are inserted separately by short tendinous fibres into the entire length of the vertebral costa of the scapula, anterior to the rhomboid; they are distinguished from the remaining digitations both by their direction, and by an intervening cellular space ; they form the middle portion of the serratus magnus. The fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, and tenth digitations arise from the outer surface of the corresponding ribs along oblique lines, resembling the fingers crossed, and are interposed between corresponding prolongations of the external oblique. These digitations are at first tendinous, they soon become fleshy, and converging towards each other form a radiated fasciculus, which passes upwards, outwards, and backwards, to be inserted into the internal sur- face of the inferior angle of the scapula. This is the inferior portion of the serratus magnus. Relations. The serratus magnus is partially covered by the two pectorals before, by the subscapularis behind, and above by the axillary vessels and nerves; its deep surface rests upon the ribs and the intercostal spaces, all these parts being united by a quantity of loose cellular tissue. A considerable portion of the lower part of the muscle is subcutaneous, and therefore the inferior digitations are important studies for the painter and the sculptor, and sometimes even for the surgeon, as indications of the arrangement of the cor- responding ribs. Action. From the disposition of its difi'erent fasciculi, the serratus magnus occasions a compound movement of the scapula, which it will be well to ana- lyse. The upper portion depresses and brings forwards the apex of the shoul- der ; the middle portion draws the entire scapula directly forwards; whilst the lower portion depresses it, and moreover rotates it, so that the apex of the shoulder is carried upwards. As the lower part of the muscle is composed of