ARTICULATIONS OF THE TOES. 223 between the tarsus and the metatarsus, and therefore three separate synovial membranes ; one for the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones, one for the second and third, and another for the first. Articulations of the tarsal extremities of tlie metatarsal bones. These are true amphiarthroses. The corresponding surfaces are partly contiguous and partly continuous. The contiguous part is nearer to the tarsus; it is flat, and presents on each bone two small secondary facettes. Contrary to -what obtains in the metacarpus, the continuous portions are larger than the articular surfaces. There are interosseous, dorsal, and plantar ligaments. The interosseous consist of very strong, short, and compact bundles of fibres, ■which extend between the rough surfaces of two neighbouring metatarsal bones. The dorsal (b,fig. 83.) and plantar (i,fig. 82.) pass transversely from one metatarsal bone to another, the plantar being much the larger. Articulations of the digital extremities of the metatarsal bones. Although the digital ends of these bones do not articulate together, yet, as they are in con- tact, and move upon each other, a synovial membrane covers the contiguous surfaces, and faciUtates their movements ; a ligament also, the transverse liga- ment of the metatarsus (x, figs. 82 and 83.), is stretched transversely in front, and unites them loosely together. This ligament is common to the five metatarsal bones ; it is formed by the junction of all the anterior ligaments of the meta- tarso-phalangal articulations by means of small bundles passing from one to another. It is exposed by opening the sheaths of the flexor tendons. Mechanism of the Metatarsal Articulations. With regard to strength. 1. The five component hones of the metatarsus are so strongly united that it is very uncommon for one of them to be broken by itself; the metatarsus, therefore, can be only fractured by violence sufficient to crush it. 2. The slight mobility of the bones also concurs in increasing the strength of this part of the foot, by permitting it to yield slightly to external impulse. 3. The metatarsus is not uniformly strong throughout; the first of its bones is the strongest, and upon it a great portion of the weight of the body rests during standing. The mobility possessed by the tarsal and the digital extremities of the meta- tarsal bones, requires to be separately noticed. 1. In the tarsal extremities, the angular arrangement, the mutual wedging of the tarsus and the metatarsus, as well as the strength and shortness of the external and interosseous ligaments, admit of only very obscure gliding move- ments ; a proof of which exists in the fact, that no example of the luxation of these bones upon the tarsus has, perhaps, ever been recorded. 2. Obscure, how- ever, as these movements may be, they give rise to considerable motions in the digital ends of the bones, where the mobility is favoui-ed by the looseness of the transverse metatarsal ligament, and the presence of a synovial mem- brane between the heads of the bones. The first metatarsal bone is not more moveable than the others; contrasting remarkably in this respect with the first metacarpal bone. Articulations or the Toes (,figs. 82 to 84.). Metatarso-phalangal Articulations. These articulations belong to the class condyloid, and offer a nearly perfect similarity to the metacarpo-phalangal joints. _ Articular surfaces. The head of each metatarsal bone is flattened on the siaes, and elongated from above downwards, so that it forms a condyle Each pnalanx presents a shallow cavity, the greatest diameter of which, contrarv to mat ot the metatarsal surface, is transverse. ' ofif ^'"'fy '^^^'■^ inferior or glenoid ligament (I, fin. so ) situ- ated on the plantar aspect of the joint; it is very thick, of the dSityif ^tr-