THE GLUTiEUS MINIMUS. 347 * Seo note, p. 38'J. •lata internally to the tensor vaginse femoris. It is inserted into the external surface of the great trochanter 125. 127.)- . ■,■ • ■ From these numerous origins the fleshy fibres proceed in different directions; the posterior forwards, the middle verticaUy, and the anterior backwards, be- coming more and more horizontal in front. They all terminate upon the two surfaces and edges of a radiated aponeurosis, the fibres of which are gradually concentrated and folded upon themselves, so as to form a flat tendon, inserted, not into the upper border, as it is generaUy said, but into the external surface of the great trochanter, along an oblique line ininning downwards and for- wards, so that the anterior fibres of the muscle are inserted into the anterior extremity of the lower border of the great trochanter, and the posterior fibres into the back part of the upper border ; at this latter point a well marked pro- jection sometimes exists, the size of which generally indicates the power of the glutaeus medius. A synovial bursa intervenes between the tendon and that part of the great trochanter over which it passes.* Relations. It is covered by the glutseus maximus, the tensor vaginse femoris, and the skin : it covers the glutseus minimus, with which its outer border is blended, and the glutaeal vessels and nerves. Its lower border is parallel with the pyriformis {Jig. 125.). Action. The glutEeus medius is both an extensor and an abductor of the thigh. Moreover, the anterior fibres rotate the femur inwards, and the posterior outwards; but the former have the greater power, for they are more numerous, the muscle being twice or thrice as thick in front as behind; it is therefore an extensor, an abductor, and a rotator inwards of the thigh, Winslow denies that it is an extensor, and considers it only as an abductor; this is only true in the position of standing upon both feet. In the sitting posture, again, this muscle in some degree loses its power as an extensor and abductor, and acts merely as a rotator. When the femur is fixed, as in standing, the glutseus medius extends the pelvis, draws it to its own side, and rotates it, so that the front of the trunk is turned towards the same side. It co-operates with the glutseus maximus in the first two motions, but antagonises.it in the last. Finally, its anterior fibres appear to me calculated to flex the thigh upon the pelvis; especially when the flexion has been already commenced by other muscles. The Glutceus Minimus. The gluteus minimus (c, Jig. 127.) is exposed by simply cutting across the preceding muscle, beneath which it lies; it is thinner and more regularly radiated. It arises from the anterior part of the crest of the ilium below the glutseus medius, from the outside of the sciatic notch, and from all that part of the external iliac fossa situated below the inferior semicircular line : from these points the fibres converge, the middle passing vertically, the posterior forwards, and the anterior backwards, to the deep surface of a radiated aponeurosis, the fibres of which are collected together into bands, that are in- serted separately into the anterior border and anterior half of the upper border of the great trochanter. Most commonly the posterior band is intimately attached to the tendon of the pyriformis. Relations. It is covered by the glutseus medius with which its anterior fibres are blended; it covers the external iliac fossa, the reflected tendon of the rectus femoris, and the upper part of the hip joint, from which it is separated by some fatty cellular tissue. Action. It is much more directly an abductor than the preceding muscles. Us anterior half rotates the thigh inwards, and its posterior half outwards. If the temur be fixed, it extends the pelvis, inclines it to its own side, and turns the anterior aspect of the trunk to the same side; by its anterior fibres it assists shghtly in producing flexion. General remarks upon the action of the glutai. The three muscles we have