MYOLOGY. 330 back of the first phalanges. The tendon of the third lumbricalis appears to me to be almost always inserted, not into the outer side of the ring finger, but into the inner side of the middle finger; an arrangement that cannot well be ac- counted for. It is not uncommon to find this third lumbricalis bifurcated, and attached not only to the inner side of the middle, but to the outer side of the ring finger. delations. They are placed between and upon the tendons of the flexor pro- fundus, and have, therefore, the same relations as those tendons in the palm of the hand; they are also in relation with the sides of the metacarpo-phalangal articulations, and the tendons of the interosseous muscles Action. It is difiicnlt to determine their actions precisely. Vesalius has de- scribed them as adductors, and Spigelius as flexors. I agree with Riolanus in regarding them as specially intended to keep the extensor tendons closely ap- plied to the phalanges, and to serve instead of a proper sheath. They are of use also in binding together the extensor and flexor tendons, and preventing the displacement of either. The Flexor Longus PoUicis. Dissection. The same as that of the flexor profundus. The flexor longus pollicis {I, fig. 119, 120.) is situated upon the same plane as the flexor profundus digitorum, of which it may be considered a division; it is thick, elongated, and penniform. Attachments. It arises from the upper three-fourths of the radius, from the contiguous portion of the interosseous ligament, from the anterior border of the radius, and not unfrequently by a prolongation, tendinous at its extremities and fleshy in the middle, from the flexor sublimis digitorum. It is inserted into the upper end of the second phalanx of the thumb. The fleshy fibres arise directly from these origins, pass vertically downwards, and are attached to the posterior surface of a flat tendon, which forms a continuation of the series of tendons of the flexor profundus on the outside, and like them is divided into bands. The fleshy fibres accompany the tendon as far as the anterior annular ligament of the carpus; it then passes beneath this ligament, is reflected over the inside of the trapezium, and proceeds obliquely outwards along the first metacarpal bone. When it reaches the metacarpo-phalangal articulation of the thumb, it is received in an osteo-fibrous sheath, resembling ' in every respect that of the tendons of the other fingers, and, like them, is in- serted in front of the upper extremity of the ungual phalanx of its corre- sponding finger (Z,^jr. 120.). . . , „ • J- 1- Relations. It is covered by theflexor sublimis, the flexor carpi radialis, the supinator longus, and the radial artery; it covers the radius and the inter- osseous Ugament, from which it is separated above by the interosseous vessels and nei-ves, and below by the pronator quadratus. Its tendon is the most ex- ternal of those which pass under the anterior annular Ugament of the carpus, after leaving which it is received into a deep muscular groove formed by the muscles of the baU of the thumb, and is ultimately enclosed in its own osteo- ^^Sf^lt flexes the last phalanx of the thumb upon the first, this upon the firf metacarpal bone, and then the hand upon the fore-arm In order to Serstand its action precisely, we must suppose the muscu ar force to be ^ncentrated upon the upper end of the reflected portion; it is then easy to see that it dr^ws the phalanges inwards, while flexing them. It is therefore an opponens muscle. The Pronator Quadratus. Dissection. Cut across aU the tendons occupying the lower part of the anterior region of the fore-arm, and this muscle will be exposed.