ARTHROLOGY. union of the radius and ulna, and performs the office of those inter-articular cartilages, which we have noticed as peculiar to such joints as are most ex- posed to shocks and friction; and ahove all, it restores the level of the inferior radio-cuhital surface by filling up the vacancy caused by the projection of the raaius below the ulna. There is a separate synovial membrane for this joint (see above i, fig. 75) (often called membrana sacciformis). It covers the upper surface o£ the tri- angular ligament, and the sort of incomplete ring which circumscribes the head of the ulna. It forms very loose folds at the places of reflection, which admit of very extensive rotation. ' Middle Radio-cubital Articulation, or Interosseous Ligament. The interosseous ligament (J, figs. 71, 72.), improperly so called, is an apo- neurosis which occupies the interval between the radius and ulna, and whieli appears to serve principally for the insertion of 'muscles. It is broader in the middle than at the ends, and does not reach the extremities of the interosseous space, for there is an interval above and below, which serves the purpose of giving passage to nerves and vessels, and also permits more free motion be- tween the two bones. The fibres which compose it are directed obliquely downwards and inwards, i. e. from the radius to the ulna. We generally ob- serve on its anterior aspect several bundles running downwards and outwards ; the superior and the strongest of these is caUed the round ligament, or the liga- mentous cord of Weitbrecht (m, fig. 71.). It extends obliquely downwards and outwards, from the outside of the coronoid process of the ulna to the lower part of the bicipital tuberosity of the radius. Its direction is, therefore, precisely the inverse of that of the fibres of the interosseous ligament. Mechanism of the Radio-cubital Articulations. These articulations, like all trochlear joints, only admit of one kind of motion, viz. rotation, which is here called by a peculiar name. Rotation forwards is denominated pronation; rotation backwards is called supination. We must examine these in both the upper and the lower radio-cubital articulations. Mechanism of the superior Radio-cubital Articulations. Pronation. In this movement, the inner part of the head of the radius rolls backwards upon the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna, and may be carried so far that the radius may describe half a circle upon its axis. Notwithstanding the obstacles to displacement resulting from the strength of the back part of the annular ligaments, and the presence of the two little hooks, one in front and the other behind the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna, and lastly, notwith- standing the advantage produced by the reception of the small head of the humerus in the cup-like cavity of the upper end of the radius, in violent pro- nation the head of the radius is frequently luxated backwards. Perhaps no dislocation is more common in infancy than the incomplete luxation backwards of the upper end of the radius, on account of the greater looseness of the annu- lar ligament and the less complete reception of the small head of the humerus in the cupula of the radius. The cause occasioning this displacement is forced pronation, so frequent when infants are held by the hand, in attempting to save them from falling. . In supination the head of the radius turns upon its axis m a different di- rection, i. e. its inner part glides forwards upon the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna. K it be carried too far, dislocation forwards may be the consequence.* » This displacement is very uncommon, on account of the hook-like projection at the an- terior extremity of the sigmoid cavity, and doubtless, also, because forcible supination is very rare. Professor Dugfis informs me that he has seen an instance of this dislocation of the radius, and proved its existence by inspection after death.