'^'■^'^ SPLANCHNOLOGY. ^"""n" '''''' distinguished is a fissure, the mere trace of a sena- nTZtrfTtnT' 'f"''f''P''-^°' P- 70.) ; and secondly, that at unnpr ^l"^*^ -^'^t."^^ demonstrate the existence of any division in the upper lip. ihis hp has always appeared to me to consist of a single niece trom the earhest period of its formation. The same may he said of the lower lip, which, according to authors, is developed from two lateral halves At no period of fojtal life can any such division he detected.* I do not even know an example of malformation in which such an arrrangement existed. The length of the lips of the new born infant is well adapted for the act of sucking, and depends upon the absence of the teeth. To the same cause and to the wasting of the alveolar borders, the length of the lips in advanced ase must be referred. ^ Uses. The lips, constituting the anterior wall of the mouth, form a sort of barrier in front of the teeth, and alveolar arches, by which the saliva is retained within that cavity. So great is the importance of the lips in preventing a con- tinual escape of the saliva, that in cases where they have been destroyed the constant draining away of that fluid may become a cause of exhaustion and even of death.f They are employed, also, in drinking, sucking, and blowing; in playing upon wmd-instruments, and in uttering articulate sounds. They are also of great importance in the expression of the passions, which, as we have seen, influence all the muscles of the face. Pride, contempt, joy, grief, anger, and every possible gradation of feeling, are depicted in a striking manner upon the outline of the lips. The mouth is more particularly the seat of grimaces, which are nothing more than the expression of passions ridiculously exagge- The Cheeks. The cheeks form the lateral walls of the mouth and the sides of the face. They are bounded internally by the reflection of the mucous membrane upon the maxillary bones : externally their limits are much less defined, and are thus determined on each side of the face ; in front, by the bucco-labial furrow, which separates them from the lips ; behind, by the posterior border of the ramus of the lower jaw ; above, by the base of the orbit; and below, by the base of the lower jaw. The cheeks then comprise three very distinct regions : the malar, the masseteric, and the buccal, properly so called. Each cheek is quadrilateral in form, and presents, 1. an external or cutaneous surface on which is observed, above, the projection of the cheek, called the malar eminence, and lower down, a surface, which is convex and smooth in stout persons, but hollow and wrinkled in the emaciated ; 2. an internal or mucous surface, free and con-esponding to the alveolar and dental arches. On this surface is situ- ated the orifice of the Stenonian duct, opposite the interval which separates the first from the second upper large molar tooth. Structure. Each cheek, properly so called, is composed of the following parts: the malar bone and the ramus of the lower jaw; a cutaneous layer, increased in thickness by a great quantity of fat; a mucous, a glandular, a muscular, and an aponeurotic layer; some vessels and nerves, and an ex- cretory duct. "We shall make a few remarks upon these difierent layers, com- mencing with the skin. The skin is remarkable for its firmness and vascularity over the cheek bone, and also for the facility with which it is injected, or becomes pale under the influence of the moral feelings : it is covered with hair on the lower and back part in the adult male. * The admirable researches of M. Velpeau upon embryology fully confirm the results at which I have arrived. t This use is principally confined to the lower lip, and it is remarkable that this lip is never affected by congenital fissure. Another singular and also totally inexplicable fact is, that cancer, which is so common a disease, never affects the upper, but invariably the lower lip.