194 ARTHROLOGY. 1 Articulations of the Carpal Endji of the Metacarpal Bones. These are symphyses or amphi-arthroses. The articular surfaces {see fig. 73.) occupy the sides of the carpal ends of the metacarpal hones, and are partly contiguous 1 and partly continuous. The contiguous portion consists of a facette covered with cartilage, and is, in fact, an extension of the surface that articulates with the carpus. The part intended to hecome continuous is rough. The means of union are the interosseous, the dorsal, and the palmar ligaments. The interosseous ligaments (//, fig. 73.) are short, close, and very strong handles of fibres, interposed hetween the rough por- tions of the lateral facettes of two neigh- bouring metacarpal bones. They constitute the principal means of uniting these bones, as may be seen by attempting to separate them after dividing the dorsal and pahnar I ligaments. The dorsal {I, fig. 74.) and palmar liga- ' ments{m, fig.1^.) consist of fibrous bundles, stretched transversely from one metacarpal bone to another. The palmar Ugaments are much larger than the dorsal. 2. Articulation of the Digital Ends of the Metacarpal Bones. Although the digital extremities of the metacarpal bones are not, properly speaking, articulated together, yet as they are contiguous, and move upon each ^ ^' ^ other, their surfaces are covered by a sy- novial membrane, which facilitates their movements; moreover, a palmar ligament {n, figs. 74, 75.) is stretched transversely m front of these extremities, and unites them loosely together. This Ugament (called also transverse) is common to the four last metacarpal bones, but it does not reach the metacarpal bone of the thumb. It may be considered as formed by the umon of all the anterior ligaments of the metacarpo-pha- langal articulations, which are rendered continuous by smaU bands stretched from kone to the other. In order to expose this Ugament, it is sufladent to open the fibrous sheaths of the flexor tendons of the fingers, and to remove the smaU lumbricales mus- cles, together with the nerves and vessels of the fingers. We may consider the interosseous apo- neurosity as representing, in respect to the shafts of the metacarpal bones, the apo- neurosis caUed the interosseous ligament in the fore-arm. as we shaU afterwards see, complete the means The interosseous muscles, as we suiui ox of union of the metacarpal bones. Fig, 75