160 ARTHROLOGY. 1. The nccipito-axoid ligaments are three in number, a middle and two lateral The middle occipilo-axoid ligament (p,fig. 64.) is thick, and forms at its upper part a single band, the fibres of which are separated below into three very distinct layers. The most posterior of these is continuous with the posterior common ligament; the second is attached to the posterior surface of the body of the axis ; and the deepest, which is very thin, and shaped like a tongue pointed above, is that which we described with the transverse ligament. The lateral occipito- axoid ligaments (r, jig. 64.) arise from the sides of the basilar groove by a broad extremity, and are attached to the posterior surface of the axis by a pointed end. They correspond in front with the odon- toid and transverse ligaments, and behind with the dura mater. 2. The odontoid ligaments are three in nimiber, a middle and two lateral. The middle (I, fig. 64.) consists of ligamentous fibres, which extend from the apex of the odontoid process to the fore part of the foramen magnum, between the condyles ; the two lateral {I, fig. 63.) are two bundles of fibres, very strong, short, and cylindrical, which stretch between the sides of the apex of the odontoid process, and two smaU fossee on the inside of the condyles; then- direction is horizontal, so that they represent the horizontal limbs of the letter T of which the odontoid process forms the vertical portion ; they are almost always united by a bundle, which passes above the odontoid process without adhering to it, so that, at first sight, they might be declared to be one and the same ligament. Sacro-vertebral, Sacro-coccygeal, and Coccygeal Articulations. Sacro-vertebral articulation. This resembles in every point the articulations of the other vertebra:. We shall only remark, 1. the great thickness of the intervertebral substance, particularly in front, a vertical section of it resem- bling a hatchet with the broad part turned forwards ; 2. the sacro-vertebral ligament (a, fig. 76.), which is proper to this articulation, a very short tluck, and strong bundle stretched obliquely from the transverse process of the fifth lumbar vertebra to the base of the sacrum, where it crosses with some liga- mentous fibres of the sacro-iliac articulation. . , . v • „„„ Sacro-coccygeal articulation. This is an amphiarthrosis, or symphysis, ana- logous in every respect to that of the bodies of the vertebrae ; a fibrous disc refembling the intervertebral substances, but of a more loose texture, luntes the corresponding articular smfaces. In some '^T^^ moveable, and there is a synovial capsule m the centre of the disc The other means of union are, 1. the anterior sacro-coccygeal ligament 'J;^'^'^ posed of parallel fibres extending from the anterior surface of he sacium to the anX surface of the coccyx, and often divided into two lateral bundles; TtCp Zrior sacro-coccygeal igament, which is_ fixed above to the e^g^ the notch which terminates the sacral canal, and is prolonged upon the poste rior surfac" of the coccyx. This Ugament, wliich completes the sacral canaU g" es atla^bment to the'glut.i maximi muscles .^^^Xcf "^rapei 2cond pte if tt^Sro^fwHrremains to an advanced age. It is some- times extremely moveable.* . I have met wj«i an instance i"^" j'^ti^^U^'^Stat iK^i^c^ui