ARTICULATIONS OF THE TARSUS. 217 parts. The means of union, properly speaking, consist only of an extremely strong interosseous ligament (a, fig. 84.), formed by ligamentous bundles, of which some are vertical, and others oblique; they are mixed with fat, and occupy the considerable interval formed by the grooves of the two bones, and which is larger to- wards the outer end. To form a complete idea of this ligament, it is necessary to make a vertical sec- tion, from before backwards, through the middle of the astragalus and os calcis (as in fig. 84.). A loose synovial membrane lines the posterior articu- lation, which is strengthened on the inside by the fibrous sheaths of the tendons of the tibialis posticus, the flexor longus digitorum, and the flexor longus poUicis. There are also about this joint two very small fibrous bundles, one of which is posterior ( t, fig. 80.; a, fig. 83.), and the other external (6, fig. 83.) : some anatomists have described them by the names oi posterior and external ligaments. The anterior portion of this articulation is often double, from the division of the anterior articular surfaces into two smaller facettes: it forms part of the as- tragalo-scaphoid articulation, with which it will be described. Articulations of Hie Component Bones of the Second Row. All these joints are very compact, for the five bones which constitute this row act as one only in the movements performed by the foot at its tarsal articulations. They pre- sent for the most part angular facettes; they have F'R- 83. also interosseous ligaments, and are true symphyses or amphiarthroses. Articulations of the Cuneiform Bones with each other. Articular surfaces. The corresponding surfaces of the first and second cuneiform bones present contiguous as well as continuous portions. The contiguous portions are square, and situated at the upper and back part of each surface. The continuous portions are placed in front of the preceding. The corresponding articular surfaces of the second and third cuneiform bones are smooth and contiguous behind, but rough and irregular in front. Means of union. 1. By dorsal ligaments (c c, fig. 83.). This name is given to some very compact fibrous bands stretching transversely from one bone to the other. By their upper surfaces, on which the longest fibres may be seen, they are in relation with the extensor brevis digitorum and with the tendons of the other extensor muscles. Their lower sur- faces, the fibres of which are shorter, correspond to the articulations, and to the periosteum of the cuneiform bones, with which they interlace. 2. By plantar ligaments. This name may be given to some of the fibres of the interosseous ligaments. .'5. By interosseous ligaments. These, which are very