MYOLOGY. the fore-arm, and the scapuhi upon the arm. Lastly, it is a tensor of the fascia of the fore-arm, upon which the internal fibres of the muscle often terminate. The Brachialis Anticus. Dissection Cut the biceps across, opposite the insertion of the deltoid and turn down the lower part upon the fore-arm. ' The brachialis anticus (brachialis internus, Alb., d d, fig. 116 • d fin 117 -) is a thick, prismatic, and triangular muscle, situated behind the" 'pr'ecedine It arises from the humerus below the insertion of the deltoid, which it embraces by a well-marked bifurcation ; and since the pobt of insertion of the deltoid is not always the same, it foUows that this origin of the brachialis anticus is also variable: it also arises from the internal and external surfaces and from the three borders of the humerus, and from the external and internal inter-mus cular septa. It is inserted mto the rough surface on the fore part of the coronoid process of the ukia. The different origins from the humerus are fleshy, the fibres being of very various lengths, and proceeding in diflFerent directions ; the middle pass verticaUy downwards, the external somewhat ob- hquely inwards, and the internal outwards ; they all terminate on the pos- terior surface of an aponeurosis, which is broad and thin above, and thick below, especially on the outer side, where it turns round so as to embrace the outer border of the muscle, and forms a deep aponeurotic lamina. The fleshy fibres therefore are received into a semi-cone of tendinous substance open on the inside, the fibres of which are collected together and finally inserted into an oblique line, running downward^ and outwards, below the coronoid process of the ulna. Relations. The anterior surface of the brachialis anticus is in relation with the biceps, the musculo-cutaneous nerve, the brachial fascia, the brachial artery and veins, and the median nerve; its internal surface, with the pronator teres muscle, the ulnar nerve, and the triceps, from which it is only separated by the internal inter-muscular septum ; its external surface, with the supinator longus and the extensor carpi radialis longior, which are received into a sort of groove presented by it, the radial nerve establishing the limit between these two muscles and the brachialis anticus. The posterior surface embraces the internal and external surfaces of the humerus, to which it is attached; below, it embraces and effectually protects the front of the elbow joint, into the anterior ligament of which many of its fibres are inserted. Action. The brachialis anticus flexes the fore-arm upon the arm, and reciprocally the arm upon the fore-arm. Its momentum takes place, like that of the biceps, during semi-flexion. It is worthy of remark that this muscle acts with greater precision than the biceps upon the fore-arm, because it arises from the humerus only, and besides that it belongs more especially than that muscle to the elbow joint. I have already said that it may be regarded as the active anterior ligament of this articulation. In fact it so completely limits the movement of extension, that we cannot imagine the possibility of luxation of the fore-arm backwards, without rupture of this muscle. From the inser- tion of the biceps into the radius, and of the brachialis anticus into the ulna, it follows that the flexor muscles of the fore-arm are divided between the two bones, in the same manner as those of the leg are distributed to the tibia and fibula. Thus, the contraction of the brachialis anticus has a tendency to carry the fore-arm outwards as well as to flex it, while that of the biceps tends to draw it inwards. When the two muscles contract simultaneously, direct flexion is the result. The Coraco-brachialis. Dissection. The upper part is exposed as soon as the deltoid is detached; the middle is situated between the pectoralis major and the latissimus dorsi; and the lower part is seen upon th& inner surface of the humerus near the tendon of the deltoid.