131 THE TARSUS. Fill. 54- the lower end during the second yeai-: that of the upper end about the fifth. The extremities are united to the shaft of the bone when the deyelopmen is completed, viz. from twenty to twenty-five years the lower end is the first to become joined. The Foot (Jigs. 54, 55, and 56.). The foot is the part of the lower extremity which is analogous to the hand in the upper. They are both but varieties of the same type of organisation, with certain differences which have reference to their respective uses. In the foot, for example, which is intended to support the body, the conditions neces- sary for soUdity are principally manifest, whUe the hand is chiefly remarkable for the mobility of its parts. . , , , ■ • r The foot is composed of twenty-six bones, which, by their union, form three distinct parts, viz. 1. the tarsus (c ij, fig. 54.), a bony mass consisting of seven pieces closely articulated; 2. the metatarsus, composed of five separate columns (m m.', figs. 54 and 55.) ; and 3. the toes, formed each of three columns (re o r), excepting the first, or most internal, which has only two (re' r'). The size of the foot varies in dif- ferent individuals. It exceeds the hand in thickness and length, but is not so broad. Its direction is horizontal from before backwards, and it forms a right angle with the leg, differing much in this respect from the hand, which is in the same line as the forearm. It is flattened from above downwards, is hollow below {fig. 56.), narrow behind, where it is of considerable height, and thinner and broader in front, at which part also it is digitated. It presents, 1. a superior or dorsal surface, which is convex, dorsum pedis (fig. 54.); 2. an inferior or plantar surface, which is concave transversely, and likewise in the antero-posterior direction, sole of the foot (fig. 55.) ; 3. an internal or tibial edge (fig. 56.), which is very thick, and corresponds to the great toe : 4. an external or fibular edge, which corresponds to the little toe ; 5. a posterior ex tremity or heel; 6. an anterior or digital extremity. We shall describe in succession the tarsus, the metatarsus, and the toes. Tlie Tarsus {figs. 54, 55, and 56.). The tarsus is an analogous structure to the carpus, but differs from it in forming the posterior half of the foot, while the carpus only constitutes about a sixth of the hand. Its antero-posterior dia- meter surpasses by more than double its transverse, precisely the opposite of what obtains m the carpus. It resembles a vaulted arch, the convexity of which (c aj, fig. 56.) looks upwards, and which is excavated below (d i) both transversely ajid from before backwards. The weight of the leg falls upon the summit of this arch. This form of the foot is not designed merely for securing the ad- K 2