439 THE PALATO-GLOSSUS. part of its extent; its vertical portion {d, fig. 141. 146.) is situated along the internal plate of the pterygoid process, to the inner side of the internal ptery- goid muscle (b\ and its horizontal portion {d) in the substance of the yelum. Attachments. It arises from the fossa navicularis, at the base of the internal pterygoid plate, from the contiguous part of the great wing of the sphenoid, and from a small portion of the cartilage of the Eustachian tube. From these points the muscle, which forms a thin fasciculus, flattened at the side passes verticaUy downwards: near the hamular process of the internal pterygoid plate it becomes a shining tendon, which changes its direction, and is reflected at a right angle under that process: it is retained m this situation by a small Ugament, and its motions are facilitated by a synovial membrane. The tendon then passes horizontally inwards, expands, and becomes blended with the aponeurotic membrane. . , , . Relations. Its vertical portion is in relation on the outside with the internal pterygoid, and on the inside with the levator palati, from which it is separated by the superior constrictor of the pharynx {g,fig. 141.) and by the internal pterygoid plate. Its horizontal or aponeurotic portion is anterior to the levator palati, and has the same relation as the aponeurotic portion of the velum. Action. It is a tensor of the aponeurotic portion (tensorpalati), but does not otherwise move the velum. As Haller has remarked, when its fixed point is below, it can dilate the Eustachian tube. The Falato-pharyngeus, or Pharyngo-staphylinus. This muscle (thyro-staphylinus, Douglas, ee,fig. 141.) is narrow and fascicu- lated in the middle, where it is situated in the posterior piUar of the fauces, broad and membranous at its extremities, one of which is in the velum and the other in the pharynx. Attachments. It arises from the whole extent of the posterior border of the thyroid cartilage. From this point it passes vertically upwards, and forms a broad and thin muscular layer, the fibres of which are first collected into a fasciculus or muscular column, which enters the posterior pillar of the fauces, and then again expanding occupy the whole extent of the antero-posterior diameter of the velum, and unite in the median line with the muscle of the opposite side, so as to form an arch. The anterior fibres are inserted into the posterior border of the aponeurosis of the velum. Relations. It forms the lowest muscular stratum of the velum : it is separated from the mucous membrane below by the layer of glands: it is in relation above with the muscular layer formed by the expansion of the levator palati. In the posterior pillar it is in relation with the mucous membrane, which covers it in all directions, excepting on the outside. In the pharynx it forms the innermost muscular layer, i. e. it lies between the constrictors and the mucous membrane. Action. The two palato-pharyngei draw the velum downwards, and press it strongly against the alimentary mass during deglutition; they therefore form a constrictor of the isthmus of the fauces. When they take their fixed points above, they raise the posterior wall of the pharynx. They are important agents in deglutition. The Palato-glossus, or Glosso-staphylinus. This is a small fleshy bundle (p,fig. 141.) situated in the anterior pillar of the fauces, narrow in the middle, and broad at the extremities. Its lower ex- tremity is expanded upon the side of the tongue, and is united with the stylo- glossus. Its upper extremity spreads out in the velum palati, and becomes blended with that of the palato-pharyngeus. Its middle portion is very slender; it forms the anterior pillar, and is visible through the thin mucous membrane by which it is covered. J? F 4