297 THE GENIO-HYOTDEUS. tendon. They are inserted into the body of the os hyoides, at a short distance from the median line. Sometimes the tendon of insertion is reflected upon itself, and forms the pulley for the digastric. _ , , , Relations. It is covered by the posterior belly of the digastric, and has the same relations as that muscle. It is not uncommon to find a second stylo- hyoid muscle, extending from the styloid process to the little cornu of the os hyoides. This muscle takes the place of the stylo-maxillary ligament; it was described by Santorini under the name of the stylo-hyoideus novus, and was noticed also by Albinus.* The Mylo-hyoideus. Dissection. Detach the anterior belly of the digastric at its maxiUary in- sertion ; dissect the submaxillary gland, and turn it outwards. This muscle (r,figs. 113 and 114.) situated immediately below, i.e. deeper (as regards the surface) than the anterior belly of the digastric, is thin and quadrilateral. It arises from the whole extent of the mylo-hyoid line, from opposite the last molar to the symphysis menti, by short aponeurotic fibres. The fleshy fibres arising from these pass in different directions: the internal (or anterior), very short, proceed inwards to a median fibrous raphe, which traverses the whole supra-hyoid region ; the external (or posterior) pass much less obliquely to the upper part of the body of the os hyoides. The median raphe is sometimes wanting, and the muscular fibres of the opposite sides are continuous with each other. Some of the fibres are often lost in the digastric, and are even continuous with the sterno-hyoid. The two mylo-hyoid muscles may, with great propriety, be regarded as a single muscle, divided by a ten- dinous intersection in the median line, Relations. It is covered by the anterior belly of the digastric, the supra- hyoid fascia, the platysma, and the sub-maxillary gland; and it covers the genio-hyoid, the hyo-glossus, and stylo-glossus muscles, the lingual and hypo-glossal nerves, the Whartonian duct, the sublingual gland, and the buc- cal mucous membrane. The Genio-hyoideus. This muscle (s,fig. 114, 143, 147.) is situated below, i.e. deeper than the preceding, which must be divided very carefully in order to avoid raising the two together It is a small, round, fleshy bundle, described by anatomists as consisting of two very minute muscles, separated from each other by an ex- tremely delicate cellular tissue. Sometimes it is impossible to separate them ; at other times the two bimdles are very distinct. They arise from the in- ferior sub-mental tubercle, and proceed downwards and backwards to be inserted into the upper part of the os hyoides. Relations. They are covered by the mylo-hyoids, and cover the hyo- glossal muscles. Actions of the Muscles of the Supra-hyoid Region. These are of two kinds, relating to the depression of the lower jaw and to the elevation of the os hyoides. The OS hyoides being fixed by the muscles of the sub-hyoid region, aU the supra-hyoid muscles, with the exception of the stylo-hyoids, depress the lower jaw ; and it should be observed that they are situated in the most favourable manner for this purpose; for, on the one hand, they are almost perpendicular to the lever and, on the other, they are attached as far as possible from the mcrum. Ihe obliquity of their direction has also this advantage, that the lower jaw is earned backwards as well as depressed, and thus the orifice of the mouth IS greatly increased in size. oi me * Albinus termed it styla-hyoideus alter.