THE SPLEEN. 537 malignant fevers* and when the membranes are torn, the substance of the spleen escapes spontaneously. _ . ^. , . Fiqure The spleen has a crescentic form; its long diameter is vertical, its concavity directed to the right, and its convexity to the left side. It may be compared, as was done by HaUer, to a segment of an elhpse cut longitudinally. It presents for consideration an external and an internal surjace, and a cir- Ctlttl fCTCTlCB The external or costal surface is convex, smooth, and in relation with the diaphragm, which separates it from the ninth, tenth, and eleventh ribs f; hence arises the influence of contractions of the diaphragm upon the spleen, and the possibility of its being ruptured during a violent effort. This relation also accounts for the pain felt in the region of the spleen after quick running, and the difficulty and pain attendant on a strong inspiration made whilst running by persons in whom the spleen is hypertrophied. "We frequently find a prolongation of the liver abnost completely covering the external surface of the spleen. The internal or gastric surface is concave in all directions, and presents, at the junction of the two anterior thirds with the posterior, a somewhat irregular series of openings, which are themselves irregular in form and number, are sit- uated at greater or less intervals, and arranged longitudinally. This row of openings is called the fissure, or hilus {h,fig. 154.), of the spleen. The gastro- splenic omentum is attached near this fissure. Some varieties are observed in the arrangement of the internal surface of the spleen. Thus, it sometimes pre- sents an uniform concavity, and sometimes there is a sort of projecting ridge opposite the hilus, which divides it into two unequal parts, one anterior and larger, the other posterior and smaller: in the latter case, which is common, the spleen is of a prismatic and triangular form. The following are the relations of the internal surface : — the part situated in front of the hilus has relations with the great cul-de-sac of the stomach, and, on the right and behind this cul-de-sac, with the gastro-splenic omentum and the vasa brevia situated within it: the left extremity of the liver, which, as we have seen occasionally, covers the external surface of the spleen, is more fre- quently in relation with the internal surface of that organ. Behind the hilus the spleen corresponds with the left kidney, suprarenal capsule, and pillar of the diaphragm, which separate it from the spine, and with the small extremity of the pancreas. The circumference is elliptical; its posterior border is thicker above than be- low, and is in relation with the kidney, which it sometimes covers through its entire length ; its anterior border is thinner, and is applied to the stomach ; its upper extremity is thick, often bent upon itself, and in contact with the diaphragm, from which however it is occasionally separated by the liver; its inferior ex- tremity is pointed, and rests upon the angle formed by the transverse and descending colon, or upon the portion of transverse mesocolon, which sup- ports that angle. The circumference of the spleen is notched, and sometimes marked more or less deeply by fissures, which are prolonged upon both its surfaces, particularly upon the external surface, and which divide it into a greater or less number of distinct lobules. This lobular arrangement is the last indication of the multiple spleens, of which we have already spoken. The description of the relations just given applies when the stomach is empty; when that viscus is distended, they are somewhat different. The spleen, which before was separated from the stomach by the gastro-splenic omentum, is then applied directly to it, and is moulded upon it, so as it were to cover its walls. It has no longer any relations with the kidney and the vertebral column, but * Vide Atiat. Path.avec. planches, liv. ii.,art. Maladies de la Rate. I have been able to col- lect the splenic fluid in a medicine phial, .md to submit it to different experiments. t It is said that the ribs produce marks upon the spleen from the pressure exercised l>v them upon it during life. 1 have never observed this appearance, and can only conceive it to e xist in cases of hypertrophy of tlie spleen.