SPLANCHNOLOGY, displaced intestines, or a cyst containing serous fluid eflPused from the abdomen hydrocek'^'^^ ^^"^ ^'^"^^^^ '^^^^^ congenital hernia, in the latter, congenital The Testicles. The testicles (testes) are two glandular organs, intended to secrete the sper- matic fluid. They are situated in the scrotum, at the sides of and below the penis, and are therefore exposed to external violence. They are supported by their coverings, and by the cord formed by the spermatic vessels, and are at a greater or less distance from the inguinal ring, according as the dartos and cremaster are in a state of relaxation or contraction. The testicles are not situated at exactly the same height, the left descending a little lower than the right. This arrangement, which has not escaped the observation of painters and sculptors, assists in protecting them from injury by enabling them to glide one above the other when the thighs are closely ap- proximated, and thus to avoid compression. Their situation is not the same at all periods of life. In the foetus, they are contained within the abdominal cavity. Sometimes they remain permanently, or much longer than usual in that situation, which, in the natural state, is merely temporary. Number. The varieties in the number of the testicles are most of them only apparent. Thus, for example, in almost all monorchides (persons having but one testis ; from ix6vos, single, and Spx'y, a testicle), that testicle which is absent from the scrotum is situated in the abdomen. Nevertheless, I have had occa- sion to dissect an individual who had only one testicle ; there was an atrophied vesicula seminalis on the side where the testicle was wanting; the vas de- ferens commenced at this vesicle, and was lost upon the side of the bladder. I was not able to examine the spermatic vessels. The examples of three, four, or five testicles are not well attested. * An epiploic, or fatty tumour, or a cyst, may have been mistaken for a testicle. Size. The testicles vary in size in diflferent individuals, and still more at different ages. At the period of puberty, the testicle, which up to that time had been as it were in a state of atrophy in comparison with the rest of the body, increases greatly in size. This atrophy, which is normal before puberty, may continue to a more advanced age. In a subject about twenty years of age, in which the penis and lai'ynx were highly developed, I found the two testicles atrophied: they weighed less than a drachm ; the epididymis, although it was atrophied, was larger than the body of the testicle. The two testicles are not exactly of the same size ; the left is generally larger than the right; but this difference is so slight and inconstant, that some anatomists have even thought that a slight predominance may be observed in the right. The following are the average dimensions of the testicle: — length, two inches ; breadth, one inch ; thickness, eight lines. Weight. According to Meckel, the weight of the testicle is four drachms; according to Sir Astley Cooper, one ounce. Consistence. It is extremely important, especially in a practical point of view, to judge of the natural consistence of the testicle. The character of this consistence is determined less by the proper substance of the testicle than by the degree of tension of its immediate covering ; and in this respect the con- sistence of the testicle very much resembles that of the eye. In the aged, the seminiferous ducts being empty, the testicle becomes soft, and, as it were, atrophied. It would be still less consistent, if it were not for the serous fluid with which the cellular tissue between these ducts becomes infiltrated. Figure, direction, and relations. The testicle is oval, but flattened at the sides. This form, added to the polished and slippery character of its surface, * I have been consulted concerning a child, wlio appeared to me to have two testicles upon one side, each of which was as large as that of the opposite side ; but it is impossible to decide with certainty upon such a matter until dissection has shown the true nature of pretended supernumerary testicles. Nevertheless, the kind of pain felt upon pressing the body imagmed to be a testicle may aftbrd tolerably satisfactory indications during life.