THE MAMMiE, 629 s 8 3 the clitoris, which projects beyond them to a greater extent in the earlier pe- riods of developement. This predominance of the chtons is still so decided at birth, that it has occasioned mistakes concerning the sex of the mfant. THE MAMMJE. Number. — Situation. — Size. — Form. — Structure. — Development. The viammcB or breasts {tiaarhs, from tii^, to seek eagerly, because the in- fant seeks them for the milk) are glandular appendages of the generative sys- tem, which secrete the milk, and even after birth establish intimate relations between the mother and the infant. The important office performed by the mammse has led zoologists to arrange in the same class, under the term mammalia, all animals having an apparatus for lactation. We may mention here another character peculiar to this class of animals, because it is intimately connected with the existence of mammae, viz. that all mammalia are viviparous, that is to say, give birth to their young freed from all their foetal envelopes. The mammse exist in both sexes, but are rudimentary and atrophied in the male, and belong essentially to the female. Number. They are two in number in the human species, -which is uniparous; in the lower animals they are generally double the number of the young. Ex- amples of three or four mamma; in the human subject are very rare, and the supernumerary mammse are generally nothing more than simple nipples, or rather masses of fat. Situation. They are situated on the anterior and upper part of the chest, the transverse enlargement of which in the human subject is so favourable to their developement. In the lower animals they occupy the abdominal region. They are situated on each side of the median line, over the interval between the third and the seventh ribs. They are therefore placed at the same height as the arms, and occupy this region, says Plutarch, in order that the mother may be able to embrace and support her infant whUe she is suckling it. Size. In the male they are rudimentary during the whole of life; in the female until the period of puberty only, when they become much enlarged as the generative apparatus is developed more completely. They again increase in size during pregnancy, and especially after delivery; they become atrophied in old age. In some females who are still young, the size of the mammse by no means corresponds to their stature, strength, and soundness of constitution ; while, on the other hand, it is not uncommon to see thin, phthisical individuals with very large breasts. In judging of the size of the mammse we must not confound that depending upon the gland itself with that due to fat. The largest breasts are not always those which furnish the most milk, because their ex- treme size often depends on an accumulation of fat, the gland itself being small. The left mamma is almost always a little larger than the right. Form. The mammse represent a semi-sphere surmounted by a large papilla called the nipple. The skin covering the mamma is remarkably delicate. Surrounding the nipple is an areola or aureola of a pinkish hue in young girls, but of a brownish colour in most females who have borne children ; it has also a rough appear- ance owiug to a number of sebaceous glands, which yield a kind of waxy se- cretion that prevents the irritating action of the saliva of the infant. Mor- gagni, Winslow, and Meckel state, that they have observed milk to escape from them ; but if there was no error in their observations, it must be admitted that by some unusual anomaly a lactiferous duct opened at the side of one of these little glands.