ARTHROLOGY. 21G fs convex n front (1) the opposite obtains, so that there is a mutual reception should be also remarked that there is no other articulatiou, excepting that of the head upon the vertebral column, in which the parts united are ha- bitually perpendicular to each other. 2. The dovetailing effected at this joint, by the reception of the astragalus into the socket, formed by the bones of the leg, is also highly conducive to its strength. This dovetailing results both from the pulley-like surface of the astragalus and from the angular form of the tibio-flbular socket; and it should be observed that this latter con- dition is, as it were, peculiar to the ankle joint, for in no othe» do we meet with such abrupt angles. With regard to mobility, the tibio-tarsal articulation admits of flexion and extension. There is no lateral motion, the movements of the foot in this di- rection being almost exclusively performed at the tarsal joints. In flexion, the astragalus glides backwards upon the tibia and fibula, and the back part of the pulley projects behind. Luxation, from an excess of this movement, is almost impossible, for it is limited by the meeting of the neck of the astragalus and the anterior edge of the tibio-fibular sockets. In this move- ment the posterior external lateral ligament, and the middle and posterior fibres of the internal lateral ligament, are put upon the stretch. In extension, on the contrary, the trochlea of the astragalus glides forwards upon the corresponding surface ; the synovial membrane is borne upwards in front; the anterior external lateral ligament, and the anterior and middle fibres of the internal lateral ligament, are stretched. Luxation is possible during this motion, but is very rare. Lateral movements. Although the shape of the joint is opposed to move- ments of this kind, yet it cannot be doubted that the elasticity of the fibula, by allowing the external maEeolus to yield a little, may permit them in a slight degree. Nevertheless the fibula must be fractured if any force, exerted by the astragalus against the external malleolus, be carried so.far as to thrust it much outwards. Articulations of the Taksus (Jigs. 80. 82, 83, 84.). The intrinsic articulations of the tarsus comprise, 1. the articulations of the component bones of each row ; 2. the articulation of the two rows together. Preparation. 1. Remove the tendons situated upon the dorsum of the foot, and also the extensor brevis digitorum muscle. 2. Remove all the muscles of the plantar region. 3. Rub oflF, by means of a rough cloth, the adipose tissue covering the ligaments: (a subject much infiltrated with serum is best adapted for this purpose). 4. In order to gain a clear comprehension of the articulation of the two rows together, remove the astragalus from the sort of box in which it is contained, by dividing the interosseous ligament which unites it to the os calcis 5 For the examination of the interosseous ligaments, it is necessary to separate the bones by laceration or section of those ligaments ; the resistance experienced in doing this, and the portions of the Ugaments remammg attached to the bones, will give a good idea of their strength and situation. 6. In order to obtain a correct notion of aU the Ugaments together, it is necessary, while studvine each, at the same time to examine a foot in which all the joints have been opened above, whilst the bones are stiU retained m their situations by means of the plantar ligaments. Articulation of the component Bones of the first Row, or Articulation of the Astragalus with tJie Os Calcis. This is a double arthrodia, in which each of the bones presents two articular facetles. separated bya furrow deeper on theouterthan on the inner side The Srior surface of the astragalus (1, fig. 84.) is concave, that of the os calcis (2)