THE TESTICLES. 599 « Q 4 enables it easily to avoid compression. The long diameter or axis of the tes- enables It ^asiy down^vards and backwards; its lateral surfaces and --t^' constantly lubricated by the sl':iTofn^%unicava^^^^^^ St^St'LTrc^veSt; tl'elSa"altus in a small pordon ouly of £ extenr The spermatic vessels enter at the inner part of this border, and behind the head of the epididymis. The anterior extremity of the oval is the lai-er Ind is Greeted upwards and forwards; the posterior extremjiy turned backwiand downwai^^s. The white colour the^-fac-f ^ |S owing to its proper fibrous covenng, which, on account of its whiteness, is '''Xr^i::'''^:^:^..., parts of the testicle are a fibrous membrane, a nroner tissue, and certain vessels and nerves. ... j • The ahrous membrane, tunica propria sive albuginea, is white, strong, and in- extensible; it is analogous to the sclerotic coat of the eye, and, hke it, forms the most external coat or sheU of the organ which it covers. _ The tunica vaginalis invests the outer surface of the tunica albuginea, ex- centine opposite the epididymis, where the fibrous coat is destitute of the serous membrane for a considerable extent. The serous and fibrous layers adhere closely to each other. _ ^x, • ^ i xi. Within the substance of the tunica albuginea, but nearer the internal than the external surface, are a gi-eat number of tortuous vessels, which may be seen through the semitransparent fibrous layer by which they are covered. These vessels project on the internal surface of the tunica albuginea, so that at first it might be thought that they were simply in contact with the mem- brane, and not within its substance, f • • • i. The internal surface of the tunica albuginea is in immediate relation -witn the proper substance of the testicle, and is connected with it by a g;reat number of vascular filaments, which traverse it in all directions, and divide it into small masses or lobules, and also by the extension of the substance of the gland itself into oblique culs-de-sac, or cells formed by the tunica albuginea, several of which are a line and a half or two lines deep. When the tunica al- buginea is carefully removed, filaments of the glandular Fig, 183. » //,, substance are seen escaping from these small ceUs, which are most numerous at the upper borders of the testicle. The strength of the vascular filaments which traverse the testicle, has led to the opinion that they are all en- veloped by a fibrous sheath derived from the tunica albu- ginea, but I have never been satisfied of the existence of these sheaths. | At the upper border of the testicle, the tunica albu- ginea becomes remarkably thickened, and forms the corpus Highmori, or mediastinum testis (^Cooper). In order to obtain a correct notion of this structure, it is necessary to make a vertical section of the testicle, at right angles with its long diameter: we then observe a nucleus (i, Jig. 183.), or fibrous thickening of a triangular shape, per- forated by bloodvessels, but do not at first sight discover any canals in it; so that we might be inclined to agree with Winslow (who » [M. Cruveilhicr differs from most other anatomists in applying the terms upper and lower to the opposite borders of the testicle, instead of posterior and anterior ; on the contrary, he de- scribes the two extretnitics of this organ as anterior and posterior, instead of upper and lower, as Is usuiilly the case.] t The existence Of numerous vessels within the substance of the tunica albuginea has led Sir Astley Cooper to describe two layers in it; — an external, which he compared to the dura mater, and an internal (the tunica vasculosa), which he likened to the pia mater. I cannot admit this analogy. The vessels contained in the tunica albuginea rather resemble the sinuses of the dura mater than the vascular network of the pia mater. t See note, p. 560.