MYOLOGY. 368 semi-circular incision, embracing the back part of the thigh j divide and dissect the fascia of the leg. The gastrocnemii will then he exposed, and must be dissected very carefully at their origins. In order to study the struc- ture and attachments of these muscles properly, they must, be cut transversely in the middle, and the superior half turned upwards. In dividing the outer head of the gastrocnemius, be careful not to cut the plantaris, which seems to be merely a small fasciculus detached from that muscle. The soleus is exposed by simply removing the gastrocnemius ; but, in order to study its structure and attachments, it must be divided vertically from behind forwards at the side of a median tendinous raphe, and the fibres which conceal this median aponeurotic lamina of the muscle must be scraped away. From this division we have a fibular and a tibial portion of the soleus. The gastrocnemius (_g g') and the soleus (i i',fig. 129)together constitute avery powerful triceps muscle (musculus suree. Seem.'), which by itself forms the fleshy part of the leg, commonly called the calf. The great developement of these muscles is one of the most marked characteristics of the muscular ap- paratus of the human subject, and is connected with his destination for the erect position. The three portions of the triceps suralis are united together below in a common tendinous insertion, constituting the tendo Achillis (<, fig. 129.), but are divided above into two very distinct planes : one, anterior or deep, formed by the soleus; the other, posterior or superficial, consisting of the two heads of the gastrocnemius. We shall describe these in succession. Gastrocnemius. The gastrocnemius, from yaarrip, a belly, and (fv^/iTj the leg (gemellus, Albinus; primus pedem moventium, cum secundo, Vesalius), is the most superficial muscle on the back of the leg : it consists of two heads above (g g', fig. 129.), but forms a single fleshy belly, which is thick and flattened from before backwards. It arises from the condyle of the femur by two perfectly distinct but similar heads, viz. an outer or smaller, called the gemellus extemus (jr), and an inner or larger, named the gemellus internus (g'). They take their origin from the bone by two very strong and flat tendons, which are attached on the outer side and be- hind the condyle of the femur to two well-marked digital impressions, that for the outer head being situ- ated above a much deeper impression for the popliteus muscle, and that for the inner head immediately be- hind the tubercle into which the adductor magnus is inserted, so that the inner head is situated upon a plane a little posterior to that of the outer head. They also arise by tendinous fasciculi from the rough triangular surfaces surrounding the digital impression, and termi- nating at the inferior bifurcation of the linea aspera. Each tendon of origin (that for the inner being much larger than that for the outer head) expands into an apo- neurosis upon the posterior surface of that portion of the muscle to which it belongs. The aponeurotic ex- pansion of the inner head is, moreover, thicker and longer than the other, and embraces the mner border of that part of the muscle, like a tendinous semi-cone. The fleshy fibres arise from the anterior surface of these tendinous expansions, and are disposed in the foUowmg manner: those in the middle, which are few m number, are strengthened by fleshy fibres proceeding from the