THE PTERYGOIDEUS EXTERNUS. 313 muscle. From this the fleshy fibres proceed downwards, outwards, and bac/c- wards, to be inserted by very strong tendinous laminas into the lower jaw. Relations. On the inside it is in relation with the external peristaphyline muscle (tensor palati), and with the pharynx, a triangular interval existing be- tween it and the latter, occupied by a considerable quantity of cellular tissue, vessels, nerves, and the sub-maxillary gland: on the outside it corresponds with the ramus of the lower jaw, from which it is separated above by the dental and lingual nerves, the inferior dental vessels, and the so-called internal lateral ligament of the temporo-maxillary articulation. Action. As this muscle is inserted almost perpendicularly into the lever upon which it acts, it has very great power. Most of the remarks already made concerning the masseter apply to this muscle, which is a true internal mas- seter. It has only this peculiarity, that as its origin is nearer the median line than that of the external masseter, it assists in producing a slight lateral move- ment of the jaw, which is very useful in bruising the food. The Pterygoideus Externus vel Parvus. Dissection. This, like the preceding muscle, may be exposed by two opposite methods. The external pterygoid {b,fig. 115.) is very short, thick, and conoid, smaller than the preceding, and situated in the zygomatic fossa, extending horizontally from the outer surface of the external pterygoid plate to the neck of the con- dyle of the lower jaw. It arises from the whole outer surface of the external plate of the pterygoid process, and from the facette of the palatine process, at which it terminates below, from the ridge separating the temporal and zy- goinatic fossae, and from a spinous process at the extremity of this ridge, which appears to me worthy of notice. It is inserted into the fossa in front of the neck of the condyle of the lower jaw, and into the border of the inter- articular cartilage. Its origin consists of a strong tendon, prolonged into the substance of the muscle. From this the fleshy fibres proceed horizontally outwards and backwards, forming, at first, two distinct portions, between which the mternal maxillary artery often passes : these two portions then converge, are blended together, and terminate by some small tendinous fibres, which form the truncated summit of the cone represented by the muscle, and are attached to the neck of the condyle and to the inter-articular cartilage. Relations. This muscle is deeply situated, and is in relation on the outside with the ramus of the lower jaw, the temporal muscle, and the internal maxillary artery; on the mside with the interaal pterygoid, and above with the upper wall ot the zygomatic fossa. Action The axis of the external pterygoid being directed outwards and backwards and Its ongm being at the pterygoid process, it maybe readily imagined that its contraction wUl produce a horizontal motion i^ two direc- .T' "^^'^^^ """^ ^° opposite side from that on which the muscle is external pterygoids act together, the jaw is carried d rectly forwards. From the insertion of this muscle into the inter-articular T separated from the condyle during these several ZX^o" IS prmcipaUy this muscle which causes displacement of the ^&v^:,v:ZT °' "^"^ ' '''' ^^^^ MUSCLE'S OF THE UPPER EXTREMITIES