^'^o SPLANCHNOLOGY. extremity of the inferior alveolar border a fibrous prolongation, to the front of which the buccinator muscle is attached. This aponeurosis covers the tonsil, to which it is closely united. It is prolonged downwards as far as the upper border of the os hyoides, in order to form the framework of the side and lower part of the pharynx. Muscles of the Pharynx- The muscles of the pharynx are divided into intrinsic and extrinsic. The Intrinsic Muscles. The intrinsic muscles have a membranous form, and are arranged in three successive imbricated layers. Santorini described a great many muscles in the pharynx, on account of their numerous attachments ; but Albinus has reduced them to three on each side, named constrictors, distinguished into an inferior, a middle, and a superior. Chaussier united all the muscles which enter into the composition of the pharynx, under the collective name of les stylo-pharyngiens. The division of Albinus has been generally and justly preferred. The Inferior Constrictor. This is a membranous muscle (w,figs. 141.147.) of a lozenge or rather a Fig. 147. trapezoid shape, the most superficial and the thickest of all the muscles of the pharynx, and is situated at the lower part of that cavity. It is attached, on the one hand, to the cricoid and the thyroid cartUages ; and, on the other, to the fibro-eeUular raphe along the posterior median line of the pharynx (crico-phai-yn- gien and thyro-pharyngien, Valsalva, Winslow, and Santorini). It might be called the crico-thyro-pha- ryngeus. It arises upon the side of the cricoid car- tilage, from a triangular space bounded in front by the crico-thyroideus (a, fig. 147.), from which it often receives some fibres, and behind by the crico-aryte- noideus posticus (i, fig.XiX.'). Its thyroid origins are much more extensive, and take place from an imaginary oblique line on the outer surface of that cartilage, from the two tubercles at the extremities of that line, and from the entire surface behind it; also from the upper and posterior bor- ders, and from the corresponding inferior cornu of the same cartilage. Having thus arisen by two very distinct digitations, the fleshy fibres pass in different directions : the inferior fibres, short and horizontal, proceed directly inwards; the superior become longer, and are directed more obliquely upwards, in pro- portion as they approach the upper part of the muscle: they terminate by an expanded border of much greater extent than the outer border, and the upper extremity of which rarely extends above the middle of the pharynx. The transverse direction and the shortness of the inferior fibres have obtained for them the name of the oesophageal muscle ( Winslow, Santorini). Relations. Covered by a dense cellular membrane which surrounds the entire pharynx, and which might be regarded as the proper sheath of its muscles, the inferior constrictor has the same relations posteriorly as the pharynx itself. Externally it is covered by the sterno-thyroid muscle and the thyroid body. It covers the middle constrictor, the stylo-phai-yngeus, and palato-pharyngeus, and for a great part of its extent it is in contact with the mucous membrane of the pharynx (see figs. 141. 147.). The recurrent laryngeal nerve passes under the lower margin of this muscle, near its cricoid attachment, in order to enter the larynx. Its upper margin is well defined from the other constrictors by a tolerably distinct ridge, and by the passage of the superior laryngeal nerve beneath it. Winslow states that he has seen some fibres of the muscle arise from the thyroid body ; and Morgagni, that he has traced some from the first ring of the trachea.