SPLANCHNOLOGY. Dimensions. It is eight or nine inches in length; its caliber is somewhat greater than that of the rest of the small intestine, but the difference is not so decided as to warrant the names of second stomach, or ventriculus succenturialus, which have been given to it. I have even met with subjects in whom the duodenum, when moderately distended, was five inches, while the succeeding portion of small intestine was six inches in circumference. It has been supposed that this part is more dilatable than the rest of the small intestine ; this has been attributed to the absence of the peritoneum. The fact and the explanation are equally without foundation. It is the fibrous membrane, and not the peritoneal coat, which is opposed to dilatation of the intestines. Direction. This is very remarkable. Commencing at the pylorus, the duodenum passes upwards to the right side and backwards ; having reached the neck of the gall bladder, it suddenly changes its direction, and becomes vertical, forming an acute angle with the former portion; this \s its first curva- ture (e) : then, after proceeding vertically through a variable space, it passes transversely from the right to the left side, and becomes continuous with the rest of the small intestine. This change in its direction takes place at a right angle, and is, therefore, less abrupt than the former; the point at which it occurs is called the second curvature (e ). ^ It follows then that the duodenum describes a double curve, or rather one single curve, of which the concavity is directed towards the left, and the con- vexity to the right side. Haller has ingeniously compared the course of the duodenum to two parallel lines, intersected by a perpendicular. This double change in the direction of the duodenum, which is probably intended to re- tard the passage of the food, enables us to consider it as composed of three portions, distinguished as the first (p e), second (e e), and third (e'd). Relations. These should be studied in each of the three portions. Relations of the first portion. Above, with the liver (I', fig. 154.* ) and the gall- bladder {g), to the neck of which it is imited by a fold of the peritoneum. It is not uncommon to see the gall-bladder and the duodenum closely adherent to each othei', and to find an opening through which biliary calculi have passed into the gut. In front, with the gastro-colic omentum and the abdo- minal parietes. Behind, with the hepatic vessels, and the gastro-hepatic omen- tum. This portion of the duodentun, which may be denominated the hepatic, is about two inches in length. Relations of the second portion. In front, with the right extremity of the arch •of the colon (t,fig. 161., e being the duodenum), which crosses it at a right angle. Behind, with the concave border of the right kidney, along which it descends to a greater or less distance, together with the vena cava inferior and the ductus communis choledochus. Sometimes this portion is not in re- lation with the kidney, but rather with the vertebral column. The ductus com- munis choledochus {c,fig. 169.) and the pancreatic duct («) enter the intestine at the posterior and inner surface, and below the middle of this portion of the duodenum. The relations of the duodenum behind are direct, i. e. without the intervention of the peritoneum. On the right, this portion of the duode- num is in relation with the ascending colon (a, fig. Ifil.). On the left, with the pancreas ( o, fig. 154.), which is closely united to it, and embraces it in a sort of half groove. This second portion is two or three inches in length; it may be called the renal portion. Relations of the third portion. The third portion is situated in the substance of the adherent border of the transverse mesocolon. Beloiv, it rests upon the lower border of that fold. Above, it is bounded by the pancreas, which adheres closely to it. In front, it corresponds to the stomach, from which it is separated by the layer of peritoneum which lines the sac of the great omentum. Behind, it corresponds to the vertebral column, from which it is separated by the aorta (a), the vena cava, and the pillars of the diaphragm {d d). f » In ivhii'h fiffiirp the liver and stomach are turned upwards. . t n subjfct I found a fourth portion which passed upwards, and wa, about one inch ,n length, 80 that the duodenum described a tlnrd curve with its concavity directed to the right.