SOO SPLANCHNOLOGY. at the triangular space intercepted between thevesiculae seminales (s); on each side, it is separated from tlie bladder by these vesicles. The extent to which it is in contact with this part of the bladder varies in different subjects, and according as the bladder and rectum are full or empty. We shall see in another place that the peritoneum (u u) forms a cul-de-sac of variable depth between them. In some subjects the cul-de-sac extends as far as the prostate, so that the whole of the inferior fundus of the bladder is covered by it. In front of the inferior fundus of the bladder the rectum is intimately united to the prostate, (i) In some cases the prostate projects beyoni the rectum, on one or both sides ; in other cases the rectum projects beyond the prostate, on one or other, or both sides, and receives the gland, as it were, in a groove. The rectimi has also relations with the membranous portion of the urethra (c), but on account of its inflection backwards, it is separated from it by a tri- angular space, the base of which is directed downwards and forwards, and the apex upwards and backwards. The practical inferences to be drawn from these relations are these,—that the bladder projects into the rectum in cases of retention of urine ; that the bladder can be explored from the rectum, and may be punctured and cut for the extraction of stone ; that the finger passed into the rectum can assist in the introduction of the catheter, and in examination of the prostate; that the rectum must be emptied before performing the lateral operation for stone ; and lastly, that the membranous portion of the urethra may be opened with- out injuring this bowel. In the female the free portion of the rectimi corresponds with the broad li- gament, the left ovary and Fallopian tube, the uterus, and the vagina. The peritoneum forms a cul-de-sac between the vagina and the rectum, analogous to that already described between the bladder and the rectum in the male, and subject to the same varieties. When the uterus and the rectum are empty, a certain number of convolutions of the small intestine are always interposed between the rectum and the vagina; and therefore, in lacerations of the poste- rior wall of the vagina, the small intestines escape through the wound. The uterus and vagina are not unfrequently found deviating to the left side, while the rectum deviates to the right, and then the free portion of the latter corresponds to the right broad ligament and ovary. Lastly, in retroversion of the uterus, which is so common, the fundus of that organ rests upon the rectum. . ■ j i. The inferior or adherent portion of the rectum is mtimately united to the vagina: hence vaginal cancer frequently extends into the rectum: below, on account of its inflection backwards, it is separated from the vagina in the same way as from the urethra in the male, by a triangular space, the base of which is directed downwards, and forms the perineum of the female. On the sides the free portion of the rectum corresponds to the convolutions of the intestines ; the adherent portion is surrounded by adipose cellular tissue, which is nowhere more clearly intended to fiU up intermediate spaces; the absorption or destruction of this tissue is an important circumstance m dis- eases of the anus. _ , ,, , , u f„i/i„ The internal surface of the rectum is remarkable for some longitudinal tolds, which are obliterated by distension, and somewhat resemble the longitudmal folds of the oesophagus. These folds, which have been inappropriately termed the columnce of the rectum, are intersected by other semi-circular folds also effaced by distension. This internal surface presents, moreover a dilatation corresponding to the enlargement seen from without, immediately above the ^"""structure of the large intestine. The same number of coats exist in the large as in the small intestine, but they present certain peculiarities in arrangement of which Zae are common to the whole bowel, while others exist only m par- ticular parts.