COXO-FEMORAL ARTICULATION. 205 of the ischia in falls, is somewhat connected with its mechanism as adapted to the sittin- posture. The shock is, in these cases, transmitted directly upwards n the direction of the acetabula, the lower hemispheres of wh.ch offer resist- ance X two arches: from the acetabula the impulse is communicated back- wardsT; the tS columns extending from behind these ea-ties to ^.e sacro- iliac s-pmDhvses ■ and forwards, to the symphysis pubis: so that laUs upon 1 tub'roS alwa;s accompanied with painful concussion both of the sacro-iliac and pubic symphyses. In order to complete our account of the mechaiiism of the P^l^^ m stand- ing, we must examine its mode of resistance m falls upon the knees or soles of the feet. In this case, the shock is communicated from below upwards to the upper halves of the cotyloid cavities, which are supported by the prismatic columns already described. The anterior part of each acetabulum presents a large notch, and is altogether unconcerned in the transmission of these shocks; so also is the very thin lamina, constituting the bottom or inner wall of the cavity, which can only suffer compression in faUs upon the great trochanter Diu-ing progression the pelvis affords to each thigh alternately a sohd fulcrum, and receives itself a fixed point of support from the femur of that leg which rests upon the ground. While one side of the pelvis is thus supported upon one of the thigh bones, the other side is projected forwards. These al- ternate movements of projection of either side of the pelvis are much more marked in the female than in the male, and take place at the coxo-femoral articulation of the limb resting upon the ground. 3. Mechanism of the pelvis with regard to parturition. The art of midwifery depends in a great measure upon the study of the pelvis; it is impossible to form a true conception of the mechanism of natural labour, without being acquainted with the axes of the pelvis, its dimensions as compared with the size of the foetus, the sacro-vertebral angle, the inclined planes of the true pelvis, the diameters of the brim and the outlet, and the malformations to which it is liable, Any lengthened details upon these points would be out of place here. I shall only remark, 1. that the existence of the arch of the pubes is peculiar to the human species; and 2. that the sciatic notches and the obturator foramina are not only useful from economising weight, but also he- cause, corresponding as they do to the oblique diameters of the head of the foetus during parturition, they, render less painftd the pressure attendant upon that process. 4. Mechanism of the pelvis with regard to its own movements. The intrinsic movements of the pelvis are very obscure,- being confined to mere gliding motions, the production of which destroys part of the momentum from any external violence. The mobility of the intrinsic articulations of the pelvis is considerably increased during the latter periods of pregnancy, so that the coccyx may be pressed backwards, causing an increase of five or six lines in the antero-posterior diameter of the outlet; whilst the symphysis pubis * be- comes susceptible of a slight separation, which increases (in a very slight degree, it is true, but sufficiently to merit notice) the dimensions of the brim of this cavity. The extrinsic movements of the pelvis are those of flexion, extension, la- teral inclination, and rotation : these are performed upon the vertebral co- lumn, and are all very limited. The motions of the pelvis upon the thighs are very considerable : they will be examined with the mechanism of the hip joint. COXO-TEMORAL Akticulation (fig. 76.). Preparation. Remove with care all the muscles that surround the joint, * In a female, seventy-nine years of age, the mother of nineteen children, I found the symphysis pubis extremely moveable : the two articular surfaces were contiguous ; the inferior ligament had disappeared; and a very thick fibrous capsule of recent formation surrounded the articular surfaces in front, above, and below, being inserted at some distance from them.