ARTICULATIONS OF THE FACE. 169 2 The second pair of columns is formed by the malar eminences, which ai-e continuous with the alveolar border, by the vertical ridge separating the canine from the zygomatic fossa. These columns, which correspond to the second great molar teeth, may be called the zygomato-jugal, because they are subdi- vided into two other secondary columns, the vertical, malar, or jugal and the horizontal or zygomatic. The jugal columns are much stronger than the fronto- nasal, and are continuous with the external orbital processes of the frontal bone, and with the anterior thick and indented edges of the great wings of the sphenoid: the second, or horizontal, articulate with the zygomatic pro- cesses of the temporal bones, and with them constitute the zygomatic arches. From this arrangement it may be understood, how effectually the bevelling of the end of the zygomatic process that rests upon the malar bone, is adapted for resisting impulses communicated from below. The zygomatic arches, also, form props that oppose all transverse displacements. The mode of articulation of the zygomatic processes with the malar bones is such, that the zygomatic arches, although horizontal, are well calculated to resist any force from below. In camivora, where there are no jugal columns, the zygomatic arches are enor- mously large. The fourth pair of columns are the pterygoid, intended to support the face in the antero-posterior direction: being articulated with the maxillary bones, through the medium of the palate bones, these also oppose any displace- ment upwards, and, moreover, serve to support the back part of the alveolar border. There are, therefore, four pairs of columns; viz. the fronto-nasal, the jugal, the zygomatic arches, and the pterygoid columns. Thej are Eilmost entirely com- posed of compact tissue. The principal columns are situated immediately above the first great molares, where the jugal, zygomatic, and pterygoid co- lumns are concentred, and where the most violent impulses are received. The fronto-nasal columns correspond to the canine teeth; their strength is propor- tioned to that of these teeth, and hence in carnivorous animals the ascending processes of the superior maxiUa! are very large and thick. The fronto-nasal and jugal columns are near each ctther below, and only leave a small space between them, which is occupied by the two small molares; but they are sepa- rated to a considerable distance above, and enclose the orbital fossse. In this manner the deep fossae in the face are formed without being preju- dicial to its strength. Even the maxillary sinus does not much diminish the solidity of the face, because it is situated in the interval between the columns, and because only a small portion of it corresponds to the alveolar border. These details will suffice to show, that the upper jaw has been framed to resist external impulses, but especially forces communicated from below by the lower jaw ; that the alveolar border, being intended to receive the impulse directly, is most strongly constructed; that the whole force applied to the upper jaw is transmitted by the fronto-nasal columns to the internal orbital processes, by the malar colmnns, partly to the external orbital processes, and partly to the zygomatic arches, and by the palate bone to the pterygoid columns of the sphenoid; that the vomer transmits little or nothing either to the ethmoid or the sphenoid; and that the cranium, on its part, opposes very unyielding structures to the sustaining pillars of the face. To forces directed from before backwards, the zygomatic arches and the pterygoid pro- cesses offer great resistance; against lateral violence each malar bone resists hke an arch, and transmits the impulse it has received to the superior maxillary bone, the frontal and the sphenoid. The greatest part of the impulses com- municated to the face are then ultimately transmitted to the cranium; and were it not for the multiplicity of its constituent parts, and the great number '^fJ'<''ilations which absorb part of the force, the brain contained within it would be frequently exposed to dangerous violence. The upper jaw is con- cerned m the process of mastication merely as a means of support; for though It may be raised when the mouth is opened, and depressed when the mouth Ls