THE ADDUCTOR MUSCLES OF THE THIGH. 359 ..nH mnrP Psneciallv the predominance of the vastus externus over the vastus IntemuTSuy account for the occurrence of luxation of the patella out- wards andfortheimpossibility of its being dislocated inwards. men the pateUa is forced inwards by external violence, tte contraction the vastus externus draws it back into its original position : on the other hand the action of this muscle has a tendency to displace it outwards ; and when tlus is accomplished, the same muscle keeps it in its abnormal POf ^J'-^f^"^"^ of the patella, therefore, if not altogether irreducible, can only be temporarily replaced ; whenever the hand ceases to retain the bone in its proper place, the contraction of this muscle again dislocates it. Professor Ant. Dubois has in- formed me of an individual whose knees were bent very much inwards, who could not contract the triceps femoralis with any force without dislocatmg the patella outwards. Internal Region of the Thigh. The muscles of the internal region of the thigh are the gracilis and the adductors, among which I include the pectineus. The Gracilis. The gracilis (le grele interne, ou droit interne, Winslow, v,figs.. 124, 125,126.; is a long, straight, and slender muscle, and the most superficial of those situ- ated on the inside of the thigh. Attachments. It arises from the symphysis pubis, between the pubic spine and the ascending ramus of the ischium, and is inserted into the spine of the tibia. It arises by some long, shining, and parallel tendinous fibres, which bind down a perpendicular fibrous bundle that lies on the inner side of the line of attachment. The fleshy fibres succeeding to these are at first parallel, and form a broad thin bundle; they then converge towards each other, so that the entire muscle resembles a much elongated isosceles triangle. It is rounded below, and terminates in a long thin tendon, which runs for a considerable distance upon its posterior border, and receives all the fleshy fibres in succes- sion. This tendon becomes free immediately above the knee joint, is then situated behind the internal condyle of the femur, turns round this process and the corresponding tuberosity of the tibia, and is inserted into the spine of the last mentioned bone, behind the tendon of the sartorius, and above that of the semi-tendinosus, with both of which it is united so as to form the trifid aponeurotic interlacement, denominated la patte d'oie (goose's foot). Relations. The gracilis is covered by the femoral fascia, and slightly by the sartorius at its lower part: it covers the three adductors, the inside of the knee joint, and the internal lateral ligament, from which it is separated by a sy- novial bursa common to it and the semi-tendinosus : the vena saphena interna crosses the inner surface of this muscle obliquely, near its lower extremity. Action. It flexes the leg, and carries it slightly inwards at the same time by means of its reflection round the knee ; in this part of its action it assists the sartorius ; it also adducts the thigh. In the position of standing its move- able point is at the pelvis. The Adductor Muscles of the Thigh. There are three muscles on the inner aspect of the thigh which are called adductors, with these the older anatomists were acquainted under the collective name of the triceps adductor. Modern writers, however, describe them either in the order of their super-imposition, as the first, second, and third {Boyer); or in the order of their size, as the middle, small, and great adductors {Bichat). These vague denominations are the source of mucli confusion, for tlie one which occupies the middle place as regards size is the first as regards its po-