58 'OSTEOLOGY. gular, -which joins with a corresponding part of the occipital bone. 4. A little within and behind the styloid process is a deep depression, which forms part of the jugular /ossu, and lodges the enlarged commencement or sinus of the jugular vein. 5. The inferior orifice of the carotid canal ( v,fiy. 21.), which is directed at first vertically, then horizontally, running forwards and inwards, and again vertically at its termination in the cavity of the cranium. 6. A rough surface, which gives attachment to the levator palati muscle, and the internal muscle of the malleus. Lastly, in front of the styloid process is an osseous lamina, in the form of a vertical crest («, fig. \9.), a continuation of the plate which forms both the inferior portion of the auditoi7 canal, and the posterior portion of the glenoid cavity, which it completes. This crest, which has been described by authors under the name of vaginal process, because it surrounds the styloid process without adhering to it, extends inwards to form part of the carotid canal, and outwards to the mastoid process. Between the crest and the mastoid process there is a small fissure, which may with propriety be denominated the fissure of the auricular twig, because it transmits the posterior auricular twig which comes off from the facial nerve. The other two surfaces of the petrous portion, of which one is superior and the other posterior, are in the interior of the cranium. The superior surface, which looks forwards, has a furrow running from before backwards, and from below upwards, terminating about the middle of the sur- face in a small irregular opening—the hiatus Fallopii, which communicates with the aqueduct of Fallopius. The furrow and the hiatus contain the superior or cranial filament of the vidian nerve, and a small artery. The posterior surface shows a canal directed obliquely from within outwards and forwards. This is the internal auditory meatus (I, fig. 20.); it is shorter than the external, and is tei-minated by a lamina divided into two parts by a transverse ridge; in the superior of these parts there is a single orifice, the commencement of the aqueduct of Fallopius, which receives the facial nerve; the inferior is perforated by numerous openings, through which the fibres of the auditory nerve pass ; it is the cribriform plate of the auditory nerve. Behind the internal auditory meatus is a small opening, which is the orifice of a canal named aqueductus vestihuli. These surfaces of the petrous process are separated by three borders. On the superior border (m d) we observe a furrow for the superior petrosal sinus also a projection which corresponds with the superior semicircular canal of the internal ear, and which is most prominent in the young subject; inside of this projection, a cavity, the depth of which is in the mverse ratio of the age, and is gradually obliterated in the adult, and near the summit a depres- sion on which the fifth or trifacial nerve rests. The anterior or sphenoidal border, in the external half of.its extent, is con- nected with the squamous portion of the bone ; at first by a suture which otten remains perfect even in adult life, and subsequently in a great measure disap- pears but is never completely obUterated. The internal half is free, and foms by its union with the squamous portion, a retiring angle, at the apex of whicb are the openings of Uvo canals, placed parallel, hke the barrels of a double barrelled gun, and separated by a small osseous lamina. The s^cpenor canal, much tKaller, contains the internal muscle of the malleus; the <«/enor forLs the osseous portion of the Eustachian tube They both communi- cate witlTthe cavity of the tympanum; the bony lamella, which separates thpm is called the cochleariform process. . , . • j ^ The iZThr posterior, or ocdpital border, rough but without mdentations, • •! m nor-inital bone bv iuxta-position. It has a deep notch, which fo™t o tL 3^^^^ '^^'^ notch w^iich is continuous SnVoTfhe ^^:hr:ZT^--^^^^^^^^ - tl^e inferior orifice of the ''''^tjtJ!:^fi^'loO, which is not distinct from the rest of the bone, .he