THE PLANTAR APONEUROSES. 413 three preceding muscles, upon the dorsum of the foot, a less powerful sheath than that afforded by the upper band; it keeps the tendons closely applied to the bones. „ , x. j The external and internal annular ligaments of the tarsus are two fabrous bands continuous with the fascia of the leg on the one hand, and with the plantar apo- neurosis on the other. . The internal annular ligament arises from the borders and summit ot the internal malleolus, and proceeds in a radiating manner to the inner side of the OS calcis, and the inner margin of the internal plantar aponeurosis. Beneath this sheath, which is thicker below than above, and closes in the concavity on the inner surface of the os calcis, proceed the posterior tibial vessels and nerves, and also the tendons of the tibialis posticus, the flexor longus digito- rum, and the flexor longus pollicis. For these several parts there are four very distinct sheaths : the most superficial is that for the vessels and the nerves : two sheaths, placed one over the other (see fig. 130.), and behind the internal malleolus, belong, the anterior to the tibialis posticus (n), and the posterior or more superficial to the flexor longus digitorum.(o) These two sheaths soon separate as the two tendons diverge from each other towards their insertions: as the sheath of the tibialis posticus is continued as far as the insertion of that muscle, the sheath of the flexor longus digitorum accompanies it to where it gets beneath (i. e. deeper from the surface than) the plantar fascia. The sheath of the flexor longus pollicis {p) is lower than the preceding, and ex- tends obliquely along the astragalus and os calcis, to be covered by the internal plantar fascia. The external annular ligament forms a common sheath for the two peronei, longus et brevis: it extends from the border of the external malleolus to the os calcis, and is completed on the inside by the external lateral ligaments. It is at first single, but soon becomes subdivided into two other sheaths, one of which is destined for the tendon of the peroneus brevis, and the other for that of the peroneus longus. The Aponeuroses of the Foot. These are divided into the dorsal and plantar. The Dorsal Aponeuroses of the Foot. These comprise the dorsal aponeurosis properly so called, the pedal apo- neurosis (Taponeurose pedieuse), and the dorsal interosseous aponeuroses. Dorsal aponeurosis of the foot. While the upper margin of the annular liga- ment is blended with the fascia of the leg, which appears to be inserted upon it, the anterior margin of the same ligament becomes continuous with the dorsal aponeurosis of the foot. This dorsal aponeurosis is a thin layer, which forms a general sheath for all the tendons situated upon the dorsum of the foot: it gradually disappears in front, opposite the anterior extremities of the metatarsal bones, and is attached at the sides to the borders of the foot, be- coming continuous with the plantar fascia. These tendons again are separated from the extensor brevis digitorum by another and still thinner layer, which invests that muscle: this is the pedal aponeurosis : lastly, upon the same sur- face of the foot we find the four dorsal interosseous aponeuroses, viz. one for each interosseous space. The Plantar Aponeuroses. The plantar aponeuroses or fasciae are three in number, — one middle, the other two lateral. The middle plantar aponeurosis is very strong, is attached to the inner of the posterior tubercles of the calcaneum, becomes suddenly contracted, and after- wards gradually expands without diminishing perceptibly in thickness Op- posite the anterior extremities of the metatarsal bones, it divides into four