ARTHROLOGY. 166 the uniting surfaces of -wliich are broad and oblique, are generally called squa- mous ; and that the harmonic articulations are those in which the indentations are scarcely perceptible. We must also observe, 1. with regard to the sutures, that their indentations are much deeper on the external than on the internal surface of the bones of the cranium ; 2. with regard to those sutures which are bevelled, that they often present alternate oblique sections having opposite di- rections, so that of two bones the one that overlaps the other at one part of the suture is at another part itself overlapped: of this we have an example in the fronto-parietal suture. Means of Union of the Bones of the Cranium. We have remarked, in speaking of the development of the bones, that those which are subsequently united by immoveable articulations are formed in a piece of cartilage that is common to them all. Portions of this cartilage, not yet encroached upon by ossification, serve as the uniting media. It is evident, therefore, that these cartilages of the sutures are broader when the amount of ossification is less, viz. in the earlier periods of life. The pericranium on the outside, and the dura mater on the inside, contribute also to strengthen the union of the bones of the cranium. Mechanism of the Cranium. What has been said above of the immobility of the bones of the cranium is not equally true at all periods of life. During foetal existence, and the first few years after birth, the intervals between the bones of the cranium are oc- cupied by a flexible cartilaginous substance, which permits those of the roof to move pretty extensively upon each other. Since, therefore, the conditions of solidity are not the same at this period as in the adult, we must examine the mechanism of the cranium both in the foetus and in the adult. 1. In the foetus the conditions of solidity must be studied both in the roof and in the base of the cranium. In the roof of the cranium the incomplete ossification allows the bones to move upon each other, and in this respect the encephalon is imperfectly pro- tected. But on the other hand, the presence of these cartilaginous intervals diminishes the momentum of a violent force applied to the cranium, and thus prevents, in some degree, both fractures of the cranium and concussions of the brain. The mobility of the bones is principally displayed at birth, in their overlapping when the head of the foetus is passing through the pelvis. The base of the cranium is incompressible at the same period, and the bones are immoveable, because ossification has so far advanced, that they are only sepa- rated by very thin layers of cartilage. This arrangement is well adapted for the protection of the most important parts of the encephalon, which are m the vicinity of the base of the cranium. 2. In the adult the roof and the base of the cranium form one piece. Ihe roof being most exposed to violence, we shall examine the mechanism of re- sistance in the cranium to blows directed vertically upon the top of the head ; and it wiU be easy to anply what is said in explanation of the effects of a force so directed to cases in "which violence is applied in other directions. The effects which may be presumed to follow a violent blow on the top ot the skuU are 1. Concussion of its bony parietes, succeeded by their elastic reaction • 2. Disiunction of the pieces entering into the formation of the skull; and 3. Fracture of those pieces. We shall examine the method m which these results may be produced. . ■, ^ , m, 1. Concussion and compression of the cranium without fracture. The cranium may be looked upon as a hollow sphere, endowed with a certain degree of elas- ticity, depending partly upon the osseous tissue itself, and partly upon the car- tilaginous lamini; which separate the bones; and it cannot, therefore, be doubted