SPLANCHNOLOGY. The relations of the pyloric extremity with the abdominal parietes are very variable, for the changes in the situation of the stomach chiefly affect this ex- tremity. It corresponds to the limit between the epigastrium and the right hypochondrium; sometimesit is in relation with the gall-bladder, andhence may become stained; in some cases it passes to the right of the gall-bladder, to the extent of an inch or an inch and a half I have seen it occupying the hori- zontal fissure of the liver, the edges of which were separated for its reception. Very commonly we find the pylorus in the umbilical region. I have seen it in the hypogastrium in a female who was alfected with schirrus of the pylorus, and I have also found it in the right iliac fossa. It is, therefore, extremely diificult to determine the seat of an organic lesion of the pylorus from external examination. The relations of the pylorus with the abdominal viscera are more constant: above, it corresponds to the liver and the lesser omentum ; below, to the great omentum ; in front, to the abdominal parietes ; and behind, to the pancreas. It is not uncommon to find it adhering to the gall-bladder. The internal surface. This presents the same regions as the external sur- face : all its peculiarities may be referred to the mucous membrane, which will be noticed when the structure of the stomach is described. Besides these, however, we observe here the two orifices of the stomach. The (esophageal orifice (cardiac, left, or superior orifice oslium introitus; o, fig. 150.) is remarkable for its radiated folds (ad stellffi similitudinem. Holier'), which are effaced by distension; for the irregu- larly fringed border and the change in colour which mark the limits between the mucous membrane of the oesophagus and of the stomach; for its size and its capability of dOatation ; and lastly, for the total ab- sence of any valve or sphincter. The duodenal or pyloric orifice (right or anterior orifice, janitor, sphincter, ostium exitus; p} is remarkable for an in- ternal rim or circular valve, which in a distended and dried stomach forms a sort of diaphragm (in speciem diaphragmatis, qualia sunt in tubis telescopicis, Morgagni) ; for the narrowness of the passage, which, with difiiculty, admits the little finger in most subjects; for its slight dilatability; and lastly, for the existence of a muscular ring, which may be regarded as a true sphincter. It is of importance to remark that this orifice, independently of any disease, presents a great number of varieties in its dimensions, and it is probable that these congenital or acquired variations may have some influence upon its diseases. The relative position of these two orifices is an important anatomical point. Upon this we should observe, i. that they are but little apart from each other, considering the size of the stomach, and that the interval between them does not increase in proportion to that size ; 2. that the oesophageal orifice is di- rected upwards, the pyloric opening backwards and a little upwards ; 3. that the two openings are not upon the same plane, the oesophageal being higher and more posterior than the pyloric. The structure of the stomach. In order to study the structure of the stom- ach, it is necessary in the first place to distend it. Two stomachs are indis- pensable for this purpose, one to be dissected from without inwards, and the other from within outwards. One of the stomachs should be everted, and then inflated. The parietes of the stomach are formed by the super-position of four mem- branes or coats, differing in texture and properties. These, proceeding from without inwards, are the serous, the muscular, the fibrous, and the mucous coats. We must also examine the vessels, nerves, and cellular tissue, which enter into the composition of these parietes.