THE SUPINATOR LONGUS. 331 This small muscle (le petit pronateur, Bichat, m,figs. 119,120.) is situated at the lower part of the anterior region of the fore-arm, and forms the deepest layer of this region. It is regularly quadrilateral, and thicker than at first sight it appears to be. „ , . , -l j /. ^i. Attachments. It arises from the lower fourth of the internal border of the ulna, which is directed so decidedly backwards inferiorly, that the muscle is rolled round the bone; also from an aponeurotic layer much thicker below than above, directed obliquely upwards and outwards, and occupying the inner third of the muscle, upon which it terminates in a number of elegant inter- sections ; lastly, from all that portion of the anterior surface of the ulna, upon which it lies. From these origins the fibres proceed horizontally outwards (le pronateur transverse, Winslow), becoming longer as they are more super- ficial, to the lower fourth of the external border, anterior surface, and internal border of the radius. Relations. It is covered by the flexor profundus digitorum, the flexor longus pollicis, the flexor carpi radialis, and the radial and ulnar arteries, and it partially covers the two bones of the fore-arm and the interosseous ligament. Action. The pronator quadratus tends to approximate the two bones of the fore-arm ; but as it is rolled around the ulna, which is immoveable, it causes the radius to turn upon that bone, and is therefore a pronator. Its action in much more energetic than would at first sight appear: this depends on the number of its fleshy fibres, which are arranged in several layers, the most superficial being the longest. The Muscles of the External Region of the Fore-arm. The muscles of this region are, the supinator longus, the extensores carpi radiales, longior and brevior, and the supinator brevis. The Supinator Longus. Dissection. The brachial portion of this muscle is exposed in the dissection of the brachialis anticus and the triceps, and the portion situated in the fore- arm, by removing the fascia from the outer and anterior aspect of the muscles of this region. The supinator longus (f,Jigs. 118.121.), which is the most superficial muscle of the external and anterior aspect of the fore-arm, belongs both to the arm and the fore-arm (brachio-radialis, Scemmering), and constitutes in a great measure the oblique ridge forming the external boundary of the bend of the elbow. It is a long flat muscle, fleshy in its upper two-thirds, and tendinous in its lower third. Attachments. It arises from the outer border of the humerus, and from the external inter-muscular septum of the arm ; the extent of its humeral attach- ment vari^ from the lower fourth to the lower third of that bone, and is limited above by ttie groove for the musculo-spiral nerve. It is inserted into the base of the styloid process of the radius. The fleshy fibres proceed from their origins downwards, forwards, and a little inwards, to form a fleshy belly, which is flattened from without inwards, and is applied to the brachialis anticus. After reaching the lower end of the humerus, the fleshy belly becomes flattened from before backwards, and passes vertically downwards. At first it is thick, but, during its progess, it expands and becomes thin, until its fibres terminate suc- cessively upon the anterior surface of an aponeurosis, which becomes entirely tree from fleshy fibres above the middle of the fore-arm, and is graduaUy con- tracted into a flat tendon that is inserted into the styloid process of the radius. Helalions. It is covered by the fascise of the arm and fore-arm: in the arm It is enclosed in the same sheath with the brachialis anticus, from which it is separated by the radial or musculo-spiral nerve; in the fore-arm it has a sheath proper to itself: it is in relation with the brachialis anticus, which is at first wiihm and afterwards behind it; then with the extensor carpi radiaKs longior