THE STOMACH. 475 ities that it is either primarily or secondarily affected in the majority of di'jeases compels us to reject all observations made upon persons who have died from acute or chronic diseases, or even from wounds or mjuries of long standing We are therefore obliged to have recourse to cases of accidental death i^' persons previously in health. In such cases, for example, in criminals who are executed whilst the stomach is empty, the mucous membrane is found of a greyish white colour, with a sUght tint of yellow and pink. * When death has occurred during digestion, the mucous membrane is found to vary from a delicate pink to the most vivid red. After putrefaction has made some little progress, we find a red or port wine colour, or a brownish black tint prevailing over the great extremity of the stomach, and at the free edges of the folds or wrinkles to which the vessels correspond; again, it is often found marked with blackish patches, or marbled ; but these discolourations are the result of post mortem transudation. In the pultaceous and blackish softening of the mucous membrane, the co- lour is owing to the action of the acids in the gastric juice. When the sto- mach contains bile, the mucous membrane is tinged with yellow or green, and the stain sometimes remains after the longest maceration. If the mucous membrane be rubbed with a rough cloth, so long as the ves- sels contain blood, we may produce a red punctuated appearance, which has been often mistaken for a sign of inflammation. Lastly, in the aged we not unfrequently observe a slate grey colour, either in points or in patches, or dif- fused over the surface. This colour occupies the papillae, and may afford proof of some former irritation, but is certainly not due to any diseased action during the later periods of life. These different discolourations of the stomach must not be confounded with the alterations in its colour resulting from disease. Thickness. It is difficult to estimate the exact thickness of the gastric mu- cous membrane. Like the muscular coat it varies in diflferent individuals ; in chronic inflammation it is twice or three times its natural thickness. In de- termining the thickness of this membrane, it is important to bear in mind the difference in this particular, between the oesophageal and pyloric portions; the former being extremely thin, and the latter twice or three times as thick as that. Consistence. The same remarks apply to its consistence, for there are many individual varieties in this respect. The oesophageal portion may be torn with great ease; but the pyloric portion is so dense that the back, and even the edge of a scalpel may be drawn over it with considerable force without wounding it. If there has been any liquid, or even food in the stomach, in however small quantity, the mucous membrane of the oesophageal portion, when macerated, is converted into a pulp; moderate distension wiU then rupture the walls of the stomach, which may be broken through by the point of the finger. From want of sufficient reflection upon this subject, men of great merit have committed serious errors in the appreciation of- morbid lesions. In the gelatiniform softening the gastric mucous membrane, as well as the other coats of the stomach, become dissolved and resemble a solution of gelatine. In many old people, and in some adults, I have found the mucous membrane so thick and so strong, that it could be dissected off entire, and removed in one piece. This condition co-existed with the slate colour, either accompanied or not with chronic inflammation. The papilla. If we examine the mucous membrane of the stomach, placed under water, and exposed to the direct rays of the sun by the aid of a power- ful lens, we shall find that its surface is very irregular, mamillated, and fur- rowed, so as to present an appearance very like the convolutions of the small * In a great number of jnchviduals who have died from acute or chronic diseases the eastrip mucous membrane is found in the same state as in those who have died accidentallv • it is tlierelore, not always affected, either primarily or secondarily, in disease. '