SPLANCHNOLOGY. a sensation which might be compared to the crackling of tin, and that this sound was the result of rupture of the fibrous prolongations which traverse its tissue. Pressure of the lung causes a sensation and a sound somewhat analogous to the preceding ; this sound is called crepitation. It may, in fact, be compared to the sound produced by the decrepitation of salt, or the rattling of paper. This crepitati(m is only observed under a moderate pressure, and if the sensation communicated be strictly noted, we shall find that it is the feeling of a resistance overcome. On careful examination of the portion of lung which has thus crepitated, bubbles of air are found under the pleura; in fact, emphysema is produced. Notwithstanding its slight density, the tissue of the lungs possesses tolerable strength; it resists laceration 'to a certain point; and all its parts are pretty firmly bound together. Resistance to distension. The lung, though it yields to the finger without recovering itself at all, or only very imperfectly, is yet possessed of great elasticity, but such an elasticity as is in harmony with its functions. It also offers powerful resistance to any distending force. Thus, if a stopcock be adapted to the trachea of a dead body, and the lungs be inflated by means of bellows having double valves, the puhnonary tissue becomes extremely tense and hard; the eflFort necessary to rupture some of the air-cells and produce emphysema, is surprising. In opposition to those authors who speak of the dangers of artificial insufflation of the lungs of asphyxiated persons, I have in vain endeavoured with all the force I could employ in expiration, to pro- duce a laceration of some of the pulmonary cells: and how, it may be asked, without great means of opposing every attempt to dilate them beyond measure, could the lungs resist the force to which they are subjected during violent ex- ertions ? Elasticity. The lungs are very elastic, i. e. they have a constant tendency to collapse, and to free themselves of part of the air contained in their cells. It is this elasticity which maintains the vaulted form of the diaphragm after the abdomen has been opened, and occasions the lung to collapse suddenly, when an opening is made in the parietes of the thorax: before the chest is opened, the atmospheric pressure operating through the trachea, prevents the elasticity of the lungs from being brought into action.* This elasticity is also shown by the quick collapse of inflated lungs. I have been accustomed to demonstrate in my lectures, perfectly healthy lungs preserved in alcohol. After having shown how far the inflation of the lungs may be carried, I open the stopcock used in the experiment, and the limgs instantly collapse, driving out the air with considerable force. Shape and relations. The lungs are shaped like an irregular cone, deeply excavated on the inner side, with the base below and the apex above ; they present for consideration an external and an internal surface, an anterior and a posterior border, a base, and an apex. Outer or costal surface. This surface is irregularly convex, corresponding to the concavity of the thoracic parietes with which it is in contact, and on which it is exactly moulded; it is in relation with the costal pleura, which separates it from the ribs and the intercostal muscles. It presents a deep fissure, the interlobular fissure, which penetrates the entire thickness of the lung as far as the root. This fissure commences below the apex of the lung (v',fig. 171.), passes downwards and forwards {v',fig. 170.) as far as the an- terior part of the base, upon which it encroaches a little at its termination. It is simple in the left lung (u ), but is bifurcated in front in the right; the lower division of this bifurcation continues in the original direction ; the upper division {w) passes upwards and forwards. The left lung, therefore, is divided into two portions or lohes, distinguished as the superior («') and the * FTlIe luncs do not collapse until the chest is opened, because the atmospheric pressure is exerted onlti on the inner surface of the lungs, their outer surface beiiig protected from it hy the unyielding parietes of the tliorax. When this protection is removed, the pressure on both surfaces is equal, and the elasticity of the pulmonary tissue is then enabled to act.]