145 COMPARISON OF THE EXTREMITIES. of the metatarsal; but the latter are larger than the former, which agrees with the greater dimensions of the tarsus. 3. The tarsal extremities are more regu- larly cuneiform than the corresponding ends of the metacarpal bones. The most characteristic differences, however, of these two series of bones are found in the digital extremities, which are incomparably larger in the me- tacarpus than in the metatarsus, the fingers being the chief part of the hand, while the tarsus is the principal portion of the foot. We should also remark, that the convex articular surfaces of the digital ends of the metatarsal bones are prolonged further on the dorsal aspect, than the corresponding surfaces of the metacarpal bones. Comparison of the Phalanges o f the Fingers and Toes. The fingers, being the essential organs of prehension and the fundamental part of the hand, greatly exceed the toes both in length and thickness, and the latter may be looked upon as representing in rudiment the former, being pre- cisely analogous in structure. The phalanges of the toes may therefore be regarded as phalanges of the fingers in a state of atrophy ; but the great toe forms a remarkable exception to this rule, for its phalanges are much larger in proportion to the other toes, than the phalanges of the thumb are to the other fingers. This magnitude of the great toe corresponds to the size of its metatarsal bone, and accords with its destination, as constituting the principal support for the weight of the body in front. The first phalanx of the toes exactly resembles the first phalanx of the fingers in all things but volume. The middle phalanx of the toes can scarcely be recognised from its diminutive size: it may be said to want the shaft aitogether, the extremities being in contact. As we have already re- marked it might at first sight be confounded with a pisiform, or a sesamoid bone, or stiU more readily with a piece of the coccyx. Comparison of the Upper and Lower Extremities with regard to Development. The development of the lower extremities is proportionally less rapid than that of the upper. The clavicle and the scapula are ossified before the os innominatum. The ossification of the skeleton commences in the clavicle; in this bone, the osseous nodule is visible from the twenty-fifth to the thirtieth day; it appears in the scapula about the fortieth day. The osseous point of the ilium is visible about the forty-fifth day, that of the ischium in the third month, and that of the pubes in the fifth month. The scapula is completely ossified at the age of twenty years, the marginal process of the crest of the ilium is scarcely united until the twenty-fifth year. The bony centres of the shafts of the femur and humerus are almost simultaneous in their appearance. The germ of the lower end of the femur always exists at birth; that of the lower end of the humerus does not appear until the end of the first year ; but this latter unites with the bone at eighteen years, while the former is still separate at twenty years. The tibia is ossified a little before the bones of the fore-arm, the fibula a little after them. The ossification of the leg and the fore- arm is completed almost about the same time. The ossification of the bones of the tarsus precedes that of the carpus by a considerable period. Thus, at frome four and a half to five months of foetal life, abony point is visible in the OS calcis, and some days after in the astragalus ; the os magnum and os cunei- forme (which, however, are not the representatives of the preceding), do not show ossific points until a year after birth. The pisiform bone is not ossified until the twelfth year; while the latest of the tarsal bones, the scaphoid, is converted into bone at the fifth year. Nevertheless, the epiphysary point of the OS calcis (which we have shown to be analogous to the pisiform bone) does not become visible until the tenth year; this fact strengthens the analogy between the pisiform bone and the epiphysary lamina of the os calcis VOL. I.