471 THE STOMACH. 1 The serous or peritmieal coat. Like almost all the moveable viscera of the abdomen, the stomach receives a complete covering from the peritoneum (mem- brana communis of the ancients ; la membrane capsulaire, Chauss.). It is formed in the following manner. Two layers of the pentoneilm in contact with each other, pass from the transverse fissure of the liver to the lesser cur- vature of the stomach.—there they separate, so as to leave between them a triangular space, the base of which corresponds to the lesser curvature ; the anterior layer then passes over the anterior surface of the stomach, and the posterior covers it behind; they again approach each other at the great cur- vature, along which they form another triangular space, exactly resembling that which we have already described as existing at the lesser curvature, and then unite so as to form the two anterior layers of the great omentum (see description of Peritoneum). The same arrangement takes place at the great extremity of the stomach. Bloodvessels pass round the stomach, along the line where the two layers of the peritoneum are applied to each other at its two curvatures. The peritoneum, therefore, forms a complete covering for the stomach, ex- cepting at the curvatures, where we find triangular spaces, into which the stomach is forced during its distension. I doubt whether these triangular spaces can afford sufficient space for the stomach when greatly distended, and I believe that, in such cases, the two anterior layers of the great omentum se- parate, and are applied upon that organ. It is evident, besides, that distension of the stomach chiefly affects its great curvature. The peritoneal coat does not adhere firmly to the subjacent tissues of the stomach, in the neighbourhood of either curvature; but it is closely united to them at the middle points of both surfaces. The imperfect extensibility of the peritoneal coat requires such an arrangement as exists along the curvatures. I have observed some small fibrous bands in the sub-serous cellular tissue along the lesser curvature, which must be intended to maintain the shape of that part. The uses of the peritoneal coat, in reference to the stomach itself, are merely mechanical; it strengthens, preserves the shape, and facilitates the movements of this organ. The muscular coat. This coat has engaged much of the attention of anatomists, since the time of Fal- lopius, who was the first to give a correct descrip- tion of it; and to whom Morgagni (Advers. Anat. iii. p. 6.) has attributed the honour of discovering it, in opposition to the claims of Willis. Helvetius made it the subject of a special work. (^Hist. Acad. Roy. des Sciences, 1719.) "We shall describe, in accordance with HaUer {Elem. Phys. torn. vi. lib. xix. sect. i. p. 126.), and the majority of anatomists, three layers of muscular fibres. The superficial or longitudinal layer {\,fig. 151.) is formed by a continuation of the longitudinal fibres of the oesophagus, which spread out in a radiated manner from the cardiac orifice of the stomach. They are scattered thinly over its surfaces, the great curvature, and the great extremity, but are collected into a band along the lesser curvature, the shape of which they assist in preserving. On ac- count of this arrangement they have received the name of cravate de Suisse. These fibres form a continuous plane of considerable thickness over the contracted portion of the stomach near the pylorus. In this situation they are stronger, and fasciculated, and appear partly to terminate in the pyloric constriction, and partly to be continued upon the duodenum. II u 4 Fig. 151