332 MYOLOGY. the tendon of the biceps, the supinator brevis, the pronator teres, the flexor carpi radialis, the flexor digitorum sublimis. the flexor longus poUicis, the radial artery and veins, and the radial nerve. Its inner border limits the bend of the elbow on the outside : the radial artery emerges from beneath this border, and then lies parallel to it. Its outer border is separated from the extensor carpi radialis longior by cellular tissue, and inferiorly is in contact\yith the dorsal branch of the radial nerve, which, at first, was situated beneath it. The most important of aU these relations is that with the radial artery, of which the long supinator may be considered the satellite muscle, and might be designated the muscle of the radial artery. Action. It might be asked. Why does the supinator longus form an exception to the general rule, in being inserted into the lower end of the lever which it is intended to move ? for while the fore-arm is in a state of supination, the axis of the muscle is vertical, and its action appears limited to that of flexing the fore-arm; but if the limb be pronated, the direction of the muscle becomes obUque from without inwards, and, therefore, supination is the result of its contraction. After this efi^ect has been produced, if the muscle stiU continues to act, the fore-arm is flexed upon the arm. It is needless to state that the dis- tance of its insertion from the fulcrum gives the muscle great power, notwith- standing its disadvantageous angle of incidence. The Extensor Carpi Radialis Longior. Dissection. This muscle, as well as the succeeding one, wiU be ^posed at the same time as the supinator longus, beneath which it is placed. The lower end of its tendon occupies the dorsum of the wrist, and should also be exposed. The extensor carpi radialis longior premier ou long radial externe ; radialis extemus longior, Albinus, n, figs. 119. 121.) is situated on the external and posterior aspect of the fore-arm, below the supinator longus, of which it seems to be a continuation at its origin from the humerus : like that muscle it is flat- tened from within outwards in the arm, and from before backwards in the fore-arm : it is fleshy in its upper third, and tendinous m its lower two-thirds. Attachments. It arises from the rough triangular impression terminating the external border of the humerus, from the external mtennuscular septum and from the anterior surface of the common tendon It is inserted into the back of the upper end of the second metacarpal bone The fleshy fibres arising directly from the parts mentioned constitute a bundle, at first flattened on the sides, and forming a continuation of the supinator longus from which it is often difficult to separate it: it afterwards becomes flattened from before back- wards. The fibres pass vertically downwards, and are attached to the anteiior surface of a tendon a Uttle beyond the upper third of the fo'-e-a™- Jhe tendon then becomes narrower and thicker, proceeds along the outer boidei of he radius, passes under the tendons of the abductor longus and ex^sor brevis ToUicis wWch cross it obliquely, and turns a little outwards and the3;backwards t^oSe at a groove common to it and the extensor carpi radiaUs brevior, t Ts then crofsed at an acute angle b;. the tendon of the extensor longi^ pomc!s, and is finally inserted by an e^kpanded temmation mto the second "SSi'^Tifl'o^ered Vy the supinator longus and the fascia of the fore- arm on ?he outs de of the fore-arm it is covered and crossed obliquely by the if ' w inno-T and extensor brevis poUicis, and in the wrist by the tendon Ste exSoi- longs' pomcis. It cLrs the elbow joint, the extensor carpi radiaUs brevior, and the back of the wrist jomt. The Extensor Carpi Radialis Brevior. Tbo e,-lPnsor carpi radialis brevior (le second ou court radial externe ; radiulis Ibe exte7isorcarpi iuuiu<.co v 190 ^ is thicker but shorter than