ARTHROLOGY. nnSf ^.^^^^ "^"^"^^ constant presence of a large bursa or sy- novial capsule between it and the tendon of the supra-spinatus ^ The Coraco-acromial Ligament. This ligament (u,figs. 69 and 70.) forms part of the vault we have described- It IS a triangular bundle of radiating fibres, which extends from the apex of the acromion to the whole length of the posterior edge of the coracoid process. Its external edge becomes thinner, and is continued into an aponeurotic lamina below the deltoid muscle, and separating that muscle from the joint. It is lined below by a synovial membrane, and is separated from the clavicle by fattv tissue.* ' ^ Mechanism of the Scapula-humeral Articulation. The scapulo-humeral articulation admits of the most extensive movements of any joint in the body ; it is capable of every kind of motion; vi?. forwards and backwards, and also those of adduction, abduction, circumduction, and rotation. Forward and backward motions. In these the head of the humerus rolls upon the glenoid cavity, and moves round the axis of the neck of the humerus, while the lower extremity of the bone describes the arc of a circle, of which the centre is atthe joint, the radius being represented by the humerus. The forward movement is very extensive, and may be carried so far that the humerus may take a vertical direction exactly opposite to the natural one. The motion back- wards is produced by the same mechanism ; the head of the humerus turns upon its axis. This movement is limited by the contact of the head of the humerus with the coracoid process, without which dislocation foi-wards would be very easily produced. It should be remarked that, in any considerable movement of the humerus forwards, the scapula is also moved, performing that sort of ro- tation which we spoke of when considering the mechanism of the shoulder. The movement outwards, or abduction, is the most remarkable. It belongs exclusively to animals possessed of a clavicle. In it the head of the humerus does not turn upon an axis; it glides downwards upon the glenoid cavity, and presses upon the lower part of the capsule. The shape of the glenoid cavity, which has its long diameter vertical, and its broad part below, is advantageous as regards this motion. When abduction is carried so far that the humerus forms a right angle with the axis of the trunk, a great part of the head of the bone is below the glenoid cavity. If, while in this condition, the arm be moved forwards or backwards, the great tuberosity of the humerus-rubs against the coraco-acromial ^rch, and forms with it a sort of supplementary articulation, lubricated by the bursa above described. The movement of abduction may be carried so far as lo allow the arm to touch the head without dislocation ; for the capsular ligament is sufficiently loose, especially below, to receive almost the whole head of the bone without being torn. It should be remarked, that during abduction, the scapula is fixed, which explains the frequency of luxa- tions of the humerus downwards.; Adduction is limited by the arm meeting with the thorax. When it is com- bined with the forward motion, the upper and back part of the capsule and the muscles which cover it are considerably stretched. The scapula does not participate in this movement, during which luxation can be occasioned only by a very strong impulse on the arm upwards and backwards. Circumduction is nothing more than the transition of the humerus from one to another of these motions. The cone which it describes is much more ex- * [This is tlie Ugamentum proprium anterius of authors ; but the author has taken no notice of another ligament proper to the scapula, viz. the Ugamentum proprium postcrius, a thin band of fibres stretched across the notch at the base of the coracoid process, which it tliui converts into a foramen. The supra-scapular nerve generally passes below, and the artery above it.]