^"^^ SPLANCHNOLOGY. second or circular layer (2, fig. 151.) is composed of fibres which cross me axis ot the stomach at right angles, so as to form a succession of rings trom the oesophagus to the pylorus. They are few in number at the great ex- tremity of the stomach, but become much more numerous towards the pylorus, throughout all the contracted portion of the stomach. At the pylorus itself they form a thick ring, which forms a sort of rim, projecting in the interior. I have always found this more developed in old age than at any other period of life. It is a true sphincter, which by its contraction efFectuaUy opposes the passage of food and gas from the stomach into the duodenum. It is not un- common to find the whole of this ring, or a half, or two thirds of it, increased to the thickness of three or four lines, independently of any organic lesion. The older anatomists admitted also an oesophageal ring (or esophageal sphincter), similar to that at the pylorus, and having the power of closing the oesophageal orifice. This, however, does not exist; the last circular fibres of the oesophagus do not form a thicker layer than the others. Lastly, the different rings formed by the circular fibres of the stomach in- tersect each other obliquely at very acute angles. The spiral arrangement admitted by Santorini cannot be demonstrated. The third muscular layer (3, fig. 151.), which I have only been able to see distinctly upon hypertrophied stomachs, is composed of looped or parabolic fibres, the middle portions of which embrace the great end of the stomach, extending from tha left side of the cardiac orifice obliquely downwards towards the great curvature, while their anterior and posterior extremities are situated upon the corresponding surfaces of this viscus. The superior loops reach the lesser curvature, the inferior the great curvature, and the intermediate loops seem to be lost upon either surface, or rather to become blended with the circular fibres. This layer of fibres appears intended to compress the great extremity of the stomach, and to push the food into the body of the organ, towards the pylorus. From what has been stated it follows, that, excepting in the vicinity of the pylorus, the muscular layers of the stomach do not form a continuous plane, but have an areolar disposition : the areolae or spaces between the different fibres are of considerable size; hence the necessity for a strong membrane, like the fibrous coat, which, as we shall find, constitutes the framework of the stomach. The muscular fibres of the several layers are much paler than those of the oesophagus.* They have a pearly appearance when seen through the peritoneal coat, which has led to the supposition that they are tendinous. Hence the error of Helvetius, Winslow, and others, who regarded the two white lines running along the two surfaces of the stomach, between the curvatures, as ligaments of the pylorus; they are nothing more than longitudinal muscular fibres. Other authors have merely admitted some tendinous intersections of these fibres. The muscular coat is not uniformly thick at all points. It is very thin at the great cul-de-sac, and becomes much thicker towards the pylorus. It also pre- sents many varieties in different subjects ; it is but slightly developed in large stomachs, and much more so when this organ is contracted. There is a physi- ological as well as a pathological hypertrophy of the muscular coat. In the latter it has been found seven or eight lines thick. The fibrous coat. This coat, the existence of which has been alternately admitted and denied, is situated between the muscular and the mucous coats, and is quite distinct from both. It was known by the ancients as the membrana nervosa f ; it constitutes, properly speaking, the framework of the organ. In order to demonstrate this coat it is sufficient to remove the peritoneal and mus- [They are principally of the involuntary class, but have a few striated fibres .imong them nntf . n. 42fi.l1. (see note, p. 426.)]. t [So called from its to/iite appearance.]