ARTICULATIONS OF THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. 157 Union of the Spinous Processes. The spinous processes are united by the supra-spinous and the inter-spinous ligaments. The supraspinous ligament (dd, figs. 58 and 59.) is a fibrous cord, which extends from the seventh cervical vertebra to the sacrum, along the summit of the spinous processes of the dorsal and lumbar vertebrse. This ligament can be only distinguished from the aponeurotic fibres, which are in- serted into the spinous processes, by the longitudinal direction of its fibres. It is larger in the lumbar than in the dorsal region. It is expanded, and becomes even sometimes cartilaginous in the interval between the processes. It is inextensible. I regard a fibrous cord which extends from the seventh cervical vertebra to the external occipital protuberance, as a continuation of the supra-spinous ligament; it appears to be the vestige of the posterior cervical ligament of quadrupeds, and is of considerable size in some subjects; from its anterior surface, prolongations are given off to the spinous processes of all the cervical vertebrse, excepting the first. The inter-spinous ligaments (e e, fig. 58.) do not exist in the neck, where their place is supplied by small muscles; they are very thin in the back, where each has the fonn of a triangle with the base looking backwards. They are thick and quadrilateral in the loins. Their upper and lower edges are at- tached to the corresponding spinous processes. Their surfaces are in contact with the muscles of the vertebral grooves. M. Mayer speaks of synovial capsules, which he has met with between the lumbar spinous processes, and especially between the third and the fourth in this region; these membranes are by no means constant. Articulations peculiar to certain Vertebrce (Jigs. 61 to 64.). Although the articulations of the atlas and of the axis, with the occipital bone, belong to the external articulations of the vertebral column, yet the connection between these articulations and that of the atlas with the axis is so intimate, that it is impossible to separate them. We shall describe these three articulations in succession; first noticing the articulation of the atlas with the occipital bone {occipito-atlantoid articulation). Occipito-atlantoid Articulation. Preparation. Remove the part of the skull which is in front of the vertebral column, taking care to leave the basilar process. The muscles which sur- round the joint, being closely applied to the ligaments, should be very care- fully detached. The atlas unites with the occipital bone, 1. by its anterior arch ; 2. by its posterior arch; 3. by the base of its transverse processes; 4, by its two articular surfaces. 1. The anterior arch of the atlas is united to the circumference of the fo- ramen magnum by two anterior occipito-at- lantal ligaments. One of these, the superficial (a, figs. 61 and 64.) is a very strong cy- lindrical cord situated in the median line, where it forms a very marked projection, and stretches from the basilar process of the occi- pital bone to the anterior tubercle of the atlas. The other (b, fig. 61.),-which is deep-seated. is pretty thick, consists of several layers, and extends from the upper edge of the anterior arch of the atlas to the occipitiil 9 M hone. ^- Most anatomists admit the existence of a ligament stretching from the