SPLANCHNOLOGY. !na! ^'"ief enumeration of their constituent parts, referring to works on tl„ anatomy of textures for details which would'be misplaced^in^refemrntlr; The Developement of Organs. The study of the developement of organs, and the changes which thpv nndergo at the different periods of intra- and extra-uterine^ life! is of the greatest interest, at east as regards some among them. The formation of he soft parts however, is not nearly so well understood as that of the hard tis ues because the most important phenomena of developement occur during the fim weeks after conception. The remarks upon this subject wiU therefore gene rally point out some hiatus to be filled up. ^ The Functions of Organs. The functions or uses of organs flow so naturaUy from their anatomical description, that we shall follow the example of the greaterTuLerTana tomists, m adding to such description, a short account of the fiinctions of an organ We shall only notice particularly those uses of organs which depend immediately upon their structure, referring to physiological works for^the details and discussions of yet disputed points in the science of functions No part of anatomy excites so much curiosity and interest as splanchnology in consequence of the importance of the organs of which it treats. Without a knowledge of this department of anatomy, it is impossible to understand the mechanism of functions the most indispensable to life ; and as the organs them- selves are the seat of the greater part of the lesions which are assimed to the physician as weU as of many of those which fall under the care of the surgeon most of the fundamental questions of the healing art require a profound luiow- ledge of these organs. Tlie Dissection of the Viscera. The dissection of organs does not consist in merely isolating them from sur- rounding parts, which, as far as regards those contained in the visceral cavities IS done by simply laying open the latter, but in the separation of their ana- tomical elements or tissues. For this purpose injections of the most delicate kind, maceration, boiling, preservation in alcohol, desiccation, the action of acids, m short, all the resources of his art, are employed by the anatomist. Having made these preliminary observations, we shall now describe in suc- cession the organs of digestion, the organs of respiration, and the genito- urinary apparatus. THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION AND THEIR APPENDAGES. ALIMENTARY OR DIGESTIVE CANAL. General observations.—Division.—Mouth and its appendages. Lips. Cheeks. Hard and soft palate. — Tonsils.—Tongue. — Salivary glands. —Buccal mucous membrane — Pharynx. — (Esophagus. — Stomach. —Small intestine. —Large intestine. —Muscles of the perineum—Developement of the intestinal canal. Thk organs of digestion form a long canal, the alimentary or digestive canal, extending from the mouth to the anus, which receives alimentary substances, induces in them a series of changes, by which they are rendered fit to repair the losses incurred by the body, and moreover presents a vast absorbent surface for the action of the lacteal vessels. The entire series of these organs consti- tutes the digestive apparatus. The existence of an alimentary canal is one of the essential characters of an