SPLANCHNOLOGY. m size becomes rapid: it follows, therefore, that the communication between the artery and the splenic cells is indirect.* Oa the other hand, if we inject the vein, the cells are immediately dilated, and the spleen becomes prodigiously increased in bulk : it is easy to perceive that the communication is direct, and that the venous system in some measure forms the basis of this organ. We can very seldom meet with a human spleen sufficiently healthy, for the following experiment. It will succeed perfectly with the spleen of a horse, which is of a much denser structure. The spleen ought in the first place to be freed from the liquid which it contains ; this must be accomplished by forcing water into the splenic artery. The water will return by the veins, at first turbid, then merely tinged, and at last limpid and pure.f I have in vain attempted to force the injection from the veins into the arteries. After tlie water, air should be blown into the artery, so as to empty the spleen as much as possible of any liquid which it may contain. If we examine a spleen thus freed of its contained matter, we observe that it is wrinkled and as it were shrivelled on the surface, and remarkably dimi- nished in bulk; and on making a section of it, we find a white spongy tissue, composed of laminae or fibres interlacing in every direction. The following preparation J exhibits this structure most fully :—The spleen of a horse, prepared in the way I have indicated above, and weighing one pound, could receive ten pounds of tallow. The injection was thrown in by the veins : at each stroke of the piston, the spleen swelled up readily, an evident proof that the splenic cells communicate directly with the veins ; while in order to obtain the same effect by injecting through the arteries, very considerable force was required. The injection of the spleen by the veins did not take place in an uniform manner, but successively; in one injection, the upper part was injected before the lower, and the anterior border before the posterior. The independence of different portions of the spleen on each other exists in regard to their veins as well as their arteries. I have been enabled to observe the resistance offered by the tissue of the spleen to the distending power ; a re- sistance which caused the injection to flow back whenever the impelling force was discontinued. The cells are extensible to a certaili degree, beyond which they resist very powerfully : it does not appear that they possess any elasticity. § After some days when desiccation was complete, the spleen thus injected was divided into several portions, which were then immersed in spirits of tur- pentine moderately heated. The tallow by which all the cells were distended, and which had taken the place of their contentb, having been dissolved out, the sections presented a spongy, areolar structure, like that of erectile tis- sue, as found in the corpora cavernosa, or the substance of the placenta: and this cannot be considered, as Meckel would have it, as the artificial result of the insufflation and injection, which lacerate, as he believes,'a part of the * It has been erroneously asserted that the communication between the artery and vein is more direct in the spleen than in any other organ. The great anastomoses, visible to the naked eye between the splenic artery and vein, admitted by Spigelius, Diemerbroeck, Bartholin, and others is purely imaginary. The precise mode of communication is still unknown. + This injection which requires considerable force, continued without interruption for a lone time occasions an exudation of a perfectly transparent fluid upon the surface of the <inlpRn even when the water returned by the vein is still turbid. Here we have an imitation of in pxh'alant process. And as this transudation takes place without rupture, it is evident that there are a set of vessels by which it is efifected.* Instead of making an injection, which is alwavs troublesome, we may attach the splenic artery to a tube, which is itself adapted to ■ nofher tube running from the bottom of a cistern ; the column of water will overcome the resistance offered to its passage from the arteries into the veins, and in twenty-four hours it raode^f prem suggested to me by the plan adopted with the corpora ca- vernosa nv Bogros; prosector to the Faculty, who died a victim to Ins zea for science. S rThe lining membrane of these venous cells is not very extensible, but the trabeculffi be- tween which they lie are highly extensible and elastic also.] • [This transudation evidently depends on the porosity or permeability of animal tissues, and not on the existence of any special vessels.]