189 RADIO-CUBITAL ARTICULATIONS. Mechanism of the inferior Radio-cubital Articulations. The movements of pronation and supination, at the lower radio-cubital arti- culation, are produced by a mechanism which is precisely the inverse of the former, for the radius, instead of rotating upon its own axis, turns round the head of the ulna by a movement of circumduction. This difference results partly fi-om the curvature of the radius, and partly from the great transverse diameter of its lower end, which forms the radius of the arc of the circle which it describes round the ulna. In pronation the Uttle sigmoid cavity rolls for- wards on the articular edge of -the head of the ulna; in supination it glides in the opposite liirection, that is, backwards. We see then that, in the lower articulation, a concave surface moves upon a convex, while the contrary takes place at the upper. The triangular Jigament has no effect in limiting these motions; but they are restrained by means of the anterior and posterior ligaments. In forcible pronation these may be broken, and the head of the ulna dislocated backwards ; in forcible supination it may be dislocated forwards. It should be remarked that, in cases of luxation of the ulna, the head of this bone does not lacerate the capside, but the capsule is torn upon it; for, as we shall afterwards see, the ulna is immoveable at the cubito-carpal joint, and takes no share in the partial motions of the fore-arm. Mechanism of the Radio-cubital Articulations, considered with reference to the Bodies of the two Bones. In the movement of pronation, the radius crosses the ulna at an acute angle, so that its lower part is carried in front of the ulna, while the upper remains on the outside. The movement of supination consists in the return of the radius to its state of parallelism with the ulna. In pronation, the interosseous ligament is relaxed; in supination, it is stretched: its absence at the upper part of the fore-arm, where its place is supplied by the ligament of Weitbrecht, allows more extensive rotatory movements. * The existence of the interosseous space is an indispensable condition for the performance of pronation and supination; and therefore every curative plan for the treatment of fractures of the fore-arm which does not provide for the preservation of this space should at once be rejected. In the explanation we have given of the mechanism of the radio-cubital articulations, the ulna has been considered as an immoveable axis round which the radius executes below certain movements of circumduction; but many au- thors liave maintained the opinion that the ulna also takes part in these mo- tions. Without discussing the different theories which have been successively proposed on this subject, we shall mention an experiment which is at once de- cisive of the question. If all the articulations of the arm be exposed from the shoulder to the hand, and the humerus be immoveably fixed in a vice, it will be seen that, when the fore-arm is pronated or supinated, the radius moves upon the ulna, which remains altogether undisturbed; and, also, that any lateral motion of the ulna is absolutely impossible from its perfect jointing with the humerus at the elbow. When the humerus is not completely fixed, it also rotates in conjunction with the bones of the fore-arm. Lastly, it should be observed that, when the radius is rotated during semi- flexion of the fore-arm, the motion is accompanied by slight degrees of flexion and extension at the elbow-joint. ligament, the fibres of which pass downw.irds from the radius to the no prolonged to the upper part of the interosseous space, it would have much im- S.hirh " supination, by limiting the movements of the bicipital tubcrosltj'. Into lirV^n »? • • '"Plnator muscles of the fore-arm, viz. the biceps, is inserted; but the round therlrt^L in? inserted below the bicipital tuberosity, and passing downwards from the ulna to the radms, can have no effect m limiting the extent of rotation.