174 ARTHROLOGY. neck of the rib below. At the place of this insertion, -we always find a crest or spine. This ligament is sometimes divided into two or three bundles; it forms the continuation of a thin aponeurosis, which covers the external in- tercostal muscle, and completes the external wall of the opening through which the posterior branches of the intercostal vessels and nerves are transmitted- This ligament is interposed between the anterior and posterior branches of these vessels and nerves. The interosseous ligaments are two in number. I. A costo-vertebral interos- seous ; 2. A costo-transverse interosseous. 1. The costo-vertebral interosseous ligament {o,fig. 58.) is a small bundle of fibres, very short and very thin, extending horizontally from the projecting angle on the head of the rib to the retreating angle of the vertebral facette, where it is continuous with the intervertebral substance. 2. The costo-transverse interosseous ligament (a. Jig. 68.) is formed by some Fig. 68 ligamentous bundles intermixed with reddish adi- pose tissue, which stretch from the anterior surface of the transverse process to the posterior surface of the neck of the rib. An idea of the strength of this ligament may be formed by attempting to separate the rib from the transverse process, after the anterior costo-vertebral and the posterior costo- transverse ligaments have been divided. There are three synovial capsules in the articulations of the ribs with the vertebrse, — one between the tuberosity and the transverse process, and two small ones for the two surfaces which are separated by the costo-vertebral in- terosseous ligament. Characters peculiar to certain Costo-vertebral Articulations. The articulations of the first, eleventh, and twelfth ribs alone present pecu- liarities. 1. Costo-vertebral articulation of the first rib. The rounded head of the first rib is received into a cavity on the side of the body of the first dorsal vertebra; the articulation is therefore a species of enarthrosis ; there is neither acosto-ver- tebral interosseous ligament, nor a superior costo-transverse ligament: the syn- ovial membrane is much looser than in the corresponding articulations. 2. The costo-vertebral articulations of the eleventh and twelfth ribs present the same characters as the preceding in this respect, that the articular cavity for the head of the bone is situated upon one vertebra alone. The head of the rib is flattened, or very slightly convex ; and there is no interosseous costo-vertebral ligament. The superior costo-transverse ligament is much broader and stronger than in the other articulations. As the eleventh and twelfth ribs have no tu- berosities, and the transverse processes of the corresponding vertebrfe are but little developed, it follows that there is no costo-transverse articulation ; but yet there is a costo-transverse interosseous ligament. AJl these ligaments are much more loose than in the other articulations. The Chondro-sternal Articulations ( fig. 69.). These are seven in number on each side, formed by the internal angular end of the cartilages, which are received into the angular cavities on the side of the sternum The means of union are, 1. a radiated or anterior chondro-sternal liga- ment (a,'fig. 69.), which is tolerably strong: it/^-o^^f ^'"'.^,7;*^ The corresponding Ugament of the opposite side and is blended both w. h the periosteum and the tponeurotic insertions of the greater pectoral muscles, m ?he thick fibrous layer which covers the sternum ; 2. two small ^ superior and an inferior; 3. a radiated or posterior chondro-sternal hgamcit much weaker than the anterior. The ^--^'r^ " ?7 a^dTJ n^n merely inferred from analogy, for it cannot be demonstrated. (\ide Abtich- ■LATIONS IN GENERAL.