611 THE URETHRA. prostatic, because it appears to be hoUowed out of the glandular body called the prostate, the description of which must be inserted here, on account of its intimate connection with the urethra. , , • ^ . r^x. The prostate (i,fig. 181.), a whitish glandular body, is situated in front of the neck of the bladder, and embraces it; it is behind the symphysis pubis, and m front of the rectum. It is shaped like a cone, with its base turned backwards, and its truncated apex forwards. Its axis or long diameter is horizontal, but slopes a little from behind downwards and forwards. It has often a bi-lobed appearance in man, but it is never truly double, as in a great number of animals. The size of the prostate varies greatly in different subjects. The following dimensions have been taken from the measurements of the prostates of adults: vertical diameter twelve lines, transverse eig:hteen, antero-posterior, or length, fifteen. Sometimes it acquires three or four times its nominal size ; the increase may affect either the whole gland, or one half, or the middle lobe only. Relations. We shall examine the relations of the prostate with the parts corresponding to its outer sm-face, and with those which are situated within it. Relations of the outer surface of the prostate. The lower surface corresponds with the rectum, adhering to it by tolerably dense cellular tissue, in which there is never any fat or serum ; and hence the rule of examining the prostate by the rectum. In consequence of alterations in the condition of the rectum, that intestine sometimes projects on each side beyond the prostate, as during dis- tension ; and sometimes, as when it is contracted, the prostate projects beyond it laterally. The lower surface of the gland is smooth, and is traversed in the median line by an antero-posterior furrow, which is well marked in some sub- jects, and divides it into two equal portions. The upper surface is in relation with the recto-vesical fascia (q,fig. 181.), or rather with some very strong ligamentous bundles, which extend from the pubes to the bladder, and are called the ligaments of the bladder. This surface has no immediate relations with the arch of the pubes, behind which it is placed; it is always some lines distant from it. Nevertheless, by means of a silver catheter or sound, introduced into the bladder, we may draw the prostate under the pubes, and make it project in the perineum. The sides are embraced by the levator ani and levator prostata3. When the prostate is pushed downwards by the catheter its sides are embraced by the circumference of the arch of the pubes, and they then approach very near the trunk of the internal pudic artery. The base of the prostate embraces the neck of the bladder, and is prolonged a little upon that organ, so as to surround the vas deferens and the neck of the vesiculae seminales. The apex terminates behind the membranous portion of the urethra. Relations of the prostate with the parts situated in its interior. The prostate is perforated by the urethra, by the ejaculatory ducts, and by its own excretory ducts. The relations of the urethra with the prostate vary in different subjects: thus, sometimes its lower three-fourths only are surrounded by the gland, which is accordingly wanting above, and is merely grooved, not perforated by a canal; sometimes the prostate forms a complete hollow cylinder around the urethra. The portion of the prostate situated above the urethra is scarcely ever thicker than the part beneath it. In some cases, however, the urethra has been found occupying the lower part of the prostate, and only separated from the rectum by a very thin layer of glandular substance. When such is the case, the rectum is very liable to be wounded in the different steps of the operation of lithotomy. * In the natural state the prostate does not project into the urethra; but not unfrequently we find a prominence, of greater or less size, rising from the lower » The varieties in the situation of the urethra, in relation to the prostate, were well pointed out by M. Seiin, in an inaugur.il dissertation in 1825. According to his observations the por tion of the prostate situated below the canal is seven or eight lines thick in tlie middle and ten or eleven lines, when measured downwards and outwards. ' n. R 2