•11^ APONEUROLOGY, very strong transverse lamina, becoming still stronger^below, which separates the muscles of the deep posterior layer and the posterior tibial and peroneal vessels and nerves from the superficial layer of muscles, or the triceps suralis. Lastly, some tendinous laminae, more or less complete, are interposed between the different muscles of each region. Thus a tendinous layer separates the tibialis anticus, at first from the extensor communis digitorum, and then from the extensor proprius pollicis : this layer disappears in the middle of the leg. Another very strong tendinous lamina separates the tibialis posticus from the flexor longus digitorum on the one hand, and from the flexor longus pollicis on the other. Superior circumference. If we now examine the manner in which the apo- neurosis of the leg becomes continuous with that of the thigh, we shall find that, posteriorly, the femoral fascia is prolonged directly upon the leg, in order to form the posterior part of its aponeurosis, which in this situation also receives an expansion from the tendons of the biceps, sartorius, gracilis, and semi-tendinosus, and from the broad band of the fascia of the thigh. Anteriorly the fascia of the leg is continuous with that of the thigh over the patella, and appears also to arise directly from the outer edge of the anterior tuberosity of the tibia, from the head of the fibula, and from the tendon of the biceps, which, as we have already seen, gives off an aponeurotic expansion backwards. By its lower circumference this fascia is continuous with the annular liga- ments of the ankle, which we shall presently describe. Structure. On examining the direction of the fibres and the thickness of the fascia of the leg, it is found that it is much thicker in front than on the outer side of the leg, and still more so than behind ; that, in the first situation, in the upper three fourths of its extent, it is composed of obliquely interlaced fibres, some of which descend from the spine of the tibia, and others from the anterior angular surface of the fibula; and that in the lower fourth of the anterior region of the leg, and in the whole extent of the posterior region, it is composed of circular fibres. At the point wljere the muscles of the leg become tendinous, and are re- flected over the ankle, they require very strong sheaths to keep them in con- tact with the joint; the fascia of the leg, therefore, forms opposite this part the anterior, internal, and external, annular ligaments. The Annular Ligaments of the Tarsus. The annular ligaments of the tarsus are three in number,—an anterior or dorsal, an internal, and an external. The dorsal annular ligament of the tarsus. The aponeurosis of the leg is thicker at the lower and anterior part of the leg, and binds down the corre- spondino- portion of the muscles in that region. But there is in addition to this a dorsal annular ligament of the tarsus (see fig. 128.), which arises, by a narrow but thick extremity in front of the astragalo-calcanean fossa, becomes broader as it extends inwards, and is divided into two bands. The superior band passes upwards and inwards above the internal malleolus, and is split into two layers, in such a way as to form two complete sheaths,—one internal, for the tibialis anticus ; the other external, for the extensor longus digitorum and the peroneus tertius. Between these two complete sheaths, which are senarated from the synovial capsule of the joint by a layer of cellular tissue, we find an incomplete sheath (for the annular ligament is not split into two layers in this situation), intended for the extensor proprius pollicis and the anterior tibial vessels and nerves: the internal sheath is the higher, and «;<mtpd oDoosite the lower extremity of the tibia ; the external sheath is lowei, and oiesponds to the ankle joint. The injeri^r hand, or the lower bifurcation of the annular ligament, passes forwards and inwards to the front of the tarsus, and becomes continuous with the internal P'^!'*^''.'iP""^~ ^ lower band forms a second annular ligament, which t.rnishcs to each of the