DEVELOPEMENT OF THE TEETH. 239 enamel is formed; and hence the fang is not covered with enamel, although, after the eruption of the tooth, that part occupies the former position of the crown. This external pulp does not exist m some of the dental foUicles of certain animals, and we cannot, therefore, be astonished that such teeth have no enamel. Lastly, when this external pulp remams after the eruption ot the teeth, the secretion of the enamel also continues, like that of the ivory. Ihis is the case with the incisors of the rabbit and the beaver. In these animals the enamel occupies only the anterior surface of the tooth ; consequently the edge always remains sharp, from the unequal wearing of the anterior and posterior surfaces. ■. • e v. From what has been said concerning the phenomena ot the formation ot the provisionary teeth before their eruption, we may draw the following conclu- sions : 1. Of the two constituent parts of a tooth, viz. the cortical or hard por- tion, and the medullary portion or pulp, the latter is first developed; and of the two distinct elements of the hard portion, viz. the ivory and the enamel, the formation of the ivory is first commenced. 2. The deposition of the cortical substance of the tooth begins at the crown ; the roots are not formed until a subsequent period. 3. The bulb being inclosed within the solidified products which it has furnished, diminishes gradually in size as these press upon it. Phenomena which accompany the eruption of the first or temporary teeth. At the time of birth all the teeth are still contained within their alveoli. Ex- ceptions to this rule have been met with in cases where infants have been born with one or two teeth. If the anterior wall of the alveoli be removed at this time, the teeth will already be found considerably, biit unequally de- veloped, none having yet reached the bottom of the socket. But after birth, and at periods to be presently indicated, the extremity of the root having reached the bottom of the alveolus, and the farther growth of the tooth in that direc- tion being impossible, it is efiected in the direction of the gum, -which is com- pressed, becomes inflamed, and is perforated; this perforation, however, is not exclusively the result of distension, for the gum is but very slightly stretched when it opens; and in other cases where it is greatly distended, as by polypi or other tumours, it is not lacerated at all. The tooth gradually rises, and the gum moulds itself successively upon the difierent portions of the crown, and, lastly, upon the neck of the tooth. The division of the gum is a severe process, but still it cannot altogether explain those serious symptoms which frequently accompany the first dentition. The eruption of the teeth does not take place simultaneously, but in suc- cession, and in a regular order that admits of but few exceptions. 1. The teeth of the same kind appear in pairs, one on the right side, the other on the left: 2. the teeth of the lower jaw precede those of the upper in their appear- ance *: 3. the middle incisors are cut before the lateral, these before the first molars ; after these come the canine; and then the second molars. The erup- tion of the first set of teeth commences towards the sixth month after birth, and terminates at the end of the third or the commencement of the fourth year. The middle lower incisors appear from the fourth to the tenth month, and soon afterwards the upper middle incisors; the inferior lateral incisors appear from the eighth to the sixteenth month; and then the superior lateral incisors. The first lower molars are cut from the fifteenth to the twenty-fourth month ; the lower canine from the twentieth to the thirtieth; and the upper first mo- lars and canine soon afterwards. In some cases the eruption of the canine and the first molar teeth takes place simultaneously; sometimes even the canine teeth take the precedence. The second great molars appear from the twenty-eighth to the fortieth month, and thus complete the twenty teeth of the * [Although the papillse, it will be remembered, appe.ir earlier in the upper jaw.]