THE SPLEEN. 541 vessels and fibrous tissue. {Manuel d'Anatomie, t.iii. p 479.) This spongy cellular structure explains why the spleen, as well as the corpora cavernosa is susceptible of such great variations in bulk ; and why it is sometimes found collapsed and wrinkled", and sometimes distended, and as it were swollen. Are the splenic cells Uned by the internal membrane of the veins? if so, the mem- brane is so thin as to be incapable of demonstration. . . . ^, , Corpuscules of the spleen. Malpighi described, as existing in the spleen, certain corpuscules, regarded by him as the prmcipal elements in this orgun, and believed by him to effect some important changes m the splenic blood. These corpuscules, which Ruysch considered to be essentially vascular, have been again brought into notice by Delasonne, who demonstrated them by maceration. HaUer denied their glandular nature, because, as he said, there can be no glands where there is no secretion and no excretory ducts. The question is not, how- ever whether these corpuscules are glands or not, but rather whether they exist at all. It is certain that in many animals, in the dog and the cat for example, a great number of granules may be seen scattered through the spleen, and which, according to a calculation, the accuracy of which I do not guarantee, woidd seem to form two fifths of the weight of the organ. These corpuscules are soft, whitish or reddish, and vary in diameter from a fourth of a line to a line. They do not appear to me to exist in man.* The lymphatic vessels of the spleen are divided into the superficial and deep. The superficial only are well known ; a certain number pass from the spleen to the stomach ; they all terminate in lymphatic glands situated opposite the' hilus, within the layers of the gastro-splenic omentum. Nerves. The nerves are derived from the solar plexus, and are termed the splenic plexus. It has been stated that some terminal divisions of the pneu- mogastric have been seen distributed upon the spleen. Several of the nerves are remarkable for their size, which enables us to examine in them the peculiar structure of the ganglionic nerves, and also to trace the splenic nerves them- selves deeply into the substance of the organ.f We are completely ignorant of their mode of termination. As to the proper ducts of the spleen, said to pass directly from that organ to the great cul-de-sac of the stomach, or even to the duodenum, and to pour into these parts a peculiar liquid, it may be confidently stated that they are purely imaginary. And again, the three kinds of vascular communication between the spleen and the stomach cannot in any way explain the afflux of liquids from the spleen to t]ie stomach ; in fact, the arterial vasa brevia of the stomach are given off from the splenic artery before it reaches tte spleen ; nor do the venous vasa brevia enter the splenic vein until after it has left the hilus of the spleen ; the lymphatic vessels alone pass directly from the spleen to the stomach, but they are superficial, and have no connection with the splenic cells. There is no cellular tissue, properly so called, in the spleen, which never- theless is liable to inflammation. Developement. In opposition to the liver, the spleen is smaller in proportion as it is examined nearer the period of conception. It appears late ; it begins to be distinguishable towards the end of the second month, and it then resem- bles a clot of blood. I have never seen it developed from separate lobules, * [The corpuscules here described are not those discovered by Malpighi, but large soft greyish bodies, rarely found in the human spleen, and tlie nature of which is not understood. The Malpigliian corpuscules are much smaller ; they are very evident in the ox, sheep, and pig; they lie in the red pulpy matter externally to the venous cells, and are attached by short pe- dicles, or without pedicles, to the minute arteries, which, however, have not otlierwise any special relation to them ; they contain greyisli granules, similar in size and form to those of the red pulpy miitter. In the human spleen they are very difficult to distinguish. The extremities of the divided trabecula; may be mistaken for white corpuscules.] t The sensibility of the spleen is very important. In a living animal it may be cut or torn without any apparent signs of pain. Dogs have been seen devouring their own spleens, which had been drawn out of the abdomen I What a difi'crencc in this respect between the spleen and the intestine ; and yet tliey derive their nerves from the same source.