THE FINGERS. 113 resemblance. At the same time, we must acknowledge that there is a cir- cumstance in its development, which tends to establish its analogy with the phalanges. The carpal extremity of the fir.«t metacarpal bone has a particular form; it is concave from before backwards, and convex transversely, for articulation with the corresponding surface on the trapezium. The cha- racteristic marks then, by which the first metacarpal bone may be recognised, are, its shortness, its greater size, the antero-posterior flattening of the body, the upper articular surface concave and convex in opposite directions, and the absence of lateral articular facettes. There are many distinguishing characters of the second, third, and fourth metacarpal bones. I shall content myself with saying, that the second and third are known by their greater length, for they exceed the fourth by the whole of their lower extremity ; they are also about a third larger and heavier. The third metacarpal bone is distinguished from the second by its greater size, and, accordingly, it gives attachment to one of the most powerful muscles of the hand, the adductor pollicis; it is also known by having two lateral facettes on its upper extremity, while the second has only one. 'DiQ fifth metacarpal bone (k) is the shortest of all excepting the first, from 1 which it is distinguished by its smaller size. It differs from the fourth, which it most resembles; 1. by its shortness; 2. by the presence of an articular facette only on one side of its carpal extremity ; 3. by the existence of a very projecting eminence on its inner side, for the insertion of the extensor carpi ulnaris muscle. Connections. The metacarpal bones articulate with each other, with the bones of the carpus, and with the first phalanges of the corresponding fingers. Internal structure. They have the same structure as other long bones their extremities are cellular, and the shafts compact, with a smaU medullary canal. Development. Each metacarpal bone is developed from two points; one for the body and superior extremity, and one for the lower or distal extremity. The first metacarpal bone, which in many respects resembles the phalanges, is similar also in its mode of development. One of its two points appears in the shaft; the other in the upper or carpal extremity, which is the reverse of what takes place in the other bones of the same denomination, and is analogous to that of the phalanges. The ossific point of the body of the metacarpal bone, appears from the fortieth to the fiftieth day. At birth the body is almost completely ossified, but the extremities are still cartilaginous. The bony points of the lower ends of the last four metacarpal bones, and of the upper end of the first, do not make their appearance until the third or fourth year. In general, the upper ends of the last four bones, and the lower end of the first, are ossified by an extension of the shaft; but I have occasionally seen separate germs for each of these, so that every metacarpal bone had three osseous nodules. The union of the lower extremities with the bodies of the four metacarpal bones, does not take place until the eigtheenth or twentieth year; and the same is the case with the ossific point of the upper end of the first metacarpal bone. In those cases where the lower end of the first meta- carpal, and the upper ends of the others are formed from special points, their union takes place at a much earlier period. The Fingers (I m n, and I' n',fig. 46.). The fingers are the essential organs of prehension, and for this purpose have a length, thickness, and mobility, that are very remarkable, when we com- pare them with the toes, which represent them in the lower extremity. Each tmger forms a pyramid composed of three columns placed upon each other • the base of the pyramid corresponds to the metacarpus; and there are two en- largements or knots at the places where the columns (named phalanges) unite