MYOLOGY. 294 The Scapulo- or Omo-Ihjoideus This muscle Ccoraco-hjoideus, AUnnus; m m. Jigs. 113. and 114.) is longer and more slender than the preceding; it is a digastric reflected muscle, com- posed of two small fleshy bellies, united by an intermediate tendon. It arises from the superior border of the scapula behind the coracoid notch, over an ex- tent varying from a few lines to an inch, and is inserted into the lower part of the body of the os hyoides, externally to the sterno-hy oid. From its origin, which is sometimes tendinous, it proceeds for a variable distance behind and parallel to the clavicle, and is then reflected upwards and inwards, at an obtuse angle. At the point of reflection it becomes entirely or partially tendinous; and gives origin to another fleshy bundle larger than the former, which is inserted into the os-hyoides. The angular direction of this muscle is maintained by means of an aponeu- rosis, first described by Soemmering, which extends between the inner borders of the two muscles, and is fixed to the clavicle: it is one of the layers of the cervical fascia, an important structure to be again alluded to hereafter, and of which the omo-hyoid muscles are tensors.' These muscles are occasionally warrting; sometimes they are double. In one case of this kind the accessory muscle was larger than the normal one, and arose from the upper and internal angle of the scapula. Relations. This small muscle, before reaching the sub-hyoid region, traverses two others, the supra-clavicular and the sterno-mastoid. It is covered by the trapezius, the subclavius, the clavicle, the platysma, the sterno-mastoid, and the skin ; it covers the scaleni, the brachial plexus, the internal jugular vein, and the common carotid artery, and it is in contact with the outer border of the sterno-hyoid muscle. Tlie Sterno-thyroideus. The sterno-thyroid (n,fig. 114.) closely corresponds with the sterno-hyoid, from which it differs only in being shorter and broader. It extends from the posterior surface of the sternum to the thyroid cartilage. It arises from the sternum opposite the first rib; it is often blended with its fellow, so that their origins form a line reaching the entire breadth of the sternum, and often to the edges and posterior surface of the cartilage of the first rib. From this origin the fleshy fibres proceed directly upwards parallel to each other, and are inserted into the thyroid cartilage by a tendinous arch running obliquely downwards and inwards, which embraces the thyro-hyoid muscle, and is attached by its extremities to two very prominent tubercles on the ex- ternal surface of the cartilage. It is sometimes continued as far as the os hyoides by a small lateral prolongation, and at other times it is continuous with the thyro-hyoid. The sterno-thyroid is interrupted by a tendinous m- tersection analogous to those of the rectus abdominis. It is not uncommon to find the two sterno-thyroid muscles united together by an intervening apo- neurosis shaped like the letter V, opening upwards, and corresponding to the fourchette of the sternum. , ., , , • ■, , j Relations It is covered by the stemo-hyoid and omo-hyoid muscles, and it covers the trachea, the lower part of the subclavian and internal jugular veins, the common carotid artery, and the arteria innommata on the right side, the thvroid body and the thyroid vessels. The middle thyroid vein runs along its inner border, an important relation in regard to the operation of tracheotomy. The Thyro-hyoideus. This is a small quadrilateral muscle (hyo-thyroideus, ^Zimus), which may V, -A iTn continuation of the sterno-thyroid (o, figs. 113. and 114.). It SrLm tt'Sue Se? and the tubercle! of the thyroid cartilage, where