547 THE LUNGS. N N 2 inferior (a'); while the right is divided into three lu/ie.s, the superior (s), the in- ferior and the middle (<). Of these lobes the inferior, comprising the base of the lung, is larger than the superior, -which forms the apex: the middle lobe is the smallest. The contiguous sur- faces of these lobes are plane, and covered bj' the pleura: they are often adherent,and sometimes puru- lent matter collects between them, and being surrounded on all sides by ad- hesions, it hollows out, as it were, a , cavity for itself, at ' the expense of the correspondingsur- faces of the lobes, and thus simu- lates an abscess of the lung. There are many varieties in the ar- rangement of these lobes. Thus, some- times the fissures, and more especially those which bound the middle lobe, do not reach as far as the root of the lungs, but are only slightly indicated. Three lobes are not unfrequently found in the left lung, or four in the right; there were four lobes m the lung of a negro lately presented to the anatomical society. _ Examples are on record of lungs with five, six, and even seven lobes, but in general this multiplicity of lobes is only rudimentary, and represents the normal condition in the majority of animals. The dog, the sheep, and the ox nave seven lobes in their lungs. Inner or mediastinal surface. This corresponds to the mediastinum (pp). On It we observe the root (r) of the lungs, that is, the part at which they communicate with the trachea, through the bronchi, and receive and emit their bloodvessels. This root occupies a very limited space upon the inner surface, one inch in height, and half an inch in breadth; it is situated at the junction of the posterior with the two anterior thirds of this surface, at an almost equal distance from the apex and the base. That part of the inner surface of the lung which is behind the root, cor- responds to the vertebral column and the posterior mediastinum, in which are tound on the left side, the descending aorta and the upper part of the tho- racic duct and on the right side, the vena azygos, the oesophagus, and the lower part of the thoracic duct. f b > All that portion of the inner surface which is in front of the root, corre- sponds with the anterior mediastinum, and is excavated to receive the heart (1) ■ tW fLtl , P^.-'f *° '^^^ than to the right side, it follows that the left lung, which corresponds to the left border and apex of the heart and higher up to the arch of the aorta (g), is more deeply excavated than the