386 APONEUROLOGY. General observations on the aponeuroses. — Structure,—Uses. The aponeuroses are fibrous membranes, arranged in the form of inexten- sible textures, which constitute sheaths for the muscles, and, at the same time, afford them broad surfaces for attachment. The aponeuroses are generally known, at the present day, by the name of fascia (fascia, a band), an expression which was at first applied exclusively to the strong broad aponeurotic band, forming the termination of the tensor vaginae femoris and part of the fascia lata of the thigh. The aponeuroses constitute important adjuncts to the system of locomotion They were for a long time neglected, or rather studied independently of each other, and then only partially, until Bichat gave a general view of them, in his division of the fibrous system, including the membranous forms of that tissue of which the aponeuroses form the greatest part. As the aponeuroses have now become the object of numerous researches, and even the subject of some special treatises *, I have considered that it would be useful to offer a description of all the aponeuroses of the human body under the head of Aponeurology. This grouping together of analogous parts will have the double advantage of simplifying the description of the particular aponeuroses by making them elucidate each other, and of bringing into pro- minent notice a system of organs, the study of which is generally neglected in anatomical lectures. General observations. The aponeuroses are divided by Bichat mto two dis- tinct classes, one serving for the insertion of muscles, viz. the aponeuroses of insertion; the other for investing or containing the muscles, called the investing or confining aponeuroses. Many aponeuroses serve both these purposes at the same time ; but, in general, one or the other function predominates in each. The aponeuroses of insertion f are subdivided into those formed by the ex- panded continuations of tendons, and those which do not origmate in tendons. The aponeuroses of the gastrocnemius and soleus belong to the first class; those of the broad muscles of the abdomen are examples of the second : in the latter case the aponeuroses serve both for the insertion and investment of the muscles. Sometimes the aponeurosis occupies the middle of a muscle; as, for example, the cordiform tendon of the diaphragm, and the aponeurosis of the occipito- frontalis The use of the aponeuroses of insertion evidently has reference to the great number of muscular fibres, aU of which could not have been attached to the limited superficies of the skeleton. r i. The investing aponeuroses occasionally form a sheath for the entire limb, sometimes for only a single muscle, and at others for several muscles. Ihe firot set are called general, the other two partial aponeuroses. The aponeuroses are found not only in the extremities where they perform such important offices, but also in the trunk. As a general ru e, wherever there exists a muscle fulfiUing any special purpose, and susceptible of displacement Sff itT contraction, we find an aponeurosis, or rather an aponeurotic sheath ; tlicSess of this sheath is proportioned to the length and strength of ti,o miKiMe and especially to its tendency to displacement. E^ch ap^nrurosTs presents for our consideration an eternal a^i ^-'"'7" suf£ a^superior border or circunferen^e, sometimes termed its origin, and an i^erior border or circumference, sometimes caUed its terminution. 1. The eSernaZ surface of the general investing aponeuroses is m contact . Godxnan, of Philadelphia, published in 1824 a special work upon the fasci»; and PaUlard a treatise upon the aponeuroses of the human body m 1827. + See note, p. 248.