OSTEOLOGY. 38 Direction. The general direction of the spinal column is vertical, hut it presents certain alternate curvatures. There are four antero-posterior curvatures, viz. in front a convexity in the neck (a, b, fig. 1.), a concavity in the dorsal region (i, c), a convexity in the loins (c, d), and a concavity in the sacro-coccygeal region ((/, e, f). Behind, the opposite curvatures are observed. The degree of each curvature is always proportioned to that of the others: thus, if there be a re- mai-kable projection in the cervical region, there is a corresponding degree of concavity in the dorsal, and a proportional convexity in the lumbar regions. So great indeed is the mutual dependence of these curvatures, that the slightest modification of one produces corresponding alterations in all the others. There are many individual varieties of these curvatures : their efiect appears to be that of augmenting the power of resistance in the vertical direction, or at least of diminishing the effect of vertical pressure. It may be physically demonstrated, that of two similar rods made of the same materials that which presents alternate curves will support a greater amount of pressure in the ver- tical direction than that which is straight, on account of the decomposition of forces which occurs at each curvature. In addition to these antero-posterior curvatures, there is at the level of the third, fourth, and fifth dorsal vertebrae a lateral inclination, the concavity of which is on the left side. This being the exact situation in which the aorta, the principal artery of the body, makes a curve downwards, some anatomists have ascribed the concavity of which we .epeak to the cui-vature of this vessel. Bichat imagined it to be owing to the almost universal habit of employing the right hand, in which action the upper part of the trunk is inclined to the left, so as to afford a point of support, and as it were a counterbalance to the action of the right arm, which inclination by frequent repetition becomes permanent. According to this hypothesis, left-handed individuals should present a curvature in the opposite direction, and Beclard has shown that such is in reality the case. I may add that I have always found the deviation greatest in those who used their right arm in the most laborious employments. Of late years it has been supposed that the lateral curvature depended upon the position of the foetus in utero: had this been the case, it should exist at birth which, as I can affirm, it never does. Notwithstanding the Ukelihood of Bichat's opinion, yet if we consider that in every case in which an artery is immediately contiguous to a bone, that bone presents a corresponding depression, it may be questioned whether the opinion of the older anatomists has not more foundation than is eenerally admitted. However slight this lateral incurvation may be, it always produces a correspondent one in the lumbar region, though in the majority ot cases this is scarcely perceptible. „tr,^i«n-;^oi The history of abnonnal curvatures or deviations belongs to patnologicai anatomy. I shall only observe that they are all due to the foUowmg causes : 1 ThTwastiog of the vertebrse by caries or softening. 2. Want of eqnihbnam between the strength of the vertebral column and the weight of the body either alone or when loaded with burdens. 3. Muscular traction. 4. The frequent repetition of any attitude in which the column is curved. Figure and Aspects. A A-o-nt thP vertebral column represents two pyramids united by * J'SinferiorTyiamid is constituted by the sacrum and coccyx ; ;Kp"rior p^y^:iS? is th'Itrue spine ; its base rests on the former, an^ its