406 APONEUROLOGY. Uses. The superior pelvic aponeurosis forms the floor of the pelvis; it is puslied downwards by the action of the diaphragm and abdominal muscles, and tends to prevent the occurrence of perineal herniaj, which otherwise would be extremely common : it forms a boundary between the sub-peritoneal and the perineal cellular tissue, and also limits the progress of inflammation and infiltrations. Infiltration of urine above the fascia can only be caused by rup • tui-e of the bladder itself. The prostate (i, fig. 181.) is almost entirely below the fascia, and therefore in the lateral operation for stone, in which this gland is the principal structure to be divided, inflammation and infiltration of the cel- lular tissue are extremely rare. When they do occur, the section or laceration must have been prolonged into the body of the bladder. TJie Lateral Pelvic Aponeurosis, or Fascia of the Obturator Muscle. Dissection. This aponeurosis is more advantageously studied, at least in its most important part, from the perineum, than from the cavity of the pelvis : it is exposed on either side by removing the adipose tissue, which fills up the perineal fossa. This aponeurosis, which is quite distinct from the obturator ligament, commences at the upper part of the circumference of the obturator foramen and at the brim of the pelvis, in conuection with the superior pelvic aponeurosis, which it soon leaves, and is applied to the obturator internus muscle; it then unites below with the reflected portion of the great sacro- sciatic ligament, and is prolonged upon that portion of the anterior surface of the glutffius maximus which projects beyond the ligament, and also upon the coccygeus muscle. Relations. On the inner side and above it is only separated from the supe- rior pelvic aponeurosis by the levator ani, which is applied to that aponeurosis; lower down, the two aponeuroses are separated by a considerable interval, which is occupied by fat: this interval forms the perineal fossa. On the outside it is in contact with the obturator internus, and lower down with the internal pudic vessels and nerves. Uses. It binds down the obturator internus muscle, and protects the mternal pudic vessels and nerves, which are therefore rarely cut in operations in the perineum. It forms the external boundary of the perineal fossa. The perineal fossm. Situated between the superior pelvic aponeurosis (which is lined below by the levator ani) and the lateral pelvic aponeurosis, there is found on each side of the anus a conical space, the base of which is directed downwards, and corresponds to the skin: it is formed behind by the lower border of the glutseus maximus ; in front by the transversus perinei muscle ; on the inside by the levator ani and the superior pelvic aponeurosis; and on the outside by the tuberosity of the ischium.* Each of these fossae is filled by a large quantity of fat, and traversed by fibrous laminae, some of which extend verticaUy from the apex to the base, and divide the contained adipose cellular tissue into several distinct portions. When an abscess occurs in either of these fossa3, it may be easily conceived, how difficult it is for the inner surface of its parietes to come into opposition: hence the pathology of fistulse, and the modes of cure which are adopted. The Aponeueoses of the Loweb Extremity. The aponeuroses of the lower extremity comprise, the femoral fascia ■ the fascia of the leg; the annular ligaments, which bind down the tendons of the which covers the Io.v^«>;,«"';f^^^ f^'^^t *ther 4rbe^^ and behind. This latter Ip 403.) as a renlction of the superficial lascia. ]