276 MYOLOGY. when the vena cava is removed. It is hounded by four tendinous fasciculi, which meet at right angles. The cordiform tendon is itself composed of several planes of fibres ; the principal of which consists of a diverging series running forwards, and uniting into irregular, straight, or curved bundles, which intersect each other at various angles; an arrangement that gives great strength to the tendon. The fleshy fibres are attached to all points of the cir- cumference of this tendon, and radiate from it in all directions. The anterior, very short, and sometimes aponeurotic, proceed to the base of the ensiform cartilage, describing a slight curve with the concavity directed downwards. A triangular interval, or else several small spaces, are often left between these fibres, establishing a communication between the cellular tissue of the thorax and that of the abdomen. Hence, diaphragmatic hemise occasionally occur; and pus, formed in the neck or mediastinum, may ultimately point at the epi- gastrium. It is not uncommon to find the sternal attachment of the diaphragm partially or entirely deficient. The lateral muscular fibres, which are much longer than the anterior, de- scribe very well-marked curves, and form an arch with the concavity down- wards, but more convex and projecting on the right than the left side. They then divide into six or seven digitations on each side, which are attached to the ribs, intersecting with the costal insertions of the transversalis abdominis. It is not uncommon to find considerable intervals between the digitations of this muscle, opposite which the pleura and peritoneum are in contact : this more especially occurs between the eleventh and twelfth ribs. The fasciculus for the twelfth rib is sometimes deficient, its place being occupied by a tendon. The direction of the fibres of the diaphragm is then radiated and curvilinear in the horizontal portion, but radiated and rectilinear in the vertical portion. Relations. 1. The inferior, or abdominal surface, concave in the middle, and much more concave on the right side, where it corresponds to the convex upper surface of the liver, than on the left, where it is in contact vnth the spleen and the large extremity of the stomach, is covered by the peritoneum through- out the greater part of its extent, excepting at the situation of the coronary ligament of the liver, and also behind, where it is in relation with the third portion of the duodenum, the pancreas, the kidneys, the supra-renal capsules, and the solar plexus. . 2 Thoracic, or upper surface. The middle portion is convex, and covered by the pleurjE and pericardium; it is flat, and serves as a floor to support the heart, the inferior surface of which rests upon it; hence the pulsations of the heart felt in the epigastrium. The lateral portions are convex, and contiguous to the lungs. The convexity is greater on the right than on the left side: the highest point to which the right side reaches in the natural condition is the level of the fourth rib; the highest point which the left side attams, is opposite the fifth rib. Hence the stu-gical rule of operating for empyema higher on the right than on the left side.* . , ., „t,„o The height to which the diaphragm is raised varies remarkably ; it reaches very much higher in the foetus than in the adult. Should the muscle be only slightly vaulted, it is considered by medical jurists as one of the presumptive nroofs that the infant has respired. , i, ■ „„„ Z Circum ference. With the exception of the crura, the diaphragm is con- neLd S ffcTrcumference only with one muscle, viz. the transversahs, which nSents exactly cTresponding attachments, so that, indeed, these two muscles S be conSdered a. forming one contractile sac, interrupted by the costa. '"'XSr' The diaphragm forms an active septum between the thorax and * Thh rule Should be disregarded: the ohject of it is to open "'VS! part, so as to give a more easy f?''' ?° f „ the uarietes of the thorax. It is of little fn the deep g^?ove formed bv the diapl.^^^^^^^ h"s suffiSrto Slish an outlet; the fluid importance to find the most depending part, it is. bumi-ieiii. will always flow to it.