SPLANCHNOLOGY. ^rSwheV^n^J^""^"'^? it obliquely, and opens, as I have already de- rrecedlnl 2 ^/l''oUve-shaped ampulla immediatefy that th °n ^""'^e"^! office of the ductus choledochus. It follows, therefore n thp ■"'"'V"-'^''"' '^"'^"^^ choledochus open by a common orifice m the human subject. This arrangement is constant, and when we find a pancreatic duct perforating the duodenum separately, w; may be certain that there IS another duct presenting the regular arrangement fa^lS l have Sw of'TS ^".'^"^ precisefituatio; of theVpara" opening of the supernumerary pancreatic duct, it may be either in front of belund below, or above, the orifice of the ductus choledochus. TiedemLn, who has coUected all the known cases of double pancreatic duct, and all the result T"''"'' ^ ^•^"'^ subject, has arrived at the curious Inimals varieties have their analogies in the different species of The mode in which the divisions of the pancreatic duct are inserted into the prmcipal trunk deserves to be noticed. The ultimate ducts of the pancreas do not m fact unite into larger and larger branches like the veins ; but the smaU branches commg from each lobule, open directly and in succession into tne general duct —an arrangement which gives to the excretory apparatus of tue pancreas the appearance of those insects called centipedes. As to the structure of the pancreatic duct, its walls are very thin; it is col- lapsed, and of a milk-white colour, very distinct from the greyish white hue ot the proper tissue of the gland. Its internal surface is extremely smooth, like a serous membrane * ; its thinness renders the determination of its texture very ditticult; it is very extensible. Developemeiit. The developement of the pancreas presents no peculiarities excepting such as relate to its size, which is relatively greater in the foetus and the new-bom infant than in the adult. Examples have occurred of disease of the pancreas during intra-uterine life ; and I have found a scirrhous pan- creas in a foetus at the full term. Function. The pancreas is the secreting organ of a particular fluid called the pancreatic fluid, the physical and chemical characters of which have not been well known until very lately. I have met with two cases of retention of the pancreatic fluid. The dilated canal resembled a transparent serous cyst; the contained liquid was extremely viscid and transparent, but of a whitish hue, like a solution of gum arable ; it had a slightly saline taste ; the collateral ducts were extremely dilated. There were some white patches, resembling plaster, in the centre of many of the lobules. This substance was more abun- dant in some of the lobules, and, when removed, presented the appearance of small lumps of plaster or chalk. The pancreatic fluid submitted to chemical analysis by M. Barrael, proved to be an extremely pure mucus. M. Barruel even stated to me that it was the purest mucus he had ever examined. It pos- sesses in the highest degree the property of rendering water viscid, either by dissolving, or by being diffused in it. This mucus contains free soda, a trace of chloride of sodium, and a very slight trace of phosphate of lime. There is therefore an analogy between the pancreatic and salivary fluids, as the ana- tomical investigation of these glands had previously led us to suppose.f * [It is a mucous membrane, continuous with that of the duodenum, and covered with epi- thelium. In some subjects, Mr. Kiernan found mucous follicles in it, similar to those in the biliary ducts ; in others, no traces of them could be discovered. None were seen in the salivary ducts.] t [According to the best analyses, the pancreatic fluid differs from saliva in containing a greater amount of solid matter, and also in the character of its constituents: saliva is usually alkaline, and, besides other substances, contains salivine, mucus, and sulpho-cyanate of pntassa ; the pancreatic fluid contains albumen, casein, but little salivine and mucus, and no sulpho- cyanate : in other respects the two fluids agree.]