54 OSTEOLOGY. by grooves and canals, which lodge the ramifications of the olfactory nerve; behind, two thin plates, twisted upon themselves like certain shells: they are the turbinated or spongy bones of the ethmoid, or concha: of the ethmoid. The superior (b,fiy. 35.) is the smaller, and is sometimes named concha o/Morgayni; Bertin has seen it double. The inferior ic,Jig. 37.) is larger, and forms the middle concha; it artictdates by its posterior extremity with the palate bone, and its superior border is continuous with a transverse septum, which stretches across to the lower edge of the os planum, and partially closes the middle or frontal cells. The superior and middle turbinated bones are separated by a horizontal groove called the superior meatus of the nasal fossae (between b and c,fig. 37.), at the superior part of which appears an opening of communication with the posterior ethmoidal cells. Below the middle turbinated bone is a similar groove (between c and d,fig. 37.) running from before backwards, and forming part of the middle meatus of the nose. Anteriorly it leads into a cell, the lower part of which is broad and the upper narrow, whence it has received the name of infundibulum. This cell communicates directly with the frontal sinuses, and by a small aperture with the anterior ethmoidal cells. Internal structure. The ethmoid is composed of extremely thin and fragile plates arranged in more or less irregular cells, having a hexaedral, pentaedral, or tetraedral shape. They are disposed in distinct series, which have no communication with each other. The anterior cells are the largest and most numerous ; they open into the middle meatus by the infundibulum ; the pos- terior open into the superior meatus. There is a little spongy substance in the crista galli, which is even sometimes hollowed into a small sinus which communicates with the frontal sinuses. There is also spongy substance in the turbinated bones, and here, by a remarkable exception, it occupies the surface. The specific lightness of the ethmoid is such that it floats in water, and its extreme brittleness is readily explained by its spongy structure. Connections. The ethmoid is connected with thirteen bones : the frontal, the sphenoid, the ossa unguis, the superior maxillary, the inferior turbinated, the nasal, the palate bones, and the vomer. Development. The ossification of the ethmoid does not commence until the fifth month. It begins in the lateral masses, and more particularly m the os planum ; shortly afterwards the spongy bones make their appearance. The middle portion is not ossified until after birth. The crista galh and the con- tiffuous part of the perpendicular plate, and the cribriform plate, become bony between the sixth month and the first year. At the end of the first year, the cribriform plate is united to the lateral masses. In the foetus, at the tuU tune, the lateral masses are so little developed, that their internal and external waUs are almost contiguous. The cells are completely formed about the fourth or fifth year. The Parietal Bones {figs. 17 and 18.). The parietal bones are so called, because they form the greatest part of the sides of the head. They are two in number, the right and the left; but sometimes in the adult they are united so as to form only one bone. They occupy the summit and sides of the head. In shape they are quadrilateral, and much thicker above than below, so that a force applied to the crown of the head often causes a fracture of the lower parts of these bones. The parietal bones have two faces, four bor- ^/-^ . "'W^g ders, and four angles. ^ .,.r.fnr,> (tiu 17.") is convex and smooth, mtn a The external or cutaneous surface {.fg.