DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY. INTRODUCTION. Object and division of anatomy.— General view of the human frame. — Apparatus of sensation—of locomotion—of nutrition—of reproduction.— General plan of the work. Considered in its most extended signification Anatomy * is the science which has for its object the structure of living beings. Living beings are divided into two great classes, vegetables and animals; there is therefore a vegetable anatomy and an animal anatomy. When anatomy embraces, in one general view, the whole series of animals, comparing the same organs as they exist in the different species, it receives the name of Zoological, or comparative anatomy. Zoological anatomy is denominated philosophical or transcendental, when from the combination and comparison of particular facts it deduces general results, and laws of organisation. AVhen anatomy is confined to the examination of one species only, it re- ceives the name of special—such as the anatomy of man, the anatomy of the horse, &c. Physiological anatomy considers the organs in their healthy state. Pathological anatomy regards them as altered by disease. yrh^nphysiological anatomy is confined to the examination of the external con- formation of organs, that is to say, of all their qualities which may be ascer- tained without division of their substance, it is called descriptive anatomy. If, on the contrary, it penetrates into the interior of organs, in order to determine' their constituent or elementary parts, it receives the name general anatomy, or of the anatomy of textures. Descriptive anatomy informs us of the names of organs {anatomical nomen- clature), then- number, situation, direction, size, colour, weight, consistence, tgure and relations: it traces in fact the topography of the human body. In more than one respect, it is to medicine what geography is to history. The anatomy used Toy painters and sculptors may be regarded as one of'its de- pendencies, and may be defined to be the knowledge of the external surface ot the body, in the different attitudes of repose, and in its various movements. Un this subject it may be observed, that the precise determination of the ex- ternal eminences and depressions may afford most important indications re- garding the situation and state of deeply-seated parts, and is therefore worthy the attention of the physician. •' Descriptive anatomy, in the sense here meant, has arrived at a high degree of perfection. It as to this branch that reference is made by those who affirm mat nothing now remains to be done in anatomy. But although descrintivP anatomy may be all that the surgeon requires to enable him to comprehend the lesions, which most commonly fall under his notice, and to perform operations U ^ill by no means suffice for the physician or the physiologist. For their purposes VOL. I. 3 \