SPLANCHNOLOGY. 516 so much hypertropliied, that some of the glandular granules are compressed and atrophied; and then larger or smaller portions of the liver appear to be converted into a reticulated fibrous tissue. The arrangement of the fibrous tissue IS also very manifest in cases of softening of the granules, which may then be easily scraped out of their cells, and the surface of the section thus treated presents the appearance of the cells in a honeycomb. The proper tissue of the liver. The first thing that strikes an observer in examining the structure of the liver, is the smoothness of its external surface, ■which does not present any of the lobulated appearance of most other glands! If we attentively examine this surface, either before or after the removal of its coverings, we find that it is most distinctly composed of granules (lobules, Kiernan) : the same is also rendered evident by making sections of the organ! or by tearing it: the granular arrangement has, it is true, been supposed to be the result of laceration. Froni the mottled appearance of the liver (like granite), already noticed, anatomists have admitted the existence of two substances, or rather two kinds of granules in this organ ; viz. reddish brown and yellow granules. This dis- tinction was first made by Ferrein {Hist. Acad, des Sciences, 1735) ; it is now generally recognised, and has even served as the basis of several more or less ingenious explanations. This anatomist called the brown substance me- dullary, and the yellow cortical, names evidently derived from a rude analogy between them and the medullary and cortical substances of the brain. Others have reversed the meaning of these two words ; but that is of little consequence. " These two substances," says Meckel, " are not arranged as in the brain, one external and the other internal; but alternately throughout the whole liver, the yellow substance forming the mass of the organ, and the brown sub- stance occupying the intervals." This distinction into two substances does not appear to me to be well founded. The error has arisen from assuming as constant, the existence of two colourSj which however are far from being distinguishable in all subjects. The two colours, yellow and brown, when they do exist, do not belong to two distinct granules; but rather to the same granule, which is yellow in the centre, where the bile is found; and reddish brown at the circumference, where the blood is collected.* The granules of the human liver are so small, that excepting when they become considerably enlarged, it is not well adapted for examination. The liver of the pig, in which the granules are naturally very large, appears to me the best suited for this purpose. I have been accustomed to divide the liver in difi"erent directions, to slit up and remove the veins which have been cut across, and afterwards to examine the granules in the semi-canals (g g, Jig. 165.; c c,Jig. 166.) which they then form. The granules (111) may thus be sepa- rated with the greatest facility ; they are small ovoid, elliptical, or rather polyhedral bodies, having five or six surfaces, and shaped so as to be moulded upon the surface of the adjacent granules, without leaving any interval. It is evident, therefore, that there is only one order of granules ; that these gra- nules are not arranged in lobules, as stated by Malpighif, but are merely in juxta-position; and that each has its proper capsule formed by prolongations of the fibrous coat. And as these granules can be isolated, and detached from the capsules in which they are merely lodged, without adhering to them, except at the points by which they receive and emit their vessels, it follows that they are independent of each other, and that the most complete alteration of one or more of them may take place, without the adjacent or intermediate ^ aee noce, page o^. ..... , . i i t a t [This statement illustrates the confusion that has prevailed from the terms lobule ana acinus having been employed by anatomical writers in different senses to those att^hed to them by Malpighi; the lobule of Malpighi is, in fact, equivalent to the granule of M. Cruveil- hier, and was described by him as consisting of a collection of acini (see note, p. .')24.).J