MYOLOGY. 336 might at first sight be imagined that this finger might be moved independently, since it receives a separate muscle; but the connection of its tendon with that of the extensor communis, renders any such independent action as difficult as in the other fingers, and much more so than in the index finger. The Extensor Carpi Ulnaris. The extensor carpi ulnaris (e, fy. 121.), the most superficial and the most internal * of the muscles on the back of the fore-arm, arises from the external tuberosity of the humerus ; from the posterior surface of the ulna, which is a little excavated for this purpose; from the middle third of the posterior border of-that bone ; and from the anterior surface of an aponeurosis covering the muscle behind. It is inserted behind the upper end of the fifth metacarpal bone. Its origin is effected by means of a fibrous pyramid, the apex of which is attached to the outer tuberosity of the humerus. From the interior of this pyramid, and from the other origins above-mentioned, the fleshy fibres pro- ceed to a tendon, which by a very uncommon arrangement extends through the substance of the muscle, even from its superior attachment, without com- mencing in the form of an aponeurosis. At the lower third of the fore-arm, this tendon appears on the posterior border of the then semi-penniform muscle, and continues to receive fleshy fibres on its anterior edge until it enters the groove intended for it on the ulna. This oblique groove is continued as far as the insertion of the tendon into the metacarpal bone, by means of a long fibrous sheath, and is lined throughout by a synovial membrane. Relations. The extensor carpi ulnaris is covered by the fascia of the fore- arm : it covers the ulna, the supinator brevis, and the muscles of the deep layer. Action. It extends- the second row of the carpus upon the first, and this upon the fore-arm. It is at the same time an adductor of the hand, which it inclines towards the ul- nar border of the fore-arm. The Anconeus. The anconeus (brevis anconeus, Eustacliius; le petit ancone, Winslow, g, figs. 121, 122.) is a short triangular muscle, so named from its situation (ayKiiv, the prominence o£ the elbow). It appears to be a continuation of the ex- ternal portion of the triceps, from which it is only separated by a very slight cellular interval. Attachments. It arises from the back part of the outer tuberosity of the humerus, and is inserted into the outer side of the olecranon, and a triangular surface bounded in- ternally by the posterior border of the ulna. Its origin from the condyle consists of a tendon quite distiuct from that common to the muscles on the back part of the fore- arm. This tendon splits into two diverging bands. The fleshy fibres arismg from these proceed inwards, the upper horizontally, the lower obliquely downwards, and are in- serted directly into the outer side of the olecranon so as to be continuous with the triceps, and into the surface of the ulna. , . » ^i. Relations. It is covered by a prolongation from the fascia of the triceps, and it covers the radio-humeral ar- . „,v thAt this internal situation presupposes tlie supination of the fore- ar^'Sn'^frfnatfo'XsCscf^^^^^^^^ accoVding to Alhinus and iVinslow.