THE PSOAS PARVUS. 279 stance of the psoas magnus; this explains the violent pain- in the loins expe- rienced during repeated contractions of this muscle, and, during pregnancy, from the pressure of the gravid uterus. 2. The iliac portion Imes the iliac fossa; it is covered by the peritoneum, the cascum and the end of the smaU intestines on the right side, and by the sigmoid flexure of the colon on the left. These two muscles form a projection on the mside, which re- duces the transverse diameter of the brim of the pelvis from five inches to four and a half 3. The psoas and iUacus exactly fiU that portion of the crural arch in which they are placed, so that hemise never take place in this situa- tion. 4. In the thigh, the common tendon is separated anteriorly from the cel- lular tissue of the groin by the deep femoral fascia; it is in relation with the crural nei-ve which passes out of the pelvis in the same sheath as, but below, the psoas, in a groove between the latter and the iliacus, between which parts it forms the only separation. Behind, it is in contact with the anterior border of the OS coxEB and the hip-joint, a large bursa intervening, which often com- municates with the synovial capsule of the joint, by an opening of variable size.* The inner edge of the psoas-iliac muscle is in relation with the outer edge of the pectineus, and with the femoral artery, which it sometimes covers. The external edge is at first in relation with the sartorius, and afterwards with the rectus femoris. The psoas-iliac is also covered by the lumbo-iliac fascia (^fascia iliaca), which will be described hereafter. (Vide Aponeurology.) Actions. The psoas-iUac muscle flexes the thigh upon the pelvis; this action is the more energetic from the fact of the fixed points of insertion being both on the vertebral column, and on the iliac fossa. The two portions of the muscle do not act in the same direction; but when they contract simultaneously, the opposite forces are destroyed, and the traction upon the common tendon becomes direct. This muscle afibrds a remarkable example of the reflexion of a muscle over a pulley, which greatly increases the power, by changing the direction of insertion nearly to the perpendicular. The action of this muscle, therefore, must only be calculated from the point of reflexion, i. e. the anterior edge of the Uium. It is in semi-flexion that the muscle becomes perpendicular to the femur, and acts with the greatest power; and, therefore, the momentum of the muscle occurs at that period. The psoas-Uiac is at the same time a rotator outwards of the femur, on account of the obliquity of its insertion at the inner and back part of that bone. When the femur is fixed, as in standing, it draws the lumbar portion of the spine and the pelvis forwards ; and its iliac portion rotates the pelvis so as to turn the front to the opposite side. When the muscles of each side act together, the trunk is inclined directly forwards. The Psoas Parvus. This muscle (II, fig. 111.) lies in front of the preceding; it arises from the twelfth dorsal vertebra, the first and sometimes the second lumbar ver- tebrae, and the corresponding inter-vertebral substances. It forms a small flat bimdle, at first appearing to be a dependence of the psoas magnus, but soon becoming isolated; it terminates in a broad, shining tendon which crosses the psoas magnus at a very acute angle, and is inserted into the upper part of the ilio-jfectineal eminence, and the corresponding portion of the brim of the pelvis. This small muscle receives the lumbo-iliac apo- neurosis (fiscia iliaca), on its outer edge. It is often absent; we have sometimes seen it double. Its use is evidently to render the iliac fascia tense, and to tie down and prevent displacement of the lumbar portion of the psoas magnus. It may assist in flexing the pelvis upon the thorax, as in ciunbing; m the recumbent and supine position, if one muscle acts alone it inclines the pelvis to its own side ; but if its fixed point be below, it inclines the trunk to the same side. "'i-uues. * See note, p. 389. T 4