ODONTOLOGY. 236 and deep groove, divided by very thin septa into so many distinct sockets for the reception of the dental germs. The alveolar groove is closed at its free border by the membrane of the gum, which is stretched over a sort of thin, and, as it vrere, indented crest. This crest is formed by a tissue to -which some anatomists have given the name of dental cartilage ; it is a pale very strong fibrous tissue, and does not extend either upon the anterior or posterior sur- face of the bone, -which are only covered by the mucous membrane, the gum being as yet confined to the alveolar border. The gingival fibrous tissue sends united, and a cavity is thus formed, situate between the sac of the anterior permanent molar and the surface of the gum: this is the posterior cavity qf reserve, from which the pulps and sacs of the second and third molars are subsequently developed. The ten depressions (c, 6) formed behind the follicles of the temporary teeth during the se- a _ 4 2 Fig .97. 7 F,g. 98. condary condition of the dental groove (6,j!g.97.), in consequence of their escaping the Eeneral adhesio'n of its lips and sides, are converted into as many -v.ties,^called th^e«™ gate and recede into the substance of the gum. Pulps and folds (ana- logous to the opercula of the tem- porary follicles) are developed within them, appearing first in the anterior cavities; and they eventu- ally become the sacs of the ten an- terior permanent teeth, assuming a position behind and above those of the milk teeth in the upper, and behind and below them in the lower jaw (see 7 tol2,/^.97.; also/g. 98. and a. Jigs. 101, 102.), each oc- cupying corresponding recesses (d, fig. 102.) in the alveolar border. At this time, owing to the great relative ^l^.^^^^^^^^ tTel backwards and upwards into the maxillary tube- rosity of the upper, and into the coronoid process of the lower jaw (o 2); and the large postenor cavity of reserve (6 2) is drawn m the same direction. At birth, the length of the alveolar „. nu « border increases relatively, and this sac again ^'S- ^ - sinks to a level with those of the temporary teeth (a 3). The cavity of reserve (6 3), having now resumed its former position and shape, elongates backwards, and a pulp is developed in its fundus, which is converted before the fourth year into the sac of the second permanent molar. About the sixth or seventh year, the remaining part of the cavity once more elongates backwards, and forms the pulp and sac of the third permanent molar, or wisdom tooth. Each of these sacs undergo changes in their relative position in the jaws, similar to those experienced by the anterior per- manent molar, at first receding backwards and upwards, and then descending behind and on a level with the sac immediately anterior to it.