SPLANCHNOLOGY. 610 The Iscliio-bulloims. We may describe under this name a small muscle situated below the deep permeal tascia. It is stronger than the transversus periuEei; it arises from the ascendmg ramus of the ischium and the descending ramus of the pubis, and terminates on the sides of the bulb. This muscle, which is of a triangular shape, is separated from the one last described by the deep perineal fascL so that It cannot be regarded as a dependence of the levator ani.* The Urethra. The urethra is the excretory passage for the urine, and in the male it serves the same purpose in regard to the semen. Its direction has been particularly studied. Commencing at the neck of the bladder, it passes forwards and downwards ; having arrived beneath the sym- physis pubis, it describes a slight curve, with the concavity directed upwards embraces the symphysis, rises a little in front of it, and then enters the groove on the lower surface of the corpus cavemosum. Beyond this point its direction is determined by that of the penis; and it describes, with that organ, a second curve, much more marked than the preceding, having its concavity directed downwards, but only in the state of relaxation, for the curve no longer exists -when the penis becomes elongated, either from erection, or from direct traction. It follows, therefore, that, except during erection, the urethra describes two curves, like the letter S f; but when the penis is elongated, it forms only a single curve, which is permanent. Although the curvature of the urethra is not so rigid as to prevent the in- troduction of a straight instrument into the bladder, it would be wrong to con- clude that the canal itself is straight. It must be remembered that organic membranous ducts are sufficiently pliable to accommodate themselves to the direction of instruments introduced into them ; but the effacing, or the ar- tificial removal of the curves is very different from their non-existence. Moreover, the curvature of the urethra is demonstrated by the impossibility of drawing a straight line from the neck of the bladder, and passing a short dis- tance below the symphysis to the point where the urethra joins the corpus ca- vernosum; also by the curve acquired by bougies after remaining for some time in the urethra; and lastly, by the curvature presented by a mould obtained by injecting the bladder and urethra with any substance capable of becoming solid. Dimensions. The length of the urethra isfrom eight to nine inches ; it is some - times less than eight. The extreme dimensions noticed by Whately %, in mea- surements taken from forty-eight subjects, are nine inches six lines and seven inches six lines. It is difficult to estimate the width of the urethra. According to Home, it is four lines, except at the orifice, where it is only three. It is quite im- possible to judge of its width externally on account of the thickness of its walls, and especially on accoimt of their being unequal. The extreme dilatability of the canal allows the introduction of instruments of considerable caliber, as in the operation of lithotrity. The urethra is considered as divided into three portions, as different in their structure as in their relations; these are the prostatic, the membranous, and the spongy portions. The prostatic portion. This part of the urethra, which forms, as it were, a continuation of the bladder, and the commencement of the urethra, is called * [The description of this muscle corresponds exactly with that of the iransversus perinen alter of Albinus.] t It was this direction of the canal which suggested to J. L. Petit the idea of making silver bougies, shaped like the letter S, to remain in the passage. X An Improved Method of treating Stricture of the Urethra, 1816.