THE FEMUE. 123 serve the crest of the ilium (« «), bent much more outwards in the female than ""The^dimensions of the upper circumference of the pelvis, measured in a ..eU-formed female, are the foUowing: 1. between the anterior superior spmes of the ilia from eight to nine inches ; 2. from the middle of the crest of one ilium to that of the other, from nine to ten inches. x,- v i,„„ The w/erior circumference of the pelvis forms the lower strait which has been already described. General Development of the Pelvis. The pelvis in the first periods of life participates in the slow development of the lower extremities. Its dimensions, especially in the foetus and in infancy, are so small, that it is unable to receive into its cavity many of the organs which are afterwards contained in it; this is one of the principal causes of the prominence of the abdomen of the foetus. The smaller capacity of the pelvis results also from the absence of the iliac fossa), for these bones are neither twisted nor excavated, but straight and flat. Nevertheless, the upper or ibac portion is proportionally more developed than the lower or cotyloid, doubtless because this latter part belongs especially to the lower extremities, and also serves as a protection to the genital organs, both of which are in a rudimentary state in the foetus. If we examine in detail the differences in size, considered only with reference to the various diameters, we shall find that the transverse are vei7 small, because in front the cotyloid cavities are scarcely developed, and aU the pubic region is contracted; and behind, the Uiac bones are more closely approximated to each other on account of the small size of the sacrum. The antero-posterior diameters appear longer on account of the shortness of the transverse. But the most characteristic feature of the pelvis, in the early periods of life, is its much greater inclination than in the adult. In the latter, indeed, a horizontal line drawn from the upper part of the- symphysis pubis would fall only a few Unes below the base of the sacrum, while in the foetus a similar horizontal line would fall nearer the lower than the upper part of the sacrum. This, as well as the small capacity of the pelvis, is the cause of the forward position of the bladder, bringing the whole of its anterior surface to correspond with the parietes of the abdomen, and consequently rendering it more easily accessible to instruments introduced above the pubes. We have already remarked, that the obliquity of the pelvis in the aged, is not of the same kiud as that in the foetus; and we should add here, that there is no change in the relative position of the bladder, which, as in the adult, corresponds to the back of the os pubis. The Thigh. The Femur {Jigs. 49 and 50.). The femur, or thigh bone, situated between the pelvis and the leg, is the longest and largest bone of the skeleton. It is proportionally larger in man than in any other animal; this is connected with the ofiice which it performs, of supporting by itself alone the weight of the body in standing, and trans- mitting it to the leg. It is obliquely directed downwards and inwards. This obliquity is greater in the female than in the male, on account of the greater distance between the acetabula. Too great an obliquity is injurious both in standing and walking, and constitutes a well known deformity. The femur describes a curve in front and behind, the convexity of which looks forward, and leaves a sort of excavation behind, which is occupied by the numerous powerful muscles which bend the leg upon the thigh. Indepen- dently of this antero-posterior curvature, the femur is slightly twisted upon Itself. This curvature of torsion seems to me to be connected with the course of the femoral artery, which passes round the shaft of the bone from one sur- face to the other. Lastly, at its upper part it presents an angular curve which we shall notice presently.