SPLANCHNOLOGY. The extrinsic articulations. The thjro-hjoid articulation consists of three lP™t° 'jT unite the thyroid cartilage to the os hyoides. The middle tlnjro-hijoid ligament (n, fig. 174.) is a loose yellowish membrane, extending from the upper border of the thyroid cartilage (<) to the os hyoides (a). Its vertical dimensions are much greater at the sides than in the middle; and therefore the cornua of the OS hyoides can be raised higher than its body, and hence the sides of the tongue can be elevated so as to form a groove, along which the food glides. This membrane is thick in the middle, and thin and as it were cellular on each side. Relations. It is subcutaneous in the middle, but is co- vered on each side by the thyro-hyoid muscle. It corre- sponds behind with the epiglottis, from which it is se- parated by some adipose tissue, and with the mucous membrane covering the posterior surface of the tongue. It is attached to the posterior lip of the upper edge of the OS hyoides, not to the lower edge, as is frequently asserted. It therefore passes behind the os hyoides. The lateral thyro-hijoid ligaments (o) may be considered as the margins of the thyro-hyoid membrane. They are small cords, extending from the great cornua of the thyroid cartilage to the tubercular extremities of the gi-eat cornua of the OS hyoides. We often find a cartilaginous or bony nodule in these liga- ments. There is a very distinct synovial capsule between the posterior surface of the body of the os hyoides and the upper part of the thyroid cartilage. Its pre- sence attests the frequent movements which take place between these parts, and during which the middle and upper part of the cartilage is placed behind the OS hyoides. The tracheo-cricoid articulation. The first ring of the trachea is connected with the lower border of the cricoid cartilage by a fibrous membrane of the same nature as that between the rings of the trachea. A small vertical fibrous cord is added to it in the median line in front. This membrane permits some movements between the cricoid cartilage and the first ring of the trachea, and in these the sides of the ring are buried behind the cricoid cartilage. The intrinsic articulations are the crico-thyroid and the crico-arytenoid. I need merely remind the reader of the articulation between the arytenoid cartilages and the comicula laryngis. The crico-thyroid articulations. These are arthrodial. Each of the lesser cornua of the thyroid cartilage terminate in a plane surface, directed down- wards and inwards, which rests upon a similar plane surface (rn, fig. 177.) on the cricoid cartilage, directed upwards and outwards. An orbicular or capsular ligament (r,figs. 174, 175.), composed of shining, fasciculated, and parallel fibres, surrounds the articulation, which is provided with a synovial membrane. The posterior fasciculus is remarkable for its length and shape, and extends nearly to the crico-arytenoid articulation. In some subjects the orbicular ligament is very loose, in others the articulation is exceedingly close. The movements are limited to simple gliding, combined with a forward and backward movement of the thyroid cartilage. The direction of the facettes upon the cricoid cartilage renders them fitted to support the thyroid. The crico-thyroid membrane, or middle crico-thyroid ligament. Besides the pre- ceding articulations, the lower border of the thyroid cartilage is connected with the upper border of the cricoid by a thick triangular membrane, the pyramidal or conoid ligament (v,fig. 174.); which is attached in the median line to the lower border of the thyroid cartilage, and the base of which is fixed to the upper border of the cricoid cartilage. This membrane is fibrous, thick, very strong, perforated with foramina for vessels, and is yellow and elastic. The lateral crico-thyroid ligament. This ligament ((/, fig. 176.) can be well