FACE IN GENERAL. 81 The vertical portion (fig. 21.) exhibits in the median line the posterior edge of the septum narium, formed by the vomer; the posterior extremity of the articulation of the -vomer with the sphenoid (o,fig. 21.); and the posterior nasal spine. On each side, the posterior opening of the nasal fossa (k o, y) -which is quadrilateral, longer in its vertical than in its transverse diameter, and formed internally by the vomer, externally by the pterygoid process (r), above by the sphenoid united -with the palate bone, and belo-w by the palate bone. More ex- ternally is the pterygoid fossa (r), formed by the sphenoid, and a small part of the palate bone. Still more externally, we find a deep fossa, or rather a large space bounded internally by the external plate of the pterygoid process and the tuberosity of the maxUlary bone, and externally by the ramus of the inferior maxilla: it is kno-vm by the name of the zygomatic fossa. The horizontal portion is the arch of the palate (i x y,fig. 21.). It is of a parabolic form, extremely rough, and in the fresh state covered by the palatine mucous membrane. It is constituted by the palatine processes of the maxillary bones (x), and by the horizontal portions of the palate bones (y), and presents in consequence a crucial suture, at the central point of which the vomer is at- tached : hence the piece of anatomical nicety which consisted in asking at what part of the skeleton it is possible to touch five bones at once with the point of a needle. The arch of the palate is pierced by several foramina; we find here the Loferior opening of the anterior palatine canal (1), which is single below, but double above, so as to open into each nostril separately; the posterior pala- tine canals (2), which open at the posterior and external part of the arch of the palate; and a groove which runs along the external edge of the arch, and lodges the posterior palatine vessels and nerves at their exit from their canals. The third portion is also vertical; it presents 1. in the tnedian line, the suture of the two superior maxillary bones, the interval between the middle in- cisor teeth of each jaw, the symphysis menti, and the genial processes : 2, on each side, the posterior surface of the alveolar border of the upper jaw, and the two rows of teeth which lie across each other like the blades of scissors in the middle, but meet posteriorly: 3. the posterior surface of the inferior maxilla, the internal oblique line, the sublingual and sub-maxillary fossae, and lastly the base of the inferior maxilla. Zygomatic or Lateral Regions. These regions are bounded above and on the outside by the Zygomatic arch; above and on the inside by the transverse ridge which separates the temporal from the zygomatic fossa.. They present first a plane surface formed by the ramus of the mferior maxiUa ; when this part is removed, we observe the zyao- matic fossa, the superior waU of which is formed by the inferior surface of the great wing of the sphenoid, the anterior by the maxiUary tuberosity, the in- ternal, by the outer plate of the pterygoid process, and the external by the ramus of the mfenor maxiUa. The posterior and inferior walls are wanting. At the bottom of this fossa, between the maxillary bone and the anterior surface ot the pterygoid process, is a large vertical fissure, named by Bichat the pteruqo- maxillary fissure; this opening leads into a sort of fossa, denominated by the Older anatomists bottom of the zygomatic fossa, aad by Bichat spheno-maxillary jossa, which. It IS important to study carefully, because five foramina or canals open into it, viz. three behind; the foramen rotundum, the vidian or pterygoid, and th^pterygo-palatine canals. A fourth on the inside, the spheno-palJine, and a ntth below the superior orifice of the posterior palatine canal itc „ * spheno-maxillary fossa presents, at the union of its superior with oL^llT'" T ' ■^pJ'eno-maxillary fissure (fig. 21, before 3), which on the SenS rn?n.%T ""'.f ^ angle with the sphenoidal fissure (_ov foramen lacerum -n ^ "Sht angle with the pterygo-maxiUary fissure. The spheno-maxillary fissure, which is traversed solely by some nerves and vessels.Ts