GENERAL OBSERVATIONS. DroTSrer WX^^^^^^^ tLwTole f^c;, they are placed at the srperioi- and in some'degree the lateral Part - relatively to tne neighbouring bones they are situated: — 1. below the frontal: — 2-above and a mtL exteraal to the maxillary: - 3. before the great wmgs of the sphenoid and the zygomatic process of the temporal. Direction of bones. The dii-ection of a bone is absolute or relative fhe absolute direction is expressed by the terms straight, curved, angular ov twisted La word it is the direction of abone considered by itself, or independently of its situation in the skeleton. The long bones are never quite straight: sometmies they present a slight degree of curvature, as the femur; sometimes their extremities are curved in opposite directions, hke the letter S as the clavicle : sometimes again they are twisted upon their own axes, as the humerus, the fibula, &c. , , a,- 1, • The relative direction is determined by reference to the plajies which cir- cumscribe the skeleton. Viewed in this manner, a bone is vertical, horizontal, or oblique. It is needless to enter into any explanation of the terms vertical and horizontal; but with regard to the oblique direction, it may be stated that this is determined by the respective situations of its two extremities. For example, a bone is oblique, when one extremity approximates the superior, the median, and the posterior planes, while the other approaches nearer to the inferior, la- teral, and anterior planes: such a bone is said to be oblique, from above down- . wards, from within outwards, and from behind forwards. It is easy to see that in this way the situation of a bone relatively to the different planes, may be determined with the greatest exactness. It should be observed, that in de- scribing the direction of a bone, we should always set out from the same pomt. Thus if the direction of a bone from above downwards is spoken of, in deter- mining its obliquity from before backwards, and from within outwards, we should always commence with the superior extremity. Size, weight, and density of bones. The size of a bone may be measured by the extent of its three dimensions ; but as an exact estimate is not in general required, it is sufficient to indicate the volume of each bone relatively to others, whence has arisen the division of bones into great, middle-sized, and small; a distinction, however, altogether vague and futUe, since from the largest to the smallest bones there is so regular a gradation that the limits assigned must be quite arbitrary. The weight or the mass of the skeleton compared with the rest of the body, the weight of each bone, and the comparative weight of different bones, are points of little interest; such however is not the case with the specific weight or density of bones. In respect of density, viz. the number of molecules in a given volume, the bones are the heaviest of all organs. The truth of this assertion is by no means contradicted by the lightness of certain bones, which is only apparent, and which is caused by vacant spaces or cells in their substance. This den- sity varies in different Idnds of bones, in bones of the same kind, and even in different parts of the same bone. Thus, in the long bones, the greatest den- sity is in the middle : the extremities of the long bones and the short bones have a much lower density. The broad or flat bones hold a middle place between the shaft of long bones and the short bones. Of these broad bones those of the cranium are heavier than those of the pelvis. Age has a remark- able influence upon the specific weight of bones. It has been said that the bones of the aged are specifically more heavy than those of the adult, just as the bones of the adult are specifically heavier than those of the infant: and this assertion appears the more probable, from it being generally admitted, as a law of organisation, that the phosphate of lime increases in bones, with the pro- gress of age; and it is well-known that the weight of bones depends in part on tho