303 THE TRANSVERSALIS NASI. The pymmidalis nasi {f, fig. 113.) is a prolongation of the internal fibres oftheoccipito-frontaHs, of which it may be regarded as a prolongation (fron- talis pars per dorsum nasi ducta, Eustachvis). It Ues upon the bridge of he nose on each side of the median line. It is separated from the muscle of the opposite side by a thin layer of ceUular tissue It is narrower at its origm than at its termination, which takes place m the aponeurosis of the transverse muscle of the nose. n _ •„!! Relations. It is covered by the skin, to which it closely adheres, especially below, and it covers the nasal bones and lateral cartilages. ^ , , Action. This smaU muscle has been regarded as an elevator of the ala, and consequently a dilator of the nose; but I beUeve it rather acts in depressing the inner angle of the eyebrow, and the skin between the eyebrows. In this respect it has considerable influence upon the expression of the countenance. The Levator Labii Superioris Alceque Nasi. Dissection. Make a vertical or somewhat oblique incision from the ascending process of the superior maxilla to the upper lip. Reflect outwards the inner and lower part of the orbicularis muscle. This muscle {g',fig. 113.) is thin, triangular, and divided into two portions below. It extends from the ascending process of the superior maxiUa to the ala of the nose and the upper lip. It arises by a narrow extremity from the internal orbital process of the frontal bone, immediately below the tendon of the orbicularis palpebrarum, passes obliquely downwards and outwards, be- comes much broader, and is inserted partly into the cartilage of the ala of the nose, or rather into the very dense skin which covers it, and partly into the orbicularis oris, or rather into the skin of the upper lip. The cutaneous portion of this muscle is distinguished by its paleness, compared with the red colour of the rest. Relations. It is covered by the skin, and a small portion of the orbicularis palpebrarum; and it covers the ascending process of the superior maxilla, and the transverse muscle of the nose. Action. It elevates both the ala of the nose and the upper lip. I consider it the most important of aU the muscles of the nose, because the elevation of the alsB dilates the nostrils, and thus aids most essentially in cases of impeded respiration. It is a respiratory muscle of the face, and has also great influence over the countenance, producing the expression of contempt. Its action upon the upper lip is of much less importance than that upon the nose. The 2\ansversalis, or Triangularis, Nasi. Dissection. Remove with great care the skin covering the ala of the nose, and then follow this muscle below the inner edge of the common elevator; or, what is better, remove all the soft parts covering the ala of the nose, and dissect the muscle from its deep surface. The transversalis nasi (compressor narium, h', figs. 113, 114.), which I regard as a dependence of the muscle next to be described, is a small and very thin triangular muscle, stretching from the inner part of the canine fossa to the bridge of the nose. It arises by a narrow extremity from the canine fossa, passes forwards, enlarging as it proceeds along the ala of the nose, and ter- mmates by a very thin aponeurosis, which is blended in the median line with that of the opposite side, and with the pyramidalis. It is covered by the skin, to which it closely adheres, and by the common elevator; and it covers the cartilage of the ala, and a small part of the superior lateral cartilage of the nose. Action. The action of this small muscle is not yet well determined. Some have agi-eed with Riolanus in considering it a dilator (qui alam naris dilatat