SPLANCHNOLOGY. canal that are in contact with the gall bladder; and also for the passaire of biliary calculi into the duodenum, the colon, and the stomach. It is not vo^v thk r^f ""^'P'''" ^-h^l" to the right k"dne7 this relation can only occur after descent of the duodemmi and transverse colon. Above, the body of the gall bladder adheres to the cystic fossa by ^ more or less loose ceUular tissue * and by arteries and veins, Lrnever in the human subject by biliary, i. e. hepato-cystic, ducts. The fundwi of the gaU bladder (y, fig. 161.), entirely covered by the neri- toneum, generaUy projects beyond the anterior margin of the liver and comes into relation with the abdominal parietes, opposite the outer border of the r^ht ^TtvnfTrf' ';?°'-k'^ wl^'^^^ '^'/f'^.^ ""^''^^Ses near the anterior extre- ,K? 1""°^ ^-^° distended with bUe or calculi, the fundus of the gall bladder becomes promment, so as to raise the abdominal parietes, through which It has been felt in emaciated individuals. It has even been statfd that the noise made by the calculi may be heard on percussion. This relation explains the possibility of the occurrence of abdominal biliary fistula; and whv calculi may escape through such openings: on it also is founded the scheme tor extracting the calculi by an operation analogous to that performed for stone in the urinary bladder, and which I should not have mentioned had it not been proposed by J. L. Petit. The relations as well as the size of the fundus of the gaU bladder present many varieties. The fundus, or that part which projects beyond the liver is sometimes as large as the body. I have seen this part of the gaU bladder turned back at a right angle upon its body, and reaching the umbiUcus. It may be conceived that the ditferences in the form and situation of the liver must greatly influence the situation of the fundus of the gall bladder, which I have found in the hypogastrium and in the right Uiac fossa, either with or without adhesion to the neighboui-ing parts. The neck or apex of the gall bladder is twice bent suddenly upon itself, like an Italic S, having its three portions in contact. It would appear, in some cases, that these two curves resemble the thread of a screw. This double curvature may be easily effaced by removing the peritoneum with the subja- cent cellular tissue. The limits between the neck and the body of the gall bladder on the one hand, and between the neck and the cystic duct on the other, are marked externally by a constriction. The internal surface of the gall bladder is tinged either green or yellow, ac- cording to the colour of the bile ; but this staining is the effect of transudation after death : its natural colour is a whitish grey. Moreover, the internal sur- face is irregular, like shagreen, and has some crests or prominences arranged upon it in polygons, and again subdivided by smaller crests, like the reticu- lum in the stomach of ruminantia ; so that when examined by a strong lens, it appears divided into a number of small and very distinct alveoli : some highly developed papillae or villi, of a very irregular shape, are also found upon it. As to the object of either the crests or the papillae, or whether they favour ab- sorption by multiplying the surface, we are altogether unable to decide. Opposite each of the two curves of the S, described by the neck of the gall bladder, we find a very large valve. The two valves, which are in opposite directions, as well as the curves, result from the alternate inflection of the neck itself, and are effaced by straightening that part. The portion of the neck between the two valves is not unfrequently dilated into an ampulla. A calculus is often formed in this intermediate portion, where it remains as it were en- cysted, and intercepts the course of the bile ; and that the more easily, because the valves greatly contract the openings from the neck into the body of the * This cellular tissue may become inflamed, and if pus be formed, it may pass into tlie gall bladder, whilst the bile escapes into the cellular tissue, and hence death may ensue. I have observed in a very short space of time three examples of this lesion, which perhaps has not been thoroughly examined ; and several cases have been shown me under the name of gan- grene of the gall bladder.