THE PAROTID GLAND. 451 The lymphatic vessels are little known : they terminate partly in the glands at the angle of the jaw, and partly in those which lie in front of the auditory meatus. I have already said that one or more lymphatic glands are alwa_y s situated in the parotid gland, a few lines below its surface. The nerves are derived from the anterior auricular (a branch of the cervical plexus) and from the facial nerve : they seem to be lost in the substance of the gland. The parotid duct. A small excretory duct (resulting from the union of its terminating vesicles) proceeds from each lobule, and unites almost immediately, at a very acute angle, with the ducts of the adjacent lobules. From the suc- cessive union of all these ducts a single canal results, which emerges from about the middle of the anterior margin of the gland: this is the parotid duct (s,fig. 144.), called also the duct of Steno, although it had been previously de- scribed by Casserius. It passes horizontally forwards, about five or six lines beneath the zygomatic arch, across the masseter, and at right angles to its fibres. At the anterior border of the masseter it changes its direction, curves in front of a mass of fat situated there, dips perpendicularly into the fat of the cheek, perforates the buccinator in the same direction, and glides obliquely, for the space of several lines, between that muscle and the mucous membrane of the mouth, which it pierces opposite the interval between the first and the second upper great molar teeth, almost on a level with the middle of their crown. The mode in which the Stenonian duct opens into the buccal cavity does not appear to me to have been sufficiently well understood. It exactly resembles the manner in which the ureters enter the bladder. Thus it glides obliquely for a certain distance beneath the mucous membrane, a fact that may be easily determined by perforating the cheek at the point where the duct passes through the buccinator, and then measuring the interval between this perfo- ration and the buccal orifice of the canal: this interval varies from two to three lines in extent. Again, the buccal orifice is oblique, like the vesical opening of the ureter, so that it is extremely easy to pass a fine probe into it. The duct of Steno is often accompanied by an accessory gland* (glandula socia parotidis, see;?^'. 144.) situated between it and the zygomatic arch. The duct of this little gland opens into the main canal. I have seen two small accessory glands situated above the canal, one at the middle and the other at the ante- rior part of the masseter. Lastly, as the parotid duct is passing through the buccinator, it is surrounded by a series of glands continuous with those of the cheeks, called violar glands, the ducts of some of which appear to open into the canal, and those of others directly into the mouth. Although it is not flexu- ous, the canal when separated from the surrounding parts will be found much longer than it appears at first sight. Relations. The Stenonian duct is subcutaneous and superficial where it passes over the masseter; it is protected by a large quantity of fat, and in tront of the masseter by the zygomaticus major. A considerable branch of the facial nerve, and some arteries derived from the transversaUs faciei, run along this canal. Structure. An exaggerated idea is generally enteitained of the thickness ot the duct of Steno; it is only thick at its anterior part, where it is strength- ened by an expansion of the aponeurosis of the buccinator muscle. When treed from the surrounding fat it is not thicker than most other ducts, the ureters for example. The notion that it is inextensible is also incorrect. It IS true, however that the diameter of its canal is not in proportion to the size ot me gland. It is formed by two membranes,—one external, the nature of which IS not well known; the other internal, consisting of a prolongation of the mucous membrane of the mouth. Its arteries and veins are very large. • atroJ?,ied"" '""""'^ ^^""'^ ^'^''^ "^^^^ ^"''J'"^' ^"ere the corresponding parotid was