APONEUllOLOGY. 418 rotic cellular tissue at the bend of the elbow, and leads into a sort of fossa, in which are found the tendon of the biceps, the brachial artery, the com- mencement of the radial artery, and the median nerve. This fossa is lined by aponeui'otic lamina;; on the outside by the layer which covers the inner surface of the supinator longus, the radial extensors, and the flexor sublimis; on the inside by the layer which completes the sheath of the pronator teres : it com- municates above with the canal of the brachial artery, and below with the canals through which the radial, ulnar, and interosseous arteries and the median nerve proceed downwards to the fore-arm. From the internal surface of this fascia a number of laminae are given off, to form the following muscular sheaths : — In the anterior region of the fore-arm a transverse septum, thicker below than above, divides the superficial layer of muscles from the middle layer, consisting of the flexor sublimis, and also from the deep layer, composed of the flexor profundus digitorum and the flexor longus poUicis. Other septa, passing from before backwards, divide the muscles of the superficial layer from each other. Lower down the sheaths of the flexor carpi radialis and palmaris longus, which are perfectly distinct from each other, are situated in front of the remainder of the fascia; and this has led to the statement of some anatomists, that the fascia is perforated by the tendons of these muscles, especially by that of the palmaris longus. The radial artery has a special sheath throughout its whole extent, the ulnar artery and nerve have a proper sheath only in the lower part of the fore-arm. In the posterior region of the fore-arm, the fascia is much stronger than in the anterior. A transverse layer separates the muscles of the superficial from those of the deep layer ; and septa, passing from behind forwards, subdivide these common sheaths into several smaller ones, corresponding in number to that of the muscles. Thus we find a sheath for the extensor communis digi- torum, a second for the extensor digiti minuni, a third for the extensor carpi ulnaris, and a fourth for the anconeus. The supinator longus and the two radial extensors of the wrist appear to be in the same sheath: but a more or less distinct membrane surrounds the first of these muscles : the supinator brevis has also a proper sheath. We find a common sheath for the extensor longus pollicis and the extensor proprius indicis. The abductor longus and the extensor brevis pollicis, which, properly speaking, constitute but one muscle, have also a common sheath accompanying them as far as the dorsal annular ligament of the wrist. The Dorsal Annular Ligament of the Wrist, and the Dorsal Aponeurosis of the Metacarpus. The dorsal annular ligament of the wrist {r,fig. 121.) may be considered as a dependence of the fascia of the fore-arm, which in this situation is strength- ened by a great number of fibres. It is a band of six or eight lines in width, passing obliquely inwards and downwards over the extensor tendons of the hand perforated by a number of openings for the passage of vessels, and dis- tinguishable from the fascia of the fore-arm only by its somewhat greater thick- ness and by the paraUel arrangement of its fasciculi. It arises mternally fi'om the pisiform bone and the palmar fascia, passes first over the ulnar side, and then the posterior surface of the carpus, is interrupted by the outer margin ot the eroove for the two radial extensor muscles, takes a fresh origin from that marein, covers the radial side of the wrist, and is inserted partly into the radius and partly into the fascia of the fore-arm. From the anterior surface of this thick fibrous band arise several small prolongations, which are inter- nosed between the numerous tendons passing over the dorsal and radial aspects of the carpus, and convert the grooves upon the lower extremities of the radius and ulna into canals. Thus proceeding from without inwards, and from befo e backwards, we find, 1. a sheath for the united tendons of the abductor longus