AUTHOR'S PREFACE. ix noints • the time of appearance of the primitive and complementary ossific So n • he periods a? which the several points unite, and the changes oc- cu rin. in the bone subsequently to its growth. By adoptmg this method, fhe most complicated ossifications are reduced to a few propositions easily ^Xln^otnrcra'rising from including in a description of the bones all the attachments of the muscles, and nearly the whole anatomy ot the part, is so totally at variance with a methodical arrangement of facts, that it is unnecessary-to oiFer an apology for the changes made m this respect Occasionally, however, I have mentioned those muscular attachments which might serve to characterise the osseous surfaces on which they are 2. Under the title Syndesmology, or Arthrology, are united all the articu- lations of the human body. Assuming as the only basis of classification the form of the articulated surfaces, which is always in accordance with the means of union, and the movements of the joint, I have been induced to modify the divisions usually adopted. The condylarthrosis, or condyloid articulation, and the articulation by mutual reception, form quite as natural o-enera as the enartlirosis and the arthrodia. It will, perhaps, be found, that the characters of the different kinds of articulation, and in particular those of the angular ginglyinus, which I have called the trochlear articulation, and those of the lateral gingb/mus, or the trochoid articulation of the ancients, are more clearly defined than in other anatomical works. The mechanism, i. e. the movements of a joint, is so intimately con- nected with its anatomy, that it was impossible to pass it over in silence ; on the othei- hand, it was sometunes difficult to determine the limit which ought to distinguish an anatomical from a physiological treatise. I have endeavoured to avoid both extremes, by confining myself strictly to the me- chanism of each joint in particular, referring to works on physiology for the principal movements of locomotion, and of animal statics, such as walking, running, standing, &c. 3. Odontology, or the description of the teeth, concludes the first division. I have taken care to point out that this juxtaposition of the bones and the teeth was founded upon their common indestructibility, and not upon the identity of their nature; the bones being organs composed of hving tissues, while the hard portion of the teeth, on the other hand, is but the solidified product of secretion. * The second division includes Myology, Aponeurology, and Splanchnology, 1. In treating of Myology, I have preferred the topographical to the phy- siological arrangement of the muscles, for this reason only, that it admits of all of them being studied upon the same subject. To unite, as far as was practicable, the undoubted advantages possessed by both methods, I have given, at the conclusion of myology, a general sketch of the muscles, arranged according to their physiological relations ; and by grouping them, not after their order of superimposition, but according to their several actions, I have arranged them around the articulations to which they may belong, and have pointed out the extensors, the flexors, &c. A muscle being known when its attachments are ascertained, I have thought it advisable to commence the description of each by a brief an- nouncement of its origin and insertion, as a sort of definition or summary. The particular details concerning its mode of insertion, whether it be apo- neurotic or fleshy, arid concerning the direction of its fibres, complete the ilescription of each muscle considered by itself; the. history of which is * See nolo, p. 231.