43 THE SKULL. Ci The union of the lateral masses with the body takes place much earlier ra the fourth and fifth sacral vertebra;, than in the three others, though these latter first showed osseous points. After the union of the lateral masses, the sacrum is composed of five pieces, which remain separate until the fifteenth year. 2 Union of the sacral vertebrcB with one another. This process commences be- tween the fifteenth and eighteenth year, at which time the epiphysary laminae of the bodies of the sacral vertebrae are developed. At the age of twenty-fav6 the epiphysary laminffi of the iliacsurface of thesacrumaredeveloped. The union commences with the lower vertebrae, and proceeds upwards. The first is not ompletely joined to the others until from the twenty-fifth to the thirtieth year. The union of the body of each vertebra with its epiphysary lammse proceeds from the circumference to the centre, so that in a vertical section of a sacrum, which is completely ossified externally, we often find an intermediate lamina of cartilage. I have observed this cartilage between the first and second sacral vertebrae in subjects of a very advanced age. The union of the pieces of the coccyx takes place sooner than those of the sa- crum. It commences with the fii-st two pieces; the third and fourth then follow; and, in the last place, the second and third are united. Towards the fortietli or fiftieth, or sometimes the sixtieth year, the coccyx becomes united to the sacrum. This junction is later in the female than in the male ; sometimes it never takes place. Development of the spine in general. Up to the end of the first month of conception, the length of the spine is commensurate with that of the body, the extremities as yet only existing under the form of small tubercles. This disproportion between the spine and members is gradually effaced by the elongation of the limbs, so that at birth the vertebral column does not constitute more than fths of the height of the subject. In the adult it forms only |ths. All the parts which concur in forming the canal for the defence of the spinal cord, are developed prior to those which are specially devoted to locomotion, as is shown in the development of the laminae, as compared with that of the body and processes. The ossification of the laminae proceeds in regular suc- cession from above downwards, from the neck to the sacro-coccygeal region. The ossification of the bodies takes a different coui'se, commencing in the dorsal region as a centre, and proceeding to either extremity of the column. The ossification of the bodies of the vertebrae commences in the centre of the bone ; and accordingly, if the spine of a foetus be dried, the cartilages shrink, and the series of osseous nodules which represent the bodies of the vertebrte, look like grains of Indian corn strung together. In the first periods of its development, the spinal column presents the fol- lowing remarkable differences from its subsequent condition. It is completely devoid of curvature, and instead of resembling in shape a pyramid with the base below, it is precisely the reverse, the base of the pyramid being uppermost. As the chUd grows up, the -spine gradually acquires those characters which it presents in the adult. In the old subject it is always more or less bent forwards. It is not uncommon to meet with several dorsal or lumbar vertebrae more or less completely united by a layer of bone, which forms a sort of sheath or clasp. To this 1 have applied the name of anchylosis by invagination. THE SKULL. Composed of the cranium and face.— Cranial bones.— Occipital. — Frontal.— Sphenoid. — (Ethmoid. —Parietal. —Temporal. — The cranium in general. — Development. — Bones of the face.— Superior maxillary.—Palate.—Malar. -—Nasal—Lachrymal.—Inferior turbinated.— Vomer.—Inferior maxillary.— The face in general.— Cavities. — Development. The skull is the most complicated portion of the skeleton. It has been moi-e minutely investigated than any other part, probably on account of the difficulty ot the study. It is composed of two distinct portions : one, the cranium de-