372 MYOLOGY. neurosis together with a portion of the long flexor of the toes, -which arises from the posterior surface of that aponeurosis ; completely separate the tihialis pos- ticus from the interosseous ligament, and the adjacent portions of the tibia and fibula ; lastly, be careful to preserve the tendinous expansions always given off by this muscle to the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones. The tibialis posticus (n, fig. 130.) is the most deeply seated of all the muscles on the back of the leg; it is very thick, and occupies the whole depth of the excavation between the tibia, fibula, and interosseous ligament. Attachments. It arises from the tibia, the fibula, and the interosseous liga- ment, and is inserted into the scaphoid bone. Its tibial and fibular origins form a bifurcation for the passage of the posterior tibial artery. Its tibial attach- ment takes place on the oblique line situated below the popliteus, soleus, and flexor longus digitorum. Its fibular origin is from the inner border of that bone, below the soleus, and from all that portion of its inner surface, which is behind the interosseous ligament. It also arises from the entire posterior surface of this ligament. Lastly, a few fibres take their origin from the deep surface of an aponeurosis, which separates the deep from the superficial layer of muscles, and from the tendinous septa interposed between this muscle itself and the flexor longus digitorum on the inside, and the flexor proprius pollicis on the outside. From these numerous origins the fleshy fibres proceed vertically downwards, around a tendon which may be distinguished near the upper extremity of the muscle under the form of a tendinous sheaf, which afterwards appears along its posterior border, and receives the fleshy fibres on its anterior surface, like the barbs of a feather upon the shaft. This tendon, however, is nothing more than the thickened posterior edge of an aponeurosis occupying the entire sub- stance of the muscle from before backwards, and receiving the fleshy fibres upon its two lateral surfaces as far down as opposite the internal malleolus. The thick tendon resulting from the union of these aponeurotic fibres then becomes free and enters a proper sheath on the outer side of that belonging to the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum, in front of which it then passes behind the internal malleolus, where it is also inclosed in a separate sheath (71, fiy. 129.). On the inner side of the internal lateral ligament of the ankle and below the lower calcaneo-scaphoid ligament it enters another sheath, and is finally inserted (n, fig. 133.) into the tubercle of the scaphoid hone, a very thick sesamoid bone existing near its insertion. In some subjects this sesa- moid bone is found at the point of insertion; in others it is situated opposite the calcaneo-scaphoid ligament. Besides this the tendon of the tibiahs posticus gives oS a very strong expansion to the first cuneiform bone, and on the outside an oblique expansion to the second and third cuneiform bones, and even to the third or fourth metatarsal bones. a Belations. It is covered by the flexor longus digitorum, shghtly by the flexor proprius polUcis, and entirely by the soleus : it covers the interosseous liga- ment and the adjacent parts of the tibia and fibula. Action The tibialis posticus extends the foot upon the leg. As it is a re- flected muscle, aU the fibres must be considered as acting from the pomt ot reflection that is behind the inner ankle. It is evident, then that this muscle extends the foot, both by its action upon the astragalo-scaphoid articulation, and S bv that upon the ankle joint. It also tends to turn the sole of the foot ffward^s andrconsequently, it cooperates with the tibialis anticus in this re- inwaros , J:"^, peroneus longus and brevis. It may also be under- ? nersons in^whom the tfndo Achillis has been cut or ruptured, stood some pe™, in ^^^^ ^^^^^^^^ ^ ?^t'acc denf but uSK^^ the lever formed by the foot i. this ''^"^'^^t. Dui u ^ ^ tl^g tibialis posticus is apphed between TlS;Z ^n:rZSZ so th^t we have th'en a lever of the third, not if the second order, as when the tendo Achillis is uninjured.