MYOLOGY. 342 under the name of le carpo-phalangien du petit doiyt. This muscle is often wanting, but the fleshy fibres which usually constitute it are then always found in some measure blended with the other muscles. Action. It produces slFght flexion of the little finger. The Opponens Digiti Minimi. This muscle (f,Jig- 119.) is generally distinct from the preceding, and is the representative of the opponens pollicis. It arises from the hooklike process of the unciform bone, and from the contiguous part of the annular ligament: from these points the fibres proceed downwards and inwards (i. e. towards the ulnar border of the hand), the highest being the shortest and the most hori- zontal : they are inserted into the whole length of the inner or ulnar margin of the fifth metacarpal bone. Relations. It is covered by the preceding muscles and by the internal palmar fascia: it covers the fifth metacarpal bone, the corresponding inter- osseous muscle, and the tendon of the superficial flexor proceeding to the little finger. ... Action. It opposes the little finger to the thumb by drawmg it forwards and outwards. The iNTEROssEons Muscles. Dissection. Remove the tendons of the extensor muscles behind, and those of the flexor muscles in front, together with the lumbricales, preserving at the same time the digital insertions of these small muscles. Dissect and study the deep palmar fascia, a fibrous layer covering the interosseous muscles in the palm of the hand, which sends prolongations between the two kinds of these muscles and is inserted into the anterior borders of the metacarpal bones, m- closing each interosseous muscle in a proper sheath. After havmg studied the palmar and dorsal fascia, separate the bones of the metacarpus by tearmg their connecting ligaments, and the interossei will then be completely exposed The interossei, so named from their position, and distmguished from each other bv the numerical appellations, first, second, third, &c. are divided into palmar (p p p,fig. 123.) and dorsal (d d dd), according as they are situated nearer to the palm or to the back of the hand. They are also distmgoished into adductors and abductors of the fingers. wt, > There are two in each interosseous space, one occupying its dorsal, the other its palmar aspect; and as there are four interosseous spaces, it would seem that there should be eight interosseous muscles • nevertheless seven only are ad- mitted by modern tnatomists in consequence of the first palmar interosseous muscle which belongs to the thumb, being separately described as the adduc- tor pol icis. This separation is founded upon the pecuhar arrangement pre- sented by that muscle, which is not attached from the first to the second, hu extends from the first to the third metacarpal bone, an important fact, that pxnlains the great extent to which the thumb can be adducted. A mbiute description of the interosseous muscles would be both useless and tedious I shall content myself with pointing out their general conformation, inrl the law which regulates their arrangement. In takS r general view of the interrosseous muscles, they must be consi- dered with^regfrd to theadduction or abduction of the fingers : but Aese terms aerea '^"^'^e'"'^ , • reference to the axis of the skeleton, but to the must 1 i^s reS^^^^^ Passing through the third axis of the ^^^^-i'Jj^^j/'^^^'e Ser. This being admitted, all the dorsal