580 SPLANCHNOLOGY. THE GENITO-URINARY ORGANS. I HAVE thought it proper to describe the genital and the urinary organs to- gether, because, although their functions are very distinct, yet they have the most intimate anatomical, physiological, and pathological connections. THE DRINARY ORGANS. Division.— The Kidneys and Ureters.— The Bladder.— TTie Suprarenal Capsules. The urinary organs form a very complex secretory apparatus, consisting of two secreting organs, the kidneys; of two provisional reservoirs, the calyces and the pelvis of each kidney; of two excretory ducts, the ureters; of a se- cond and final reservoir, the bladder; and lastly, of a second and final ex- cretory canal, which, in the male, is common to both the genital and the urinary organs, viz. the canal of the urethra. The Kidneys. The kidneys {vefpoi) are glandular organs, intended to secrete the urine. They are deeply situated {h k,fig. 199.) in the lumbar region, hence called the region of the kidneys, on each side of the vertebral column, externally to the peritoneum, which merely passes in front of them; they are surrounded by a great quantity of fat, and, as it were, suspended by the vessels which pass into and emerge from them. Fixed firmly in this situation, they are but little liable to displacement. Most of the changes in their position are congenital. The right kidney gene- rally descends a little lower than the left, doubtless on account of the presence of the liver. One of the kidneys may not uncommonly be found in front of the vertebral column, or even in the cavity of the pelvis; and this unusual arrangement may, in certain cases, render diagnosis very obscure.* 1 have frequently found the right kidney in the corresponding iliac fossa in females who had been in the habit of wearing very tight stays. This displacement happens when the pressure of the stays upon the liver forces the kidney out of the depression in which it is lodged in the lower surface of that organ. Number. The kidneys are,two in number. It is not very uncommon to find only one, which is almost always formed by the union of the two, by means of a transverse portion crossing in front of the vertebral column, and havmg its concave border directed upwards. , , v Sometimes the two united kidneys are situated in the right or left lumbar region or in the cavity of the true pelvis. Cases of union of the two kidneys should be distinguished from those in which one of them is atrophied. Again Blasius, FaUopius, Gavard, &c. relate examples of individuals having three kidneys ; in some of these cases, two were situated upon the same side, in others the supernumerary kidney was placed in front of the vertebral column Size The kidney is not subject to such great variations in size as most other organs. Its ordinary dimensions are from three and a half to four inches in length, two inches in breadth, and one inch in thickness. Its «;«^AMs from two to four ounces.f I have found them more than three times their or- * I lately had in my wards a female labouring under hectic fever of ^^ich I could d^^^^^ femile i4 olTes: he ^ul li^^l that tL left\idney is almost always larger and heavier than the right.]