317 THE SUB-SCAPULARIS. The Sub-scapularis. Dissection. Detach the upper extremity, including the shoulder from the trunk of the body; remove from the inner surface of the muscle the ceMar tissue, the lymphatic glands, the brachial plexus, the axillary vessels, and the serratus magnus; and dissect off, with care, the thm fascia which mvests it. The sub-scapularis {p,figs. 110. 116.) is a thick triangular muscle, occu- pying the whole of the sub-scapular fossa, beneath the axiUary border of which it passes: by itself it represents the supra- and mfra-spinatus and teres minor, upon the posterior scapular region. We not unfrequently meet with tendinous laminee di^ading it into three parts, which correspond to those three rniisclfts. Attachments. It arises from the internal two thirds of the sub-scapular fossa, by tendmous laminae attached to the oblique ridges already described as existing on that part of the scapula; also from the anterior lip of the axillary border of the scapula by an aponeurosis, which separates this muscle from the teres major and the long head of the triceps. Very frequently the lowest fibres arise from the anterior surface of this head of the triceps, just as we have seen that the lower fibres of the teres minor take their origin from the posterior surface of the same head of that muscle. From these different origins the fleshy fibres all proceed outwards, the upper horizontally, and the lower obliquely, gradually approaching more and more to the vertical direc- tion. The muscle therefore becomes progressively narrower and thicker, imtil its fibres are attached to the two surfaces and borders of a tendon which is inserted into the entire surface of the lesser tuberosity of the humerus. Some of the muscular fibres are inserted below the tuberosity; and I have seen the inferior fibres of the muscle attached for a certain extent to a fibrous prolongation that completes the bicipital groove behind. Belaiions. The posterior surface of this muscle lines the sub-scapular fossa, which it entirely fiUs, and from which it is separated at the outer third by some cellular tissue and the sub-scapular vessels and nerves; more externally, it covers the upper and anterior part of the capsular ligament of the shoulder joint, turning around it, and becoming identified with it at its insertion. Its anterior surface is in relation with the serratus magnus, the sub-scapular fascia and some very loose cellular tissue intervening between them; also with the axillary vessels and nerves, and with the coraco-brachialis and deltoid muscles. The upper border of its tendon glides in the hollow of the coracoid process, which serves as a pulley, and forms with the coraco-brachialis and the short head of the biceps a sort of ring, partly bony and partly muscular, in which the tendon is retained. Between this tendon and the coracoid process there is also a synovial bursa, which sometimes extends over the tendons of the biceps and coraco-brachialis, and always communicates with the synovial capsule of the shoulder joint.* Action. It is essentially a rotator inwards of the humerus. In proof of this we find that the muscle is stretched when the arm is rotated outwards, and relaxed when it is rotated inwards. The movement of rotation is much more considerable than the length of the neck of the humerus would lead us to imagine, and this arises from the muscle turning round the head of the bone. As a rotator muscle, then, it is congenerous with the latissimus dorsi. When the humerus is raised, the sub-scapularis tends to draw it downwards. And lurther, this muscle as well as the supra-spinatus, infra-spinatus, and teres minor, is essentially an articular muscle, and is sometimes completely identified with the anterior part of the fibrous capsule: in all cases it offers an active resistance to displacement forwards, and is therefore always torn in this kind ot dislocation. • See note, p. 38D.