267 THE POSTERIOR SPINAL MUSCLES. which it is inserted not far from the mastoid process, by some tendinous fibres, less distinctly marked than those of its origin. From this difference of direction, it follows that the rectus major and the two obliqui form on each side an equilateral triangle; in the interval between the two triangles a considerable part of the recti minores is seen. Relations. The recti and obliqui capitis are covered behind by the com- plexus, from which they are separated by a very strong aponeurotic lamina and much cellular tissue; they cover the posterior arch of the atlas, with the posterior ligaments of the atloido-occipital and atloido-axoid articulations. General View of the Posterior Spinal Muscles. After the preceding description it will now be easy to comprehend the ge- neral guiding principles in the arrangement of the innumerable, and at first sight inextricable fasciculi which constitute the fleshy mass known by the ge- neral name of the posterior spinal muscles. We shall first recall to mind, that the levers to which all these muscles are ultimately attached, are, 1. The row of spinous processes ; 2. The row of articular processes ; and 3. The row formed by the transverse processes and the ribs, which for many reasons may be regarded as extensions of those processes. We shall suppose these three series of levers, and therefore the several points of insertion, to be represented by three vertical lines. We must remember also that the dorsal transverse processes are upon the same line as the lumbar and cervical articular processes, and that the ribs are upon the same line as the lumbar transverse processes and the anterior roots of the cervical transverse processes. (See Osteology, p. 31.) These data being admitted we can now reduce all the posterior spinal muscles into the four following orders of fasciculi, two being vertical, and two oblique. 1. The internal vertical or spinous muscles, comprising the spinalis dorsi (i. e. the internal and superficial portion of the longissimus dorsi), the interspinalis of the neck, and the recti postici of the head. 2. The external vertical lateral, or transverse^ muscles, connected with the transverse or costiform processes. They comprise the sacro-lumbalis and the inter-transversales, among which the quadratus lumborum may be included. 3 The spino transverse and spiiio- articular* oblique muscles, including the longissimus dorsi, with its accessories the_ transversalis colli and trachelo-mastoid, the splenius and the obliquus major. 4. The transverso-spinous and articulo-spinous* oblique muscles; viz. the transverso-spinalis, the complexus, and the obliquus capitis minor. Action of the Posterior Spinal Muscles. Having once established the general principles according to which the pos- terior spmal muscles are arranged, it is very easy to determine the mode of action of each, and to reduce to very simple elements a mechanism, to all ap- pearance so complicated. 1. The long and short spinous fasciculi being vertical, directly extend the vertebral column; such is the action of the spinalis dorsi and interspinaUs coui; the recti capitis, at the same time that they extend the head, rotate it also to the side on which the muscles are acting. When the recti muscles of Dom sides act simultaneously the head is drawn directly backwards. 2. Ihe fascicuU of the sacro-lumbalis being vertical and lateral, erect the veneoral column, and incline it to one side, when only one set of muscles acts ; when both sets act together, they extend it directly backwards. •i. AS tbe tascicuh of the longissimus dorsi, belonging to the spino-transverse /*i7the ^'p™.s ^°thVTrnsv^^;\"^^^ "™ ""P'?' upwards spinous to such as X^-^^nmoardfr.^^^^^ transverso-spinous and aniculo- ccsses.] pro(xea upioards fi om tho transverse and articular to tho spinous pro-