587 THE BLADDER. The Bladder. The bladder (Ji,fiy- 181.) is a musculo-membranous sac, which serves as a reservoir for the urine. It is situated in the cavity of the pelvis, upon the median line, behind the pubes (6), and is retained in that position by the peri- toneum (m), which only partially co- vers it, and by the urachus, a sort of liga- ment connect- ing it with the umbilicus. These means of attachment are in accord- ance with the great enlarge- ment of which the organ is capable; but they cannot prevent certain partial displacements, known as hernice of the bladder. When collapsed, it is completely protected from external injury ; but when filled, it passes above the osseous girdle in which it is contained, and enters the dilat- able cavity of the abdomen, where it can be distended to the utmost without inconvenience. Number. The bladder is always single; the examples of double bladder which have been recorded, are cases of protrusion of the mucous mem- brane through the separated muscular fibres. But, whatever may be the size of these accidental bladders (and I have seen them twice as large as the true bladder to which they were attached), they may always'be distinguished by their having no muscular coat. The cases of deficiency of the bladder are generally examples of that species of malformation, in which the viscus is open anteriorly, and is everted, so as to resemble a fungous mass. Dimensions. The bladder is the largest of all the reservoirs of secretion, but its capacity varies, from a number of circumstances; from habit — in persons who are accustomed to retain their urine for a considerable period the bladder is more capacious than in those who immediately attend to the desire to pass urine ; from se.r — thus in the female the bladder is generally larger than in the male, because she is more influenced by the customs of society ; from age— the bladder appears to be relatively larger before than after birth; from disease — in consequence of which it presents every variety betweeen a morbid state of contraction in which, from the contact of its parietes, it scarcely permits the accumulation of a spoonful of urine, and an extreme state of dila- tation in which it can hold several pints of that fluid. Direction. The direction of the bladder is determined by that of the anterior wall of the pelvis, so that its axis is oblique from above downwards and back- wards. On account of this obliquity, a slight inclination of the trunk forwards makes the neck of the bladder the most dependent part of the organ. The ob- liquity becomes still greater when the distended bladder has escaped from the