329 THE LUMBRICALES. resulting from the division of the palmar fascia, and afterwards into another sheath {s,Jigs. 118, 119.)> which converts the groove in front of the phalanges into a canal. If vre divide any of these digital sheaths, we find the tendon of the superficial flexor becoming flattened and hollowed underneath, as it were, into a groove, which is exactly moulded upon the tendon of the deep flexor. About the middle of the first phalanx the tendon of the sublimis (,e,jfig. 119.) bifurcates, and gives passage to that of the profundus, which it embraces by turning round it like the thread of a screw, and becoming posterior instead of anterior, as it was before. The two halves of the tendon then reunite to form a groove having its concavity directed forwards, and again separate to be in- serted into the rough edge of the groove on the second phalanx. The tendon of the flexor profundus (i'i', figs. 119, 120.), on the contrary, passes directly through the sheath formed by that of the flexor sublimis, and is inserted into the third phalanx. The tendons of the flexor profundus, moreover, present in their whole course, very slightly apparent traces of division. From the relation of the tendons of the two flexors to each other, the superficial muscle has been called the per/oratus, and the deep one the perforans. Relations. These should be examined in the fore-arm, in the palm of the hand, and along the fingers. In the fore-arm the flexor profundus is covered by the flexor sublimis, from which it is separated by an incomplete tendinous septum, and by the median nerve. It covers the ulna, the interosseous ligament, and the pronator qua- dratus ; it corresponds within to the flexor carpi ulnaris, and without to the flexor longus pollicis. The ulnar vessels and nerves are, at first, situated be- tween this muscle and the flexor sublimis, and afterwards separate it from the flexor carpi ulnaris. In the palm its tendons are subjacent to those of the flexor sublimis, and cover the interosseous muscles and the adductor poUicis. The lumbricales muscles take their origin from them. Along the fingers its tendons are in relation behind with the grooves of the phalanges, and with the metacarpo-phalangal and phalangal articulations, and, in front, with the tendons of the sublimis, and the fibrous sheaths of the fingers. Action of the two flexors. These muscles flex the third phalanx upon the second, the second on the first, this again upon the corresponding metacar- pal bone, and lastly, the hand upon the fore-arm. The flexor sublimis has no action upon the third phalanges. Its origin from the internal condyle of the humerus enables it to act upon the fore-ann and to assist in flexing it upon the arm. It is scarcely necessary to say that the bifurcation of the tendons of the flexor sublimis is intended to afibrd a sheath to, and bind down, those of the flexor profimdus. The flexor profundus flexes the third phalanx upon the second, the second upon the first, the first upon the corresponding metacarpal bone, and, lastly, the hand upon the fore-arm. The Lumbricales. The lumbricales (^x,figs. 119, 120.) are small fleshy tongues which may be regarded as accessories of the flexor profundus. They are four in number, distinguished as the first, second, &c. counting from without inwards. They extend from the tendons of the flexor profundus to the first phalanges of three or four fingers. They arise from the tendons after these have passed through the annular hgament; the first and the second, in front of the tendons for the index and middle fingers; the third, in the interval between those for the middle 1 vlfi^ nngers; and the fourth, in the interval between those for the rine tprf;.lii ^^Tl ^^^'^ ^^^y proceed, those near the median linl vertica ly, and those at either side obliquely downwards, to the outer side of the metacarpo-phalangal articulations of the corresponding fingers, where thev erminate by a broad tendinous expansion inserted into the fdges of he ex tensor tendons, and completing the sheath which those tendon! foi-m on the