SHEATHS OF THE FJ.EXOR TENDONS. 421 E ! S and intended for all the flexor tendons and the principal vessels and nerves of the hand; the other two placed on either side, and binding down the muscles of the thenar and hypothenar eminences. The Sheaths of the Flexor Tendons of the Fingers, and their Synovial Membranes. After leaving the arches, or rather the curious sheaths, formed by the pal- mar fascia immediately above the corresponding metacarpo-phalangal articula- tion, each pair of flexor tendons is received into a special sheath, by which they are accompanied down to the last phalanx. It will be remembered that the anterior surfaces of the first and second phalanges are marked by a longi- tudinal groove ; to the two borders of this groove is attached a very regular semi-canal of fibrous tissue, which is exactly large enough to contain the two flexor tendons. This very strong sheath preserves its shape when the tendons have been removed; and a correct idea of its importance may be obtained, by observing the effects of contraction of the flexor muscles after it has been di- vided. This sheath is formed of parallel semicircular laminae, placed one above the other, densely aggregated over the bodies of the phalanges, and for the most part forming a continuous sheath, but becoming more and more se- parated, and sometimes even completely disappearing opposite the articulations and the articulating extremities of the bones. It appears to me, that, in the movements of flexion, these articular rings are pushed into each other. The sheath ceases altogether above the articulation of the second with the terminal phalanx. A very remarkable synovial membrane *, which is prolonged upwards be- yond the arches formed by the palmar fascia, lines the whole length of each osteo-fibrous sheath on the one hand, and on the other is reflected upon the two flexor tendons, afibrding each of them a sheath, and forms two, often three or four triangular folds, having their bases directed upwards, and being per- fectly analogous to the so-called adipose ligament of the knee joint. Of these folds, the superior is situated opposite the upper extremity of the first phalanx, and extends from the tendon of the flexor sublimis to that of the flexor pro- fundus ; the inferior fold passes from the bifurcation of the superficial tendon to the deep tendon; the others are intermediate, and proceed from the phalanx to the two tendons. These synovial folds can be very well seen, by raising and separating the flexor tendons from the phalanges. Not unfrequently the synovial membrane forms a hernia between two of these tendinous rings, either opposite the body of a phalanx, or still more commonly over one of the articu- lations. We may add, that these synovial folds are probably intended to sup- port the nutritious vessels of the tendons, and not to connect these tendons together. * See note, p. 389.