THE ULNA. 105 Chaussier), and which might be called the great and svmll trochanters of the humerus /they are separated by the bicipital grooye. The smaller, which is in front, gives attachment to the sub-scapular muscle; the larger which is ex- ternal, presents three surfaces, each of which gives attachment to a muscle Connections. The humerus articulates with the scapula, the radius, and the "^/nternaZ structure. The two extremities of the humerus are cellular; the middle is compact. It has a very large meduUary canal. Development. The humerus is developed from seven points; one for the body, two for the upper end, and four for the lower. The first osseous point appears in the middle of the bone from the thirtieth to the fortieth day, in form of a small solid cylinder, which progressively extends towards both extremities. At birth, and during the course of the first year, the extremities are still cartilaginous. Theossific point of the head of the humerus appears at the commencement of the second year; and that of the great tube- rosity from the twenty-fourth to the thirtieth month. It has not in my opinion been proved that there is any special point for the lesser tuberosity. The ossifi- cation of the lower end of the bone commences after that of the upper. At two years and a half an osseous point is developed, corresponding to the small head or condyle of the humerus; at seven years another nodule appears in the epitrochlea; at twelve years a third point, which forms the inner edge of the trochlea; and lastly, at sixteen years, a fourth point for the epicondyle. The two points of ossification of the upper end of the bone unite from the eighth to the ninth year. The four points of the lower end are joined together in the following order : in the twelfth year the two points of the trochlea, in the sixteenth year the trochlea, the epicondyle, and the small head. The two extremities are united to the shaft from the eighteenth to the twentieth yeai'. The union of the lower end always precedes that of the upper by one year, although the latter first becomes ossified. The Forearm. The Ulna {fig. 44.). The ulna, or cubitus, so called because it forms the elbow, is situated between the humerus and the carpus, on the inner side of the radius, with which it articulates above and below, but from which it is separated in the middle. It is the longer and the larger of the bones of the fore arm. When the whole limb is in the vertical position, this bone slants a little from above downwards and outwards. It is a long and asymmetrical bone, much larger above than below, pris- matic, triangular, and slightly twisted upon itself: it is divided into a shaft and extremities. The body or shaft (a) of the bone is larger above than below, is slightly curved forwards, and has three surfaces and three edges. Fig.44. The anterior surface (a) is broad above, and becomes gradually narrower towards the lower part. On it we observe the nutritious foramen (above a), which penetrates from below upwards, i. e. in precisely the opposite direction of the nutritious canal in the hume- rus. The posterior surface (d) is slightly convex, and is divided lon- gitudinally by a prominent vertical line into two portions, the inner of which is the broader. The internal surface is very broad above, and much smaller at its lower end, which is immediately subcuta- neous. It is smooth throughout its whole extent. Of the three edges the external (e) is the sharpest, especially in the middle; it commences above, below a small articular surface, and is eflfaced at tlie lower part of the bone It gives attachmeilt to the interosseous ligament, a sort of fibrous membrane stretched between the radius and ulna. The anterior edge (it / m) is blunt, and is intended for muscular in-