592 SPLANCHNOLOGY. frequently accumulated urine dilates the bladder in its transverse and antero- posterior diameters, this organ sinks into the pelvic cavity, and when com- pletely developed, presents the characters already assigned to it. The uraclms, which, we have seen, is converted into a muscular cord in the adult, and is sometimes lost before reaching the umbilicus, is much more de- veloped in the foetus: it may thfen be traced as far as the umbilicus, and even, according to some anatomists, through the whole extent of the umbilical cord! Analogy and some observations upon the human subject would seem to show that the urachus is hoUow in the foetus. In the lower animals the cavity of the urachus may be traced into a bag called the allantois, which is situated between the membranes of the ovum ; and it is stated by several authors, that they have caused mercury, injected into the bladder, to pass some distance (half an inch, one inch, or one inch and a half) into the urachus, and even for a greater or less extent into the umbilical cord. Moreover, in new-born infants, and even in adults, the urine has been seen to escape through the umbilicus ; but in these cases the urethra is always ob- literated. I have already said that I have met with a calculous concretion within the substance of the urachus, and I find that Haller and Harder have made a similar observation (arenulce in uracho visce). M. Boyer ( Traite (TAna- tomic, p. 477., Splanchnologib) says, that he has dissected the bladder of a man, twenty-six years of age, whose urachus formed a canal an inch and a half long, and contained twelve urinary calculi, as large as miUet seeds ; one of them was larger, and resembled a grain of barley. He convinced himself that the canal which contained these calculi was not formed by a prolongation of the internal membrane of the bladder through the other coats. On the other hand, a number of observers (myself among them) have found the urachus solid in the foetus. New facts are, therefore, necessary to settle this anatomical question ; although it is very probable that the urachus of the human subject is of the same nature as that of animals, but becomes obliterated at a much earlier period. Functions. The bladder is intended as a reservoir for the urine, and is also the principal agent in its expulsion. The urine constantly trickles drop by drop into the bladder, but cannot flow back by the ureters on account of the mechanism already described. When the bladder is distended it occasions a desire to evacuate its contents, and the urine is then eSpelled by the com- bined action of the bladder itself and the abdominal muscles. I have said that the bladder is the chief agent in this expulsion, for in cases of retention of urine from paralysis, or excessive distension of the bladder, the most powerful contractions of the abdominal muscles are not sufficient to expel it. The Suprarenal Capsules. The suprarenal capsules (c c,fig. 199.) are organs whose use is unknown ; they are situated near the upper end of the kidneys, and, like them, are outside the peritoneum. The proximity of the kidneys and suprarenal capsules has led to the sup- position, that there is some mutual relation between their functions; and hence they are generally described together, though not on perfectly just grounds.* The name renes succenturiati {Casserius) is sufficient evidence of the relation which has been supposed to exist between these organs. Never- theless, this connection of situation, which constitutes the most important and characteristic feature in the history of the suprarenal capsules is not con- stant ; and in the numerous cases in which the kidneys occupy some unusual position, the suprarenal capsules do not accompany those organs m their displacement. Thus, when the kidneys are situated higher than usual, the capsules are placed on their inner side, and correspond with the renal fissure; » Rustachius, who first described them, called them^tonrfuis qua renibus incumbunt.