420 APONEUROLOGY. vided below into four small prolongations corresponding to the flexor tendons of each finger. Nor is this all, for there is a special synovial membrane for the flexor longus pollicis. In order to expose this, the synovial membrane must be cut through where it is reflected, on its radial side, from the annular ligament on to the median nerve and the anterior surface of the bundle of ten- dons : a special and very extensive synovial membrane will then be seen to pass high up along the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis, and to be pro- longed downwards as far as the last phalanx of the thumb. The Palmar Aponeurosis. The palviar fascia ic,fig. 118.) forms a common sheath for all the muscles of the palm of the hand, and is divided into three portions,—a middle and two lateral. The middle portion. This is the only part generally described as the palmar fascia; it is triangular and strong, but of variable thickness : it binds down the numerous subjacent tendons. It arises from the anterior surface and lower margin of the anterior annular ligament of the carpus, and from the tendon of the palmaris longus, which may be regarded as its tensor muscle. Between these two origins the ulnar artery penetrates into the palm of the hand. Not unfrequently the expanded tendon of the palmaris longus forms a fibrous layer in front of the proper palmar fascia. This fascia is narrow and thick at its origin, but expands as it proceeds from above downwards, and, opposite the heads of the metacarpal bones, divides into eight prolongations for the four inner fingers. At the seat of this division we find very strong transverse fibres binding the prolongations together, and preventing disjunction of the fingers, and laceration of the fascia. By this arrangement four arches are formed, under which the tendons of the flexor muscles pass: between these four arches there are three smaller ones, giving passage to the collateral vessels and nerves of the fingers, and to the lumbricales, so that altogether there are seven arches. These arches are true fibrous canals. In order perfectly to understand their structure, make a vertical incision through the palmar fascia ; it will then be seen, that, opposite the arches, tendinous prolongations or tongues are detached from the deep surface of the fascia: these prolongations turn round the sides of the tendons so as to embrace them, and become continuous with the anterior or glenoid ligament of the metacarpo-phalangal articula- tions : the same arrangement obtains with regard to the three small arches for the vessels and nerves situated between the four principal tendinous arches. The palmar fascia is, moreover, intimately united to the skin by very nume- rous prolongations : its deep surface covers the superficial palmar arch of the arteries of the hand, the median and ulnar nei'ves, and the flexor tendons ; a very loose and extensible cellular tissue separates it from these parts, and facilitates the movements of the tendons. From its inner margin is given off a very strong layer, which becomes continuous with the interosseous aponeurosis, and separates the middle from the internal palmar region; a thinner layer proceeds from its outer margin, and passes down between the muscles of the thenar eminence and the first lumbricalis muscle. This small muscle, called the palmaris hrevis (b, fig. 118.), arises from the inner margin of the middle palmar fascia, and is merely a cutaneous muscle. The external and internal palmar fasciw, or the thenar and hypothenar apo- neuroses These consist of two rather thin fibrous layers, forming the sheaths of the muscles of the ball of the thumb and those of the little finger : they are both continuous with the middle palmar fascia: the external appears to con- sist in a great measure, of an expansion from the tendon of the abductor longus pollicis ; Ind the internal, of an expansion from that of the flexor carpi ulnans. At the limits between these aponeuroses and the middle fascia are formed two septa, passing from before backwards, and dividing the palm of the hand into three distinct sheaths,-one median, completed by the interosseous aponeurosis,