367 THE GASTROCNEMIUS, next supposing the power to act from the other point of reflection, i. e. from behind the external malleolus, v/e may observe that the foot is extended upon the leg, and its outer border turned upwards. In this movement the lower end of the external articular surface of the astragalus tends to carry the ex- ternal malleolus outwards, and to increase the curvature of the fibula, which is sometimes fractured in consequence. It may be easily conceived that if the fibula be fractured, the contraction of this muscle will no longer be counter- acted, and accordingly will turn the sole of the foot outwards, and may luxate the astragalus inwards. This is the mechanism of luxation of the foot oc- curring after fracture of the fibula, the only species of lateral dislocation of this part which has ever been observed.* The Peroneus Brevis. The peroneus brevis of Albinus (peroneus secundus, Splgel; le petit peronier, Winslow, f. Jigs. 129, 130.), is a flat, penniform, and reflected muscle, smaller and shorter than the preceding, beneath which it lies. Attachments. It arises from the lower half, sometimes from the lower two thirds of the external surface of the fibula, which is more or less excavated for this purpose ; from the anterior and posterior borders of the same bone, and from the tendinous septa existing between this muscle and those of the anterior and posterior regions of the leg. It is inserted into the posterior extremity of the fifth metatarsal bone, and sometimes even by a tendinous expansion into the fourth metatarsal bone ; it often gives ofi' a prolongation to the extensor tendon of the little toe. The fieshy fibres proceed successively from their different origins to the in- ternal surface and edges of a tendon, situated upon the outer surface of the muscle; the bundle which they form gradually increases in size, and then diminishes, is at first penniform and afterwards semi-peuniform, and ac- companies the tendon as far as the fibrous sheath behind the external mal- leolus : after leaving the sheath, the tendon enters another proper to itself, upon the outer side of the os calcis, above that for the tendon of the peroneus longus, and passes somewhat obliquely downwards and forwards, to be inserted into the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. Relations. It is covered by the peroneus longus, and covers the fibula and the outer side of the os calcis. It is, therefore, only in comparison with the peroneus longus, that Riolanus and others have called this muscle the anterior peroneus. Action. The same as that of the peroneus longus, with the exception of that of its subtarsal portion. Thus, supposing the power to be applied at the external malleolus, we have extension of the fifth metatarsal bone upon the cuboid; extension and rotation inwards of the second row of the tarsus upon the first; rotation of the calcaneum upon the astragalus; extension, and a tendency to abduction of the entire foot, which is therefore considerably everted when the fibula is fractured. Posterior Region. There are two layers in this region, one superficial, formed by the gastro- cnemms and soleus (or triceps suralis) and the plantaris; the other deep, con- sisting of the popliteus, the tibialis posticus, the flexor longus digitorum, and the flexor longus pollicis. TJie Gastrocnemius and Soleus, or Triceps Suralis, and the Plantaris. Dissection. Make a vertical incision from the upper part of the popliteal space to the heel; at right angles to this, above, make another horizontal and • See the admirable memoir by M. Dupuytron, on fracture of the fibula.