THE CRANIUM IN GENEBvAL. 65 posterior lacerated foramen (7), the suture which unites the temporal to the occipital bone, and along the petro-occipital suture, a small groove named in- ferior petrosal (on each side of k). , , ■, , j The inferior occipital fossa is bounded above, by a broad and deep groove (n), intended to lodge the lateral sinus, and called the lateral groove. It com- mences at the internal occipital protuberance (o), and proceeds horizontally outwards to the base of the petrous portion, where it is agam enlarged and passes round, extending downwards and inwards along the occipital fossa, until it arrives at the occipito-mastoid suture (r), where it rises and terminates in the posterior lacerated foramen The inferior occipital fossa is divided into two parts by this groove : an anterior, formed by the posterior face of the pars petrosa ; and a posterior formed hy the occipital bone. In this groove, the mastoid foramen, the posterior condyloid foramen, when it exists, and the superior and inferior petrosal grooves open. The dimensions of the lateral grooves are extremely variable; most com- monly the left is smaUer and shaUower than the right, especially in its hori- zontal portion. Of the eminences and depressions on the internal sui'faoe of the cranium, the most deeply marked are those situated upon the base. This is more especially the case, with regard to the orbital plates and the middle and lateral fossaB. Since the publication of the works of Gall and Spurzheim, a,natomists have re-adopted the opinion of the ancients, who regarded these eminences and de- pressions as corresponding respectively with the anfractuosities and the con- volutions of the brain: the cranium in fact is moulded upon the brain; to be convinced of which it is only necessary to repeat the following experiment, which I have often made for this purpose. Remove the brain from the cavity of the cranium, and supply its place by plaster of Paris ; when dry, this sub- stance will present a faithful model of the convolutions and anfractuosities of the brain. In cases of chronic hydrocephalus, where the inequalities of the brain are effaced by the accumulation of fluid, the internal sui-face of the cra- nium shows scarcely any vestiges of eminences and depressions. The osseous tissue, notwithstanding its hardness, is easily moulded around organs, and yields Avith facility to the compression which soft parts exercise upon it. It is very uncommon to open the cranium of a subject, somewhat advanced in years, with- out observing in some points a more or less considerable absorption of the parietes of the skull, occasioned either by clusters of certain small white bodies, called glandulse Pacchioni, or by dilated veins. One anatomical fact worthy of notice, is the want of any configuration of the external suiface conformable in its details with that of the internal surface: compare, for instance, the roof of the orbit with the cranial surface of the or- bital plate of the frontal bone. This difference is due to the circumstance that the digital impressions encroach on the diploe, and are in part excavated from the space otherwise occupied by it. The two compact laminae which fonn the bones of the cranium, are in some measure independent of each other: the internal one belongs, so to speak, to the brain : the external to the locomotive system. The diploe is the limit of these two laminae. This anatomical fact is at variance with the doctrine of Gall respecting the protuberances : it proves that the cerebral convolutions are not faithfully represented by external pro- minences. In order to complete the anatomical history of the cranium, it yet remains to consider, 1. its general development: 2. the connection of its several parts. (For this latter subject, see Syndesmology.) As to the analogies which have been so ingeniously established between the cranium and the vertebral column, a detailed analysis of them would be out of place in an elementary work like the present. VOL. I.