MYOLOGY. 380 which it is separated by a tendinous lamina. On its outer and inner side it IS completely isolated from all the adjacent muscles by prolongations of the plantar fascia. Action. It flexes the second phalanges of the last four toes upon the first phalanges, and these upon the corresponding metatarsal bones. The Flexor Accessarius. This is a flat quadrilateral muscle, foi;piing a considerable fleshy mass (massa carnea, Jacobi Sylvii, z, fig. 132.) ; it arises by a bifurcated extremity from the lower part of the groove of the os calcis, and a small part of the cal- caneo-scaphoid ligament by fleshy fibres, and by means of a tendon from the lower sujface of the same bone, this tendon sometimes extending as far as the external posterior tuberosity of the os calcis. From these points the fleshy fibres pass directly forwards, and terminate in the following manner: the lower fibres become inserted into the outer margin, and a small portion of the inferior surface of the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum; whilst the upper are inserted into several small fibrous bundles, which unite together, receive a considerable expansion from the tendon of the flexor longus poUicis, and are ultimately blended with, and increase the size of the divided tendon of the flexor longus digitorum. Relations. This muscle is in relation below with the flexor longus digitorum and the plantar vessels and nerves, and above with the os calcis and the inferior calcaneo-cuboid ligaments. Action. It is a muscle of re-inforcement, and assists in flexing the toes : from its obliquity it rectifies the oblique action of the flexor longus digitorum in the opposite direction. The Lumbricales. The lumbricales (I I, figs. 131,132.), which form a second class of accessory muscles belonging to the flexor longus digitorum, exactly resemble the lum- bricales of the fingers ; they consist of four small fieshy tongues, decreasing in size from within outwards, the two outer of which are not unfrequently atro- phied : they extend from the angles formed by the division of the tendons of the flexor longus to the inner or tibial borders of the first phalanges of the last four toes, and to the corresponding margins of the extensor tendons. They are distinguished by the numerical names oi first, second, third, and fourth. The first is situated parallel with the flexor tendon of the second toe. Relations. They are covered below by the flexor brevis digitorum; they emerge from beneath the plantar fascia, in the interval between the sheaths furnished by it to the flexor tendons, gain the inner side of the corresponding metatarso-phalangal articulation, and terminate upon the first phalanx and inner margin of the tendons of the extensor longus digitorum. They have the same action as the lumbricales of the hand. Interosseous Region. The Jnterossei. The interrosseous muscles of the foot correspond exactly with those of the hand, and require the same consideration. . ^. ^ They arise from the lateral surfaces of the interrosseous spaces m which they are placed • and are inserted into the sides of the first phalanges and the corresponding margins of the tendons of the extensor muscles. They are seven in number, viz. four dorsal (three of which are seen at d rf d,fig. 133.), and three plantar ifpp); to latter, however, the oblique adductor of the great toe may be added, for it is nothing more than a very large plantar inter- osseous muscle.