595 Q Q 2 THE GENERATIVE ORGANS. The eenerative apparatus presents this remarkable peculiarity, that the organs ?whTchTtis comjosed are divided between two individuals of the same spe- cies • and from this division results the difference of sex. The male sex is chiefly characterised by the faculty of producing a fecun- dating fluid, the sperviatic fluid, or semen. The female sex is characterised by the faculty oi producing certain ovules, which become fitted for the reproduction of an individual of the same species, as soon as they have been submitted to the fecundating influence of the fluid secreted by the male. The female sex is also characterised, in the human species, and m aU mammaha, by the pos- session of a gland (the mamma), which is intended to provide nutriment tor the newly born creature. . The genital organs occupy the lower extremity of the trunk ; they are situ- ated in contact with the termination of the digestive canal on the one hand, and of the urinary organs on the other, with the latter of which they have the most intimate connections, especially in the male. THE GENERATIVE ORGANS OF THE MALE. The Testicles and their coverings.—The Epididymis, the Vasa Deferentia, and Vesiculce Seminales.—The Penis.—The Urethra.—The Prostate and Cow- per's Glands. The genital organs of the male consist of a secreting and an excretory appa- ratus, composed of the following parts :—two glands, called the testicles; two provisional excretory canals, the vasa deferentia; two reservoirs for the sper- matic fluid during the longer or shorter intervals between the periods of its expulsion, named the vesiculce seminales; and certain ultimate excretory canals, the ejaculatory ducts and the urethra. To this latter canal is annexed an erec- tile structure, which enables it to assume the condition necessary for the ejec- tion of the fecundating fluid; together, they form the penis. The prostate gland and Cowper's glands yield secretions, the use of which is connected with the generative functions : they may be regarded as appendages of the urethra. The Testicles and their Coverings. The Coverings of the Testicle. The coverings of the testicle consist of several layers; which, reckoning from without inwards, are the scrotum, the dartos, the tunica erythroides, the fibrous coat, and the tunica vaginalis. There is a sixth testicular covering, named the tunica albuginea; but, as it forms an integral part of the testis, we shall describe it with that organ. The scrotum*, or cutaneous covering of the testicles, is a sort of pouch or bag common to both of those organs; the skin of which it is composed exhibits the following peculiarities. It is of a browner colour than that of other parts of the body, so that in some individuals a layer of colouring matter, similar to that existing in the negro, may be demonstrated beneath it; like the skin of the penis and the eyelids, it is very thin, on account of the tenuity of its chorion; it is much larger * From the Latin word scrotum, a sac, or purse of leather. The Greek term for the same part is SfxiDv, and hence the vrord oscheocele, which serves to designate every tumour developed \n the scrotum.