170 ARTHROLOGY. shut, these mo-vements belong to the entire head, and result from the action of its extensor muscles, which thus become powerful auxiliaries of mastication in the carnivorous animals. Temporo-maxillary Articulation (Jigs. 65, 66, and 67.). This joint, the centre of all the movements of the lower jaw, is a double condyloid articulation. The articular surfaces are, I. the two condyles of the lower jaw, transversely oblong, and directed somewhat obliquely inwards and backwards, so that their axis if prolonged would intersect behind: 2. the glenoid cavity of each temporal bone, and the transverse root of its zygomatic p'-ocess. These surfaces are covered with cartilage. The glenoid cavity is remarkable, both for its depth and its capacity. Its depth is increased by several eminences on its borders ; viz. on the inside, by the spine of the sphenoid ; and behind, by the styloid and the vaginal processes, the latter of which is nothing more than the anterior lamina of the auditory meatus. The capacity of the glenoid cavity is no less remarkable, being double or triple that which would be necessary to receive the condyle ; more- over the whole of this cavity is not articular, the part situated behind the gle- noidal fissure being extraneous to the joint. This disproportion between the cavity and the condyle is only observed in man and in ruminantia: in ro- dentia and carnivora, the one is exactly proportioned to the other. The por- tion of the glenoid cavity posterior to the fissure affords an example of those supplementary cavities that in certain circumstances increase or replace the principal cavity. All that part of the glenoid cavity situated anteriorly to the fissure, belongs to the joint, and is therefore covered with cartilage.* The transverse root of the zygoma, convex from before backwards, and con- cave transversely, is also articular, and covered by a cartilage, which is a con- tmuation of that lining the glenoid cavity. This articulation presents the only example in the body of two convex surfaces moving upon each other. The means by which motion is facilitated, and union maintained in this ar- ticulation, are an inter-articular cartilage,' an external lateral ligament, and two synovial membranes; the internal lateral ligament of some authors, and the stylo-maxillary ligament, do not belong to this joint. 1. Inter-articular cartilage (a, Jig 65.). This cartilage is interposed between ; ^. the articular surfaces; it is thick at the cir- * cumference, and sometimes perforated at the centre, and resembles a bi-concave lens, with this peculiarity, that its upper surface is alter- nately convex and concave to correspond with the glenoid cavity and the transverse root of the zygoma, while the lower surface is concave and adapted to the condyle. Its circumference is free, excepting on the out- side, where it adheres to the external lateral lieament, and on the inside where it gives attachment to some fibres of the ex- ernTl p ^rygoid muscle. This circumstance is of great importanpe in regard o the Sechfnism of the joint. The existence of an inter-art.cular cartilage t wMch is subjected to such considerable pressure, and is so^ften pu in motion, agrees with the general law already pointed out. (Vide The Abti ^TSr/™%L.. 66.). This ligament extends fn,m the . The study of the condyle and the g.e^^^^^^^^^^ anatomy ; for by the characters which ttx^y P>-esent^«e m y transversely oblone. ^T^^ZSiS^ i°avfty'irZrp? ar?h^ head of the condyle, whilst the trans- verse root of the zygoma is scarcely discernible.