324 MYOLOGY. the scapula, and especially by the outer edge of that tendon, which is thick and as it were arched, so as to fit the head of the humerus, the long head also forms a cord which supports the bone during abduction, and tends to prevent its displacement; but as the glenoid ca-vity is directed forwards, and as its inferior extremity is situated almost at the junction of the two anterior thirds with the posterior third of the cavity, it follows that this tendon is well calcu- lated to prevent dislocation backwards, but ofiFers no resistance to displacement forwards. Sometimes the lower extremity of the triceps becomes its fixed point, and then it extends the arm upon the fore-arm, and the shoulder upon the arm. MUSCLES OF THE FORE-ARM. The pronator teres.—Flexor carpi radialis. — Palmaris longus.—Flexor carpi ul- naris. —Flexor sublimisdigitorum.—Flexor profundus digitorum.—Lumbricales. — Flexor longus pollicis.—Pronator quadratus. — Supinator longus.—Exten- sores carpi radialis, longior et brevior. — Supinator brevis.—Extensor communis digitorum. — Extensor digiti minimi. — Extensor carpi ulnaris. — Anconeus. — Abductor longus pollicis. — Extensor brevis pollicis. — Extensor proprius indicis. The muscles of the fore-arm are divided into those of the anterior, the ex- ternal, and the posterior regions. Muscles of the Anterior Region. These muscles form four very distinct layers. The first consists of the pronator teres, the flexor carpi radialis, the palmaris longus, and the flexor carpi ulnaris; the second is formed by the flexor sublimis digitorum; the third by the flexor profundus digitorum and the flexor longus pollicis; and the fourth by the pronator quadratus. » The Pronator Teres. Dissection. This muscle is exposed when the inner and anterior part of the ig fascia of the fore-arm is removed. Its origin should be \ ' ■ carefully studied. ■ The pronator teres or rotundus (a, fig. 118.), the most supei-ficial muscle on the anterior and inner aspect of the fore-arm, forms an oblique ridge under the skin, upon the inner side of the bend of the elbow. It is attached above to the inner condyle of the humerus, or epitrocMea (a, fig. 119.), and is inserted below into the middle of the radius (a')- It arises from the lower part of the inner border of the humerus, from the inner condyle, from a large intermuscular septum separating it from the flexor carpi radialis and the flexor sublimis, and from the coro- noid process of the ulna on the inner side of the bra- chialis anticus, by means of a tendinous and fleshy bundle, which is separated from the rest of the muscle by the median nerve. From these origins the fleshy fibres pro- ceed obliquely downwards and outwards (pronateur ob- lique, WinsL), surrounding a flat tendon, which appears first on the anterior surface of the muscle and then turns over the anterior and external surfaces of the radius, to be inserted at the middle of that bone. The muscle there- fore turns spirally around the radius, but not so com- pletely as the supinator brevis. Its insertion may take place opposite any point in the middle third of the bone. Relations. It is covered by the fascia of the fore-arm, by the supinator longus and extensor carpi radialis, and b V the radial artery and musculo-spiral nerve: it covers the brachialis anticus and flexor sublimis, the median nerve by which it is first perforated, and the ulnar artery. A r T-hn oTPiter the amount of supination of the fore-arm, the more eff^ctarisTh\^&Sis muscle as a pronator, because thenit is much