SPLANCHNOLOGY. The edges of the tongue are thick behind, and thinner to-wards the point. The papillas are prolonged in a regular manner upon their upper half in a series of vertical and parallel lines. The actual base is fixed to the os hyoides: the apparent base, -which is seen at the back of the dorsal surface, presents three glosso-epiglottid folds, of which the median (above b,f g. 142.) is much larger than the other two. The apex is situated immediately behind the incisor teeth ; the median fur- rows of both surfaces are prolonged upon it. Having thus examined the peculiarities ofiered by the external surface of the tongue without the aid of dissection, we shall now examine its structure. Structure of the tongue. The tongue being the organ of one of the senses, and being also capable of various movements, we must examine its structure •with reference to both these objects. But after the example of Haller *, we shall be principally occupied here with its structure as a moveable organ. The tongue is essentially composed of muscular fibres, and in this respect the heart is the only organ which can be compared to it. Its framework con- sists of the OS hyoides, of a median cartilaginous lamina, and of its papillary membrane. Framework of the tongue. The os hyoides, already described (seen in fg. 143.), is truly the bone of the tongue : hence it has been called the lingual bone by some anatomists. In man it is not prolonged by a process into the substance of the tongue, as in the lower animals, but is united to it by the hyo-glossal membrane, which commences at the posterior lip of the body of this bone ; and again, since the os hyoides is united to the thyroid cartilage (*) by ligaments, it follows that all the movements of this bone are commu- nicated both to the tongue and to the larynx, between which parts it is situated. From the middle of this fibrous membrane the median cartilaginous lamina of the tongue, described by M. Blandin, proceeds. This lamina, which is per- fectly distinct from the cartilage described by M. Baur in the dog and the wolf f, is situated in the median line ; it is directed vertically, and gives attach- ment to some muscular fibres by its two lateral surfaces ; its upper edge is thin, and reaches the middle of the dorsal region of the tongue; its lower edge is seen between the genio-hyo-glossi, where it is either free or covered by a few muscular fibres which interlace below it. It is thick behind, but thin in front, where its fibres have a number of intervals between them, like those in the septum of the corpora cavernosa penis. I regard the papillary membrane as part of the framework of the tongue, on account of its density, which is so great, that it is with dif5culty cut by the scalpel. Moreover, a great number of the muscular fibres terminate in it. The Muscles of the Tongue. These are either intrinsic or extrinsic. The intrinsic muscles. The ancients regarded the tongue as a single muscle, the structure of which they did not attempt to unravel. Columbus was the first to consider this organ as composed of two juxtaposed muscles. If the texture of the tongue be examined by means of sections made in different directions, it wiU be found to be composed of an interlacement of muscular fibres, which will, indeed, appear to be inextricable. Among these different sections, I would principally call attention to a vertical section, made at right angles to the axis of the tongue. This section presents a pale muscular tissue in the centre, in which successive layers of vertical and transverse fibres may be distinguished. A soft fatty substance, the lingual adipose tissue, is interposed between these muscular fibres ; it is analogous to the fat formed at » Haller treats of the muscles of the tongue when describing the orgaii of voice (Hb. ix. sect. ii. D 421 1 and of the papillary membrane with the organs of the senses (lib. xm. sect.i. p. 99 ). + The rartilase described by Baur is a fibrous cord, subjacent to the raucous membrane, and occupying the median line on the lower surface of the tongue. It extends from tlic ijpcx of the latter where it is very well marked, to the base, where it termmates in a cellular raphe.