STRUCTURE OF THE TEETH, 233 * See note, p. 234. grinding surface of the tooth ; it diminishes in thickness as it approaches the neck, at which part it terminates abruptly. The prominence of the curved line, indicating the termination of the enamel, gives rise to the constriction Called tllG ll€ck. By comparing and in some degree contrasting the peculiar characters of the enamel and the ivory, we shall be better able to assign to each their respective properties. 1. The enamel is of a bluish-white, milky colour, and semi-transparent; the ivory is yellowish-white, and has an appearance like satin. 2. The enamel, examined in fragments of the crown, exhibits fibres perpen- dicularly implanted upon the ivory, and pressed closely to each other. The ivory, on the contrai-y, is formed of concentric layers* the fibres of which are generally parallel to the long diameter of the tooth. 3. Both substances are excessively hard; but in this respect the enamel is superior to the ivory, for it will strike fire with steel, and is much less easily worn down by use; it can even turn the edge of a file. This excessive hard- ness, a principal element of immutability, explains how the teeth are preserved uninjured as long as the enamel remains entire, and, on the other hand, the facility with which they decay when once it has been removed. The great brittleness of the enamel, which is one of its most characteristic properties, is also owing to this extreme hardness. 4. In chemical composition, the enamel and ivory present important differ- ences, indicated in the foUowiag tables : — Ivory. Enamel. i Phosphate of lime Fluate of lime ... Carbonate of lime - . - Phosphate of magnesia Soda and chloride of sodium Cartilage and water 61-95 2-10 5-30 1-25 1-40 28-00 Phosphate of lime ... Fluate of lime - - Carbonate of lime Phosphate of magnesia Membranes, soda and water S5 3 3-2 8-0 1- 5 2- 0 It follows, therefore, that the principal chemical distinction between these sub- stances depends on the existence of cartilage, that is, of an animal matter in the ivory, and on its absence in the enamel. The presence of cartUage in ivory forms a trace of resemblance between this substance and bone; and this is further strengthened by the result of the action of heat, by which both are similarly affected. Between the true bones and the ivory there is, however, all that dif- ference by which a living tissue is distinguished from a solidified product of se- cretion. I admit, then, a complete want of vitality both in the ivory and the enamel of the tooth ; nevertheless there are some phenomena which appear to contradict such an opinion. 1. The cortical substance of the tooth affords a much more perfect sensation of such bodies as come in contact with it, than either the nails or hair. 2. -Weak acids, particularly vegetable acids, cause a peculiar sensation, when they are applied to the teeth, rendering the slightest touch extremely painful; a sensation generally expressed by saying that the teeth are set on edge. But if, on the other hand, we reflect that the substance of the teeth is never affected by inflammation, that it never becomes the seat of any tumour or diseased product, and that it is worn away by rubbing and by the file, in the same way as an inorganic body, without any attempt at reparation or any evidence of the existence of a nutritive process, we must be led to admit the absence of vitality in these organs, and to explain the foregoing facts as dependent simply upon transmission. • ^'•ff*^^' liardness, fragility, and mutability of the enamel and ivory, vary in ditterent individuals ; hence the difference in the durability of the teeth and their liability to change. It must not be imagined, that the ivory when ex- posed IS susceptible of caries or necrosis; its changes are entirely of a che-