190 ARTHROLOGY. Radio-carpal Articulation ifigs. 73. to 75:)j Preparation. Carefully remove the fibrous sheaths of the flexor and extensor tendons. This articulation belongs to the class of condylarthroses The articular surfaces (Jig. 73.) are those of the scaphoid, the semilunar, and the cuneiform, -which together form a condyle, oblong transversely, and covered by articular cartilages, which are prolonged further on the posterior than on the anterior aspect of the bones, and the transversely oblong concave, articular surface, formed by the lower ends of the radius and ulna. The radius which forms by itself two thirds of the surface corresponds to the scaphoid and semilunar, and presents an antero-posterior ridge, and a sUght contraction from before backwards, opposite the interval between these two bones. The ulna corresponds to the cuneiform bone, with the intervention of an inter-articular cartilage, viz. the triangular cartilage already described, which performs the part both of a ligament and an inter-articular cartilage. The concave surface presented by the lower part of the fore-arm is completed at the sides by the styloid processes of the radius and ulna. Means of union. There are two lateral, three anterior, and some posterior ligaments. The external lateral ligament (a,figs. 73, 74, 75.), stretches from the summit of the styloid process of the radius to the outer part of the scaphoid, where it is inserted by a broad attachment immediately on the outside of the radial ar- ticular surface of that bone. The anterior bundles of this ligament are the strongest. The internal lateral ligament (b, figs. 73, 74, 75.), is very sbght; it commences at the summit of the styloid process of the ulna, and divides into two fasciculi, one of which is attached to the pisiform, the other to the cuneiform bone. The anterior ligaments (^c,fig. 75.) are three in number, and all extend from the radius to the bones of the carpus. The external anterior ligament arises from the' styloid process of the radius, and is lost among the anterior ligaments of the carpus. The iniddle anterior ligament, straight and short, arises from the anterior edge of the lower end of the radius near the styloid process, and passes somewhat obliquely inwards to the ^nteiior extremity of the os semilunare. The internal anterior ligament also commences at the anterior edge of the radius, but to the inside of the preceding, and extends to the anterior extremity of the OS semilunare. This ligament is very strong, and is continuous with the tri- angular cartUage. . , The posterior ligaments (d, fig. 74.) are much weaker than the preceding; they are stretched obHquely from the posterior border of the articular surface of the radius, to the posterior extremity of the cuneiform and semilunar bones. Ihe fasciculus for the cuneiform bone is very thick. .... With reo-ard to the anterior and posterior ligaments of the wrist-joint, we may remark, that they all come exclusively from the radius, and closely unite the lower end of this bone to the first range of the carpus, and consequently to tne ^"^The synovial membrane (,see fig. 73.) is loose behind, where |f o^lf P^;-- tiallv covered by the ligaments we have described ; throughout the whole ot he reSng circumference of the joint it is strengthened by scattered liga- mLtous fibres, which some anatomists have described as a capsular hgament. ^Snovial membrane sometimes commimicates with that of the lower radio- tro^ttnl Se .™Lor lendo.s bekind, should be not.ced, a. ««r.mg 1. ,n«re>«e the strength of the joint.