THE CHEEKS. 433 The mucous membrane is a continuation of that of the lips, and presents the same characters. The glandular layer is formed by the buccal salivary glands, which exactly resemble the labial glands, but are smaller, and like them cause projections of the mucous membrane, upon Avhich they open by distinct orifices. Two of these glands have obtained a particular appellation, because they are not sub- jacent to the mucous membrane, but are situated between the buccinator and the masseter muscles: they are called the molar glands. Their excretory ducts open opposite the last molar tooth. The muscular layer is formed, in the masseteric region, by the masseter and a part of the platysma; in the malar region, by the orbicularis palpebrarum; in the buccal region, properly so called, by the buccinator, and the two zygo- matici. The aponeurotic layer is formed by the aponeurosis of the buccinator muscle. The adipose layer is thin in the malar and masseteric regions, and very thick in the buccal region, properly so called. Bichat has, moreover, pointed out a mass of fat in the substance of the cheek, between the buccinator and the mas- seter. It is highly developed in the infant, and vestiges of it are found even in the most emaciated individuals, and in extreme old age. The arteries of the cheeks come, partly, from the facial and the transverse artery of the face, and partly from the internal maxillary : the branches from the internal maxillary belong to the infra-orbital, the inferior dental, the buccal, the masseteric, and the alveolar arteries. The veins bear the same name, and follow the same course as the arteries. The lymphatic vessels pass into the cervical and parotid lymphatic glands. The nerves of the cheeks, like those of the lips, are derived from two sources, viz. the buccal and malar nerves, from the portio dura of the seventh pair, and the buccal, masseteric, infra-orbital, and mental branches of the fifth pair. The cheek is perforated by the duct of Steno (s,fig. 144.), -which runs hori- zontally foi-wards below the malar bone. Developement. The absence of the teeth, the presence of a large quantity of fat (more especially the great size of the mass above noticed), the want of height in the superior maxilla, from the non-developement of the sinus, and lastly the obtuse angle of the lower jaw, give to the cheek of the infant its characteristic fulness. The loss of the teeth and the wasting of the alveolar borders in the aged diminish the inter-maxillary space; so that their emaciated cheeks become disproportionately long, and consequently display a looseness, which forms one of the chief peculiarities in their physiognomj-. At puberty, the cheeks of the male are covered with hair. Uses. The cheeks form lateral active walls of the mouth, which, closely applying themselves against the alveolar arches and teeth, force the food be- tween the latter, and thus assist in mastication. They are employed, also, in suction, in the articulation of sounds, and in playing upon wind-instruments. In the expression of the passions they assist rather by changes in their colour, than by any distinct movements. The cheeks and the lips constitute the outer wall of a supernumerary buccal cavity, of which the inner wall is formed by the alveolar borders and the teeth. This cavity, a sort of vestibule to the buccal cavity, properly so caUed, is very dilatable. It may be considered as a kind of reservoir, in which the food IS deposited, in order to be submitted in successive portions to the action of the masticatory organs. This vestibular buccal cavity is provided with labial and buccal salivary glands. It is also interesting to find that the parotid glands, the largest of all the salivary glands, pour their secretion into this cavity. roj,. I.