ARTHROLOGY. 210 from the tendons of the popliteus and gastrocnemius; and, lastly, some fibrous Fig.K. fig.80. bundles, partly vertical and partly oblique, arise from above the con- dyles of the femur, and are at- tached to the tibia. From this col- lection of fibres running in differ- ent directions, there results an irregularly interwoven ligament perforated by foramina that trans- mit the ramifications of the middle articular artery: several of the most deeply-seated ligamentous bundles are inserted into the edges of the inter-articular cartilages. But in addition to these fibres, which especially constitute the posterior ligament, there is also a sort of semi-capsular fibrous membrane co- vering the back of each condyle; it is closely united to the tendons of the gastrocnemius and plan- taris muscles, which, indeed, may be regarded as forming active pos- terior ligaments of the knee-joint. The sesamoid bone of the ex- ternal head of the gastrocnemius, when it exists, is found in the sub- stance of the external semi-capsule. The anterior ligament {d,figs. 80 and 81.), or ligamentum patellse, is that portion of the common ten- don of the extensor muscles which passes between the patella and the tibia. It is very broad, thick, and almost triangular, and is continu- ous in front of the patella with the tendon of the extensor muscles, by ^ means of a superficial layer of J'^ ''- iections behind the apex, and it proceeds contractmg ^ is it descends, to the most prominent and lowest part of the anterior tubercle of the tibia. Belund ;his bga- ment there is a considerable quantity of fatty matt^^^ (e, fig. 81.), which separates it from the articular and synovial membrane 5 and a very distinct bursa (/) separates it from that portion of the anterior tubercle , "'"'^Z^^S^eousUga.r^ts. In the interior of the knee-joint there are two interosseous hgaments (ai Z h.), so arranged as to admit of the most ex- en ive flexion, but to Ibnit the movement of extension They are called crucial, because they cross each other ike Ae letter X. They are situated m the deep in- er:condyloid fossa. The anterior (9, figs. , 8. and 81.) arises from the external condyle and passes to the Kart of the spine of the tibia. The ;,os<«nar (,^,. 78.) arises from [rSemal cOnd/le, and is fixed to the back part of