SPLANCHNOLOGY. and the small intestine. Its upper boundary is altogether arbitrary ; it is de- termined by a horizontal plane intersecting it, immediately above the insertion ot the small intestine. It is single in the human subject, but is double in some species of animals. It is situated ic,fig. 161.) in the right iliac fossa, and oc- cupies It almost entirely. It is one of the most fixed portions of the alimentary canal, for the peritoneum merely passes in front of it, and binds it down into the iliac fossa. It is not, however, so firmly fixed in all subjects ; it is often enveloped by the peritoneum on all sides, and floats, as it were, in the region which it occupies, its capability of motion depending on the looseness of the right lumbar mesocolon. This arrangement of the peritoneum is not necessary, however, to explain the great amount of displacement which the caicom under- goes in certain cases. It is not uncommon to find it in the cavity of the pelvis : it occasionally enters into the formation of hernia;, and, what is somewhat remarkable, it has been at least as frequently found in hemise upon the left as upon the right side. ' Its direction, which is in general the same as that of the ascending colon, is not always Tertical, as may be seen by examining a moderately distended intestine, but it passes obliquely upwards and to the right side, so that it forms with the colon an obtuse angle projecting on the right side ; and I have even seen it form a right angle with the colon. This arrangement, connected with the obliquity of the plane of the iliac fossa, explains why, when its attachments are relaxed, it has less tendency to be displaced towards the right inguinal ring and femoral arch, than to the same parts on the left side. In some subjects, the csecum and its vermiform appendix are applied to the lower part of the small intestine, so that the caecum and the neighbouring part of the colon describe a curve, the concavity of which embraces the lower end of the ileum. In size it is generally larger than the portion of intestine which succeeds it: this perhaps depends less upon its primitive conformation, than upon the ac- cumulation of faecal matters resulting from the inclined position of this intes- tine, and from the direction in which its contents are moved. It may be said as a general rule, that, next to the stomach, the ca;cum is the largest part of the alimentary canal. There are many individual varieties in the length and capacity of this intestine, in which the fsecal matters are liable to be retained. These accumulations occasion great pain; they have been much studied lately, and have been often mistaken for inflammations. The caecum is very slightly developed in carnivora, but, on the other hand, it is very large in herbivora. Figure. The caicum is a sort of rounded ampulla, all the diameters of which are nearly equal; it is also sacculated like the rest of the large intestine. Upon it we observe the commencement of the three longitudinal bands, which I have already noticed: of these the anterior is, in the caecum, twice as broad as either of the two posterior ; some folds of peritoneum loaded with fat, which are called fatty appendages (appendices epiploica); and, lastly, some protu- berances, separated by parallel depressions, an arrangement which exists in the colon also, and is produced by the longitudinal bands. Relations. In front, the caecum is in relation with the abdominal parietes, through which it can be felt when it is distended with gases, or fsecal matters. When the caecum is collapsed, the small intestine is often interposed between it and the parietes of the abdomen. Behind, it rests upon the iliacus muscle, from which it is separated by the lumbo-iliac fascia. The cellular tissue uniting it to this aponeurosis is extremely loose, and therefore offers no opposition to displacement of the intestine. When the peritoneum forms a complete covering for the caecum, that intestine is of course in indirect relation with the iliacus. The vermiform appendix is often tuiTied back behind the CEecimi. On the inside, the caecum receives the small in- testine ; the angle at which they unite (the ileo-cajcal angle) varies much. Sometimes the small intestine is inserted at a right angle; most commonly the angle of incidence is obtuse above, and acute below (^Jig. 160.). Sometimes the