RADIO-CUBITAL ARTICULATIONS. 187 cubital articulation) ; 3. by the interosseous Ugan.ent through a great part of their extent. Superior Radio-cubital Articulation. _ Preparation. Remove with care the anconeus and the supinator hrevxs, and separate the fore-ai-m ^o"; *f f ™; „f tead of the radius, which is of IS attacnea lo arransement has doubtless given rise to the assertion, ^^Tl^JeiurnJ^lrTS^nt is attached to the'ulna. Those fibres of the anfertr h^amen^^^^^^^^ are directed obUquely downwards aiid outwai-ds, are dso ^sertf d into the annular Ugament. AU these ligamentous attachments fetai^ the annular Ugament in its proper position; when they are divided t L manifestly retracted towards the neck of the radius, and exposes the arti- cuSr edge li the bojie. The breadth of the annular hg^ent is from three to W lines, ^nd its upper circumference is wider than the lower, which con- struction iends to maintain the head of the radius in its situation more accu- rately With regard to its structure I would observe, that it is much thicker behind where it receives the insertion of the external lateral Ugament, than in front where it may be much more easily ruptured; and I am persuaded that in luxation of the elbow it is not the external lateral ligament yfhich. is most commonly torn, but rather the anterior portion of the annular. _ The synovial capsule is a sort of diverticulum fi-om that of the elbow-jomt, which is prolonged upon the inner surface of the annular Ugament, and is re- flected upwards from its lower margin, so as to form a sort of cul-de-sac below it. Inferior Radio-cubital Articulation. Preparation. 1. Remove the muscles on both aspects of the fore-arm; 2. Se- parate the hand from the fore-arm so as to expose the lower surface of the triangular ligament, or fibro-cartilage; 3. In order to examme the interior of the joint, saw through the middle of the fore-arm; divide the anterior and pos- terior Ugaments; separate the two bones of the fore-arm; cut through the triangular ligament at its insertion into the ulna. The articular surfaces are a smaU sigmoid cavity on the radius, analogous to that which we have described at the upper end of the ulna, and the ex- ternal two thirds of the circumference of the head of the ulna. This articu- lation, therefore, is precisely the reverse of the upper, since in this the ulna furnishes the head, and the radius the sigmoid cavity, whilst a precisely op- posite arrangement obtains in the upper joint. The means of union are, 1. some fibres stretched in front and behind the joint, and called anterior (if, figs. 71. and 75.) and posterior (g,figs. 72. and 74.) ligaments. They form a very imperfect annular Ugament. They extend from the anterior and posterior margins of the sigmoid cavity of the radius, to the anterior and posterior surfaces of the styloid process of the ulna. 2. The triangular ligament, or rather cartilage {i,figs. 71. and 73.). This is a triangular lamina of cartilage, the apex of which is fixed into the angle formed by the head and styloid process of the ulna, and its base into the lower edge of the sigmoid cavity of the radius. It is thin at the base and the centre, and thick at the apex and the circumference. It concurs in maintaining the