626 SPLANCHNOLOGY. no case does the vagina assume a muscular character like the latter organ. From the presence of the dartoid tissue an obscure vermicular movement may take place, and assist the elasticity of the walls of the vagina. The posterior wall and the upper part of the anterior wall are thin; the va- gina is very much thicker opposite the urethra, which seems to be hollowed out of its substance, and terminates by a rugous enlargement, which forms at the entrance of the vagina the projection already mentioned, and which is only a very dense spongy tissue. The mucous membrane of the vagina is remarkable for the thickness of its epithelium*, for its close adhesion to the proper membrane, and for its highly developed papillae, especially at the entrance of the passage, where the rugaj are nothing more than papillae in an exaggerated form. The mucous follicles can be easily demonstrated. The bulb of the vagina. Besides the spongy expansion at the orifice of the vagina, there is in front and on each side of this orifice an enlargement or cavernous body, occupying the interval between the entrance of the vagina and the roots of the clitoris. It is not very thick in the middle, where it is placed between the meatus urinarius and the union of the roots of the clitoris, but gradually enlarges from this point, and terminates below upon each side of the vagina by an enlarged extremity. The posterior wall of the vagina is the only part in which it does not exist. In position, as well as shape, it resembles the bulb of the m-ethra in the male, f The constrictor vagina. This consists of two muscles, one on each side of the orifice of the vagina, the arrangement of which very nearly resembles that of the bulbo-cavernosus in the male. Each muscle commences in front of the rectum by an interlacement of fibres common to it, to its fellow of the opposite side, and to the sphincter ani, passes forwards under the form of a flattened band, and terminates upon the sides of the clitoris, a portion being continued above it and blended with the suspensory ligament of that body. Relations. It is covered on the outside by the skin and the fatty cellular tissue of the labia majora; it corresponds on the inside with the bulb of the va- gina, which it must strongly compress. The proper vaginal arteries arise from the hypogastric. The uterine arteries also send numerous branches to the vagina. The veins are very numerous, form plexuses, and terminate in the hypogas- tric veins. The nerves are derived from the hypogastric plexus. Developement. The rugae of the vagina are not visible until about the end of the fifth month of intra-uterine life; from the sixth to the eighth they become much more developed than they are subsequently. The transverse rug£e are visible in the whole length of the vagina, and are placed closely to each other. The hymen does not make its appearance until about the middle of foetal life; it is directed forwards, and is rough and jagged. It is always present. The Urethra in the Female. This canal, which is, as it were, hollowed out of the anterior wall of the vagina, differs considerably from the male urethra, of which it represents the membranous portion only. It is about one inch in length. It is very difficult to determine its diameter on account of its dilatabdity; but it is about three or four lines when quite undilated. Its lower end is somewhat contracted. It is directed obUquely downwards and forwards, and is shghtly concave m front. * TThP pnithpliura in the vagina, and also in the vulva, is squamous.] + In one subject on"hrouter side of this vaginal bulb. I found a smooth sero-fibrous pouch ^, "?!!^rfr.,n»narpnt mucous fluid. A narrow canal, proceeding from this pouch, passed recZ ?fwVrd?tr eTtrarerf the^^^^^^ .1 could not find the orlflce of this canal, which probacy obliterated. The same disposition existed on both sides.