425 GENERAL REMARKS. animal. In consequence of possessing it, animals may be detached from the soil, so as to move from place to place. In the lowest species, the entire animal is nothing more than an alimentary sac, having a single opening, and formed by a reflection of the skin ; so that, according to the beautiful observation of Trembley, when polypes are turned inside out, the digestive process is per- formed as well by their external as by their internal surface. Ascending in the scale of animals, the canal soon presents two openings, acquires larger di- mensions, becomes more or less convoluted, and is distinct from other sys- tems of organs. A skeleton clothed by muscles is interposed between it and the skin. It becomes more and more voluminous, in proportion as the nutritive materials and the textures of the body differ more widely in their chemical composition. What a difference there is, in this respect, between certain fishes, in which the alimentary canal is not nearly so long as the animal, and some herbivora; the ram for example, in which it is twenly-seven times the length of the body. Carnivorous animals, again, have a short and narrow alimentary canal. Man being destined to live, both upon animal and vegetable substances, occupies, as it were, a middle station between the hei'bivora and carnivora. General situation. The digestive canal is situated in front of the vertebral column, with the direction of which the straight portion of the canal accurately corresponds, whilst its tortuous part is distant from, though invariably con- nected with it by means of membranous attachments. It commences at the lower part of the face, traverses the neck and the thorax, penetrates into the ab- dominal cavity, which is almost exclusively intended for it, and the dimensions and mechanism of which bear strict relation to the functions of the alimentary canal; and it terminates at the outlet of the pelvis, anterior to the coccyx, by the anal oi'ifice. Its upper part is in immediate relation with the organs of respiration ; its lower, with the genito-urinary apparatus. Dimensions. The length of the digestive canal has been calculated to be seven or eight times that of the body of the individual. Its diameter is not equal through its whole extent; and its alternate expansions and contractions establish very distinct limits between its several portions. The largest portion is undoubtedly that which receives the name of the stomach; the narrowest parts are the cervical portion of the oesophagus, the pyloric opening of the stomach, and the ileo-caecal orifice. It is important to remark, that the trans- verse diniensions of an alimentary canal have to a certain extent an inverse ratio, to its length. Thus a very wide intestinal canal is generally less re- markable for length. This remark is illustrated by comparative anatomy in the fact, that in the horse, an herbivorous animal, the intestinal canal is shorter, but at the same time of a much greater caliber than in the ruminantia, which are also herbivorous. Direction. The upper or supra-diaphragmatic portion of the alimentary canal, through which the food merely passes, is straight; the sub-diaphrag- matic portion is very much convoluted upon itself, but again becomes straight before its termination. General form. The digestive apparatus forms a cyUndrical continuous canal, m which we have to consider an external and generally free serous surface, and an internal mucous surface. Structure. The digestive canal is composed of four membranes or tunics: — 1. The most external is the serous or peritoneal coat, also named the common tunic, because it is common to almost all the organs in the abdominal cavity. Ihis membrane, which may be regarded as an accessory tunic, is often incom- plete, and even entirely wanting throughout the supra-diaphragmatic portion ot the digestive canal. At the same time that it constitutes the external covering of this canal, it separates it from the neighbouring parts, facilitates Its movements, and forms certain bands, which maintain the several portions ot the canal more or less fixedly in their proper situations. The sei-ous membranes of which this external tunic is only a dependence, are shut sacs which, on the one hand, line the walls of the cavities to which they belong'