516 SPLANCHNOLOGY. than the preceding, and corresponds to the base (g) of the gall bladder. Some- times there is merely a trace of this notch, and sometimes it is altogether wanting. In some subjects there is only one great notch common to the gall bladder and the umbilical vein, and the borders of it are sinuous, or cut into small notches. It is almost always possible, when the parietes of the abdomen are relaxed, to insinuate the fingers between the ribs and the liver. The posterior border of the liver is very thick in all that part -which corre- sponds to the right side, and becomes gradually thinner as it approaches the left extremity. This border, which is short, rounded, and curved, so as to fit the convexity of the vertebral column, adheres intimately to the diaphragm by rather dense cellular tissue. The peritoneum is reflected, both above and below this border, from the diaphragm to the liver, to form what is called the coronary ligament. The cellular interval between these two layers of perito- neum is of irregular form, and varies in size. This border is divided Into two parts by a deep notch, which forms two thirds or three fourths of a canal for the reception of the inferior vena cava (c, fig. 164.). This notch is con- verted into a complete canal, sometimes by a sort of fibrous bridge, and some- times by a prolongation from the posterior extremity of the lobulus Spigelii. In order to comprehend the arrangement of the liver opposite this notch for the vena cava, that vein should be slit open, and we then see at the bottom of a deep notch a large cavity, into which all the hepatic veins (A h) open. We observe, also, that the antero-posterior fissure is continuous with the fissure of the vena cava, behind the lobulus Spigelii. This lobule, viewed from behind, appears like a tongue detached from the rest of the liver, by cu-cumscribing fissures and grooves. On the right side the liver terminates in a thick smooth extremity, forming the base of the pyramid to which this organ has been compared. A triangular fold of peritoneum, caUed the right triangular ligament (/), is stretched from the middle of this thick extremity to the diaphragm. On the left side the liver terminates in an angular or obtuse tongue, more or less elongated, and sometimes reaching as far as the spleen, to which I have seen it adherent. This prolongation, which is attached to the diaphragm by a triangular fold of peritoneum, called the left triangular ligament (3, fig. 161. ; /, fig. 164.) is slightly notched behind for the lower end of the ossophagus, which is bordered by it upon the left side. In one subject I saw this tongue com- pletely separated from the rest of the liver, with the exception of a vascular pedicle about four lines in length. This peculiarity was probably owing to traction exercised by the spleen, to which the prolongation from the liver was intimately adherent. . . Colour. The liver is of a reddish brown colour, the depth of which varies in different individuals. Its surface, and also sections of it, resemble in appear- ance a granite composed of two kinds of grains, the one deep brown, the other yellowish ; and hence has arisen the distinction between the two substances ol the liver In no tissue in the body is there greater variety in colom-, than in that of the liver. Independently of the different shades which it is impossible to describe, the liver is sometimes of a yeUowish, or canary-yellow, or a cha- mois-yellow (hence the name cirrhosis given to a particular disease ot the liver); or it may be of a more or less deep olive green hue ; or of a slate colour. These differences in colour, which have not perhaps been sufiiciently investigated, are connected with more or less decided alterations of texture. The chamois- yellow colour almost always indicates the existence of fatty degeneration. ^ Fragility. The fragility of the liver is one of the most important particula s in its description, it is con,pact ^nd fragile and cannot therefore be to^^^^^ compressed without suffering laceration ; hence the danger of contusions m the region of the liver, and the rules laid down by accoucheurs for avoiding all compression of the abdomen of the foetus during the manipulations re- quired i^nprTrracted labours. The fragility and the weight of the hver exp ai the occurrence of injuries of that organ by contre-coup, after iklls from an