366 MYOLOGY. and lastly with the outer border of the muscle. In the lower third, the sar- torius occupies a deep groove, formed by the gracilis and vastus internus; from the latter muscle it is separated below by an interval containing adipose tissue, of which circumstance advantage may be taken in the application of issues. It also covers the saphenus nerve (a deep branch of the anterior crural), which emerges from beneath its anterior border, opposite the lowermost point of insertion of the adductor magnus. Near the knee joint, the saphena vein is in relation with the posterior border of the muscle. The structure of the sartorius is very simple. The fleshy and tendinous fibres are all parallel, and the former correspond exactly with the length of the muscle. Action. The sartorius flexes the leg upon the thigh, which it draws in- wards, so as to cross one leg over the other. When this movement is pro- duced, it flexes the thigh upon the pelvis. If the fixed point of the muscle be at the leg, it then flexes the pelvis upon the thigh, and rotates it, so that the anterior surface of the trunk is directed to the opposite side. The Rectus Femoris and Triceps Extensor Cruris, or the Triceps Femoralis. I have included under the name triceps femoralis the two muscles, or rather the two parts of the same muscle, which are described separately in most anatomical works. The reasons for this arrangement will be understood after the following description of the muscle: — I shall consider the triceps femoralis as composed of three portions viz. a middle or long portion, the rectus femoris of authors : an external and an in- ternal portion, which constitute together the triceps cruris of authors; for these I shall retain the names of vastus internus and externus, including in the former the middle portion or crureus, properly so called, of most anatomists. The long portion of the triceps femoralis, or the rectus femoris (r,fig. 126.), is situated in the anterior region of the thigh, extending from the anterior in- ferior spinous process of the ilium to the patella: it is vertical in its direction, thick and broad in the middle, and narrower at its extremities. It arises by a very strong tendon (,r,Jig. 127.), which embraces the anterior inferior spinous process of the ilium, and is proportioned to the power of the muscle. This tendon receives on its outer side another flat tendon, arising from a groove upon the rim of the cotyloid cavity, and following its curvature: this is the reflected tendon, which is blended with and strengthens the straight tendon. It then expands into a broad aponeurosis, the outer portion of which is very thin and prolonged over the anterior surface of the muscle as far as the middle, while the inner portion is very thick, and penetrates into its sub- stance nearly as far as its insertion. The fleshy fibres arise from the pos- terior surface and edges, and also from the anterior surface of the mner portion of this aponeurosis; they aU pass downwards and backwards, the internal inwards and the external outwards, and form a fleshy beUy, which increases as it proceeds downwards, and then terminates on the anterior surface of a broad, thick, and shining aponeurosis, occupying the lower two thirds of the posterior surface of the muscle, and soon becoming contracted into a flat tendon, which receives upon its inner edge the superficial fibres of the vastus internus, again expands, and is finaUy blended with the common tendon of the two vasti. rp. • „ ,„> Triceps femoris of authors, or vastus internus and externus. 1 his is a vo- luminous mass of muscular tissue, situated behind the preceding muscle, and extending from the three surfaces of the shaft of the femur to the patella and tibia It is commonly but erroneously considered to be divided above into three heads which are described under the names of vastus internus, vastus ex- ternus, and crureus. I have searched in vain for the middle portion, tut have never been able to find more than two separate parts ; one external, very large