SPLANCHNOLOGY. krlv o?il-r°!'i"^r"^' ^'•'^ which are either regu- lany or irregularly arranged. ^ to dc^momme l?^'^^'''"'^ ^^'^ '''' ^ef^'^™^ is «° thin that it is difficult The Vesicula Seminales. The vesiculee seminales are two membranous pouches, which serve as re- servoirs for the semen.* They are situated (s,fg. 181.) between the rectum and the bladder, on the outer p. side of, and parallel to, the vasa deferentia. As ^ 'S- they are directed obliquely inwards and for- wards (.s, fig. 186.), their anterior extremities are closely approximated, being separated from each other merely by the width of the vasa de- ferentia, while their posterior extremities are very far asunder; they thus form two sides of an isosceles triangle, within the area of which the bladder (a) is in immediate relation with the rectum. They are flattened and oblong, and are expanded at their posterior extremities, which sometimes project beyond the inferior fxmdus of the distended bladder, and always do so when that organ is contracted. Their ante- rior extremities are narrowed, and surrounded by the prostate, and their surface has a sac- culated appearance. They vary in size, which is not always equal on the two sides ; and they are much larger in the adult than in youth or old age. Their size also varies according to whether they are empty or full. They are from two inches to two inches and a half long, and about six lines broad, and two or three lines thick. Their relations with the bladder and the rectum are not direct; for they are surrounded with a filamentous tissue, consisting of transverse fibres, which separates them from the neighbouring parts, and appears to me to be analogous to the tissue of the dartos. When divided in various directions, the vesiculae seminales exhibit a col- lection of cells, communicating with each other, and filled with a yellowish brown, thick, viscid fluid, very different in appearance from semen as ejaculated during life. The sacculi of the external suflface, and the cells and septa of the interior of the vesiculaj, are formed by the extremely complicated convolution of a sort of intestinal tube, or narrow oblong sac, on which I have never been able to find any appendages, ramifications, or diverticula. When imravelled (as at s), its length varies from six to eight inches; its convolutions are attached to each other by fibrous tissue, but they may always be separated, either with or without maceration. I have seen an unfolded vesicle a foot in length; in other subjects I have seen two distinct pouches on each side, one of which was ex- tremely small. Lastly, the internal surface of the seminal vesicles has the same rough and alveolar appearance as that of the vasa deferentia. The structure of the parietes of the vesicles is also precisely the same as * [The semen, considered anatomically, consists, according to Wagner, of/(7«o) sc7Hi'«i.s, .sc- minal granules, and seminal animalcules; the latter were discovered by Ham, and described by Leuwenhoek. In the human subject, the seminal granules are round granulated bodies, about ^^th to ji^th of an inch in diameter; the seminal animalcules, or spermatozoa, have an elliptical body, about g^th to f.jjjjth of an inch in diameter, and a long caudal filament: their total length is from Jjgth to ^^th of an inch : their organisation is yet unknown ; but in the spermatozoa of the bear, Valentin has lately observed evidences of a definite internal structure ; thev perform very rapid movements, which continue some hours after evacuation or removal from the bodv They are not found before puberty, and then only in the vesicula; seminales, vas deferens and epididymis. The semen of the testis contains, besides the semmjil granules, certain vesicles or cysts, in which, as shown bv Wagner, the future spermatozoa are developed.]