514 SPLANCHNOLOGY. Generally, the relative proportion between them is as six to one. This, however, is but of little consequence ; for as the distinction between the two lobes is quite imaginary, the substance of the left may without any incon- venience be included in the right, and vice versa. The transverse fissure or fissure of the vena portae (d p) is the true hiius of the liver, for through it the hepatic vessels enter and pass out. It is a very broad transverse fissure, from fifteen to eighteen lines in length, occupying ahnost the middle of the lower surface of the liver, a little nearer to the posterior than to the anterior border, and to the left than to the right extremity. It is bounded on the left by the longitudinal fissure, with which it communicates; to the right of the gall bladder (g), it is prolonged obliquely forwards by a deep and narrow cleft. In the transverse fissure we find the vena portae, or the sinus (/>) of the vena portee, the hepatic artery (a), the roots of the hepatic duct (rf), a great number of lymphatic vessels and nerves, and a considerable quantity of cellular tissue. The gastro-hepatic omentum is given off from this fissure. The transverse fissure is situated between two eminences, called by the an- cients the piUars of the gate (portal eminences'). All the peculiarities of the inferior surface of the Uver may be referred to these two fissures. Thus, to the left of the longitudinal fissure we observe the inferior surface of the left lobe, slightly concave behind, where it is applied to the lobulus Spigelii, from which it is separated by the gastro-hepatic omentum; concave in front, so as to be adapted to the convexity of the stomach, upon which it is prolonged to a greater or less extent. This relation of the liver with the stomach is of the utmost importance. Thus, when the stomach is distended, it pushes the liver upwards and backwards in such a manner, that its lower surface is directed somewhat forwards. In cases of chronic ulceration of the stomach, the tissue of the liver is not unfrequently found supplying the place of the destroyed coats of the stomach, and this to a considerable extent. The lower surface of the left lobe is often in relation with the spleen, which it oc- casionally covers like a helmet. To the right of the longitudinal fissure, and in front of the transverse fissure, we find, upon the lower surface of the right lobe, the fossa for the gall bladder, which is more or less deep, oblong, and directed from before backwards, up- wards, and to the left side, like the gall bladder (g) itself, for the reception of which it is intended. This fossa is not always prolonged as far as the anterior border of the liver. Between the fossa of the gall bladder and the longi- tudinal fissure is a square surface, the lobulus quadratus, anterior portal eminence or anterior lobule (4). This surface sometimes terminates be- hind in a distinct rounded prominence, which justifies the name of eminence applied to it; at other times, on the contrary, this portion of the liver is flat- tened. . Behind the transverse fissure we find the posterior portal eminence, or smalt lobe {posterior lobule or lobule), also called the lobulus Spigelii (3), from the name of the anatomist to whom its discovery has been attributed, although it was described, and even figured before his time by Vesalius, Sylvius, and Eustachius. It varies much, both in size and shape, and is situated between the transverse fissure and the posterior border of the liver, and between the fissure of the ductus venosus («) on the left, and the fissure of the vena cava inferior (c) on the right. It is situated to the right of the oesophageal orifice of the stomach, opposite its lesser curvature, by which it is embraced; its form is that of a flattened semilunar tongue, convex upon its lower and free surface, which corresponds to the upper border of the pancreas, and has a projection in the centre, surrounded by an arterial circle, formed by the coronary artery of the stomach with the splenic and hepatic arteries. This proiection (above 3), is called by Haller, major colliculus in magna papilla: similihidinek; and by Wxn^\ov,,Veminence Irian^iulaire. From its PO/t^/'O': e-^ tremity a prolongation is given ofl' opposite the posterior border of the liver, which converts the fissure for the vena cava mferior into a canal that is some-