283 THE RECTI CAPITIS ANTICI. capitis anticus major would be a transverso-sptnahs, the rectus minor an an- terior inter-transversalis between the occipital bone and the atlas, and the longus colli would be a compound muscle, its lower fibres formmg ^spino- tranversalis, its upper fibres a transverso-spinahs and its intern^ a spinalis. AU this will be rendered apparent from the following de cription. Dissection. Remove the face and aU the parts which cover the cervical portion of the spine by the vertical section, caUed the section of the pharynx because it is also employed in demonstrating that part In order to separate the face from the cranium, remove the roof of the skull by a horizontal section, and then make a vertical cut either from above or from below; if we cut from above, we may adopt the usual plan of directing the saw transversely so as to emerge immediately in front of the auditory meatus : in doing this, however, we are in danger of injuring the superior attachments of the recti, or ot cut- ting into the pharynx. We prefer, therefore, the foUowing method : make two sections with the saw obliquely forwards and inwards m the course of the occipito-mastoid and petro-occipital sutures, and having arrived at the basilar process, cut it across with a chisel, a Uttle in front of the anterior condyloid foramina. In separating the face from the cranium from below upwards, a great number of muscles must be scarified : the preceding section is therefore preferable, although it is somewhat more difficult. The Rectus Capitis Anticus Major. This muscle (e,figs. 112. and 114.), the transverso-spinalis anterior (rectus capitis internus major. Alb.'), is the most external of those in the prevertebral region. Attachments and direction. It arises from the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the sixth, fifth, fourth, and third cervical vertebrae, by small tendons to which as many fleshy fasciculi succeed; these pass obliquely upwards and inwards, overlying and blending with each other, and terminate on the posterior surface and edges of a shining aponeurosis, that occupies almost entirely the anterior aspect of the muscle. This aponeurosis itself be- comes a surface of origin, dividing into two laminae, from the borders of and interval between which a fleshy bundle ascends, to be inserted into the basilar process in front of the foramen magnum. The fasciculus arising from the third cervical vertebra does not join the common insertion, but is attached directly and in a very distinct manner to the basilar process within and behind the common fasciculus. The muscle must be turned outwards, in order to display this structure. Relations. It is covered by the pharynx, the internal carotid artery and jugular vein, the superior cervical ganglion and trunk of the great sympathetic nerve, and the par vagum, being separated from all these parts by some loose cellular tissue and the prevertebral aponeurosis. It covers the corresponding vertebree, the articulation of the occipital bone with the atlas, and that of the atlas with the axis, a portion of the longus colli, and also of the rectus minor. Tlie Rectus Capitis Anticus Minor. This muscle (/, fig. 112.), the inter-transversalis anterior (rectus capitis in- ternus minor, Alh.'), extends from the base of the transverse process and from the adjacent part of the lateral mass of the atlas, to the basilar process of the occipital bone. It is partially covered by the rectus major, which is nearer the mesial plane: the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic rests upon It, and it covers the atloido-occipital articulation. It may be regarded as an anterior inter-transversalis between the occipital bone and the atlas, the rectus laterahs constituting the posterior inter-transversalis.