ARTICULATIONS OF THE FINGERS. 197 o 3 sinuosity of the common articular line, and the strength and shortness of hoth the external and the interosseous ligaments. At the same time, the mobility of all the metacarpal bones is not equal. Thus, the articulation of the trapezium with the first metacarpal bone holds the first rank ; it is in some degree differ- ent from the others in this respect as well as in position, and merits particular description. The articulation of the fifth metacarpal bone holds the second place, and that of the fourth the third. The articulations of the second and third metacarpal bones are as immoveable as symphyses. Mechanism of the articulation of the trapezium and the first metacarpal bone. From the mutual reception of the articular surfaces this articulation permits four motions, viz. flexion, extension, abduction and adduction, and as a conse- quence of these, circumduction. Flexion is not performed directly, but obliquely inwards and forwards. This oblique motion produces the movement of opposition which characterises the hand: it is very extensive, and when carried too far may produce luxation backwards, with the greater facility because the capsular ligament is very thin in that direction. Extension may be carried so far that the first metacarpal bone may form a right angle with the radius. It is conceivable that luxation forwards might be produced by this motion ; but there are very few causes that would tend to increase extension to such a degree, and, moreover, the an- terior part of the capsular ligament is extremely strong, so that no example of this luxation has ever been recorded. Abduction is very extensive : when carried beyond a certain point it may give rise to dislocation inwards, for the trapezium, being situated on a plane anterior to the root of the metacarpus, the neighbouring metacarpal bones ofier no obstacle to such a displacement. Lastly, dii'ect adduction is limited by the meeting with the second meta- carpal bone. Mechanism of the articulation of the fifth metacarpal bone with the cuneiform. This articulation in some degree resembles the preceding, and, like the last, it would be liable to dislocation, were it not for its intimate connections with the other metacarpal bones, so that the same cause that would tend to displace the fifth metacarpal bone would also tend to displace the fourth. Ahticulations of the Fingers {figs. 74 and 75.). These comprise 1. the articulations of the fingers with the metacarpal bones; 2. the articulations of the phalanges together. Metacarpo-phalangal Articulations. These belong to the class of condyloid articulations. The articular surfaces in each are formed by the head of the metacarpal bone, flattened from side to side, increasing in breadth from the dorsal to the palmar -aspect, and prolonged much further in the latter direction, where it presents the trace of a division into two condyles ; and by the shallow glenoid cavity of the first phalanx, which is transversely oblong, and consequently has Its long diameter at right angles to that of the head of the metacarpal bone, which IS oblong from before backwards. We see, then, that an articular head elongated from before backwards, is adapted to a transversely oblong cavity inis arrangement favours the movements of flexion and extension, as well as me ateral motions, which are as extensive as they would have been, had aU the longett^'"^ °^ articular surfaces been equal to those which are actuaUy boIlJ""^.^^^ flattening of the heads of the metacarpal "uucb, mat in amputations at these joints surgeons make choice of lateral in preference to antero-posterior flaps. ^