228 ODONTOLOGY. Besides, Fox remarks, that there is no tooth wliich has not occasionally been observed to be wanting, either alone or in conjunction with others. The varieties from excess are observed in the existence of supernumerary teeth, which may or may not range with the ordinary teeth. The supernumerary teeth either exist in distinct alveoli, or are blended with some other teeth. There are two varieties of this latter condition ; for the supernumerary tooth may either appear to grow upon a primitive or parent tooth {dens prolifer of Bartholin), or several teeth may seem as if united into one. Position. The teeth are arranged in two parabolic curves, constituting the dental arches, and corresponding to the alveolar arches which support them. Into these arches the teeth are fixed, not by articulation, but by the implanta- tion of their roots into the alveoli, which are moulded exactly upon them. This arrangement induced those anatomists who regarded the teeth as true bones, to admit a peculiar mode of articulation for them called gomphosis {y6fi(pos, a nail). The teeth are mechanically fixed in their alveoli; but yet we must consider the gums, and the alveolo-dental periosteum as also forming uniting media. The importance of the latter will be acknowledged, if we consider the effects of scurvy in loosening the teeth, and the ease with which they drop out from the skeleton. Each dental arch forms a regular uninterrupted curve, an arrangement pe- culiar to man, for in the lower animals the teeth are of unequal length, and the dental arches have irregular edges ; moreover, instead of their teeth being iminterruptedly contiguous, very considerable intervals, at some points at least, are left between them. Each dental arch presents an anterior convex, and a posterior concave surface; an adherent or alveolar border, which is regularly scalloped; and a free edge, thin and cutting at the middle, thick and tubercular at the sides; in the latter situations it has two lips, of which the external is sharper in the upper teeth, and the internal in the lower. The free edge is so arranged that all the teeth are upon a level. As the superior dental arch forms a greater curve than the inferior, it ne- cessarily follows that the two arches meet like the blades of a pair of scissors; but the mode in which they meet is not the same in the middle region, occu- pied by the incisor teeth, as on the sides where the molares are placed. Thus, the upper incisors pass in front of the lower, whilst the external tubercles of the superior molares pass to the outside of the external tubercles of the m- ferior molares, so that these latter tubercles are applied to the furrow formed between the two rows of tubercles of the upper molares. The teeth of the upper jaw, with the exception of the great molares, are larger in general than those of the lower. I should also remark that no tooth is placed quite perpendicularly to its fellow in the other jaw ; for the summit of a tooth in one jaw always corresponds to the interval between the summits of two in the other; so that the two rows of teeth are not simply in contact, but are really locked together. . „ . • ^ External conformation. The teeth, considered in reference to their form or configuration, present some general characters, which distinguish them from all other organs of the body; and also certain specific characters, by which one tooth may be distinguished from another. , . ^ General characters (figs. 85 to 92.^. Each tooth is composed of two very distinct parts ; a free portion, projecting beyond the alveolus, named the cro«;n or body (a, figs. 85, &c.), and a portion miplanted in the bone call^ed the root or fanq (6), the constricted portion between these two constituting the neck (c). The rim of the alveolus or socket does not exactly correspond to the neck of the tooth, but rather to the root, at some distance from the neck, the mter- ''^^'o^l^::^^lf^.'^^^<^ is p-"-r^ tTo species. The projection of the teeth forwards giv^s a disagreeable aspect o the countenance ; and is almost invariably connected with a diminution of the