MYOLOGY. 318 - Triceps extensor cubiti. MUSCLES OF THE ARM. The biceps. — Brachialis anticus. — Coraco-brachialis. The muscles of the arm have been divided into those of the anterior region, viz. the biceps, the coraco-brachialis, and the brachialis anticus ; and those of the posterior region, which constitute the single muscle called the triceps. Anteeior Brachiai, Region. The Biceps. Dissection. Make a vertical incision through the skin from the middle of the clavicle to the middle of the bend of the elbow ; dissect back the flaps, and divide longitudinally the brachial fascia, which is united to the biceps by Very loose cellular tissue; preserve the vessels and nerves which lie along the inner border of the muscle. Expose the upper part of the muscle by detaching the pectoralis major and deltoid from their clavicular origins, and turning them inwards and outwards. In order to trace the whole extent of the long head of the biceps, open the capsular ligament above; and to see the radial insertion of the muscle, flex the fore-arm to a right angle upon the arm, and supinate it forcibly; it is better, however, to wait until the muscles of the anterior region of the fore-arm are dissected. The biceps flexor cubiti (a, fig. 116.) is a long muscle forming the superficial layer of the anterior region of the arm; it is divided above into a short and long head *; and hence its name biceps. Attachments. It arises by its short head from the apex of the coracoid process, and by its long head from the top of the glenoid cavity; and is inserted into the bicipital tuberosity of the radius. The origin of the short or coracoidhesA (b,fig. 116.) consists of a flat and very thick tendon, common to it and the coraco-brachialis, and terminating in front of this part of the muscle in an aponeurosis, from which is given off a tendinous septum, between the biceps and the coraco-brachialis. The long, glenoid, or reflected head arises by a tendon apparently fonn- ing a continuation of the glenoid articular border, which penetrates into the interior of the joint, turns over the head of the humerus upon which it is re- flected, and thus reaches the bicipital groove. It is retained in this groove by a sort of fibrous bridge or canal, traverses the whole of its extent, and ends in a sort of tendinous cone open behind, from the in- terior of which the fleshy fibres take their origin. These fibres are collected into a rounded belly, which, about the middle of the arm, is applied to the mus- cular belly of the short portion, equally rounded and of variable size, and ulti- mately becomes identified with it. The single muscle {a, fig. 116.), thus formed, is very thick, flattened from before backwards, and directed vertically like the two original fasciculi. Its fibres are attached to the surfaces and edges of an aponeurosis, which gradually becomes narrower and thicker until it emerges in the form of a free tendon opposite the lower end of the humerus, a little nearer to the outer than the inner side. This flattened tendon sinks downwards and • Not unfrcquently the biceps is tried above. Tlie supernumerary liead is internal and •irUes from the inner border of the humerus, below the coraco-brachial;^, which may be re- iMrdpd iTthrcontinuation of this head, for they correspond in size. This supernumerary t;orUot fs aUacl" edge and posterior surface of the lower tendon of the Inccps. I liave twice seen this disposition of parts.