476 SPLANCHNOLOGY. Magnified 3'^ diameters Ih!!, J eminences, which are much more distinct towards the pylorus tuan near the oesophagus, are studded with holes, or rather with smaU pits re- semhhng the cells of a honey-comb ifigs. 152, 153.). These alveolar depres- sions are well described by Home, who states that they exist only in the great cul-de-sac, while the villi oc- cupy the rest of the stomach. The truth is, that a precisely similar structure is observed over the whole stomach. The alveoli, or pits, are separated from each other by small projections or papillae {fig. 153.), of which the papillae of the tongue con- MagniHed 32 diameters. ygy an eXCeUcUt idea.* Should these papillae be distinguished from other projections that have been termed villi, by Ruysch, for example, who called the entire membrane villoso- papillaris ? After the most minute examination, I have only detected one order of eminences f, viz. the papilla, the existence of which I regard as the es- sential character of all tegumentary membranes, whether mucous or cutaneous, which might all, therefore, be designated papillary membranes. We shall return again to the structure of the papillae. K we examine with a lens or simple microscope, a perpendicular or ob- lique section of the mucous membrane of the stomach, we shall perceive that it consists essentially of a strong membrane, the mucous dermis, from which arise an immense number of small eminences closely pressed together, and of unequal lengths, like the pile of velvet. These eminences are the papillae; they are liable to great enlargement in cases of hypertrophy, and then the structure just described becomes very apparent. The follicles. The follicles of the stomach can be very easily demonstrated in the pig \, and in the horse. In the last-mentioned animal, entozoa are fre- quently found in the centre of these follicles, which then become developed into hard, and sometimes very large, tumours. It is so difficult to demonstrate them in the human subject, that, with most anatomists, I for a long time doubted their existence. Haller only saw them once or twice § ; but in some individuals they are very distinct. I found them well marked in a great number of cholera patients. || They are not situated in the submucous cel- lular tissue, as is generally stated, but in the substance of the membrane itself, so as to form a projection on the inside of the stomach, but not on the outer surface. They are rounded, flattened, and perforated by a central foramen, which is usually visible to the naked eye. I have observed them upon all points of the mucous membrane, but they appear to be most numerous near the oesophageal orifice, and along the lesser curvature.^ * [The alveoli are from jijth to j^th of an inch, and, near the pylorus, yfe'h of an inch In diameter. At the bottom of each alveolus is seen a group of minute apertures (fig. 152.), which are the open mouths of small tubes placed perpendicularly to the surface of the membrane, and closed at tlie other end. In a vertical section of the membrane these tubes, which average about jnjjth of an inch in diameter, are seen to rest upon the submucous tissue by their closed extremities. In the cardiac portion of the stomach they are short and straight; near the py- loric end they are longer, and convoluted, or irregularly dilated, and are sometimes bifurcated. Bloodvessels pass up between these tubes, and form a capillary network round the borders of the alveoli. The membranous projections, sometimes found between the alveoli (fig. 153.), form irregular fringes, broader than the lingual papilla;, and seem rather to be imperfectly developed villi (see note, p. 4^7 ), and are usually so called. The epithelium covering the entire mucous membrane of the stomach, consists of a single layer of minute columnar cells; it is very del icate, and invisible except by a high magnifying power ; hence its e.xistence was formerly denied.] t Upon this subject see the Memoir of Helvetius. (Hist. Acad. Roy. des Sciences, 1720.) 1 [In the pig these follicles appear to be nothing more than prolongations of the mucous membrane, or small diverticula; so that, aft r having detached the mucous membrane, they may, by slight pressure, be turned inside out.] ,.„,.■ n § " Neque rejici debent, etsi non semper possmt ostendi." (Holler, 1. vi. lib.xix. p. 140.) il Vide Anat. Path, avec planches, liv. xiv. pi. 1. , , „ j ^ [In the neighbourhood of the oesophageal orifice there are also several .imall compound glands, analogous to Brunner's glands m the duodenum. (W. S.)]