THE SCAPULA. 101 which articulates with a corresponding surface on the clavicle ; the lower edge is convex and rough; the summit forms the highest point of the shoulder ; the base is continuous with the spine ; the narrowness of this base or pedicle of the acromion explains the possibility of fractures at this point. The whole of the posterior surface of the scapula, above the scapular spme, forms the supraspinous fossa (/), which is narrow at its outer part, and a little enlarged and shallower at the inner, and is filled by the supra-spinatus vMscle. AU that is below the spine forms the infraspmous fossa (g), which is occupied by the infra-spinatus muscle. Towards the outer part, this fossa presents a vertical ridge which marks ofiP a narrow surface, tlonga ed from above downwards, and itself divided by an obUque ridge mto two smaUer sur- faces, the superior (/*) of which gives attachment to the teres minor muscle, and the inferior (i) to the teres ma'or. n j Of the three borders or coste of the scapula the internal, which is also called theZ-fwe, posterior costa,or vertebral border (k d I), is the longest of the three in the human subject; in the lower animals it is the shortest. It is thin, slopes fi-om without inwards in the upper fourth of its extent, and from within outwards in the three inferior fourths, which gives it an angular form. The spme of the scapula meets the base ac this angle (d). The superior or cervical border, or superior costa (k ?•), is the thinnest; we observe on it a notch (r) of variable size, which is converted into a foramen by means of a ligament, and gives passage to the supra-scapular nerve, occasionally also to the vessels of that name The external or axillary bol der, or inferior costa (s Z), is the thickest part of the scapula. It is separated from the thorax by an interval, the extent of which determines the depth of the cavity of the axilla. Its thickness increases from the lower to the upper part, where there is a depression (s) from which the long head of the triceps muscle arises. Angles. Two of the three angles of the scapula are intended for the at- tachment of the principal muscles belonging to this bone; the third enters into the formation of the shoulder joint. The internal angle {k) is that which approaches most to a right angle. In robust subjects it presents a marked impression for the insertion of the levator anguli scapulae muscle. The inferior angle (/) is very acute, and is marked internally by inequalities for the attachment of the serratus magnus. This angle is only covered by the skin and the latissimus dorsi muscle, and is consequently more liable than the other two to fracture from external violence. The external or glenoid angle (in) is the thickest pa.rt of the scapula : it is hollowed into an oval cavity, the long diameter of which is vertical, and the small end of the oval uppermost. This cavity, called the glenoid cavity (ni) of the scapula, belongs to the shoulder joint; it is supported by a contracted portion (n) called the neck of the scapula, and is surmounted by a strong pro- cess (o) named coracoid from a fancied resemblance to the bUl of a raven. This process is directed outwards and forwards like a finger in a state of semi- flexion : its lower surface which looks outwards is concave and smooth, and is curved to correspond with the head of the humerus ; its upper surface is con- vex and rough, and articulates with the clavicle.?' Its summit is rough, and affords attachment to muscles. " Connections. The scapula is articulated with the clavicle and the humerus. Internal structure. There is very little spongy substance in the composition of the scapula, as may be well observed in the supra and infra-spinous fossse, where we can scarcely make use of a file, without breaking through the very thin lamina of compact tissue of which the bone is composed at these points. The spongy tissue occupies the axillary border, the spine, the articular angle, the acromion, and the coracoid process. Developmeni. The scapula is developed from six points ; one primitive for the body of the bone, and five epiphysary or complementary, viz. one for the H .3