MYOLOGY. S48 just examined, generally have their fixed points upon the pelvis ; and, in this point of view, are of the greatest importance in the standing posture. By their means the pelvis, firmly held down from hehind, is enabled to resist the effects of the weight of the trunk which tends to throw it forwards : hence the enormous developement of these muscles in man, evidently proving his destin- ation for the erect position. These same muscles are the principal agents in the position of standing upon one foot, inclining the pelvis to their own side, and balancing the entire weight of the opposite side of the trunk. They also rotate the trunk, when the individual is standing upon one foot. They are all extensors and abductors; the glutaeus maxim us is a rotator outwards ; the other two are rotators inwards. Hence we may understand how the thigh can be so powerfully rotated inwards, although there are no direct muscles for that purpose; while a great number are specially intended to produce rotation outwards, which movement, indeed, is performed much more ener- getically than rotation inwards. Tht Pyriformis. Dissection. Detach the glutaeus maximus, and separate the pyriformis from the lower border of the glutseus medius to which it is parallel. In order to see the sacral attachments of the muscle, make an antero-posterior section of the pelvis. . . a The pyriformis or pyramidalis {d,fig. 125.) is sometimes double: it is a tlat muscle of a pyriform or rather pyramidal shape, lying almost horizontally along the lower margin of the glutaeus medius, with which it seems to be con- tinuous, and is sometimes intimately united: it is partly situated in the cavity of the pelvis, and assists in filling up the sciatic notch. Attachments. It arises from the anterior surface of the sacrum (p, ^^.111.), in the intervals between the grooves forming the continuations of the an- terior sacral foramina, and also opposite those grooves by three or four digit- ations, which are sometimes traversed by the great sciatic nerve: these origins are sometimes concentrated into a smaU space around the second and third anterior sacral foramina. It also arises from the anterior surface of the ereat sacro-sciatic ligament, and from the upper part of the sciatic notch. It is inserted into the back part of the upper edge of the great trochanter. The fleshv fibres pass from their origins ahnost horizontally outwards and a little backwards, a^d form a muscle which fiUs up the upper part of the great sciatic notch and becoming much narrower immediately after emerging from the nelvis from the convergence of its fibres, terminates on the posterior surface and edges of an aponeurosis, which is afterwards converted mto a round tendon, and is fixed to the upper border of the great trochanter behind the glut^i^ Sm^, and above the gemelli and obturator intemus with which it is almost XSlurface is in relation with the rectmn the sciatic nlexus and the hypogastric vessels within the pelvis, and with the hip joint outS that cavity ; its posterior surface with the sacrum and the gluteus •?fn« itrunner margin with the gluteal vessels and nerves, which se- from thfglutrs'iedius; its l^wer margin with tbe ischiatic vessels «ml with the great and smaU sciatic nerves. Sciatic hermje take place between the upper maSn of this muscle and the sciatic notch. Sometimes the mj^cle w lbP summit of the notch; occasionaUy a considerable interval exists ^e^ween the ™suchcases there'is a predispo'sition to this species of hernia. The Obturator Internus. SI,?Svt'o'Se l-S^^- — «a direcU.. dike re- markable.