154 ARTHROLOGY. Articulations of the Vertebra with each other. Mode of preparation. Remove completely all the soft parts -which surround the vertebral column ; saw off vertically all that part of the head which is in front of the column, and separate the bodies of the vertebra from the posterior arches by dividing the pedicles. When the section reaches the axis, carry the instrument behind the superior articular processes of this vertebra, and of the atlas, and behind the condyles of the occipital bone : remove the spinal marrow and its membranes. In this way the vertebral column will be divided into two parts, — an anterior, formed by the series of the bodies of the vertebrae, on which we find the anterior and posterior common ligaments, and the interver- tebral substances; and a posterior, formed by the series of laminae, and the articular and spinous processes. The intervertebral substances require a spe- cial preparation, which consists in making vertical and horizontal sections of a portion of the column, or which may be more simply effected by maceration in diluted nitric acid, which allows the bodies of the vertebrae to be removed, without injuring the intervertebral substance. The vertebrae are united, 1. by their bodies; 2. by their articular processes; 3. by their laminae; and 4. by their spinous processes. Articulation of the Bodies of tH Vertebra. The bodies of the vertebrae are united together by amphiarihrosis. The ar- throdial portion, or the contiguous surface, is represented by the articular ^^^^he^articular surfaces are the upper and under surfaces of the body of each vertebra. It follows from the concavity of these surfaces, that, mstead of fit- ting each other exactly, they leave considerable lenticular spaces between them; these appear to be the vestiges of the biconical cavity between the ver- tebrae of fishes. The depth of these spaces is not the same throughout the entire column ; it exactly measures the thickness of the intervertebral sub- stance The articular surfaces are covered by a very thm layer of cartilage. The means of union are of two kinds, as in all the amphiarthroses :—1. they surround the joint; 2. they proceed from one articular surface to the other : in one word, some are peripheral, and the others interosseous. 1. Peripheral ligaments. The most general idea which can be formed of these ligaments is that of a fibrous sheath, surrounding the column formed by the bodies of the vertebrae, and uniting in one whole the different pieces of which it is composed. The part of the sheath which covers the anterior aspect ot the bones is called the anterior common ligament of the vertebra; and that which covers the Dosterior surface is called the posterior common ligament of the vertebra. The anterior common vertebral ligament (a, figs. 58. 60.) presents t^e appear- p. ance of a white pearly-lookmg membrane stretched from * " ' the axis to the upper part of the sacrum. This hga- ment, which is thicker in the dorsal region than in the neck or the loins, is composed of three very distinct : parts,—a thick one in the middle, and two lateral, which are separated from it by a series of openings that give passage to some vessels (see fig. 58 ). Its anterior sur- fhce is in contact with the organs of the neck, the tho- rax, and the abdomen, and united with them by very loose cellular tissue. The tendons of the longi colh and anterior recti muscles, and the pillars of the diaphragm, mix their fibres with this ligament. The psoaj muscles correspond to its lateral portions below, lis posterior 5^r/ai adheres more closely to the ^/tf^f te^'-^VSl stances, and to the projectmg rims of the bodies of the vertebra, than to the transverse grooves of the bodies This ligament is compref of'several planes of fibres, of which the most