521 THE LIVER. may be distinguished from those of the vena portal on simply inspecting a ^cLn of Se liver. Do these anatomical differences between the t^vo kinds of ve'ns Dioduce any difference in the mechanism of the cireulation through them? ITd is the lnt^f immediate connexion of the divisions of the vena port^ to the issue of the liver, intended to permit them to contract so as to propel he Sood ? If we consider that the blood of the vena port^ proceeds from the trunk towards the branches, as in the arteries, we may conceive the advantages which must result from an anatomical arrangement, that would allow these vessels to exert a direct pressure upon the blood. „ , , . . , Another point of difference between the branches of the hepatic vein and of the vena port* is, that the walls of the former are perforated by a multi- tude of extremely smaU openings or pores, which are the orifices of very small The hmphatic vessels. The lymphatics of the liver are so numerous that these vessels were first discovered in that organ ; indeed, it was for a long time re- garded as the origin of the lymphatic system, just as it had been originally considered the origin of the veins. The lymphatics of the hver form a superficial and a deep set. The superficial lymphatics are arranged in an ex- tremely close network under the peritoneal coat. The deep set, which are very large and numerous, pass out of the transverse fissure of the liver, and terminate partly in lymphatic glands situated along the hepatic vessels, and partly in the lumbar glands. They communicate directly and freely with the thoracic duct, so that one of the best methods of injecting this duct, consists in throwing the injection into the lymphatics of the liver. The nerves. These are very small, considering the size of the liver. They are derived from two sources," the cerebro-spinal and the ganglionic systems. The former are branches of the pneumogastric nerves; the latter constitute the hepatic plexus, which is an offset from the solar plexus. They are inter- laced around the hepatic artery: some of these nerves however, by a spe- cial exception, accompany the vena portae. It is generally admitted that a few filaments of the phrenic nerve are given to the liver. The biliary ducts. Whatever may be the origin of the biliary ducts, their radicles, however small they may be, are always found in the capsule of Glisson, together with the corresponding branches of the vena portse and he- patic artery. These radicles are united like veins into smaller, and these into larger branches, which at length constitute the hepatic duct (d,fig. 164.). They can be readily distinguished from the other vascular canals of the liver by their yellowish colour, by the fluid which they contain, and by the ap- pearance of their parietes.* » Vessels, [The first divisions of the vena portse, hepatic artery, and hepatic duct, are situ- ated in tlie portal canals, which are tubular passages formed in the tissue of the liver, com- mencing at the transverse fissure and branching through the substance of the organ. The smallest divisions of the portal canals contain one principal branch of each of these vessels (P o 16.5.): from these proceed smaller branches called vaginal, from their situation within the capsule of Glisson. lu the larger canals the vaginal veins {p') form a plexus in the substance of the capsule, and then give off the inter-lobular veins (pp) which pass between the lobules opposite the inter- lobular spaces, ramify in the inter-lobular fissures {pp,fig. 167.), and after freely anastomosing ujjon the capsular surfaces of the lobules, divide into branches which penetrate the lobules themselves. In the smaller portal canals the vaginal venous plexuses are less apparent, forniany of the inter-lobular veins (4) arise at once from the principal branch of the vena portae : where this occurs, the capsule of Glisson is very thin ; and, indeed, the chief use of this structure, in other situations, ap- pears to be to form a web, on which the vessels may ramify, so as to enter the liver at a great number of points, a use ana- logous to that of the pia mater and periosteum, in reference to the brain and bones. Tlie hepatic artery also forms vaginal plexuses in the portal give ofl' inter-lobular branches; from these vessels the proper capsule of Ihe I'anals, which