501 THE INTESTINES. R K 3 The peritoneal coat. The peritoneum does not, in general, form so complete a covering for the large, as for the small intestine. Moreover, it forms a great number of duplicatures on the surface of the bowel, which usually contain fat, and are called the fatty appendices {appendices epiploic^). They are not con- stant, either in number, size, or length, but are sometimes arranged in regular series. Some of them are so long that they may form the contents of a hernial sac, or may even occasion strangulation, by forming a ring around the intestines; they are seldom entirely absent. They become lessened when the gut is distended, and are elongated by its contraction. They are sometimes loaded with an immense quantity of fat, of which they may be considered re- servoirs. They are found along the whole of the large intestine, including the free portion of the rectum. The peritoneum often envelopes the whole of the caecum; at other times it does not cover it behind. Most commonly it forms a fold, or mesentery, for the vermiform appendix. It only passes in front of the ascending and descending colon, which are always uncovered behind. It invests the whole of the trans- verse arch, excepting a triangular space behind corresponding to the transverse mesocolon, and in another triangular space in front corresponding to the great omentum. It completely surrounds the sigmoid flexure, excepting in a small space behind, corresponding to the iliac mesocolon. Lastly, at the upper part of the rectum, it is arranged in a similar manner, and then merely passes in front of that bowel, the lowest portion of which is entirely devoid of a peritoneal covering, and is surrounded by a large quantity of adipose tissue. From the arrangement of the peritoneum upon the large intestine it follows, that the latter is more favourably circumstanced than the smaU intestine for assuming a large size; and also that it may be penetrated in many places without injuring the peritoneum. The muscular coat. As in the small intestine, this coat consists of a circular and a longitudinal set of fibres. The circular fibres form the deep layer, and are arranged as in the small intestine ; the longitudinal fibres, which constitute the superficial layer, are not disposed equally around the bowel, but are collected into three bands, which we have already noticed. These bands have the pearly appearance of liga- ments when seen through the peritoneal covering *; they are continuous with the longitudinal fibres of the appendix vermiformis. The anterior is the largest; it becomes inferior along the arch of the colon, and again anterior upon the descending colon and sigmoid flexure, spreading out upon the latter. Of the posterior bands which are narrower, one is external and the other in- ternal ; they become superior on the arch of the colon, and again posterior upon the descending colon and sigmoid flexure, upon the latter of which they are often blended into one. I have already said that these bands, being not more than one third, or at most one half the length of the large intestine, occa- sion Its puckering, and arrangement into sacculi and intervening depression^ The muscular coat is remarkably modified in the rectum. In the sigmoid flexure the longitudmal fibres become scattered, and at its termination sur- round the whole intestine ; but this arrangement exists more particularly in the rectum, where they present the appearance of thick fasciculi forming an un- interrupted covering (r, fig. 161.). The deep or circular layer of the rectum IS much thicker than that of any other part of the alimentary canal, excepting the oesophagus; it may be separated into distinct rings, the lowest of which is so distinct that it has been described as a particular muscle, under the name of the sphincter mternus. It is arranged in precisely the same way as the cor- responding coat of the oesophagus, but is not so thick : this difi'erence depends upon the uses of the two canals, the oesophagus being intended to convey the food rapidly downwards, while the rectum is assisted by the abdominal muscles! strli«^Irrare7oun!/:r ' °' '^^t"™ ^0">o transversely