SPLANCHNOLOGY. 630 The mammilla or nipple is of a pinkish or browD colour, rough, and as it were cracked at the summit, and capable of undergoing a sort of erection ; it varies in form and size in different subjects ; it is either cylindrical or conical, and some- times so short that the lips of the infant cannot lay hold of it; in certain cases it is even depressed. In the centre of the nipple we observe one or more de- pressions, in which the lactiferous ducts open by a variable number of orifices. The papilla is provided also with a great number of sebaceous glands having the appearance of tubercles, and secreting a substance which prevents the nipple from being chapped by the act of sucking and the saliva of the infant.* Structure. The breasts consist of the mammary glandular tissue and of fat. The mammary gland. When freed from the fat by which it is surrounded, the marnmary gland appears like a mass flattened from before backwards, and thicker in the centre than at its circumference, which is irregular but less so on the inside than on the outside. Its base, which is plane, and even slightly concave, rests upon the pectoralis major, and sometimes beyond it upon the serratus magnus ; a continuation of the fascia superficialis separates it from these muscles, to which it adheres by very loose serous cellular tissue only, and hence it is very moveable. The cutaneous surface of the mammary gland is very unequal, and forms alveoli filled by fat, by which means the inequalities are concealed. The proper tissue of the gland is considerably denser than that of most glandular organs. It should be examined both during lactation, and when that function is not being performed. In the absence of lactation the gland has the appearance of a very com- pact, whitish, fibrous tissue, divided into unequal lobes, which cannot be com- pared to any thing better than to certain fibrous tumours of the uterus. The granular structure proper to the tissue of glands is not visible during this state. During lactation the granular structure becomes very evident. The fol- lowing are the results of my observations respecting it at this period : — The glandular granules or lobules are united into small clusters, forming flattened lobes, placed one upon another. From each little lobe proceeds an excretory duct, which may be recognised by its white colour, is easily injected, and is formed by the union of a number of smaller ducts corresponding to the number of lobules. Having had an opportunity of dissecting the mamma of a female recently delivered, in which the cellular tissue between the lobules was infiltrated with serum, the lobules themselves, as it were, dissected, and the lactiferous ducts injected with yellowish coagulated milk, I found that some of the lobules were isolated, and as it were pediculated, whilst others were collected into regular or irregular clusters. In one of these clusters the lobules had a circular arrangement, small ducts proceeded from each lobule, and passing from the circumference towards the centre of the circle like radii, opened into a common efferent duct, which issued from the central point. Another cluster was elongated and swollen at intervals, and in the centre was a duct which received the smaller ducts from the several lobules. Each lo- bule had a central cavity, from which a worm-shaped mass of coagulated caseous matter could be expressed. When examined by the simple micro- scope, the parietes of these cavities had a spongy aspect like the pith of the rush, a character which I have already noticed as belonging to all glandular organs, f Tlie fibrous tissue of the mamma. Besides the lobules, a large quantity of fibrous tissue also enters into the structure of the gland, forms a complete * rSir A. Cooper has described numerous cutaneous papilla; upon the nipple and areola ; they are hiEhly vascular and nervous. He has also shown that the glands found in the areola and at the base of the nipple have branched ducts, ending in blind extremities: in the female, from one to five open on each tubercle. (Jnatmny vf//ic Breast, ISIO.)] t rXhe ultimate structure of the mammary gland consists of the terminations of the lactiferous ducts in clusters of microscopic cells within each lobule; these cells are round, and have a diameter twenty times as great as that of the capillaries which ramify upon them.]