149 LIGAMENTS. L 3 thin plates, having both surfaces free, and being interposed between two arti- culating bones. These are generally found in such joints as are exposed to the most violent shocks, and subjected to the most frequent movements ; they are known by the name of inter-articular cartilages. Their use is to adjust the contact of the surfaces on the bones, to moderate the intensity of the shocks to which they may be submitted, to increase in some cases the depth of the articular cavities, and to impart solidity to the joints. They are almost always bi-concave, from which circumstance the name of meniscus is sometimes ap- plied to them (from ixijvn, luna); they are thick at the circumference, and very thin in the centre, which is sometimes perforated. These two kinds of cartilage are found only in those joints, the surfaces of which are simply in contact. The articulations of continuous surfaces are provided with cartilages very different from the above, and which should be looked upon as non-ossified portions of the original cartilage of ossification. The progress of ossification always encroaches upon them, while the regular articular cartilages are never affected in this way. It will be seen afterwards that the articular cartilages are inorganic, like the enamel of the teeth, and the homy tissues, which are worn away by attrition, and are not susceptible of any lesions excepting such as arise from mechanical injury or chemical action.* The Ligaments. ^ The ligaments constitute a very important division of the fibrous tissue, which is met with in all parts where great resistance and great flexibility are required; and in no part of the body are these requisites more necessary than in the joints. They consist of bundles of flexible and inextensible fibres of a pearly white lustre, sometimes parallel, and sometimes interlaced. Some- times they are placed between the osseous surfaces, and are then named interosseous; sometimes, on the contrary, they occupy the circumference of the surfaces, and are then called peripheral or capsular. The peripheral ligaments present two surfaces, a deep surface lined by the synovial membrane, which is intimately united to it, and a superficial, which is in contact with the muscles, tendons, nerves, vessels, and cellular tissue ; and also iwo extremities which are attached to the bones, at a greater or less distance from the cartilage. The adhesion of these parts is so intimate, that it is easier to break either the liga- ment or the bone than to separate them at the precise place of their union. The ligaments may be classed under two very distinct heads: 1. the fasci- culated, or those which exist in bundles ; and 2. the membranous or capsular. The ligaments, properly so caUed, belong to the first class; the fibrous cap- sules belong to the second. We may admit a third form, which consists of scat- tered fibres, too far separated to form fasciculated ligaments, and too few in number to constitute articular capsules. We should include also, in the class ot articular Ugaments, two very remarkable modifications of the fibrous tissue. 1. Ihz articular borders : these are circlets of fibres which surmount the mar- gins of articular cavities, belonging to that class of joints denominated enar- tnroses ; they augment the depth of the cavities, and act as a kind of pad to Dreak the force of impulsion of the articular head against the brim of the ca- vity, and prevent this edge from breaking. 2. The j/ellow or elastic ligaments, wnicn are characterised by their yellow colour, extensibility, and elasticity ; nence the name of i/ellow elastic tissue has been given to them on account of their colour and chief property. arc\mo?gai'is"rt.f '="'"'>ees may be non-vascular, it is scarcely correct to say that tlioy in^an^atomy [o a'jfv^TrJctun^^ "^-^J''" "f 'l^^ Latins, is applied we speak -rf thf/™„d ^ml J^™ fj™' '° Ti^ 'J'Te'-ent parts to each otlier. In tliis sense l/ie liver. Taken ?n if,^^.f v -l'' "/ "'crus. Ike liemnents qf Otc bladder and nf ments. ^" ^'""«<1 'his name applies exclusively to the articulaX^