THE LARYNX. 565 Its direction is vertical, excepting at the moment of deglutition, when it he- comes horizontal, so as to protect the opening of the larynx like a bd (laryngis operculum) Its triangular shape has heen well compared to that of a leaf of purslaine. It must he separated from the neighbouring parts to he properly studied. . , , ^ . t. It varies much in size in different subjects, but always appears to me to hear some relation to the dimensions of the upper orifice of the larynx, heyond which it almost always projects when depressed. _ Its anterior or lingual surf ace presents a free and an adherent portion. The free portion surmounts the base of the tongue; it may he felt by the finger, and even seen by strongly depressing the tongue.* Three folds of mucous mem- brane, one in the middle and one on each side, pass from the epiglottis to the base of the tongue. The adherent portion corresponds in front with the hase of the tongue, the OS hyoides, and the thyroid cartilage. In order to expose it, it is necessary to have recourse to dissection. We then find a median glosso-epiglottid ligament, which is very strong, and composed of yellow elastic tissue, and which, I believe, assists in drawing back the depx'essed epiglottis: its place is occupied by muscular fibres in the larger animals ; also a hyo-epiglottid ligament, extending from the epiglottis to the posterior surface of the os hyoides; and lastly, beneath this ligament, a yellow fatty tissue, improperly called the epiglottid gland, occupying the interval between the epiglottis and the concavity of the thyroid cartilage. Moreover, the anterior surface of the epiglottis, examined in the vertical direction, is concave above, convex in the middle, and again concave below; it is convex in the transverse dii'ection. The posterior or laryngeal surface {figs. 175. 178.), the curvatures of which are the reverse of those on the anterior surface, is free in the whole of its extent, and covered by the laryngeal mucous membrane. Circumference. Its upper margin, or the base of the triangle which it re- presents, is free, bent forwards, slightly notched, and continuous, by two rounded angles, with its lateral margins, from each of which proceed two folds, viz. the aryteno-epiglottid (b, fig. 178.), extending from the epiglottis to the arytenoid cartilage, and inclosing a ligament (6, j?^. 176.), and the pharyngeo- epiglottid, situated anterior to the preceding, passing almost transversely out- wards, and lost upon the sides of the pharynx. The epiglottis tenninates below in a sort of pedicle, which is extremely slender, and is fixed (fig. 176.) into the retreating angle of the thyroid cartilage, immediately above the attachment of the vocal cords. This attachment is effected by means of a ligament, called the thyro-epiglottid. The epiglottis is remarkable for the great number of perforations found in it, which give it an appearance very much resembling that of the leaves of several of the lauracea. In these foramina we find small glands, which for the most part open on the laryngeal surface of the epiglottis. The so-called epiglottid gland has no relation with these orifices. It is also remarkable for its flexibility and elasticity; on account of which it is classed by Bichat among the fibro-cartilages, a sort of tissue which we have stated does not exist. Its yellow colour gives it an appearance like the yellow elastic tissue. It is brittle, and may be crushed between the fingers; this de- pends partly upon the nature of its tissue, and partly upon the numerous for- amina with which it is perforated, and which necessarily diminish its strength. The Articulations and Ligaments of the Larynx. The articulations of the larynx may be divided into the extrinsic and the intnnsic. » I attach great importance to inspection of the epiglottis in diseases of the larynx O o 3