234 THE TEETH. mical nature. The contrary opinion prevailed only so long as the teeth were considered true bones, and yet it has exercised an influence over the language of surgery which is not yet removed ; thus, we are in the habit of speaking of a carious or necrosed tooth, and to describe them as afiected with exostosis, and even with spina ventosa. It follows, from all that has been said, that the human teeth are simple, i. e. formed by one centre of ivory covered with one layer of enamel. Compound teeth exist only in herbivora, in which animals mastication consists of a most extensive grinding movement; nor are they met with except among the molar teeth. The characteristic feature of a compound tooth is the division of the crown into a greater or smaller number of lesser crowns, each of which con- sists of a centre of ivory covered by a layer of enamel. All these crowns are united into one by a third substance, called the cement or crusta petrosa, of which the tartar of the human teeth will afford a sufficiently good idea.* Fig. 95. * CRecent researches into the structure of the teeth have brought so many interesting facts to light, that it is necessary to notice the result of these discoveries. Tliree different structures at least enter into the formation of the human teeth, viz. the tvoty, tlie enamel, and the corlical substance. The ivory (a. Jig. 95.) consists of a hard transparent substance, traversed by numerous tubes, about jjsth of a line in diameter, which commence by open orifices at the cavity of the pulp, and extend in an undulating but nearly parallel direction towards the surface of the ivory. In this course the tubes present secondary and smaller undulations, un. dergo a dichotomous division, diminish in size, at first gradually, then ra- pidly, give off numerous lateral twigs, and, finally, divide into extremely minute ramifications, of which some anastomose together, others commu- nicate with small irregular dilatations called calcigerous cells, situated in the transparent intertubular substance, whilst the remainder appear to be lost at or near the surface of the ivory. The cells and tubes both contain calcareous matter, and seem to be analogous to the corpuscles of bone and the ramified lines radiating from them. In human teeth the cells are very minute ; but in those of many animals they are much more distinct, and present a striking an.ilogy to the osseous corpuscles. The hard intertubular substance is not homogeneous, but, as may be clearly seen in young and growing teeth, is composed of fibres arranged parallel to the tubes, wliicli appcir to have distinct parietes. It consists of animal tissue, combined with a large amount of calcareous salts; and it is the seat of bv far the greater proportion of the earthy matter contained in the ivory of the tooth. , , , The enamel (.b, fg. is composed of hexagonal and transversely striated fibres, about ,kth of a line in diameter, arranged parallel to each other and applied by their internal extremities to numerous corre- sponding depressions on the surface of the ivory, a delicate intervening membrane serving to connect the two structures. Near the neck of the tooth, the enamel fibres rest almost perpendicularly, near the apex of the crowi;,more or less obliquely upon the surface of the 'vory; moreover they are often slightly waved or curved. Previously to the eruption ot the tooth, each fibre contains an appreciable qu.intity of organic matter, which, at later periods, almost entirely disappears. The cortical substance (c, Jig.95.) consists of a thin of.seous layer deve- loped on the external surface of the fangs, and, as l^fe advances ex. tending even into their interior, and encroaching upon the cavity of the nuln It differs in no essential particular from true bone, containing the characteristic cor- miscies and anastomosing tubuli of that tissue. It has been found also on the fangs of 'he teeth of most mammalia,Ind of a few reptUes and fishes.; " '^^■•^^^^^^^^^^ mmmwtmssm From a perusal of f^e preceding summary, it wm ue / statements stead of being inorganic bodies, t^^^^ char.icteristic to be of the may add, is unilorm tl'f^S'?™'^ 4 A remart.able affinity h.is been established between the ^iftraUrras'^a^ra^^^^^ ^tr^c^rSffhe c^ortica^ substance, and the ivory.]