MYOLOGY. 304 sine elevatione nasi, Riolanus); others think with Spigelius and Albiuus that it is a constrictor of the nose (primi paris constringentium alas, Spigelius; compressor naris, Albinus). It is probable that its action varies according to the shape of the ala: if this be concave outwards, it is a dilator; if convex outwards, it is a constrictor. Its action is very slight. The Depressor Alee Nasi, or Myrtiformis. Dissection. Evert the upper lip, and remove the mucous membrane on each side of the frsenum. The two myrtiformes may then be separated by a vertical incision in the median line. It will be apparent that the myrtiformis and transversalis form only one muscle, whicli arises from the alveolar border near the lateral incisor, the canine and the anterior bicuspid teeth, and is dis- tributed to the orbicularis oris, the alae, and the septum of the nose. This muscle (i', fig. 114.) is short and radiated, and arises by a narrow ex- tremity from the incisive or myrtLform fossa of the superior maxilla, opposite the canine and two incisor teeth (incisif moyen, Winslow). Its fibres diverge upwards and outwards, and are inserted thus : the lower or descending, behind and in the substance of the orbicularis oris, and the upper or ascending, into the ala and septum of the nose. Its upper border is not distinct from the lower border of the transversalis. Chaussier, on account of its termination in the upper lip, regarded it as one of the origins of the orbicularis oris. Relations. It is covered by the buccal mucous membrane, by the orbicularis oris and the common elevator, and it lies upon the maxillary bone. It is continuous, without any line of demarcation, with the transversalis nasi. The inner border of the muscle of one side is separated from that of the other by an interval, corresponding to the fraenum of the upper lip. Action. It depresses the ala of the nose, and has also been considered a depressor of the upper lip (depressor labii superioris*, Cowper). I regard it rather as an elevator of that lip. The Naso-labialis of Albinus. This consists of a fasciculus which it is difficult to demonstrate in many subjects. It arises from the anterior extremity of the septum of the nose, passes horizontally backwardSj is then reflected downwards, and terminates like the preceding in the orbicularis, of which it may be considered a root. MDSCLES OF THE LABIAL REGION. The orbicularis oris. — Buccinator. — Levator labii superioris.— Caninus.— Zygomatici, major et minor.— Triangularis. — Quadratus menti. — Levator labii 'Atperioris. —Movements of the lips and those of the face. No region has so many muscles as the orifice of the mouth: seventeen, nine- teen and often twenty-one muscles are grouped round it, viz. the orbicularis oris' the common elevators of the alse and lip already described, the proper elevators of the lip, the great zygomatics, the canine, the buccinators, the triangulares, the quadrati or the levatores menti, and often two muscles on each side, viz. the risorius of Santorini, and the small zygomatic. The Orbicularis Oris. Dissection Make an elliptical incision round the openmg of the mouth, and dissect back the skin with great care, the mouth being previously dis- tended by the introduction of tow between the hps and alveolar borders. The olbicularis oris Q' I', figs. 113 and 114.), is the sphincter of the orifice of the mouth ; it is essentially the constituent muscle of the hps, occupying the entire space between the free edge of the upper hp and the nose, and the free edge of the lower lip and the transverse furrow above the chin. We shall consider, with Winslow, the orbicularis to be composed of two * Depressor hibii superioris alaque nasi of other writers.