260 MYOLOGY. Relations. These two muscles have certain relations in common, and there are some peculiar to each. They both cover the longissimus dorsi, the sacro- lumbalis, the transverso-spinalis, the ribs, and the corresponding intercostal muscles. The superior is covered by the rhomboideus, the trapezius, and the serratus magnus, and covers the splenius and transversalis colli. The inferior is covered by the latissimus dorsi, with the aponeurosis of which muscle its own aponeurotic lamina is so closely united, that it is impossible to separate them completely; audit covers the posterior layer of the aponeurosis of the transversalis. Action. Besides certdn common uses, each muscle has its own peculiar ac- tion. One important common use is to retain in the vertebral groove those muscles of the back, which from their extreme length are the most liable to displacement. This effect is produced by their fleshy portions rendering tense their aponeurotic expansions. With regard to the actions proper to each, 1. the superior elevates those ribs into which it is inserted, and is consequently a muscle of inspiration; 2. the inferior, on the other hand, is a depressor of the ribs, and therefore a muscle of expiration. The Splenius. Dissection. Merely remove the trapezius, the rhomboid, and the serratus posticus superior. . The splenius (i,fys. 106. 113,114.), so named because it has been com- pared to the spleen (o-irX^/v), is situated at the posterior part of the neck, and upper part of the back. It is a broad muscle, terminating in a point below, and dividing into two portions above. » , „ c Attachments. It arises from the spinous processes of the tour or tve supe- rior dorsal and the seventh cervical vertebrte, from the corresponding supra- spinous ligaments, and also from the ligamentum nuchse, between the seventh and the tWrd cervical vertebra : it is inserted, 1. into the transverse processes of the first, second, and often of the third cervical vertebrae; 2. into the ex- ternal surface and posterior border of the mastoid process, and the external thii-d of the rough space beneath the superior semi circular line of the occi- pital bone The spinal attachments consist of tendinous fibres, the most mfe- rior of which are the longest. From these the fleshy fibres proceed obhquely upwards and outwards, the lower being longer and more vertical, and form a broad flat muscle, which is much thicker externally, and soon becomes di- V ded iito two po;tions-one smaller, inferior and external the other much Wer superior and internal. The former is called the splenius colli: it is soSmes^distinct, even from its origin, and soon subdivides into two or three ScT whSr terminate in as many tendinous processes, that are inserted iuto the'aSs the axis, and often into the third cervical vertebra. The fasci- cX proceeding to the atlas is usually the largest. The second, or the upper rndinternal portion of the muscle, is connected with the head, and is called 'tJesplenius is covered by the trapezius (the rhomboid and tbe serfatus posticus superior intervening below), by the sterno-mastoid, and bj serratus P°^"^"^ i;t, covers the complexus, the longissimus dorsi.