SUPERIOR PELVIC APONEUROSIS. 405 D D 3 mina is given off, >vhich passes into and Unes the pelvis, and is soon divided into two distinct layers: one external, the lateral pelvic or obturator fascia, which con- tinues to line the sides of the pelvis, and covers the obturator internus muscle; the other internal, or superior, which passes inwards upon the side of the pro- state gland, bladder, and rectum in the male and of the bladder, vagina, and rectum in the female, in order to form the floor of the pelvis This is the superior pelvic aponeurosis, with the description of which we shaU commence. The Superior Pelvic Aponeurosis, or Becto-vesical Fascia. Dissection. This aponeurosis must be studied both from the cavity of the pelvis and from the perineum. It is exposed in the pelvis by removing the peritoneum, and the loose cellular tissue beneath that membrane : this should be done without any cutting instrument. To view this fascia from the peri- neum, it is necessary to take away the adipose tissue that occupies the perineal fossse, and also the levator ani muscle. The superior pelvic aponeurosis forms a complete floor for the pelvis. An- teriorly it is remarkable for its strength and shortness; in fact, it does not reach the inlet in this situation, but arises on each side from the symphysis pubis, presenting the appearance of bands or columns, which are more or less separated from each other, and become attached to the front of the neck of the bladder whence the name of anterior ligament of the bladder, which the older anatomists gave to this part of the aponeurosis. More externally it forms a strong arch (the sub-pubic arch), which completes the posterior orifice of the obturator or sub-pubic canal {i, fig. 48.). This arch is not unfrequently double, and then one of the foramina gives passage to vessels, and the other to nerves. Still more externally it is attached to the brim of the pelvis, in the manner I have already pointed out. Posteriorly it is extremely thin, passes in front of the sciatic plexus, and is lost upon the sacrum. Sometimes it appears to be divided into two laminae, the posterior of which passes in front of the sciatic plexus, and the anterior in front of the internal iliac vessels, to which it would seem to furnish sheaths. Relations. Its upper surface is concave, and connected with the peritoneum by loose cellular tissue, containing more or less fat. Its lower surface is convex, and covered by the levator ani: it forms part of the great perineal excavation, and is in relation with the pyrLformis and obturator internus muscles, with the sacral plexus, &c. This aponeurosis is perforated by a great number of openings: in the male . it is pierced by the prostate {i,fig. 181.) and the bladder (Ji), on the sides of which it is prolonged and reflected on to the rectum, whence the name of the recto-vesical aponeurosis, given to it by M. Carcassone. In the female it is also perforated by the vagina. On each side of the bladder and prostate it is strengthened by two tendinous bands, which run from before backwards. These are sometimes very strong; they extend from the symphysis pubis (6), to the spine of the ischium (e), pass along the bladder and the prostate, and are reflected upon their sides. In front, it has some openings for the vesical and prostatic vessels. Behind, it presents a considerable opening, which corresponds to the out- let of the pelvis, and gives passage to the lumbo-sacral nerve and the glu- teal vessels. The extremity of the arch formed by it corresponds to the ante- rior border of the sciatic notch. It is through this opening that sciatic hernise protrude. We not uncommonly find larger or smaller openings in this fascia, of an oblong or circular shape, leading into conical culs-de-sac, which are filled with fat. Lastly, it is perforated behind by the ischiatic and internal pudic ves- sels. It does not appear to be intended for the passage of the vessels which are distributed in the interior of the pelvis, for it seems to invest these in fibrous sheaths.