MUSCLES OF THE GREAT TOE. 375 DOESAL Eegion. The Extensor Brevis Digitorum. Dissection. Remove the dorsal fascia of the foot, and the tendons of the muscles of the anterior region of the leg. , ., , , The extensor brevis digitorum {q,fig. 128.) is a thin, flat, quadrilateral muscle, situated on the dorsum of the foot; it is divided into four portions anteriorly, and is an accessory of the extensor longus digitorum. It arises from the os calcis, and is inserted into the first four toes. It arises, by a roimded extremity, from a small excavation on the outside of the foot, formed by the os calcis and the astragalus {the astragalo-calcanean fossa), and from the os calcis in front of that excavation. Its origin from these parts is both fleshy and tendinous. The muscle then passes forwards and in- wards, and soon divides into four fleshy fasciculi, each representing a little penniform muscle, and terminating quickly in a small tendon, the size of which is proportioned to the strength of the fasciculus. The internal tendon is the largest, because it is intended for the great toe; it is situated below the tendon of the extensor proprius pollicis, which it crosses at a very acute angle, and is inserted into the dorsal surface of the proximal end of the last phalanx. The second, third, and fourth tendons, intended for the second, third, and fourth toes, are subjacent to the corresponding tendons of the extensor longus digi- torum, which they cross at a very acute angle. Having reached the metatarso- phalangal articulations, the tendons of the short extensor are situated to the outside of those of the extensor longus, and are blended with them, so as to com- plete the fibrous sheath on the dorsal surface of the first phalanx, and to ter- minate in a similar manner. Relations. It is covered by the dorsal fascia of the foot, by the tendons of the extensor longus digitorum and extensor proprius pollicis ; it covers the second row of the tarsal bones, the metatarsus, and a small portion of the in- terosseous muscles, and the phalanges. The arteria dorsalis pedis runs at first along the inner border of this muscle, which overlaps the artery, where the latter perforates the first interosseous space, in order to reach the sole of the foot. Action. It extends the fii'st four toes; it acts upon the first phalanx only of the great toe. Its obliquity enables it to correct the contrary oblique move- ment communicated to the toes by the contraction of the extensor longus digi- torum ; so that the opposite actions of these two muscles are mutually destroyed, and the foot is extended directly. Not uncommonly, the extensor brevis pre- sents a fifth fasciculus, which is lost upon some one of the metatarso-phalangal articulations. Internal Plantar Region. The muscles of the ball of the great toe may be divided, like those of the thumb, into two orders, viz. those which pass from the tarsus to the inner side of the first phalanx, and those which pass from the tarsus to the outer side of the same phalanx. Here, as with the muscles of the thumb, the tendon of the flexor longus divides the flexor brevis pollicis pedis of authors into two parts,—one internal, forming the flexor brevis of the great toe, properly so called; the other external, which is found to be connected with the oblique adductor of this toe. Muscles inserted into the inner Side of the First Phalanx of the Great Toe. Dissection, In order to expose the abductor brevis, it is sufficient to remove the internal plantar fascia; the flexor brevis will be found under, t. e. deeper than the tendon of the abductor brevis. B n 4