MYOLOGY. 252 which the muscle acts, is a fundamental point in studying muscular action. It IS a law in mechanics, that the power acts with greater effect, in proportion as its arm of the lever exceeds in length that of the resistance. The most common lever in the human body is that of the third order, in which the power being applied between the fulcrum and the weight, is therefore most disadvantageously situated for action. 4. As far as regards energy of movement the lever to which the power is applied is as unfavourable as possible, because the muscles are generally in- serted near the fulcrum. But as a sort of compensation, an advantage peculiar to animal mechanics, the motions gain in velocity and extent what they lose in force, which, however, may still be obtained by an increase in the number of muscles, and of the fleshy fibres of each muscle. Nevertheless levers of the most favourable construction, and of the most advantageous position are met with in situations where considerable force is required; as in the articu- lation of the foot with the leg, presenting an example of a lever of the second order, and in the articulation of the head with the vertebral column, forming a lever of the first order. The angle of incidence most favourable to the power, is the right angle; but in the human body, as the muscles are arranged in layers upon the bones which they are intended to move, they are for the most part inserted at very acute angles. Their incidence would be stUl more unfavourable, were it not for the enlargement of the articular extremities of the bones, which disturb the parallelism of the muscles. Besides, in certain cases, the angle of incidence more or less approaches or even attains to a right angle, and is combined with an extremely advantageous lever, when such an arrangement is required ; as in the articulation of the foot with the leg. It is of importance to notice, in determining the action of a muscle, that its incidence upon the bone varies at different periods during its action ; so that a muscle, which is almost parallel to the lever, when it begins to contract, becomes perpendicular to it at a given moment during that process. It may be said that the momentum of a muscle occurs at that period of its action when its perpendicular incidence gives it the utmost energy of which it is capable: thus, the momentum of the action of the biceps femoris takes place when the leg forms a right angle with the thigh. In a certain number of muscles the momentum coin- cides with the commencement of action; such as the gastrocnemii and the solei. In some muscles the angle of incidence remains the same throughout the whole time of their action, and consequently they have no momentum: this is the case with the deltoid. The angle of incidence of the muscular fibres, with regard to the imaginary axis of the muscle or the terminating tendon, involves a loss of power pro- portional to the amount of the angle. In some muscles the aponeuroses form a continuation of the fleshy fibres ; in others, the angle of incidence of the muscular fibre is so acute that it may be left out of consideration. Estimation of the action or uses of the muscles. Since the contraction of a muscle consists in its shortening, it follows that its action may be determined, a priori, from a knowledge merely of its attachments and direction. It may also be ascertained experimentally, by placing a limb in such a position that the muscle in question shall be perfectly relaxed. As the same muscle gener- ally performs several uses, it is necessary to place the limb in several different positions, so as to determine those in which the muscle becomes relaxed. Let us take for example, the glutaeus maximus. If we desire to relax this muscle completely, it is necessary, 1. to extend the thigh upon the pelvis ; 2. to abduct it • 3 to rotate it outwards: hence, it follows that the glutajus maxmius is at'once an extensor, an abductor, and a rotator outwards of the thigh. As a counterproof, the limb must be placed in such a condition that the muscle becomes completely stretched. The successive positions in which a muscle becomes stretched will be the very reverse of those which the limb assumes during the contraction of the muscle. Thus, the gluta;us maximus is slightly