B R 4 THE OVARIES. as to resemble areolar tissue. It is probable that the internal coat of the veins Unes all the cells, which contain more or less blood, according to the ''In Se UsfuT of the corpus spongiosum, as well as in that of the corpus ca- vernosuma^eWlongitLinalmL L theTa^Ker animals, and the existence of which appears to be shewn by the microscope in the human subject. The structure of the glans (//) is exactly le same aVthat of the bulb, only its tissue is more dense. The corpus spon- giosum LthriB does not communicate with the corpus cavernosum although f first sight it appears to be nothing more than a continuation of it The b unt extremity of the corpus cavernosum is evidently embraced by the base of the glans but no communication exists between the erectile tissue composing these two bodies, so that it is possible to inject them separately. THE GENERATIVE ORGANS OF THE FEMALE. The Ovaries. — The Fallopian Tubes. —The Uterus. —The Vagina. —The Urethra. — The Vulva. The genital organs of the female consist of the ovaries, the Fallopian tubes, the uterus, the vagina, and the several parts forming the vulva. With these we may include the mamma, as appendages to the generative apparatus. The Ovaries. The ovaries (pvarid), so called on account of the small vesicular ova which they contain, are the representatives of the testicles in the male ; the product secreted by both the one and the other is absolutely indispensable for repro- duction. From this analogy between the ovaries and testes the ancients called them testes muliebres {Galen'). The ovaries (a a,,fig. 188.) are two in number, and are situated one on each side of the uterus, in that portion of the broad ligament (d d',) termed the posterior ala (6), and behind the Fallopian tube. They are retained in this position by the broad ligament, and by a proper ligament called the ligament of the ovary (c). Their situation varies at different ages, and also according to the state of the uterus. In the foetus, they are placed in the lumbar regions, like the testicles. During pregnancy, they are carried up into the abdomen with the uterus, upon the sides of which they are applied. Immediately after delivery, they occupy the iliac fossae, where they sometimes remain during the whole period of life, being retained there by accidental adhesions. It is extremely common to fi.nd them thrown backwards *, and adhering to the posterior surface of the uterus. The ovary has sometimes been found in inguinal or femoral hernise : by descending into the labia majora, they have simulated the appearance of tes- ticles. The size of the ovaries varies according to age, and according as the uterus is gravid or unimpregnated, healthy or diseased. They are relatively larger in the foetus than in the adult; they diminish in size after birth, again increase at the period of puberty, and become atrophied in old age. During the latter periods of pregnancy, they sometimes acquire double or triple their ordinary size. The ovaries are of an oval shape, a little flattened from before backwards; » The situation of the ovaries, behind the Fallopian tubes, prevents their displacement for- wards.