MYOLOGY. 272 phragm, the two muscles being actuaUy continuous at the two inferior inter- costal spaces ; the vertebral attachments are effected by means of the posterior abdominal aponeurosis ; and from the ilium it arises by very short tendinous fibres mternally to the small oblique. From these three origins the fleshy fibres proceed parallel to each other and horizontally inwards; the lower ones alone are slightly inclined downwards and inwards; the middle fibres are the longest. They are all inserted into the external convex edge of a ten- dinous expansion, which constitutes the posterior layer of the auterior ab- dominal aponeurosis. Relations. The transversalis is covered by the internal oblique, and rests upon the peritoneum, from which it is separated by a fibrous lamina, which is very distinct in front, where it is named the fascia transversalis. Actions. 1. It acts more powerfully upon the abdominal viscera than any of the preceding muscles, compressing them strongly like a girth, against the vertebral column, and assisting greatly in the process of defacation. 2. It draws inwards the ribs to which it is attached, and thus materially assists in expiration. The Rectus Abdominis. Dissection. 1. The subject being laid upon its back, place a block under the loins; 2. After having removed the skin, make a vertical incision through the strong aponeurosis at about two fingers breadth from the linea alba; 3. Dissect off the two flaps inwards and outwards. The adhesions between tlds aponeu- rosis and the muscle ai-e, however, so intimate at many points, that it is impos- sible to separate them. The rectus abdominis {c,fig. 110.) is situated at the anterior and middle part of ihe abdomen on each side of the linea alba, and occupies the space between the pubes and the cartilage of the fifth rib. It is flattened like a riband in front and behind ; it is about three or four fingers' breadth wide above, and only two below. Its breadth is generally in an inverse proportion to its thickness. Attachments. It arises from the upper edge of the os pubis, in the space be- tween the spine and the symphysis ; and is inserted in front of and below the cartilage of the seventh rib and costo-xiphoid ligament, to the cartUages of the fifth and sixth ribs, and sometimes to the bone also. The pubic attachment is a flat tendon, consisting of two very distinct por- tions, of which the external is the larger. This tendon is continuous by its external border with the fascia transversalis. It is separated from its fellow of the opposite side by a very narrow and thick fibrous septum, which forms the lower part of the linea alba. Sometimes the internal tendinous fibres in- tersect with those of the opposite side in front of the symphysis pubes ; and some fleshy fibres often arise from the sides of the linea alba. The presence or absence of the pyramidalis affects the size of the lower part of this muscle. From this tendinous origin the fleshy fibres proceed vertically upwards (whence the name of rectus). At the upper part, where they are prolonged in an ex- panded form upon the thorax, they are slightly oblique from within outwards, and divided into three unequal portions : the internal, the smallest, is attached to the cartilage of the seventh rib and to the costo-xiphoid ligament; the middle, which is larger, is fixed to the cartilage of the sixth rib ; and the ex- ternal, by far the largest, to the cartilage of the fifth rib. Very often a small portion of the muscle is inserted into the base and edges of the xiphoid carti- lage, thus justifying the name of sterno-pubien given to it by Chaussier. It is not uncommon to find this muscle give off a fourth bundle to the fourth rib, and even an aponeurotic expansion to the sterno-cleido-mastoid. The rectus is interrupted by two, three, four, or five tendinous intersections, which pass transversely or obliquely across the muscle in a flexuous or zig-zag course, seldom occupying either the entire thickness or width of the muscle, which they divide into so many smaller muscles. There are always more intersections above than below the umbilicus.