ARTICULATIONS OF THE SHOULDER. 179 N 2 the acromio-clavicular articulation, so as to be able to observe the thickness of the ligaments and articular cartilages. Acromio-clavicular Articulation {fig. 69.). Articular surfaces The clavicle and the acromion process oppose to each Articular ^Wf^f ^ greatest diameter directed from before other aplane,elhptK^^^^^^^^ clavicle looks somewhat obliquely ?o™rt and oi^Ss the acromial facette looks obliquely upwards and fnT4 The extelt of these surfaces varies greatly m individual cases, de- nendent on the degree of exercise to which the jomt is subjected.* MllsVmio^ and provision for facilitating motiori. These are, L An rntcr- arS::far7:ge,&Jvoiated.t\yW^^^^^^ and when it does exist, occupies only the upper half of the articulation 2. An orbicular fibrous capsule (,d,fig. 69.) which is very thick above and belund, and very thin belo^. It is composei of distinct bundles, which are much longer behind than in front, and are strengthened by some fibres belongmg to the aponem-osis of the trapezius muscle: it is not only attached to the upper edge of the articular surface, but also to some inequalities upon the upper surface of the acromion. It is composed of several layers, the deepest being the shortest. 3. A stjnovial membrane, of a very simple construction, supported below by adipose tissue. Coraco-clavicular Articulation (fig. 69.). There can be no doubt concerning the existence of an articulation, where two surfaces are contiguous and capable of a gliding motion on each other; a J one of them, the coracoid, being almost always covered with cartilage and a sjmovial mem- brane ; and the other, the cla- vicular, presenting sometimes a considerable process. The means of union are two ligaments, or rather two dis- tinct ligamentous bundles, a posterior and an anterior: ' they are called coraco-cla- vicular. 1. The posterior ligament, named also the conoid or radiated (e,fig. 69.), is triangular, and directed vertically ; it commences by a narrow extremity, at the base of the coracoid process, and is inserted into a series of tubercles on the posterior edge of the clavicle near its outer extremity. 2. The anterior ligament (/) {trapezoid ligament of Boyer), arises from the internal edge of the coracoid process, and from the whole extent of the rough projection on the base of this process: from this it proceeds very obliquely to the ridge on the lower surface, near the external end of the clavicle. The two coraco-clavicular ligaments are continuous, and can only be dis- tinguished by the direction of their fibres. We might with propriety range among the means of union of this joint an aponeurotic lamina, to which much importance has been attached in surgical anatomy, and which is known by the name of the costo-clavicular aponeurosis or costo-coracoid ligament. It may be easily felt under the pectoralis major in emaciated individuals: it extends from the inner edge of the coracoid process, to the lower surface of the clavicle, and converts the groove for the subclavius muscle into a canal. * In individuals wlio Iiave exercised tlie upper extremities very mucli, these surfaces arn uneven, and unequally incrusted with newly-formed cartilage.