80 OSTEOLOGY. Anterior or Facial Region. The numerous anatomical differences which this region presents, form dis- tinctive characters, not only of ditferent nations, but also of different indivi- duals. It is bounded above by the forehead, below by the base of the inferior maxilla, and laterally by a line which passes along the external orbital process, the malar bone, and the ridge -which separates the canine fossa from the tuberosity of the maxilla. In this region we observe, in the median line, the nasal eminence, a transverse suture formed by the union of the proper nasal bones with the OS frontis, the fronto-nasal suture; below this suture the nose, a pyramidal eminence, narrow above or at its root, broad below or at its base, and formed by two bones which are united together by juxta-position in the median line, and to the ascending process of the superior maxilla externally. Below this eminence, is the anterior orifice of the nasal fosses, which has the form of a heart on playing cards, andpresents at the bottom the anterior nasal spine, and below this a vertical suture, the maxillary, the interval which separates the middle in- cisor teeth, the opening of the mouth, and the symphysis menti. On each side, ■we find the opening or base of the orbit, directed obliquely outwards, of an ir- regular square form, and presenting above, the supra-orbitary foramen; below, the infra-orbitary foramen; on the outside, the fronto-jugal suture ; and on the inside, the fronto-maxillary suture. Below the opening of the orbit is the canine fossa, then the alveoli and teeth of the two jaws, the external oblique line, the mental foramen, and the base of the inferior maxilla. Superior or Cranial Region. This region is so united with the inferior surface of the cranium, that the skull and the superior maxilla form only one piece, and cannot be removed from each other. It presents in the median line counting from behind forwards, the articulation of the vomer with the sphenoid, in which articulation there is a mutual reception of parts, the sphenoidal crest being received between the la- mina of the vomer, and these in their turn being lodged m correspondmg fissures in the sphenoid; the articulation of the vomer with the posterior edge of the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid; the articulation of this perpendicular plate with the nasal spine of the frontal bone; and the articulation of this spine with the proper bones of the nose. On each side, proceeding from withm out- wards we observe, 1. the roof of the nasal fossae, formed behind by the in- ferior surface of the body of the sphenoid; in the middle by the cribriform plate of the ethmoid ; and in front by the posterior surface of the nasal bones: 2. more externally the base of the pterygoid processes, the articulation of the palate bone with the sphenoid, the pterygo-palatine canal, and the spheno-palatme fora- men- 3 the articulation of the lateral masses of the ethmoid with the sphenoid behind and with the frontal bone in front: 4. the articulation of the internal or- bital process of the frontal bone with the os unguis: 5. the articulation of the nasal notch of the frontal bone with the ascending process of the superior max- illa and the proper bones of the nose : 6. more extemaUy still the roof of the orbit bounded externally by the articulation of the frontal with the malar bone and the sphenoid, and by the sphenoidal fissure : 7. the anterior surface of the reat wing of the sphenoid, which forms the largest portion of the external waU of the orbit: 8. outside the orbit, the zygomatic arch. Inferior or Guttural Region. This renion forms part of the pharynx and cavity of the mouth. It presents from Sd forwards: 1. a vertical portion: 2. a horizontal portion: and 3, another vertical portion.