THE LUNGS. 549 N N 3 Structure of the Lungs. On examining the structure of the hmgs, we find in each an investing membrane or serous sac, formed by the pleura, and a proper tissue. We shall commence with the pleura. The Pleura. Dissection. In order to obtain a view of the costal pleura, saw through the six or seven upper ribs behind, near their angles; cut through the cartilages of the same ribs, at a distance of some lines from their sternal articulations ; remove the intermediate portions of ribs and intercostal muscles with great care, so as to leave the costal pleura untouched. The cavity of the pleura may be inflated. In order to see the mediastinal and pulmonary portions, the costal pleura must be opened, and its continuity traced. The pleura (ir\evpa, the side) is a serous membrane, and therefore a shut sac, which is extended partly over the parietes of the thorax, and partly over the lungs. There are two pleurae, one for the right and the other for the left lung. The following is their general arrangement: — The pleura lines the parietes of the thorax, the ribs, and the diaphragm, forming the pleura costalis (pp,fig. and pleura diaphragmatica; it invests the entire surface of the lung, constituting a sort of integument for it, and forming the pleura pulmonalis : lastly, it is applied to the pleura of the opposite side, so as to form a septum between the two lungs ; this part is the medias- tinal pleura. In order to facilitate the description of the pleura, we shall suppose it to commence at a certain point; and then following its course without interruption, shall trace it back to the point from which we started. If we thus commence at the sternum, we shall find that it lines the internal surface of the thorax, being applied to the ribs and the intercostal muscles, and covering the mam- mary vessels and lymphatic glands in front, the intercostal vessels and nerves behind, and the ganglia of the great sympathetic opposite the heads of the ribs : below, it is reflected upon the diaphragm, and covers the whole of its upper surface : above, it is reflected beneath the first rib, and terminates in a cul-de-sac, intended for the reception of the apex of the lung, and pro- jecting more or less above that rib. Having reached the sides of the vertebral column, the two pleurae are re- flected forwards as far as the root of the corresponding lung, and form, by their approximation, a septum, which is called the posterior mediastinum. This septum contains within it the aorta, the oesophagus, the pneumogastric nerves, the thoracic duct, the vena azygos, a considerable quantity of cellular tissue, a great number of lymphatic glands, and the trachea. We see then that the two pleurae are by no means in immediate contact. Arrested, as it were, by the root of the lungs, the pleura is reflected out- wards behind that pedicle, passes over a small portion of the pericardium, covers all that part of the inner surface of the lungs which is behind its root, and also its posterior border and its outer surface, dips into the interlobular fissure, so as completely to invest the contiguous surfaces of the lobes, is re- flected over their anterior margin upon their inner surface, reaches the root of the lung, and covers its anterior surface, is then reflected forwards upon the side of the pericardium, in front of which it is applied to the pleura of the opposite side, and at length arrives at the border of the sternum, from which we had supposed it to commence.* The antero-posterior septum formed by the two pleurae, between the ster- * [A fold of the pleura reaching from the lower edge of the root of the lung downwards to the diaphragm, is called the ligamentum latum pulmonis. It is triangular ; its base is attached to the diaphragm, one side to the lung, and the other to the mediastinum.]