METACARPAL ARTICULATIONS. 195 Carpo-Metacarpal Articulations. The articular surfaces are the inferior facettes on the bones of the second row of the carpus; and the facettes on the upper ends of the metacarpal bones. We may consider all the carpo-metacarpal articulations as forming only one joint with a broken surface. The articulation of the trapezium with the metacarpal bone of the thumb, and that of the fifth metacarpal bone with the os unciforme, require each a special description. Articulations of the Second, Third, and Fourth Metacarpal Bones with the Carpus. Articular surfaces (see fig. 73.). The articulation of the second, third, and fourth metacarpal bones with the carpus, presents a sinuous line. Proceeding from within outwards, the fourth and third metacarpal bones form a regular curve, with the concavity looking upwards; but the second, which unites by three facettes with the trapezium, the trapezoid, and os magnum, presents an angular surface. The second metacarpal bone is jointed by its transversely concave surface, with a facette on the trapezoid, which is concave, but in the opposite direction, and by two lateral facettes with the os magnum and the trapezium, so that it enters, as it were, into the carpus by two angular pro- jections, which are received into the intervals between the three bones with which it is articulated. From this it follows, that the carpo-metacarpal articu- lations present not only concave and convex surfaces, favourable to mobility, but also angular surfaces that evince the immobility of these joints. Means of union. Some ligaments, distinguished as dorsal and palmar, both very strong, short, and compact, retain the articular surfaces as immoveably in contact, as if the joints were symphyses. The dorsal ligaments are much stronger than the palmar, and are composed of several layers, the deepest being the shortest. There are three dorsal liga- ments for the second metacarpal bone ; a median (o, fig. 74.), stretched to it from the trapezoid bone; an external (p) which comes from the trapezium, and covers the insertion of the extensor carpi radialis longiorj and an internal, arising from the os magnum : the first of these is vertical, the last two are ob- lique. There are two dorsal ligaments in the articulation of the third meta- carpal bone ; a vertical, which comes from the os magnum, and an oblique (r), from the os uncLforme. In the articulation of the fourth metacarpal bone there is one dorsal liga- ment, longer and looser than the preceding. The palmar ligaments are much less marked than the preceding; contrasting thus with the pahnar ligaments of the carpus. There is none for the second metacarpal bone; the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis appears to supply the place of this ligament. There are three ligaments for the third metacarpal bone ; an external, which comes from the trapezium; a middle, proceeding from the OS magnum; and an internal, from the os unciforme. Lastly, for the articu- lation of the fourth metacarpal bone, there is one palmar ligament from the os unciforme. The si/noyial membrane (see fig. 73.) of the carpo-metacarpal articulations is a continuation of the synovial membrane of the carpus, and is prolonged be- tween the upper ends of the metacarpal bones; and as the synovial membrane ot the carpus communicates also with the radio-carpal joint, it can be con- ceived what ravages may be produced by inflammation attacking any one of tnese parts. I must here point out an interosseous, or lateral ligament (I fin 73 ") which arises from the os magnum, and slightly, also, from the os unciforme and IS attached to the inner side of the third metacarpal bone. It almost com- pletely isolates the articulations of the last two metacarpal bones. This \\<r» ment being attached to the third metacarpal bone, which is already proS o 2