393 THE INTERCOSTAL APONEUROSIS. 2. The deep layer passes beneath the sterno-mastoid, on the outer border of -which it unites with the preceding layer, and completes the sheath for that muscle. It covers the internal jugular vein, the common carotid artei7, the pneumogastric nerve, the great sympathetic, and its cervical ganglia. Its upper margin is attached to the base of the lower jaw ; its lower margin to the posterior surface of the clavicle, and to the posterior edge of the fourchette of the sternum. It is necessary to examine this deep layer, both in the supra- and sub-hyoid region. In the supra-hyoid region its middle portion is very strong, and occupies the triangular space between the anterior bellies of the digastric muscles: it is fixed by its lower margin to the os hyoides, and on each side to the tendon of the digastricus. The lateral portions of this aponeurosis pass beneath the sub- maxillary glands, and are attached to the rami of the lower jaw. Externally to these glands they join the parotid aponeuroses, and form a tolerably thick septum between the submaxillary and parotid glands of either side. In the sub-hyoid region this deep layer is divided into three very distinct parts, a middle and two lateral. The middle is the stronger ; it occupies the triangular space between the two omo-hyoid muscles, and becomes continuous with their median tendons: the muscles may therefore be regarded as the tensors of this fascia. It binds down the muscles of the infra-hyoid region: its arrangement explains why abscesses situated in front of it discharge their contents through the skin, and not into the thorax, as those do that are sub- jacent to it. The lateral parts of the aponeurosis constitute the supra-clavicular fascia, a very strong layer, in which the superficial layer already described, and the two which yet remain to be noticed, all terminate. It occupies the whole triangular space between the trapezius and the sterno-mastoid, is con- tinuous with the fibro-cellular sheath of the former muscle, and adheres below to the clavicle. The latter circumstance is of great importance in relation to surgical anatomy. The superficial and deep layers which we have now described, are common to both the supra- and sub-hyoid regions. In the sub-hyoid region there are two other aponeurotic layers; one, very thin, sepai'ating the superficial from the deep muscles, i. e. the omo- and sterno-hyoidei from the stemo-thyroidei and thyro-hyoidei; the other, thicker, passing between the stemo-thyroidei and the trachea. The latter is the fourth layer which Godman incorrectly de- scribes as continuous with the pericardium. The Prevertebral Aponeurosis. This aponeurosis covers the muscles of the prevertebral region, viz. the longi colli and the great and small anterior recti: it is prolonged on each side upon the scaleni, the levator anguli scapulae, and the brachial plexus; and is attached to the upper border of the scapula, and to the outer half of the posterior border of the clavicle. It completely separates the axilla from the neck, and is perforated by several vessels. It prevents large abscesses of the neck trom opening into the axiUa ; and in caries of the cervical vertebra it retains the pus poured out against it, so as to form abscesses by accumulation. The Thoracic Aponeuroses. The Intercostal Aponeurosis. Independently of the semi-tendinous structure of the intercostal muscles, we nna several fibrous layers in each intercostal space ; one layer, in front, con- tinuous with the external intercostal muscle ; another, behind, continuous with tne internal intercostal muscles ; and, situated within these muscles, a third layer, which lines them and separates them from the pleura. The existence ot tnis subserous aponeurosis accounts for the rare occurrence of the bursting