THE CRANIAL APONEUROSES. 391 longation, reaching up to the lower part of that gland ; and the dartos has been supposed to relult from the expansion of this fascia-a description ^vhlch can be regai-ded only as an ingenious speculation, which has not been confirmed \Sy, ?he external surface of the superficial fascia of the abdomen is in re- lation with the skin, separated from it, however, by a layer of adipose tissue of variable thickness, in which the subcutaneous vessels and nerves are situ- ated. Its deep surface corresponds with the aponeurosis of the external ob- lique muscle, and with a portion of its fleshy fibres : from these parts it is separated by a layer of serous ceUular tissue, which enables it to be moved easily upon this muscle and the subcutaneous vessels and nerves. The Superficial Fascia of the Upper and Lower Extremities. These are thin fibrous sheaths, separated from the skin by a greater or less quantity of adipose tissue, and from the investing aponeurosis of the muscles by the subcutaneous vessels and nerves. It does not exist around the joints, nor in the pahns of the hands and soles of the feet, for in these places the skin adheres to the subjacent aponeuroses. The Aponeuroses of the Cranium. The Occipito-frontal or Epi-cranial Aponeurosis. This is a sort of tendinous or cutaneous cap (£alea capitis), stretched between the two frontal and two occipital muscles. Its superficial surface is intimately adherent to the skin, by means of very short and strong fibrous prolongations, between which the fatty matter is deposited: the frontal, occipital, temporal, and auricular vessels and nerves, traverse this adipose tissue. Its deep surface glides upon the periosteum of the skull {pericranium), by the intei-vention of a very delicate cellular tissue, in which fat is never found. Its anterior margin receives the fibres of the frontal muscles, forming a triangular point between them; its posterior margin receives the fibres of the occipital muscles, and also occupies the interval between them. These two muscles act as tensors of the aponeurosis. Its outer margin gives attachment to the superior and ante- rior auricular muscles. It is composed behind of shining fibres, which seem to form a tendon of insertion to the occipitalis muscle, but it soon loses its pearly appearance, and becomes more adherent to the skin: it is thick and strong at the upper part of the head, but thin and almost cellular at the sides: it may be regarded as a dependence of the superficial fascia. It gives rise to the tension which is so common and so dangerous in inflammations of this region. Its adhesion to the skin explains the shallow character of ulcers, and the flatness of the small abscesses occurring in these parts. The Temporal Aponeurosis. Besides the tendinous origin of the temporal muscle, which has been already described, there is also a very strong investing aponeurosis, arising from the upper border of the zygomatic arch, and inserted into the curved line bound- ing the temporal fossa above. This aponeurosis completes the sort of case in which the muscle is contained; and the space between it and the temporal fossa corresponds with the thickness of the muscle. It difiers from the epicranial aponeurosis, which is more superficial and covers it superiorly, in not adhering to the skin, which glides very easily upon it. Its deep surface adheres to the upper part of the muscle, and furnishes it with numerous points of attachment; below it becomes free, and is separated from the fleshy fibres by a considerable quantity of fat; hence the depression formed in this situation in emaciated persons. It increases in thickness from above downwards ; it divides below into two layers—one superficial and thinner, inserted into the outer edge of the upper c c 4