APONEUROLOGY. 390 PARTICULAR APONEUROSES. Superficial fascia Aponeuroses of the cranium—of the face—of the neck—of the thorax—of the abdomen—of the pelvis—of the thigh, leg, and foot—of the shoulder, arm, forearm, and hand. The Supeeficlax Aponeurosis, or Superficial Fascia. From every point of the deep surface of the skin, fibrous cellular lamellae arise, which intersect each other in various directions, so as to form meshes or areolse, containing adipose tissue in ordinary circumstances, and a serous fluid in oedema.* The cutaneous muscle {panniculus carnosus) of the lower animals, is developed in these laminae ; and amongst them are situated the subcutaneous vessels and nerves, and the lymphatic glands. The name of fascia superficialis has been of late applied to this assemblage of lameUse. It was pointed out in a particular manner by Glisson, who described it under the name of the general investment of the muscles, proceeding from the spine, and covering the whole body; Camper, Cowper, Scarpa, Hesselbach, Law- rence, J. Cloquet, &c. have described it upon the abdomen, in its relation with hernise ; Godman has spoken of its existence over the entire surface of the body; M. Paillard, in his inaugural dissertation, traced it with still greater exactness ; MM. Velpeau and Blandin, in their Traites d'Anatomie Chirur- gicale, consider it as existing in almost all regions of the body. But if the word aponeurosis be employed in its ordinary acceptation, it will be found that a fascia superficialis, consisting of a fibrous texture capable of anatomical demonstration, exists only in two kinds of situations, viz. in those where the skin is extremely moveable, and in those where there is a layer of subcutaneous vessels and nei*ves: in both these cases the fibrous prolongations from the skin are expanded into a thin lamina, constituting a superficial cover- ing for these vessels and nerves, and separated from the fibrous investment of the muscles by a layer of cellular and adipose tissue of variable thickness. In all other parts, the fibro-cellular prolongations of the skin become continuous either with the investing aponeuroses, or with the proper fibro-cellular sheaths of the muscles, or are lost in the subcutaneous cellular tisue. So true is this, that this thin areolar layer, which can with difBculty be separated from the skin in emaciated persons, disappears altogether in those whose cellular tissue is distended by fat or serous effusion. Having made these remarks, I shall describe the superficial fascia in those regions only where it can be easily demonstrated, viz. in the lower part of the abdomen, and in the extremities. The Superficial Fascia of the Abdomen. This aponeurosis, from its constituting the first subcutaneous covering of hernise, has particularly engaged the attention of authors who have specially treated' of the pathological anatomy of those diseases. It becomes evident in the neighbourhood of the umbilical region, but is much more distinct at the fold of the groin, where it divides into two layers, one of which is attached to the femoral arch, and the other is prolonged upon the lower extremity. It is bounded on the inside by the median line, and on the outside bv another line, extending perpendicularly upwards from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium. It is prolonged over the inguinal rms and over the spermatic cord in the male subject. it has been said that in the foetus, before the descent of the testicle the su- perficial fascia dips into the inguinal canal, and forms an infundibuhform pro- * TAflinnso tissue is never deposited in the subcutaneous tissue oftlic eyelids, nor in the male organ of'^encrS!^'^^^ parts, however, may become mueh distended from serous mfil- tration.]