361 THE ADDUCTOR MAGNUS. an important relation with the anterior orifice of the sub-puhic canal, which corresponds with the posterior surface of the muscle. AVhen hernial pro- trusions therefore take place at the foramen ovale the displaced parts are always covered by the pectineus muscle. The Second Superficial Adductor, or Adductor Longus. The adductor longus of Albinus (le premier adducteur, Boi/er; le moyen ad- ducteur, Bichat, x,fig. 126.) is a flat triangular muscle, situated on the same plane as the pectineus, of which it seems to be a continuation, and with which it is often blended above. For this reason Vesalius made of these two muscles his eighth pair of muscles of the thigh, under the name of pars octava femur moventium. It is certain that there is a sort of consolidation between these two muscles, and that a small pectineus is always observed in conjunction with a large adductor longus. Attachments. It arises Qc,fig. 127.) from the spine of the pubes, and is in- serted (x) into the middle third of the linea aspera of the femur. Its origin consists of a narrow flat tendon, which expands anteriorly, and gives origin to a thick and broad fleshy belly; this passes downwards, backwards, and outwards, and is inserted into the middle third of the linea aspera of the femur, between the triceps femoralis in front, and the great deep adductor behind: with the latter of these muscles it becomes blended at its insertions. It is at- tached to the bone by means of two tendinous layers, beween which the fleshy fibres are received. A number of foramina, intended for the perforating ar- teries, are observed in the neighbourhood of this attachment. Relations. Its upper part lies immediately under the fascia, and it becomes gradually deeper as it passes downwards. It is in relation with the sartorius, from which it is separated by the femoral artery and veins. This relation is one of great importance, as I shall hereafter have occasion to point out. The Small Deep Adductor, or Adductor Brevis. The adductor brevis of Albinus (le second of Boyer; le petit of Bichat, y,fig 127.) is of the same form as the preceding muscle, and is the second in the order of super-imposition, but the smallest in size. It arises below the spine of the pubes on the outer side of the gracilis, and the inner side of the obturator ex- temus from a variable extent of surface. The fibres proceed outwards, down- wards, and a little backwards, and form a thick bundle, at first flattened from within outwards, and then from before backwards, which increases in breadth, and terminates at the middle of the linea aspera of the femur, in front of the great deep adductor, and behind the two superficial adductors, with which it is blended at its insertion. Relations. It is covered by the superficial adductors, and it covers the great deep adductor, or adductor magnus. Its outer border has a relation with the obturator extemus, and the conjoined psoas and iliacus muscles; its inner border is at first in contact with the gracilis, and is then applied to the ad- ductor magnus, from which it is sometimes difficult to separate it. The Great Deep Adductor, or Adductor Magnus. Dissection. In order to obtain a good view of this muscle, it is not sufficient to study its anterior surface only, which is exposed after the preceding muscles have been divided; its posterior surface must also be examined; and for this pur- pose it is necessary to remove the three muscles of the posterior region of the thigh, viz. the biceps, the semi-tendinosus, and the semi-membranosus. The adductor magnus o{ Albinus (le troisicme of Boyer; le grand of Bichat, 2 z'. Jigs. 124. to 127.) is a very large triangular muscle, extremely thick in- ternally, where it constitutes almost the entire substance of the inside of the