THE INTESTINES. 505 Relations. This muscle is placed at the boundary between the Mial and perineal regions. It forms the posterior side of a triangle, of which the outer side is fon^ed by the ischio-cavernosus (c), and the inner by the bulbo-caver- nosus. (rf) It is subcutaneous excepting in the median hne, and is m relation above with the levator ani. . . Action. It tends to compress and force the anterior against the posterior surface of the rectum, which we shall see is pushed forwards by the levator ani. It therefore assists powerfully in defaecation. The Ischio-eoccygeus and Levator Ani. Dissection. These muscles must be studied both from the perineum and ^ from the interior of the pelvis. In the perineum : remove the adipose tissue, which occupies the interval between the rectum and the obturator internus ; in order to expose the whole of the ischio-coccygeus, cut the lower edge of the gluteus maximus, and carefully divide the great and small sacro-sciatic ligaments. In the pelvis: remove the peritoneum lining the sides of that ca- vity ; remove the superior pelvic fascia, which covers these muscles, and trace them very carefully backwards and upon the sides of the rectum, the bladder, and the prostate gland. The ischio-coccygeus and the levator ani constitute the floor of the pelvis. They form an uninterrupted muscular plane, from the lower border of the py- riformis muscle to the arch of the pubes. The ischio-coccygeus includes that portion which is inserted into the sides of the coccyx, the remainder is the levator ani. The Ischio-coccygeus, or Coccygeus. This is a flat, triangular, or rather a radiated muscl^ (o), situated at the lower part of the pelvis, in front of the sacro-sciatic ligaments. It arises from the sides and summit of the spine of the ischium, from the anterior surface of the lesser sacro-sciatic ligament, and often from the posterior part of the pelvic fascia; it passes in a radiated manner to the border of the coccyx and the lower part of the border of the sacrum. AU these attachments are effected by aponeurotic fibres, to which the fleshy fibres succeed. In this respect its structure has considerable analogy with that of the intercostal muscles, the tendinous portion exceeding the muscular. jRelations. Its upper surface io,fig. 111.) is slightly concave, and corresponds to the rectum ; its lower surface (^fig. 163.) is slightly convex, and is in relation with the sacro-sciatic ligaments and the glutasus maximus; its posterior margin is applied to the lower border of the pyriformis ; its anterior margin is continuous, without any line of demarcation, with the posterior margin of the levator ani (n), from which muscle it can be distinguished merely by its tendinous struc- ture. Action. It assists in forming the floor of the pelvis. It tends to draw the coccyx to its own side : when the muscles of both sides act together, the coccyx is fixed, and cannot be thrown backwards. It acts, therefore, in defaecation. The name levator coccygis, which was given to it by Morgagni, is altogether in- applicable. The Levator Ani. This muscle (n), so called from one of its chief uses, is situated in the cavity of the pelvis, and with its fellow forms a sort of muscular floor, which in many respects resembles that formed by the diaphragm. It is thin, curved, and quadrilateral, nan-ow in front and broad behind. It arises, hy its fixed or upper attachments, in front, from the pubis at the side of and sometimes even from the symphysis; behind, from the anterior border of the spine of the ischium, and in the interval between these extreme points from the upper part of the obturator foramen, and from the brim of the pelvis.