MYOLOGY. 254 1. Make a section of the skin parallel to the fibres of the muscle, deep enough to reach the muscle thi-ough the sheath; 2. As soon as the flap of skin can be grasped by the hand, stretch and separate it from the muscle by cutting with the scalpel in the angle formed by these two parts. 3. When the superficial surface is exposed, proceed to separate the deep surface, preserving as much as possible all its important relations. 4. Then dissect the extremities, mark- ing out their limits with the greatest care. In the study of the muscular system, great importance should be attached to the choice of subjects. Robust and tolerably fat subjects are best adapted for this purpose. Preservation of muscles in liquids. Alcohol, oil of turpentine, a mixture of equal parts of these, or solutions of the bichloride of mercury, or persulphate of iron, may be employed for the preservation of muscles, though they alter many of their properties, such as their colour, consistence, &c. Preparations by desiccation. As this kind of preparation requires a peculiar method, we refer to the special treatises upon anatomical preparations for an account of them. (Vide tke works of MM. Marjolin and Louth.^ Order of Description of tlie Muscles. Before passing to the description of the particular muscles, it is necessary to determine in what order they shall be studied. Galen divided the body for this purpose into regions, and described the muscles of each in their order of super-imposition. In place of this arrangement which is purely topogra- phical, Vesalius substituted a physiological one founded upon a consideration of the uses of the muscles. This order was adopted by Winslow, who named the different muscular regions in the following manner : —Muscles which move the shoulder upon the trunk—muscles which move the arm upon the scapula, &c. Albinus revived fhe method pursued by Galen, and divided the muscles into forty-eight regions in the male, and forty-six in the female. He was followed by Sabatier, and by Vicq-d'Azyr, who brought the arrangement to perfection by establishing some Subdivisions in the groups formed by Albinus. Thus modified, it has been adopted by most modern anatomists ; it is evidently pre- ferable in many respects, since it is essentially anatomical, and is best calcu- lated to exhibit the relations of the different muscles and regions. In regard also to economy of subjects, and facility of dissection, it has many advantages over the physiological order, with which however in many regions it may be made to coincide. We shall therefore adopt this arrangement, modifying it so far as to permit all the muscles to be dissected upon one subject; and after having described all the muscles according to their topographical relations, we shall give a table in which they wiU be grouped in a physiological order. MUSCLES OF THE POSTERIOR REGION OF THE TRUNK. The trapezius.— Latissimus dor si and teres major. — Rhomhoideus. — Levator anquli scapulcB. — Serrati postici. — Splenius. —Posterior spinal muscles.— Complexus. — Interspinalis colli. —Recti capitis postici, major et minor.— Obliqui capitis, major et minor. — General view and action of the posterior spinal muscles. The muscles situated on the posterior region of the trunk fo^^ several layers, which proceeding from the skin to the ^^^^f * °° ."*^f "J'^.f the trapezius, the latissimus dorsi and teres major, the >-\«^^^°>f ^^^^^ni^' vator anguli scapula;, the serrati postici superior et inferior, the splenu^, the long muscles of the back, viz. the sacro-lumbahs and longissmius dors., * [Tl,e transverso-spinalis muscle includes the semi-spmalis coUi, the semi-spinalis dorri, and the multifidus spinje of Albinus.]