THE INTESTINES. 491 In the left iUac region (/) it is twice bent upon itself, Uke the Roman letter S 07,-2 o! it then dips into the pelvis (r), and terminates at *^TheTaree intestine therefore, describes within the abdomen a nearly cora- pleTe ci df"^^^^^^^^^^^ th; mass of convolutions of the ^r - L and it occupies the right and left iUac regions, the right and left lumbar, tiie bLe of eacrhypoch^ndriac, and the adjacent borders of the eP'gast- umbilical regions Although it is much more firmly fixed in its place than the small intestine, and is therefore less liable to displacement, yet it presents some varieties in length and curvature which have a considerable influence over its position. The large intestine is more deeply situated than the smaU in one part of its extent, but in another is at least qmte as superficial From its long course, and from the different relations presented by its dif- ferent parts, it has been divided into the ccecum, the colon, which is itself sub- divided into several parts, and the rectum. Dimensions. The length of the large intestine is four or five feet, and, com- pared with the smaU intestine, is as one to four; but it vanes considerably, rather, it would seem to me, from the effects of repeated distension, than from any original conformation; for it may be easily imagined that the bowel can- not be distended transversely without losing somewhat in length, and that on returning to its former diameter it must be elongated in proportion to the dis- tension it had previously undergone. The large intestine has also generally appeared to me longer in persons advanced in age than in adults. Its caliber or diameter usually exceeds that of the small intestine, but may become so reduced, that the gut resembles a hard cord about the size of the little finger. In other cases it is so large, that it occupies the greatest part of the abdominal cavity: this is observed in tympanitic distension of the large intestine. It is not of uniform caliber throughout, as the following measure- ments will show. The circumference of the caecum, moderately distended, and taken unmediately below the ileo-csecal valve, was found to be eleven inches and there> lines in one subject, and nine inches and a half in another; the ' right colon in the loins and the right half of the arch were eight inches and nine Unes in the first, and five inches some lines in the second subject. The circumference of the left half of the arch of the colon, and of the left lumbar colon was six inches in the first and five inches and a half in the second. The circumference of the sigmoid flexure was five inches and a quarter; that of the rectum was three inches until near its termination, where it presented a dilatation four inches in circumference in one, and five inches in the other subject. It follows, therefore, that the large intestine, like the small, has an infundi- buliform shape; it resembles, indeed, two funnels, the base of the one cor- responding to the caecum, and its apex to the sigmoid flexure, whilst the base of the other is at the dilated portion of the rectum, and its apex is applied to that of the first. It is probable that this infundibuliform arrangement has some reference to the passage of the fsecal matters. It also follows that there is no uniform relation between the diameters of the different portions of the large intestine: thus a very large caecum and ascend- ing colon may co-exist with a small descending colon. In some cases we find in the large intestine considerable dilatations, separated from each other by such constrictions, that the caliber of the corresponding part of the gut is ob- literated. These strangulations from a contraction of the circular fibres are very different from those produced by organic diseases; they probably take place during life, and may account for the affection known as the windy colic. In some chronic diseases, accompanied with diarrhoea, the large intestine, con- tracted and containing no gases, is not as large as the small intestine. The ccBcum. The caecum (e, fig. 139.), so named, because it resembles a cul-de-sac, is the first part of the large intestine. The existence of a caecuin is one of the numerous indications of the line of separation between the large