ARTICULATIONS OF THE KNEE JOINT. 209 Fig 78. the patella. The articular surfece of the femur is formed in front by the trochlea; and behind by the two condyles, separated by the intercondyloid fossa; the articular surface of the tibia consists of the glenoid cavities, sepa- rated by the spine of the tibia, in front of and behind which are some irregular projections. The patella presents two concave surfaces, separated from each other by a vertical ridge corresponding to the groove of the trochlea. These surfaces are all covered with a thick layer of cartilage. It should be re- marked with regard to the knee-joint, 1. that the articular surfaces are ra,ther placed in juxta-position, than jointed together; 2. that the articulation is in some measure double, since two very distinct condyles correspond to two equally distinct cavities. Inter-articular cartilages. Like all joints that are exposed to much pressure, the knee is provided with inter-articular cartilages. They are two in number, and are named from their figure semilunar or fal- ciform cartilages b, fig. T 8.). Their upper sur- faces, corresponding to the convexity of the con- dyles, are concave; their external circumference is very thick, and the internal sharp and thin: they therefore assist in deepening the concave surfaces of the tibia. The external inter-articular cartilage (a) covers almost the whole of the external gle- noid cavity of the tibia, forming nearly a complete circle; while the internal cartilage (b) leaves a great part of the corresponding cavity uncovered. In this respect the inter-articular cartilages of the knee differ from all others of the same kind, for they do not establish a complete separation of the articular surfaces, between which they are placed. The external is attached by both extremities be- tween the two projections that form the spine of the tibia; the anterior extremity of the internal cartilage is fixed in front of the spine, and the posterior extremity behind it; and hence, as these cartilages are inserted into the tibia, they accompany it in all its movements. A transverse fibrous band, called the transverse ligament, unites them in front; and from the external inter-articular cartilage, a very thick bundle of fibres proceeds backwards, which adds greatly to the strength of the posterior crucial ligament, and is inserted behind it into the internal condyle of the femur. The means of union are two lateral, a posterior, an anterior, two crucial liga- ments, and a synovial capsule. The external lateral ligament (a, figs. 79 and 80.) extends from a small emi- nence, which separates two depressions on the back part of the external tuber- osity of the femur, to the outside of the head of the fibula. This ligament has the rounded form, and the appearance of a tendon; it is situated in front of the tendon of the biceps, which covers it below, and embraces it by its bifurcation. The internal lateral ligament (h c,figs. 79 and 80.) extends from the back of the internal tuberosity of the femur, below the tubercle for the adductor mag- uus to the inner edge and internal surface of the tibia. It consists of a broad and thm band, covered at its lower part by the tendons of the sartorius, gra- cilis, and semitendinosus muscles, a synovial bursa intervening. Its deep sur- lace is applied to the anterior tendon of the semi-membranosus, and adheres intimately to the inter-articular cartilage. The lateral ligaments are situated much nearer to the back than to the fore part of the joint, so that they are siretctiea during extension, and assist in limitmg that motion, but are relaxed, auring flexion, to the performance of which they offer no obstacle. ine;joste;7or ligament (or ligament of Winslow) is composed of several sets fhrmpfw , 79 and 81.) pass obliquely upwards and outwards, being toiraea by a considerable expansion of the semi-membranosus; others proceed