THE LARYNX. 563 O O 2 Pig. m Jig. 177.) for articulating with the thyroid cartilage. Behind, where it is covered by the mucous membrane of the pharynx, it presents in the median line a vertical projection, which gives attachment to some of the longitudinal fibres of the oesophagus, and on each side, a depression for the pos- terior crico-arytenoid muscle. Its internal surface is covered by the laryngeal mu- cous membrane. Its lower border is perfectly circular, and slightly waved, and is connected by a membrane with the first ring of the trachea ; sometimes it is even united with it, and can only be distinguished by its greater thickness. Its upper border is not exactly circular, but is oblong from before backwards, as if the ring had been flat- tened laterally. It is cut very obliquely forwards and downwards, or rather it is deeply notched in front, where it is concave, and gives attachment to the crico-thyroid membrane in the median line, and laterally by its inner lip to a fibrous membrane, which is continuous with the inferior vocal cord, and in the rest of its thickness with the lateral crico-arytenoid muscle. Behind, and on each side, is an oblong articular facette, the arytenoid faceties (hh,fig. 173.), which are directed outwards and upwards, and articulate with the arytenoid cartilages. Between these two facettes, the upper border of the cricoid is horizontal, and very slightly notched, and gives attachment to the arytenoid muscle. The upper border of the cricoid cartilage is, therefore, horizontal behind, oblique at the sides, and horizontal and slightly concave in front. The arytenoid facettes are situated upon the oblique portion. The thyroid cartilage. The thyroid or scutiform cartilage (t,figs. 173 to 177.), so named because it has been compared to a shield {pvpe6s, a shield) *, occupies the upper and fore part of the larynx. It is formed by two quadrilateral plates (or alee), united at an acute angle in the median line, and embracing the cri- coid cartilage behind. Its anterior or cutaneous surface presents in tlie median line an angular projection (below e,fig. 173.), more marked and deeply notched above, and completely effaced below; much less distinct in the female, in whom it forms only a rounded surface, than in the male, in whom it has received the special appellation of the pomum Adami. This angular projec- tion does not appear until puberty ; it presents certain individual varieties, but these do not appear to me to have any relation with the qualities of the voice. On each side, the surface {t,figs. 173, 174.) is smooth and quadrilateral, and has two tubercles behind; one of which is superior (6), and the other inferior (d). The latter, or larger, is prolonged upon the inferior border of the cartilage. The two tubercles are united by an aponeurotic arch, but there is no oblique intermediate line, as has been generally afiirmed. These tubercles, and the imaginary line between them, separate the anterior three fourths of the surface, which are covered by the thyro-hyoid muscle, from the posterior fourth, which is covered by the inferior constrictor of the pharynx and the sterno-thyroid muscle. The tubercles give attachment to these three muscles. The posterior surface (fig. 175.) presents, in the median line, a retreating angle, which gives attachment to the thyro-arytenoid ligaments, or vocal cords, and to the thyro-arytenoid muscles. This angle is sometimes so acute, that the cartilage has the appearance of having been subjected to strong lateral pres- sure. On each side (t t), the posterior surface projects beyond the cricoid cartilage and forms part of the lateral groove of the larynx. It is lined by the pharyn- * The name may also hnve been derived from its use.