CONTENTS OF THE FIRST VOLUME. INTRODUCTION. Object and division of anatomy. - General view of the liuman frame. - Apparatus of sensation _ of locomotion - of nutrition — of reproduction. - General plan of tlie work - Page 1 apparatus of locomotion. Osteology. Of the Bones in General. The bones — importance of their study. — General view of the skeleton. — Number of the bones —Method of description. — Nomenclature. — Situation in general. — Direction.— Size weight and density of bones Figure. — Distinction into long, broad, and flat bones. Regions of bones. — Eminences and cavities. — Internal conformation. — Texture. — De- velopment or Osteogeny. — Nutrition - - - - - 6 The Vertebral Column. General characters of the vertebraa. — Characters peculiar to the vertebrae of each region. — Characters proper to certain vertebriB. — Vertebrse of the sacro-coccygeal region—The vertebral column in general— Development - - - - - 25 The Skull. Composed of the cranium and face Cranial bones — occipital — frontal — sphenoid — oeth- moid parietal temporal The cranium in general. — Development. — Bones of the face superior maxillary. — Palate. — Malar. — Nasal Lachrymal — inferior turbinated. — Vomer inferior maxillary The face in general Cavities. — Development - 43 The Thorax^ or Chest. The sternum. — Ribs Costal cartilages The thorax in general. — Development - 86 The Superior or Thoracic Extremities. The shoulder Clavicle. — Scapula— The shoulder in general. — Development Humerus. Ulna Radius The hand— The carpus, and carpal bones. — The metacarpus, and me- tacarpal bones. — The fingers— General development of the superior extremities - 97 The Inferior or Abdominal Extremities. The haunch. — Os coxs. — The pelvis. — Development. — Femur Patella. — Tibia. — Fibula The foot. — The tarsus, and tarsal bones— The metatarsus, and metatarsal bones. — The toes Development of the lower extremities.— Comparison of the upper and lower extremities. — Os hyoides - - - - - H5 The Articulations, or Arthrology. General observations. — Articular cartilages. — Ligaments. — Synovial membranes.—i Classi- fication of the joints Diarthroses. — Synarthroses. — Amphiarthroses, or sj mphyses - 148 Articulations of the Vertebral Column. Articulations of the vertebrae with each other. — Those peculiar to certain vertebrse Sacro- vertebral, sacro-coccygeal, and coccygeal articulations Articulations of the cranium of the face — of the thorax - - - - - - 153 Articulations qf the Superior or Thoracic Extremities. Articulations of the shoulder. — Scapulo-humeral. — Humcro-cubital. Radio-cubital. Kadio-carpal Of the carpus and metacarpus Of the fingers - - . 173