COXO-FEMORAL ARTICULATION. 207 in relation with the obtui-ator externus and the pectineus; on the outside with the gluteus minimus; behind with the quadratus femons, the gemeUi, the pyriformis, and the obturator internus. The internal surface is hned by *Vh?cSllar U^ment of the hip joint differs from the generaUty of such structures in beini of a dull white, instead of a pearly ^^te colour and m being composed of irregularly interlaced mstead of parallel fibres. I have also observed a very remarkable fact, apparently overlooked by anatomists, viz. that it is extremely thin at both its orifices, but especially at the lower ; that near this insertion it is strengthened by some circular fibres which em- brace the neck of the bone like a coUar, but without adhermg to it; and that in its different movements this sort of collar roUs round the neck, but is re- tained in its place by smaU bundles of fibres reflected from the capsule upon the neck of the bone, which raise the synovial membrane from the surface. The interarticular or round ligament {t. Jig. 76.). This ligament arises from the depression on the head of the femur, becomes wider, and divides into two bundles, which are fijced to the edges of the cotyloid notch. The thickness and the strength of this interarticular ligament are extremely variable; sometimes it adheres to one edge only of the notch; sometimes it consists merely of a few ligamentous fibres, contained within the substance of the reflected synovial membrane; sometimes there is nothing but a fold of that membrane which may be torn by the slightest force; and lastly, it is not uncommon to find that it is altogether wanting. The synovial membrane Hnes the whole internal surface of the capsular liga- ment, the two non-adhering surfaces of the cotyloid ligament, and that part of the neck of the femur contained within the joint; it embraces the round liga- ment, and sends off a prolongation from it to the fatty matter, at the bottom of the acetabulum, an arrangement which led the older anatomists to believe that the round ligament was inserted into the bottom of the cotyloid cavity Mechanism of the Coxo-femoral Articulation. Like all enarthroses, the coxo-femoral articulation can execute movements of flexion, extension, abduction, adduction, circumduction, and rotation. 1. Inflexion, the head of the femur rolls in the cotyloid cavity around an imaginary axis corresponding with that of the neck of the bone. The lower end of the femur is carried from behind forwards, and describes the segment of a circle, whose radius is represented by the shaft of the bone. In the me - chanism of this movement, the neck of the femur has the effect of substituting a rotatory motion of the head of that bone upon a fixed point, in which there is no tendency to displacement, for a very extensive movement backwards and forwards, which would otherwise have been necessary, and in which the sur- faces would have been liable to separation from each other. We can indeed scarcely beUeve that luxation would be possible during this motion, although it can be carried so far that the front of the thigh and the fore part of the abdomen may be brought in contact. 2. Extension is effected by the same mechanism, but such is the obliquity of the acetabulum, which looks both forwards, outwards, and downwards, that when the femur is in the vertical direction, the head projects and carries for- wards the fibrous capsule. The anterior reinforcing bundle is stretched. The psoas and iliacus muscles perform the office of an active ligament. Luxations of the femur forwards are not common, for the movement of extension is limited by the meeting of the edge of the acetabulum and the back part of the neck of the femur; and the ligament and muscles above named also tend to counteract it. 3 and 4. The mechanism of adduction and abduction is altogether different from that of the preceding movements, where the articulation forms the centre of a circle described by the femur, the radius of which is measured by a line stretched from the head of the bone to the space between the condyles. In