'346 MYOLOGY. * See note, p. 389, rectly to tte linea aspera, and a certain number are inserted merely into the fascia lata. In order to obtain a good view of the femoral insertions of this muscle, its tendon must be separated from the fascia lata. Relations. It is covered by a large quantity of fat, bemg separated from it by an expansion from the aponeurosis of the glutseus medius, from which are given off the cellular prolongations that divide the muscle into thick, parallel, and easily separable fasciculi. It covers the gluteeus medius, the pyrifonnis, the gemelli, the obturator internus, the quadratus femoris, the great sciatic uotch, and the tuberosity of the ischium, together with the muscles attached to it, viz. the semi-tendinosus, the semi-membranosus, and the long head of the biceps. It covers also the great trochanter, the adductor magnus, and the triceps femoris, the glutaeal, ischi- atic, and internal pudic vessels and nerves, and the great sciatic nerves. Its upper border is very thin, and rests upon the glutaus medius ; its lower border forms a very marked prominence beneath the skin, that affords the surgeon very precise indications, both in the diagnosis of many diseases of the hip joint; in operations performed for the purpose of reaching the tuberosity of the ischium, -when it is either carious or necrosed; in those for the relief of sciatic hernia; or lastly, in searching for the sciatic nerve, whenever it be- comes necessary to operate upon it. Several bursse mucosse, which have been well described by Monro, separate the glutseus maximus from the eminences ■which are covered by it. One of these separates it from the great trochanter, and is almost always multi-locular : I have seen it filled with a sanguineous synovia. A second exists over the tuberosity of the ischium, but is often want- ing ; and a third between the tendon of this muscle and the vastus extemus.* Action. The glutseus maximus is an extensor, an abductor, and a rotator of the thigh outwards. "SVhen the femur is fixed, as in standing, it acts upon the pelvis, which it draws backwards and to its own side, and rotates so that the anterior surface of the trunk is turned to the opposite side. Besides this it is easy to see that the lower fibres can act as adductors. By its connections with the fascia lata it is one of the principal tensors of this structure; by its attach- ment to the coccyx it tends to prevent that bone from being thrown backwards, forwards, or to one side. The GlutcEus Medius. Dissection. Make a vertical incision through the middle of the glutseus maximus, or detach that muscle from the pelvis: remove the adipose tissue from the subcutaneous portion of the muscle, and also the fascia lata : dissect the tPHSor vagina femoris, which covers the anterior fibres of this muscle. The qlutcBus medius (6, figs. 124. to 127.) is intermediate to the other two elutEei both as regards size and position ; it is a broad, thick, radiated muscle, situated more deeply than the preceding, beyond which it projects upwards and forwards (fig 124.). The glutaeus maximus is attached to a small portion only of the iliac fossa: the glutsei medius and minimus share almost the whole of it ^^^AttMhme^. It arises from the whole extent of the curved triangular sur- face included hetween the superior semicircular line behind, the anterior three fourths of the crest of the ilium above, and the inferior semicircular line below; from the anterior superior spine of the ilium and the notch immediate y below if from the deep surface of a dense aponeurosis, which is inserted mto the outer lip of the crest of the ilium, covers all the upper portion of the muscle, and becomes continuous with the fascia lata: opposite the junction of the an- terior^ the middle third of the crest of the ilium, at which pomt a brge tubercle exists upon the bone, this aponeurosis is so dense as to resemble a iendon The muscle also arises from a deep aponeurosis, extending from the ZtvioT nart oT the inferior semicircular line, and giving attachment, on its txfernd s^fece, to a great number of fleshv fibres ; and lastly, from the fascia