SPLANCHNOLOGY. capacity of the thorax, and therefore, like it, is subject to variations; and as on the one hand, the size of the lung is generaUy a measure of the energy of respiration, and, on the other, the energy of respiration is a measure of the muscular strength, one cannot be astonished that a capacious chest, coinciding with broad shoulders, should be the characteristic of a sanguine temperament and athletic constitution. In the natural state there is neither air nor watery fluid between the parietes ot the thorax and the surface of the lung. The absence of air or other fluid may be shown after death as weU as upon a living animal, by raising the inter- costal muscle from the costal pleura, so as to preserve the latter *, or by removing the muscular fibres of the diaphragm. It is then seen that the lung is alwayi m contact with the parietes of the chest; in some subjects it even appears as if ready to escape ; but scarcely is the thorax opened when the lungs instan- taneously collapse, in consequence of the expulsion of the air from their inte- rior. It is very common to find a small quantity of serum in the cavity of the pleura, but it is probable that this fluid did not exist during life. There is no space to be filled up here as in the cranium. The differences in the size of the lungs depend, 1. on the state of inspiration or expiration. Attempts have been made to determine the difference from this cause by estimating the volume of air inspired or expired; it is about thirty cubic inches, and may be increased to forty in forced inspiration or expiration : 2. on age ; thus, in the foetus, the lungs are relatively much smaller than after birth ; 3. on some morbid condition. The lungs diminish in size, ■when the abdominal viscera encroach, upou the thorax, either in ascites, in pregnancy, or in diseases of the liver, which organ has been found in some cases to become enlarged entirely by encroaching on the chest, and to extend as high up as the second rib. They diminish also when the heart is enlarged in aneurism, or when a large quantity of fluid is accumulated in the pericardium. In effusions into the thorax, the fluid takes the place of the lung; the latter gradually wastes, and is reduced to such a thin lamina, or to so small a mass, that it has sometimes been overlooked in a superficial examination ; but if in such cases air be blown into the trachea, the organ appears of its full size, and gradually fills the remainder of the cavity. This extreme diminution of the lung without any alteration of its substance, proves that the size of the organ is essentially dependent upon the air within it. Attempts have been made to calculate exactly the quantity of air contained in the cavity of the lungs, or, in other words, the capacity of these organs : according to one estimate, which can only be regarded as an approximation to the truth, it would seem to be about 110 cubic inches after expiration, and 140 inches after an ordinary in- spiration. When an effusion in the thorax has been very slowly absorbed, the lung of the affected side remains atrophied, and the thoracic cavity contracted, whilst the other lung acquires a very considerable size, so that the mediastinum is pushed to one side, and the healthy lung passes beyond the median line, f In certain cases of acute pneumonia, and in rickets affecting the thorax, we often see one of the lungs reduced to very small dimensions, whilst the other is very much enlarged, f The size of the two lungs is not absolutely the same. In consequence of the heart projecting into the left cavity of the thorax, the transverse diameter of the left lung is not equal to that of the right; and on account of the projection of the liver into the right cavity, the vertical diameter of the right lung is less than that of the left. After allowing for these facts, the difference is in favour * In order to demonstrate the absence of air, we may also repeat another experiment per- formed by Ilaller, wliich consists in opening the thorax of a dead body under water. t In a case of chronic induration of tlie left lung the deviation of the mediastinum was so great, that the right lung was in relation with the lel"t costal cartilages. t The lungs become less increased in size from inflammation, than most other organs ; luul this peculiarity is explained by the vesicular structure of the lung, the increase in size benig effected at the expense of the cavity of the air-vesicles.