THE SOLEUS. 369 rough projections of the bifurcation of the linea aspera, pass inwards and downwards, and are united together like the limbs of the letter V opening upwards, upon a median raphe, which consists either of a simple thickening of the terminating aponeurosis, or of a small tendinous septum : the other fibres, constituting almost the entire muscle, arise from the anterior surface of the tendons of origin, and from the aponeurosis in which they terminate, and pro- ceed vertically downwards to the back of another very dense aponeurotic ex- pansion, which covers the whole anterior surface of the muscle. This last aponeurosis commences above by two very distinct portions ; at first it is of equal breadth with the muscle, then becomes narrower and thickened, and finally closely united with the terminal tendon of the soleus. At the lower part of the calf the fleshy fibres terminate suddenly upon the posterior surface of this aponeurosis, forming a V opening downwards. Although the two portions of the gastrocnemius become intimately united shortly after their origin, they are not confounded together, and the internal portion forms on the inside of the tibia the greatest part of the fleshy mass called the calf of the leg. 1 Relations. The gastrocnemius is covered by the fascia of the leg, and it covers and adheres intimately to the capsular ligament, which envelops the back part of the condyles of the femur. It is also in relation with the popli- teus and the soleus. The tendon of the inner head corresponds to the posterior surface of the internal condyle; that of the outer head to the outer side of the external con- dyle. We often find at the upper part of the tendon of each head, but most commonly in the substance of that of the outer head, a sesamoid bone, that glides upon the back of the condyle, and belongs to the sort of fibrous capsule or hood, by which the back of each condyle is covered. (Vide Syndesmologt, Articulation of the Knee.) The Plantaris. This little muscle (le plantaire grele, W, fig. 129.), should be regarded as an accessory of the outer head of the gastrocnemius, or rather as a rudi- mentary muscle in the human subject. Its small fusiform fleshy belly, vary- ing much in size, is found beneath the outer head of the gastrocnemius.' It arises (I) from the fibrous capsule covering the external condyle, and sometimes from the lower part of the external bifurcation of the linea aspera. From these points, it passes obliquely downwards and inwards; and after a course of from two inches and a half to three inches, ends in a lono- flat and slender tendon, which is at first situated between the gastrocnemius and soleus and afterwards (/') hes parallel with the inner edge of the tendo AchUlis and is inserted into the os calcis, either at the side, or in front of that tendon. Sometimes, however, it is lost in the subcutaneous adipose tissue. This muscle which is often wanting, is occasionally double. * The Soleus. r.J^V^T'' '''-^S- ^2^-) socaUed. because it has been com- pared to the fish called a sole, or to the sole of a shoe. vl<tocAmenfcs It arises from the fibula and tibia, and is inserted into the os caicis. Its fibular origins (i) consist first of a tendon attached behind, and on rTp^iin"^'* ^'f,f °^ ^""^^ ^^""^ this tendon is extremely strong, es- pecially on the inside, opposite a process existing on the fibula for its attach- the mn^Mp P'^l^^^ed Within the substance, and along the anterior surface of ine muscle: and secondly, of some tendinous fibres attached to the upper half tendoraccorfi^e^'^ AlhinnT"""''' bursas mucosa., states that the plantaris whose '• B B