THE PANCREAS. 533 M M 3 situated This reflected portion, arranged in the form of a whorl, is sometimes de?achei from the rest of the gland, on which account it has been called the A.ss4- vancreas By its ^reat extremity the pancreas is, as it were, attached to he durem m: bevond which it projects in front, but especially behind : it ac- ompanres Ihis int-estine in aU its displacements, so *at when the duodenu is situated lower down than usual, which happens in ^'V^^^^^^f^^fJ^l stomach downwards, the head of the pancreas is always removed m the same ^'ItsTft, or splenic, or small extremity is narrow, and touches the spleen, upon which it is flattened and blunted, and sometimes sbghtly enlarged. It is seen then, that, in its relations to other parts, the pancreas has a great analogy with the saUvary glands. Thus, large vessels are situated near and penetrate this gland, which forms a sort of covered passage for them, and is moved by their piUsations. The diaphragm, the duodenum, and the stomach also tend to disturb and press upon the pancreas. Structure. The analogies in structure between the pancreas and the salivary glands are no less numerous, and fully justify the name of abdominal salivary gland given to it by Siebold ; it has the same whitish colour, the same density*, and the same arrangement into lobes, which are themselves divisible into lobules. The identity is such that it would be impossible to distinguish a portion of the pancreas from a part of a salivary gland. When boiled, they both have the same aspect and the same taste. There is no fibrous capsule, properly so called, but some fibrous lamellae, which separate the lobes and lobules. Cellular tissue is tolerably abundant. Fat is not uncommonly met with, either on the surface or in the substance of the pancreas; I have even seen cases of atrophy of the gland, in which fat appeared to have been substituted for the glandular substance. The determination of the structure of the pancreas, like that of all glands, iuvolves two considerations, viz. the texture of each lobule, and the arrange- ment of the vessels and nerves in the substance of the gland. With regard to the first point, I shall merely refer to what has been already stated respecting the salivary glands.f The arrangement of the vessels is perfectly well known. As in the salivary glands, the arteries enter the pancreas at a great number of points. They are very numerous and very large, considering the small size of the organ : they arise from the hepatic, the splenic, and the superior mesenteric. The principal artery is called the pancreatico-duodenalis. The veins terminate in the superior mesenteric and the splenic. The lymphatic vessels are not well known; it is probable that they enter the nu- merous glands which are in the neighboui'hood. The nerves of the pancreas are derived from the solar plexus. The excretory duct («, fig. 169.) is called the canal of Wirsung, from the name of its discoverer, a young anatomist, who was too soon lost to science. By an arrangement, of which we have no other example in the body, this ex- cretory duct is contained entirely in the substance, we might even say in the centre of the gland; so that, in order to expose it, the superficial portion of the organ must be carefully divided. It is generally single, but sometimes double, and then there is a principal duct belonging to the body of the pancreas, and a small duct for the reflected portion, or lesser pancreas. The pancreatic duct measures the entire length of the gland; it is narrow at the splenic ex- tremity, which may be regarded as its origin, and gradually increases in size as it approaches the duodenal extremity ; there it bends downwards, to reach the ductus choledochus, to the left of which it is placed ; it runs along the side * The pancreas sometimes assumes an extreme density, strongly resembling tliat of scirrhus. In sucli a case it is necessary to malic sections of it, to be assured of the perfect soundness of the glanduLir tissue. This stony hardness generally occurs along with .atrophy of the org.m. -f- [The only observable difference between tlie lobules of the pancreas and salivary glands is, tliat the closed termination of the ducts are cylindrical in the former, and slightly dilated in the latter, (see note, p. LW.).]