211 ARTICULATIONS OF THE KNEE JOINT. P 2 the spine, and also to the external semilunar cartilage. The names anterior and posterior have been taken from their insertions, for at their origins the anterior is attached behind the external, and the posterior in front of the internal condyle. From their obliquity, and their situation nearer to the back part of the joint, they are well adapted for limiting the movement of extension, during which their points of insertion are separated, whilst during flexion they are approximated. The synovial capsule of this joint is the largest and the most complicated of all that exist in the body. In tracing it from the upper edge of the patella we find, behind the tendon of the extensor muscles, a large cul-de-sac is, Jig. 81.), sometimes replaced by a distinct synovial capsule, interposed between that tendon and the surface of the femur. In some subjects, this bursa communi- cates with the synovial capsule of the knee-joint by a more or less considerable opening, and in such cases a circular constriction forms the only trace of se- paration. On each side of the patella the synovial membrane extends beneath the two vasti, but particularly beneath the vastus internus. The existence of these two prolongations affords an explanation of the swellings observed at the sides of the knee in dropsy of this joint; and the greater extent of the internal prolongation explains also the greater size of the prominence on the inner side. In the intercondyloid notch the synovial membrane envelopes the cru- cial ligaments; then it is reflected upon the posterior ligament, the lateral ligaments, the semilunar cartilages, the articular surfaces of the tibia, and, lastly, the back of the ligamentum patellse ; it next sends off a prolongation, containing a few ligamentous fibres, and extending from the lower border of the patella to the front of the intercondyloid notcli. This fold has been incor- rectly termed the adipose ligament (ligamentum mucosum, i,figs. 78. and 81.). After having fui-nished this fold, tie synovial membrane lines the posterior surface of the patella, and becomes continuous with the cul-de-sac behind the extensor tendon. Sometimes the prolongation, known as the adipose ligament, does not exist; at other times there is more than one. I have seen a fold of the same nature extending from that part of the synovial membrane which lines the extensor tendon to the surface of the femur above the trochlea. No other synovial membrane in the body is provided with so large a number of villous prolongations, which, in some subjects, may be said to give it a shaggy appear- ance ; they are especiaUy met with around the patella * and the semilunar cartilages. To these prolongations Clopton Havers has given the name of synovial fringes. Some deep fibres of the triceps cruris have been regarded as a special tensor muscle of the synovial capsule. (Vide Triceps Cruris Myology.) ' _ Sub-synovial adipose tissue. From the abundance of this tissue in the knee- joint, its disposition requires some special notice. It is chiefly met with behind the ligamentum patellae {e,fig. 81.), where it forms a very thick layer, tiUmg up the interval between the patella and the synovial membrane A great quantity is also found behind the tendon of the triceps, above the condyles where It occupies the space brtween that tendon and the corresponding part of the femur. Lastly, it is found around the condyles in the inter-condyloid iossa, surrounding the insertions of the crucial ligaments. This fatty tissue, ^hich IS observed even in individuals wasted by marasmus, but is then more serous, being as it were infiltrated, has no other apparent use than that of filUng of thetint ^^^y^een the articular surfaces in some positions Ri^Z'T^^^^ 1° °^ ^'^''^"'e "^^^'^ of tlie knee-joint, 1. a very S a Ld C'l'i'^'f"'"! "S""^^'^* fi9- SO-) derived from the fascil of which hi r l /^' anterior tuberosity of the tibia, the projection Which has reference to such msertion; 2. an aponeurotic layer (e) attached