SPLANCHNOLOGY. 504 T.tt 'frT '° ''"'^ *^ the female. It is not sufficient to 10we Van o^Th "'^S P^j^^r; the adipose tissue which surrounds tS lower pait of the rectum should be removed on each side. It is weU to stuff me ^wer part of the rectum preparatory to this dissection, as weU as that of the muscles of the penneum. The sphincter ani (a, fig. 163.) is an orbicular muscle situated around the lower end of the rectum. It is not a simple ring, but a muscular zone of nearly an inch in width. Its form is an ellipse, much elongated from before backwards, and terminating in a point in front and behind. The fibres which constitute the lower- most ring of the muscle arise from the subcutaneous cel- lular tissue in front of the coccyx, in the same manner as other cutaneous muscles; those which form the upper „, . . ' rings arise from a sort of hbrous tissue given off from the point of the coccyx. From these points the fleshy fibres proceed forwards, and form a semi-ellipse on each side, composed of parallel and superimposed muscular rings, which terminate in front of the anus m the following manner,—the lower rings in the subcutaneous cellular tissue, the upper rings in the sort of fibrous raphe, which gives origin to the bulbo-cavernosus. BelatioTts. The internal surface of the sphincter embraces the lower part of the rectum, the lowest circular fibres of which are seen within the sphincter, and are distinguished from it by their paleness. They constitute the internal sphincter. Its external surface is in relation with the adipose tissue of the pelvis. Its upper border is continuous with the antero-posterior fibres of the levator ani; so that it is very difficult to establish the limit between them. Its inferior border projects a little below the lowest annular fibres of the rectum, and only adheres to the skin by loose cellular tissue, which is con- tinuous with the dartos. Action. It is a constrictor of the anus. The contraction of the body of the muscle closes the lower part of the rectum ; the constriction produced by the inferior ring occurs below that bowel. The Transversus Perinei. Dissection. Remove with care the subcutaneous cellular tissue in front and upon the sides of the anus. The transversus perinei (6) is situated almost transversely in front of the anus. It arises from the internal lip of the tuberosity of the ischium, imme- diately above the ischio-cavernosus (^erector penis), by a broad and thin tendon, which is soon succeeded by fleshy fibres. These pass inwards and a little forwards, on to the anterior surface of the rectum, where they are usually de- scribed as becoming blended with those of the opposite side in a fibrous raphe, common both to the transversi, the sphincter, and the bulbo-cavernosi (accele- ratores urince). This does not appear to me to be the exact termination. I have seen this muscle evidently continuous with that of the opposite side, after having traversed the anterior extremity of the sphincter. According to this, the two transversi would constitute a single muscle, forming a half ring, the concavity of which being directed backwards would embrace the anterior part of the rectum, an arrangement well calculated to assist in expulsion of the faeces.