253 PREPARATION OF MUSCLES. stretched by rotation inwards, more so by adduction, and most completely by flexion of the thigh upon the pelvis. . „ ■, , ^ In determining the action of a muscle that is reflected over any angle of a bone, it is necessary to put out of consideration aU that portion of the muscle intervening between its origin and its angle of reflection, and to suppose the power to operate directly from the latter points. i_. , i. The action of sphincter muscles is to close the orifices around which they are placed. A curviUnear muscle assumes a rectilinear direction, at the very commencement of its action. The insertions of a muscle are neither equally fixed, nor equaUy moveable. The fixed point of a muscle is that extremity which remains immoveable during contraction; but in certain cases the fixed may become the moveable point: this must be taken into consideration in determining the action of a muscle. The fixed point is most commonly that which is nearest to the ti-unk. But, with few exceptions, it is never completely stationary; and since a muscle would lose much of its power when acting between a moveable and an imperfectly fixed point, it is necessary that the latter should be kept as immoveable as pos- sible by the contraction of other muscles. These consecutive contractions are often very extensive, and should be familiar both to the physician and the physiologist. When a muscle passes over several articulations, it moves them all in suc- cession, commencing with the one nearest to the moveable insertion. Those muscles which concur in producing the same motion are called con- generous ; those which execute opposite movements are termed antagonists: thus all the flexor muscles of any region are congenerous, and they are anta- gonists to the extensors. Two muscles may be congenerous at one time, and act as antagonists at an- other : when they contract simultaneously, their individual and opposite effects are destroyed, and a common and intermediate eifect results; thus when the flexor carpi ulnaris, which is both an adductor and a flexor, acts in conjunction with the extensor carpi ulnaris, which is an adductor and extensor, the hand is neither flexed nor extended, but is merely adducted. We shall constantly have occasion to notice this arrangement, which appears to me calculated to give much greater precision of motion, than if two perfectly congenerous muscles had been employed. There are also certain compound motions, which are as it were the results of two different movements ; thus, when the flexors and the adductors of the thigh act simultaneously, the femur passes in the intermediate direction. It is from this kind of combination that the movement of circumduction is pro- duced by the action of the four orders of muscles situated at the extremities of the antero-posterior and transverse diameters of the joint. These four orders of muscles are known by the names of flexors, extensors, adductors, and abductors. Lastly, muscles may contract without producing any motions, as when an- tagonist muscles act with equal energy. The result of such a simultaneous contraction is an active imviobility ox tonic movement, as the older writers termed it, which is of very great importance. Preparation of Muscles. Dissection. The end to be attained in the dissection of a muscle is to iso- late it accurately from all the surrounding parts, leaving only those connec- tions which are compatible with that object. Since, however, it is sometimes impossible to preserve the relations, and at the same time isolate the muscle, It then becomes necessary to be provided with two preparations for the de- monstration or study of the same muscle. In order to isolate a muscle, the surrounding cellular tissue, which often tornis a very adherent sheath, must be removed; and to do this completely,