THE TESTICLES. 601 If we take hold of the suhstauce of the testicle with a pair of pincers, and then draw it out slowly, we shall raise a number of apparently knotted ma- ments from the common mass ; some of which wiU break immediately, whilst 0 hers may be drawn out to a foot, a foot and a half or two feet, without breakm^ 1 is particularly easy to pull out the filaments when the tissue of the tes icle is very mS The littfe knots disappear dm-ing this process andthe tubuli then assume the character of straight and almost transparent filaments The proper tissue of the testicle adheres to the tunica albuginea by the blood- vessels only, excepting near the upper border of the I"^*'! J^J^ ation, the tubuU are lodged in the cells or spaces, already described, m tne substance of the tunica albuginea; they all pass towards the corpus Highmon traverse it from behind forwards, and form withm its substance what Haller described as the rete vasculosum testis (c,Jigs. 184, 185.), because he supposed that the seminiferous tubes in this situation communicated with each other, f Lastly the tubes composing the rete unite into an indeterminate number ot efferent ducts (d), estimated at from ten to thirty, which perforate the tunica albuginea, opposite the head of the epididymis. . ^, Vessels and nerves. The testicular artery, the principal division ot the spermatic, divides before entering the testis into several branches, which pass into the tunica albuginea along the upper border of the gland, and are dis- tributed, as I have already pointed out when speaking of the corpus Highmon. The veins are very numerous, are arranged in an analogous manner, and form the spermatic veins. The lymphatics are very numerous, and are divided into the superficial and deep. The nerves are derived both from the ganglionic and the cerebro-spinal system. They have not been traced into the interior of the testicle, and yet the sensibility of that organ is suflicient evidence of their existence there._ The serous cellular tissue, by which the seminiferous ducts are united, is so delicate, that it can only be shown by the aid of a very favourable light. The Epididymis. The epididymis (e.f,figs. 184, 185.) is the vermiform appendage which lies along the superior border of the testicle, like the crest upon a helmet. Its name is derived from its position (eTrl, upon, SiSu/ios, the testicle). It is so situated that it does not precisely occupy the superior border of the testicle, but encroaches a little upon its outer face (see ^^.18^>, a section of the ' U • right testis), so that when the tunica vaginalis is opened, and the inner side of the testicle examined, we cannot see the epididymis. It is closely connected with the testicle by its anterior extremity, which is remarkably enlarged, and is called the head, or globus major (e); its middle portion or body (_/") is separated from the testis ; and it again adheres by its posterior extremity, called the tail, or globus minor (g); which, after being prolonged as far as the posterior ex- tremity of the testis, turns upwards, by being reflected upon itself, and gives origin to the vas deferens (i). It is flattened from above downwards, concave below, and slightly flexuous; its two extremities are covered by the tunica vaginalis only above and on the outside, but its body is completely enclosed by that membrane, which forms a fold for it like the mesentery. (See Tunica Vaginalis.) * [The seminiferous tubes are of the same diameter throughout. According to Lauth, they most commonly terminate in loops, and by numerous anastomoses ; in one instance only did he observe a free clnsed extremity. In some animals, Miiller found the seminal tubes ending in free extremities ; and the same mode of termination was frequently seen by Krause in the human testis. Like the uriniferous tubes, the tubuli seminiferi termmate, therefore, in two ways.] t [Immediately before the tubuli pass into the corpus Highmori to form the rete, they become rather l.irger and straight, and are hence called the tubuli recti (dd. Jig. 184.) : the tubuli com- posing the rete are stated by Lauth to vary from seven to thirteen j they are tortuous, and, as supposed by Haller, anastomose.]