THE SPLEEN. 539 tery. The splenic artery is in fact the largest branch of the coeliac axis, and, on this account, ruptures or wounds of the spleen are almost always foUowed by fatal hemorrhage. It is also remarkable for its tortuous course; when re- duced to half its origmal size, from having given off several branches, it enters the spleen by four or five branches at greater or less distances from each other. These branches divide in the usual manner in the substance of the organ, and preserve their tortuous character even to their terminations. One peculiarity well worthy of attention is, that the arteries constantly divide in a radiating manner, so that air, or water, or tallow, thrown into one arterial di- vision, does not pass into the branches of the others. This mode of division is observed not only in the larger, but also in the smaller arteries*, so that the spleen may be considered as an aggregate of a considerable number of smaU spleens, united together by a common investment; and accordingly, if in a living animal one division of the splenic artery be tied, the portion of the spleen to which it is distributed becomes bUghted, whilst the rest remains in the natural state. This arrangement of the arteries may be shown in a very striking manner by injecting their several divisions with differently coloured substances. The injected matters will not mix, and the line of demarcation between the lobes will become evident. This structure explains how multiple spleens may occur in man and the lower animals, and why there are so many varieties in this respect in the animal series. Some branches from the splenic, lumbar, and spermatic arteries enter the spleen through the folds of the peritoneum. The splenic vein is four or five times larger than the artery : it forms one of the principal roots of the vena portae, and is almost equal to the other root formed by the superior mesenteric vein. The venous communication between the spleen and the liver has, in a great measure, given rise to the opinion that they are connected in function. The spleen is fiUed by the numberless and large divisions of this vein; it might even be said that the texture of the spleen is essentially venous, that it is composed of a venous plexus or an erectile tissue, and that it bears the same relation to the veins that the lymphatic glands do to the lymphatic vessels. All the splenic cells communicate with the veins, or rather they are nothing more than these veins themselves sup- ported by the fibrous colimins and sheaths already described: this is shown by the following considerations and experiments : — 1. If, according to the exa:mple of Delasonne f, we examine the spleen of the ox by laying open the splenic veins and their divisions by means of a grooved director, we shall find that these veins are almost immediately reduced to their lining membrane, and perforated with very distinctly formed foramina, through which the dafk reddish brown splenic matter is visible. These foramina soon become so numerous, that the veins are converted into cavities or cells, the walls of which are perforated with openings of various sizes, filled with the splenic pulp. This arrangement, which is most manifest under water, proves that the tissue of the spleen is composed of venous cells J, like the corpora ca- vernosa of the penis. In man, the horse, and the dog, the great veins are not perforated with foramina, but the cellular and areolar arrangement of the splenic veins at a certain depth is not less manifest. 2. If we inject the splenic artery, the spleen will become very slightly in- creased in bulk at first, i.e. as long as the injected matter does not pass into the venous system; but as soon as this occurs, and it does so readily, the increase » [The minute arteries ramify In tufts, or penicilli.] subject'^""""" '•«'5<="''ed the structure of the spleen in the ox as belonging to the human to Mr Kiernan these venous cells are lateral dilatations, which communicate wi h the venous trunlc by sma 1 branches. They contain only blood however, for the red pulpy matter of the spleen is said by Muller to be external to and not within them This red rlc~flXned.r'""''''"^ °^ but sphe-