515 THE LIVER. L L 2 times complete.* A prolongation, or ridge (5) (Jhe right prolongation of the lobule), passes from its anterior extremity to the right of tlie transverse fissure, and proceeding obliquely forwards, separates the renal (r) from the colic (o) depression. This prolongation was minutely described by the older anatomists, and has been termed by Haller the colliculus caudulus. f At its junction with the lobule, this prolongation is marked in front by a groove (the groove of the vena porta:), sufficiently deep to lodge the vena portae and the hepatic artery (a) ; and it is still more deeply excavated behind for the vena cava infe- rior (c) (the groove of the vena cava inferior). Sometimes the right margin of the first mentioned groove has a papilla, similar to that of the lobulus Spigelii; and in this case it might be said, that there are two lobes of Spigelius ; opposite this groove, the vena portse is separated from the vena cava only by a very thin lamina. The lobulus Spigelii presents much variety in its size; but not such as to enable it to be felt through the abdominal parietes, unless the enlargement is the consequence of disease. Physicians who pretend to recognise by the touch obstruction, or adhesion of the lobulus Spigelii f, are certainly not anatomists. To the right of the longitudinal fissure, the lower surface of the liver pre- sents, behind, an excavation of variable depth and extent in different subjects ; this is the renal impression (r) : it corresponds to the kidney, upon which it is exactly moulded, and with which it is loosely united, and also, though more loosely, with the suprarenal capsule. Sometimes the impression for the cap- sule is distinct from that for the kidney. It may be conceived that this im- pression must vary according as the liver corresponds to the upper third, to the upper half, or to the whole of the right kidney. This impression is always directed backwards. In front of the renal impression is a slight one, termed the colic depression (o), which corresponds with the angle formed by the ascending and transverse colon with part of the transverse colon itself, and sometimes also with the first portion of the duodenum. Behind is the groove for the vena cava inferior (c), which advances slightly upon the lower surface of the liver, on the inner side of the renal and capsular impression. The accidental fissures sometimes observed upon the lower surface of the liver, are traces of the divisions which exist in a great number of mammalia. To recapitulate the numerous objects seen upon the lower surface of the liver, we find as follows: — the antero-posterior or longitudinal fissure inter- sected at right angles by the transverse fissure; on the left of the antero-pos- terior fissure is the lower surface of the left lobe, presenting the depression for the lobulus Spigelii, the gastric impression, and sometimes the splenic ; on the right and m front of the transverse fissure, are the fossa of the gall bladder, and the anterior portal eminence, or lobulus quadratus; behind the transverse tssure is the postenor portal eminence or lobulus SpigeUi, with its right pro- longation or lobulus caudatus, and the groove for the vena portaj; and still more to the right are the renal and coUc impressions, and the groove for the inferior vena cava. The circumference of the liver. The anterior border of the liver presents a very thm, and as it were, sharp edge, which is directed obUquely upwards and to the left side corresponding to the base of the thorax on the right side, and projecting below it opposite the substernal notch {fig. 155.). Upon this edge there is invarmbly found a deep notch (below 2, fig. IGl.) for the umb.hcal vein; and more to the right another notch, which is often larger foL'lflt'tL'Lt^^'r tr^^;llTac''';:;;a'^t.^e''^r'o'or'rH''"^ '-eitudinal fissure groove heing partly ^ollowcd^ut of he lob 1, SnloX ll ^^^^ l^^"""' ! '^""^ tion of the right loL. and then prolo^i^'ecl u;^;l^'h^Towe^^ ="""6"°"^ PO--