SPLANCHNOLOGY. 638 Ihe lower border is more liable to adhesions than any other part of the omentum. The lateral borders have nothing remarkable; they proceed pa- rallel to the ascending and descending portions of the colon, which are some- times covered by them. The arteries of the great omentum are furnished by the right and left gastro-epiploic arteries, they descend vertically between its two anterior layers, scarcely diminishing in caliber. At its lower border they turn up- wards, and ascend between the two posterior layers as far as the arch of the colon, where they communicate with the arteries of that intestine. The veins follow the same course as the arteries, and assist in forming the vena portaj. Some lymphatic glands are found in the great omentum along the curvatures of the stomach and the arch of the colon. Nerves. Some nervous filaments from the solar plexus can be traced upon the arteries of the omentum; it is doubtless from them that the epiploon de- rives its peculiar sensibility, and on them that the phenomena of strangulation depend when it is constricted in a hernia. The uses of the omentum are not known. The lesser omentum. The lesser omentum, a true mesentery, the meso- gastrium, presents a lower concave border, attached to the lesser curvature of the stomach, and an upper border attached to the transverse fissure of the liver, to that part of the antero-posterior fissure which is behind the transverse fissure, and also to the oesophagus and the diaphragm; its right border con- tains the ducts and vessels of the liver, and behind the border thus formed is seen the foramen of Winslow; on the left it is bounded by the oesophagus.* Structure of the peritoneum. The peritoneum, like all other serous mem- branes, has neither arteries, veins, nor nerves. Those which are contained within the omenta and the mesentery do not properly belong to this mem- brane. The finest capillary injections, either natural or artificial, form an extremely delicate network below the peritoneum, but never penetrate itf * [The cellular tissue surrounding the vessels, ducts, and nerves, contained between the layers of this small omentum, has been described as giving origin to Glisson's capsule.] t [The basis of the peritoneum is cellular tissue; its smooth surface is covered with a squa- mous epithelium.] END OF THE FIRST VOLUME. London: Printed by A. Spottiswoodb, New-Street-Square. t