345 THE GLUTiEUS MA.XIMITS. of the three glutei, maximus, medius, and minimus, the Pyriformis, the ob- turator interfus, the gemelli, the quadratus femoris, and the obturator ex- The Uiacus, which may with propriety be considered as belonging to the pelvis, and as forming its anterior region, has been already described, together with the psoas, under the name of the psoas-iliac muscle. The GlutcBUS Maximus. Dissection. Having placed the subject on its face, raise the pelvis by a block, flex the leg forcibly, and rotate it inwards; then make an obhque in- cision along the middle of the buttock, from the sacrum towards the great trochanter, dividing both the skin and fascia covering the muscle : dissect up the two flaps, one from below upwards, the other from above downwards, fol- lowing the direction of the muscular fibres. The glutceus maximus {a, fig. 124.) is the most superficial of the muscles on the posterior aspect of the pelvis: it is broad, thick, and pretty regularly quadrilateral; it is the largest muscle of the human body—in this respect coinciding with the great size of the pelvis and femur in man ; it causes the prominence of the buttocks. Its great size is one of the most dis- tinctive characters of the muscular system of man, and has reference to his biped position. Attachments (see a, fig. 125.). It arises from the posterior semicircular line of the ilium, and the portion of the bone behind that line; from the vertical sacro-iliac ligament, and the outer mar- gin of the common aponeurosis of the posterior spinal muscles; from the crest of the sacrum, sometimes only from the tubercles which form a continuation of the transverse processes of the vertebrae on the outside of the posterior sacral foramina; from the edges of the coccyx, and the notch terminating the crest of the sacrum below, —this origin being often effected by means of a tendinous arch under which the last posterior sacral nerves pass; from the posterior surface of the great sacro-sciatic ligament; and, lastly, from the posterior surface of the aponeurosis of the glutaeus medius. It is inserted (a,fig. 125.) into the rough line leading from the great trochanter to the linea aspera of the femur. The fleshy fibres arise either directly or by short tendinous fibres, and proceeding parallel to each other outwards, and a little downwards, unite into large distinct fasciculi, capable of being se- parated through their entire length and constitut- ing an extremely thick, quadrilateral, and very egular muscle, which, having reached the outside of the thigh, terminates by tendinous fibres. These are received between two layers of the fascia lata, which is here very thick; in passing downwards they converge, escape from the fascia lata, curve round the base of the great trochanter, or rather the tendon of the vastus extemus, from which they are separated by a synovial bursa, and are succes- sively inserted by so many large fasciculi into the series of tubercles and depressions, extending from the great trochanter to the linea aspera, and from the external bifurcation of that line. The lower fleshy fibres are attached di-