524 SPLANCHNOLOGY. The Excretory Apparatus of the Liver. The excretory apparatus of the liver consists of the hepatic duct, of the cystic duct, of the gall bladder, and of the ductus communis choledochus. The hepato-cystic canals f, admitted by some authors as constant or occa- sional in man, can be easily shown in the lower animals, but do not exist in tlie human species. The. hepatic duct. Tlie hepatic duct arises in the granules of the liver by hepatic mrfic/esj, which, by uniting successively like veins, constitute small and then larger branches. These latter all converge towards the transverse fissure of the liver, where they terminate ultimately in two trunks of almost equal size, which join each other at a very obtuse angle, and foi-m the hepatic duct {d,fig. 164.). The condition of the branches of the hepatic duct in the transverse fissure is extremely variable: thus, sometimes the trunk of the right side is larger than that of the left, and sometimes the opposite is the case. Frequently several branches join the trunks late in the transverse fissure ; but whatever be the nature of these variations, the right trunk never corresponds exactly to the right lobe of the liver, nor the left to the left lobe. All the divisions and subdivisions of the hepatic duct § are contained in the * structure of the lobules. [It appears from the preceding note, that whilst several branches of the vena porta; and hepatic artery enter, and several of those of the hepatic duct pass out at the capsular surface of each lobule, only a single branch of the hepatic vein emerges from its base: within the lobules, the following is the arrangement of these vessels: The branches from the interlobular (portal) veins ('ppp^fig. lti7.)formin the outer portion of each lobule a venous plexus {I I), consisting of branches radiating towards the centre, connected by others passing transversely : these veins become capillary, ramify upon tlie biliary ducts, and terminating in the branches of the in- tra-lobular (hepatic) vein (A), which correspond in number with the processes on the surface of the lobule, ultimately unite to form the central vein that passes out at its base. The lobular arteries are few in number, and, according to Kiernan, end in branches of the vena portae, and not directly in those of the hepatic vein. Miiller inclines to the more commonly received opinion, that the three kinds of blood- vessels communicate with each other. No communication however exists, as stated by M. Cruveilhier, between the bloodvessels and the biliary ducts, which like the ducts of other glands, are an independent system of vessels. According to Mr. Kiernan the ducts form a reticulated plexus, occupying principally the outer portion of each lobule (as shown at b b, Jig. 168., which is a diagram copied from Mr. Kieman's paper). Miiller expresses doubts as Fig. 16S. ^ to the anastomosis of the ducts, and thinks it probable, from ^ analogical observation, that they terminate in tufts of tubes having blind extremities. The islets formed between the radiating and transverse branches of the lobular (portal) veins {l,Jig. 167.), correspond to the acini of Malpighi, and contain the biliary ducts with their capillary bloodvessels, and also a peculiar tissue, which occupies all the intervals between the several kinds of vessels, and consists, according to Krause, of hexagonal nucleated cells, having several bright points in them, like globules of oily matter. The appearance of two substances in the liver can now be explained ; it does not depend on the biliary ducts being si- tuated In the centre, and the veins nearer to the circumference of each lobule (see p. 518.523.), but in a partial congestion of either the portal or hepatic system of veins. In portal congestion the margins of the lobules are dark, and their centres pale; it is very rare, and has been seen only in children. . Of hepatic venous congestion there are two stages; m the first the centre of each lobule is dark and the margin pale (fig. 166.); it constitutes passive congestion, and is the common state'of the liver after death : in the second the congestion extends to the portal veins in the inter-lobular &s«rei, but not to those in the interlobular spaces, or points at which those fissures meet which spaces are then seen to occupy the centre of each pale isolated spot: this is active congestion of the liver; it occurs in diseases of the heart, and in acute diseases of the lungs and pleura,] , ,. ... ,,,_, jj t + [/. c. canals passiug directly from the liver into the-gall bladder.] i See note, suprd. § [Excepting those within the lobules.]