453 G G 3 THE SUB-LINGUAL GLAND. presented to the Anatomical Society by M. Robert.* Bordeu has correctly described the appearance of this orifice by the term ostwlum umhdwale The duct of Wharton is remarkable for the thinness of its coats, ^hi^h are not thicker than those of a vein; for its great caliber, which exceeds that of Steno's duct; for the extensibility of its coats, the canal sometimes acquiring an enormous size; and lastly, for its proximity to the °i^<=°"ti!°T .ti n5,fv mouth, which causes it, when much dilated, to project into the buccal cavity. The Sub-lingual Gland. The sub-lingualgland) I, Jig. 146.), which may be regarded as an agglomeration of smaller glands analogous to those of the _^Fig. 146. palate, is situated in the sub-lingual fossa of the lower jaw, at the side of the symphysis menti: it is much smaller than the preceding gland, with which it is sometimes continuous. Its shape is oblong, like that of an olive flattened at the sides. The following are its relations:—It is subjacent to the mu- cous membrane, beneath which its upper edge forms a prominent ridge, running from before backwards along the sides of the frsenum; its lower edge rests upon the mylo-hyoid muscle; its external surface corresponds, partly to the mucous membrane and partly to the sub- lingual fossa; its internal surface is in rela- tion with the mucous membrane, with the genio-hyo-glossus (from which it is separated by the lingual nerve), with the Whartonian duct (which we have seen closely adheres to it), and with the ranine vein. Its anterior extremity touches the gland of the opposite side. Its posterior extremity and its lower edge are embraced by the lingua,l nerve, which gives numerous filaments to it. A small glandular prolongation also proceeds from its posterior extremity, and runs along the edge of the tongue. Structure. Precisely similar to that of the other salivary glands. Its arteries arise from the sub-mental and sub-lingual. Its veins bear the same name. Its nerves are numerous, and are derived from the lingual. Its excretory ducts, called also the ducts of Jtivinus from their discoverer, are seven or eight in number. They open along the sub-lingual crest: their ori- fices may be shown by placing a coloui'ed fluid in the mouth. Most ana- tomists state, that several of the ducts of this gland open into the Whartonian duct. 1^1 General characters of the salivary glands. The salivary glands present the following general characters : — 1. They are situated around the lower jaw, extending along its body and rami, from the condyles to the symphysis ; they are in relation on the one hand with the maxillary bone, and on the other with numerous muscles, so that they are subjected to considerable compression during the movements of the lower jaw. 2. They all have direct relations with large arteries, which com- municate their pulsations to them. 3. They receive vessels from a great number of points, and the vessels themselves are very numerous. 4. They are penetrated by many of the cerebro-spinal nerves, of which some only pass through, but a certain number terminate in them. 5. In structure they re- semble the pancreas and the lachrymal glands ; they have no special fibrous investment to isolate them completely from the surrounding parts; they have no precise form, and they are subdivided into lobes and lobules. 6. Their • This was observed in a shoemaker ; the bristle had become' the nucleus of a salivary c.il. cuius. '