DEVELOPMENT OF BONES. 19 C 2 of the bone was unimpaired. ' The medullary artery gives off the twigs for those layers of compact tissue which form the parietes of the medullary cavity. The arteries of the second order, destined for the spongy tissue, enter the bones by the nutritious foramina of the second order; but their mmiber by no means corresponds with that of the foramina, which are for the most part destined for the transmission of veins. These arteries communicate both with the medullary artery already mentioned and with the arteries of the periosteum. The arteries of the third order, or the periosteal arteries, are exceedingly nu- merous. This class comprehends the innumerable little arteries which, after ra- mifying in the periosteum, enter the bone by the minute canals of the third order. These small vessels specially distributed to the exterior layers of compact sub- stance, anastomose with the two preceding orders of vessels. 2. The veins of bones follow the course of the arteries. But there are pe- culiar venous canals in the interior of the broad and the short bones, and in the spongy extremities of the long bones. These canals were first described by M. Dupuytren in the cranial bones, where they are very obvious: they are perforated with lateral openings, by which they receive blood from the ad- joining parts; their parietes are formed by a very thin plate of compact tissue, and they are lined by a prolongation of the internal membrane of the veins. "We shall afterwards see that there is a complete analogy between these venous canals and the sinuses of the dura mater, the only difference being in the nature of their parietes, which are fibrous in the sinuses, but bony in the canals in question. I have remarked, that in the foetus and new-born infants the cells of the spongy tissue which subsequently contain adipose matter, are filled with venous blood. Lymphatic vessels have not yet been actually demonstrated in the bony tissue : but it is probable that they really exist there; at least the process of nu- trition in bones and certain morbid phenomena which they present lead to the belief of their existence. The cellular tissue also enters into the composition of the bones; it contributes to form their fibrous structure. Nerves are met with in bones. I have seen a nervous twig entering the nutritious foramen of the tibia. Development of Bones, or Osteogeny. From the time of their first appearance in the foetus, to the period of their complete development, the bones pass through a series of changes, which con- stitute one of the most important circumstances in their history. The inves- tigation of these changes, or of the successive periods of development, is the object of osteogeny. The development of the bones, considered generally, presents three phases or periods, designated by the name mucous, cartilaginous, and osseous stage. 1. The mucous stage. The mucous condition, the cellular of some authors, has not been well defined. Some apply the term to that period of formation m which the bones and the other organs of the body form but one homogeneous mass of a mucous aspect: others use the term to signify a more advanced stage, m which the bones acquiring a greater consistence than the suiTounding parts begm to show their development through these more transparent tissues. In the latter sense the mucous stage is obviously nothing but the commence- ment of the cartilaginous, and therefore the first acceptation is the only one to be retamed. •f^' V^^ cartilaginous stage succeeds the mucous, though the time of the trans- ition from the one to the other has not been precisely ascertained. Several anatomists are of opinion with Mr. Howship, that the cartilaginous state does not necessarily intervene between the mucous and osseous conditions; that its occurrence is only satisfactorily demonstrated in such bones as are late in