248 MYOLOGY. The muscular fibres thtsmselves are attached, 1. to the skin, of which mode there are numerous examples in the muscles of the face ; 2. to other muscular fibres, as in many muscles of the face and of the tongue; 3. to cartilages, as in several of the muscles of the chest and larynx; 4. to aponeuroses, of -which they act as tensors, and whose power of resistance they thereby increase ; lastly, to tendons or aponeuroses *, that are themselves attached to the bones. The fleshy fibres are inserted into, or become continuous with the tendons and aponeuroses in the following manner :—the tendon is prolonged under the form of a membrane, either upon the surface or in the substance of the muscle. The results of this arrangement are, 1. an increase of surface for the attach- ment of the muscular fibres, which the tendon gathers up, as it were, in order to concentrate their efforts upon one point; 2. an obliquity in the insertion of the fibres, in reference to the axis of the entire muscle, by which the direction of the power is represented. It may easily be conceived, that this obliquity is of the greatest interest as regards the dynamic relations or active property of the muscles.f One of the most curious circumstances respecting the continuity of a tendon or an aponeurosis with a muscle, is the very intimate union between the mus- cular and fibrous tissues, which is so complete that they are scarcely ever separated by external violence, which moreover tends to lacerate the muscle rather than the tendinous fibres. It is a fact worthy of notice, and one which we have already had frequent occasion to remark, that the adhesion of any two organic tissues is stronger than the respective cohesion of each; so that the tissues themselves wUl sooner break than admit of separation from one another. Insertion of *Jie aponeuroses and tendons into the bones. A tendon or an apo- neurosis forms a species of ligament, by means of which the action of a very large muscle is transmitted to the lever intended to be moved, by a fibrous cord or aponeurotic lamina of small size. A great advantage arises from this mode of economising the extent of bony surface required for muscular attachments. For, notwithstanding the extent of surface afforded by the expanded ends of the bones, and by the eminences and ridges with which they are covered, it would be evidently insufficient, were the muscular fibres to be directly attached. The existence of tendons and aponeuroses produces also this remarkable result, viz. that the muscular insertions are much stronger than they would otherwise have been. The aponeurotic tissue acts as a transition structure, being in some points of its organisation analogous to bone, and in others approaching that of muscle. The analogy between the bony and fibrous tissues is confirmed by the frequent occurrence of ossification in the latter, even under normal conditions, as, may be observed in the formation of the sesamoid bones, and also in the mode by which tendons are attached. It has been observed, in fact, that at the point of junction of the tendons with the bones there is a sort of mutual fusion of the tissues, from which so intimate a connection results, that the proper substance of the tendons always give way before they can be separated from the bones, their attachments to which even maceration will scarcely destroy. . . Of the different bones with which a muscle is connected some remam mi- movable during its contraction, whilst others are put in motion ; hence the distinction between fixed and 7novable attachments. But this emmently useful distinction must not be taken in an absolute sense ; it is only rigorously true of fl very smaU number of muscles, which, like some of those found m the face being connected by one extremity with the skin and by the other with the bones? can give rise to movements only at their cutaneous attachments. » [The tendons afford examples of the fascicular form of Bbrous tissue, for a notice of which 'in'farT'^af the tendon and the aponeuroses by which it is continued into the muscle, repre- sent t"idrection 0™!^?^ the fleshy fibres must necessarily be attached to it more or less obU.i'Iely It is not our Sitcntion to examine Tiere the great loss of power which this arrange- ment involves.