APONEUROLOGY. 394 of an external abscess of the chest, into the cavity of the pleura; and on the other hand, of the escape of collections in the pleura by external openings. The Aponeurosis of the Serrati Postici. In the dorsal region of the trunk, we find a very thin fibrous layer (some- times called the vertebral aponeurosis), extending between the two sen-ati postici. It is of a quadrilateral form ; its inner margin is attached to the summits of the dorsal spinous processes ; its outer margin to the angles of the ribs; and its lower margin to the upper border of the serratus posticus inferior ; it seldom terminates at the lower border of the serratus posticus superior, but generally passes beneath it, and becomes the investing aponeurosis of the splenius. The use of this aponeurosis is evidently to confine the posterior spinal or long muscles of the back. The Abdominai, Aponeukoses. The parietes of the abdomen are partly muscular and partly aponeurotic: the muscular portions are situated at the sides of the abdomen. The apo- neurotic portions occupy the anterior and posterior regions, and form the anterior and posterior abdominal aponeuroses. The extensibility, elasticity, and above all the contractility of the abdominal parietes, depend on the three in- tersecting muscular layers ; whilst to the aponeuroses must be attributed their capability of resistance and want of extensibility. Tlie Anterior Abdominal Aponeurosis. The anterior abdominal aponeurosis forms the greater part of the anterior wall of the abdomen. It consists, 1. of a fibrous column, which is continuous with the osseous column of the sternum, and 2. of two perfectly corresponding halves, one right, the other left. These two halves are united in the linea alba, which may be regarded as their common origin. TTie Linea Alba. The linea alba (i,figs. 109, 110.) is a tendinous raphe, extending from the ensiform cartilage to the symphysis pubis ; it constitutes the anterior median line of the abdomen. In a theoretical point of view it may be regarded as a continuation of the sternum, which, in some animals, is prolonged as far as the pabes.* . » , Anatomists are not agreed as to the acceptation of the term linea alba. According to some it is a mathematical line produced by the intersection of the aponeuroses of one side with those of the other : according to others, and this meaning appears to me preferable, it consists of the tendinous band com- prised between the inner borders of the recti. Thus defined, the breadth of the linea alba corresponds to the mterval be- tween these muscles, and as they are directed somewhat obliquely upwards and outwards, it follows that the upper or supra-umbilical portion of the Unea alba is broader than that portion which is below the umbilicus. This remark- able arrangement, by which the strength of the lower part of the abdomen is secured affords an explanation of the uniform occui-rence of hernise through the linea alba above, not below, the umbilicus. It should also be observed that during exertion, the viscera are chiefly forced against the lower part ot the kbdominal parietes, and also that the gravid uterus rests upon it. The sub-umbilical portion of the linea alba forms a mere Lne, while the • The amioffv has even been carried so far, that the tendinous intersections of the recti have been compa?i/tl the Hbs. for they seem to come off from the linea alba like abdommal r.bs.