SPLANCHNOLOGY. The follicles or corpuscules of Lieberkuhn. Lieberkuhn speaks also of in- numerable, rounded, whitish foUicles which are seen between the villi and ot corpuscules which are visible between these follicles. He calculates that there are eighty follicles for eighteen villi, and eight corpuscules for each lollicle. I am disposed to think that these foUicles and corpuscules, which have never been seen excepting by the microscope, should be referred to those glo- bules which are revealed in all the tissues by the aid of a magnifying power* The vessels and nerves. All the arteries of the small intestine properly so called are branches of the superior mesenteric. They are very numerous Those of the duodenum arise from the hepatic. The branches from the superior mesenteric are remarkable, for the numerous anastomotic loops which they form before reaching the intestine, for their flexuous course within its coats, and for the series of vascular layers formed by them between the peritoneal and muscular, the muscular and fibrous, and the fibrous and mucous coats. The last layer forms a very complicated network, from which the vessels of the mucous membrane are derived. The veins are much larger than the arteries, and present a similar arrangement, except in regard to the flexuous course' which is peculiar to the arteries ; they constitute the superior mesenteric vein,' which is one of the principal branches that contribute to form the vena ports. The lymphatic vessels are of two kinds, viz. lacteals and lymphatics properly so called ; they both enter the numerous lymphatic glands, situated in the mesentery ; those which belong to the duodenum enter the glands above the pancreas. The nerves are derived from the solar plexus. The developemeni of the small intestine will be noticed in conjunction with that of the large intestine. Uses. Chylification, i. e. the transformation of the chyme into chyle, is ef- fected in the duodenal portion of the small intestine. The essential agents of this process are the bile and the pancreatic fluid. In the remainder of the small intestine (the jejunum and ileum), the absorption of the chyle takes place. The numei-ous convolutions, the valvulae conniventes, and the villi, all tend to increase the extent of the absorbing surface. The products of exha- lation and of follicular secretion serve to complete the digestive process. The contents of the bowels are forced along by the shortening of the longitudinal, and the contraction of the circular fibres, the latter producing the vermicular motion of the intestines. The Large Intestine. The large intestine is that part of the alimentary canal which extends from the end of the small intestine (d,fig. 139.) to the anus (i). It commences in the right iliac region {c,fig. 161.), and passes upwards (a) as far as the right hypochondrium; then having reached the liver, it makes a sharp flexure (the right or hepatic flexure), and proceeds transversely (<) from the right to the left side (transverse arch of the colon); in the left hypochondrium, below the spleen, it again makes a sharp bend and becomes vertical (d), (left or splerac flexure). elevated white bodies described by Boelira as resembling the solitary glands, except in not ge- nerally having any villi situated directly upon thera. Each is surrounded by a zone of dark points, the elongated openings of the crypts of Lieberkuhn. Many of these crypts are also seen scattered irregularly between the numerous villi; none of them communicate >with the interior of the whitish bodies, in which, whether solitary or agminated, Boehm could discover no opening, at least not in a healthy human intestine. He considers them, therefore, to be closed vesicles, not follicles. More recently, however, Krause has observed that in the pig's intestine they are occasionally open, independently of disease ; and Dr. Allen Thomson has lately made a similar observation in reference both to the pig and to the human subject.] * [The foUicles, or crypts of Lieberkuhn,jire tubes placed more or less perpendicularly to the surface of the mucous membrane, like those in the stomach, but situated more widely apart; their open mouths are seen scattered over the whole surface of the membrane, or collected around the solitary and agminated glands {figs. Xfil. 159.). The corpuscules (corpora albicmilia), described by the same observer as being situated in the bottom of the crypts, are probably col- lections of desquamated epithelium within them.]