523 THE LIVER. The manner in which these different vessels are arranged in each granule can only be discovered by injecting them simultaneously, or rather succes- sively, for it is nearly impossible to inject all the vessels of the hver at the same time. I have accordingly injected the vessels m the foOowmg order : — the vena cava, and consequently the hepatic vems, with wax coloured with Pmssian blue—a certain quantity of walnut oil, also containing Prussian blue, had been previously thrown into the same vein ; the vena portae with a red injection; the hepatic artery with the same ; and then the hepatic duct with a yeUow injection. These injections were made m the liver of a pig, the liver being placed in warm water, and the injections pushed in with a gradu- aUy increasing force. During the injection of the vena cava and vena portae, the wrinkles of the Hver disappeared, and the central depressions of the super- ficial granules became, on the contrary, slightly prominent. It was therefore evident that each granule was hoUow, and that the space had been failed by the injected matter. The liver thus injected and submitted to different chemical agents gave the following results: —The blue injection, or that which had been thrown into the vena cava, had penetrated into the central part of each granule, which is generally called the yellow substance of the liver. In the middle of the central part was the yellow injection from the hepatic duct. Around the blue in- jection was found that colom-ed red, which had been forced into the vena portfB and the hepatic artery, and which occupied all the so-called red sub- stance of the liver. It follows, therefore, that each granule had a vascular appa- ratus thus arranged: in the centre, a biliary duct; further removed from the centre, a vascular circle formed by the ramifications of the hepatic vein ; and ex- ternal to this another vascular circle, formed by ramifications of the vena portae and hepatic artery. As to the manner in which the vena portje and hepatic artery are arranged in relation to each other, we shall find, if we trace them into the substance of the liver, that the ramifications of the hepatic artery correspond exactly to those of the vena portae and biliary duct, which, as we have already said, are all contained in the same sheath ; and that they ramify and are lost upon the parietes of the vein and duct, almost in the same manner as the bronchial arteries are distributed upon the divisions of the air tubes. I must therefore conclude that the hepatic artery furnishes for the liver the nutritious vessels (vasa vasorum) of the vena portae and hepatic ducts ; and this will ex- plain the disproportion between its caliber and the size of the liver. The subdivisions of the hepatic veins, which follow a separate course, pre- sent a similar peculiarity to that observed in the splenic vein, viz. a multitude of pores or holes, by which very small veins open directly into them. Their ramifications are much less numerous than those of the vena portae. The result of the injections described above also explains the difference in colour between the centre and the circumference of each granule; it shows, moreover, that one part of the gi-anule is impermeable to injections; and its spongy nature, resembling that of the pith of the rush or elder, is apparent even to the naked eye, in a section of a liver thus injected, when viewed by a strong light. To resume, then, it may be said, that the liver is composed of ovoid, ellip- tical, or rather polyhedral granules, moulded closely upon each other. Each granule has its proper fibrous capsule ; and all the capsules are united together by prolongations, which also connect them with the general cellular invest- ment of the liver, and with that extension of it called the capsule of Glisson. The granules are independent of each other. Each of them consists of a spongy tissue, impermeable to injections ; of a bUiai7 duct proceeding from its centre ; of a venous network formed by the hepatic veins ; of another venous network belonging to the vena portae ; and of a very delicate arterial network derived from the hepatic artery, which is ramified upon the parietes of the vena portas and biliary ducts. Such is the structure of the liver.* It remains for me now to examine its excretory apparatus.