353 MYOLOGY. the muscle, which lies behind the rectus : this fact has doubtless given rise to its division into two parts, viz. a middle or the crureus, and an internal called the vastus internus. The superficial layer of the internal fleshy fibres is attached below to the inner margin of the rectus, or long portion of the triceps femoralis: the lowest of these fibres, which arise from the inner and inferior bifurcation of the linea aspera, and from the corresponding inter-muscular septum, are almost horizontal, and accompany the tendon as far as its insertion into the inner border of the patella. Lastly, the terminating aponeurosis is prolonged in- wards to the internal tuberosity of the tibia, below which it is inserted, being covered by the tendons of the semi-tendinosus, semi-membranosus, and gracilis muscles, on the inner side of the internal lateral ligament of the knee. This very strong aponeurotic insertion represents the fascia lata on this aspect of the limb, and forms an accessory internal lateral ligament. From the above description it follows, that the triceps femoralis is composed of three muscles and three tendons, super-imposed upon each other, viz. the rectus femoris, the vastus extemus, and the vastus internus. Relations. The long portion of the triceps, or the rectus femoris, is covered by the fascia lata in its lower three fourths. Its upper part is covered by the sartorius, by the anterior fibres of the glutseus medius, and by the psoas and iliacus. It covers the hip joint, the anterior circumflex vessels, and the two vasti muscles. The vasti surround the femur as in a muscular sheath, and have relations with all the muscles of the thigh. They are superficial in a great part of their extent: in front, they are in relation with the psoas and iliacus, the rectus femoris, and the sartorius, and they lie immediately under the fascia, in the triangular spaces left between these muscles: behind, they are in relation with the biceps and semi-membranosus; on the inside, with the adductors, with the femoral artery, the sheath of which the vastus internus contributes to form, and with the sartorius; on the outside, with the gluteus maximus, which glides over the upper end of the vastus extemus, and is separated from it by a synovial bursa; and lastly, with the tensor vagina; femoris and the fascia lata. It is necessary to allude here to a small fleshy bundle, formed by the deepest and lowest fibres of the vastus internus, which is always distmct from the rest of the muscle, and is inserted into the upper part of the synovial membrane of the knee. This bundle has been regarded by Wmslow as an articular muscle, intended to prevent the synovial membrane from being pinched between the surfaces of the joint. . • ^ -i- Action. This muscle extends the leg upon the thigh ; its action is tacili- tated by the existence of the patella, which serves to mcrease the angle ot insertion, and which we have described as a sesamoid bone, developed in the substance of the tendon. We must, therefore, regard the triceps as inserted into the anterior tuberosity of the tibia, or rather into th? lower part oi that tuberosity. It should be observed, that the tendon is inserted into the patella, in front of its base, and not into the base itself in the same manner as the lieamentum patellse is attached to the anterior surface of that bone, and not to the rouffh mark on its posterior surface: this important arrangement increases the angle at which the moving power operates. The triceps femorahs is the most powerful muscle in the body, no other havmg such large sm-faces of Snf and consequently so great a number of fibres. By itse^ it supports m a stafe of equilibriiim, the entire weight of the body m standing, and may be adduced al a striking example of the predominance of the extensors over the flexor it is also this muscle which raises the whole trunk m progression and in thl act of leaping. We cannot, therefore, be astonished at rupture of the Datdla of its iXent, or of the common tendon, during a violent contraction of tWs muse e Sthstanding its disadvantageous insertion so near to the M- cLm Ze rectTnecessarily acts with the two vasti, but it can also flex he tS'uDorthe pelvis. The somewhat oblique direction of the tendon of the JiSpsTUward and inwards, and of the ligamentuni patellae downwards and outwards!^ that theyform an obtuse angle,open to the outside (seey?^. 126.),