343 THE DORSAL INTEROSSEI. extends from the third and fourth metacarpal bones to the inner or ulnar side of the phalanx of the middle fingers, and is also an abductor of the same, because it separates it from the supposed axis of the hand. The fourth extends from the fourth and fifth metacarpal bones to the inner or ulnar side of the first phalanx of the fourth finger, and it again is an abductor of that finger from the axis of the hand, although, as well as the preceding muscle, it is an adductor as regards the axis of the body. In order to render this view more intelligible, I have been accustomed to represent the five fingers by five lines (see diagram d), to prolong the middle line for the axis of the hand, and then to draw other lines (the four fine lines), representing the axes of the muscles ; the demonstration is thus rendered complete. In the same manner, all the palmar interossei are adductors as regards the axis of the hand. Thus the first, which is represented by the adductor pollicis, and extends from the third metacarpal bone to the inner or ulnar side of the first phalanx of the thumb, is an adductor as regards the axis of the hand as well as that of the body; the second, extending from the second metacarpal bone to the inner or ulnar side of the first phalanx of the index finger, is an adductor both as regards the axis of the hand and that of the body; the third, extending from the fourth metacarpal bone to the outer or radial side of the first phalanx of the ring finger, is an adductor as regards the axis of the hand; and lastly, the fourth, extending from the fifth metacarpal bone to the outer or radial side of the first phalanx of the little finger, is an adductor as regards the axis of the hand, but an abductor in reference to the axis of the body. A similarly constructed figure, as that employed for the dorsal interossei, will always keep this arrangement in the memory (see diagram p ; the four fine lines represent the axes of the palmar muscles). The general disposition of the interossei may be summed up in the following very simple law:—all the dorsal interossei have their fixed at- tachments/uriAer from the axis of the hand than their moveable one; all the palmar interossei have their fixed attachments nearer to the axis of the hand than their moveable one. We may now consider the general arrangement of these little muscles. T7ie Dorsal Interossei. These are short, prismatic, andtriangular muscles {diod,fig. 123.), extending li^^r J ^'s-123. from the two metacarpal bones, between which they i are placed, to the first phalanx and the extensor tendon of one of the corresponding fingers. They arise by a double origin, between which the perfo- rating arteries pass. But while one of these origins IS limited to the back part of the lateral surface of one of the metacarpal bones, the other occupies the whole length of the corresponding lateral surface of ^ 1^ ^ J" metacarpal bone. From this double origin V\ the fleshy fibres pass obliquely forwards round a tendon, which only emerges from them near the meta- carpo-phalangal articulation ; it then expands, and is and nartlv t„ ti,o , ^ P'"'*^^ *° "PP^"" «^ first phalanx anopartly to the outer edge of the corresponding extensor tendon. t!11 1 1ZZ^ interossei correspond behind with the dorsal surface of fin nnnr,^'''^ ^''^r^"" ^''"'^ ^^ich they are separated by a verv thin aponeurosis; m front, they are visible in thepahn of the hand by the sldZ of the palmar interossei, and, like the latter, are covered by the musol-s S tendons of the palmar region, being separated from those'par sTtt deep