PHYSIOLOGICAL ARRANGEMENT OF THE MUSCLES. 383 added diductors (from diduco, to draw aside). The elevators and diductors preponderate; the only office of the depressors is to bring down the jaw into a position from which it may then be raised. 1. Elevators. These are the masseters, the temporales, and the pterygoids interni. 2."Z)!rfMcto7-5, viz. the pterygoidei externi. 3. Depressors, consisting of the muscles of the supra- and mfra-hyoid regions and more particularly of the two digastrici. Muscles which move the Os Hyoides. These are divided into elevators and depressors. AUthe e/emtora belong to the supra-hyoid region, and are, l.the stylo-hyoidei; 2. the mylo-hyoidei; 3. the genio-hyoidei. _ The depressors consist of the muscles of the infra-hyoid region; viz. 1. The sterno-hyoidei; 2. the stemo-thyroidei; 3. the thyro-hyoidei; 4. the omo- hyoidei. Muscles which move the Pelvis. There are no muscles proper to the pelvis. The ischio-coccygeus is the only intrinsic muscle. The extrinsic muscles attached to the pelvis do not be- long to its cavity, but merely take their fixed points from its parietes. It is only under particular circumstances that the pelvis changes its usual office and becomes the moveable point; for example, in the horizontal position, in the action of cUmbing, and in the reversed attitude of a tumbler, the pelvis is moved upon the vertebral column on the one hand, and upon the femur on the other. Muscles which move the Shoulder. The muscles of each shoulder are divided into elevators and depressors ; both of which are also rotators. The elevators are, 1. the trapezius; 2. the rhom- boideus ; 3. the levator anguli scapulae. The depressors are, 1. the pectoralis minor; 2. the subclavius; 3. the serratus magnus. The elevators and de- pressors of the entire shoulder must be carefully distinguished from those which raise or depress its apex. Muscles which move the Thigh upon the Pelvis. These muscles are divided into extensors, flexors, adductors, abductors, and rotators. The extensors and abductors are the same. viz. the three glutaei. The conjoined psoas magnus, iliacus, and psoas parvus constitute the only Jlexor. Adduction is performed by four muscles, viz. ihe pectineus and the three adductors. Rotation outwards is performed by six muscles, viz. the pyriformis, the two gemelli, the obturator internus, the quadratus femoris, and" the obturator ex- tomus. Rotation invmrds is performed by the tensor vaginse femoris, and especially by the anterior fibres of the glutmi, medius et minimus. Muscles which move the Arm upon the Shoulder. These muscles are divided into abductors, which are at the same time flexors, and into adductors and rotators. There are no proper muscles for the move- ment forwards or flexion, nor for the movement backwards or extension, both of which motions are effected by the adductors and abductors. The abductors are, 1. the deltoideus ; 2. the coraco-brachialis ; 3. the sunro- spmatus. ^