124 OSTEOLOGY. Like all other long bones the femur is divided into a body and extremities. Of the body. The body or shaft is prismatic and triangular, with three sur- faces and three edges. The anterior surface (a, fig. 50.) is rounded and has a cylindrical aspect: it is broader below than above. The internal surface (b,fig. 49.) is flat, it becomes much wider below, and then looks backwards. The femoral artery corresponds to this surface, and may be compressed upon it towards the middle third of the thigh. The external surface (c) is much narrower than the internal, and is slightly excavated throughout its extent. Of the three edges, the internal and the external are rounded, and scarcely dis- tinguishable from the surfaces k J}^^^ /»=v which they separate. The pos- terior edge (e df), on the con- trary, is very rough and promi- nent, and has therefore been called the linea aspera: it is divided into two lips and an interspace, for the sake of faci- litating the description of the numerous muscles to which it gives attachment. It is more rough above than below, and is bifurcated at both ends. Of the two branches of the upper bi- furcation, the external (e), ex- tremely rough, is occasionally surmounted by a considerable eminence, and prolonged to the large process called great tro- chanter. The internal branch is less projecting, and terminates on the inside in a smaller emi- nence called lesser trochanter. The outer branch (/) of the lower bifurcation runs towards the outside of the lower extre^ mity of the femur, and termi- nates in an eminence, below which is a small depression to which the external head of the gastro-cnemius is attached. The inner branch (o) is nearly effaced at the part where the femoral artery passes over it: below this it appears again, and Uke the outer branch tenmnates fn a weU-marked prominence, to which the adductor magnus is attached^ and beloJit, the inner head of the gastro-cnemiu.. The tnan^ar mterva^ m- cludld between the two branches of the bifurcation, corresponds to tie pophteal Sery and vein. The nutritious foramen (A) is situated m the hnea aspera; it ^'I^Z'lZSI'l^Xoi the femur forms an obtuse angle with the body an? Feslts a W, a neck, and two unequal eminences named trochanters, the ^''TiTiadci figs. 49 and 50.), is the most regularly spheroid^ of aU the