507 THE INTESTINES. Developement of the Intestinal Canal. The developement of the intestinal canal offers two f^'^i^f^l'^^'.^^f^^^- tion viz the relations existing between it and that portion of the foeta rnem- Ses, eaUed the vesicula umbilicalis; and the developement of the canal itself, "tS::nc'efo\tfir1to^^^^ the anatomy of the. human fcBtus is stiU in- volved in much obscurity, authorities being divided m opinion on the subject Without entering here into a discussion which belongs to a higher department of anatomy, I would observe that the principal arguments adduced by those who admit the communication between the intestmal canal and the vesicula umbiUcalis, are drawn from analogy, and especially from what occurs in ovi- parous animals, whose viteUine membrane is regarded as analogous to the umbiUcal vesicle, and in which the most evident communication exists at all stages of foetal existence. . I would observe, also, that these same anatomists are not agreed respecting the point at which this communication occurs. According to Oken, it is at the junction of the small with the large intestine * : according to Meckel, it is at the lower part of the small intestine, and the diverticula so frequently observed in this place are vestiges of the canal of communication. The last named anatomist, after having discussed all the arguments on either side of the question, concludes thus : —" I think, then, that we must at present admit a continuity of substance between the umbilical vesicle and the intestinal canal, without pretending to decide whether the cavities of these two organs open into each other." {Manual d'Anatomie, torn. iii. p. 416. trad, par MM. Jourdan et Breschet.) But the communication of the cavities is evidently the entire question. The arguments of those who deny the existence of a communication in the human foetus and mammalia are founded upon direct observation. I must say with Emmert, Cuvier, and others, that I have never detected this commu- nication ; and though I am far from denying it altogether, yet I consider that facts are still wanting to prove its existence.f The developement of the intestinal canal itself presents, besides some ques- tions yet undetermined, certain positive facts, concerning which there can be no dispute. One of the undetermined questions relates to the mode in which the intestine is formed. Is the digestive tube originally an oblong vesicle, which becomes elongated, at the same time, at both its cephalic and its coccy- geal extremities, both being at first imperforate, but afterwards opening so as to form the mouth and anus ? Does it at first resemble a groove open in front, as Wolf has shown to be the case in birds; or is it developed from two lateral halves, subsequently united together according to the opinion of M. Serres ? Is the intestinal canal formed from one, or from several centres of develope- ment? Is it developed from several pieces, which afterwards meet each other, so to speak ? and are any grounds for this opinion afforded by the absence of different portions of the canal in acephalous monsters, or the occasional exist- ence of septa in different parts of its extent ? I think not. Upon the whole, these microscopical investigations into the first traces of the developement of organs, are still involved in great obscurity ; and I must say that, whenever I have been able to discern the intestinal canal, it has appeared to me to form a complete cylinder.| Another question, which yet remains undetermined, relates to the situation of the intestine in the early periods of intra-uterine existence. It is at first situated, as some authors * Ttie vermiform appendix and the ceecum are the remains of this communication, according to Oken. * t [Tlie communication has been distinctly seen and described by Dr. Allen Thomson. (EUin Med. and Suri; Jotirn. c\\. p. 132.)] t [In the ovum, No. II., described by Dr. A. Thomson (.loc. cil.), the future alimentary canal has the form of a groove.]