THE THORAX IN GENERAL. 95 costal cartilages, those being the longest which appertain to the lo^vev ribs; 4 b^een the cartilages, certain intervals named tntercostal spaces; 5. ex- JrS7y to the cartilages, an oblique line running from above downwards and from within outwards, and marking the series of articulations of the costal car- t la^es with the ribs; 6. still more externaUy, another obhque Une, which has not been pointed out and which is formed by the anterior angles of the nbs ; it corresponds in obliqiuty with the chondi-o-sternal line, and forms the boundary ""^^^J^oTSZtebral region presents, in the median line, the series of dorsal spinous processes; on the sides, 1. tbe vertebral grooves ; 2 the ser^^^^^ of dorsal transverse processes; 3. their articulation with the tubercles of the ribs ; 4. a series of stirfaces of which the lower are the largest and which are comprised between the angle and the tubercle of each rib ; 5 lastly, an ob- Uque line running from above downwards, and from within outwards, formed by the posterior angles of the ribs. „„„„^^ The lateral or costal regions resemble a sort of curved grate, more convex behind than in front, and showing the series of ribs and intercostal spaces m the same manner as the anterior and posterior regions. They increase m width from above downwards, and form a sort of inchned plane, with a curved surface, and obliquely directed from above downwards, and from -^thin outwards. The first two intercostal spaces are both the broadest and the shortest; the third and fourth are broader in front than behind ; the foUowing are of ahnost uniform width through their whole extent: on the whole, the breadth of the spaces diminishes from above downwards, or, as Bertin remarks, the edges of the lower ribs are abmost in contact. The last two intercostal spaces form the only exception, for they are nine lines in width, while those in the middle of the chest are only about four. It should, moreover, be remarked, that the intercostal spaces are broader in front than behind ; a fact which may be easily shown by comparing the distance which separates the anterior ex- tremities of the first and second ribs, with that which intervenes between their posterior terminations. The length of the intercostal spaces increases from the first to the sixth; it then diminishes to the two last, where it is very small. Internal Surface of the Thorax. This surface, like the external, is divided into four regions The OMterior region exactly resembles the anterior region of the external surface, with this difference only, that it is concave instead of being convex. The posterior region presents, 1. in the median line, the dorsal portion of the spinal column, which like an incomplete septum forms a projection in the in- terior of the thoracic cavity, and divides it into two equal parts; 2. on the sides, two deep grooves which are contracted above, but gradually enlarge towards the lower part. These grooves, which lodge the posterior convex por- tions of the lungs, exist only in the human subject; they aUow part of the weight of the body to be thrown backwards, — an arrangement which is veiy advantageous for preserving the equilibrium in standing, and is a proof that man is destined to the erect posture. The lateral regions form an inclined plane on the inside, resembling that which exists on the outside, only they are concave instead of being convex. Superior and Inferior Circumferences. The superior circumference or summit is narrow in comparison with the in- ferior, and slopes obliquely from above downwards and forwards; it is wider transversely than in the antero-posterior direction, and resembles the shape of a heart on playing cards. The circumference of this opening is formed in front by the upper end of the sternum ; behind, by the first dorsal vertebra; on the sides, by the first ribs and their cartilages. This opening, which is contracted m its dimensions by the clavicles, gives passage to the following organs ; the