THE PERITONEUM. 637 by a fibrous layer, and this accounts for the difficulty with which abscesses of the abdominal parietes open into the cavity of the peritoneum. The visceral portion of the peritoneum. Among the viscera of the abdomen some receive a complete investment from the peritoneum, always excepting the point at which their vessels reach them; to this class belong the spleen, the stomach, and the small intestines. Others have a less complete covering, so that a portion of their surface is in immediate relation with surrounding parts: of this number are the ascending and descending colon and the caicum. Lastly, others have only very slight relations with the peritoneum, which merely pass over them, and do not appear to enter into their formation : to this class belong the bladder, the lower part of the rectum, the pancreas, the two lower portions of the duodenum and the kidneys. To the last named organs the peritoneum is connected only by very loose cellular tissue. The visceral portion of the peritoneum is not strengthened by the fibrous layer met with in its parietal portion, and therefore, perforation of the serous coat of the viscera is much more common than perforation of the parietal portion of the serous membrane. The folds of the peritoneum. Among the folds of the peritoneum, most of which have been already described, and which need be only recapitulated here, some bear the name of ligaments, viz. the triangular, coronary, and falciform ligaments of the liver, the posterior ligaments of the bladder, and the broad ligaments of the uterus. Others are called mesenteries, viz. the mesentery properly so called, or the mesentery of the small intestine, the transverse mesocolon, the right and left lumbar mesocolon when they exist, the iliac mesocolon, and the mesorectum. With these we should include the duplicature extending from the transverse fissui-e of the liver to the lower curvature of the stomach, and known as the lesser omentum ; it really constitutes the mesogastrium. Lastly, there are certain folds, named omenta or epiploa (eTrl, upon, irAe'ai, to float), viz. the great or gastro-colic, small or gastro-hepatic, gastro-splenic, and colic omenta.* With this class we may connect the appendices epiploicaj. It may be well to make a few observations upon the great and lesser omenta. The great omentum. The great or gastro-colic omentum, so called because it is attached on the one hand to the stomach, and on the other to the colon, scarcely exists in the new-born infant; it is gradually developed as age ad- vances, and about the period of the termination of growth it reaches to the brim of the pelvis. It has been remarked, that it descends a little lower on the left than on the right side. When the stomach and the colon are distended, this omentum is reduced to a, more or less narrow border extending along the arch of the colon. It presents also a number of individual varieties ; sometimes it is vei7 re- gularly suspended in front of the intestinal convolutions ; sometimes it is folded upon itself, and carried to one side or the other; occasionally it ad- heres at some point, becomes stretched like a cord, and may then give rise to strangulation; and lastly, it is not very rare to find it turned upwards and backwards between the diaphragm above, and the stomach and liver below. It is so transparent and thin that it is difiicult to conceive it to be formed of four layers. In some individuals, it is even perforated with holes like a piece of lace. The great omentum is found, in very fat persons, to be loaded with an immense quantity of adipose tissue, deposited chiefly along the vessels; so that it may acquire a very considerable size, and a weight of several pounds. The great omentum has an anterior and posterior surface, both of which are free, an upper adherent border, a lower border, free, convex, and more or less sinuous, which corresponds with the crural arches, and the internal openings of the inguinal canals ; it is, therefore, very often found in hernial sacs. * [The colic omentum consists of two layers of peritoneum, with intermediate veswls inrt f=>f wh>c1. descend, behind the great omentum, from the upper part of the asceSg colon!]