70 OSTEOLOGY. pterygoid process, through the medium of the palate-bone: above it forms part of the ptt'vygo-maxillary fissure. The inferior or alveolar border (y li) is the thickest and strongest part, being, in some respects, the base of the hone. It is hollowed into conical cavities se- parated by thin septa. These cavities are the alveoli or sockets of the teeth: they are proportioned in dimensions to the size of the fangs which they are intended to lodge, and in like manner are subdivided into two, three, or four secondary cavities. The bottom of these alveoli is in apposition with the maxillary sinus, into which they occasionally open. This border presents, especially in front, flutings or projections which correspond with the alveoli, and depressions which mark the inter-alveolar septa. In young subjects we may observe, chiefly behind the incisor teeth, some very remarkable foramina, to which much importance has been attached as connected with the phenomena of dentition. Internal structure. This bone is remarkably light for its size, on account of the large cavity which it incloses. It is more compact than most of the short bones, and has spongy tissue only in the alveolar border, the maxillary tuberosity, and the malar eminence. Connections. The superior maxilla is articulated with two bones of the cranium, the frontal and the ethmoid, and with all the bones of the face. It lodges eight of the teeth of the upper jaw. Development. Anatomists are not at aU agreed respecting the number and arrangement of the osseous points, which concur in forming the superior In the maxiHary bone of the foetus, and sometimes even in that of the adult, there are, as I can attest from observation, two very remarkable fissures, which would seem to indicate the primitive separation of the bone into three pieces. 1 The first fissure which may be caUed the incisive fissure, is visible on each side of the arch of the palate. It commences at the septum, which divides the alveoli of the canine tooth and lateral incisor; is contmued back- wards to the anterior palatine canal; and is prolonged above on the internal surface of the ascending process. This fissure is apparent only on the internal surface of the superior maxilla: it either does not exist at all upon the ex- ternal surface, or is so early obUterated, that it can scarcely ever be met with. The portion of the maxilla circumscribed by this fissure sustains the in- cisor teeth, and represents the incisor or inter-maxillary bone of tjie JoY'' animals lu hare-lip the solution of continuity is in the situation of this bs- sure It is therefore probable that this anterior portion of the maxillary bone is developed from a special point. Bertin asserts this, and Meckel and Beclard admit it. I have not been able to observe such independent develop- ment at any period of foetal Jife at which I have examined the maxillary ^°T'a second and equally constant fissure is visible in the situation of the infra-orbital canal, and is prolonged from the edge of the orbit in the form of a sS suture to the anterior orifice of this canal: it may be caUed the orbital toe This fissure, Uke the preceding, has always seemed to me mcomplete, nnd not occasioned by the separation of a distinct piece. The super or maxillary bone is one of the earliest in ^^^^^S^^^f"^' OssificaS commences in it from the thirtieth to the thirty-fifth day, m the ^^Tt'b^f ttSirmixilla has little height, but a considerable extent At Dirtn ine hajjci npHnd it is chieflv formed by the alveolar from befo- backv^^^s. A^^^^^^^ ^^.^.^ ^^,1,,^ border, which is ahnost contiguous vertical dimensions increase tened, and diminished m height.