256 MYOLOGY. lower or ascending fibres are collected together, and attached to a triangular aponeurosis, -which gliding over the small facette at the internal extremity of the spine of the scapula, is inserted into the tubercle immediately connected ■with it; the middle or horizontal fibres terminate at the posterior border of the spine of the scapula, by tendinous fibres which are very distinct, especially towards the acromion; the upper or descending fibres are inserted into the convex portion of the posterior border of the clavicle, many of them being also attached to the upper surface of that bone. Relations. The trapezius is covered by the skin, from which it is separated by an aponeurotic lamina, except at the upper part, where the muscle and in- teguments are intimately adherent. It covers the complexus, splenius, rhom- boideus, and levator anguli scapulae, in the neck; and the serratus posticus superior, the supra-spinatus, the posterior spinal muscles, and the latissimus dorsi, in the back. The most important relations of this muscle are those of its superior and external or occipito-clavicular margin: this forms the poste- rior boundary of the supra-clavicular triangle, which is limited in front by the stemo-mastoid muscle, and below by the clavicle. It should be observed in reference to the indications regarding the supra-clavicular space, furnished by this margin of the trapezius, that it sometimes advances as far as the middle of the clavicle, and has even been observed to become blended with the posterior edge of the sterno-mastoid. Action. 1. The upper or descending portion elevates the clavicle, and con- sequently the apex of the shoulder ; but if the shoulder be fixed, this portion of the muscle inclines the head to one side and extends it, and moreover ro- tates it, so that the face is turned to the opposite side. 2. The middle or hori- zontal portion carries the shoulder backwards, but from the obliquity of the spine of the scapula, it also rotates that bone, so that the apex of the shoulder is carried upwards. 3. The lower or ascending portion draws the posterior costa of the scapula inwards and downwards ; and by a species of rotation, which was alluded to when treating of the scapulo-clavicular articulations, also elevates the apex of the shoulder. 4. When the whole of the muscle contracts at once, the scapula is drawn inwards, and the apex of the shoulder is raised. TJie Latissimus Dorsi and Teres Major. Dissection. 1. Render the latissimus dorsi tense, by the same means as were employed for the trapezius, and also by withdrawing the arm from the side. 2. Make an incision in the median line from the tenth dorsal vertebra to the sacrum, and another transversely from the same vertebra to the pos- terior border of the axilla, dividing in the latter incision a fibro-cellular mem- brane, which adheres very firmly to the fleshy fibres. 3. Dissect the humeral insertion very carefully, and at the same time prepare the teres major, which is very intimately related to this extremity. The Latissimus Dorsi. The latissimus dorsi (^b, fig. 106.; p,figs. 109, 110.) occupies the lumbar and part of the dorsal region, and the posterior border of the axUla. It is the broadestof aU the muscles, and shaped like a triangle, havmg its inferior angle truncated, and its upper and external angles considerably elongated. Attachments. It arises from the spinous processes of the last six or seven dorsal, of all the lumbar, and of the sacral vertebrse, from the posterior third of the crest of the ilium, and from the last four ribs, and is inserted mto the bottom of the bicipital groove of the humerus, not into its posterior border. Its oriffin from the crest of the ilium and from the vertebrae is effected through the medium of a triangular aponeurosis, narrow and thm above, broad and very strong below, where it is blended with the aponeuroses of tiie serratus posticus inferior and obliquus internus abdommis, and with the poste-