392 APONEUROLOGY. border of the zygoma; the other deep and thicker, attached to the inner sur- lace of that process. In tolerably stout persons a considerable quantity of fat IS situated between these two layers, and a remarkable branch of the temporal artery also occupies the same situation. This fat must not be confounded with the larger mass which lies beneath the aponeuroses. The resistance of this fascia explains the reason why abscesses in the temporal fossa never point out- wards, but rather tend downwards into the zygomatic fossa. The Aponeukoses of the Face. The Parotid Aponeurosis. This is a sheath of great thickness, especially that part which covers the outer surface of the gland; it is continuous below with the cervical fascia. It belongs especially to the gland, for which it forms a framework by means of fibrous prolongations from its deep surface. The density of this sheath explains both the pain caused by inflammation of the gland, and the diflSculty with which pus makes its way from within it to the surface. The Masseteric Aponeurosis. This is a thin tendinous layer covering the masseter muscle, and continuous below with the cervical fascia; it appears to divide behind into two layers, one of which constitutes the parotid fascia, and the other penetrates between that gland and the masseter; above and anteriorly it becomes merged into the cel- lular tissue. Purulent matter situated beneath this fascia tends downwards into the neck, but when situated superficially to it points towards the skin. The Buccinator Aponeurosis. The buccinator is covered by a closely adherent fibrous layer, which is regarded as the expansion of the fibrous sheath of the Stenonian duct; it is thickest behind, where it is termed the buccinato-pharyngeal aponeurosis, because it gives attachment behind to the superior constrictor of the pharynx, and to the buccinator in fi'ont. This aponeurosis prevents superficial abscesses from opening into the mouth, and is also opposed to the extension outwards of diseases attacking the mucous membrane. The Cekvicai, Aponeurosis, or Ceryicai Fascia. In the cervical region we find, 1. the cervical fascia; 2. the prevertebral aponeurosis. The Cervical Fascia. The cervical aponeurosis covers the whole anterior region of the neck; it extends from the base of the lower jaw to the sternum and clavicles, and is insensibly lost on either side in the subcutaneous cellular tissue. It is thick in the median line, and forms a sort of cervical linea alba. From this linea alba two layers proceed in the supra-hyoid region, and four in the infra-hyoid region, which are arranged in the following manner: — 1. The superficial layer, or the superficial cervical fascia, covers the whole anterior and lateral regions of the neck, is prolonged downwards in front of the clavicle, to become continuous with the pi-oper aponeurosis of the pectoralis major, is attached above to the masseteric and parotid fasciae, and, internally to the masseter muscle, is fixed to the base of the lower jaw. It fills up the interval between the two platysmata, and is prolonged behind these muscles to form the anterior layer of the sheath of the sterno-mastoid. The external jugular vein is superficial to this layer in the sub-hyoid, and lies beneath it in the supra-hyoid region.