AUTHOR'S PREFACE. 1 HE study of man offers three very different objects for contemplation • m. his organisation, his vital functions, and his moral and intellectual faculties. The organisation or structure of man is the object of awa/omy — a science which investigates every distinguishable material condition of the difierent parts that enter into the construction of his frame. Anatomy is a science of observation, and is, in this respect, susceptible of mathematical precision and physical certainty. The vital functions of man are the objects of physiology, which reveals to us the actions of organs, with whose structure anatomy has previously made us acquainted. The science of physiology inquires into the various motions that occm- within the human body, just as anatomy investigates the form of its component parts. All that we know, in fact, concerning material objects, may be resolved into a knowledge of their motions and their forms. As a moral and intellectual being, man is the object of the science of psychology, which contemplates him in the exercise of thought and volition, analyses the operations of his mind and will, and classifies them according to their supremacy. A perfect acquaintance with man necessarily presupposes a combination of all that is taught by these three sciences ; and it is because his anatomy, his physiology, and his moral and intellectual endowments have not been studied by the same class of philosophers, that in the sciences relating to himself so much yet remains to be desired. Anatomy—the immediate object of this work—constitutes the foundation of medicine. In order to discover the precise seat of a defect in some complicated machine, and the means to be adopted for the reparation of its disordered mechanism, it is necessary to be acquainted with the relative importance, and the particular action of all its constituent parts. " The human body," says Bacon, " may be compared, from its complex and delicate organisation, to a musical instrument of the most perfect construction, but exceedingly liable to derangement." And the whole science of medi- cine is therefore reduced to a knowledge of the means by which that har- monious instrument, the human frame, may be so tuned and touched, as to yield correct and pleasing sounds. But since anatomy forms, as it were, the vestibule of medical science, it is of importance, that he who is entering upon its pursuit should fully un- derstand the path he is about to tread ; it is necessary, therefore, to assign, on the one hand, the rank which medicine holds as a natural science, and on the other, the position of anatomy among the various sciences relating to medicine. The term science, according to the admii-able definition of the Roman orator, signifies certain knowledge, deduced from certain principles — cog-