SPLANCHNOLOGY. Action. The two muscles depress the velum palati, and raise the edges of tne base ot the tongue; they consequently constrict the isthmus faucium i ne glandular layer of the velum palati. Under the mucous membrane cover mg the upper surface of the velum palati, there are some scattered glands which are more numerous on the sides than along the middle. But on the lower surface of the velum there is a much more obvious collection of glands particularly dense, opposite the aponeurotic portion of the velum, and forming a continuation of the glandular layer of the hard palate. Similar glands are found in the uvula, the size, and in some measure the form, of which they determine. These smaU glands in the velum exactly resemble the salivary glands already described as existing in the lips, the cheeks, and the roof of the palate. The mucous membrane. Both surfaces of the velum are covered by mucous membrane, which constitutes, as it were, its integuments. These two mucous layers are remarkable, inasmuch as each presents the peculiar characters of the cavity to which it belongs. Thus the lower layer preserves the characters of the buccal mucous membrane, and the upper layer those of the nasal.* The two layers are continuous with each other along the free margin of the velum palati; the fold of mucous membrane, forming this margin, passes beyond the other constituent tissues, so that for the space of half a line or a line the two mucous layers are in contact. The same occurs in the uvula, the apex, and sometimes the lower half of which consists of a duplicature of mucous mem- brane, containing some loose cellular tissue, which is very susceptible of in- filtration. Either serous or sanguineous infiltration of the uvula produce an elongation of this part, called relaxation of the uvula. I should not omit to mention the great difference, in regard to sensibility and liability to inflam- mation, that exists between the mucous membrane of the free and adherent borders of the velum palati. Vessels and nerves. These are very numerous in proportion to the size of the part. The arteries arise from the palatine and the superior and inferior pharyngeal. The veins are similarly named, and follow the same course. The lymphatic vessels, which have been Uttle studied, enter the lymphatic glands at the angle of the jaw. The nerves are derived from the palatine branches given off by Meckel's ganglion, and from the glosso-pharyngeus. Develnpement. We have here again the question, whether the velum is formed originally from two halves, which afterwards become united in the median line: in favour of this view we may adduce those cases in which the uvula and the velum are bifid, either with or without fissure of the hard palate and lip. In the youngest embryos which I have examined, I have always found the velum undivided. Uses. The velum palati is a contractile valve, which fulfils very important functions in deglutition, in the utterance of articulate sounds, and in the modu- lation of the voice; it is capable of being elevated and depressed. Elevation affects its muscular, but not its aponeurotic, portion : this movement cannot be carried so far as to revert the velum upwards. Depression may be carried to such an extent as to close the isthmus faucium by the approximation of the velum and the base of the tongue. The contraction of the palato-pharyngei, which are curved muscles, may be so complete as to bring the posterior pillars of the fauces into contact, and thus close the isthmus in a transverse direction. The uvula moves independently of the velum. When the aponeurosis of the velum palati is rendered tense, the velum itself is enabled to resist both elevation and depression. * [According to the recent researches of Dr. Henle, the ciliated columnar epithelium (like that of the nasal mucous membrane) is found upon the upper surface of the velum, only in the neighbourhood of. and a short distance below, the expanded orifice of the Eustachian tube ; the remaining portion of the upper surface, as well as the free border, and the whole of the lower snrface, are covered with the squamous epithelium, similar to that of the buccal mucous mem- brane.]