* I have represented a case of this nature (vide Anat. Pathol, avoc Planches, liv. ii. pi. iv.). I ARTICULATIONS OF THE TARSUS. 219 'S^VhilS of ..oepaon is co„p,e.ed by . which occupies the triangular interval between the small tuberosity of the os calcis and the sca- phoid, and forms by itself the inner side of the cavity of re- ception. In order to obtain a good view of this ligament, it is advisable to re- move the astragalus by cutting and tearing the interosseous ligament that unites it to the os calcis : it wiU then be seen, that the ligament we are describing is very strong and triangular, and that it covers not only the lower, but the inner part also of the head of the astragalus. It is often divided into two parts; one bemg external, narrow, and shaped like a band ; the other internal, much broader and thicker, in relation below with the sesamoid bone of the tendon of the tibialis posticus, and presenting a cartilaginous thickening at the correspond- ing point. Another ligament, caMei the superior cakaneo-scaphoid (I, Jig. 83.), must also be regarded as contributing to wedge in the astragalus ; it extends from the inside of the anterior extremity of the os calcis to the outside of the scaphoid. It is situated upon the dorsum of the foot, in the deep hollow occupied by fat, on the outer side of the astragalus. These two ligaments (the inferior and superior calcaneo-scaphoid) constitute the means of union between the os calcis and the scaph9id. These bones are in no part contiguous; but occa- sionally we find the os calcis continued into the scaphoid, through the medium of an osseous lamina, which replaces the lower calcaneo-scaphoid ligament.* The OS calcis being very securely articulated with the astragalus, and at the same time very firmly connected with the scaphoid, it follows that the articulation between the scaphoid and astragalus possesses great strength, al- though the ligaments directly uniting them are by no means powerful; just as the atlas, which is but slightly connected with the occipital bone by means of its own ligaments, is very firmly fixed by the ligaments stretching from the occipital bone to the axis. Nevertheless, the absence of any very strong and direct means of union between these bones, renders it possible for the astra- galus to be forced by external violence out of tt?^ sort of osseo-fibrous socket in which it is placed. The superior astragalo-scapJioid ligament (s, fig. 80. ; m, figs. 83 and 84.) is the only one proper to this joint; it is semicircular in form, and extends somewhat obliquely forwards and outwards, from the neck of the astragalus to the margin of the facette on the scaphoid. It is thin in texture, and con- sists of parallel fibres ; it is covered by the extensor brevis digitorum above, and is lined below by the synovial membrane of the articulation between the scaphoid and the astragalus. 2. Calcaneo-cuboid Articulation. This articulation is upon the same line as the astragalo-scaphoid ; an ana- tomical fact which has suggested the ingenious idea of a partial amputation of the foot between the two rows. It belongs to the class we have designated