THE LUNGS. 555 are surrounded with lymphatic glands, remarkable for their black colour, and for being frequently tod, and which in some f^^^P,;\-£ furcation of the trachea; and lastly, both have the fol- lowing relations with the pulmonary artery and veins. Each pulmonary artery {kk') is si- tuated in front of the corresponding bronchus, then passes above, and finally behind it. The two pulmonary veins on each side Q I, m m) are situ- ated upon the same vertical plane as the corresponding artery; they pass upwards in front of the artery and the bronchus, which is, therefore, be- I hind the blood vessels. * The shape of the bronchi exactly resembles that of the trachea, i. e. they represent cylinders, the posterior fourth of which has been removed, and which are formed by parallel rings. The area of the two bronchi is greater than that of the trachea, in the same way as the area of the bronchial ramifications is greater than that of the bronchi themselves, so that the velocity of the expired air increases as it approaches the exterior. At the root of the lungs the bronchi divide into two equal branches, but in a somewhat different manner. The upper branch of the bifurcation of the right bronchus is the smaller, and is intended for the upper lobe of the lung, in order to reach which it is bent slightly upwards. The lower branch, which is larger, follows the original direction, and, after passing about an inch, divides into two unequal branches, a smaU one for the middle lobe, and a larger one for the lower lobe. I have once seen a small bronchus proceeding from the lower part of the trachea directly to the apex of the right lung; the vena azygos passed between it and the regular bronchus, f The secondary divisions are precisely the same in the two lungs; each branch of a bifurcation becomes bifurcated in its turn. All these ramifications pursue a diverging course, some ascending, others descending, and after pro- ceeding for a variable distance, they again bifurcate ; so that by separating a small portion of the pulmonary substance, we can see that several diverging series of tubes proceed in succession from a bronchial trunk, and pass outwards into the tissue of the lung. The prevailing mode of division of the air-tubes in the lungs is that called dichotomous, viz. a division into two equal branches, which we shall afterwards find to be the most favourable to the rapid trans- * [In consequence of the oblique direction of the left bronchus towards the root of the lung, the corresponding pulmonary artery is placed somewhat above it, and the pulmonary veins Iwlow it; on the right side, the pulmonary artery is in the middle, the bronchus above, and the veins below.] t This appears to be the natural arrangement in the sheep and the ox.