269 THE OBLIQUUS EXTERNUS ABDOMINIS. The great or external oblique muscle of the abdomen (o, fiy. 106. and a. Jig. 109.), so called from the direction of its fibres (obliquus descendens, forms the most superficial muscular layer of the abdominal parietes, on the sides and front of which it is situated: it is very broad, quadrilateral, and curved upon itself. Attachments. It arises from the external surfaces and lower borders of the seven or eight inferior ribs, and is inserted into the an- terior half of the external lip of the crest of the ' ilium, into the external edge of the anterior ab- dominal aponeurosis, and by it into the linea alba. The upper or costal at- tachments consist of seven or eight angular tongues, or digitations, fleshy and tendinous in their struc- ture, and arranged in an oblique line, running downwards and back- wards. These digitations in- crease in size from above downwards as far as the eighth rib, and then dimi- nish to the twelfth. The four or five superior di- gitations are interposed, like the fingers of the two hands (whence the name), between similar prolonga- tions of the serratus mag- nus. The thi-ee or four- lower digitations between of the latissimus dorsi, by which they are covered. This series of costal attachments constituting the upper edge of the muscle, represents a serrated curved line, the convexity of which is directed upwards and back- wards. The first digitation is attached close to the cartilage of the corresponding rib, the succeeding ones are further and further removed from the first, and the last is inserted into the apex of the cartilage of the last rib. From these attachments the fleshy fibres proceed in different directions : the posterior pass nearly vertically downwards ; the middle obliquely downwards and inwards, and the upper almost horizontally inwards ; the posterior termi- nate by short tendinous fibres at the crest of the ilium; the anterior at the external concave edge of a broad aponeurosis, which forms the superficial layer of the anterior abdominal aponeurosis, and by interlacing with the cor- responding structure of the opposite side, concurs in forming the linea alba, and is folded upon itself below, to form the crural arch, or Poupart's ligament. (See Aponeurolooy.) It should be remarked, that the fibres of the external oblique follow exactly the same direction as those of the external intercostal muscles. those