MECHANISM OF THE THORAX. 175 The first, second, sixth, and seventh, chondro-sternal articulations present some peculiarities. 1. The cartUage of the first nb is sometimes continuous with the sternum, and is sometimes articulated like the cartilages of the other ribs. I found in one subject the first rib excessively moveable, because its cartilage, instead of being continuous with the sternum, had its upper edge ap- pUed to the side of that bone to which it was united by ligaments, and was ul- timately articulated by a narrow extremity immediately above the second rib. 2. The second cartilage (6) is much more angular at its inner extremity than any of the others : it is received into the retreating angle formed by the union of the first two pieces of the sternum. Sometimes there is an interosseous li- gament in this joint, running from the angle of the cartilage to the bottom of the cavity, and there are then two synovial capsules i in other cases there is only one (c), but it is always more marked than in the other joints. 3. Ihe articulations of the sixth and seventh cartilages, besides the anterior ligaments have also a chondro-xiphoid ligament, more or less strong, which crosses with the ligament of the opposite side in front of the ensiform cartilage and the lower end of the sternum. Sometimes this ligament only exists for the seventh cartilage; It is intended not only to strengthen the chondro-sternal articula- tions, but also to maintain the xiphoid appendix in its place. TJie Chondro-costal Articulations. The cartilages are immoveablj united to the ribs; the anterior extremity of the rib is hollowed to receive the external end of the cartilage j there is no ligament. The periosteum is the only bond of union, as in the articulations of the cranial bones. The Articulations of the Costal Cartilages. The first, second, third, fourth and fifth, costal cartilages do not articulate together, unless the aponeurotic laminae, sometimes very strong, which form the continuation of the external intercostal muscles, and occupy the whole length of the cartilages, be considered as uniting media. The sixth seventh, and eighth cartilages, frequently the fifth, and sometimes the ninth, present true articulations. Some cartilaginous processes arise from the neighbouring edges, and come in contact with each other: there are sometimes two articular facettes between the sixth and the seventh cartilages. The means of union are some vertical fibres united in bundles so as to form two ligaments, the one anterior and thicker, the other posterior and thinner. There is a much more distinct synovial membrane than in the chondro-sternal articulations. The seventh, eighth, and tenth cartilages have not always articular facettes, hut are simply united by vertical ligaments. Mechanism of the Thorax. As the thorax performs the double office of protecting the organs which it incloses, and of assisting by its movements in the function of respiration, we must consider its mechanism with reference to both these ends. Mechanism of the Thorax, for the Protection of the contained Organs. 1. The following is the mechanism by which the thorax is enabled to resist pressure or violent blows directed from before backwards. The sternum is supported by the fourteen ribs, which like buttresses oppose their united strength to any causes of displacement or fracture; it is therefore very rare to find the sternum driven backwards, and all the ribs broken, however great the violence may have been. The elasticity of the cartilages and of the ribs, and the number of articulations which exist in the thorax, are all circumstances most favourable to strength, because they diminish the intensity of external blows by neutralising a certain amount of impulse : yet I have met with one case, in which all the sternal ribs were broken by a fall, as completely as if the