VERTEBRAL COLUMN. 33 . ■ P fi . ;,,f,.,-5nr nart of the odontoid process contributes to maintain constriction of the "^f'^""^,^^'°' ^^^^^ ring in which it turns. Two articular U .n the sen,.-osseous, --^^a^n process, one in f|-ont (,) cor- responding with the anterior arch of the atlas, the other behind (at I) for the transverse hgament. The body (c) of the axis presents anteriorly a tri- angular vertical ridge, which separates two lateral depressions for the attachment of muscles The pos- terior surface corresponds with the vertebral canal. The greatest diameter of the inferior surface is the an- tero-posterior: it is obliquely sloped downwards and - w forwards, and sUghtly concave, for the reception ot the body of the third cervical vertebra. This mutual reception of the two bones does nottakeplacebetweenanyofthe succeedmgvertebrse. _ . Uc an The foramen is shaped like the figure of a heart on playing cards : it an- tero-posterior diameter is. eight lines, which is two hnes "^^^^ ^mn m the o^^^^^ cervical vertebra, and its transverse diameter is the same. This great size ot the for^en of the second vertebra corresponds with the extent of the movements between it and the atlas. , „ , n • „ u„ Ucoif There is no superior notch, the inferior notch of the atlas forming by itseit the intervertebral foramen. The inferior notch presents nothing peculiar. The spinous process m), though of great length, is even more remarkable for its breadth and thickness, presenting as it were, in an exaggerated degree, tne characters of the cervical spinous processes: its form is prismatic and triangular; it is grooved inferiorly, and terminates by two tubercles for the attachment ot powerful muscles. The spinous process is for the axis that which the trans- verse process is for the atlas, both giving insertion to powerful muscles which move the head upon the vertebral column. The lamince, which correspond as usual with the size of the spmous process, are remarkably strong. , a a The superior articular processes ((i) are placed, on each side ot the body. Their facettes are broad, flat, and almost horizontal, being slightly inclined out- wards. This direction permits the atlanto-axoidean articulation to be the centre of all the rotatory movements of the head. The inferior articular processes (e) resemble those of the other cervical vertebras. The transverse processes (n) are small, with only one tubercle, triangular, bent downwards, and perforated at the base by a foramen (/) or rather a bent canal, which is hollowed out on each side of the body of the bone; and is vertical in the first part of its course, then horizontal. This canal, and that which we have described upon the atlas, mark the winding course of the vertebral arterj- before it enters the cranium. The specific characteristics then of the second vertebra, are the odontoid pro- cess, the great size of the spinous process and the lamince, the large size and hori- zontal direction of the superior articular processes, which are placed on each side of the body, and the shortness of the transverse processes, which are triangular and have one tubercle. Seventh Cervical Vertebra, or Vertebra Prominens (b, fig- !.)• The body has the ordinary character^ observed in the cervical vertebra;, but in size it resembles that of the dorsal vertebra;, and frequently presents laterally a small impression for articulation with the head of the first rib. The spinous ■process bears the greatest resemblance to those of the dorsal vertebra;: it is pyramidal, terminates in a single tubercle, and is of great length, projecting considerably beyond the level of the other cervical vertebra;; hence its name of vertebra prominens. The articular processes are almost vertical, and are not supported by small columns. The transverse process, although grooved and perforated at the base as in all the other cervical vertebra;, closely ap- proaches to the characters of the dorsal. The posterior border of the groove, vol,. I. D