VERTEBRAL COLUMN. 29 lateral motions are more extended than in the loins, the transverse diameter s stiU greater in the proportion of eleven to ten. It must be observed, however lhat thf diamelers o/the foramen bear reference not only to the mobihty of the part, but also to the size of the spinal marrow. The notches present also certain diiferences m the different regions ; thus in the dorsal and lumbar regions (7, figs. 4 and 5.), the inferior are much deeper than the superior; in the cervical region they are ot almost equal depth Tfiih. It may Lo be remarked, that the depth of the notches and conse- quently the size of the intervertebral foramina are generaUy proportional not only to the size of the spinal ganglions, but also to the capacity of the_venous canals, which estabUsh a communication between the external and internal veins of the spine. It is then possible, when only the vertebral foramen and the notches are seen, to determine the region to which the bone belongs. The Spinous Processes and Lamince in the different Regions. 1. In the cervical region, the spinous processes are prismatic and triangular (3, figs. 2, 3.), grooved inferiorly for the reception of the spinous process ot the vertebra below during the movements of extension, and bifurcated at their summit for the purpose of muscular insertion. Their direction is horizontal and consequently favourable to extension. 2. In the dorsal region (3, fig. 4.) they are prismatic and triangular, with a tubercle at their summit: their direction is extremely oblique, approaching to the vertical. This direction, together with their great length, causes them to descend considerably below the inferior surface of the body of the vertebra. Hence a sort of imbrication, and to such a degree, that a very slight move- ment of extension causes them to touch each other. 3. In the lumbar region, the spinous processes (3,5.) are broad, thick, and quadrilateral, presenting on their sides a large surface for muscular insertion : their posterior border is thick, tuberculated, and triangular. Their direction being horizontal, presents no obstacle to extension. The two laminBB {h b, fig. 2.), which form the posterior arch of the ver- tebra, are continuous with the base of the spinous process. Their length is directly proportionate to the dimensions of the part of the canal to which they correspond, and their thickness is in proportion to the size of the spinous process. 1. In ike cervical region, the laminae are thin, very long, and so inclined, that when the head is erect, i. e. in a position intermediate between flexion and extension, the inferior edge of the superior laminae passes beyond the supe- rior border of the vertebra below, so that there is a true imbrication of these laminae, not less marked than that which we have observed of the spinous processes in the dorsal region. There has been consequently no case recorded of the entrance of any penetrating instrument into the spinal canal, in the situ- ation of the undermost five cervical vertebrae, which fact is the more easily conceivable when we reflect, that the least impression upon the back of the neck excites instinctively an extension of the head, and thus increases the imbri- cation of the laminae. 2. In the dorsal region the thickness of the laminae is greater than in the neck, but still inferior to that in the loins : they are com- paratively much shorter than in the cervical region, and instead of forming an elongated rectangle, they represent a square, nay, their vertical dimension almost exceeds the transverse. 3. In the lumbar region they are characterised by great thickness, by diminution of the transverse, and marked increase of the vertical diameter. In general it may be stated, that the height of the lamina corresponds with the thickness of the body of the vertebra to which it belongs: hence they are so narrow in the cervical region. To sum up then the characters of the spinous processes and the lamintc: _ 1. Cervical region: — Processes prismatic and triangular, grooved inferiorh/, bifurcated with two tubercles at their summit, horizontal, short, and continuous with