THE GEMELLI, SUPERIOR ET INFERIOR. 349 * See note, p. 389. Attachments. It arises from the posterior surface of the obturator ligament, from the pelvic fascia lining the inner surface of this muscle, and from the tendinous arch which converts the sub-pubic groove into a canal; also, from the entire circumference of the obturator foramen, viz. from the internal surface of the descending ramus of the pubes and the ascending ramus of the ischium, and from the whole extent of the quadrilateral surface situated between the obturator foramen and the sciatic notch ; and lastly, by a few fibres from the brim of the pelvis. It is inserted into the digital cavity of the great trochanter. The fleshy fibres arise directly from this extensive surface, and converging downwards and outwards, pass out of the pelvis through a triangular opening formed by the spine of the ischium and lesser sacro-sciatic ligament above, by the great sacro-sciatic ligament on the inside, and by the body of the ischium on the outside. At its exit from the pelvis the muscle becomes much narrower, is reflected at a right angle over the body of the ischium as over a pulley, is next received into a groove formed for it by the gemelli, and proceeds horizontally outwards to be inserted into the digital cavity of the great tro- chanter below the pyriformis. In order to obtain a good view of the structure of this muscle. it must be detached from its insertion and turned inwards. We shall then perceive that the tendon divides into four or five diverging portions upon the deep surface of the muscle, which are lost in its interior. A well marked synovial membrane* intervenes between the tendon and the trochlear surface on the body of the ischium, which is covered with cartilage that is streaked, as it were, in the direction of the movements. Cowper and Douglas alluded to the presence of this bursa when they named the muscle marsupialis vel huraalis. Relations. In the pelvis the obturator internus is in relation with the ob- turator ligament and the circumference of the obturator foramen, by its anterior surface; and with the pelvic fascia and levator ani muscle, which separates it from the bladder, by its posterior surface. During its passage through the ori- fice I have described, it is in relation with the internal pudic vessels and nerves; externally to the pelvis, it is covered by the great sciatic nerve and the glutaeus maximus, and it covers the hip joint. From the great extent of the pelvic origins of this muscle, almost the whole of the anterior and lateral parietes of the pelvis are covered internally by a layer of muscular tissue j the posterior wall is also in a great measure covered by the pyriformis. The origins of the muscular fibres from the tendinous arch of the obturator ligament are so arranged, that the contraction of the muscle can have no effect in diminishing the size of the sub- pubic foramen intended for the passage of vessels and nerves. There are sometimes two small tendinous arches; one foi the nerve, the other for the artery and vein. TTie Gemelli, Superior et Inferior. The gemelli (gemim,Albinus; lespetits jumeaux, Winslow, f and g, Jig. 125.), two small fleshy fasciculi, accessories to the obturator internus, are generally distinguished by anatomists into the superior (/) and the inferior (g) ; they are separated from each other by the tendon of the obturator internus, for the reception of which they form a groove. Above and below this groove they take their origin, the superior from the spine of the ischium, and the inferior, which IS the larger, from the tuberosity of that bone immediately above the attachment of the great sacro-sciatic ligament, and even sUghtly from the liga- ™fi? 'i^l- J, ^^^^ horizontally outwards; are sometimes united eitner behind or in front of the tendon of the obturator interims, which they tnen completely embrace, and with which they are entirely or partially blended being inser ed with it into the digital cavity of the great trochanter. ineir relations are the same as those of the reflected portion of the obturator