SUPERIOR OR THORACIC EXTREMITIES. 97 At birth, there is a sudden enlargement of the chest, because the access^ of air increases the hxngs to a double or threefold extent, %vhich up to this period ^ere much contracted. At puberty, the thorax participates m the great de- velopment which the respiratory apparatus undergoes. It is at this time also that malformations of this cavity most frequently become obvious. In adult age, the thorax stiU grows, but in an almost msensible manner. In the aged, the different pieces of the sternum become united by osseous union; the cartilages are ossified; the thorax has a tendency m some degree to form only one piece, which does not permit the different parts to move upon one another. THE LIMBS. The limbs are those long appendages of the body which are connected with the trunk only by one end, and which are completely isolated from it m the rest of their extent. They are also denominated extremities, because they are the parts which are most distant from the centre of the body. They are four ' in number: two superior, or thoracic, so called because they are directly con- nected with the thorax; and two inferior, or abdominal, because they are con- tinuous with the abdominal cavity. These last are intended to support the weight of the body like two pillars, and to transport it from place to place: the thoracic limbs are intended to seize objects or to repel them. The ex- tremities present in their structure certain general circumstances which are essentially characteristic. We shall particularly notice the following :— 1. As regards their form. The bones of the extremities differ in many re- spects both from those of the trunk and those of the head. They generally have the appearance of cyUndrical and elongated levers, superimposed so as to form a column, the parts of which are movable upon each other. 2. The continuity of the extremities with the trunk is established by means of osseous zones or girdles, viz. the shoulder for the thoracic limbs, the pelvis for the abdominal. 3. The bones of the extremities diminish in size and length from the proxi- mal to the distal, or free end. 4. The number of the bones in the limbs augments, as we proceed, towards their free extremity. 5. As a necessary consequence of the augmented number of bones, and of their progressively diminished size, the articulations become more numerous and smaller towards the distal end of the limb. The thoracic and abdominal extremities being constructed upon the same fundamental type, we should never forget, in describing them, that they have numerous analogies, while, at the same time, we notice the differences in each which are connected with its peculiar office. THE SUPERIOR OR THORACIC EXTREMITIES. The shoulder. — Clavicle. — Scapula.— The shoulder in general.—Development. —Humerus.— Ulna.—Radius.— The hand,— The carpus and carpal bones. — The metacarpus and metacarpal bones. — The fingers. — General develop- ment of the superior extremities. The thoracic extremities are divided into four parts; which, proceeding from the central towards the distal end, are, 1. the shoulder; 2. the arm; 3. the fore-arm; 4. the hand. The Shoulder. The shoulder, situated at the posterior and lateral part of the chest, is com- posed of two bones, which form by their union a sort of angular lever with a horizontal and a vertical arm. The horizontal arm is represented by the cla- vicle; the vertical, by the scapula. VOL. I. IT