THE LARYNX. 567 o o 4 seen only from the inner surface of the larynx. It consists of very strong fibres seenomy iiom I • ijn of the upper border of the cricoid cartilage, in retrealsLgleof the thyroid cartilage, below the msertion of the inferior vocal Tord M Thfs ligament, which is very strong, appears to be continuous above Zi he iierlr^vocal c'ord. It is covered on the inside by the -^^^ns ^e^- brane of the larynx, and it corresponds on the outside (,d fig. 177.) to the thyro- Sa^f crico ar^yte^oid (/) muscles, which separate it from the thyroid carti- ^^^The orico-arytenoid articulations. These articulations are effected by mutual The°art;c«Zar surface, upon the cricoid cartilage is an elliptical facette (A, «o 173 ■) directed obliquelv downwards and forwards, and oblong and sbghtly concave in the same direction. The base of the arytenoid cartilage presents an oblong articular facette, deeply concave from without inwards, i.e. m an op- posite direction to the former, which it accurately receives. Means of union. Properly speaking, there is only one ligament, the internal and posterior ie,fig. 175.). It arises from the cricoid cartilage, and is mserted in a radiated manner into the mner and back part of the Fig. 175. ^ase of the arytenoid cartilage, and to the inner side of its anterior process, behind the inferior vocal cord. This ligament is veiy strong, but yet sufficiently loose to allow of certain extensive movements. There is also a very loose synovial capsule, which can be easily demonstrated. The movements of this articulation, like those of all similar joints, take place in every direction ; but the movements inwards and outwards are much more ex- tensive than those which are performed forwards and backwards. On account of the mode of insertion of its muscles, the arytenoid cartilage is not moved in a direct line, but undergoes a partial rotatory movement, the centre of which is in the articulation. In the move- ment, which is oblique, on account of the obliquity of the articular surfaces, the apex of the arytenoid car- tilage is carried either outwards and backwards or inwards and forwards. These motions should be studied with the greater care, because they afford an explanation of the changes which take place in the glottis during the pro- duction of the voice. The aryteno-epiglottid ligament. This ligament (b, figs. 176, 177.) is con- stituted by some radiated ligamentous fibres contained within the aryteno- epiglottid fold of mucous membrane, and which pass from the anterior surface of the arytenoid cartilage to the corresponding margin of the epiglottis. In some animals, this ligament is replaced by muscular fibres. TTie thyro-arytenoid ligaments, or chorda vocales. Although there is no imme- diate relation between the thyroid and the arytenoid cartilages, they are united by four very important ligaments, named the chorda vocales, which require a special description. The chorda vocales are also called the vocal bands, the ligaments of Ferrein, or the thyro-arytenoid ligaments, because they have a ligamentous appearance, and extend from the retreating angle of the thyroid cartUage to the arytenoid cartilages. There are two vocal cords on each side, a superior (s,figs. 176. 178.) and an inferior (r) ; the space between them is called the ventricle of the larynx (y), and the interval between the cords of the right and left sides is called the glottis (fi,fig. 178.) *. I shall speak of these parts again presently. * [In consequence of the voice being essentially produced opposite the ittferior cords, tlmy are termed the true vocal cords; the superior being called the false vocal cords ]