VERTEBRAL COLUMN. 37 D 3 1. The posterior, spinal or cutaneous surface is rough for the insertion of the anoneurosis of the qluteus maximus. • • The an^eno. surface resembles the same part of the sacrum in miniature, ^1' "^^^^^^l '~:^r, and give attachment to n^ThtSf fsS imited by bone to the sacnim, even in yo-g subjects ; it presents an elliptical articular surface, exactly corresponding with that on he lower end of the sacrum. Behind are two processes directed upwards (cornua of the coccyx, 8 8, fig. 8.), which are sometimes smaU cornua of the sacrum. Externally are Wo notches, which are conveited into foramina by means of ligaments, and afford passage to the fifth pair ot 5 The apex (9) which is sometunes enlarged and sometimes bifurcated, gives attachment to the levator ani muscle. It is not uncommon to find the last pieces of the coccyx deviating from the median line. Of the Veetebeal Column in general. Having already described the situation of the vertebral column, we shall now consider its dimensions as an entire piece of the skeleton. Dimensions of the Vertebral Column. 1. The length or height of the vertebral column does not correspond with the length of the spinal marrow, which does not extend below the first lumbar ver- tebra. It varies at different ages, most commonly it increases up to the twenty- fifth year, but occasionally its growth is completed before this period. In the adult it remains unaltered, but in old age it becomes shortened by the in- curvation of the trunk forwards, and the yielding of the bodies of the vertebrae and the intervertebral substances. This latter cause is also productive of a very appreciable shortening of the trunk, sometimes to the extent of half an inch after long walking or standing. When measured along its curvatures, the length of the column is generally two feet four inches ; in vertical height it is two feet two incbes. These dimen- sions are not exactly proportional to the height of the individual, which depends principally upon the length of the lower extremities. In this respect I have never found any marked difference between tall and short persons. In an adult of medium stature, the cervical portion measures five inches and a half, the dorsal nine inches and a half, the lumbar six inches and a half, and the sacro-coccygeal six inches and a half. It may be easily conceived, that in cases of abnormal curvature the vertical height must present considerable differences, while the actual length of the column may remain almost constant. In the skeleton of a female affected with rickets, a vertical line, stretched from the tubercle of the atlas to the base of the sacrum, measured one foot, six inches, and six lines, while a line which fol- lowed the inflexions of the column measured two feet eighteen lines, giving a difference of seven inches. Hence the possibility of a rapid and considerable increase in length in those patients who are submitted to continued exten- sion. 2. Antero-posterior dimensions. The antero-posterior diameter, at the sacro- vertebral angle and in the lumbar region, is three inches ; in the dorsal region, two inches four lines ; in the middle of the cervical region, one inch six lines. 3. Transverse dimensions. The transverse diameter is eighteen lines in the lumbar region, thirt£en in the middle of the dorsal, and twenty-two in the cervical. It should however be remarked, that the transverse processes are included in this measurement of the cervical region, but not in the others