446 SPJ.ANCHNOL0GY. Fig. 143. soft HnnJl o^- Of the lingual nucleus, near the base of the toneue a The^^l^; T'^'if '"terposed between the muscular fibrel ^ the stvlo Ho« ' T'^- '"^«'=1<=« '^'•e three on each side, vi. tne stylo-glossus, the hyo-glossus, and the genio-hyo-glossus. TVie Stylo-Ghssus. The *<2/Zo-i,W(„,y?i,..ii4.143.146.) is a smaU, slender muscle, cylindrical above, thm, triangular, and bifid below. It arises trom the styloid process by some tendinous fibres surrounding the lower half of that process, and slightly also from the stylo-maxUlary ligament. The fleshy fibres proceeding from these points form a rounded fasciculus, which passes downwards, inwards and forwards. At the margin of the tongue, oppo- site the anterior pillar of the fauces, the muscle becomes flattened, expanded, and triangular, and di- vides into two parts, —one external, which runs along the corresponding margin of the tongue, from the base to the apex; the other internal, which passes between the two portions of the hyo-glossus, assumes a trans- verse direction, and is blended with the transverse fibres of the tongue. Relations. On the outside it is in relation, successively, with the parotid ' the internal pterygoid muscle, the sublingual gland, the lingual branch 01 tbe faith nerve, and the mucous membrane of the tongue. On the inside it has relations with the stylo-hyoid ligament, the tonsil, the superior constrictor 01 the pharynx, and the hyo-glossus muscle. Action. The stylo-glossus draws the corresponding edge of the tongue, and consequently the entire organ, upwards, and to its own side. When the two stylo-glossi act together, the tongue is increased in breadth, and carried upwards and backwards: it therefore assists in retraction of the tongue. The Hyo-glossus. This is a thin quadrilateral muscle (t,figs. 113, 114. 146.) arising from the OS hyoides by two very distinct origins,—one from the body of the bone, near the great cornu; the other from the whole extent of the anterior border of the great cornu; and also from its point. From this double origin the fleshy fibres pass upwards parallel to each other, forming a quadrilateral muscle, which expands a little in order to terminate upon the sides of the tongue, between the stylo-glossus and the lin- gualis. There is an evident continuity between this muscle and the vertical fasciculi of the tongue. The direction of this muscle varies according to the .positions of the tongue. It is vertical when the organ is contained in the buccal cavity, and is directed obliquely upwards and forwards when the tongue is protruded. The hyo-glossus is almost always divided into two portions corresponding to its double origin, which are separated below by a cellular interval, and above by the posterior fasciculus of the stylo-glossus. Albinus described them as two distinct muscles ; the portion arising from the body of the os hyoides, as the basio-glossits; and under the name of the cerato-glossus, the portion arising from the great cornu. He also admitted a third portion, under the name of the chondro-glossus, described as proceeding from the small cornu. HaUer, who considered this latter fasciculus a distinct muscle, states that he has always been able to find it. Relations. On the outside it is in relation with the stylo-glossus, the mylo-hyoideus, the digastricus, the sublingual gland, the hypo-giosgal nerve,