APONEUROLOGY. * Sco note, p. ;i8"J. frontal aponeurosis. The fascia lata is rendered tense by the tensor vagina; lemons, the palmar fascia by the palmaris longus, &c. The aponeuroses of both kinds are inextensible, resisting, and insensible membranes, their thickness and strength being exactly proportioned to the re- sisting power and strength of the muscles which are invested by them, or to which they afford the means of insertion. Thus, the fascia of the thigh is very much stronger than that of the arm: the thickness of the aponeu- roses increases from the upper to the lower part of the limbs; and again the powerful vastus externus is provided with a much stronger sheath than the muscles of the posterior, or of the internal region of the thigh. We may then consider it as a general law without exception, that the aponeurotic system invariably presents a corresponding degree of developement to that of the muscular system. We should therefore study the aponeuroses, as well as the muscles, upon robust subjects; their pearly aspect is destroyed in individuals wasted by chronic diseases. The aponeurotic and muscular systems are both most fully developed in camivora; in which class of animals the pearly ap- pearance is peculiarly well marked, and the cellular tissue is often replaced by a fibrous texture, a transformation which proves the analogy of the cellu- lar and fibrous tissues in organisation, vitality, and function.* The thinner fascies are composed of a single layer of parallel fibres, which have between them intervals of different sizes: stronger aponeuroses are com- posed of several planes, the fibres of which intersect each other at various angles. The vessels and nerves of the aponeuroses are little known ; but I believe that I have traced nerves into them. I have certainly done so with regard to the dura mater.* I shall include among the aponeuroses the fibrous sheaths of tendons*, which are sometimes presented imder the form of imperfect rings, or canals of differ- ent lengths, which retain the tendons in contact with the bones. They serve to confine the tendons, to keep them applied against the bones, and to favour their reflection. The periosteum * must also be annexed to the aponeurotic system; it is a true aponeurosis, covering every part of the bones, and constituting a fibrous sheath for them. We may consider the periosteum as the central point of the aponeurotic system, proceeding from which, we find either tendons expand- ing upon the surface or in the substance of muscles, and constituting the apo- neuroses of insertion ; or else those fibrous cones or pyramids, from the interior of which the fleshy fibres take their origin. From the periosteum, or rather from the ridges or clefts by which the surfaces of bones are marked, both the partial and general investing aponeuroses arise. In this way the muscles of the extremities are situated between two fibrous layers; the deep layer consisting of the periosteum, the superficial layer of the general investing fascia: numerous septa pass from one to the other, and divide the limb into a number of compartments, intended to isolate, confine, and protect the different muscles. Use of the aponeuroses. Forming as they do an important division of the fibrous textures, they partake of the physical, chemical, anatomical, physiolo- gical, and pathological properties of that tissue. 1. From their gi-eat strength they are enabled to resist the powerful traction and distension exercised upon them by the muscular fibres. Their division or destruction is accompanied by displacement of the parts which they are in- tended to bind down. Between the different layers of the regions of the body, they establish very precise limits, a knowledge of which is of the greatest im- portance, in enabling us accm-ately to account for many morbid phenomena, and in guiding us in the performance of surgical operations. 2. They are inextensible; hence the resistance which they oppose to the developement of subjacent parts, and the tension produced by inflammation of