THE SEMI-MEMBRANOSUS. 353 long thin tendon, which turns round the internal tuberosity of the tibia, de- scribing a curve having its concavity directed forwards, and is then reflected horizontaUy forwards to be inserted into the anterior tuberosity of that bone, behind the tendon of the sartorius, and paraUel with the lower edge of that of the gracDis to which it is united. The union of these three tendons constitutes the patte d'oie (goose's foot). . . » The length of its tendon of insertion is the most characteristic feature of the muscle; and hence its names, semi-nervosus {Spigelius), and le demi-nerveux ( Winslow'), for which, the term semi-tendinous has now been substituted. The structure of this muscle is remarliable. The fleshy fibres are interrupted across the middle by a tendinous intersection, analogous to that of the great complexus, which gives origin to new fleshy fibres. Relaticms. It is covered by the glutseus maximus and the femoral fascia, and it covers the semi-membranosus and part of the upper portion of the ad- ductor magnus. Its tendon is first placed behind the semi-membranosus, and then, before it turns round the internal tuberosity of the tibia, between the tendon of that muscle and the inner head of the gastrocnemius. Action. The same as that of the biceps. It is a very powerful flexor, on account of the reflexion of its tendon. Its oblique direction enables it to rotate the tibia inwards during semiflexion of the leg. It is, therefore, a con- gener of the popliteus. TTie Semi-membranosus. The semi-membranosus (n, figs. 124, 125.) is situated upon the posterior aspect of the thigh, thin and aponeurotic above, thick and fleshy below. Attachments. It arises from the upper and outermost part of the tuberosity of the ischium, in front of the biceps and semi-tendinosus; and is inserted into the internal tuberosity of the tibia, and also, by an expansion of its tendon, into the femur. It arises by means of a very thick tendon, which becomes wider immediately after its origin. From its inner border is given off an aponeurotic lamina, that splits into two layers from the interval between which the superior fleshy fibres arise. Lower down, the muscular fibres proceed directly from the tendon itself which runs along the outer (or po- pliteal) border of the muscle, as far as the lower fourth of the thigh, but is afterwards buried in its substance. The union of all these fibres constitutes a very thick four-sided fleshy belly, which is received into a tendinous semi- cone, open on its outer side, and soon becoming converted into a thick tendon, which, after a passage of a few lines, separates into three divisions, terminating in the following manner : —the posterior division passes inwards and upwards, formsL the chief part of the posterior ligament of the knee joint, and is inserted into the femur; the middle division is attached to the back of the internal tu- berosity of the tibia, below the articular surface; the third is horizontal, and turns round the internal tuberosity of that bone in the horizontal furrow existing there, and is inserted on the inner side of liie tuberosity. A synovial bursa intervenes between it and the bone. Relations. The semi-membranosus is covered by the glutseus maximus, the semi-tendinosus, the biceps, and the femoral fascia: it covers the qua- dratus femoris, the adductor magnus, and the inner head of the gastro- cnemius. A synovial membrane separates it from the knee joint. It also covers the popliteal artery and vein, which soon come into relation with its outer or popbteal border. The sciatic nerve lies parallel with its outer border through the whole of its extent; the gracilis is in contact with its inner border. I shall reniark here, that the biceps on the outside, and the semi-membranosus and semi- tendinosus on the mside, constitute the lateral boundaries of a cellular interval which extends along the whole of the back of the thigh, and is continuous with the popliteal space. This large ceUular interval communicates above with the VOL. I. ^ ^