THE ADDUCTOR POLLICIS PEDIS. 377 a bundle that gradually increases in size, becomes separated from the oblique adductor, and terminates in a tendon which is inserted into the external sesa- moid bone and also into the glenoid ligament of the metatarso-phalangal ar- ticulation. Not unfrcquently the greater number of the Aeshy fibres are at- tached to the tendon of the abductor brevis, and thus constitute the short head "^^e^riLnl^The'flexor brevis poUicis is in relation below with the internal plantar fascia, and with the tendon of the abductor brevis pollicis, beingmoulded upon it, and usually separated from it by a tendinous sheath, except in those cases where the two muscles are blended together. Observe that at the point where the fleshy belly of the abductor terminates, the flexor brevis is in rela- tion above with the tendon of the peroneus longus {e,fig. 133.) and the first Action. The si»-je as that of the preceding muscle, but it is much less powerful and le:''^ extensive. Mitscles r.iserted into the External Side of the First Phalanx of the Great Toe. Thef d are the oblique and transverse adductors.* Difsection. They are exposed by cutting across, and turning forwards the flexr f brevis digitorum, the tendons of the flex-or longus digitorum, and the fle-.or accessorius: particular care should be taken, when the dissection has pxtended as far as the heads of the metatarsal bones, to avoid cutting the small transverse adductor. The Adductor Pollicis Pedis. This (I'abducteur oblique, Crtiveilhier, tt',fig. 133.) is the largest of all the plantar muscles ; it is prismatic and triangular, and occupies the great hollow formed by the last four metatarsal bones, and is bounded by the first metatarsal bone on the inner side. It extends from the second row of the tarsus to the external sesamoid bone of the great toe. It arises by two very distinct portions, the smaller {t,figs. 131, 132, 133.), common to it and to the flexor brevis, pro- ceeds from the cuboid bone; the other (t') is much larger and arises from the sheath of the tendon of the peroneus longus (e), from the posterior ex- tremities of the third, fourth, and fifth metatarsal bones, and from the trans- verse ligaments by which they are united. From these different origins the fleshy fibres pass more or less obliquely inwards, and are inserted by a ten- dinous bundle into the external sesamoid bone of the metatarso-phalangal ar- ticulation of the great toe, and into the posterior edge of the glenoid ligament of the same joint. Relations. Its inferior surface is in relation with the long and short flexors of the toes, with the flexor accessorius, the lumbricales, and the plantar fascia; its superior surface, with the interosseous muscles and the external plantar [The terms adductor and abductor are applied by M. Cruveilhier to the muscles of the great I toe, from their respective actions upon it, m reference to the axis of the body ; the muscle [attached to the inner side of that toe being called its adductor, and those to the outer side its ^abductors. In the translation, however, the nomenclature of Albinus has been adopted, in ■ "hich the terms adductor and abductor have reference to the axis of the li?nb ; first, because it i. followed by the majority of authors, and, secondly, because it is in accordance witli the pn'ciple observed by M. Cruveilhier himself, in describing not only all the muscles of the nanu. but some even of those of the foot, viz. the interossei, which are classed by him as ab- ductori, or adductors, according as they draw the several toes from or towards an imaginary axis pass.ng through the second toe. By this change much risk of perplexity will be avoided, and a unif(.-m principle of nomenclature preserved as regards all the muscles of the hand and foot. In the description of each muscle of the great toe, the synonymes of Cruveilhier are given lietwcen braclcets ; but in all instances, both here and hereafter, where these muscles have in- cidentally to be mentioned, the names adopted from Albinus will be strictly adhered to. It is scarcely necessary to observe that the aliductor of the little toe will still retain its name.]