us THE ARTICULATIONS, or ARTI1R0L0(}Y. ■■^General observations.—Articular cartilages.—Ligaments.— Synovial membrane.^. —Classification of the joints.—Diarthroses.—Synarthroses.—Amphiarlhroses, or symphyses. The bones are united together by the joints or articulations. The study of these parts is the object of syndesmology, or more properly of arlhrology (&p9poi', a joint). In examining each joint it is necessary to consider, 1. the con- tiguous surfaces of the bones, or the articular surfaces; 2. the uniting medium, or the ligaments; 3. the means or conditions which facilitate the motion of the parts, the synovial membranes; and 4. the movements of which the joint is capable. * It is impossible to insist too much upon the Importance of a careful study of the articulations. There is no part of anatomy a thorough knowledge of which is more indispensable both to the physiologist and the surgeon; without it the former cannot form a correct idea of the animal mechanism, nor can the latter appreciate the nature of those numerous injuries and diseases of which the articulations are the seat. Before describing the forms and the motions of the different joints, it is necessary to give a general idea of the articular cartilages, the synovial mem- branes, the ligaments, &c.; in short, of all the means which contribute to secure the solidity and mobility of the articulations The Articular Cartilages. It has been observed f,that when two osseous surfaces in immediate contact rub upon each other, they are gradually absorbed in such a manner as to render the movements between them difficult and painful. In order to avoid these injurious effects in the joints, the contiguous surfaces of the bones are covered by a layer of cartilage (the incrusting or articular cartilage), a substance which unites in itself the qualities of solidity, pliability, and elasticity in a high degree, yielding when compressed, and returning to its former state when the pressure is removed. These articular cartilages exist in all the moveable joints. The extent of surface which they cover is generally proportioned to the extent of motion in the joints. Their thickness is generally greatest, when the bones which they cover are most moveable, and most subjected to pressure. An articular cartilage is not of uniform thickness throughout Thus, on convex surfaces the cartilaginous layer is thicker in the centre than at the circumference; and, on the other hand, the cartilages of articular cavities are thickest at the circumference. The most perfect co-aptation results from this arrangement. It should also be remarked, that the most violent shocks are applied to the centre of the heads of the bones, and to the circumference of the Thf articular cartilages present, 1. a free surface, perfectly smooth and nolished which is in the interior of the articulation; 2. an adherent surface, which is so closely attached to the tissue of the bone, that it is impossible to separate it excepting in cases of disease. In some cases of white swelling, 1 have been able to remove the articular cartUages with great facdity, and in these it appeared that the adherent surface of the cartilage was very irregidar, and that the fibres of the bone were implanted in it by mnumerable small pro- ^°°ThcrTis another kind of cartilage existing in certain joints in the form of .Throe of these, vi^.thecon^^^^^^^^^^ reaf>r/f ti<^n; aad^^L ™= the shape of the artleu.ar surfaces, and *"f .rbsorption of the eartilages is a frequent disease of the johits, and oLligos the individuals affected by it to maintain constant rest.