THE TIBIALIS POSTICUS. 371 muscles are the pi;incipal agents in walking and leaping,; they raise the weight of the whole body, even when loaded with lieavy burdens. Hence it is not surprising, that occasionally an energetic contraction of these muscles may rupture the tendo Achillis, or fracture the os calcis. Frequent exercise ap- pears to be necessary for these muscles; for when they remain inactive, they become atrophied, and are speedily affected with fatty degeneration. The action of the soleus, which reaches only from the leg to the heel, is limited to extension of the foot; but the gastrocnemius, which is attached to the femur, after having extended the foot, can flex the leg upon the thigh ; but from its proximity to the fulcrum, this last action is very slight. When the foot is fixed, as for example in standing, the soleus acts upon the leg, and tends to prevent one from falling forwards, to which there is a constant tendency from the weight of the body ; the action of the gastrocnemius, on the contrary, is to flex the thigh, and in this respect it is altogether independent of the soleus. The plantaris can only be regarded as rudimentary in man ; in the lower animals it is a tensor of the plantar fascia; it has been, as it were, cut short in man, in consequence of his destination for the erect position. Sometimes, as we have already stated, it is lost upon the fatty tissue covering the os calcis. This is a The Popliteus. small triangular aiid very thin muscle fig. 130.), situated in the popliteal space. _ It arises from a deep fossa, resembling a groove run- ning from behind forwards, on the back of the external condyle of the femur, below the origin of the outer head of the gastrocnemius. It is inserted into the entire extent of the triangular surface on the upper part of the posterior aspect of the tibia. It arises by a very strong tendon, which bears no proportion to the diminutive size of the muscle. Thiu tendon, at first concealed by the external lateral liga- ment, contained as it were in the cavity of the joint, and completely enveloped by the synovial membrane) passes obliquely behind the articulation, and after ex- tondmg for about one inch, divides, like the tendon of the obturator internus, into four or five small diverging bundles, which soon surround the fleshy fibres on all sides. The latter then become attached in succession to the triangular surface of the tibia, the lowest being the longest and the most obUque. The superficial fibres are inserted into a tendinous expansion from the semi- membranosus, which covers the posterior surface of the po^teus muscle, and forms a very strong sheath for it. Relations. It is covered by the gastrocnemius and the plantaris, from which it is separated by the pop- liteal vessels, and the internal popliteal branch of the sciatic nerve. It covers the tibio-fibular articulations and the back of the tibia. Action. It flexes the leg upon the thigh, and at the same time rotates it inwards (oblique movens tibiani, bpujehus). In this last respect, it antagonises the biceps' -/ Fig. 130. T}ie Tibialis Posticus. Dissection. Remove the gastrocnemius and soleus; separate the tibi-ili.; posticus from the flexor longus digitorum, which partially covers it carS remove from th^ posterior surface of the tibialis posticus a very broad apo^