THE LIVER. 519 L L, 4 granules being in any way affected, or at least that such alteration would not be propagated by continuity of tissue. a- The size of the granules varies much in different individuals, and is quite independent of the size of the liver itself. Physicians who have paid much attention to pathological anatomy, have often mentioned their increased de- v«lopement, by the Same of hepar acinosum. This disease is characterised by the simultaneous occuiTence of atrophy of the entire organ which is reduced to one-half or one-third its original size, and of hypertrophy of the granules themselves. In what is caUed cirrhosis, the greater number of the granules are atrophied.* . . , , j ^ ^i, j The investigation of the structure of the liver is then reduced to the de- termination of the arrangement of the granules with respect to each other, of the mode in which the vessels are arranged, and of the structure of each granide^^ armnjfment of the granules, with regard to each other, is revealed by the following fact: — In the disease of the liver called ramolhsement (Diet, de Med. et Chir. Pratiq., art. Maladies du Foie), in which that organ is reduced to a sort of pulp, as soon as the investing membranes are torn, the tissue of the liver escapes like a brownish yellow pulp, which, as it is not fetid, cannot be supposed to be the result of gangrene. If this pulp be placed in water, myriads of small and very distinct yellow granules will be seen, resembling small raisin stones, and appended to the ramifications of the different kinds of vessels by vascular pedicles. This fact, which I have several times observed, is confirmed by the ob- servations of Harvey, who in his work upon the generation of animals says, that the tissue of the liver is formed along the umbilical vessels like a grape on its footstalk, a bud on the end of a twig, or an ear of corn springing from its stalk; and also by reference to comparative anatomy, for M.Blainville has informed me, that, in certain species of animals, the liver is formed by rows of glandular granules attached along the vessels, f 2. The vessels of the liver. The study of the vessels of the liver is one of the most important points in the history of that organ. Besides the arteries and veins corresponding to those of other parts of the body, the liver receives also a special system of veins, viz. the system of the vena porta, which is dis- tributed in its interior like an artery. It presents also, in the adult, the re- mains of a venous system peculiar to the foetus, the system of the umbilical vein; and lastly, it contains canals intended for the conveyance of the bile, named the biliary ducts. The special venous system of the liver, or the system of the vena portce, will be described more particularly in another place. I shall only now observe, that the branches of origin of this system commence in aU the abdominal organs concerned in the function of digestion ; that the ventral vena portse, resulting from the union of these branches, reaches the transverse fissure of the liver, and divides there into a right and left branch, which constitute the * The ingenious explanation which has been given of cirrhosis is then destitute of foundation. In cirrhosis, as I have shown in another place, there is neither atrophy of the red substance, nor hypertrophy of the yellow, but rather atrophy of the greater number of granules, with hyper- Irophy and yellow discolouration of the remainder. t Arrangement of the lobules. [According to M. Kiernan, from whose paper in the Phil. Trans, for 1833 this and tlie succeeding notes on the structure of the liver are derived, the lobules (granules, Cruveilhier) of the human liver are many-sided bodies, flattened on one surface, called the base, and forming processes in every other direction ; hence in a longi- tudinal section they present a foliated, and in a transverse section a polyhedral form. The bases of all the lobules (cc,fe 166.) rest on certain branches of the hepatic vein, called SKA-lobular veins (A A), whilst their other surfaces, surrounded by the capsular investments are either in contact with those of the adjacent lobules, or appear on the outer surface of the liver, or in the portal canals (gg.Jig. 165.), which contain the venaportiE, hepatic artery and hepatic duct, or in those for the larger trunks (/i, fig. 160.) of the hepatic vein. The intervals between the sides of the lobules are the interlobular j?iSM>Ts, and the points at which two or more of these meet are the Interlobular spaces. The superficial lobules are imperfect or more or less flattened on their exposed side.] '