SPLANCHNOLOGY. 464 situated opposite and behind the ascending portion of the arch of the aorta, and the base and posterior surface of the heart, from which parts it is separated by the pericardium. Behind, it is in relation with the longus colli and the vertebral column, to which, however, it is not so closely applied as in the neck; nor does it follow the curvature of the spine in the dorsal region, but is sepa- rated from it by a space filled with cellular tissue, lymphatic glands, the vena azygos, and the thoracic duct, the latter being placed to its right side at tfie lower part of the thorax, but passing behind it above, so as to reach the left side. Below, at the point where the oesophagus deviates to the left side in order to gain the opening of the diaphragm, it lies in front of the aorta. On each side it forms a projection along the wall of the mediastinum, which is thus brought into relation with the corresponding lung; it is much more pro- minent on the right than on the left side. On the left side it is also in contact, in its entire extent, with the thoracic aorta {h,fig. 161,), which is situated a little behind it. Above, it has immediate relations with the arch of the aorta, as that vessel is passing backwards and to the left side of the vertebral column. It is commonly, at this point, that aneurisms of the aorta open into the (Eso- phagus. In all this region the oesophagus is enveloped by a serous cellular tissue, extremely loose and very abundant; it is surrounded by a great number of IjTnphatic glands, which have been improperly named oesophageal. These glands when enlarged sometimes compress the gullet so much as completely to arrest deglutition. Lastly, the two pneumogastric nerves run along each side of the oesophagus ; inferiorly the left comes in front and the right retires behind the canal: they communicate with each other throughout their course by loops or arches, which perhaps explains the pain caused by swallowing two large a mass of food. In its abdominal portion (if such can be said to exist) the oesophagus is in relation with the oesophageal opening of the diaphragm, below which it is entirely covered by the peritoneum. On the right side and in front it is em- braced by the left extremity of the liver; behind, by the lobulus Spigelii. In some subjects the abdominal portion of the oesophagus is an inch in length, but this I think is occasioned by descent of the stomach. The internal surfaceis remarkable for its pale colour, which contrasts strongly with the rosy hue of the stomach and the upper part of the pharynx, for the wrinkling of its parietes and their contact with each other, and la.stly for its longitudinal folds, which seem to have reference to the necessity for its mo- mentary distension during the mere passage of the food through it. Structure. The oesophagus is essentially composed of two cylindrical mem- branes, one internal or mucous, the other external or muscular. The muscular coat is remarkable for its thickness, which greatly exceeds that of any other part of the alimentary canal, and is connected with the ne- cessity for the rapid passage of the alimentary mass from the pharynx into the stomach. It is susceptible of hypertrophy, as we find in cases of strictm-e of the lower part of the gullet. I have seen it five or six lines thick. In all herbivorous animals in which the oesophagus is almost incessantly in action, in those in which the food is carried upwards in opposition to gravity during the act of deglutition, in the horse and in ruminants, the muscular coat is still more developed than in man. The muscular coat is of a red colour immediately below the pharynx, and rosy through the rest of its extent, but of a darker tint than in the succeedmg portion of the alimentary canal. It is of a vivid red in herbivora.* This coat is composed of two very distinct layers, the external consisting of longitudinal fibres regularly disposed upon all sides of the oesophagus ; the inter- nal of circular fibres, in which we shall in vain seek for the spiral arrangement . [It consists of involuntary muscular fibres (note, p. 42G.), intermixed with fibres possessing transverse strite.]