SPLANCHNOLOGY. 436 External conformation. The velum palati, or soft palate (c, fig. 140.), is a muscular and membranous valve, which prolongs the palatine arch backwards, and therefore might be called the membranous palatine arch. It is a sort of incomplete septum (septum staphylin, Chauss.), dividing the buccal cavity from the nasal fossse and the pharynx. Its direction is curved : its upper portion is horizontal, but it soon becomes curved and passes almost directly downwards (velum pendulum palati). In the act of deglutition, the velum becomes horizontal during the passage of the alimentary mass, but immediately afterwards returns to its oblique and pen- dulous position, and thus tends to prevent the return of the food into the mouth. In several pathological conditions the velum is thrown backwards and upwards, and adheres to the posterior orifices of the nasal fossse. AU these changes of direction affect the oblique and not the horizontal portion of the velum. The velum palati is broad, quadrilateral, and perfectly symmetrical Its inferior or buccal surface is concave, and continuous with the hard palate without any line of demarcation. This surface is very well seen when the mouth is opened, and is therefore easily accessible to the surgeon. In the median line it presents a white raphe, which is a continuation of the median raphe of the hard palate; it is formed by a small fibrous cord, causing a projection under the mucous membrane. The superior or nasal surface of the velum (^fig. 141.) is convex : it prolongs the floor of the nasal fossa;, and, from its obliquity, directs the mucus into the pharynx. This surface presents a median projection produced above by the palato-staphylin muscles (azygos uvulae (o) ), and below by a mass of glands. Congenital division of the velum is always situated in the median line, and is followed by so great a retraction of its two halves, that, in some cases, the entire absence of the velum has been suspected. Its upper border is thick, and firmly united to the posterior border of the hard palate. Its lower border is free, extremely thin and concave, and forms the upper boundary of the isthmus (t,fig. 141.) of the fauces : it presents, in the middle line, a sort of appendix or prolongation, call the uvula (u,fig. 140.) : this is of a conical shape, and of very variable size and length; it is capable of consider- able elongation, and may then reach the base of the tongue, but not, as has been supposed, the upper orifice of the larynx.* It is not very uncommon to find it ViM, and sometimes it is entirely wanting. The two lateral borders of the velum limit it on each side, and separate it from the cheek. This boundary is indicated (on each side) by a prominent ridge (before ffig. 140.), extending from the posterior extremity of the upper to the corresponding part of the lower alveolar border. This prominence corresponds to the anterior margin of the internal pterygoid muscle, and is formed in a great measure by a series of smaU glandular structures, which are collected behind the last great molar tooth of the lower jaw into a considerable mass resembling a small gland. , , , n The pillars of the velum palati. These are two lateral columns or pillars, having an arched form, and distinguished into anterior (behind /, fig. 140.) and vosterlor (o), which pass down on either side from the uvula. Each of the anterior pillars (the two forming together the anterior arch of the fauces) pro- ceeds from the base of the uvula outwards, and then vertically downwards, de- scribino- a curve with its concavity directed inwards, and terminates at the sides of the tongue, opposite the anterior extremities of the V-shaped series of pa- pilte vallaL fouiid upon that organ. Each of the posterior pdlars t°ge- [her form the posterior arch of the fauces) commences at t^e apex of the uvula, and immediately curves into an arch, having a smaUer diameter than that * ,n consultation upon a case of chronic larvngUis 1 w^^^^ eeHororf«c'e\??L'V^^^^^^ Z^yfa fe^^ Une, in adv^ance of the epiglottis.