THE LIPS. 429 In man, the direction or axis of the mouth is horizontal- an arrangement ^vhich is connected with his destination for the biped position If man as- sumed the attitude of a quadruped, the axis of his mouth would be vertical; M hereas, in the lower animals, it is directed obliquely to the horizon. Form. The mouth (fig. 140.) represents a perfectly symmetrical oval cavity, the great extremity of which is in front. It has an upper wall, viz the arch of the palate (a) ; a loiaerwall, consisting principally of the tongue (6) ; a pos- terior tvull, formed by the velum palati (c) ; an anterior «;a//, composed of the lips (d) on one plane, and of the alveolar arches and the teeth (e) on another ; and two lateral walls, formed by the same arches, by the teeth, and by tbe cheeks. It has two openings—one anterior (m), constituting the orihceot the mouth; the other posterior (2, Jigs. 140, 141.), establishing a communication between the buccal cavity and the pharynx, and on account of its narrowness called the isthmus of the fauces. We shall now describe these parts in succession, excepting the maxillary bones and the teeth, which have been already treated of. The salivary glands which pour their secretions into the buccal cavity will be described as appen- dages to it. The Lips. The lips, forming the anterior wall of the mouth, are two moveable, exten- sible, and contractile curtains, which ciixumscribe its orifice. They are dis- tinguished into upper and lower. Their direction is vertical like that of the alveolar and dental arches upon which they are applied. This direction is peculiar to the human species, and is more marked in the Caucasian race; lips projecting forwards, like those of the lower animals, and not placed upon the same vertical plane, give a mean expression to the physiognomy. The depth of the lips is measured by that of the alveolar and dental arches. The upper is deeper than the lower lip. The two lips offer for our consideration an anterior or cutaneous surface, a posterior or mucous surface, an attached and a free border, and two commis- sures. The anterior surface. In the upper lip this surface presents along the median line a vertical furrow, the sub-nasal groove, commencing at the septum of the nose, and terminating below in a tubercle, which is more or less prominent in different individuals. This furrow is the vestige of a division in the lip, natural to many mammalia. The malformation, termed single hare-lip, always occupies one of the edges of this groove ; in double hare-lip both of them are affected. On each side, the upper lip is convex, and covered with a slight down in the female, and before puberty in the male, but after that period with long and stiff hairs directed obliquely outwards. The aspect of the anterior surface of the lower lip is inclined a little downwards ; the middle portion only of this lip, which presents no median depression, is covered with hairs. The posterior surface. Each lip is free behind excepting in the median line, where we find a small fold of mucous membrane called the frcenum labii.- it is more marked in the upper than in the lower lip. This surface is always moist, and is in contact with the alveolar and dental arches. The complete independence of the lips, as regards the maxillary bones, explains the extreme mobility of these membranous organs.* Adherent borders of the lips. The lips are bounded at their posterior surface by the reflection of the mucous membrane upon the jaw, so that there is a deep and vciy remarkable furrow between the lips and the maxillary bones, which may be regarded as an anterior buccal cavity, or the vestibule of the mouth. The upper lip is bounded in front by the base of the nose ; on each side it is separated from the cheeks by the projection of the inner margin of the levator * Mtunmalia alone have lips that are moveable, independently ol' the jaws: but this inde~ peiulcncc is still more marked in man.