487 THE INTESTINES. I I 4 human subject they are all lamellar or foliaceous, but with many varieties. In the duodenum they are curved upon themselves, presenting the appearance of a calyx or corolla, and sometimes adhering to each other by their extremities. In the small intestine, properly so called (Jigs. 157.159.), they are rectihnear, floating, cylindrical, conical, clubbed at the end, constricted, and sometimes bent in the middle. In the neighbourhood of ulcerations, they are, as it were, cut off close or truncated, without presenting any alteration in their structure. Structure. Brunner calls them membranous tubes ; Leeuwenhoek regarded them as muscular organs; Helvetius and Hewson considered them to be small valves, an idea which has been revived and carried out more lately by Albert Meckel. This anatomist, who has given representations of the villi in a great number of animals {Journ. Complement, t. vii. p. 209.), regards them as formed of small lamellse, sometimes twisted upon their axes, like the first leaf of a germinating grain of wheat, and sometimes folded into a semi-canal or groove; but he considers that all these varieties may be referred to that of a lamella, broad at the base and narrow at the apex, a fundamental form which may always be demonstrated with the aid of a needle.* Lieberkuhn states, that at the base of each villus there is an ampulla, which opens upon the summit of the villus by a single orifice; and he considers that both the ampulla and the orifice belong to the commencement of the lacteal vessels ; arteries and veins ramify round the ampulla; and each villus has an afferent artery and an efferent vein. According to Mascagni, the villi are composed of an interlacement of bloodvessels and small lymphatics, and are covered by an extremely thin membrane, composed of lymphatics. The fol- lowing are the results of my own observations. Having had occasion to ex- amine a subject in which the lymphatic vessels were filled with tubercular matter, I was able to trace a lymphatic trunk into each villus (vide. Anat. Path. avec planches, liv. 2.), which traversed its entire length. This perfectly agrees with Lieberkuhn's account. In another subject I injected mercury into one of the mesenteric veins, and then above the mercury I forced in a coarse black injection. The mercury and a part of the black injection passed into the cavity of the intestine, and a globule of mercury appeared upon the summits of the villi, which were blackened from the injection. From this I have concluded that the vLUi are perforated at their summits. I shall return to this subject again, f The duodenal glands and follicles. Preparation. Some intestines are not well adapted for the study of the follicles, which, indeed, seem to be entirely * [Many of the villi are certainly cylindrical, and therefore not referrible to the fundamental form described by Albert IVIeckel. In the foetus and young subject they are comparatively broader and flatter, and are connected at their bases so as to form folds having irregular mar- gins. In this stage of their developeraent they resemble the rugae in the intestines of birds and reptiles.] t [The villi contain all tlie elements of the intestinal mucous membrane : no nerves, how- ever, have been actually demonstrated in them. The bloodvessels are numerous, and form a very beautiful capillary network in each villus {3,Jig. 156.). Great differences of opin ion have existed and still exist as to the mode of origin of the lacteals in the intes- tinal villi: the best authorities, how- ever, agree in stating that they do not commence by open orifices. Rudol- phi and A.Meckel considered that they arose by a closed network; Dr. Henlefounda single dilated but closed lacteal in each villosity; and more recently, Krause observed that * - in each villus the lacteal arose by , . . . u 1 , several branches, some of which cnclea m iree but closed extremities, whilst others anastomosed together (2,fis. 156 ) The villi, and. It may be observed here, every portion of the intestinal mucous membrane are covered by a transparent columnar epithelium, consisting of elongated prismatic nucleated cor. The diigram ( arrangement of these upon the surface of a villus, is shown in 156.