THE PERITONEUM. 635 which it is again reflected and becomes continuous with the right layer (w ) of the meseSery. The horizontal portion, which extends from the arch ot the colon to the vertebral column, forms the inferior layer (g) of the transverse '"It foUows then, that the portion of the peritoneum which is continuous with that upon the anterior surface of the stomach, forms below that organ a kind of bag, which has a direct or descending layer, and a reflected or ascending layer in the interval between which ai-e placed the stomach (s), the pancreas (p) the duodenum {d), and the arch of the colon (e). We shall afterwards fijad that each of these layers is lined internally by another layer of peritoneum, so that the great omentum consists of four layers of serous membrane. The right or hepatic portion. On the right side the peritoneum is reflected from the diaphragm upon the convex surface of the liver (/), and forms the coronary ligament of the liver (at g), being continuous with the suspensory ligament, the direction of which is at right angles to its own. From the convex sui-face of the liver, the peritoneum is reflected over its anterior margin, and then upon its concave surface, investing the gall bladder, sometimes almost entirely, but generally on its lower surface only. At the transverse fissui-e it is reflected downwards in front of the vessels of the liver, and to the left of those vessels reaches the lesser curvature of the stomach, and is continued upon the anterior surface of that organ. That portion of peri- toneum which extends from the transverse fissure to the lesser curvature of the stomach, constitutes the anterior layer (Ji) of the gastro-hepatic or lesser omen- tum. To the right of the vessels of the liver and to the right of the gall bladder, the peritoneum covers the lower surface of this viscus, and becomes directly continuous with the portion which covers the right lumbar colon. As the peritoneum is reflected from the diaphragm upon the right and left extremities of the liver, it forms two folds, one on each side, called the trian- gular ligaments of the liver. The foramen of Winslow and sac of the omentum. Behind the vessels of the liver, and under the anterior root of the lobulus Spigelii, is an opening which leads into a cavity situated behind the stomach and the gastro-hepatic omen- tum. This opening is the orifice of the omental sac, or the foi-amen of Winslow (in which a probe is placed in the figure) ; the cavity is called posterior cavity of the peritoneum, or the sac of the omentum (i.). The foramen of Winslow is semicircular, sometimes triangular in shape, and about one inch in its longest diameter. It is bounded in fi-ont by the vessels of the liver, behind by the vena cava inferior, below by the duodenum, and above by the neck of the gall bladder, or rather by the lobulus caudatus, or anterior root of the lobulus Spigelii, these several parts being covered with peritoneum. Through this opening the peritoneum enters the sort of pouch formed between the two layers of the great omentum. In tracing the course of the reflected portion of the peritoneum, we shall commence at this opening, and shall return without interruption to the same point. The peritoneum is first applied to the posterior surface of the anterior layer of the gastro-hepatic omentum already described, and forms the posterior layer (t) of that omentum; it then covers the posterior surface of the stomach ; below that organ it is applied (a;) to the descending or anterior layer of the great omentum, behind and parallel to which it passes down ; having arrived at the point where the anterior layer of the great omentum is reflected, the layer we are now describing is itself reflected {x) in the same manner, and becomes applied to the anterior surface of the posterior layer of that omentum ; con- tinuing to ascend, it gains the convex border of the transverse colon, covers the upper surface of that intestine, and further back is applied to that layer of the great omentum which is continued over the lower surface of the colon; it thus forms the upper {y) of the two layers, of which the transverse mesocolon IS composed. Having reached the front of the vertebral column it leaves the inferior layer of the transverse mesocolon, covers the anterior surface of the