ARTICULATIONS OF THE CRANIUM. 167 M 4 that from pressure, or violent blows on the top of the head, the skull may un- dergo a flattening, and then recover its original condition, like a hollow ball of ivory when struck vertically.^ The truth of this explanation may be shown at once by projecting a skull against a resisting surface, when it will be found to rebound like an elastic ball. However slight this flattening may be, and the recovery which follows it, the known laws of physics will not allow us to deny its possibility. 2. Tendency to disjunction of the bones of the cranium. This separation has never been observed as the consequence of external blows. The following is the manner in which displacement is prevented in cases of blows on the top of the head. It is evident that violence applied in this direction would have a tendency to depress the upper edge of the parietal bones; but this cannot take place without forcing the lower edge outwards: and as from the peculiar for- mation of the squamous suture the parietal bones are overlapped by the tem- poral and the sphenoid, this edge cannot be driven outwards without giving the temporal bones such a motion as will tighten the articulations of the base of the cranium. AU these articulations are remarkable in this respect, that the projecting angles of some of the bones are received into the retiring angles of others. This is exemplified in the articulation of the petrous portion of the temporal bone with the sphenoid and the occipital bone, and in the basilar process of the occipital bone with the two temporals and the sphenoid. The result of all these arrangements is, that blows upon the top of the head, instead of separating the bones of the cranium, tend to render their union still closer. 3. Another eifect of blows on the top of the head may be fracture of the cranial bones ; and it will be impossible to comprehend the nature of many of these fractures, without a knowledge of the following points of structure: 1. The cranium is of unequal thickness in different parts. This circumstance explains how a round body, striking the cranium in a spot of sufficient strength to resist the impulse, may cause a fracture of a more or less distant part, where the parietes are thinner and consequently weaker. It may be conceived, that this kind of fracture may take place either in the bone struck, or in other bones, and that it may affect the internal table only, the external remaining uninjured. 2. The cranium is so constructed, that a shock impressed upon the top is con- centrated at the base, being propagated on the sides to the temporal bones and their petrous portions, as well as to the great wings of the sphenoid and the body of that bone ; behind, by the occipital bone to the basilar process and the body of the sphenoid ; and in front, by the frontal bone and the roof of the orbits, to the smaller wings and body of the sphenoid. It will thus be seen how blows upon various parts of the skull may concentrate their effects upon the base of the cranium ; and this explains the production of fractures at the base, m consequence of violence inflicted on the roof of the skull. 3. Most of the cranial bones are bent and angular. This disposition which is ob- served at the union of the orbital and frontal portions of the frontal bone, and at the junction of the squamous and petrous portions of the temporal bone, explains how these bones may be broken by the transmission of shocks from thereof. For we may conceive, when violence is applied to a bone which is bent at an angle, that this angle will be the seat of a decomposition of the torce, one portion of which is transmitted to the part of the bone below the angle, whilst the remaining portion acts against the angle itself in the original A^^l°°' ^"^^ determine a fracture of that part of the bone. Although the roof of the cranium is most exposed to injury, yet some parts ot the base may be reached by penetrating weapons, as the roof of the orbits ana the cribriform plate of the ethmoid. It should be remarked, also, that these are the thinnest parts of the skull.