MYOLOGY. 314 MUSCLES OF THE SHOULDER. Tlie deltoideus Supra-spinalus. — Infraspinatus and teres minor. Subscapularis. The muscles of the shoulder are the deltoid, the supra-spinatus, the infra- spinatus and teres minor (which I regard as only one muscle), and the sub- scapularis. The teres major, generally arranged among the muscles of this region, has already been described with the latissimus dorsi, of which it may be regarded as an accessory. The Deltoideus. Dissection. Make a horizontal incision through the skin, round the summit of the shoulder, extending from the external third of the clavicle to the most distant point of the spine of the scapula: from the middle of this incision let another be made, descending vertically half way down the humerus; dissect back the two flaps, taking care to raise at the same time a very thin aponeurosis, which is closely applied to the fibres. The deltoid {I, Jigs. 106. 109.), so named from its resemblance to the Greek delta A reversed, is a thick, radiated, triangular muscle, bent in such a way as to embrace the scapulo-humeral articulation before, on the outer side and behind. It is the muscle of the top of the shoulder. Attachments. It arises from the entire length of the posterior border of the spine of the scapula, from the external border of the acromion, and from the external third, i. e. from the concave part of the anterior border of the clavicle : it is inserted into the deltoid impression on the humerus. The scapulo-clavicular origin of the deltoid corresponds exactly to the inferior attachment or the in- sertion of the trapezius, so that these two muscles, although separate and dis- tinct in man, appear to form a single muscle divided by an intersection ; a view that is perfectly confirmed by a reference to comparative anatomy. The origin consists of tendinous fibres ; of these the posterior are the longest, and are blended with the infra-spinous aponeurosis, which also gives origin to some of the fibres of the deltoid. Three or four principal tendinous laminae, attached at regular intervals fo the clavicle and the acromion, penetrate into the substance of the muscle, and give origin to a great number of fleshy fibres. The largest of these laminae extends from the summit of the acromion, and its situation is sometimes indicated by a prominence of the skin, particularly during contraction of the muscle. From this very extensive origin the fleshy fibres proceed downwards, the middle vertically, the anterior backwards, and the posterior forwards: they form a thick broad mass, moulded over the top of the shoulder, and gradually converging, are at length inserted into the deltoid impression of the humerus by three very distinct tendons, the two principal of which, the anterior and posterior, are attached to the bifurcations of that V-shaped impression. Not unfrequently some fibres of the pectoralis major are connected with the front of this tendon. Relations. It is covered by the skin, the platysma intervening between them, by some supra-acromial nerves, and by a thin fascia extending from the infra-spinous aponeurosis, the spine of the scapula and the clavicle, and becoming continuous with the fascia of the arm. It covers the shoulder joint, from which it is separated by a tendinous layer continued from the infra-spinous aponeurosis and coraco-acromial ligaments, and which termi- nates on the sheaths of the coraco-brachialis and biceps muscles. Between this lamina and the greater tuberosity of the humerus, there is a quantity of filamentous cellular tissue, and frequently a synovial bursa. The deltoid therefore is inclosed in a proper fibrous sheath, and glides over the articulation. It also covers the upper third of the humerus, the coracoid process, the tendons of the pectorales, coraco-brachialis, biceps, supra-spinatus, infra-spinatus and teres minor, teres major, and biceps muscles, also the circumflex vessels and nerves The anterior border of the deltoid, directed obliquely downwards and outwards, is separated from the external margin of the pectoralis major by a