MYOLOGY. 315 scapular vessels and nerves *, and the upper part of the shoulder joint. Its tendon is often blended with that of the infra-spinatus, and is separated from that of the sub-scapularis by the long head of the biceps, and the accessory ligament of the capsule. Action. It raises the humerus, and therefore assists the deltoid. Notwith- standing the number of its fibres, and its perpendicular insertion into its lever, it has very little power, on account of the proximity of that insertion to the fulcrum. Its principal action appears to me to have reference to the joint, affording a support to it above, and forming a sort of active arch, the resisting power of which is in proportion to the force tending to thrust the humerus upwards against the osteo-fibrous arch, composed of the acromion and coracoid processes and their connecting ligament. There is no muscle then to which the name of articular can be more correctly applied. The use of the deep fibres in preventing the folding of the fibrous and synovial capsules, and their compression between the two articular surfaces, though much insisted on by Winslow, appears to me very problematical. The Infra-spinatus and Teres Minor. Dissection. Detach the scapular origin of the deltoid, and saw through the base of the acromion. The infraspinatus (s) and teres minor (t,fig. 106.) constitute a single, thick, triangular muscle, broad on the inside and narrow externally, and occupying the infra-spinous fossa, in which it is retained by an aponeurosis, ex'kctly resembling that of the supra-spinatus muscle. It arises from the internal two thirds of the infra-spinous fossa, from a very strong fascia interposed between it and the teres major and long head of the triceps, and by a few fibres from the infra-spinous aponeurosis: it is inserted into the middle and inferior facettes on the greater tuberosity of the humerus, below the insertion of the supra-spinatus. It arises from the infra-spinous fossa, directly by fleshy fibres, and also by means of tendinous fibres attached along the ridges of that fossa. One of these laminae is constantly found attached to the ridge situated on the outer side of the infra-spinous groove: this has doubtless given rise to the division of the muscle into two parts, called the infra-spinatus and the teres minor. From these origins the fleshy fibres pro- ceed, the superior horizontally, the next obliquely, and the inferior almost vertically outwards: they form a thick, triangular, fleshy body, and become attached to the anterior surface and margins of a flat tendon, which glides upon the concave humeral border of the spine of the scapula, to be inserted into the humerus. Not unfrequently we find the lower fibres of the portion called the teres minor, arising from the posterior surface of the tendon of the triceps, becoming applied to the under part of the capsular ligament, and in- serted into the humerus immediately below the greater tuberosity. Relations. These two united muscles are covered by the deltoid, the tra- pezius, the latissimus dorsi, and the skin; and they cover the infra-spinous fossa from which they are separated by the supra-scapular nerves and vessels; they'also cover the capsular Ugament of the joint, and a small portion of the long head of the triceps. Their lower or external border corresponds inter- nally or inferiorly with the teres major, an aponeurotic septum intervening between them, and externaUy or superiorly with the long head of the triceps. Action This muscle rotates the humerus outwards and a httle backwards. When the arm is raised, it assists in keeping it in this position, and carries it backwards But an important use of this muscle is that of retaining the head of the humerus in its place, preventing its displacement backwards, and pro- tecting the posterior part of the articulation. • The suiira-scapular nerve generally passes through the coracoid notch by itself, and the Bupra-scapular artery above the ligament.