OSTEOLOGY. 136 bones of the tarsus, excepting the os calcis and the astragalus, still remain car- tilaginous. The cuneiform bones are developed in the following order: — The first is os- sified towards the end of the first year: the second and the third appear almost simultaneously about the fourth year: the os calcis being the only bone of the tarsus which has more than one point of ossification, is also the only bone in which we have to examine the order of union. The two points which form it are not united until the fifteenth year. The Metatarsus (m m',figs. 54< 55, and 56.). The metatarsus forms the second portion of the foot. Like the metacarpus, its analogous part in the hand, it consists of five long bones, parallel to each other, forming a sort of quadrilateral grating, the intervals of which, called in- terosseous spaces, are increased by the disproportion between the ends and the shafts of the bones. The metatarsus presents, 1- an inferior or plantar surface {fig. 55.), with a marked transverse concavity ; 2. a superior or dorsal surface, (fig. 54.), which is convex, and answers to the back of the foot; 3. an internal or tibial edge (m', fig. 56.) which is very thick, and corresponds to the great toe ; 4. an external or fibular edge, which is thin, and corresponds to the httle toe ; 5. a posterior or tarsal extremity, which presents a waved articular line; 6. an anterior or digital extremity, presenting five heads flattened on the sides, which assist in forming five separate articulations. The bones of the metatarsus have certain characters which distinguish them from all others, besides some peculiar marks by which they may be known from each other, and from the metacarpal bones, with which they have many analogies. General Characters of the Metatarsal Bones. The metatarsal bones belong to the class of long bones, both in shape and structure. Each consists of a body and two extremities. The body is prismatic and triangular, and slightly curved, with the concavity below. Two of its sm-faces are lateral, and correspond to the interosseous spaces ; the third, so narrow that it resembles an edge, is on the dorsum of the foot. Two of the edges are lateral; the third is below on the plantar aspect of the foot. The posterior or tarsal extremity is much expanded, and presents five surfaces, two of which are non-articular, and three articular. Of the two non-articular surface sone is superior, and the other inferior; both give attachment to liga- ments. Of the three articular surfaces, one is posterior, that is, on the extremity of the bone ; in general it is triangular, and articulates with a corresponding surface on one of the tarsal bones. The other two are lateral, partly articular, and partly non-articular. The articular surfaces are small, and often consist of more than one ; they join the contiguous metatarsal bones. The tarsal ex- tremity is wedge-shaped; the upper or dorsal surface being very broad, repre- sents the base of the wedge ; the lower surface being narrow, forms the point. The anterior or digital extremity presents a head or condyle flattened on the sides and oblong from above downwards ; the articular surface extends much further on the lower aspect, or in the direction of flexion, than on the upper, or the direction of extension. On the inside and outside of the condyle there is a depression, and a projection behind it for the lateral ligament of the joint. Characters of the different Metatarsal Bones. The first or metatarsal bone of the great toe (,m',figs. 54, 55, 56.) is re- markable for its great size. It is the only one which, in this respect, resembles the tarsus ; its body is shaped like a triangular prism; its digital extremity is marked on'the plantar aspect by a double furrow for two sesamoid bones is,fig. 56 ) (Vide Articidation of the Foot.) Its tarsal extremity presents a semilunar concave surface, with its greatest diameter vertical, which articulates with the