CLASSIFICATION. 151 L 4 and extension; 3. the movement of circumduction, when the bone which is in motion describes a cone, the apex of which is at the joint, and the base is traced by the opposite end of the bone 4. the movement of roiatwn, m which a bone rolls on its axis, without changing its place. ^ „^ Proceeding on this c assification of the movements, Bichat arranged the ar- ticulations in two great classes, the moveable and the immoveable. The latter he Sed acclrdfng to the nature of the articular surfaces, the former ac- corSg to the number of motions, in the following order :-l.< class : those JoTnts which are capable of every kind of motion, vi^. ghdmg, opposition ro- iation, and circmnduction ; 2d class, those joints which are ^^P^^ -ISip of motions, excepting rotation ; 3d class, those joints which are only capable of rposU on, or alTernate motions in the same plane ; 4<A t^^^^^^l wWch admit only of rotation : 5th class, those joints which are only capable of TgMing motion^ We should observe that gliding occurs m all the preceding ^°This°da2ifiition%hich is almost exclusively founded upon a consideration of the movements, is eminently physiological. For this reason we shaU reject it because in the study of anatomy the consideration of functions is ot se- condary importance, compared to that of structure. The motions of a joint are also evidendy the consequence of the shape of its articular surfaces. The classification now generally adopted is that of Galen, with some modi- fications. Taking the presence or absence of mobility as the primary ground of division, the articulations are divided into the moveable or diarthroses, and the immoveable or mjnarthroses. To these two great divisions Winslow has added a third, under the name of mixed articulations, or amphiarthroses (S/i*a), both), because they participate of the characters of both, viz. mobility, and continuity of surfaces.* For the determination of the secondary divisions regard has been had both to the shape of the articular surfaces, and to the movements of which the joint is capable. Thus, the diarthrosesh.ave'been subdivided into 1. enarthroses, when the head of one bone is received into the cavity of another ; 2. arthrodia, when the articular surfaces are plane, or nearly so; 3. ginglymus, when the ioint is only capable of opposition, that is, of alternate movements in opposite directions in the same plane. This latter class is again subdivided into (a) an- gular ginglymus or hinge-joints, when the movements are angular, as in flexion or extension: the angular ginglymus is said to be perfect, when these move- ments alone are possible, as in the elbow ; and imperfect, when a slight degree of lateral motion may take place, as in the knee : (6) lateral ginglymus (or diar- throsis trochoides), when rotation is the only possible movement. It also is subdivided into simple, when the bones touch only by one point; and double, when they have two points of contact. The synarthroses, or immoveable joints, have been divided according to the nature of their articular surfaces into, 1. suture, when they are furnished with teeth, by means of which they are locked together, as in the squamous suture; 2. harmonia, when the surfaces are nearly smooth, and are merely in juxta- position ; 3. gomphosis, when one part is implanted in another, as the teeth in the alveoli; 4. schindylesis, when a plate of one bone is received into a groove of another: in this way the osseous projection of the anterior edge of the pa- late bone is attached to the opening of the maxiUary sinus, f There are many advantages in the above classification, but many imperfec- tions also. I would characterise as especially objectionable, the class arthrodia, which comprises the most dissimilar articulations, as the shoulder joint, the articulations of the lower jaw, of the wrist, of the bones of the carpus, and of those of the tarsus. We should also notice as another cause of imperfection, * This kind of articulation was linown to Galen, and named by him neuter, or doubtful articulation. + [The rostrum of the sphenoid, and the descending plate of the ethmoid, are united iu thU manner to the vomer, and afford, perhaps, a better example.]