200 ARTHROLOGY. function great mobility must be conjoined with great precision of movement. On the other hand, for the purpose of seizing bodies, of retaining, repulsing, or breaking them, as well as of acting as the means of attack and defence, consi- derable power is required ; all which qualities are united in the mechanism of the hand. Observe the number of the fingers and their complete isolation, so that they can act either together or separately, and even in opposite directions. Notice the number of the phalanges, their successive decrease in size, and the facility with which they can be separated or made to approach each other, so as to be applied around spherical bodies. Note also the inequality of the fingers in length and power, enabling each to act a determinate part in prehension; and above all, remark the shortness of the thumb, which only reaches the base of the first phalanx of the index finger ; but which, placed as it is upon a plane anterior to the rest, and endowed with a greater degree of mobility, can be op- posed to all the fingers together, to each finger separately, and to every phalanx of each, thus constituting the principal blade of the sentient forceps represented by the hand ; for, being more strongly constructed, and provided with more powerful muscles than the other fingers, it in some degree counterbalances them all. Mechanism of the Phalangal Articulations. From the shape of the articular surfaces, which form a miniature representa- tion of the knee, it is evident that the only motions of which these joints are capable are flexion and extension. The flexion of the second upon the first phalanx is as extensive as it could possibly be, for it is only limited by the meeting of the anterior surfaces of these bones. The amount oiflexion of the third phalanx upon the second is less considerable. The extension of the second phalanx upon the first, and that of the third upon the second, are limited, as in the metacarpo-phalangal joints, by the anterior glenoid and the lateral ligaments. This motion of the phalanges is extremely slight; I have never seen them carried further back than to form a straight line. From what has been observed it follows that, as regards its movements, each finger represents a shortened or miniature limb ; that, at its articulation with the metacarpus, it is capable of motions in every direction, and also of circumduc- tion ; that, from the joints between the phalanges, it is endowed with the power of strong, extensive, and accurate flexion ; and that, from the double bending of the second upon the first, and the third upon the second phalanges, the fingers represent a true hook for seizing and clinging to external objects. ARTICULATIONS OF THE INFERIOR OR ABDOMINAL EXTREMITIES. Articulations of the pelvis.—Coxo-feinoral —Knee-joint.-Peroneo-tibial.- Ankle-joint — Ofihe tarsus.—Tarso-metatarsaL—UJ the toes. Articulations of the Pelvis (Jigs. 76, 77.). The articulations of the pelvis are, 1. the sacro-iliac ^y^Pj^g'j^^^;'^^^^^^ nhvsis pubis; and 3. the sacro-coccygeal articulaUon. The last Has Deen ai ready described with the other articulations of the vertebral column. Sacro-iliac Symphysis. T, , -o^ 1 Dptach the nelvis from the rest of the trunk; 2. saw through r.T'^stcfthe a^te^^^^ -cro-iliac symphysis upon the lei; 5 tl"f m^L fhorizontal section of that articulation, dividing it mto &n upper and a lower half.