INFERIOR MAXILLA. 77 tAvo inferior, Icnown by the collective appeUation of genial processes Cj^^uho. the chin), and give attachment to the genio hyoid and genio-glossal muscles. On eachfide of the sympbjsis, .ve observe on the anierwr or cutaneous surface of the body of the inferior maxilla, I. a small depression, for the attachmen of muscles, named mento?>sa(e e) : 2. a Ime, which commences a the mental process, passes obliquely up^vards, and becomes contmnous with the anterior edge of the ramus of the jaw ; it is named the e:,ternal oblique or external max^ illary line ( ef\ and is also intended for muscular insertions : 3, above this line, the mental forLm (g), the orifice of the inferior dental canal -^hich transmits the mental vessels and nerves: 4. the anterior surface of the alveolar arch (c A), marked by a series of projections corresponding to the alveob, and separated by vertical depressions which point out the situation of the inter-alveolar septa: 5. below the external obUque line, a smooth surface (a) separated from the skm by the platysma myoides muscle. The posterior or lingual surface is in some measure moulded upon the tongue : it presents, 1. the mylo-hyoidean line (/;) {ixixos, dens molaris-), called also internal oblique or internal maxillary, which commences at the genial processes, and passes upwards and backwards, becoming more prominent opposite the last molar tooth : 2. below this line, a broad but superficial depression, which lodges the sub-maxillary gland: 3. above the oblique line, and near the symphysis, & fossa which lodges the sub-lingual gland, and a smooth surface covered by the mucous membrane of the mouth and gums. These two lines, the external and mternal oblique, divide the bodyof the in- ferior maxilla into two parts, a superior ov alveolar, and an inferior or basilar. The first named constitutes almost the entire body of the bone in the foetus and the infant; in the adult it forms only two thirds of the depth of the bone, the other third being the basilar portion : lastly, in the aged, the alveolar portion almost entirely disappears, and the basilar only is left. The superior or alveolar border describes a smaller curve than the corre- sponding alveolar edge of the superior maxilla; so that, in a regular conforma- tion of the parts, the inferior incisor teeth are overlapped by the superior. This border is less thick in front than behind, where it projects inwards ; it is pierced by a series of sockets or alveoli, resembling those of the superior maxiUa, and like them variable according to the kind of teeth which they are intended to receive. The inferior border or base of the jaw (d ni) is the thickest part of the bone ; it forms part of a larger curve than the superior border, so that the jaw projects forwards in some measure at the lower part: this projection varies much in different subjects. Bami of the inferior maxilla {b b). These are quadrilateral, and present, 1. an external surface (&) covered by the masseter muscle, which is inserted into it, especially below, where we may observe depressions and ridges, and where the bone itself is more or less bent outwards ; in front of these ridges is a slight mark which corresponds with the situation of the facial artery : 2. an internal or pterygoid surface, also rough, for the attachment of the internal pterygoid muscle, and on which is observed the superior orifice (Z) of the infe- rior dental canal, which is wide, and has a sort of spine, to which the internal lateral ligament of the temporo-maxillary articulation is attached; a small ^oove passes from this orifice in the same direction as the canal, and bears the name of mylo-hyoidean furrow, because it lodges the nerve of that name: 3. a posterior or parotid edge, which is round, and gives attachment below to the stylo-maxillary ligament: it is embraced by the parotid gland : 4. an anterior edge (»■), marked by a groove, which is the continuation of the alveolar border ; the anterior and posterior lips of this groove being formed by the external and internal oblique lines : 5. a superior edge very thin, and hollowed out into a deej) notch, called sigmoid notch (n o), on account of its shape, giving passage to nerves and vessels: 6. an iiferior edge, which is nothing more than a continu- ation of the inferior border of the body of the bone.