THE PHARYNX. 457 into the throat. 3. The isthmus of the^fauces (2) of a semicircular form, divided into t^o arches, and exhibiting the pillars, the aniygdaloid excavation, and the prominence of the tonsils. 4. The superior opemng of the larynx (3), the plane of ^hich is directed obliquely upw.ards and forwards (see fig. 140 ) ; the eni-lottis (i fiq. 140.), which is ordinarily erect, closes this opemng by be- come; deJ^sVedlike a valve. 5. The posterior smface of larynx with its two lateral and triangular grooves, broad above and narrow below, which have been regarded as specially intended for the swallowmg of liquids, which thus pass on each side of the laryngeal opening. It is extremely curious and highly important to study aU the objects dis- played in the complicated mechanism of the pharynx: by so doing we learn how the air passes from the nasal fossa and mouth into the pharynx, and thence into the larynx, into which it is drawn by the active expansion of the thorax, without ever entering the a?sophagus; how the mucous secretions of the nose, or blood, can pass from the nose down into the mouth and throat; how instru- ments may be introduced from the nasal fossae and buccal cavity into the oesophagus and larynx, or drawn from the nose into the mouth ; and lastly, how solids and liquids can pass into the oesophagus without entering the air- passages, or why they sometimes take this irregular course. The posterior wall of the pharynx is broader in the buccal region than either above or below: it may be partially seen through the isthmus of the fauces in the living subject. There is no folding of the membrane upon any part of this wall, we only find a few glands forming projections beneath the lining mem- brane. On each lateral wall is seen the expanded orifice of the corresponding Eusta- chian tube {4:, fig. 140.), and a groove leading from it downwards and inwards. This orifice corresponds precisely to the posterior extremity of the lower tur- binated bone ; an important relation, because it serves as a guide in the now common operation of introducing a catheter into the Eustachian tube. The roof of the pharjux corresponds to the basilar process : it may be reached by the finger introduced into the mouth, if it be curved directly upwards. There is no very distinct line of demarcation, either internally or exter- nally, between the pharynx and the oesophagus {y,fig. 140.). Their limits are established by a sudden narrowing of the tube *, by a change of colour in the lining membrane, and by a change in the direction and colour of the mus- cular fibres, which are red in the pharynx and much paler in the oesophagus. Structure of the pharynx. The pharynx is composed of an aponeurotic por- tion, of muscles, of vessels and nerves, and of a lining mucous membrane. The aponeurotic portion, or framework, of the pharynx is composed of the cephalo-pharyngeal aponeurosis and of the petro-pharyngeal aponeurosis. The cephalo-pharyngeal or posterior aponeurosis of the pharynx arises from the lower surface of the basilar process, from the Eustachian tubes, and from the contiguous parts of the petrous portions of each temporal bone: it is con- tinuous above with the thick periosteum, which covers the basilar process; is prolonged vertically downwards, and, gradually diminishing in thickness, is lost after extending about an inch and a half or two inches. On this membrane the constrictor muscles of the pharynx terminate. The petro-pharyngeal or lateral aponeurosis of the pharynx arises from the petrous portion of the temporal bone internally to the inferior orifice of the carotid canal, by a very thick tendinous bundle, continuous at a right angle with the cephalo-pharyngeal aponeurosis t; it then descends along the sides of the pharynx, and splits into bundles, which are inserted into the pterygoid fossa between the internal pterygoid muscle and the circumflexus palati, sepa- rating these muscles from each other. From thence it gives off to the posterior * [This occurs exactly opposite the cricoid cartilage.] t The superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic nerve lies upon the angle formed by these two aponeuroses.