SPLANCHNOLOGY, 596 than IS needed for containing the testicle; it is provided with scattered and obhquely inserted hairs, the foUicles of which are large, and project upon the surface ; and, lastly, its external aspect presents many varieties : thus, it be- comes flaccid and elongated under the influence of warmth, and in old and enfeebled persons, while during youth, in the robust, and under the influence of cold, it becomes contracted, wrinkled, and closely applied to the testicle. The scrotum is divided into two equal halves, by a sort of median line or ridge, called the raphe, from the Greek word ^dtrTw, to sew; because the two halves of the skin appear to be united at this part, as it were by a seam. The object of the great extent of the skin of the scrotum is, perhaps, to en- able it to cover the penis when in a state of erection. The dartus is a reddish filamentous tissue, traversed by a great number of vessels, which can be easily seen through the skin of the scrotum. This tissue envelopes both testicles, and furnishes a prolongation interposed between them, and forming the septum of the dartos. Upon the sides, and opposite the sper- matic cord, the dartos terminates abruptly, and is replaced by adipose cellular tissue. In front, it is continued around the penis ; behind, it is prolonged upon the median line, by an angvdar extremity, as far as the sphincter ani. It follows, therefore, that there is only a single dartos, within which are contained both testicles, a septum alone intervening between them. This se- paration in the middle line has led some to follow Ruysch, in describing a distinct dartos for each testicle. The dartos is closely united to the skin of the scrotum by its external surface, and it is very loosely connected by extremely delicate cellular tissue, with the subjacent coverings, upon which it glides with the greatest freedom. With regard to its structure, the dartos at first sight presents some analogy to cellular tissue, but it differs from it essentially in its aspect; for in no situ- ation does cellular tissue exhibit distinct reddish nodulated filaments, like those of the dartos. It is true that these filaments are irregularly interlaced, but the majority of them pass in a vertical direction; and when a single fibre is ex- amined, we are struck with its analogy to muscular tissue.* It also differs in its vital properties : thus, the dartos possesses the property of active contrac- tility, as is seen in the contraction of the scrotum, and the vermicular motions observed in persons exposed to cold, or under the influence of great dread, or of the venereal orgasm, and also in the much more evident contraction of the scrotum after an irritating injection has been thrown into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis. It is, therefore, intermediate between cellular and muscular tissue, and might be called the dartoid tissue. It was for a long time supposed to be confined to the scrotum, but it is met with in many other parts, viz. the vagina, the sub- stance of the nipple, and the parietes of the veins, of which it seems to me to form the external coat. Some anatomists regard the dartos as nothing more than the remains of the gubernaculum testis; but, in the first place, the dartos is found in the foetus, before the descent of the testicle ; and in an adult, whose testicle had not es- caped from the external abdominal ring, I satisfied myself that the gubernaculum and the dartos existed separately and independently of each other.f The dartos has also been incorrectly regarded as a continuation of the su- perficial fascia (see Aponeurology). The tunica erythroides. This name (derived from the Greek word ipvOphs, red) is given to a thin membrane, formed by an expansion of the fibres of the * [According to M. Jordan {MUUer's Archives, 1834), tlie tissue of the dartos is composed of uniform 'cylindrical filaments, which resemble those of cellular tissue in diameter, but are larcer than the varicose filaments of voluntary muscular fibre, and smaller than the uivoluntary muscular fibres, excepting those compo.sing the iris. They resemble cellular tissue, and not muscle in their chemical characters, and differ from the former only m presenting a reddish aspect and in being arranged into longitudinal fasciculi, instead of intcrl.acmg m all directions.] t The specimen from which this statement is taken has been presented to the anatomical society by M. IVlanec.