171 TEMPORO-MAXILLARY ARTICULATION. Fig. 66. tubercle situated at the junction of the two roots of the zygoma to the out- side of the neck of the condyle : it is directed obliquely downwards and backwards, and forms a thick band covering the whole of the outside of the articulation: it is in con- tact with the skin externally, and internally with the two synovial capsules and the inter- articular cartilage. Anatomists have described under the name of the internal lateral or spheno-max- iUarij ligament (c, fig. 67.) an aponeurotic band, which neither as regards its position or its use, can be considered as properly belonging to the joint; it is extended from the spinous process of the sphenoid, to the spine situated on the in- side of the orifice of the inferior dental canal. It is a very thin band which covers the inferior dental vessels and nerves, and separates them from the pterygoid muscles. Since the band just described has no effect in giving strength to the joint, it may be wondered that there is only one ligament for the articulation; but it should be observed that, as the lower jaw is articulated in the same manner at both its extremities, the ex- ternal lateral ligament of the one exactly performs the functions of an internal lateral ligament to the other. The stylo-maxillary ligament (d,figs. 65, 66, and 67.) appears to me to hold the same place as the preceding; it is a fibrous band extending from the sty- loid process to the angle of the inferior maxilla. It has no relation to the union of the articular surfaces. Its use appears to be that of giving attachment to the stylo-glossus muscle ; Meckel calls it the stylo-mylo-hyoid ligament. 3. There are two synovial capsules in this joint, one on the upper, and the other on the lower surface of the inter-articular cartilage {see fig. 65.). Some- times they communicate by an opening in the cartilage ; the superior is looser than the inferior; and thus the articular cartilage is more closely united to the condyle of the lower jaw than to the glenoid cavity. These two synovial capsules are in contact on the outside with the external lateral ligament, and elsewhere with a thin layer of fibrous tissue. Mechanism of the Temporo-maxillary Articulation. In considering the action of this joint, the lower maxilla may be regarded as a hammer which strikes against the anvU represented by the upper jaw; it is a double angular lever, the axis of its motion being represented by a hori- zontal line that would pass through the middle of the rami. This articulation, which belongs to the class of condyloid joints, has been ranged among the angular ginglymi, on account of the great extent of its movements in two op- posite directions, during its elevation and its depression, but it differs from them in being so constructed as to admit of slight lateral movements. It can also be moved forwards and backwards. 1. Depression. In this movement each condyle rolls forwards in its glenoid cavity, and then passes upon the transverse root of the zygoma, with a sudden jerk, which may be easily felt by placing the finger on the condyle whilst the mouth is being opened, at the same time the angle of the jaw is moved back- wards. The condyle carries with it the inter-articular cartilage; for the union of these two parts is of such a nature that, even in dislocation of the jaw, they are never separated. This dep<mds not only upon the comparative tightness of the lower synovial capsule, but also on the mode of insertion of the external pterygoid muscle, which being attached both to the neck of the condyle and