SPLANCHNOLOGY. e lorm ot a rounded fibrous cord, stretched horizontaUy from the re- treating angle of the thyroid cartilage to the anterior pro- cess of the arytenoid cartilage. It is free in all directions exceptmg on the outside, where it is in contact with the thyro-arytenoid muscle. Its free portion is covered by the mucous membrane of the larynx, which adheres inti- mately to It, and is so thin that the white colour of the cord can be seen through it. This vocal cord is thinner than It appears at first sight, the projection which it forms bemg m a great measure due to the thyro-arytenoid muscle. Its structure is entirely ligamentous, and con- sists of paraUel fibres, running from before backwards, and not at all elastic* It is continuous below with the lateral thyro-cricoid ligament (rf). The superior vocal cord (s) is smaller, and situated farther from the axis of the larynx than the inferior one (see^^. 178.), and extends from the middle of the retreating angle of the thyroid cartilage to the middle of the anterior surface of the arytenoid cartilage: like the inferior cord, it has a fasciculated and fibrous appearance ; but the fascicuU are few in number, and are intermixed with a series of glandular masses. The superior vocal cord can only be dis- inguished from the rest of the parietes of the larynx, from the reflection of the mucous membrane below it, so as to form the ventricle. It is continuous demarcatio7^™°'^^'^'°"''^ ligament {b,fig. 176.) above, without any line of Muscles of the Larynx. These are divided into the extrinsic and the intrinsic; the former, which move the entire larynx, have been already described, viz. the sterno-hyoid omo-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and thyro-hyoid; to which we might add aU the muscles of the supra-hyoid region, and those muscles of the pharynx which have attachments to the cricoid and thyroid cartilages. The intrinsic muscles are nine in number, viz. four pairs and one single muscle. Those which exist in pairs, are the crico-thyroidei, the crico- arytenoidei postici, the crico-arytenoidei laterales, and the thyro-arytenoidei. The single muscle is the arytenoideus. T7ie Crico-thyroideus. Dissection. This muscle is completely exposed by separating the larynx from the muscles by which it is covered. In order to gain a good view of the deep portion of the muscle, the lower part of the thyroid cartilage must be removed. The crico-thyroideus {a, figs. 147. 170.) is a short .thick, triangular muscle, situated on the anterior part of the larynx, on each side of the crico-thyroid membrane, and divided into two distinct bundles. It is attached below to the cricoid cartilage on each side of the median line, to the whole of the anterior surface, and even to part of the lower border of the cartilage. From these points the fleshy fibres radiate in different directions : the internal fibres pass somewhat obliquely upwards and outwards ; the middle ones veiy obliquely, and the lower fibres horizontally outwards, to the lower border of the thyroid cartilage (excepting to its middle portion), and to the lower margin of the corresponding lesser comu. The greatest number of fibres are inserted into * [The inferior vocal cords are certainly composed of elastic tissue, so also are the thyro- hyoid and crico-thyroid ligaments ; and, according to M. Lauth (Mi!»t de I'Acad, lioy.de Sled. 1835), the lateral crico thyroid membranes, the superior vocal cords, and the arrteno-epiglottid ligaments are also composed of this tissue, which, he says, exists even in the thyro.epiglottid, liyo-epiglottid, and glosso-epiglottid ligaments.]