158 ARTHROLOGY. posterior part of the foramen magnum to the upper edge of the posterior arch of the atlas, the posterior occipito-allantal ligament (b, Jigs. 62 and 64.). But it can scarcely be distinguished, consisting only of a few ligamentous fibres among the fat of this region. 3. Lateral occipito-aiLantal ligaments (c,fig. 61.). A fibrous cord passes from the base of the transverse process of the F<fe'.62. J^(■lJ^g t]jg jugular process of the occi- pital bone. In connection with a similar bundle from the pars petrosa, it forms a very remarkable fibrous canal, which gives passage to the internal jugular vein the mternal carotid artery, the hypoglossal, pneumogastric, glosso-pharyngeal, and accessory nerves. 4. The union of the condyles of the occipital bone with the superior articular surfaces of the atlas is a double condyloid articulation. The articular surfaces of the occipital bone are the two condyles, convex, oblong, looking downwards and outwards, and directed forwards and inwards, so that their axes if pro- longed would meet in front of the basilar process. The aa-ticular surfaces of the atlas are concave and oblong, and look upwards and a little inwards, so as to fit exactly upon the convexity of the condyles. Both are covered by a thin layer of cartilage. The ligaments are vertical fibres which surround the joint, but are most numerous in front and on the outside, for they scarcely exist on the inside and behind. There is also a very loose synovial membrane which passes beyond the articular surfaces on all sides, but especially to the outside. Atlanto-axoid Articulation. Preparation. After having studied the superficial ligaments, remove the laminae of the axis, the posterior arch of the atlas, and the back part of the foramen magnum. Detach with care that portion of the dura mater which corresponds to the two first vertebrae and the foramen magnum, and turn it upwards. Lastly, in order to obtain a good view of the articulation of the odontoid process with the atlas, disarticulate the occipital bone. This articulation is formed between, l.the odontoid process of the axis, and the anterior arch of the atlas ; 2. between the superior articulating processes of the axis and the inferior articulating processes of the atlas ; 3. m addition, the anterior and posterior arches of the atlas are united to the axis by two ligaments — the anterior and the posterior atlanto-axoid ligaments. The anterior atlanto-axoid ligament (b,figs. 61 and 64.) is a thick vertical bundle composed of several layers, which extends from the tubercle and the lower edge of the anterior arch of the atlas in front of the base of the odontoid process of the body of the axis. It is continuous below with the anterior common ligament. , The posterior atlanto-axoid ligament (c, figs. 62 and 64.) is a very loose and thin meinbrane, extending from the posterior arch of the atlas to the upper edge of the laminae of the axis; it is a little thicker in the median hne than at the sides and represents the ligamenta subflava in a rudimentary state. AHiculation of the odontoid process with the atlas. This is a^.«o< join , the od^toidjrocesi being received into a ring formed m front by the anterior arch of the atlas, on the sides, by the lateral masses of the same bone, and hv the transverse ligament. We have therefore to consider, 1 the StSat?on St^e afch of the atlas with the odontoid process (a^Zanto- Td^n^S articulation); 2. the articulation of this same process with the trans- verse ligament (syndesmo-odontoid articulation). TllTodllid articulation {e, fig. 64.). . The articular surfaces^^^^^^^ oval and slightly concave facette on the posterior surface of the anterior arch