A SYNOPSIS, tyc.nL 2Jf&biA SYNOPSIS OF SOffitKWSAJL & Casts, AT THE SHEFFIELD GENERAL INFIRMARY, DURING TWENTY-TWO YEARS, BY ROBERT ERNEST, M. D. HONORARY MEMBER OF THE NATIONAL VACCINE ESTABLISHMENT, AND HOUSE SURGEON TO THE SHEFFIELD GENERAL INFIRMARY. -0^00- 1820.■ f* 1 M ' f % .v . . -v- > aASmwHfe ITO THE ^ljl>sman£ anH sutgcons, AND TO THE EXTRAORDINARY SURGEONS, OF THE SHEFFIELD) QMmwsLML mwmM&Mg* THE FOLLOWING SYNOPSIS IS INSCRIBED, WITH ALL DUE RESPECT, BY THEIR OBLIGED, AND OBEDIENT SERVANT, THE AUTHOR.Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 > ii https://archive.org/details/b21535176TNT ROD UCTIOJY. -nryVVYVYVVnr- i The Writer, having held the Office of House Surgeon ever since the first opening of the Infir- mary, and having witnessed the admission and the diseases of all the Patients, has long been de- sirous of drawing up this Synoptical Statement of Medical and Surgical Cases; and though there may be nothing particularly interesting in i^ yet it has cost him much labour during six months^ in having to explore five large folio volumes of the Register of Patients, each page con- taining thirty cases., and often as many different diseases; so that he had as frequently to carry his pen to the different letters of an alphabet pre- viously prepared for the purpose. This done^ he had afterwards all the diseases to count up sepa- rately, and to class and arrange them in their pre- sent order.INTRODUCTION. The Synopsis is intended to exhibit at one view, not only the whole of the Admissions during Twenty-two Years, but the most prevailing Dis- eases amongst the labouring poor in this popu- lous town and neighbourhood. It will also shew the nature and number of Accidents that have been admitted at any hour in the night or day, without any recommendation ; and likewise it will shew the ratio of Medical and Surgical Cases. There is also appended to the Synopsis, ex- planatory Notes, taken chiefly from the Writer’s own observations in practice.& $>>WCH)9tS OP MEDICAL Sr SURGICAL CASES, at The SHEFFIELD GENERAL INFIRMARY, tfurc/t/y 7'vn^r. tw«> tpea«Sj na*n£\y, from January, 1798, £o January, 1820. Amaurosis Amentia Amenorrhoea Anaesthesia Aneurisma Angina pectoris.... Anus imperforatus.. Aphonia aAscites.... .... ^Asthenia cAsthma Anthrax Bronchocele dCalculus /Mammae Nasi Oris et Labii inferioris Penis .... . .... Palpebrae inferioris ... Scroti et testiculi .... Uteri MKj Cachexia Caries Cataracts Catalepsia Catarrhus Cephalaea Chlorosis. . i / htfsr . . ilo'j-J — - . sra,:: S'.-ll' . ; -y* s / i » • If-*. ih : »/w * ‘ * HiiJUili J. r.VX ...; • ■ ■ O siioir:1 ii .0id-*-M ; • $ .... mdl • .. ..... fit iO .. •.•#•< lviB'3 .... .... m vh |. > ,yiIt appears from the Synopsis that the follow- ing Diseases are the most prevailing amongst the labouring poor in Sheffield and its neighbourhood, viz. Rheumatismus, Scrophula, Ulcus, Asthenia, Phthisis, Dyspepsia, Asthma, Tussis, Ophthalmia, Hydrops, Hernia, Gastrodynia, Amenorrhcea, Pa- ralysis, Abscess, Cephalcea, Caries, Febris, Lum- bago, Pleurodynia, and Vitia Cutis; and in refe- rence to Accidents, Contusions, Fractures, Wounds, Rums, and Scalds are the most frequent. During the first six or seven years after the open- ing of the Infirmary, there were many dreadful Accidents admitted from the Grinding Wheels, caused by the breaking of stones whilst running with great velocity. In these cases there was generally great injury done to the face and nasal bones; and in several instances, such injuries were accompanied by fracture and depression of a por<OBSERVATIONS. 10 tion of the skull. In consequence of some wise regulations in the Grinding Wheels, the writer has pleasure in saying that such terrible accidents have for many years past been comparatively rare. There has also been several very severe Acci- dents from the Rolling Mills. Two cases, one of which was a leg, and the other an arm, which had been drawn in betwixt the rollers, and were nearly torn off from the body. In two other cases, the integuments, beginning three or four inches above the elbow joint, were torn down over the fingers, like a glove. In these cases the parts were drawn back into their proper situation, a great portion of which united by the first intention, and in the end the patients got well. One patient had Anchylosis of the joint. There is another case of lacerated wound which I cannot let pass without notice, because the favourable event surprised me exceedingly:—A man of a spare habit, 66 years of age, who had laboured under Anchylosis of the left knee joint some years, went, on the 16th of October, 1802, to see a cricket match played, and he being in theII OBSERVATIONS. midst of a crowd of people who were present on the occasion, was suddenly pushed forward, and not being able to recover himself, he fell with his lame knee bent under him ; by which accident a lacer- ated wound was inflicted, which laid open the joint completely from the inner to the outer condyle. There was much haemorrhage, but neither liga*- ture nor compress could be applied to any advan- tage ; and therefore the actual cautery was applied to the bleeding vessels, and the haemorrhage soon ceased. The wound was then closed and dressed superficially, and afterwards secured by the many- tailed bandage, and the limb placed in such a situation so as not to admit of the least flexion of the joint. I have the case in detail, but on this occasion it will be sufficient to state, that the wound in ten weeks was almost well; and the man, by his own desire, left the house as an out-patient. There have been many punctured Wounds ad- mitted, but only one that proved fatal. In Fe- bruary, 1812, two Grinders’ apprentices were quarrelling, and in the scuffle, one of them, hold- ing in his hand a scissor blade, struck it with great violence into the thigh of his antagonist, and12 OBSERVATIONS. wounded the femoral artery a little below the middle of the thigh. Three weeks had elapsed since the wound was inflicted, before he was ad- mitted into the Infirmary, at a period when it was too late either to tie the artery or to amputate the limb. By frequent haemorrhage and maltreatment, the patient was greatly exhausted, and the whole limb was beginning to shew signs of gangrene. He only lived five days after his admission. Amongst the cases of Mortification, there was one very remarkable case of Necrosis of the whole leg and foot. The limb became dry and much shrunk, and as black as ink. The place of sepa- ration was immediately in the knee joint. The patient afterwards underwent amputation of the thigh, and was cured. Therehavebeen admitted many cases of Tumours; I have the particulars of one case of large dimen- sions, which was situated about the middle of the inside of the right thigh, of a stout muscular man. I judge this to have been a case of what is now termed Fungus Haematodes. When he was at the Infirmary in February, 1810, the tumour measured13 OBSERVATIONS. in circumference 42? inches, longitudinally 32 inches, and transversely 221 inches. After death it measured in circumference 45, longitudinally 24, and transversely 381 inches; and it might weigh from ten to twelve pounds, or more. Another Tumour of this character was situated upon the right humerus, and extended downwards almost as far as the elbow. It was a case similar to that represented by a plate in Mr. Charles Bellas Cases in Surgery, and the disease was too much connected with the shoulder to admit of an oper- ation. However, an incision was made down to the bone, which proved that the bone had been absorbed, and that a cartilaginous substance merely, was remaining. The case of Ascites before noticed, which re- quired the operation of paracentesis performing twenty-three times, the examination which took place after death, if I mistake not, proved it to be an individual case of Ascites Mesentericus ; for the material cause of the disease appeared, on dis- section, to be that part of the mesentery which supports the colon simistrum or descendens, elevat-OBSERVATIONS. 14 ed into a Tumour, weighing eight pounds, partly Scirrhus, partly Apostemous; the consequences of which, more or less remote, were an adhesion of the convex side of the liver to the peritonaeum ; an adhesion to that part of the lesser intestine near the Tumour to the peritonaeum, and the surface of the peritonaeum itself, to be covered with the co- agulable part of the pus, where it touched the Tumour. The total quantity of water taken from this patient amounted to 1414 pints, ~ 8 = 176 gallons 6 pints. Many other remarks might be brought forward upon other interesting cases ; but this being quite unnecessary on the present occasion, the writer here concludes what he intended to present to his medical friends. Infirmary, May 20, 1820. C. & W. THOMPSON, PRINTERS, SHEFFIELD.a : k\ ■V "x;- '.>■4 %