DIA 225 DIS wards stew them in some good gravy, till they are tender; squeeze in a little lemon ; take the skirts, and stuff them with a force- meat, made with the fat of the venison, some fat of bacon, and grated bread, pep- per, mace, sage, and onion, chopped very small; mix it with the yolk ot an egg ; when the skirts are stuffed with this force- meat, tie them to the spit to roast, but first lard them with thyme and lemon peel; when they are done, lay the skirts in the middle of the dish, the fricassee round it. DENTS de Loup.*—Fold two sheets of paper lengthwise, like a fan, then double, and butter the paper, and spread it open. Break two eggs into a pan, and mix with them four spoonsful of powder sugar, two of flour, and the grated rind of two lemons ; when well mixed, add a quarter of a pound of melted butter. Take a spoonful of this preparation, and pour it on the edge of your paper, guiding it along the folds with your finger; then take another spoonful, and do the same, leaving a space between each fold, that they may not touch in baking; sprinkle them with sugared ani- seed, and bake them in a well heated oven; shake them from the paper carefully, so as not to break them, as soon as they come from the oven. DEVONSHIRE White Pot.—Beat up a pint of cream with four eggs, a little salt, some sliced nutmeg, and a good deal of sugar; then slice very thin almost the whole of the crumb of a penny loaf; put it into a dish ; pour the eggs and cream to it; a handful of raisins of the sun boiled, and a little sweet butter : bake it. DIABLOTINS.—Pound some choco- late, with a little olive oil, into a stiff paste, of which take small pieces, and roll them in your hands into the shape of nuts, olives, &c. either round or flat; strew over them nonpareils of different colours, and dry them in cases like other sweet- meats. Diablotins.*—Take acold vanilla cream renversee (see that recipe), and when quite cold cut it into dice ; throw these into flour; cover them well, and fry them a little in a hot pan; when tolerably black, drain ; sprinkle them with sugar, and serve them. Diabi.otins en Canntllons.*—Take six ounces of fdberts, blanch and pound them, adding, by degrees, three glasses of boil- ing cream; then press them through a napkin, to extract as much milk from them as you possibly can, which pour (a little at a time), on two spoonsful of rice flour mix them well; take care there are no lumps ; and having added three ounces of powder sugar, and a grain of salt, set the whole over a moderate fire for thirty or forty minutes, stirring it constantly, when it will have become a firm smooth paste. Pour it on a slightly-buttered slab ; spread it out with a knife, making it about three quarters of an inch thick. When it is quite cold, cut it into pieces about three inches long, and three quarters of an inch wide ; sprinkle them with flour ; roll them round lightly; dip one at a time into bat- ter (the same as what you use for Fritters a la Parhienne), and fry them in a hot pan ; when they are of a nice colour, drain them on a napkin; sprinkle them with sugar, and glaze them either in the oven or with a salamander. DISTILLING.*—Distillation is the process of extracting the spirituous and aromatic particles, from various substances and liquids in which they are enveloped, and likewise separating them from earthy and saline particles, with which they are mixed. This process is performed by means of heat; and the vapour bath, water bath, and sand bath, are the three methods usually practised. The vapour bath produces the most mo- derate degree of heat necessary for dis- tilling. A metal, or earthen vessel, filled to about two thirds with water, is set on a furnace, over this is placed the alembic, containing the substance to be distilled ; as soon as the water boils, the vapour rises, and striking the bottom of the alem- bic communicates its heat thereto, which forces the volatile or lighter parts of its contents to rise, and separate themselves from the grosser ones. The water bath is more commonly mad© use of than the above, being less difficult to manage; and in distilling plants or flowers, which are liable to burn, or are heavy, and require liquid, it is far better than the other. 1 he water bath differs from the vapour bath in this respect, that the alembic is immersed in the water, which instantly communicates the degree of heat it re- ceives. I be sand hath is resorted to when a very strong degree of heat is necessary: a vessel filled with sand is placed on tho me, and the aleinhic completely' buried in it; this last process, however, requires the utmost precaution. Glass, or earthen vessels, are preferable in distilling waters; but if they are not Q