159 CIII CHI Chickens (Fillets of) with E/ulive. Having picked and washed a dozen heads of endive, blanch them ; when they have drained on a sieve for a few minutes, rub them through it with a wooden spoon; then let them drain again for an hour or two, and stir them well into a stewpan, with a little butter; when it begins to fry, add some consomme, reduce it, put some cream sauce in and boil it till thick ; then mix in the yolks of two eggs; place this in the middle of the dish, and having prepared your fillets, arrange them on the endive and serve with bcchamelle sauce. Chicken (Cutlets of) d I’Epigramme.— Take the fillets of five chickens, pare them well, scrape the small bone of the pinion, and stick it into the point of the fillets, and season them with salt and pepper. Wash them with the yolks of two eggs and dip them in bread crumbs, then in melted butter, then in bread crumbs a second time, so that they may be entirely covered. Do not broil till just as they are wanted. Put some filets mignons in scallops, in a sauce a blanqnette with mushrooms, and serve ; or dress the filets entire, and place them and the cutlets on a dish alternately, with allemande quite thin. Chickens a VExcellence.—Make a ragout as follows : Slice a quarter of a pound of pickled pork, and let it stand over the fire in some water, till nearly done ; then add to it some fat livers, truffles, shalots, and parsley chopped, whole pepper, and a glass of white wine : thicken with the yolks of two eggs : when cold, put some of this under the skins of two fat chickens, and the remainder into the body; give them a turn or two in the frying pan, in some but- ter and lemon juice, then wrap in bacon and pepper, and roast them. In the mean time put some slices of bacon, ham, veal, carrots, parsnips, onions sliced, parsley, thyme, bay leaf, and a spoonful of oil into a stewpan close covered for half an hour ; then add a glass of white wine, the same of stock, and braise them for an hour and a half; skim and strain it, and put some shalots, butter, and flour to it, and serve on the chickens. Chickens' Feet and Forcemeat.—Scald the skin from as roany feet as you may re- quire, tie thtargin a bundle and braise them till tender,1 and then dry them in a cloth. Make a good forcemeat and fill the claws with it, dip them in egg and then in bread crumbs ; egg them and dip in broad crumbs a second time,. press it well on, and fry them in lard. Lay them on fried parsley, and serve. Chickens a la Falette.—Cut carrots and parsnips into any form y ou please, and boil them with a few small onions in a little stock. In the mean time cut mushrooms, truffles, and ham into very small pieces, and stew them in some butter, with sweet herbs, two cloves, thyme, and a bay leaf; when these are coloured, add some veal gravy and a glass of white wine, and boil the whole slowly until sufficiently done; then skim and put it, with a little cullis, and a few olives stoned, to the carrots ; pour this ragout on two chickens, stuffed with their livers, &c. rolled in bacon and paper, and roasted. Chickens Fricasseed *—Prepare and cut up two chickens; put them in a stewpan with some butter, parsley, scallions, a bay leaf, thyme, basil, two cloves, mushrooms, and a slice of ham; let them stew till scarcely any sauce remains, then add a little flour, warm water, salt, and pepper; stew it again and reduce the sauce. When nearly done, put in the yolks of three eggs beaten up with a little cream or milk; thicken it over the fire, but do not let it boil; a small quantity of lemon juice may be added. Place the breasts and bones of the chickens on a dish, lay the legs and wings over them, and then pom- the sauce over the whole; garnish with the mush- rooms. Take off the skins before you cut up the chickens if you wish the fricassee very white. Chickens d la Bourdois*.—Proceed as above, but when the chickens are dished up strew bread crumbs over them, and on that put several pieces of butter about the size of a pea, and then brown it with the salamander, or in the oven. Chickens (Fricassee of) a VAllemande* —Parboil and cut up the chickens, and then, having put them into warm water for half an hour, stew them in some butter, with parsley, morels, scallions, garlic, pepper, salt, a glass of stock, and half a glass of Champagne; when nearly done add to this the yolks of three eggs beaten up with a few drops of water and some lemon juice; stir it well the same way until finished. Chickens fricasseed White.—Skin, cut up your chickens and lay them in warm water; then stew them till tender in water, with lemon peel, white wine, an anchovy, an onion, two or three cloves, sweet herbs. Take out the chickens when done, reduce the liquor, and put it to a