MAC MAC 340 moulds may be varied in any way your fancy may dictate. MACKEREL (to Choose).—Their gills should be of a fine red, their eyes full, and the whole fish stiff and bright; if the gills are of a faint colour, the fish limber and wrinkled, they are not fresh. They are in season in May and June. Mackerel (Boiled).—Boil them in salt and water, with a very little vinegar. Serve with fennel sauce and coddled goose- berries. Mackerel with Black Butter.*—The mackerel for this dish should be dressed according to the directions for mackerel grille; dish them; then put a piece of butter into a frying pan, and when it is quite hot, fry some parsley in it, and pour them over the fish ; heat up some vinegar, and pour that over also. Mackerel (Broiled or Fried).—They may he broiled or fried, and are extremely good either way, stuffed with crumbs of bread, parsley chopped, lemon peel grated, pepper, salt, and nutmeg, mixed with yolk of egg; anchovy sauce and fennel sauce, Mackerel en Cailles.—Cut two or three mackerel, each into three pieces, give them a few turns over the fire in butter, with parsley, shalots, mushrooms, pepper and salt, then wrap each piece in a vine leaf, with a piece of bacon and some of the sea- soning ; lay them on a baking dish, pour the remainder of the seasoning over, put them in the oven ; when nearly done, take them out, cover them with bread crumbs; replace the dish to finish the baking. Serve with wine sauce. Mackerel (Collared).—They may be done in the same manner as eels are done, only the sage should be omitted, and sweet herbs, a little nutmeg, and lemon peel, substituted in its place. Mackerel, en Compote.*—Prepare the mackerel, cut oft' the tails, and put them into a small saucepan ■well buttered, with any common fish vou may have, and an- chovy and white wine ; braise them in this ; when done, serve them with their own liquor. Mackerel (to Dry).—Theymustbe very fresh. Gut and wash them very clean, cutoff their heads, split them down the hack, and lay them quite flat; hang them by their tails to drain ; they should be hung in a very cool place. Strew some salt at the bottom of a pan; sprinkle the fish thoroughly with salt, lay them in the pan, belly to belly, and back to back ; let them lie in the salt twelve or fourteen hours, then wash the salt off clean, and hang them up to drain for half an hour, pepper the insides a little, and lay' them to dry on stones laid aslant towards the sun ; take care never to let them be out when the sun is not upon them, nor till the dews are dispersed, as the stones they are laid upon should be warm and diy. They will be perfectly cured in a week; hang them up by their tails, putting their insides together, in a dry place, but not in any smoke. They should be either fried in boiling oil, or broiled on or before a very clear fire, and basted with oil on a feather. No sauce will be required, for if they are good, they wrill be veiy moist and mellow ; if they should be dryT, you may serve with a little melted butter and parsley, or crimped parsley. Mackerel, (Broiled).—Split your mack- erel down theback, season with pepper and salt, and lay a sprig of fennel in them. Broil them gently, and when ready to serve, take out the fennel, and put in its place a mixture, made with fresh butter, chopped parsley, green onions, pepper and salt; add plenty of lemon juice. Mackerel (Fillets of) Saute.—Cut the fillets the whole length of the fish, take off the skin, trim and put them into a stewpan, with salt, pepper, parsley, and scallions shred small; pour a little melted butter over, and set them on the fire, moving the pieces about lest tlieyr should adhere to the pan, turn them very carefully, and do the other side. Take a good bit of butter, a ladleful of veloute, the yolks of three eggs, the juice of two lemons, salt, whole pepper, a ravigotte chopped small: stir it over the fire (but without boiling) till the right consistence, then pour it over the fillets. Mackerel (Filletsof) Sautea V Italienne* The fillets being taken off, cut them in two, taking off the skin, and put them into a cutlet pan (previously toss them in egg, ' and rub over with bread crumbs), with cla- rified butter, a little water, thejuiceof half a lemon, and a sprinkle of salt; saute them over a moderate fire, aud when done, put them between two plates, to drain the liquor from them; place them on the dish in the form of a star, and pour over them some good Italicnnesauce. Mackerel (Fillets of) to he served cold. —Saute and dish the fillets, the same as the fillets sautea I’ltalienve, but let them stand till cold, and before they are wanted, pour over them a remouladc sauce, or they may be served in a salad, the same as salmon. Mackerel a la Flarr.andeF — Choose