EEL 234 EEL then add white wine, pepper, and salt; when they have hoiled about half an hour, strain it through a line sieve over the eel, and put it in the oven; in three quarters ot an hour take it out, and place it in your dish. Serve with sauce Italienne. Eels (Fricasseed).—Skin three or four large eels, and notch them from end to end. Cut each of them, into four or five pieces, and lay them for half an hour to crimp in spring water; dry them in a cloth, and put them in a pan, with a piece of fresh butter, a green onion or two, and a little chopped parsley. Set the pan on the fire, and shake them about for a few minutes; then put in about a pint of white wine, and the same quantity of stock, with pepper, salt, and a blade of mace. Stew all to- gether, about half an hour ; then add the yolks of four or five eggs, beat smooth, a little grated nutmeg, and some chopped parsley. Stir the whole well together, and let it simmer for a few minutes; then squeeze in the juice of a lemon; give the whole a good shake; pour it into the dish, and serve it very hot. Garnish your dish with lemon. Eels as Chicken Fricassee.—Skin one or two eels according to their size ; cut them into pieces, and put them into a stewpan, with a bit of butter, some mushrooms, a fagot of sweet herbs, and two cloves; let the whole simmer some time, then add half a pint of white wine, some broth, pep- per, and salt; boil on a brisk lire; reduce the sauce; take out the bundle of sweet herbs, and make a liaison with the yolks of two or three eggs and cream; and add the squeeze of a lemon when ready to serve. Eels (Fried).—Cut one or two eels into pieces, take out the backbone, and score it on both sides. Marinate it for about half an hour in vinegar, with parsley, sliced onions, sbalots, and four cloves. Then drain it; baste it with eggs and crumbs of bread, and fry it of a nice brown colour. Garnish with fried parsley, and serve it with a good relishing sauce. Eels (Fried).—If your eels are small, they should be curled round, and dipped into egg, and then nicely fried. If of a good size, cut them into pieces; season them with pepper, salt, and nutmeg; flour them ; fry them in butter. Eel (Galantine of).*—Take the skin, with great care, from a large eel; bone, and having laid it open, spread over it with a knife a quenelle farce of pike, on which place some truffles, tongue a Vicar- iate, and gherkins, all cut in small pieces ; lay a little more farce on them, and then roll it into its original form, and sew it up; wrap round it some slices of bacon, and then lay it in a napkin; fasten the two ends, and sew up the napkin, so that the fish may still retain its right form ; then put it into a fish kettle with a cooked marinade, and when it has simmered in them between thirty and forty minutes, let it stand to cool in its liquor : then drain, and cut the eel into eight pieces, seven of an equal length, and tire eighth much longer than the rest. Put a layer of Mont- pellier butter into a dish ; set the longest piece of eel in the middle, and the others round, and garnish the dish with pieces of jelly, and borders of coloured butter. Eels (to kill) instantly.—Pierce the spinal marrow, close to the back part of the skull, with a sharp-pointed skewer. If this is done in the right place, all motion will instantly cease. Eel (Larded).*—Lard an eel along the back with small pieces of bacon ; roll, and tie it up ; put it into a pan, with a cooked marinade; when it has laid some time in that,cover it with bread crumbs, and bake it. Eels en Matelote.—Skin and wash some eels ; cut them into three or four pieces ; lay them between bards of fat bacon and consomme, enough to cover them ; to which, add a little carrot, onions, parsley, pepper- corns, salt, hay leaf, and one clove of gar- lic ; let them stew till well done, and let them stand in their liquor till nearly cold; then take them out, trim them, lay them on the dish ; to which add a few rolls of very good veal forcemeat, blanched, and pour over the whole a good bichamelle sauce, and a liaison, gently mixed in. Eel (Gros Pate of).*—Take three fine large eels, take out the bones, spread them, open them out on the table, sea- son, and lay over them, to the thickness of half an inch, a farce made in the same way as that for Gros Pate of sturgeon, with the addition of a pound of truffles, cut in dice, and the same quantity of tunny, also cut into dice ; draw the skins over this, so as to give them their original form. Preparo your pate in the usual manner, and lined with the farce; take one of the eels, roll it round, not very close, and lay it in the pa te ; fill the centre of the eel with a little of the farce, and some whole truffles ; cover the surface with spices and salt; and then, in the same manner, lay on it the second, and on that the third eel. Cover the whole with a pound ot good