440 POT POT and let their sauce be butter, vinegar, and mustard. Pork (Leg of) roasted.—Make choice of a small leg of fine young pork ; with a sharp knife cut a slit in the knuckle, and fill the space with chopped sage and onion, and a little pepper and salt. When half roasted, score the skin in slices, being careful not to cut deeper than the outer rind. Apple sauee should be served to eat with it. Pork (Shoulders and Breasts of ).—Put them into pickle, or the shoulder may be salted as a leg; when they are very nice, they may be roasted. Porker’s Head\ (to roast).—Take a fine young head, thoroughly clean it, and put bread and sage the same as for pig ; sew it up tight, and roast it like a pig, and serve it with the same sauce as for pig. POTAGE d L’ Anglaise.*—Take carp, perch, pike, smelts, or any other fish you choose, cut them into pieces, add a few oysters ; put all these into fish-brotli, and simmer over a moderate fire till sufficiently done, and the meat separates from the bones; then let the liquor run through a sieve, remove the bones, and rub the fish to a purge, also through the sieve; soak bread as usual in the broth, cover the slices with the purge, and fill your tureen. Potage a la Chartres*—Soak three or four veal sweetbreads in warm water; then scald and put them into a saucepan with one or two cocks’ combs (also scalded), a bunch of parsley, green shalots, a few mushrooms, two cloves, and some good stock, set the whole on a slow fire; cut and soak your bread as usual, put it into the tureen, and when the above arti- cles are sufficiently done, add them to the bread with a proper quantity of the broth, and serve. Potage d la Condg*—Boil a quartern of scarlet beans in some stock; add to them two carrots, two onions, two cloves ; when they are quite done, strain them through a sieve, and pour your purge into a soup-tureen on some pieces of fried bread. Potage d la Courte Bouillon.—Prepare some ham, beef, and veal, in a stewpan, with spice and vegetables, as directed for Soupde Santg, and fill it up with consomme, and about one bottle of sherry; when the meat is well done, pnss it through a lawn sieve into a pan or basin ; have some car- rots and celery prepared the same as for vegetable soup, blanched and stewed in strong ransoming, likewise five or six fine cabbage lettuces, done whole, and stowed as carrots and celery; two dozen small onions must be fried brown, and put into the soup-pot with the other vegetables; when they are properly stewed, pour the soup from the basin over them, and let them simmer gently by the side of the stove for four hours, skimming whenever it is required. Put the crust of two French rolls, cut round, and fried of a light brown, in the tureen, and pour the soup over them. Potage a la Creep.*—Take six large carrots, four turnips, six onions, three heads of celery, four leeks, cut them in pieces, and put them into a saucepan with some butter and a lump of sugar; give them a few turns over the fire, and then moisten them with stock, in which let them simmer for two hours, rub the vege- tables through a tammy cloth, add a little pepper, salt, and sugar, clarify your purge, which may not be too thick; soak your bread, as usual, in rich stock; pour the potage into the tureen, and serve it. Potage d la Geauffret.*—Roast ten or a dozen potatoes on hot ashes, and having peeled them, remove all those parts which may be hard or crisp, and pound the re- mainder dry; then add the breasts of four fowls, and a quarter of a pound of butter, pound these with the potatoes; when it lias become a smooth paste, put to it the yolks of eight eggs; heat them up with the rest, season with nutmeg, pepper, and salt; if your paste be too thick, add a suf- ficient quantity of double cream to make it of the proper consistence to make into balls, which poach, either in broth or salt water, and a small quantity of butter; in about half an hour take them out, drain, and having filled your tureen with good broth, put in the balls and serve it. Potage a la Kusel*—Take thirty carrots, as many turnips and small onions, twenty leeks, ten heads of celery (the two latter cut about an inch long), six lettuces. Put the above (except the lettuces) into some stock, and boil them, braise the latter be- tween two slices of bacon; when done, put them with the other vegetables into a soup-tureen without any bread. Potage d la Polacre.* — Take some boiled potatoes, peel and cut them into slices; put a handful of chopped fennel into some good stock, set it on the fire, let it boil for a quarter of an hour, and having put the potatoes into a soup-tureen, pour the broth on them and serve. Potage, Printannier, or Chiffonade.*— Take twenty young carrots, as many tur- nips, small onions, and leeks, cut them