352 MUS MUL gallons of brandy, a quart of water, three pounds and a half of sugar, three pounds of mulberries, half a pound of red currants, the same of raspberries, and half a drachm of mace. Take the seeds from the currants, mix, and crush all the fruits, the juice from which, with the mace, infuse in the brandy fifteen or eighteen days. Dissolve the sugar in the water, mix the syrup with the brandy, filter and bottle it. Mulberry Symp.—Put some mulber- ries into a jug, tie a paper over it, and then put it up to the neck in a kettle of water; let it boil; as the liquor rises from the mulberries pour it oft', strain it, and to one pint of the liquorput one pound of loaf sugar; set it over a slow fire, boil it gently till it becomes about the con- sistence of treacle; then take it oft’ and bottle it. Mulberries (Syrup of).* — Take as many mulberries as w-ill yield three pints of juice, which put into a preserving-pan with three pints of water ; boil until this quantity is reduced to one pint; then lay the fruit on a sieve to drain. Clarity three pounds of sugar, boil it to bouille ; then add the mulberry juice ; give them one boil, and skim them. Pour the syrup into a pan, and let it stand; when cold, bottle it. Mulberry Wine. — Take mulberries when they are just changed from their redness to shining black, gather them on a dry day, when the sun has taken off the dew, spread them thinly on a fine cloth on a floor or table for twenty-four hours, and boil up a gallon of water to each gallon of juice; skim the water well, and add a little cinnamon slightly bruised ; put to every gallon six ounces of white sugar- candy, finely beaten ; skim and strain the water when it is taken off and settled, and put to it the juice of the mulberries, and to every gallon of the mixture put a pint of white or Rhenish wine ; let them stand five or six days in a cask to settle ; then draw off the wine, and keep it cool. This is a very rich cordial. MULLET (to choose).—The sea mullets are better than the river mullets, and the red are considered better than the gray ; to be good they should be very firm. Mullet (Boiled).—Boil mullets in salt and water (a small quantity) ; when they are done, pour away part of the water, and put to the rest a pint of red wine, some salt and vinegar, two onions sliced, a bunch of sweet herbs, nutmeg, beaten mace, and the juice of a lemon; boil these well together, with two or three anchovies ; then put ia the fish ; and wdien they have simmered in it some time, put them into a dish and strain the sauce over them. Shrimps or oysters may be added. M ullet (Broiled).—Scale and clean them, and cut gashes in their sides, dip them in melted butter, and broil them at a great distance from the fire ; serve with anchovy sauce with capers, and a squeeze of Seville orange or lemon. Mullets (Fried).— Scale and clean them, pour some melted butter into a deep dish, score the mullets across the back, and dip them into the butter; then put some butter in a stewpan, clarify it, fry the mullets in- it; when they are done, lay them on a warm dish, and serve with an- chovy sauce. Mullet (Red).—Red mullet is called the sea woodcock. Clean it, but do not take out the inside; fold in oiled paper, and gently bake in a small dish. Make a sauce of the liquor which comes from the fish, adding a bit of butter, a little flour, a little essence of anchovy, and a glass of sherry. Give it a boil, and serve it in a sauce-boat, and serve the fish in the paper cases. MULLIGATAWNEY SOUP.—Slice six large onions and two heads of celery, fry them with a little butter in a stewpan till coloured, add a little basil and mago- ram, three spoonsful of curry powder and three or four quarts of good strong con- somme, or stock ; thicken it moderately with roux, and let it boil an hour gently, skim it well, and rub it through a tammy cloth, or tammy sieve; cut up a good- sized fowl or two chickens, and lightly fry them, throw them into the soup, simmer for an hour, skim, and season it with lemon juice and salt, and serve with plain boiled rice in a separate dish. MUSCADINE Ices.—Put an ounce of elder flower into a sabotiere, pour upon it about half a pint of boiling water, then put on the lid of the sabotiere , and let it draw for about half an hour, make a composition precisely as if it were a lemon ice ; to this composition add the infusion of elder flower, pass the whole through a sieve, and put it into the sabotiere to congeal. MUSCLES Fritters.*—Take them out of their shells, and after many washings, steep them for two hours in a quart of vinegar, some water, and a little butter rolled in flour, with salt, pepper, parsley, green onions, tariagon, garlic, a little acarrot and parsnip, thyme, by leaf, and