209 CUC CUL thus soaked, squeeze and put them into a stewpan with some good stock, a bunch of herbs, and a hit of butter; stew them, and, when done, add a little cullis; clear off the fat from the ragout, and serve ; or, when you have squeezed the cucumbers, put them into a stewpan with some butter, and, having turned them a few times over the fire, shake in a little flour, and moisten with stock ; when it is sufficiently done, and the sauce consumed, add the yolks of two eggs beat up with some milk, and serve them for an entremets, either under eggs, or without eggs. If you wish to make a soup of them, boil some cucumbers once up in water, and then dress them •with stock and gravy to give them a nice colour; when done, garnish the edge of your soup-dish with them, and take care of the water they were boiled in to add to the soup. Cucumdehs (Ragout of).*—Cut a num- ber of cucumbers, each in half, take out the Seed, slice them very thin, and soak them in vinegar, salt, pepper, and sliced onions. When they have laid in this a sufficient time, take them out and press them dry in a cloth ; put them into a saucepan with butter, veloute, and stock, if your ragout is white, but espagnole without butter, and nutmeg if brown; add a bunch of sweet herbs: when done, thicken it with yolks of eggs; put a little lemon juice and serve. Cucumber Salad.*—Peel and cut a cu- cumber in slices, or peel without slicing it, and let it steep for twenty-four hours in vinegar ; then when you wish to serve, drain off the vinegar, and season the cu- cumber with pepper and salt. Cucumber Sauce*—Cut four cucumbers into pieces the size of half a crown and three quarters of an inch thick ; put them into a clean cloth, and rub them well to take out the water ; put a bit of butter into a stewpan, to which put the cucumbers, and set them over a brisk fire, taking care to shake them frequently ; when they are of a good colour, put to them three large spoonsful of velouti, and two of blond; let them remain a short time on the fire. ’ Another way, brown.—Divide three good- ■fcized cucumbers into pieces nearly two inches long ; if very large, quarter each piece ; if not very large, cut them into three, peel them and neatly trim all round : take out the seeds and throw them into vinegar, water, and salt, with about a dozen button onions : in about an hour, take them out into a stewpan, and stew them as fast as possible with a small I,idle” ful of good stock, and nearly as much vinegar ; when drawn to a glaze, add cullis enough for your sauce, simmer gently, put two knobs of sugar in, and a little pepper and salt, and serve. Cucumbers (Stewed).—Slice some cu- cumbers thick, or cut them into halves and divide them into two lengths ; strew over them some salt, pepper, and sliced onions ; add a little broth, or a bit of butter. Sim- mer very slowly; and before you servo them, if no butter was in before, put some, and a little flour, unless it wants richness. Cucumber Toast*—Make a ragout of cucumbers, well thickened ; add to it the yolks of three eggs, dress them upon the crumb of bread, draw a knife dipped in a beat egg over the whole ; cover them with grated bread, and then fry them. Cucumber Vinegar.—Pare and cut in slices fifteen large cucumbers; put them into a stone jar, with three pints of vine- gar, four large onions cut in slices, three shalots, a little garlic, two large spoonsful of salt, three tea-spoonsful of pepper, and half a tea-spoonful of Cayenne pepper. After leaving it to stand four days, give the whole a boil; when cold, strain and filter the liquor through paper, and put it into small bottles, and use it for salad, or with cold meat. CULLIS.—Lay over the bottom of a Stewpan as much lean veal as will cover it an inch thick; then cover the veal with some slices of undressed bacon (gammon is the best), three onions, three bay leaves some sweet herbs, two blades of mace, and three cloves. Put on the lid of the stew- pan, and set it over a slow fire ; but when the juices come out, let the fire be a little quicker. When the meat is of a nice brown colour, fill the stewpan with good beef broth, boil and skim it, then let it simmer for three hours ; add a little butter mixed with as much flour as will make it properly thick; boil it an hour, and strain it. Cullis.*—Put some mu.rinto a saucepnn, and when it is warm, add some stock, and a bunch of parsley, young onions, and a little mace to it, stirring it with a wooden spoon ; let it boil for about an hour, takino- care to skim it. Strain it through a sieve’, take off all the fat, and the scum which lorms at the top, and then set it by ior use. J Cullis for all sorts of Butcher's Meat.~ i ou must take meat according to the number ol guests; if ten or twelve, a leg p