CIN 176 CIT add to tbe infusion a pint of water and half a pound of sugar; stir them well to- gether, and then put it into the sabotiere, and surround it with ice and salt; stir it with a Hat pewter spoon, till it begins to freeze, then put the mixture into your mould, and keep it in ice till ready to serve. Cinnamon Parfait Amour.—-For four bottles of brandy you must take four ounces of cinnamon of the best quality, thirty cloves, thirteen coriander seeds, a little salt, mixed together in brandy, let it infuse for eighteen hours; you are to take from the still as much as you can; two pounds of sugar clarified in two bottles and a half of water, with the whites of two or three eggs well beaten together, mixed with the spirit, and filtered through blotting-paper; after you have mixed the Epirit, take care to cork your bottles well. Cinnamon Pastils.— Dissolve half an ounce of gum dragon in a glass of water, and strain it through a lawn sieve into a mortar, and add to it a tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon, and a sufficient quan- tity of sifted sugar to make the paste of a proper consistence; form into such fi- gures as you may fancy, and dry them in a stove. Keep them in a dry place. Cinnamon Pastils.—Put a quarter of an ounce of gum dragon for every pound you use, into a pan, to he dissolved in a little water; when it has stood for two or three days, stir it with a spoon and strain it; put it into a mortar with the whites of a couple of eggs, and some finely-sifted cin- namon powder; sift powdered sugar into it by little and little, temper all till the paste becomes pliable. Make your pastils in what shapes you please, and dry them in a stove. Cinnamon Sweetmeats.*—Take a pound of marchpane paste, and dilute it with as many whites of eggs as will make it spread easily with a knife ; add to this, a spoon- ful or two of prepared bole ammoniac, which will give it a fine red tinge, and half an ounce of cinnamon powder. When all these ingredients are well mixed, cut some wafer paper into such forms as you may think proper, and lay on them the paste about the thickness of the eighth of an inch; place them on paper,and hake them in a moderate oven. When done, the)' may be finished in the following manner: Boil some sugar in orange-flower water to la plume, and as you take the sweetmeats from the oven, dip a hair pencil into the syrup, and brush them over; this dries almost immediately, and considerably im- proves the look of them. Cinnamon (Syrup of).*—Putfive ounces of good cinnamon into a previously-heated glass cucurbite, or any delft or earthen- ware vessel capable of resisting fire, pour into it two pounds, or a quart, of nearly boiling water, close the vessel hermeti- cally, and place it on hot ashes for twelve hours; at the end of that time draw off the infusion without expressing the cin- namon ; add to it two pounds of sugar, coarsely pounded, boil the whole to grand •perle, then take it from the fire, and when about half cold, the flavour may be im- proved by the addition of a few drops of spirit of cinnamon. Cinnamon Tincture. — Bruise three ounces of fine cinnamon, and pour on it a quart of the best brandy. Cinnamon Wafers.*-—-Pound and sift six ounces of sugar, and put it with an equal quantity of melted fresh butter, the same of flour, half an ounce of powdered cinnamon, and a small egg; stir these up in an earthenware vessel, with a sufficient quantity of milk to make it into a thin, but not too clear paste. Make an iron plate quite hot, rub it well with butter, then lay ou it a spoonful of the paste ; fry it, and when brown on both sides, roll it, still over the hot iron, round a small stick; do this until all the paste is used. Cinnamon Water.—Bruise two pounds of good cinnamon, and steep it, with half a pound of citron and orange peel, and a quarter of an ounce of coriander seeds, in three gallons of Malaga sack, for two days, then distil it. Dissolve sugar in rose water; put it to the cinnamon water, and bottle it. Cinnamonum.*—Take a quarter of a pound of cinnamon, two drachms of mace, and one ounce of stick-liquorice; bruise them well, and then put them into three quarts of the best brandy ; let the infusion stand for some days before you distil it; dissolve four pounds of sugar in three pints and a half of water; mix this syrup with the liqueur, and then strain them. This is sometimes called Oil of Cinnamon. CITRON (Candied).—Pare the citrons very thin and narrow, and throw them into water ; these are called fagots; then cut the citron into slices of any thickness you think proper ; take out the inner part with great care, so as to leave only the white ring, and put them with the fagots into boiling water; when tender, drain them. Boil a sufficient quantity of clarified sugar to soujjlc ; then put in the rings, and boil them together. Take it from the fire, and