1UB 452 IlAB care to remove all fat; take out.tho herbs, and serve. Rabbit (en Hatbeleties').— Cut up one or more rabbits, and stew them with half a glass of white wine, some stock, a bunch of herbs, salt, and coarse pepper; when done, and the snuce reduced so as to ad- here to the meat, let them cool; then put the pieces upon small skewers, wet them with an egg beat up, and grate bread over them; broil, and serve dry upon the skewers. Rabbit Loaf.*—Take a double mould, butter and fill the space round tbe smaller one, with a rabhit quenelle (see that arti- cle) ; place your mould in the bain-marie to simmer. When the jfa?-ce is sufficiently done, turn it on a dish ; take care no water- gets into it; put into the space left by the smaller mould the brains, small fillets, and and kidneys (lightly fried); mix some espagnole with half a glass of champagne and a fumet of game; reduce this, and pour it over the contents of the loaf; glaze the exterior, and serve. Rabbits (Marinade of).*—Take some cold roasted rabbits, cut them in pieoes, trim them nicely, and put them into a marinade (see that article) ; when suffi- ciently flavoured, drain them thoroughly, put the pieces into a batter, and fry them a nice colour. Serve with fried parsley. Rabbit (Minced).—Take the remains of a roasted rabhit, cut off all the meat, and mince it with a little roast mutton. Then break the bones of the rabbit into small pieces, and put them into a stewpan, with a slice of butter, some shalots, half a clove of garlic, thyme, a bay-leaf, and basil; give these a few turns over the fire, then shake in a little flour ; moisten with a glass of red wine, and the same quantity of stock, and let it boil over a slow fire for half an hour ; strain it off', and put in the minced meat, adding salt and coarse pep- per ; heat the whole, without boiling, and serve hot. Garnish with fried bread. Rabbits a la Minute.*—Cut your rabbits into pieces, wipe them perfectly dry ; put a quarter of a pound of butter into a stew- pan, set it on the fire, and when warm, put in the rabbit with a little pounded spice, salt, popper, and grated nutmeg ; let the fire bo brisk, and ns soon ns the pieces are browned, add a little shred parsley and shalots, lenve it throe or four minutes longer on the fire, and then serve. Ten or fifteen minutes are sufficient to cook this dish. Rabbit Tie.—Cut a couple of young rabbits into quarters, and bruise a quarter of a pound of bacon in a mortar, with the livers, some pepper, salt, a little mace, parsley, cut small, and a few leaves of sweet basil; when these are all beaten fine, line your pie-dish with a nice crust, then put a layer of the seasoning at the bottom of the dish, and put in the rabbits ; pound some more bacon in a mortar, mix with it some fresh butter, and cover the rabbits with it, and over that lay thin slices of bacon ; put on the cover, and place it in the oven ; it will be done in about two hours ; when baked, take off the cover, take out the bacon, and skim off the fat; and if there is not a sufficient quantity of gravy, add some rich mutton or veal gravy. Rabbit Pie (Baised).—Cut your rabbits iu pieces, and put them into a stewpan, with a bit of fresh butter, lemon juice, pepper, salt, paisley, tbyme, shalots, chop- ped very fine, and a little pounded mace. When the pieces of rabbit are about half done, lay them on a dish, and when cold, raise the crust; put light forcemeat at the bottem ; the rabbit upon it, and more force- meat upon the top. Cover it, and put it in a moderate oven to bake gently; when done, take off the cover, and add a ragout of sweetbreads, cocks’-combs, See., and serve. Rabbits (Portuguese). — Cut off the heads of a couple of rabbits, turn the backs upwards, the two legs stripped to the end, and trussed with a couple of skewers in the same manner as chickens, the wings turned like the pinions of a chicken ; lard and roast them with good gravy. If they are intended for boiling, they should not be larded, but be served with bacon and greens, or celery-sauce. Rabbits (Potted).—Take two or three young, but full-grown rabbits, cut them up, and take off" the leg bones at the thigh, season them well with pepper, mace, Cayenne, salt, and allspice, all in very- fine powder, and put them into a small pan, placing them as closely together as possible. Make the top as smooth as you can. Keep out the heads and carcasses, but take off the meat about die neck. Put plenty of butter, and let the whole bake gently. Let it remain in the pan for two days, pound it well, and then put it into small pots, adding butter. The livers should also be put in. Rabbit (Preserved).*—Having boned a rabbit, lard it with bacon and ham; season it well inside and out, roll it up. 4