coc COC 180 them in tlieir own liquor ; when the liquor settles, add a little water, if you have not enough ; strain through a cloth, then season with every savoury spice ; and if for brown sauce, add port, anchovies, and garlic— if for white, omit these, and put a glass of sherry, lemon juice and peel, mace, nut- meg, and white pepper. If for brown, burn a bit of sugar for colouring. Cockles [Pickled).—Boil two quarts of cockles in their own liquor for half an hour, skimming them well; then take out the cockles, strain the liquor through a cloth ; take a pint of it, and add to it three quar- ters of an ounce of mace and half an ounce of cloves; boil these together once, and then put it to the cockles and remaining liquor, and stir it well; add to this a spoonful of salt, three quarters of a pint of white wine vinegar, and a quarter of an ounce of whole pepper, and let it stand. When cold, put the cockles in small barrels or jars, as close as they will lay ; pour in on them as much liquor as you possibly can, and as it soaks in put in more. Cover them very close. They may be soon eaten. Cockle Sauce.—Scald the cockles in tlieir own liquor, and when the liquor settles, add a little water if necessary; strain, and season with all sorts of spices ; and for brown sauce putin a little port wine, garlic, and an anchovy ; but if the sauce is to be white, then, instead of these latter ingre- dients, use sherry, lemon juice, mace, nutmeg, white pepper, and lemon peel. Cockle sauce is also made in the same way as oyster sauce. COCKS’ Cumhs and Kidneys in Aspic.*— Place an aspic mould in a vessel full of pounded ice ; pour into this mould some aspic (about an inch thick), and ornament it according to your fancy, with truffles, the whites of hard eggs, gherkins, crayfish tails, and cocks’ kidneys; when that is done, pour in a little more aspic, taking care not to derange the ornaments ; as soon as it is set, fill up your mould with the cocks’ combs and kidneys, leaving a small space at the top, which fill up with the aspic. When wanted for table, dip the mould into warm water an instant, and then turn it out; through a reed, blow away whatever pieces of the jelly may re- main about the dish, dry it, and serve with the sauce of a chicken fricassee reduced to a jelly, and thickened with the yolks of four eg":s’; strain it, and add a dozen champig- nons, trimmed and done up in butter and lemon juice. Small moulds may be used instend of this large one. Cocks’ Combs [Farced).—Make a force- meat as follows : Chop up some beef mar- row, bacon, and the white parts of a fowl, and pound them in a mortar with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and the yolk of an egg well beaten. Then, having parboiled the cocks’ combs, open them at the largest end, and fill them with the forcemeat. Stew them gently for half an hour in rich gravy, to which add the yolk of an egg well beaten in gravy, some salt, and fresh or pickled mushrooms, or both, if you think proper. Cocks’ Combs [to force).—Parboil some cocks’ combs, then open them with the point of a small knife at the great end; take the white of a fowl, as much bacon and beef marrow, cut these small, and beat them fine in a marble mortar : season them with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and mix it with an egg ; fill the cocks’ combs and stew them in a little strong gravy gently for half an hour ; then slice in some fresh mushrooms and a few pickled ones ; then beat up the yolk of an egg in a little gravy, stirring it; season with salt. When they are done enough, dish them in little dishes or plates. Cocks’ Combs [Fricassee of).—Put a slice of ham into a stewpan, with mushrooms, sweet herbs, cloves, a bay leaf, thyme, and butter; when they have soaked together a short time, add a little flour and some broth, and then strain it. In the mean time, scald the cocks’ combs, and boil them in broth, with a few slices of lemon ; put them into the above sauce, and thicken it with cream and yolks of eggs ; flavour it with pepper, salt, and lemon juice, and serve it with any sauce you please. Gar- nish your dish with forcemeat balls, hard eggs, or small onions. Cocks’ Combs [Pickled).—Scald the cocks’ combs, hike off the skins, and stew them for half an hour in white-wine vine- gar, with cloves, mace, allspice, whole pepper, bay leaves and bay salt; then put them in a jar, and when cold cover them with mutton suet, and tie them tight over. When they are wanted take them out of the pickle, and la}- them in warm water for an hour. Cocks’ Combs [to preserve).—Let them be well cleaned, then put them into a pot with some melted bacon, and boil them a little ; about half an hour after, add a little bay salt, some pepper, a little vinegar, a lemon sliced, and an onion stuck with cloves. When the bacon begins to stick to the pot, take them up, put them into the