395 PAR PAR very hot, put in the parsley ; stir it about with a cullender-spoon for a minute ; then spread it out on a sheet of paper; this is generally used for croquettes, or fried fish. Parsley, Green (Extract of.) — Take about two handsful of fresh double parsley, wash and pick it. then put it in a mortar, and having pounded it until you can ob- tain no more moisture, press the juice through a cloth into a stewpan, set it in a bain-marie to keep it hot without boiling. When you find it poached, place it on a tammy to drain. This green is used for entries and sauces, as it not only colours them, hut imparts an agreeable flavour. Parsley Pie.—Season a fowl, or a few bones of a scrag of veal, lay it in a dish ; scald a cullenderful of picked parsley in milk ; season it, and add it to the meat or fowl, with a tea-cupful of any sort of good broth, or meat gravy. When it is baked, pour into it a quarter of a pint of cream, scalded, with a bit of butter the size of a walnut, and a little flour. Shake it round, to mix with the gravy already in. Lettuces, white mustard leaves, or spinach, may be added to the parslev, and scalded before put in. Parsley Sauce.—Take a handful of parsley, and having washed and picked, pound it well; put it into a stewpan, with some good cullis, set it on the fire, and let it simmer a quarter of an hour, then strain it; add a bit of butter rolled in flour, a liaison, and a little lemon-juice. Parsley Sauce, when Parsley leaves can- not be obtained.—Tie a little parsley seed up in a bit of muslin, and boil it in water for ten minutes. Make use of this water in melting- the butter, and throw into it a little boiled spinach minced, to have the appearance of parsley. PARSNIPS [Boiled.)—Let them boil in plenty of water, with salt, till tender, then serve them on a dish by themselves ; or, when boiled, cut them in slices, and toss them up in a good bit of butter; they are generally eaten with salt fish. Parsnip Wine*—To every fourpounds of pnrnips, cleaned and quartered, put one gallon of water; boil them till quite ten- der ; drain them through a sieve, but do not bruise them, as no remedy would clear them afterwards ; pour the liquor into a tub, and to each gallon add three pounds of loaf sugar, and half an ounce of crude tartar ; when coolled to the temperature of seventy-five degrees, put in a little new yeast, let it stand four days in a warm room, then turn it. The mixture should, if possible, be fermented in a temperature of sixty degrees ; when the fermentation has subsided, bung down the cask, and let it stand at least twelve months before bottling. March and September are the best seasons for making it. It only re- quires to be kept a few years to render it superior to all other made wines, in the same degree as East India Madeira sur- passes Cape. PARTRIDGES (to choose).— When they are young the bill is of a dark colour, and their legs are of a yellowish colour ; and when fresh, the vent is firm, but this part will look greenish when stale. The plu- mage on the breast of the hen is light, that on the cock is tinged with red. Partridges a la Allemande.—Take two partridges that have hung for some time, cut ofi’ all the meat, remove all the skin, nerves, &c., and pound the rest with half a pound of butter, some crumbs soaked in boiling cream, and two eggs; season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Make the above into balls, about as big as marbles ; place them on a dish for table, pour over them a sauce, composed of the bones of the par- tridges, boiledin consommi, thickened with the yolks of six eggs, and strained. Set the dish in a bain-marie till the balls swell, and are sufficiently done. Partridges a, I’Anglaise.* —Make a farce with the livers of three partridges, a little butter, and some pepper, with which fill your birds, roast them about three parts, then put them into a stewpan ; raise each joint (but do not divide them entirely from the body); put between every part a little butter, worked up with bread crumbs, shred shalots, parsley, and scallions, salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; dilute with a glass of Champagne, and two spoonsful of con- somme ; stew them till quite done, squeeze over the juice of two Seville oranges, add a little of their peel, grated, and serve them. Partridges (Boudins of). — Having made the boudins of quenelles ofpartridges, put them, with a little salt, into a well buttered stewpan, cover them with boiling water; poach, and then drain them ; when cold, dip them into an omelet, then into crumbs of bread, and fry them ; drain the boudins thoroughly, and serve with an Italienne. These boudins may also bo broiled, in lvhich case they should be dipped in yolks of eggs, rolled in broad crumbs, then im- mersed in warmed butter, breaded again, and then broiled slowly.