BEE 60 BEE juice; put in the mince, lay it inside the beef, and cover the skin over. Serve it up hot with a strong gravy. Beef (small Sirloin of) Ragout*—Braise a bit of sirloin, larded with large lardons in broth, and a pint of white wine : add a faggot of sweet herbs, onions, and roots. When done, take it out, and serve it with a ragout of sweetbreads, of mushrooms, or any other kind of ragout. Beef Slcirts.—Beef skirts eat well broiled ; they also make a most excellent pie. Take all the skin off. Beef smoked a la Hambourg*—Take a rump of beef, put it into a pan with juniper berries, thyme, basil, clove of garlic, bay leaf, cloves, and onions cut in slices. Cover your pan very carefully, so as to exclude all air : turn your meat every two or three days: at the end of a fortnight take it out, and, after ’having washed it in several waters, drain it for four-and-twenty hours; then wrap it in a clean cloth, and put it in a saucepan and let it stew for seven or eight hours ; take it out and let it drain, and serve it cold the same as a ham. Beef Soup.*—Take a shin or leg of beef, cut it in pieces, with six onions, two carrots, celery, leeks, two turnips, a bundle of sweet herbs, black pepper, and allspice to your taste; put all this, with the beef, into a stewpan, with a little water, over a brisk fire till it has drawn down to a glaze, but not to burn; then pour over it four quarts of boiling water; let it stew till the meat is tender ; when the beef is tender enough, take out all the best parts and let the rest stew with the herbs until quite a rag, then strain all off", and add some herbs as the former, stewed in a pan by themselves with a little water; the carrots, &c. must be cut about an inch long; the water they are stewed in may be put into the soup ; then let your beef and all be stewed together; but it must not boil quite; and be nicely skimmed: be sure to keep it clear. Beef Soused.—Take either buttock, chuck, or brisket of beef, season with salt and pepper for four days, then roll them up as even as you can, tie a cloth fast about it, and boil it in water and salt till it be tender, then souse it in water and vinegar, and a little white wine and salt; put it into a hook frame to form it round and upright; then dry it in some smoky place, or in the air. When you wish to use it, cut it out in slices, and serve it with sugar and mustard. Beef, Spring Garden.—Cut a slice of lean beef into thin slices like Scotch collops, lard it thick with bacon, and put it into a pan with salt, pepper, mace, two or three bay leaves, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; bake it; then clear out all the gravy, and fill it up with clarified butter. Beef Steaks d la Bourgeoise.—Lard the steaks here and there with large lardons; put them into the pan with chopped par- sley, shalots, thyme, laurel, salt, whole pepper, and a glass of white wine ; let them soak two hours, then simmer them till done. You may serve them either hot or cold. Beef Steaks broiled*—Cut your steaks rather thick, beat them well, and marinate them in oil or vinegar with a little fine salt; then broil them on a gridiron over a clear, quick fire; but before you broil your steaks make a preparation with some fresh butter, salt, and parsley chopped fine, mixed together with the juice of a lemon; put this preparation into a dish made very hot, and serve your steaks upon it. You may garnish with fried slices of potatoe, slices of pickled cucumber, and cresses ; some make use of Reading sauce instead of the parsley. Beef Steaks broiled.—The best steaks are cut from the middle of the rump ; let them be cut half an inch thick, then beat with a flatter, season them with pepper and salt; let the fire be very brisk and clear, the gridiron very clean ; set the dish before the fire upon a chafing-dish to keep hot; turn the steaks often with a pair of small tongs made on purpose; when they are done enough, lay them in the dish, and rub a bit of butter over them. Be sure not to season them till they are put upon the gridiron, as it draws the gravy. Beef Steaks broiled, a l'Anglaise*— Prepare your steaks the same ns for Steaks saute au Vin de Madere, then rub them with pepper and salt; dip them in melted butter, and then with bread crumbs; broil them, and serve with a maitre d'hotel. Beef Steaks fried.—Pepper and salt some rump steaks, stew them with some water, a glass of Madeira, a bunch of sweet herbs, an anchovy or two, an onion, a piece of lemon peel, and two or three cloves ; cover them close ; when tender, take them out, flour them pretty well, fry them, pour off the fat, strain the liquor that they were stewed in, put it to the steaks, with cat- sup or mushroom powder and liquor.