255 FLO FLU and serve them with an Italienne maigre, capers, or any other sauce you may think proper to use. Flounders (Broiled).*—Steep your fish in oil mixed with pepper, parsley, and young onions, all carefully taken out before the fish is served ; whilst broiling- baste with the marinade, that is, the oil and herbs, and serve with whatever sauce you think proper. Flounders ( Fricasseed ). — Carefully clean the fish, and take off the black skin, but not the white; cut the flesh from the bones into long slices, and dip them in yolk of egg ; strew them over with bread raspings, and fry them in clarified butter; when they are sufficiently done, lay them on a plate, and keep them hot. For sauce, take the bones of the fish, boil them in water ; then put in an anchovy, some thyme, parsley, a little pepper, salt, cloves, and mace; let these simmer till the anchovy is dissolved; then take the butter the fish was fried in, put it into a pan oyer the fire, shake some flour into it, and keep it stirring whilst the flour is shaking in; then strain the liquor into it, and boil it till it becomes thick ; squeeze some lemon juice into it; place the fish in a dish, and pour the sauce over them. Flounders (Fried).—Well rub them in- side and out with salt, then let them lie for two hours, to give them some firmness. Dip them into egg, cover them with crumbs, and fry them a nice brown. Flounder Pie. — Thoroughly clean some flounders, dry them in a cloth, just boil them, cut off the flesh close to the bone, lay a good crust over the dish, and lay a little butter at the bottom; then put in the fish; season with pepper and salt to your palate ; boil the bones in the water the fish was boiled in, with a little bit of horseradish, a little parsley, a very small piece of lemon peel, and a crust of bread; boil it till there is just liquor enough for the pie, then strain it, and put it into the dish; put on the top, and let it bake. ■ Flounders [Stewed).—Take some floun- ders and fry them of a nice brown; then take them up, and add to the butter they were fried in, a sufficient quantity of water to make sauce for the fish that are done; to a quart of water two anchovies and an onion i cut in slices, a spoonful of ketchup, and two spoonsful of red wine ; let it simmer ia quarter of an hour; then put it to the fish, and let them stew gently a quarter of p hour; then take them out, put them ' into a warm dish, and thicken the sauce, with butter and flour; give it a boil, and strain it off; pour it over the fish. FLOWERS in Sugar.—Clarify sugar to a caramel height, which may be known by dipping in a fork, and if it throws the su- gar as fine as threads, put in the flowers. Have ready some tea-cups, with the in- sides rubbed with sweet oil; put into each cup four table-spoonsful of the sugar and flowers, and when cold turn them out of the cups, and serve them to table piled one upon another. FLUMMERY. — Steep three large handsful of very small white oatmeal a day and night in cold water; then pour it off clear, add as much more water, and let it stand another day and a night. Then strain it through a fine hair sieve, and boil ittilljit is of the consistence of hasty pudding, keep- ing it well stirred all the time it is boiling. When first strained, put to it one large spoonful of white sugar, and two of orange-flower water. Pour it into shallow dishes, and serve to eat with wine, cider, milk or cream, and sugar. Flummery [Dutch).—Boil very gently for half an hour two ounces of isinglass in three half pints of water; add a pint of white wine, the juice of three lemons and the thin rind of one, and rub a fen- lumps of sugar on another to obtain the essence, and with them add as much more sugar as will make it sufficiently sweet; and hav- ing beaten up the yolks of seven eggs, give them and the above, when mixed, one scald ; stir all the time, and pour the whole into a basin; stir it till it is half cold ; then let it settle, and put it into a melon shape. Flummery [French).—Beat an ounce of isinglass fine, put it into a quart of cream, and boil it gently for a quarter of an hour, keeping it stirring all the time. Then take it off, sweeten it with fine powder sugar, putin a spoonful of rose and another of orange-flower water, strain it through a sieve, and stir it till half cold. Put it into a mould or basin, and when cold, turn it into a dish, and garnish with cur- rant jelly. 1' lummery [Oatmeal).—Boil four quarts of water ; when it is rather warmer than milk from the cow, put to it two quarts of oatmeal just cracked; when it has stood till sour, pour off the water, wash the flour out well through a sieve, with three quarts of fresh water; let this stand twenty-four hours, then pour the water clear off, leaving tile thick ; to one cup of which measure three of milk; set it over the fire, stirring