DUC DUC 227 which must he tinged as follows: Red, blue, yellow, and green (the fifth left white), with the usual colouring materials. Before, however, they are coloured, add to each piece, a pound and a half of double- refined sugar, sifted, dipping the paste in water occasionally, to enable it to receive the additional quantity of sugar. When you mix in the colouring materials, add also a corresponding perfume: as, to the fed, rose water, and a few drops of essence of roses; to the blue, oil of violets; to the yellow, essence of cedar; to the green, essence of bergamot; and with the white, mix a little orange-flower water, and some drops of essence of Neroli. Your paste being thus prepared, form it of whatever little ornaments you please, such as eggs, balls, turnips (adding green leaves to these), &c., of the white; of the yellow, apricots, pears, carrots, &c.; plums, &c., of the blue; and so on; rolling them in your hands to smooth them, and make them all quite small ; to those which imitate fruits, add tails and tops, cut from cherry stalks, and stuck on whilst the paste is damp ; and with a hair pencil, dipped in powdered cinnabar, tinge the pears, apples, and apricots, slightly breathing on them to moisten the surface. When all are done, put them into paper cases, and set them in a warm place for several days, to dry. DUCK en Aiguillettes*—When the duck is about three parts done, according to the directions for duck poe/e, drain and place it on the dish; then make eight incisions on the breast, four on each side; take a tea-spoonful of slialots shred fine, put them into a stewpan with two ladles- tul of blond, pepper, nutmeg, and salt, boil them together a little while, add the juice of two lemons, and pour this sauce on the breast, so that it may flow into the incisions. Duck (Fillets of) en Allumettes.*—Cut the meat off a roasted duck, into long fil- lets, dip them in good batter, and fry them in fresh butter of a good colour ; as soon as they are done, strew over them some fine salt, and having fried some chervil for five minutes in the same pan, lay it in a dish, with the fillets on it, arranged like bundles of matches. Duck (Boiled).—Take a nice fat duck; salt it two days, then let it boil slowly in a cloth. Servo it with onion sauce, but melt the butter with milk, instead of water. Duck (Boiled) d la Franc.aise,—Put two dozen of roasted chestnuts into a pint of rich beef gravy, with a few leaves of thyme, two small onions, if agreeable, a little whole pepper, and a bit of ginger; then take a tame duck, lard it, and halt' roast it; put it into the gravy, and let it stew for ten minutes; put in a quarter of a pint of red wine ; when the duck is done enough take it out, boil up the gravy to a proper thickness; skim off the fat, lay the duck in a dish, and pour the sauce over it. Ducks (Braised).*—Lard two young ducks, and place them in a braising-pan with a slice of ham, onions, salt, pepper, a bay leaf, and a glass of stock; close the pan, and let it stand over a gentle fire till done; serve them with their own liquor. Morels, capers, and artichoke bottoms may be added, they must be cooked separately in consomme or veal gravy. Duck a la Bruxelles.* — Cut a ' veal sweetbread and some streaked bacon into dice, and mix them with some mushrooms, green onions, parsley, and two shalots, all shred fine, some salt, and whole pepper; put the whole into the inside of the duck; sew it up to prevent any from falling out, and stew the duck, with a thin slice of bacon on its breast, with a large glass of white wine, as much stock, two onions, a carrot, half a parsnip, and a bundle of sweet herbs. When done, strain off the sauce, skim, and add a little cullis to thicken it. Ducks (to choose).—Their feet should be supple, and they should be hard and thick on the breast and belly. The feet of a tame duck are thick, and inclining to a dusky yellow. The feet of a wild duck are reddish, and smaller than the tame; they should be picked dry. Ducklings should be scalded. Duck (Cullis of).—Roast a duck, and then pound it in a mortar; then fry some rashers of bacon to a nice brown, and put them into a stewpan with a handful of lentils, a clove of garlic, a few cloves, and some savory, let them all stew together; when they have stewed some time, pound them with the meat of the duck, and toss them up in a pan with melted lard; putin some veal gravy to give it a pale colour, and strain it. DUCKLINGS d la Carmelite.*—Lard the fleshy parts of a couple of young ducks, and put them into a stewpan witli equal quantities of broth and white wine, a little coriander seed, a slice or two of lemon, mid some truffles; cover your pan,