BEE 46 13EC adding four spoonsful of cream, a piece of butter the size of an egg ; mash all together well, and when quite thick, put it into a dish with the ragout of French beans round. Beans (French) Ragout, with Potatoes. —Boil two pounds of potatoes thoroughly, peel, and put them into a saucepan with half a pint of milk, a little salt, and a quarter of a pound of butter; stir it con- stantly; when it becomes so thick that the spoon will hardly move, butter an earthen dish, and put in the potatoes ; flour, and pour melted butter and bread crumbs over; set it in a Dutch oven, and when brown, place it in a dish very carefully, and serve with the ragout of beans round it. Beans (French) Salad,.* — Boil them simply, drain, and let them cool; put them in a dish, and garnish with parsley, pimpernel, and tarragon. Dress like other salads. Beans (French) with Wine*—Brown some sliced onions in butter; and mixwith them some French beans, boiled and drained as usual, add wine, and season them with pepper and salt. Beans (Garden) preserved.*—Shell the beans when they are about half an inch long, and blanch them, put them into bot- tles with a bunch of savory in each, close the bottles hermetically, and proceed ac- cording to the directions for preserving asparagus. Leave them in the bain-marie one hour and a half. If you wish to pre- serve them in their coats, take care to put them into bottles the moment they are shelled, as they change colour so quickly. An hour in tire bain-marie is sufficient for these. Bean (green) Ptidding. — Boil and blanch old beans, beat them in a mortar, with very little pepper and salt, some cream, and the yolk of an egg. A little spinach juice to colour it. Boil, in a basin that will just hold it, an hour; pour par- sley and butter over. Serve bacon to eat with it. Beans (White Kidney) with Gravy.*— Boil and drain your beans ; make a light roux, and mix it with some gravy, salt, pepper, and a little vinegar; throw the beans into the sauce, and serve hot. BECCAFICOS*—Those birds are roasted, covered with bacon, and toast put under. Baste, while roasting, with lard, and serve with a sprinkling of lemon or verjuice. BECHAMELLE* — Reduce somo sauce tournee over a good fire, moisten with comommi, constantly stirring to pre- vent its catching; when of the proper con- sistence, add two glasses of boiling cream, continue stirring; pass it through a hair sieve, and serve. Bechamelee Cake.—Boil a pint of cream with a few pounded sweet almonds and a little coriander seed, then strain it; use to it about a pound of flour, three eggs, and about as much butter as will make it into a paste, finish like all other paste, and make into cakes, what shape or size you please. Bechamelee, Petits Pdtes of*—Roll out some puff paste, and line with it some small custard moulds, fill them up with paste, and bake in a hot oven; then roll out some more paste for the lids, and with a paste-cutter, rather larger than your moulds, cut out an equal number of pieces, dorez them, put a little lozenge on the top of each, and bake them. When these are done, take the croustades, trim and dorez them lightly, and having dried them in the oven, fill them with your preparation that has previously been moistened with be- chamelle. Bf.chamei.ee Sauce.*—Put into a stew- pan some veal and ham cut into dice, carrots, cloves, onions, shalots, parsley, and scallions, all cut small; pepper, grat- ed nutmeg, a little salt and butter, veloutd and cimsommc. Reduce it to half, and then put in some cream: mix it well with your sauce. Boil all together over a quick fire, stirring it constantly; if thick enough, strain it through a sieve. BEEF.*—To secure prime beef or any other butchers’ meet of superior quality, for the larder, it is indispensable to deal with a reputable butcher, as he will neither pur- chase nor kill inferior stock. Certain economical caterers, however, will not con- fine themselves to any particular trades- man. To such it is recommended to bear their wits about them to the shambles, for that shopkeeper that cannot secure a con- stant customer, according to the moral usages of a market is less regardless of his reputation, and there is a general feeling of exultation amongst the shopkeepers in a market-place, when one of these shamble- hunting providers gets himself outwitted. He must be cunning indeed who is a match for the market-folks. The vigilance of three senses is neces- sary to these perambulating purveyors, the sight, the touch, and the smell; al- though the skilful provider will depend alone upon the eye, as prime meat bears its sterling character on the surface, 1