ALM ALM 7 moderate. If you bake them immediately after putting on the glaze, it wrinkles and shrivels up, which spoils their appearance, as they ought to he quite smooth and even ; the calces also require considerable care in the halting; they should he slight- ly coloured on the top and the lower part reddish. Almond (bitter') Gcnoises.*— Blanch two ounces four drachms of sweet, and two ounces and a half of hitter almonds, pound them to a paste and then put them into the following preparation: Blanch and pound four ounces of sweet almonds, and when perfectly smooth mix them in an earthen pan with six ounces of flour, the same of powder sugar, six yolks and two whole eggs, a spoonful of brandy and a grain of salt. Stir the whole for six mi- nutes, then add six ounces of butter slightly warmed hut not melted ; work the butter well into the paste for four or five minutes. Butter two moulds, or pa- per cases, about nine or ten inches square, pour in your preparation, smooth it with the blade of a knife, and then put them to hake in a moderate oven, first strewing on them four ounces of sweet almonds minced and mixed with two ounces of powder sugar, and a little white of egg. When done, cut them into all possible forms, then replace them into the oven to dry; when brittle, take them out, let them cool, and decorate them to your fancy. Almond (brown) Gingerbread.—Beat a quarter of a pound of blanched almonds with thin gum water, a few drops of le- mon juice, a little powdered cinnamon, and some ginger finely grated and seered to give it a brown colour; sweeten and smooth it well, roll it out thin, and cut it into squares; dry it in a stove or before the fire. Almonds, Grillage of.*—Blanch half a pound of almonds, cut them into four or five slips, lengthwise, pralinez them with three-eighths of a pound of sugar, sand them -when they begin to crackle ; then put them on the fire again till they are well mixed together and form a mass, which put on wafer paper lightly oiled, lay it fiat, strew over it cinnamon, sugar, plain or white nonpareils, and then cut it in pieces. Almonds, Grillage of* — Blanch a pound of sweet almonds, cut them into four pieces longwise; put them on the fire in a deep wide pan, with four ounces of water, and a pound of sugar ; when the almonds crackle, take them from the fire and with a wooden spoon, stir them about to cover them well; add some lemon peel grated; cover the fire and put the pan on again, stirring the almonds constantly until they have taken the ca- ramel colour ; then place a layer of non- pareil on a dish, spread over it a layer of the grillage, then the nonpareil and gril- lage alternately, until all your preparation is used : dry it then in a-stove. Almond Hog’s Pudding.—Chop fine a pound of beef marrow; blanch and beat fine a pound of sweet almonds with a lit- tle orange flower or rose water ; grate fine half a pound of white bread, wash and pick half a pound of currants, a quarter of a pound of sugar, equal quantities of mace, nutmeg, and cinnamon, making altogether a quarter of an ounce, and half a pint of sack or mountain wine. Mix all well together, with half a pint of good cream and the yolks of four eggs. Fill the guts half full, tie them up and boil them for a quarter of an hour, prick them as they boil to keep the guts from bursting. The cur- rants maybe left out, in which case aquarter of a pound more sugar must be added. Almond Icing for Bride Cuke.—The whites of six eggs, a pound and a half of double-refiued sugar, a pound of Jordnn almonds blanched and pounded with a little rose water; mix altogether and whisk it well for an horn- or two, lay it over the cake and put it in the oven. Almond Knots.—Take two pounds of almonds, and blanch them in hot water; beat them in a mortar, to a very fine paste, with rose water, be careful to keep them, from oiling. Take a pound of double-re- fined sugar, sifted through a lawn sieve, leave out some to make up the knots, put the rest in a pan upon the fire, till it is scalding hot, at the same time have the almonds scalding hot in another pan ; then mix them together with the whites of three eggs beaten to froth, nnd let it stand until it is cold ; then roll it with some of the sugar left out for that purpose, and lay them in platters of paper. They will not roll into shape, therefore lay them ns well as may be, and bake them in a slow oven. Almond ( Bitter) Macaroons.*—Take a pound of bitter almonds, rub them well in a clean cloth, and beat them to a paste with the whites of three or four eggs ; then put them into an earthen pan with three pounds of powder sugar, mix them together well, nnd if the paste should ho too dry, moisten it with white of egg. Drop it on sheets of paper in lumps about