ALM 10 ALM tender, press it through a tammy as for furie, and put it again on hot uslies to keep it hot. Whip up sixteen whites of eggs to a strong froth, and when pretty firm, take your rice cream from the fire and stir into it the sixteen yolks ; this mixture should be of the consistence of creme patissitre, if it be thicker, dilute it with a little liquid whipped cream. Take at first a quarter of the whipped eggs, stir it as lightly as possible, then, by degrees, mix y1 the rest. Have ready a croustude eleven inches in diameter, and three inches and three quarters high, but very thin ; wrap round this three sheets of buttered paper, and bake it; when your preparation is thoroughly amalgamated, pour it into the croustude, and bake for about one hour and a half in a moderate oven. When nearly ready to serve, place hot cinders on a large baking-plate, take the soujjld from the oven, put it on them, and while there cover it with powder sugar, and glaze it with the salamander. Carry it to the dining-room as quick as possible, remove it carefully from the cinders, and place it in the dish with a napkin underneath, take away the buttered papers, and the souffle is then ready, Almond Milk Soup.*—Take half a pound of sweet almonds, put them on the fire with some water until near boiling', then blanch and throw them into fresh water ; drain and pound them. Boil a pint of water, a little sugar, salt, cinnamon, cori- ander, and lemon peel, for a quarter of an hour, and rub the almonds through a sieve to this. Lay some slices of toasted bread in a dish, and pour the milk of almonds on it, as hot as possible without boiling. Almond (yellow) Sweetmeats.*—Blanch a pound of sweet almonds, wash them in cold water, and when quite dry, pound them with a sufficient quantity of yolks of eggs, into a fine but rather stiff paste: add to them a pound of powdered sugar and the rinds of two lemons grated ; knead the paste well with your hands, first sprinkling the table with sugar. Form the paste into what figures you please, such as fleur-de-lis, trefoil, &c., each being about the size and weight of a macaroon. Place them on white paper and on an iron plate, fry them in a mo- derately hot stove. If they are of a deep yellow, they are sufficiently done.—These sweetmeats may be still further orna- mented in the following manner: Boil some sugnr in orange-flower water to the degree called grande plume, and ns soon as the sweetmeats are taken from the stove or oven, wash them over with a light brush dipped in the syrup ; this will give them a delicious perfume, and they may then be called a la glace. When cold, take them from the paper and put them into glasses for the table. Almonds a la Terra Alicante (Spanish).* —Clarify honey, and stir into it as many blanched almonds as you can entangle. Leave it to cool. This makes a pretty crystalline ornament for the dessert; it is also called Rock of Gibraltar. Almond Tumbles.—Blanch and pound three ounces of almonds very fine, when almost beaten enough, take the white of an egg beaten to froth, one pound of double- refined sugar well beaten, and put it in by degrees, working it into a paste with your hands; roll it out and bake it on buttered plates in a hot oven. Almond Wafers.*—Take a pound of sweet almonds, blanch and pound them, add a pound of powder sugar, a pinch of orange flowers pralinte, put them into a basin, and moisten them with a sufficient quantity of whites of eggs to enable you to spread the paste on wafer paper with the blade of a knife (the wafer paper must be rubbed with virgin wax and sweet oil) ; lay the preparation on as thin as possible ; chop some sweet almonds very small, mix them with sugar, and strew them over the wafers, and put them into a hot oven; when about half baked, take them out and cut them in squares ; replace them a minute in the oven, take them out again, and press them on a stick to give them the proper form; as soon as they are cold, put them on a sieve. J ust before they are served they should be slightly wanned. Almond (green) Compote of*—Take the peel very carefully from your almonds, and put them with water on the fire till they are tender ; then take them off and add a little more water ; when nearly cold put them on the fire again, but do not let them boil; as soon as you find the head of a pin will penetmte easily, they are then suffi- ciently done, and may be thrown into cold water; and when the fruit is quite cold drain them. In the mean time put some clarified sugar on the fire, and when it boils put in the alinonds ; boil them in the sugar about twenty times, then remove them, and let the almonds stand to take the sugar: in about two hours time put them on the fire again, and boil them up a dozen times; after which, take them off, skim, and let them cool. When quite cool