267 FRU FRO Fritters (Spanish).—Cut the crumb of a French roll into lengths, about the thick- ness of your finger, in whatever shape you please; soak it in some cream, nutmeg, sugar, pounded cinnamon, and an egg. When thoroughly soaked, fry of a nice brown, and serve with butter, wine, and sugar sauce. Fritters en Surprise* — Take eight middling-sized apples, pare, and leave on the stalks; cut off about a fourth part of the stalk end of each apple, and scoop out the inside of each piece, so as to form a sort of a cup with a lid ; put them to soak for two hours in a glass of brandy with a little lemon peel and cinnamon; at the end of that time take them out, drain, and fill each apple with apricot marmalade, or frangipane ; mix up a little flour and white of egg to cement the tops of the apples to the other parts ; dip them in batter and fry them. When they are of a proper colour, glaze and serve them. Fritters [Syringed).*—Make a rather Stiff batter with some flour, a glass of water, and half a pound of butter; then put it into a mortar and pound it, adding a small quan- tity of orange flowers, grated lemon peel, sweet and bitter almonds (also pounded) ; dilute the whole with as many yolks of eggs as will make the batter flow easily. Pour this preparation into a syringe, the end of which is pierced according to your fancy; force the preparation through, and fry them in the usual manner. FROMAGES Bavarois.—As all theyTo- mages so nearly resemble each other in the manner of making them, it will only be necessary to give one or two recipes of them. Take sufficient quantity of such fruit as you intend making your fromage of, such as strawberries, raspberries, or apricots, &c.; make them into a pur£e, whisk a pint of cream quite thick, and mix the fruit with it, add a little pounded sugar, and sometimes the juice of a lemon if too flat in taste; mix in quickly a little melted isinglass, whisk it well over ice, when nearly stiff pour it into the mould, and set it in ice ready for use. Instead of a puree of fruit for your fromage, you may use liqueurs, or decoctions and infusions of such as chocolate, coffee, tea, vanilla, or orange flower, and proceed as in the above xecipe. Froth to put on Cream, Custard, nr Trifle. —Sweeten half a pound of the .pulp of damsons, or any other sort of scalded fruit; put to it the whites of four eggs beaten, and beat the pulp with them till^it will stand as high as you wish, and being' put on the cream, &c. with a spoon, it will take any form; it should be rough, to imitate a rock. FRUIT Biscuits.—To the pulp of any scalded fruit, put an equal quantity of sugar sifted, beat it two hours ; then put it into little white paper forms; dry them in a cool oven, turu them the next day, and in two or three days box them. Fruit [to prepare) for Brandy*—Take the proposed quantity of fruit, gathered before they are perfectly ripe; dry them carefully, prick and put them into cold water; when all in, set the vessel over a moderate fire, keeping the water, however, constantly nearly boiling, until the fruit will give to the touch; then throw them, with great care, into cold water again; drain away this water, and add fresh; change the water twice more within a quarter of an hour, after which, drain them for the last time, and put them in bottles ; if any of the fruit is the least broken or bruised it must be put aside, as it would spoil the rest. In the mean while, take a proper quan- tity of sugar (as a pound and a half for twenty-five peaches) ; clarify and boil it to la nappe; measure, and put double its quantity of good brandy; mix and pour them into a glazed pan ; let them stand awhile, and then pour the mixture on the fruit. Fruit [Candied).—It must first be pre- served, then dipped in warm water, dried with a cloth, and strewed all over with sifted sugar, and dried in a stove or oven, turning as occasion requires. Fruit [Candied). — When the fruit is preserved, dry it in a stove till the syrup is quite out, dip it into syrup boiled to candy height, and dry it again. All dried and candied fruit must be kept in a very dry place. Fruit [Dried) au Caramel* — Cut a number of osier twigs to about three inches in length, and on the end of each, place a dry preserved fruit; then take a small piece of butter, which must be perfectly free from either salt or water, as otherwise it will adhere to the marble slab, on which it must be rubbed with the palm of the hand all over. I ho preparations properly performed, take some clarified sugar, the quantity must be in proportion to the fruit, and boil it to caramel; then take an osier twig in each hand, dip the fruit into the sugar, turn them round several times that the sugar may adliero on all sides. When the cara- mel, begins to cool, lay the fruit on the but-