366 MUT MUT about a quarter of a pint of water or stock (stock is the best), some salt and pepper; put the meat into the sauce, and set it in an oven. When the meat is done, strain the sauce through a sieve, and slcirn it, squeezing the vegetables so as to make a puree to thicken your sauce: serve the sauce with the meat. Mutton (Shoulder of) broiled. — Take a shoulder of mutton that has liuug some days, lard and braise it with the usual seasoning; when nearly done, take it out, mix some sweet herbs shred small, with grated bread; cover your mutton with this, lay it on the gridiron, and broil it slowly, moistening it occasionally, with a little of the braise liquor. When quite done, dish it, serve with a cullis and vine- gar, or verjuice. Mutton (Shoulder of) a la Mdndhoulde.* —Stew a shoulder of mutton with a little stock, a bunch of parsley, and young onions, a clove of garlic, a bay leaf, some thyme, basil, onions, carrots, pepper and salt; as soon as the mutton is done, take it out of the stewpan, drain and put it in the dish you intend to serve in; pour over it a thick sauce, made with two spoonsful of cullis, a little flour and butter, and the yolks of three eggs thickened over the fire; then strew grated bread over the mutton, and baste it carefully with the fat of the stew, browning the surface with a hot salamander. Serve with a clear shalot sauce, or simply with a little gravy, pepper and salt. Mutton (Shoulder of) with Onions Glacdes.*— Bone a plump shoulder of mutton to the shank bone; lard the in- terior with seasoned bacon, add salt and pepper; roll it up in the shape of a bal- loon, tie it, and braise it (bones also) for three hours and a half; then untie and place it in a dish ; glaze and serve it with glazed onions, and a reduced cspagnole. Mutton (Shoulder of) with Parmesan.—• Braise a shoulder of mutton; then take some rice, boiled quite soft in broth, lay It pretty thickly on a dish, place the mut- ton on it; mix dry currants with the re- mainder of the rice, cover your meat with it; strew grated Parmesan cheese over the whole, and set it in a moderate oven ; when of a nice colour, take it out, anil serve with a clear sauce. Mutton (Shoulder of) with Rice.— Take a shoulder of mutton, and half boil it; then put it in a stewpan, with two quarts of mutton gravy, a quarter of a pound of rice, a tea-spoonful of mushroom powder, with a little beaten mace, and let it stew till the rice is tender ; then take up the mutton, and keep it hot: put to the rice half a pint of cream, and a bit of butter rolled in flour; stir it well round the pan, and let it boil a few minutes ; lay the mutton in the dish, and serve it over the rice. J Mutton (Shoulder of) en Saucisse*— Bone a shoulder of mutton; spread it upon a board, and put over it, about the thickness of a crown piece, some veal forcemeat, and over that some pickled gherkins, and ham cut in thin slices; spread another layer of forcemeat over the ham and gherkins, merely to prevent their falling off; then roll up the meat; wrap it very tight in a linen cloth, and stew it with a little stock, a bunch of parsley, and green onions, a clove of garlic, three cloves, some onions, carrots, parsnips, pepper and salt. When the meat is done, skim and strain the sauce. Add a spoonful of cullis. if the sauce is too thin, and serve it over the mutton. Mutton (Shoulder of) stewed with Oys- ters.—Let it hang for some days, then salt it well for two days; bone it, and sprinkle it with pepper and a bit of mace pounded; lay some oysters over, and roll the meat up tight, and tie it. Stew it in a little water, with an onion, and a few pepper corns, until it is quite tender. Have ready a little good gravy, and some oysters stewed in it; thicken it with some flour and butter, and when the tape is taken off the mutton, pour this sauce over it. Be careful to keep the stewpan closely covered. Mutton (Slices of) en Chevreuil.—Cut twelve thin slices of mutton neatly, and lard them with bacon; let them soak in vinegar mixed with spices, a bunch of parsley, and an onion cut in slices, for three days; when you wish to use the meat, cook it in a thick sauce till tender, and serve it with a sauce a la poivrade. Mutton (Slices of) with Cream*—Cut a roasted loin of mutton into slices, which put into a stewpan; chop up some small onions, do them with a quarter of a pound of fresh butter and a little stock; and when nearly dissolved, add half a pint of good cream, salt and pepper; let it boil five minntes, then put in the mutton, make them quite hot, but they must not boiL Serve them quickly. Mutton (Slices of) a la Dauphins.* Cut n loin of mutton into slices, about four inches long, lard them with streaked