13 ANG ANG oil, vinegar, whole pepper, parsley, scal- lion, and shalots, cut up together. Then cut the anchovies into thin slices, and lay them on the toast. ANDAYE Brandy*—An ounce of bruised aniseed, an ounce of bruised co- riander seed, two ounces of powdered Florence iris, the testes of two oranges; put them with three quarts of distilled brandy into the alembic bain-marie; dis- solve two pounds and a half of sugar in two pints and a half of clear river water, add them to the distilled liqueur, pass the whole through a strainer, and put into bottles. ANGELICA Cakes*—Take fourounces of angelica powder, and two pounds of line sugar. Beat up the white of an egg with a little sifted sugar, until it is of the con- sistence of cream cheese; dissolve the su- gar in a skillet and skim it; when it has boiled a little, throw in the angelica, and boil the sugar to petit casse, then take it from the fire, put in half a spoonful of the beaten egg, and stir it quickly till the sugar rises, then stop, and when it has fallen again, stir till it rises a second time; it may now he poured into moulds or paper cases, well oiled and sprinkled with sifted sugar. Angelica (essence of) Jelly.—Ravine washed and well dried two ounces of an- gelica roots ; cut them in pieces and throw them into boiling syrup, (three quarters of a pound of sugar,)with an ounce of bruised angelica seeds ; cover the mixture close and when cold, add to it half a glass of kirschwasser, and pass it through a tammy • then filter, and afterwards put to it an ounce of isinglass: stir it lightly with a silver spoon ; pound ten pounds of ice and put it into a large sieve or pan, place your mould in the middle of the ice, taking- care that it touches the ice in every mrt • pour the jelly into the mould, cover it with a saucepan lid put ice on that, and let it stand for three hours; after that time have ready a saucepan large enough to take m the mould easily; fill it with water so warm that you can scarcely bear your hand in it; plunge the mould in so as^to allow the water to pass over the whole hut Z quickly as possible, and then turn the jelly into your dish for table. This last operation should be performed with great Sesr‘tliat 'nrT’m ’.naldng thesekinJs of jellies, that no tinned or pewter vessels or spoons should be used, as they Impart To be nfirSet,0yOUrj°llios- whibh ou^h to be of the colour of the ingredients cm. ployed, as for instance the above should be a clear light green colour. Angelica Liqueur*—Wash,scrape,and cut in small pieces, twelve ounces of fresh or half the quantity of Bohemian angelica roots, and infuse them for a week in six pints of brandy and one of water, with a drachm of mace, two drachms of cinnamon, and twelve cloves; at the end of that time distil it, then dissolve three pound's of sugar in three pints of water; mix it with the liqueur, strain it through a jelly-bac or filter it through paper. " Observe, that the best brandy for liqueurs is that which is made at Montpelier, as it yields more in distillation than the Cog-niac. Take notice also that the first drops which fall Irom the alembic after it is placed on the stove, must not be mixed with the liqueur A glass should, therefore, be placed under the mouth of the alembic to receive them and when about a quarter of it is filled you may remove it, and place your bottles or matrass. The phlegm, as these drop! pings are called, is good for nothin c. Angelica Paste. — Take young and pithy angelica stalks, boil them till tender drain and press all the water out • beat them in a mortar to a paste, and rub it through a sieve. Next day dry it over the fire, and to every pound of paste put a pound of powder sugar. When the paste is hot add the sugar, stirring it till tho- roughly mixed, over a gentle fire. Drop Sta Iittle SU°ar °™r them! ana dry them m a stove. Angelica (preserved).*—Take the stalks of angelica when of good size, but before they have run to seed; clear off the leaves and as you cut the stalks into proper lengths throw them into water and bnii them till the stalks are soft ^mkl them from the fire, and put them into cold water; take off the skin, and ao-ain ° them into cold water ; then drain and t them into an earfhpn mr, 1 Put 1 f SU8‘,r ten or a dozen times, and when lukewarm pour it over the stalks Fro ceed m the same way for four succeeding days, alter which, drain the stalks and in 16 m®an while boil the su<rar (adding S’ ltethSSarj)rt0 tI,e d^re" sratul cW ’ P f angelica to this, cover it Takp'it'f' 6iV0il five or ■« <hnes. in'pots1 fr0m the fire’ SCUm’ and put it by *r/- rCA (!msmcd dry).#—Proceed as tor the liquid, until you have poured the