CllU 206 Clio form of buttons, cutting the paste with a knife dipped in white of egg; bake them in a moderate oven. CnoQuiONOLES aux Pralines *—Make a paste like Croquignoles a, la Chartres, roll it out to about a quarter of an inch in thickness, and cut it into two equal parts, on one of which lay pralines, leaving proper spaces between each ; moisten the other part lightly, and lay it over the pralines; press it down a little, and with an oval paste-cutter, an inch and a half in length, and one inch in width, cut out the croquignoles; press the edges together, and. finish as Croquignoles a la Chartres. Croquignoles a la Iieine*—Are made in the same way as Croquettes a la Pa- risienne ; but, instead of laying them like spoon biscuits, they should be formecl into balls about the size of a filbert. CROUSTADE 1Take a loaf of close texture, remove the crust, and cut the crumb round, to the size you may require, and about four inches in height; form it to the shape of a cup or basin, and cutting the outside according to your taste, put it into a pan with a proper quantity of but- ter, and brown it; when of a good colour, and very dry, drain and tie out the inside, and fill it with such articles as you may require. Croustaue (Small) a la Bechamelle*— Line the number of custard moulds you may require, with a rich puff paste, adding a small quantity of flour; fill them up with the cuttings of the paste, and bake them in a brisk oven of a lightish red colour. In the mean while cut some breast of fowl into small pieces, three quarters of an inch long, and a quarter wade, also cut some very black truffles, or champignons, into pieces the same size, flavoured with bechamelle; place these in the bain-marie, and when wanted, put some of this into each croustade, pour in a little bechamelle, cover them and serve. Observe that the croustades must be opened the moment they are taken from the oven. They may be filled with any other preparation you please. Cuoustades (Small) de Nouille.*—Mix some paste a Nouille, with the yolks of twelve eggs, and when sufficiently rolled out, put it into a saucepan of boiling water; let it boil a few minutes, and then, having drained it, put it into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter, and a little salt; in a little while pour the paste on a dish, taking care to keep it of an equal thickness. When cold, turn it on the slab, and cut out the croustude of the size and form you may require ; then, having beaten up eight eggs, dip each croustade into it, draining and rolling each, as you do them, in grated bread crumbs; do this a second time, rolling them lightly on the slab to make them smooth, and fry them a good colour in a very hot pan. Open and fill them until such preparations as you may think proper; cover, and serve them. CnouTES au Pot*—Take some crusts of French bread, with very little crumb in them, cut them into thin slices, and lay them in a deep dish; pour over them some broth and pot skimmings; then set the dish over the fire, until the bread is burnt to the bottom, or gratinee; then take three outsides of a loaf, cutting out all the crumb, soak these in some skimmings of broth; season them with salt and pepper, and set them upright on the gratia; just before serving, drain them well, that the potage may be quite dry, and put some broth or stock in a sauce tureen, and serve it. Croute au Pot.*—Take two French loaves, rasp them, take off the crusts, and cut the crumb in round slices, and put them into a stewpan with a spoonful of consommd; set the crusts over the fire to simmer, and then fry them in the fat taken from consommd: put the panada in a deep dish, with the crusts at the top ; moisten them with the consomme fat, and set them on the fire, to make a gratia for a quarter of an hour; at the moment of serving, break six eggs over it, and serve it with a clarified consomme. CRUMPETS.—Make a pint of warm milk, a quarter of a pint of yeast broth, strained into a strong batter, with a suffi- cient quantity of flour; cover, and set it in a warm place to rise; then add a quarter of a pint of warm milk, an ounce of butter worked up in a little flour, but only flour enough to prevent the batter from being too thin; in a quarter of an hour have the iron rings ready on a plate of iron over a stove; pour the batter into these rings, and bake them. Crumpets, or Pikelets.*—Set a sponge as for bread, excepting that half milk and half water must be used; and to every half quartern of flour, two eggs must be added;1 beat the eggs thoroughly. Bake them in rings ns usual. CRUST (Short).—Pound, sift, and dry two ounces of white sugar; then mix it with a pound of well-dried flour, rubbing into it, so fine as not to be seen, three