ART 53 cutter two inches or two inches and a quarter in diameter); in such a manner that each artichoke bottom shall give you three circles, these circles must all be of the same thickness. Place these circles two by two in a dish, in which you have previously put a sufficient quantity of as- pic jelly to fill up the bottom of your dish. Place upon these little circles (which ought to be placed at equal dis- tances) the six artichoke bottoms, so as to form a cup, and fill up the inside of them, ■with aspic jelly. Garnish your dish either with jelly or roots. Artichoke Bottoms d la Macedoine, are prepared in the same way as for artichokes d la Magnonnaise, but you garnish them on a dish en pyramide with a dessert spoonful of prepared mactidoine, or small green Trench beans (three quarters of an inch long), or heads of asparagus. The artichokes for these entremets must be marinated in salt, herbs, oil, and tar- ragon vinegar, for two hours, they must then drain on a plate. Artichoke Bottoms a la Magnonnaise * —Strip off the leaves from eight arti- chokes, and turn them ; as you turn them rub them over with the half of a lemon, and throw them into cold water. When your artichokes are thus prepared, put them into a middling-sized stewpan with boiling water, two ounces of butter, the juice of two lemons, and some salt; as soon as they boil, place the stewpan by the side of the stove ; cover the artichokes with a round piece of buttered paper, and leave them to simmer. When they have simmered until they are tender, drain them, take out the core, and dress them all round. Then let them marinate in a pan with oil, vinegar, salt, and whole pep- per, for two hours ; you must then drain them ; after this, cut each artichoke into two parts, one part a little larger than the other; take the largest of the two parts, and cut them into two equal parts, and place them on a dish in the form of a crown ; then take the other parts, and cut them into two equal parts, the same as yon cut the others, and place them in the form of a crown, over the others; this forms a double crown, and is a very pretty manner of serving this vegetable cold, as an entremet. When it is served, you pour into the middle of your crown a magnon- naise, either white or green. Artichoke Bottoms (ragout of).—Trim them and boil them with some good gravy, mushroom ketchup or powder, cayenne ART pepper and salt, thickened with a little flour. Artichokes. Blondins.*—Half boil some artichokes, and put them into a stewpan with a slice of veal, a little bacon, and some broth; let them stew till tender, then pour over them the yolks of three eggs diluted with cream, and a little chop- ped parsley; let it thicken, but not boil, and serve it hot. Artichokes en Caisson.* — Trim and boil young artichokes, take off the leaves and separate the bottoms ; pound together streaked bacon and sausage-meat, and lay a little on an artichoke bottom, and cover it with another; dip them in batter or eggs beaten; strew them with bread crumbs, and fry them of a fine colour; place fried parsley under them. Artichokes dried red.—Boil your arti- chokes in water till soft, then take them out, pound some cochineal very fine, and mix in fresh water; boil the artichokes with this a quarter of an hour, and then put them in bags to dry. Artichokes fried. — Cut your arti- chokes, according to their size, in four or eight pieces ; take out the choke and clear away the large leaves, wash them well in two or three waters, drain and then dip them in a paste made with flour, cream, and yolks of eggs; fry in oil or dripping. When you take them out of the frying- pan sprinkle them with salt, and serve on fried parsley. Artichokes glazed.—Blanch your arti- chokes, dry and place them in a stewpan, with some onions sliced, some real and lean ham and bacon ; let them sweat gen- tly till they begin to stick to the bottom, tlieu moisten them with a little broth in which a knuckle of veal has been boiled ; when sufficiently done, pass the liquor through a napkin. Let it cool, and when it has become a jelly, pour it over the arti- chokes and glaze them. Artichokes a Vltalienne.—Mix a little veal gravy with some butter and a little flour, crumble some bread into a dish and pour some of the sauce, and grate parme- san cheese over it; place your artichokes on this; pour over the remainder of the sauce, and sprinkle over the whole grated bread and parmesan cheese. Bake it of a good colour and serve very hot. Artichokes d la Lyonnaise.* — Take three large artichokes, and divide each into eight pieces, remove the bard parts, the choke, and nearly all the leaves , trim what remains and throw them iuto cold