ciie ciie 140 take out the bread, sift over them pounded cinnamon and fine sugar, glaze with a sala- mander, and then fill them with the cherries in syrup. Cherries ((o candy).—The fruit must he gathered before it is ripe ; prick and stone them ; boil clarified sugar, and pour it over them. Cherries en Chemises*—Choose some large ripe cherries, cut the stalks half off, beat up the white of an egg to a snow, and dip each cherry in it, and then roll it in fine sifted sugar ; then lay them, without touching each other, on a sheet of paper, and place them in a stove on a sieve till wanted. Currants in hunches, strawberries, and grapes may be done in the same manner. Cherries (Coated).—Take half a dozen cherries that have been preserved in liquid, one of them must have the stalk on ; drain them, cut them in half, and when the stone is taken out, place them round the one with the tail (which must not be cut) so as to form one large cherry; cover it with fine powder sugar, and dry it in a stove or oven. Cherries (Compote of).*—Cut oft' the Stalks of cherries about halfway, and throw them into cold water, and when the water is well drained from them, put them into clarified sugar boiled to grand perld; let them boil up over a quick fire five or sis times ; then take the preserving-pan from the fire, shake the pan, and skim. When cool, put them into compotiers. Another way*—Cut off the ends of the stalks, and put cherries into a saucepan, with half a glass of water, and a quarter of a pound "of sugar; set them upon the fire, and let them boil up two or three times ; place them on a dessert-plate with the stalks upward ; pour the syrup over, and serve them cold, You may add rasp- berries or lemon peel, if agreeable. Cherries (Conseri'e of).*-—-Stone a pound of cherries, take the seeds from two ounces of red currants, and place them in n silver vessel over a moderate fire, until the fruit is reduced to a quarter. Boil a pound and a half of sugar to the degree called grand caisse, throw the fruit into it, and stir them well together till it begins to puff up ; you may then put the conserve in paper cases. Cherry Cordial.—Place layers of black- clierries and powder sugar alternately in a stone jar that is broader at bottom than at top, until quite full, then pour on them spirits of wine, in the proportion ot half a pint to two gallons; stop it as close as possible, and bury it for six months, when it may be strained and bottled. Keep it tightly corked. Cherry Custard.*—Stone and tail two pounds of ripe cherries, and put them into a preserving-pan with half a pound of powder sugar, and when nearly done, drain the cherries well, strain the syrup, and boil it until it begins to stick to the fingers ; then pour to it a fourth part of the cherries with the juice which drained from them, and put them on the fire till the nappe forms. The custard being prepared as usual (see Apple Custard), pour in the drained cherries; put it in a brisk oven for three quarters of an hour; then dorez and glaze it, and when ready for table, mask it with the remaining cherries, and pour the syrup over the whole. Cherries (Dried). — Arrange some sound ripe cherries, with their stalks on, upon little hurdles, made for the purpose. Take cme not to place one upon another, and put them in a cool oven, where they must remain till the oven is cold; turn the cherries, and put them again into a cool oven (just after the bread is drawn), and leave them to dry. When cold, tie them up in little bunches, and keep them in a dry place. Second way.—Put a pound of powdered sugar, a very little water, and five pounds of morella cherries (with the stones taken out) into a saucepan, and make them scald- ing hot, when the cherries must be taken out and dried in a cloth ; then return them to the pan, and heat them as before; dry again, and repeat the process twice more ; take them out for the last time, and dry them in a cool oven, laid singly. When dry dip them into cold water, and drv them in a cloth. They must be kept free from damp. Cherries, the French Thai/.—Hang mo- rella cherries by the stalks, singlv, in the sun to dry, in a place free from dust; when quite dry, cut them from the stalks, and place them, one by one, in glasses, cover them with powder sugar, and fill them up with white wine. Set them in a stove to swell, and then they are fit for use. Cherry Fritters.*—Cut some large sheets of wafers into pieces large enough to hold a preserved cherry (liquid), drain the latter on a sieve, and then wrap them, one by one, in the wafer, one piece at the top and the other at the bottom ; having slightly wetted the wafers, press the edges together, lay them on a sieve, without touching each other, and leave them to