PAS 40 2 PAS put it in a Leap on the table to cool, and tiion form it into cakes of any shape you please. Paste (Croqnante) d Vltalienne.*—Take a pound of sweet almonds, two ounces of orange-flowers, the rind of a lemon, a pound and a half of powder sugar ; blanch and pound the almonds, mixing with them the orange-flowers and lemon-peel, adding occasionally white of egg ; in the mean time, clarity the sugar, boil it to petit boulf and then take the pan from the fire, throw in the paste, mix it in; then replace the pan, stirring till tire preparation no longer adheres to the pan, when put it into a dish, sprinkled well with sugar. As soon as it is cold, form it into cakes or tourtes, and bake it in a moderate oven. Paste (German).*—Take three pounds of flour, a pound of butter, half a pound of sugar, half a pound of almonds, cut in long slices, and half a pound of dried currants ; make a leaven with a fourth part of the flour, in the same manner as for a brioche, and put the remainder into a pan with the butter, warmed, the sugar, and almonds ; mix them altogether, add an ounce of salt, a glass of cream, and as many eggs as will make your paste rather thick, but soft; then put the leaven, stir it in well, pour it into a buttered mould, throw a cloth over, and let it stand five or six hours in a warm place to rise; at the end of that time, put it into a hot oven to bake it. Paste a la Madeleine.*—Put into a stew- pan a pound of flour, a pound of powder- sugar, half a pound of warmed butter, a little orange flower, and six eggs, or more if necessary. Mix these together well, and then pour the preparation into one large or several small moulds well but- tered ; make them smooth at the top, and bake in a gentle oven : turn them out and dry them in the oven. Paste Jar liaised Pies. — Take four pounds of flour, one pound of butter, and a little salt, mix these together, adding water, a little at a time, taking care not to put too much, as this paste must be made as stiff as possible; when thoroughly mixed, give it two or three turns, roll it sind cut it out to the shape you want for your pie. Sometimes the butter is melted in hot water, and so mixed with the flour; then it will not require so much water, and the paste will stand better; but as you work your paste, when you find it get too cold, warm it a little ; the first method of doing it is the best, if intended to be eaten. Paste (Short) for Tarts. — Take one pound of flour, lay it on the slab, and in the centre put half a pound of butter, two eggs, a very little salt, and a little water, mix them lightly together, and continue adding more water till you find it bind; mix it on the slab a little, and give it two turns, it is then ready for use. Paste d la Turque.*—Pound eight ounces of blanched almonds to a fine paste, when add a pound of fine flour, half a pound of butter, three quarters of a pound of powder sugar, a tea-spoonful of saffron in powder; beat these ingre- dients together thoroughly, and put in as many eggs as will make your paste soft; then butter a baking tin, upon which spread the paste of an equal thickness ; mark on its surface whatever formed cakes you like; bake in a gentle oven, and when done, divide it according to the marks. Pistachios may he used instead of almonds. PASTILLES.*—To make these articles it is necessary to have a small copper stewpan that will hold about a pint, rather deep than wide, with a pointed lip on the right side, and a tolerably long handle, also two pieces of wood, one about eighteen inches long, and four in diameter, called the bois a, tabeller, the other about half the length, one inch in diameter, and the lower end pointed so that it will exactly fit the lip of the pan; this is called the bois d (goutter; six or eight tin plates about the size of a sheet of letter paper. Eor the best pastilles, take a pound of double-refined sugar reduced to an impalp- able powder; sift it through a tammy on a sheet of white paper, put four or five spoonsful of this sugar into your pan, pour on it a little orange-flower water, and beat it well with the larger stick until the pre- paration is sufficiently thin to run from the stick without being clear ; if it be so, more sugar must be added. Put the pan over a chafing dish filled with live coals, and let it stand (stirring constantly) till it boils ; then take it oft' the chafing dish, add two more spoonsful of sugar, work it up well, scrape away whatever sugar ad- heres to the stick, set it aside, and take the smaller stick in your right hand, hold the pan in your left (slanting) over one of the tin plates; the sugar will, by these means, flow to the lip, then strike the point of the stick into the lip of the pan, which action will separate the liquid, so that each time the stick strikes the lip a single drop of the preparation will fall on