CHO 169 CIIO CHOCOLATE.* — According as you •wish to make this beverage, either with milk or water, put a cup of one or other of these liquids into a chocolate-pot, with one ounce of cake chocolate. Some persons dissolve the chocolate in a little water before they put it into the milk. As soon as the milk or water begins to boil, mill it. When the chocolate is dissolved, and begins to bubble, take it off the fire, letting it stand near it for a quarter of an hour; then mill it again to make it frothy; after- wards serve it out in cups. The chocolate must not be milled, unless it is prepared with cream. Chocolate in cakes should always be made use of for ices and dragees. Chocolate.—Simmer the chocolate on a slow fire, in the proportion of two ounces to each cup ; stir it about a good deal with a chocolate mill, and when it is properly dissolved and thickened, add a yolk of an egg beat up, to the proportion of four cups, or the whites equally beat up, and the first froth thrown away; mix it first with a little of the chocolate, which add to the rest, and mill it very well to incorporate together; this will make it of a proper consistence, and of a proper froth; it is best made a day or two before using. If you keep it ready made any time, boil it a moment every other day; sweeten it according to taste.* *The French author says, dissolve and boil one tablette, viz., a cake or lozenge, to each cup. It is to be observed, that their chocolate is made into small cakes, which contain about twelve to a pound, and is sweetened in the making, which is commonly called Dutch chocolate in England. Chocolate (to make either with Milk or Water).—Divide apound of chocolate into twelve parts; take as many parts as you wish to make cups of chocolate; put into a chocolate-pot an equal number of cups of water; let your chocolate dissolve ; mill it, then put your chocolate-pot on a gentle fire; let it boil slowly, keeping it con- stantly stirring : immediately before it is served, mill it. To make chocolate with milk, you must divide your pound of chocolate into six- teen parts. Chocolate Almonds.—Take a pound of chocolate finely grated, and a pound an*l a half of the best sugar, finely sifted; soak some gum dragon in orange-flower water, and work them into what form you please ; the paste must be stiff; dry them in a stove. You may write devices on paper, roll them up and put them in the middle. Chocolate Biscuits.'*—Whip to snow the whites of six eggs ; mix with them as much scraped chocolate as will colour and taste them; add some powder sugar and some fine flour; make it into a paste; shape your biscuits ; put them in paper, and bake them in a gentle oven. Chocolate Biscuits.—Take a quarter of a pound of chocolate, and put it on a tin over a stove, to make it warm ; then put a pound of powdered sugar in a basin ; and when the chocolate is quite warm and soft, put it in with the sugar, and mix it well with about eight whites of eggs ; if you find it too thin, add some more powdered sugar, to bring it to a paste, so that you can roll into lumps the size of walnuts : let your oven be of a moderate heat; put three papers under them ; let the oven just raise and make them crisp and firm ; and let them be quite cold before you take them off the paper. Chocolate Biscuits*—Take a dozen fresh eggs, half a pound of flour, two ounces of grated chocolate, and a pound and a half of powdered sugar ; beat these ingredients up well in a mortar for a quarter of a hour ; then lay your biscuits on white paper, and bake them. Vanilla and cinnamon biscuits are made in the same way. Chocolate (Blancmange of).—Dissolve a quarter of a pound of good chocolate, and the same of sugar, in a glass of boiling water : extract the milk of almonds in the usual way, and having divided it, mix with one half of the chocolate four drachms of isinglass, and with the other, six ounces of sugar dissolved in a glass of warm water, and four drachms of isinglass. Proceed with the rest of the operation as in Blancmange of Cedrat. Chocolate Bonbons*—Put a quarter of a pound of chocolate over a fire, to dis- solve it; and havingboiled two pounds of sugar to fortperle, put a spoonful or two into the chocolate; stir it till it forms a thin paste, and then pour it on the sugar, and boil both together to caramel. In the mean time melt a little butter, skim, and pour it off clear into a basin; take a spoon- lul of it, and rub it with your hand over a marble slab or table: on this pour the chocolate and sugar; then take two ends of a sword blade (one in each hand), and press lines an inch apart all down it; cross them in like manner, so as to mark