MAC 341 MAC three good sized and very fresh mackerel, take out the entrails through the gills, tie up the head, cut off the end of the tail, but do not open the hack. Work up some shalots, parsley, and scallions (chopped very small), with a piece of butter; add salt, pepper, and lemon juice; stuff the body of the fish, and roll each in a sheet of but- tered paper, tie the two ends tight, rub the paper with oil, and broil them for three quarters of an hour over a very clear fire. When done, take them out of the paper, dish, and pour over them the butter con- tained in the cases and lemon juice. Mackerel en Fricandeaax.—Take the skin from one side of the mackerel, lard, and put the fish into a braising pan, with a few slices of veal, ham, equal quantities of broth and white wine (let the veal be nearly done before you put in the mackarel) ; set the pan on a slow fire, and in a few minutes, add a few mushrooms, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; when the fish are sufficiently done take them out, strain and reduce the sauce to a glaze, with which do the larded side ; put a little butter to the remainder, and serve it under the fish. Mackerel ( Fried) .—Cut your mackerel, each into eight pieces, which soak for half an hour in lemon juice, pepper, and salt; wipe them perfectly dry, dip each piece in wine batter, and fry them dry; serve with fried parsley. Mackerel the German way.—Split them down the back, and season them with pep- per and salt; broil them, and serve with the following sauce: Pick and wash some fennel, parsley, mint, thyme, and green onions; but use only a small quantity of each. Boil them tender in a little veal stock; then chop them up, and add to them some fresh butter, the liquor they were boiled in, some grated nutmeg, the juice of half a lemon, a little Cayenne pepper, and salt. Let it boil, thicken it with flour, and serve in a sauce boat. Mackerel (Glazed).*—Clean and dry the fish as usual, lard them with streaked bacon, put them into a stewpan, with two slices of veal, sweet herbs, pour some court bouillon on them; stew thorn; when done, take themout, reduce the liquor, and glaze your fish with it. Mackerel (Grille).*—Clean, empty, and wipe your fish as usual; split them up the back, rub them with a little butter; mix some bread crumbs and shred parsley, I cover the mackerel with this, and broil them ; when of a nice colour serve them with the following sauce: Put some shred parsley,a small quantityof oil, salt, pepper, and lemon juice into melted butter; stir them up together, and make it quite hot. Mackerel d I’ltalienne.*—Prepare your mackerel the same as for la Flamande ; put them into a stewpan with half a bottle of white wine, some slices of onions and carrots, parsley, half a bay leaf, and salt to the taste; stew them in this till done ; then drain and serve them with a white Italienne. Mackerel a, la Maitre d’Hotel*—Three mackerel are quite sufficient for this dish ; take out the entrails, and having wiped the fish with a wet cloth, split it open along the back, from head to tail; lay them in a deep dish with salt, whole pepper, scallions, aud parsley ; pour a sufficient quantity of oil on them to soak them well. Half an hour before dinner, place them on a gridiron over a gentle fire, and broil them on both sides. Put a piece of butter into a sauce- pan with a dessert-spoonful of flour, pars- ley, and scallions, shred small, pepper, and salt; mix them well, and then add a glass of water and the juice of a lemon; set this over the fire, stirring till it boils, when it may be poured over tbe mackerel. Mackerel d la Maitre d’ Hotel, another way.—Prepare three mackerel, and cut each one into four fillets, place them on a buttered saute pan, sprinkle them with fine herbs chopped, Cayenne, salt, and lemon juice ; when done enough, be careful in dishing them to detach the skin, and mask them with a maitre d’hotel sauce, with the addition of chopped fennel in it. Mackerel (Pickled).—Clean and divide them; then cut each side into three, or leaving them undivided, cut each side into five or six pieces. To six large mack- erel, take near an ounce of pepper, two nutmegs, a little mace, four cloves, and a handful of salt, all in the finest powder; mix all together, and make holes in each bit of fish, and put the seasoning into them; rub each piece of fish with some of the seasoning; then fry them brown iu oil; let them stand till cold, then put them into a stone jar, and cover with vinegar ; if you intend to keep them for some time, pour oil on the top of the jars. In this manner they may be preserved for months. Mackerel (Potted).—They are potted in the same manner as eels. Mackerel (Rousted).* — Soak three mackerel in a marinade of oil, with scal- lions, parsley, and shalots, all chopped; season it with salt and popper; when they