189 COF COL when cold, put it into bottles, cork them hermetically, ,and keep them in a cool place. When it is wanted for use, put some of the syrup into a cup, adding warm water according to the strength you wish to drink your coffee. The syrup of coffee is most useful in travelling, when there is not time or con- venience for making coffee in the usual manner. Coffee Tart.—Mix a little flour and cream, with one or two cups of good clear coffee, a bit of sugar, and three eggs ; boil it about half an hour, stirring continually for fear it should catch at bottom; put it into the paste, and whites of eggs beat up and frothed upon it; without top crust. Coffee Wafers.—To a common table- spoonful of ground coffee, put a quarter of a pound of sugar powder, and a quarter of a pound of fine flour ; mix them well toge- ther, with as much good cream as will make the paste or batter pour out pretty thick from the spoon ; the paste being prepared, warm the wafer-iron on both sides, and rub it over with some butter, tied in a linen bag, or a bit of virgin wax; pour a spoon- ful of the batter, and bake over a smart fire, turning the iron once or twice, until the wafer is done on both sides of a fine brown colour; if you would have them twisted, put them upon a mould, ready at hand for that purpose ; put it up directly, as you take it out, and press it to the shape of whatever form you please, and so continue; always keep them in a warm place. Coffee (Whipped).—Upon three half pints of cream, put two cups of strong coffee cleared; add four yolks of new laid eggs beat up, half a pound of sugar, and about as much more cream. Coffee a L’eau, Cream au Bain-marie.*—• Infuse a quarter of a pound of ground cof- fee in a glass of boiling water, let it stand, and when the coffee is settled, pour off the liquor into a preserving-pan, in which is a quarter of a pound of sugar boiled to a ca- ramel; cover this closely, and dissolve the sugar over hot ashes. Then pour the coffee into five glasses of hot milk; mix them with the yolks of ten eggs and one whole, six ounces of powder sugar, and a grain of salt. Strain the cream, and finish in the usual way. See Cream au Bain- marie. Coffee a I’eati, Cream a la Franfaise*— Infuse a quarter of a pound of ground cofl'eo in a glass of boiling water, when the coffee is precipitated, pour it off clear; boil a quarter of a pound of sugar to cara- mel, pour the coffee into it, and then put it on hot ashes, that the sugar may dissolve gently, and when it is perfectly melted, stir in gradually the yolks of eight eggs, four glasses of boiling milk, and six ounces of sugar; after which put it on a moderate fire, stirring with a wooden spoon ; when it begins to simmer, pass it through a fine sieve, and let it stand till lukewarm ; then mix in six drachms of clarified isinglass, and finish as Cream a la Franfaise. Coffee a I'eau (whipped Cream).*—. Infuse two ounces of fresh ground coffee in half a glass of water; and when the infusion is drawn off clear, put it to two ounces of sugar boiled to caramel; place it over hot ashes, and when the sugar is dis- solved, let it cool; then mix it, and four ounces of powder sugar, with the whipped cream. See that article. Coffee a I’eau (Fromage Bavarois).*— Put a quarter of a pound of ground coffee gradually into two glasses of boiling water ; give it one boil, and when the froth i9 gone, put in a small piece of isinglass ; let it stand a little while, and then pour it off clear. Add to this liquid half a pound of powdered sugar, and six drachms of isinglass; proceed after this in the usual way. COLLARED Veal.—Bone a breast of veal, well beat and flatten it with the chop- per ; brush it over with eggs on the inside part, and strew it well with pounded spices (for seasoning), salt, and Cayenne, and fine herbs chopped ; then place in al- ternate rows, of the thickness of a finger, the lean of a cold ham or tongue, the meat of dressed calves’ feet, gherkins pickled, fat of bacon in strips, the yolks of a dozen eggs steamed in a mould, and cut in strips, and some greened with verd d’Epinard; roll it up tight, and sew it up secure with a packing-needle and small string, then roll it up in a cloth, tie it tight at the ends, and boil it in stock or braise for three hours: on taking it up, tighten it again, put a board and weights on it to press it well; when cold, it may be cut in slices, or served whole with aspic jelly. LOLLOPS of Veal.—Cut some veal cutlets; fry them a good brown, but not too much : take some good gravy, thicken it with a little flour, boil it a few minutes ; add Cayenne, catsup, truffles, morels, salt, mushrooms pickled, grated lemon peel ; simmer this up, just heat the collops through, add what gravy cauio from them,