TEA 489 TEA a jar, which fill with vinegar; let it infuse for a fortnight, then draw it off, express all the liquid from the dregs, and filter the whole; bottle it; cork them well, and keep them in a cool place. TARTE Royale (Berlin).*—Take half a pound of sweet almonds, and having blanched, pound them with six eggs, in a marble mortar to a very flue paste, add to it a pound of broken sugar, a pound of fresh butter, and the grated rind of two lemons, beat it well as each ingredient is put in; lay about sixteen or eighteen ounces of sifted flour on the slab, place the almond paste on it, and knead them well together. Divide thi* into several pieces, which roll to the eighth of an inch in thickness ; from these cut from twelve to sixteen circular layers, the largest about seven inches in diameter, the rest, each somewhat smaller than the other; when all are cut, place them on white paper on tins, and bake them in a mode- rate oven to a clear brown, then take them out, and let them cool. As soon as cold, place the largest piece on a china dish, of a sufficient size to let it lay flat, and spread over it equally some preserved fruit; cover this with the second-sized layer, on which also spread preserved fruit; then a third layer, and so on until all the paste is used, taking care to put each layer in its proper order, so that the whole may form a cone, and between every one must be a different kind of pre- serve; when done, glaze and ornament it as follows: Cut some candied lemon and orange peel into the form of leaves, which arrange in garlands round the tart, putting here and there a small preserved fruit; when done, replace it in the oven for two or three minutes to dry, and then serve. TARTLETS.-—-Butter some small tart- let-pans ; line them with a nice thin puff paste, mark it neatly round the edges, bake them ; when they are cold, fill them with custard, preserve, or any sweetmeat you think proper, and if you choose, pour custard over. Tartlets.—Cover with a thin short paste two or three dozen small tartlet- pans, then put into them any preserve or sweetmeat you think proper ; then shred some paste very fine, and neatly cross them over; there are moulds for this pur- pose, which do them much neater and more quickly; when they are all done,egg them, lay them on a baking-tin, and bake them in a quick oven. TEA Cream.—Infuse sin ounce of the best green tea in half a pint of boiling milk, simmer it five minutes, then strain it through a tammy, pressing the leaves well. Boil a pint of rich cream, add to it the yolks of four eggs, well beaten, and a sufficient quantity of clarified sugar; pour this whilst hot to the milk, stir them together well; put in as much clarified isinglass as will set it, and pour the cream into the mould or glasses ; place them on ice; when perfec^y cold, turn it out of the mould, or serve in the glasses. Tea Cream.*—Boil two drachms (or more) of good green tea in a quart of milk ; in a few minutes strain it; add three yolks of eggs well beaten, a quarter of a pound of powder sugar ; set it on the fire, and reduce it to half, then strain it again; ■when cold, serve it. Tea Ice.*—Take two drachms of the best tea, tie it in a bit of muslin, and boil it in two quarts of cream ; when the infu- sion is sufficiently strong, take out the muslin, squeeze it well, and mix the cream with the eggs and sugar as directed. (See Ice Creams.) TEAL a la Bateliere*—Take the legs, fillets, and rumps of some teal, cut the fil- lets lengthwise in three pieces, put them all into a stewpan with abitof butter, some chopped shalots, and parsley, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg; set it on a fierce fire for ten or twelve minutes, then add a dessert-spoonful of flour, and a glass of white wine ; stir till it boils; if the sauce be too thin, add half a glass more wine. Stir in the juice of two lemons, a little of the peel, and two or three ladiesful of stock, just before serving. Teal (Roasted).—They should he taken up with the gravy in ; whilst doing, baste them well with butter ; and then before being taken up, with a little salt; pour a good gravy under them, and serve shalot sauce in a boat. Teat. (Roasted).*—Shred a little lemon peel, and mix it with a bit of butter, salt, pepper, and lemon juice ; stuff your birds with this, cover them first with slices of lemon, then bacon, and lastly, buttered paper sprinkled with salt; tie them up securely, fasten them to the spit, and roast them. When done, let the butter run out, remove the wrappers, and dish them. Serve them with a sauce made as follows : Put into a saucepan three ladiesful of espagnole, a spoonful of consommt, a bit of glaze, the rind of a quarter of a lemon, and a little pepper ; give them a boil up toge- ther, and strain it over the teal.