499 TUR TUR put in sufficient stock to cover it: close the saucepan, and let it boil till all tbe ar- ticles are done ; then drain the meat, put it into a tureen, and pour the sauce over, having well skimmed it. Tureen Mtlangte,*—Braise three pi- geons, three sheep’s tails, a dozen larks, some slices of streaked bacon, fillets of poultry, a little veal, and some small sausages pricked in several places; do them in a sufficient quantity of stock, and let them simmer for four or five hours. Take off all the fat; pour the whole into a large tureen, and serve. Tureen a la Neuvaine.—Take any kind of meat, game, or poultry, according to your pleasure, mince it small, and mix it with chopped onions, shred suet, salt, spices, and half a glass of brandy; put this mixture into a deep dish that will bear the fire ; cover it close, and fasten it down with a paste; set it on a moderate fire to stew slowly. In about five hours’ time remove the paste, clear away the fat, and serve it either hot or cold. Tureen Provenqale.*—Put into a glazed pan half a pound of rice, on which lay two or three rashers of bacon, a large fowl, and two pigeons; cover these with lentils, and pour in two quarts of warm water; put your pan into a moderate oven for three hours ; at the end of that time, pour the whole into a soup tureen, and serve very hot. 'Tureen Royale.*—Take some fillets of kid and lamb, a fat pheasant, two par- tridges, a leveret, and two pigeons; lard all these with streaked bacon, and place them in a large braising-pan on slices of bacon and veal, with salt and spices; pour over them a pint of good stock; close the pan, lute the edges with paste, and set it on a moderate fire for six hours. In the mean time, take some veal sweetbreads, truffles boiled in white wine, morels, and any other article you please; put them into some good stock, and let them sim- mer some time. When your braise is quite done, pour it into a tureen, placing the largest pieces at the bottom ; place the sweetbreads, &c. over all the rest, and serve. TURKEYS.—A young turkey-cock lias smooth black legs, with a short spur, the eyes full and bright, and the feet soft and pliable. An old hen turkey’s legs are rough and red, the vent bard ; if with egg, the vent will be soft and open ; the lien turkey is the best for boiling, Tur- keys are trussed according to the same manner as directed for fowls, and put some good stuffing (the same as for fillet of veal) in the part from which the crop was taken, whether roasted or boiled. Tuiikev (Attclets of).*—Take tbe breast of a cold roasted turkey, cut it into thin slices about an inch square; cut some truffles and boiled streaked bacon in the same manner, split some large champig- nons also, and put them with the above into an attelet sauce; when they have thoroughly imbibed it, put them alter- nately on half a dozen silver skewers, dip them in beaten eggs, cover them with bread crumbs, egg, and bread them a second time, and then fry them. Turkey {Boiled).—Make a stuffing of bread, herbs, salt, pepper, nutmeg, lemon peel, a few oysters, or an anchovy, a bit of butter, some suet, and an egg ; put this into the crop, fasten up the skin, and boil the turkey in a floured cloth to make it very white. Have ready some oyster sauce made rich with butter, a little cream, and serve over the turkey, or you may serve over it a liver and lemon sauce. Turkey (Boiled) au Bourgeois.—Truss the turkey for boiling; put in some salt, a large handful of chopped parsley, and some peppercorns; as soon as the water boils, put in the turkey, and let it boil very* gently till sufficiently done, but not too much so ; in the mean while set on a saucepan with a bit of butter rolled in flour, a little water, some parsley cut very small, a thin slice of garlic, two an- chovies, a little lemon peel, cut into dice, a little lemon juice, and some salt; let these all stew together, then thicken it, and serve it over the turkey. Turkey (Blanquelte of).*—’Cut the white meat from a cold turkey, in neat pieces, and put it into a stewpan ; cut as many champignons as jmu think proper, in pieces the size of a farthing, put them into water and lemon juice to keep them white ; put a little butter into a stewpan with the juice of half a lemon, add the champignons, set them on the fire, and when fried a little add consomme and velnnte ; reduce this to half, skim, and take off all the fat, then pour the sauce on the meat, set it on the fire to make it quite hot without boiling, put in a liaison of an egg or two, and an ounce of butter, and serve it; add a little Cayenne and salt. Turkey Capilotade, Croquettes, and Quenelles—Are made in the same manner as those of fowls, 2 k 2