COF COF 185 much white-wine vinegar with cloves of garlic, whole mustard seed, and sliced gin- ger as will cover them: pour this pickle upon them boiling hot every other day for a fortnight or three weeks, and keep them in stone jars. This will imitate the real mango better than cucumber. Codling Tart.—Scald some codlings, let them stand an hour in the same water covered, which will make them look green, then put them into your tart, either whole or quartered, put in sugar, and a little musk, close them up, and let it bake; boil a quart of cream with the yolks of four or five eggs, sugar, and a little musk ; when your tart is half baked, cut it open, and pour your cream, &c. on the codlings ; set it in the oven again for half an hour, then scrape some sugar over it, and serve it up hot. COFFEE.*—The coffee-pot should be three parts full of boiling water ; the coffee is to be added a spoonful at a time, and well stirred between each ; then boil gen- tly, still stirring to prevent the mixture irom boiling over as the coffee swells, and? to force it into combination with the water; this will be effected in a few minutes, after which, the most gentle boiling must be kept up during an hour. The coffee must then be removed from the fire to settle; one or two spoonsful of cold water thrown in assists the clarification, and precipitates the grounds. In about an hour, or as soon as the liquor has become clear, it is to be poured into another vessel, taking care not to disturb the sediment. Coffee made in this manner will be of the finest flavour, and may be kept three days in summer, and four or five in win- ter ; when ordered for use, it only requires heating in the coffee-pot, and may be served up at two minutes’ notice. Coffee (French Method of preparing).* —1st. Let your coffee be dry, not in tho least mouldy or damaged. 2d. Divide the quantity that is to ho roasted into two parts. 3d. Roast the first part in a coffee-roaster, the handle of which must be kept constantly turning until the coffee becomes the colour of dried almonds or bread raspings, and has lost one eighth of its weight. 4th. Roast the second part until it as- sumes the fine brown colour of chestnuts, and has lost one fifth of its weight. 5th. Mix the two parts together, and grind them in a coffee-mill. 6th. Do not roast or make your coffee until the day it is wanted. 7th. To two ounces of ground coffee, put four cups of cold water. Draw off this infusion, and put it aside. 8th. Put to the coffee which remains in the biggin, two cups of boiling water, then drain it off and add this infusion to that which has been put aside. By this me- thod you obtain two cups more. When your coffee is wanted, heat it quickly in a silver coffee-pot, taking care not to let it boil, that the perfume may not be lost by undergoing any evaporation. Then pour it into cups, which each person may sweeten according his taste. Particular care should be taken not to make coffee in a tin vessel; it should be made either in a China vessel, or one of delft ware, or in one of silver. For a long time, the tin biggins, invented by Monsieur de Belloy, were made use of; but some person has since improved upon his plan, by making them in silver or por- celain, which are found to be much better. Coffee (to make) a la Chausse.*—Put some ground coffee into a bag ; heat the marc or the leva which has been made the day before; and whilst it is boiling, put in die bag ; then draw it off ; pour the in- fusion several times backwards and for- wards ; then heat it again ready for use. The marc or grouts which remains in the bag may he boiled up again, and may be made use of the next day. Coffee (to make) with cold Water*— Upon two ounces of coffee pour seven cups of cold water; then boil it until the coffee falls to the bottom ; when die froth has disappeared, and it is clear at the top like boiling water, it must be taken off the fire and allowed to stand; but as it often requires clearing, a little cold water should be poured into it the instant it is taken off' the fire from boiling. A quicker method of clearing it is by putting into it a small piece of isinglass. When it has stood a. sufficient time to allow it to settle, pour off the infusion gently into another coffee-pot; it is then ready for use. Some clear the coffee with an egg, some with well-washed and dried sole skin, others with isinglass. Coffee (to make) with hot Water *— Instead of pouring cold water upon tho coffee, boiling water must be poured upon it, taking care not to let the froth run over, which is to be prevented by pouring the water on the coffee by degrees. It is then made the same as the preceding receipt. Coffee (to give the tlavonr of Vanilla) *