RAS 456 RAS and-twenty hours in a gallon and a half of hrandy, and a quart of water ; at the end of that time distil the infusion ; dissolve three pounds and a half of sugar in seven pints of water; mix the syrup in the liqueur, filter and bottle. Raspberry Dumplings.—Take some good puff-paste, roll it out and spread raspberry jam over; roll it up, and boil it rather more than an hour; cut it into five slices; pour melted butter into the dish, grate sugar round, and serve. Raspberry Fritters.—Grate two Naples biscuits, or the crumb of a French roll; put to either a pint of boiling cream; when this is cold, add to it the yolks of four eggs, well beaten; beat all well to- gether with some raspberry juice ; drop this, in very small quantities, into a pan of boiling lard; stick them with blanched almonds, sliced. Raspberry Ice.*—Press the juice from as many raspberries as will yield a pound and half; put it into a glazed pan, and leave it for four days. Then carefully raise the skin that has formed on the top of it, pour off the juice into another vessel; clarify a pound and a half of sugar, with a pint and a half of water, add the juice, and give them half a dozen boils ; if not suffi- ciently red, put in a root oforkanet, which leave in till of the proper colour; strain the preparation through a sieve; when cold, put it into-the subotiere and freeze it. (See Ice.) Raspberry Ice Water.* — Pick and crush as many raspberries as will yield a pound of pulp ; put this into a pound of clarified sugar boiled to petit lissi, with the juice of two lemons ; mix them to- gether well If too thick, add a glass of water; put the preparation into a mould, and freeze it as directed. (See Ice.) Raspberry Jelly .*■—Take two-thirds of raspberries, and one-third red currants; pick them, press the juice through a sieve into a pan, cover, and place it in a cellar, or any other cold place, for three days; at the end of that time raise the thick skin formed at the top, and pour the juice into another vessel; weigli it, and put it, with half the quantity of sugar, into a pre- serving-pan ; set it on the fire. A great deal of scum will rise at first, which must all be taken off; leave it on the lire for an hour ; then pour a few drops on n cold plate : if it cools of the proper consistence for jellies, take it from the fire, and whilst hot pour it into pots. Let the jelly be quite cold before the pots are covered. Raspberries (to keep).*—This fruit may be bottled for keeping, like cherries. They must not be more than just ripe. Raspberries of Marchpane.*—Take a pound of marchpane, the juice of four lemons, a quarter of a pound of raspberry jelly, and a little cochineal; mix these together with a strong wooden spatula; then add two bandsful of flour, and some powder-sugar ; when well worked up, roll them into pieces about the size of a finger; cut these into dice, roll each into a ball, pinch the top into a point, so as to re- semble the form of a raspberry ; then put them one by one into paper cases, which place in a dry warm place for eight or ten days. At the end of that time, put a por- tion of syrup of raspberries, a little cochi- neal, and a small quantity of powder- sugar into a pan ; mix them together with a spoon, and then throw into it a couple of handsful of the raspberries; take the pan in both hands, and shake it about, so that the raspberries may be equally co- vered with the red syrup ; then put sugar a la gr£le on a large sheet of paper, spread it out a little, and while the raspberries are wet with the syrup, throw them into the sugar; then take the four comers of the paper, shake it about well, by which means the sugar will adhere to the rasp- berries in all parts, and give them a per- fect resemblance to the real fruit; take them out carefully one by one, lay them on paper, and put them in a warm place for some days. These artificial raspberries are of a pleasant flavour, and will keep several years. Raspberry Marmalade.*—Take double the weight of raspberries to that of sugar; rub the fruit through a sieve, and put the pulp into a saucepan ; set it on the fire, and stir till it is reduced to half; then pour on the sugar, previously clarified and boiled to petit boule, stir it well in, put it on the fire, give it a few boils, and then pour it into pots. Raspberries (Preserved).*—Take five or six pounds of red, but not too ripe, rasp- berries, pick, and put them into a pre- serving-pan, with an equal weight of cla- rified sugar, boiled to petit bottle; when they have boiled up about a dozen times, skim, and pour the whole into a pan till die next day, then drain the fruit, and put it into jars; put to the syrup about two glasses of cherry juice, previously strained ; boil the sugar to la nappe, and then pour it over the raspberries; add afterwards about a spoonful of currant