ALM ALBI 3 five wide, and two high; pour in your preparation, and bake it in a cool oven. VV bile baking, whip the whites of two eggs, and mix two ounces of powder sugar with them, and cut four ounces of sweet al- niODds into slips (shortwise) ; mix them also with two ounces of powder sugar and a spoonful of white of egg whipped. In three quarters of an hour takeout the cake, and if it be firm and well coloured, cover it with the whipped egg and sugar, and on that strew the almonds equally, pressing them in, that all may be coloured alike. This operation must be performed as quick ns possible, and when done, turn the cake out and cut it in four slips (lengthwise), and then divide each into six parts lozenge- shaped ; this will give you twenty-four cnkes, which must be arranged in stars on your dish, six to every star. They may also be cut in two lengths instead of four, and these divided into fifteen small pieces, and then, with a paste-cutter, formed into crescents. The ingredieuts, and the pro- per quantities for this cake, are as follows : —six ounces of flour, the same of powder sugar, three ounces of sweet and bitter almonds, six yolks, and two whole eggs, six ounces of butter, two of sugar mixed with the whites of two eggs whipped, four ounces of cut almonds added to the sugar and eggs, a spoonful of brandy and a grain of salt. Almond Small Cakes. (Spanish.)*— Two ounces of bitter almonds blanched and beaten to a paste with a little white of egg; add to them one pound of flour dried, one pound of sugar pounded fine, and five ounces of butter, mix them well together and let it stand some time before the fire : then add three eggs, the yolks and whites beaten separately ; drop them on a tin in small lumps with a fork, to bake them. Almond (small) Cakes.*—Blanch half a pound of almonds, pound them to a paste with white of egg, add three quarters of a pound of powder sugar, one of orange flowers pralinee, and about two ounces of creme piltissiere ; take some puff paste, roll it out very thin, cut it into small square pieces, lay them on a baking-plate, and put some of the above mixture on each, moisten the edges, cover them with the puff paste, dnrez, prick and bake them in a hot oven, when done, ice them with sugar. Almond (solid) Cake.*—Take two pounds of sweet almonds, blanch and pound them with the whites of four eggs ; then add the testes of two lemons sliced. two pinches of orange flowers pralinie, a little salt, two pounds' of powder sugar, a quarter of a pound of potato flower, and twelve whole eggs ; mix all together well, and put it into a buttered mould, and bake it in a slow oven. Almond Cundp.*—Blanch a pound of new Jordan almonds, and cut them very- thin, lengthwise, put them into a pound of clarified sugar to crisp them, stir them over the fire till boiled to souffle ; then take them off and keep stirring till the sugar is dry like sand; then sift it, so that the almonds may he left, divide them into four parts to colour them differently, one part red, the second yellow, the third green, and the fourth left white as they come from the sugar. To colour the first, soak a small quantity of carmine in clari- fied sugar, and lay your almonds in it; do the same with a little tincture of saffron for the yellow, and spinach juice for the green. Place the coloured almonds on a sieve in a stove ; when dry, mix all toge- ther, adding the white ones. Boil nearly as much sugar as your mould wall require to souffle, put it in, and when the almonds are quite dry, garnish the surface of the sugar with them ; do not, however, lay them too thick, and just press them down with a fork; put the mould into a moderate oven for five hours, then drain it well, and in another two hours it may be taken from the mould. Almond Cheesecakes.*—Take half a pound of Jordan almonds, lay them in cold water all night; the next morning blanch them in cold water; then take them out and dry them on a clean cloth, beat them very fine in a little orange-flower water; then take six eggs, leave out four whites, with a little beaten mace ; beat them well in a marble mortar; take ten ounces of fresh butter, melt it, add a little grated lemon peel, and put them in the mortar with the other ingredients ; mix all well together and fill your patty-pans, having lined them with thin puff paste. Another way.—Blanch and pound four ounces of almonds, and a few bitter, with a spoonful of water; then add four ounces of sugar pounded, a spoonful of cream, and the whites of two eggs well beaten ; mix all ns quick as possible; put into verv small pattypans, and bake in a pretty warm oven twenty minutes. Almonds (Cinnamon). — (Spanish.)* Blanch your almonds, then with a bit of butter tied in a piece of cloth, rub the pan and brown them. Have ready some n 2