16 APP APP sugar; mix all well together, and then pour it into a vessel, which must be closed tight, and placed in the sun. Let it stand three weeks, and then bottle it. Anise Rolls.*—Pound four ounces of sweet almonds in the usual manner, and make a paste according to the directions for almond rolls, with a quarter of a pound of flour; the same of powder sugar, the yolks of two eggs, a spoonful of the in- fusion of green anise, and a grain of salt. Cut the paste, roll and finish as in the above-mentioned recipe; but before they are baked dorez and cover them with white Verdun anise. The ingredients for these rolls are a quarter of a pound of almonds, the same of flour, ditto powder sugar, two yolks of eggs, four ounces of white anise, and a drachm of infusion of green anise. Aniseed Water.*—Choose eight ounces of new green anise, sift it well to free it from the dust, and then infuse in six pints of brandy, with the zestes of three le- mons, and half an ounce of cinnamon ; in a week’s time distil it over a moderate fire, put a pint of water into the alembic; take care to collect the phlegm before you draw off the aniseed water. Dissolve three pounds of sugar in three pints of water. As the anise contains an acid salt, which renders this liquid milky, the following proceeding is necessary : Re- serve a pint of the water from that in which you dissolved the sugar, and mix with the white of three or four eggs, well whipped, and while the syrup is hot put to it this egg-water and the aniseed wa- ter ; stir it over the fire until the whole is hot without boiliug; then put it into a glass jar, cork it well, and let it stand; the next day bottle and filter it. Anisette de Bordeaux* — Take two ounces of green aniseed, half a pound of aniseed, two ounces of coriander, and the same of fennel seeds. Bruise, and put them, with sixteen pints of brandy, into an alembic bain-marie. Then dissolve thirteen pounds of sugar in two quarts of river water, which must be put to your liqueur when distilled. Filter and bot- tle it. APPLES.*—Cooks, in choosing apples for culinary purposes, should always bo guided by the weight, the heaviest being always the best; and those are particu- larly to bo taken, which upon being press- ed by the thumb, yield with a slight crackling noise. Large apples possessing these qualities should be taken in prefer- ence to small ones, as there is less waste in peeling and coring. The following is a good selection of large kitchen apples, ar- ranged in the order of their maturity :— Manx Codlin, called also Irish Pitcher, and Irish Codlin. Hawthomden. Hollandbury Pippin, called also Kirke’s Scarlet Admirable. Wormsley Pippin. Blenheim Orange, called also Wood- stock Pippin. Dutch Codlin. Beauty of Kent. Dumelow’s Seedling, called also Wel- lington. Yorkshire Greening. Royal Russet. For very early use the Carlisle codlin is the best, but it is not large.: for very late use the London pippin, the French crab, and the Norfolk beaufin, are valu- able ; the last is well known, as furnish- ing the dried apples, which are called beefins. Apples, Black-caps. — Divide twelve large apples in halves, core them, and place them on a thin pattypan or mazarine, quite close to each other, with the flat side downwards ; squeeze a lemon into two spoonsful of orange flower water, which pour over them, with a little red or white wine, shred fine some lemon peel, throw it over them, and grate fine sugar all over. Set them in a quick oven, and bake them half an hour. When served, strew fine sugar all over the dish. Apples (Black-cap of).—Pare them, lay them in your pan, strew a few cloves over them, a little lemon peel cut very small, two or three blades of cinnamon, and some coarse sugar; cover the pan with brown paper, set it in an oven with the bread, and let it stand till the oven is cold. Apples, to bake whole.—Put some sound and well chosen apples into a pan, witli a small proportion of cloves, a little lemon peel, some brown sugar, a glass or more of red wine, according to the quantity of fruit; put them into a quick oven, and bake them at least one hour. The sugar to be limited according to the quality of the apples. Apples au beurre, xcith Apple Jellv.*— Take out the cores and turn fifteen small red apples, and boil them twice in six ounces of clarified sugar. Then peel twelve renneting apples, and cut them into quarters. Having reduced the svrtip