BER 65 BIR ft | ijili; mine3 0) jlrfj A BEEST Custards.—Put a pint of beest over the fire, with a little cinnamon and three hay leaves, till boiling hot. Pour it by degrees on a spoonlul ol flour, and the same of thick cream ready mixed up. Stir all exceedingly well together; sweeten to the palate, and bake it either in tins or cups. BEET Root.*—May be either baked or boiled; it will take from an hour and a half to three hours, according to the size of the root, to cook properly. Beet Root Fricassee.*■—First boil, and then slice it and put in a stewpan with a little butter, sirred parsley, scallions, garlic, flour, vinegar, salt, and pepper; boil a quarter of an hour, and serve with white sauce. Beet Root pickled.—Boil the roots tender, peel, and cut them in what shape you please. Put them into ajar, and pour over them a hot pickle of vinegar, pepper, ginger, and sliced horseraddish. You may add capsicums and cayenne. Beet Root preserved*—The roots should be peeled and cut in thick slices, and placed in a pan under hot ashes for about five or six minutes, before you put them into a brine made of salt and water, and a quart of vinegar. Beet Root stewed.—Boil them tender with the skin on; slice into a stewpan, with a little broth, some small onions, and a spoonful of vinegar; simmer till the gravy is tinged with tire colour; take off the skin just before you serve. BENJAMIN (Oil of). Beat six ounces of benjamin into powder, put it into oil of tartar and rose water, of each a pound. I Then distil in an alembic, and put it by for use. BENTON Sauce.—Grate or scrape very fine, some horseradish, a little made mustard, some pounded white sugar, and four large spoonsful of vinegar. Serve :old, with roast beef, hot or cold. Benton Tea-cakes.—Rub into a pound >f flour six ounces of butter, and three poonsful of yeast, and make into a paste nth new milk; make into biscuits, and rick them with a clean fork. BERGAMOT Drops.—Mix the juice [ f four or five lemons, and some sifted ugar, with a wooden spoon; add to this venty drops of essence of bergamot; ix it well in, and having stirred it rer the fire three or four minutes, [ *op it about the size of a sixpence on riting-paper, and let them stand till Id. Beiigamot Wafers.—Squeeze six lemons into a basin, and mix some sifted sugar, essence of bergamot, and the white of an egg with the juice; beat them together till very white; if it becomes too thick, add the juice of another lemon; spread your paste, and dry them as barberry wafers. Bergamot Water.—To the rinds of three bergamots, put a gallon of proof spirit, and two quarts of water; draw off one gallon by the bain-marie, and sweeten with sugar. Bergamot Water.—Take three gills of syrup, the juice of six lemons, and when diluted sufficiently with water, add a tea-? spoonful of essence of bergamot. Strain it through a fine sieve for use. Bergamot Water Ice.—Stir together the juice of three lemons, two gills of syrup, half a pint of water and half a tea-spoonful of essence of bergamot; strain and freeze it. BETONY, Conserve of.—Take a pound of betony, three pounds of loaf sugar, beat them in a stone mortar; boil the sugar with two quarts of betony water to the thickness of a syrup, then mix them together by little and little, over a gentle fire, make it into a conserve, and keep it in glasses. Betony Flower Water.—Take betony flowers, sprinkle them with white wine or water, let them infuse for two days, then distil them in a bain-marie. BILBOQUET Fritters.—Break five eggs into two handsful of flour, work them together with some milk, then put in some salt and work it again ; when well mixed, put in a tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon, the same of grated lemon peel, and half an ounce of candied citron cut very small: put on a stewpan, nib it over with butter, and put in the paste ; stew it gently over a stove, taking care that it does not stick to the pan. When sufficiently done, lay it in a dish, set on a stewpan with a largo quantity of lard; when it is hot, cut out the paste in pieces tlio size of a finger, cut it across at each end, dip each into the lard and fry them, but not too much, as they will rise too high. Sift sugar on a dish, lay in the fritters, sift over moro sugar, and serve. BIRCH Wine.—The season for procur- ing tho liquor from the birch-trees is in the beginning of March, while the sap is rising, and before the leaves shoot out; for when the sap is come forward and tho leaves appear, the juice, by being long