SAM 468 SAU wise sometimes soaked in a marinade of vinegar, with salt and pepper, previous to frying. SALTING Meat.—Meat for salting is the better for hanging three or four days before it is put into the brine ; great care should he taken that all the kernels and bloody veins be extracted, and the meat wiped perfectly dry. When a large quantity is to be salted, it is best to put it into a large vessel, either of stone, wood lined with lead, or wood only, and cover it with a brine made of salt and water, suf- ficiently strong to allow an egg to float on the top. If only a single joint is required, rub it thoroughly with salt, and when com- pletely covered, lay it in a pan, and turn and rub it every day, until wanted. SALT (Spiced).*—Take four drachms of grated nutmeg, the same of cloves, two of white pepper, two of allspice, two of mace, two of bay leaf, two of basil, and two of thyme (these three latter articles should be dried in an oven). Put these all into a mortar, and pound them to an impalpable powder, and sift it. Take a pound of fine white salt, dry it thoroughly in an oven, or stove, pound it as fine as possible; sift, and mix with it an ounce of the abovementioned spices; amalgamate them thoroughly, keep the spiced salt in a tin box, which will shut perfectly close. Use it in the following proportion : Four drachms to a pound of boned veal. SAMPHIRE (to dry, or preserve).— Take it in bunches as it grows ; set a large deep stewpan full of water on the fire ; as soon as it boils, throw in a little salt, and put in the samphire ; when it looks of a fine green, remove the pan directly from the fire, and take out the samphire with a fork ; lay it on sieves to drain ; when cold, lay it on earthen plates, strew sugar well over it, next day turn them on a sieve, and strew it again with sugar, keep turning daily until it is dry; take care the stove is not too hot. Samphire (to pickle). — Lay some sam- phire that is green in a pan, sprinkle over it two or three liandsful of salt, and cover it with spring water, and let it lay for twenty-four hours; then put it into a large brass saucepan ; throw in a hnndful of salt; cover the pan close, and set it over a very slow lire ; let it stand till i t is quite green and crisp ; then take it off, for if it becomes soft it is spoiled ; put it into a jar, corer it close, and when it is cold, tie it down. SARDINIAS ( Fresh ).*—Take two dozen fresh sardinias, dry them thoroughly, flour, and fry them in clarified butter! They are also salted and eaten in the same manner as anchovies; for which thev are frequently used as substitutes. SAUCE.— Few things require more care than making sauces, as most of them should be stirred constantly, the whole at- tention should be directed to them • the better way therefore, is to prepare the sauces before cooking those articles which demand equal care; they may be kept hot in bain-marie. Butter, and those sauces containing eggs, ought never to boil. The thickest stewpan should he used for making sauces, and wooden spoons used for stir° ring them. There is so great a variety of sauces, that it would nearly' fill a volume to enu- merate them all. A few of the principal are subjoined, and for many others, see the respective articles of which they' are com- posed. Sauce a l'Allemande.*—Put a slice of ham, and some champignons (previously dressed and shred) into a stewpan ; set it on the fire, and when the ham begins to stick, moisten it with stock and consomme, boil and reduce it; then take off the fat, strain the sauce, and add to it some scalded parsley, two fat livers, capers, anchovies, scallions, all chopped, add a bit of butter, put it again on the fire, and when of the requisite consistence, take out the scallions, put in some mignonette and le- mon juice, and strain it for use. Sauce uux Atelets*—Put some veloute, or a bit of butter into a stewpan, with some parsley, slialots, and champignons, all shred small; set them on the fire, and when they begin to fry, add a little stock, rour, pepper, nutmeg, a bay leaf, and salt; reduce the whole to the consistence of a bouillie, take out the bay' leaf, put in the ymlksof three eggs, and stir till sufficiently thick. Be careful not to let it boil. Sauce d I’Aurore.*—Mix two dessert- spoonsful of lemon juice with some veloute ; season with pepper and grated nutmeg; put the mixture into a saucepan, make it quite hot. In the mean time rub the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs through a cullen- der, which put into the sauce just before serving; take care not to let it boil after the eggs are in. Sauce an Bain-Marie.—Take thin slices of fillet of veal, ham, and beef, according to the quantity of sauce you may require, take also some carrots, parsnips, parsley