367 NEA MYR bacon, rolled in salt, pepper, and ginger, and cook them in a tightly closed sauce- pan. Make a farce, with veal sweet- breads, fat livers, bacon, and sweet herbs, all chopped small; mix spices with the farce, and cover each of the slices with it (about half an inch in thickness); tie a slice of bacon round each carefully, and bake, them. Mutton Steaks (Broiled). — Cut some mutton steaks from the loin, about half an inch thick, take off the skin, and part of the fat. As soon as the gridiron is hot, rub it with a little suet, lay on the steaks (place the gridiron over the fire aslant), turn the steaks frequently; when they are done, put them into a hot dish, rub them with a little butter; slice a shalot very thin into the dish: add a little ketchup; garnish with scraped horsera- dish and pickles, and send them up hot to table. Mutton Steaks a la Maintenon.—Half fry the steaks with herbs, crumbs, and seasoning; put them in paper immediately, and finish ou the gridiron. Take care that the paper does not catch; to prevent which rub a bit of butter on first; to be served with a sharp sauce in a boat. Mutton (Tourte of).—Cut the meat of a neck of mutton into thin slices; also slice some onions; line a dish with puff paste, at the bottom of which, put a layer of godiveau; place some of the mutton on tins, then a part of the onions, season with pepper and salt; on these, put ano- ther layer of godiveau, then the mutton, onions, and so on, alternately, till all is used; then cover them with butter, and thin slices of bacon; lay a crust over, and bake it about an hour and a half, or more, according to its size. When done, remove the top, take out the bacon, skim it well, and pour in some cullis, in which a little mustard is mixed; take care the sauce runs into all parts; replace the top, and serve it. MYRTLE (Oil of).*—Put two ounces of peach leaves, and the half of a nutmeg, bruised, into six quarts of brandy; distil from this in a bain-marie alembic vour liqueur, in which infuse half a pound of myrtle flowers for four days. Dissolve five pounds of sugar in three cjuarts of pure river water; the moment it begins to boil, take it from the fire, and let it cool; take the myrtle flowers from the liqueur, and put in the sugar; mix them well, colour it with tincture of saffron, J strain and bottle it. N. NASTURTIUMS (Pickled).—As soon as the blossoms are off, gather the little knobs; put them into cold water with some salt; shift them once a day for three suc- cessive days; make a cold pickle of white wine vinegar, a little white wine, shalot, pepper, cloves, mace, nutmeg, cut in quar- ters, and horseradish, and put your nas- turtium buds into this pickle. NEAT’S Feet (Fried),—Boil yourneat’s feet, and split them; then fry them in clarified butter, or take out the bone, and fry them in butter with a little salt, and some good stock; when you have fried them a little, put in some mint, thyme, and parsley, shred small, and some beaten pepper; beat the yolks of eggs, mutton stock, vinegar, the juice of lemon, or orange and nutmeg, pour the sauce upon them, and serve. Neat’s Foot Pudding.—Boil a couple of neat’s feet till they are tender, mince the meat small, with an equal quantity of beef suet; season them with salt, cinna- mon, and sugar, mince a quarter of a pound of orange peel very fine, put in two handsful of grated bread, six or eight eggs, and currants at pleasure; mix all these well together: butter a pudding- bag, put in your pudding, tie it up close, and let it boil for two hours; serve with sweet sauce. Neat’s Tongue en Bresalles.* — Par- boil a neat’s tongue in water, then take off the skin, and cut the tongue into small thin slices, about the size of half a crown; put them into a stewpan, with parsley, young onions, and mushrooms, the whole cut small, add whole pepper, and sweet oil; put it over a very slow fire, adding a glass of white wine as soon as it begins to boil ; when quite done, add a little cullis; if it should not be sufficiently highly fla- voured, you may add in serving the juice of a lemon. Neat’s Tongue in Caul. — Boil a tongue sufficiently to peel, then lard it, and split it, without separating it in two ; fry some sliced onions in fresh hog’s laid, put to them two or three spoonsful of hog’s blood, about a quarter of a pound of lard chopped, a few fine spices, and salt; simmer this, stirring continually, until the blood is well mixed; lay a caul in the bottom of your dish, and spretid upon it part of this prepa- ration ; then place in the tongue, and cover it with the remainder; roll it up in the