BEE 51 BEE Beep (Fillet of) en Chevreuil.*■—false a piece of the fillet (about a pound), and cut it into four or five parts; after having cut off the fat and taken out the sinewy parts, beat and lard your fillets, then put them, in a marinade made with vinegar and a little water, sliced onions, salt parsley, laurel, and a clove of garlic. When they have marinated for four-and- twenty hours, take them out and squeeze them in a cloth, then put a piece of butter into a fryingpan, and when it is melted, fry your fillets in it; when they are sufficiently done and well browned, put them on a cloth to drain; serve them on a dish over pieces of fried bread, and pour over the whole a sauce poivrade, loveapple sauce, or sauce piquante. The sauce must be boiling hot. Beef (Fillet of ), with Endive.—Prepare the fillet the same as for roasting and larding (receipt the second), and dish it with a ragout of endive under it. Beef (Fillet of") a V lnte.ndante.—Make forcemeat with fowls’ livers, grated bacon, a little butter, parsley, shalots, mushrooms, three yolks of eggs, and fine spices; cut a fillet of beef into two, and flatten it with the cleaver, lard it through with middling lardons, then lay the forced meat upon it, and tie it in a cloth: boil it in broth, a glass of white wine, and a faggot of sweet herbs; when done, serve with it a ragout of sweetbreads, or truffles, &c. Beef (Fillet of), with Loveapple Sauce.—Prepare your fillet the same as for roasting and larding (receipt the second), and dish it over loveapple sauce. Beef (Fillet of), in Madeira*—Lard a : good fillet of beef, the same as for roast- ing, join the ends together, and place it in this manner in a stewpan, with some onions, carrots, and a bouquet garni, some consommd and Madeira; cover it with a buttered paper; let it boil for a moment, and afterwards let it boil slowly. Put fire upon the top of your stewpan. i When it is done, strain the broth throuMi | a silk sieve, reduce it, and serve it as a sauce to your meat. i Beef (Fillet of) a la Polonaise.*— Take out the nerves and skin from a | fillet of beef, and mince the fillet as I small as possible, mince some onions I equally small (mince a sufficient number I o have exactly tho same quantity of I uinced onions as minced beef), then «| aince some lemon peel (the same as for sauce bigarade); the whole thus pre- pared, melt some butter in a stewpan; when melted, put into it first a layer of onions, then a layer of beef, and so on till your beef is used. Between each layer put butter, salt, pepper, nutmeg, cinnamon, lemon, and grated bread. Then put your stewpan into an oven, and let your preparation bake for three hours. After this, work the whole well together whilst in the stewpan; then serve it on a dish in form of a rock, and mash the whole with a reduced Spanish sauce. Beef (Fillet of ), roasted.—This fillet lies only in the inside of the sirloin next to the chine, and is the tenderest part of the ox; spit this on a small spit, but do not run it through the best part of the meat: roast it gently, and baste, it with butter; catch gravy in a dish while the beef is roasting; in the mean time make a sauce for it with sweet herbs and parsley, shred fine, the yolks of four eggs, an onion, and some orange peel chopped small; put these into sweet butter, gravy, a spoonful or two of strong broth and vinegar, stew them all together. Put your beef into this sauce, and serve it hot. Beef (Fillet of) roasted and larded.*—- Trim your fillet; lard it fine, and let it soak for twelve hours in a marinade made of good oil, salt, pepper, nutmeg, sweet herbs, a bay leaf, and an onion cut in slices. After it has soaked, take it out, and put it on the spit before a quick fire. It must not be too much done, but should be taken off the spit with the gravy in it; serve it with a sauce made of its own gravy, a little vine- gar, shalots, salt, and pepper, put into a sauce-boat. Beef (Fillet of), roasted and larded.— Take off' the superfluous fat, and tie tho fillet ready for cooking ; lard it at each ex- tremity, leaving the middle without lard ; let it soak some days in oil, seasoned with onions, parsley, lemon juice, and pepper. Truss it in the form of an S, or a round, and roast it till it attains a good colour! Dish it with any sauce you may think best. Beef , forced Meat, in the form of a Pud~ ding.—Mince a piece of tender beef, with as much suet, a bit of ham, and small bits of bacon, two or three eggs, parsley, sha- lots, thyme, laurel, fine spices, and a little salt; add a glass of brandy; mix all toge- ther, and roll it into the form of a largo pudding, placing round it thin slices of bacon; over the bacon put white paper.