CAR 124 CAR herbs; sew up the opening, and make some notches on both sides about half an inch deep, rub it with apiece of fresh but- ter, and cover it all over, with crumbs of bread and parsley, chopped very fine. Broil it over a gentle fire, and serve with whatever sauce you think best. Carp broiled with Caper Sauce.—Having scaled and drawn one or more carp, let them soak on a dish with a mixture of salt, pepper, and oil; then take them out, and broil by a moderate fire; when done, serve with caper sauce. Carp a la Chambord *—Clean, scale, and well wash a fine carp; skin it, and lard it all over with small pieces of bacon, tie it together by the head and tail; put it into a fish-kettle, with a rich or maigre marinade, and let it boil until the bacon is coloured. Dish your carp, and garnish with forcemeat balls, veal sweetbreads, crayfish, toasted bread, artichoke bottoms, boiled with the carp; reduce the sauce made with the liquor in which the carp has boiled, add two spoonsful of Spanish sauce, then pour it over your fish. Carp au Commissaire*—Scale, clean, take out the gills, and skin a fine carp, lard it all over with small pieces of bacon. Make a farce of sweetbreads, truffies, fat livers, bacon and chicken, or any other poultry ; cut up the whole into small dice, stuff' your carp, and sew up the opening fast. Put into a stewpan two slices of bacon and two slices of veal; wrap your carp in a sheet of paper, and put it into the stewpan on the slices of bacon and veal, and cover your carp with two more slices of veal, let the whole sweat over a gentle fire; and when the veal begins to co- lour, pour into tlio stewpan a bottle of Bur- gundy, and a pint of rich bouillon, salt, pepper, tarragon; let the whole boil slowly for two hours. When the carp is done, serve it upon a dish over hot water; strain the sauce through a sieve, reduce it to a proper consistence, and pour it boiling over your fish; it is usually glazed with veal gravy consomme, reduced to a good jelly, and of a fine clear golden colour; garnish your dish with crayfish, sweet- breads, truffles, morc'ls, artichoke bottoms, or any other kind of garniture which the season may aff ord. Carp au Court Bouillon.*—Wash, 6cale, and clean a carp, take out the gills, and put into the body a piece of butter worked up with some flour; boil a glass of vinegar, and whilst it is boiling pour . it over your fish ; add to it some salt, pepper, laurel, a pint of wane, and two slices of lemon; cook it for two hours, drain it, serve it on a napkin, and strew over it some green parsley. Carp a, la Daube.*—Scale and clean a fine carp ; if it is old it must be skinned. Lard it, and put it into a fish-kettle with some good bouillon, a pint of Champagne, salt, pepper, coriander, and the juice of a lemon; let it boil till the sauce is reduced to a proper consistence: serve it hot. Carp Dressed with Eels*—Clean, and cook in a stewpan, some carp whole, with some eels cut in pieces, and the bone taken out; add some bouillon, either rich or maigre, white wine, and sweet herbs. When done, dish your carp, with the eels properly ranged round ; reduce the sauce, and serve it over the fish. Carp, Entree of.*—Take a fine carp, clean and scale it, chop up some parsley, scallion, shalots, tarragon, and other fine herbs; work in a piece of butter, and when the whole is well mixed together, put it into the body of the carp. Put it in a ves- sel sufficiently long to let it lay full length: you must, before you put your carp into your vessel, line your vessel with a layer of onions cut in slices, with two cloves of garlic, a little Seville orange peel, salt, pepper, and a pint of wine, or two pints, according to the size of your fish; add a glass or two of fish bouillon, or in case you have not any ready, you may substi- tute boiling water ; cook it over a slow fire for two or three hours. When it is sufficiently done, take it out, and place it on a dish ; strain the sauce through a sieve, and if it is too thin, reduce it, then pour it over your fish. Carp a I’Estaing.*—Clean, scale, and take out the gills of a carp, lard it with bacon, truffles, and fillets of anchovies ; then make a farce of the flesh of perch, roach, or any other small fish, chopped up with crumb of bread boiled in milk ; add parsley, scallion, shalots, salt, nutmeg, butter, and the yolks of three eggs; mix the whole well together, and stuff your carp. Put into a stewpan some onions, butter, and slices of truffles ; put in your carp (having first carefully sewn up the opening of the belly where you have put in jrour stuffing, and run a thread through the mouth of the fish, that you may take it out of the stewpan without breaking). Moisten it with equal quantities of fish bouillon and red Burgundy, salt, pepper, and nutmeg; let it stew for three hours;