CEL 134- CED Cedrats Whole, Liquid.—Get the ce- drats atthe Italian warehouse ; make a hole through the middle of them at the thick end ; put them in a large preserving-pan with water, and boil them one hour and a half; then drain all the water from them ; set them up end-wise, to drain the water out of the ends ; boil some syrup in a large pre- serving-pan twenty minutes, then put the cedrats into a large, earthen, deep pan, pour the syrup over them, and let them stand two days before you touch them ; then boil them with syrup half an bom-; (do not let them be too soft), put them into the pan, and cover them with paper; the next day drain the syrup from them, boil and pour it on them again, and repeat it so for ten days, always keeping them covered with syrup; when done, put them into your pots, and when cold cover them with apple jelly ; take care your pots are dry. Cebrat Madelaines.*-—Grate on some sugar the rinds of two cedrats; crush this sugar, and mix it with as much powder sugar as will make together nine ounces; put it into a stewpan wdth half a pound of sifted flour, six whole and four yolks of eggs, two spoonsful of Andaye brandy, and a little salt; stir this mixture well, until the paste is formed, after which stir it one minute, but no longer. When your moulds are buttered, put nine ounces of clarified butter into the preparation, which must be placed over a very slow fire, stir it lightly, and as soon as it becomes liquid, pour a spoonful into each mould, and bake them in a moderate oven. Instead of cedrats may be substituted the rind of oranges (sweet or Seville), lemons, or crisped orange flowers. Cedrat (Preserved) Madelaines.*— Cut two ounces of preserved cedrat into small equal-sized pieces, which mix with the paste when about to be put into the moulds. JMo other odour must be put in. Cedrat Pudding, en Timbale*—Cut tile crumb of a roll into slices, and pour over them two glasses of boiliug milk, set it on the fire, and stir it constantly, till it becomes a very spongy paste ; then rub it in a mortar with six yolks and two whole eggs. Put this paste into a snucepan, with a quarter of a pound of sugar (on which the zest of a cedrat has beenrasped), two ounces of bitter macaroons, three of dried currants, three of raisins, stoned and cut in half, six of marrow, shred fine, hnlf a glass of Madeira, a pinch of salt, and a quarter of a nutmeg grated. W hen those ingredients are well mixed together, pour them into a buttered mould, and bake it for an hour and a half in a moderate oven. Cedrat Water.—Take a large wooden spoonful of the essence of cedrat, put it in a basin, squeeze three lemons; add three gills of syrup, and a sufficient quan^ tity of water ; make it according to your taste, be careful that all the essence is melted ; and if it is not rich enough, add more syrup ; pass it through a sieve, and it will then be fit for use. Cedrat Water.—Take the yellow rinds of five cedrats, a gallon of proof spirit, and two quarts of water; digest the whole in a vessel close stopped for twenty-four hours, then draw off one gallon, and sweeten with fine sugar. Another way*—Distil in an alembic bain-marie, the rinds of four cedrats and one lemon, in three pints of brandy; from this you may draw nearly a pint and a half of liqueur. Dissolve two pounds of refined sugar in a pint of pure river water, mix it with the liqueur, filter and bottle it. Celery. — This root is generally put into soups, but very little is sufficient, as the flavour is much stronger than other vegetables. To make a ragout for meat with it, soak and wash it well in cold water; then boil for half an hour, and shift it into cold water; drain it well, and stew it with some stock and cullis; take the fat off, season, and serve it. When very white and tender it is eaten raw, and as a salad, with salt, pepper, oil, vinegar, and mustard. Celery Cream.—Put half a pintof cream and a pint of milk into a stewpan, with nearly a quarter of a pound of sugar, and let it boil till a third is consumed ; take two heads of celery, let them boil in the cream just time enough to flavour it. Strain the cream and beat up with it the yolks of five eggs, a little flower, and set it in hot water over the fire, taking care it does not boil. If you wish to serve it cold, put in neither eggs nor flour, but when the cream is strained, and is luke- warm, mix it with rennet, strain and put it into a dish for table; set it over hot embers, put a cover over, and hot embers on that, and let it remain till the cream is set; keep it in a cool place till ready to serve. Celery Cream*—Cut two well-washed heads of celery into small pieces, and boil them in half a pint of water; strain the decoction, and add to it a pint of cream.