APP APP IT to a souffle, put in your renneting apples, -with two ounces of lukewarm butter, and one fourth of a pot of apricot marmalade. Mix the whole well together, and boil them the same as in the receipt for ap- ples an beurre a, la minute. Whilst they are boiling, take your small red apples and cut each of them in half; then put them into a mould ('in the form ot a dome) lightly buttered, afterwards filling up the mould with the apples which were boiled in the butter ; you then turn your mould on a dish, afterwards carefully removing it. Then stick in the half of each of your small red apples, a fine cherry, or a pre- served verjuice seed, and mask your entre- inet with jelly made with Rouen apples. Then serve. Apples au beurre, with Cream.*—Peel, take out the cores, and cut into quarters, twenty renneting apples; boil ten of them with sugar, &c., the same as in the receipt of Apples au beurre a la minute, adding two spoonsful of fine sugar, two spoonsful of apricot marmalade, and three of butter made lukewarm. Make the remaining ten apples into marmalade, adding two ounces of fine sugar, and two spoonsful of apricot marmalade; then put the apples which were boiled with the butter in a mould (the form of a dome), arranging them in such a manner as to leave a space all up the centre of your mould; then mask them with your marmalade, which should be first strained through a sieve, then fill up the space which you have left in the mould with any sort of boiling cream putissiere you please. Place a dish on your mould, turn it quickly over, and take it off with great care ; then lightly mask your apples with a little cream, the same as what you put into your mould. Strew over the whole some crashed macaroons. Apples au beurre, with Macaroons.*— This enlremet is made exactly the same as Apples au beurre with Apple Jelly, only in- stead of masking with apple jelly, you must mask with apricot marmalade, and strew your entremet all over with maca- roons cut extremely small. Apples au beurre a la minute.*—Peel four-and-twenty renneting apples, and cut them into quarters, and toss them up in a stewpan with six ounces of sugar in pow- der, (over which should be grated the zest of an orange,) four ounces of luke- warm butter, and the fourth of a pot of marmalade. then place your stewpan up6n the stove; put fire on the lid. When the apples are done, pour them out upon a dish; pick out the best quarters and put them into a buttered mould, six inches in diameter and four in height. Then pour in the rest of the apple with the rest of the ingredients. Place a dish on your mould, turn it quickly over, and carefully remove it; then mask the surface of your apples with apricot or quince marmalade, or ap- ple or currant jelly, and serve. This dish should be executed as quickly as possible, to prevent the apples from getting cold. When you serve this entremet, strew either some pistachio nuts chopped small, or dry currants mixed with pounded su- gar, over it. Pears may be prepared in the same manner. Apple Cake.*—Pare and core a dozen apples, and make them into marmalade, with the zest of a lemon and a little cinna- mon, and pass them through a sieve ; put them into a stewpan, with a spoonful of potatoe flour, half a pound of sugar, and two ounces of butter; dry it over the fire, and when "cold add six eggs, stir them •well in, and having buttered a mould, pour your preparation into it, and bake it in a slow oven ; when done, turn it in a dish and serve it. Apples, Charlotte of .* (See Charlotte.) Apple Cheesecakes.*—Pare, core, and boil twelve apples with sufficient water to mash them; beat them very smooth, add six yolks of eggs, the juice of two lemons, and some grated lemon-peel, half a pound of fresh butter beaten to a cream, and sweetened with powder sugar, beat it in with tire apples. Bake in a puff crust and serve open. Apples, Compote.*—Cut some apples in half, core them, prick the skins with a knife, and throw them into cold water- then put them into a pan with some cla- rified sugar, and strew them gently till tender; place the apples in a dish, and pour the syrup through a sieve over them. Apples (Compote «/).*—Pare very even and core your apples (which should be of such sort as stand the fire best, such as golden pippins), and put them into water. Your cores and peelings put into a stew- pan, with a large glass of white wine, half a pound of lump sugar, the peel and juice of two lemons, a little ginger, cinnamon, cloves, and a pint of water; stew them for half an hour gently, and strain it into a small preserving-pan; then put your ap pies even into it; simmer them very gently and turn them over with a fork, that both c