BEE BEE 52 and upon the paper a paste made of flour and water; bake it about two hours in the oven, and when done take off the paste and bacon. If you serve it hot, add a re- lishing sauce ; if cold, leave the paste till you are ready to serve, and send it up in a second course. Beef Fricandeau.—Take a nice bit of lean beef, lard it with bacon, seasoned with pepper, salt, cloves, mace, and allspice. Put it into a stewpan with a pint of broth, a glass of white wine, a bundle of parsley, all sorts of sweet herbs, a clove of garlic, a slialot or two, four cloves, pepper and salt. When the meat is become tender, cover it close; skim the sauce well, and 6train it. Set it on the fire, and let it boil till it is reduced to a glaze. Glaze the larded side -with this, and serve the meat on sorrel sauce. Beef fried.—Cut your beef into steaks, beat it with the back-of a shredding knife ; take out all the fat, and then put them into a fryingpan with a sufficient quantity of butter to moisten the pan; set it over a moderate fire, turn your beef often, and as the gravy runs from it, keep pouring it out; then fry the fat by itself, and lay it on the lean, then put a little anchovy, onion, nut- meg, pepper, and claret, in the gravy, and stew it a little. Beef Gobbets.—Take about six pounds of any piece of beef, except the leg or shin, cut it into pieces about the size of a hen’s egg, put them into a stewpan, and just cover them with water, put them over the fire, and when the scum rises, skim it clear off, then put in some cloves, mace, allspice, and whole pepper, tied in a muslin, six Leads of celery, cut an inch long and well washed, a carrot or two cut in slices, two turnips cut ih dice, a bun die of sweetherbs, some pepper and salt, and a crust of bread; stew it till the meat is tender, and then take out the spice, herbs and bread ; have some crusts of French roll crisped before the fire, put them in a dish, and put the meat, &c. over them. Put in two ounces of Scotch barley or rice when you put in the herhs. Beef Gobbets, stewed in the French fashion.—Take any piece of beef, excepting the leg, cut it in bits as big as pullets’ eggs, both of fat and loan ; stew it in water, skim it clean, and when it has boiled an hour, put in salt, whole pepper, cloves, mace, carrots, turnips, parsnips, and whole onions ; cover it close, and let it stew till it is tender, putting in (half an hour before it i^ finished) parsley, thyme, sweet marjo- ram, spinach, sorrel, and winter savory; add some claret, then dish it on sippets, and serve it hot. Garnish with barberries, grapes, or gooseberries. Beef Gravy.—Cut a piece of the chuck or neck into small pieces, strew some flour over it, mix it well with the meat, and put it into the saucepan, with as much water as will cover it, an onion, a little allspice, a little pepper, and some salt. Cover itclose, and when it boils, skim it, then throw in a hard crust of bread, or some raspings, and stew it till the gravy is rich and good ; strain it off, and pour it into the sauce- boat. Beef Gristles, of different fashions.— Cut gristles of beef to what size you please ; scald them in boiling water for a moment, then braze them with a little broth, a glass of white wine, a faggot of parsley, chibbol, bay-leaves, thyme, basil, two cloves, one of garlic, whole pepper, and salt, sliced onions, and roots; when done, take the bottom of the braze, which you strain in a sieve, and skim the fat very clean off; then add to it a bit of butter rolled in flour, a little scalded chervil, finely chopped, and a lemon squeeze, or a little vinegar; serve this sauce upon the gris- tles. When thus brazed, you may serve upon them what ragout you please; you may also serve with them cabbage and sausages, first brazed about an hour with the gristles. They may be served asfri- candeaux, with any sort of stewed greens ; or you may make them in the manner of pickled pork, if you will pot some of them. You may preserve them a long while by simmering them some time in fresh hog’s lard, then placing them close in an earthen pan, and pouring the lard upon them till the meat is covered ; when it is cold, cover the pot, and keep it in a cool place. Beef Hams.—Take a fat leg of beef, rub it well with saltpetre and salt prunella, beat fine ; then take an ounce of bay salt well dried, an ounce of saltpetre, beat fine, a pound of coarse sugar, and a pound of com- mon salt; rub this pickle well in every day for a month, then roll it in bran or saw- dust, and hang it in wood smoke, or bum horse-litter under it for ten days or a fort- night ; hang it in a dry place near the chimney, for a week, it will then keep very well, covered over with bran. Any other piece of beef may be done in the same pickle. Beef (Hashed).—Cutsome of the under- done part of the beef, in slices, with some of the fat, put it into a small stewpan, with