Aril 31 AQU of the kernels; cover it, stretv sugar over, and glaze it. Apricot Tartlets.*—Put a quarter of a pound of sugar, two glasses ot water, and <six fine ripe apricots cut in halves; when they have boiled up about a dozen times, take out the fruit with a fork and put it into a plate ; and do twelve more halves in the same sugar; take them out also, and pare the whole number. Pass the sugar through a napkin, and then put it again into your preserving-pan to reduce the syrup and make it a little thicker. Di- lute half a pound of flour, and make it into a fine but rather firm paste, roll it out very thin (to about the eighth of an inch) • turn it over and cut from it twenty-four narrow slips; then spread out the re- mainder of your paste, and, with a round paste-cutter, two inches in diameter, cut twenty-four cakes, and put them upon as many tartlet moulds lightly buttered ; do this with as much care as possible, that no air may get between the mould and the paste. Roll each band or slip of paste on the slab with your hand, double and twist it into a cord, and having moistened the edges of the tartlets, put the cords round like frames; when all your tartlets are thus embellished, dorez the twisted bands, put in a small quantity of powder sugar in each tartlet, and on that lay an half apri- cot, the kernel side downwards. Bake them in a quick oven, and when they are of the proper colour, which should be rather yellow, take them out, put on each a spoonful of the abovementioned syrup, and finish them by placing half an apricot kernel on the top. Apricots Glazed (Tnurte of).*—Lay down a puff paste, and having moistened the edge, put a band round it, rather higher and thicker than that of the ga- teaux (see Gateaux Parisiens of Apri- cots); take care to make this band join neatly, the best manner of doing which, is to cut the two ends bias, and then place them on each other, moisten, and press them together. Strew a spoonful of fine sugar over the bottom of the tourte, and place on that twenty-four quarters of apri- cots, each rolled in sugar ; take care that none of the sugar falls on the band, as it would spoil the appearance of it; dorez the outside of it, and put in a quick oven. In ten minutes see if the hand rises equally," - and if it be compressed in any part (which will sometimes occur, either from the heat of the oven or inattention in making the paste), detach it with the point of a knife, and then replace it in the oven as quickly as possible; when the tourte is quite done, sift sugar over and glaze it. Then take eight fine plump apricots, and boil them in a syrup made with a quarter of a pound of sugar and a glass of water ; when suffi- ciently done, drain, take off the skin, and divide the apricots; and having taken out the stone, arrange them on the tourte like a crown, with a kernel on each ; and just before serving mask it with the syrup. Apricot Marmalade Praline. Tourte of.* •^Prepare the crust for the bottom of your toui‘te as above directed: then roll out another layer of puff paste very thin, and cut it out according to your fancy. Pour a pot of apricot marmalade on the under crust, and spread it equally over it, leaving an inch all round, which must he slightly wetted; put the outer crust on the mar- malade, press it down carefully, dorez the paste which covers the preserve, and cover it with two ounces of filberts cut extremely small, and mined with two ounces of fine sugar and a very small quantity of white of egg. Then place your band round the lower crust as above described, dorez that also, and bake it in a quick oven. If the filberts colour too quickly, lay a double paper over them. When the tourte is done, glaze it as usual. Another way.*—Make your under crust as usual, and spread the marmalade over it; roll out the puff paste very thin, sprin- kle it with flour, and cut it in slips a quar- ter of an inch wide; lay some of these slips at equal distances across your mar- malade, and others across them so as to form a network over the preserve. You may also lay the strips of paste so as to form a star of as many points as you think proper. Apricot Wine.—Pare, and take the stones from ripe apricots, bruise and put them to six quarts of water and one of white wine, simmer gently for a consider- able time : when the fruit is soft, pour the liquid to apricots, prepared as the others ; let it stand twelve hours, stirring occasionally; pour off the liquid, anil press the remains through a fine hair hag, and put them together in a cask to ferment: put in about a pound of sugar to each gal- lon. Boil an ounce of mace, and half an ounce of nutmeg, in a quart of white wine, and while hot pour it into the fermenting wine, and hang a, bunch of fresh borage in the cask for three days. Draw it off" and keep in bottles. AQUA Mirabilis.—Take cloves, macoj