BEE BEE 53 some onion or sbalot (a very little will do), a little water or stock, pepper, and salt; boil it till tlie onion is quite soft, then put some of the gravy of the meat to it, add some flour and butter, and boil it, then put the meat in. Do not let it boil; have a small hot dish with sippets of bread ready, and put the hash into it, hut first mix a large spoonful of vinegar with it; if shalot vinegar is used, there will he no need of the onion or raw shalot. You may add a spoonful of walnut liquor or catsup. Observe, that it is owing to boiling hashes or minces, that they get hard. AU. sorts of stews, or meat dressed a second time, should be only simmered; and this last only hot through. Beef Heart.—Wash it carefully ; stuff it the same as you would a hare; roast or bake it, and serve with a rich gravy, and currant-jelly sauce. Hash with the same, and port wine. Beef Heart, a la Poivrade.—Cut a beef heart into slices, and let it soak some days, as you would a larded fillet of beef; when you wish to dress it, broil it and dish up on a poivrade sauce. Beef ( Hung).—Put a rib of beef into a strong brine of bay salt, saltpetre, and spring water, for nine [days, then hang it up in a chimney where wood or saw-dust is burnt. When a little dry, wash the out- I side with blood two or three times to make it look black, and when dry enough, boil it for use. Beef (Hung).—The proper piece is that called the navel-piece: it must be hung up in a cellar until it is a little damp, hut not long enough to change ; take it down, and wash it very well in brown sugar and water, diy it with a cloth, cut it into two or three pieces; take half a pound of brown sugar, two pounds of bay salt dried and pounded small, six ounces of saltpetre dried and beat fine, rub it well into the beef, then strew common salt all over it, as much as will make it salt enough ; let it lie together ten days, changing the pieces from the bottom to the top; hang it where it may have the warmth of the fire, but not too near ; when it is dressed, boil it in hay and pump water, until tender : it will keep two or three months ; when mouldy, it is dipped in water. Beef (to keep).—The butcher should take out the kernels in the neck pieces, where the shoulder clod is taken off, two rom each round of beef; one in the mid- lie, which is called the pope’s eye, the 'ther from the flap; there is also one in the thick flank, in the middle of the fat. If these are not taken out, especially in the summer, salt will be of no use for keeping the meat sweet. There is another kernel between the rump and the edge bone. As the butchers seldom attend to this matter, the cook should take out the kernels ; and then rub the salt well into such beef as is for boiling, and slightly sprinkle that which is for roasting. Beef Kidneys, a la Bourgeoise *—Take some kidneys, cut them into thin slices, and broil them with a piece of butter, some salt, pepper, parsley, and green onions, and a clove of garlic, the whole should be shred fine; when they are sufficiently done, take them off the fire (they should not broil too long, or they will become tough); add, when you serve them, a few drops of vinegar and a little cullis. Beef kidnej's may likewise be served a la braise, with shalot sauce, or sauce piquante. Beef Kidney and Mustard Sauce.—Ery sliced onions in butter to half; cut the kidney into small pieces, and put it to the onions in a stewpan, with pepper and salt, and stew it on a slow fire (the kidney will furnish liquor enough) ; add the mus- tard when ready. Beef kidneys make very good gravy. Beef Kidney Pie.—Cut some kidneys into thin slices, and place them in the bot- tom of your pie-dish, then sweet herbs chopped, such as parsley, thyme, shalots, mushrooms, pepper, and salt; continue this till the dish is full, then cover the whole with slices of bacon, then finish your pie; bake it in the oven; when done, take out the bacon, and skim off the fat; make a sauce with a glass of white wine, a tolerable quantity of cullis, and reduce it to the consistence of a good sauce, then squeeze a Seville orange in it. Serve your pie hot. Beef Kidneys, a VItalienne*—Cut the kidneys into pieces, and toss them in a pan with a piece of butter, some chopped parsley, shalots, mushroom, salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg; then thicken with a pinch of flour, and moisten with half a glass of white wine, two spoonsful of Spanish sauce; take it off the fire be- fore it boils, add a piece of butter and the juice of a lemon. Serve the kidney hot, and garnish with fried bread. Beef Kidney shredded.—Take a kidney, braze it till very tender; shred it, then serve it upon stewed cucumbers, or any other greens you like better. It should bp rather highly seasoned.