531 YEA woo melted bacon, just to brown them; then put them into a stewpan, with some good gravy, salt, pepper, and some mushroom powder; add a little lemon juico, and let the whole stew gently till done. Woodcocks en Surtout.—Make a force- meat with some veal, as much beef suet, chopped and beaten in a mortar, an equal quantity of crumbs of bread, with a little beaten mace, pepper, and salt, some par- sley, and a few sweet herbs ; mix all up with the yolk of egg; half roast your woodcocks; then lny some of the force- meat round a small baking-dish ; chop the trail, and strew it all over the dish, then lay in the woodcocks; put into a stew- pan, truffles, morels, and mushrooms, a parboiled sweetbread cut into pieces; let them stew together, heat it up with a little white wine; and then put them to some good gravy, and make it of a proper con- sistence ; set it to cool, and then pour it over the woodcocks, and lay the yolks of hard-boiled eggs all about; work up the remainder of the forcemeat, and roll it out like paste, and lay over the birds sauce and eggs; close the edges, wash it over with yolks of eggs, and set it in the oven; it will take half an hour baking; serve it to table very hot. Woodcocks (Tureen of).* — Take as many woodcocks as your tureen will re- quire, take out the trails, and make them into a farce, with some pounded bacon, butter, sweet herbs, and anchovies; stuff your birds with this farce, and place them in a braising-pan between slices of bacon and veal; moisten with a glass of white wine and stock, close the pan as tight as possible, and braise them for five hours over a slow fire. Put the woodcocks into the tureen, and strain the liquor over them, slamming off the fat. Woodcocks (Fillets of) en Canape.*— Take the fillets of two brace of woodcocks, put them into a stewpan, sprinkle pepper and salt, and pour some melted butter over them. Then take the inside of the wood- cocks (except the gizzard), a piece of bacon the size of an egg, a little parsley and shalot; chop these small, and mix with them pounded spice, pepper, and salt. Take some slices of bread half an inch thick, and divide them into pieces rather larger, but the same shape as the fillets ; make a mark round each about the eighth of an inch from the edge, and fry them of a clear gold colour in butter; when done scoop out the part marked, and put into the space thus left some of the above/area, and either bnke or boil the croutons for a quarter of an hour; in the mean time toss up the fillets, and when ready to serve, lay one on each of the croutons, and send them to table, with a sauce made as directed for the Fillets Sautes, with the addition of a bit of glaze. Woodcocks (Fillets of) a la Provenqale.* —Prepare the fillets as directed for the Sauteseason them with pepper, salt, four spices, and cover them with oil; add a clove of garlic pounded, toss them up, and then keep them hot. Put some oil also to the remains of the birds, a clove of garlic, a pinch of parsley leaves, two cloves, six shalots, and a bay leaf; when these have had a few turns, add a little roux, a glass of white wine, three of stock, and reduce the sauce to half, take off the fat, and strain it. Lay the fillets on a dish en cou- ronne, with a glazed crouton between each; put some lemon peel and juice to the sauce, and pour it over. W oodcock (Fillets of) Sautes*—Take the fillets from three brace of woodcocks, cut them neatly, and put them into a tossing- pan, with salt, pepper, and a little rose- mary in powder ; pour some melted butter over, and set them on a very brisk fire, turn them as soon as one side is done, and do not let them be done too much; then drain, and lay them in a dish en cou- ronne, with a crouton between each fillet. Put the remnants of the birds into a stew- pan, with half a glass of white wine, a bay leaf, and a clove; sweat them down till reduced to a glaze, then add another half-glass of white wine, a glass of stock six ladiesful of espagnole, and let these reduce to half; then strain and pour it over the fillets (which should be kept hot), and serve. WORMWOOD Creme (Liqueur).*— Distil in the bain-marie the zests of two oranges, and half a pound of fresh- gathered wormword tops, in a gallon of brandy, which will produce nearly half the quantity of liqueur. Dissolve four pounds of sugar in as many pints of filtered river water; mix this syrup with the li- queur ; run it through a jelly-bag, and bottle it. Y. LEAST (to make).—Boil for half an hour two quarts of water, thickened with about three spoonsful of fine flour, and sweetened with nearly half a pound of brown sugar; when almost cold, put it 2 m 2