CRO 205 CRO Take six ounces of lump sugar, and rasp on it the fourth part of the zest of a sweet, the same of a Seville orange, the same of a cedrat, and half the zest of a lemon; scrape the sugar in the usual way, and then mix it with your cream, whipped as directed. See Whipped Cream. CROQUE cn Bouches*—These are large pieces of ornamental confectionary, formed of various materials, as gimblettes, croquig- noles, gc noises, &c., or of oranges cut into quarters, chestnuts, green nuts, &c., arranged within moulds according to fancy, and cemented together with boiled sugar. Croquettes of boiled Meat.*—Mince some boiled meat very small; add to it some sausage meat, mashed potatoes, crumbs of bread, soaked in milk, and sweet herbs ; make them into a paste, and form it into little balls; roll them in very fine raspings, and fry them of a nice colour. Serve them with sauce piquante. Croquettes of Fowl.*—Detach all the meat from the bones, mince it, put it into some sauce tournee or bechamel with a few fine herbs chopped and washed in a cloth, pepper and salt; reduce it on a quick fire till very thick, keep it continually stirred to prevent its burning, stir in two yolks of eggs, and set by to cool: then roll it into balls or the shape of pears or corks, dip them into eggs well beaten, then into fine bread crumbs twice over, and fry them. Serve very hot with fried parsley. Ham or tongue may sometimes be added ; in fact they may be made of a great variety of things, according to taste. Croquettes a, la d’Estrees.—Use the best puff paste; roll it pretty thin, and cut it into different shapes, as fancy leads ; bake it, and dress each piece upon a dish, in a handsome manner ; rub them with a little caramel, to make them stick as you place them; then put some currant jelly all over the top, and make what flower or design you please, with nonpa- reils of different colours, round it. Croquettes a la Parisienne.*—Take a stick of vanilla, pound it with two ounces of sugar, and sift both through a silk sieve ; mix it with seven ounces of sugar, well dried and pounded, and .half a pound of fine sifted flour ; then stir in the whites of four eggs, whipped firm, and work, the whole together for some minutes. Heat two large baking-plates of copper, rub them over lightly with virgin wax; when they are cold, take a spoonful of the preparation, and lay it on the plate the same as the spoon-biscuits, taking- care to lay them three quarters of an inch apart; when both plates are full, place them on stools, in the oven or stove; close the top, and lay embers over it, so that the croquettes may be as far removed from the fire as possible ; let them remain in this state all night; the next morning put them into a moderate oven, and bake them fifteen or twenty minutes; they should then quit the plate easily, and be of a clear reddish colour; remove them from the plates whilst hot. The croquettes may be flavoured accord- ing to your fancy. CROQUIGNOLES a la Chartres.*— Blanch and pound five ounces of sweet and three of bitter almonds, with a little white of egg; put half a pound of flour on your slab, make a hole in the middle, in which put the almonds, with half a pound of powder sugar, four yolks of eggs, and a little salt ; make this into a paste, and roll it into strips about the size of your finger; cut them into square pieces, the bigness of a filbert, and roll them into little balls: place them on baking-plates, rubbed with wax; dores and bake them in a moderate oven : re- move them from the plates whilst hot, as, if suffered to grow cold first, they will break to pieces. Croquignoees a la Franqaise*—Break up half a pound of bitter macaroons, so small as to be able to sift them; and having laid half a pound of sifted flour on your slab, and made a hole in the mid- dle, put in the macaroons, with six ounces of powder sugar, three yolks of eggs, three ounces of fresh butter, and a grain of salt; make these ingredients into a paste, and form the croquignoles of the shape and size of olives; dorez them lightly, and bake them in a gentle oven. These must be of a lighter colour than other croquignoles. Instead of macaroons use any other in- gredients you please. Croquignoles d’Ofjxce.*—Put into a pan half a pound of flour, a pound of powder sugar, a little crisped orange flower in powder, a hit of butter, about ns big as a nut, and a little salt; moisten it with the whites of eggs ; your prepara- tion should be pretty firm; put it into a sort of funnel, butter some baking-tins, and push the croquignoles through in the