APR 28 APR blended with the fruit; then put it into a mould, round which heap ice and salt. If you do not attend particularly to the stir- ring over ice, the fruit will fall to the bottom. In winter time apricot marmalade must be used. Apricots a la Frontage Bavaroise.*— Take eighteen fine ripe apricots, let them be of a nice red colour. Cut them into small pieces, and boil them in eight ounces of clarified sugar. When they are reduced to a complete marmalade, beat them through a sieve. Then add to it six drachms of clarified isinglass and a glass of good cream. Stir the preparation well together, and then leave it to ice. When it begins to set, add to it whipped cream, and finish the same as in Green Walnuts a la Frontage Bavaroise. You may likewise mix jmur apricots with powdered sugar, and an hour after pass them raw through a fine sieve. Peaches may be done in the same manner as the above ; the proper quantity of peaches to be made use of are fifteen. Apricot Marmalade Petits Gdteaux fourrds*—Roll out some puff-paste very thin, and divide it into two equal parts, each of which should be thirteen inches long and eight wide. Moisten a baking- tin to hold one of these layers, on which pour apot of apricot marmalade, and spread it of an equal thickness to within half an inch of the edge of the paste, which moisten lightly. Then roll the other layer round your rollingpin, and begin to place it on the first: unroll it gradually and carefully, and thus cover the whole of your marmalade ; press the edges of both toge- ther : dorez the upper layer, and then with a knife mark a line across the middle, tak- ing care not to go so deep as to divide the paste; with equal care mark three lines on each side, and parallel to the first, keeping them at equal distances, say two inches and a quarter between every line. Then mark it the long way, so as to make twenty-four cakes all of the same size, and bake it in a quick oven, and when the under side is of a clear yellow you may take it out and glaze it. When your gdteaux are cold, divide them according to the marks, which may be varied to your taste; either lozenge, crescents, circles, &c. When of the abovementioned form, with the point of a knife mark on each cako an ear of com, or any other design you may choose, before baking. Take care in thus marking the paste to divide, but not to cut it through. Apricots Petits Gdteaux glacds*—Make an under crust of puff paste as for these gdteaux fourrds, which cover with apricot marmalade, carefully removing any parti- cles of the kernels which may be in it; put in a moderate oven, and when the paste is sufficiently done take it out, and let it cool; then cut your gdteaux of the usual forms. The apricots should be of a reddish colour when glazed. Apricots (Gdteaux Parisiensof).*—Pare fifteen fine ripe apricots, divide them into quarters, and toss them up (without put- ting them on the fire), with a quarter of a pound of good fresh butter melted, the same of powder sugar, with the zest of a lemon grated on it. Break the stones, blanch and cut the kernels in half, and mix them with the fruit. Prepare your gdteaux exactly the same as Gdteaux Parisiens of Apples ; put the apricots in very carefully, and then finish as therein directed, only that sugar is strewed over the top. Apricots, Petits Gdteaux Royaux.*— Make two layers of puff paste, about fourteen inches square ; mask one of them with apricot marmalade, on which put tho other layer; cut out and finish your gdteaux royaux in the same way as those made of almonds (see that recipe). Apricots and Filberts (Gimblettes of)* —Prepare some puff paste, spread apricot marmalade over it, and cover that with paste, as if for pctits gdteaux fourres, but making it thirteen inches square ; then with a circular paste-cutter about two inches diameter, cut out the gimblettes; then with another, only one inch across, take out the centre; cut a quarter of a pound of filberts very small, mix them with two ounces of powder sugar and a little white of egg; dorez your rings or gimblettes, and lay them that side down- wards on the filberts ; then turn them the right way, place them on a baking-tin, sprinkle powder sugar over, and bake them in a moderate oven. These may be served either hot or cold. Apricot Ice.*—Choose about thirty ripe plum;) apricots, cut them in half, and take out the stones, and press them through a sieve; and for a pound of this pulp boil a pound of sugar to petit lisse; mix them to- gether and add a dozen of the kernels pounded, and infused in a glass of cold wa- ter with the juice of two lemons, and then strained through a tammy. Put the whole into your sabotiere till wanted. See Ice. Apricots in Jelly.—Pare and stone your apricots, scald them a little, lay them in a pan, and cover them with clarified sugar;