KID 311 KET fibre ; lay them on seives to drain, season them well with salt and pepper; wrap them in a coarse cloth, tying them up like a ball, and let them drain thus till the next day, when serve them with fried bread, and shalots chopped small. If they are to be kept for some time, put more salt to them. KERNELS (Creme of).*—Take half a pound of apricot kernels, cut them into small pieces, and infuse them in a gallon and a half of brandy and a quart of water for a week ; then distil it; dissolve three pounds of sugar in a pint of orange flower water, and three quarts of water; add this to the distilled liqueur; filter in the whole through a jelly bag, and bottle it. Kernel Water (Phulsbourg).*—Take a pound of a apricot, half a pound of peach, and cherry kernels, put them to soak in warm river water ; the next day, peel and put them to infuse in three quarts of brandy for nine days; then distil them in an alembic in the bain-marie. Dissolve four pounds of crushed sugar, in three quarts of filtered water, add half a pound of orange flower water, mix this with the brandy, strain it through a jelly bag and bottle it. Kernels (Ratafia of).*—Take a pound of apricot kernels, or, if you choose, you need only use almonds. Let them infuse eight days in two bottles of brandy and one bottle of water, with a pound of sugar, a handful of coriander seed, and a small quantity of cinnamon ; then strain through a filtering bag, and when quite clear, bottle it off. KETCHUP ( English).—Peel ten cloves of garlic, bruise them, and put them into a quart of white wine vinegar; take a quart of white port, put it on the fire, and when it boils, put in twelve or fourteen ancho- vies, washed and cut in pieces; let them simmer in the wine till they are dissolved; when cold, put them to the vinegar; then take half a pint of white wine, and put into it some mace, some ginger sliced, a few cloves, a spoonful of whole pepper bruised; let them boil a little; when almost cold, slice in a whole nutmeg, and some lemon peel, with two or three spoons- ful of horseradish ; add it to the rest, stop it close, and stir it once or twice a day. It will soon be fit for use. Keep it close stopped up. Ketchup (While). — Pake a quart of white wine, a pint of elder vinegar, and one quart of water; half a pound of an- chovies, with their liquor, half a pound of scraped horseradish an ounce of shalots bruised, an ounce of white pepper bruised, an ounce of mace, and a quarter ol an ounce of nutmegs cut in quarters ; boil all together till half is consumed, then strain it off, and when cold, bottle it for use. It is proper for any white sauce, or to put into melted butter. KID..—Kid is good eating when it is but three or fou months old, its flesh is then delicate and tender, but it is not used, after it has done sucking. To be good, it ought to be fat and white. It is dressed in the same manner as lamb or fawn. Kin (to Roast).—Take the head of the kid and prick it backwards, over the shoulders, aud tie it down; then lard it with bacon, and draw it with lemon peel and thyme; then make a farce of grated bread, flour, some forcemeat, minced small, beef suet, and sweet herbs, season with salt, ginger, cloves, mace, and nutmeg, add some cream, and the yolks of four eggs; put this farce into the caul of the kid, and put it into the inside, sew it up close, roast it, and serve with venison sauce. KIDNEYS. — Cut them through the long way, score them, and sprinkle them over with a little pepper and salt; in order to broil all over alike, and to keep them from curling on the gridiron, run a wire skewer right through them. They must be broiled over a clear fire, being careful to turn them frequently till they are done ; they will take about ten or twelve minutes broiling, provided they are done over a brisk fire ; or, if you choose, you may fry them in butter, and make gravy for them; they will take five mi- nutes longer frying than broiling. Garnish with fried parsley: you may improve them, if you think proper, by chopping a few parsley leaves very fine; mix them with a bit of fresh butter, and a little pep- per and salt, and then put some of this mixture over each kidney. Kidney Dumplings*—Make your dump- lings in the usual way, put in each a mut- ton kidney, well washed and cut in pieces, and seasoned with pepper and salt; boil them tied in a cloth, and servo them very hot. Kidney Omelet.*—Take a fine kidney from a cold roasted loin of veal, niinco and soak it well in some cream ; break seven or eight eggs on it, season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; beat the wliolo with a whisk, and fry your omelet, taking care to keep it pretty thick. Kidney Pasty.—Roust a loin of veal