POT POT 442 Potatoes (Young) a la Creme.—Take some line young potatoes when they first come in season ; boil them in a little water with plenty of salt, and when done, care fully take oft' the 6kin ; toss them in a good cream sauce, and serve them at the second course. Potatoes <1 la Creme* — Put into a saucepan about two ounces of butter, a dessert-spoonful of flour, parsley, scallions (both sliced small), salt, and pepper ; stir them up together, add a glass of cream and set it on the fire, stirring till it boils ; then having cut some boiled potatoes into slices, put them in the above ; give them a boil, and serve them hot. Potatoes (Croquettes of).*—Take the flowery parts of some well roasted pota- toes ; put them into a mortar, and pound them with some cream; rub the pur£e through a sieve, and add some butter, shred parsley, yolks of eggs, and the whites beaten to a snow ; make this preparation into little balls, which roll in bread-crumbs; fry the croquettes of a nice colour, and serve them hot. A little powder-sugar and orange-flower water may be added to the above. Potatoes (French Custard of).*—Roast thirty of the best potatoes in hot ashes; pare them, use only the whitest parts, of which take three pounds, and beat it up thoroughly with a pound of fresh butter; then add the yolks of twelve eggs, a pound of powder-sugar, two onnces of crisped orange flower (aho in powder), a pinch of salt, and a few spoonsful of Chantilly cream ; add to these the whites of twelve eggs, whipped firm; then pour this preparation into a croustade, like other French custards, put it into a mo- derate oven, and bake it for two hours, or two and a half if necessary. Glaze and serve it. Potatoes (Frangipuneof).*—Take some steamed potatoes (let them be thoroughly done); pare, and pound them perfectly; then put them into a basin, add some whole eggs, a little butter, the rind of a lemon grated, some bitter almonds crushed, a small quantity of sugar, and a grain of salt; mix these together well, and uso this frangipane according to the usual di- rections. Potatoes Fried for Garniture.*—Cut about forty potatoes either into balls or corks, wash and drain them. Clarify n pound of fresh butter, and when melted, pour it over the potatoes (which have been put into a frying pan) ; take care that they do not lay one on another; cover the pan, and set it on a brisk fire, but lessen it afterwards, and then put hot couls on the lid ; stir the potatoes occa- sionally until they are of a nice gold colour, then drain, and fry them in a little butter and veal glaze. Observe, the potatoes should be dressed only just before they are wanted. Potatoe Fritters. * — Wash and pare some potatoes ; cut them into slices, which soak for half an hour in a little brandy, with the rind of a lemon ; tnen drain, dip them in good batter, and fry them of a nice colour; drain them again, place the fritters in a dish, sprinkle sugar over, and serve them hot. Potatoes (Gateau of).*—Pare as many steamed, or well boiled drjr potatoes, and pound them in a mortar, add butter and milk in which sugar has been dissolved ; when the potatoes are well beaten and mixed, set the paste on the fire and boil it; then pour it into a basin to cool; then put to it the yolks of eight eggs, a suffi- cient quantity of sugar, the whites of four eggs beaten to a snow, and two spoonsful of orange-flower water. Take a mould, butter the inside well, and sprinkle the sides over with bread crumbs, and pour in the above preparation ; bake it till nicely coloured, when it may be turned on a dish. Serve with some sauce. Potatoes a la Lyonnaise.*—Cut some boiled potatoes into slices, which put into a saucepan, and pour over them a clear pur£e of onions; set them on the fire, and keep them hot, without letting them boil ; add pepper, salt, a small quantity of stock, and a very little vinegar. Serve very hot. Potatoes ala Maitre d’Hotel*—Having boiled your potatoes as usual, pare, and cut them into slices, which put into a stewpan, with a good piece of butter, slired parsley, and scallions, salt and pepper; set them on the fire a short time, and fry them lightly in the butter and sweet herbs; if you find the butter oils, pour in a spoon- ful of stock. Serve with a little lemon juice. Potatoe Pie.—Skin some potatoes, and cut them into slices ; season them ; and also some mutton, beef, pork, or veal. Put into your dish alternate layers of meat and potatoes, until the dish is filled, finish as usual. Potatoes a la Prvvenfale.*—1 ut into a saucepan about two ounces of butter, cut into several pieces, and three dessert spoonsful of oil, half the peel of a lemon,