PIG PIG 423 clean, -wash it well with warm water, and afterwards in two or three cold waters, that no flavour of tire resin may remain. Take oft- all the feet at the first joint; make a slit down the belly, and take out the entrails; put the liver, heart, and lights to the feet. Wash the pig well in cold water, dry it thoroughly, and fold it in a wet cloth to keep it from the air. Pics Stuffed {Sucking).*—Having scalded a pig, singe, and bone it to the head, which leave whole; take a pound of calf’s liver, a pound of bacon, mince both these with a little sage, pounded spice, aromatic herbs, salt and pepper; fill the body of the pig with this; also roll in it some large lardons, also lard the limbs and back of the pig; sew in the farce, rub the whole body with lemon, lay in a cloth some sage, and four bay leaves, cover the back of die pig with slices of bacon, place it in the cloth, and tie it up ; put it into a saucepan; pour on it equal quantities of good stock, and white wine, and let it simmer for three hours and a half over a moderate fire ; then take it oft', and leave it in the saucepan ; in a hour’s time take it out, press it carefully, so that the shape may not be spoiled; do not re- move the clodi until perfectly cold; lay a folded napkin on a dish, and serve the pig on it. Pig’s Tails a la Puree*—Take a half dozen pig’s tails, leave on the skin, and cut them into pieces about eight inches long; braise with some lentils, two carrots, two onions, two cloves, a bay-leaf, stock, or water, and salt; when they are done, finish in the same manner as pig’s ears a. la •puree. Pig’s Tongues (Smoked).*—Take asmany pig’s tongues as you please, take out the horny parts, scald them sufficiently to enable you to remove the first skin; put them, as closely together as you can, into a jar, rubbing each with salt and a little saltpe- tre, add basil,bay-leaf, thyme, and juniper berries ; place something heavy on the top to press them down, fill all die inter- stices with salt, and cover the jar very close, and set it in a cool place. In a week’s time take out the tongues, drain and tie them in skins like black puddings, and smoke diem. When the tongues are required for table, boil them in water, with a little wine, a bunch of parsley, scallions, onions, thyme, bay-leaf, and basil. Serve them cold. PIGEONS. — Pigeons should be ex- tremely fresh; when so, and in good or- der, they are plump and fat at the vent, and their feet pliable; but wdien they are stale, the vent is open, green, and withered. Tame pigeons are considered preferable to the wild. Pigeons d I’Aurore.*—Put into a pan a good bit of butter, die juice of a lemon, a bay-leaf, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, then your pigeons ; set the pan on die fire, and brown the birds ; then mix in half a spoonful of flour, a ladleful of consomme ; boil it quickly, and add some mushrooms, and an onion stuck with cloves ; in about a quarter of an hour take out the birds, reduce the sauce, add two eggs, take out the onion and bay-leaf, and pour it over the pigeons, and let them cool, and then stew them with mushrooms minced and mixed with the sauce ; moisten the birds well with the batter, and cover them with bread crumbs, dip them in eggs beaten and seasoned, and bread them again. Pry your pigeons to a nice colour, and serve with fried parsley. Pigeons (to broil).—When thoroughly cleaned, split the backs, pepper and salt them, then broil them very nicely; pour over them either stewed or pickled mush- rooms, in melted butter, and serve as hot as possible. Pigeons a la Brunswick*—Take half a dozen small pigeons, which braise between slices of bacon, with a little lemon juice ; roast some truffles on hot ashes, and blanch whole artichoke bottoms in a little stock. Make a farce with veal sweetbreads, fat livers, streaked bacon, breasts of fowl or game, minced, and give these a few turns, with some good stock, the yolks of eggs, and rich cream. Put a layer of this farce on a dish, then place the artichoke bottoms, in each of which stick a truffle, and be- tween each a pigeon, and a slice of veal glazed on the latter; cover the whole with the remainder of the farce, and pour over it some veal gravy. Pigeons en Caisses.*—Prepare six pre- viously cooked small pigeons, in a similar way to quails en caisses. Pigeons d la Casserole.* — Trass your pigeons with the feet inwards, and having put some butter into a stewpan, lay in tbe pigeons, breast downwards ; as soon as it is melted, season them with salt, pepper, and pounded aromatic herbs ; set the pan on a brisk fire, turn the birds every ten minutes for the space of half an hour, which will be sufficient to cook them ; then put them on a dish. Take three-fourths of the but- ter from the pan, mix with the remainder a little flour, the juice of a lemon, or two