ART ART 34 water as you do them; wash and drain them well, spread half a pound of butter on the bottom of a stewpan, and lay your artichokes on it, sprinkling them with salt and pepper : half an hour before they are wanted, put them over a brisk fire, cover the stewpan and put fire on that also, taking care they do not burn. When they are of a nice light colour serve them, pouring the butter over them. Artichokes pickled.—Boil some arti- chokes till you can pull the leaves oft', take out the choke and cut away the stalk ; be careful that the knife does not touch the top. Throw them into salt and water; when they have lain an hour, take them out and drain them, then put them into jars or glasses, and put a little mace and sliced nutmeg between; fill them with the best white vinegar and spring water boiled. Cover your jars close. Artichoke Pie.—Boil twelve artichokes, break off the leaves and chokes, and take the bottoms clear from the stalks ; line the dish with puff paste, and lay on it four ounces of fresh butter. Place a row of artichokes, strew over them pepper, salt, and beaten mace, then a layer of arti- chokes ; strew on more spice and a quar- ter of a pound of butter cut in small pieces. Boil half an ounce of truffles and morels, chopped small, in a quarter of a pint of water, and pour it into the pie, with a gill of white wine. Cover your pie and bake. Artichokes preserved the Spanish way.— Take the largest artichokes, cut off the tops of the leaves, wash and well drain them; to every artichoke pour in a table- spoonful of Florence oil, and season them with pepper and salt. Bake them in an oven, and they will keep for ten or twelve months. Artichokes preserved whole.*—Choose middle-sized artichokes, take off all the useless leaves and trim them, plunge them into boiling, and then into cold water; when drained, put them into bottles, make them air-tight, surround the bottles with cloths, and place them in a kettle full of cold water, cover the lid also with wet cloths. When it has been boiling about two hours, take the kettle from the fire; in a quarter of an hour draw off the water and uncover the kettle ; do not take out the bottles in less than an hour; the next day tar the bottles. Artichokes, a la Proven^ ale*—Take five or six young artichokes, take away the largest leaves, and clear away the sharp edges. Blanch them in boiling water until you can take out the choke; put into its place the following :—pound streaky bacon with some pig, or the white part of poultry or game. Place them at the bottom of a stewpan with some slices of bacon, parsley, and morels cut small, salt, pepper, and a little salad oil. Let them stew until the under leaves are crisp. Serve with a little veal gravy. Another way.*—Prepare three artichokes as for barigoule. Divide a dozen onions into quarters, which cut into thin slices ; put them, with half a pound of butter, into a stewpan; when lightly coloured, mix with them three pounded anchovies ; stuff' your artichokes with this and braise them. Serve them with espagnole sauce. Artichoke Salad*—Trim and boil your artichokes; drain, cut them in quarters, and put them in a dish ; garnish the spaces between each with sweet herbs, and dress it with the yolks of two eggs, a spoonful of vinegar, two spoonsful of oil, sweet herbs chopped fine, salt, and pepper. Artichokes a la St. Cloud.—Trim and boil them till the chokes come out; then drain and let them cool; have ready as many small pigeons, stewed and well sea- soned, as you have artichokes, each of which must be stuffed with a pigeon; dip them in good batter made of flour, eggs, a spoonful of oil, and a little salt; fry in a very hot pan with plenty of dripping. Artichokes aux Verges.9—Trim three or four artichokes, season and dress them a la braise, let them drain and take out the choke; serve them with the following sauce—a bit of butter rolled in flour, the yolks of two eggs, a little vinegar, salt, and pepper ; when it has thickened over the fire, put in a few sour grapes, pre- viously boiled in a little water, and pour the whole over them. Artichoke Suckers, the Spanish wap.— Clean and wash them, and cut them in halves, boil them in water, and put them into a stewpan with a little oil, a little water, and a small quantity of vinegar; season them with pepper and salt; stew them a short time, and then thicken them with yolks of eggs. Or the following: Clean them, and half boil them; then dry them, flour them, dip them in yolks of eggs, and fry them. Artichoke (Jerusalem).—They must be neatly peeled, and boiled very gently by the side of the stove, with a little salt in the water ; when done (but not too much, or they will not look well) place them on the dish, and serve with plain butter, or