454 RAI RAG together, with the yolks of two eggs; place it round the rabbits, leaving each side of the back bone open to put the meat in which was cut off; lay in the meat, and smooth it over with a raw egg ; make it square at both ends, butter a dish, and put the rabbits upon it with great care, and put them into the oven to bake ; the must be done to a fine brown colour; when done, place them on a dish, and pour over them gravy, thickened with butter; add the squeeze of a lemon. RABIOLES.—Take a pound of flour, place it on a slab, make a hole in the middle, into which put three eggs, work them well in, until your paste becomes firm and smooth, then roll it out as thin as paper, adding as little flour as possible. Have ready some quenelle farce mixed with a little grated Parmesan, burrage, (scalded and shred), some boiled milk, and cream cheese, nutmeg, cinnamon, the yolks of two eggs, and some pepper. Lay this farce in small portions, at equal dis- tances, over half the paste, moisten the edges, and turn the other half on it; press it down round the bits of farce, and then cut it into small square pieces ; put these into some good stock, when they have boiled five minutes and rise to the top, take them out and drain them. Take a soup tureen, pour a ladleful of gravy into it, then put in a layer of tli erabioles, another of Parmesan cheese, grated, some melted butter, and then just cover them with gravy ; serve very hot. RADISHES au Blond*—Boil in some stock, and drain your radishes, then put them into a stewpan, with veal blond; simmer them for half an hour; add a little nutmeg and verjuice; stir them occa- sionally, and when the radishes are fla- voured and well coloured, dish them, strew bread crumbs over, and brown it in the oven. Radishes in Broth.*—Take some young radishes, pick and scald them, cut them into halves or quarters according to their size, and boil them with a slice of bacon in some stock. In a little time take them out, drain, and put them into another stewpan, with consomme, or veal gravy, and a bit of butter rolled in flour. Let them stew gently in this till they are fla- voured, of a good colour, and the sauce pretty thick ; then serve them. RAGOUT (Chipoluta).* —Cut into th shape of an olive, twenty-four pieces of carrots, the same of turnips, onions and chestnuts; blanch, and then dress them in some consomm£, with a little sugar ; boil a dozen small sausages, and as many slices of streaky bacon in water; put all your garnish into a stewpan, with twenty cham- pignons, a ladleful of espugnole, first working it up with the bottoms of the entr6e, for which the ragout is intended; serve as hot as possible. Ragout a la Financiere.*—Take twenty- four large champignons, and as many truffles, cut into little balls, put them into a stewpan with half a bottle of Madeira, two allspice, a little tomata, and an ounce of veal glaze ; reduce the whole toa jelly, and then add four ladiesful of espagnole; work up two spoonsful of veal blond ; boil it up, set it on the side of the stove, re- duce, and strain it, then put the champig- nons and truffles into another [saucepan, pour "the sauce over them, with the ad- dition of twenty-four cocks’-combs, and kidnies, twenty-four quenelles, twelve lamb or veal sweetbreads, either sliced or not, as you please, add a little cream, sea- son and serve very hot. Ragout a la Providence*—Take twenty pieces of well salted streaky bacon, as many small sausages boiled, twenty cham- pignons, as many quenelles, made of the shape and size of the sausages, peel and turn the same number of chestnuts, cut twelve truffles into balls, and put all these articles into a stewpan, with a glass of Ma- deira, a little glaze, cocks’-combs and kid- nies ; add some clarified gravy, make the ragout quite hot, and serve. Twenty of thirty olives, turned and blanched, maybe added, if you think proper. Ragout a la Toulouse.*—Take the same ingredients as for the Financiere, put them into a saucepan, with some half glaze of fowl, dress all together, except the quenelles; add a ladleful of allemande. Put your ragout into the bain-marie to heat it, without letting it boil. If the sauce be too thick, dilute it with fowl consomme. RAISIN Trine.*—One hundred of Smyrnas to twenty gallons of water, wine measure; boil the water with half a pound of hops in for an hour ; let it stand till cold; then put it on the fruit; let it re- main three weeks, stirring it every day; press it off, and put it into the cask; do not bung it down till the fermentation has ceased; when it has stood about a year, draw it off clear, put it into the barrel again, and let it stand to settle before it is bot- tled ; before it is bunged down close, put a quart of brandy to a hogshead of wine;