LEM 323 LEM pieces of glass to dry; smooth and cut them into the shape ot apricot leaves (the leaves should he procured with stalks) ; Stick them about the apricots or any other preserved fruit; hut the leaves must be cut in the shape of the leaf which belongs to the fruit you ornament. LEEKS.—Leeks are most generally used for soups, ragouts, and other made dishes; they are veiy rarely brought to table, in which case dress them as fol- lows : Put them into the stock-pot till about three parts done; then take them out, drain, and soak them in vinegar sea- soned with pepper, salt, and cloves; drain them again, stuff the hearts with a farce, dip them in batter, and fry them. Leek (Scotch) Soup.— Put the water in which a leg of mutton has been boiled into a stewpan, with a quantity of chopped leeks, pepper, and salt; simmer them an hour; then mix some oatmeal with a little cold water quite smooth, pour it into the soup, and let it simmer gently over a slow fire, taking great care that it does not bum at the bottom. Leek Soup.*—Wash and cut some leeks in pieces, about an inch in length, give them a few turns over the fire in some butter ; then add broth to them, and when they have simmered in it for about three quarters of an hour, soak your bread in the usual manner, and pour on it the leeks and soup. . Leeks with Toasts.—Take a dozen very fine leeks, split them nearly in half, and wash them well; tie them like asparagus, and put them in a stewpan of boiling wa- ter, with a handful of salt; when well done, put them on a sieve to drain ; in the mean time make two thick toasts, well butter them, serve the leeks upon them. LEMONADE.—To a gallon of spring- water add some cinnamon and cloves, plenty of orange and plenty of lemon juice, and a bit of the peel of each; sweeten well with loaf sugar, and whisk it with the whites of six eggs, and the yolk of one; give it a boil, and then let it simmer for ten minutes ; run it through a jelly-bag, and let it stand till cold, before it is drank. Lemonade.*—Take four lemons, pare the rind as thin as possible ; squeeze them into a quart of water, add half a pound of fine sugar, and let it stand two or three hours, then pass it through a jelly-bag into decanters. Lemonade to he made a day before wanted. —Pare two dozen of good-sized lemons as thin as possible, put eight of the rinds into three quarts of hot, not boiling water, and cover it over for three or four hours ; rub some fine sugar on the lemons to ob- tain the essence, and put it into a china bowl, into which squeeze the juice of the lemons ; add to it one pound and a half of fine sugar, then put the water to the above, and three quarts of milk made boiling hot; mix it well together, and pour through a jelly-bag till perfectly clear. Lemonade that has the flavour and ap- pearance of Jelly.—Pare as thin as possi- ble six lemons, and a couple of Seville oranges, and steep them in a quart of hot water for four- hours ; boil one pound and a quarter of loaf sugar in three pints of water, and skim it; add the liquor of the six lemons, and of the two oranges, to the juice of six China oranges, and twelve lemons, stir the whole well, and run. through a jelly bag till clear; then add a little orange water if you like the flavour, and if necessary, add more sugar. It will keep well if properly corked. Lemonade and Wine*—Put the peel and juice of two lemons into a pan, and pour on them a pint of boiling water, a pound of sugar, and two bottles of good Burgundy ; let these stand half an hour, then strain it as usual. Lemon Bonbons.*-—Take two pounds of the best lump sugar, clarify and boil it to caramel; but just before it reaches that point, grate the rind of a lemon and put it in it; in the mean while melt a little but- ter ; skim, and pour it off clear; take a spoonful of this butter, and rub it with your band over a copper-plate or marble slab, on which pour the caramel sugar; then have a sword blade, take an end in each hand, and impress lines in the sugar about an inch apart ; then impress similar lines across the first, so as to form small cakes ; this operation should be performed as quickly as possible, lest die sugar should cool before the whole is marked ; when however all is done, pass the blade carefully between the sugar and the slab, lay it on sheets of white paper, and when perfectly cold, separate the bonbons, and wrap each in paper; keep them in a dry place. J Lemon Brandy.—Put the peel of two lemons into a bottle of brandy, let it stand for four and twenty hours, then strain it; boil two ounces ot loaf sugar in a quarter of a pint of water; then skim, and let it stand till cold, when cold, mix it with tire brandy. v 2