355 MUS Biro's I as much white vinegar into the pan as will be sufficient to cover them; give it one warm, and turn, the whole into a glass or stone jar. They will keep for two years. Mushrooms (Pickled.)* — Boil them in milk, then wipe them dry with a flannel. Boil some white vinegar with mace, nut- meg, and ginger, and let it stand till cold, then put it to the mushrooms, and bottle it; when bottled, pour in a little sweet oil before tying on the bladders. BIusiirooms (to Pickle) White.—Cut off the stalks of some small button mushrooms, rub the skins off with flannel dipped in salt, and then throw them into milk and water. Drain the in out, and put them into a stewpan, strewing over them a handful of salt; cover them close, and put them over a gentle stove for five minutes, to draw out all the water. Then put them on a coarse cloth to drain till they are cold ; put them into bottles, cork them, make quite hot through in the bain marie, then -put them by for use. Mushroom Powder .*—Take half a peck of large mushrooms, wash them clean from grit, cut off the stalks, put them into a saucepan without any water, a quarter of an ounce of mace, two spoonsful of pepper- powdered, two onions stuck with cloves, a handful of salt, some allspice and nutmeg if you like, and a quarter of a pound of butter. Let it stew till the liquor is dried up, then lay them on sieves to dry, till they will heat to a powder. Bottle, and cork it down close for use ; a tea-spoonful added to gravy or soup, a minute or two before it is taken off the fire, gives a fine flavour. BlusnnooM Powder.—After the mush- rooms or champignons are dried whole, they may be set before the fire till crisp ; then grind and sift them through a fine sieve, and preserve in small bottles closely corked. Mushrooms (Quintessence of.)—This de- licate relish is obtained, by sprinkling some button or flap mushrooms over with a little salt, and three hours after, mash them; the following day, strain off the liquor that will flow from them, and boil it in a stewpan till reduced to half. It will not keep long, but many prefer it on ac- I1 count of the flavour of the mushrooms not I being overpowered by the spices, which it is necessary to put into ketchup to pre- ; serve them. Mushroom Loaves.—Wash some small i button mushrooms, the same as for pick- ling, and boil them a few minutes in a little water ; add to them a little cream, a bit of butter rolled in flour, and some salt and pepper. Boil these up, take the crumbs out of some French rolls, and fill them with the mushrooms. Mushrooms (R<igout of).—Take some large mushrooms, scrape the insides of them, and broil them till they are brown ; then put them into some gravy, thickened with a little roux, a very little Madeira, salt, Cayenne, and a little lemon juice. Give the whole a boil, and then serve. Mushrooms (Ragout of) Brown.*—Pre- pare your mushrooms as for white ragout; when minced, and the moisture pressed out, make a little brown roux, moisten it with stock; put to it a little ham, trim- mings of veal, a seasoned bunch of sweet herbs, carrot, and onions ; when done, strain it through a sieve, and then finish it by adding the mushrooms. Mushrooms (Ragout of) White.—Pick and cut off the stalks of the mushrooms near to the head, wash them in several waters, and then put them into a saucepan, with some water and lemon juice. Drain, mince them very small, and press them closely in a cloth. As soon as all their moisture is extracted, replace them in a saucepan, with butter and lemon-juice, and when the former begins to oil, add equal quantities of veloutd and consomme ; reduce, and season it with pepper. Thicken it with yolks of eggs, cream, and butter; skim off the fat and serve. Mushroom Salad.—Cut your mushrooms into dice, which put into a sancepan, with oil, and a slice or two of peeled lemon ; simmer a short time, then drain, and let them cool; when quite cool, put them into a salad dish, with chopped parsley, shalots, pepper, and salt; prepare them like other salads, with oil and vinegar. Mushroom Sauce.*—Cut some mush - rooms into pieces, press them in a cloth, and then mince them ; do them up in a little melted butter, then add some good stock, parsley, scallions, and two cloves of garlic; skim, and cook them over a mo- derate fire for half an hour; strain, take off the fat, and serve it very hot. MusunooM Sauce a, I’Espagnole. — Put two ladiesful of brown consomme into a stewpan, with two ladiesful of sauce tournee, and some mushrooms; roduce it over the fire to the thickness of the satico you put in, then stir in a piece of butter, the juice of half a lemon, and a very small quantity of Cayenne pepper. Mushrooms, Stewed.*—Peol some largo 2 a t