VEA 51S VEA done hissing, put in the gristles, and an onion shred fine, some pepper, salt, sweet herbs shred fine, and some flour; let these fry a little, then pour in some gravy ; add three cabbages cut in pieces, and let the whole he thoroughly stewed ; when done, slcim oft' the fat, pour in some Irani cullis, and serve. Veal Kidney. —Take a veal kidney, chop it up with some of the fat, likewise a little leek, or onion, pepper, and salt; roll it up with an egg into halls, and fry them. Veal Kidneys.—Mix some sliced onions and minced kidney well together; then frv it in butter, and add a little stock, a little white wine, about one spoonful, pepper, and salt, and serve with a liaison of yolks of three eggs, and cream. If you wish to serve it brown, instead of eggs and cream make use of cullis sauce. They may be broiled, and served with a relishing sauce. They may also be made into omelets, and served on toasted bread. They are likewise very good mixed in forcemeats. Veal Kidneys, Sautds.*—Mince a kidney small, and put it into a pan with a little butter, champignons (previously dressed), parsley, sbalots, pepper, salt, and nutmeg; set the pan on the tire; a few minutes are quite sufficient to do the mince; when done, take it out. Put a pinch of flour, a glass of white wine, and a little reduced espagnole into the pan; stir it round, add a little more butter, pour it over the kid- ney, squeeze in some lemon juice, and serve. Veal Kidney Toasts.-—Mince a roasted kidney, mince also half its fat; season it well with pepper and salt, chopped sha- lots, parsley, and a small quantity of green sweet basil; mix all together with the yolks of eggs, and lay it upon slices of bread of an equal thickness, or cut into any shape you please, and smoothed over with a knife dipped in egg; strew over the mince bread crumbs, put them into a baking-dish upon thin slices of bacon, and put them into the oven ; when sufficiently baked, drain off the fat, wipe the bread with a linen cloth ; serve with a little gravy under them. Veal (Knuckle of) boiled.—Break the bones that it may require less room; wash it well; put it into a saucepan with three onions, a blade or two of mace, and a few peppercorns; cover it with water, and let it simmer till done. You may, if you think proper, boil a little macaroni or rice with it, to give it a slight degree of thick- ness. Before it is served, you may add half a pint of milk and cream, and serve this either over the meat, or separately. Veal (Knuckle of ) fried and stewed.— Fry the knuckle with onions cut in slices, and butter, to a nice brown colour; and have in readiness some peas, lettuce, onion, and a cucumber or two, that have stewed about an hour in a small quantity of water; add these to the veal, and let all stew together till the meat is tender. Add pepper, salt, and a very little mint shred fine, and serve the whole together. Veal (Leg of) en Surprise.—Lard the veal with slips of bacon, and a little lemon peel cut very thin; make stuffing the same as for a fillet of veal, only mix with it half a pint of oysters, chopped small, and stuff your veal with this, and put it to stew with just sufficient water to cover it; let it stew very gently till quite tender; them take it up; skim off the fat from the liquor, and add some lemon juice, some mushroom ketchup, the crumb of a roll, grated fine, half a pint of oysters, a pint of cream, and a bit of butter,” rolled in flour, let this sauce thicken over the fire, and serve it over the veal; garnish the dish with oysters, dipped in batter, and fried, and thin slices of toasted bacon. Veal (Loin of ) a la Bdchamelle.—Chop out the inner bone from a nice white loin of veal, and trim it that it will lay smooth on the dish ; chop off part of the chump end, and put it down to roast; let it be well done ; have a bechamelle sauce pre- pared, and a few minutes before the veal is to be served, take it up, and cut a deep square hole close to where the chump was cutoff; mince the lean you have cutout extremely fine, put it into the hot becha- melle sauce, and pour it again into the hole; serve it to table, with a well-but- tered toast under thekidnev, and plenty of gravy. ' J Veal (Loin of) with a II a gout.—Pre- pare the loin the same as with btchamelle, only take particular care that it is not roasted of too high a colour; prepare a ragout made with truffles, mushrooms, cocks combs livers, Ac. &c., artichoke bottoms, well stewed; lay your veal in the centre of the dish, place the artichokes round, and pour the ragout round and over the artichoke ; serve it to table. Veal (Loin of) roosted.—Spit the loin, roast, and baste it with butter; place under it a dish with some vinegar, a little sage, rosemary, and thyme; let the gravy drop 2 l