ELD 245 ELD cut it in pieces, and put it to the onions ; make it quite hot, taking care that it does not hoil, and when ready for table, put mustard to it, and serve. Eggs with Verjuice.—Well beat up some eggs with a little verjuice, then put to them salt and nutmeg ; put them over the lire with a little butter, and when they are about as thick as cream, serve them. Eggs (to make a Dish of Whites oj ).— Take the whites of twelve eggs, beat them up with four spoonsful of rose water, some lemon peel grated, and a little nutmeg; sweeten them with sugar, mis them well, and boil them in four bladders ; tie them in the shape of an egg, and boil them hard; they will take half an hour; lay them in a dish ; when cold, mix half a pint of tliick cream, a gill of mountain, and the juice of half an orange all toge- ther; sweeten it with fine sugar, and serve it over the eggs. Egg Wine.—Beat up an egg, mix with it a spoonful of cold water ; set on the fire a glass of white wine, half a glass of water, sugar, and nutmeg. When it boils, pour a little of it to the egg by degrees, till the whole is in, stirring it well; then return the whole into the saucepan, set it over a gentle fire, stir it one way for a minute, not longer; for if it boil, or the egg is stale, it will curdle; serve with toast. You may make it as above, without warming the egg, and it will be lighter on the stomach, though not so agreeable to the palate. ELDER Flower Fritters.—They are made whilst the elder flowers are in bloom ; and they should marinate three or four hours in brandy, sugar, orange-flower water, and lemon peel; when drained, clip them in a good thick batter to fry, and serve with rasped sugar, as in general. Ei.der Budsf Pickled).—The elder buds should be gathered when they are about the size of hop buds; put them into a strong brine of salt and water for nine days ; and stir them two or three times a day. Put them into a pan, cover them with vine leaves, and pour over them the water they came out of. Set them over a slow fire till they become quite green, and then make a pickle for them of alegar (made of sour ale), a little mace, a few shalots, and some ginger sliced ; boil this two or three minutes, and pour it upon the buds ; then tie them down, and keep them in a very dry place. Elder Shoots (Pickled).—Gather the elder shoots when of the thickness of a tobacco-pipe, and put them into salt and water all night; then put them in layers into Stone jars, and between every layer strew a little mustard seed, scraped horseradish, a few shalots, a little white beet root, and a cauliflower pull d into small pieces ; pour boiling alegar (made of sour ale), upon it, and scald it three times; keep it in a dry place, with a leather tied over it. Elder Vinegar.—Put dried elder flowers into stone or double-glass bottles, fill them up with good wine vinegar, and set them in the sun, or by the fire, till their virtue is extracted. Elder Vinegar* — Choose the elder flowers when just blown, take away all the stalks, and when the flowers are about half dry, put them into a jar, and fill the jar with vinegar, close it tight, and let it stand in the sun for twenty days; then draw it oft', press the flowers, and having filtered the whole, bottle it; take care to keep the bottles closely corked. Elder Vinegar. — The elder flowers should be gathered before they are too much blown; pick them clean from the great stalks, and dry them in the sun, when it is not too hot; put a handful of them to a quart of the best white-wine vinegar, and let it stand twelve or fourteen days; then strain it, and draw it off, and put it into the vessel, but keep back a quart, and make it very hot; put it into the vessel to make it ferment; then stop it close for use, and draw it oft' when it is wanted. Elder Wine*—Pour a gallon of boiling water on every gallon of elder berries, let it stand twelve hours; then draw it oft', and boil it up with three pounds and a half of sugar ; when boiling, beat up some whites of eggs and clarify it: skim it clear, then add half an ounce of pounded ginger to every gallon of the wine ; boil it a little longer, before you put it in the tub; when cool, put in a toast rubbed in yeast; let it ferment a day or two, after which, put it into a barrel previously rinced with brandy. All wines should be milkwarm when the yeast is added to them. Elder Wine.* —-To three pounds of elder berries, put one pound of damsons, and to a nine gallon cask put a pint of sloes. Boil two gallons of water with an ounce of hops, for an hour and a half; then put in sugar, in the proportion of four pounds to five quarts of water; keep skimming *8