POT 443 POT parsley and scallions (both shred small), grated nutmeg, a tea-spoonful of flour, salt and whole pepper; throw some potatoes into boiling water, in a few minutes take them out, pare and cut them into four or six pieces, according to their size ; put these pieces into the butter, &c., set the sauce- pan on the fire, stirring them constantly, taking care not to let them boil. Serve with a little lemon juice squeezed over. Potatoe Pudding*—Having thoroughly boiled two pounds of potatoes, peel and pound them well, then mix them with half a pound of melted butter, the same of powder sugar, and six eggs; beat the whole well, then add a handful or two of flour, and a glass of white wine ; stir these in, tie it in a buttered cloth, and boil it for half an hour. Potatoe Pudding.*—To two pounds of potatoes, boiled and mashed, when cold, add three eggs well beaten, two ounces of moist sugar, a little nutmeg, and a pint of new milk; add lemon peel if you please. Bake it. Potatoes (Puree of).* — Steam some potatoes thoroughly, and having pared them, put them into a mortar, and pound them as fine as possible, moistening them with good stock. Jtub them through a sieve into a saucepan, and dilute the puree with more stock ; set it on the fire, and stir it till it is of the requisite consistence, which should be that of thick cream ; serve the pur£e with fried bread round, and browned with the salamander. Potatoes (Quenellesof).*—Put some of the best kind of potatoes into hot ashes to roast; when done, take out all the flowery parts, which put into a mortar, pound it well, and rub it through a sieve; take half the quantity of butter, and beat it in the mortar with the potatoe Horn', till it be- comes a very fine paste ; them mix with it parsley and scallions, salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, the yolks of five or six eggs, and the whites of two or three well whipped ; make your quenelles, and poach them as directed. (See Fowl Quenelles). Drain the quenelles,place them in adish, and pour over them an espagnote travaillde, tomata, Portu- guese, or any other sauce you may prefer. Potatoe Rolls*—Take a dozen largo potatoes, and roast them in hot ashes; when thoroughly done, pare and remove all those parts which may be at all co- loured by the heat, and of the remainder weigh three quarters of a pound, which put into a mortar, with a quarter of a pound of butter, and beat them together well; then add four ounces of powder- sugar, two of sifted flour, the yolks of two eggs, and a grain of salt; pound these all together to a fine paste, flour a slab, lay the paste on it, and having rolled it out, cut it into four equal parts, divide these again into small bits the size of a walnut, which roll into balls, or any other form you like better ; place them on a slightly buttered baking plate, dorez, and bake them in a moderate oven. Let them be of a nice colour, and dry a little, that they may be crisp. Potatoes (Souffle of).*—Take six des- sert spoonsful of potatoe flour, which dilute with a pint of cream, the yolks of four eggs ; add six ounces of sugar, two ounces of butter, and a little shred lemon peel; set this mixture on the fire ; stir - ring till it has boiled up several times; then take it off, and when cold, mix in the yolks of six eggs (or more if necessary); whip four whites of eggs as if for biscuits, and stir them lightly into the souffle, which put into a silver dish, and finish as usual. Potatoe Flour (Method of procuring) .*— Wash and brush fifteen pounds of the most flowery kind of potatoes ; have ready a large pan full of water, into which grate the potatoes ; when all are done, change the water, in three hours’ time change it again, wash the flour twice more, then drain it on a silk tammy, and put it in the oven to dry ; if you want the flour quickly, put it on a stewpan, which set on hot ashes ; sift it before you use it. The above quantity of potatoes will yield two pounds of flour. Potatoe Flour (Souffle of).*—Make an infusion of any aromatic article you please; then take a moderate sized saucepan, into which put half a pound of sifted potatoe flour, the same quantity of fresh butter, mix these together till they form a very smooth paste, and dilute it with nearly all the infusion, add apound of powder sugar, and a pinch of salt; set the saucepan on a moderate fire, stirring constantly ; the moment it begins to thicken, take it oft' that it may more readily acquire con- sistence ; then replace it on the stove, and dry it for a few minutes; then remove it again, mix with it. the yolks of sixteen which should reduce it to the con- sistence of creme pdtissiere; if not, pour in the infusion which was reserved : having in the interim whipped the sixteen whites to a strong froth, stir them as lightly as possibly into the above ; make the whole quite hot, and then pour it into a croustade ;