113 CAL CAL usual. Fill the head with this, and press it into its original form, sew it up, and rub it all over with lemon. Take a clean line cloth, spread thin slices of bacon over it, lay the head in them; wrap the cloth round, and tie it up tight. Put it into a braising- pan, take a bit of butter, some grated bacon, four carrots, five onions, three cloves, three bay leaves, a little thyme, two lemons sliced, leaving out the seeds and the white ; do these over the fire, and when they become idry, moisten them with two bottles of white wine : add salt and pepper ; boil this sauce, and put it into the braising- pan with the head, which should simmer for three hours, with fire above and below; at the end of that time feel the head with your finger, and if it be still firm, let it re- main some time longer; when sufficiently done, take it out by the ends of the cloth, untie, and let it drain. Dish it, and pour on it the following ragout: Put four ladies- ful of grande espagnole, a bottle of white wine, and two ladiesful of consomme into a saucepan, and reduce them to half, then strain it into another saucepan, in which are some balls of godiveuu, artichokes cooked into a blanc, mushrooms, sweet- breads cut in pieces, and crayfish ; keep this hot until the head should be sent to table, when the ragout must be poured over it, or strain the liquor from the head, and make a sauce from that. Calf’s Head Surprise.—Raise the skin, and as much meat as you can from a calf’s head; make a forcemeat as follows : Beat up in a mortar half a pound of veal, a pound of beef suet, half a pound of fat bacon, The crumb of a small loaf, sweet herbs, shred parsley, cloves, nutmeg, mace, salt, and Cayenne pepper ; bind these to- gether with the yolks of four eggs ; stuff the skin with this, so that it may appear as if the bones were in ; tie and skewer it tight, and put it into a deep pan, with two quarts of water, half a pint of white wine, a little mace, a bunch of sweet herbs, an anchovy, two spoonsful of walnut and mushroom ketchup, the same oflemon pickle, salt, and pepper; cover the whole with a common paste, and bake it in a quick oven. When done, lay the head in a soup-dish ; take the fat from the gravy, and strain it into a stewpan; add to it a hit of butter, rolled in flour, and when it has boiled a few minutes, the yolks of four eggs, and half a pint of cream ; pour this over the head. Garnish with boiled forcemeat balls, truffles, morels, and mushrooms. Calf’s Head au Verd Galant.—Soak the head twenty-four hours, bone an'd scald it in boiling water; then boil it in vinegar and. water, with roots, herbs, and spices ; cut it in pieces, roll it in batter made of oil, white wine, salt, and parsley, and fry of a good colour, and crisp. Serve with fried parsley. Calf’s Heart roasted.—Fill the heart with the following forcemeat: A quarter of apound of beef suet, chopped small, grated bread, parsley, marjoram, lemon peel, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and the yolk of an egg. Lay a veal caul, or a sheet of paper on the stuffing to keep it in its place. Put the heart into a Dutch oven before a clear fire, and turn it frequently, till thoroughly roasted all round. Garnish with slices of lemon, and pour melted butter over it. Calf’s Liver en Balottes.*—Mince and season a calf’s liver. Soak a calf’s caul or chaudron in hot water till soft, and then cut it into small square pieces, in each of which put some of the minced liver, about equal to the size of a hen’s egg; draw up the comers of the caul, and make them into halls. Wash them over with white of egg; strew bread crumbs over, and broil them. Calf’s Liver a la Bourgeoises—Cut a calf's liver into slices, and put it into a pan with some chopped shalots, a bit of butter, salt, and pepper ; stew it gently. When ready to serve, put in a spoonful of vinegar. Calf’s Liver a la Bourgeoisc,—Cut a calf’s liver in slices, and put it in a stew- pan, with shalot, parsley, and green onions, cut small, and a piece of butter ■ shake it over the fire, and dredge in a little flour : moisten with a tumblerful of water, and as much of white wine, salt, and pepper; boil it for half an hour. When quite done, and the sauce nearly con- sumed, put in the yolks of three eg°-s previously beaten with two spoonsful'of vinegar; thicken it over the fire, and serve. Ibid. Third way.—Lard a calf’s liver with bacon, previously rolled in shred parsley, salt, and pepper. Make a sauce with some hutter, flour, stock, a bunch of sweet herbs, a few carrots, rind of bacon, pepper, and salt. Boil this for two hours’ and then put in the liver, with a glass of red wine ; another hour will do it." Strain the sauce over it before you serve. Calf’s Liveru. la Braise.*—LardacalFs liver with bacon, seasoned with garlic, fine herbs, salt, and pepper. Put it into a stewpan, with a quarter of a pint of water,