98 CAK CAIC "let it stnnd for an hour; then form your cake and bake as usual. Cake (Chantilly), or Cuke Trifle.—Bake ■a rice cake in a mould ; when cold, cut it round, about two inches from the edge, with a sharp knife, taking care not to per- forate the bottom. Put in a thick custard, and some tea-spoonsful of raspberry jam, and then put on a high whip. Cake de Compiegne.—The same paste as for brioches, only keep it more liquid ■with some hot milk; put in a few stoned raisins and currants. This cake is made in a mould well trimmed with butter. Cakes (Dry).—Rubone pound of butter into one pound of flour, one pound of sifted sugar (the butter should be soaked all nigbt in orange-flower or rose water) whip to snow the whites of eight eggs, beat the yolks of six with a little brandy, mix this very well; butter the pans, only half fill them ; they are baked in half an hour; a brisk, not a scorching oven ; they will keep half a year. If agreeable, make them with currants, put three quarters of a pound. Cakes (Dutch).—Take five pounds of flour, two ounces of caraway seeds, half a pound of sugar, and something more than a pint of milk ; put into it three quarters of a pound of butter ; then make a hole in the middle of the flour, and put in a pint of good ale yeast; pour in the butter and milk, and make these into a paste, letting it stand a quarter of an hour before the fire to rise ; then mould and roll it into cakes, pretty thin ; prick them all over, or they will blister, and bake them a quarter of an hour. . , , Cake (Family).—Take rice and wheat flour, of each six ounces, the yolks and whites of nine eggs, half a pound of lump sugar, pounded and sifted, and half an ounce of caraway seeds. Having beaten this one hour, bake it for the same time in a quick oven. This is a very light cake, and is very proper for young people and delicate stomachs. Cake (Fashion).—Mix a handful of flour with a pint of good cream, half a pound of beef suet, melted and sifted, a quarter of a pound of powder sugar, half a pound of raisins, stoned and chopped, dried flowers of orange, a glass of brandy, a little cori- ander and salt; bake it as all other cakes, about an hour, and glaze or garnish it. Cakes made of Flowers —Boil double re- fined su^ar to a candy height, and strew in your flowers and let them boil once up : then, with your hand, lightly strew in a little double-refined sugar sifted, and put it directly into little pans made of card, and pricked full of holes at the bottom ; you must set the pans on a cushion, and when they are cold, take them out. Cake a. la Frun^aise*—Take a quart of sifted flour, make a sponge, add to it one ounce of salt, two ounces of sugar, a pound and a half of butter, and twelve eggs; mix the whole well together, work up your paste; if it is too stiff, moisten it with a little milk; leave it to stand for half an hour, then add to it half a pound of butter, and give it four turns, the same as a puff paste ; put your cake into a mould, lay it very thick, cut the edges in form of a lo- zenge, gild it, put it upon a baking-tin, ornament it, and let it bake for an hour and a half in a moderate oven. Cakes (Gum).—Take gum dragon, let it lie all night in rose water, till it is dis- solved ; have double-refined sugar, beaten and seared, and mix your gum and sugar together ; make it up into a paste, then roll •some up plain, and some with herbs and flowers ; all the paste must be kept se- parately, the herbs and flowers must be beat small before you make them into paste; but you may use the juice of the flowers and herbs only; sweet marjoram, red roses, marigolds, cloves, gilliflowers, and bluebottle berries, all clipped from the white; when you have made all vour colours ready, have to every one a little rollingpin and a knife, or else the co- lours will mix; first lay a white, and then a colour, then a white again, for two colours will not do well; so roll them up, and cut them the bigness of a sixpence, but in what form you please, minding that they are rolled very thin. Cakes (Hart).—With vour hand work a pound of butter to a cream, then put to it twelve eggs, with only six of the whites well beaten a pound of dried flour, a pound of sifted sugar, four spoonsful of good brandy, and a pound of currants washed and dried before the fire. As the pans are ■filled, put in two ounces of candied orange and citron, and continue beating the cake till you put it into the oven. This quantity will be sufficient to fill three dozen of mid- dling-sized pons. Cakks (Honeycomb).—Boil your sugar to a candv height; then put in vour flowers, which must be cut ; have little papers with four corners ready; drop some of vour candy on the papers, take them off" when ready, and if they are rightly