BOU BRA rr me r ingutes as you have bouchtes, sprinkle them with sugar, and colour both sides of them in a slow oven; and when the Vouchees are ready for table, fill them with whipped cream, with pistachios, and cover each with half a meringue. Bouchees (P elites), perltes.*—Your bouchtes being made and baked as above, whip the whites of two eggs to a firm froth, and mix them with four spoonsful of sifted sugar, and when very smooth, mask your bouchees with it: then take some white of egg, and with the point of a knife, drop them in pearls about the size of a grape stone, round each bouchte, half an inch apart, sprinkle them lightly with sugar, and dry the egg in the oven, taking care they do not lose their whiteness. When cold, place between each pearl a smaller one of red-currant jelly. Fill your bouchtes with apricot marmalade, ap- ple jelly, &c.; if, however, the jelly, or whatever else you may use, be of a red colour, your intermediate pearls should be composed of light-coloured preserve, such as apricot marmalade, &c. These should be pearled a few at a time only. Bouchees (P elites),Frulintes.*—Having prepared the bouchtes as usual, (lores and bake them in a moderate oven ; when they are of the proper colour, mask them with whites of eggs mixed with sugar, and al- monds minced very small; replace them in the oven a minute or two, and then strew red, or any other coloured sugar on them, but not so thick as to cover the al- monds entirely. Fill the bouchtes as usual. Bouchees (Petites), a la Peine*—The same as above, only the paste must be cut thicker, and before you dorez, let them stand a few minutes. Bake in a brisk oven. BOUCONS.—Take the lean of a fillet of veal, cut it into long and thin slices, and lay them on a table ; place some bits of bacon, such as you use in larding, and as many of raw ham, one fat and one lean, the length of your slices of veal; then strew them all over with shred parsley and chives, and season them with spices and sweet herbs ; then roll the slices of veal, bacon, and ham, up very handsomely, and stew them a la braise; when they are stewed, drain the fat from them; put to them a good cullis, and a ragout of mush- rooms, truffles, &c. and serve them hot. BOUILLON de Saute.—Put into astock- potsix pounds of beef, afowl, and a knuckle of veal. Moisten with cold water. Let it boil so that the scum rises only by de- grees, skim it well, then throw into it two carrots, two leeks, a head of celery, two onions stuck with three cloves, and three turnips. Let the whole simmer gently four hours. Put in a little salt, and take off all the fat, and strain very clear. BOUQUET Water.—Take the flowers of white lilies and Spanish jessamine, of each half a pound; orange, jonquil, and pink flowers, of each four ounces ; damask rose leaves, one pound; let all be fresh gathered, and put into an alembic with a gallon of proof spirit, and two quarts of water. Place it in the bain-marie, and draw it off till the leaves begin to rise. BO URGUIGNOTTE.—Cut some truf- fles into balls the size of a nutmeg ; take some small round mushrooms, and put about twenty of each into a small stewpan: pour over them a pint of red wine, with a small lump of sugar; reduce the wine to a glaze. Then throw into the stewpan six spoonsful of 'espagnole, and two of consomme. Boil the whole for half an hour, taste it, and if well seasoned serve it up. BOUTONS.—Make a good, well sea- soned godiveau ; lay this upon broad thin slices of bacon, such as will wrap up your whole bouton ; put to it a good ragout of veal sweetbreads, mushrooms, artichoke bottoms, truffles, and asparagus tops, dressed with white sauce ; then cover this with another layer of godiveau, and slices of bacon ; then bake it either between two fires, or dress it otherwise ; when it is done, take off the fat, add some lemon juice, and garnish with farced rolls and fricandeaux. You may make boutons of fish, by making the godiveau of carp, tench, eel, or what fish you please, well minced and sea- soned. BRAISE (to).*—This is a method of dressing meat, poultry, &c. &c. without its undergoing any evaporation. It is done by lining a braising-pan with thin slices of bacon, beef, or veal, upon which placejjwhatever you intend to braise, and also add carrots, onions, lemons, bay leaf, herbs, pepper, salt, and spice. B11AIS1NG Pan.—A deep, well-tinned copper vessel, with two ears, the lid of which must close hermetically, and have a ledge round, so that coals or hot ashes may he placed on the top when necessary. BRANDY Cream. — Boil two dozen blanched sweet almonds, and three bitter, pounded, in a little milk. When cold, add the yolks of five eggs well beaten in a little cream, sweeten and put to it two glasses of the best brandy, aud when well