Tl'R TUN the fat; keep your sauce hot in the bain- marie. Truffle Sauce.—Take eight truffles, clean, and cut them round, and then cut them in thin slices into a stewpan, set them to stew very gently with a small bit of butter; when well stewed, add two table-spoonsful of consomme, and let it sim- mer till nearly dry; then put in some bechamelle sauce, the quantity must be regulated according to what you want it for; make it very hot, squeeze in a little lemon juice ; it is then ready. If you wish the sauce to be brown, put in espagnvia in- stead of bechamelle sauce. Truffles en Surprise.*—Take a dozen large truffles, of as good a shape, and as near of a size, as possible; dress them in some Champagne wine, drain, and let them cool; then place them on the flattest side, and with a root-cutter of an inch diameter, mark out the centre to within a fourth of their thickness; cut the top of these out with the point of a knife, and clear away the remainder ; fill up the space thus left with a puree of fowl or game, a sulpicon, or any ragoiil, or other puree, mixed with bechamelle, you may think proper; when all are tilled, cover the aperture with the piece taken out, and serve your truffles either in a croustude or on a folded napkin. Truffles (Tourte of).*—Take two pounds of fine truffles, wash and pick them ; put them into a stewpan, with six thin slices of ham, a very little carrot, a sliced onion, a bay leaf, sweet herbs in powder, salt, and Champagne ; lay rashers of bacon over the whole, and stew them to nearly a jelly. When cold, put the truffles into a crust with all the seasoning; bake the tonne, and serve as usual. Truffles (Tourte of).—Boil a dozen peeled truffles in a pint of cream, with a quarter of a pound of sugar ; when the cream is reduced to half, take out the truffles, pound them to a paste, which stir into the cream ; line a dish with al- mond paste, pour in the above, cover the tourte, bake, and ice it. TRUSSING (Directions for).—See the different articles. TUNNY.—This salt-water fish is hut little known in England. When fresh, it is stewed with butter, parsley, and scallions, shred; it is then breaded, and browned with a salamander. It may also be boiled like fresh salmon. The tunny, however, is most commonly pickled, and served cold in a salad. 497 TURBOT.—Turbot, when good, should be thick and full, and the belly of a yel- lowish white or cream-colour. Turbot (Buked).*—Wash your fish in several waters, dry it well, and soak it in melted butter, with sweet herbs, parsley, pepper, salt and nutmeg; in half an hour put the whole into a baking-dish, envelop it completely in bread crumbs, and bake it. Turbot (Breaded).*—Prepare a small turbot as usual, slit it across the back, and soak it for an hour in melted butter, or or lemon juice, with parsley, sweet herbs, salt, and pepper.—Cover the fish with bread crumbs, and broil it; when done, squeeze lemon, or Seville orange juice over it, and serve. Turcot (Croquettes of).*—Are made like those of cod. Turbot an Court-bouillon.* Fill a large saucepan with water, and put into it a pound of salt, twenty bay leaves, a handful of thyme, the same of parsley, twenty scallions, and half the number of large onions sliced; set it on the fire; let it boil a quarter of an hour, and then strain it. As soon as it is quite clear, rub the white side of a large turbot, either with lemon juice or milk, put it into a fish-kettle, and pour the court-bouillon over it; set it on the fire to simmer for half an hour,, or more, according to its size. When done, take it out carefully, 1st it drain, and serve it on a folded napkin; garnish with parsley. Turbot a la Creme.*—Put into a sauce- pan a quarter of a pound of butter, a des- sert-spoonful of flour, salt, pepper, and a glass of good cream, or more if necessary; set it on the fire, and keep stirring till sufficiently smooth, and the right consist- ence ; take a ready-dressed turbot, cut it into pieces, and put them into another saucepan, pour the sauce over them, make the whole quite hot, and then serve. Turbot (Fillets nf).*—Cut the fillets from a turbot, dressed 'in a court-bouillon. Dis- solve some butter with an anchovy, ghred parsley and sweet herbs, salt, nutmeg, and pepper; add a glass of cream, put in the fillets, stir them gently over the lire till the sauce is thick and” smooth; then serve. Turbot (Office).*—Take off the skin, tail, and fins of a turbot, and lard it with bacon; put it into a stewpan, with a pint or more of wine, two slices of lemon, five or six onions sliced, pepper, and salt; set it on a moderate lire, and when about two thirds done, take it off, and leave the fish