WIN whi 528 then pour it into tlio mortar, add a good liit of butter, a litt.lo chopped parsley, half a shalot, salt, pepper, the yolks of three eggs, and the whites well beaten ; mix the whole well together, have a stewpan of stock on a brisk lire, and when it boils fast add to it a glass of white wine; take a small quantity of the farce, form it into a ball, and put it into the stock, and so con- tinue till all is used; take^care to tum them about; they require but a few minutes boiling; take them out one by one, accord- ing as you threw them in, and lay them on a sieve to drain. Serve with a good cullis sauce, with a little lemon juice. Whiting (Fried).— Cleanse and skin them, turn their tails into their mouths, securing them with a small skewer: do them all over with egg, and bread crumbs, and fry them quickly in boiling lard. Serve with anchovy, or shrimp sauce, in a boat. Whitings are frequently served to gar- nish salmon and cod. Whitings (Fried,).* — Take as many whitings as you may require; cleanse, scale, and wipe them dry; then run their tails through the eyes with a skewer, soak them well in milk ; flour, and fry them of a nice colour. Serve them on a napkin. Whitings with Herbs. — Cleanse and skin them; cut off the heads, then put them between two dishes, the under one well rubbed witli butter, and all sorts of sweet herbs chopped fine and strewed over the fish, and let them simmer over hot ashes, put hot ashes also on the top ; turn the fish once or twice; when done, place them on a dish ; pour the sauce and all the sweet herbs over them. Whitings (Minced a. la Creme).—'Take the fillets off the whitings, and toss them in egg, as directed in the receipt for Fil- lets of Whitings fried; then with your hands carefully separate the small flakes, putting them as you do them into a stew- pan; when all is done, pour over them a good cream sauce; when wanted to bo served, toss it gently over a moderate fire, and put it in a dish ; be careful not to use a spoon, as it will break the flakes, and spoil the look of the dish. Whitings with Sauce.—Make a brine with salt and water, sprigs of parsley, sha- lots, hits of roots, and onions; let the whole boil together for half an hour, then strain it, and boil the whitings in it, add- ing one third part of milk ; when done, drain them: make a sauce with a bit of butter, a little flour, two whole green sha- lots, pepper, and salt; make this tolerably thick with cream ; take out the shalots, and serve the rest over the whitings. Whitings (Fillets of) fried.—Take the skin off very neatly from the fillets, cut them in two, have ready an egg, beaten up with pepper and salt; toss the fillets in this, and a few minutes before serving, take them out of the egg, shake them in flour, fry them quick that they may not be greasy, lay them neatly round the dish, and serve abutter sauce, made very hot, in the centre, with a squeeze of lemon juice, and a little glaze mixed in it; garnish with fried parsley. Whiting (Fillets of) Grillce, with Sharp Sauce.—Cut the fillets, and toss them in egg, the same as in the receipt for Fillets of Whitings fried; shake them in bread crumbs, and as you do them, lay them on paper; have ready some clarified butter, dip them in, then bread them a second time, lay them on a gridiron, over a clear fire of wood ashes, broil them of a nice colour on each side, then arrange them neatly round a dish, and pour into the centre some consomme, made very strong, add the juice of nearly half a lemon, and a little pepper and salt mixed in it. WIDGEON.—They should betaken up with the gravy in, baste witli butter, and sprinkle a little over them before they are taken up; pour a good gravv under them, and serve with shalot sauce in a boat. Widgeons (Collared).—Bone the wid- geons, cut them in halves, and marinate them for twelve hours in a little white wine, with cloves, mace, pepper, and salt; then take them out, dry them, season them with pepper and chopped sage ; then dip them in egg, and lay them on their sides ; add a couple of onions, chopped up; then roll them into collars, boil them in good stock, white wine, whole pepper, and mace; they must be kept in this pickle. Widgeon (Hashed).—Half roast them; when served to table, slice the breast, strew on pepper and salt, pour on a little red wine, and squeeze a little lemon juice over ; put some gravy to this, set the plate over a lamp, and let it remain over the lamp till done. WINE.*—The different methods of making English wines having already been mentioned under the several articles of which they are composed, little further need be said on the subject. 1 lie follow- ing is a list of the fruits most commonly used for making wines in this country : Gooseberry. Currant—red, white, and black.