LAM LAM 318 stoned raisins and currants, nicely washed, and some sugar; then lay.on some force- meat halls made sweet, and, in the sum- mer, some artichoke bottoms boiled, and in the winter scalded grapes; add boiled Spanish potatoes, cut in pieces, candied citron, candied orange and lemon peel, a few blades of mace ; put butter on the top, close your pie, and bake it. Have ready against it comes out of the oven, a caudle made thus : take a pint of white wine, and mix in the yolks of three eggs ; stir it well together over the fire one way, till it is thick; then take it off, stir in a sufficient quantity of sugar, to sweeten it, and squeeze in the juice of a lemon; pour it hot into the pie ; close it up again. Send it hot to table. Lamb (Quarter of) en Crepine. — Cut three onions into dice, and fry them in lard ; when nearly done, add a few sha- lots and parsley, shred small, basil, salt, spice, four eggs, two spoonsful of cream, and half a pint of lamb’s blood ; simmer these over the fire till pretty thick : have ready a quarter of lamb, boned, taking care not to injure the skin ; put the above farce in the place of the bone, roll it up in a caul, and roast it, hasting with butter and bread crumbs; pass a salamander over, to colour it; serve it with a rich sauce. Lamb (Quarter of) with Herbs.—Roll a bit of butter in flour, and boil it a moment with a few bread crumbs, chapped par- sley, shalots, green thyme, salt, and pep- per, a glass of white wine, and stock in proportion ; the lamb being roasted, take up the shoulder, and pour this sauce between, in the same manner as you generally do Seville orange, and pepper and salt. Lamb (Quarter of) Roasted and Larded. —Take a fore quarter of lamb, lard the upper side of the joint with lean bacon, and sprinkle the other side thick with bread crumbs ; then cover with paper to prevent the meat from being burnt, and roast it. When nearly done, take it from the fire, and cover the part that has not been larded, a second time, with bread crumbs, seasoned with salt, and parsley chopped very fino ; then put the lamb again before a bright fire to brown it. Serve with a little vinegar poured over it. Lamb (Ragout oj).—Cut. the knuckle bone ofF a fore quarter of lamb, lard it with little thin pieces of bncon; flour it, and then put it into a stewpan, with a quart of good stock or good gravy, a bundle of herbs, a little mace, two or three cloves, and a little whole pepper. Cover it close, and let it stew pretty fast for half an hour. Pour off all the liquor, strain it; keep the lamb hot in the pot till the sauce is ready. Take half a pint of oysters, flour them, fry them brown, drain off clear all the fat that they were fried in, and skim off all the fat from the gravy. Then pour it to the oysters, put in an anchovy, and two spoons- ful of either red or white wine. Boil all together till it is reduced to just sufficient for sauce ; add some fresh mushrooms, and some pickled, and thejuice of half a lemon, or a spoonful of pickle. Lay the lamb in the dish, pour the sauce over it, and gar- nish with lemon. Lamb (to Roast or Boil).—A quarter of an hour is generally allowed to each pound of meat; a leg of lamb of five pounds will therefore take an hour and a quar- ter to roast or boil, the other joints in the 'same proportion; serve either with salad, pickles, brocoli, cauliflowers, French beans, peas, potatoes, or cucumbers, raw or stewed. Lamb Sauce.—Roll a piece of butter in bread crumbs, shred parsley and shalots, and boil it in a little stock and white wine, (equal quantities), a few minutes are suffi- cient ; squeeze in a little lemon or orange juice. Lamb (Shoulders of) and Cucumbers.*— Bone the shoulders to the knuckle, lard the inner part with bacon rolled in pepper, salt, and spices ; tie them up in rather a long form, and braise them the same as la Pollonnoise; drain them when done, untie and glaze them ; prepare some cu- cumbers a la creme, on which lay the lamb, and serve. Endive, tomata sauce, or any other sauce you may choose, is equally good with the lamb. Lamb (Slices of) a la Dauphine.—Bone a shoulder of lamb to the knuckle. Make a farce with truffles or mushrooms, fat livers, parsley, shalots (all chopped small), grated bacon, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and two yolks of eggs; roll this into the shoulder, and braise it with a little stock, a few slices of bacon, a glass of white wine, a bunch of sweet lierhs, pepper and salt. Serve it on spinach. Lamb (Slices of) Fried.—Cut some cold lamb into slices, season and try them ; when done, put them in a dish, and pour over them melted butter ; then put a little flour into a saucepan, with some beef stock, and a little walnut pickle ; let this boil, and keep stirring. Serve the slices of lamb in this sauce, and garnish with fried parsley.