BAR BAR 41 Barberry Ice Cream.—Put a large spoonful of barberry jam into a pint ot cream; add the juice oi a lemon and a little cochineal; stir it well, and finish as directed, see Ice. Barberry Ice (Water). — Mix one spoonful of barberry jam with the juice of a lemon, a pint of water, and a littlo cochineal; pass it through a sieve and freeze it; take care that it is thick and smooth before you put in moulds. Barberry Jelly.—Pick a pint of bar- berries, and put them into a stewpan with boiling water, cover it close and let it stand till nearly cold. Set on the fire some clarified sugar with a little water, (making a quart together); when it be- gins to boil, skim it well, put in the bar- berries, let them boil an hour; squeeze the juice of three lemons through a sieve into a basin, to this pass the liquor from the barberries, and then the isinglass. Barberry Jelly*—Take some very ripe barberries (what quantity you please) and before you seed them take two thirds of their weight in sugar. Boil your sugar au per It, then put your barberries into it, and give the whole a few boilings; then pass it through a silk sieve into a pan, pressing the barberries with a spoon to extract as much juice as possible from them: this done, put it again over the fire, and when you perceive it begins to form the scum, take it off and pour it into pots. Barberry Marchpane.*—Take three pounds of sweet almonds, two pounds and a half of sugar, and a pound of bar- berries; pound the almonds to a paste, mix them with the sugar boiled to petit boul(, and then add the juice of the bar- berries strained; stir them together well, and place them on hot ashes, stirring them continually until the paste is formed; then put it on a table sprinkled with sugar and let it cool; spread it out about the thick- ness of a crown piece, cut it into various forms, place them on sheets of paper, and bake them in a moderate oven and Maze them. You may use any other fruit°you think proper. Barberry Marmalade.*—Take three pounds of very ripe barberries, the same quantity of sugar, and a pound of water : put the water into a deep broad silver or copper pan, and as you take the seeds out of the barberries, throw the latter into water, then give them a few boilings over the fire: after this put them into a sieve, and bruise them to extract the pulp, which must again be put over the fire until the moisture has entirely evaporated. This done, if the pan in which you put your barberries at first was of copper, pour the pulp which was extracted from the fruit into an earthen vessel to prevent the acid of the fruit when heated from acting on the copper; but if your vessel was of sil- ver, you may safely put your pulp into it when heated, then pour upon the pulp the sugar, which must be previously cla- rified and boiled au casst; give the whole a few boilings, stirring it well with a wooden spoon, then pour your marmalade into pots. Barberry Pastile.—Dissolve half an ounce of gum dragon in a glass of water, strain it in a cloth or bag, and put it into a mortar, with a spoonful of barberry mar- malade ; mix it well, and add as much powder sugar as will make it into a malle- able paste; you may also put in a little cochineal dissolved; form it into what shapes you please* Barberry Pickle.—Bruise and strain ripe barberries, and to a pint of juice put three pints of vinegar, a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, an ounce of salt, and a quar- ter of an ounce of pounded ginger. Boil all together, skim it clean, and pour it while boiling into jars in which have been put bunches of ripe barberries. When cold, add a little bruised cochineal. Tie them close. Barberries preserved in Bunches.*— Choose those barberries which have the largest seeds, which may be extracted care- fully with the nib of a pen. Weigh your fruit, and mix it with an equal weight of sugar boiled to petit bould; boil them to- gether two or three times, and skim it. Set it aside in an earthen vessel until the next day, when it may be put in pots and covered. Barberries preserved.*—Takelarge and ripe barberries of a fine red colour, and pick them. Boil sugar to la plume, and then throw in your barberries, and do them together seven or eight times. Skim, and put it in pots. Barberry Syrup.—Pick the barberries, boil and pulp them, then strain them, and clarify the juice ; then boil it up with as manypoundsof fine sugar into asyrup, and if that does not make it thick enough, add more sugar. Barberry Wafers.—Press out the juice from as many barberries as you may re- quire, and mix it with powder sugar, and tho white of one egg, and stir it up with a