ONI ONI S75 pepper, and nutmeg-; mix this with half a dozen eggs; beat the whole up well, and fry the omelet either in oil or butter. Onion Omelet.—Take two or three good sized onions, cut them into slices, and fry them in butter ; when they are done, add the yolks of two eggs, and a little chopped parsley ; fry two small omelets, on which lay the onions, with two or three ancho- vies, cut in slips; roll them up length- wise ; fry some pieces of crumb, cut the omelets to the shape and size of these, and place them thereon; pour melted but- ter, and strew bread crumbs and grated Parmesan over them, and colour it in the oven. Onions with Parmesan Cheese.—Pare six large mild onions, and cut them into round slices, half an inch in thickness. Then make a batter with flour, half a gill of cream, a little pepper, salt, and three eggs, beat up for ten minutes ; after which add a quarter of a pound of Parmesan cheese grated fine, and mixed well toge- ther, to which add the onions. Have ready some boiling lard; then take the slices of onions out of the batter with a fork, singly, and fry them gently till done of a nice brown. Drain them dry, and serve them up placed round each other. Por sauce, melted butter with a little mus- tard in it. Onions (to Pickle').*—Peel the onions till they look white; boil some strong salt and water, and pour it over them ; let them stand in this twenty-four hours, keep the vessel closely covered to retain the steam: after that time wipe the onions quite dry, and when they are cold, pour boiling vine- gar, with ginger and white pepper, over them. Take care the vinegar always covers the onions. Onions (to Pickle).*—Shift the onions with their peels on every morning, in fresh water, for nine days, then peel them ; make a brine sufficiently strong to bear an egg, boil it, and pour it on the onions, let them stand for four-and-twenty hours ; then boil vinegar, with pepper, horse- radish, ginger, and mustard seed, and put it boiling hot to the onions, and let them stand for three days, then boil it again, and let them stand for another three days; after this, boil them all up together, and stop them close down; they will be fit for use as soon as they are cold. Onions (Potage of).*—Set some milk on the fire, season it with salt and pep- per ; whilst it is boiling, melt some butter in a stewpan, add to this some sliced onions, stir them up, and when they are lightly browned, put them to the boiling milk, and simmer altogether for half an horn-. Put the bread into a basin, pour a sufficient quantity of the soup over to soak it, and when it has imbibed as much as you wish, put it into a soup tureen, fill it with your soup,lay the onions on the bread, and serve. Onions (Pureeof, Brown).*—Take from thirty to forty onions, according to their size ; peel and cut them down in half, taking off the tops and stalks, and then slice them; put six ounces of butter into a saucepan, with the onions, which fry lightly till of a nice colour ; then add two ladiesful of espagnole, one of stock, and reduce your purge; when sufficiently thick, rub it through a coarse sieve. Great care should be taken not to let the puree boil. Onions (Puree of, White).*—Prepare the onions in the same manner as for the brown puree, except that they must not be allowed to take colour; when done, add to them some veloute, or cream, re- duce this over a large fire, stirring con- stantly with a wooden spoon ; when the puree is sufficiently thick, rub it through a sieve. Onions (Ragout of).*—Blanch and stew your onions in equal quantities of con- somme and champagne; add a spoonful of olive oil, salt, pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs : let these all simmer together till the onions are sufficiently done. Onions (Ragout of).—Peel a pint of small onions, and take four large ones and cut them very small; then melt a quarter of a pound of butter in a stewpan ; when it has done hissing, put in the onions, and fry them a light brown ; then shake in a little flour, and shake them round till they are thick; add a little salt, a little beaten pepper, a quarter of a pint of good gravy, and a tea-spoonful of mustard, stir all well together; when well flavoured, and of a good thickness, pour it into a dish, and garnish with fried bread crumbs. Onion Salad with Beet Root.—Boil some large onions till well done ; then put them on a dish to cool; have some beet root well baked, cut it into thin slices, and cut the onions into slices also; then lay a slice of onion between two of beet, arranging them in whatever form you think proper on the dish ; serve over them an Italienne sauce, the same as for Italienne salad. Onion Sauce,—Peel some onions, boil