62 BEE BEE and put in three or four carrots well scraped and washed, onions, parsley, pepper-corns, salt, and one clove of gar- lic ; put the cover on, and mind to skim it when wanted. When the meat is done .to pieces, run it through the sieve, the same as a consomme. This serves for plain hashes, or to reduce the glaze for vegetable soups, &c., if required. Beep Suet and Marrow, how to use.— To use suet and marrow, all the skin and sinews should be picked out very carefully. It is used for most forced meats (and the marrow is used for par- ticular occasions), and is extremely good to put into braises, being very nourishing. If you wish to use it instead of butter, soak it in lukewarm water, turning and pressing it with your hands to render it soft, and squeeze out the water. Beef Tansy.—Take seven eggs, leaving out two whites, and a pint of cream, some thyme, sweet marjoram, parsley, strawberry leaves, shred very small; add a plate of grated bread; mix all well together, and fry them the same as all Other tansies are fried, but not too brown. Beep Tea.—Cut a pound of fleshy beef in thin slices; simmer with a pint of water twenty minutes, after it has once boiled, and been skimmed. Season, if approved; but it has generally only salt. Beep Tendons a, L’Allemande,*•—Take two or three pounds of the breast of beef, and cut it into three or four pieces of equal size; blanch them for a short time in boiling water; take also half a large cabbage, and blanch it for a quarter of an hour; then boil your breast of beef with some stock, a bunch of parsley and green onions, a clove of garlic, two cloves, a bay leaf, and a little thyme and basil. When it has boiled an hour, put in the half cabbage, previously cut in three pieces, well squeezed and tied together, also four large whole onions: when they are all nearly done, add four sausages, a little salt and coarse pepper; then finish the stewing till there remains very little sauce; strain the moat and vegetables, and wipe off the loose fat with a cloth. Serve the meat in a dish, with the cabbage and onions round it, and the sausages placed upon the meat; strain the remaining sauce through a sieve, and take oil' the fat, then pour it over the meat. Beep Tripe ii la Provcn^ale.*—Take some very thick tripe, scrape and wash it ih several waters; then stew it with a pound of grated bacon, two carrots, two onions (one of which should be stuck with cloves), bay leaves, thyme, garlic, whole pepper, parsley: moisten with a bottle of white wine, and a spoonful of consomme; let your tripe stew for three hours over a slow fire; then let it cool in the liquor, then heat it again, and let it drain, after which cut it into fillets. You must previously prepare twelve onions, cut in fillets, and fried in oil, with a little garlic and chopped parsley: then boil your tripe. Now it is cut into fillets, with the fried onions, add half the oil in which they were fried, and a little of the liquor in which your tripe was first dressed. Serve the tripe as hot as possible, garnishing it all over with bread, first dipped in oil, salt and pepper, and then dried upon a gridiron. Beef toasted Italian fushion.—Take some steaks, and hack them; then sprinkle them with rose vinegar, and elder vinegar, season them with salt, pepper, and coriander seed; then lay them one upon another in a dish for an hour, and broil them on a gridiron, or toast them before the fire, and serve them in their own gravy, or their own gravy and juice of an orange, boiled together. Beep Tripe a la Fricassee.—Let your tripe be very white, cut it into slips, put it into some boiled gravy with a little cream and a bit of butter mixed with flour; stir it till the butter is melted; add a little white wine, lemon peel grated, chopped parsley, pepper and salt, pickled mushrooms, or lemon juice; shake all together; stew it a little. Beef Tripe a la Milanaise.*—Cut your tripe into fillets, and dress it in the same manner as for beef tripe a la Provenfale ; then, instead of finishing with the onions fried in oil, your tripe must be reduced, and then put a layer of it into a deep dish, the bottom of which must be previously lined with croutons, then on the tripe pu t a layer of grated Parmesan cheese, then bread, then tripe, and so on till your dish is filled; let the whole brown to the bot- tom, and then serve. BEER, (to sweeten) To a kilderkin of beer throw in at the bung a quart of oatmeal, lay the bung on loose for two or three days, then stop it down close, and let it stand a month. Some throw in a piece of chalk the size of a turkey’s egg: and when it has done working, stop it close for a month, then tap it.