APP 23 APP made quite thick, mixed with four eggs, three spoonsful of flour, n little milk, and the remains of what the apples were soaked in ; fry them in hot lard, and glaze with sugar and a hot salamander. Dish them on pedestals made of puff paste, cut in shapes and baked. Apples (Red Jelly of),—See the recipe for making Apple Jelly. Followthe same directions, and afterwards add a sufficient quantity of the essence of cochineal to colour it. Apples dried for Dessert. — Choose some sound stone-pippin apples, not too ripe ; put them into a very slack oven, on baking sheets, leave them in all night, take them out in the morning, and pinch them one by one between your thumb and finger, working it all round ; put them in again the next night, and out again and pinch them in the morning-, and so on till soft enough ; then place them between two boards with a weight upon them, sufficient to press them flat but not to burst them, which will be materially as- sisted by drying them very slow. Apple Pudding with Muscudel Plums.*— Peel and take out the pips of some ren- neting apples, cut them in quarters, and cut each quarter into five pieces. Put them in a stewpan, with four ounces of fine sugar (over which should be grated the rind of alemon), four ounces of butter, lukewarm, and half a pound of Muscadel plums, well washed and stoned. Then place your stewpan on the fire, with fire above. When the apples are warmed through, pour them on a dish, prepare your crust, line your mould with it, put in your apples, and finish according to the receipt of Apple Pudding a la Fran- ftiise. Apple Pudding with Pistachio Nuts.* Peel thirty renneting apples, cut them in quarters, and then cut each quarter into four or five pieces. Then put them into a stewpan with six ounces of fine su"-ar (over which should be grated the rind of a lemon), four ounces of butter, lukewarm, four ounces of green pistachio nuts (whole), and rather more than half a pot of apricot marmalade; let them stew till they are warmed through, then pour them into a dish. Prepare your paste, line your mould, put in your apples, and finish the same as in the receipt of Apple Pudding a la Frartfaise. When it is ready to serve, mask it with apricot marmalade, and strew pistachio nuts, chopped small’ over it. Apples (Pur(e of).—Peel and core a dozen or more good baking-apples; set them over the fire to stew with some cla- rified sugar and a small bit of lemon peel, when soft stir them well with a wooden spoon, and put in a spoonful of apricot jam ; stir it at times till the jam is mixed and the apples thicken, then rub the -whole through a tammy. Apples in Rice.*—Scoop out the cores, and pare, very neatly, half a dozen good- sized apples ; boil them in thin clarified sugar ; let them imbibe the sugar, and be careful to preserve their form. Make a marmalade with some other apples, adding to it apricot marmalade, and four ounces of rice previously boiled in milk, with su- gar and butter, and the yolks of two or three eggs ; put them into a dish for table, surround it with a border of rice, and place the whole apples in the rice and marmalade, and bake it. When done, put into each of the apples a tea-spoonful of any kind of sweetmeat you may think proper. Apple Sauce.—Pare, core, and slice some apples; put a little water into the saucepan to prevent them burning ; add a bit of lemon peel; when sufficiently done, take out the latter. Bruise the apple, put in a bit of butter, and sweeten it. Apples aux Meringues.—Scoop the core out of half a dozen good apples, and fill them with quince marmalade; stew them tender in half a pint of water with some sugar, lemon peel, and a little more marmalade; put the apples with the liquor in the dish ; beat the whites of six eggs to a strong froth with orange-flower water, and sugar to the taste ; cover the apples with it, and bake them half an hour. Apples in a Border of Rice.—Well wash and cleanse a pound of Carolina rice, and simmer very gently over a slow fire, in about a quart of milk and a pint of cream, to which put a small stick of cinnamon, and the peel ot a lemon ; when it is very much swelled and has soaked up all the milk, keep it well stirred lest it should burn, and add a little more milk if it re- quires it; let it remain on the fire till it has attained a very thick consistence, hav- ing previously taken out the cinnamon and peel, and added sugar, sufficient to sweeten it, and grated nutmeg. While hot, add four yolks of eggs and a little brandy, mix it well, and set by to get a little cool; then raise a border of this rice round your dish, about two inches high, as tastefully as possible, into which i