CUR sir CUR Aniseed ncngats are made the same tray. Currants (Dried) Cream Pdtissiere of. •—Wash a quarter of a pound of dried currants in several waters, till perfectly clean • dry them well, and then simmer them a few minutes in two ounces of clarified sugar. Make a cream pdtissiere (see that article) ; and having mixed the butter with it, add a quarter of a pound of sweet and bitter macaroons, two ounces of powder sugar, and the currants. Raisins may also be used for this pur- pose ; but they must be stoned, and each raisin cut in half. Currant (Dry) Petits Pains.*—Fill the petits-pains, made like petits-pains d la reine, with cream pdtissiere, to -which is added, two ounces of powder sugar, and two of dry currants. Then make a glaze with a quarter of a pound of powder sugar, and half the -white of an egg ; mask each petit-pain with this, and strew the currants over as you do them ; dry the glaze in the oven. Currants (Dried) and Cedrat Pudding Anglo-Fram-aise.*— Rasp the zest of a cedrat on a quarter of a pound of lump sugar, scrape it into a pan, with a glass of Madeira wine, and three quarters of a pound of dried currants : take three quar- ters of a pound of beef suet, six ounces of marrow, both chopped very small, and five ounces of flour; add to them, with five eggs, half a glass of cream, a pinch of salt, and half a nutmeg, grated; mix these ingredients -with the currants, &c., and finish as directed. See Marrow Pud- ding Anglo-Franyaise. Currant (Dry) Pudding*—Chop a pound of suet, and mix it with a pound of flour, half a pound of currants (well washed), a tea-spoonful of pounded gin- ger, half a spoonful of tincture of saffron, and a little salt; stir in a sufficient quan- tity of water, to make it a proper consist- ence ; tie it in a buttered cloth, and boil it for an hour; serve it with melted butter, white wine, and sugar. Currant (Dry) Sauce for Venison.— Boil for a few minutes one ounce of dried currants, in half a pint of water; then add a small tea-cupful of bread crumbs, six cloves, a glass of port wine, and a bit of butter. Stir the whole well till it is pro- perly smooth. Currant (Dry) Wafers.*—Blanch and cut half a pound of sweet almonds into very thin strips, put them into a pan with a quarter of a pound of powder sugar, half a spoonful of flour, the grated rind of an orange, two whole eggs and one yolk, and. a grain of salt; stir these ingredients with a spatula very gently, so as not to break the almonds; when well mixed, butter a baking-plate, about eighteen inches long by twelve wide, upon which pour your preparation, spreading it with the blade of a knife, that it may be equally liquid in all parts; and then, with a fork, remove such of the almonds as may lay above the others. Strew over the whole two ounces of dry currants. Put it into a moderately heated oven for two minutes, and then strew over the currants some crushed sugar, and replace them in the oven till they acquire a clear yellowish tinge on both sides : when done, cut it into pieces two inches square, and while warm, press them on a round stick (about two inches diameter), to give them a semicircular form. This operation should be performed as quickly as possible, that the wafers may not change colour. CURRY Balls.—Beat up the yolks of four hard eggs with a small piece of but- ter; season them with curry powder; mix them with bread crumbs ; add the yolk of a raw egg, and having made as many balls as you require, boil them a minute or two, before you make use of them. Curry Powder.*—Take thirteen ounces of coriander seed, two ounces of black pepper, one ounce of Cayenne pepper, three ounces of cummin seed, six ounces of pale-coloured turmeric, the whole pounded very fine. Set them to dry perfectly be- fore the fire, turning them frequently; mix them well, and when cold, put it into bottles; and if kept in a dry place, will continue good for years. This powder is used to flavour various kinds of meat, fish, and poultry, in the pro- portion of two table-spoonsful of the pow- der to two pounds of meat; the onions must be fried first, then the meat and. curry, and when it is a little brown, pour on it two cups of gravy. Another way.—Take of Cayenne pepper, grains of Paradise, cummin seed, mace, and ground ginger half an ounce each, a quarter of an ounce cloves, three quarters of an ounce cinnamon, four ounces corian- der seed, and five ounces turmeric of pale colour; dry and pound them well, mix and sift them fine, and put into bottles. This is one of the best Indian recipes for curry powder. Curry (Imitation) Sauce.*—Putaquar* ter of a pound of butter into a saucepan.