GEN GIIE may, if you think proper, ornament them, which is done in the following manner: Do them all over with a glace rnyale of dif- ferent colours according to your taste, and place them in the stove a minute or two to dry the glace ; when cold, garnish them with apple or currantjelly. Genoises Glaces a iltalienne.*—Having baked and cut the genoises, place them on a sheet of white paper. Clarify and then boil to souffle half a pound of sugar; as eoon as it reaches that degree take the pan from the lire, and set the bottom of it in cold water ; take up the sugar, and having whipped the whites of three eggs, mix them by degrees with the sugar; cover the genoises with this glace, then place them in a stove for a quarter of an hour to dry. This glace may be tinged of various colours by adding to it the different articles used for colouring sugar, almonds, &c. See those articles. Genoises ( Paste for').*—Take a pound of flour, three quarters of a pound of sugar, and half a pound of butter; rub the rinds of two or three lemons upon a part of the su- gar, crush it with the rolling pin, and then Toll it to a very fine powder ; make a hole in the middle of the flour, and put into it a little salt, four yolks and four whole eggs, the butter and sugar; work them together well, and having made your paste, roll it out, and cut it it into bands, which roll to the size of your little finger ; cut them of equal lengths, and form them into S’s or horse-shoes ; slit the sides and ends, lay them on buttered tins, dorez, and bake them in an oven, rather hotter than for baking biscuits. Genoises Smit/L*—Take some almond paste, and having worked it up well, add to it a little gum-dragon, and a little starch, both in powder. Sprinkle a sheet of paper with powder sugar, lay the almond paste over it. and sprinkle that also with sifted sugar instead of flour; then take a small round paste-cutter, and cut ns many pieces from the paste as you may require; then cut an equal number of strips, each long enough to surrbund the tartlet, and about half an inch wide ; fix these bands to the tartlets with the white of an egg. Put a layer of the almond-paste on a table dish, add a rim to it, leaving the edge either plain or notched, as you please; place on this Inver ns many genoises (prepared as above)" as it will contain, and then put them in a stove or oven to dry. When wanted fortnble, fill them according to your taste, with three or four sorts of preserves. GHERKINS.*—Dutch gherkins are es- teemed the best sort; when boiled, they are used in garnishing salads, and likewise to make ragouts; they are done in the following manner : Boil them a moment in water to take off the strength of the vine- gar ; then put them into a good sauce or ragout, not allowing them to boil again ; serve with any dish you think proper. Gherkins (Pickled).*—Choose the green- est gherkins, and having cut off the tails and heads, rub them to remove the down ; wash, dry, and lay them in ajar; pour over a sufficient quantity of the best vine- gar to cover the gherkins, and let them stand; after three days, draw off the vinegar, and boil it; when the quantity is a little lessened, throw in the gherkins, and boil them together; then pour the whole into the jar again. In about five or six days take them out, and boil again, adding garlic, tarragon, and salt; put them into the jar, which must not be covered until the vinegar is perfectly cold. Gherkins ( Pickled).*—Choose your gher- kins as above, very green and straight, brush, and place a layer in a pan, sprinkle them with fine salt, then another layer of gherkins, which sprinkle with salt also: leave them in the salt for twenty-four hours, which will draw all the water from them; at the end of that time drain and place them in ajar, with a handful of all- spice, the same of tarragon, a little balm, ten shalots, six cloves of garlic, two or three long peppers, twenty cloves, a lemon cut in quarters, and two small handsful of salt. Boil two gallons of the best vinegar, pour it over the gherkins, and let them stand till the next day, when boil the vine- gar a second time, and pour it on again; the following day boil the vinegar for the third and last time, pour it over the gher- kins, and, when quite cold, cover the jar with a wet parchment. Gherkins preserved net. — Let your gherkins be clear and free from all spots, I put them into salt and water, let them I i stand two or three days, then take them i out and drain them well; put them in another pan of water, scald them, put them I : in a tub, and let them stand all night; I . then drain the water from them ; put them 1 in a pan of water, and to every two quarts of || i, water, put half a pint of syrup ; put them : in, and let them boil over a slow fire five || t minutes; put them in the tub again and lot them stand till next day; then boil !t . them again, drain that svrup from them. I „■ and have a clean pan, with the syrup of a II .