183 GOD COD when of a proper consistence, put in the fish ; let it soak and boil slowly for half an hour. Then grate bread over it, brown it with the salamander, and serve it hot. Cod (Salt) d La Bourguignotte*—Cut half a dozen large onions into rings, and colour them in some butter; then take some sauce tournee, and put it to the onions, with salt, pepper, and vinegar. Dress your cod as for maitre d’hotel, drain and dish it. Serve with the above sauce. Cod (Salt) with Capers and Anchovies*—• Boil the cod as usual, and when done, drain and dish it; pour over it some caper and anchovy sauce. Cod (Salt) a la Creme *—Soak and boil the fish as a la maitre d’hotel; melt some butter in a stewpan, with some flour, pep- per, nutmeg, and garlic; thicken it with the yolks of three eggs, add a glass of cream and some chopped parsley. Put the flakes of cod into this sauce ; let them boil gently a short time, and serve it quite hot. Or, when you have put the cod into the sauce, bread and bake it; take off all the fat before you serve, and add mush- rooms, artichoke bottoms, and asparagus heads. ■ Cod (Salt) Croquettes of.*—Cut some ready dressed salt cod into dice, and put them into a stewpan, with a quarter of a pound of butter, a spoonful of flour, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and half a glass of cream; put it on the fire, let it boil up once, and stir it, that all may be well mixed, and then let it stand ; when cold divide it into fifteen or twenty heaps; shape and bread them; break four or five eggs, season and beat them up well, dip the croquettes into it, bread them a second time, and just be- fore they are wanted, fry them in very hot lard. Let them be of a nice colour, lay them on a cloth a minute, and then place them in a pyramidal form on a bed of fried parsley. Cod (Salt) fried .*—Boil and pull a cod into flakes, and put it into some bechamelle; let it cool in this sauce. Place the flakes in little heaps, bread them, dip each heap into some well beaten eggs, bread them a second time, fry them of a nice colour, and serve with orange juice and fried parsley. Cod (Salt) Fritters.*—Dip some flakes of previously boiled cod into a batter made of wine, sweet oil, and a very little salt; fry, and garnish with fried parsley. Cod (Salt) d la Languedociennet*—Make a sauce with a bit of butter, salt, pepper, nutmeg, parsley, and sweet herbs minced, half a glass of sweet oil, and some bread crumbled ; when sufficiently thick and well flavoured, put in the tail of a salt cod, and stew it gently for half an hour; serve it hot, and squeeze the juice of half a lemon over. Cod (Salt) a la Lyonaise.-—Serve with a Lyonaise sauce, either white or brown. Cod (Salt) d la Maitre d’Hotel*—Soak your fish (if very salt) for a whole day in milk and water, afterwards soak it in hot water, take off the scales, and put the fish into cold water on the fire; when it has boiled up a few times, skim, and cover it close for a minute; then drain and put it into a stewpan with butter, parsley, scal- lions cut small, salt, coarse pepper, and grated nutmeg. When the butter is melted and well soaked into the fish, serve it with sauce a. la maitre d’hotel, and lemon juice. Cod (Salt) marinated and fried*—Hav- ing boiled and flaked it, marinate it for two or three hours in a little water, with vinegar, pepper, parsley, scallions, garlic, sliced onions, bits of carrots, and cloves. Drain it well, and dry it, flour and fry it. Serve with fried parsley; or you may dip the flakes into batter and fry them. Cod (Salt) Pie.*—Put some flakes of boiled cod (cold) into a puff paste, with butter, pepper, and sweet herbs; when baked, take out the herbs, and put into the pie some sauce a la creme. Cod (Salt) a la Provencale.*—Prepare and boil the cod as a la maitre d’hotel; put into a stewpan fresh butter, pepper, nut- meg grated, shred parsley and scallions, a little sweet oil, and a clove of garlic; mix this together well, and then put in your fish, make it quite hot, stirring con- stantly. Serve with the sauce over it and a little lemon juice. Second way.*—When the fish is boiled, take off the skin, bone, crush it with a spoon, and then pound it. Put it in a saucepan over the fire, and pour in, a little at a time, half a pound of sweet oil, shake it about, and to prevent its turning, put in frequently some garlic water. When the fish has thoroughly imbibed the oil, squeeze on it some lemon juice, and serve it. Garnish with fried bread. Third way*—Spread some butter on a dish, and lay on it parsley, shalots, scal- lions, garlic, pepper, nutmeg, and a spoon- lul of oil. Place the cod (boiled and in flakes) on this seasoning, and cover it with the same; moisten it with sweet oil; strew bread crumbs, drop a little more oil over, and colour it in the oven, or witli a sala- mander. Lemon juice may be added.