69 BIS BIS —Take dried preserved fruit, sucli as apricots, grapes, plums, oranges, and a little orange-flower marmalade, pound them together, and sift in a sieve ; mix the yolks of new laid eggs, and fine powder sugar therewith, till it comes to a paste, but not too liquid ; bake upon paper in a moderate oven. Biscuits (Princess Amelia).*—Put the whites of twelve eggs into an earthen pan, whisk them to a thick snow, and add to them eight ounces of double-refined sugar, pounded and sifted ; having mixed them, put in three ounces of flour, and three of powder sugar sifted, the grated rind of one or two lemons and half a coffee-cup of orange-flower water; stir them well with a wooden spoon, but take care not to spoil the snow : drop them on paper of a larger size than the sweet biscuits, and bake them to a clear brown in a moderate oven. Take them from the paper while hot. Biscuit Pudding.—Pour a pint of boiling milk over three Naples biscuits 1 grated ; cover it close; when cold add the yolks of four eggs, two whites, nutmeg, a little brandy, half a spoonful of flour, and some sugar. Boil it an hour in a basin. Biscuits, the (Queen's).—Take a pound and a half of flour, a pound and a half of fine sugar, the whites of twenty-four, and the yolks of eighteen eggs, put in coriander needs beaten small at discretion; mix these well together, and make them into a soft paste, add a little soft yeast or not. Lay this paste on paper, or in crusts .about two inches broad, and four inches long, set them in a moderate oven, and when they begin to turn brown, take them out, and lay them on paper, in a dry place. Biscuits, Robe de Chumbre.—Boil some sugar over a brisk charcoal fire to caramel, into this throw blanched sweet almonds, stir them with a wooden spoon till covered with sugar, then lay them on a sieve to dry; take care to separate those which stick together. Make an icing with sugar, whites of eggs, and a little orange-flower water ; put the almonds into this, cover them well with it, and place them on sheets of paper; do not let them touch ; put them into a moderate oven. Let them be cold before you remove them from the paper. Biscuits (Savoy).*—Whip twelvewhites of eggs to a snow; beat the yolks with a pound and a quarter of powder sugar, mix them together, with three quarters of a pound of flour and the grated rind of a lemon, into a paste, rub your mould with melted butter, and then strew over that a little line sifted flour, mixed witli pounded, sugar; pour in your preparation and then, bake. Biscuits (Savoy), cold.*—Take a little more than half a pound of very fine dry flour, one pound of very dry pounded sugar, and fourteen eggs; rasp the peel of two lemons or oranges on the shgar, which put to the yolks of the eggs, and work them together with two new wooden spoons. Whip the whites in a separate vessel (with a small pinch of calcined alum to prevent their turning) ; when very firm, take half to mix with the yolks, then mix the whole, and sift the flour over: mix all together gently with a whip. Prepare a mould as above, and put the biscuit in a little at a time, to prevent the bladders at the top; put some ashes on a baking-dish, and put the mould over this in a moderate oven: one hour is sufficient. The same paste may be put into paper cases. Throw crushed sugar over before baking. Biscuits (Savoy), with Filberts.—Blanch, wash, and dry your filberts, and then bum or roast them till of a fine yellow tinge. When cold, pound and mix them the same as the almonds. Finish the biscuits as before mentioned. Smaller Savoy biscuits are made in a similar manner. If you should not be able to procure potatoe flour, wheat flour may be used, taking care to dry it perfectly; a larger quantity of the latter will then be requisite; two pounds and a quarter will be equal to one and three quarters of the potatoe flour. Biscuits (Savoy), hot.—Break a dozen eggs into a vessel over another containing water nearly boiling; beat them up in it with a pound of fine sifted sugar. When the eggs are no longer soft, put three quarters of a pound of flour into a silk sieve; mix the flour well with the eggs, by shaking the sieve, then add two spoonsful of orange-flower water. Rub a mould over with butter, powder some sugar over, and pour in your paste; sprinkle more sugar over, and bake in a moderate oven for three quarters of an hour. Biscuits (Savoy), large.*—Take fifty-six eggs, four pounds of sugar, the zests of four oranges, a pound and three quarters