LOB 334 LOB of tlie liquor they were boiled in; melt some butter very smooth and put it to them; add a little grated lemon peel, and boil all up together. L1VERNOISE.—This sauce is only a Macedoine, made with espagnole instead of bdchamelle; reduce a few carrots and turnips to a glaze, and add them to the espagnole, talcing- care that it does not boil. LOAF a la Duchesse.—Blanch and pound two ounces of pistachio nuts, half a pound of sweet almonds, two ounces of dried lemon chips, and half a pound of sugar: when all these are reduced to a paste, mix it with the yolksof six eggs, add the whites well beaten ; form it into the shape of a loaf, place it in a buttered dish, and bake it in a slow oven : when done, glaze, and strew nonpariels over it. Loaf (Spanish).—Scoop out the crumbs from half a dozen crusty rolls, and fill them with any sort of cream you may think proper; soak them in Spanish wine for a short time; sprinkle flour over and fry them ; glaze them before they are sent to table. Loaf en Surprise.—Scoop out the crumb from a crusty French roll, dry the crust a minute in the oven, glaze and replace it to dry; when cold, fill it with blancmange-, put it on ice, and when the blancmange ts quite firm, place it on a dish for table. This should be done either with one large French brick, or three or four rolls. LOBSTERS (to choose).—The heaviest are considered the best, and it is preferable to boil them at home. If they are quite fresh, the claws will have a strong motion when you put your finger on the eyes and press them. When you buy them ready boiled, try whether their tails are stiff and pull up with a spring, otherwise that part will be flabby. The cock lobster may be distinguished from the hen by the narrow back part of the tail, and the two upper- most fins within it are stiff and hard ; but those of the hen are soft, and the tail broader. The male, though generally the smallest, has the highest flavour, the flesh is firmer, and tho colour when boiled is a deeper red. They come in about April, and remain in season till the oysters return. Hen lobsters are preferred for sauces, on account of their coral. Lobsters (to boil).—Put on a fish-kettle, with water salted in the proportion of a table spoonful of salt to a quart of water, and when it boils put in the lobster, and keep it boiling briskly half an hour, ac- cording to the size of the lobster; wipe off all tho scum from it, and rub the shell with a very little butter or sweet oil; break off the great claws, crack them carefully in each joint, so that they may not be shat- tered, and yet come to pieces easily; cut the tail down the middle, and send up the body whole. Lobsters (Broiled).—When the lobsters are boiled, split their tails and chines, crack the claws, pepper and salt them; take out their bodies, and what is called the lady; then put them again into the shell, and then on the gridiron over a clear fire, also the tails and claws; baste them with butter, and serve them with melted butter for sauce. Lobsters (Buttered).—Boil them, take out the meat, mince it, put to it a little gravy, the inside of the lobster, and the spawn bruised; add a very little white wine, pepper, salt, nutmeg, lemon peel grated, a piece of butter rolled in flour, and a little lemon juice, and a small piece of glaze; stir this together, let it boil up; quarter the chine, season it with pepper and salt, and broil it; lay it on the dish on the rest. But the most approved way is neatly to trim the shells, and fill them with the above preparation; strew bread crumbs on the top, drop some clarified butter on the crumbs, and brown them with a salamander. Garnish with sliced lemon. Lobster Cake.—Pound the meat of two boiled lobsters with the lean of raw ham, some beef marrow, the yolks of four eggs, a bit of bread soaked in cream, a little mace pounded, cayenne pepper, and salt. Colour the whole with lobster spawn; then line a mould with thin slices of fat bacon, press down the mixture into it, cover with bards of bacon, and put on tbe' cover of the mould; and then put it into the oven, let it bake an hour and a half, and let it stand till cold ; turn it out of the mould, take the fat away, and serve the cake up, either modelled or plain, with some savorv jelly round it. Lobsters (Currie of).—Take fnemfront thoir shells, divide into neat portions, and lay them in a pan ; make a liquor for them thus: Slice two large onions, lightly fry them; add about four tea spoonsful of curry powder, some flour and butter for thick- ening, and a pint of good gravy, together with the bodies of the lobsters pounded; boil for half an hour, skim, and pass it through a tammy cloth or fine sieve, into your lobsters, add lemon and salt; simmer