FOW FOW 264 add a good piece of butter rolled in flour, two spoonsful of red wine, tlie same quan- tity of ketchup, and a sufficient quantity of pepper and salt to season it. Place the fowl on a dish, and serve the sauce over it. Fowl stuffed 'with Black Pudding Pre- paration.—Fry two fine chopped onions in butter till they are almost done ; then add chopped parsley, shalots, a little pounded coriander seed, pepper, and salt, half a pound of tripe or marrow, the yolks of four raw eggs, and half a pint of hog’s blood ; thicken it over the fire without boiling; take out the breastbone of a fowl, and stuff it with this preparation ; sew it up, and roast it with bacon and paper tied over it; serve with cullis and consommd for sauce. Fowl (Stiffed or Forced).—Make a forcemeat with half a pound of beef suet, as much crumb of bread grated fine, the meat of a fowl cut very small; beat these in a mortar, and a pound of veal with them, some truffles, morels and mush- rooms cut small, a few sweet herbs and parsley shred fine, some grated nutmeg, pepper, salt, and lemon peel grated ; bone your fowls, fill them with the forcemeat, and roast them. Serve with good gravy, with truffles and morels. The fowls may be larded if you choose. Fowl a la Tartare.—Take a fine fowl, turn in the legs as usual, then cut it in two, take the bones off from the back, cut the breast off, break those of the legs, flatten the fowl with the back of your knife, and season it with salt and pepper; then dip it in clarified butter, and next into bread crumbs, equally on all sides. Next broil it up to a fine colour, on a slow fire, that it may be done thoroughly. Send it up with a brown Italienne mixed with mustard. Thrust your knife into it to ascertain if it is well done ; it requires an hour, or at least three quarters, to be done property. Fowl with Truffles.—Truss a large fowl as for boiling, put truffles into the inside well stewed and prepared; then put it on the spit, with a slice of fat bacon on the breast, and paper tied over that; roast it well, set it on the dish, gar- nish it with truffles in sauce a l’Espagnole, or brown sauce, and serve. Fowl (Wild).—The flnvour of wild fowl is preserved better by not stuffing them; put into each, pepper, salt, and a bit of butter. Wild fowl do not require so much dressing ns tame ; they should be done of a fine colour, and nicely frothed. A rich brown gravy should be served in the dish, and when the breast is cut into slices, before it is taken from the bone, it will be much improved by a squeeze of lemon, some salt, and pepper. If you wish to take off the fishy smell which these birds frequently have, put an onion, salt, and hot water into the dripping- pan, and for the first ten minutes baste them with this; then remove the pan, and keep contantly basting with butter. Fowl ( Wild) Pie.—The fowl should be trussed like a duck for a pie larded with anchovies, seasoned with pepper, salt, and sweet herbs ; put a good quantity of butter into the pie, and finish the same as all others. Fowl (Wings of) larded.*—Take as many wings of fowl as you may require, lard, and put them into a saucepan, with a slice of veal, a little streaked bacon, and sweet herbs ; when sufficiently done, lay them in a dish on any vegetable you please (previously steaming them in good broth), and serve them as a side dish. There are various other ways of sending the wings of fowl to table ; but they are generally cooked as above, or according to the taste and fancy ; only two or three recipes are, therefore, introduced here. Fowls ( Wings of) au Pain de Beurre*— Boil the wings in broth, with some onions, a bay leaf, salt, and pepper, when done and quite cold, wrap each wing in a large slice of butter, which must be pretty firm; if it should be soft, work a proper quan- tity of flour into it, to bring it to the right consistence; when all the wings are covered, lay one over the other, press the whole together lightly, so that it only forms ono piece ; then dip your hands in flour, that in smoothing tins piece the butter may not adhere to them ; then set it in a cool place for half an hour. In the mean while prepare a quantity of bread crumbs well dried in the oven, and having fastened the buttered wings to a spit, put them before a slow fire, take a handful of the bread crumbs, and when the butter begins to melt, shake them over it, and continue this operation till the butter has taken up all the crumbs, and no longer runs, when it may be put nearer the fire to finish the cooking ; take care to keep the whole of a clear equal brown. Fowl (Il'ings of) A la Provenfale.*— I.ard tlie wings with small pieces of an- chovies, instead of bacon, and cook them in a closely-covered saucepan, with some