MAC 338 MAC Macap on (Timbale of an Chasseur).*— Prepare the macaroni as for the timbale, putting filets of larks, dressed in espugnole travail!£, and a fumet of game, instead of the t'Mbxitd and gravy. The rest of the operation is the same as timbale of macaroni. Macaroni (Timbale of, a la Marini ere).* —Cut the filets of a middling sized sole, and fiy them lightly in hutter; blanch two carp roes, and take about a dozen very red cray-fish tails ; prepare your macaroni as directed (see Timbale of Macaroni), with the addition Lof two spoonsful of bdchamel maigre, and four ounces of cray-fish butter, and only half the usual quantity of plain butter. When done, put about a quarter of it in the timbale, and on it the two carp roes, half the cray-fish tails, and as many fine white mushrooms ; cover these with a third of the macaroni, upon which lay thefilets of sole, the remainder of the tails, and six white mushrooms. Pour the rest of the macaroni on this, and finish as di- rected. See the recipe above mentioned. Macaroni Tourte an Zephyr.— Scald about half a pound of macaroni; drain, and then boil it in some good stock; -when quite tender, add to it a proper quantity of grated Parmesan cheese and veal cul- lis, put it into a toute au zephyr (see the article), and serve. MACAROONS.—Take a pound of sweet almonds blanched, and nicely pound- ed, add a little rose-water to prevent their oiling ; add a pound of sifted sugar, then whisk the whites of ten eggs to a solid froth, and add to the above; beat all together for some time. Have ready wafer paper on tin plates, drop the mix- ture over it separately, the size of a shil- ling, or smaller; sift over them a little sugar, and bake them. Macaroons Bitter Ice Cream.*—Take a quarter of a pound of bitter macaroons, pound them, nnd having prepared the cream, eggs, and sugar, in the usual way (see Ice Cream) ; add the macaroon powder, boil, strain, and finish, as therein directed.. Macaroons Filled *—Take some sweet macaroon paste, nnd lay the cakes on water, quite round; when all are done, have a round stick (about an inch in dia- meter), and make a hollow in the centre of each ; bake them ns usual, till yellow, and crisp; then take them out, nnd put in the hollows preserved cherries, raspberries, or some jelly; and instead of detaching the macaroons from the paper, cut it close round the edges. Macaroon Filled (Tart of).*—Cement together as many sheets of wafer paper as will be sufficient to cut a piece the size of a dish ; spread over its surface 6weet ma- caroon paste, about a quarter of an inch thick; on this place a border of almond shaped macaroons round the edge; then lay them in diagonal lines over the whole; cross these again, so as to form a treillis over the surface, taking care to make the points touch neatly; wdien the whole is covered, put it on a tin in a moderate oven, and bake it three quarters of an hour; then take it out, and garnish the spaces between the macaroons with various preserved fruits. Macaroons a la Portugaise.*■—Take six ounces of potatoe flour, a pound of sweet almonds, a pound and a quarter of sugar, and the whites of twelve eggs. Blanch and pound the almonds; beat the eggs to a snow, then mix them with the almonds, add afterwards the sugar and flour; beat the whole up well, and put the prepara- tion into small paper cases, and bake them like other biscuits. Macaroons (Street).*—Blanch a pound of sweet almonds, throw them into cold water for a few minutes, lay them in a nap- kin to diy, and leave them for twenty-four hours; at the end of that time, pound them, a handful at a time, adding occasion- ally some white of egg, till the whole is reduced to a fine paste; then take two pounds of the best lump sugar, pound and sift it, then put it to the almonds, with the grated rinds of two lemons; beat these in- gredients together in the mortar, adding, one at a time, as many eggs as you find ne- cessary to moisten the paste, which should be thin, but not too much so, as in that case it would run ; your paste being ready, take out a little in a spoon, and lay the maca- roons on sheets of wiiite paper, either round or oval, as you please ; lay them at least an inch apart, because they spread in baking, and if put nearer would touch. The whole of your paste being used, place the sheets of paper on tins in a moderate oven for three quarters of an hour. This kind of cake requires great care and attention ; it will be well therefore to take notice of the following rules: 1. To mind that the almonds are perfectly dry before you begin to pound them. 2. Take great care that not a particle of the yolk is mixed with the white of egg, which would en- tirely spoil the colour of the macaroons, and prevent their rising in the oven ; to avoid this, open each separately, and if