BEE 49 BEE to keep it from oiling, sauce the brains ■with this preparation, and serve it very hot. Beef Brains u la Poulette.*—Put^some brains into a stewpan, with a sufficient quantity of butter; sprinkle in a little flour, moisten with a little water, add some small onions, champignons, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; season according to taste, and let it cook over a gentle fire ; when ready to serve, thicken with the yolks of eggs beat up with the juice of a lemon. Beef Brains au Soleil*—Well wash your brains, blanch them and cook them in a marinade of white wine. Then cut them in halves, put them in a dish, sauce and mash them with a good German sauce, well reduced, and add a little of the mari- nade and a few sweet herbs. When the brains are cold, egg and bread them; then fry them ; when fried, arrange them on a dish in form of a crown, and serve with clear aspic sauce. Beef a la Braise.—Take two or three libs of beef, cut away only the fleshy part that is nest the chine, ana take away all the fat, lard it with pretty large lardons of bacon, seasoned with spices, sweet herbs, parsley, young onions, a small quantity of mushrooms, and truffles, shred very small. Having larded the beef, tie it into a neat form with packthread, and put it into a Stewpan, having previously lined the bot- tom of the stewpan with thin slices of fat bacon, and over them lay slices of lean beef about an inch thick, beaten well and seasoned with spice, sweet herbs, onions, bay leaves, salt, and pepper; then put in your beef, laying the fleshy side down- wards that it may take the better relish of the seasoning; then season the upper part as you did the lower, and lay over it slices of beef, and over them slices of bacon, as you did at the bottom; cover the beef with broth, then cover the stewpan and close it well all round ; then put fire on the cover of your stewpan as well as under. When the beef is sufficiently stewed take it up, and let it drain a little, then lay it in a dish, and pour the follow- ing ragout upon it. While your beef is stewing make a ra- gout as follows: Take veal sweetbreads, livers of capons, mushrooms, truffles, tops of asparagus, and bottoms of artichokes ; toss these up with some melted bacon, moisten them with good gravy, and thicken it with a cullis made of veal and ham. Beef Brttli.—Cut up a leg of beef, crack the bone in two or three parts, wash it clean, put it into a pot with a gallon of water, skim it well, then put in two or three blades of mace, a little bundle of parsley, and a crust of bread; let it boil till the beef is quite tender, toast some bread, cut it into dice, put them in a tureen; lay in the meat, and pour the soup over it. Beef Cakes (for a Side-dish of dressed Meat.)—Pound some beef that is under done with a little fat bacon or ham; sea- son with pepper, salt, and a little shalot or garlic ; mix them well; and make it into small cakes three inches long, and half as wide and thick; fry them a light brown, and serve them in a good thick gravy. Beef (cold) broiled in Paper.—Soak some slices of cold beef in a marinade made of oil or butter, parsley, slialots, mushrooms, pepper and salt; roll the pieces in paper with this sauce, rub the paper with butter, broil on a slow fire, and serve in the paper. Beef (Collared).—Choose the thin end of the flank of fine mellow beef, but not too fat; lay it into a dish with salt and salt- petre, turn and rub it every day for a week, and keep it cool. Then take out every bone and gristle, remove the skin of the inside part, beat it well, and cover it thick with the following seasoning cut small: a large handful of parsley, the same of sage, some thyme, marjoram, and pennyroyal, pepper, salt, and allspice; roll the meat up as tight as possible, and bind it, then boil it gently for seven or eight hours. A cloth must be put round before the tape. Put the beef under a good weight while hot, without undoing it; the shape will then he oval. Part of a breast of veal rolled in with the beef looks and eats very well. Beef (Collared).—Lay a flank of beef in ham brine a fortnight, dry it in a cloth ; take out the leather and skin, cut it across and across ; season it with spice, two anchovies, a handful of thyme, parsley, sweet marjoram, winter savory, onions, and fennel; strew it on the meat, roll it in a hard collar in a cloth, sew it, tie it at both ends, and put it in a collar pot, with a pint of red wine, Cochineal, and two quarts of pump water. When cold, take it out of the cloth. Beef Collops.—Take the fillet from the under part of a rump of beef, cut it into small thin slices, and fry them till three parts done; then add to them slices K