529 WOO woo Cherry. Grape. Damson. Sloe. Strawberry. Raspberry Mulberry. Blackberry. Elderberry. Grape, and the foreign fruits. Raisin Orange. Lemon. Of these, the best, according to general opinion, are of our own fruits, the goose- berry and cun-ant, and of tbe others, the raisin and orange. Quinces are sometimes made into wine, but with little success; from the resem- blance to the apple and pear, it is better adapted to the making of cyder. The principal defect in the manufacture of British wines, is the great quantity of sugar generally employed. If a much larger proportion of fruit were used, the wine would not only possess a more de- cided character, but be of a higher quality and of a much more wholesome nature. Wine (Madeira) Sauce *—Take a tea- spoonful of flour, and a preserved green lemon, cut into dice, mix them with a glass of Madeira wine, and a little con- somme, add an ounce of butter, some salt, and nutmeg; set these on a very hot stove to boil for a quarter of an hour; then take it off, put in a quarter of a pound of butter, set it again on the fire, stirring constantly till the butter is melted. WO O D CO C KS. —Th e greatest possible care should be taken, in picking of these birds, to handle them as little as possible, on account of the skin being so particularly tender, and when broken it spoils the beauty of the bird. When picked, cut off the pinions at the first joint, press the legs close to the side, through which and the body pierce the beak of the bird; then cross the feet, and lay a slice of bacon over the breast. Woodcocks and snipes may be dressed according to the same rules. Woodcocks. — Take a pound of lean beef, cut it into pieces, and put it into a saucepan, with two quarts of water, an onion stuck with cloves, two blades of mace, and some whole pepper; boil all these together till reduced to half; then strain it off into another saucepan: draw the woodcocks, and lay the trail in a plate; put the woodcocks into the gravv, and let them boil in it for twelve minutes ; while they are boiling, mince the trail and liver verv small; put them into a small sauce- pan, with a little mace; add four or five spoonsful of the gravy the woodcocks are boiled in; then take the crumb of a stale roll, rub it fine into a dish placed before tbe fire, and put to the trail, in the small saucepan, half a pint of red port, a bit of butter, rolled in flour, set it on the fire, and shake it round till the butter is melted; then put in the bread crumbs, and shake the saucepan round ; lay the woodcocks in the dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Wooodccks.—These are dressed much in the same manner as woodcocks a la Duchesse, only that truffles are added to the forcemeat. Woodcocks a la Duchesse.—Split six woodcocks down the back, and take out all tbe inside to make a farce, with two pounded anchovies, half a spoonful of capers, parsley, slialots, and mushrooms, all chopped very small, and mixed with a good bit of butter, a little scraped bacon, the yolks of two eggs, pepper, and salt; put this into the woodcocks, sew them up close, and braise them with a few slices of veal, and one slice of ham; cover them with thin slices of bacon; add a glass and a half of red wine, and a few spoonsful of cullis: when done, strain, and skim the sauce, and thicken it with butter and flour. Woodcocks (Farced).—Split the wood- cocks at the back, take out all the inside, and mix it with a little scraped bacon, chopped parsley, shalots, pepper, and salt; stuff the woodcocks with this, and sew them up; wrap them in slices of bacon, and over that, paper; then put them down to roast; serve with what sauce or ragout you think best. Woodcocks a la Franfaise.—Pick, draw, and truss them; lard their breasts with broad pieces of bacon; roast them, and serve them upon toasts dipped iu ver- juice. Woodcocks (Minced) en Croustades*— Take the meat from some cold roasted woodcocks, clear away all the sinews and skin, and mince it as fine as possible. Pound the intestines (except the gizzard) and remnants of the birds. Put a glass of Champagne wine and three slialots into a saucepan; set it on the fire, and when it has boiled up a few times, add four ladies- ful of reduced espngnole, a bit of glaze of game; bpil these, and then put in the 2 M