SOL 478 SOU boil it up; add Cayenne, ketchup, and lemon juice, lay in the fish and balls, simmer them a few minutes. Garnish with lemon.. Soles (fried).—Let them bo thoroughly cleansed, after which dry them in a cloth, flour, and dip them in egg, then cover them with fine bread crumbs, laying them on paper as you do them; put some good lard into a fryingpan, and when very hot, slip in the soles, and fry them of a good brown colour; place them on paper to drain off the fat; sprinkle over them a little salt; serve them to table very hot, with shrimp sauce in a boat. You may, if you think proper, beat up the egg with a little pepper and salt. Soles a la Horly.*—Skin, and take the fillets from two pairs of soles, trim, and lay them in a pan, and soak them in the juice of two lemons, with an onion sliced, parsley, salt, and pepper; in an hour’s time drain the fillets, dry them well, flour, and fry them of a nice colour ; drain them, lay on a dish, and serve with tomata sauce. Soles (i la Mayonnaise.*—Fry four or five pairs of soles; when cold, lay them on a gridiron, over a slow fire, not to heat through, but to allow the skin to be raised easily ; while they are on the fire, detach the fillets, and then take off the skins, and cut your fillets into square pieces ; dip each of these into a mayonnaise, and lay them neatly in a mould, until it is full; then make the mayonnaise warm, pour it into the mould, cover, and set it on ice ; when the sauce is congealed, turn it on a dish, garnish with croutons, gherkins, anchovies, &c. Soles with Mushrooms.—Put a quart of milk into a stewpan, or fish-kettle, with the same quantity of water, a hit of butter, salt, and a little lemon juice; then put in the soles, and set the stewpan over a mo- derate fire, and let them simmer very gently till done; then take them up, place them on a cloth or napkin, to im- bibe all the liquor from them; lay them on a dish, and pour over them a good mushroom sauce. Soles en Panpiettes.*—Prepare your soles exactly like salmon en baril; but instead of baking them, boil the panpiettes in a court-bouillon. Serve them with an Italienne. Soles in Salad*—See Salmon in Salad. Sole Pie.—Boil two pounds of eels until quite tender, then pick the flesh from the bones, and put the latter into the liquor the eels wore boiled in, with a blade of mace, and some salt; let them boil till the liquor is reduced to a quarter of a pint, then strain it; cut the flesh of the eel very fine, and mix it with a little lemon peel, cut small, a little salt, pepper, nutmeg, a few bread crumbs, parsley chopped fine, and an anchovy minced; mix the whole with a quarter of a pound of butter, and then lay tins forcemeat in a pie-dish; cut the meat from a very fine pair of soles, and put into the dish upon the forcemeat, pour in the liquor the eels were boiled in, put on the cover, and set it in the oven to bake of a nice brown. Soles a la Plat*—Melt some butter, and pour it into a dish, with some shred parsley, and shalots, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg; then lay in a pair of soles (well cleaned and dried), spread sweet herbs, shred over them, and season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg; add a glass of white wine, and cover the whole with bread crumbs, moistened by a few drops of butter ; set this dish in a mode- rate oven to bake for a quarter of an hour. Soles (Stuffed').* — Make a farce of whiting or perch, minced very small, and mixed with butter, sweet herbs, morels, kneaded together by yolks of eggs, seasoned with pepper, salt, and nutmeg; having skinned and cleaned your soles, stuff them with the farce, rub them with butter, bread, and bake them. They may, if preferred, be dressed in equal quantities of stock and white wine. SORREL a la Bourgeoise*—Pick and wash as much sorrel as you may want, drain and squeeze all the water from it, and put it into a saucepan, set it on the fire ; when the sorrel is dissolved, if there be too much water, put it into a cullender; then fry it lightly in a little butter. Put two spoonsful of flour into a basin, beat an egg up with it, then add another egg, and when that is well beaten with the flour, pour in a glass of milk, and then mix it with the sorrel, set it on the fire, and stir it, until it has boiled a quarter of an hour; dish it, and serve with either poached or hard eggs. Sohrel in Gravy.* — Mince, and put it into a saucepan, with butter, bacon, parsley, and scallions; add a glass of consomme ; set it over a moderate fire, and when quite soft, put to it some fowl gravy, or veal blond. Make the sauce thick, and do not let it boil, cover the sorrel when served. SonnEt. (Omelet of).—Pick, wash, and blanch some sorrel, cut it in pieces, and