BLA 72 BLA Black Puddings, Scotch Way.—Cliop off tlie head of a goose, save the blood ; stir it till cold, then mix it as above directed with groats, spice, sweet herbs, salt, and beef suet, chopped; take the skin from the neck, puli out the windpipe and fat, fill jour skins, tie them at both ends. BLACKBERRY Wine.—Put full ripe blackberries into a large vessel with a cock in it, pour on as much boiling water as will cover them, and as soon as the heat will permit, bruise them well with the hand till all the berries are broken; cover them, and in about three or four days, when the berries rise to the top, draw off the clear part into another vessel; add to every ten quarts of the liquor one pound of sugar, stir it well in, and let it stand a week or ten days to work. Draw it off through a jelly-bag. Steep four ounces of isinglass in a pint of sweet wine for twelve hours, then boil it slowly till dissolved, put it in a gallon of the blackberry juice, boil them together, and put altogether ; let it stand a few days, and bottle. BLANC.—A mixture of butter, salt, water, and a slice of lemon ; also as fol- lows : Cut a pound of beef suet, and the same of fat bacon into dice, half a pound of butter, the juice of a lemon, salt and pep- per, one or two onions, a bunch of parsley, a little thyme, a bay leaf and spice, and well boil it. Blanc.*—Take half a pound of the beef fat, half a pound of bacon, a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, two carrots, two onions cut in half, a bunch of sweet herbs, a few bay leaves, the juice of a lemon, some salt, whole pepper, and two glasses . of stock, and boil the whole for some time, and strain ; it will be then fit for use. Blanc.*—Put one pound of grated bacon, one pound of fat, half a pound of butter, two lemons cut in slices, and the white taken out, two bay leaves, two cloves, four ' carrots cut into dice, four onions, and a very small quantity of water, into a sauce- ■ pan, and boil the whole till it is reduced. You must take care to keep stirring to prevent your bluuc from catching; when . all the moisture is sucked up and the fat is melted, moisten it with water; add some clarified salt, let it boil, and skim it; it is , then ready for use. BLANC-MANGE.—To ono ounce of picked isinglass, put a little water, boil it till the isinglass is melted, with a bit of cinnamon; put to it threo quarters of a pint of cream, two ounces of sweet almonds, six bitter ones blanched and beaten, a bit of lemon peel, sweeten it, stir it over the fire, let it boil, strain, and let it cool, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, put into moulds; and garnish to your fancy. Blanc-mange may be coloured green by adding spinach juice ; red, by a bit of cochineal in brandy, let it stand half an hbur and strain it; yellow, with saffron. Blanc-mange, Diablotins aui Avelines.— Pound and blanch six ounces of filbert nuts, and beat them up with three glasses of scalded cream ; squeeze them through a napkin to extract as much milk as pos- sible from your almonds ; then gradually pour it upon two large spoonsful of rice flour, and beat it well together, taking great care not to let it be lumpy, adding three ounces of sugar and a very small quantity of salt; put it to turn over a mo- derate fire, and dry it for forty minutes until it becomes quite a stiff thick paste ; then put it on a dish and leave it to cool; when cold, roll it into strips, cut them into small pieces about the size of a filbert, and as you cut them roll them into balls and lightly sprinkle them with flour. The whole being thus prepared, place some of them in a small cullender, and put the cullender into batter, so hot that the dia- blotins will immediately catch (this batter should have been standing on the stone for two hours), and become of a nice dark colour in almost an instant. Then take your cullender out of the batter, put your balls in a napkin, roll them in powdered sugar, and serve on a very hot plate. Fry the remainder of your diablotins, serving them hot and hot. Blanc-mange (Dutch').—Put a pint of cleared calf’s-foot jelly into a stewpan ; mix with it the yolks of six eggs, set it over a fire, and whisk till it begins to boil; then set the pan in cold water, and stir the mixture till nearly cold, to prevent it from curdling, and when it begins to thicken, fill the moulds. Blanc-mange u la Fran^aise.*•—Blanch one pound of sweet and a score of bitter almonds : drain them on a sieve, and after- wards dry them, by rubbing them in a napkin; pound them in a mortar, continually moistening them with half a tea-spoonful of water at a time, to prevent their oiling. When they are pounded as fine as possible, take them out of the mortar, and put them into a pan ; then with a silver spoon beat up youralmonds gradually, with five glasses of filtered water ; after tins, spread a nap- kin over an oval dish, and put your almonds upon it; then gather up the corners of your