BILL OF FARE FOR TWENTY PERSONS. (See Plate). FIRST COURSE. JUNE. Though the Soups, Fish, and Entries appear here to be on table at the same time, it is preferred to send the Soups and Fish first, shortly after them the Entries, and then the Removes for the Soups and Fish. The last course being served, the four Removes will take the places of the Roasts os seen above. When Turtle is served, it is well to have a plain Soup on the side table. The Plateau remains down the middle of the tablo throughout the dinner. There must he plenty of plain boiled vegetables on the side table. Deux Terrines de Potage a la Tortue Un Dore, sauce aux homards Filets de Soles avec du Chambord, &c. Merlans frits, sauce de chevrettes Tranches de Saumon it la Genevoisa Two Tureens Turtle Soup Dorey boiled, lobster sauce Fillets of Soles, Chambord sauce Whitings fried, shrimp sauce Slices of Salmon, Genevoise sauce RELEV&S Une Hanche de Venaison Une Longe de Veau farcie it la creme Poitrine de Bceuf it. la Mac6doine Trois PetitesPoulettes aux choux-fleurs, &c Croustarde de Mouton aux pommes de terre, &c. Quenelles en Casserole gamies de filets de Lapereaux, &c. ENTRIES REMOVES Haunch of Venison, sauce of port wine and currant jelly Loin of Veal stuffed, sauce a la creme Stewed Beef, Macedoine sauce Three Chickens, cauliflowers, sauce veloute Raised Pie, sautt; Mutton, potatoes, sauce Italienne Quenelles of Rabbit in Casserole of Rice, with fillets larded ENTREES Cailles aux truffes Quails with truffles Trois Ris de Veau piques auxpois franqais Sweetbreads larded, stewed pens Cotelettes d’agneau, glncees aux epinards Lamb Cutlets saut6, with spinach stewed Filets de Cannetons au jus de Bigarade Fillets Ducklings, with Seville orange Petites Timbales de Laitances de Maquereau Timbales, or Patties, of soft roes of mackarel Escallopes de Poularde aux filets de con- Escallops of Fowl, with Fillets of Cucumbers combres Soupe Julienne Turtle Soup SIDE TABLE.; Saddle Mutton Shrimp Patties Cold Raised Pie of Pheasant Ham braised SECOND COURSE. Levraut roti au cresson Dindonneaux, &c. Deux Canards, &c. Des Cailles rdties Gel6e de vin avec des fraises Creme de C6deratte Gelee de Mosaic Tourte do Cerises Artichauts it la barigoule Haricots verts it la poulette Une Salade Italienne Petits Pois it la francaise RELEVES Fondue au Parmesan Gfltenx de Creme Ptmier de Chantilly Leveret roast, with cresses Turkey Poults, ditto Ducklings, ditto Quails, ditto Jelly garnished with strawberries Cederatte Cream Mosaic Jelly Cherry Tart Artichokes it la barigoule French Beans, sauce poulette Italian Salad Stewed Peas REMOVES Fondues of Parmesan Cream Cakes Chantilly Basket