SAL SAL 4(37 quantity of white-wine vinegar; put it on the fire to skim, and boil it for two or three minutes; take it oil’, and let it cool. When cold, pour it over the salmon and tie it down ; iu three days turn it, and in a week’s time it will be fit for use; this is merely in a small way; a great quantity being done at once, requires neither oil nor anchovies. Serve garnished with fen- nel. Salmon (Pickled)to dress.—Soak apiece of pickled salmon all night in pump water; then lay it on a fish-plate, and put in a Stewpan, with three spoonsful of vinegar, a little mace, some whole pepper in a bit of muslin, an onion, a nutmeg bruised, a pint of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, some parsley, lemon peel, and a quarter of a pound of butter rolled in flour; cover the stewpan very close, and let it simmer over a gentle fire for a quar- ter of an hour; then take up the salmon, lay it in a dish, keep it hot before the fire; let the sauce boil till it is of a proper con- sistence ; take out the spice, onion, and sweet herbs, and serve the sauce over the fish. Salmon Pie (Hot).*—Take the skin and bone from a piece of salmon; cut it in pieces, which lard with eel and anchovies; dress them in a little butter, with some sweet herbs, salt, and spices ; when done, take out the herbs and mix them with fish quenelles; let the fish cool, and then lay it in a deep dish lined with puff paste; put in also the quenelles, cover your pie, and bake it. Pour an Italienne into it, and serve. SALMON(Potted).—Scale and wipe alarge piece of salmon, but do not wash it; salt it thoroughly, then let it lay till the salt is melted and drained from it; then season with beaten mace, cloves, and whole pep- per ; lay in some bay leaves, put it close into a pan, cover it over with butter, and set it in the oven to bake; when tho- roughly done, drain it from the gravy, pound it, put it into pots to keep, and when cold, cover it with clarified butter. Salmon (Rolled).—Take half a salmon, bone it, cut off the head, scale and wash it; make a forcemeat with oysters cut small, some parsley chopped fine, bread crumbs, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and mace; put this to tlie salmon, and roll it up tight; put it into a very deep dish, and set it to bake in a quick oven. Serve with anchovy or shrimp sauce poured over. Salmon (Salad of).*—Put into a sauce- pan four dessert-spoonsful of vinegar, two of liquid jelly, ten of oil, a minced ruvigote salt, and pepper; cut a boiled salmon into pieces, put them into the above sauce to colour them. When cold, lay them on a dish, and pour the sauce over, adding the salad. SALOOP.—Boil a little water, wine, lemon peel, and sugar together; then mix with a small quantity of the powder, pre- viously rubbed smooth, in a little cold water; stir the whole well together, and boil for a few minutes. SALPICON.*—This is a mixture com- posed of various articles, such as sweet- breads, fat livers, tongue, ham, champig- nons, truffles, &c., previously dressed, cut into dice, and cooked in some rich sauce, and seasoned with pepper, salt, nutmeg, cloves, shalots, sweet herbs, and a little butter; take care that all the articles are sufficiently boiled before they are cut up. Many things, such as beef palate, fowl, cocks’ combs ; indeed almost any article you please, may be added to the above. Salpicon (Omelet of).*—Whip up a dozen eggs, and fry half the number as usual in butter ; then lay the omelet in a dish, spread a salpicon, composed of carp roes, livers, &c. of fish, all over it; make a second omelet of the remaining eggs, lay it on the salpicon, and serve with any sauce you please. Salpicon Toast*—Make a salpicon with veal sweetbreads, morels, artichoke bot- toms, and a slice of streaked bacon, all cut into dice ; put them into a stewpan, with some veal or fowl gravy; set the pan on the fire, and then thicken the salpicon with the yolks of four eggs. Cut some thin slices of bread (have all the same thick- ness) ; toast, and spread the salpicon over, and lay them in sandwiches; beat up some whites of eggs, which, with a spoon, pour all over the toast. Then fry them in a very hot pan, serve with veal or mutton gravy, or blond. SALSIFY.*—Salsify in a black root, scrape it well, taking care to leave no spots; then soak it in vinegar and water - fill a saucepan with water: add to it an ounce of butter, four dessert-spoonsful of vinegar, and some salt; set it oil the fire, and as soon as the water boils, put in the salsity, and let it boil till tender. Drain and serve either with white or brown sauce. Salsify (Fried).*—When the salsify is dressed as above, drain, and boil it lightly in a white sauce, and let it cool; then dip it in a batter, and fry it. Salsity is like- s’ u 2