WAT AVAL 526 cold, pour it over the walnuts, and leave them ; next day drain oft' the syrup, boil it again, and when half cold, pour it on the fruit; repeat this every twenty-four hours during eight or nine days, increasing the degree daily, so that oil the last day it may be at perle; a small quantity of coarse sugar should be added at every boiling, as the fruit ought to be covered with the syrup. On the ninth day, put a few cloves and some cinnamon in a glass of water for twenty-four hours; then cut each clove into four pieces, lengthwise; cut the cinnamon also into bits about the same size, take the walnuts out of the syrup, and stick four pieces of clove, and as many of cinnamon, into every walnut; in the mean while, boil the syrup to grand lisse ; and when half cold, pour it over the fruit and leave it; in twenty-four hours drain oft' the syrup, and set it on the fire for the last time ; as soon as it begins to boil, put in the fruit, let them boil up together about a dozen times, and than take them from the fire. Make the bottles quite hot, put in the walnuts one by one, with a skimmer, pour the syrup on (they should be quite covered with it), and when cold, cork them tight, and tie a parchment over every one. These walnuts may be eaten immedi- ately, or they will keep for ten years ; but, as in the course of time the fruit sucks up the syrup, they should be filled up, when required, with a syrup, made with coarse sugar, boiled with some water. Walnuts (Ratafia of).—This is gene- rally made with fresh ripe walnuts ; when thoroughly cleansed and peeled, split two dozen of walnuts, with the shells, for the proportion of three quarts of brandy; and let it infuse in a cool place about a month, stirring the vessel now and then ; then strain the brandy off, and put it into the vessel again, with a little cinnamon, cori- ander, a few cloves, and two pounds of clarified sugar; infuse this as long again ; then strain it as usual. It will be the better for keeping. Walnuts (Ratafia of).*—Take a pound of very young walnuts ; if a pin will not pass through easily, they nve too old ; pound them well, and infuse them for six weeks in two quarts of brandy, with half a drachm of cinnamon, and eighteen grains of mace. At the end of that period, strain the infusion, and mix with it a pound of sugar, dissolved in half a pint of water; let it remain six weeks longer, and then filter, and bottle it. Walnut Wine.—To every gallon of water, put two pounds of brown sugar and a pound of honey, and boil them for half an hour; be careful to skim it clean. Put into a tub a handful of walnnt leaves to every gallon, and pour the liquor upon them; let it stand all night, then take out the leaves, and put in half a pint of yeast. Let it work fourteen days ; beat it four or five times a day, to take off its sweetness, and then stop up the cask. It should stand six months before it is used. Wastheficiie.*—Prepare some parsley roots and leaves, as directed for sauce pluche; cut the red part of carrots as thin as possible; cut also the rind of lemon, or bitter oranges ; scald them all together for about five minutes, and then let them cool; when cold, put them into a stewpan with some fish broth; as soon as done, add some butter, or vinegar sauce, stir it in, and use it as directed. WATERCRESSES (Stewed).— Pick and wash twelve bunches of watercresses; let them be boiled till they are half done, take them out, and drain and squeeze them quite dry; then chop and put them into a stewpan, add cullis, cream, salt, and pep- per, but only a small quantity of each ; let the whole stew gently ten minutes, and serve them to table with fried bread all round the dish. A'VATER Cordial*—Infuse for a week, the rinds of fifteen very sound lemons, half an ounceof cinnamon, and four ounces of coriander seeds crushed, in a gallon and a half of brandy, and a quart of water ; then distil it. Dissolve three pounds and a half of sugar in an equal quantity of pure river water; mix it with your liqueur, filter, and bottle it. Water (Imperial).—Put into a large jug, or jar, two ounces of cream of tartar, with the juice of two lemons, and pour to these seven quartsof boiling water ; when cold, strain it through a very fine sieve, sweeten, and bottle it; it is fit for use on the following day. Water (Soucliq).—Stew a few flounders, some parsley leaves and roots, thirty pep- percorns, and a quart of water, till the flounders are stewed to pieces : pulp them through a sieve. Put the pulped fish into a stewpan,with theliquor they were boiled in, some perch, tench, and some fresh leaves, and roots of parsley, and set it on the fire to simmer till all are done : then serve in a deep dish. Serve slices of bread and butter on a plate, to be eaten with the 80uchy.