12 ANC ANC Anchovies (Essence of).—A pound of the best anchovies, two quarts of water, two bay leaves, some whole pepper, a little scraped horseradish, a little thyme, two blades of mace, six shalots chopped small, a gill of port wine, half the rind of a lemon, a gill of catsup; boil them together for twenty minutes, then rub them through a tammy with awoodenspoon. When cold, put it into pint bottles, cork them close, and keep in a dry place. Anchovies (farce fine of).*—Clean, take out the salt and bones from as many large anchovies as will afford you ten ounces of fillets, which simmer in four ounces of butter, with two spoonsful of sweet herbs, a little nutmeg, and five drachms of spiced salt. When cold, pound the anchovies for ten minutes with six ounces of milk panada ; after that, add to them the butter and herbs, pound them to- gether for five minutes longer; then put in four ounces of crayfish butter and the yolks of three eggs ; pound them with the rest of the ingredients well, and then put it aside for use. Anchovies (Fried).—Make a hatter of flour, a spoonful of oil, and a little white wine; take care that the batter is not too wet: having taken the salt from the an- chovies, dip them in the batter, and fry them of a good colour. Anchovies in moulds.—Rub the inside of your moulds with butter, cut the an- chovies in narrow slips and soak them ; lay them in the moulds with well seasoned farce, and the breast of a roast fowl cut in slips, and bake them; turn them into a dish with a little cullis sauce under them. Anchovy Omelet.*—Wash the salt from a dozen anchovies, and lay them in cold water for a quarter of an hour; cut them in slips and place them on thin slices of bread fried in oil. Beat up a dozen eggs and season them well, put some olive oil in a frying- pan, and when it begins to boil, put in half the eggs to form the omelet; when done, place it on a dish, and lay the anchovy toast on it; then form a second omelet with the rest of the eggs, and put it over the toast. Serve with any sauce you please. Anchovies with Parmesan.—Soak your anchovies well, and split each into four parts ; cut some bread to the same shape and size, and fry it; put a little cullis in the dish with chopped parsley, shalots, and grated pannesan; place the bread in this, and lay the anchovies on it. Pour over it a little cullis, and add a little lemon juice, cover it with bread crumbs and parmesan, and bake of a good colour. Anchovies (Petits Pates of.*—Roll out three quarters of a pound of puff paste into two thin layers, and cut them with a round paste-cutter, about two inches wide : take up the cuttings, put them in the remain- der of the paste, roll it out thin as before, place them on a baking-tin, slightly wetted, a quarter or half an inch apart; moisten them a little, and lay on each Some farce fine of anchovies ; wash and scrape as many fillets of anchovies as you have petits putes, roll them into little balls, and place one on every pule, then lay over it the puff paste, and press it down with another paste-cutter, half an inch less in diameter than the former; turn up the edges of the paste, dorez them highly, and bake them of a reddish colour in a quick oven. Anchovy Powder.—Pound the fish and rub them through a sieve, make into a paste with dried flour; roll it into thin cakes, and dry them before a slow fire. Pound it very fine, and put into well-corked bottles; it will keep a long time. Anchovy Salad.*—Dress young cos- lettuce as usual, garnished with eggs boiled hard and sliced, and herbs, &c. cut small. Add a dozen of anchovies well cleaned and cut in slips. Anchovies Stuffed.—Split, wash, and take the bones from the anchovies, and fill them with a good farce; dip them in a batter and fry of a good colour. Anchovy Sauce.—To about half a pint of melted butter, put two table-spoonsful of good essence of anchovies, with the juice of half a lemon. Serve very hot. Anchovy Sauce au bcurre*—Reduce some sauce Espagnole, and just before you want it for table, put into it a piece of an- chovy butter, about half the size of an egg, and some lemon juice : take care that the butter is warm, and keep stirring it, to mix it well with the sauce. If you should have no Espagnole, any brown sauce you please may be used. Anchovy Toast.—Wash and bone as many anchovies as required, wipe them dry, and chop fine ; have ready some thin slices of bread nicely toasted' and buttered, then spread your anchovies on, cut them into neat pieces, pass a hot shovel or salaman- der over them at a little distance, and serve very hot immediately. Anchovy Toast.*—Cut some thin slices of bread about the length and breadth of a finger; fry them in oil. Place them on a dish, and pour on them a sauce made of