LEN up ; let them he in tlio hot stove one day, and you will lind they will be all culled, and then they are done. Lemon Water.—Put two thin slices of thinly-pared lemon into a teapot, a little bit of die peel, and a bit of sugar, or a large spoonful of capillaire ; pour in a pintof boiling water, and stop it close for two hours. Lemon Water Ice,—To a pint of lemon juice, put a pint of water, half a gill of brandy, sweeten it with clarified sugar, and freeze it. Lemon ( White) Conserve.—Boil a pound of the finest sugar, take it off the fire, and squeeze into it the juice of one lemon at different times, stirring continually; it will make the sugar as white as milk if properly done; take care not to drop any of the seeds into it; work it well together, and when it is of an equal substance (which prove in the same manner as any other jelly), pour it into a mould. Lemon con- serve is made in the same manner, only that the sugar must be boiled to a greater height than for white lemon conserve. LENTILS*—Choose them large and white, and, after having washed and picked them, boil in water ; when done, fricassee them like white kidney-beans. There is a small sort of lentil which is not much used to fricassee, but is the best to make cullis, both from the colour being finer, and the flavour better. Lentil Cullis.—Make a meat gravy with real, ham, onions, parsley, scallions, two cloves, and some winter savory; set these on the fire, and when the meat catches, add some stock, and simmer till done. Boil the lentils in stock, pound and rub them through a sieve into the stewpan with the meat; give the whole one boil; then take out the meat, and strain the cullis, which must not be too thick. Lentils (Fricasseed).*—Make alightyoicr, in which put some sweet herbs, or onions cut in dice ; give them a few turns in the roux ; to which add a little stock, or water; when well mixed, put in the lentils with salt and pepper. Serve them hot. Lentils a la Maitre d’Hotel.* —,Blanch and drain your lentils, put them into a pan with a good bit of butter, shred parsley and scallions, salt, and pepper ; fry them lightly, and serve them very hot. Lentils a la Maitre d’ Hotel*—Boil some lentils in salt and water; then drain them, and put them into a saucopnn, with a large piece of butter; shred parsley, some salt, and pepper; toss them in a stewpan, and 330 LET serve them hot. Garnish with crusts of bread round. Len'itls ( Pur(e of).*—Take two pints of lentils, and do them in the same manner as dry peas ; when done, take out the vege- tables, bacon, and beef; strain the lentils, and put them into a stewpan, with three or four ladiesful of esjiagnole. This pnree re- quires more liquid than the peas, as it will take a longer time to colour; skirn it well, and be careful not to make it too thick. When properly reduced, put it into another saucepan, and set it by till wanted. LETTUCES d I’Espagnole.*—Wash some lettuce hearts; boil them about twenty minutes in plenty of water with salt in it; then press out all the water; put pepper and salt inside the lettuces, and tie them up. Lay slices of veal and bacon, two carrots cut in pieces, three onions, two cloves, and a bay leaf; put in the lettuces, with bacon overthem; moisten with stock and the remains of broth ; when they have simmered an hour, put the let- tuces in a cloth, press out all the moisture, untie and glaze them. Dish them en couronne with croutons, nearly the same size. Serve an espagnole sauce under them. Lettuces (Fried).*—Choose your let- tuces small and round; trim and tie them up, put them into a stewpan with slices of bacon, carrots, onions, salt, pepper, nut- meg, a bunch of sweet herbs, and stock; braise them in this till nearly done ; take them out, press them in a cloth; when cold, dip them in batter and fry them. Lettuces (Garbure of).* — Put about thirty lettuces into boiling water, and blanch them for half an hour; then let them cool; press out all the water, tie them up, line a stewpan with slices of veal and bacon ; lay the lettuces on this, with two or three carrots, three onions, and two cloves; cover them with bacon, pour in some good stock, and simmer them an hour and a half; then drain the lettuces, cut them in slices, longwise. Put, alter- nately, layers of bread crumbs and lettuces, until all the latter are used ; pour the sauce over them (having strained it); set the dish over the fire, and simmer the whole for some time. Put scarcely any salt to this garbure, but strew pepper between each layer. Lettuces (Garniture of).*—1 ake several fine lettuces, pick off tho green leaves, wash them well in cold water; and having blanched them in boiling, throw them again into cold water; drain, press, and tie them up. Put the lettuces into a stewpan with slices of bacon and veal, salt, pepper,