99 CAK CAIv done, they will look full of holes like honeycombs. Cakes (Htide Park).—Take two pounds of flour, four ounces of common sugar, and. half an ounce of caraway seeds pounded; then set a sponge with half a gill of yeast and a little warm milk; when it works, take some boiling milk, add to it five ounces of fresh butter, mix it up light, and let it lie some time ; then roll it out, cut it into any form, and bake it in a moderate oven. Cakes (Liquorice).—Take hyssop and red rose water, of each half a pint, half a pound of green liquorice, the outside scraped off, and then beat with a pestle ; put to it half a pound of aniseeds, and steep it all night in the water; boil it with a gentle fire till the taste is well out of the liquorice; strain it, put to it three pounds of liquorice powder, and set it on a gentle fire till it is come to the thickness of cream; take it off, and put to it half a pound of white sugarcandy seared very fine; beat this well together for at least three hours, and never suffer it to stand still; as you beat it, you must strew in double-refined sugar finely seared, at least three pounds; half an hour before it is finished, put in half a spoonful of gum dragon, steeped in orange-flower water: when it is very white then it is heat enough ; roll it up with white sugar; and if you want it perfumed, put in a pastil or two. Cakes (Little).*—To a pound of flour dried, add a pound of lump sugar rolled very fine, the peel of two lemons chopped small, and five ounces of butter; mix them thoroughly ; let it stand some time before the fire, then add three eggs well beaten, the whites separately, pick them with a fork into small lumps, and bake them on a tin: this quantity will make about eighty cakes. Instead of lemon- peel you may, if you please, add sixty bitter almonds blanched and beaten with white of egg until they are quite fine. Cakes (Little Short).—Rub into a pound of dried flour four ounces of butter, four ounces of white powder sugar, one egg, and a spoonful or two of thin cream to make it into a paste. When mixed, put currants into one half, and caraways into the rest. Cut them out, and hake on tins. Cakes (Little), for Tea.—Mix one pound of dried flour, half a pound of fine sugar sifted, one ounce of caraway seeds, a lit- tle nutmeg and pounded ma’ce; beat the yolks of two eggs with three spoonsful of sack; put these to the rest, with half a pound of butter melted in a little thin cream, or new milk; work all together, roll it out thin, cut it into cakes with tin or glass; bake them on tins; a little baking does in a slack oven. Cakes (Little White).—Dry half a pound of flour, rub into it a very little pounded sugar, one ounce of butter, one egg, a few caraways, and as much milk and water as to make a paste; roll it thin, and cut it out with a tin cutter. Bake fifteen minutes on tin plates. Cake en Losange.*—Make a puff paste ; roll it out to the thickness of half a finger; cut it in lozenges the width of two fingers, and gild over the cake with the yolk of an egg well beaten; bake them for a full, quarter of an hour in an oven, then glaze them with sugar and a salamander. Cake a. la Madeleine.—Take the same weight of flower, sugar, butter, and eggs. In general eight eggs are sufficient fot an entremet; put in a little salt and the rasped peel of a lemon; work this paste a little till you have put all the butter into it. Melt a little butter in a stewpan, and skim it well; pour a little into each dariole mould, and then drain it, leaving, how- ever, a drop at the bottom to facilitate the coming out of the cake. Sift some ashes over a baking sheet, put the small moulds into it, and then put paste into each of them, about half the depth, to give it room to rise. Bake them in a moderate oven. When done, turn them out on a clean sheet of paper, and put them again into the oven for a few minutes. By changing the form of the mould you produce a dish of a different appearance ; and by occa- sionally emptying the inside -with the point of a knife, and putting into the cavity either cream or sweetmeats, you make what is called Calces d la Madeleine Farcies. Cakes a la Munoji.*—Form some puff paste into an under crust, and cover some baking-plates with it; then spread all over them some frangipane, or marmalade, of whatever sort you please; add some sweet- meat, and then cover with a very thin crust; gild and ornament them, then put them in the oven; when they are three parts done, sprinkle them with sugar, and glaze. VVhen they are glazed put them to finish baking in a more gentle oven, and when done take them out of the tins, and serve them either hot or cold. Cakes ( Maudling).—Take a qunrter of a peck of flour, wrell dried before the fire, n 2