447 PUN QUA proportions, that the liquor may be fla- voured with all the ingredients, but that none may predominate. By the intro- duction of other articles, such as arrack, champagne, &c. to the above, it is called champagne punch, arrack punch, &c. The best method of proceeding is as fol- lows : Pare your lemons very thin, and soak the peel in spirits; dissolve the sugar in the lemon juice, then put in the spirits in the proportion of two glasses of rum to one of brandy, some strong green tea, and water at discretion. Punch.*—Take, a very sound lemon, rub the rind on a piece of fine sugar (about half a pound); upon this sugar pour half a pint of strong green tea, boiling | hot; a little syrup of capillaire, the juice | of two lemons, strained; to these add a quartof brandy ; set the whole on the fire, agitate the flame with the punch ladle, and when the liquor is reduced to one third, extinguish it, aud pour the hot punch into glasses. Punch.*—Squeeze the juice of six fine i lemons through a sieve into a China bowl; grate some lemon peol on a piece of sugar, scrape off the surface as it becomes yellow, and dissolve the sugar in the lemon juice ; then pour in a bottle of champagne, the same of rum, a bottle of brandy, and a little | green tea; dilute these ingredients with hot water at discretion. The quantity of sugar must also be regulated according to taste. Punch (Fromage Bavarois).*— Infuse the rind of two lemons, pared very thin, in half a pound of clarified sugar; strain the infusion, and having added the juice of three lemons, and six drachms of cla- rified isinglass to the infusion, finish in the usual way (see Fromage Bavarois) ; add half a glass of rum or arrack to the cream. Punch (Transparent Jelly).*—Throw into some nearly boiling syrup the rinds of two lemons; cover, and leave the infu- sion to cool; in the meantime, filter the juice of five lemons into a basin ; then strain the infusion through a tammy ; add a glass of good rum, or arrack, then an ounce of isinglass, and finish in the usual way. (See Clear Fruit Jelli/). Punch Souffles ( Franfaisof).*—Infuse six drachms of tea in nine glasses of boiling milk; cover and leave it a quarter of an hour; in the meantime prepare your souffle in the usual way (see Souffle Fran- cois) ; put in the infusion of tea, and at the moment you arc about to put in the yolks of eggs, add half a glass of good rum or arrack, and the juice of four lemons; finish your souffle as directed. Sea the above-mentioned recipe. Punch (Syrup of).*—Make a syrup with lemons, as directed (see Syrups); and when nearly cold, and well-flavoured, pour on it a bottle of arrack, or rum; stir it well to amalgamate the two liquids; cover the vessel till the whole is quite cold, when it may be bottled. Q. QUAILS au Chasseur.*—Put the quails in a saucepan, with a little butter, a bay- leaf, sweet herbs, salt and pepper; set them on a fierce fire, and keep shaking them until they are tender, when add a des- sert-spoonful of flour, half a glass of white wine, and a little stock, when this is thick, and quite hot (without boiling); take it from the fire, and serve Quails a T Espagnole*—Mix the juice of a lemon with some butter, salt, and pepper; pick, and prepare eight quails, stuff them well with the above mixture ; then fasten the legs to the body, leaving the claws free; truss them a good shape, and put them into a saucepan on slices of bacon, cover them also with slices, add a poelee, moistened with equal portions of white wine and stock; set them ou the fire for half an hour; then take them out, drain and untie the birds, place each on a piece of fried bread thesizeofthequail, and serve with clear espagnole, with the ad- dition of a little glaze. Quails (Gratin of).*—Take the livers of ten quails, pound, and mix them with some farce cuite, a little whole pepper, salt, and pounded spice; stuff ten quails (previously boned) with some of this, forming them as near as possible to their original shape ; sew or tie them up. Mix the remainder of the farce with a ladleful of veloute, and spread it over a dish ; set it on the fire a minute, and then place the quails on it, cover them with slices of bacon, and put it in n hot oven for lmlf an hour. When done, clear away the fat, and serve with an Ilalienne. Quails au Laurier.*—Take eight very fresh quails; having picked and otherwise prepared them, stuff each with a farce made as follows: Take the livers of the quails, some fowls' livers, grated bacon, bay leaf, and shalots (both shred small), salt, pepper, and nutmeg, well mixed. Wrap the quails each in a piece of bacon