DUC DUC 230 sweetbreads, tossed up in a stewpan, with melted lard, moistened witli gravy; let these simmer over a gentle fire for half an hour, skim off the fat, and thicken it with a cullis of veal and ham. When the pie comes out of the oven, place it in a dish, cut it open, take out the bacon and veal, take of!' the fat that swims at the top; pour in the ragout, and serve the pie hot. Duckling Pie. — Scald two duck- lings, clean them properly, and cut them into quarters and put them into a pie upon a good farce, with two slices of peeled lemon over them to keep white, and season the same as for other poultry; mix two glasses of white wine with some good (cullis, and boil it some time together to reduce it to a good consist- ence. Serve this sauce in the pie. Ducks Po'eles (Sauce Bigarade).*—The ducks being singed, drawn, and trussed, as usual, rub the breasts with lemon juice, and lay them in a stewpan with slices of bacon under and over them, and cook them in a pacle, but do not put them on the fire until about an hour before dinner. When ready for table, place them on your dish, and pour over them the following sauce : Three ladiesful of espagnole travuillc, a little pepper, the juice, and part of the rind, of a Seville orange; give it one boil only before you use it. Ducklings en Puree*—Truss a couple of ducklings like chickens, and having made a light farce of white meats and bacon pounded, lettuce, salt,'pepper, &c., fill the ducklings with it, wrap them in slices of bacon, and do them in a pint of stock over a gentle fire. Boil some young peas in veal gravy, add to them shred parsley, sweet herbs, savory, &c.; when done, rub them through a sieve, and serve your ducklings with the puree round them. DUCK a la puree de Lentilles.*—Prepare the duck as for po'eles, and having laid it in a saucepan on slices of bacon, cover it with the sauce, and a few slices of fillet of veal, with two carrots, three onions, two cloves, a bay leaf, a little thyme, parsley, slnd scallions; pour on this a ladleful of broth, and leave it for three quarters of an hour or longer, if necessary. When done, dish it, and pour either over or under it, siccording to its plumpness or delicacy, a puree of lentils. Ducks (Rnasted).—Season them with sngo and onion shred, pepper, and salt; half an hour will roast them. Gravy sauce or onion sauce. Always stew the sago and onion in a little water, as it prevents its eating strong, and takes oft' the rawness of them. Ducklings (Roasted).—They must not be seasoned ; they will be roasted in rather less than half an hour. Servo with gravy and gooseberry sauce. Ducklings (Rolled).—Make a good forcemeat of roasted poultry, cut a good- sized duckling in two, bone it, and lay the farce upon it; roll it up, tie slices of bacon round it, and boil it in a little stock, with a glass of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, and two cloves; when done, squeeze the fat gently out, and wipe the duck clean ; serve with what sauce you please. Ducks (Wild).—These birds should be fat, the claws small, reddish and supple ; if not fresh, on opening the beak they will smell disagreeable; the breast and rump should be firm and heavy ; the flesh of the hen-bird is the most delicate, though the cock generally fetches the highest price. Pick them dry, cut the wings very close to the body, take off the necks, draw and singe them, truss up the legs and skewer them; and having rubbed them with their livers, spit, and roast them; take them up with the gravy in, and serve with lemons. Ducks (Wild).-—The entrails being taken out of the wild ducks, wipe them, well with a cloth ; put into the inside a bit of butter rolled in pepper and salt; when trussed, spit, and roast them quickly for a quarter of an hour, which will be enough, as the gravy should not run out before they are taken up; shake flour and salt over them, and froth them -with butter. Put good strong gravy over them, and you may serve them with hot port wine in a boat. Ducks (Wild).—Half roast them ; when they are brought to table slice the breast, strew on pepper and salt, pour over them a little port wine, and squeeze the juice of an orange or lemon over; add some gravy to this, set the plate over a lamp, cut up the bird, let it remain over the lamp till done, now and then turning it. Duck (Fillets of Wild) a l'Orange* • Take the breasts of four wild ducks with the skins on, and soak them in oil, with salt, pepper, mi onion, and some parsley. About an hour before dinner time skewer and tie them on a spit, and roast them for half an hour; then cut them in fillets, leaving the skin on ; put these into a little stock, keep them hot without boiling, and