CHI CHI 161 them on the breasts, in such forms as you may think proper; lay in these rings pre- parations of any colour (see Colours), you please, hasting the chickens with white of egg to make the colour adhere properly; then cover them with thin slices of bacon, and braise them for an hour; take off the bacon carefully; add cullis to the sauce, skim, and strain it over the chickens. Chickens a, VOrlie.*—Singe, and cut up two fat chickens the same as for a fricassee; put the pieces into ajar; sea- son them with salt, pepper, parsley, scal- lions, two bay leaves, and the juice of two lemons ; wash and peel a dozen large on- ions, as near of the same size as they can be; cut them into slices of equal thick- ness, making use only of the outer rings. About half an hour before they are wanted, drain your pieces of chicken, sprinkle them with flour, dip them into white of egg beat up, and then into bread crumbs ; give them a neat appearance, and fry in moderately hot lard; when they are of a proper colour, and sufficiently done, lay them on a clean cloth to drain ; then make your fat very hot, and having well floured the onion rings, fry them also of a good colour ; drain them on a cloth, dish the chickens en buisson, with the onion on the top, and a hot aspic underneath, or poiv- rade. Chicken d I’lndienne.*—Fry some sliced onions in lard, with a little flour ; when of a nice colour, take them out carefully, and keep them hot; in the same lard fry a chicken, blanched and cut up ; do it of a good colour, and then add some stock; season it with salt, allspice, Cayenne pep- per, and turmeric; when the chicken is done enough, putin the onions, and let all boil together for two or three minutes. Serve some plain boiled rice on a separate dish, to eat with it. Chigkens d I’lvoire.— Pull out the breastbones of a couple of chickens, and then fill them with butter, lemon juice, salt and pepper, well mixed together; bind up the chickens in lemon, bacon, and paper, the same as chickens to boil, and put them into a stewpan, lined with ba- con ; pour some poele on them. When they have stewed for half an hour, drain, unbind, and serve them with veloute or bechamelle. Chickens ft la Jardiniere.*—Soak your chickens (having trussed and cut each in half) in hot butter, parsley, scallions, garlic, mushrooms (all chopped), salt, and pepper; make as much of these adhere to (lie chickens as you possibly can; cover them with bread crumbs, and broil them, basting frequently with the remainder of the butter. When of the proper colour, make a sauce with a little gravy, three spoonsful of verjuice, salt, pepper, chop- ped parsley, and the yolks of two eggs; thicken this, and pour it over the chickens when ready to serve. Chickens in Jelly.—Lard a couple of chickens with bacon rolled in spices and sweet herbs,and boil them with a knuckle of veal, half a pint of white wine, cloves, parsley, shalots, thyme, bay leaf, and cori- ander; when done, take out the chickens, and let them cool; then skim and strain the liquor, and boil it a short time with a lemon sliced, and a raw egg to clarify it; when that is done, strain it through a napkin. Place the chickens in a pan just big enough to hold them; wash them over with white of egg, garnish them with sprigs of parsley, and colour them if you think proper. Let the chickens lay with the breasts down- wards, and cover them with the jelly. AVhen they are wanted, place the pan a minute in hot water, and turn the chickens over gently. Chickens en Lizard.*—Draw and singe two fine chickens, take off the drumsticks and pinions, leaving the skin ; split them open through the back, bone them entirely, and lay them on a cloth; fill the inside with a farce, made with ready dressed fowl, truffles, champignons, tongue d Vicariate, and calf’s udder, cut into dice; form the chickens with the farce into the shape of lizards, as follows : The skin of the rump make the tail, the thighs make the hind and the wings the fore legs, the breast forms the back, and the head is composed of a truffle cut like that of a li- zard. Line a stewpan with slices of bacon, lay in the lizards, carefully preserving their shape, and stew them, covered with a thick paper and the lid of the stewpan. When done, drain, and set them to cool. Place them on your dish ; glaze and deco- rate them with small omelets, either white, green, red, or yellow; serve them on a green magnonnaise, and garnish the dish with jelly. Chicken Loaf*—Bone a chicken ver3r carefully, and fill it with a ragout of sweet- breads ; make it ns near as possible the original form ; tie it up in bacon, and wrap a cloth round it. Boil it in some white wine, stock, with sweet herbs. Servo it with espagnole. Chickens d la Marengo.*—Cut up a K