269 GAL GAL ciently high temperature, and without this precaution the fried substance cannot be browned. The meat is prepared the same way as in broiling, by cutting into chops or slices, of not more than half an inch or three quarters in thickness. Beef suet, lard, or oil, being melted in a pan and brought to the boiling-point, or nearly so (which may be ascertained by putting into the fat a few sprigs of parsley, or a piece of bread, which, if they become crisp without acquiring a black colour, the fat is hot enough for frying), the meat should be put in. It is not necessary that the meat should be wholly immersed in the boiling fat; if it be immersed in part it ■will be sufficient. When flesh is the sub- stance to be fried, the pieces, previously to their being put into the pan, are sometimes brushed over with eggs and crumbs of stale bread, flour, or any other farinaceous sub- stance. Fish are scarcely ever sent to table without being done in this manner when fried. One of the best preparations for this purpose, is oatmeal, flour, or crumbs of bread, made into a liquid paste with the yolks and whites of eggs. Fish is best fried in oil. Fish and most other articles that are bread-crumbed over, should be fried crisp, so as not to retain [too much of the fat, and afterwards dried in a clean cloth so as to make them as free as possible from grease. G. GALANTINE of Fowl or Game*—Take half a pound of leg of veal, a pound of fat bacon, and half a pound of ham, all ready dressed, and mince them as small as pos- sible ; mix with these an ounce of spiced salt, the yolks of two eggs, and two des- sert-spoonsful of sweet herbs, the same quantity of truffles, all blanched and shred small; when well mixed together, pound it, put this farce into a basin ; then take a pound and a half of truffles, pare, and cut eacli truffle in four; choose a fine red calfs tongue, take off the skin, cut it lengthwise into six strips: cut in the same manner a pound of raw ham, or fresh pork fat, raw. Pick, singe, and bone, a good-sized fowl, lay it open on a napkin, cut away half the meat of the breast and legs, and put the pieces on those parts where the skin is most exposed, so that the whole may be the same thickness; strew over it spiced salt, in the proportion of four drachms to a pound; spread over the whole half the farce prepared above, on that half the truffles, then the tongue and ham fat, taking care to vary the colour ; season them lightly with the spiced salt; then lay half what re- mains of the farce, and on that the truffles, tongue, and ham, as before ; cover the whole of these with the remainder of the farce, and roll it up either as a ball or an egg ; sew up the skin so that none of the stuffing may escape; and wrap it first in slices of bacon, and then in a fine cloth ; tie the ends of the latter very tight; and that the form may be properly preserved, tie three strings round the body, but not tightly. Take a saucepan, line it with bacon, put in the galantine, put round it four onions, four carrots, a bunch of par- sley and scallions, thyme, basil, bay leaf, four cloves, the bones of the fowl, two knuckles of veal, or two calf’s feet, a suffi- cient quantity of stock or fowl consomme to cover the galantine, a glass of Madeira wine, and two dessert-spoonsful of old brandy. Cover the whole of this with a piece of buttered paper, the exact shape and size of the saucepan, and set it on a fierce fire for a short time, after which let it simmer gently foi three hours, then re- move it, and when it has stood for an hour, take out the galantine carefully, and place it breast downwards on a deep dish, and squeeze it a little, press out what moisture if may contain, put a saucepan-lid on it, on which place eight or ten pounds weight, to make the galantine rather wide than high. Strain the jelly through a silk sieve (put aside the gross parts), and let it stand a quarter of an hour, then draw it oft', and clarify it. The galantine being quite cold, take away the cloth and bacon, trim it a little if necessary, and glaze it completely. Place it on a dish, and garnish it with the jelly, according to your fancy. All sorts of galantines, whether of chickens, turkeys, partridges, or any other kind of game or poultry, are done in this manner. Galantine of Veal.—Take a breast of veal, bone and flatten it well, sprinkle salt, pepper, Cayenne, and pounded spice over It, lay the inside uppermost, trim it neatly, brush it over with egg beaten, sprinkle it with sweet herbs chopped fine ; then place jn alternate rows, forcemeat, tongue, and ham ready dressed, gherkins, beans, ham nit, green and yellow omeletes, calf’s feet, or cowheels ready dressed, and sprinkle all over with isinglass ; roll it up tight, and sew it with packthread all over ; then en- velop it in a napkin, tie it tight at each end, sew it up, boil it three hours and a