76 BOU BOU about a pint of water to a pound of meat. It is sufficient that the joint be entirely- covered, as the richness of the juices are best preserved in proportion to the least quantity of water. The liquor, indeed, thus becomes broth, and should be conse- quently preserved for that useful purpose, as by thus slowly boiling, or simmering, it imbibes no inconsiderable portion of sa- Youry nutriment. As the water wastes whilst boiling by evaporation, the pot should be replenished, for the water must constantly cover the meat. A little cold water, too, accelerates the rising of the scum to the surface. When taken from the pot, the meat must .be carefully wiped. Some use a clean cloth for this purpose, but a sponge pre- viously dipped in hot water, and wrung dry, is more convenient. This is done by . wringing and cleansing the sponge in hot water prepared at hand. Be careful not to let the meat stand, but send it to table with all convenient speed, or it will darken in complexion, and become hard. Boiled meat, as well as roast, cannot be served too hot. BOUCIIEES de Dames .*—Mix with six eggs, a quarter of a pound of sugar, three -ounces of pot-atoe flour, a little salt, and a pinch of dried orange flower: beat them together well, and having buttered a tin, lay your paste on it, and bake it in a gentle oven for a quarter of an hour ; when done, cut it in pieces, about the size of a crown piece, and glaze them, mask them according to your pleasure, and dry them in the oven. Bouchees (Petites), de Dames.*—Take two ounces of spoon-hiscuit paste, and lay it on paper, about the size of a lialfcrown, cover them with sifted sugar, and put them •in a moderate oven as soon as the sugar dissolves; take them out when properly done, and remove them from the paper and let them cool; then mask the unglazed side (that which was next the paper) with apricot marmalade; as you do two, join them together; whon all are done, put a .quarter of a pound of sugar and the white .of an egg into a pnn, and stir it about with a silver spoon for tonminutes, adding now and then a little lemon juice to keep it white ; ice the bon elides de dames all over •with this mixture, place them on paper, and put them just within the oven, that they may dry, without changing colour. Bouciiees( Pciifrs), glacces*—Uollsomo puff paste to about the eighth of an inch in thickness, and with a plain round paste- cutter, of two inches diameter, cut out as many cakes as you may require; then with a smaller cutter, take out the middle of half the number, so as to make rings of them ; moisten the edges of the former, and lay the rings on them ; wet them also so as you lay them down, sprinkle them lightly with powder sugar, and bake them in a brisk oven. These bouchees require great attention in baking, as the sugar is apt to dissolve and colour too quickly; when done, they should be of a reddish tinge. Eill them with sweetmeats, preserves, or whipped cream, according to fancy. They may be cut into squares, ovals, lozenges, &c. if you think proper. Bouchees de Monsieur.*—Pound a stick of vanilla with two ounces of powder sugar, and then sift it; mix with it seven addi- tional ounces of dry powder sugar, and half a pound of sifted flour; add to this the whites of four eggs, whipped firm, and work them together till the paste is very smooth and soft. Heat two copper plates, rub them over with wax, and then wipe them; when cold lay the paste with a knife, in pieces about the size of a filbert, shaped quite round, leave three quarters of an inch space between each ; when the plates are full, put them on stools in an oven, so that they can receive no heat from below, then put a stove with hot coals on the top of the oven, and let them remain in this state for twenty-four hours; then put them for fifteen or twentv minutes into a moderate oven. Take them from the plates whilst hot, and as soon as cold, finish them in the same way as Bouchee de Dames ; glaze them with chocolate a la rose, with pistachios, orange, cedrat, Ac. &c. They may also be masked with sugar, pis- tachios, currants, &c. Bouchees (Petites), Meringuecs aux Pis- taches.*—Make them the same as above, strew sugar over without wetting the rings, and bake them to a light colour in a moderate oven. Then mix a quarter of a pound of powder sugar with three whites of eggs, well whipped, and mask the bouchees lightly with it, and glaze them with sugar ; having ready a quarter of a pound of pistachio nuts, blanched, and each cut'acrosssloping ; place these pieces round the edge of the botic/ierslike a crown ; and each piece of the pistachios being placed on the cut side, they stand out from the edge of the bouchee: this process being finished, put them in the oven again a few minutes, to colour the egg; and in the mean time stir up the white of egg which remains, and make with it half as many-