407 pea PER than otherwise, as it iuay be made thinner by the potage which you add to it. Pea s (Ragout of)' with Bacon.*—Take half a pound of bacon, cut it into pieces, which put into a stewpan with a little butter ; put a pint of young peas into a basin, stir some butter into them, and pour on a little water; leave the peas in this for about seven or eight minutes, then drain and set them on the fire; in a few minutes, add a little broth, then bacon, parsley, scallions, salt, and pepper ; stew the whole over a gentle fire ; skim it well, and if too salt,-add a little sugar. Peas a la Sefton.—Take three pints of young fresh gathered peas, and put them into a pan with two ounces of butter and plenty of cold water, work them well with the butter till they adhere together, and having drained them thoroughly in a cul- lender, stew them gently with a bunch of parsley and scallions ; as soon as they be- come green, sprinkle a little flour over, give them a stir, pour a sufficient quantity of boiling water to cover them, and reduce it quickly over a large fire; dissolve a small lump of sugar, and merely a taste of salt, in a little water; add this to the peas. Peas Soup.*—Take the liquor in which a joint of salt beef, pork, or leg of mutton, has been boiled; put it into a large sauce- pan, with beef bones, a knuckle of ham, a carrot or two, a leek, a little celery seed tied in a bag, a pint of split peas ; let the whole simmer by the side of the fire four or five hours. When sufficiently done, rub the peas through a cullender, strain the liquor over them, season it to your taste, and serve with mint dried, and rubbed fine, toasted or fried bread cut into dice, and Cayenne pepper. Peas (Green) Soup.—Take young car- rots, turnips, onions, celery, and cabbage lettuces, slice them, and put them into a stewpan with a little piece of butter, and some lean ham cut in pieces; stew them for a short time close covered ; then fill them up with stock sufficient for your soup, let it boil till the roots are quite soft, throw in a few leaves of mint and the crust of a roll; pound them and put ready for the peas ; boil a quart of old peas as green as you can in water, strain them off and pound them; mix with the other ingre- dents and rub through a tammy, heat it, and season with salt, pepper, and sugar; throw in a few young boiled peas, and if it has lost colour, restore it with spinach greening. Peas (to Stew Green) —Put into a stew- pan a quart of peas, a lettuce and an onion, both sliced, a bit of butter, some pepper, salt, and no more water than hangs round the lettuce from washing. Stew them very gently for one hour. When to be served, beat up an egg, and stir it into them; or a bit of flour and. butter. Peas (Stewed) a la Franpaise.—Boil some very young peas in plenty of spring water with a little salt in it; when nearly done drain off the water, and put them to stew with a bit of butter, a green onion, and a small bunch of parsley, a little sugar and salt; let these stew together for a few minutes, then add two or three spoonsful of consomme; when they appear dry, add some green sauce, but take great care not to put too much, if intended for the second course, as there is not so much required as for an entree in the first course; before serving, mix in a liaison of the yolk of one egg, with a little cream. PEPPER Cakes.—Boil a quarter of an ounce'of whole white pepper it in a gill of sack, for a quarter of an hour; then strain, and mix the liquor with as much fine su- gar as • will make a paste ; drop this on a tin plate, and let them dry. Pepper Pot.*—Take as much spinach as will fill a good-sized dish, put it in a saucepan without any water, set it on the fire, and let it boil; then drain off all the liquor, chop the spinach very fine, and re- turn it to the saucepan, with the water just drained from it, more water, onions, three or four potatoes, a lettuce or head of endive cut small, the bones of any cold roast meat, if you have them, and half a pound of bacon; put the whole on the fire, and when it has boiled for about an hour, put in a few suet dumplings ; leave it twenty or thirty minutes longer; season it well with Cayenne, and serve. Pepper Sauce.—Take an onion or two, a couple of carrots, a parsnip, half a par- sley root (jail cut in slices), two cloves of garlic, a bay leaf, two cloves, and a little butter; set them on the fire, and when they take colour, add some cullis, half a glassjof vinegar and broth, salt, and coarse pepper; reduce to a proper consistence, skim and strain it. P ERCH.—Perch are not esteemed so much as carp and tench; but they iu-e a roost delicate fish ; their freshness may be ascertained by the liveliness of their eyes, and the stiffness of their fins. Perch do not preserve so good a flavour when stewed, as when dressed iu any other way.