TUR TUR 50* skim the sauce, reduce it to a glaze, and finish it like' africandeau. Turkey Wings (Haricot of).*—Take the ivings of some young turkeys, trim and hone them ; make a light roux, in which fry the wings lightly; put them into a stewpan with some rich broth, with par- sley and green onions, skim it carefully, and when about three parts done, put in some turnips, cut into round pieces, an inch and half long, and browned; when done, drain the wings, place them on a dish en couronne, and the turnips in the centre. Turkey Wings au SoleiL*—Toss up as many turkey wings as you wish in some butter ; then add to them eight ladiesful of vetoutii, a spoonful of stock, a bay leaf, whole pepper, one clove, a hunch of par- sley, and green onions ; let these boil, skimming carefully. When about three parts done, take off all the fat; then reduce the sauce till very thick, take out the par- sley, onions, bay leaf, and clove; put in a liaison of three yolks of eggs, and an ounce of butter; put the wings on a dish, pour the sauce over them; as soon as they are quite cold, cover each wing well with the sauce ; roll them in bread crumbs, then dip them in beaten eggs, cover them again with crumbs, and fry them nicely; drain and serve with fried parsley. Turkey Poults.—These should be drawn and trussed in the same manner as a turkey, except that the head should be left on, and turned under the pinions, with the bill pointing outwards. Turkey-poult en Mayonnaise*—Take a cold roasted turkey-poult; cut it up, take off all the skin, and put the pieces into a pan, with a little oil, tarragon vine- gar, a little minced ravigote, salt and pepper. When they are well soaked, lay the pieces on a dish, the inferior ones first; pour a mayonnaise over them ; garnish with hard eggs, fillets of anchovies, gherkins, capers, and a cordon of jelly round the edge. Turkey-poult Peau de Goret.* Pre- pare a fine turkey-poult in the usual way; ruh it over, and baste it with oil, like a sucking pig, whilst roasting; make it a nice colour, sprinkle salt over, and serve it with a sauce d la Viable. TURNIPS (Boiled).—Pare them thick; when boiled, squeeze them well, to tho- roughly drain them from the water : mash them' smooth, heat them with a little cream, add a piece of butter, a little flour, pepper, and salt. Turnips (PurHe of) *—Take a dozen large turnips, slice and put them into a saucepan, with a quarter of a pound of butter; set them on a fierce fire, stirring frequently with a wooden spoon; when of a nice clear colour, add a ladleful of veloute, and another of veal blond; reduce it to the proper consistence ; skim it well, and rub it through a bolting-cloth. Turnip Sauce.—Pare four turnips, and let them simmer gently in a little water until done, and the liquor reduced, then rub them through a sieve. Add to them a little bechamelle, then cut some more tur- nips in shapes, as for haricot; simmer them also the same as the first, and then add them to the others. Turnip Soup.—Be careful in choosing your turnips, that they are not in the least spongy; take twelve, and cut them about an inch square; then cut them into the form of a barrel, and put them as you do them into a basin of water; while they are preparing, set a quarter of a pound of butter on the fire in a shallow stewpan, to clarify; when the turnips are ready, and drained from the water, put them in the butter, and fry them till they become of a fine brown colour; then put them on a sieve to drain; after this put them into a soup-pot, with a little sugar and salt, and fill it up with consomme; set it by the stove to boil gently, skim it well, and clarify it the same as other soups. It will be a great improvement to put in at first with the turnips, a few heads of celery, cut round and blanched. Bread must be put in this, as well as other clear soups made with vegetables. Turnips in various Ways.—Cut them in pieces, parboiled in salt and water, then stewed in butter, with parsley, scallions, salt, pepper, and nutmeg; thicken the sauce, and serve it over thorn. Parboil, drain, and serve with a sauce to urn He and mustard-sauce mixed. Turnip-tops.*—This vegetable is in sea- son during the early part of the spring ; they should be very young, and all the stalks, and withered leaves taken off. Tur- nip-tops require a great deal of water to boil them; put in some salt, and serve them like spinach, plain boiled. Turnip-tops (Pickled).— Choose them, young, pick off all the stalks and withered leaves, put them into boiling water, set them on the fire, and when tender, press out all the water and leave them to cool; then put them into a jar, with some salt and cover them with the best vinegar. TURTLE Fins.—The fins being stewed