SPI 4S2 SPI "lass and beer, and immediately decorate it with the almonds, &c. Another wav. —jTnke a pound of li- quorice, boil it in six quarts of milk, until tbe fluid is reduced to half; then strain it into a saucepan, add six pounds of honey, and boil for a quarter of an hour ; after which pour it into a trough upon the flour, with which mix it up by means of a strong spatula ; when the liquid has taken up as much flour as it will possibly contain, ex- tend it along the bottom of the trough ; as soon as it is a little cooled, put to it half a pint of milk, in which was infused, tire night before, three ounces of the best potash ; knead it well, and then add cinna- mon, coriander, and anise (two ounces of each), an ounce and a half of cloves, all re- duced to powder, a pound of candied lemon, and the same of candied oraDge peel, chop- ped small. Finish as above directed, ex- cept that milk should be washed over them, instead of isinglass, when baked. Spiced Bread (Rotterdam).*—Make your paste as directed with the liquorice, milk, and honey, without any spices, roll it out very thin (about the eighth of an inch), cut this into pieces the size of a playing- card, place them on a baking-tin well rubbed with olive oil, and bake them in a moderate oven; when done, wash them over with sugar, boiled with orange-flower water to a syrup. Let them dry, and tie them in packets, four in each. SPINACH (Boiled).— Spinach is some- times extremely gritty ; it must therefore be picked and thoroughly washed in several waters; then put it into a large saucepan of boiling water with plenty of salt in it, let it boil till done, take it out, put it into a cullender, squeeze it to drain it from the water, then cut it into squares, lay it on a dish, and serve it to table. Spinach d la Bonne Femme*—Having thoroughly washed and picked your spi- nach, scald it well; do it quickly that it may keep its colour; then add three onions stuck with cloves, some sweet herbs, snlt, and pepper. When the spinach is quite done, drain it ; mince and put it into auo- ther snucepnn in a little melted butter, and half a glass of cream, or good milk ; stir all together well, and serve very hot. Spinach in Boxes.—Cut bits of bread tolerably thick, and give them the form of little boxes of tiny shape : scoop out the inside without breaking through, leave a border of a proper thickness, and fry them of a good brown colour, in butter, oil, or lard; drain them the same as all frit tires, and fill them with a well-seasoned spinach ragout; serve with or without a cover. Spinach Fritters.— Boil some spinach thoroughly, drain, mince, and add to it some grated bread, nutmeg, ginger, and cinnamon, all pounded ; as much cream nr yolks and whites of eggs, as will make it the consistence of hatter; mix in a few currants, previously scalded, and drop the hatter into a fryingpan, on boiling lard ; ns soon as they rise, take them out, drain, and serve them. Spinach au Maigre*—Having blanched and minced your spinach, put it into a pan, with nearly a quarter ofa pound of butter, salt, and pepper; set it on the fire, and when the spinach is fried a little, add two dessert-spoonsful of flour, and some milk, stir till it thickens, and then serve. Spinach Pudding.—Pick and well wash a Quarter of a peck of spinach, and boil it until quite tender ; a little salt should be put into the water it is boiled in, and the saucepan must be kept closely covered ; when boiled, put it in a sieve to drain, and then cut it small; beat up six eggs, and mix them with half a pint of cream, or milk, a stale roll grated very fine, a little grated nutmeg, and a quarter of a pound of melted butter ; stir all well together, put them into the saucepan tbe spinach was stewed in, and keep stirring it till it begins to thicken; then wet a pudding-cloth, flour it well, put in the mixture, tie it up. and boil for an hour ; turn it out on a dish, pour over it melted butter, with a little Seville orangejuice and sugar mixed in it, and serve. Spinach Puffs.—Take as much boiled spinach as is equal to four eggs, squeeze it quite dry, shred it small, and add half the quantity of powder sugar, the same of butter, four spoonsful of cream, the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, and two ounces of citron, the two latter minced; season with beaten cinnamon and grated nutmeg; put them all into a stewpan to simmer a little while, and then set them bv to cool. Make a paste with the yolks of four eggs, four spoonsful of milk, and some flour, a pinch of salt, and tbe same of sugar; roll it out very thin, cut it into pieces three or four inches square, and upon each piece lay a spoonful of the spi- nach, ns above, turn the paste over, and pinch the edges round neatly, in the form of a semicircle. These puffs may be either boiled a quarter of an hour, and served with grated bread and Parmesan cheese strewed over them, or fried in boil-