ns FIS 251 a moderate oven; finish in the usual manner. FIRMITY.—To a quart of ready-boiled ■wheat, put by degrees two quarts of new milk, breaking the jelly; and then add four ounces of currants, picked clean, and well washed ; stir them, and boil them till they are done. Beat the yolks of three eggs, and a little nutmeg, with two or three spoonsful of milk; add this to the wheat, stir them together while over the fire; then sweeten and serve in a deep dish, either cold or warm, according to taste. FISH (Observations on). — There is a general rule in choosing most kinds of fish; if their gills are red, their eyes plump, and the whole fish stiff, they are good; if, on the contrary, the gills are pale, the eyes sunk, and the flesh flabby,' they are stale. The greatest care should be taken that the fish is properly cleansed before being dressed, but not washed beyond what is absolutely necessary for cleansing, as by perpetual watering the flavour is di- minished. When clean, if the fish is to be boiied, some salt, and a little vinegar should be put into the water, to give it firmness. Care should be taken to boil the fish well, but not to let it break. Cod, whiting, and haddock are much better for being a little salted, and kept for a day. There is often a muddy smell and taste attached to fresh-water fish, which may be got rid of by soaking it, after it has been thoroughly cleaned in strong salt and water; or if the fish is not too large, scald it in the same; then dry, and dress it. Care should be taken that the fish is put into cold water, and allowed to do very gently, otherwise the outside will break before the inside is done. Crimp fish must be put into boiling water; and as soon as it boils up, a little cold water should be put in, to check the excessive heat, and simmer it for a few minutes. If the fish is not taken out of the water the instant it is done, it will become woolly; to ascertain when it is ready, the fish-plate on which it is dressed may be drawn up, and if sufficiently done, it will leave the bone. To keep hot for serving, and to prevent it from losing its colour, the fish-plate should be placed crosswise over the fish-kettle, and a clean cloth put over the fish. Small fish may be either nicely fried plain, or done over with egg and bread crumbs, and then fried. Upon the dish on which the fish is to be served should be placed a folded damask napkin, and upon this put the fish, with the liver and roe; then garnish the dish with horse- radish, parsley, and lemon. Fish is a dish which is almost more attended to than any other. To fry or broil fish properly, after it is well cleaned and washed, it should be wrapped in a nice soft cloth, and when perfectly dry, wetted with egg, and sprinkled all over with very fine bread crumbs ; it will look still better to be done over with egg and crumbs a second time. Then having on the fire a thick- bottomed fryingpan, with plenty of lard or dripping, boiling hot, put the fish into it, and let it fry tolerably quick till it is done, and of a nice brown yellow. If it is done before it has obtained a nice brown colour, the pan should be drawn to the side of the fire, the fish carefully taken up, and placed either upon a sieve turned upwards, or on the under side of a dish, and placed before the fire to drain, and finish browning ; if wanted particu- larly nice, a sheet of cap paper must be put to receive the fish. Fish fried in oil obtains a much finer colour than when done in lard or dripping. Butter should never be used, as it gives a bad colour. Garnish your dish with a fringe of curled raw parsley, or with fried parsley. When fish is to be broiled, it must be seasoned, floured, and done on a very clean gridiron ; which, when hot, should be rubbed over with suet, to hinder the fish from sticking. It should be broiled over a very clear fire, to prevent its tast- ing smoky, and great care must be taken not to scorch it. Fish (New Method of dressing.)* — Take any sort of fish you think proper, being very careful that it is quite fresh; clean it thoroughly, dry, and season it to your taste; then put it (without any moisture), into a pan, which may be closely covered, with the exception of a small hole, to allow of evaporation. Put it into an oven as soon as the bread is drawn, and let it stand until the whole is so completely dissolved, that the bones are not perceptible. When cold, this makes a very transparent, well-flavoured jelly. Fisii (Aspic of).—Put some warm sa- vory jelly, about an inch and a half deep, into a plain tin or copper mould; then take fresh smelts turned round, boil them