COD 184 COD Cod (.Salt) en Stinquerque*—Take a dish that will bear the lire, and put into it a bit of butter, with some parsley, scal- lions, garlic, and anchovies, all minced, pepper, and a few whole capers ; on this put a layer of salt cod, then a layer of the seasoning, and so on, alternately, until tho dish is quite full; cover the whole with bread crumbs, place the dish on a stove, let it boil a little while. Brown it with the salamander. Cod (Salt) au Verd-pre.*—Boil the fish in butter and sweet herbs ; dish it, and cover it with parsley chopped very small; squeeze lemon juice over, and serve it hot with any other seasoning. Cod Sounds.—This is the white skin of the belly, and is reckoned a great delicacy, and may be either boiled,broiled, or fried. Previous to dressing either way, they should be well soaked, washed, and boiled a little. Cod Sounds grillee.—Scald them in hot water, and rub them well with salt, if fresh ; blanch them, that is, take off the blacked dirty skin, then set them on in cold water, and let them simmer till they begin to be tender; take them out, flour, and broil them on the gridiron. In the mean time, take a little good gravy, a little mus- tard, a little bit of butter rolled in flour, give it a boil, season it with pepper and salt. Lay the sounds in your dish, and pour the sauce over them. Cod Sounds en Poule.—Make a force- meat with some chopped oysters and an- chovies, bread crumbs, a little butter; bind it with two eggs, and season with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and mace. Wash and boil in milk and water, three or four sounds, and when cold, put a layer of the force- meat on each, and roll them up in the form of chickens, and skewer them. Lard them, sprinkle flour over, and cook them gently in a Dutch oven. Serve with oyster sauce. Cod (Toils of Salt) a l’ Anglaise.—Make a sauce with the pulp of two lemons, some anchovies cut into dice, shred parsley and scallions, a little pepper, garlic, a small piece of butter, and about the same quan- tity of oil; heat it up gently, stirring it constantly. Pour half this sauce on a dish, place the salt cod (ready boiled) in it, garnish it with fried crusts, pour the remainder of the sauce over ; cover it with raspings, and cook it in a slow oven for a quarter of an hour. Clean the edges of the dish, and serve. Cod (Tail of Sail) forced.—Rub two handsful of bread crumbs, mixed with a pint of milk, through a cullender; boil it until the bread is very thick, and then set it to cool; after this, put to it a piece of butter the size of an egg, parsley, chopped scallions, salt, pepper, and the yolks of six eggs. Boil and drain the tail of a salted cod, take out all the meat, but leave in the bone ; cut the meat to pieces ; put into a stewpan a piece of butter, some mushrooms cut in bits, parsley, scallions, shalots, and garlic, all minced; do it up over the fire, then add a spoonful of flour, a little milk, and coarse pepper. Boil this until very thick, when the fish should be put in with the yolks of three eggs ; keep it on the fire a little while, but do not let it boil, and then set it to cool. Put the tail hone on the table-dish, wrap the end in a buttered paper, surround the bone with part of the firstmentioned mixture, then put in the ragout, cover it with the remainder of the farce, and form the whole into the shape of the cod's tail, brush it over with egg, cover it with bread crumbs, and bake it. When done, clean the edges of the dish, and put into it some sauce made with a glass of stock, a bit of butter worked with flour, a spoonful of Verjuice, salt, and pepper; thicken it over the fire. CODLINGS grillees.—Take three fresh codlings, egg them over, shake them in flour, and broil them over a moderate fire, till well done and of a good colour on both sides, or you may toss them in egg and crumbs of bread, as directed for turbot. Serve them with sauce d I'Espagnole. Codlings with street Herbs.—Cut a cod- ling into six or eight pieces, bone it as clean as possible, and marinate it in melted butter, lemon juice, and all sorts of sweet herbs chopped; then lay it on the table- dish with all the marinade, both under and over it; cover it with bread crumbs, and add small bits of butter, or a few drops melted, close to each other; bake it in the oven ; it will require but a short time baking. Codlings pickled like Mangoes.—Make a brine of water and salt, strong enough to bear an egg ; take codlings full grown, but not ripe; let them lie in the brine for ten days, shifting the pickle once in two days ; then dry them, and scoop out the cores, take out the stalks so that you may put them in again in the room of the core ; till them with ginger, sliced very thin, a clove of garlic, and whole mustard seeds. Put in the piece of apple that belongs to the stalk, and tie it up tight; put to them as