EGG EGG 241 Egg Pie.—Having boiled twelve eggs bard, shred them with one pound of beef suet, or marrow shred line; season them with a little cinnamon and nutmeg finely beaten, one pound of currants, clean washed and picked, two or three spoonsful of cream, and a little sack and rose water, mixed all together; then fill the pie, and when it is baked, stir in half a pound of fresh butter, and the juice of a lemon. Egg Pie.—Boil a dozen eggs hard, mince the yolks very small with their weight in beef suet; put to them some salt, beaten spice, lemon peel, rose water, sugar, a quarter of a pound of dates, stoned and sliced, add a pound of currants; you may also add an apple shred small; mix all these together, fill your dish, and bake it. Serve it to table with a little wine. Ecgs a la Piemnutaise*—Put a couple of anchovies and a little gravy into a saucepan, and when they are dissolved, add the yolks of eight and the whites of two eggs (well beaten), season them with salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; beat them well whilst they are doing. Serve them with fried bread, grate Parmesan cheese over, and brown it with a salamander. Eggs (Poached).—Have ready a sauce- pan full of boiling water, with a little vi- negar and salt in, break in your eggs care- fully, and let them simmer for two minutes; then take them out with a slice, and serve them, either upon toast, spinach, or what- ever you please. Ecgs (Poached) with Aspic.* — Warm some aspic, and pour part of it into a mould ; when congealed again, have ready some eggs poached, and garnished with truffles ; lay them on the jelly, and fill the mould with the remaining aspic, and finish it in the usual way. Eggs (Poached) with Gravy.*—Fill a saucepan about three parts full of water, to which add a little salt and vinegar; as soon as it boils, set it by the side of the fire, and carefully break four eggs into it; be careful not to injure the yolks. When done, take them out with an egg spoon, and if they should chance to be rather hard, throw them into cold water, drain them on a cloth, pepper them a little, and serve them with gravy. Twelve or fifteen eggs are sufficient for a dish ; the water should be kept boiling whilst they are doing. Eccs (Potage of Poached).* — Having poached as many eggs as you wish to have, trim and place them in a soup tureen, and i pour on them some good stock or broth. Ten minutes before you serve it, add a small quantity of coarse pepper. Eggs ii la Proveiifale.*—Put a glass of oil into a fryingpan over a gentle fire, and when quite hot pour into it an egg, with salt and pepper; when the white begins to bubble, press it down with a spoon, turn it, that both sides may be equally done; then take it out, and set it on a hair sieve to drain; do twelve eggs in this manner, dish them with fried bread glazed between each. Reduce some sauce espagnole, in which put the juice of half a lemon, and pour it over them. Eggs ( Puffed or liaised).—Carefully se- parate the whites and yolks of eight eggs without breaking the yolks ; froth up the whites; cover one of the yolks carefully, with a spoonful of the froth, and so con- tinue, till all the yolks are covered; then slide them gently off into a hot friture', one after another. Serve with a cullis sauce, made tolerably relishing or sharp with lemon juice. Egg Punch*—Take a punch glass, and put into it a wine glass of syrup of punch (see that article), and the yolk of an egg ; beat them together with a spoon, and then fill up the glass with boiling water, stirrin°- a little as you pour it in. Eggs (a Salmi of). — Boil six bruise slialots in a glass of white wine for about six minutes ; mix this liquid with pounded roasted livers of hares, rabbits, or any other kind of game, to give it the taste ; add the yolks of six eggs, beaten up with a little gravy, and a spoonful or two of well-sea- soned cullis ; strain it, and bake it au bain- marie. Egg Sandwiches.*—Boil some eggs hard leave them to get quite cold; then cut them, shortwise, into slices of a moderate thickness, and put them between slices of rollout thin, and buttered; according to taste, you may season them with pepper and salt. Egg Sauce. Boil three eggs bard, cut them in small squares, and mix them in good butter sauce, make it very hot, and squeeze in some lemon juice before vou serve it. J Egos with Sausages.—Fry some sausages, and after them a slice of bread; lay the sausage on it, with a poached egg between each link; if the toast is too strong fried, butter it a little. Ecgs (Scotch).— 1 ake five pullet’s eggs, and boil them hard, and without removing it