GOO 282 GOO Goose au Ragout.—Break the breast- bone of the goose, and make it quite flat; when it is skinned, dip it into boiling water ; season it with pepper, salt, and a little mace beat to powder; lard and flour it all over; take nearly a pound of beef suet, put it into a stewpan, and when melted and boiling hot, put in the goose ; when it is brown all over, add to it a quart of beef gravy, boiling hot, a bunch of sweet herbs, a blade of mace, a few cloves, some whole pepper, a few'small onions, and a bay leaf; cover it closely, and let it stew gently; if it is a small goose, an hour will be sufficient; if a large one, it will take half an hour more. Make a ragout for it as follows : cut some turnips, onions, and carrots, as for a har- rico of mutton, all boiled enough, half a pint of rich beef gravy; put them all into a saucepan, with some pepper, salt, and a piece of butter rolled in flour; let them stew gently a quarter of an hour ; take the goose out of the stewpan when done ; drain it well from the liquor it was stewed in, put it into a dish, and serve the ra- gout over it. Goose (Roasted). — A stubble goose should be stuffed with sage and onions, chopped small, and mixed with pepper and tsalt; boil the sage and onion in a little water before they are chopped, or mix a few bread crumbs with them when chopped; either will render them less strong. Put it first at a distance from the lire, and by degrees draw it nearer. A slip of paper should be skewered on the breast bone. Baste it very well. When the breast is rising, take off the paper, and be careful to serve it before the breast falls ; it will be spoiled by coming to table flattened. Serve it with good gravy and apple sauce, in boats. It will take about an hour and a half to roast. Goose (Smoked).—Take a large stubble goose; take off all the fat; dry it tho- roughly inside and out, with a cloth; wash it all over with vinegar, and then rub it over with some common salt, saltpetre, and a quarter of a pound of coarse sugar ; rub the salt well in, and let it lie a fort- night; then drain it well, sew it up in a cloth, and hang it in the chimney to dr}'. It. should hang for a month. Sauce, onions, greens, &c. • GOOSEBERRY Cakes. — Break the gooseberries, press out the juice, and strain it through a muslin; to one pint of juice a pound of sugar; boil up the juice; strew in the sugar: stir it well; simmer it well till the sugar is melted; pour it into glasses : dry it in a stove till it will turn out, then dry the cakes on plates. Gooseberries (Green) Compote of.— Give them a little cut on one side to squeeze out the seeds, and put them in hot water to scald, till they rise to the top ; then put cold water to them, adding a little salt, to bring them to their natural green ; simmer them in clarified sugar, and let them remain in some time to im- bibe the sweet; take them out, and put them in the compotier; reduce the syrup to a good consistence, and pour it over the fruit. This is for green gooseberries; but if you make use of preserved ones, warm them in their own syrup and a little water, and serve it either hot or cold. These will not keep long, particularly if they have been warmed again : if exposed to the air any time, they will lose their colour. Gooseberries (Ripe Compote of).—Pre- pare some sugar to the eighth degree (petite plume); put the gooseberries into it to boil a moment, and let them cool before you skim them, if for present use; if for keeping, refine the sugar still more, by boiling. Gooseberry Cream.—Boil one quart of gooseberries very quick, in as much water as will cover them, stir in about half an ounce of good butter; when they are soft, pulp them through a sieve; sweeten the pulp while it is hot, with sugar, then beat it up with the yolks of four eggs ; serve in a dish, cups, or glasses, or boil and pulp the gooseberries through a sieve, and then proceed as for other creams. Gooseberry Fool. — Put gooseberries into a stone jar, with some fine Lisbon sugar; put the jar either in a stove, or in a saucepan of water, over the fire ; if in a stove, a large spoonful of water should be added to the fruit. When it is done to pulp, press it through a colander; have ready a sufficient quantity of new milk, and a tea-cupful of raw cream, boiled to- gether, or you may use an egg instead of the cream; leave it to get cold, then sweeten well with fine Lisbon sugar, and mix the pulp by degrees with it. Gooseberry Hops.—Take the largest green walnut kind, and cut the bud end into four quarters, leaving the stalk end whole ; carefully pick out the seeds, and with a strong needle and thread, fasten five or six of them together, by running the thread through the bottoms of them, till