14 ANI ANI sugar nn grand perle over the angelicn ; leave it for a day in the sugar, then drain and dry it on slates, or iron plates, in a stove. Angelica (Ratafia of).*•—Take six pints of brandy, a pint of river water, three pounds of sugar, two ounces of fresh gathered angelica roots, the same quantity of angelica seeds; mace and clove, a drachm of each. Wash and dry the roots well, cut them in slices, and put them, with the seeds and spices bruised, into the brandy, to infuse for twenty days; then strain it, and having added to it the sugar dis- solved in river water, filter and bottle your ratafia. Angelica Ratafia.*■—Strip the angelica stalks of their leaves, and cut them into small pieces, which put into the best brandy and water, in the proportion of four litres of brandy and two of water to one poimd of angelica, and four pounds of sugar to the same quantity; add cloves and cinnamon ; let it stand six weeks, then filter and bottle it. Angelica Tart.—Pare and core some good apples, peel angelica stalks, and cut an equal quantity of each into small pieces; boil the apples with lemon peel and sugar, in sufficient water to cover them, until reduced to a thin syrup, strain it, and then put it on the fire again, with the an- gelica, for about ten minutes. Lay a paste in the dish, and put layers of apples and angelica alternately till full. Fill up with syrup, and bake. Angelica Water.—Wash eight liandsful of angelica leaves, cut, and lay them on a table to dry. When quite dry, put them in an earthen pot with a gallon of strong wine lees. Let it stand twenty-four hours, stir it twice in that time, then put it into a warm still or alembic; draw off into bottles, covered with paper pricked in boles, and let them stand thus two or three days. Sweeten it, and when it is settled, bottle, nnd stop it close. ANISE (small) Biscuits.*—Wash four drachms of starred anise, and dry it in the oven; work up the yolks of five eggs and a quarter of a pound of powder sugar, for about ten minutes ; whip the whites to a strongfroth, and mix them lightly with the yolks ; add a quarter of a pound of dry sifted flour nnd the anise ; pour this paste into a paper case, eleven inches long by seven wide. Bake it in a slow oven for about forty or fifty minutes, when, if firm, take it out. As soon as it is cold remove the paper, and cut the bistuits into what- ever forms you please ; dry them in the oven until they become brittle. Anise (Petites BoucMes of).—Rollout three quarters of a pound of puff paste to about the eighth of an inch in thickness, and cut it out with a round paste-cutter, two inches in diameter; then with a Smaller paste-cutter (say the eighth of an inch less in diameter) than the first, cut thirty of these rounds into rings ; collect the cuttings of your paste and proceed in the same way. Moisten the upper side of the rounds to receive the rings, which press on lightly, and as you do them, wet them again slightly. When all your rings are so far done, sprinkle them equally and lightly with sugar, put them on a baking- tin, at equal distances, and bake them in a quick oven. When done, the bouchees should be of a clear reddish colour, some- thing like caramel sugar. Cover them with the whites of eggs whipped to a strong froth, and on this add red anise, and garnish them with cream blanche, white currant jelly, apricot or apple mar- malade. These bouchees may also be dona in a similar way with white anise, in which case they should be garnished with red currant jelly, or whipped cream a la rose. Aniseed Cakes,*-r-Put in an earthen pan eight ounces of sugar pounded, and the yolks of ten eggs ; stir them together with a wooden spoon for half an hour. In the mean time have the whites of your eggs whipped to a thick snow, nnd then pour in the sugar and yolks. When thoroughly mixed, add an ounce of good aniseed, pre- viously washed and dried, and ten ounces of flour ; stir the whole gently, and then with a spoon lay it on white paper in cakes about the size of a crown piece ; sprinkle them with fine sugar, and bake. Remove them from the paper, while hot, with a knife. Anise Croquettes de Verdun.*—Put four ounces of sifted flour, four ounces of pow- der sugar, and the yolks of five eggs into a small pan, and work them well together for a quarter of an hour; then add four drachms of anise (toile, picked, washed, and dried in an oven. Lay this prepara- tion (the same as directed for croquettes a la Parisienne) upon tins lightly buttered, then mask them with white anise, nnd let them bake in a moderate oven until they are coloured, then separate them from each other. Anise petits Dents de Loup de Verdun.* —Put four ounces of sifted flour, four