STE STO 483 ing lard, and sent to table with powder sugar over. Spinach Tart.*— Take some spinacli, clean it tboroughhr, as it is apt to be gritty, pick and scalcl it, and give it a few turns in a little butter, with salt and nutmeg. Mix the spinach with frangipane, aud finish the tart like that of Jrangipane. Spinach Tart.—Scald the spinach in boiling water, drain it well, aud then chop it; stew it in butter and cream, with a little salt, sugar, a few small bits of dried comfit citron, and a few drops of orange- flower water ; put it into a dish lined with the very best puff paste. Spinach Toasts.—Boil some spinach for a quarter of an hour; then squeeze out all the water, chop it small, and put it into a mortal-, with three or four spoonsful of apple marmalade, the yolks of four hard- boiled, and three raw eggs, two biscuits soaked in cream, sugar, and a pinch of salt; pound all these together to a paste, put it into a dish, and mix with it a few dry currants, and three or four spoonsful of melted butter. Cut some slices of bread half an inch thick, four inches long, and two broad ; toast them nicely, and spread the spinach, &c. over them, to the thick- ness of half an inch, wash each over with white of egg; place the toasts on a baking- tin (well buttered) and bake them for half an hour. When done, grate nutmeg, and squeeze orange juice over them, and serve. SPRATS.—Sprats are chosen by the same rules as herrings, and are dressed in the same manner. (See Herrings.) STOCK for Brown or White Fish Soups. Take a pound of scale, five flounders, and two pounds of eels; cut them in pieces, put diem into a stewpan, with as much water as will cover them, a little mace, an onion stuck with cloves, a head of celery, two parsley roots sliced, some pepper and salt, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; cover close ; strain it off for use; if it is for brown soup, fry the fish brown in'butter, and then put it to stew. Stock J'or Gravy Soup or Gravy.— Cut a knuckle of veal into slices, slice also a pound of lean beef, and a pound of the lean of gammon of bacon; put these into a stew- pan, with three scraped carrots, a couple of onions, a couple of turnips, two beads of celery, and two quarts of water. Let tbo meat stew till quite tender, but it must not be brown. When thus prepared it will serve either for soup, or brown or white gravy ; if for brown gravy, it must be first coloured in the usual manner. Stock-tush a la Gascogne.*■—Put the dried cod (after it has been prepared, and pulled into flakes) into a stewpan, with equal quantities of sweet oil and fresh butter, pepper, garlic, and salt; place the stew- pan on a stove, stirring constantly, until the butter and oil are thoroughly incor- porated ; as soon as that is the case, it should be eaten, because if it becomes cool, it turns immediately. Stock-fish a, la Provenfale*—Prepare a dried cod, boil, bone, and cut it in pieces. Melt some butter, rolled in flour, in a stew- pan, and put to it parsley, scallions, garlic, a glass of cream, the same of oil, and some Seville orange peel'; as soon as this is well flavoured, putin your fish, and toss it up for some time ; the longer this operation is performed, the better the dish will be. STRAWBERRY (Compote of).—This is made in the same manner as raspberries, only that the strawberries do not require being mixed with any other fruit. Strawberry Conserve* — Take some very fresh strawberries, pick, and crush them through a tammy. Tor every des- sert-spoonful of juice, allow six ounces of sugar ; boil this to fort perl6, take it off the fire, and pour in the juice ; stir them together with a silver spoon, until the con- serve begins to whiten and dry, then put it into moulds or paper cases. If the con- serve be too white, add a little carmine to the syrup. Strawberry Cream.—Put six ounces of strawberry jam to a pint of cream, pulp it through a sieve; add to it the juice of a lemon, whisk it fast at the edge of a dish, lay the froth on a sieve, add a little more juice of lemon, and when no more froth will rise, put the cream into a dish, or into glasses ; and place the froth upon it, well drained. Strawberry Ice Cream. ■— Take a pint of strawberries, pick them from the stalks, and pass them through a sieve, with a wooden spoon; add four ounces of pow- dered sugar, and a pint of cream, and freeze. Strawberry Fritters. — Make a paste with flour, a spoonful of sweet oil, chop- ped lemon peel, whites of egg beaten up, aud a sufficient quantity of white wine to make it pretty soft, and just ready to drop with a spoon ; mix some large strawberries in it; and drop some of the mixture, about the size of a nutmeg, in the hot friture : when done, take them out carefully, drain them on a sieve, and glaze them with sugar. 2 i 2