CIN CIN 175 CIDER.—See Cutler. CINNAMON Almonds.—See Almonds. Cinnamon Cakes.—Whisk up half a do- zen eggs with three table-spoonsful of rose water; add to it a pound of sifted sugar, a dessert-spoonful of powdered cinnamon, and a sufficient quantity of flour to make it into a paste; roll it out thin, and cut it into whatever forms your fancy may dictate, place them on paper, and bake them. When done, remove them from the paper. Keep them dry. Cinnamon [Candied').—Soak cinnamon in water for four-and-twenty hours, and then cut it into pieces about an inch long; prepare some sugar to grand lisse, and give the cinnamon a boil in it; drain and dry it in a stove to the proper consistence ; then put in the moulds with sugar boiled to souffle, aud when half cold, dry it. Be- fore the candy is removed from the moulds, they should be laid on one side for some time. Keep them in paper in a dry place. Cinnamon [Candied).—Cutsome cinna- mon into small sticks of about an inch or an inch and a half long ; then put them inter thin sugar, aud boil them as it were in a syrup. Then take off the pan, and set it by for five or six hours to soak, take them out and lay them on a wire grate, dry them thoroughly in the stove ; afterwards put them in order in tin moulds upon little grates made for the purpose, and set into the moulds, so that there may be three rows set one above another, separated by those grates. In the mean time, boil sugar till it is blown, and pour it into your mould, so that some of it may lie upon the uppermost grate; then set them in the stove with a covered fire, and let them stand all night; the next morning take notice whether the cinnamon be well co- agulated; turn the mould upside down and set it in the stove again, with a plate underneath; and when it is thoroughly drained, take out your sticks of cinnamon, loosening them, by little and little, gently; then lay them upon a sieve, set in the ! stove, and dry them thoroughly. Cinnamon (Conserve of).*—Bruise four drachms of cinnamon, dilute it with a little clarified sugar, or syrup of mallows ; boil !two pounds of sugar to petit cassi, throw in the cinnamon, stir it well, and then take it from the fire, and when the sugar begins to whiten, pour the conserve into cases or moulds, and dry it as usual. Cinnamon (Dragees or Sugared) .*—Soak a quarter of a pound of the best cinnamon in sticks for twelve hours in the water to soften it; at the end of that time, cut it into slips, lay them on a sieve in a warm place for some days. When quite hard and dry, boil some fine sugar to the degree grand perle ; have ready a quantity of fine powder, and proceed in the same manner as in doing Almond Dragees, until the cin- namon sticks are of the proper thickness; those which are to be twisted or curled, should not be so thick as the others. Be equally particular in removing the sugar that cakes at the bottom of the pan, as in making Almond Dragdes. Cinnamon Dragdes (Common) * —In- fuse a quarter of a pound of gum dragon, in as much water as will cover it; the next day put the infusion into a mortar, and stir it well with a pestle, and the longer it is stirred the whiter it becomes ; in rather more than a quarter of an hour, add to it the caked sugar which was re- moved from the preserving-pan, and which must be well pounded and sifted, also a pound of powder sugar, a spoonful of cinnamon powder, and by degrees, two or three pounds of flour; moisten the whole occasionally with water ; when the paste is of a proper consistence, place it on the slab or pasteboard, knead it well for a short time, roll it out in sheets, not thicker than the eighth of an inch, and then cut it into slips of the same size as the cinna- mon (see above) ; put them on paper or a sieve in a warm place for some days. Then boil some common sugar to perle, and sugar the slips of paste as above di- rected ; instead of the fine powder, flour is sufficient, until the last two layers, when the powder may be used to give them whiteness. When of the requisite size, lay them on sieves to dry. In a few days they may be curled and coloured, which is done in the same manner as coriander seeds. Observe, fine sugared cinnamon is always white. Cinnamon (Essence of).—This is made by infusing oil of cinnamon in highly rec- tified spirits of wine, in the proportion of half a drachm of the former to an ounce of the latter. Cinnamon (Fine).*—Put two ounces of fine cinnamon, the rinds of two lemons, and an ounce of stick-liquorice, beaten, into two quarts of the best brandy, and a pint of water, cover it close, and when it has stood for some days, distil it. Dis- solve two pounds of sugar in a quart of water, add to it your liqueur, and strain it. . Cinnamon Ice.—Infuse some cinnamon m hot water for an hour, and give it a boil;