319 LAM LAM Lamb Steaks (Fried).—Fry thorn of the nicest brown; when served, throw over them a good quantity of crumbs of bread fried, and crisped parsley. Or you may season them and broil them in buttered papers, either with crumbs and herbs, or without, according to taste. Lamb’s Stones, Fricussee oj (Brown).— Skin them, dip them in yolk of egg or flour, fry them ; thicken some gravy with flour, mushroom powder, salt, grated nut- meg, white pepper, grated lemon peel; boil this up put in the lamb’s stones, heat them through; add forcemeat balls fried, and pickled mushrooms, or lemon juice. Lamb’s Stones, Fricassee of (White).—- Skin them, and stew them in some veal gravy; when they are nearly done, add to them a little cream, some stewed force- meat balls, morels, and a bit of butter rolled in flour; just before they are taken up, add a few pickled mushrooms. Lamb’s Stones and Sweetbreads Fricasseed ■—Have ready some lamb’s stones, blanched parboiled, and sliced. Then take two or three sweetbreads, flour them, and if very thick, cut them in two. Fry alto- gether with a few oysters, of a fine yellow brown. Pour the butter off, and add a pint of good gravy, some asparagus tops, about an inch long, a little nutmeg, pep- per, salt, a couple of slialots shred fine, and a glass of white wine. Simmer for ten minutes; then put a little of the gravy to the yolks of three eggs well beaten, and by degrees mix the whole. Turn the gravy back into the pan, and stir it till of a good thickness, without boiling. Garnish with lemon. Lamb Sweetbreads.*—These parts of lamb are generally dressed the same as veal sweetbreads : the following, however, is rather belonging to those of lamb : but- ter a saucepan, put in the sweetbreads, and two spoonsful of broth ; cover them with a buttered paper ; put fire above and below ; stew them thus for half an hour, then serve them with a puree of fowls, or endive, or any other sauce you thinkproper. Lamb’s Sweetbreads.—Blanch yoursweet- breads, and put them a little time into cold water. Then put them into a stew- pan, with a ladleful of stock, some pepper, salt, a small bunch of young onions, and a blade of mace. Stir in a bit of butter, with some flour, and stew half an hour. Have ready two or three eggs beaten in cream, with a little minced parsley and grated nutmeg. Put in some boiled as- paragus tops, and add them to the other things. It must not boil after the cream, is put in; but make it hot, and stir it well all the time. Be very careful that it does not curdle. Add some lemon or orange juice, then serve. You may, if you choose, add young pease or French beans, boiled of a beautiful colour. Lamb Sweetbreads (Hot Pie of).*—Take eight lamb sweetbreads, soak out all the blood, and cut them into small thin pieces; trim them all to the same size and shape. Take a quarter of a pound of butter, the same of grated bacon, a dessert-spoonful of parsley, two of mushrooms, four of truffles, and one shalot, all minced small, salt, nutmeg and spice; put the sweetbreads into this (when the butter is melted), and simmer them twenty minutes over a moderate fire, turning them frequently, that both sides may be equally done. Make a good raised crust, at the bottom and round the sides of which put some good farce or godioeau; lay the sweet- breads cold on this ; pour the herbs, &c. they were cooked in over them, with two bay leaves, and some slices of bacon. Lay the top crust on the pie, and having orna- mented it, dorez, and put it in a brisk oven ; as soon as the top is of a light colour, cut round the edge, and cover it with a large piece of paper folded four times. An hour and a half will be sufficient to bake it, then take off the lid, the bay leaves and bacon ; drain away the fat, and pour in some espagnole and truffles. Lamb’s Tails.—'Braise or boil the tails, and make a light batter of flour, one egg, a little salt, white wine, and a little oil. Fry them of a nice brown colour, and serve them, garnished with fried parsley. You may serve them with what sauce you think proper. Lamb’s Tendons with Asparagus*—Take two breasts of lamb, braise them, and when done, lay them between two dishes, with a weight on the top ; as soon as they are cold, cut them in pieces, leaving on the end of the bone, like cutlets ; put them into a stew pan, with a piece of glaze and a spoonful of consommee; simmer them till they are completely covered with the glaze. Have ready a bundle of asparagus, choose the most tender heads ; boil them in the usual way, in salt and water, for about ten minutes ; skim, and when done, drain them on a sieve; and fry them lightly in a little butter, allemande, and a small quantity of sugar ; dish the tendons eu couronne, with the asparagus heads in the centre; glaze and serve them.