LOB MAC 336 rub it well with butter, put it in a Dutch oven, baste it well till nicely frothed; serve with melted butter. Lodsteh Sauce.—Put the coral or spawn of a lobster into a mortar, with a bit of butter, and well pound it; then rub it through a fine hair seive ; put some melted butter into a stewpan, and the coral of the lobster: stir it on the fire till it looks per- fectly smooth and red, if not smooth pass it through a tammy : then put in the meat of the lobster, cut into small dice; make it very hot, squeeze in a little lemon juice and anchovy essence, and serve it to table. Loesteh Sauce.—Having taken the lady out of the lobsters, pound the bodies and boil in water for twenty minutes, strain and make the melted butter with the li- quor ; pound the coral, pour upon it two spoonsful of gravy ; strain it into some melted butter ; then put in the meat of the lobster, give it all one boil, and add the squeeze of a lemon. You may, if you choose, add two anchovies pounded. Lobster in a Savory Jelly.—Make a good aspic jelly; being very clear, and the mould ready in ice, half fill it with the jelly, and when it is set, lay some ancho- vies, shredded fine, in what form you please, on the jelly, then your lobster; cut the same as for salad, over it; fill the mould with the remainder of tire jelly, and when set serve it for a second course, entree, or a supper dish. Lobster (Emincee) in the Shell*—Cut the lobster in two, without breaking the shell, take out all the meat, and cut it into dice ; take out all the inside of the lobster and clean the shell. Put two spoonsful of veloute, a little butter, salt, and Cayenne pepper, into a saucepan, and stir it over the fire : when quite hot, put in the minced meat, and the inside; and pour the whole together into the shell; smooth it over with a knife, strew bread crumbs over, baste it with clarified butter, make it very hot, and colour it with a salamander. Lobster (Small Timbales of).—Take the white meat from a couple of small lobsters, cut it into dice ; mix two spoonsful of b£- chamelle with a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, a little shred parsley, a tea-spoon- ful of cavico, and half a spoonful of elder vinegar; make it hot, but not boiling ; put in the lobster, season with popper and salt, fill some small timbale moulds with this, and serve hot. Lobster Soup.—Boil three fine young hen lobsters; when cold, split the tails, take out the meat, crack the claws, and cut the meat into pieces; take out the coral and soft parts of the body, bruise part of the coral in a mortar, pick out the meat from the chines, bruise part of it with the coral, and with this make force- meat balls, seasoned with mace or nut- meg, grated lemon peel, anchovy, and Cayenne ; pound these with the yolk of an egg- Have three quarts of veal stock; bruise the small legs and the chine, and put them into the stock to boil for twenty minutes ; then strain it, and to thicken it, take the fresh coral and bruise it in a mortar with a little butter and flour, rub it through a sieve, and put it to the soup with the meat of the lobsters and the remaining coral; let it simmer very gently for ten minutes; do not let it boil, or its fine red colour will immediately fade; pour it into a tureen, add the juice of a lemon, and a little essence of anchovy. Lobsters (to stew).—Put the lobster into a stewpan, with vinegar, claret, but- ter, suet, and nutmeg ; stew it rather dry, and then take it up and lay it in a dish ; pour butter over it, and garnish with slices of lemon. Lobster (Stewed) a very high relish.— Pick the lobster from the shell, and put the coral into a dish that has a lamp, and rub it down with a bit of butter, two spoonsful of any sort of gravy, one of soy, or walnut ketchup, a small quantity of salt and Cayenne, and a spoonful of port; stew the lobster, cut into bits, in the gravy as above. M. MACARONI.*—Put a piece of butter, half a pound of macaroni, an onion stuck with two cloves, and a little salt, into hot water; boil them till tender, take it out and drain it well. Put it into another saucepan with two ounces of butter, three of grated Parmesan cheese, four of Gru- yere, also grated, a little pepper, and nut- meg ; toss up the whole together, adding two or three spoonsful of cream; and when done, put it on a dish, and serve it very hot. Macaroni dressed sweet. — Boil two ounces of macaroni in a pint of milk, with a bit of lemon peel, and a good bit of cin- namon, till the pipes are swelled to their utmost size without breaking. Lay them on a custard dish, and pour a custard over them hot. Serve cold.