APP 21 APP together; put the marmalade to it, and stir them well with a wooden spoon till the apple begins to boil; then take it off, and when a little cool put it into pots, hut do not cover them till quite cold. Apple Marmalade.*—Pare, core, and cut your apples into small pieces, put them into water with a little lemon juice to keep them white. Take them out after a short time and drain them. Weigh, and put them into a stewpan ; if for present use, half a pound of sugar will be sufficient for each pound of apples, but if for keeping, double that quantity will be necessary. Add to it a stick of cinnamon and the juice of a lemon. Put the stewpan over a brisk lire and cover it; when the apples are pulped stir the mixture till of the proper consistence, then put the marmalade into pots. Apples Mennguies.—Put some apple marmalade on a dish, in a pyramid ; whip the whites of two eggs to a froth, mix with them two spoonsful of powder sugar and a little lemon peel chopped extremely small; decorate your apples with this pre- paration, glaze them with sugar, and colour them in the oven. Apple Meringue.—Lay a timbale paste in a tart-pan, egg and prick it all over, and bake it; lay in it a purde of apples, and finish with white of egg, as for u, la Turque: serve it hot. Apples Meringuees in form of a Hedge- hog.*•—Choose forty sound renneting apples; take out their cores, and turn fifteen of them, putting them as you turn them into cold water (prepared the same as for the Apples Suedoise formant le Pont d Colonnes) ; when you have turned eight of the apples boil them in six ounces of clarified sugar; when they are sufficiently done (which is when they are a little firm), take them out of the syrup and boil the other seven, which you must turn whilst the other eight are boiling; when these are done, add to the remaining syrup the zest of a lemon, and put into it the remain- ing five-and-twenty apples nicely peeled and cut into thin slices; cover them closely, and let them boil over a moderate fire until they are quite tender; then beat them with a spatula till they are reduced to a complete marmalade. Then pass it through a sieve and add to it half a pot of apricot marmalade. When it is cold spread two spoonsful of it on a dish, then take nine of the largest of the turned apples (filling up the place of the core with apri- cot marmalade), and place them on the marmalade in the dish, putting apple mar- malade between each of them. Then fill up with apricot marmalade the place of the cores in the other six apples, and put five of them over the nine in the dish, filling up the spaces with more apple marmalade, and place your remaining apple at the top. With the rest of the apple marmalade, mask your apples in such a manner that the entremet forms a complete dome; then mix up pretty firm the whites of two eggs with two spoonsful of powder sugar, when it is well mixed, mask the apples all over with it as equally as possible, then strew it over with powder sugar, and stick it all over with pieces of sweet almonds (every almond must be cut into five equal strips), at about the distance of three eighths from each other (the best way of sticking in these strips of almonds is by piercing the meringue of apples with the point of a silver skewer). Your entremet being finished, strew over it some powder sugar. Let it bake in a moderate oven; ten minutes will be sufficient to do it of a nice light colour. Serve it hot. This entremet is very delicious, and is ex- tremely pretty in appearance, but takes a long time to prepare, and requires the greatest attention. This dish is generally garnished with pistachio nuts. Apples Miroton. — Pare neatly, and scoop out the cores of a dozen and a half of apples; cut them in very thin slices, have a pan the size of your dish ready ; butter and spread some apricot jam over the bottom; place your apples over one another in a miroton round the pan, and fill up the centre with the odd bits; spread jam and sugar over it, then lay another circle of apples the reverse way to the first row, and so proceed till you have laid five or six rows ; spread it over with jam, and bake it in a moderate oven; when done, carefully turn it on a dish, mid serve it hot. It would be much better if you are able at once to bake it in a silver dish. Apples Pralindes d la Vani/le. (Mosaic Tartlets of.)*—Make a marmalade with a dozen apples, a quarter of a pound of sugar, and half a clove of vanilla, minced very small; when done and cold, mix with it two spoonsful of apricot marmalade. Pill your tartlets with this, cover them with the mosaic as directed (see Mosaic Tartlets), and mask them with a quarter of a pound of almonds chopped small, and mixed with tivo ounces of powder sugar and a very little white of egg; press these