PIG 417 PIE of the crust a star of leaves with a hole in the centre ; on the sides festoons, leaves, or garlands, according to your own taste; egg it lighty over, and hake it in a hot re- gularly heated oven. A small-sized pie will take about four hours baking ; a larger pie accordingly. Take care, on first put- ting it in, that it does not catch or burn, which it is apt to do; and, in that case, have plenty of paper to lay over it. Be- fore the pie is quite done, set on some good consomme or veal braise, and let it boil till it becomes very strong, and pour it into the pie as soon as it is taken out ot the oven, and set it to cool; if the next day it should appear to have taken all the gravy, more must be added. It had better stand three or four days before it is served. You may, for a change, take off the cover, and in its place sprinkle some clear savoury jelly on the top. This is a good dish for the side-table. Pie (Wot Raised) a la Monglas.*—Soak two fine fat livers in warm water till they are perfectly cleansed ; then set them on the fire in cold water ; when near boiling take out the livers and throw them into cold water again, and when cool cut them into scollops, season them well, and having melted a quarter of a pound of butter, the same of grated bacon, a dessert-spoonful of parsley, two of mushrooms, four of truf- fles (all shred small), a small piece of shalot, blanched and minced, salt and spices to your taste ; put the livers into this, set it on a gentle fire for ten minutes ; then set it by, and when cold trim the pieces, take about a fourth part of them and pound them with the trimmings ; mix some of this with an equal quantity of good fowl farce. Having raised a crust in the usual way (see Hot Raised Pie for Pheasants'), line the inside completely with the farce, lay the liver in proper order in it, pour in the herbs, and place on the whole two bay-leaves and slices of bacon, lay on the top, and finish the pie as above directed. When done, pour in a sauce made as follows : Take the pounded liver that was set aside, put it into a saucepan with a spoonful of espagnole, make them hot, and having strained, add to them three ladiesful of espagnole, worked up with a fowl consommd, some Madeira wine, and four fine truffles, minced ; make this very hot, but do not let it boil. Pie (Hot Raised) Russian.’* — Take a small salmon, and a small fat liver, cut them into scollops, and simmer both (but separately) in some butter, with shred mushrooms, truffles, parsley, and shalot, salt, pepper, and nutmeg : mince the yolks of a dozen hard eggs. Make a raised crust as usual (see Hot Raised Pie of Phea- sant), within which put a layer of rice, previously boiled in chicken broth, but cold (as should be the other materials also); on this lay some of the scollops of salmon, on which strew part of the eggs ; then a layer of the liver, strew the egg, then the salmon again, and so on till your pie is full; then pour in the butter and herbs ; cover the whole with rice, and finish the pie accord- ing to the above directions. Pie Pithiviers.*—Take eight dozen of larks, and having picked and singed them, split them open, take out the intestines, which (except the gizzards), mix with bread-crumbs and two pounds of the fol- lowing farce : Take equal quantities of fillet of veal and bacon, mince these, sea- son them with pepper, salt, and spices ; then pound them and the intestines, adding occasionally small quantities of jelly to keep it of a proper consistence, and fill the bodies of the larks with it. Take abuot two pounds of paste for raised crusts, raise it as usual, making it either square or round, as you may think proper ; lay a bed of farce at the bottom of it, on which place the larks, well seasoned, and each wrapped in a thin slice of bacon, put some butter worked with flour over, cover the whole with slices of bacon, two bay-leaves, and the top-crust; fix the edges together, ornament the top and sides according- to your taste, dorez, and bake it for two hours and a half. Serve it cold. Woodcocks, snipes, or any other small birds, may be used instead of larks. Pie (Squab, or Devonshire).*—Take a few good baking apples, pare, core, and quarter them ; chop some onions very small; line a deep dish with paste, put in a layer of the apples, strew a little sugar, and some of the chopped onions over them ; season them, and lay lean mutton chops, also sea- soned, more onions, then the apples, &o. as before, and so on till the dish is quite full; cover, and bake the pie. Some leave out the sugar, and add potatoes and younn- pigeons, called squabs, PIG (Baked).—Lay your pig in a dish, flour it well nil over, then rub it over with butter; butter the dish you lay it in, and put it into the oven. When done enough, take it out, and rub it over with a butter- cloth ; then put it again into the oven till it is dry, then take it out and lay it in a dish; cut it up, take a little veal gravy,