CAK CAK 100 and two pounds of mutton suet, fried and strained clear off, and when it is a little cool, mix it well with the flour, some salt, and a very little allspice heat fine; take half a pint of water, stir it well together, strain it, and mix up your flour into a paste of a moderate stiffness; you must add as much cold water as will make the paste of a right order, and make it into cakes about the thickness and bigness of an oat cake ; have ready some currants clean washed and picked, strew some in the middle of your cakes, between the dough, so that none can be seen till the cake is broke. You may leave the currants out if you do not choose them. Cake Meat.—Cut the fillet from the in- side of the rump of beef into small pieces, also lean veal, and pound them very fine in a marble mortar. Then add a little lemon juice, pepper, salt, chopped parsley, basil, thyme, mushrooms, savory, and shalots, but only a small quantity of each; some beaten spices, and a sufficient quan- tity of yolks of eggs to bind it. Then add, and mix with your hands, some fat bacon and lean of ham cut into dice. Then line a stewpan or mould with bards of fat bacon, fill it with the mixture, press it down ; put on the top bay leaves, and a little rhenish wine, cover it with bards of fat bacon, and bake it thoroughly in a moderate oven. When it is cold, turn it out of the mould, trim it clean, set it on a dish, put chopped savory jelly round it, and a small modelled figure on the top ; or the whole of the cake may be mo- delled. Cake (Meat).*—Your cake should be named after the meat or game you make use of. They are all made alike, except when you make them of game, you mix with the game an equal quantity of but- cher’s meat. For a mutton cake, take a leg of mutton, skin, and take oft' all the meat; mince it with a little beef suet, add to it a pound of bacon cut into dice, the yolks of six eggs, salt and ground spices, half a glass of brandy, some champignons, shalots, parsley, and green onions chopped fine. Put some thin slices of bacon in a Stewpan, and the mutton forcemeat upon them, well mixed and seasoned; let it stew at least three hours; when done, and cool, turn it out on a dish; let the slices of bacon which will be found to adhere to the mutton, remain; scrape them lightly with a knife, and serve the mutton cake on a napkin placed in a dish. Cakes de NiauJJks.—Make a good puff paste, roll it pretty thick, and cut it into lozenges about the bigness of the palm of your hand; brush it over with yolks of eggs beat up, and strew macaroni-drops powder over them, with a little powder of orange flowers, and lemon peel chopped very fine; stick bits of scalded sweet al- monds in the paste, pointed upwards, cover them with paper in the oven, to keep them of a palish colour. Cake a Nouille*—Make some pile a Nouille with the yolks of six eggs; when it is well mixed, add to it four glasses of boiling cream, in which you have previ- ously put eight ounces of butter. Let it boil for a few minutes, then add six ounces of sugar, having the zest of an orange grated over it; stir the whole well toge- ther, and then place it for half an hour over warm ashes, that the nouilles may swell and become firm; then add the yolks of eight eggs, and some salt to give it con- sistence ; then pour it into a buttered mould, and let it bake for two hours in a moderate oven. Cake (Anns).—Take four pounds of very fine flour and mix with it three pounds of bouble-refined sugar, finely beat and sifted; dry them by the fire till your other materials are prepared; take four pounds of butter, beat it in your hands till it is very soft like cream ; beat thirty-four eggs, leave out sixteen whites, and take out the treads from all; beat the eggs and butter together till it appears like butter, pour in four or five spoonsful of rose or orange-flower water, and beat it again; then take your flour and sugar with six ounces of caraway seeds; strew it in by degrees, beating it up all the while, for two hours together; put in as much tinc- ture of cinnamon, or ambergris, as you please; butter your hoop, and let it stand three hours in a moderate oven. Cake a la Parisienne.*—Take one pound and a half of finely-sifted flour, make a sponge; then add four drachms of fine salt, two ounces of powdered sugar, the yolks of four eggs, one pound and a quarter of fine butter, and a glass of cream ; mix the whole well together, spread it out thin, and strew it over with vanilla chopped very small; then mix the whole well to- gether again, after which mould your cake; finish with paper bands, &c., the same as for all other cakes, and ornament it accord- ing to your own fancy. Then let it bake for two hours and a half, or three hours, in a brisk oven. This cake should be eaten cold.