146 CHE CHE sugar, six eggs, leave out throe of the whites, and one nutmeg; make a puff paste and put in the mixture. You may add currants if you please. Cheesecakes.—Mix the curd of three quarts of milk, a pound of currants, twelve ounces of Lisbon sugar, a quarter of an ounce of cinnamon, ditto of nutmeg, the peel of one lemon chopped so fine that it becomes a paste, the yolks of eight, and whites of six eggs, a pint of scalded cream, and a glass of brandy; put a light thin puff’ paste in the pattypans, and three parts fill them. Cheesecakes.—Add three quarts of new milk to a gill of rennet, let it stand in a warm place, and when thoroughly set, drain it well, and mix into it with the hand half a pound of fresh butter, sweeten according to your taste with pounded sugar, add a few currants washed and picked, a little citron, candied orange and lemon peels cut into small slices, and one ounce of sweet almonds pounded fine. Beat up with the mixture three eggs, line the pans with puff paste, fill them with the preparation, and hake them in a brisk oven. Cheesecakes.—A pint of cream, half a pound of butter, six eggs, two spoonsful of grated bread, as much cinnamon and mace pounded as will lay upon a shilling, three spoonsful of sugar, five of currants, nearly two of brandy; beat the eggs well, then mix all together in a deep pewter dish, set it on a stove, stir it one way, till it becomes a soft curd; when cold, put it into tins with puff paste, and bake them. Cheesecakes.—Boil two quarts of cream, beat up the yolks of four eggs, and put them to the cream before you set it on the fire, let it boil till it comes to a curd; blanch some almonds, and pound them with orange-flower water, and put them into the cream, adding some Naples biscuits and green citron, shred small; sweeten with sugar that has musk plums ground in it, and bake them in a moderate oven. Cheesecakes (Common).—Beat eight eggs well, while a quart of milk is on the fire, and when it. hoils, put in the eggs, and stir them till they como to a curd; then pour it out, and when it is cold, put in a little salt, two spoonsful of rose water, and three quarters of a pound of currants well washed : put it into puff paste, and bake it. If you use tin patties to bake in, butter them, or you will not. he able to take them out'; but if you bake them in glass or china, only an upper crust will be neces- sary, as you will not want to take them out when you send them to table. Cheesecakes ( Court).—Boil a bit of butter in a little water and a little salt; thicken it with as much flour as it will take, stirring it on the fire constantly, until it becomes quite a paste ; then mix the eggs with it, one by one, to make it almost as liquid as a thick batter; and mix some good cream cheese with it; bake it in good puff paste; coloured with yolks of eggs. Serve it up either hot or cold. Cheesecakes (Curd).—Beathalfa pintof good curds with four eggs, three spoons- ful of rich cream, half a nutmeg grated, and a spoonful of ratafia, rose, or orange water; put to them a quarter of a pound of sugar and half a pound of currants well washed and dried before the fire. Mix all well together, put a good crust into patty- pans, and bake them gently. Cheesecakes, (Curd).—Beat half a pint of good curds with four eggs, four spoons- ful of cream, some nutmeg, a little brandy, half a pound of currants; sugar to the taste. Cheesecakes de St. Denis.-—Mix a spoon- ful of flour with a fresh cream cheese well- drained, commonly called curds, a little salt, a proper quantity of eggs, and finish the same as for Court Cheesecakes. Cheesecakes, (Fine).—Warm a pint of cream, add to it five quarts of milk, warm from the cow, with some rennet; give it a stir about, and when the curd is come, put it into a linen cloth or bag; drain it well away from the whey, but do not squeeze it too much, and put it into a mortar, and break the curd as fine as butter. Add to the curd half a pound of sweet almonds, blanched, and beaten extremely fine, and half a pound of macaroons or Naples bis- cuits, beaten very fine; then put the volks of nine eggs beaten, a nutmeg grated, two perfumed plums, dissolved in rose or orange-flower water, and half a pound of fine sugar ; mix all well together ; melt a pound and a quarter of butter, and stir it well in. Line tartlet-pans with puff paste, fill them with the preparation and bake. Cheesecakes (French ).—Take some of the petits choux paste, made with water ; mix with it some frontage a la cream that hits been curdled cold, and then proceed in the usual way. Cheesecakes( Mrs. Harrison's).—For the paste, use a quart of fine flour, or more, a pound of butter rubbed into the flour, with a quarter of a pound of sugar beat fine, two spoonsful of orange-flower water; make it into a paste, and lay it in pattypans for the