LEM 328 LEM r ien considerably above the case; if the surface be well dried, take them out, but if not let them remain a few minutes longer. Lemon Pickle.—Wipe six lemons, cut each into eight pieces; put on them a pound of salt, six large cloves of garlic, two ounces of horseradish sliced thin, a quarter of an ounce of cloves, the same quantity of mace, the same of nutmeg, ditto of Cayenne, and two ounces of flour of mustard; to these put two quarts of vinegar, put it in a strong jar, in a kettle of boiling water; or set the jar on a hot- liearth till done. Set the jar by, and stir it daily for six weeks; keep the jar close covered. Put it into small bottles. Lemon (to pickle').*—Take twelve le- mons, and rub them well with a piece of flannel; then rub them over with bay salt, and lay them on an earthen pan, turning them every day, for three days ; then slice an ounce of ginger, and salt it well, and let it lay in salt for three days; parboil twelve cloves of garlic, well salted, for three days. A small handful of mustard seed bruised, some Cayenne pepper, and one clove of garlic should be put to each lemon ; take your lemons out of the salt, squeeze them, put them into a jar with the spice, and cover them with the best white wine vinegar; stop them up close, and in a month’s time they will be fit for use. Lemon (to pickle).— They should be small, and with thick rinds; rub them with pieces of flannel, then slit them half down in four quarters, but not through to the pulp; fill the slits with salt, hard pressed in, set them upright in a pan for four or five days, until the salt melts; turn them thrice a day in their own liquor, until tender ; make a sufficient quantity of pickle to cover them, of rape vinegar, the brine of the lemons, Jamaica pepper, and ginger, boil and skim it; when cold, put it to the lemons, with two ounces of mustard seed, and two cloves of garlic to six lemons. Lemon Posset.—Squeeze the juice of two lemons into a china bowl, or small deep dish, that will hold a quart; sweeten it like syrup, add a little brandy ; boil one pint of cream with a bit of orange peel; take out the peel; when cold, put the cream into a teapot, pour it to the syrup, holding it high. Make it the day before it is wanted. Lemons ( Preserved) Liquid and Dry.9— Choose your lemons as near of a size as you can, with rather thick rinds ; pare, and put them in cold water, then into boiling water over a moderate fire ; and when you can insert a pin’s head with ease, throw them again into cold water. Boil some sugar to liss(, then put in the lemons, give them a few boils together, skim, and put them into a pan; the next day drain off the sugar, boil it several times, and then pour it over the lemons again; the third day boil the sugar to la nappe, adding fresh sugar to it; put tbe lemons in, cover the pan, give them one boil; do this for two days successively ; on the last, however, boil the sugar to perlc, and when you have boiled the lemons, put them by in pots. Lemon Pudding.— Peel four lemons thin ; boil them till they are tender; rub them through a hair sieve, and preserve the fine pulp. Take a pound of Naples biscuits, a little grated nutmeg, and two ounces of fresh butter, and pour over them some boiling milk or cream in which a stick of cinnamon has beenboiled. AVhen cold, mix with them the pulp of the lemons, and eight eggs well beaten ; sweeten ac- cording to taste, and if you choose, add brandy. Edge a dish with good puff- paste, put in the mixture; garnish the top with strings of paste, as for tartlets, and bake it in a moderately' heated oven. Lemon Pudding.—Put half a pound of fresh butter with half a pound of loaf sugar into a saucepan, and keep it stirring over the fire till it boils; put it into an earthen pan, and grate the rind of a large lemon into it, and let it stand'till cold ; beat eight eggs, and squeeze the juice of the lemon on them; mix the sugar and butter with them; put some rich puff paste at the bottom of a dish, then put in the preparation, add bits of candied lemon peel when you have put in the preparation. Bake with great care. Lemons (Rinds of) Marmalade.9 — Having squeezed the juice from your lemons, cut out all the white part, and put the rinds into boiling water; as soon as they begin to soften, take them from the fire, and throw them into cold water; then lay them on a sieve to drain, and make them into marmalade, in the same manner as apricots. Orange rinds are done this way. Lemon Sauce.9—Put two glasses of water into a saucepan, over the fire, and as soon as it boils, add shred parsley, salt, pepper, a piece of butter, and the juice of two lemons; make the whole quite hot, and in about five minutes the sauce will be ready for table. Lemon Sauce.—Pare a lemon, and cut