GRE GRE 288 Gravy to make Mutton eat like Venison.— Take a stale woodcock or snipe, and cut it to pieces (first cut out the bag from the entrails), and simmer it with as much un- seasoned meat gravy as you want. Strain it, and serve in the dish with your meat. Gnavy (Petits PAtds of).*—Roll some puff paste to a proper thickness, and cut it into round pieces with a circular paste cutter; lay half their number in small moulds or tins, and put on each a ball of godiveau, proportioned to the size of the petits pates; coverthem with the remaining pieces of the dorez. and bake them. When done, open them, cut the godiveau into pieces, and pour into each some good gravy, in which are mushrooms cut in dice ; this, however, must not he done until the petits patds are to be sent to table. Gravy of Roots*—Roast some onions and parsnips on hot ashes, clean, and then slice them into a stewpan ; and when they give out yellowish brown juice, moisten them with a glass of clear vegetable broth, and boil tbem with a little salt, an onion, and a clove, for a quarter of an hour; then rub it through a cloth or a sieve, and set it by for use. Gravy' Soup.—Take a leg of beef, and well wash and soak it; break the bone, and put it into a stewpan with a gallon of water, a large bunch of sweet herbs, two large onions sliced, and fried to a nice brown, taking great care that thejr are not burnt, two blades of mace, three cloves, twenty allspice, and forty of black pepper. Stew till the soup is as rich as you wish it to be ; then take out the meat; when it is cold take oil' the fat, heat the soup with vermicelli, and the nicest part of a head of celery boiled, and cut to pieces ; Cayenne, and a little salt; carrot may be added, with turnips, cut into small pieces, and boiled with spinach and endive; or, the herbs without the vermicelli, or vermicelli only; add also a large spoonful of soy, and one of mushroom ketchup. GREENGAGES in Brandy. — Take some preserved greengages, and drain all the syrup from them ; put them into a jar, and to every quart of brandy put live ounces of sugar ; when the sugar is melted, pour it over the gages; then cover them very close with bladder and leather, and keep the jar filled with brandy. Greengages to Candy.—When finished in the syrup (see Greengagse to preserve), put a layer into a new sieve, and dip it suddenly into hot water, to take of!' the syrup that hangs about it j then put it on a napkin before the fire to drain, and then do some more on the sieve. Have ready some sifted double-refined sugar; sift this all over every part of the fruit, till it is perfectly white. Set it on the • shallow end of sieves in a lightly warm oven, and turn it two or three times. It must not be cold, till dry. Watch it carefully. Greengages (Compote of). — Take greengages, prick them with a pin, and set them on the fire in a pan of cold water, till they are a little softened ; then take them off, and let them cool in the same water ; when that is done, take the highest degree of clarified sugar, put your greengages into it, and set them again on a very slow fire, to make them throw off their water and turn green; during this second operation, you must cover your pan with a tin plate that the steam may not escape; after which, take them out, and dress them in your dishes. Greengages (Dried).—Take preserved greengages, put them over the fire to warm, drain all the syrup from them, put them on sieves, aod into the stove; change them every day, and turn them, or they will stick, let them remain in the stove for three days, then put them into papered boxes, with a sheet of paper between each layer of the fruit. Greengage Jam.—Rub ripe greengages through a large hair sieve, and put them into a preserving pan ; then, to a pound of pulp, add a pound of sifted sugar; after which boil to a proper thickness, skimi clean, and put it it into small pots. Greengages (to preserve).—You must choose the largest, when they begin to soften; split without paring them, and having previously weighed an equal quan- tity of sugar, strew a part of it over them ; blanch the kernels with a small sharp knife ; next day, pour the syrup from the fruit, and boil it with the other sugar, very gently, for six or eight minutes ; skim, and add the plums and kernels. Simmer till clear, taking off any scum that rises ; put the fruit singly into small pots, and pour the syrup and kernels upon it. Greengages Preserved lift. — Your greengages should be perfectly sound, prick them seven times or more about the stalks; put them into cold water, otherwise they will turn black ; scald them, and have another preserving pan with boiling syrup; strain the water from the greengages, and put them into a deep earthen pan; place them regularly, and j>our the boiling syrup