167 CHI CIII spinach in small heaps between each tongue. Garnish the whole with toasted bacon. The cauliflower should be boiled in milk and water, and kept quite whole. Chicken and Truffles*—Wash and pare some truffles, and turn them over the fire with a bit of butter and half a pound of grated bacon. Fill a chicken with this mixture, and truss it so that none, of the stuffing can escape; tie a slice of bacon and some paper on the breast; roast it, and serve with truffle sauce. Chickens a la Turque.—Boil some rice in good consomme, until properly swelled ; then season it, and fill two chickens with half of it (have a sufficient quantity to stuff them quite full). Wrap them in bacon and buttered paper, and roast them for an hour; mix one spoonful of cream and four of bechamelle with the remainder of the rice ; season it well, and cover the chickens with it, and serve them. Chickens with Vegetables*—Cut some young and tender artichokes in quarters ; take out the choke, and cut off the ends of the green leaves; blanch and boil them in stock, with slices of lemon; when nearly done, drain them, and do them up in a stewpan, with some butter, parsley, scal- lions, and shalots, stock, a little oil, salt, pepper, and fennel; reduce this sauce, and having boiled or pale-roasted two chick ens, pour it over, and place the artichokes round them. Instead of artichokes, any of the following vegetables may be used: Chards, sorrel, spinach, lettuce, cucumbers, French beans, morels, peas, or salsify. Chickens a la Venitienne*—Parboil two or three fat chickens in some stock, with a little butter, and having cut them up, lay them in a stewpan lined with slices of bacon; surround them with well-blanched parsley roots, and put in a bunch of green parsley. Cover the pieces of chicken with slices of veal, salt, and pepper, and moisten with consommd ; let it stand over a mode- rate fire, and when half done, add a glass of white Champagne. When done, ar- range the pieces on a dish, and place the parsley roots and leaves round ; reduce the sauce, and pour it, with Seville orange juice, on the whole. You may omit the wine, if you think proper; but roots of any sorts you please must then be added. Chickens a la Villageoise.—Take out the breastbone of a couple of chickens, and truss them as for boiling; lard them on the breast with sprigs of parsley, and on the sides with bacon; roast them; baste with lard to keep the parsley crisp. In the mean while prepare a ragout of cucumbers ; split open the breasts of the chickens when they are ready, and put in the rago/it. Serve with cullis under them. Chicken Water.—Take a cock, or large fowl, flay it; then bruise it with a rolling- pin, and put it into two quarts of water, with a crust of bread. Let it boil half away, and strain it off. Chickens (Fillets of) a la Bechamelle Pannee.—Cut off the hind parts (the legs and rumps) wrap the breasts in buttered papers and roast them ; wheu cold, cut them in fillets and put them into a dish with bechamelle sauce; strew bread crumbs on them, and baste with melted butter; colour it with a salamander, or in the oven. Chickens (Fillets of) in Italian Salad.— Cut the fillets of one or two chickens, each into three thin slices. Shred a cabbage, a lettuce, and some celery small; slice some cucumbers, and mix them all with a little pickled chervil, and put them in a salad-dish, arrange the fillets on these in the shape of a star. Garnish them with two hard eggs, half a dozen anchovies shred small, a few French beans, a cauli-r flower boiled, and a sliced cucumber, and dress it with Italian salad sauce. Chickens (Fillets of) in Savory Jelly.— Cut the meat of two roasted chickens into thin fillets, the size of a shilling ; prepare some savory or aspic jelly, by putting the whites of four eggs in a stewpan, about three spoonsful of tarragon vinegar, and a little salt; beat them up with a fork, pour two quarts of good consomme, stir it over the fire, continually, till it boils; then take out the spoon and let it simmer till reduced to half. Run it gently through a jelly-bag, throw in a little chopped tarra- gon and chervil; half fill a mould with the jelly, and when nearly set, place the chicken neatly round, and when quite set, fill it up. When the whole is quite stiff, dip the mould in warm water a minute, and turn out the jelly. Chickens (Turbans of Fillets of) a la Sultane.—Cover a large piece of bread with thin slices of bacon; place it in the middle of a dish, and surround it to the height of three inches, with a farce a que- nelles that has been kept in ice, stick in this, at equal distances, larded filets mig- nons of chickens; cover the dish with an earthenwaro pan ns close as possible, and bake it; when done, glaze the filets, and make a small hole in the farce between each filet to receive a cock’s kidney, which