485 SUE STU pepper, basil, and white wine. When done, let it cool, cover it with bread- crumbs, broil the slice, and serve with sauce piquante. Sturgeon (Matelote of).*—Cut a large slice of sturgeon into pieces of various sizes; put them into a fryingpan with a little butter, do them on both sides over a gentle fire, then take them out; and put into the pan a glass of red wine, a pinch of flour, and some sweet herbs shred small; in a quarter of an hour replace the fish for a minute, and serve all together on fried bread. Sturgeon (Roasted).* — Take a large piece of sturgeon, or a whole small one, clean and skin it properly ; lard it with eel and anchovies, and marinate it in a white wine marinade. Fasten it to the spit, and roast it, basting frequently with the marinade strained. Let the fish be a nice colour, and serve with a pepper sauce. Sturgeon in Savory Jelly.—Put a little aspic or savory jelly into the bottom of a mould, and as soon as it is set, cut some cold sturgeon in whatever form you please, and place it on the jelly according to your own taste, and put in a little jelly, just sufficient to cover the sturgeon ; when it is thoroughly set, put in some more jelly, so as to fill about an inch of the mould ; when that is set, place some more sturgeon, and so proceed till the mould is full; when it is to be turned out to serve, dip it in warm water the same as all other jellies. Sturgeon Soup.—Take a fine piece of sturgeon, cut off the fins, and the gristly bone inside, with the skin ; put it all to stew, with a bunch of sweet herbs, car- rots, onions, peppercorns, allspice, and a little salt, and let it stew till of a nice brown colour, then fill it up with veal consommd, half a bottle of Madeira, and a quarter of a pint of good vinegar. When well boiled and skimmed, put in a large piece of sturgeon to stew very gently, with a fire over and under the stewpan, till it is thoroughly well done; then take it out to cool, and strain the liquor through a lawn sieve, thicken it, adding ham, as directed for turtle soup ; boil it in the same mannor. When ready, cut tlie sturgeon into small squares, and put them into the soup with a few stewed oysters and mushrooms ; let it boil gently for a few minutes, skim it, and squeeze in the juice of two lemons, and add a very small quantity of Cayenne, and serve; if not sufficiently strong, reduce a little beef stock and add to it. Herbs may bo added if thought proper. Sturgeon d la Venitienne*—Take a large slice of sturgeon, and having re- moved the skin and gristles, lard it alter- nately with seasoned lardons, truffles, and anchovies ; place it in a braising-pan with bay leaves, two cloves of garlic, and a large glass of oil. Set the pan over a gentle fire, to simmer for two or three hours ; then serve with any maigre sauce you may think proper. SUET Dumplings.—This batter should be made the same as for suet pudding, (second recipe), but much thicker, let your cloth be wetted, shake it all over with flour, and tie up in several parts of the cloth, as much as it will hold, two or three spoonsful of butter. Or you may make the batter as usual, and put it in tea-cups, well buttered; tie them in cloths, and boil an hour. Suet to keep for a Twelvemonth.— Choose the firmest part, and pick it free from skin and veins. Put it into a sauce- pan, and set it at some distance from the fire, in order that the suet may melt with- out frying, or it will taste disagreeable. When it is melted, pour it into a pan of cold water. When it has caked quite hard, wipe it very dry, fold it in fine paper, and then in a linen bag, and keep it in a dry, but not in a hot place. When you wish to use it, scrape it fine, and it will make a nice crust, either with or without butter. Suet Pudding.—Mix a pound and a quarter of flower, to a pound of shred suet, with two eggs beaten separately, a little salt, and as little milk as will make it. Let it boil for four hours. It eats very nice the next day, cut in slices and broiled. Suet Pudding.—Put six spoonsful of flour into a stewpan, with a little grated nutmeg and ginger, and a tea-spoonful of salt, then put in a pound and a half of beef suet chopped fine; stir these well together, and then mix in a quart of milk, and six eggs, well beaten together ; butter a basin, and shake some flour round it, put in your batter, and boil it for two hours and a half, or three hours. Suet Pudding.—Take half a pound of beef suet chopped fine, half a pound of flour, two eggs well beaten, a little salt, and a small quantity of pounded and sifted sugar; mix all these together with a little milk, to a moderate consistence. It may either be boiled or baked.