MUT 362 MUT into small thin pieces, and put them into a saucepan : blanch the hearts of some en- dive, then press out all the water, cut them in pieces, and give them a few turns in some butter; add to it afterwards three ladiesful of espugnole, the same of consommd, a little salt, and whole pepper; reduce, and pour it on the mutton, stir them to- gether over the fire, but do not let it boil; dish it ere buisson, garnish with fried bread, and pour a very little espagnole over it. Mutton (Leg of) a I’Fspagnole.—Bone a leg of mutton to the knuckle, lard it quite through with large pieces of bacon, sea- soned with salt and spices, then put itinto a braising-pan with about a dozen onions, and a pint of white wine, cover it with paper, and put it into the oven; when half done, turn it, add half a dozen short sau- sages, coverit again, and finish the baking; garnish the meat, when served, with onion, skim and strain the liquor, squeeze over it the juice of two oranges, and pour it on the mutton. Mutton (Leg of) a la Gasconne*—Bone a leg of mutton (excepting the knuckle) ; lard it with ten or a dozen cloves of garlic, and as many anchovies cut in pieces ; spit and roast it; when done serve with a ragout of garlic as follows : Put about a pound of garlic into a saucepan with some water; let it boil up frequently till nearly done ; then drain, and put it into another saucepan, with five spoonsful of reduced espagnole, a piece of butter, and a little gravy; pour this ragout round the mut- ton. Mutton (Leg of) au Haut gcriit.—Let it hang a fortnight in some airy place, stuff it with garlic, and rub it over with pepper and salt, and then roast it. Sauce : good gravy, with a spoonful of wine boiled in it. Mutton (Leg of) marinaded.—Lard the upper part of a leg of mutton, and let it soak for about twelve hours in a warm pickle of water, vinegar, garlic, cloves, onions, thyme, bay leaves, parsley, salt and pepper; after it has been this time in soak, roast it, basting it with the pickle; serve it with a high-flavoured sauce, or, if you like it better, pass the marinade through a sieve, reduce it over the fire to the consistence of a sauce, add a little roux to thicken it, and serve. If you intend to use your marinade for a sauce, you must put in a very small quantity of salt. Mutton (leg oj) marinaded Venison Fashion.*—Take a leg of mutton that has hung some days, lard the upper side with bacon, and lay it in the following marinade; vinegar and water, a lemon cut in slices, garlic, nutmeg, gloves, slices of onions, coriander bruised, thyme,bay leaf, parsley, scallions, salt and pepper; leave the mut- ton in this for twenty-four hours (or five or six days, if you like) ; then take it out, and roast it, basting it with the marinade strained; serve with its own gravy. Mutton (Leg of) stuffed.*—Make a stuffing with a little beef suet chopped, some parsley, thyme, marjoram, a little grated lemon, nutmeg grated, pepper, salt, and a few bread crumbs; mix all to- gether with the yolk of an egg, put this under the skin in the thickest part of a leg of mutton under the flap ; then roast it and serve it to table with aome good gravy in the dish. Mutton (Leg of) stuffed with Oysters.— Make a forcemeat of beef suet, chopped small, the yolks of hard boiled eggs, with three anchovies, a little onion, thyme, sa- voury, and some oysters, a dozen or four- teen, all cut fine; some salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and crumbs of bread, mixed up with raw eggs: put this forcemeat under the skin in the thickest part of the leg of mutton, under the flap and at the knuckle. For sauce, some oyster liquor, a little red wine, an anchovy, and some more oysters stewed, and served under the mutton. Mutton (Loire of).—Roast it; some people think it eats much better if cut length-ways, like a saddle. It may also be used for steaks, pies, or broth, only taking care to cut off as much fat as pos- sible. Mutton (Loin of) en Fricandeau.*—■ Trim and lard a loin of mutton ; take the trimmings of this, some beef and veal, lay them in a stewpan, the mutton on them, with carrots, onions, and a bouquet garni; add consomme, and cover it with a buttered paper, set it first on a brisk, and afterwards on a slow fire; let it stand till quite done; then take it out and drain it, take off the skin, glaze, and serve it with a ragout of endive, or a purte of sorrel. Mutton (loinof) larded with Parsley*— Take three loins of mutton, cut your fillets from them, leaving out the cliine; lard them with very green parsley, and soak them in oil, to which add salt and pepper. Pass a skewer through, fasten them to the spit., and roast them, basting with oil. Half an hour is sufficient to do them. Serve with the parsley upwards, and a clear asnic.