CHI CHI 168 must be very white, so as to resemble a pearl. Take the bread from the centre, drain the fat of}' with crumb of bread, and put in its place a blanquette of chickens. If truffles are in season, garnish with a ball made out of a truffle, and the perle or kid- ney ; and then scallops, with truffles, in the middle. Chicken (Scallops of) a la Conti.—Pro- ceed as above ; reserve the filets mignons, garnish with truffles, cut into various shapes; lard the filets, and divide the thickest part of each ; preserve the right side point, turn over the two divided parts, and give them the shape of an arrow, or you may make them in the form of an S. Arrange the scallops as an obelisk in the middle of a dish, and lay the filets and truffles round it. Chickens (Scallops of) a VEssence of Cu- cumbers.—Cut scallops from the fillets of four chickens, put them in a pan with some clarified butter, sprinkle them with salt, and serve them with the following sauce : Pare and slice some green cucumbers, and lay the larger slices, having taken out the seeds (such as are the size of a halfcrown), in salt and vinegar, for a little while; then drain them on a clean cloth, and let them stew gently with some sauce tournee, a small bit of sugar, and a little salt; when done, drain them again. In the mean time mince a few cucumbers, and put them with the parings into butter, sweat them till melted ; mix this with the slices, and boil them gently, till all the butter is ex- tracted, then reduce and mix it with some bechamelle, and strain it through a tammy; when the scallops are wanted, toss them up over a stove; drain the butter, and add a little cream, and put them into the sauce. Garnish with the cucumbers drained. Chickens (Scallops of) with Trujjles.— Cut the fillets of three chickens into scal- lops, about the size of a crown piece, and throw them into clarified butter; have ready some truffles, peeled and cut of the same size and form as the scallops ; sprin- kle them with salt. Reduce the cuttings of the truffles in some consomme, and mix it with veloulc. Toss up the scallops and truffles just before serving, add a little thick cream, and serve with the velnutt'. CHINA Chilo.—Mince a pint basin of undressed neck of mutton, or leg, and some of the fat; put two onions, a lettuce, a pint of green pens, a ten-spoonful of pep- per, four spoonsful of water, and two or three ounces of clarified butter, into a stewpan closely covered; simmer two hours, and serve in the middle of a dish of boiled dry rice. If Cayenne is approved, add a little. Chinese Temple.—Having boiled an ounce of double-refined sugar, with half an ounce of butter, and a little water, set it by till cold, and then add to it an egg well beaten. With this, make four ounces of flour into a very stiff paste; roll it out as thin as possible, and lay it in a set of tins the form of a temple, and bake them in a slow oven. When cold, take the paste from the tins, and join each piece together according to the proper forms, with isinglass and water. The lower part, of course, ought to be stronger than the top, in order that it may sustain the weight of the whole. The pieces also must be cut as exact as possible to the shape of the tins. CHITTERLINGS.*—Take some hogs’ entrails, cleanse them carefully, and cut them into convenient lengths ; put them into water with vinegar, laurel or bay, thyme, and basil, for six or eight hours; then cut one part of these entrails and some pork together, with pork fat, into dice, seasoning the whole with pepper, salt, fine spice, and a little aniseed in powder; fill the remainder of the en- trails with all these ingredients, but not to tightness, to prevent bursting; tie them with thin twine, and boil them in half water and half milk, with salt, thyme, bay, and basil; when they are sufficiently boiled, leave them to cool in their liquor. Boil on a clear fire, and serve them. N.B. Some previously soak them for six hours in white wine ; others, in melted lard. They are also boiled in stock, toge- ther with carrots, parsnips, and a bunch of parsley, scallions, thyme, laurel or bay; pierce them before broiling. Chitterlings a la Rouen.—Take a calf's or lamb’s chaudron and some pork flee; cut them into small pieces ; season them with a small quantity of pounded aniseed, salt, and fine spices; boil them in milk and fat broth, with a bunch of sweet herbs, and a few sliced onions; leave them to cool in the liquor in which they are boiled. Chitterlings (Bca/.)—Scald a calf s chaudron and some udder about fifteen minutes, then cut them into fillets, with a pound of pickled pork; mix these toge- ther, and add a few chopped shalots, salt, fine spices, four spoonsful of cream, and four yolks ofeggs. Finish as beef chitterlings.