ALM ALM 5 of two eggs, in which dissolve the sugar, and then boil it on a slow fire; when about a quarter of the quantity is wasted away, add to it the almond paste, boil these toge- ther once, put in a little orange flower, and strain it. Let it stand, and when cold serve it, garnish it with almonds au caramel broiled, disposed according to your taste. Almonds (Crisped).*—Hub a pound of the best sweet almonds in a cloth to take •off all the dust, and then put them, with a pound of sugar, half a glass of water and a little carmine, into a preserving-pan; put them on a fire, and let them remain ; when the almonds crackle take them off and work them about until the sugar is detached from the almonds, then take away part of the sugar, put the almonds on the fire again, and stir them lightly with a spatula (be careful that the fire be not too quick) ; and when they have taken the sugar, add that which had been removed, and continue to burn them till they have imbibed that also. Place a sheet of paper on a sieve, throw your almonds on it, separate those which adhere together, and let them cool. Almond Custards.—Blanch and beat four ounces of almonds fine with a spoon- ful of water; beat a pint of cream with two spoonsful of rose water, and put to them the yolks of four eggs, and as much sugar as will make it pretty sweet, then add the almonds ; stir it all over a slow fire till it is of a proper thickness, but not to boil. Pour it into cups. Another way.—Add to a pint and a half of cream a small stick of cinnamon, a blade of mace, a bit of lemon peel, some nutmeg and sugar to the taste ; boil them together ten minutes, and strain it; then blanch and pound three ounces of Jordan and eight single bitter almonds ; after which rub through a hair sieve, add the fine pulp to the cream, likewise a little syrup of roses and the yolks of six eggs beaten up, and put the mixture into small cups ; or it may be baked in a dish with a Tim of puff paste round it. Almonds (Devilled).—Blanch half a pound of Jordan almonds, and wipe them dry; then put into a fryingpan two ounces of fresh butter, make it hot, add the almonds, fry them gently till of a good brown colour, drain them on a hair sieve, strew over cayenne pepper and salt, and serve them up hot. Almond Dragees.—Tako of the best and largest almonds what quantity you please, and having washed them in cold water, let them drain and dry on a sieve tor twenty-four hours. The next day weigh them, and for each pound of almonds take three pounds of sugar; clarify the latter and boil it to the degree petit lisse; then let it cool a little. Have your tossing- pan ready; on your right hand, a chafing- dish to keep your pan containing the syrup constantly warm ; and on your left hand, a table with a mixture of powder and flour (of each half a pound to a pound of almonds). All being ready, put the al- monds into the pan, and pour over them, one or two large spoonsful ot the syrup, and shake them so that all the almonds may be wetted with syrup ; then take a handful or two of the flour and powder, and strew it over the wet almonds ; shake them again, that the flour may adhere all round the almonds. After this, swing the pan backwards and forwards, by which means the almonds roll about in every di- rection ; continue this motion until they become dry; then moisten and powder them as before ; swing the pan again, and when dry, repeat the process a third, fourth, and fifth time, or more, until they are of proper size ; then pour over them the syrup for the last time, without the powder, and, having swung and dried them, take them out and place them on sieves in a warm place, that they may dry perfectly before you put them by for use. Observe, that after a few layers of the syrup, the superabundant parts of that and the powder form a white crust at the bottom of the pan ; as soon as it acquires any degree of thickness, the pan must be taken from the fire, the almonds carefully removed with an iron spatula, and the crust broken off; when the pan has been well washed and dried, replace the almonds and proceed with your work. This must be strictly attended to, not only with this, but in making all kinds of sweetmeats. The sugar thus cleared away may be made useful for many purposes. Common Almond Dragdes are made in the same manner; the only difference consists m having ingredients of an in- ferior quality. Almonds, English Fashion. — Mix al- monds and filberts scalded in equal quan- tities ; chop one half very fine, cut the rest each into two or three slices; put the whole in double their weight of sugar, prepared a. la gramle plume, with some lemon p£el rasped ; stir the almonds very