■run 504 VAN with the turtle as in the receipt for turtle soup, make a dish of them alone, by putting them into a stewpan with some good strong espagnole, and some Madeira or port wine, in which let them boil gently till the raw- ness is off the wine ; then squeeze in some lemon juice, lay them on a dish with a paste borderround the edge ; garnish them with forcemeat, either in balls or lengths, and pour the sauce over the whole. They may be served with an Itulienne, tarragon, or any other sauce ; the inside flesh of the turtle, which has the appearance of chicken, may be larded and treated as a fricandeau of veal. Turtle Soup.—Cut the head of the tur- tle off the day before you dress it, and place the body so as to drain it well from blood, next day cut it up, dividing the several parts, viz., the back, belly, fins, and head from the intestines and lean meat, taking care to cut the gall clean out without breaking it; scald in boiling water the firstnamed parts so as to take off all the skin and shell, cut them in pieces small enough to stew, and throw them into cold water, boil the back and belly in water till you can extract the meat from the bones, not longer ; put the meaton a dish, then make a good stock with leg of veal, plenty of lean ham, the flesh of the inside of the turtle, draw it down to a colour, and fill it up with beef stock and the liquor and bones of the boiled turtle, season it with the stalks of the basil and marjoram, plenty of onions, bay leaves, bunch of parsley, cloves, mace, and whole pepper, skim it well, and let it boil gently for four hours, and then strain it to the pieces of fin, back, belly, and head of the turtle, which when they are done tender take out into dishes; take out the bones of the pieces of fibs and cut the rest in neat square pieces with as little waste as pos- sible. Thicken the stock with roux and boil it to cleanse from grease and scum, adding mushroom trimmings, and then strain it through a tammv; in the mean time boil your herbs that have been washed and picked in a bottle or two of Madeira wine with a little sugar, and rub them through a tammy. The herbs are basil, mar- joram, thyme, parsley; the two former of which must not he spared, for on them much depends the flavour of the soup. Now add altogether soup, herbs, meat, and somn forcemeat and egg balls, boil for a short time and put it away in clean pans till the following day, as the rawness goes oil', and you improve the flavour by so doing ; boil it again the next day, and a little before serving season it with lemon juice, Cayenne, salt, and a bottle of Ma- deira. N.B. The fat should be taken great care of, separated on cutting up the turtle ; blanched, cut in neat pieces and stewed- tender in a little soup separate, and then divided at hist as the tureens require. Turtle (Aioc/<).—Well wash a calf’s head that has the scalp on, having split it in two, and taken the brains out; or if you prefer it take only the scalp, boil it till half done, and then cut it into neat square pieces; put on some basil, mar- joram, parsley, thyme, onions, mushroom trimmings, lean ham, and bay leaves, with a few cloves, whole pepper, and mace, in a stewpan, with a piece of butter to fry a little; then add stock sufficient for your soup, and thicken it with roux, boil and skim it for two hours, and strain through a tammy to the meat prepared, add force- meat and egg balls—add a pint of sherry or Madeira, and season at last with lemon juice, Cayenne, and salt. It should boil about two hours and be well skimmed, and therefore should not be made too thick at first. U. UDDER—(See Tongues). UMBLES—(See Deer). V. VANILLA Cream.*—Take two drachms of vanilla, a quart of milk, the yolks of three eggs, five ounces of sugar, and a pint of cream; beat up the eggs well with the milk and then add the other ingredients; set the whole on a moderate fire, and stir it constantly with a wooden spoon, till the cream will adhere to it; then strain, and serve it cold. Vanilla Cream (Renverste).*—Take as much cream as will fill the mould you in- tend to use, and boil it up a few times, with the proportionate quantities of vanilla and sugar; then let it cool, and if the mould will contain a quart, mix twelve volks and three whole eggs with the cream, and run it five times through a bolting- cloth. Butter the mould, pour the cream into it, and place it in the bain-marie, but not too hot; when the cream is set, which vou mat' know by touching it sjently with vour finger, turn it on a dish ; take the