TRO Till 494 cut into five slioes ; put all these into a pan, with some butter and sweet herbs; season them, and set them on the fire ; when all the above are wanned through, take off the pau, and leave them to cool. In the mean time, prepare your tourte as directed, and lay in the game in the form of a dome, filling up the spaces with the herbs, in which the articles were dressed. Cover it in the usual way, and bake it in a brisk oven for an hour and a half. When done, pour in some espagnole, mixed with aJ'umet of game, and truffles. To u rte en Puits.—Scoop out the insides .of half a dozen large onions, throw them into boiling water a minute, then drain, and fill the cavities with some of the following farce: Mince small some scalded sweet- breads, mushrooms, truffles, shalots, pars- ley, and bacon ; mix these with the yolks ■of two eggs, pepper, and salt. Put a layer of this also over the bottom of a deep dish, lined with puff’paste, place the onions on it, add a little butter, cover them with a puff’ paste, and bake for two hours in a mo- derate oven. When done, pour in some rich sauce, and serve it hot. TREACLE Pudding*—Mix together a pound of stoned raisins, three quarters of a pound of shred suet, a pound of flour, a pint of milk, a table-spoonful of treacle, grated ginger, and pounded spice; when well stirred up, tie it in a floured cloth, and boil it four hours. TRIPLE.*—Cover the bottom of the dish with Naples biscuits, and macaroons, broke in halves, wet with brandy and white wine, poured over them ; cover them with patches of raspberry jam ; fill the dish with a good custard, then whip up a syllabub, drain the froth on a sieve; put it on the custard, and strew comfits over. Trifle.—Sweeten three pints of cream ; add to it half a pint of mountain wine, grate in the rind of a lemon, squeeze in the juice, and grate in half a nutmeg ; whisk this up, lay the l’roth on a large sieve, and the sieve over a dish that has ratafia cakes, macaroons, sweet almonds blanched and pounded, citron and candied orange peel cut into small pieces, some currant jelly, and rasperry jam in it, that the liquor may run upon them; when tliey are soaked, lay them in the dish you intend to serve in, put on the froth as high as possible, well drained ; stew over nonpareils, and stick on little-slices of citron, orange, or lemon peel. Tbh-i.e.—Lay some macaroons and m- fafia drops over the bottom of your dish, and soak them well with raisin wine; when soaked, pour on them a very rich cold custard. It must stand two or three inches thick ; on that put a layer of rasp- berry jam, and cover the wholewith a very high whip made the preceding day, of rich cream, the whites of two eggs, well beaten, sugar, lemon peel, and raisin wine, well heat with a whisk. It is best to make it the day before it is wanted, being more solid and better tasted. TR1 PE (Breaded).*—Cut yourtripe into 6mall square pieces, and give them a few turns in some butter, with parsley, salt, and pepper; roll each bit in grated bread, and broil them slowly. W hen done, serve them with slices of lemon. TniPE (Kilkenny), Irish Dish*—Cut a piece of double tripe into square pieces, peel and wash ten large onions, cut each in two, and boil them in a little water till tender, then put in the tripe ; when it has boiled ten minutes, pour off all the liquor, shake a little flour into it, and add some butter, mustard, and salt; shake the whole over the fire, till the but- ter is melted; then dish, and serve a* hot ns possible; garnish with lemon sliced or barberries. Tripe (Stewed).*—Cut a pound of tripe into pieces, and put it into a small sauce- pan, with half a pint of milk, three ounces of rice, a little allspice, and pepper, pounded, and a little celery seed tied in a hit of muslin ; let the whole stew gently for four hours, and serve. (For other methods of dressing tripe, see Beef.) TROUT.—This fish is held in great estimation, it is a fresh-water fish and when good, of a flesh colour, and the spots upon it are very bright; the female is considered the best, and is known by the head being smaller, and the body being deeper than that of the male. It is most in season during the month of June. Trout o PAngUtise•*—Boil the fish in a court-bouillon, take off the fillets, lay them on a dish, and keep them hot in a bain- marie. Roll some butter in flour, dissolve it in either veal or fish gravy, according ns you wish to serve it, in gras or maigre ; add a slice or two of lemon, salt, pep- per, and nutmeg: stir it well over the fire, squeeze in a little lemon juice, and pour the sauce, whilst boiling, over the fillets. Trout (Boiled).—Boil them with some vinegar in the water, some salt, and a bit of horseradish ; serve with white .sauce, Tmrrhovy sauoe, or plain butter.