153- CEL CEL four ounces of sugar, a little coriander and cinnamon, the zest of a lemon, and a spoonful of orange-flower water; reduce it over the fire, to half the quantity, and whilst the cream is lukewarm, put in some gizzards, chopped very small; stir them well in, and then strain it; place it in hot cinders, cover it, and put fire also on the top ; when the cream is set, place it on ice to cool. C elery (Fried).*—Blanch the heart and wliite leaves of celery, and stew it in a little stock; dry it in cloths; cut it in .pieces, and dip them in good plain batter, and fry them. Sprinkle salt over them .when you serve. Another wait,—Wash and cut off the green tops of six or eight heads of fine celery, and dip each head into batter made as follows : A pint of white wine, the yolks of three eggs beat fine, a little salt and nutmeg ; fry the heads in butter. Serve with melted butter over. Celery Fritters*—Take about a dozen heads of celery, and cut them six inches above the roots, which must be rounded ; wash them well, blanch them for a quarter of an hour, then let them cool and drain ; tie them up in four packets ; line a stew- pan with slices of bacon, and put on them your celery, a bunch of herbs, seasoned with salt, and moistened with pot-top, cover them with bacon and paper ; stew them, and when done drain and press them. Then soak them in brandy and sugar; dip them in batter, and fry them. Drain, glaze, and serve them. Celery for Garniture*—For this pur- pose the heart and white leaves only must be used. Brown in a stewpan, a little fat, and a spoonful of flour ; add a small quantity of stock, parsley, salt, and pepper. Let it boil a quarter of an hour, then put in the celery, and some gravy, and reduce them over the fire. Celery an Gratin.-—Take a dozen heads of white celery, trim off the stringy parts, and cut the rest into pieces about the size of a shilling ; boil them tender, and then stew them in good consomme with a bit of butter, a little sugar and salt. When nearly done drain and toss them up in some hechamelle, with the yolk of an egg; put them in a dish, and shake some fine bread crumbs over, and with a spoon sprinkle some clarified butter on that, and then bread crumbs again. Brown it with a sala- mander. Celery (Puree of).—Cut the whitest part of several heads of celery, and blanch them in water to take out the bitter taste j let it cool and drain. Then put it into a stewpan, with a little consomme and sugar. Let it stew for an hour and a half, and be reduced till no moisture remains, then mix it with four spoonsful of hechamelle or veloute; strain the whole through a tammy, and put it in the bain- marie. When ready to serve, put in a little thick cream. Celery (Hugnut of).—Cut the white darts into lengths, and boil it till tender, fry and drain, and flour it, put it into some rich gravy, a little red wine, salt, pepper^ nutmeg, and ketchup. Boil it up. 1 Celery Sauce.—Cut a dozen heads of fine celery into pieces about an inch in length ; blanch and put them into a small stewpan, with consomme enough to cover them, a small bit of butter, a little sugar and salt, and lay a round paper over the whole ; let them stew gently, till nearly done, then shake them up in hechamelle sauce. Second way.—Cut boiled celery into pieces two inches long ; put them into a stewpan with some veal gravy which tastes strong of spices and herbs, thicken it with three quarters of a pound of butter rolled in flour, and'half a pint of cream; boil it up, and squeeze iu some lemon juice. Celery as a Garnish.*■—Blanch about a pound of fillet of veal in some stock; stick it with stalks of celery, in the same manner as larding it; slice some onions into a stewpan, also two carrots, and a small piece of bacon stuck with cloves ; lay in the veal, and let it stew gently till it begins to burn, and stick to the bottom of the pan; then put in a little stock, and let it boil over a slow fire for three hours. Pass it through an un- bleached napkin, and serve with whatever meat you please. Garnish your dish wi th the veal cut in pieces and laid round. Celery Sauce (Brown). — Cut into lengths as before ; boil and drain it; put in some good gravy, with a little flour, mixed in smooth, a little ketchup, pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; boil all up together. Celery Soup.—Neatly trim and wash two dozen heads of fine celery, split each in two, and put them to blanch in a largo stewpan of water with plenty of salt; when tender drain them on a sieve, and stir them over the fire, with about three ounces of butter, and a very little sugar and salt. When the butter begins to look clear, mix in a ladleful of consomme; when that has boiled for a few minutes and the