APP APB 18 sides may be done alike ; ns soon as they are tender take them up with a slice on to a sieve, reduce the syrup to a good con- sistence, place your apples on the dish, pour over the syrup, and garnish as fancy directs with cherries, preserved orange, greengages, &c. The apples should be kept as whole as possible. Apples (Compote of).*-—Pare and cut half a dozen fine apples in half, and put them into a pan with a little water and lemon juice ; then clarify half a pound of sugar, and when you have skimmed it put in your apples, and the juice of a lemon ; turn the apples frequently. As soon as you find the fork will penetrate them, they are sufficiently done, and may be taken out; strain and reduce the sylup ; strain it again, and then pour it over your apples, which may be served either hot or cold. Garnish with the peel of a very red apple, cut into various devices, and laid on the apples. Apples, Whole.*—The proceeding is the same as the last, except that the apples, when pared, are not divided, and the cores are taken out with a piercer. Apples, Stuffed with Apricots.*—Choose ten fine sound apples, and with an apple- scoop pierce out the cores and great part of the pulp, taking care that the apples preserve their firmness ; then pare and throw them into cold water, after which boil them as above directed; when soft, take out the apples carefully, arrange them in the compotier, and fill each with apricot marmalade, covering the holes with round pieces of lemon peel cut extremely thin ; in the mean while, clarify and boil the syrup to petit lisse, and when it has cooled a little pour it over the apples. Apples ( Croquettes of).*—Prepare your apples as for Apple Cake, divide it into small pieces, roll them into balls, and dip them into an omelet; cover them with bread crumbs, and fry them; as soon as they are of a good colour take them out, sprinkle sugar over, and serve them imme- diately. Apples en Cronstade.*—Form some crou- stude (raised crust) in a basket seven inches in diameter and three in height; lino the basket with buttered paper, and fill it with flour or beef suet chopped ; then or- nament it, gild it, and lot it bake to a nice light colour; when it is baked take out the flour or suet and the paper, and half fill the basket with upplo marmalade (thirty apples made into marmalade, the same as in the receipt for Apples Merits guees in form of a Hedgehog). Then peel, take out the cores, and turn eight apples; boil them quite white, and then fill up the place of the core with apricot marma- lade, and put them in the marmalade on your basket, placing one in the centre of the basket, and the other seven round it; filling up the spaces between with more apple marmalade, arranging it in such a way that your apples are half incrusted in the marmalade; place upon the top of each apple a fine cherry, then mask your entremet with apple jelly, which gives it a beautiful transparent appearance. Serve this entremet either hot or cold, and gar- nish with apricot marmalade. Apple Custard, with butter and cedrat.* —Pare and cut a dozen fine apples into quarters; put them into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter, and the same of sugar, upon which you have grated the zest of a cedrat. Half boil the apples, and then let them cool. In the mean time, roll out some puli' paste and cut it round (about eleven inches in diameter), turn up the edges two inches and put it on a baking-tin; pinch up and decorate this lightly, and place in it the apples, ar- ranging those quarters which are most done in the form of a crown ; then pour in the butter and sugar, in which your apples were done; take the remaining quarters and place them carefully on the crown, so as to make a second on that. Fix a strong paper, well buttered, round your custard, and put in a hot oven for three quarters of an hour; then remove the paper, dorez the crust lightly, and let it remain in the oven a few minutes longer. Sift the sugar over the crust, and glaze it. When it should be sent to table, mask it with apple, currant, or apricot marmalade. Serve it hot. Apple Custard d la Portugaise*—Take thirty fine apples, and pierce out the cores of ten of them which are of an equal size ; pare and trim them neatly, and boil them in six ounces of sugar till pretty firm. Peel and cut the remaining apples very small, and put them into the above syrup; shred the rind of an orange, and mix with them; stir the whole constantly to pre- vent their sticking to the pan ; when suffi- ciently done rub the marmalade through a horsehair sieve. Prepare the crust as before mentioned; but dress the sides a little higher; mix two spoonsful of apri- cot marmalade with that of your apples, and then put four spoonsful of it into the custard ; place the whole apples (having