530 WOO WOO pounded meat; stir them well together, taking care it does not boil; strain the puree, and keep it hot. Make nine heart- shaped croutons, as usual (see Fillets en Canapes), and when cleared out, put the mince to the puree, mix them together with some butter, and then fill the hearts with it, and dish them, the points in- wards ; lay a poached egg on each, and serve them. Woodcocks in a Minute.*■—Put a brace of woodcocks into a fryingpan, with some butter, shred sbalots, grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper; set the pan on a fierce fire, and fry the woodcocks lightly for seven or eight minutes ; then add the juice of two lemons, half a glass of white wine, and some raspings; and leave them on the fire till the sauce has boiled up once; then serve all together. Woodcock Pie (Cold). — When the woodcocks are picked, take out the en- trails, and put them aside, and truss the birds, as for roasting; flatten the breast- bone, and slightly broil them over a clear charcoal fire; let them get cold, then lard them all over, pound some bacon in a mortar, mix with it the livers of the birds, pounded also, with two or three leaves of sweet basil; mince the entrails very fine, and mix them with the rest of the farce, raise the pie, lay some of the farce at the bottom of it, and put the rest into the woodcocks, lay them in the pie, put be- ween them some pounded bacon, mixed with fresh butter, seasoned with a little mace, nutmeg, and salt; then lay in a nice -veal cutlet, and over that some slices of bacon, cut very thin ; put on the cover, and set it in the oven for three or four hours, according to the number of birds; serve cold. Por another way of making Woodcock Pie, follow the directions given for Snipe Pie. Woodcocks (Potted).—They are done in the same manner as pigeons are potted. Woodcocks (Puree of) en Croutons*— Take the meat and insides of three or four cold roasted woodcocks, and pound it with nearly a quarter of a pound of ba- con and some sweet herbs; put the bones and other bits of the birds into a stewpau, with a glass of white wine, some parsley leaves, a bay leaf, a clove, two glnsses of stock, and six dessert-spoonsful of veloutd, reduce these to half, rub the whole through a bolting-cloth, and when cold, pour it over the pounded meat, and pass the puree through a sieve, as usual; if it will not pass easily, add a little consommd to it; put this puree into a saucepan, and keeji it hot. Prepare some croutons as directed for fillets en canapes (only making them an inch and a half thick, and of a pointed oval shape), and when the middle is cleared away, fill the space with the puree, and serve the croutons. Woodcocks au Restaurant*—Take a leash of woodcocks; take the trails from two of the finest, with which mince and mix some calf’s liver, and stuff them ; truss all three, and roast them ; when the bird which has the trail in is about two thirds done, take it up, pound it, bones and all, and boil it in equal quantities of stock and red Burgundy, with salt, pepper, and slialots; when it has boiled half an hour, rub it through a sieve, and serve it in the dish with the roasted woodcocks. Woodcocks (Roasted).—They should be roasted with a toast under to receive the trail, which must be served under them in the dish. Serve with melted butter, and gravy for sauce. Woodcocks (Salmis of).*—Take three cold roasted woodcocks; cut them up, trim the pieces, and put all the best parts into a stewpan ; put the remnants into a mortar, with a pinch of parsley leaves, six sbalots, a hay leaf, garlic, if liked, and pepper; pound these well, and put them into another saucepan, with a little melted butter; set them on the fire for about ten minutes, then add a glass of white wine, three ladiesful of consomme, and six of espagnole; reduce this to half, rub it through a bolting-sieve, and pour it over the woodcock; make the whole hot without boiling, and serve it with sippets in the dish. Woodcock (Salmis of).*—Cut up the woodcock on the table, and put the pieces on a dish, which place on a stand, with a lamp under it; add pepper, salt, shred sbalots, nearly a glass of white wine, the juice of a lemon, and a bit of butter: strew raspings over, and boil slowly for ten minutes, stirring occasionally. Use spirits of wine for your lamp. Woodcock Sauce.—Bound the bones and livers of roasted woodcocks, and put them into a stewpan, with two spoonsful of cul- lis, and two spoonsful of red port; reduce it to the consistence of a sauce, and then strain it; when strained, add pepper, salt, and the juice of two Seville oranges. Woodcocks (Stewed).—Slit them, but do not take out the insides; fry them in