C1IE CHE 141 spread a cheese-cloth on a sieve, put tho curd on it, and let the whey drain ; break the curd a little with your hand, and put it in a vat, with a two-pound weight upon it. Let it stand for twelve hours ; take it out, and bind a fillet round. Turn it from one board to another every day, till it is dry; cover with nettles or clean dock leaves, and put it to ripen between two pewter plates. If the weather is warm, it will be ready in three weeks. Cheese Cream.—Put twelve quarts of new milk and a quart of cream together, with rennet just sufficient to turn it, and let the milk and cream be just warm. When it has stood till the curd has come, lay a cloth in the vat, which must be made of a size proportionate to the cheese. Cut out the curd with a skimming-dish, and put it into the vat till it is full, turning the cheese-cloth over it; and as the curd settles, lay more on, till you have laid on as much as will make one cheese. When the whey is drained off, turn the cheese into a dry cloth, and then lay upon it a pound weight. At night, turn it out into another cloth, and the next morning salt it a little. Then, having made a bed of nettles or ash leaves to lay it on, cover it with the same, shifting it twice a day, for about ten days, when it may be brought to table. Cheese Cream, a plain Family Way.— Warm three half pints of cream with one half pint of milk, or according to the same proportion, and put a little rennet to it; keep it covered in a warm place till it is curdled ; have a proper mould with holes, either of china or any other; put the curds into it to drain, about an hour, or less ; serve with a goodplain cream, and pounded sugar over it. With Whiffled Cream.—Put a good pinch of gum-dragon powder into a quart of cream; whip it till it is quite thick, with fine rasped lemon peel; pour it into a cloth strainer, or a piece of muslin ; drain it thus in a basket, and serve it the same as the first. Cheese Cream iced.—Boil a pint of good cream, then put half a pound of sugar to it, about a dozen of sweet almonds pounded, a little preserved orange flowers, or orange-flower water, and rasped lemon peel; boil together a few minutes; when you take it off the fire, add five yolks of eggs beat up, and stir it continually till they are well mixed with the cream; strain it in a sieve, and put it into the icing-pot, when it is pretty much iced, work it well to put it into cheese-moulds ; ice it again, and serve as usual. It is also done with coffee and chocolate, in the same manner as the ices, only that each is thickened with four or five yolks of eggs, as directed in the first, and moulded like a cheese, which gives it the name. Cheese Cream iced a la Bourgeoises—• Boil a pint of very good thick cream with half a pint of milk, the yolk of an egg, three quarters of a pound of sugar; when it has boiled up five or six times, take it off the fire, and flavour it with any aro- matic, either orange flower, bergamot, or lemon; pour the preparation into tin moulds to ice ; put these moulds into little pails, having first put at the bottom of your pails some ice, well pounded, with some salt or saltpetre, and place ice and saltpetre all round your moulds, till it reaches the top of the mould. When the cheese is iced, and you are ready to serve it, dip your moulds in warm water to loosen the cheese from the moulds ; then turn your cheeses into a dish. They should be eaten the moment they are served. Cheese Cream, and Marmalade.—Boil a pint of cream ; mix with it a few spoons- ful of any land of marmalade you please, and a little dried preserved lemon peel, chopped fine; when it is but just milk- warm, put some rennet to it, and serve it with pounded sugar over it. Cheese Cream (i la Princesse*—Boil a pint of cream with a pint of milk, two grains of salt, a little grated lemon peel, a little coriander, a little cinnamon, three ounces of sugar; let the whole boil until reduced to half, then take it off the fire ; and when it is lukewarm, throw into it a piece of rennet (a little larger than a pea), mixed with a spoonful of water - pass the cream through a sieve, and then put it over some warm ashes; when tha curd is produced, put it into a little osier basket to drain, and when it has taken tha form of a cheese, turn it into a dish. Cheese Cream whipped.*—Chop very fine apieceof green lemon peel, and put it into an earthen pan with a pint and a half of good thick cream, and a piece of gum dragon, about the size of a pea, powdered; whip your cream, and as the whip rises' take it oft jvith the skimmer, and put it in an osier basket; if the basket is not very close, you must put a piece of muslin in it; when the cream is all whipped, and it is sufficiently drained, serve it on a dish with powdered sugar over it.