389 OX ox Ox Palates a la Provenfale.—Braise, and cut some ox palates into small pieces; put them into a stewpan, with some butter, two spoonsful of oil, two chopped shalots, a clove of garlic, five or six tarragon leaves, mushrooms, parsley, salt, whole pepper, and grated nutmeg; when these have sim- mered for a quarter of an hour, add a glass of white wine, the same of eullis, and con- somme, then give the whole one boil, take off the fat, and serve with a little lemon juice. Ox Palates (Roasted).—Boil them until they are tender, blanch them, cut them into slices, about two or three inches in length ; take some pigeons, and very small chickens, draw, truss, and fill them with ! forcemeat; let half of them be nearly larded, spit them on a bird-spit in the fol- ■ lowing manner: a bird, a palate, a sage * leaf, and a bit of bacon; have ready two sweetbreads cut in pieces, some artichoke bottoms cut in pieces, some oysters, and some blanched cockscombs, all fried; rub ! the dish withsome shalots,lay the chickens, I the pigeons, and what is roasted, in the middle, and arrange the other things round i them. Then make a sauce in the following j manner : a quarter of a pint of red wine, a i pint of gravy, the liquor of the oysters, an anchovy, a little lemon juice, and a bit of butter rolled in flour ; let it boil till it has obtained the consistence of cream ; then pour it over the palates in the dish. Ox Palates (Stewed).—Thoroughly clean four or five palates, put them into a pan i with sufficient water to cover them; tie them down, and bake or boil them ; when tender, peel them, cut them into pieces, flour them, put them into some good gravy, with an onion, a few pounded cloves, a piece of lemon peel, and. some ketchup, let ' them stew for half an hour, take out the lemon peel and onion ; add some morels, forcemeat balls, and lemon juice. Garnish 1 with sliced lemon. Ox Palates (Timbale of). — Having blanched the palates as usual, cut them into lozenges, have a timbale ready, at the bottom of which put a layer of godivcau, or other farce, then a layer of the palates, another of the farce, and on that one of the truffles cut in thin slices, and proceed in this manner till the timbale is quite full; cover the whole with raspings, and pour a little beef gravy, or rich broth, into it, and bake it to a nice colour. Ox Tail, with Cabbages.—Scald and boil an ox tail, cut it into pieces, and put it into some broth, with a bunch of parslev shalots, a bay leaf, and three cloves ; in an hour’s time add a savoy (previously scalded), a pound of pickled pork, cut in pieces, salt, and pepper. When done, take it out, drain off all the fat, and put the whole into a tureen, together with eullis, or broth, to make it more or less liquid according to your pleasure. Ox Tail braised en Hotchepot*—Cut an ox tail in pieces at the joints, soak it for two hours, then scald it for half an hour ; put it into cold water, drain and trim it. Lay slices of bacon and pieces of veal or beef in a stewpan, put in the tail, cover it with bacon, add three or four carrots, four or five onions (one stuck with three cloves), a little thyme, two bay leaves, and some stock; set the pan on a brisk fire to boil, after which lessen it, and let it stew gently for three houi'S; when done, lay the ox tail in a dish, pour over some carrots, cut in pieces, and done up in a little veloutd, and garnish the edge of the dish with lettuces, braised and glazed. Ox tails, when braised as above, may be served with various articles, instead of the lettuces, according to taste. Ox Tail a la Ste. Mendhould*—Prepare and braise ox tails as for hotchpot; when done, season them with salt and pepper; soak them in melted buttei-, bread them twice, and colour them in the oven or on the gridiron. Ox Tail Pie (Hot).*—Braise two or three ox tails; when about three parts done, take them out and cut them in pieces : prepare your pie, at the bottom of which lay a slice or two of ham; then put in the tails, cover them with thin slices of bacon, finish the pie and bake it; when done, take out the bacon, skim off the fat, and pour into the pie a rich sauce. Ox Rump Soup.—This soup, made with two or three rumps of beef, will be much stronger than when made with a much larger quantity of meat without the rumps. It is made in the same manner as gravy- soup, and give it what flavour or thicken- ing you think proper. OXFORD John.*—Cut a stale leg of mutton into as thin collops as you can, cut out all the fat sinews, season them with salt, pepper, and mace ; strew amongst them a little shred parsley, thyme, and two or three shalots ; put a piece of but- ter into a stewpan; as soon as it is hot, put in all your collops, keep stirring them, with a wooden spoon till they are three parts done ; then add half a pint of gravy,