147 CHE CUE curd; take the yolks of twelve eggs, beat in a pint of very thick cream; when the cream boils up, put in the eggs ; then take it oil, and put it in a cloth over a cullender ; whey some new milk with rennet, for the other curd; when you temper them together, take a pound of currants, three quarters of a pound of butter, half a pound of sugar, a quarter of an ounce of nutmegs, four spoonsful of rose water, and bake them quick. Cheesecakes (Rich Paste far).—Dry a pound of the finest flour, mix with it three ounces of refined sugar, then wash halt a pound of butter with your hand till it come to froth; put the flour into it by degrees, and work into it, well beaten and strained, the yolks of three and the whites of two eggs. If too limber, put some flour and sugar, to make it fit to roll. Line your pattypans, and fill; a little more than fifteen minnt.es will bake them. Against they come out, have ready some refined sugar, beat up with the white of an egg, as thick as you can; ice them all over, set them in the oven to harden, and serve cold. Use fresh butter. Salt butter will make a Tery fine flaky crust; but if for mince pies, or any sweet things, should be washed. CHERRIES an Beurre a, VAllemande. —Pull the stalks from two pounds of black- heart cherries; fry a large quantity of bread cut into dice, in a quarter of a pound of butter ; when the bread is well coloured take it out with a slammer, and keep it hot; put the cherries into the remaining but- ter, with a glass of red wine and some sugar, and stew the cherries well through. Take them out also with a sldmmer, and place them in a dish, put the fried bread into the cherry juice, turn them over in it, and put it over the cherries. Serve very hot. Cherries (Bottled).*—Gather your fruit before it becomes too ripe, and put it into bottles, fill them up as close as you can and seal the corks. Place the bottles in the buin-marie, and as soon as the water begins to boil, lessen the fire, and a quarter of an hour after take the water out of the bain-marie, Cherries in Brandy *—Choose the finest and ripest cherries, leave on half the stalks, and put them into very cold water. In about half an hour take them out, and drain them on a sieve ; weigh them, and to every pound of fruit, allow a quarter of a pound of sugar; when you have clarified and boiled it to grand per Id, put in the fruit, boil them up two or three times, stirring them gently with a skimmer; then take them from the fire carefully, and put the cherries into bottles or glass jars; when filled, add to each twelve cloves and half an ounce of cinnamon tied in a linen bag. Put to the sugar, when nearly cold, brandy (in the proportion of a pint and a half to a pound of fruit) ; mix them together well, and pour them on the cherries. In two months time taste them, and if sufficiently flavoured, take out the cloves and cinnamon. Cover the jars and bottles close. Cherries in Brandy.—Bruise a few cherries, mulberries, and raspberries, so that you may obtain from them half a pint of clear juice, which mix with a pint of brandy, and rather more than a pound of sugar, and dissolve it; put some fine cherries into bottles, cut the tails about halfway, and pour on them the juice, brandy, &c. which must cover the fruit. The cherries preserved in this way may be glazed with caramel, sugar, or white glaze, if you wish to serve them in a dessert. Cherry Brandy (Black).—Pick and bruise eight pounds of black maroons, and the same quantity of small black cherries ; let them stand for two months in a cask with six gallons of brandy, two pounds of crushed sugar, and a quart of sack well stirred together. At the end of that time it may be drawn off and bottled. Another way.*—Choose fine sound mo- rella cherries, and having taken off the stalks place them in layers in glass jars; strew powder sugar between each layer, and cover them with brandy. As soon as the cherries have imbibed the brandy, pour in more, so as to keep them constantly covered. Cherry Cakes.—Cut a pound of tart paste in half, and roll it out thin; chop preserved cherries into small pieces, and drop them on the paste; egg them round carefully, and turn the paste over them, and press them together gently. Then with a gigging-iron, cut it into half circles; prick and wash them over with egg. Bake them on a well-buttered tin, in a quick oven. Another way.—Stone your cherries and boil them slightly in syrup and white wine, drain them, and reduce the syrup to a good consistence, and add your cherries : shee,t some tartlet-pans with puff paste, cut some pieces of bread half an inch thick, and large enough to suit the middle of the paste, well flour, and place them in, bake them, l 2 '