PAR 400 PAR large and small fillets of four partridges into scallops, sprinkle tliem with salt, and fry them lightly in some butter ; then, having drained them, take out the butter, and put into the pan three spoonsful of fumet of game, and two of allemande; give them a boil, and put the scallops into it, with some sliced truffles or mushrooms, a small piece of butter, and lemon juice. Dish them with croquettes of game round, glaze, and serve. Partridges (Souffli of).—Cut off the meat from some cold roasted partridges, chop and pound it well with some veloutd and butter; season it well, add the yolks of four or five eggs, and rub the pur£e through a sieve into a basin. Whip the whites of half a dozen eggs to a strong froth, which mix lightly with the pur£e; put the whole carefully into a dish, and bake it. Lay a paper over the top to prevent its burning. Twenty minutes are sufficient to do it properly. It should be served the moment it is taken out of the oven. Partridge a la St. Laurent.*—Having picked and otherwise prepared your par- tridges, cut off the claws, and truss the legs within the body near the rump, with- out, however, making a large hole; then spread out the birds, and beat them on the breasts, in order to give them as much surface as possible ; sprinkle them well with salt and pepper, and lay them breast downwards in a pan, in which is a little oil, set it on the fire, and when one side is done, turn them; about half an hour before dinner, broil them very slowly; take two ladiesful of espagnole, the juice of a lemon and a half, some of the peel, a little salt and pepper; give this one boil, and when the partridges are done, serve with this sauce over them. Partridges d la Sultane.*—Take four partridges, from one of which cut all the meat, remove the sinews, &c. and pound it with some calf’s cudder, mushrooms, and anchovy, add a little consomme, and stuff the three remaining birds with this farce; lard them with anchovies and mushrooms placed alternately ; roast them before a slow fire, hasting them either with consomme or stock; brown them nicely, sprinkle salt and pounded spice over, and serve them hot. Partridges en Surprise.*—Take three very fresh partridges, clean and bone them all but the large bone of the leg, and leavo on the claws; lay them open on a cloth, season with salt and pepper, and spread over them a thin layer of partridge farce- cxiite ; fill up the bodies with a cold sal- picon; roll and sew them into their origi- nal form, truss the claws outwards, put them into a pan with a little butter, and brown the breasts; let them cool, and then lard the breasts. Break the hones, and put them into a stewpan, with a thin slice of ham, two onions, a clove, a carrot, a little mace, a well-seasoned bouquet, a glass of Madeira, a spoonful of conmsome, and some grated bacon; put the birds into this, cover them with a double paper, but- tered ; cover the saucepan close, put fire on the lid, and set them on a brisk fire for half an hour; let the breasts be as much coloured as if roasted; drain and dish them. Serve with fumet of game, or their own sauce strained. Partridge d la Tartare*—The partridge being trussed properly, dip it into melted butter, let it be well covered with it; sprinkle salt and pepper over, and roll it in bread-crumbs, then broil it very slowly; when done, serve it over a remoulade or sauce d la Tartare ; or, if you like it better, a sauce piquante, or clear gravy. Partridges with Truffles. — Prepare three or four partridges, with truffles in the inside, the same as directed for phea- sants ; only, instead of roasting, stew them in a good braize; then, having a few truffles well prepared, and mixed in good brown sauce, squeeze in a lemon ; and when very hot, pour the whole over the partridges, and serve. Partridges with Truffles.* — Empty three partridges through the breasts with great care; put a pound of grated bacon into a saucepan ; add some middling-sized truffles, in quarters, salt, pepper, and spices; when they simmer, throw in die trimmings of the truffles; take it off in about ten minutes, and when cold stuff the partridges with this preparation ; tie them up as round as you can, and put them into a saucepan, between slices of bacon ; make a poele without any lemon, pour this over, and simmer an hour and a half; then drain, untie, and lay them in a dish. Mince two truffles, give diem a few turns in a little butter; then add diree ladiesful of espag- nole, and three of fumet of game; reduce die sauce to half, take off die fat, and serve it over the birds. Partridges to truss.—Partridges are done in exaedy the same way as pheasants are trussed. (See Pheasants.) Partridges a la Vitleroi.—Put some small onions into a little stock, widi a bit