263 fow FOW spoonful of farce it quenelles, and smooth it with the blade of a knife, in warm water; lay it on a buttered saucepan-lid, and when you have done as many as you wish to have, put them gently into boiling water, with a little salt in it, and set them by the side of the stove that they may not boil too fast; turn them lightly with the back of a spoon, and when they beg'in to swell, drain them on a cloth; dish, and pour over them a reduced fowl consomme. Fowls (Roasted).—Roast them before a clear fire ; i rotli them up when nearly done, by sprinkling them over with flour and salt, and basting them with butter. When done, be careful in taking out the skewers. Serve them with very good clear gravy in the dish, and bread or egg sauce in a boat. Fowl ( Roasted) with Chestnuts.—Roast some chestnuts very carefully, so that they may not be burnt, then take off the skins, and peel them. Take about a dozen of them, cut them small, and bruise them in a mortar. Parboil the liver of a fowl; bruise it, and cut about a quarter of a pound of ham or bacon, and pound it. Then mix them all together, with a good quantity of chopped parsley, sweet herbs, some mace, pepper, salt, and nutmeg. When these are all well mixed together, put it into your fowl, and roast it. The best way of doing this is to tie the neck, and hang it up by the legs to roast, with a string, and then baste it with butter. For the sauce, take the rest of the chest- nuts, peel and skin them, put them into some good gravy, with a little white wine ; and thicken it with a piece of but- ter rolled in flour ; add cullis. Then place your fowl in the dish ; pour in the sauce- garnish them with lemon, and serve. Fowls roasted like Pheasant.—They must be full grown ; leave the heads on • truss them like pheasants ; lard them with bacon and roast them. Serve them with gravy and bread sauce. Fowl ( Roasted) with a Ragout of Ousters. —Make a forcemeat, to which add a dozen oysters; stuff the craw; cover the breast of the fowl with slices of bacon, then a Sheet of paper ; roast it; take some cullis or good gravy, put in some oysters, with their liquor strained, a little mushroom powder, or ketchup, lemon juice, thicken it with flour; add Cayenne and salt; boil it up : when the fowl is roasted, take off the bacon, and serve the sauce in the dish. mi1 VL ”/')•*—Cut up a couple of cold roasted fowls, take off the skin, and tnm them ; lay them in a deep dish, with salt, oil, and vinegar; when they have soaked in this a short time, place the fowl on a dish, round which lay some lettuces, well washed and cut in quarters, hard eggs also quartered, fillets of anchovies, gher- kins, capers, and a ravigntte. Pour the dressing over the whole, and serve. 1'owl in the Form of a large Sausage.— Cut a fowl in two, bone it, and flatten the meat with a roller; put some force- meat upon each half, made of breast of fowl roasted, bread crumbs soaked in cream, scraped bacon, udder, parsley, slialots, salt, and fine spices, mixed with the yolks of three eggs ; tie up the pieces in the form of large sausages, wrap them in slices of bacon, and then in pieces of linen cloth; braise them in broth, with a glass of white wine, a bundle of sweet herbs, whole pepper, salt, sliced onions, and car- rots. When they are done, untie the cloth, take off the bacon; squeeze them gentlv between a cloth, to press out the fat, and serve with what sauce you choose. Fowl (Souffle of).*—Pound the fillets of four roasted fowls, about two ounces of calf’s udder, salt, and pepper; when these are well beaten, put them into a stewpan, with four ladiesful of veloute; make it quite hot (but not to boil), and then pass it through a sieve into a basin ; add to it the yolks of five eggs and the whites of two, whipped as for biscuits. Cement fried bread round the edg*e of a dish ; pour in the souffld, smooth the surface, and put it into an oven ; as soon as it has risen properly and is firm to the touch, take it out, and serve it instantly. Fowi.(Stewed) .■—Truss a fowl the same as for boiling; put it into a stewpan, with a bit of butter, chopped parsley, shalot, and mushrooms; stew it on a slow fire about a quarter of an hour, turning it often. Then put it into another stewpan, with slices of veal and ham, and all the first seasoning. Cover it with slices of bacon • stew it gently for a quarter of an hour longer, then add a little whole pepper and some salt a little stock, and some white wine, and finish it on a slow fire ; then skim and strain the braise. When done squeeze in the juice of a lemon ; wipe the lowl clean from the fat, and serve. 1'owl (Stewed). — Place four c 1 ean s ewers at the bottom of a stewpan, and place the fowl upon them. Putit in a quart of giavy, a bunch of celery, cut small, and washed very clean, and two or three blades of mace. Let it stew gently till there remains only just sufficient for sauce; the»f