DUC DUG 228 and stew tliem. When done, take off the fat, and serve with their own gravy. Duck dressed in different Ways.—Take either a large duck, or two ducklings, which truss like a fowl for boiling; put it into a pot (just about large enough to hold the duck) with thin slices of bacon, a little stock, a glass of wine, pepper, salt, onions, carrots, a head of celery sliced, a bunch of sweet herbs, two cloves, and a bay leaf; when done, take out the duck, wipe the fat otf very clean, and serve with what sauce or ragotit you choose, such as sweet- breads, green pease, turnips, chestnuts, olives, cucumbers, or any sort of stewed greens, according to the season. Ducks (Fricasseed).—Quarterthem, beat them well, dry them well, fry them in fresh butter; when they are almost done, put in some onions shred small, and a little thyme; add a little claret, thin slices of bacon, parsley, and spinach, boiled green, and shred small. Break the yolks of three eggs into a dish, with a little pepper, and some grated nutmeg, toss them up with a ladleful of drawn butter; pour this over the ducks, lay the bacon upon them, and serve. Duckling (Fricusseed).—Cut the duck- lings into small pieces, dry them, flour them, and fry them in butter ; then take a little canary, some parsley, and onion, chopped small; a little whole pepper, and a blade of mace; add to these some sugar, butter, and verjuice; then pick the stalks oflffrom a good handful of clary; make a batter of three or four eggs, flour, and cream, with a little nutmeg ; fry these, and having placed your duckling on a dish, pour the fried clary, &c. upon them, and serve. Duck (Fillets of) and Truffles.*—Hav- ing cut your fillets, toss them up in a little butter, with parsley and shalots, shred fine. Take a dozen of truffles, soak them in white wine, and slice them;, place a layer of the fillets into a stewpan, then a layer of the sliced truffles, and so on, alternately (strewing small pieces of fresh butter on the truffles), until all your materials are used ; cook them over a slow fire till done, when place them in the dish for table; pour white wine and consomme, of each half a glass, into the same stew- pan, boil them together for about a quarter of an hour; skim, and then pour it over the fillets. , , Duck en Grenade.*-- Bone a duck, beginning with the back, without breaking the skin; and cut the whole of the meat into dice; do the same with truffles, veal sweetbreads, breast of fowl, and bacon; cook these over a gentle fire, with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, add the yolks of three eggs to thicken it, stir it well, and then put it in the skin of the duck, giving it the form of a balloon or oval, fasten up the ends, and cook it like a fricandeaux over a slow fire ; reduce the gravy that it yields to a jelly, and glaze your duck with it, and add to the sauce consomme, veal gravy, &c. Duck (Hashed).—Cut a duck in pieces, and flour it; put in a stewpan some gravy, a little port wine, shalots chopped fine, salt, pepper, and a bit of lemon; boil this; then put in the duck, toss it up, take out the lemon, and serve with toasted, sippets. Duck hashed in different Ways.—Roast a couple of ducks till they are three parts done, and let them cool; then cut the breast in thin slices, taking care to pre- serve the gravy; the legs will serve for another dish, which you may dress by wrapping them in a cowl with a good farce, and serve with cullis sauce; for the slices you have cut from the breast, cut cucumbers, and marinate them about an hour with a little vinegar, salt, and one onion sliced; then take out the onion, squeeze the cucumbers in a cloth, and put them into a stewpan with a bit of butter, a slice of ham, a little stock, flour, and veal gravy; boil slowly, skim it well, take out the ham, and then put in the duck to warm, without boiling. You may like- wise do the same with chopped truffles or mushrooms, or any thing else you may think proper, according to the season. A cold roasted duck will answer much the same purpose for this dish. Duck in Hotch-pot*—Cut a duck into quarters, and stew it into a small pot, with some turnips, the quarter of a cabbage, parsnips, carrots, and onions sliced (all parboiled), some good stock, a bit of streaked bacon cut in slices, with the rind left on, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a little salt. When the whole is done, put the duck into a tureen, and the vege- tables round it; skim the fat off the liquor in which the vegetables were stewed; add a little cullis to thicken the sauce, which must be served over the duck. Duck (Fillets of) a la Mainelle*—Cut the fillets from two or three young ducks, about two thirds roasted, taking care to collect the gravy, and put it into a stew- pan; add to it lialf a glass of white wine.