111 CAL CAL quarts of water over, season it witli pepper tuid salt, colour it with saffron, and bake it. Calf’s Head, old Fashion. — Boil the head till the tongue will peel; then divide^ the head, and cut the meat from one half into pieces the size of oysters (setting tbo brains aside) and stew them in strong gravy, and a quarter of a pint of claret, a_ lemon peel, a bunch of sweet herbs, a little sliced onion and nutmeg; stew these tender. In the mean time slash the other half head, wash it over with yolks of eggs, strew over it grated bread, sweet herbs, and lemon peel, and broil it; when done lay it on a dish, and having added to the stewed meat a pint of cullis, three ancho- vies, mushrooms, capers, butter, and a pint of stewed oysters, pour them round the broiled head. Garnish it with the tongue cut into thin round slices, the brains in cakes, bacon, oysters, and force- meat balls, all nicely fried; barberries and horseradish laid on the edge of the dish, and serve it up. Calf’s Head fried *—Cut a cold calf’s head into middling-sized pieces, and put into a jar; pour on them a marinade; when they have thoroughly imbibed the flavour, drain them, dip each piece in batter, and fry them. Do not let the oil or lard they are fried in be too hot. Calf’s Head, German Way.—Take a large calf’s head, with great part of the neck cut with it; split it in half, blanch it, and take out the jaw-bone. Lay slices of bacon at the bottom of the stewpan, then thin beef-steaks, with pepper and salt; put in the head, pour beef gravy over it; add a large onion, stuck with cloves, and a bunch of sweet herbs : cover it close, and let it stew on a stove. Make a ragout, with a quart of beef gravy, half a pint of red wine, some sweetbreads parboiled, and cut into slices, some cock’s combs, oysters, mushrooms, truffles and morels; stew them till tender. When the head is done, put it in a dish, take out the brains, the eyes, and the bones; slit the tongue, cut it into small pieces, do the same with the eyes, and chop the brains: put these into a baking.dish, and pour some of the ragout over them ; then put the head, and pour the rest of the ragout over it, and melted butter, and over that, scraped Parmesan cheese. Colour it a fine brown in the oven. Calf’s Head hashed.—Boil the head al- most enough, and take the meat of the best side neatly from the bone, and lay it in a small dish; wash it over with the yolks of two eggs, and cover it with crumbs, a few herbs nicely shred, a little pepper, salt, and nutmeg, all mixed together previously. Set the dish before the fire, and keep turn- ing it now and then, that all parts may be equally brown. In the mean time slice the remainder of the head, and the tongue (peeled) ; put a pint of good gravy into a pan, with an onion, asmall bunch ot herbs, (consisting of parsley, basil, savory, tarra- gon, knotted marjoram, and a little thyme), a little salt and cayenne, a shalot, a glass of sheny, and a little oyster liquor; boil this for a few minutes, and strain it upon the meat, which must be sprinkled with flour. Add some fresh or pickled mush- rooms, a few truffles and morels, and two spoonsful of ketchup; beat up halt the brains, and put them to the rest, with a bit of butter and flour. Simmer the whole. Beat the other part of the brains with shred lemon peel, a little nutmeg and mace, some parsley shred, and an egg ; fry this in little cakes of a fine gold colour; dip some oysters into the yolk of an egg, and fry the same way, also some good forcemeat balls, and garnish the dish with them. Calf’s Head d la Sainte Menehoult*—> Take out the jaws and cut off the snout close to the eyes ; put it in a stewpan over the fire, and when you have skimmed it quite clean, add to it parsley, onions, garlic, cloves, a laurel leaf, thyme, basil, salt, and pepper. When done, take out the bones that are over the brains, place it on a dish, with the following sauce: Mix a a piece of butter, the size of an egg, with some flour, salt, pepper, the yolks of three eggs, two spoonsful of vinegar, and half a glass of stock; thicken these over the fire. When this is done, pour it on the head, cover it with bread crumbs, baste it with butter; brown it with a salamander ; drain the fat from it, and serve with sauce pi- quante. Calf’s Head Pie.—Strew a knuckle of veal till fit for eating, with two onions, a little isinglass, or a calf’s foot, a bunch of herbs, mace, salt, and pepper, in three pints of water: keep this, when very good, to put in the pie. Half boil a head, and cut it into square bits ; put alayerof ham at the bottom of the dish, then some head, first fat and then lean, with forcemeat balls and hard eggs, cut in half, then ham, and so on, till the dish be full; the pieces must not. be too close; season to your taste, with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Pour in some of the abovementioned broth, and cover it