BUL BRU 89 lettuce soup, asparagus soup, soup desante, &c. with herbs. Buotii of Roots.—Take a quart of peas, boil them till tender; bruise them to a mash, put them into a boiling vessel that will hold four gallons of water; hang it over the fire for an hour and a half; then take it off and let it settle; then take a lesser kettle, and strain the clear puree into it through a sieve; then put into it a bunch of carrots, half a hunch of parsnips, and a bunch of parsley roots, and six onions, a bunch of potherbs, an onion stuck with cloves, and season it with salt. Boil all these together ; then add a bunch of chervil, another of sorrel, and two spoonsful of the juice of onions. This broth is of use to simmer all sorts of soups made of vegetables. Broth (TUkite).—Boil a fowl, and when it is enough, take it up, and put it into a dish : then boil your cream -with a blade of mace, and thicken it with eggs ; then put in the marrow of one beef bone, and take some of the broth and mingle them together; put to it a spoonful of white wine, and let it thicken on the fire; then put the fowl hot out of the broth, set it on a chafing-dish of coals, and serve it. BROWN Colouring for made Dishes.— Take four ounces of sugar, beat it fine ; put it into an iron fryingpan, or earthen pipkin; set it over a clear fire, and when the sugar is melted it will be frothy; put it higher from the fire, until it is a fine brown ; keep it stirring all the time, fill the pan up with red wine ; take care that it does not boil over, add a little salt and lemon; put a little cloves and mace, a shalot or two, boil it gently for ten mi- nutes ; pour it in a basin till it is cold, then bottle it for use. BRUNOISE.—Cut some carrots, tur- nips, &c. into dice ; if summer time, fry them in butter, if the winter, blanch them; when fried without ha ving lost their ori- ginal colour, moisten them with rich broth, seasoned with salt and a little sugar, and let the whole boil for an hour. Green pease, asparagus tops, &c. may be added. Skim off the fat, and put in some crusts of bread, cut thin, and soaked previously in broth, and serve. BRUNSWICK Tart.—Pare and core with a scoop, eight or ten golden pippins, put them into a stewpan, with a gill of sweet wine and four ounces of sifted loaf sugar, a bit of lemon peel, a little cinna- mon and mace ; stew them over a slow fire till the apples are tender ; when cold, put them into a very light, or vol-ait-vent paste, and pour round them some good custard. BRUSOLES.—Take some beefsteaks, beat them and put them into a stewpan with thin slices of bacon laid underneath ; strew over them chopped clubbols, parsley, and spices; then another layer of steaks, and strewr them over as before ; then cover them all with broad slices of bacon, and cover the stewpan close, and put fire under- neath and at top. When they are ready, prepare a cullis with the carcasses of par- tridges ; then take off all the fat, lay them in a dish, and pour the cullis over them. BUBBLE-AND-SQUEAK—Sprinkle some slices of cold boiled salted beef, with pepper, fry them wdth a bit of butter of a light brown. Boil a cabbage, squeeze it quite dry and chop it small; take the beef out of the fryingpan, and lay the cabbage in it, sprinkle a little pepper and salt over; keep the pan moving over the fire for a few minutes. Lay the cabbage in. themiddleof the dish, and the beef round it. BUCKTHORN (Syrup of).— Gather the berries in the heat of the day, and set in an earthen vessel in the oven; squeeze out the juice, and for each peck of berries put two pounds of Lisbon sugar and boil them together a quarter of an hour; let it cool, and then bottle it. Another way.—Take three quarts of the juice of clarified buckthorn berries, and four pounds of brown sugar ; make them into a syrup over a gentle fire, and while warm, mix with it a drachm of the dis- tilled oil of cloves, dissolved on a lump of sugar. The true buckthorn may be known by the number of its seeds, having four, the alder buckthorn has only two, and the cherry buckthorn one seed. The former is to be used. BULLACE Cheese (with the skins).— Bake or boil the fruit in a stone jar on a hot hearth, or in a saucepan of water. Pour off some of the juice, and to every two pounds of fruit, weigh half a pound of sugar. Set the fruit in a pan over the fire, let it boil quickly, till it begins to look dry; take out the stones, add the sugar, stir it in wqll and simmer it slowly for two hours; then boil it quickly half an hour. The jam may then be poured into potting-pans. Buixace Cheese (without the shins).— Bake or boil the fruit as above; but, in- stead of taking out the juice, beat the bullaces through a coarse sieve; then pro-