DUC DUM 231 when wanteu for table, arrange them in a dish, and serve with bigarade sauce under them. Duck (Salmis of Wild).*—Cut oft the best parts of a couple of roasted wild clucks, and put the rest of the meat into a mortar, with six shalots, a little parsley, some pepper, and a bay leaf, pound all these in- gredients together well, and then put them into a saucepan with four ladiesful of es- pagnole, half a glass of white wine, the same of broth, and a little grated nutmeg ; reduce these to half, strain them, and hav- ing laid the pieces on a dish, cover them with the above : keep the whole hot, not boiling, until wanted for table. Duck (Salmis of Wild) an Chasseur.* —Cut the meat of two dressed wild ducks into small pieces, lay them in salt and pepper, and pour on them four spoonsful of olive oil, and half a glass of Bordeaux wine ; squeeze over them the juice of two lemons, stir the whole together well, and serve. Duck and Sauer Kraut*—Wash and put two pounds of sauer kraut into a saucepan, with streaky bacon, sausages, and a serve- las, moisten them with rich sldmmings, boil it for three hours, then take out the servelas and sausages, and put in a couple of ducks, properly singed and trussed, and let them simmer for an hour ; then drain them and the sauer kraut, place the latter round the ducks, on it the bacon, servelas, and sausages. Ducks (Scallops of Fillets of Wild.).*— Take the fillets of three wild ducks, and cut them into round scallops, which should be beaten with the handle of the knife, and then laid in a pan, with four spoonsful of olive oil, and well covered with pepper and salt, lay an oiled paper over, and just be- fore they are wanted, toss up your scal- lops ; when both sides are brown drain off the oil, cover the scallops with a good poi- vrade, add a small quantity of oil and le- mon juice ; put some bread fried in oil in the dish, and serve them. Ducks stewed with Red Cabbage*—Singe and truss your ducks, pepper and salt the inside, and let them stew very gently for an hour and a half or two hours, in some good braise that beef or cutlets have been stewed in. Whilst they are stewing, shred a cabbage very fine, wash it, and let it drain for a few minutes on a sieve, put it to stow with a good piece of butter, and some pepper and salt, in a stewpau very closely covered, shaking every three or four minutes. In case it should get dry and burn at the bottom, add nearly a la-' dleful of good stock ; when well done and tender, mix in a small glass of vinegar, lay it on the dish, and the ducks over it; cover it, and serve it to table. Ducks (Tame).—They may be dressed in the same manner as geese, with sage and onion, and apple in a sauce-boat; or you may stuff it with fried sausages or parboiled chestnuts, and then roast it. Ducks with Truffles.*—Singe and truss neatly a couple of fine ducks, and having some truffles stewed with chopped parsley, thyme, and mushrooms, put a few of them inside the ducks ; spit them with bards of bacon all over them, and roast them with truffles, and serve them with a sauce d I’Espagnole, or brown sauce. Wild ducks may be dressed in the same manner. Duck and Turnips.*—This dish is pre- pared exactly in the same way as with a pur6e of lentils, with the addition of five or six turnips in the stewpan, and substituting a ragout of turnips for the puree of lentils, which, as in that recipe, must not cover the duck, if it be very white and plump. Ducks with Vegetables.*-—-Take the fillets (cut crosswise) from a couple of roasted ducks, and soak them for half an hour in water and vinegar with salt; then boil your vegetables, whether peas, turnips, cucum- bers, &c., with stock or veal gravy, and when tolerably rich, put in the fillets for a quarter of an hour, then add the juice of a lemon, and serve very hot. DUMPLINGS (Hard).—Mix, as fora paste, some flour with small beer or water, and a little salt; roll them in balls rather larger than egg; when the water boils put them in: half an hour will boil them ; cur- rants may be added ; they are good boiled with beef. They are eaten either with cold or melted butter. Dumplings (Norfolk).—With a pint of milk, two eggs, a little salt, and some flour, make a batter; drop this in small quantities into a pot of boiling water; they will be boiled in a few minutes; throw them into a sieve or cullender to drain. Dumpling Paste.—Make a paste with flour, milk, salt, and yeast; let it stand some time in a warm place to ferment; then cut the paste into pieces of what size you please, and boil them a good while; let them cool; then cut each into two, and soak them in milk, sugar, and lemon peel, about an hour, and drain and flour them fit for frying; or, you may dip them in oil or