CHO 174 CHU pasta into little balls the size of a marble, with a spoon, and place them on a baking- sheet, about an inch apart, as they in- crease a good deal in size; wash each over with dorure previously mixed with a little milk, and bake them in a moderately heated oven; when done, take them from the baking-sheet with a lcnife; make a small opening at the side, and put in any kind of sweetmeat you may think proper, and dish them en buisson. Another way.— Put a quarter of a pound of butter, with rather more than half a pint of milk, a little sugar, and lemon peel, into a stewpan, and set it on the fire ; as soon as it boils, add to it a quar- ter of a pound of flour, and with a wooden spoon stir it for about two minutes after the paste is formed ; break into this four eggs, one by one, then add a little salt and some pounded ratafia biscuits; beat it up a minute or two, and then drop it on a baking-sheet, and bake them in a moderate oven. These are also cut open, and sweet- meats inserted; be careful to keep the oven close. Choux a la d’Artoise. — Proceed as above, but instead of four, put in the yolks of six and the whites of three eggs; then add the pounded ratafia, some orange flowers, and a gill of warm cream. When all these ingredients are well mixed to- gether, drop them in lengths about the size of a finger; egg, and bake them 5 before they are entirely done, sift a little sugar over, and when quite done, glaze them with a salamander. Serve them hot. Choux en Biscuits.—Also called Ga- teau a ea d’Artoise, and are made like petits Choux a la d’Artoise. Choux d la Mecque.*—Put two glasses of milk and two ounces of fresh butter into a stewpan, making them into a paste, with a proper quantity of flour; having dried it a few minutes, add two more ounces of butter, and half a glass of milk, and dry it again a little. Take it from the stewpan, and stir into it two eggs and two ounces of powder sugar; when well mixed together, add two more eggs, a spoonful of whipped cream, and a grain of salt; lay the choux with a spoon about three inches long ; dorez and mask them with sugar. Bake them in a moderate oven. These choux may be flavoured accord- ing to taste, with orange, lemon, cedrat, &c., by grating either of these fruits on the sugar employed in making them. Choux (Petits') MerinepiSs.— Having made and baked a sufficient number of petits choux pralinces, but without al- monds; cut oft' the tops, and pour into them some ltalienne cream. Beat the whites of half a dozen eggs to a strong froth, adding to them as much powder sugar as will render them very smooth ; and drop it on the petits choux; strew su- gar over this, and bake them in a mode- rate oven. These must be served hot. Choux (Petits) Pralinces.—Chop some Jordan almonds extremely small, and mix them with a small quantity of pounded sugar; sprinkle these ingredients over petits choux, which must be dropped so as to make them double the usual size. Gar- nish these as above. Choux a la Heine—Are made the same way as a la d’Artoise, only drop them on the baking-plate of a round, instead of a long form : neither are they glazed. Choux (Basket of Petits) a la Chantilly. —Roll out some very small choux, with a little flour, and bake, but do not glaze them. Boil some clarified sugar to the degree cased; then, with a small pointed stick, take up the choux, and dip them, one at a time, in the sugar, and as you do this, place them round a buttered mould, of the form of a basket, or whatever other form you may think proper ; butter a hoop of the same size as the top of your basket, stick together a single row of choux, half- way round it, and then fasten it to each side of the basket; fill it with Chantilly cream, and serve it. CHUB (Boiled).—Put as much beer vinegar and water into a fish-kettle as will cover the fish; a good quantity of salt, and some fennel. Scale and cleanse a chub, and when the water boils put in the fish. When it is sufficiently boiled, lay it on a board to drain, let it lie for an hour, put it into a pewter dish over a chafing- dish of coals, with melted butter, and serve it very hot. Chub (Broiled).—Scale a chub, cut off the tail and fins, wash it well, and slit it down the middle ; make two or three cuts on the back with a knife, and broil it on a wood fire. Baste it all the time it is broil- ing with fresh butter and salt, and thyme shred small. Chub (Roasted).—Scale and thoroughly cleanse a chub ; wash it, and stuff it with sweet herbs, then tie it to the spit with splinters, roast it, keep basting with vine- gar and butter, well seasoned with salt.