GAR GAR 272 sufficiently done, take it from the sauce- pan, and put it into a deep dish ; lay round it the vegetables, taking care to lay each sort separately : then take forty or fifty carrots, cut them into round pieces, about two inches long ; keep them all of the same size; cut as many turnips, onions, and leeks in a similar manner, boil these also in broth, but not that in which the meat was cooked ; add sugar sufficient to correct any acidity; the vegetables should be thoroughly done, but not so much so as to break; place them round the meat, and then serve it with the broth of the meat, strained in another tureen : no bread is required with this garbure. Garbure a la Polignac.*—Take about twenty or thirty large chestnuts, and throw them into hot water to blanch them, in the same manner ns almonds; when the skin is well cleaied off, lay some slices of veal and bacon, two bay leaves, two cloves, six carrots, as many onions, and a bunch of green celery leaves, into a stewpan; put the chestnuts on these; season them with salt and pepper; cover them with slices of bacon; moisten them with broth, and let them simmer for an hour ; then if they are done, drain, and cut them in halves ; fill your dish with alternate layers of bread and chestnuts; strain the liquor they were done in overit, and gratinezit, and serveit. Garbure a la Villeroy.*—Take twenty carrots, twenty turnips, a dozen onions, half a dozen heads of celery, the same number of lettuces, a dozen leeks, and a handful or more of chervil; cut the roots into dice, and bruise the lettuces and chervil. Put three quarters of a pound of fresh butter into a pan, and fry first the carrots lightly, then put the turnips, and fry them also lightly, add the leeks and onions ; when these are quite done, put in the lettuces and chervils, and stir the whole together : moisten them with a small quantity of broth, and boil them until sufficiently done, adding a piece of sugar about half the size of an egg. Then put a layer of bread and vegetables on a dish (beginning with the bread) ; strew coarse pepper between each layer, and when vour dish is sufficiently full, pour in the liquor without skimming, and set it on the fire. Let it stand till the gratia is formed, and then serve it. GARLIC Putter Sauce.*—Pound half a dozen cloves of garlic; rub them through a silk sieve, with a wooden spoon; put this into a mortar with some butter, and beat it until thoroughly incorporated; then put this butter into any sauce you please. Garlic (Essence of).*—Take an earthen skillet, place it on the fire, and put into it a bottle of white wine, half a glass of vinegar, the juice of two lemons, six cloves of garlic, the same number of cloves, the quarter of a nutmeg, and two bay leaves : when near boiling, reduce the fire, and let it stand on hot ashes for seven or eight hours ; strain it through a coarse sieve, and then filter it. Keep it in very closely-corked bottles. A very small quantity of this essence is requisite to impart its flavour to a dish. Garlic Gravy.—Slice a pound and a half of veal, or beef; season it with pepper and salt; put it into a stewpan, with two carrots split, and four cloves of garlic sliced, a quarter of a pound of sliced ham, and a large spoonful of water; put the stewpan over a gentle fire, and watch when the meat begins to stick to the pan ; when it does, turn it, and let it be very well browned (but take care that it is not in the least burnt); then dredge it with flour, and pour in a quart of broth, a bunch of sweet herbs, a couple of cloves bruised, and slice in a lemon ; set it on the fire again, let it simmer gently for an hour and a half longer, then skim off the fat, and strain off the gravy, by pouring it through a napkin, straining and pressing it very hard. Garlic (Pickled).—Pick the garlic very clean ; put it over a brisk fire, in salt and water, and boil it up quick ; drain and dry it: make a pickle of double-distilled vinegar and salt; pour this boiling hot on the garlic; repeat the same the next day. Garlic Sauce.—Take two cloves of garlic, and pound them with a piece of fresh butter, about the size of a nutmeg; roll it through a double hair sieve, aud stir it into half a pint of melted butter, or beef gravy, or make it with garlic vinegar. GARNITURE.* —Lay some cocks’ combs, kidneys, and livers, into warm water, that all the blood may soak out; when they are clean, have ready some hot (but not boiling) water, into which throw the cocks’ combs; stir them about, and take them out one by one; lay them in a cloth with some salt; rub them well to remove the pellicle, then put them again into warm water. The kidneys, when cleansed, should be boiled in a blanc for half an hour; the livers must be blanched in water that simmers only, to prevent their becoming hard, though they should be firm. When all are cold, trim, and drain them for use.