GOO 281 GOO goose, and fry the onions; drain both them and the legs; dish them, with the onions laid on them, and serve with a good poivrade, or any other sauce you please, but rather give the preference to a Lyonnaise sauce. Goose a la Providence.*—Prepare a goose in the usual way, and stuff with the following farce: Take twenty small pieces of streaked bacon (having soaked it well), twenty chipolata sausages, twenty large mushrooms, twenty truffles, thirty chestnuts, and the same number of poached quenelles, the size of the sausages (which, as well as the bacon, must be previously cooked) ; put half of this in the goose ; truss, and sew it up as usual, and then put it in a braising-pan, with some slices of veal, two slices of ham, two onions, two cloves, and a bunch of sweet herbs, sea- soned ; cover the goose with bacon and a buttered paper; pour in a glass of Ma- deira wine, and some good consomme. Let it stew gently over a slow fire for two hours ; then take it off, strain the liquor, and reduce it to half, having removed all the fat; strain it a second time. Put the remainder of the truffles, bacon, &c., witli the addition of some cocks’ combs and kidneys, into a little of the liquor, and heat them; then, having drained and dished your goose, lay the truffles, &c. round, and pour the sauce over it. Goose (Legs of) en Puree*—Take half a dozen very plump goose legs, and having boned them, season them with salt and coarse pepper, and supply the places of the bones with bacon cut small; then close the meat over, and tie them, taking care to shape them well. Put them into a stewpan, lined with sliced bacon; cover them with the same ; pul into the pan also three carrots, four onions, two bay leaves, two cloves, a little thyme, and a ladleful of broth; let the whole simmer for two hours, then take it out, drain and take off the thread; dish them, and serve with a purde of lentils, green peas, onions, &c. Goose (Legs of) d la Rdmoulade*— Take the legs of a goose, either roasted or a la daube; soak them in their own dripping; bread, and baste them lightly with oil ; broil them to a nice colour, and serve them dry, with the following sauce in a boat: capers, anchovies, parsley, scallions, and garlic, all chopped very small, mustard, pepper, salt, vinegar, and oil. Goose (Legs of) an Verd-pre.*■—Put as many legs of geese as will fill a dish into a saucepan, with a little lard and some small onions; cover the saucepan quite close, and set it on the fire. When nearly done, take out the legs, and broil them a few minutes, to colour and dry them a little : in the mean while, fry a handful of parsley (keep it as green as possible), (ay it over a dish, and serve the legs on it. Goose, to Marinate.—Cut a goose up the back, bone it; make a stuffing with a few sage leaves, an onion or two, two apples, bread crumbs, pepper, salt, lemon peel, nutmeg, yolk of egg ; stuff it, sew it up the back ; half roast it, or fry it; stew it with good gravy (covered closely), till it is tender; put in a little red wine ; strain and skim the sauce ; add cayenne, ketchup, a little flour, salt (if necessary), a little lemon j uice; boil this up for a minute or two, then serve it over the goose. Goose a la Mode.—Take a large stubble goose; when it is picked, bone and slit it down the back ; take a fowl, and do it in the same manner; take also a neat’s tongue, boil and blanch it; season the fowl with pepper and salt, and beaten mace, and roll it round the tongue, but first put some beef marrow over the tongue; then put the fowl into the goose, and sew it up ; before the fowl is put into- the goose, roll some thin slices of ham or bacon round it; put the goose into a small pot, with two quarts of beef gravy, and the bones of the goose and fowl; when it begins to boil, let it stew very gently for an hour ; then take up the goose, skim all the fat from the gravy : strain it, and put in a glass of red wine, two spoonsful of ketchup, a veal sweetbread, parboiled and cut into slices, truffles, morels, and mush- rooms, a piece of butter rolled in flour, and some yolks of eggs, boiled hard, with a little pepper and salt; put in the goose, cover it close ; stew it half an hour longer, then take it up, put it in a dish, and serve the ragout over it. Take care to skim off all the fat. Goose Pie (Common).—Make a raised crust, quarter the goose, well season it, lay it into the crust ; half a pound of but- ter at the top, cut into pieces; lay on the lid ; bake it gently. Goose Pie (Rich).—Bone a goose and a fowl, season them very well; put force- meat into the fowl, and then put the fowl into the goose; put these into a raised crust, fill the corners with a littlo force- meat ; cut half a pound of butter into pieces, lay them on the top ; put on the cover; bake it well. Serve cold.