FOR per. Line a mould with caul, into which put the above preparation; cover it with thin slices of bacon, and bake it. When done, leave it to cool in the mould. Pork Chitterlings.*—Take the fat guts of a pig, wash and cut them into such lengths as you may desire, and then put them into vinegar and water, with thyme, bay-leaf, and basil, for twelve hours ; after which chop up a part of the above, some fresh pork and leaf; and season them with salt, pepper, four kinds of spices, and a little anise in powder; put these into the remaining guts, so as to fill them about two-thirds, tie them up, and boil them in equal quantities of water and milk, to which add salt, thyme, basil, and bay leaf. When done, leave them to cool in the liquor; they must be broiled before they are sent to table. Pork Fritters*—Are made in the same manner as veal fritters ; the pig’s fry makes the best. They should be fried in olive- oil, and made of a lighter colour than other fritters. Pork Griskin.—Pork griskin is in ge- neral extremely hard : the best way to prevent this is by putting it into a sufficient quantity of cold water to cover it, and let it boil up; then instantly take it off, and put it into a Dutch oven; it will be done in a few minutes. It should be rubbed all over with butter, and then lloured before it is put to the fire. Pork (Hashed) and Onions.*—Cut a cold roasted chine of pork into small slices; clear away all the skin, and take fifteen large onions, cut them in halves; take the hearts, and cut them into half rings ; fry them lightly; drain and put them into a stewpan, with two spoonsful of consommi • when reduced to a glaze, add the meat, and four spoonsful of espagnole. Make it hot, without boiling ; put in some butter, and serve it. Pork (to pickle).—The quantities must be proportioned to the middlings of a pretty large hog, the hams and shoulders being taken off. Mix and pound fine four ounces of salt- petie, a pound of coarse sugar, an ounce of sal-prunel, and a little common salt; sprinkle the pork with salt, and drain it for twenty-four hours; then rub with the above ingredients; pack the pieces tight in a small deep tub/filling up the spaces with common salt. Place large pebbles on the pork, to prevent it from swimmino- in the pickle which the salt will produce. 437- POR If kept from the air, it will continue good for two years. PonK (Pickled).*—Take the breast or belly-parts of a pig; cut it in pieces, each of which rub well with fine salt and a little saltpetre ; put them, one on another, into a jar, as close as possible; fill up all the interstices with salt, cover the jar with a cloth, and close the jar tight. Leave the pork thus for a week or ten days, and then they may be served as you please. Pork Pie.—Cut into chops a piece of loin of pork, with the rind and part of the under-bone cut off; season them with pepper and salt, cover them with puff- paste, bake the pie, and when ready to be served, put in some cullis, with the es- sence of two onions, and a little mustard mixed with it. Pork Pie.—Make a short paste, the same as for tarts ; butter a large deep copper mould (or a stewpan will do) round the bottom and sides, place the paste tolerably thick, and having strewed the pork with pepper and salt, and a little grated nutmeg, place it in the crust with the gravy over it; cover it in with a good crust on the top, garnish it over with leaves, egg it, and bake it in a moderate oven: when done, take it out, letting it stand in the mould till cold; and having stewed some odd bits of pork, or bones, for gravy, reduce it till it becomes tolerably strong, turn the pie out of the mould, and pour in the gravy. If you should not happen to have any bits of pork, beef will do to make the gravy. It must not be cut till thoroughly cold ; the odd pieces near the spare-rib, the kidneys, &c. will do very well for this pie ; the less bone, the better it will cut. Pork Pie (Cheshire).—Skin a loin of pork, cut it into steaks; season it with salt, nutmeg, and pepper; make a good crust; put into the dish first a layer of pork, then a layer of pippins, pared and cored, and a little sugar, sufficient to sweeten the pie, and then a layer of pork ; put in half a pint of white wine, some butter on the top, and close your pie ; if it is a large one, it will require a pint of wine. Pork (Potted).—Cut the meat from a leg of pork into pieces, pound it very well in a mortar, season it well with salt and pepper; then mix the meat with rosemary and sage, shred small; put it into a pot to bake with a pound of butter ; when it comes out of the oven, drain it from the gravy, and press it down close in a dry