QUA •448 and buttered paper, put them on a skewer, and roast them. In the meantime, put two slices of ham and some bits of veal into a stewpan, set them on the fire, and when they begin to stick to the bottom, add a glass of white wine, two spoonsful of consomme, the same of reduced espinrnole, a bay leaf, and half a clove of garlic ; boil and reduce it to the consistence of sauce, and strain it. Take up the quails, remove the paper and bacon, place them on a dish, and lay a blanched bay leaf between each ; add a little lemon juice, and pimento butter to your sauce, stir it well, pour it into your dish and serve. Quails a la Milanese*—Mix up the juice of a lemon, pepper, and salt, with a bit of of butter, and with this stuff eight quails ; fasten the legs to the body, leaving the foot free ; dip each quail in some allemande, and cover them with equal quantities of grated bread and Parmesan cheese; put them one by one in an omelet, then the bread and cheese again; fry them gently in clarified butter, and serve with a tomata sauce. Quails (Hot Pie of).*—Make a raised crust in the usual way, spread over the bottom of it some farce cuite mixed with the livers of the quails, pounded, and some weet herbs : take eight quails, take out the thigh bones, and half dress them in a little butter and sweet herbs; when cold, stuff each with some of the above-mentioned farce, arrange them in the pie, fill up the intestines and the centre with the remainder of the farce, season it well, lay slices of bacon over the quails; wet the edges of the paste with water, cover the pie with a very thin crust; do it over with egg, and decorate it according to fancy. Put itinto the oven to bake ; an hour and a quarter will suffice. When done, raise the top carefully, remove the bacon, take off all the fat, pour in some good gravy, and serve. Quails prepared as above, may also be put in croustades, made in the form of a heart, large enough to contain a quail; eight are sufficient for a dish. Quaiis (to mast). — Truss the birds, and stuff them with beef suet and sweet herbs, both shred very small, seasoned with salt, pepper, and nutmeg; fasten them to a spit, and put them to the fire ; baste with salt and water when they first begin to get warm ; then dredge them with flour, and baste witli butter. Put an an- chovy, two or three shalots, and the juice of a Seville orange into a little rich gravy ; QUE set it on the fire, shake it about, and when the anchovy is dissolved, serve it with the quails. Garnish the dish w'ith fried bread crumbs. These birds are sometimes roasted, wrapped first in a slice of bacon, and then in a vine leaf. They should be kept at a moderate distance from the fire. Quails (Stewed).—Put a little butter worked up with flour, and a few green onions, into a stewpan ; when brown, put in some quails, a glass of wane, the same of stock, parsley, some more small onions, a bay leaf, and two or three cloves ; stew these till the quails are sufficiently done. Garnish yourdish with cocks’, combs, arti- choke bottoms, fried bread, &c. Quails with Truffles.—Peel and cut some truffles into rather large dice, and put them into a saucepan, with equal quantities of grated bacon and butter, a little chopped parsley, salt, 'pepper, four kinds of spice, and a truffle, minced small; set them on the fire seven or eight minutes; when cold, stuff some quails with this mixture, truss and tie up the birds in proper form, and put them into a saucepan, with slices of bacon under and over. Put into another saucepan some veal cut into dice, a carrot, seven or eight small onions, a clove, the trimmings of the truffles used above, half a bay leaf, and a good bit of butter; set these on the fire for a quarter of an hour, and then add a glass of white wine, and the same of stock, give it two or three boilings; pour this seasoning over the quails, set them on the fire. Half an hour wall be sufficient time to cook them; when done, take them out, drain and arrange the birds round the dish, with the sauce in the centre, on a reduced espagnole. QUEEN CAKES (See Petit Gateau a la Heine.) QUENELLES.*—Take six ounces of panada, ten of whatever kind of meat you intend making the quenelles, and eight of cnlf’s udder, all pounded separately, as fine as possible, and rubbed through a quenelle sieve; pound the meat and panada together for a quarter of an hour, then add the udder ; and continue pounding fifteen or twenty minutes longer; put to these five drachms of spiced salt, a very little nutmeg, and the yolks of two eggs; beat these up five minutes, then put in two more yolks, and two whites beat firm, a table-spoonful of veloutd or bechamel, and pound again five minutes; then turn the whole into a pan, and set it on ice. Have ready two or three deep dishes, and a