FOW FOW 259 drain, and cover them with breadcrumbs ; broil and serve them on a half glaze. Fowl a la Braise.—Truss a fowl the same as for boiling, and cover it all over with thin slices of bacon. Wrap round it beet leaves, then in veal caul, and put it into a large saucepan with three pints of water, a glass of Madeira, a bundle ot sweet herbs, a few blades of mace, and half a lemon. Stew it till it is quite tender; then take it up and skim oft'the fat; thicken the gravy with flour and butter, and strain it through a hair sieve; put to it a pint of oysters and a tea-cupful of thick cream. Keep shaking your pan over the fire, and when it has simmered a little, serve up your fowls with the bacon, beet leaves, and caul still on, and pour the sauce hot over it. Garnish with barberries, or red beet root. Fowl a la Braise.—Truss a fowl the same as for boiling, season the inside with pep- per and salt; put at the bottom of the vessel a slice or two of beef, lay over the fowl some thin slices of lean bacon, and bits of veal, an omon stuck with cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, a carrot, half a le- mon, pepper, and salt; set this over a slow fire for ten minutes, then put to it about three pints of beef broth or warm water ; warm a glass of Madeira and pour in : stew this till the fowl is tender, strain the gravy through a piece of dimity, the rough side upwards, first dipped in cold water; mix a little flour with it, boil it up, and serve it over the fowl. Oysters are a great addition. Fowls (Broiled').—Take a large fowl, and cut it into four quarters, put them on a bird-spit, and tie that on another spit, and half-roast; or half-roast the whole fowl, and finish either on the gridiron, by which means it will be less dry than if done wholly on the gridiron. If you half- roast the fowl whole, it must be split down the back afterwards, then peppered, salted, and broiled. Fowl (Broiled).—Split them down the back, well salt and pepper them; then broil them. Serve with mushroom sauce. Fowl a Campine, with raw Onions.— Truss a fowl with the legs outward, and roast it. It must be of a good colour. When done, slit the breast, cut raw onions in slices, which you should introduce into the slits you have made, and send it to table with a brown poivrade highly sea- soned, and very hot. Fowl (Capilotade of).*—Take the re- mains of a ready-dressed fowl, and put them into a stewpan; then do up some parsley, shalots, and four mushrooms, all shred small, in a little butter; as soon as the latter becomes liquid, add four ladies- ful of espagnole, and two of consomme, re- duce, and skim it; pour it on your fowl, set it on the fire to simmer for a quarter of an hour ; before you send it to table, season it. Fowl (to dress cold).—Cut a fowl into quarters, and beat up one or two eggs ; grate in a little nutmeg, put in a little sauce, some chopped parsley, and a few bread crumbs ; beat them well together, and dip the fowl into this mixture ; then fry them of a fine light brown ; prepare a little good gravy, thickened with a little flour, and putina spoonful of ketchup : lay the fried fowl in a dish, and pour the gravy over it; you may garnish with lemon or a few mushrooms. Fowl Cream.—Pound the white parts of some roasted fowls, with a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds ; when it be- comes a fine paste, dilute it with half a pint of cream; strain, and then cook It in the bain-marie. Fowl d la Creme.—This dish is made of a cold fowl, either roasted or stewed; you take off the breast and fleshy part of the fowl, by cutting it square all through ; with a little bread toasted, and dipped in butter, stop the aperture; then fill the fowl with farce a la creme ; then make a kind of wall round the fowl with buttered paper, cover the same with bacon, to pre- vent the fowl from getting too much' colour. If this dish is to be placed on the flanks of the table in the second course, some of the same farce may be served on toasts cut in the shape of hearts or lozenges, which are called temoins. These are to be baked in the oven, the same as the fowls, and the fat to be well drained : serve with a thin espagnole sauce, or veloide. The toast must be tried before tho farce is put over it. Fowl (Cromasquis of).—This dish is prepared in the same manner, as the cro- quettes of fowls; but each ball is wrapped in thin slices of cold calf s udder, and dipped in batter. Fry them, and serve on fried parsley. I owl (Croquettes of).*—Take all the meat from a fat chicken, removo the sinews and skin, mince it very small; put into a saucepan two ladiesful of veloutc; when well reduced, add the yolks of four eggs, then the mince; mix them together, and then take it from the fire; make it into s 2