387 ox OX over it. You uiay add a little shred onion, if you think proper. Ox Palates.*— The palate should be salted, and then scalded until the second skin can be easily removed on scraping with a knife, when it should be put into cold water, and thoroughly -cleaned and trimmed, that is, all the black parts cleared away; then put it in a blanc for four or five hours, or more, if necessary; if, on pressing, the meat is flexible, it is suffi- ciently done, and may be taken out, and is fit to be dressed in any way you think proper, and served with any sauce. Ox Palates Atreaux*—Cut some ox palates (previously cooked in a blanc) into pieces an inch and a quarter square, put them into a sauce a I’atelet, fry them lightly in it, and let them cool ; cut a cold boiled calf’s udder into thin slices, the size of the palates; put these alternately, and with great regularity, on skewers, take care that all four sides are even; bread them well in the usual manner; place them on a gridiron over a moderate fire, and broil three sides, colour the fourth with the salamander. Serve them with a clear gravy espagnole, Italienne, or without any sauce if you like it better. Ox Palates a la Bechamel.* — Prepare the palates in a blanc, and then cut them into small square pieces, put them into a bechamel, in which boil them lightly ; sea- son with a little pepper, and serve them very hot. Ox Palates in Blanquette*— Make an allemande, and when nearly done, put in the palates previously blanched, and cut into small square pieces ; just before serv- ing, add a liaison of yolks of eggs with the juice of a lemon. Garnish the dish with croutons. Ox Pulates Broiled.*—Cutsomeblanched ox palates in slices, which soak for some hours in a marinade composed of oil, with salt, pepper, parsley, onions sliced, and lemon juice; then take them out, bread and broil them. Serve with sauce piqudnte. Ox Palates (Collops of).*—Take two braised ox palates, cut them into pieces the size of a half-crown, have ready twice as many pieces of puff-paste cut rather larger than the palates; between every two put a slice of the palates, and a little forcemeat on each side of it; press the edges of tho paste together, and fry the collops to a nice colour. Ox Palates (Coquilles of).*— Cut ox palates into dice, cut also into dice an equal number of mushrooms, put them into a well-reduced allemande, with a little butter, parsley, and lemon juice ; put this preparation into shells; cover it with, bread crumbs and grated Parmesan-cheese, with a little melted butter; colour them in an oven, or with a salamander. Ox Palates en Crdpinettes.*—When the palates are taken out of the blanc, put them under a heavy weight; as soon as they are cold, trim them to about the length of your finger; cut a dozen onions into dice, blanch and cool, then put them into a blanc with a piece of butter, salt, pepper, nutmeg, garlic, and bay leaf; when they are sufficiently done, add two ladiesful of veloutd, and reduce your onions to a paste, thicken it with the yolks of four eggs, let it cool, and then cover the palates com- pletely ; wrap each into a pig’s caul, lay them into a deep dish, and put them into an oven to colour ; serve them with a clear gravy and tomata sauce. Ox Palates (Cromesquis of).*—Cut four ox palates, a throat sweetbread, twelve good sized mushrooms, and four truffles} into dice; put the two latter into some allemande, reduce them to a paste, then add the palates and rsweetbread, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, and a little nutmeg, mix these together, and when cold, make them into parcels the size of the little finger; cut a ready dressed calf’s udder into very thin slices, all the same size, wrap each parcel in a slice of the udder, dip them in batter, and fry the cromesquis; serve with fried parsley. Ox Palates (Croquettes of).*—Having boiled the palates in a blanc as usual, cut them into dice ; have ready some reduced veloutd, to which add two or three yolks of eggs, and a small piece of butter, put the minced palates into this, stirring them well together; then, with a spoon, lay about thirty little heaps of this on a tin, and when cool, form them of any shape you please; roll them in bread crumbs then dip them in eggs (well beaten and’ seasoned with pepper and salt), roll them again in bread crumbs, and fry them in a very hot pan ; serve them on fried parsley. Ox Pulates (Croquettes of).*—Take two or three ox palates, previously blanched, cut each in half, lengthwise, and simmer them over a small fire in some stock, with a clove of garlic, thyme, bay leaf, two cloves, basil, salt, and pepper ; in half an hour take them out, drain and let them cool, then lay on every piece a thin layer of moat farce, roll up your palates, and dip each in a batter made of flour, diluted 2 c 2