EGG EGG 240 sugar, keeping it rather thick; when cool, add to it the yolks of twenty eggs, which should be perfectly free from the whites, and well stirred, but not beaten ; set these on the fire, stirring continually until it boils, and then continue to stir until suffi- ciently thick; if any scum should arise, it need not be taken off, as the boiling and stirring will effectually remove it. Orange-flower water may be added, if approved. Egg Mince Pies.—Boil six eggs until they are hard; shred them small; shred double the quantity of suet; then add one pound of currants picked and washed (if the eggs were large you must use more currants), the peel of one lemon shred very fine, and the juice, six spoons- ful of sweet wine, mace, nutmeg, sugar, a very small quantity of salt, orange, lemon, and citron candied. Make a light paste for them. Eggs a la Mode.—Take a handful of bread crumbs, and simmer them in good fat broth, and when it is quite thick, and no liquid remains, take it off the fire; chop a good slice of bacon, previously boiled, to mix with it, and add a spoonful of a la mode beef sauce, not seasoned too highly, the yolks of eighteen eggs beaten up, and the whites of six; a little pounded coriander, pepper, and salt, if the sauce does not give it taste enough ; mix all together very well; garnish a deep stew- pan all round with slices of bacon, put the preparation into it, and bake it in the oven ; when done, turn it over gently, take oft' the bacon, wipe the fat with a cloth, pour a brown glaze over, and let it cool before using. Eccs d la Mode de Portugal.—Take two large lemons, strain the juice through a sieve into an earthen pipkin ; add to this a tea-spoonful of basket salt, and two ounces of very fine sugar ; set it over the fire, and when it boils, break into it four eggs ; stir them with a silver spoon, till they will not stick to the saucepan, which is a sign that they are done enough; pour them into a soup-plate, and shake over them a little very fine sugar; heat a sala- mander red hot, and hold it over them, which will give them a nice gloss. Eggs a fit Neige*—Break ten eggs, and having separated the yolks and whites, whip the latter as for biscuits; then add two spoonsful of powder sugar, and a little dried orange flower in powder. Pour a quart of milk, six ounces of pow- der sugar, and a little orange flower, into a saucepan, and when it boils put into it, a dessert-spoonful at a time, of the white of egg; poach the latter, and then set them on a sieve to drain. Then beat up the yolks, and mix them with half the milk, put it on the fire, and stir it with a wooden spoon till it begins to thicken ; then take it off, lay the poached eggs in a dish, and cover them with the yolks and milk. Eggs in Paste (Fried').—Make choice of the smallest eggs, poach them; when trimmed and cold, carefully dry them in a cloth ; then prepare a paste, the same as for rassoles, into which lay the eggs ; cut them the same shape, fry them in the same manner, and serve them very hot, on a napkin. Egg and Ham Patties.—From the most solid part of a stale quartern loaf, cut a slice of bread two inches in thickness ; have in readiness a tin round cutter of two inches in diameter, cut out four or five pieces, then take a cutter, two sizes smaller, press it nearly through the larger pieces; then with a knife remove the bread from the circle ; have ready a large stewpan full of boiling lard ; fry them of a light brown colour, drain them dry, with a clean cloth, and put them aside till wanted; then take half a pound of lean ham, mince it small; add to it a gill of good brown sauce ; stir it over the fire for a few minutes, and add a small quantitv of Cayenne pepper and lemon juice ; fill the shapes with the mixture, and lay a poached egg upon each. Eggs a la Pauvre Femme*—Put a little butter into a dish, that will bear the fire, and heat it; break over it ten or twelve eggs, and set the dish on hot ashes; in the mean while cut some crumb of bread into dice, and throw into butter; give them a boil, drain and strew them over the eggs, pass a salamander over, and serve with espagnole reduced. Eggs (Pickled).— Boil the eggs very- hard ; peel them, and put them into cold water, shifting them till they are cold. Make a pickle of white wine vinegar, a blade of mace, a bundle of sweet herbs, and a little whole pepper; take the eggs out of the water, and put them immediately into tile pickle, which should be hot; stir them a good while, that they may all look alike ; untie the herbs and spread them over the top of the pot, but cover them with nothing else till they are turned brown. They will be fit to eat in nine or ten days.