446 PUN PUD put it with grated bread, a few currants, the yolks of four eggs, and the whites of two, some grated lemon-peel and ginger; mix and make it into little balls, about the size and shape of an egg, with a little flour. Have ready a skillet of boiling water, and throw them in. They take about twenty minutes boiling. Pudding (Lemon).—Put six ounces of butter, and half a pound of lump-sugar (in knobs) into a stewpan, stir them well over the fire till they are amalgamated ; then add eight eggs, well heaten, the grated rind and the juice of two lemons ; mix all together, and pour it into a dish lined with pufi'paste, with some strips of can- died lemon-peel placed on the paste. Pudding (Quaking).—Scald a quart of cream ; when almost cold, add to it four eggs well beaten, a spoonful and a half of flour, some nutmegs and sugar; tie it close in a buttered cloth, boil it an hour, and turn it out with care, for fear it should break. Melted butter, a little wine, and sugar, for sauce. Puddings (Queen’s).*—Slice some ap- ples, as for fritters ; butter a deep mould well; then put a layer of French roll, cut very thin and dipped in butter melted without flour or water ; then lay a layer of apples, with sugar and lemon-peel grated ; fill the mould in this way. If the apples require it, add some juice of lemon, and brandy, if you choose. Last of all, cover the mould before you put it into the oven. Pudding a la Parisienne.* — Having minced a clove of the best vanilla, pound it with a quarter of a pound of sugar, and rub it through a sieve ; shred three quar- ters of a pound of veal suet, and half the quantity of beef-marrow, and six ounces of rice-flour; put these into a saucepan, adding to them seven yolks and two whole eggs, half a glass of cream, half a glass of maraschino, a pinch of salt, the quarter of a nutmeg grated, two ounces of whole pistachios, four ounces of sweet macaroons bruised, the sugared vanilla, thirty pre- served cherries, well drained, and each cut in half, and half a dozen apples, chop- ped small; mix these ingredients together well, and then put them into a well- buttered cloth ; tie it up, and fasten a weight of ten pounds to the centre of the pudding, to prevent its falling to one side; put it into a large saucepan, filled with boiling-hot water; set it on the fire, and keep it constantly boiling for four hours ; then take it out, dip it an instant in cold water, remove the cloth, and with a very sharp knife remove all the outside of the pudding ; strew powdered sugar over, and having cut two ounces of pistachios, each, into six slices, fix them in like quills of a hedgehog. Serve it as quick as possible. Puddings (St. Germain’s).—Cut eight or ten onions into dice, and simmer them slowly in a quarter of a pound of lard ; when done, take them from the fire, add to them half a pint of cream, a pint of hog’s blood, the yolks of six eggs, two pounds of bacon, cut into dice, salt and spices; mix these ingredients together well, put them into skins, and finish like Black Pudding. Pudding (Transparent).— Put eight eggs well beaten into a stewpan with half a pound of sugar, pounded fine, half a pound of butter, and some nutmeg grated. Set it on the fire, and keep constantly stirring till it thickens. Then set it into a basin to cool; put a rich puff paste round the edge of the dish ; pour in the pudding, and bake it in a moderate oven. It will cut light and clear. Candied orange and citron maybe added, if you thiuk proper. Puddings (Various).—See under the several heads of the kind of article that de- nominates the pudding. P U F FS d la Portugaise.—Line some small deep tartlet pans, with very thin puff paste, and put a little jam in each ; blanch four dozen sweet almonds, cut them in slips, dry them ; beat up the whites of four fresh eggs, very stiff, put two large spoons- ful of dry powder sugar to them, and the almonds also; stir them together very gently, and immediately put a small spoon- ful of the jam in each of the tartlet pans ; bake of a nice light colour ; they must be crisped, but not too dark a colour, take them from the pans, and put on to paper. PUIIS d'Amour*—Having given the proper number of turns to some puff paste, roll it out to about a quarter of an inch in thickness ; then cut a piece with a paste cutter, the edges of which afe scolloped, then cut two more pieces with small cut- ters, and place them on the first, press them down a little on each other, dorex and bake them ; when about three parts done, sprinkle them with sugar ; glaze them ; draw them from the oven, take out the middle part, which fill up with any kind of sweetmeat orpreserveyoumay think proper. PUMPKIN. SeePonnoN. PUNCH.*—This is a delicious beverage, drank either hot or cold. It is composed of a mixture of lemon juice and peel, sugar, rum, brandy, and water, in such