CAR 125 CAR serve it upon a dish, and pour over it the sauce remaining in the stewpan, having first strained it through a sieve. Carp (Farce of).—Take the flesh of two carps, which should he chopped, pounded, and rubbed through a sievo. Soak some crumb of bread in some good milk; have a few mushrooms and a little parsley chopped fine. Set the herbs to sweat in a little butter, over a slow fire; then let them cool in a hair sieve. Next put the bread which has been soaked and squeezed properly, with the flesh of die carp that lias been rubbed through a tammy, into a mortar, with a lump of butter, of about the same bulk as the .flesh of the carp, and sea- son with pepper, salt, allspice, three or four eggs’ whites and yolks together; farces with butter require more eggs than those with udder. Yet before you put more dian three, you must try to roll some of the farce in a little flour, and to poach it in boiling water. You then taste, and add to the seasoning if required. When completely done, rub it through a sieve, and let it cool in the larder, and use it when you have occasion. This farce is used for petits pates of carp and quenelles. Carp Farci.*■—Scale a fine soft-roed carp ; split it up the back ; take out the flesh without injuring the skin, and with- out touching the back-bone ; chop up this flesh with that of an eel, very small; sea- son it widi fresh butter, sweet herbs, thyme, mushrooms, cloves, grated nutmeg, add also some of the roe: put this farce into the carp ; then sew it up ; put it into a stewpan, with some butter romr, white wine, and some clear stock; baste it all over with fresh butter worked with flour, and chopped parsley ; bake it in the oven ; serve it, garnished, with the sauce and fried mushrooms. Carp Farci, Lalced.—Take a fine carp, scale and empty it; then detach one side of the fillets, without injuring the head. Take this flesh, and that of another carp of a smaller size, and make a farce in the following manner: Take the crumb of two penny loaves, soak it in cream or milk, then squeeze it, and put it into a mortar, with an equal quantity of the flesh of tho carp, nearly ns much fresh butter, with a little chopped parsley, a few mushrooms fried in a little butter, salt, pepper, and spice. When all these ingredients have been pounded in a mortar, add a couple of eggs, and continue pounding for a long time, then take a little, and throw into boiling water, and taste. If it be not fine enough, add one egg more, pound it again, and then rub it through the sieve a que- nelles ; and fill up the cavities in the fillets of the carp, giving it the shape of a fish. Take care, however, to give it a good shape. Next, let it be done thoroughly in the oven, and serve it, with caper sauce under it. Carp Fillets with Lemon*—Cut some middling-sized carp into fillets, and stew them with some fish gravy for a quarter of an hour ; place them upon a dish, reduce some sauce, and squeeze into it the juice of a lemon ; let it boil for a quarter of an hour, and then pour it boiling over your fillets, and serve. Carps (Florendine of).—Take the yolks of half a dozen eggs, and three quarters of a pound of butter, and work them up in a quarter of a peck of flour ; dry it, add as much water as will make it into a paste, make it up as near as you can in the form of the fish. Scale a carp alive, scrape off the slime, draw it, season it lightly with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, put the milt into the belly, lay it into the pie ; then lay on it dates sliced in halves, barberries, rai- sins, orange and lemon cut in slices, but- ter, close it up, and bake it; when it is almost baked, liquor it with butter, claret, white wine, verjuice, and sugar. Ice it over, and serve it hot. Carp fried.*—Clean and scale a carp ; split it up the back, flatten the back-bone, sprinkle your fish with flour, then sprinkle the roes which have been put aside, put the whole into a fryingpan made very hot, fry to a rich colour, and serve it with lemon juice. Carp glacee.*—Clean and skin a carp, lard it with small pieces of bacon, stuff it; and boil it quickly in white wine. Then drain it. Put a stuffing on a dish, and lay your carp upon it, cover it with two slices of veal, over which put a buttered sheet of paper. Then bake it in a moderate oven ; when sufficiently done, take off the slices of veal, and glaze with a gravy made from carp, or any other, mid reduced to the proper consistency. Carp en Matelote*—Take a carp, scale it, and take out the gills ; cut it in pieces, and put it into a stewpan with some other fish, either jack, eels, crayfish, barbel, or any other river fish, which it is most con- venient to procure. Put into another stew- pan a little roux, somo small onions, cut in quarters. Then moisten with equal quan- tities of red wine and soup maigre ; then pour your onions with their sauce into the