92 BUT CAB scum rises to the top and the milk settles at the bottom ; carefully with a spoon take off the scum. When clear, it is lit for use. Butter (Delicious).*—Lay open three clean coarse cloths, one over the other; put a pint of thick cream in the upper one, tie it up in them as close and tight as pos- sible. Bury it in the earth in a dry place, eighteen inches deep, for twenty-four hours. The next morning put the cream into a cool earthen pan, and stir it up with a wooden spoon, for live minutes in the summer, and a quarter of an hour in the winter, when you will have a lump of cool, fresh, and most delicious butter, for the breakfast-table. Butter Drops.—Take three eggs, leave out half the whites, half a pound of flour, half a pound of sugar, a quarter of a pound of butter, two spoonsful of rose water, a little mace and seeds. Butter (Fairy).—Beat the yolks of two hard eggs in a mortar, with a large spoon- ful of orange-flower water, and two spoonsful of fine sugar; heat all to a fine paste, add an equal quantity of butter, fresh from the churn, and force all together through a fine strainer, full of little holes, into a plate. Buttered Loaves.—Beat up the yolks of a dozen eggs, with half of the whites, and half a pint of yeast; strain them into a dish, season with salt, and a little powdered ginger, then make it into a high paste with flour; lay it in a warm cloth for a quarter of an hour; then make it up into little loaves, and hake them, melt a pound and a half of butter, with a quarter of a pint of white wine, and half a pound of sugar, and liquor them with it. Butter de Montpellier.*-—Put the yolks of twelve hard eggs into a mortar, with a green ravigote scalded (see Ravigote), six anchovies, a handful of capers picked and washed, six pickled cucumbers, some salt and pepper; pound all these well toge- ther, until they form a paste ; then add the yolks of two raw eggs, bruising them with the pestle, and then gradually pour upon, and mix with your ingredients, a pound and a half of oil of olives, and a little vine- gar, until the whole becomes of a con- sistence of now butter, then pass it through a sieve ; if your butter is not sufficiently green, you must add a little spinach juice. Butter de Montpellier is commonly used for cold entreesand a little garlic may be added, according to taste. Butter (Preserved) for 11 inter Use.— Take two parts of the best common salt, one part of good loaf sugar, and one part saltpetre ; beat them well together. To sixteen ounces ofbutter, thorougldy cleans- ed from the milk, put one ounce of the above composition; work it well, and put it into pots, w'lien quite firm and cold. Butter (Proven^ule) Sauce*—Pound a few cloves of garlic, pass them through a double-hair sieve into an earthenware pan ; pour some good olive oil; stir them to- gether, until they form a lump like butter. Salt it to your taste. Butter (to roast).—Lay a pound ofbut- ter in salt and water for two or three hours ; put it on a spit, and rub it all over with crumbs of bread, mixed with grated nutmeg; put it to the fire, and as it roasts, baste it with the yolks of two eggs, and crumbs of bread ; stew a pint of oysters in their own liquor, and when the bread has completely imbibed all the gravy, brown it, and lay it in a dish, with the stewed oysters under it. Butter Sauce.—Put nearly half a pound of good fresh butter into a saucepan, with a quart of sauce tournee, properly reduced; stir till they are well mixed together. Butter (Thickened).*—Melt wliatquan- tity of butter you may require; be careful not to colour it; beat up the yolks of eggs, and then pour them to the butter, beating them all the while. Put them on the fire; add a little lemon juice. Butter and sweet Herbs*—Take some chervil, half the quantity of pimpernel, chives, tarragon, and cress; scald and chop the whole very small, then mix it with some good fresh butter. C. CABBAGES a VAllemande. — Take some very small headed cabbages, and, after blanching, cut them up rather small, and turn them a few times over tire fire in a stewpan, with a sufficient quantity of melted butter or lard ; when nearly done, moisten with a little gravy or jelly broth, and serve with bacon or sausages. Cabbage and Bacon.*—Blanch a cab- bage, cut it in quarters, and put it into a stewpan, with a piece of streaked bacon; season it, moisten with water, and give it a boil, then let it stew over a moderate fire ; when done, dress the cabbage on a dish, with the bacon over it; reduce the liquor, and add to it a little butter, worked with some flour, and then serve it over the ba- con and cabbage.