VEA VEA oil the paper not burnt. Serve with a clear gravy. Veal Chops Sauties.*—Take seven hand- some veal chops, trim, and lay them in a pan, previously sprinkled with pepper and salt; strew over the chops, also, pepper, salt, parsley, and shalots, shred very small; pour melted butter over them, and set the pan on a fierce fire; turn the chops when one side is done ; be careful not to make them too deep a colour; if you find they brown too quickly, lessen your fire. When done, arrange them neatly on a dish ; put four ladiesful of espagnole, and a bit of glaze, into a pan, stir it round, and pour the whole over the chops, and serve. Veal ' Chops a la St. Carat*—-Cut some tongue, a Vicariate, into moderate- sized lardons; grate a little bacon, and warm it in a stewpan; add the lardons, with pepper and nutmeg; toss them up in this, and lard some veal chops quite through with them when cold. Brown the chops in a little butter, and then trim them. Put into a stewpan a few rashers of bacon, cuttings of the tongue, slices of ham, and a little basil; lay in the chops, coverthem with bacon, carrots, or onions sliced, and two glasses of consomme, or stock ; cover the saucepan; put fire on the lid, and let them stew for two hours. When done, drain and glaze them; strain the sauce, and with four ladiesful of it mix three of espagnole, reduce, and pour it into the dish, with the chops. Veal (Chump of) a la Daube.—Cutoff the chump end of the loin ; take out the edge bone, and put in its place some good forcemeat; tie it up tight, and lay it in a stewpan with the bone that has been taken out, a buncli of sweet herbs, an anchovy, two blades of mace, some white pepper, and a pint of good veal stock ; cover the veal with slices of fat bacon, and lay a sheet of white paper over it. Cover the pan close, and let it simmer for a couple of hours; then take out the bacon, and glaze the veal. Serve it with mushroom or sorrel sauce in the dish, or any other sauce you think better. Veal Cutlets ( Marinated).—Veal cutlets marinated, are done the same as in all former directions for marinade; or you may do them the same as a breast of veal marinated, and serve with whatever sauce you approve of. Veai. Cutlets d la Provenfitle,*—Lard some well-shaped cutlets with anchovies and gherkins, and soak them for half an hour in some oil, with pepper and salt; tie each cutlet in a rasher of bacon, and stew them in some butter, with parsley, salt, pepper, and two glasses of stock. When done, untie, but do not take off the bacon. Serve with their own sauce re- duced. Veal Cutlets in Ragoiit.— Cut some large cutlets from the fillet, beat them flat, and lard them ; strew them over with pepper, salt, bread crumbs, and shred parsley; then make a ragoiit of veal sweetbreads and mushrooms; fry the cutlets of a nice brown in melted butter; then lay them in a dish, and serve the ragoiit very hot over them. Veal Cutlets en Redin gales*—Prepare your cutlets in the same manner as veal chops en papillotes; but instead of wrap- ping them in paper, envelop them with their seasoning in pieces of light paste, and bake them in a moderate oven. When done, pour veal gravy over, and serve the cutlets hot. Veal Cutlets with Sour Suuce.—Let the cutlets be cut moderately thick ; put them into a saucepan, with just sufficient water to cover them; when half done, take them out, and let them drain and cool; make a thin batter with eggs and a little flour; set a frying-pan on the fire, with some lard; as soon as it is hot, dip the cutlets in the batter, and fry them of a nice brown; serve with sauce made of verjuice, salt, and pepper. Veal Cutlets (Stewed).—Cut part of the neck into cutlets ; shorten them, and fry them of a nice brown colour ; then stew them in some good gravy, thickened with a little flour, until tender ; then add some ketchup, Cayenne, salt, a few truffles, and morels, and some pickled mushrooms. Porcemeat balls are an improvement. Veal Cutlets and Sweet Herbs.—Chop all sorts of sweet herbs, mushrooms, a little winter savory, shalots, pepper, and salt, a spoonful of oil or butter; dip the cutlets in this, and reduce the sauce to make it stick; then do them over with egg and bread crumbs, and set them in the oven to bake; add a glass of white wine, and a little cullis to the sauce, skim it well, and when the cutlets are done, lay them on a dish, and serve them to table, with the sauce poured over. Veal (Fillet of) in a Ragoiit.—Take out the bone from a nice large white fillet of veal, and put into its place plenty of good forcemeat; tie it up well; put it on the spit, fasten buttered paper over, and