OYS OYS 390 a little piece of lemon, thicken it with flour and butter rolled up, let them sim- mer four or five minutes, and it will be quite enough ; if you let them boil, or have them ready before wanted, they will be hard; strew fried pieces of bread over and round them ; serve hot. OYSTERS (to choose).—The goodness of oysters consists in their being healthy and properly relished ; there are several kinds; the Pyfleet, Colchester, and Mil- ford, are considered by far the best. The native Milton are reckoned particularly fine, being the whitest and the fattest; hut others may be said to possess both these qualities in a certain degree by pro- per feeding. When they are alive and vigorous, the shell will close fast upon the knife. They should be eaten as they are opened, the flavour becomes poor other- wise. The rock oyster is the largest, but it has usually a coarse flavour when eaten raw. Oysters (Attelets of).—Fry some sweet herbs in a little butter, with a little flour, and oyster liquor; season this sauce well, reduce and thicken it with the yolks of three eggs. Have ready some oysters blanched in their own liquor; put them on skewers, and the above sauce being cold, spread it completely over the skewered oysters; roll them in bread crumbs, dip them in beaten eggs, bread them a second time, and fry them of a nice colour. Oysters in Batter.—Make a batter with the yolk of one egg (or more, according to the quantity of oysters you intend to fry), a little nutmeg, some beaten mace, a little flour, and a little salt; dip in the oysters, and fry them in hog’s lard to a nice light brown. If agreeable, a little parsley, shred very fine, may be put into the batter. Oysters au Blond*—Put a few morels and a little parsley into some melted but- ter; set them on the fire, and moisten with a glass of white wine, and the same of veal gravy or good consomm(, do these together, and when of a tolerable con- sistence, add some oysters, previously blanched in their own liquor; let the whole simmor for some time, and then serve. Oysters ( Boiled).•—Let the shells be very nicely cleaned first, and serve in them ; boiled oysters should be oaten with cold butter. Oysters (Broiled).—Take two dozen oysters from their shells, put them, with their own liquor, into a saucepan, just blanch them, and then take away the water, put a piece of butter, a pinch of parsley, the same of shalots (both shred), toss them in this, but do not let them boil; then replace them in their shells, with a little lemon juice and raspings, set them on the gridiron, and when they broil, take them oft' and serve. Oysters en Coquilles.*— Having taken tlie oysters from their shells, put them with their own liquor into a stewpan; let them warm, but not boil. Prepare some shalots, parsley, mushrooms, grated bacon, oil, butter, and spices, as directed for herbs d papillotes; mix the oysters with these, and then put them altogether into shells, and cover them with bread crumbs; set the shells on a gridiron over a brisk fire ; colour the top by means of a sala- mander. Oysters a la Dunbe.—Make a seasoning of parsley, basil, and chives, cut very small, open the oysters, loosen them, but do not take them out of the bottom shell; put a little of the seasoning to each oyster, with pepper, and a little white wine ; put on the top shell, and put these on the grid- iron ; lay from time to time a red hot shovel over them ; and when they are done, take off the upper shell, and serve them to table in the under one. Oysters a VEau*—Put a glass of con- sommi and half a glass of the oyster liquor into a dish, and keep them hot; beard as many oysters as you may re- quire ; blanch and toss them up in some butter, with a few sweet herbs ; let them simmer till done, then put them into the dish with the consomme, and serve them. Oysters and Eggs*—Put into a stew- pan'lialf a pound of fresh butter, some pars- ley, scallions, and morels, shred small, season with pepper, salt, mid nutmeg; when the butter is melted, put in about four dozen oysters with their liquor, make them quite hot, and add to them five or six hard eggs cut in slices, let the whole sim- mer for a quarter of an hour, and fill the oyster shells with this; cover each with raspings, and colour them in the oven or with a salamander. Oysters a I’Espagnole. — Put a few chopped oysters, some parsley, a clove of garlic, a little pepper, and some butter, on a dish, set it on the fire to form a gratin; then lay oysters (blanched in their own liquor) on this, with a sauce composed of cullis, mushrooms, and capers chopped small, a bit of butter and a pounded anchovy; cover the whole with bread crumbs ; keep the dish over the fire,