OYS 391 OYS with fire on the top, till done. Serve with Spanish sauce. Oysters (to feed). — Put them into water, and thoroughly wash them with a birch besom until they are perfectly clean; then lay the bottom shell downwards into a pan, sprinkle them with flour or oatmeal, and cover with water. Continue the same daily, and they will fatten. The water should be tolerably salt. Oysters (Forced) in Shells.—Scald the oysters in their own liquor, chop them; add parsley and anchovy chopped, crumbs of bread, lemon peel grated, pepper, salt, nutmeg, a little cream, yolk of egg, a piece of butter, and some oysters, whole ; fill some scollop shells, strew over a few bread crumbs; brown them in a Dutch oven. Oysters (Fricassee of).*—Blanch the oysters in their own liquor, drain and fri- cassee them in some rich broth in the same manner as chickens; thicken the sauce with yolks of eggs. Oy'sters ('Fried).—Beat up the yolks of eggs with flour, salt, and nutmeg, dip your oysters in this, and fry them, a light brown ; they are a nice garnish for cod, and calf’s head hashed, &c. Oyster Fritters.*—Having blanched the oysters in their own liquor, soak them for some time in vinegar and water with salt, shred parsley, and small white onions, sliced, after which, dry them well, dip each in batter, and fry them. Oysters au Gras.*—Scald some oysters in boiling water ; then drain and put them into some good stock, and their own liquor; set them on the fire, and when done, put them in silver moulds, cover them with a farce composed of morels and fat livers, minced very small, and mixed with sweet herbs; strew raspings over, and colour them with the salamander. Oyster Ketchup.—Take some fine fresh Milton oysters; wash them in their own liquor, then pound them in a marble mor- tar, and to a pint of oysters add a pint of sherry ; boil them up, and add an ounce of salt, two drachms of pounded mace, and One drachm of Cayenne; let it just boil up again, skim it, and rub it through a sieve ; when cold, put it into bottles and cork it well, and seal it down. It is best to pound the spices and salt in the mortar with the oysters. Oyster Loaves.—Open your oysters, and save the liquor; wash them in it, then strain it through a sieve, and put a small quantity of it into a stewpan, with a bit of butter and flour, some white pepper, a very little nutmeg, and a little cream. Stew them, then cut them into dice; put them into rolls made for this purpose. Oysters (Minced).*—Take half a hun- dred oysters, put them into warm water, and when they are just ready to boil, shift them into cold ; then drain them, and take the tender part only, and mince it fine. You will increase the size of your dish, and give a better flavour, if you mix the flesh of a carp with the oysters. Next put a piece of butter, shred parsley, green onions, and mushrooms into a stewpan, and shake the whole over the fire ; add some flour, and moisten with half a pint of white wine and the same quantity of soup maigre; then put in the minced oysters, and let them stew till the sauce is consumed; season according to taste, and when ready to serve, add the yolks of three eggs beaten up with some cream. Oysters au Natural.*—Open six dozen oysters, take two dozen of the largest, lay them on a dish in their shells, into each of which put two small oysters with their liquor; sprinkle them with pepper and shred parsley, and serve them. Oyster Patties.—Take some small patty pans, and line them with a fine puff paste, cover them with paste, putting a bit of bread into each; and against they are baked, have ready the following to put in the place of the bread; or make the patty cases as directed in the receipt for petits putees, and at dinner-time, fill with the following: Take some oysters, beard them and cut the other parts into small pieces, put them into a stewpan, with a very little grated nutmeg, the smallest quantity of white pepper and salt, a morsel of lemon peel, cut as small as possible, a little cream, and a little of the oyster liquor; simmer it a few minutes, before putting it into the patties, thicken with flour and butter. Oyster Patties.—Take six large oysters, and a fine silver eel, pick the meat from the bones, beat it in a marble mortar, with some pepper, salt, cloves, and just sufficient mountain wine to soften it; have ready some good puff paste, take one of the oys- ters, wrap it in this forcemeat, and put to it a bit of butter; close the patties and bake them. Oyster Patties or small Pie.—Open your oysters, and as you open them, separate them from the liquor, which must be strained ; beard the oysters, and then par- boil them ; parboil some sweetbreads, cut them in slices, lay them and the oysters in