COF 186 COF —Take a handful of oats, very clean, and leathern boil for five or six minutes in soft water; throw this away; then fill it up with an equal quantity, and let it boil for half an hour; then pass this decoction through a silk sieve, and use it to make your coffee, which will acquire by this means the flavour of vanilla, and is most excellent. Coffee (Blancmange of).—Roast two ounces of the best coffee ; grind, and pour ■on it a glass of boiling water; let it stand, covered close; and when the coffee is precipitated, pour off the infusion, and mix it with six ounces of sugar and half an ounce of clarified isinglass. Pound and extract your milk of almonds as directed in Blancmange of Ceilrats. Dividejthe liquid, and filFyour mould as herein explained. Coffee Bonbons.■—Take about a pint of coffee made with water ; put in it a pound of loaf sugar; set it on tlte fire, and boil it to a high degree ; then add a full pint of double cream, and let it boil again, keeping continually stirring it till it comes to caramel height; to know when it is come to that point, you must have a basin of water by you ; dip your finger in it, and put it quickly in your sugar, then in the Water again, to remove the sugar, which Will have stuck to it; take a bit of it in your teeth ; if it is hard in its crackling, take it off, it is sufficiently done; pour it upon a tin plate, which must be rubbed before with a little butter, or it will stick to the plate; then spread it with a rollingpin; (observe the rollingpin must likewise be rubbed with butter, for fear it should Stick) ; when it is warm, you may cut it into little squares, lozenges, or any other shaped pastils, and draw a few strokes over them with a knife. Coffee Conserves.* — Clarify and boil to the first degree a pound of sugar; take the sugar off the fire, and put into it one cup of coffee ; stir it about until it comes to the sixth degree, that the conserve may take the sugar and dry. Coffee Cream.—Mix threecupsof good coffee with one pint of cream, and sugar according to taste; boil them together, and reduce them about one third ; observe that the coffee must be done ns if it was for drinking alone, and settled very clear, before you mix it with the cream. Finish as usual. Coffee Cream.—Boil a pint of milk, and the same of thick cream together; liave then a quarter of a pound of raw- coffee; roast it in a fryingpan, and when done of a good colour, w-hile hot, put it into your boiled cream and milk; cover it close, and let it stand for an hour, then put it in the tammy; drain the liquor from, and squeeze it well to get the fla- vour of the coffee ; mix in some clarified sugar, enough to sweeten it, boiled smooth ; beat up the yolks of three eggs, which stir in with your cream ; rub and squeeze it through the tammy, at the same time add isinglass enough to set it, and pour it in a mould, with ice round it as usual. Coffee Cream.—Roast one ounce of coffee ; put it hot into a pint and a half of boiling cream ; boil these together a little, take itoff, putin two dried gizzards ; cover this close, let it stand one hour; sweeten with double-refined sugar; pass it two or three times through a sieve with a wooden spoon ; put it into a dish with a tin on the top ; set the dish on a gentle stove ; put fire on the top upon the tin: when it has taken set it by. Serve it cold. Coffee Cream Patissiere.* — Infuse a quarter of a pound of fresh roasted coffee in three glasses of boiling milk ; cover it close, and when nearly cold, pass it through a napkin ; pour the infusion by degrees into a stewpan, in which are the yolks of six eggs, two spoonsful of flour, and a grain of salt. Stir and boil the cream as directed (see Cream Patissiere); add to the butter, as therein mentioned, a quarter of a pound of powder sugar, and the same of crushed sweet macaroons. Coffee au Creme.*—Put two spoonsful of coffee, with some sugar, into three pints of cold cream ; boil it for half an hour, let it stand ; beat up the yolks of eight eggs, strain them through a sieve, then mix the whole together. Put it in a bain-marie, to simmer over a slow fire, keeping it con- stantly stirring. Coffee (White) Cream.'1—Boil for a quarter of an hour a litre of good milk with two ounces of roasted coffee, the same quantity of raw coffee bruised, and a small piece of lemon peel; after having strained the whole through a sieve, add to it half a pound of powdered sugar, the yolks of six and the whites of three eggs, beaten together, with a spoonful of cream. Then place the cream upon a dish, over a stewpan full of boiling water; when it is set, ice it over with sugar and pass a sala- mander over it; leave it to cool before it is served. Coffee (White) Cream*—Infuse two