137 CHA CHA Charlotte.*—This entremets may he made of any kind of fruit you please, and eaten hot. If apples are used, pare, core, and cut about a score of them into small pieces, and put them into a stewpan with some water, a good piece of fresh butter, powder sugar, pounded cinnamon, and grated lemou peel, and stew till the water is dried up; then set them to cool in an earthenware vessel. Cut some very thin slices of crumb of bread, dip them in melted fresh butter, and lay them neatly all over the bottom and round the sides of the mould; then pour in the apples, leav- ing a hole in the middle, in which put apricot marmalade. Cover the whole with bread, sliced thin, and buttered as above. Place it in a hot oven, bake it an hour, and turn it out. Another way *—Cut as many very thin slices of white bread as will cover the bot- tom, and line the sides of a baking-dish rubbed with butter. Slice apples thin, place them on the bread, strew powder sugar over, aud bits of butter ; then put a layer of apples, sugar, and butter, and so on till you have filled the dish. Have ready some bread, cut thin and soaked in warm milk ; lay a plate on the charlotte, and a weight on that. Bake it in a slow oven for three hours. Half a pound of butter is the proper quantity. Charlotte a la Franfoise.*—This char- lotte is made in the same way as that a la Farisienne, only that croquettes it la Pa- risienne, and a cream blancmange are used, instead of the biscuits and frontage bauarois. finish it in the same way. Charlotte a I’ltalienne.* — Make a small entremets or rum genoises, cut in pieces like spoon biscuits, with which line a plain round mould, fill the charlotte with rum cream-plombiere, with the addition of four drachms of clarified isinglass; cover the cream with gcnoises, and finish in the usual way. Charlotte a la Parisienne.*—Take a quarter of a pound of well-glazed spoon biscuits, and a small case of green pista- chio biscuits, which must be cut in thin slices, and then formed into lozenges; ar- range these at the bottom of a plain octagon mould, in the form of a star, and with tire remainder cover the sides of the mould, placing them upright, and the glazed sides next the mould; fill the interior with a vanillafromage-bavarois, but do not put it m till the moment before it is sent to table; then cover the frontage with bis- cuits, and surround the mould with pounded ice for about forty minutes, then turn it on a dish for table. Chartreuse. — Prepare some apples, and place them in a dish like apples a la Turque, in a puree; pare and quarter and trim a dozen nonpareils, stew them in sugar as for a compote. Warm some cur- rant jelly and apricot jam, dip the quarters alternately into each, and place them on the apples according to your taste. Warm the whole very gently. Chartreuse a la Parisienne en Surprise.* —Boil eight fine truffles in some white wine, and when cold, skim and cut them lengthwise with a root-cutter, half an inch in diameter ; then take a hundred crayfish tails (or carrots prepared as for chartreuse printanierre), trim, and lay them at the bottom of a buttered mould, on them place the truffles round the sides of the mould, so as to form an ornamental border, of some open, pleasing pattern, the spaces between the truffles being filled with the filets mignmis of chickens, previously browned in butter, and properly trimmed. On the top of this border lay a crown or ring of the crayfish tails to correspond with the bottom, and cover the whole to the thick- ness of an inch, with a quenelle farce, pretty firm; then fill the middle with a blanquette of fowl, veal or lamb sweet- bread, or a ragout, or any thing else you may think proper, leaving three quarters of an inch space at the top, which must be filled with a farce; cover the whole with a buttered paper, and put it in the bain- marie for an hour and a half. When turned out of the mould, make a crown of small white champignons, lay this on the top near the edge, and in the centre a single champignon, round which place eight filets mignons, in the form of a rosette. Chartreuse Printanierre*—Scrape two . bunches of carrots and two of turnips, and then cut them into pieces, about two inches long and three quarters of an inch in diameter, and throw them into cold water; blanch them, and then separate them. When cold, put them into some good stock with a small quantity of sugar, and set them on the edge of the stove until nearly done, when they should be placed over a hot stove. In the mean while take the trimmings of the carrots and turnips, a dozen onions, with a few cloves, six heads of celery, and two lettuces, moisten them with some good stock, and let the whole simmer gently, skimming it well, until tho vegetables are thoroughly done; then strain the liquor from them; and when it