OAT NUT 370 oven : move them occasionally, that they may all be equally coloured ; and when they are tinged sufficiently, remove them to the mouth of the oven. Put six ounces of sugar and a glass of water into a pre- serving pan, boil them to caramel, pour the filberts into this, stirring them very lightly lest they should break. As soon as the nougat assumes a clear reddish tinge, pour it on a buttered tin, over which spread it as quickly as possible, and strew on its surface sugar a la grile, and pistachios, (cut in slips, and dried in the oven), lay it about eight inches long, six wide, and of an equal thickness all over; take care not to press it too much with your hands. When cold enough to resist the knife, and yet sufficiently warm not to break, cut it into about thirty pieces, all of the same size, arrange them tastefully on a dish, and serve. NOUILLES (Potage of).*—Take three quarters of a pound of flour, the yolks of four eggs, a pinch of salt, and a little water ; mix these together, and knead it well until the paste is fit to roll; lay it out quite thin, and then cut it into slips ; flour them well to prevent tlieir sticking together : have boiling some good stock, into which throw the nouilles, having previously blanched them in water, half an hour is sufficient to do them ; skim the soup well, and add, just before it is put into the tureen, some whole pepper; serve it as usual. Nouilles may also be made with the whites instead of the yolks of eggs ; nut- meg and pepper may be added to the paste, if agreeable. NOYAU (English).*—Two gallons of gin, twro pounds of bitter almonds, one pound of sweet almonds, both beaten to a fine paste; six pounds of lump sugar, pounded (some of it with the almonds). Let these stand ten days in the gin, then filter it through blotting paper, and bot- tle it, N UT Bomhoons.—Boil a pound of Span- ish nuts ; when they are well hoiled, rub off their skin with a napkin, if some stick too hard, pare it off with a knife; grate your nuts veiy fine on a sheet of paper; then take a pound of powdered sugar to a pound of nuts, put it in a pan over a slow fire ; when your sugar is all melted (you must stir it constantly with a wooden Bpoon) put your nuts in, nnd work them well till all is well mixed, and pour it upon a tin plate J then spread it with n rolling pin, this must be dono very quickly, as it cools very fast; when it is cold, cut it into wbat form you please; you must take care the sugar is not too much melted, for it is very apt to soften when the nuts are added to it. Nuts Pralined.— Take a pound of Spanish nuts, take them out of their shells, and put them into a pan, with a pound of loaf sugar, and a little water; let them boil till they begin to sparkle; then take them off the fire, and stir them well with a wooden spoon, till you per- ceive the sugar turns gravely ; then set them again over a slow fire, to dissolve the sugar; keep stirring, that the sugar may stick to the nuts, and when you see them turn reddish, and are well covered with sugar, take them off, pour them into a sieve, cover them with a clean cloth, and put them into a stove; this will pre- serve their gloss. NUTMEGS (to Candy).—Take apound and a half of double-refined sugar, half a quarter of a pint of damask rose-water, and a very little gum arabic; boil these to a candy height; let your nutmegs be first soaked in water; then put them into an earthen pan, pour your candy to them, keep them veiy close covered, set them in a warm place for about three weeks, and they will be of a rock candy. Nutmeg Syrup.—Take a quarter of a pound of nutmegs, pound them, and put theta into a stewpan, with a pint and a half of hot water, and let them boil for half an hour; then strain, and to a pint of liquor, put two pounds of sifted sugar, and one egg, beaten up with a little cold water; set it over a fire, and when it boils, skim it till it is perfectly free from all scum, and reduced to a good syrup, and, when cold, mix it with half a pint of brandy. Nutmeg (Tincture of). — Take three ounces of nutmegs, bruise them, and put them into a quart of brandy, and let them steep in it for a fortnight, occasionally giving it a shake up; then pour the liquor clean off. Nutmeg I In ter.—Bruise half a pound of nutmegs ; then take an ounce ot orange peel, three gallons of rectified spirits of wine, and a sufficient quantity ot water; distil them, and sweeten them with two pounds of loaf sugar. 0. OAT Cakes— are made in the same manner as muffins, using sifted oatmeal