335 LOB LOB half an hour, and just before serving add two spoonsful of cream; then serve hot with plain boiled rice. Lobsters in an Italian Salad.—Take two lobsters, cut them in pieces by taking oft the claws and tail, each ot which split in two; tlie spawn rub through a dry sieve to garnish the salad, made in the following manner: Wash two or three cabbage let- tuces, take away the stalks, cut them in large shreds, slice a beet-root and a cucum- ber; wash, pick, and cut into long shreds, four anchovies, chop some tarragon and chervil, two boiled eggs, the yolks and whites chopped separately; if you have any cauliflowers or French beans, boil and put them with the other things to garnish: having every thing prepared, place the lettuces in the centre of the dish in a heap, and place the lobster and other things ac- cording to your taste, and j just before you serve, garnish it with Italian salad sauce. Lobstehs (to marinate).—Half boil them, take out the meat and lard the tails with a salted eel: then cut the tails longways, and fry them in oil; make a sauce with white vinegar, salt, pepper, cloves, mace, sliced ginger, parsley, sage, winter sa- vory, sweet marjoram, the tops of rose- mary and thyme, and some bay leaves : dish the lobsters, and pour the sauce over them; lay upon them three lemons cut in slices, and run it all over with butter. Lobster Patties.—Sheet your patty pans with puff paste, and put a small piece of crumb of bread into each; then cover them with more paste, trim round the pan, brush the tops of the paste with egg, and bake them of a light colour. When baked, take out the bread, and when you serve i fill them with the following : let the lob- sters be half boiled, chop the meat, add to it a little good consomme of veal, a little flour, butter, lemon juice, Cayenne, and salt, a shalot chopped very fine, and an anchovy rubbed through a sieve, then simmer over the fire about five minutes: if preferred add a little good cream to it. When they are to be served, take out the bread and fill them with lobster chopped : add to them a little strongconsommi of veal, a small quantity of flour, lemon juice, Cay- enne pepper, a bit of lemon peel, a shalot chopped fine, an anchovy rubbed through a sieve, and mixed over the fire for five minutes. The lobsters should be half boiled before they are chopped for the patties. Lobster (Petits Pates of).— Having made your cases as directed in page 391, mince your lobster and put to it some be- chamel, season with lemon, Cayenne and salt, a shalot chopped fine, and a little nutmeg; fill the cases, and send very hot. Lobsters (to pickle).—Boil your lob- sters in vinegar, white wine, and salt; then take them up, and put into the liquor all sorts of sweet herbs, cloves, pepper, and mace ; then put in the lobsters again, boil them all together; when completely done, take them out and put them into a barrel or vessel just large enough to hold them; pour the liquor over them, and set them by for use. Lobster Pie.—Boil two or three lob- sters, take the meat out of the tails, and cut it into pieces. Then take out all the spawn, and the meat from the claws; beat it well in a mortar, and season it with pepper, salt, two spoonsful of vinegar, and a little anchovy liquor. Melt half a pound of fresh butter with some bread crumbs grated very fine, and the yolks of ten eggs. Put a good puff paste over the dish, lay in the tails, and then add the rest of the meat on them. Put on the lid, and bake it in a slow oven. Lobsters (Potted).—Take out the meat as whole as you can, split the tail, and re- move the gut; if the inside is not watery, add that. Season with mace, nutmeg, white pepper, salt, and one or two cloves, in the finest powder. Put a little butter at the bottom of the pan, and the lobsters smooth over it, with bay leaves between; cover it with butter, and bake it gently. When done, pour the whole on the bottom of a sieve, and with a fork lay the pieces into potting jars, some of each sort, with the seasoning about it. When cold, pour clarified butter over it, but not hot; it will be good the day after it is done, and if very highly seasoned and thick covered with butter, will keep some time. Potted lobster may be used cold, or as a fricassde, with cream sauce. Lobster d la Remoulade.*—Break the shell, open the back, take out all the in- side, and put it into a china basin, mix a dessert-spoonful of mustard, parsley, and slialots, shred small, salt, pepper, and the coral : stir these together well, with some oil and vinegar ; put your lobster on a dish, and the above mixture or remoulade in a sauce-boat. LonsrER (Roasted).— More than half boil it, take it out of the water ; while hot.