394 PAR PAN finished frying, leave a table-spoonful of the batter in the stewpan, to which add a little pounded ratafia, sugar, orange-flower, and the yolk of an egg, which mix up with the cream; set it on the fire, and when it boils, put it in a boat for sauce to the pancakes. Pancakes a Vltalienne. — Make your pancakes the same as pancakes a, la Fran- faise, and when fried, lay them open on a clean dresser, spread them over with an Italienne cream, roll them up, and lay them in order on your disli; be particular to put the brown side outwards. PANNEQUETS Glacis.*—Put into a pan two ounces of sifted flour, four of pow- der-sugar, the same of bitter macaroons, and a spoonful of dried orange-flowers; break up all these articles, and mix with them the yolks of ten eggs, four large glasses of double cream, and a pinch of salt. Butter the bottom of a frying-pan lightly with some warm clarified butter, then put in it a spoonful of the above pre- paration, spread it over the pan to make the paste as thin as possible; when the pannequet becomes lightly coloured, turn it over carefully, and do the other side; then put it on a tin plate, spread a little apricot marmalade over, and having strewed crushed macaroons on that, roll up the pannequet till about, an inch in diameter; in the mean time put a second spoonful of your preparation into the pan, and pro- ceed in the above manner, garnishing one pannequet whilst another is cooking, taking care, however, to set the pan over a gentle fire. When all are done, cut the panncquets three inches in length, glaze, and dish them en couronne. Pannequets a la Royale.* — Prepare your pannequets the same as pannequets glacis, filling them with chocolate creme p&tissiere, instead of apricot marmalade. Make the last pannequet much larger than the rest, and do not roll it, hut when the others are dished en couronne, place the re- served pannequet over them (cutting out the middle ; being very thin, it takes the form of the couronne, and wash its surface with the white of an egg whipped firm, :md mixed with two spoonsful of powder sugar, then strew over some crushed sugar, put it into a gentle oven, and make of a nice colour. Any other cream pitissicre is equally good. The pannequets may also he made thus : when taken out of the pan, place them on a layer of pnste, about six inches in diameter; put on each pannequet some apricot marmalade, with crushed maca- roons strewed over, and when all are done, meringuez the upper one. Or, as follows : put six of these panne- quets one on another, then, with a paste- cutter of two inches and a half diameter, cut them out, dip them in beaten eggs, and afterwards in bread-crumbs; repeat this operation, and then having fried them of a nice colour, glaze, and serve them. PARFAIT Amour*—Take four very fine fresh cedrats, pare them very thin, and infuse them with half an ounce of fine cinnamon, and four ounces of cori- ander, in three gallons of strong brandy, and a quart of water, for a week or ten days, when distil it in the bain-marie; this quantity of brandy, if good, will yield two gallons and half a pint of spirit. Dis- solve three pounds and a half of sugar in seven pints of river water, colour it with cochineal, then add it to the spirit, filter, and bottle it. Pa nr a it Amour, Fromage Bavarois*— Pare the rinds of two lemons and a small cedrat as thin as possible, infuse them with six bruised cloves, and half a pound of powder sugar, in two glasses of boiling milk ; in an hour’s time strain it off, and add to it six drachms of isinglass, and a little infusion of cochineal, to make the fromage of a rose colour; set it, as usual, on ice, mix the cream with it as soon as it begins to thicken, and finish as directed. (See fromage Bavarois.) Pareait Amour (Transparent Jelly of).* —Pare the rind of two lemons and a cedrat as thin as possible, and infuse it with half a dozen cloves (bruised) in a boiling syrup made with twelve drachms of sugar ; add a little cochineal to make it of a delicate rose colour. When cold, mix with the infusion half a glass of kirschenwasser, filter, and having put the ounce of isinglass to it, finish as directed. (See Clear Fruit Jelly.) Parfait Amour Souffle (Francois of). Rub upon a pound of lump sugar the zestes of two lemons, and two large cedrats, scraping off the surface as it becomes co- loured ; infuse this sugar in nine glasses of boiling hot milk, with the addition ot a dozen cloves, for half an hour ; strain the infusion through a napkin, mix it with the usual ingredients, and finish as directed. (See Souffle Franfais.) PARSLEY (Fried).—Pick some parsley (but not very fine), wash it well, and put in on a sieve to drain ; after the fish, cro- quettes, &c., are fried, while the fat is