POR POR 436 will cover them, set them on the fire, and when perfectly soft, press the pulp through a sieve, and then strain it. Boil this jelly with the juice of two or three pomegra- nates, that of one orange, and one lemon, and the rind of each grated; strain it again, and to every pound of jelly add a pound and a quarter of fine sugar, boiled till it cracks; colour it with cochineal; pour it into glasses, taking off the scum before it becomes cold. Set them in a stove, and when the top is dry, turn them out, and put them to dry again ; then cut them into whatever forms you please, put them into the stove or oven to harden, then lay them on sieves, and when tho- roughly dry, place them in boxes, with paper between. As they are apt to be- come moist, they should be looked at frequently. Pomegranates (Transparent Jelly of).*— Take the seeds from five very fine pome- granates, from which extract the juice by pressing it hard through a horsehair sieve ; filter this juice, and mix it with some syrup ringed of a rose colour, with a little cochineal; add the isinglass to this, and finish as usual. (See Clear Fruit Jelly.) Pomegranates (Syrup of).*—Take five very ripe large pomegranates, extract the seeds, which must be very red ; crush, and put them into a skillet with half a pint of water; set them on the fire till soft, and then squeeze the juice through a new coarse cloth; clarify a pound and a half of sugar, and boil it to souffle ; then add the juice, boil them together to the usual consistence of syrups. It must not be bottled until quite cold. This number of pomegranates will yield a quart of syrup. PORK (to choose).—If the pork is fresh, the flesh appears cool and smooth; if tainted, it is clammy; the knuckle, in general, is affected first. There is a kind of pork called measly; when in this state it is extremely unwholesome to eat; but you may easily discover when it is measly, the fat being impregnated with small ker- nels. If the rind is tough, thick, and cannot easily bo impressed by the finger, it is old. Pork fed at still-houses does not answer for curing any way, the fat being spongy. Dairy-fed pork is the best, The prime season for pork is from Michael- mas to March. Bacon-hogs and porkers are cut up dif- ferently. Hogs are kept to a larger size; the chine, or backbone, should be cut down on each side, the whole length, and is either boiled or roasted; the chine is considered the prime part. Hie sides of the hog are made into bacon, and the inside is cut out with very little meat to the bone. There is a large spare-rib on each side, which is generally divided into two, one sweetbone, and one bladebone. The bacon is the whole out- side, and contains a fore-leg and a ham ; the latter is the hind-leg, but if left with the bacon, it is called a gammon. There are also the griskins. Hog’s lard is the inner fat of the bacon-hog. Pickled pork is made of the flesh of hog, as well as bacon. Porkers are not so old as hogs; their flesh is whiter and less rich, but not equally tender. It is divided into four quarters. The fore-quarter consists of the spring or fore-leg, the fore-loin or neck, the spare-rib and griskin. The hind con- sists of the leg and loin. A variety of nice dishes may be made of the feet of pork; they should be cut off before tbe legs are cured. The same may be observed with the ears. The bacon-hog is sometimes scalded to take off the hair; and is sometimes singed. The porker is always scalded. Pork (Bladebone of). — It should be broiled, and when nearly done, peppered and salted. Put to it a piece of butter, and a tea-spoonful of mustard, and serve it very hot. The bladebone is taken from the bacon- hog ; the less meat left on it, in modera- tion, the better. Pork Cheese.*—Take a pig's head, and having boned it, cut all the meat into rather thick slices; do the same with the ears; separate the fat from the lean, and mix the whole with bay leaf, thyme, basil, sage, parsley (all shred fine), salt, pepper, nutmeg, and other spices, the peel and juice of a lemon ; lay the skin of the head open over a salad-bowl; arrange the pieces in it, intermixing with them a little leaf, tongue, a l'£carlate, and truffles; when all are put in, wrap the skin round them ; sew it up very tight, and dress it as directed for hog’s head ; when sufficiently done, take it from the fire, and whilst warm, put it in a mould to give it any shape you may desire. Pork Cheese (Italian).*—Pound a pig’s liver, with two thirds bacon and one third leaf; when they are thoroughly incorpo- rated, add to them shred thyme, sage, basil, bay leaf, parsley, coriander, spices, anise (pouuded), grated nutmeg, salt, and pep-