119 CAP CAP butter sauce made hot, mix in a few chop- ped capers, with one squeeze of lemon juice ; melted butter will make the same, but of an inferior kind. CAPILLA1RE (to make).—Take four- teen pounds of sugar, three pounds of coarse sugar, six eggs beat in with the shells, three quarts of water; boil it up twice; skim it well, then add to it a quarter of a pint of orange-flower water; strain it through a jelly-bag, and put it into bottles; when cold, mix a spoonful or two of this syrup, as it is liked for sweetness, in a draught of warm or cold water. Capillaire (Syrupof).*—The capillaire of Canada, although that of Montpellier is equally good, is a very odoriferous vege- table, light and agreeable, but so extremely volatile, that the greatest part of it is dis- sipated during the preparation of the syrup. To preserve then the odour of the capillaire, when your syrup is sufficiently done, pour it, whilst boiling, upon some fresh capillaire coarsely chopped up; then cover your vessel, and let it stand until it is quite cold, then pass it through a bolt- ing-cloth to separate it from the leaves of the capillaire. Take one ounce of the capillaire from Canada; put it into a glazed pan, pour upon it four pints of boiling water, leave it to infuse for twelve hours over some warm ashes; strain it and let it run into a vessel, it will give you a strong tincture of capillaire; melt in this tincture four pounds of sugar, put the whole into a pre- serving-pan, and put it on the fire, and clarify it with the white of an egg; con- tinue the cooking; when your syrup is perle, put some fresh capillaire, chopped, into a pan, and pour your syrup, whilst boiling, upon it; cover your pan carefully, and let it cool; when your syrup is cold, you may flavour it if you please. Put it into bottles, and cork them hermetically. Capillaire (Syrup of).*—Take some good capillaire, chop it up, not very small, put it upon a sieve; pour upon it some boiling water, and then let it infuse forten hours in a vessel well covered ; strain this infusion, and put into it some sugar boiled an casse; clarify this syrup with the whites of eggs whipped ; skim it till it is very clear; when it rises, take it off the fire, ■and leave it to cool, then put it into bot- tles. Viard and Benuvilliers, whose receipts are nearly the same, boil their capillaire for a quarter of an hour in river water; after having passed this boiling through a sieve, they put into it some powder sugar, and clarify their syrup with water, or a whole egg beaten up ; then skim it, and when it is very clear and has boiled uu lisse, they take it oft the fire, and put into it some orange-flower water, and strain it through a napkin or straining-bag, leaving it to cool before putting it into bottles. Por three pints and a half of syrup, you must use two good ounces of capillaire, four pints of water, mid four pounds of sugar, powder sugar is the best, as it pre- vents syrups from candying. Capillaire (Syrup of).—Put an ounce of the leaves of the herb called Maidenhair, for a moment, into boiling water; take them out, and put them in a little tepid water, leaving them to infuse for at least twelve hours upon hot embers ; then strain them through a sieve ; next put a pound of sugar into a saucepan, with a good glass of water; boil it to the same degree as for syrup of violets, then put to it the capil- laire, or maidenhair water, not suffering it to boil; take it off the fire as soon as it is well mixed with the sugar; put it into an earthen pan closely covered, and set the pan, during three days, over hot embers, keeping the heat as equal as you can, but not too violent. When the syrup will ex- tend into a strong thread between your fingers, put it into bottles, taking care not to cork them till the syrup is quite cold. Capillaire Syrup.—Take two quarts of fine syrup, and boil it to a blow; boil twice or three times, two gills and a half of orange-flower water, skimming it all the time; put it into new bottles and cork it up the next day; put pieces of bladder over the corks, but mind that it is a fine syrup before you take it off. CAPILOTADE d l’Italienne.—Cut up a cold roast fowl; then take a good slice ol butter, and some shred mushrooms and potherbs; fry these, till they are about to turn brown, with a tea-spoonful of flour; then add to them a large glass of white wine. Let the whole simmer together for a quarter of an hour; next put in the pieces of fowl, and heat them up for a few minutes. Garnish your dish with fried slices of bread; and just before you serve, pour into the saucepan two table-spoonsful of oil, taking care that it does not boil, and stir it up well with the sauce. CAPON boiled. — Draw your capon, wash it, and fill the inside with ovsters. Cut a neck of mutton in pieces; boil it, and skim it well; put in the capon, and