90 BUS BUN ceed ns before, crack the stones and boil the kernels with the jam. The sugar must not be added until the juice has eva- porated. Buli.aces (to preserve).—Prick the fruit, throw them into scalding water for a mi- nute, take them clear from the water, strew over them powdered lump sugar; the next day pour off' the syrup, boil and skim it, pour it over the bullaces, and let it stand a day or two; boil the syrup again, put in the fruit and boil them together (be careful not to mash them), and then put the preserve into jars; when cold, put brandy papers. To a pound of fruit allow half a pound of sugar. BUNS, common.—Bub four ounces of butter into two pounds of flour, four ounces of sugar, and a few caraway seeds. Put a spoonful or two of cream into a cup of yeast, and as much good yeast as will make the above into a light paste; set it by the lire to rise. They will bake quickly on tins. You may add nutmeg. Buns (Cross).—To the above mixture put one ounce and a half of ground all- spice, cinnamon, and mace, mixed, and when half proved, press the form of a cross with a tin mould in the centre, and finish as above. Buns (Plum).—To two pounds of the plain bun paste put half a pound of cur- rants, a quarter of a pound of candied orange peel, cut into small pieces, half a nutmeg grated, half an ounce of mixed spice, such as allspice, cinnamon, &c. Mould them into buns, jag them round the edges with a knife, and proceed as above. Buns, richer.—Put four pounds of fine Hour into a wooden bowl; set a sponge of it with a gill of yeast and a pint of warm milk ; then mix with it one pound of sifted sugar, one pound of oiled fresh butter, coriander seeds, cinnamon, and mace, a small quantity of each, pounded fine. Boll the paste into buns, set them on a baking-jdate rubbed with butter, put them in a moderate oven to prove ; then wash them with a paste-brush, dipped in warm milk, and bake of a good colour. Buns (Seed).—Take two pounds of plain bun dough, and mix in one ounce of caraway seeds ; butter the insides of tart- pans, mould the dough into buns, and put one into each pan; set them to rise in a warm place, and when suificiently proved ice them with the white of an egg beat to a froth, lay some pounded sugar over that, and dissolve it with water splashed from the icing-brush. Bake ten minutes. BUNTINGS (Poupeton of).—Having singed, blanched, and trussed the bunt- ings, lard them and fry them ; put them into a stewpan with some good gravy or broth, and when tender, add sweetbreads cut in pieces and fried ; a few mushrooms and morels, and ten or a dozen chestnuts blanched, season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Put into another pan, a quarter of a pound of butter, a handful of flour, two onions, and a pint of gravy, brown them, and then put in the birds, See. and stew the whole together some time. Take it oif and set it to cool; line a saucepan (having buttered it well) with thin slices of bacon, cover them with forcemeat, half an inch thick, on this place the buntings, the breast downwards, witli the rest of die ragout, taking away the bacon and onion, and squeeze the juice of a lemon; cover the whole with a layer, an inch thick, of forcemeat, press it close and smooth with a knife, brush it over with egg, strew bread crumbs over, and bake it an hour. When wanted for table, loosen it from the saucepan with a knife, and turn it on a dish. Squeeze the juice of an orange on it and serve. BUBNET VINEGAB.—Fill a wide- mouthed bottle with fresh green burnet leaves, cover them with vinegar and let them stand for ten days. To make it very strong, strain the liquor, put it on fresh leaves to steep fourteen days longer. BUSTAltDS (to boil).—lake off the skin, but leave the rump and legs whole, with the pinions, then mince die flesh raw, with beef suet, season it with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and sweet herbs, shred small and mix all together with the yolks of raw eggs, the bottoms of boiled artichokes, roasted chestnuts, blanched marrow, and boiled skirrets, cut small; then fill their skins with this farce, and prick them upon the back; put them into a deep dish, with strong broth, white wine, large mace, arti- chokes boiled and quartered, marrow, salt, barberries, grapes, and some of the meat made up into balls; cover your dish, let them stew, and when they are done, serve them upon sippets, broth diem, and garnish with slices of lemon, run it over with beaten butter, and garnish the dish with chestnuts mid yolks of eggs. Bustaud Pie.—Bone your bustard, par- boil, and lard it, season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, lav-butter in the bottom of the pie, add a few beaten cloves, then lay in the fowl, strew more seasoning over it, lay on a sufficient quantity of butter, close