CHI 163 CHI it with molted butter, bread it again, and bake it. Chickens aux Nouilles.—Are dressed in the same way as a. I’lvoire, and served with nouilles. Chickens aux petits CEufs composdes. Braise a couple of chickens cut into quar- ters, and when they are done, skim and strain the sauce, and thicken it with the yolks of three eggs. In the mean time soak bread crumbs in cullis, and when quite thick, put them in a mortar with sha- lot, beef marrow, and the yolks of four or or five hard eggs, pepper, and salt; mix in the yolks of two raw eggs well, and make these ingredients into little balls, roll them in flour, and give them a boil in some stock. Serve them with the sauce as above, upon the chickens. Chickens with Onions.* — Put some shoes of bacon, oil, salt, and plenty of small onions, in a stewpan; when the latter are half done, pour over them a pint of stock, a little white wine, fennel, parsley, &c.; the whole being nearly done, put in a couple of pale-roasted chickens, stew them about a quarter of an hour, and then serve them with the sauce reduced. Chickens and young Oysters.*—Pill your chickens with young oysters cut small, truffles, parsley, and spices, and roast them. Blanch about two dozen young oysters, and toss them up in some melted butter, with chopped herbs and olive oil. When they have been on the fire a quarter of an hour, add a little white wine and half a glass of good stock, thicken it over the fire for another quarter of an hour, and when the chickens are ready to serve, pour the sauce on them, and garnish the dish with oysters and some lemon. Chicken Panada.—Boil a chicken in a quart of water until nearly done ; then skin it, cut off the white meat, and pound it with a little of the liquor it was boiled in to a thick paste ; season it with salt, nutmeg, and lemon peel; boil it up all to- gether for a few minutes. Chickens au Parmesan.—Braise a couple of chickens as usual, and when nearly done, add to them'some stock, white wine, cullis, and butter, season according to taste. When sufficiently done, strain some of the sauce into your dish, and grate into it Parmesan cheese; place the chickens in this, and pour over the re- mainder of the sauce ; grate more Parme- san on, and bake it. Chickens aux Pavies.—Fry two or three fat chickens, trussed quite round, in but- ter for a minute or two ; lay a few slices of lemon on the breasts, wrap each in bacon and buttered paper, and roast them. Cut some pickled nectarines in slices, taking off the skin; soak them a little while in water, and then warm them in some gravy and cullis mixed together, and serve them with the roasted chickens. Chickens u. la Perle.—Split and bone two chickens, leaving the legs ; fill each piece with a salpicon made of sweetbreads, mush- rooms, scraped bacon, parsley, shalots, seasoned with salt and pepper, and roll it up like a pearshaped pearl, making the leg the point; sew them up, and braise them with veal, bacon, stock, a glass of white wine, two slices of peeled lemon, parsley, half a clove of garlic, bay leaf, thyme, two cloves, pepper, and salt; when done, take out the chickens, skim and strain the sauce, put a little cullis in, and reduce it, and serve it with the chickens. Chicken Pie.—Cut a couple of chickens into ^pieces, and season each piece with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and mace. Line a dish with puff paste, and put a layer of forcemeat on it; then put in the chickens, with some sweetbreads cut in pieces, and seasoned ham sliced thin, truffles, morels, artichoke bottoms quartered, the yolks of hard eggs chopped, fresh mushrooms, cocks’ combs, and asparagus; add a little water, cover the pie with puff paste, and bake it. When done, pour in some rich gravy, thickened with flour and butter. If the pie is to be eaten cold, the truffles, morels, and mushrooms must be omitted. Second way.—Put half a dozen small chickens in a dish with puff paste, as above, with the marrow of two bones rolled in a batter of eggs, a bit of butter rolled in sweet herbs, a dozen hard eggs, and two dozen savory balls ; cover and bake as be- fore. Pour in a quart of gravy when done. Chicken Pie (Sweet).—Having broken the bones of four chickens, cut them in pieces, season them with mace, cinnamon, and salt, and put them into a dish with the yolks of four hard eggs cut in quarters, five artichoke bottoms; of sun-raisins stoned, citron, lemon, eringo root, marrow, and currants, eight ounces of each; four slices of lemon (peeled) and fifty balls of forcemeat; cover the whole with rich puff paste, and bake. Boil a pint of white wine with the yolks of two eggs ; sweeten and put it to the pie when baked. Serve it quite hot. Chicken and Ham Pie.—Season some m 2