cue cue 208 sugar, and then strain it. Tors up the scallops in it, and add a little thick cream, if not sufficiently white. Season it well, and serve it quite hot. Cucumreks (Farcis).*— Pare three good-sized cucumbers, take out the seeds with a marrow-spoon, and fill up the middle with a farce cuite; put into a stew- pan some slices of bacon and veal, carrots, onions, a little thyme, and a bay leaf, lay- in the cucumbers, cover them with bacon, moisten them with stock, and let them simmer for half an hour; then, if they are tender, take them from the fire, drain, and dish them. Serve with a reduced espagnole. Cucumbers au Blanc (Garniture of').*— Pare and cut your cucumbers into square pieces, and then trim them into the form of oyster shells ; blanch them with a little salt. When done, drain and then toss them up in a little butter; add some sauce tournee, and thicken them with the yolks of eggs. Cucumbers au Brun (Garniture of).*— Prepare the cucumbers as for blanc, then put the slices in a pan with water, salt, pepper, vinegar, and sliced onions; soak them in this for some hours, then drain and press them in a cloth; put them into a saucepan with butter, stock, and a bunch of sweet herbs : when done, put a little gravy to them and serve. They may also be fried in grated bacon, in which case they should be moistened with oil and vinegar. Cucumbers ait Gras *—Pare and take the seeds from your cucumbers, cut them into slices an inch thick, and throw them into cold water; then soak them in a glass of hot broth, and the same of vinegar; drain and dip them into batter, and fry them in lard. Glaze them with powder sugar as you take them out of the pan. Cucumbers (Potage of).* — Cut your cucumbers into small oval pieces, blanch them for ten minutes, let them cool, and drain ; put some slices of bacon into a stewpan, then the cucumbers, cover them witli bacon, and add carrots, onions, pep- per, and two cloves ; let them stew thus for half an hour. Put some bread in the soup-dish, and pour over it a sufficient quantity of stock or broth to soak it well, lay the cucumbers on it, pass the liquor through a sieve, take off the fat, and pour it on the potage. Cucumbers Lifs (Potage of).* — Pare and split two cucumbers into four parts, and having taken out the seeds, cut each quarter into round slices, as near of a size as possible; put them into a stewpan with a little salt to take out all the water; then strain them through a cloth, and put them into a saucepan with a bit of butter; toss them up lightly, but not to colour them, then add a handful of sorrel chopped fine, and a pinch of chervil. Moisten it with some good stock; let it boil for a quarter of an hour. When ready for table, thicken it with three yolks of eggs, and a little cream, and pour it over your bread, which should be cut in pieces similar to the cucumbers. Cucumbers a la Poulette.— Pare and slice the cucumbers, and having soaked the slices for half an hour in vinegar and salt, dry them in a napkin," and put them into a pan with two ounces of butter ; fry them over a brisk fire, sprinkle flour over, pour a little broth on them, and let them stand till reduced without breaking ; then add a small quantity of chopped parsley, a little salt, the same of sugar, and three eggs; stew all together a little while, and serve hot. Pepper may be added according to taste. Cucumbers (topreserve).*—Make choice of those which are small, and not too old, put them into jars, and pour over them a brine (to make the brine, take two thirds of water and one of vinegar, to several pounds of salt, according to the quantity of brine you wish to make, a pound to three pints; put it over the fire till the salt is melted, let it stand to settle, and before you use it, pour it off clear) ; when you wish to use them, take the rind off, and dress them in the same manner as the fresh cucumber. Cucumbers (Preserved).—Split and take the seeds from the number of cucumbers you intend to use ; lay them for three days in strong salt and water ; then put into cold water, with a little alum, and boil them till tender; drain, and let them lay in a thin syrup for two days, then boil the syrup again, pour it over the cucumbers, repeat this operation twice more ; then having boiled to souffle some clarified sugar, put them in it, simmer them for five minutes ; the next day boil both up again, when they may be put by for use. Cucumbers (Bagout of).*—Let some cucumbers soak for two hours in half a tea-spoonful of vinegar and a little salt; turn them often, by which means the water, which is so cold to the stomach, will be drawn out; after they have been