PUD 445 PUD others round it until the interior is com- pletely covered, talcing cave that they touch each other; when done, turn the mould over carefully on a folded napkin, and serve the poupelin, with sweetmeats or preserves underneath. PRAWNS.—When in perfection, they have an excellent smell, and their flavour is extremely sweet; they are firm and stiff, the tails (which turn inward) par- ticularly. When the prawns are fresh, their colour is very bright; but if stale, they are pale, and clammy to the touch. Prawns (Buttered).—Take them out of the shells, and warm them with a little good gravy, a bit of flour and butter, a very [little nutmeg, salt and pepper; simmer a minute or two, and serve with sippets, or with a cream sauce instead of brown. Prawns (Currie of). — See Currie of Lobsters. Prawns in Jelly.—Make a savoury fish- jelly, and put some into the bottom of a small deep dish ; when it is cold, lay in the prawns with their backs downwards, and pour more jelly over them. Turn out when cold. Prawns (to serve).* — Take a pound and a half of fine prawns, pick and trim them neatly; have ready a deep dish or soup-plate, the centre of which fill with any kind of salad ing you please, provided it has no smell; cover this with a large napkin, folded square, and the corners turned down, so as to form an octagon, leaving no more than the border of the plate or dish visible ; place a handful of nice green parsley on the napkin, and the prawns in a pyramid on it. PUDDING (Directions for).—Take the greatest care, in boiling of a pudding, that the cloth is perfectly clean; it should be dipped in boiling water, squeezed dry, and floured. The water should boil quick when the pudding is put in ; and it should be moved about for a minute, for fear the ingredients should not mix. When the pudding is done, a pan of cold water should be ready, and the pud- ding dipped into it as soon as it comes out of the pot, which will prevent its adhering to the cloth. A bread-pudding should be tied loose ; if batter, it must be tied tight over; and a batter-pudding should be strained through a coarse sieve when all is mixed. In others, the eggs only. If you boil the pudding in a basin or pan, take care that it is always well buttered. When you make your puddings without eggs, they must have as little milk as will- mix, and must boil for three or four hours. A few spoonsful of small beer, or one of yeast, is the best substitute for eggs. Your puddings will always be much lighter if you beat the yolks and whites of the eggs long and separately. You may, if you please, use snow instead of eggs, either in puddings or pancakes. The snow may be taken up from any clean spot, before it is wanted, and will not lose its- virtue, though the sooner it is used the better. Pudding (Derbyshire).*—Take a pint of milk and two table-spoonsful of flour; mix it by degrees, boil it till thick, and set it by till cold ; then add three ounces of butter, beaten to a cream, a quarter of a pound of fine sugar, a little salt, the rind of a lemon grated, the yolks of five and whites of three eggs ; mix it thoroughly, put a paste round the dish, and bake it in a quick oven. It is very good cold. Pudding Franpaise*—To make this pudding it is necessary to have a dome- shaped mould, four inches deep and six in diameter, and a cover to fit the top com- pletely, both full of holes, like a cullender. This mould must be buttered, and com- pletely lined with a thin layer of paste, which must turn over its edges. Take two pounds of very round truffles, and cut them into circular pieces a quarter of an inch thick ; fry these lightly in a quarter of a pound of warm butter, with a large spoonful of fowl glaze, half a glass of Madeira, a pinch of fine herbs, a little - grated nutmeg, and a proper quantity of salt. Then arrange the truffles in your lined mould, pour in all the seasonings, turn the edges of the paste over them, and cover it besides with a layer of paste ; put on the lid of the mould, tie it in a cloth, and boil it for an hour and a half. The saucepan should he quite full of boil- ing water. Serve the pudding as quick as possible after it is taken up. Puddings (German).—A pint of cream, two table-spoonsful of flour, the yolks of five eggs, two ounces of almonds, beaten a little, the crumb of a French roll, orated, sugar to your taste, the peels of two le- mons, grated or shred small ; and, lastly, a quartor of a pound of butter, clarified and put in cool; pour it into buttered cups, and bnko them as custards ; when you turn them out, pour over them melted butter, wine, and sugar. Puddings in Haste.—Shred suet, and