115 CAL CAL clear away the fat from the saucb, and put in a bit of butter, and a little verjuice or vinegar, thicken it over the fire, stirring it constantly. Put the liver into this to heat it again, and then serve. Calf’s. Liver a la Mariniere.*—Cut a calf’s liver into thick slices, brown them in a pan with a little butter; turn them that both sides may be well coloured; then add pepper, salt, tarragon, and herbs; dredge flour over them, and moisten with wine: boil it a few minutes, and place it on a very hot dish. Garnish with mush- rooms, truflies, and morels or capers. Calf’s Liter en Poupce.*—Prepare the liver as for en Balottes, only form them into balls the size of a walnut; flatten them to the thickness of half an inch, wash them with white of egg, and bread them. Put them on skewers like haslets, with bacon between. Roast or bake a quarter of an hour. Calf’s Liver Puddings.—Cut part of a calf’s liver into dice, mince the rest with hog’s fat (one tim'd move), season with salt, pepper, nutmeg grated, cinnamon and cloves pounded, and sweet herbs ; bind them with the yolks of six eggs, and a quart of cream : put them into skins, like black puddings, and boil them over a slow fire in white wine, with salt and bayleaves; let them cool in this liquor, and when wanted, broil, and serve them very hot. Calf’s Liver roasted.—Wash and wipe it; then cut a long hole in it, and stuff it with crumbs of bread, chopped anchovy, a good deal of fat bacon, onion, salt, pepper, a bit of butter, and an egg ; sew the liver up ; lard it, wrap it in a veal caul, and roast it. Serve with good brown gravy and curtaut jelly. Another way.*—Lard a calf’s liver with streaky bacon; roast and baste it fre- quently with its own gravy. Third way*—Lard a fine calf’s liver, and pickle it in vinegar, with an onion cut into slices, parsley, salt, pepper, thyme, and a bay leaf. When it has been soaked for twenty-four hours, fasten it on a spit, roast, and baste it frequently. Glaze it with a light glaze, as it is naturally of a black colour. Serve under it a brown poivrade. Calf’s Liver Sausages.—These are made in the same way as other sausages. The meat used gives the name. Calf’s Liver Saute P—Cut a calf’s liver in slices, about a quarter of an inch thick, and make each slice of an oval form; when thus prepared, season them with salt, pep- per, spices, and sweet herbs; put half a pound of butter into your sautd-pan and warm it, then lay in your liver, and as soon as one side is brown, turn it and do the other; when all are done, put them into a saucepan, take the butter from the pan, and put into it a glass of Champagne, four ladiesful of espagjwle, reduce them to half, strain it over your liver, and heat (without boiling) the whole together. Dish the liver en couronne, and pour the sauce over. Calf’s Liver scalloped.—Take a very nice white liver, cut it in slices, pared in the shape of hearts. Then stew some fine herbs, parsley, slialots, and mush- rooms, for a little time ; toss up the liver in it, over a gentle fire, season it, and when done on one side, turn it on the other. Dish the liver; put a little flour with the herbs, moisten them with a little gravy and broth, and let them simmer for ten minutes. Squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and cover the liver that you have dished en miroton. Calf’s Liver stewed.*—Cut a very good calf’s liver into slices an inch thick, melt some butter in a frying-pan, and then put- in the liver, and brown it well on both sides, season it well. Take it from the pan, and set it to stew with the butter, and chopped parsley, scallions, shalots, garlic, and a little flour; moisten it with half a pint of wine ; give the sauce a boil, and when ready to serve, add a little vinegar. Calf’s Liver stuffed.*—Take a very fine calf’s liver, and lard it with large pieces of bacon, seasoned witli four sorts of spice, pepper, salt, shred parsley, and onions; lay slices of bacon at the bottom, and round, a braising or stewpan; put in the liver, with four carrots, four onions, one of them stuck with cloves, three bay leaves, a little thyme, a bunch of parsley and scallions, salt, and a bottle of white wine, cover it with bacon and paper; and place it over a stove ; when it boils, cover the stove, put tire pan on again with ashes on the lid, let it simmer for two hours. When done, strain the liquor, and put four- spoonsful of it with four of poivrade, reduce them to half, and pour this sauce over the liver. Calf’s Pluck u, la Bourgeoisc.—The pluck comprehends the heart, the lights, and spleen ; cut these in pieces, soak them well in cold water, and blanch them ; then put them in a stewpan, a little butter, and a bunch of sweet herbs, add a little flour, i 2