202 CRE CRE napkin, and pour them into a small pan. 'I hen put three quarters of a pound of flour into a large saucepan, with four whole 6gSs> au<l the yolks of twelve; pour the infusion in by degrees, with a very little salt; set it on a moderate fire, and stir it constantly. As soon as it begins to thicken, take it from the fire to prevent its becoming lumpy; add to it half a pound of powder sugar, six ounces of butter, and dry it for a quarter of an hour, stirring it constantly. When it is a little cooled, put the chocolate and six ounces of sweet macaroons crushed. This preparation should he of the consistence of cream pd~ tissiere; if not, add a few spoonsful of whipped cream; whip the twelve whites of the eggs pretty firm; mix them with the preparation ; then pour it into a raised crust, and finish as usual. Cream Pompadour.—Take the whites of five eggs, and after beating them into a strong froth, put them into a tossing-pan, with two ounces of sugar, and two spoons- ful of orange-flower water; stir it gently three minutes, pour it into a dish, and melted butter over it; serve it hot. Cream Posset.-—Take twelve eggs, leav- ing out two or three whites, take out all the treads, and beat them well into the basin you make the posset in ; add half a pound of sugar, a pint of sack, and a nut- meg grated; stir it on a chafing-dish of coals till it is more than blood warm ; take a quart of sweet cream; when it boils pour it into a basin, cover it with a warm plate and a cloth ; then set it on a chafing- dish of embers till it is as thick as you wish, and strew on some fine cinnamon. Cream of any preserved Fruit.—Take half a pound of the pulp of any preserved fruit, put it in a large pan, put to it the whites of two or three eggs, beat together well for an hour ; take it off with a spoon, and lay it heaped on a dish, or glass salver, with other creams, or put it in the middle of a basin. Raspberries will not do tins way. Cream (Rhenish).—Put over the fire a pint of Rhenish wine, a stick of cinnamon, and half a pound of sugar; while this is boiling, take seven yolks and whites of eggs, beat them well together with n whisk, till your wine is half driven in them, and your eggs to a svrup ; strike it very fast with the whisk, till it comes to such thickness that you may lift it on the point of a knife, but be suro not to let it curdle; add to it the juice of a lemon, and orange-flower water; pour it into your dish; garnish it with citron, sugar, or biscuit, and serve. Cream (Rhenish).—Cut two calf s feet very small, put them into a saucepan, with two quarts of water, a stick of cinnamon, and a little lemon peel; boil them gently till they are reduced to less than a quart; strain it, and skim off the fat; put it into a stewpan, with a little lemon peel, a few' coriander seeds, a little saffron, and two bay leaves; swreeten it according to your taste with fine sugar, and let it boil up ; beat up the yolks of eight eggs very fine, take the cream off the fire, and stir in the eggs well; put it over the fire for a mo- ment, taking care that it does not boil: strain it through a sieve, put in a gill of Rhenish wine; stir it till it is half cold, then put it into moulds; when it is cold, turn it out into a dish, and garnish accord- ing to taste. Cream (Royal) Ices.—Take any quan- tity of cream, add to it yolks of eggs in proportion (that is, four yolks of eggs to every pint of cream) ; put a little half- pounded coriander, cinnamon, orange, or lemon peel; add some pounded lump sugar, and set it on the fire till it nearly boils ; then pass it through a sieve, and put it to ice. Cream Sabaione a VItalienne*—Take the yolks of twelve new-laid eggs, four glasses of Madeira, six ounces of lump sugar, and a pinch of powdered cinnamon. Put the whole into a saucepan, and set it over a quick fire, milling it the same as you would chocolate, till the whole sauce- pan is filled with froth ; then serve the cream, as quickly as possible, in custard or jelly glasses. Cream Sack.—Boil a pint of raw cream, the yolk of an egg well beaten, two or three spoonsful of white wine, sugar, and lemon peel; stir it over a gentle fire till it becomes as thick as rich cream, and afterwards till cold ; then serve it in glasses with long pieces of dry toast. Cream (Sage).—Take two quarts of cream, boil it well; then put to it half a pint of the juice of red sage, a pint of white wine, a quarter of a pint of rose water, and a pound of sugar. Cream Sauce.*—Put into a stewpan a little butter, a little parsley, a few green onions, and shalots, all cut small; add one clove of garlic whole; turn the sauce a few times over the fire ; then add some flour, and moisten with cream or milk; let the whole boil for a quarter of an hour, strain off the sauce, and when you want