FIL FIL 249 to it half an ounce of isinglass. Proceed in a similar manner with the filberts which have been in the water, by which means you will have one part of your blancmange perfectly white, and the other a clear light yellow. Finish your blancmange in the usual way. Filberts (Burnt White).—Take some Barcelona filbert nuts, and crack them; put the kernels in a copper pan or sheet, and put them in the oven to roast; then have a pan with syrup boiling, and let it boil till it conies almost to caramel; put your filberts in, stir them till they are all covered with sugar, pick them in a sieve, break those which stick together, and then have another pan with syrup boiled the Same as the first, and give the filberts a second coat of sugar. Filberts (Cannellons of).*—Burn and pound six ounces of filberts, moistening them with white of egg; when well pounded, add a quarter of a pound of fine pounded sugar, and half the white of an egg; dry this paste a little, and then press it through a syringe, cutting the cannellons about four inches in length; make the fri- ture quite hot, dip the cannellons in batter, and fry them. Sprinkle them with sugar, and glaze them with a salamander. Take particular care to keep the cannellons per- fectly straight. Filberts (Conserve of).—Upon half a pound of sugar, put an ounce of filberts cut into as small strips as possible ; the kernels being first scalded, as is done in blanched almonds, to get the skin off; finish the same as dried conserves. Filbert Cream Franfaise*—Wash and drain a quarter of a pound of filberts (blanched) and colour them very slightly; when cold, pound them, adding occasion- ally a spoonful of milk; put the paste into five glasses of boiling milk, cover it close, and let it stand till no more than lukewarm, and, having in the mean time beat up the yolks of eight eggs, into which strain the infusion of filberts, add ten ounces of sugar, ?and a grain of salt; set the cream in the usual way, put six drachms of isinglass to it, and finish as directed. See Cream tl Francaise. This kind of cream is made in the same manner with almonds, in which case, six ounces of sweet, and half an ounce of bit- ter almonds, are the proper quantities. Filbert (Burnt) Ice Cream. — Roast some Barcelona nuts well in the oven, and pound them a little with some cream ; put ■ four eggs into a stewpan, with one pint of cream and two gills of syrup ; boil it till it becomes thick, pass it through a sieve, and freeze it; then mix the filberts with it be- fore you put it into your moulds. Filbert (Burnt) Cream Putissiere.* — Wash, drain, and dry a quarter of a pound of filberts, throw them into a preserving- pan, in which is a quarter of a pound of sugar boiled to souffle; let them boil up about a dozen times, then stir them lightly with a spatula, that the sugar may adhere to the filberts; as soon as it begins to candy, pour the whole on a slab, care- fully removing whatever sugar may stick, to the pan or spatula; when the almonds are cold, add two ounces of powder sugar, and then crush them with a rollingpin, put them into the cream pdtissiere, and make it according to the directions of that article. Filberts (Souffles of Petits).*—Beat up half a pound of sifted sugar with the white of an egg ; grate into this three ounces of burnt filberts ; mix them together, and, if necessary, add the white of another egg. Finish the petits souffles as usual. Filbert Genoise*—Pound six ounces of blanched filberts to a fine paste, then put two thirds of them to the usual ingredi- ents, instead of sweet almonds, and make the gtnoiscs according to directions. When baked, cut them into crescents, but do not dry them ; mix the remainder of your fil- berts, with a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, and a little white of egg; cover the genoises with this, and then colour them. Filberts glacees d la Ropale.*—Beat up a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, with the white of an egg, for ten minutes; roll in this glaze two ounces of filberts (pre- viously blanched, and slightly burnt) ; then lay them on paper, in groups of two, three, or four together, according to your fancy : take care to clear away the glaze so that the filberts are merely covered with it. When you have done as many as }rou re- quire, set them in a gentle oven, till they are of a proper colour, then take them out; do not remove them from the paper before they are cold. Filbert Ice.*—Take a pound of filberts, shell and blanch them ; boil half a pound of sugar to souffle, then throw in the filberts, and let them boil up about a dozen times, then move them about with a spatula, that the sugar may adhere to them ; as soon as they begin to candy, take them out; and when cold, put them into a saucepan, with the yolks of nine eggs, to which add a quart of double cream; set this on the fire, like