MUS MUS 356 mushrooms, take out the inside, broil them, and when the outside is brown, put them in a stewpan with water enough to cover them, a spoonful of white wine, the same of browning-, add a little vinegar; thicken it with flour and butter; boil it up ; and serve with sippets round the dish. Mushrooms (Stewed.)—Having washed, peeled, and trimmed your mushrooms, which should be of a middling size, put some butter at the bottom of the stewpan ; on that the mushrooms well seasoned with pepper and salt, cover them close, and set over a moderate fire for about fifteen mi- nutes, then thicken them with flour and butter, or ready made ro'ux, add a spoonful of rich gravy to them, boil for a few mi- nutes to take off the rawness of the flour, and serve very hot. Mushrooms d la Bordelaise.*—Choose the thickest and firmest mushrooms, wash and drain them, cut the under side in lozenges, put them in a dish with oil, pepper, and salt, let them lay two hours in this, then broil them ; make a sauce as follows : Put some oil, shred parsley, and scallions, and a small piece of garlic, into a saucepan ; shake them over the fire till quite hot; then pour it over the mush- rooms with the juice of a lemon. Musiirooms (White) mix Croute*—Trim and blanch your mushrooms, put them into a saucepan with a bit of butter, a buncli of parsley and scallions ; set the jran on a stove and fry tire mushrooms lightly; then add a spoonful of roux and some good stock; let these boil pretty quick at first, and afterwards set them aside to simmer ; season them with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg; take the upper crust of a very light brick, rasp and take out all the crumb, butter the crust inside and out, place it on a gridiron over a clear fire, dry and broil of a nice colour ; take the parsley and scallions from the mushrooms, thicken the sauce with yolks of eggs beaten up with cream, pour a little of this on the crust, lay it on a dish the hollow part downwards; pour the ra- gofit over, and serve it. Mushrooms (IT/iite) for Galantine.*— Trim and put the mushrooms into cold water, in which is a little lemon-juice ; then drain and set them on the fire with a good bit of butter and lemon-juice, for about five minutes ; when done, put them in a China basin for use. Mushrooms (White) with Herbs.*—Pro- pare and soak your mushrooms ns for la Bordelaise, mince the stalks and trimmings, press out all the water they may contain, put them into a saucepan, with oil, salt, pepper, parsley, and scallions, and a piece of garlic ; give these a few turns, and having laid the mushrooms on a dish, put a little of the sauce into each, sprinkle them with raspings : pour a little oil over, and bake them; when done, dish and serve them with their own sauce and lemon-juice. Mushrooms ( White) d la Proven fate.*— Take four small baskets of very firm musii- rooms, pick, wash, and drain them ; cut each in half, and lay them in oil, seasoned with pepper, salt, and garlic ; just before dinner time, put them into a frying-pan with some olive oil, fry them over a large fire ; when of a good, colour, add two spoonsful of chopped parsley, and about a dozen pieces of bread, all the same size and shape ; squeeze a little lemon-juice over, and serve. Mushrooms (Puree of) White.*— 1 Choose your mushrooms very white: cut j off the earthy end of the stalk, and wash them. Put a little water into a stewpan with the juice of a lemon, fry the mush- rooms . lightly in this; then drain and mince them very small; put them into a cloth, press them very tight. Take a piece of butter, and put it in a saucepan with a squeeze of lemon and the chopped mush- ' rooms; set them on the fire, and when the ! butter is oiled, add six ladiesful of xelout6, ] and as much consomme; reduce this till 1 your puree is pretty thick ; season with 1 whole pepper. Mushroom (TF/iite) Sauce.—Have ready ] some cream sauce, rather thinner than j usual; to this put a few small white fl mushrooms ; reduce it to the proper con- t sistence; it is then ready for use. Mushroom ( TF/ii/e) Sauce.—Take the ! best white button-mushrooms, cut the I stalks off, throw them into water, wash j them well two or three times, drain and ’ very neatly turn them, and put them di- i rectly into lemon-juice and water: drain and put them into a stewpan with a slice I of butter and the squeeze of a lemon, salt, and cayenne ; cover them close, and stew for ten minutes ; add three spoonsful of of veluti or bechamel sauce; give one boil up, and serve. MUSlv (to prepare) for Liqueurs*—Take two grains of musk and a quarter of a pound of sugar, pound them in a mortar and mix them well ; keep it in a closely-stopped bottle. The quantity required of this is one pinch to four or fi ve quarts of liqueur.