CAR CAR 122 CAPSICUM Pods.—Gather the pods, with the stalks on, before they turn red ; cut a slit down the side with a penknife, and take out all the seeds, hut as little of the meat as possible; lay them in a strong brine for three days, changing it everv day ; then take them out, lay them on a cloth, and lay another over them till they are quite dry ; boil vinegar enough to co- ver them, put in some mace and nutmeg beat small; put the pods into a glass or jar, and when the liquor is cold, pour it over, then tie a bladder and leather over them. CARAMEL Conserve.* — Clarify the quantity of sugar you may require, and boil it to caramel; have ready some cases of double paper; pour in your sugar to the thickness of half an inch, and trace on its surface the forms you wish it to have; when cold, break it according to those marks. This conserve may be coloured and fla- voured according to the fancy. Caramel Cover of Sweetmeats.—Dissolve eight ounces of double-refined sugar in three or four spoonsful of water, and three or four drops of lemon juice; then put it into a copper untinned skillet; when it boils to be thick, dip the handle of a spoon in it, and put that into a pint basin of wa- ter, squeeze the sugar from the spoon into it, and if it snaps and is brittle when cold, it is done enough; and having a copper mould oiled well, run the sugar on it, in whatever figure your fancy and genius may direct; chip off the edges with a knife, detach it when cold, and use to co- ver any pastry or sweetmeats with. But, to be candid, I must confess that this sort of article can never be learned by theory, you must have a practical lesson of it. Caramel Croquant.—See the foregoing, using a croquant mould. CARDAMUM Comfits.—Procure your cardnmums at the chemists, and they will be in a shell; put them into the oven to dry the skins, and they will break; pick all the seeds from them, put the seeds into a large comfit-pan, and have a fire under the same as for others ; mix your gum, starch, and syrup, and finish them the same as caraway comfits. Cardamom Water.—Take pimento, ca- raway and coriander seeds, and lemon peel, of each four ounces ; three gallons of proof spirit, and a sufficient quantity of water; distil, nnd sweeten it with a pound and a half of sugar. CARDOONS with Cheese.—String and cut them an inch long, put them Into a saucepan with red wine, seasoned with pepper and salt, stew them till they are tender, put in a piece of butter rolled in flour, and when of a proper thickness pour them into a dish; squeeze the juice of an orange into the sauce, and scrape over them some Parmesan or Cheshire cheese, and then brown them with a cheese-iron, but not of too high a colour. Cardoons in Cheese.*—Add to the sauce in which the cardoons are cooked, grated Parmesan or Gruyere cheese; and put it over them when placed in the dish ; cover them with bread crumbs and grated cheese, pour melted butter over the whole; colour it in the oven, or with a salaman- der. Another way.—When the cardoons are boiled, put a little cullis into a dish, and lay on it as many bits of fried bread as you have cardoons, which place on the bread; pour cullis over, and strew grated cheese over. Finish as above. Cardoons (to dress).—Cut them in pieces six inches long, and put them on a string; boil till tender; have ready a piece of butter in a pan, flour and fry them. They may also be tied in bundles, and served as asparagus boiled, on a toast, and pour butter over. Cardoons a VEssence with Marrow.— The same preparation as for Spanish car- doons, receipt second. Take a few pieces of beef marrow, all of a size, which you put to disgorge in warm water, to draw out all the blood. When thoroughly dis- gorged, blanch and stew it in a little wa- ter, with a little salt, and a few slices of lemon to keep it white. When done, put it into the essence, which is nothing but some espagnole reduced. Drain the fat, and do not forget to put a little sugar; which is requisite in all dishes of cardoons, as it makes them much better. Cardoons fried and buttered. — 1 on must cut them about six inches long, nnd string them; then boil them till tender; take them out, have some butter in your stewpan, flour them, and fry them brown; send them in a dish, with melted butter in a boat. Or, you may tie them up in bun- dles, and boil them like asparagus; put a toast under them, and pour a little melted butter over them ; or cut them into dice, and boil them like pease : toss them up in butter, nnd send them up hot. CAnnooNS (Puree of).*—Boil some car- doons in a blanc, and cut them into small