' 303 ICE ICE au hour before serving put them into a stewpan, pour the pease, &c. over, add a little butter rolled in Hour, and stew them. Serve all together in a soup dish, knuckle of veal, and scrag of mutton, stewed with the pease, onions, and lettuces without frying, is also an excellent way of making this dish. Hotch-potch.—Cut four ox tails into pieces at the joints, take a pound of gravy beef, and the same of pickled pork, cut each in half, and put these articles into a saucepan, cover them with water, and when it boils, skim it well; add half a savoy, two ounces of mushrooms, some turnips, carrots, onions, leeks, celery, a bay' leaf, whole pepper, allspice, and a little mace; when nearly done, put in two quarts of veal stock ; as soon as the meat is tender, take it out, and put into a deep dish, but keep it hot; strain the liquor, take off all the fat, season it with Cayenne, salt, and lemon juice ; have ready some carrots, turnips, celery, and onions, the three for- mer cat in pieces ; stew these separately till tender, and strain off their essences to the above liquor; clear it with whites of eggs; strain it, put in the vegetables ; boil the whole gently for ten minutes, and then pour it over the meat. Hotch-potch.—Take some young car- rots, cut them into round pieces, all the same length ; boil them in a little stock, with a small quantity of sugar ; when sufficiently done, reduce the sauce; put some good espagnolto them, season it well, take off the fat, and serve. Hotch-potch Soup.—Blanch some car- rots, turnips, and celery, cut in pieces of an equal length ; put them into some clear brown stock, and boil them for about an hour ; in the mean while, stew a few mut- ton chops, and just before it is served, put them into the soup ; cut some crusts of bread into thin slices, trim, and soak them separately in some broth, lay them carefully in a tureen, and pour the soup with the meat and vegetables on them ; do this gently, so that the bread be not broken. I ICE.*—Sorbetieres or moulds for cream or fruit-ices, are made of two sorts of ma- terials, block-tin and pewter; of these, the latter is the best, the substance to be iced congealing more gradually in it than in the former: an object much to be desired, as when the ice is formed too quickly, it is very apt to be rough, and full of lumps, like hail, especially if it be not well worked with the spatula; the other utensils neces- sary for this operation, are, a deep pail, with a cork at the bottom, and a wooden spatula about nine inches long; being so far provided, fill the pail with pounded ice, over which spread four handsful of salt; then, having filled the sorbetiere, or mould, with cream, &c. put on the cover, and immerse it in the centre of the ice- pail ; taking care the ice touches the mould in all parts ; throw in two or more handsful of salt, and leave it a quarter of an hour; then take the cover from the mould, and with the spatula stir the con- tents up together, so that those parts which touch the sides of the mould, and consequently congeal first, may be mixed with the liquid in the middle ; work this about for seven or eight minutes; cover the mould, take the pail by the ears, and shake it round and round for a quarter of an hour; open the mould a second time, and stir as before ; continue these opera- tions alternately, until the cream, or what- ever it may be, is entirely congealed, and perfectly smooth, and free from lumps. Take care to let out the water, which will collect at the bottom of the pail, by means of the cock, and press the ice close to the sorbetiere with the spatula. When the cream is iced, take it from the pail, dip the mould in water, but not to let it remain an instant ; dry it quickly, turn it out, and serve it as soon as possible. All sorts of ices are finished in this manner; the preparation of the articles of which they are composed, constitutes the only difference between them. Ice for Icing (how to prepare').—Take a few pounds of ice, break it almost to pow- der, and throw in among it a large handful and a half of salt; you must prepare in the coolest part of the house, that as little of the warm air as possible may come. The ice and salt being in a bucket, put your cream into an ice pot, and cover it; immerse it in the ice, and draw that round the pot, so that it may touch every part. In a few minutes put a spatula or spoon in, and stir it well, removing the parts that ice round the edges to the centre. If the ice-cream or water, be in a form, shut the bottom close, and move the whole in the ice, as you cannot use a spoon to that without danger of waste. There should be holes in the bucket, to let the ice off as it thaws.