BIS BIS 65 1 0 0 ll ) sweet herbs, two anchovies, two onions, stuck with cloves, the yolks of two eggs, the juice of a lemon, nutmeg grated; and some scraped horseradish; mix all these together with two pounds of butter, and let it be very thick; dish your fish, and pour over it the sauce. Garnish your fried fish with parsley, horseradish and sliced lemon ; serve it hot. Biscuits.—Weigh eight eggs, an equal weight of sugar, and the weight of four in flour; beat up the yolks of five, and put them in an earthen vessel with some rasped lemon peel and the sugar, beat them to- gether for a long, time, then add the whites of eleven eggs also well beaten, then mix in the flour by degrees, pour this into paper cases of whatever form and size you please ; strew powder sugar over them, and bake in a moderate oven. Biscuits.—Lay the rind of a lemon in boiling water, till it be tender; take half a pound of sweet almonds, and blanch them in cold water, and two ounces of gum dragon, which soak in fair water ; then pound the almonds, putting in as you pound, the whites of two eggs beaten hollow; pound the lemon in a stone mortar by itself, and put the gum and the lemon into the almonds, and mix them well together; then beat a pound of fine sugar in a mortar with the almonds, gum, and lemon, and afterwards add two pounds more of fine sugar, stirring it with a spoon, then roll it up in little rolls, and lay them upon white papers, and set them in the oven. Biscuits.—Make a pound of flour, the yolk of an egg, and some milk into a very stiff paste ; beat it well, knead till quite smooth, roll very thin and cut into biscuits, prick and bake in a slow oven till dry and crisp. Biscuit Bread.—Dry fine flour and powder sugar, of each half a pound, thoroughly : beat up four very fresh eggs for ten minutes, then add the sugar, beat them ten minutes longer, put the flour and continue beating ten minutes more. Butter your baking-plates and bake. Caraway or aniseed may be added, if you please. BISCOTTE de Bruxelles.*—Take two quarterns of fine flour, and divide it as in making the brioche; take rather more than a quarter of the flour to make the leaven, put in a little more yeast, and keep the leaven moist; put to the other portion of flour half an ounce of salt, a little water, an ounce of sugar, a quarter of a pound of butter and six eggs: wet the paste with cream, work it well five or six times, mix in the leaven, knead it twice more, and thou put it aside in a floured cloth to rise. In four hours take it out and divide it into three parts, work each part up and make them into the form of sponge cakes, put them on a large baking-tin, and let them stand for half an hour to rise, dares them with milk, and bake them; when done, take them from the oven, but do not remove them from the tin. The next day cut each cake into slices, lay them in a gentle oven to dry; when very yellow they are sufficiently done. These biscottes are generally sent up with coffee cream. Biscuits en Caisses*—Prepare your mixture the same as for spoon biscuits, and fill some little round or square cases with it. Then with the rollingpin crush some fine sugar, but not to a powder, and strew it over your biscuits, which place on a copper plate, and when the sugar begins to dissolve put them in a gentle oven, at the mouth of which put a shovel- ful of burning coals to crystallize the sugar; and when that assumes the ap- pearance of little pearls, remove the coals and close the oven. These biscuits will require from twenty to twenty-five minutes baking. Biscuit CaJce.—One pound of flour, five eggs well beaten and strained, eight ounces of sugar, a little rose or orange-flower water, beat the whole thoroughly and bake it for one hour. Biscuits en Capsule.*—Put half a pound of fine sugar into an earthen pan, and pour over it the yolks of twelve eggs; put the whites into a preserving-pan, and whisk them for half an hour; in the mean time the sugar and yolks of eggs must be stirred with a wooden spoon, and pour them on the whites; stir them gently, add six ounces of fine flour and two of powder sugar sifted, and the grated rind of a lemon. Mix it all well together, but with great care, lest the snow of the whites should fall. With this fill some small buttered moulds, or paper cases, and bake them in a quick oven to a deep yellow, first sprinkling them with sugar. If they are in moulds, turn them out when baked; but they may remain in the paper cases, which need not be buttered. Biscuits (Sf. Claud').*—Sift two ounces of rice flour through a fine sieve into an earthen pan, with half a pound of powder sugar, the yolks of four eggs, and a little r