82 BKE BRE and mash again for the second wort, in the 6ame manner as the first, excepting that the water must be cooler, and it must not stand more than half the time. Both these worts are now mixed toge- ther, and the quantity of hops determined upon are added, when the liquor must be put into the copper, which being closely covered, let it boil gently for two hours, then let the liquor into the receiver, and the hops be strained therefrom into the coolers. When cool, the barm or yeast, which should be white and sweet, is added, and the liquor well stirred from the bottom with a wooden howl, turning it up topsy- turvy in the middle of each tub, which oc- casions the beer to ferment. If, however, it happens that in about two hours the fer- mentation is not favourable, it has been checked; in which case, put the mash-oar. See. across the tubs, and cover them with sacks to encourage the fermentation ; when the last tiling at night, and the first in the morning, should be the stirring them well up again. Be careful that the tubs be not too full to work over in the night. The next morning, skim the greater part of the yeast off, and prepare to tun it. Let the casks be taken quite clean and warm into the cellars, which promotes the beer’s working. It is recommended to fling a gallon or two of boiling water in each, and turn it out again. Examine the cork and vent holes, and when the casks are filled, reserve some spare beer, that as it works in the casks you may fill them up in the cellars for the waste. As soon as full, take two pounds of fine wheat flour, and beat it up smooth with some of the new beer in a pail, with a wisp, and divide it between the two casks, keeping it well stirred up near the bottom for a quarter of an hour. The flour thus prepared, gives to beer and ale a fine soft quality, and, while under fermentation, adds to its flavour, its man- tling, &c. When this flour is put in the casks, each should be stirred with a long stick for a few minutes ; then put the tin scoop into the upper cork-hole for the beer to work througli, and attend to it three or four times a day, particularly the last thing at night, and first in the morning ; and when the fermentation is done working, which is usuallv an operation of three or four days, clean the outsides of the casks, and put in the beer, the hops saved in the pail, equally divided into each, stirring them about, which operation fines all beers, and then bung them tight down with a piece of coarse linen cloth under the bung, if com- pletely done working, but not else. For small, or table beer, there must be a third mashing. Reserve a pailful of the strong beer to add to the small. Let the water, already heated in the copper, when within a few minutes of boiling, be poured on the malt, keeping it mashed as before ; then add the pail of strong, and cover it over with sacks as before mentioned, with the mash-oar standing in the middle, and let it remain an hour. Then fill the copper with the liquor, and let it boil very gently for an hour. The same preparation of flour and beer, should in the like propor- tion be added to the table beer. For good substantial strong beer or ale, and of fine flavour, there should be al- lowed one pound of hops for every bushel of malt. Hops that are good, and entirely free from adulteration, should be of a fine sweet smell, full of ripe seed, of a clear pale yellow colour, and clammy, which evinces their strength ; such an article ameliorates and preserves all beers. The best hops are those produced in Kent. The great secret of fining all beers, to render them of a clear brilliant colour, is to take out three quarters of a pailful of the hops from the copper, wlieu they have boiled an hour ; for this simple method is superior, mid more cougenial to beer than all the arts that are practised. . If, however, beers remain stubborn, either from bad cellars or weak hops, or from ill-management, then, in order to make beer or ale transparent and fine, isinglass may be used, which may be thus prepared : If for fining a hogshead, take a quarter of a pound of isinglass, and put it into a quart of the liquor drawn from the cask, and let them gently simmer over a slow fire for half an hour, in a clean vessel. Pour this into a can of the beer, and put it into the cask, stirring it with a long stick for a quarter of an hour, and six hours after bung the cask close again. It is a bad practice to put raw hops into beer, as they are apt to become musty. Beers are not unfrequently sick and out of condition; when this happens, they should again be put into a new ferment- ation : and then balls made of a pound of fine wheat flour, mixed with a sufficient quantity of treacle, will promote their briskness. This composition softens all beers to the greatest advantage. Bun ton Ale.—For making of Burton,