LEM 325 LEM put the juice and eggs together; put in a sufficient quantity of double-refined sugar to sweeten it; let it boil very fast near a quarter of an hour, then strain it through a jelly-bag, and as it runs through put it in again, till it is quite clear; after which, take the peels of the lemons boiled in it, and cut them into each glass; stir it till it is half cold, and then pour it on the peel in the glasses. Lemon Cream (Yellow).—Grate off the peel of four lemons, squeeze the juice to it, let it steep four or five hours, strain it, put to it the whites of eight eggs, and the yolks of two, well beaten and strained; add thereto a pound of double-refined sugar, a quarter of a pint of rose water, and a pint of spring water, stir these all together; set-it on a quick fire, but let it not boil; it is done sufficiently when it creams. Lemon Cream Ices .*—Take two fine large lemons, rub their rind on a piece of sugar, and scrape it off, and put on paper; set two quarts of cream on the fire to boil; in the meanwhile whisk the whites of twelve eggs to a snow, then add to it the twelve yolks, and a pound of fine sifted sugar ; when well mixed, put them a little at a time to the boiling cream, with the scraped sugar; boil up the whole two or I three times, stirring constantly, and pour it through a sieve into a basin. When cold, put it into the mould and ice it, ac- cording to the directions. Lemon Custard.—Beat the yolks of ten eggs, strain them, beat them with a pint of cream; sweeten the juice of two lemons, boil it with the peel of one; strain it; when cold, stir it to the cream and eggs till it nearly boils, or put it into a dish, grate over the rind of a lemon, and brown it with a salamander. Lemon Drops.—Grate threelargelemons, with a large piece of double-refined sugar; then scrape the sugar into a plate, add half a tea-spoonful of flour; mix well together, and beat it into a light paste, with the white of an egg. Drop it upon white paper, put them on a tin plate, and set them in a a moderate oven. Lemon Essence.—Rasp your lemons all round, very tliiu, and for every quarter of a pound of rind, allow one pound of sugar; mix it well with a large spaddle till you find it is all of the same colour, and that the rind is well mixed ; put it into a stone jar, and press it down as hard as you can; put a bladder over the paper you cover with, and tie it over quite tight; put it by, and in a month’s time it will he or use Lemon Flmcers (Conserve of). — Take six ounces of lemon flowers, picked; dis- solve two pounds of sugar, boil it to petit casst; then throw in the flowers, let them, boil up together once, and stir them till the sugar bubbles; finish the conserve as usual. Lemon (Green) preserved*—Split some small green lemons on one side that they may take the sugar inside as well as out- side; put them into cold water, and set them on the fire, and keep them from boil- ing by pouring cold water on them fre- quently ; as soon, however, as they rise above it, take them from the fire, and throw them into cold water; after they have lain a short time in it, put them on the fire, and boil slowly till the fruitis quite tend er, when they must again be put into cold water. Clarify some sugar-, put the lemons to it, and having let it boil up seven or eight times, put the whole into a pan till the next day; then drain off the syrup, boil it up twenty or thirty times, having added a little fresh sugar, pour it over your le- mons, and repeat this process for three successive days, increasing the boiling point of the sugar each day, so that on the last it will be to perle; when the fruitmust be boiled with it once, and then it may be put into pots. If you wish the preserves to be dry, lay the fruit on slates, and place them in a stove or oven to dry. Lemon Honeycomb.—Take the juice of one lemon, and sweeten it according to your taste, and put it in the dish in which you intend to serve it. Beat up the white of an egg, then mix it with a pint of rich cream, and a little sugar; whisk it, and as the froth rises, put it on the lemon juice. It should be made the day before it is wanted. Lemon Ice Cream.—Take the juice of three or four lemons, and grate the peel of one lemon; add two gills of syrup, and one pint of cream; mix it all together, pass it through a sieve, and freeze it. Lemon Ice with Wine*—Squeeze the juice from as many lemons as will yield half a pound, which filter through blotting- paper. Put a pound and a half of fine su- gar, with a bottle of white wine, and half the quantity of water,on the fire; when it has boiled up three or four times, add the juice to it, and having boiled that also the same number of times, put in as much tincture of saffron as will tinge it of a fine yellow; strain, and finish the ice as usual. Lemon Jelly.—Set a pint and a half of