OllA ORA 378 Orange (Fine.)*—Infuse the peels of a dozen large oranges for some days in six quarts of tlie best brandy ; after which add a quart of water, and distil die whole; this will yield about a gallon of liqueur. Dissolve three pounds and a half of sugar in seven pints of water ; add this syrup to the liqueur, and then strain and bottle it. Oranges (Florentine of) with Apples.— Take half a dozen oranges, save the juice, and take out die pulp; lay the rinds in water twenty-four hours, changing the water three or four times ; then boil them in three or four different waters, then strain the water off, put them and their juice with a pound of sugar, and put them by for use : when tiiey are used, boil ten pippins in a little sugar and water, pare, quarter, and core them, and mix them with some of die oranges; lay a puff-paste in the dish, and then put in die fruit; cover it with a thin crust, rolled and laid across ; it may be cut into whatever shape you please. Orange Fool*—Take the juice of six oranges, six eggs well beaten, a pint of cream, a quarter of a pound of sugar, a little cinnamon and nutmeg. Mix all well together, stir it over a slow fire dll thick, then put in a small piece of butter, and keep stirring it till cold. Orange Fritters.—Take one or two pre- served oranges, cut them into as many pieces as you think proper; make a good thick batter with sweet wine, and finish the same as all others. Orange Fritters.—Pare off the rind of some oranges, very thin, cut them into quarters, and blanch them for a quarter of an hour; then drain diem, take out the pips, and put the oranges into a light syrup ; simmer, and reduce them to cara- mel, take them from the fire, and when cold, cover them with syrup, dip each quarter into hatter, and fry them of a nice colour; sprinkle them with powder sugar, glaze, and serve them. Orange Gimblcttes.*—Grate the rinds of two very sound oranges on a piece of sugar, which scrape off, and mix with some moro, so ns to make six ounces; pound four ounces of blanched almonds. Put half a pound of sifted flour on a slab, mnko a hole in the middle, into which put four drachms of yeast (diluted with a small quantity of milk), two ounces of butter, the yolks of two eggs, a grain of sidt, the almonds and the sugar; mix these alto- gether, and leave the paste in a wnrm place for five or six hours, that it may rise; after that time break up the paste, and roll it into little bands the size of your little finger, which cut bias into pieces five inches in length, and form them into little rings, joining the bias ends very neatly; put them into a saucepan of boiling water, stir the surface lightly in order to make the gimblettes rise, and prevent them from sticking to each other; in a few minutes drain, and put them into cold water ; when quite cold, drain them again, dorez, and place them on lightly waxed copper-plates; put them in a slow oven, and bake them to a nice colour. (Orange Ice*—Take ten fine blood oranges, peel, and divide tbem into quar- ters ; take out the pips and heart, and then pound them with the grated rinds of two of the oranges : put them into a strong cloth, and press out all the juice, which mix with half a pound of sugar, previously dissolved in a pint of water; put this mix- ture into a sorbetiere or icebox, and ice it as directed. (See Ice.) Orange Jelly.—Put two quarts of spring-water into a saucepan, with half a pound of hartshorn shavings, or four ounces of isinglass, and boil it gently till it becomes a strong jelly. Take the juice of three Seville oranges, three lemons, and six China oranges, the rind of one Seville orange and one lemon, pared very thin ; put them to your jelly, sweeten with loaf- sugar to your taste, beat up the whites of eight eggs to a froth, mix them well in, and boil it for ten minutes : then run it through a jelly-bag till it isvety clear, put it into your moulds, and let it stand till it is thoroughly cold; then dip your moulds in warm water, and turn them into a China dish or flat glass. Orange Jelly en Rubans.*— Prepare the rinds of seven oranges, as directed (see Oranges en Surprise), and make half the quantity of jelly ; take an equal quantity of blancmange, and whilst the peels are iu ice, put into each a dessert-spoonful of the latter; as soon as this is congealed, pour on it n spoonful and a half ot orange-jelly; let that set, and add two spoonsful of blancmange, then two of jelly, and so on till the peels are filled; when quite ready for table, cut them carefully into quarters, and arrange them with taste on a dish, or in a confectionary basket. Orange Jelly (Transparent).*—1 ake the juice of twelve oranges and two lemons . having taken care that none of the pips are in, pare two of the sweetest oranges as thin as possible, put the juice and rind into