427 PIG PIG and will to wine vinegar, with white pepper and allspice, sliced ginger and nutmeg, and a few bay-leaves. When it boils up, put the pigeons into it. If they are small, a quarter of an hour will be sufficient to do them ; but if they are large they will re- quire twenty minutes. Then take them out, wipe them, and let them cool. As soon as the pickle is cold, take off the fat, and put them in again. Keep them in a stone jar, tied down closely, so that the air may be excluded. Instead of larding, put into it some stuffing, made of hard yolks of eggs and marrow, in equal quantities, with sweet herbs, pepper, salt, and mace. Pigeon Pie.—Chop some parsley and lemon thyme, with a few mushrooms; stew these in a little butter, into which put half a dozen young pigeons, with pepper and salt in their insides, and their legs turned in; stew them for a few minutes, and turn them; when they begin to fiy, put in sufficient consomme to cover them, in which let them stew till they are well done ; take them from the'fire to cool; in the meantime make a good puff paste, part of which roll out, and place round the edge of a dish ; lay the pigeons in with the yolks of four eggs, boiled hard, and pour over them half of the liquor they were stewed in; add a little pepper and salt, then lay on the top paste, trimmingit neatly round, the same as you would any other pie; on the top form a star of leaves, with a hole in the centre; egg it lightly over, and put it to bake in a moderate oven, taking care that it has not too much colour; when done, add to the liquor that remained from the pigeons, a little butter sauce, make it very hot, and pour it on the pie. Serve it hot, either for a remove or side dish. Pigeons (Potted).—Be very particular that they are quite fresh ; clean them thoroughly, ami season them with salt and pepper; lay them close together in a small deep pan, for the smaller the sur- face, and the more closely they are packed, the less quantity of butter will be re- quired; cover them with butter, then tie them over with very thick paper, and bake them. When cold, put them to dry in pots that will hold two or three in each, and pour butter over them, using that which was bakod as part. Observe that the butter should be pretty thick over them, if they are done for keeping. The pigeons would lie closer, and want less butter, if they are boned, and put into the pot in an oval form. They may be stuffed with a fine forcemeat made with veal, bacon, &c., and they will eat extremely well. If a high seasoning is approved of, add mace, allspice, and a little Cayenne pepper, before baking. Pigeons en Poularde.* — Choose as large pigeons as you can, which fill with a good farce, mixed with rich cream ; truss them like fowls, lard with bacon, and wrap eacli in caul; fasten them on a spit, and roast them; take care they are not too highly coloured. Serve with any sauce you please. Pigeons d la Provencale.*—Lard your pigeons with pieces of anchovies; put some olive oil into a pan, and when it boils, give the birds a few turns in it over a slow fire, with two dozen small onions, a clove of garlic, and a bunch of chervil; moisten them with equal quantities of stock and white wine, and leave it to boil slowly ; when nearly done, add five or six small sausages, and some lemon juice. Skim off all the fat, and serve very hot. Pigeons to Roast.—Let the pigeons be thoroughly cleaned, leave in the livers, truss them, and put a stuffing into the crops, the same as for fillet of veal; put them down to roast, and singe them well; about a quarter of an hour will be suffi- cient to do them ; froth them with butter ; serve them garnished with water cresses, good gravy under them, and parsley and butter in a boat. Pigeons with Roots.* — Braise your chickens as directed for chipolata. Serve them with glazed lettuces round, and petites racines in the centre. Pigeons (Salmi of).*—Cut up three or four cold roasted pigeons, and put them into a stewpan, with a little veal and ham, five or six carrots, and an old partridge ; let them stand on a slow fire till they stick to the pan; then moisten them with Champagne, good consomme, veal gravy, a bay-leaf, salt and pepper, cover it close, and reduce it. When done (and a short time is sufficient) servo it very hot with truffles, morels, sliced lemons, and, if you like it, a few larks. Pigeons an Sans.*'—Take the rem- nants of any kind of game you may have, minco the tenderest parts with some streaky bacon, parsley, salt, spices, and a little lard ; line a small stewpan with thin slices of bacon, lay the farce on this, thicken it with some stock, and the blood of as many pigeons as you intend to dress ; when it is of the proper consistence, cover the pigeons with it and slices of bacon;