MUL MOU 351 Morels with Bacon.—Cut about a quarter of a pound of bacon into slices, put it into a stewpan and set it on the fire; when done, take some large morels, wash them well, cut each in half, and put them into the same pan (having removed the bacon) ; add a little butter, and give them a few turns ; then take them out, soak them in melted butter or oil, with chopped parsley, shalots, whole pepper, and salt; in about half an hour, drain and roll them in bread crumbs, put on small skew- ers, lay them on a gridiron, broil slowly, basting with the butter, bacon, fat, and the marinade; lay the slices of bacon on a dish, and the morels on them. Morels with Cream* — The morels being well washed, cut them in halves or quarters, according to their size ; stew them with butter, salt, and a little water; when they are nearly done, add some good cream, mix it in well, finish them, and serve the morels quite hot. Morels with Croute*—Pick and cut the morels in halves, wash them in several waters; boil, drain, and put them into a stewpan with a bit of butter, a bunch of parsley and scallions ; fry them lightly, add a little flour and consomme, reduce them; take out the parsley and scallions, thicken with the yolk of an egg beaten up with cream, add a small quantity of powder sugar ; serve them with a crust prepared as for mushrooms. Morels in Gravy*—Having cut, well washed, and drained yourmorels, put them into a saucepan with oil, salt, and pepper ; let them boil for half an hour; add some veal gravy and a little wine ; then simmer them till sufficiently done ; serve with the sauce ; if the latter be too thick squeeze lemon juice into it. Morels (to keep).—They should be dried slowly, put into paper bags, and kept in a dry place. Morels (Stuped).*—Choose the largest and most round-shaped morels, and having washed and drained, dry them in a cloth ; fill each with a little fine farce, and stew them with slices of bacon and veal ; when nearly done, pour on them a little veal gravy. Serve very hot. Morels and Truffles.—Morels and truffles are used for flavouring soups and sauces. Wash half an ounce of each, then let them simmer a few minutes in water, and add them, with the liquor, to boil in the sauce, &c. till tender. MOUNTAIN Wine.—Take some very fine Malaga raisins, piok out the stalks, and chop them very fine, and to every ten pounds of the raisins put two gallons of water. Letthem steep three weeks, stirring them frequently during that time ; then squeeze out the liquor, and put it into a vessel that will just hold it, but be careful not to stop till it has done hissing; then bung it up close, and it will be fit for use in about six months. MUFFINS.—Mix two pounds of flour with a couple of eggs, two ounces of but- ter melted in a pint of milk, and four or five spoonsful of yeast; beat it tho- roughly, and set it to rise two or three hours. Bake it on a hot hearth in flat cakes, and turn them, when done on one side. MUFFIN Pudding with dried Cherries.— Take a pint and a half of milk, add to it a few coriander seeds, a bit of lemon peel, sugar according to taste, and boil them together for ten minutes; then put four muffins into a pan, strain the milk over them, and when they are cold, mash them with a wooden spoon; add half a gill of brandy, half a pound of dried cherries, a little grated nutmeg, two ounces of sweet almonds, blanched and pounded extremely fine, and six eggs well beaten. Mix all together and boil in a basin, or bake it in a dish with paste all round; or steam it in a mould that has been previously but- tered and stuck fancifully with dried cherries, and serve when turned out with wine sauce over it. MULBERRIES (Preserved). — Boi three quarters of a pound of sugar to grand perle ; put to it a pound of mulber- ries, stir them in carefully, without letting them boil; take the pan by the handle and roll the fruit about in the sugar for a few minutes; pour them into a basin, and let them stand ; the next day drain off the sugar, boil it to the abovementioned de- gree ; add the fruit, and proceed as above. Four it into pots; do not cover them till quite cold. Mulberries (to preserve dry.)—Your mulberries must not be too dry, but must look rather a reddish green, and taste tart; prepare the same quantity of sugar an souffle as of fruit; put in the mulber- ries and let them boil; the sugar must be first clarified with mulberry juice instead of water; when they have boiled, tako the pan from the fire, skim it, and set it in a stove till next day ; then take them out, drain them from the syrup, and put them up in boxes for uso. Mulberries (Ratafia of ).*—Take two