TAN •188 TAlt cyder, a glass of brandy, sugar, and nut- meg, into a bowl, and milk into it; or pour warm milk from a large teapot some height into it: T. TABLETTES de Patience*—Take eight eggs, and whip the whites to a firm snow; in the mean time have the yolks beaten up with six ounces of powder su- gar (both these operations should be per- formed for at least half an hour) ; then mix the two together, add six ounces of sifted flour, and when well incorporated, pour in half a pint of rose or orange- flower water; stir the whole together for some time. Have ready some tin plates, well rubbed with butter: take a funnel that has three or four tubes, fill it with the paste, and push out your tablettes; when the tin plates are full, put them into a pretty warm oven. When done, take them from the tins whilst hot. TANSEY Fritters.—Pour a pint of boiling milk on the crumb of a small loaf grated ; let it stand for an hour to cool, then add as much tansey juice as will flavour it, and colour it with a little spi- nach juice; add a spoonful of ratafia, or brandy, grate the rind of half a lemon, sugar according to taste, beat up the yolks of four eggs, and mix all together, put it into a stewpan, with a quarter of a pound of butter; stir it over a slow fire till quite thick; then take it off, and let it stand nearly three hours, then drop a spoonful at a time into boiling lard; when done, grate sugar over them, and serve. Garnish the dish with slices of orange, and serve wine sauce in a boat. Tansey Fritters.—Pound some tansey with a few almonds, a carp roe, and the crumb of a small loaf; mix with the paste some powder sugar, and a little rose wa- ter; fry them in butter; drain, sprinkle sugar over, and serve them very hot. Tansey Pudding.—Blanch and pound very fine a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds, then put them into a stewpan; add a quarter of a pint of syrup of roses, the crumb of a French roll, a little grated nutmeg, a glass of brandy, two table- spoonsful of tansey juice, three ounces of fresh butter, and some slices of citron; pour over this n pint of boiling cream or milk, sweeten accordingto taste, and when cold, mix all well together; add the juico of a lemon, and eight eggs beaten. It may be either baked or boiled. Tansey Pudding.—Beat up the yolks of twelve, and the whites of four eggs; put to them a quart of cream; colour this with spinach juice, and flavour with tansey juice, add a little salt, some nutmeg, and a good pinch of flour ; put this into a a dish lined with a light puff paste, and bake it in a brisk oven, it will take half an hour baking. Serve to table garnished with Seville orange, cut in slices, and can- died peel. TAPIOCA Pudding .*—Put four table- spoonsful of tapioca into a quart of milk, and let it remain all night, then put a spoonful of brandy, some lemon peel, and a little spice; let them boil gently, add four eggs, and the whites well beaten, and a quarter of a pound of sugar. Bake it. TARRAGON Cream.—Boil some tar- ragon in half a pint of cream and a pint of milk, as long as is necessary to flavour it; then strain the cream, and, if to be served hot, add the yolks of five eggs, and some flour ; when well mixed, pour the prepara- tion into a dish, place it in the bain-marie to set. If it is to be served cold, when the cream is strained, and no more than lukewarm, put in a little rennet; strain it into your table-dish, lay a tin over it, on which put hot embers, place the dish also on embers, and let it remain till set. Tarragon Sauce. — Put two table- spoonsful of tarragon vinegar into a sauce- pan, and reduce it to half the quantity, then put it to six spoonsful of good butter sauce, a little tarragon, and chervil chop- ped, and mix all well together, and if not sufficiently strong, put in a little bit of glaze, and a very little more tarragon vinegar. Tarragon Sauce*—Put into a sauce- pan two or three sliced onions, two carrots also sliced, and a bit of veal cut into dice; set them on the fire, and when they begin to stick, and brown, add some good stock, simmer for about an hour; then put in a little shred tarragon leaves, two or three slices of Seville orange, salt, pepper, and nutmeg; in a quarter of an hour’s time strain it. Tarragon Sauce.*—Cut some tarragon leaves into squares, or lozenges, and scald them; put some consomme or rebate; set it on the corner of the stove, take off all fat, make the sauce boil, throw in the leaves, add a small quantity of vinegar, and some butter, and serve. Tarragon Vinegar*—Take some tarra- gon, dry it in the sun, antPthen put it into