221 CYD CYD by which the most proper point of maturity in the fruit may be ascertained with accu- racy ; but there is good reason to believe that it improves as long as it continues to acquire a deeper shade of yellow. Each heap should be examined prior to its being ground, and any decayed or green fruit carefully taken away. When the fruit of different sorts and qualities has been kept separate from one another for a few weeks, it will be perceived that some of the prime sorts are in a proper state of maturation; that the pulp has ac- quired its highest degree of richness ; the kernels assumed their brownest colour; the rind still free from any appearance of rottenness; and that they easily yield to the pressure of the thumb : then is the time, and such is the fruit to be employed in making prime cyder. Every necessary utensil should now be got in readiness; the mill, press, tubs, casks, pails, and bowls, well washed, and suffered to dry thoroughly before they are employed in the business. Grinding the Apples.—In the business of grinding the fruit, for this use, into what is termed pommage, several different methods are practised. It has been sug- gested by some that each sort of apple should be ground separately, or, at least, such sorts, in mixture, as become ripe at the same time; but others state that this practice is that by which “fine cyder, of different flavours and degrees of strength, is obtained from the same orchard, the liquors being mixed after they are made.” It is, however, allowed that, “ in all com- mon cases,” the practice of grinding differ- ent varieties of fruit equally ripe together, is found eligible ; as it is less difficult to find the requisite degrees of richness, astringency, and flavour, in three vari- eties, than in one. And hence it is sup- posed, that cyders made from the juice of mixed fruits, under common management, generally succeed with greater certainty than those from only one kind. In the grinding, the fruit should he reduced as nearly as possible to a uniform consist- fence, in such a manner as that the rinds and kernels may he scarcely discernable from the general mass ; the operation pro- ceeding slowly, with a free access of air. Preparing the Ground Fruit.—Cyderists do not all agree with regard to the exact time the pommage should be carried to the press; the usual average is from about eighteen to twenty-four hours ; at the end of this time the ground fruit or pommage is carried to the press, and a square cake or cheese is made of it, by placing very clean, sweet straw, or reeds, between the various layers of pulp, or pommage, or by putting it into hair cloths spread upon the vats, and placing them one on another. They are turned up on the sides and corners over the pulp, so as nearly to meet in the centres. They should be laid very even, and ten or twelve may be laid over each other in regular layers, the square frame of the press being raised with them, keeping the pile to an uniform size. Upon the whole, a strong board is placed, wider than the pile, on which the blocks of the press rest. It is of the utmost importance that the straw or reed, where they are used, should be sweet, and perfectly free from any fustiness, lest the cyder be impregnated therewith. Particular care ought also to be taken to keep the hair cloths sweet, by frequently washing and drying; or the ill effects of their acidity will be communicated to the cyder. To this cake or cheese, after standing awhile, a slight pressure is at first to be given by lowering the screw of the press, which must be gradually in- creased as the cakes become dryer, until all the must or juice is expressed, which is usually completed by the long lever and windlass ; after which, the juice must be strained through a coarse hair sieve, and put either into open vats, or close casks. Fermentation.—Fermentation should not, by too much heat, be carried on too ra- pidly, nor by extreme cold, too slowly'; as, in either case, the fermenting body would be injured; therefore, a certain degree of warmth, or rather impercepti- ble heat, conduces best to regulate this operation. This degree of warmth may be understood to rest between forty and fifty degrees of Fahrenheit’s thermometer; new made cyder should therefore be put into a cellar according to this rule ; the fermentation will then go on with due regulation. When the liquor appears tolerablv clear to the eye, and lias a piquant, vinous sharpness on the tongue, then the least hissing noise heard in the fermenting liquor in this state, shows the place in which it stands is too warm, and air must bo admitted. This is the critical moment lor racking the liquor, which is done by drawing oft the pure part into opon ves- sels, which must be placed in a more cool situation for a day or two, after which it