313 LAM LAM add the yolks of six eggs finely beaten; butter a dish all over, put a little pepper and salt to the steaks, dip them in melted butter, and lay them in the buttered dish; pour upon them the gravy which comes from them, and then the rice; pour over the yolks of three eggs finely beaten, send it to the oven, rather more than half an hour will be sufficient to bake it. Lamb (Blanquette of).*—Roast a leg of lamb, and when cold take off all the skin and nerves, and cut it into pieces, all the same size and thickness, cut off the angles SO as to make them nearly round, Seat them with the handle of a knife, and put them into a saucepan, with some fried mushrooms, four ladiesful of velouti tra- vaille, and a little pepper; set the sauce- pan on the fire for a few minutes, thicken it with the yolks of two eggs ; make it quite hot, and serve the blanquelte with sippets. Lamb’s Brains.*-—-Are generally rec- koned more delicate than those of the sheep: they are mostly prepared in the same manner as calf’s brains. Lamb’s Brains en Mayonnaise.* — Take eight lamb’s brains, and having washed and prepared them for dressing, in the same way as calf's brains, blanch, and then drain them in a cloth ; lay them on a dish, with tongue a Vicariate, cut like cocks’ combs, between each brain; place hard eggs, gherkins, a pretty film mayonnaise, and a glass of ravigote in the centre, and garnish your dish with pieces of jelly. Lame (Breast of) with Cucumbers.—Cut the chine bone off from the breast, and put it to stew with a pint of gravy ; when the bones would draw out, neatly trim it, brush it over with beaten egg, and strew it all over with sweet herbs finely chop- ped, pepper, salt, and bread crumbs, then put it on the gridiron to grill; and then serve it in a dish on nicely stewed cucum- bers. Lamb (Breast of) to be eaten cold.— Bone a breast of lamb, then have a good forcemeat made of fat livers, truffles, &c. the same as for raised pies, and an ome- lette made of the white of eggs, and of the yolks, coloured with spinach juice; when cold cut them in long slips, first lay some forcemeat, then the slips of omelettes, with a few truffles laid between, and like- wise some fat livers ; then spread all over with the forcemeat, season with pepper, salt, and pounded spices, roll it in a nap- kin, and put it to stew very gently for two hours ; when done, let it stand in the liquor till cold, then take it out, aud let it stand for two days before you cut it; trim it well, lay it on the dish, and garnish it with aspic jelly, minced and scattered round it. Lamb (Breast of) with Vease.—Braise a breast of lamb, and then having taken out the small bones, flatten it: when cold cut it into small pieces, and put them into the braise to heat, drain and glaze them, and serve with pease (prepared as follows) poured over them : put some young pease into water, with a little fresh butter ; drain and put them into a saucepan, with a slice of ham, a bunch of parsley, and green onions, stew them gently over a slow fire ; reduce them with two spoonsful of espag- nole, and a little sugar. If you wish this dish white, use sauce tournee for the pease, instead of espagnole. Lamb (Breast of) rolled in a Ragout.— Take a breast of lamb that is cut rather broad, take out all the bones, spread it well with veal forcemeat, and roll it up, tying it well up with packthread, and let it stew gently in some good braise ; when well stewed take it out, put it in a mode- rate oven, and glaze it two or three times ; then have a good ragout ready, pour it into a dish, and lay the lamb upon it. Lamb Chops en Couronne.—Take a loin of lamb, cut into chops, egg them with yolk of egg on both sides, strew them over with bread crumbs, with mace, cloves, pepper, and salt, mixed; fry them of a light brown, and place them on a dish in form of a crown; make a sauce of sweet herbs and parslejr, chopped fine, and stewed in a little thick gravy. Pour this sauce into the middle of the dish. Serve garnished with fried parsley. Lamb (Cromesquis of).—Take the same preparation as the croquettes ; roll into small balls; wrap each in a thin slice of ready dressed calf's udder; dip them in batter, and fry them. Serve witli fried parsley. Lamb (Croquettes of).*—Take a cold roasted leg (or any other part) of lamb, cut off the meat, clear away all the skin and sinews, and mince it; mince also a little [lamb fat or calf’s udder, and some mushrooms (ready dressed) ; mix all these together, season them with nutmeg, salt, and pepper. Put half a dozen ladiesful of veloute, into a saucepan ; reduce it to rather less than half, and add the yolks of three eggs, stirring constantly ; when the sauce is thickened, put in an ounce of butter, and stir it till it is dissolved. Strain this sauce over the meat, stirring as before, then let it stand ; when cold, stir it once more, and then with a desert-spoon