TUIt 498 TUll to cool. In tlie mean timo, boil a knuckle of veal in some stock, with half a glass of white wine ; reduce it to a jelly ; let it take a line clear colour, and whilst hot, pour it on a dish over the turbot, spread it equally over the whole, and serve. Turbot au Gratin*—Take some pieces of ready-dressed turbot, remove the sldn and bones, and put the pieces into a sauce- pan, with some btchamdle maigre, set it on the fire, make it quite hot, -without letting it boil; spread it all over a dish, make it quite smooth with the blade of a knife, cover it with bread crumbs and grated Parmesan cheese ; pour some melted butter on it, garnish your dish with fried bread, put it in the oven to colour, and serve. Turbot (Grilled).*—Splitthe fish down the back, and soak it for some time, with melted butter, parsley, sweet herbs, salt, and pepper. Bread the turbot well, broil, and serve it with lemon, or Seville orange juice. Turbot d la Hollandaisc. — Put your turbot into a fish-kettle, with equal quan- tities of milk and water, a bit of butter, salt, lemon squeezed in and rubbed over the turbot, put paper over it, and let it simmer gently till done ; then take it up, drain it from the liquor, and serve it on a dish without a fish-plate, and pour a sauce a la Hollandaise all over. Turbot with Macaroni in a Gratin.— Take the remains of a turbot which has been dressed the preceding day, and pick it from the bone, put it into hot water, to make it separate into flakes, and then put it into some very good cream sauce, with a litte pipe macaroni, well boiled ; be par- ticular that there is no water either in the flakes of turbot or the macaroni, as it would spoil the sauce; when made very hot in the sauce, put it on a dish, strew bread crumbs over it, sprinkle some clarified butter over with a spoon, then strew bread crumbs again ; brown it with the salamander, and serve. Turbot en Matelote Normande.*—Take a small turbot, and having prepared it as usual, slit it down the back, separate the flesh from the bones, between which put a good maitre d'hotel; take a silver or other dish that will bear the fire, put into it six large onions cut into dice, season them with salt, pepper, nutmeg, thyme, bay leaf, and parsley, all dry and rubbed into powder; then lay the turbot on it, strew salt over, put lemon juice, melted butter, and add half a bottle of white wine ; place your dish on a moderately heated stove, covered with a portable oven; baste it frequently. Cut some bread into pieces the size of a crownpiece, and when the turbot is done, place them round the dish and serve. Turbot (Mayonnaise of').*—The pieces are soaked in a mayonnaise, and served as usual. (See Turltey d la Mayonnaise.) Turbot a la Ste. Mcnehould*—Take the remains of a ready-dressed turbot, cut it into pieces, lay them on a dish, with htchamelle, make the top quite smooth, and cover it with grated bread and Parmesan cheese; moisten it with melted butter; make it hot in the oven, and colour the top with a salamander. Turbot with Parmesan.—Soak a couple of small turbot in melted butter, with shred parsley, shalots, pepper, and salt; when they have lain about an hour, pour the butter, &c. on a dish, with a little cullis, grated bread, and Parmesan cheese, in equal quantities; place the fish on it, cover them in the same manner, and bake. When done, clean the dish, and serve dry. Turbot (Stuffed and Baked).*—Your tur- bot being properly cleansed, turn over the skin of the under side, without cutting it off; make a farce with some butter, par- sley, scallions, morels, sweet herbs, all shred, and united together with yolks of eggs, and seasoned with pepper and salt; spread this all over the under part of the fish, cover it with the skin, and sew it up. Dissolve some butter in a saucepan; add to it when melted, the yolk of an egg, sweetherbs shred, salt, and pepper; rub the fish all over with this.then bread,and bake it. Turbot with Caper Sauce.—Put a sliced onion, some thyme, basil, and sweet herbs into a stewpan, place a small turbot on these, strew similar herbs, salt,- pepper, and a leek cut in pieces over it; cover the fish with equal quantities of vinegar and white wine; let it boil over a moderate fire until sufficiently done; in the mean time, melt a pound of butter, add to it a couple of boned anchovies, two spoonsful of capers, shred small two or three leeks, salt, pepper, nutmeg, a little vinegar, stock, and a sprinkling of flour: make all these quite hot, stirring constantly till done; then dish the turbot, pour the sauce over it, and serve. TUREEN a In Flamande.—Take four sheep’s tails, half a pound of pickled pork, six turkey pinions, and a large savoy, cut in quarters, tie all these up separately; scald the two latter, and then put all into a large saucepan, with parsley, sweet herbs, scallions, cloves, pepper, and salt;