BIS 68 EIS Biscuits, Millcfruit.—Take preserved orange and lemon peel, a quarter of a pound of each, six ounces of angelica, the same of sweet, and one ounce of hitter almonds; cut all the above ingredients into pieces half an inch long and a quarter wide. Make an icing with whites of eggs, sugar, and orange-flower water; put the almonds, &c. into this, and having paper on your baking-tin, lay the cakes on it, of whatever size you please ; then with a hair pencil touch them here and there with a little cochineal. Bake them, but not in too hot an oven. Biscuits, Monkey.—Take the weight of six eggs in powder sugar, and mix it with the yolks and a little pounded cinnamon ; whisk the whites to a firm froth, and Stir them lightly into the yolks : add four whole eggs, and their weight of dry sifted flour, mix them well together; take this mixture in a spoon, and lay it in about the size of a halfcrown piece on paper, join two together with the spoon, and when your paper is full, sprinkle powder sugar over and bake them ; a few minutes will do them. Remove them from the paper while hot and put the two undersides together. Biscuits (Muscotn/).*—Take green lemon peel, orange-flower marmalade, and apricot marmalade, of each four drachms; four whites of eggs, and three ounces of powder sugar; whip the whites to a snow, pound the marmalades and lemon peel to a paste, and pass it through a sieve; then add the eggs and sugar, mixing them well together, put them in paper cases (buttered) and bake them. When sufficiently done, glaze them with powder sugar and white of egg, and decorate them with non- pareils. Biscuits (Naples).*—Put three quarters of a pound of fine flour to a pound of fine sifted sugar ; sift both together three times, then add six eggs, beaten well, and a spoonful of rose water; when the oven is nearly hot, buke them, but not too wet. Biscuits, Niavffes*—Make some puff paste, roll it out two or three times more than usual, then spread it in two square layers, about the thickness of a crown piece, put one of them on a baking-plate; mix with some cream pitissiere, a handful of pistachios pounded, two bitter, and a handful of sweet almonds, blanched and pounded, a little green of spinach, powder sugar, orange-flower water, and two eggs; spread this equally over the puff paste for an inch thick; cover it with the other square of paste; dorez and prick it, and mark it in divisions of thre inches long, by one and a half wide; strew over powder sugar, orange flowers pralinte, and sweet almonds cut in slips ; bake them in a moderate oven, and when done divide them according to the marks. Trim and serve them as an entremets. Biscuit, the Nuns.—Take the whites of twelve eggs, and beat them to a froth; a pound of almonds, blanch them, and beat them with the froth of the whites of eggs, as it rises; then take the yolks, and two pounds of fine sugar, and beat them well together; then mix the almonds with the sugar and eggs; then add half a pound of flour, with the peel of four lemons grated, and some citron shred small; put the composition in little cake-pans, and bake them in a quick oven, and when they are coloured, turn them on tins to harden the bottoms: but before you set them in the oven again, sift on them some double-refined sugar. Let the pans be buttered, and fill them half way. Biscuit a laParisienne.*—Make a biscuit as directed for that Iced a la Royale, but bake it in a plain mould of seven inches diameter; when cold, cut it about an inch from the edge all round, to the depth of three inches; take away the top and a great part of the crumb; then having prepared the icing (as therein mentioned) colour it green with spinach juice ; mask the whole surface of your biscuit with this, and place it in the oven a minute to dry. When wanted for table, fill the in- terior of the biscuit with frontage bavarois of pistachios, on which place a very white sultane. This kind of biscuit may be filled with any other fromage bavarois, or a whipped cream, if you like it better. The colour of the icing may also be changed according to your fancy. Biscuit Paste.*—Break a quarter of a hundred of eggs, separate the yolks and whites; to the former put two pounds of pounded and sifted sugar, and add vanilla, or any other aromatic ingredient you please; beat them with a wooden spoon, whisk the whites until pretty firm, and then put them together; mix in a pound and a half of meal by degrees. Butter moulds, and put in your paste; sprinkle sugar over, and bake in a cool oven. Biscuits^ preserved Fruits, or Sweetmeats.