CRE 199 CRE top, and let it stand till thick, when it should be set to cool. Cream Frangaise au Caramel Anise*— Boil six ounces of sugar to caramel height, and when taken from the tire, mix it with two drachms of green, and two of starred anise. When cold, dissolve it with a glass of boiling water; add gradually the yolks of eight eggs, a quarter of a pound of sugar, four glasses of nearly boiling milk, and a grain of salt. The cream is then made according to the directions for Cacao Cream a la Frangaise. C ream Frangaise au Marasquin.*—Boil four glasses of milk, and then mix it by degrees with the yolks of eight eggs, ten ounces of sugar, and a grain of salt; put these ingredients into a saucepan over a moderate fire, stirring constantly; when it begins to simmer, strain it; add six drachms of isinglass to it: as soon as it is cold, put in half a glass qf good maras- chino, and complete the operation accord- ing to direction. See Cacao Cream a la Frangaise. You may vary this recipe, by putting in half a glass of arrack or rum, instead of the maraschino. Cream Frangaise au Parfait Amour*— Take ten ounces of lump sugar, and rasp on it the zests of two lemons and a cedrat; scrape the sugar as usual, and put into it five glasses of nearly boiling milk, with ten cloves, braised; cover it, and when nearly cold, add, a few at a time, the yolks of eight eggs, and a grain of salt. Tlncken the cream over a moderate fire, and finish it as directed. See Cacao Cream a la Frangaise. Cream Frangaise aux Quatre Zesles *— Take a piece of sugar weighingten ounces; upon which rasp, in the usual wajq the zests of a lemon, a cedrat, a sweet and a Seville orange ; infuse the scraped sugarin five glasses of nearly boiling milk; cover it, and when no more than lukewarm, pour into it by degrees the yolks of eight eggs, with a grain of salt. Finish as directed. See Cacao Cream a la Frangaise. Cream (Fried).*—Boil half a pint of milk with the peel of a lemon; put to two eggs as much flour as they will take up ; then add four more eggs, and the boiling milk without the lemon peel; mix it well that there may be no lumps ; set it over the fire, stirring it constantly ; in a quarter ol an hour add a little salt, a quarter of a pound of sugar, half an ounce of butter, and a few drops of orange-flower water; finish boiling it, and then add the yolks of four eggs, two hitter macaroons, and some marchpane crushed very small; pour this preparation on a buttered tin, spread it out for about an inch in thickness, and when cold, cut it into lozenges, circles, or such other forms as you may like better ; dip them in an omelet, cover them with bread crumbs, and fry them of a nice colour; drain them well, sprinkle powder sugar over, and serve them. Cream (Fried).*—Mix gradually into a stewpan about three spoonsful ot flour, with six eggs (the whites and yolks also), a little grated lemon peel, some dried orange flowers shred fine, a pint ol milk, a small lump of sugar, and a few grains of salt; boil the whole over a slow fire, for half an hour, keeping constantly stirring j when the cream is very thick, spread it about the thickness of half an inch upon a floured dish, and shake some flour over it; when cold, you may cut it into any form you please, and fry in a very hot pan; glaze with sugar and a salamander. Cream (Fried) d la Parisienne.*—Make your cream with the addition of six eggs, ex- actly the same as Creamau Bain-marie; when quite cold, cut it into pieces of whatever form you may choose, either round, square, oval, &c., but do not make them above two inches long, or three quarters of an inch thick. Make a batter as follows : Put three quarters of a pound of sifted flour into a pan, pour on it a little water, in which two ounces of butter have been melted:; hold the saucepan slanting, and blow the water aside, so as to pour the butter in first; then add a sufficient quantity of water to make your batter of a proper con- sistence ; when it will flow and quit the spoon readily, put in a pinch of salt, and the whites of two eggs whipped firm. Male your fryingpan quite hot, dip your cream into the batter, and fry it of a good colour; drain the pieces, sprinkle them with powder sugar, and glaze them with the salamander. Any of the flavoured creams an bain- marie, may be dressed in this manner. In- stead of frying the cream in batter as above, you may bread them as follows : Having beat half a dozen eggs, dip in them each piece of cream, drain, and then mask them with bread crumbs, grated very small; dip them a second time in egg, and bread them again, taking care to preserve the form ; fry, sprinkle with sugar, and glazo them as the first mentioned. Cream (Fried) d la PAtissiere.*—Put the yolks of six eggs, two spoonsful of