COD COD 182 melted butter, and bake it; when done, squeeze the juice of two lemons over it. Cod Pie.—Lay a tine piece of fresh cod in salt for several hours, then wash it well, season it with pepper, salt, nutmeg', and. mace ; place it in a dish, with a little but- ter and some good stock. Lay a crust over, and bake it; when done, pour in a sauce, made as follows: A spoonful of stock, a quarter of a pint of cream, flour and butter, grate in a little nutmeg and lemon peel, and a few oysters; boil the whole once. Cod in Salt Water*—The cod being properly cleansed and prepared, rub it all over with lemon juice, and put it into the fish kettle with salt and water, two or three bay leaves, an equal number of cloves of garlic, some slices of onion, parsley, and a glass of verjuice ; let it stand over the fire (taking care that it does not boil) until sufficiently done ; then drain and serve it on a napkin, garnished with parsley. Serve with it any fish sauce you think proper. Cod Sauce.—Take a bunch of parsley, chibbol, two shalots, two cloves, a bay leaf, some mushrooms, and a bit of butter; soak all together on the fire, adding a small spoonful of flour and milk or cream suffi- cient to boil to the consistence of a sauce; and add to it some chopped parsley, first scalded. Cod (Stuffed').* — Choose a fine large cod, and having cleansed and washed it, lay it an hour in salt and water; drain it, and fill the body with a farce, made of pounded whitings and anchovies; place it on a table-dish, pour over it a bottle of white wine, butter, and chopped parsley; then bake it, and when done, drain off the fat, without removing from the dish. Cover it with sauce a la Menehoult, strew bread crumbs, and a little Parmesan cheese grated over the fish, and with a feather do it over with melted butter: colour it in the oven, drain it again, clean the dish, and serve with a white sauce Italienne. Cod (Scallops of) en bonne Morue.— Work three spoonsful of bicbamelle over the fire with a good bit of butter, seasoned with pepper and salt; then put in some flakes of cold cod, stir them about in the sauce, and then let them remain in the sauco till cold. Lay some fried bread round the edge of a dish, put the flakes or scallops of cod in the centre, smooth them with a knife, strew bread crumbs over, and brown it with the snbimander. Cod a Ut Maitred’ Hotel.—Put the flakes of cod into a inuitre d hotel, season them well, and add the juice of a lemon. Serve them very hot. Cod (Scallo^is of) in a VoL au Vent.— Prepare the sauce and fish as for Bonne Morue, but not quite so thick. Place a Vol aa Vent in the table-dish, and put the cod into it ; do not, however, put it in until just as it ought to go to table. Cream, sauce may be used en maigre. Cod (Salt).*—The flesh of good salt cod is very white, and the flakes large; the skin is very dark, almost black, and before it is dressed it should be soaked in milk and water, or water alone, for several hours ; if very dry and salt, three days will not be too long. When you think the salt sufficiently soaked out, put the fish into a fish kettle with plenty of cold water, set it on the fire; when nearly boiling, skim it, and let it simmer gently till done. Serve with it egg sauce, and garnish your dish -with parsnips. To make the follow- ing dishes, the fish should be previously parboiled. Cod (Salt) a VAnglaise*—Cut the fish, in pieces, and put it in a stewpan, with melted butter, and a glass of broth maigre,. cover it close, and let it stew. Melt some butter in au equal quantity of cream, add nutmeg gTated, and when well mixed to- gether, put it into your dish with the cod over it. Cod (Salt) au Beurre.*—Roll a piece of butter in a little flour and powder sugar, and brown it; do some sliced onions in this; when they are a proper colour, add a spoonful of vinegar to them ; boil up the whole once, and pour it on some flakes of boiled salt cod. Garnish with fried par- sley. Cod (Salt) tit Black Butter.*—Boil and ! drain the fish, put it on the dish for table, with half a glass of vinegar, the same of broth, and some coarse pepper, place your dish over the fire, and let it boil for seven or eight minutes, and serve it with black I butter poured over it. Cod (Salt) a la Bonne Femme—Is pre* pared in the same way as n la maitre d’hote/, with tbe addition of potatoes: boil and let them stand till cold ; then cut them into slices, the size and thickness of a half- crown ; do them in the sauce with the fish. Cod (Salt) a la Bordelaise.*■—lake an earthen dish that will bear the fire.and put into it some olive oil, butter, a couple ol anchovies, parsley, scallions, shalots, an garlic, nil chopped small, and two or tlrree ’ slices of lemon; put it on tbe fire, and