PIG PIG 420 ful of flour; stir it well, and then addhalf- a glass of vinegar, a glass of stock, salt and pepper ; give the whole a few boils, then pour it over the ears, fry them lightly; and when done, lay them on a dish, with fried bread round. Pig’s Ears (Broiled).*—Having slightly salted the ears, boil them in some good stock, with salt, pepper, coriander, tar- ragon, streaky bacon, and half a glass of white wine ; when done, split them in two, towards the thick part; rub them lightly with some of their own fat, bread them all over, and colour them on the gridiron. Pig’s Ears (Cake of).*—Take fifteen or eighteen pigs’ ears, and having singed and cleansed them thoroughly, cut them in halves, and put them into a pan with some sward of bacon, clear salted water, juniper, coriander, bay leaf, cloves, thyme, salt- petre ; cover the pan with a cloth, garlic, basil, sage, and lay another pan on the top, leave them in this for eight or ten days; then drain, and put them into a braising pan, with water, a bottle of white wine, and a glass ofbrandy, and simmerthem; in about five hours take them off the fire; when nearly cold, drain and arrange the ears in layers, in a well-tinned mould, alternately with pieces of tongue a Vicariate; when full, cover, and put a weight on it; keep the mould as even as possible, let it cool, turn it out and serve the cake with jelly. Pig’s Ears a la Lyonnaise*—Take some braised pig’s ears, and having cut them into pieces, put them into a pan with a few chopped onions (previously tossed up in a little butter), add a small quantity of flour, and a glass of stock; reduce it, and serve with vinegar and lemon juice. Pig’s Ears with a Puree of Lentils*— Put rather more than a pint of lentils into a stewpan; lav on them some pig’s ears, two carrots, three onions, one of them stuck with two cloves, two bay leaves, and some salt; when the ears are done, take them out, and put them into a saucepan with a little broth, and keep them hot; put the lentils into a sieve, and rub them through with a wooden spoon; if the jmrie be too thick or dry, add some stock, set it again on the fire, and reduce it. Drain the ears, lay them on a dish, and cover them completely with the puree. Pio-’g ears may bo dressed like this, with any other kind of puree you may like better. Pig’s Ears (Slufed and Roasted).*— Make a farce of streaky bacon, veal, poul- try, or game, minced, sweet herbs shred small, bread soaked in cream, salt, and spices ; with this farce stuff as many half* boiled pig’s ears as you may require ; take an equal number of large slices of bacon, spread a layer of the farce over each, and tie an ear in every slice ; cover them well with bread crumbs, fasten them on a spit, and roast them before a slow fire, basting with their own gravy. Pig’s Ears a la Venitienne.*—Boil the ears in some stock, with a couple of sprigs either of sage or tarragon; when quite cold, rub them with lard; cover them completely' with bread crumbs and grated Parmesan cheese, and bake them. Pig’s Ears in various Ways.—Rub the ears daily with the following mixture : salt, bay leaves, basil, and cloves, all pounded together; in four or five days boil them thoroughly*, either in water alone, or with green or dried peas; serve the ears with a puree of peas, or sauce Robert. They are also sometimes cut in small pieces, and broiled or fried according to your taste. Pig’s Feet and Ears ( Erica seed).—If they are to be dressed with cream, no vinegar should be put into the pickle. Cut the feet and ears into neat bits, and boil them in a little milk; then pour that from them, and simmer in a little veal broth, with a bit of onion, mace, and lemon peel. Be- fore serving, add a little cream, flour, but- ter, and salt. Pig’s Feet Jelly.—Clean and prepare them the same as for fricaseeing, then boil them in a very small quantity of water till every bone can be taken out; throw in a handful of chopped sage, and a handful of chopped parsley*, and a seasoning of pep- per, salt, and mace, in fine powder ; simmer till the herbs are scalded, then pour the whole into a melon form. Pig’s Feet a la Ste. Menehould.*—Cut some pig’s feet in halves, mid having tied them up, that their form may be preserved, put them into a saucepan, with thyme, hay-leaf, carrots, onions, cloves, parsley, scallions, a little brine, half a bottle of white wine, two ladiesful of broth or wa- ter (they* require a great deal of liquid, as they ought to be a long time on the fire) ; some bits of any kind of meat may also be added. When the feet have simmered for six hours, leave them to cool in the liquor, untie them carefully; the next day dip them into melted butter, season with pep- per, cover completely with bread crumbs, and broil them slowly. Serve them with- out any sauce. Pig’s Feet and Ears (Pickled).—Mash the feet and ears very clean, and between