151 CIIE CHE Second way*—Take tlie stones and stalks from the quantity of cherries you intend to use, and put a few raspberries with them; bruise and put them into a jar, and let them stand for four or five days. Stirring the pulp two or three times each day ; then press out all the juice, measure it, and to every three pints of it put a quart of brandy: and to these five pints, add three handsful of the kernels pounded, and a pound and a quarter of sugar. In- fuse in the same jar a handful of coriander, and a little cinnamon. Let it stand for seven or eight days, stirring it every clay, then filter and- put it iuto bottles; cork them well. Cherries (Sprupof).*—The best cher- ries for this purpose are the black sour ones ; take out the stones and express the juice into an earthen pan, where it must stand in a cool place for twenty-four hours to clear: at the end of that time pour the juice gently into a pan, and add to it, for each pound of juice, two pounds of crushed sugar, and two drachms of cinnamon, pre- viously infused in a glass of water, wrap the cinnamon in a piece of linen, and put It with the water into your pan; boil all to- gether for half an hour, skimming it care- fully. When sufficiently done, take out the cinnamon ; strain the syrup till quite clear, and when cold bottle it. Cherries for Tarts.-—Prick some Mo- relia cherries with a needle, each three or four times, and let them stand in a dish with powder sugar sifted over them. The next day boil some sugar to a syrup, and whilst hot, put the fruit into it, and when they have remained in it twenty-four hours, take them out and boil the syrup again until very thick, then put in a little bran- dy, and add the cherries. When cold, put them into glasses. Keep them in a cool place. Cherry Tart.—Make a good crust, and lay it round the sides of a dish, strew in 6ugar, put in your fruit picked, and sugar at the top ; red currants may be added if agreeable, cover with crust and bake. Another.—Make a compote of cherries, either with or without stoning, and half •the quantity of sugar used for preserving. When done, lay it in a puff paste ; cover it with the same or not, according to your fancy, and bake just time enough to co- lour your paste. This must be eaten cold. Cherry Tartlets.*—Take the stones and stalks from a pound and a half of sweet cherries, and give them a few boils in a quarter of a pound of powder sugar, but no water. Prepare your tartlets in the usual way, (see Tartlets), and (having drained the fruit, put them in, and mask the tartlets with the syrup reduced. Cherries ere Timbule.—Take the stones very carefully from two pounds of good, red, fleshy cherries, add to them the ker- nels, and put them with some clarified sugar into a sugar-pan, and boil them gently till pretty thick; then put them into a basin, and mix them with the juice of two lemons, and a little clarified isin- glass; set this on ice, and just before you serve it, put it into a timbale paste previ- ously prepared. Cherry Water.—'Take one pound of Kentish cherries, pound them in a mortar so as to break the kernels of them ; take the cherries and kernels, put them into a basin, and add four gills of syrup ; squeeze four lemons in, and add a suffi- cient quantity of water; make it to your taste; pass it through a sieve, and it will be fit for use. Cherry Water.—Put to two quarts of claret four pounds of ripe black cherries bruised ; add to them angelica, balm, and carduces, of each a handful, half the same q'uantity of mint, double of rose- mary flowers, and treble of clove gilly- flowers, two ounces of cinnamon, and one ounce of nutmeg, both cut small ; put these ingredients into a deep vessel, stir them well, and cover the vessel quite close; and when it has stood twenty- four hours, distil it; then drawoft as much as runs clear. Sweeten witli sugarcandy. Cherry Water.*—Take the stalks and stones from two pounds of very ripe cher- ries, crush them in an earthen pan, with half a pint of water ; then put them into a fine sieve, and let them drain. With the liquids mix up eight ounces of sugar ; beat it up well witli a spoon, and put it into bottles, which must be placed in iced water. Cherry Wine.*—To make five pints of this wine, take fifteen pounds of cherries, and two of currants, bruise them together ; mix with them two thirds of the kernels, and put the whole (the cherries, currants, and kernels) into a barrel, with a quarter of a pound of sugar to every pint of juice. The barrel must be quite full; cover the barrel with vine leaves, and sand above them, and let it stand till it has done working, which will be in about three weeks ; then stop it with a bung, and in two months time it may be bottled.