cou 192 COW your mould in a warm, but not in a hot place, that the cake may rise properly; and when that operation has taken place, put it into a moderate oven, which should be kept closed; in an hour’s time look at the CouglauJJle, and if it be flexible, and of a light colour, let it remain thirty or forty minutes longer; hut if it he firm and red it is sufficiently done ; when taken from the mould, put it into the oven again for a few minutes. Couglauffles (Small).*—To make a dozen small couglauffles, take three quar- ters of a pound of flour, three drachms of yeast, two of salt, two whole eggs, three yolks, two ounces of sugar, a little cream, and half a pound of butter. The prepara- tion is made the same as the German Coug- lauffle. When the paste is made, divide it into twelve equal parts ; butter a dozen email biscuit moulds, and fill each with your preparation, and let them stand : when risen so as to fill the moulds, put them into a brisk oven, and take them out as soon as they are of a light colour. COUQUES.*—Put into a saucepan the yolks of sixteen eggs, the rinds of two lemons, half an ounce of salt, and two ounces of sugar; on these pour a pint of boiling cream, stirring it quick; set it on the fire, hut do not let it boil, strain it through a bolting, and then let it cool; take two pounds of flour, and make a quarter of it into leaven with half an ounce of yeast and a little warm water, keep it rather moist, and put it into a warm place to rise : in the mean time, make the remainder of the flour into a paste, with the cream and a quarter of a pound of butter, knead it up five or six times; then put in the leaven, and knead it again twice; tie it up in a floured cloth, and set it in a warm place. In about two hours take it out, and cut the paste in pieces the size of an egg, form them to that shape, and lay them on a baking-tin, and leave them for half an hour to rise, then dorez and hake them in a hot oven ; when done, open each on one side, take out a little of the crumb, in the placo of which put a hit of butter worked up with a little salt, and serve them. COURT BOUILLON.*—Cut a proper quantity of carrots, onions, celery, and tur- nips, and put them into a saucepan with butter, parsley, garlic, thyme, basil, salt, a •mignonette, and cloves; sweat them over a gentle fire; add white wine vinegar or verjuice; boil, and then strain it, and serve it with whatever you may require it for. It is generally usod for fish. Court Bouillon for all sorts of Fresh- water Fish*—Put some water into a fish- kettle, with a quart of white wine, a slice of butter, salt, pepper, a large bunch of parsley and young onions, a clove of garlic, thyme, hay leaves, and basil, all tied to- gether, some sliced onions and some car- rots; boil the fish in this court bouillon, (which will serve for 'several times) and do not scale it; when the fish will admit of it, take care to boil it wrapped in a napkin, which makes it more easy to take out with- out danger of breaking. CO WHEEL (Boiled).—Boil a cow- heel very gently in a large saucepan of soft wrater, with nearly a quart of milk, some salt, and four or five large onions ; when very tender the cowheel will he dona enough. Serve with the onions. Cowheel Soup.—Take six pounds of mutton, five pounds of beef, and four of veal, the coarsest pieces will do; cut them across with a knife ; put them into a pot with an old fowl heat to pieces, and the knuckle part of a ham : let these stew, without any liquor, over a very slow fire, but take care it does not burn to the pot; when it begins to stick to the bottom, stir it about, and then put in some good beef broth that has been well skimmed from the fat; put in some turnips, carrots and ce- lery cut small, a bunch of sweet herbs and a bay leaf, add some clear broth, and let it stew about an hour; while this is doing, take a cowheel, split it, and set it on to boil in some of the same broth ; when it is very tender, take it off, and set on a stew- pan with some crusts of bread, and some more broth ; let them soak for eight or ten minutes; when the soup is stewed enough, lay the crust in a tureen, the two halves of the cowheel upon them, and then pour on the soup, which will be very rich and good. COW’S UDDER, and Verjuice Sauce. ■ Cut the udder in pieces, and put it into a 6tewpan, with chopped parsley, chihhol, mushrooms, a clove of garlic, and butter ; let it catch; then add a glass of white wine, broth, pepper, and salt; simmer it to a thick sauce; then make a liaison with the yolks of two eggs and broth ; when ready add a spoonful of verjuice or lemon. COWSLIP Pudding.—Get the flowers of a peck of cowslips, cut, and pound them small, with half a pound of Naples biscuits grated, and three pints of cream. Boil them a little, then take them off the fire, and heat up sixteen eggs with a little cream and rose water. Sweeten to your