248 FIL FIG In general with all sorts of fruit used in confectionary ; also with the syrups of liquid preserves, mixing some of the liquor with water and sugar, sufficient to make it palatable. You may either ice it or not, according as you think proper. FIELDFARES (Roasted).—When they are picked and drawn, lard them with bacon, put a paper round them, and lay them at a distance from the fire ; when they are nearly done, take off the paper, and let them finish, to he of a nice brown ; then serve with gravy or melted butter for sauce. FIGS (to keep) all the Year Jit for Use.— Put some figs in a large eartheu jar, with a layer of their own leaves between them; then boil some water and honey, skimming it well (be careful not to make it too thick of the honey), and pour it over the figs; then stop the jar very close. When you take out tire figs for use, soak them for two hours in warm water. Figs (Preserved).*—Take some half-ripe figs, prick them near the stalks, and blanch them ; when half cold, throw them into cold water, and then drain them, Boil some clarified sugar to perle, put iu the figs, and give them three or four boils with the pan covered close ; then take them from the fire, skim them well, and having poured the whole into a pan, set it in a stove for the night. The next day drain off the syrup (without removing the fruit), boil it up ten or a dozen times, and then pour it on them when no more than lukewarm; on the ensuing day, having drained off the syrup, boil it to grand, perle; then add the figs, cover the pre- serving-pan close, boil them up once, skim it well, and put it into the pots, &c. for use. Figs (to preserve Green). — Slit some small green figs on the top, and put them into water for ten days, and proceed thus: Put ns much salt into the water as will make it bear an egg ; then let it settle, take off the scum, and put the clear brine to the figs ; keep them in water for ten days, then put them into fresh water; let them boil till you can easily pass a pin into them ; drain them and put them into other fresh water, shifting them every day for four days ; ngain drain them, put them into clarified sugar, warm them a little, and leavo them to stand till the noxt day ; warm them again, and when they are become green, give them a good boil; then boil some sugar to blow, put it to them, and give them another boil; th® next day drain and dry them. Figs (to preserve Ripe). — Take the white figs when ripe, slit them in the tops, put them into clarified sugar, and give them a good boil; skim them, and leave them to stand till the next day; then boil some more sugar an soufU, put it to the figs, and give them another boil; the next day drain and dry them. FILBERT Biscuits.—Take some Bar- celona filbert nuts, and put them in a mortar to break their shells; pick all the shells from them clean, pound them in a mortar very fine, and mix whites of eggs with them ; take care they do not oil ; mix three pounds of powdered sugar, with the nuts and whites of eggs, to a proper thickness: let your oven be of a moderate heat, then with the spaddle and knife, drop small pieces, about half as big as a nutmeg; put turn or three sheets of paper under them, let them bake of a fine brown, and all alike; and let them be cold before you take them off the paper. Filbert Biscuits.*—-Take half a pound of filberts, an ounce of bitter almonds, the whites of six, and the yolks of three eggs, an ounce of flour, and half a pound of sugar; blanch and pound the filberts and almonds, adding, occasionally, a little white of egg to prevent their oiling. Beat the whites to a snow, then the yolks, mix tlie latter with half the sugar; beat them well, and having mixed the other ingredients together put them into a sieve, and whilst you are beating, sift them into the whites; when all are thoroughly incorporated, pour the pre- paration into paper cases, and bake them in a moderate oven. A little grated lemon peel, or any other aromatic ingre- dient added to the yolks, greatly improves these biscuits. Filbert Blancmange*—Blanch a pound of filberts, and lay half of them in cold water for two hours ; put the other half pound into a pan over a moderate fire, stirring them constantly with a silver spoon, till they are of a clear yellow, then remove them from the fire, and let them cool; then pound them, adding occasion- ally a little water to prevent their oiling. When well pounded, take them from the mortar, and put them into a pan, with two glasses and a half of water; press the whole through a napkin to extract the milk ; to which put an ounce of sugar; as soon as the latter is dissolved, press it a second time through a napkin, and add