FIS 353 PIS very small, a little nutmeg and salt; soak the scallops in this, and place them one by one within the pule cliaud (see that article), pour over them the butter that remains, two hay leaves, and cover the whole with slices of bacon. Finish the pute according to rule, and hake it an hour and a quarter in a brisk oven. When done, garnish it with carp roes, crayfish tails, oysters, mushrooms, arti- choke bottoms and truffles, and a good espugnole or tomata sauce. Fish Pie.—Clean and cut fresh salmon, cod, turbot, soles, sturgeon, or haddocks, into moderate-sized pieces; then roll them into a mixture made of parsley, thyme, and shalots, chopped fine, some beaten spices, powder of mushrooms or truffles, pepper, and salt; put them into a deep dish with some light forcemeat round ; cover with puff paste; egg and ornament the top with leaves of paste, bake it till the fish is perfectly done; ■and a quarter of an hour before it is sent to table, put in some good strong cullis, with a little Madeira added to it. Fish Pie.—Take any sort of fish you please, either eel, pike, salmon, tench, &c., and scale it, and cut it into pieces; then line a pie-dish with crust, and put tbe fish into it, with a bunch of sweet herbs, some salt, and bruised spices, and a layer of butter at the top ; after this put on the top, and let it bake for an hour and a half. When done, take off tbe fat, and put in a good vegetable ragout made in the following manner : Stir a little flour with butter over tbe fire till it is of a fine cinnamon colour; moisten with half a pint of white wine, some soup maigre or warm water, and add mushrooms, a bunch of herbs, and a little salt, let the hi whole boil half an hour, and then add the soft roes of carp, parboiled; let them stew a quarter of an hour, and then put the ragout into the pies. Any sort of vegetable ragout may be made use of, in- stead of the above in these pies, such as of truffles, mushrooms, morels, or heads of asparagus. Fish Maigre Pie.—Bone and cut into pieces a carp; make it into forcemeat 9 with some of the roe, parsley, thyme, shalots chopped very fine, a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, salt, a little pound- ed spice, half a pint of cream, four eggs, 5 and the crumb of a French roll. After- wards take pieces of eel, salmon and skate, | pass them with sweot herbs, pepper, salt, lemon juice, and a bit of butter. W hen they are cold, put some of the forcemeat at the bottom of a deep dish, and mix with the fish some stewed mushrooms, the very smallest onions, truffles and morels blanched, and the roe cut into pieces, and put them into the dish with more forcemeat round the top; then cover with puff paste, ornament with leaves of paste, egg it, and bake it. When it is to be served to table, cut a small hole in the centre of the top, and pour in some good cullis. Fish (Salt).—Salted fish requires soak- ing, according to the time it has been in salt; that which is hard and dry, requires twro nights’ soaking, changing the water two or three times ; the intermediate time lay it on a stone floor ; Barreled Cod re- quires less soaking; and for the best 1logger Bank Split Fish, which has not been in salt more than a fortnight or three wTeeks, still less soaking will be necessary. Fish Sauce.—Take some mutton or veal gravy, and put to it a little of the liquor that drains from your fish. Put it into a saucepan, with an onion, an anchovy, a spoonful of ketchup, and a glass of white wine. Thicken it with a bit of butter rolled in flour, and a spoonful of cream. If you cannot procure cream, instead); white wine you must use red. Fish Sauce (to keep) a Year.*—Take forty anchovies, chop them up, bones and all, put to them ten shalots cut small, a hand- ful of scraped horseradish, a quarter of an ounce of maca, a quart of white wine, a pint of water, one lemon cut in slices, half a pint of anchovy liquor, a pint of red wine, twelve cloves, and twelve peppercorns. Boil the whole together till it is reduced to a quart; then strain it, put it into a bottle; and cork it close ; keep it in a cold dry place. One tea-spoonful will be sufficient for half a pound of butter. Warm the sauce first, and then put the butter in to melt, with a little flour. Fish Sauce without Butter.—Let a quar- ter of a pint of vinegar, and half a pint of water (the water must not be hard) simmer Very gently, with an onion, half a handful of horseradish, four cloves, two blades of mace; and half a tea-spoonful of black pepper, these spices should be slightly bruised. When the onion is quite tender, chop it small with a couple of anchovies, and set the whole to boil for a few minutes, with a spoonful of ketchup. In tbe mean time, have ready and woll beaten, tbe yolks of three fresh eggs ; strain them, mix the liquor by degrees with them, and when