293 IIAR IIAM brown. In the mean while, take the fat from the gravy, thicken it with the yolk of an egg, add to it half a dozen hard eggs chopped small, and some pickled cucum- bers cut very thin; pour this sauce into a dish, place the ham in it, and serve. 11 Am Ragout, with Sweet Sauce*—Toss up a few slices of ham in a saucepan ; make a sauce of red wine, white pepper, a macaroon, cinnamon, and sugar, all pounded ; put the ham to this, squeeze in the juice of an orange, and serve it up. Haji Rousted with Madeira.*-—Take a fine Westphalia or Bayonne ham, pare and trim it of as round a form as possible ; take off the end hone, and remove the rine from the knuckle ; then lay the ham on a gridiron over the fire, till you can take it up with ease ; soak it, if necessary, and put it in a pan, with slices of carrots and onions, thyme, bay leaf, and coriander; pour a bottle of Madeira or Xeres upon it, ■cover it with a clean cloth, and close the pan as tight as possible, and let it remain twenty-four hours ; then wrap the ham in very thick paper, fasten it with paste, so that it may be completely enclosed, tie it on a spit, and put it to roast for three hours; then make a small hole in the paper, and pour in, by means of a funnel, the Madeira wine, paste paper oyer the hole, and let it roast another hour. When done, take off the paper carefully, so that none of the gravy may escape, mix it with some reduced espagnole, glaze the ham, and serve it. Ham Roll.—Make a farce with some ham fat and sweet herbs, chopped very fine; cut several thin slices of ready boiled or roasted Westphalia ham; have ready some French roll dough, take a piece of it, flatten it with your hand to the size you want it, lay a slice of ham on it (so as to cover it), spread some farce over the ham, and on that a piece of dough battened as before, then ham, farce, and dough again, and so on alternately, till the roll is as largo as you wish it to’be ; then cover the whole with dough, bake it in a moderate oven. Do not cut it till cold. Ham Sauce.—When a ham is almost done with, pick all the meat that remains from (lie hone, leaving out any rusty part; beat the meat and the bone to a mash, with a rolling pin; put it into a saucepan, with three spoonsful of gravy ; set it over a slow fire, and keep stirring it all the time, to prevent its sticking to the bottom. When it has been on some time, put to it a small bundle of sweet herbs', some pepper, andlmlfapintof veal gravy ; cover it up, and let it stew over a gentle fire. When it has a good flavour of the herbs, strain oft' the gravy. A little of this is an improvement to all gravies. Ham and Spinach.*—Take a ham dressed as directed an naturel, put it on a sheet of paper, and place it in a saucepan sufficiently large for it to go in with ease, and simmer it for two hours with the following ingre- dients : Two carrots, two onions, garlic, bay leaf, thyme and parsley (all shred very small, and previously wanned up in but- ter), a bottle of white wine, and a spoonful of consomme; when these are half done, strain the liquor over your ham, cover the saucepan, put fire on the lid, and let it simmer as above mentioned. When done, glaze it several times lightly. Take some very green spinach, tossed up in butter, with salt, nutmeg, and two spoonsful of reduced espagnole, and a little of the ham. liquor ; lay the spinach thus prepared ou a large dish, drain the ham, and slide it on the dish gentty; put a paper as usual round the knuckle and preserve it. Ham Toast*—Cut some crumb of bread into thin slices ; then take an equal number of thin slices of ham, beat them well with a rolling pin, and then soak them in warm water for about two hours ; take them out, dry them well, and put them into a sauce- pan with a little bacon, a slice of veal, and half a glass of stock ; let them boil for half an hour, and then add half a glass of veal blond. Fry your bread to a nice colour in some lard ; lay it on a dish, and on each piece lay a slice of the ham; pour the sauce overtliem. Take particular care to cut the ham as nearly as possible the size and shape of the bread. Ham (Westphalia).*—Hub your ham well with four ounces of pounded saltpetre; and let it lay; the next day boil a quart of the strongest stale beer, with bay salt, common salt, and brown sugar, of each half a pound ; pour it, whilst hot, on the ham, rubbing it all over thoroughly. Rub it in the same manner twice every day for a fortnight, turning it once a day. At the end of that time take out your ham, and hang it pretty high in the chimney, with a fire made of sawdust and horse litter (fresh every day), for three days and as many nights : after which, hang them over a baker’s oven, or in any other dry place where there is the smoke front wood fire. Be sure you fill the hock-bono with salt. 11ARE,—Tins animal should be kept