ASP ASP 35 any other sauce you please, white or brown. ASPARAGUS boiled.—Scrape and tie them in small bundles; cut them even, boil them quick in salt and water; lay them on a toast dipped in the water the asparagus was boiled in; pour over them melted butter, or oil, pepper, &c. Asparagus bottled.*—Clean the as- paragus as for boiling. Before you bottle them plunge them first into boiling, then into cold water; place those which are unbroken carefully into bottles, the heads downwards, proceed in the same manner as in doing the artichokes. Asparagus in Cream*—Choose the finest asparagus, and dress it as usual; parboil half a pint of cream and a little butter and flour, shake it about, and when the butter is melted, season it moderately, and pour it over the asparagus. Asparagus en Croustade.*—Mix up the yolks of four eggs in some paste a, nouille, then form it into an under crust, cut it into a band nineteen inches long, and two inches and a quarter wide. With the cuttings of your paste form a round ten inches in diameter, and around this put your band in form of a croustade, pinch up your paste into proper shape, and ornament it lightly round ; dores and put it to dry in a slow oventhis done, take a fine head of as- paragus and place it, standing upright, in the middle of your croustade, surround this with six more heads of asparagus nine inches in length, surround these with twelve more, eight inches in length ; round these put seventeen more, seven inches in length; add two more rounds of as- paragus heads, the one six inches, and the other five inches in length. Great attention should be paid to the boiling of asparagus for this entremet, as it should be of a very nice green colour, and the moment it is sufficiently boiled it should be put into cold water to cool it. Tliis is an extremely pretty and ornamental way of serving this vegetable cold. It should be eaten with oil. Asparagus and Eggs.—Toast a slice of bread, butter it, and lay it on a dish; butter some eggs thus : Take four eggs, beat them well, put them into a sauce- pan with two ounces of butter, and a little salt, until of a sufficient consistence, and lay them on the toast; meanwhile boil some asparagus tender, cut the ends small, and lay them on the eggs. Asparaous and Eggs.*—Blanch some asparagus; cut it as for asparagus pease, and stew it in a little cream and butter; beat up a dozen eggs and fry them as for an omelet; and when they begin to set, mix the asparagus in it; when of a good colour on both sides, serve it very hot. Asparagus Fritada.*—Take young as- paragus, break oil' the green heads, boil them till tender, then drain on a sieve. Beat up eggs, pepper, and salt; stir up the asparagus in the eggs, and fry in frit- ters. Do them in oil. Asparagus forced in French rolls.—Take out the crumb of three French rolls, by first cutting a piece of the top crust off, and be careful that the crust fits again the same place. Fry the rolls brown in fresh butter; then take a pint of cream, the yolks of six eggs beat fine, a little salt and nutmeg; stir them well together over a slow fire till it begins to thicken. Have prepared a hundred of small grass boiled, then save tops sufficient to stick the rolls with, the remainder cut small and put into the cream, fill the loaves with them. Be- fore frying the rolls make holes thick in the top crust, and stick the grass in ; then lay on the piece of crust, and stick the grass in, that it may look as if it were growing. Asparagus Italian fashion.—Take the asparagus, break the tops in pieces, then boil them soft, and drain the water from them; take a little oil, water, and vinegar, let it boil, season it with pepper and salt; throw in the asparagus, and thicken with the yolks of eggs. Endive done this way is good ; the Spaniards add sugar, but that spoils them. Green pease done as above are very good ; only add a lettuce cut small, and two or three onions, and leave out the eggs. Asparacus Pease.*—Cut some asparagus to the form and size of pease, blanch them in boiling water, then put them into a stewpan with melted butter, parsley, scal- lions, and tarragon; moisten them with a little cream, add some sugar, and thicken it with the yolks of eggs. Asparagus pickled.—Cut and wash the green heads of the largest asparagus ; let them lie two or three hours in cold water. Scald them very carefully in salt and water, then lay them on a cloth to cool. Make a pickle according to the quantity of your asparagus, of white wine vinegar and bay salt, and boil it. To a gallon of pickle put two nutmegs, a quarter of an ounce of mace, the same of whole white pepper, and pour the pickle hot over them, Cover the jar with a thick cloth, and let n 3