FRU 268 FRY tered slab, anil proceed in the same way with the remainder of the fruit until as many are done as are required; when all are done and cold, take out the twigs, and wrap each fruit in paper, with a device as usual. As this operation cannot he performed too quickly, it would he advisable to have two or more persons to do them. Fruit to prepare for Children.-—Put ap- ples sliced, or plums, currants, gooseber- ries, &c. into a stone jar, and sprinkle as much Lisbon sugar as necessary among them; place the jar on a hot hearth, or in a saucepan of water, and let it remain till the fruit is perfectly done. Slices of bread or rice may be stewed with the fruit, or the fruit may be eaten with slices of dry bread, or with rice, plainboiled. Fhuits (Conserve of Four).* — Take a pound of each of the following fruits :— Currants, strawberries, cherries, and rasp- berries ; press the juice from them, strain it, and set it over a moderate fire till re- duced to half the quantity. Dissolve twelve pounds of sugar, skim it well, and then boil it to casse; take it from the fire, add the juice, and replace it; let it boil once only, then stir it till the sugar bub- bles. Have your cases or moulds ready, and pour the conserve into them. Fruit in Jelly.-—Have in readiness a plain mould, either long or round, about three inches deep; then have ready some mould jelly, and spread it at the bottom of the mould, about a quarter of an inch thick; let it be cold; then put in ripe peaches, grapes, or any sort of ripe fruit you please, preserved fruit, or China oranges cut into quarters, or whatever shape you choose; put in a little warm jelly, and let it stand till it is cold, to fasten the fruit in its place, otherwise it will rise up; then fill the mould up with warm jelly, let it stand till it is quite cold, then turn it into a dish, and garnish it according to your own taste. Fruit (Remarks on using Preserved').— Preserved fruits should not be baked long ; those that have been preserved with their full proportion of sugar, require no baking ; the crust should be baked in a tin shape, and the fruit be afterwards added ; or it may be put into a small dish or tart-pans, and tho covers be baked on a tin cut out according to your taste. Fruit ( Preserved Biscuits of L -Take dried preserved fruits, such ns apricots, verjuice, grapes, plums, oranges, and a littie orange-flower marmalade; pound them together, and sift in a sieve ; then mix with it yolks of new laid eggs, and fine powder sugar, until it comes to a supple paste, not too liquid; then bake them on paper in a moderate oven. Fruits (to Green) for preserving or pickling.—'Take pippins, apricots, pears, plums, peaches, while green, for the first, or radish pods and French beans for the latter, and cucumbers for both processes, and put them, with vine leaves under and over, in a block-tin preserving-pan, with spring water to cover them, and then put on the tin cover to exclude all air ; set it on the side of a fire, and when they begin to simmer, take them off, pour off the water, and if not green, put fresh leaves when cold, and repeat the same. Take them out carefully with a slice ; they are to be peeled, and then done according to the receipts for the several modes. Fruit to preserve for Tarts or Family Desserts.—Cherries, plums of all sorts, and American apples, gather when ripe, and lay them in small jars that will hold a pound; strew over each jar six ounces of good loaf sugar pounded ; cover with two bladders each, separately tied down ; then put the jars up to the neck in a large stewpan of water, and let it boil gently for three hours. All sorts of fruit should be kept free from damp. Fruit Pudding (Baked).—Rub goose- berries, or any other fruit, through a hair sieve ; and to half a pint of the fine pulp, add a quarter of a pound of Naples bis- cuits, three ounces of oiled fresh butter, half a pint of cream, grated nutmeg, sugar according to taste, and six eggs. Beat all these ingredients together for ten minutes; then add slices of citron, and bake the mixture in a dish with puff paste round the rim. Fruit (Tart of Pipe).—Take either cherries, currants, apples, &c. and stew them till they are half done in a good syrup, with a little brandy mixed with it. \Vhen they are cold, line a dish with crisp tart paste; put the frait into it, and round the edge a rim of puff paste, two inches broad, and in the centre, upon the fruit, a small ornament cut out of put! paste. Put it to bake in a moderately heated oven. FRYING.—Frying, though one of the most common culinary occupations, is one of those that is very seldom properly at- tended to, and consequently rarely well performed. The fire for frying should be kept sharp and cleur—to keep the melted fat at a sum-