CIT 177 CIT when a little cool, rub the sugar against the side of the preserving-pan with the back of a spoon; as soon as it becomes white, take out the rings with a fork very carefully, one by one, and lay them on a wire grate to drain : boil and proceed with the fagots in a similar way; when taken out, cut them into proper lengths witli a pair of scissars, and lay them also on the wire to drain. Citron Cheesecakes.—Boil a pint of cream, and when cold, mix with it two eggs well beaten ; then boil them together until they become a curd. Beat a few blanched almonds in a mortar, with a little orange-flower water ; put them to the curd, and add some Naples biscuits and green citron, chopped very small. Sweeten, and bake in tins. Citron Cream.—Boil a pint of cream with half an ounce of isinglass, a little cin- namon and lemon peel, and a bay leaf; when the isinglass is dissolved, strain the cream into a deep dish ; cut citron into thin slices, and put them in when the cream is nearly cold ; take care the citron does not fall to the bottom, though the cream should cover it. Serve it quite cold. Citron ( Mock').—Cut them long ways into quarters ; scrape out the seeds and in- side ; preserve and candy them. Care must be taken of all fruit kept in syrup ; if there is any froth on them, they must be boiled up, aud if they are very frothy and sour, the syrup must be first boiled, and then put in the fruit, and boil all together. Citron Paste.—Cut off the ends of the citrons, take out the middle, with all the seeds ; boil them in some water; and when quite tender, take them from the fire, and throw them into cold water for a moment; then, having pressed them in a cloth to get the water out, pound and sift them ; to every quarter of a pound of this mar- malade put half a pound of clarified su- gar; simmer them together, stirring con- stantly until well mixed ; then put them into moulds and place them in a stove to dry. Citron (White) 'preserved,—Lay some white citrons, cut into pieces, in salt and water for four or five hours; then, having washed them in cold water, hoil them ; when tender, drain, and lay them into as much clarified sugar as will cover them. The next day drain off the syrup, and boil it; when quite smooth and cold, pour it on the citrons ; let them stand twenty- four hours; then boil the syrup again, and put in the citrons. The third day, hoil both together, and put them into moulds to candy. Citron preserved Liquid.*—Cut a slit in the sides of some small citrons, so that the inside may take the sugar as well as the outside, and put them over the fire in some water; whenever they are near boiling, put cold water to them. As soon as the citrons rise to the top, take them out, and tlirow them into cold water. They must then be put on the fire again, in the same water, and boiled gently until tender; then take them out, and put them in cold water. After this, boil them seven or eight times in clarified sugar ; pour the whole into an earthen pan, and let it stand. The next day drain the fruit, and boil up the syrup twenty or thirty times ; add a little more sugar, and pour it over the citrons ; do this for three successive days, increasing the degree to which you boil the sugar daily, so that at the last boiling the degree may be au per 16. The fruit may then be put into pots. To preserve them dry, they must be done exactly the same; only, instead of putting the fruit into pots, they should be dried on sieves in a stove. With the remaining sugar the citrons may be glazed. Citron Pudding.—Mix together a pint of cream and the yolks of six eggs; add to this four ounces of fine sugar, the same of citron, shred fine, two spoonsful of flour, and a little nutmeg; place this mixture in a deep dish, bake it in a hot oven, and turn it out. Citron Puddings.—The yolks of three eggs beaten, half a pint of cream, one spoonful of flour, two ounces of citron cut thin; sugar to the taste; put this into large cups buttered; bake them in a to- lerably quick oven ; when done, turn them out of the cups, and serve. Citron Patufa*—Pare seven or ei°*ht citrons very thin ; cut the peel into small pieces, and put them into ajar, with three pints of brandy, and let them infuse for three weeks ; then add to this a pound of sugar, boiled in half a pint of water, and well skimmed ; let it stand twelve or fif- teen days longer, when it may be bottled. Citron (Syrup of).—Put into a china bowl alternate layers of fine powder sugar, and citron, pared, and cut in very thin slices, nnd let them stand till the next day ; then strain of}’ the syrup, and clarify it over a gentle fire. Citron (Syrup of)*—Put the rinds of N