MAR MAR 344 the paste into a large preserving pan, with four pounds of the best lump sugar finely- pounded and sifted; set the pan on a coal fire, stir and work them up together with a large wooden spatula, rather sharp at the bottom; be very careful that none of the paste adheres to the pan; the consequence of such neglect would be, that the march- pane would be spotted with yellow, and would smell unpleasantly. Whilst work- ing it up, the paste, which when put in was tolerably firm, will become rather liquid, and a great deal of vapour may be observed; the first is caused by the sugar dissolved by the heat and moisture, the second by the evaporation of the wa- ter. Continue to stir and work it up in this manner without ceasing for two hours, and if at the end of that time, you can touch the paste without its adhering to your fingers, it is sufficiently dried; in which case remove it all to one side of the pan, clean the bottom and side of the other, sprinkle it well with flour, then put the paste to that part, clean and sprinkle that side also; then take the pan by botli ears and move it round and round, so that the paste may all unite together: as soon as it has done so, put it into a sheet of paper, or, if you want to use it immediately, on a well floured table. This paste, if the almonds be well pounded and then thoroughly dried, will keep good for six months; if these two precautions are not properly attended to, it will become sour in ten days. Marchpane Royal.*—Take a pound of sweet almonds, blanch and throw them into cold water, drain and pound them, moistening with orange flower and plain water, but take care not to put too much at once. The almonds being reduced to a paste, put them into a preserving pan with half a pound of powder sugar, set the pan on a moderate fire to dry the paste, which will be sufficiently so if, when you touch it, it no longer sticks to your finger, then take it out and place it on a plate or wafer paper, previously sprinkled with sugar: as soon as it is cold cut it in pieces, which roll in your hand to the size of your little finger; form them into rings, and lay them on iron gratings; glaze and put them into a brisk oven to colour. The above paste may nlso be employed as follows: roll it out and cut it in half, spread over one piece apricot marmalade, or any other preserve you please ; cover it with the other piece, cut it into’ lozenges, crescents, &.C., accord- ing to your fancy, lay them on the grating as above, glaze and colour them in a quick oven. MARIGOLDS (Conserve of).— Take four ounces of marigold flowers, conserve of hyacinth and hermes, of each four drachms; the powder of pearl, two ounces; and as much syrup of citron as will make them into a conserve, mixing and bruising them together with refined sugar. MARINADE Cuite*—Cut three car- rots and four onions in slices, put them into a stewpan with some butter, two bay leaves, a little thyme, two cloves; set these on the fire; when the carrots and onions are done, add some parsley and scallions, a dessert spoonful of flour, a glass of vinegar, two of stock, salt, and pepper. Simmer the marinade for three quarters of an hour, then strain it through a horse hair sieve, and set it by for use. MARJORAM Conserve. — Take the tops and tenderest part of sweet marjo- ram, bruise it well in a wooden mortar or bowl; take double its weight of fine sugar, boil it with marjoram water till it is as thick as syrup, then put in your beaten marjoram Marjoram (Essence of).—Take some marjoram, pick off the leaves and lay them to dry in a warm place for about a couple of hours, then take a large-mouthed bottle, and put the leaves into it, let the bottle be filled with them, and pour upon them wine, brandy, proof spirit, or vinegar, and let them steep for fourteen days. Marjoram Sn'eet (to preserve). — Beat up very well the white of an egg, then beat very fine and sift some double-refined sugar ; "take some marjoram and rub it on a glass that is quite clean, and lay it in the form of the glass; so do it with the egg, then sear it with the sugar on it, and lay it on paper to dry. MARMALADE.*—Marmalade may be composed of almost any fruits; the best, however, for this purpose are apricots, peaches, oranges, quinces, egg-plums, apples, &c. They are usually made by boiling the fruit and sugar together to a kind of pulp, stirring them constantly whilst on the fire : it is kept in pots, which must not be covered till the mar- malade is quite cold. Marmalade (Transparent).—Take some very pale Seville oranges, and cut them into quarters, take out the pulp, put it into a bason, and take out all the skin and seeds ; put the peels into a little salt and water, and leave them to soak in it all