APP APP ^ c 2 put apricot marmalade in tlie place of the cores), and then add tlie remainder of the apple marmalade, taking care not to cover tlie apples with it. Finish as above. At the instant of serving it mask it with apple jelly, apricot or quince marmalade, cherry juice or verjuice. Garnish the top of each apple with a cherry or verjuice-berry. Serve this liot or cold. Apple Dumplings*—Choose six or eight good-sized baking apples, pare and core them, roll out some good paste, divide it into as many pieces as you have apples; roll and cut two rounds from each, put an apple on one piece and put tlie other over; join the edges neatly, tie them in cloths, and boil them. Apple Dumplings (baked).—Make them ■in the same way, but instead of tying them in cloths, lay them in a buttered dish and babe them. You may also add sugar, grated lemon-peel, nutmeg, and ginger. Apples (dried or baked, or tapces).— Choose the clearest of baking apples, prick them rather deep with a pointed knife in several places, and put them in a moderate oven upon a baking-plate ; when half done squeeze them pretty flat with the hands, strew them on both sides with powder sugar, and put them again into a soaking oven, with some more sugar over them, Keep them in a dry place. Apples Festooned, or en Farbalat.—Peel some golden pippins, core them whole, and stew- them to three parts with sug'ar and a little water; make the syrup pretty rich to clog to the apples; wrap them round with a thin paste, cut with a paste- cutter, and make knots or flowers with the same paste to put on tlie top of tlie apples; rasp some sugar over, and bake a very short time. Apples (a Floating Island of).—Bake or scald eight or nine large apples; when cold pare and pulp them through a sieve, beat this up with fine sugar; put to it the whites of four or five eggs that have been beaten with a little rose water; mix it a little at a time, and beat it till it is light; heap it on a rich custard or on jeHy. Apple Fool.—Stew apples as for goose- berry fool, and then pulp them, prepare the milk, &c. and mix as before. Apples a, la Frungipane.—Peel and core a dozen apples, slice them into a deep dish, over which shake some powder sugar, thinly spread it over with apricot jam, and very thin slices of fresh butter over that; mix an ounce of potatoe flour with a pint of cream, a small bit of butter, and sugar to sweeten it; stir it over the fire till it begins to boil, then lay it over the apples, and bake in a moderate oven. Apple Froze.—Cut apples into thick slices, and fry them of a clear light brown; •take them from the pan, and lay them to drain ; they may be pared or not; then make a batter. Take five eggs, leaving out two whites, beat them up with cream or flour, and a little white wine, make it of the consistence of pancake batter ; pour in a little melted butter, mixed with nut- meg and sugar. Let the batter be hot, and drop in the fritters, laying on every one a slice of apple, and then a spoonful of batter on each. Fry them of ft pale brown, when taken up, strew double-re- fined sugar all over them, Apple Fritters.—Beat the yolks of eight eggs, the whites of four, well together, strain them into a pan ; then take a quart of cream, make it moderately hot, and add two glasses of sack, three quarters of a pint of ale, and mix them well toge- ther. When it is cool, put to it the eggs, beating it well together, then add nut- meg and ginger grated, salt and flour at pleasure. 1’he batter should be pretty thick; then put in sliced apples, or scraped pippins, and fry them quick in butter. Apple Fritters.*—Pare, core, and cut your apples into thick slices, soak them for two or three hours in brandy, sugar, green lemon peel, and orange-flower wa- ter ; when they have thoroughly imbibed the flavour of these ingredients, drain, and put them into a cloth well sprinkled with flour, and shake them so that the flour may adhere all over them ; fry them of a good colour, glaze with sugar and a hot sala- mander. Apple Fritters.* — Having prepared your apples ns above, dip them into a bat- ter made with four eggs, a little milk, and the remains of what the apples were soaked in ; keep it very thick, so that it may ad- here to them; fry in plenty of good hot lard, to a good colour, and glaze with sugar and a hot salamander. Apple Fritters it la Dauphine*—Turn twelve small apples, cut them into halves, and boil them in syrup, then leave them to cool. When they are cold, make an extremely thin crust with brioche paste. Make a fritter for each half apple, then fry them and finish the same as Fritters <t la Dauphine. Pears cut into quarters, are made in the same manner as tho above.