corresponding quarter in the reign of George IV. His Majesty does not employ in OPINIONS OF THE PRESS ON THIS WORK. Why should not Dolby be as great a man as Johnson? He is cook at the Thatched- house Tavern, and the literature of the frying-pan must not be neglected. This is the first time, we believe, that the terms of the art of cooking have ever been reduced to a form of ready reference. The plan is good, and presents palpable advantages. I he cook has done his part well; no man understands the etymologies of gastronomy better; and he has given us, in a very philosophical style, the language of the kitchen, reduced to its true elements. We like the book: it is worth the attention of all housekeepers.—Atlas. Talk of Mrs. Glass and Mrs. Itundle, their predecessors, their contemporaries, and their successors, Dr. Kitchiner excepted—they have been laid on the shelf long since, and it will not surprise us if the Cook’s Oracle be torn up to singe poultry and game with before the season closes. The dictionary plan is novel; you pounce at once, ladies, on the article you want, and settle in half a glance how to have it cooked ; in- vite a friend to take bread and cheese with you, turn to bread—what think ye of twenty-five recipes for making and using that no longer plain and simple diet? turn to cheese, and what think ye of a choice of fifty-one ways of serving it up ? Surely, in these times, when even bachelors fare may be made to form as many courses and removes as an ancient civic feast, the art of cooking must flourish as much, nay, we fear, more, than all the arts and sciences together. Poor Dr. Kitchiner would have run wild, and summoned a new committee of taste, had he thought it possible to pre- sent such an improvement in the culinary art. It appears to contain all that the veriest gourmand in Christendom would sigh for, in a life like Methuselah’s, with “ a throat a yard long and palate all the way.”—Lady’s Magazine. The alphabetical form in a cookery-book is, for the first time, employed in the vo- lume before us; and nobody will question the advantage of facility in referring to good things, which actually amount (would palate of man conceive it?) to several thousands. But still more substantial advantages accompany Mr. Dolby’s perform- ance. He is the master-cook of the Thatched-house Tavern; and his dictionary is enriched with, we know not how many, excellent receipts, both in cookery and con- fectionary, which have never appeared in print before.—New Monthly Magazine. It is not alone to the excellence and novelty of his receipts that the distinguished success of Mr. Dolby’s newly-published “ Cook’s Dictionary, and Family Manual” may be ascribed, inasmuch as a portion of the valpe of the work is to be found in its plan, by which any one may, in an instant, possess himself of whatever information may be required in the preparation of dinner and dessert. This great advantage is ob- t;ftned by alphabetical arrangement and copiousness of instruction, which supersede the necessity of toiling through an intricate index, and wandering from one receipt to another. The author is the celebrated cook of the Thatched-house Tavern, St. James’s- street, and liis book bids fair to become the sole oracle of English and Foreign cookery and confectionary.—Morning Post. ° J In all the systems hitherto extant of the Culinary Art, the arrangement has been so intricate and confused as, in a great measure, to render useless whatever merits they might otherwise have possessed. This inconvenience which every mistress of a family has felt over and over again, when consulting her •* Oracle,” is now obviated by a " Dictionary of Cookery and Confectionary,” just published by Mr. Dolby; a work which to an arrangement ensuring immediate facility of reference, adds the advantage of combining all the most recent inventions and improvements in the art, and of em- bodying upwards of Jive thousand receipts, many of which have never yet been laid before the public.—Globe. The present king has dined in his palace, during the first three months of his reign, upwards of twenty-one thousand persons, including domestics; but, whnt is very ex- traordinary, the kitchen bills for the same period are less in amount than those of tho