302 HOG HOT pound of suet (all chopped small), bread crumbs, and pepper ; bind these together with the yollc of an egg; stuff the ears with this, fry them in batter to a nice colour, pour away all the fat, and put them into a stewpan with half a pint of rich gravy, a glass of Madeira, three spoonsful of mustard, a piece of butter, rolled in flour, an onion, and a little pepper, cover the pan close, and stew gently for half an hour, shaking them occasionally ; when done, take out the onion, lay the ears in a dish, and pour the sauce over them. Hog’s Head (excellent Meat of).—Put a head into some tongue pickle, and when it has lain sufficiently long, take it out and boil it till the bones will come out with ease ; then skin, bone, and chop the meat, whilst hot; season it with pepper (black and white), nutmeg, and salt, if necessary ; lay part of the skin at the bottom of a pott- ing pan, press in the meat, cover it with the remainder of the skin, put on a weight, and let it stand till quite cold. Then turn it out. Boil the liquor it was dressed in with some vinegar, skim it well, and when cold put the head into it. Hog’s Head like Brawn.—Wash a head thoroughly, and boil it, till all the bones will come out; then let it cool. Put the inside of the cheeks together, with salt between, and the ears round, lay them in a cloth, and press them into a round pan, put a weight on, and let them remain two days: then boil a pint of malt, with salt and water, and when cold put the head into this pickle. Hog’s Head, as Wild Boar.—Cut the head close to the shoulder, bone the neck part, cut off the chops, part of the flesh of the nose, as far as the eyes, take the bone off, and lard the inside with bacon, rolled in pepper, salt, and spices ; rub it all over with common salt, half an ounce of salt- petre ; put it into a pan, with half a hand- ful of juniper-berries, thyme, bay-leaf, basil, cloves, half a handful of coriander, cover the pan, and leave it for a week; then take out the head, tie it up, dry it; put it into a saucepan, with three pints of red wine and water, onions, carrots, a bunch of sweet herbs, two cloves of garlic, half a nutmeg grated, thyme, hay-leaf, six cloves, and two pounds of lard ; taste the braise before it is quite done ; add salt if necessary: it is sufficiently cooked when it gives way to the touch : let it cool in the braise/and serve it cold, garnished with bay-leaves according to fancy. Hog’s Puddings. (See Black Puddings.) HONEY to Clarify—(M. Fouque's Me- thod.)*—Take six pounds of honey, a pound and three quarters of water, two ounces and a quarter of pounded chalk, five ounces of coal (pulverized, washed, and well dried), the whites of three eggs beaten in three ounces of water, for each pound of honey. Put the honey, water, chalk, and eggs, into a copper vessel, capable of holding about one-third more than the above quan- tities ; let them boil for two minutes ; throw in the coal, mixing it with a spoon, and continue the boiling two minutes longer, then take the saucepan from the fire, and let it stand nearly a quarter of an. hour, that the liquor may cool; then taka a new sieve (which must be well washed, or it will impart a disagreeable taste), pass the honey through it, taking care to filter the first drops twice, as they generally carry with them some portion of the coal. The syrup which still adheres to the coal, and other materials, maybe separated as follows : pour boiling water on them until they no longer retain any sweetness; then put these different waters together, set them over a large fire to evaporate, till the syrup only remains. This syrup con- tracts the flavour of barley sugar, and must not be added to the clarified honey. HOPS*-—The early shoots of hops are sometimes used in the spring, as substi- tutes for asparagus ; they are dressed in the same manner; and served with a white sauce, or with oil. HORSERADISH Sauce Cold.—Chop up some parsley, chibbol, shalots, a clove of garlic, capers, and anchovies; to these add a spoonful of horseradish scraped very fine, a spoonful of oil, vinegar, pepper and salt. IIonsEHADrsn Sauce Hot.—Slice two onions, and fry them in oil, and when they begin to colour, put them into a sauce- pan. with a glass of white wine, the same of broth, two slices of lemon, peeled, two cloves of garlic, a bay leaf, thyme, basil, and two cloves ; boil these a quarter of an hour, and then strain it; add capers, and an anchovy chopped, pepper, salt, and a spoonful of horseradish, boiled to a pulp ; worm the whole without boiling. HOTCH-POTCH.—Take some old poase, and stew them with some onions in a little water, with a beef or ham bone. in the mean while fry some mutton chops, well seasoned to a nice colour; and about