CHE 153 CHE reeds into pieces about two or three inches long, and on the point of each put a roasted and skinned chestnut. Take a piece of very fresh butter (about the size of a nut), and rub it with the palm of the hand, on an iron plate or marble slab, taking care to rub every part well. Then having boiled some clarified sugar to caramel height, take a piece of tiie osier, with a chestnut on the end, in each hand, and dip them in the sugar, twisting them round repeatedly, that the sugar may adhere equally about the chestnut till it begins to cool; then lay them on the buttered slab, and dip in two more, proceeding as above: when all are done and cold, take out the osier twigs, and wrap each chestnut in paper, with a device if you think proper. These chest- nuts make a delicious sweetmeat, but they should be eaten the day on which they are made. Chestnuts ( Compote of).*-—Take the outer skin from about a hundred chestnuts, and then put them into a saucepan with water, a lemon cut in pieces, and three handsful of bran; put them on the fire and blanch them : as soon as a pin will go into them -easily, they are sufficiently done ; rub off the second skin, and throw them into cold water, with the juice of a lemon. Clarify and boil a pound and a half of sugar to petit lissc, and having drained your chest- nuts, put them into the sugar with the juice of a lemon, the quarter of a glass of orange-flower water; put these on the fire for a short time, but not to let them boil: then take them off and set them by. The next day drain the chestnuts, and boil up the syrup four times; then add more su- gar, and having boiled it to soufU, put in the chestnuts; blanch them instantly af- terwards, and put them into compotiers. Chestnuts (Compote of).—Roast your chestnuts as for the dessert, and when they are peeled and skinned, put them into a saucepan, with a quarter of a pound of sugar, and half a glass of water; let them simmer for a quarter of an hour; squeeze in a little lemon juice, and when ready to serve, strew powder sugar over them. Chestnuts (Compote of) a I’ltalienne.*— Roast and take the peel from fifty chest- .nuts, flatten each a little between your thumb and finger, and place them on silver plate, put over them very lightly a quarter of a pound of powder sugar, and set the plate on a stove to boil; when you have taken them from the fire, strew more sugar over, and glaze them with the salamander. Arrange them in a compotier, and make a syrup with a little clarified sugar, the juice of a Seville orange, and half that of a lemon. Chestnut Cream*—Pound twenty-five roasted chestnuts in a mortar, with a little milk; then put the paste so made into a stewpan, wdtli the yolks of two eggs, half a pint of milk, two ounces of butter, and four ounces of powder sugar; when it has boiled a little while, strain it, put it into a dish, or glass for table, and let it cool. , Chestnut Cream. — Roast, and then pound a quarter of a hundred of chestnuts, with a small quantity of milk ; to this add the yolks of two eggs, a pint of milk, a quarter of a pound of powder sugar, and about an ounce of butter. Boil these to- gether for some minutes, then strain it, and set it by to cool. Chestnuts (Croquettes of).*—Roast fifty fine chestnuts, pick them, and take away all those parts which may have become coloured; set aside a dozen, and divide each in half. Pound the remainder with two ounces of butter, and nib the paste through a sieve, into a stewpan, writh a glass of cream, two ounces of butter, the same of sugar, and a grain of salt; put it on a moderate fire, stirring it one way, in two minutes add to it the yolks of six eggs, and replace it on the fire for one minute, when the cream will have some consistence; pour it on a buttered baking- plate, and spread it out, and cover it with paper. IV hen cold, enclose each half chestnut in about double its size of the cream, roll it in the hollow of your hand to make it perfectly round, and then roll in crumb of bread grated extremely fine. All the croquettes being thus formed, beat up five eggs, add a pinch of salt, dip the croquettes in this, drain, and then roll them again in bread crumbs ; make them quite smooth in the hollow of your hand, and fry them in lard, or whatever else you think propel1. Move the croquettes with the point of a skewer, and when done take them out with a skimmer ; drain them well, sprinkle them with sugar, and dish them in a pyra- midal form. Chestnut Custard*—Take three pounds of well-roasted chestnuts, removing such parts as were coloured by the fire, and pound them witli a pound of fresh butter ; when a smooth paste, add three quarters ol a pound of powder sugar, the yolks of twelve eggs, a pinch of salt, and a few spoonsful of whipped cream, the whites whipped firm, uud finish the custard as directed.