ADVERTISEMENT TO SECOND EDITION. The present edition of The Dictionary oe Cookery and Con- fectionary has been carefully revised, and improved by many valuable corrections and additions. As complaints have been made that there were no Bills of Fare, nor Plans for laying out the Table, in the first edition, the Editor has now supplied two or three specimens of each for the use of those who may be inexperienced. London, May 1832. Since the publication of the first edition of this work, the Editor has tried the various sauces and flavouring condiments manufactured by Mr. Lopresti (many years principal cook to his Royal Highness the Duke of Gloucester), and begs to recommend them to the notice of families, economists, and culinary practitioners. The Editor would suggest that in all the Receipts throughout this Dictionary, in which Essence of Anchovies is ordered, Lopresti’s “ Dissolved Anchovies” should be substituted, as it is more genuine, more economical, and of a much finer flavour than the generality of Anchovies; the latter, being sold in small jars, are seldom free from rancidity, especially after having once been exposed to the air. Lopresti’s Portable Sauce, Sauce Nonpareil, and Duke of Gloucester’s Sauce, are also excellent substitutes for Cavice or Cavici and all the other old sauces generally employed; and his various seasonings are likewise well calculated to save much trouble, expense, and waste in imparting a fine flavour to force-meats, stuffings, pies, &c. These may be used with great advantage and economy in the place of spices, peppers, herbs, &c. com- monly used in the kitchen. Convinced, therefore, by experience, of the very great utility and superiority of the above named sauces, &c. on which Mr. Lopresti has bestowed twelve years incessant application, aided by twenty years practice in the culinary art, the Editor, wishing to make them more extensively known, has undertaken to superintend the sale of them at the Arcade, Pantechnicon, Belgrave-square, where they may be obtained in a genuine state