171 cno Clio a gentle fire; tlien pour into it, one at a time, the yolks of eight eggs ; add halt a pound of sugar, and four glasses ot boiling milk. Stir it constantly over a moderate fire till the cream thickens ; then boil it up once and strain it; when nearly cold, add six dracluns of isinglass, and finish in the usual way. See Cream a la Franfaise. Chocolate Whipped Cream*—Dissolve a quarter of a pound of the best chocolate in half a glass of boiling water over a moderate fire; then let it cool; add to it a quarter of a pound of powder sugar, and mix it with whipped cream. See Whipped Cream. Chocolate Cream. Pdtissiere*■—Grate a quarter of a pound of chocolate, and mix it with two ounces of powder sugar and a quarter of a pound of sweet macaroons. Put this mixture into a cream pdtissiere, prepared as directed in that article. Chocolate Drops.—Take one pound and a half of chocolate, put it on a pewter sheet or plate, and put it in the oven just to warm the chocolate; then put it into a copper stewpan, with three quarters of a pound of powdered sugar; mix it well over the fire, take it off, and roll it in pieces the size of small marbles, put them on white paper, and when they are all on, take the sheet of paper by each comer, and lift it up and down so that the paper may touch the table each time, and by that means you will see the drops come quite fat, about the size of a sixpence; put some sugar nonpareils over them, and cover all that are on the paper, then shake them off, and you will see all the chocolate drops are covered with the sugar nonpa- reils ; let them stand till cold, and they will come off well, and then put them in a box papered. CnocoLATE (Floating Island of).—Take die whites of two eggs, and mix them up with two ounces of chocolate scraped ; pile it on a thin custard or jelly. Chocolate au Fromage.—Whip a pint and a half of rich cream. Melt a quarter of a pound of chocolate that you have pre- viously rasped or pounded ; add a little water to it; when melted, mix with it a little isinglass and a little sugar; then mix that with the whipped cream, fill your mould, and surround it with ice. Do not neglect to whip it over ice till you find the mixture begins to freeze; then put it into the mould, and surround it with ice. Chocolate (Fromage Bavarois of ).* Dissolve a quarter of a pound of the best chocolate in a glass of boiling water, and boil it for five minutes stirring constantly; when perfectly dissolved, add a glass of good cream (also boiling), six ounces of powder sugar, and six drachms of clarified isinglass; when well mixed, strain it off into the bol in ice, stir it with a silver- spoon, and as soon as it begins to take, mix a fromage d la Chantilly, and finish as usual. Chocolate (Frothed or Whipped).*— Put half a pound of chocolate to a glass of water over a small fire, stirring it with a wooden spoon until perfectly dissolved; then take it off and add six yolks of eggs, a pint of double cream, and three quarters of a pound of powder sugar. Pour the whole into a pan, and when cold, whip it up as directed. See Frothed Cream. Chocolate Genoise.*—Make the Genoise in the usual way, adding to the ingredients a small quantity of vanilla. When done make a glaze with three ounces of grated chocolate, two ounces of powder sugar, and half the white of an egg; do them over with this, and put them into the oven for two minutes to dry. Chocolate Ices (Cream).—Take any quautity of chocolate, melt it over the fire in a small pan ; when melted, pour it into that in which you are to make your cream; break your yolks of eggs into it (four eggs to every pint of cream), add some pounded loaf sugar to it, keep stir- ring continually ; then add your cream by little and little, stirring and turning it till the whole is mixed properly together; then set your pan over the fire, and keep stirring with a wooden spoon till you see your composition is near boiling, then take it off immediately; for, from the mo- ment you set your composition over the fire till that it offers to boil, it has suffi- cient time to incorporate well and thicken sufficiently, without need of boiling; and should you let it boil, you would risk the turning your cream into whey, on account of the yolks of eggs, which would do too much. Take great care likewise your cream is fresh and sweet, for otherwise as soon as it is warm it will turn to curds and whey; therefore, be careful, stir it continually, from the time you set it on the fire till you take it off; then put it in the sabotiere to make it congeal after the usual manner. Chocolate Cream Ices.—Dissolve the chocolate in a little water on a slow fire;