97 CAK CAK anil squeeze it, taking care not to break the leaves; then carefully take out the heart, and supply the place with parboiled chestnuts and sausages, replacing the leaves in such a manner as to conceal what is within; tie the cabbage with pack- thread, and stew it with some stock, a little salt, and coarse pepper, roots, onions, and a bunch of herbs. When done, drain, and serve with a good butter sauce. CAKE, Anglo-Franpais.*—Prepare your ingredients the same as described in the receipt for Cake a la Parisienne; then add a quarter of a pound of dry currants, well washed, four ounces of muscadel raisins, one ounce of preserved cedrat, cut into small strips, one ounce of candied orange, cut in the same manner, and a glass of Spanish wine, or a glass of rum; mix the whole well together, and finish the same as for Cake a la Parisienne, and let it bake for three hours. This cake is very good eaten cold, but is much nicer cut into rather thin slices, and just browned by broiling, then placed upon a dish and masked all over with pow- dered sugar. Cake (Bolar).*—One pound of flour dried in a slow oven, two spoonsful of yeast, some almond milk, and water to mix for a sponge; when raised, beat up three quarters of a pound of clarified butter, three eggs, and three quarters of a pound of sugar, well beaten till the spoon comes clean away; then add cinnamon powder, candied orange and lemon. Bake in earthen basins, well buttered; keep it before the fire till put in the oven. Cake (Bolar).*—When the sponge is beat, as for the last, instead of mixing the sugar, it is rolled in the sugar and cin- namon. Cake (Dutch Bolar').*—Done, as above, without sugar ; then prick holes with a sharp pointed knife, and while it is hot pour in three quarters of a pound of clari- fied sugar, flavoured with cinnamon or orange flower. Almonds and sweetmeats are previously put in the cake. Orna- ment your cake with harlequin sugar- plums. This was a favourite cake of the late Queen Charlotte. Cake de Bourneville.—Work about half a pound of flour, with five or six eggs j' whole, some fine chopped lemon peel, a ! i few drops of orange-flower water, a spoon- I ful of plain water, and a little salt; then let it rest about an hour ; you will put : about as much butter as paste, and work it afterwards well together ; bake it in a mould or hoop, and garnish as you think proper, with sugar, nonpareils, or colours. Cake (Bread), common.—Take the quan- tity of a quartern loaf from the dough when making white bread, and knead well into it two ounces of butter, two of Lisbon sugar, and eight of currants. Warm the butter in a tea-cupful of good milk. By the addition of an ounce of butter, or sugar, or an egg or two, you may make the cake better. A tea-cupful of raw cream improves it much. It is best to bake it in a pan, rather than as a loaf, the outside being less bard. Cake (Breahfast).—Rub a pound and a half of butter into half a peck of flour, three pounds of currants, half a pound of sugar, a quarter of an ounce of mace, cinnamon, and nutmeg together, a little salt, a pint and a half of warmed cream or milk, a quarter of a pint of brandy, five eggs, a pint of good ale yeast; mix it well to- gether ; bake it in a moderate oven. This cake will keep good for a quarter of a year. Cake (Bride).—Take four pounds of fine flour well dried, four pounds of fresh butter, two pounds of loaf sugar, pounded and sifted fine, a quarter of an ounce of mace, and the same quantity of nutmegs ; to every pound of flour put eight eggs ; wash and pick four pounds of currants, and dry them before the fire ; blanch a pound of sweet almonds, and cut them lengthwise, very thin, a pound of citron, a pound of candied orange, a pound of candied lemon, and half a pint of brandy; first work the butter with your hand to a cream, then beat in your sugar a quarter of an hour; beat the whites of your eggs to a very strong froth ; mix them with your sugar and butter ; beat the yolks half an houi% at least, and mix them with your cake ; then put in your flour, mace, and nutmeg ; keep beating it till the oven is ready ; put in your brandy, and beat the currants and al- monds lightly in; tie three sheets of paper round the bottom of your hoops to keep it from running out ; rub it well with butter, put in your cake, and the sweetmeats in three lays, with cake between every lay; after it is risen and coloured, cover it with paper before your oven is stopped up : it will take throe hours baking. Cake ilia Brie*—lake some rich Brio cheese, knead it with a pint and half of flour, three quarters of a pound of butter, and a little salt; moisten it with five or six eggs beaten up ; when it is well kneaded, it