CAL 10G CAL crescent of jelly cut with a paste-cutter, two inches and a half in diameter. Pour into tlie centre of the crown a sauce mag- nonnaise, either white, or a la ravigotte, and serve. Calf’s Brains en Mutelotte.*—Tate the brains from two calves’ heads, cleanse them well, and stew them with white wine, stock, salt, pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs. In the mean time make a ragout of small onions, roots with stock, and sweet herbs; season it well, thicken it with cullis, and pour this round the brains. Calf’s Brains au Naturel.*—Take the brains from two calves’ heads, clean and soak them in warm water; boil them in good stock, or consomnid. Serve either cold or warm. Calf’s Brains, with Oysters.*—Blanch and clean the brains, then wipe them dry, dip them into yolks of eggs, and roll them in bread crumbs ; fry them in boiling lard till of a good colour, drain them very dry, and serve with oysters, stewed either white or brown. Garnish with broiled ham cut in small round pieces. Calf’s Brains, Fasti/ of.—Cleanse and scald the brains, then blanch some aspara- gus tops with a little parsley and butter; when cold, put them into the pasties, with the yolks of six hard eggs and some force- meat ; put them into the oven, and when done, lift up the upper crust, squeeze in a little lemon juice, butter and gravy. Calf’s Brains pot-lees.*—Take three calves’ brains, remove the skin and fibres from them, and soak them for two hours ; then have ready a saucepan of boiling water, with a little salt and vinegar in it; blanch the brains in this for a quarter of an hour, and then put them into cold wa- ter. Line a stewpan with bacon, lay in the brains, cover them with bacon, and pour over the whole a sufficient quantity of broth to stew them. Calf’s Brains a. la Provenfale.*—Pre- pare your calves’ brains as for poclees, and having blanched them, boil them in a ma- rinade of not lilies, white wine, garlic, and olives; when done, drain and let them cool; cut the brains in half, trim and dish them in the form of a crown, and serve with sauce mayonnaise, either green or white. Calf’s Brains au Reveil.—Prepare and bruise any number of calves’ brains ; make a batter with cullis, butter, and mustard; bathe the brains in it, and strew over bread crumbs and cheese. Colour them with a salamander or in the oven. Serve them on cullis and mustard. They may also he broiled slowly, and served with relishing sauce. Calf’s Bruins, Salad of.*—Prepare and dress calf’s brains as for la mugnonnuise: place them also en couronne, on a bed of lettuce, cut small and dressed as usual; garnish each piece of the brains with let- tuce, and arrange a border of eggs, lettuce hearts, and anchovies cut in slips. When about to serve it, pour over the brains, or into the middle of them a sauce magnon- naise a la ravigotte. Calf's Brains with different Sauces.—• Brains braised in broth and wine may be used with what sauce or rugoiit you please, such as fat livers, pigeons, sausages, onions, capers, fried bread, &c. &c. from which they generally take the name. Calf’s Brains au Soleil .*—Cleanse two calves’ brains, and stew them instock with two or three spoonsful of vinegar, a bunch of parsley, scallions, a clove of garlic, three cloves, thyme, laurel, and basil; when sufficiently stewed, cut each piece of the brain in two, dip them in a batter made of two handsful of Hour, diluted with a little oil, half a pint of white wine, and salt. Fry them in lard until the bat- ter is crisp and the brains of a good co- lour. Calf’s Chaudron it VAllemantle.— Make a gratia with Swiss cheese rasped, bread crumbs, two yolks of eggs, and a little cullis ; place it in a table-dish over hot ashes, that it may catch at the bottom; then put in a chaudron, boiled, cleared of the fat, cut in pieces, and previously mix- ed with sauce Robert. Garnish the dish with small onions boiled in broth, and bits of bread fried in butter ; pour on it a little butter melted with a spoonful of mustard. Strew bread crumbs and grated cheese, and colour it in the oven ; wipe the dish free from fat, and serve with clear relish- ing sauce. Calf’s Chaudron and Anchovies.*—Melt some butter in a stewpan, and toss up in it some small onions sliced; add a little stock or veal broth; put into this the chaudron properly prepared, and cut in pieces with salt, pepper, tarragon, and herbs. IVhen they are flavoured, pour them into a buttered mould, and place on them six anchovies washed and split in four pieces, in the forms of crosses. Co- ver the whole with caul, and bake it in a moderate oven. Calf’s Chaudron and Cheese.*—loss up