SAL SAL 465 the colour of the ingredients are varied. For this purpose, chop separately the white part of a cold chicken, or veal, the yolks of four or five eggs, and the same number of whites of eggs ; a large handful of parsley, sis anchovies, some heet root, pickled red cabbage, ham, and grated tongue, or any tiling well flavoured, and ot a good colour. Put a saucer or china basin into a dish, or a smaller dish into a long one, then make rows round it, wide at the bottom, and growing smaller towards the top; making choice of such ot the ingredients for each row as will most vary the colour; spun butter at the top, or butter worked into what is liked, or a little sprig of curled parsley may be stuck in. You need not, unless you please, put any thing in the dish, as the salmagundy may he laid in rows, or put into the half-whites of eggs, which may be made to stand upright by cutting off a little bit at the round end. in the latter case, each half egg has hut one ingredient. Curled butter and parsley may be put as garnish between. SALMON.—When salmon is fresh and good, the gills and flesh are of a bright red, the scales clear, and the whole fish is stiff. When just killed, there is a white- ness between the flakes, which give great firmness ; by keeping, this melts down, and the fish becomes richer. Salmon (Baked).—Cut a nice piece of salmon into slices about an inch thick ; make a forcemeat as follows: Take equal quantities of the flesh of salmon, and flesh of eel, with a few mushrooms ; season with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and cloves, beat all together till very fine ; boil the crumb of a small roll into some milk, beat it with four eggs till it is thick, let it cool, and bind the whole together with four raw eggs; take the skim from the salmon, and put the slices in a dish, cover each slice with the forcemeat, pour melted butter over them, and strew bread crumbs all over: lay a crust round the dish, and place oysters all round ; put it in the oven, and let it bake till of a fine brown colour, then take it out, pour over it a little melted butter, with some red wine boiled in it, and the juice of a lemon. Salmon en Baril.*—Take a moderate- sized salmon, lay it open, and take out the bone; cut away the thin part, the head, and the tail, so as to make each side quite straight. Have ready a quenelle farce of smelts, spread a layer of this over each slice, which roll up in the form of a barrel, make the ends of it quite smooth, sprinkle them with salt and pepper, and roll them up in a sheet of paper, place them on a baking-pan, pour on them a ma- rinade cuite, and bake them. When done, take off the papers carefully, so as not to injure the form; dish and serve with a ragout of carp roes : or, ifhetterliked,-glaze and serve with sauce piquante. Salmon au Bleau.—Drain a salmon with- out ripping up the stomach, wash and thoroughly dry it; put it in a fish-kettle, and let it stew for two hours, more or less, according to the size of the fish, in a good marinade ; let the court-bouillon boil slowly, otherwise the fish will never go through. Before serving, drain it, place on a clean napkin, and garnish -with parsley. Salmon (Boiled).—Salmon requires being well boiled, as it is very unwholesome when underdone. Some boil horseradish in the water; fried smelts may be laid round it; garnish with horseradish and sliced lemon. Serve with anchovy sauce and plain butter. Salmon (Boiled). — Run a packthread through the tail, the centre of the body, and the head, to bring the fish to the form of the letter S ; put it into a kettle of cold spring water with plenty of salt, and a sheet of paper over it; as soon as it begins to boil, set it by the side of the fire to simmer gently till done ; take out the packthread without breaking the salmon. Serve it on a fish-plate with lobster sauce in a boat. You must cut about three gashes or slits, in a slanting direction, on both sides of the salmon, before boiling, to prevent the skin breaking and disfiguring the fish. Salmon boiled in Wine.—Season with pepper and salt, some slices of bacon, fat and lean together, a pound of veal cut thin, and a pound and a half of beef; put these into a deep stewpan, then a fine piece of fresh salmon cut out of the middle, then pour in just as much water as will cover it, and let it simmer over a gentle fire till the salmon is almost done; then pour the water away, and put in two quarts of white wine, with an onion cut in slices, some thyme, and sweet marjoram, picked from the stalks; let them stew gently, and while they are doing, cut a sweetbread into thin slices, then cut the slices across, and stew them in a sauce- pan, with some rich gravy; when they are done enough, add a quarter of a pint of essence of ham: take up the salmon, lay it on a dish, and serve with the sweet- bread, and its sauce poured over. 2 u