PAN OYS 393 P. herbs chopped, and a shake of flour; stir these about for half a minute, then put the oysters on silver skewers, with a mushroom between each; roll them in crumbs of bread; broil them ; put a little good gravy into the stewpan, thicken it, and add a little lemon juice ; serve the oysters on the skewers in a dish with the sauce. Oyster Soup.—Take some fish stock, according to the quantity of soup you intend making ; then take two quarts of oysters, beard them, and beat the hard part of them in a mortar, with the yolks of ten hard eggs, and add this to the stock ; simmer it all for half an hour, then strain it off', and put the rest of the oysters into the soup ; simmer for five minutes; have ready the yolks of six raw eggs, well beaten, and add them to the soup ; stir it all well one way, on the side of the fire, till it is thick and smooth, taking care not to let it boil; serve all together. Oyster Mouth Soup. — Make a rich mutton broth, with two large onions, three blades of mace, and black pepper : strain it, and pour it on a hundred and fifty oysters, previously bearded, and a bit of butter rolled in flour; let it sim- mer gently a quarter of an hour, and then !| serve. Oysters (Stewed).—Open, and take the liquor from them, then cleanse them from the grit; strain the liquor, and add the oysters, with a bit of mace and lemon-peel, j and a few white peppers. Simmer them I very gently, add a little cream, and a bit of butter mixed with flour; serve with toasted sippets round the dish. Oysters eu Surtout.—Scald the oysters j in their own liquor, drain, and give them a few turns over the fire, in a little butter, I shred parsley, sbalots, pepper, and a few 1 yolks of eggs ; then chop up the oysters, and mix them with bread-crumbs soaked in i cream, shalots, mushrooms, parsley (all ! shred small), yolks of eggs, pepper, and I salt; fill some scallops with this farce, i cover them with bread-crumbs and grated Parmesan cheese, put them into the oven lor a quarter of an hour. Oyster Toast.*—Take one dozen of large oysters and two anchovies, and chop them together, put in a bit of butter, and some oyster liquor, and let them stew gently till the butter is melted ; then cut some slices from a roll, and fry them in butter of a nice brown, but not hard ; lay the oyster on the fried bread, and serve. PANADA.*—Boil some pieces of stale bread in a sufficient quantity of cold water to cover them, with a little cinnamon, le- mon-peel, and carraways; when the bread is quite soft, press out all the water, and beat up the bread with a small piece of butter, a little milk, and sugar to the taste; a little spice may be added. Panada.—Set a little water on the fire with a glass of white wine, some sugar, a veiy little nutmeg, and lemon-peel; meanwhile grate some crumbs of bread : the moment the water boils up, put in the bread-crumbs (without taking it off the fire), and let it boil as fast as it can. When of a proper consistence, that is, when just of a sufficient thickness to drink, take it off the fire. Panada for Farces, 8jc.—Soak the crumb of four rolls in milk; in a few minutes squeeze the milk from them, put them into a thick-bottomed stewpan, with a little bechamel and cream, and some parsley, mushrooms, shalots, or young onions, all chopped fine, washed, and passed in a little butter; reduce all this to a very stiff paste on the fire, stirring constantly with a wooden spoon, and as it dries, put a very small bit of butter in to make it yield from the pan ; continue to stir it till very stiff, and then add three yolks of eggs to it, and put it away to cool for use. In some cases the herbs must be omitted. PANCAKES*—Make a good batter in the usual way with eggs, milk, and flour, with grated lemon-peel, nutmeg, and brandy ; pour this into a pan, so that it lays very thin ; let your lard, or whatever else you fry them in, be quite hot. When, one side is done, toss it up lightly to turn it. Serve with lemon or Seville orange- juice, and sugar. PANCAKES a la Francaise.—Putnearly a quarter of a pound of butter into a basin or stewpan,witli a table-spoonful of pounded ratafia, a thin rind of a lemon, and two ounces of sugar pounded ; then mix in, one at a timo, three whole eggs, and the yolks of three ; when thoroughly mixed, put in a little milk, half a pint of cream, with a little orange-flower water, beat your batter well, and let it be just the thickness of good cream; when you fry the pancakes, make them very thin, use good clarified butter, which put into your pan, and pour it off again, taking care that none remains at the bottom of the pan, as it would make the pancakes groasy; when you have