4 7 BEE BEE True well-fed beef may be known at once to the skilful eye, by the texture and colour : the lean will exhibit an open grain of a deep coral red, and the fat will appear of a healthy, oily smoothness, inclining to white rather than yellow. The suet firm and white. Yellow fat is generally a sufficient test of inferior beef, though it is a common error to suppose the yellow tinge is a certain sign of the beast having been fed on oil-cake. Oxen fatted for slaughter on com and turnips, will, when killed, frequently exhibit yellow fat. Heifer beef of prime quality is scarcely inferior to ox beef: the texture of the lean, however, is of a closer grain, of a paler coral red, and the fat whiter than I that of ox beef. Cowbeef is also distinguished from that of the ox, by the same characteristics, only that in proportion to its greater age, its i texture will be still closer, the flesh more coarse to the sight, and harder to the touch. It has been a practice amongst many 1 farmers to feed oxen and calves on oil- cake, though by no means so prevalent now as at that period when, a few years ago, experimental agriculturists sought to im- prove nature, hy crossing her in all her operations, until he that had bred the most perfect monster obtained the greatest prize. That much new and useful light has been thrown upon the subject of breed- Iing and feeding, is generally acknowledg- ed, to the credit of many scientific gentle- men, who have devoted their time and fortune to these pursuits; but the artificial means resorted to, to effect these ends, if pushed a little further, would have ex- cluded wholesome beef and mutton from the larder. The best beef, and that which is sought by the most reputable butcher, is that of the Scotch cattle, which, arriving from the north, is fed in English pastures. Many counties feed this stock, but Nor- folk has the preference, where the far greater number are fed. Heifers are usually fit for the slaughter from two to three years old. The ox is slaughtered from three to five years old. The Devon and Hereford breed afford prime beef, to wliich the Lincolnshire breed is generally not to be compared. The Sussex ox is not uncommonly slaugh- tered at seven years, being previously worked at the plough. With regard to artificial feeding, whe- ther on oil-cake or other nutriment, to in- crease the flesh of animals for the slaugh- ter, the result is held to be “ that though generally the lean of fat animals is the most tender and palatable, yet that this is not so much the case when the fat is rapidly produced by artificial manage- ment in the feeding. (See the articles Mutton, Pork, &c.) Beef a I’Anglaise.*—Take a rump of beef, or any piece you like better of the same size; tie it up neatly with pack- thread, and put it into a stewpan with two or three carrots, a parsnip, three or four onions, a bunch of parsley and green onions, a clove of garlic, a bay leaf, thyme, and basil; moisten with some stock or water, season, and let the beef stew gently till half done; then put in a few small cabbages, prepared in the fol- lowing manner: Boil a large cabbage, and having squeezed it perfectly dry, take off the leaves one by one, and put within each leaf a little veal or other forcemeat, sur- rounding it with three or four more of the leaves, in such a manner as to form little cabbages, something larger than an egg; tie these with packthread, and let them be stewed with the beef. When the whole is done, clear away the outside loose fat, and put your beef in a dish, cut the little cab- bages in half, and place them round the dish, with the cut side outward. Take a little of the stew, strain it through a sieve, and having skimmed off the fat, add a lit- tle cullis to thicken it. Reduce this over the fire to the consistence of a sauce, serv- ing it over the meat and cabbages. Beef Amourettes or Peths in Marinade.— Beef amourettes are prepared and dressed exactly the same as beef brains; when they are done, let them drain, then cut them into equal lengths, and fry them in batter. Beef baked.—Let a buttock of beef, which has been in salt about a week, be well washed and put into an earthen pan, with a little water; cover the pan tight with two or three sheets of foolscap paper— let it bake four or five hours in a mode- rately heated oven. Beef baked like Red Deer to be eaten cold. —Cut buttock of beef longwise with the grain, beat it well with a rollingpin, and broil it; when it is cold, lard it, and mari- nate it in wine vinegar, salt, pepper, cloves, mace, and two or three bay leaves, for two or three days; then bake it in rye paste ; let it stand till it is cold; then fill it up with butter: let it stand for a fortnight before it is eaten.