Opinions of the Press. tlie department of tlio cuisine at any of his palaces, one single French cook. This piece of court intelligence, humble though it he, proves beyond doubt only the excellence but the economy of our native culinary art, as developed in the popular “ Cook’s Dic- tionary” of Mr. Dolby, of the Thatched-house Tavern, the only professed English cook who has recently published a body of receipts and instructions for the due "pre- paration of the dinner, the dessert anu the supper. His Majesty’s opinion as to who are the best caterers for the table, cannot fail to have due weight, and the demand ("already large) is increased for Dolby’s New Family Manual of Cookery.— Chelten- ham Chronicle. So great is the celebrity of Dolby’s Dictionary of Cookery and Confectionary, of which one third, or nearly two thousand, of the receipts have never before seen the light, that we understand at one of the late City banquets, peremptory directions were given that every dish in the dinner and the dessert should be prepared from the receipts contained in that successful book. Nothing, it seems, will now go down that is not a la Dolby. As cook of the Thatched House Tavern, the author has superintended the preparation of feasts partaken of by the most dignified personages of the land (his late Majesty included) ; and it was from his exercise of the above office that the repu- tation of Dolby as a cuisinier first arose.'—Weekly Journal. Dr. Johnson said, that one of the chief blessings of life was a table abundantly, but, above all, judiciously spread. If this be true, and who will dispute the assertion, it accounts for the universal reception of the new work entitled The Cook’s Dictionary, by the well-known and admired cuisinier of the Thatched-house Tavern—a book which may truly be pronounced the most successful one of a long season. Mr. Dolby’s con- stant practice in superintending the operations of the kitchen entitles him to assume confidence in his instructions to others. He never indulges in idle speculations and unintelligible theories—“ Out of his proof he speaks;” and our countrymen may now be said to possess, for the first time, an authentic body of Cookery and Confectionary, embracing not only the best receipts for our own national dishes, but for the chief of those of every other land.—Courier. The name of Mr. Dolby is now, like his own good things, in every body’s mouth, and his “ Dictionary,” which savours of all that is excellent in taste, substance, and arrangement, has now become the established favourite, not only in all the kitchens of the nobility and the fashionable hotels, but, from its clearness of arrangement, and facility of reference, it is now in such high favour as to be more resorted to than any other Cookery Book extant. It is indeed an admirably digested Manual, teaching both the decorative and the solid—both how to dress well, and how to live well. It is the pan-opticon, the pan-orama of culinary science, and its author has been aptly called the grand explorator, or Captain Cook, who has made the most valuable discoveries in the table-land of gastronomy.—County Chronicle. “The great labour and research manifested by Mr. Dolby in his popular Work en- titled The Cook’s Dictionary, entitle him to the thanks of the public in general, and of housekeepers in particular. Care in the preparation of a dinner has been judiciously styled < one of the minor moralities but care alone, without knowledge, is of little use, and it may safely be said, knowledge was never more clearly conveyed than in the instructions as regards Cookery and Confectionary given in Mr. Dolby s II ork to mistresses of families.” The popularity of this English manual of Cookery and Confectionary is admitted to he unrivalled. The eating public are a much more numerous body than the reading public, and no work of literature can ever hope to circulate bv tens of thousands like a book which teaches us how to live because it teaches us how best to eat. IV ives and other mistresses of families in England have been time out of mind, reproached for the eternal sameness of their culinary preparations, which alternate only from the roast to the boiled, the leg to the shoulder, the ribs to the loin. But in Mr. Dolby’s Dictionary the reader is presented, not only with five thousand piquant and wholesome receipts, but may see at a glance a score or two different modes of dressing one joint. Possessed of this book, a family may, without extra expense, and but little additional trouble, sit down to a new kind of dinner every day for several years ; and every one knows how intimately the preservation of health depends upon change of diet. t>un.