218 CUS cus with a tea-spoonful of saffron in powder, five small pimentos, crushed ; make your butter quite hot, and then add five large spoonsful of veloutc ; stir the sauce well, and serve it without skimming or strain- ing; a little grated nutmeg may also be added. CUSTARD.—Boil a pint of milk with lemon peel and cinnamon ; mix a pint of cream, and the yolks of five eggs, well beaten; when the milk tastes of the sea- soning, sweeten it enough for the whole ; pour it into the cream, stirring it well; then give the custard a simmer till of a proper thickness. Do not let it boil; stir the whole time one way ; then season with a large spoonful of peach water, and two tea-spoonsful of brandy, or a little ratafia. If you wish your custards to be extremely rich, put no milk, but a quart of cream. Custards.*—Take six eggs, leave out tlie whites ; mix your eggs and sugar to- gether with some rose water ; then boil a pint of cream, and put in the eggs (the cream must not boil after the eggs have been put in). Stir them to prevent them from curding. Custards (Small).*—Put an ounce of sifted flour into a small saucepan, with one egg, and stir it over the fire till it becomes a very smooth paste; mix with it six yolks and one whole egg, a quarter of a pound of powder sugar, six macaroons, crushed, and a grain of salt; stir it well for some time, and then add ten moulds full of cream, half an ounce of crisped orange flowers, or the rind of an orange, lemon, or cedrat. When your moulds are lined with puff paste, put in each apiece of but- ter the size of a filbert; then pour in the preparation, and put them in a brisk oven; serve them quite hot. These quantities will make eighteen. Custard Anglo-Franfaise*— Make a cream pAtissierc, with a little vanilla in it; and when dried, add of butter, powder sugar, and crushed bitter macaroons, six ounces each, a quarter of a pound of dry currants, and the same of stoned raisins, two ounces of preserved cedrat, cut in pieces, four drachms of crisped orange flowers, half a nutmeg, grated, a pinch of salt, and half a glass of white wine. Mix in tho twelve whites whipped firm ns usual; pour the preparation into a raised crust, and bake in the usual way. Custahd (Baked).—Boil a pint of cream with mace and cinnamon; when cold, take four eggs, leaving out two ol the whites, a little rose and orange-flower water, a little white wine, nutmeg, and sugar to<‘ your taste; mix them well together, and bake them in china cups. Custard af Cream.*—Prepare your cus- tard as usual. (See Apple Custard.') ■ Fasten a paper band, about four inches high, round it, and fill it with a good cream pitissiere, with rather less butter: than usual. Bake it for three quarters of' an hour; take off the paper, dorez it; sprinkle the top of the cream, and colour it with the salamander. Custard Fritters.—Having beat up the yolks of eight eggs, with a spoonful of flour, half a nutmeg, a little salt, and a glass of brandy, add a pint of cream; sweeten it, and bake it in a small dish. When it is cold, cut it in quarters, and dip them in batter made of half a pint of cream, a quarter of a pint of milk, four eggs, a little ginger grated. Fry them in good lard or dripping, and when done, strew grated sugar over them. Custard of Fresh Fruit.*—Have ready a tin or copper mould, and line it com- pletely with paste, taking care that it takes all the form of the mould. Then take a sufficient quantity of apricots, peaches, plums, or any other fruit you please, and having taken out the stones, seeds, and stalks, mix the fruit up with powder su- gar ; put it into the crust, and bake it in a hot oven. When ready for table, mask it with the syrup and kernels, blanched, and cut in halves. Custard in Preserved Oranges.— Fill three or five oranges with custard; garnish with a little sweetmeat, either wet or dry. This makes a verv pretty dish. Custard a la Parisienne.*—Cut fifty sound apples into quarters (pared and cored), and put them into a saucepan, with half a pound of butter, a quarter of a pound of powder sugar, and a pot of apricot mar- malade ; put them over a moderate fire, with coals on the saucepan lid ; let them remain a few minutes, that they may soften, but not break. Have ready a pre- paration of rice, boiled with a pound of butter, the same of sugar, on which has been grated the peels of four lemons, a pinch of salt, and eight or nine glasses of milk, and thickened with the yolks of ten eggs. Make a raised crust like the cus- tard a la Portugaise, in which pour a fourth part of the rice (cold) ; on that lay forty-eight quarters of apples ; over them pour tho same quantity of tho rice, then the apples, rice, Ac., reserving the finest