140 CUE ciie bitably one of the richest of English cheeses. The fatty richness of this material consti- tutes not the desired properties for toast- ing, as the inferior cheeses are, when toasted, found to he richer, softer in con- sistence, less ropy, and superior in flavour, than even Stilton. Cheeses that become tainted with mites, are recommended by a Derbyshire lady, well acquainted with the operations of the dairy, to be wiped, and then put into a pot in which mutton has been cooked, whilst the water is yet hot, and made to boil a few seconds, then to be taken out, immediately wiped, dried, and put away in a dry place. Cheese (Artificial).—Take a gallon of new milk, two, quarts of cream, nutmeg, mace, and cinnamon, all well pounded; boil these in milk; then put in eight eggs, six or eight spoonsful of wine vinegar to turn the milk ; let it boil till it comes to a tender curd ; tie it up in a cheese-cloth, and let it hang six or eight hours to drain ; then open it, take out the spice, sweeten it with sugar and rose water; put it into' a cullender, let it stand an hour more, then turn it out, and serve it up in a dish, with cream under it. Cheese Brioche.*—Make a brioche in the usual way, and when ready for baking, spread it over the board, and strew over it some Gruyere cheese, cut into dice, in the proportion of a quarter of a pound of cheese to a pound of brioche paste. Roll it out as usual, take oft’ about an eighth part, and put the largest portion into the mould or case, dorez it; then take the remainder of the brioche and place it on the top, so as to form a sort of head to the other ; dorez and trim it. When it has been in the oven about two hours, take it out gently, and if the head be not detached from the rest, re- move it lightly, lay paper over, and replace it in the oven as quickly as you can, to finish the baking. Cheese (Cake of).*—Take about the fourth part of a close fat Brie cheese, pound and rub it through a sieve ; mix with it a pint and a half of flour; lay it on the board, make a hole in the middle, into which put three quarters of a pound of butter, and work it in well; add to it a littleGruyere cheese grated, and six eggs. Knead these all together well; mould it up, and let it stand for half an hour ; then roll it up, and make it into a cake of about three inches ; mark it with a knife on one side in chequers, and on the other in rays; dorez, and bake it in a moderate oven. Cheshire Cheese (to imitate).—The milk being set, and the curd being come, do not break it with a dish, as is customary in other cheese, but drawr it together with 3'our hands to one side of the vessel, breaking it gently and regularly; for if it be pressed rouglily, a great deal of the richness of the milk will go into the whey. Put the curd into the cheese-vat or mote as you gather it, and when it is full, salt it at different times; press it, and turn it often. The thickness of these cheeses must be about seven or eight inches, and the}' will be fit to cut in about twelve months. You must turn and shift them frequently upon a shelf, and rub them -with a dry coarse cloth. At the year’s end, you may bore a hole in the middle, and pour in a quarter of a pint of sack, then stop the hole close with some of the same cheese, and set it in a wine cellar for six months to mellow; at the expiration of which you will find the sack all lost, and the hole in a manner closed up. If this cheese be properly ma- naged, its flavour will be pleasant and grateful, and it will eat exceedingly fine and rich. Cheese (Crab).*—Cut some thin slices of any rich cheese, as Cheshire, double Gloucester, &c., and press them well with a knife, until jmu can spread it like butter. Then mix up with it mustard, common and Chili vinegar, Cayenne pepper, salt, essence of anchovies, and any other fish sauce you think proper. Mix all together thoroughly to a thick pulp. Cheese Cream.-—To three pints of raw cream put a sufficient quantity of salt to season it; stir it well; fold a cheese-cloth three or four times, and lay it at the bot- tom of a sieve, and pour your cream into it. When it hardens, cover it with nettles on a pewter plate. Cheese Cream.—Make a pint of good milk lukewarm, and stir it in a bit of ren- net about the size of a pea, previously diluted with some of the milk; put it over a few hot embers, and cover it with fire at the top; when the curd is set, put it into a little osier basket, made for the pur- pose, and well drained, turn it into a des- sert-dish ; serve with good cream, and fine sugar over it. Cheese (Milk).—rut five quarts of strippings, that is, the last of the milk, into a pan, with two spoonsful of rennet. When the curd is produced, strike it down a few times with the skimming-dish, to break it. Leave it to stand two hours, then