FOR 267 FOR make a paste with flour anil water, and a little butter and salt; knead and roll it with a rolling-pin, as thin as alialfcrown; place your meat upon it in small parcels, a full finger’s distance from each other; wet the paste all round the meat, and then cover it with paste rolled to the same thickness as that on which you placed the meat, pinching the paste round the parcels of meat with your fingers. Cut the collops separate, and fry them of a nice colour. Forcemeat of Fish.—Take two ounces of either turbot, soles, lobster, shrimps, or oysters, free from skin, put it into a mor- tar with two ounces of fresh butter, one ounce of bread crumbs, the yolks of two eggs boiled hard, a little shalot, grated lemon peel, and parsley, minced very fine ; then pound it well till it is thoroughly well mixed and quite smooth ; season it with Cayenne to your taste, break in one whole egg, rub it well together, it will then be ready for use. Oysters, parboiled and minced fine, and an anchovy, may be added. Forcemeat for Fowls or Meat.—Shred a little ham, or gammon, some cdld veal or fowl, some beef suet, a little onion, some parsley, very small quantity of lemon peel, salt, nutmeg, or pounded mace, and either white pepper, or Cayenne, and some bread crumbs. Pound the whole in a mortar, and bind it with one or two eggs, beaten and strained. Forcemeat for Hare.—Two ounces of beef suet, chopped fine, three ounces of bread crumbs, grated fine, parsley, shalot, marjoram, lemon thyme, lemon peel, nut- meg, pepper, and salt, according to taste, and mix all together with an egg. If the liver of the hare is quite sound it may be parboiled, minced very fine, and mixed with the above ingredients. Forcemeat for Raised Pies.—Set over the fire, with a small piece of butter, some chopped parsley, lemon thyme, mushrooms, and one clove of garlic, and stir them till the butter begins to look clear; then put in the crumb of a French roll, and cover it with good stock ; stir it over the fire till it has boiled to a paste, then take it off: then set on the fire, in cold water, with some salt, a dozen fat chickens’ livers ; when they begin to boil, take them off, drain them from the water (trim off any parts that look bad), and fry them in a little cla- rified butter till done; then pound them all in a mortar till they are smooth, with the yolks of two eggs boiled hard ; then add to them two ounces of fat from a fillet of veal that has been dressed : mix it well together; add the bread, &c., and thorough- ly pound the whole; when they are well mixed, put in two or three bits of truffles, or the liquor from them ; two whole eggs, and the yolks of three, with pepper, salt, and pounded spice, according to taste ; rub the whole through a fine’ hair sieve, put it in a basin, and cover it with lards of fat bacon, until it is wanted for use. Forcemeat for Turtle.—One pound of fine fresh suet, one pound of veal or chicken, chopped fine, crumbs of bread, a little sha- lot or onion, salt, pepper, nutmeg, mace, pennyroyal, basil, marjoram, parsley, and lemon thyme, finely shred. Beat as many fresh eggs, yolks and whites, sepa- rately, as will make the ingredients into a moist paste; roll it into small balls, and fry them in fresh lard. When they are of a light brown colour, then take them out and drain them before the fire. If the suet happens to be moist or stale, it will be ne- cessary to use more eggs. Balls made this way are remarkably light, but rather greasy ; some people pre- fer them with less suet and eggs. Forcemeat Patties.—Make a farce the same as for Raw Forcemeat Pie, only chop it smaller, and let the crust be a rich puff paste; cut it to the size of the patty moulds, fill them with tlie. farce, being first rubbed with butter ; cover them with pufF paste, and let them bake in a moderate oven for about three quarters of an hour; when ready to serve, add a little warm cullis with the squeeze of a lemon. Forcemeat for Pies.—Take a pound of fillet of veal, a quarter of a pound of fresh pork, and some beef marrow ; season with pepper, cloves, and grated nutmeg; then add some veal sweetbreads, truffles, and mushrooms, mincing up the whole together very fine. Instead of veal, you may use, if you please, the white partof any poultry or game, or both in equal quantities, and instead of pork, sausage meat. It is with this stuffing or forcemeat that meat pies are garnished. If you desire to make this forcemeat into halls, add the yolks of eggs, and roll them in flour. Forcemeat Pie*—Take any sort of meat, either a tender piece of beef, fillet of veal, leg of mutton, game, or poultry, and chop it up with the same quantity of beef suet, parsley, young onions, and mushrooms shred fine, and season with salt and mixed