484 STR STU Strawberry Jam.*—Gather the scar- let strawberries when perfectly ripe, bruise them well, and add the juice of other strawberries ; take an equal weight of lump sugar, pound and sift it, stir it thoroughly into the fruit, and set it on a slow fire at first, boil it twenty minutes, taking off the scum as it rises; pour it into glasses, or jars, arid when cold, tie them down. Strawbehuy Marchpane.*—Take two pounds of sweet almonds, two pounds and a half of sugar, and a pound of picked strawberries. Beat the almonds to a fine paste, and mix them with the sugar (boiled to petit bcule); crush, and strain the juice of the fruit, which add to the almond paste and syrup ; stir the mixture well, set it on hot ashes, and continue stirring until the paste is sufficiently done; this may be proved by laying a piece on the back of your hand ; if it may be re- moved without its sticking, it is enough ; when cold, spread it over a slab, and cut it of any size and shape you think proper. Strawberries (Preserved) in Wine.— Put some very fine large strawberries into a gooseberry-bottle, and strew in three spoonsful of fine sugar; fill up with Ma- deira, or good sherry. Stbawberuy Sherbet.*•—Take fourteen ounces of picked strawberries, crush them in a mortar, and then add to them a quart of water; pour this into a basin, with a tea-spoonful of lemon acid, and the same of orange-flower water, and leave the mix- ture two or three hours; put eighteen ounces of fine sugar into another basin, cover it with a large cloth, through which pour the strawberry juice; squeeze the cloth to extract as much as possible from it. When the sugar is entirely dissolved, run the whole through a jelly-bag, until perfectly clear; then finish as usual. Strawberries (Soujjle Parisian of).*— Take a basket of very fine strawberries, pick, and crush them, and then rub them through a sieve. Whisk the whites of eighteen eggs to a firm froth, to which add a pound and a half of powder sugar, stir them together as lightly as possible; then mix them with the strawberries. Pour the whole into a croustude, and bnke it nu hour in a moderate oven ; when done, glaze it, and serve Strawberry Tart.—Pick, nnd put into a basin two quarts of the best scarlet strawberries, then add to them half a pint of cold, thick, clarified sugar, and half a pint of Madeira, with the juice of two or three lemons ; mix these well to- gether, without breaking the strawberries, and put them into a puff paste, previously baked; be careful to keep them very cool. STURGEON.—Of a good sturgeon the flesh should be white, the gristles and veins blue, the grain even, with a few blue veins, and the skin tender. Sturgeon (Baked)*.—Clean, and take the skin from a small sturgeon ; split it along the belly, without separating it. Lay it in a large baking-dish, season it with salt, pepper, pounded sweet herbs; moisten with oil, lemon juice, and a bot- tle of white wine. Put it in the oven, baste it frequently; make it a nice colour, and serve it with its own gravy. Sturgeon (Pdt£ of).—Lard the stur- geon with fat bacon cut in lengths and well rolled in pounded spices and fine herbs chopped, put pieces of butter about it, and finish as all other pies. Sturgeon au Court-bouillon.*—Take a small sturgeon, clean the inside tho- roughly, take out the gills, and remove the skin, wash it well, and drain it. Put it into a fish-kettle, with a rich court-bouil- lon, grated bacon, or butter. It requires more seasoning than any other fish ; put therefore plenty of sweet herbs, and salt; set it on the fire, and put fire on the lid; moisten it often ; when done, drain and serve it with an Itulienne, to which add the liquor, with a bit of butter. Sturgeon Cutlets en Papillotes. * — Having cleaned and skinned the fish, cut it into cutlets, about an inch thick; put a bit of butter into a pan, lay in the cutlets, set them on the fire, and turn them. Set them to cool in fine herbs, or durcelles, and finish like Veal Cutlets en Papillotes. If your dish is maigre, put pounded ancho- vies ; if gras, use bacon. Sturgeon (Fricandeau of).*—Take a good-sized piece of sturgeon, and having removed the skin and gristle, beat it lightly with the blade of the chopper, and lard it with bacon. Line a stewpan with thin slices of ham, veal, some carrots, onions, and sweet herbs. Moisten with white wine, cover it with a buttered paper and stew it. When done, take out the fish, strain the liquor, take off the fat, add three spoonsful of espagnole, reduce your sauce, pour it into a dish, and serve the sturgeon on it. Sturgeon (Grillade of).*—Boil a slice of sturgeon in a small saucepan, with some slices of bacon, bay leaves, salt,