359 MUT MUT cut it into slices, about, tbe size of lialf an egg; beat them quite flat, and fry them lightly in lard, with some chopped parsley, sbalots, mushrooms, pepper, and salt; then put them into a stewpan, adding to the above seasoning, a few slices of veal, and ham, cover them with bacon, and let then simmer for about half an hour ; put in half a glass of white wine, mid some stock ;when quite done, take out tbe mutton, drain and dish it, add a little cullis to tbe sauce,reduce it; skim, and strain it over the collops. I Mutton Collops.—Take a leg of mutton, which has hung for some time, and cut it into thin collops; take out all the sinews, season the collops with salt, pepper, bea- ten mace, some shred parsley, thyme, and two sbalots: put a large piece of butter into a stewpan, and when it is quite hot, put in all the collops, and keep stirring them with a wooden spoon, till they are three parts done; put in half a pint of good mutton gravy, some lemon-juice, thickened with butter and flour; let them simmer four or five minutes, not longer, or they will be hard; lay them in a dish, and pour the sauce over them. Mutton Collops a la Perigord.—Cut your mutton in thinner slices than usual, put them into a marinade of oil, with sweet herbs; having laid in this for some time, braise them with the same materials as mutton collops, adding marinade, and chopped truffles. Serve them with a ra- gout of the latter. Mutton a la Coquette.—Cut a neck of mutton into pieces, about the size of a finger, lard them quite through with ham and bacon; simmer them in some stock, ■with sweet herbs ; when done, take the meat out, reduce and strain the sauce over them. Then take some good fowl farce, cover each piece of mutton with this, wrap the whole in a slice of bacon; wash them over with egg, cover with bread crumbs, and bake them. Mutton Cutlets en Haricot merge.-—Pre- pare the cutlets as for soubise ; but serve them with a haricot vierge, instead of a soubise sauce. Mutton Cutlets a Vltalienne. —Prepare them as for cutlets and cucumbers ; dip them into oiled butter, and then into bread crumbs ; broil them and serve with brown Italienne sauce. Mutton Cutlets Epigram.—Prepare them as for broiling, and serve in the middle a blanquette of mutton cut from the leg or other part. Mutton Cutlets aux pois d’asperges.— Saut£, or lightly fry your cutlets in clarified butter; glaze them, squeeze a little lemon over them, Cayenne and salt; dish them, and serve in the middle a sauce ol aspara- gus, peas, and button onions. Mutton Cutlets (Broiled)Breaded*—Trim. and season your cutlets with pepper and salt, put them into some melted buttert and when they have imbibed a sufficienr quantity of it, take them out, and cove, them completely with bread crumbs ; give the cutlets a good shape, and broil them over a clear fire ; take care not to do the cutlets too much, to burn the bread; serve with a sauce piquante. Mutton Cutlets in Caul.*—Lard and braise a dozen mutton cutlets, ns for la soubise ; place a weight on them whilst they are cooling ; when cold, trim and wrap them in onions prepared as follows: cut twelve onions into dice, blanch and cool them ; then do them up in a little butter, with pepper, salt, garlic, bay leaf, and nut- meg ; add to these two ladlesful of veloutd, stir in the yolks of four eggs, and reduce the onions to a paste; as soon as it is cold, use it as above-mentioned; besides this, put on each cutlet a pig’s caul, lay them in a deep dish, and bake them to a nice colour ; serve them very hot, with a rfemi-glaze. Mutton Cutlets with Cucumbers, white.*— Choose your cutlets rather thicker than usual, beat and lard them with bacon, rolled in salt, pepper, and spices ; put them into a pan with a little melted butter, brown, and then trim them. Line a stewpan with slices of bacon and veal, two carrots, cut in pieces, three onions, two cloves, a bayleaf, a little thyme; lay your cutlets on this, cover them with bacon, pour in a ladleful of stock, and simmer the cutlets in this. In about two hours take them out, drain and glaze them; dish them en couronnes with cucumbers au veloute in the centre. Mutton Cutlets and Cucumbers. — Cut your cutlets neatly from the neck of mut- ton, have some parsley, shallot, and mush- rooms finely chopped; simmer them a short time in a little butter, with pepper, salt, and the squeeze of a lemon ; stir in quickly tbe yolks of two eggs ; dip your cutlets into this preparation, then into bread crumbs ; form them neatly with your knife, and place on the cutlet pan with oiled butter, fry of a nice light brown co- lour on both sides, take them up on a clean cloth to press out the fat, dish them en couronne, and serve with a brown cucumber sauce : tomata sauce may be served instead of cucumber.