BIS 64 BIS digested in tlie bark, grows thick and coloured, which before was white and clear. The method of procuring the juice is by boring holes in the body of the trees, and putting in fossets, which are com- monly made of the branches of elder, the pith being taken out. You may, without liurting the tree, if large, tap it in several places, four or five at a time, and by that means save from a good many trees several gallons every day; if you have not enough in one day, the bottles in which it drops must be corked close, and rosined or waxed ; however, make use of it as soon as you can, Take the sap and boil it as long as any scum rises, skimming it all the time ; to every gallon of liquor put four pounds of good sugar, the thin peel of a lemon, boil it afterwards half an hour, skimming it very well; pour it into a clean tub, and when it is almost cold, set it to work with yeast spread upon a toast; let it stand five or six days, stirring it often ; then take such a cask as will hold the liquor, fire a large match dipped in brimstone, and throw it into the cask, stop it close till the match is extinguished, turn your wine, lay the bung on light till you find it has done working; stop it close and keep it three months, then bottle it off. BIRDS Potted, how to preserve when they begin to grow bad.—When birds have come a great way they often smell so bad that they can scarcely be borne from the rank- ness of the butter, by managing them in the following manner they may be made as good as ever. Set a large saucepan of clean water on the fire ; wdien it boils, take off the butter at the top, and then the fowls out one by one, throw them into that saucepan of water half a minute, wliipe it out, and dry it in a cloth inside and out; continue till they are all done, scald the pot clean; when the birds are quite cold, season them with mace, pepper, and salt, according to taste, put them down close in a pot, and pour clarified butter over them. BISHOP (Essence of), or Tincture of Allspice.—Steep three ounces (apothecary’s weight) of bruised allspice in a quart of brandy, for a fortnight, occasionally shaking it up, then pour off the clear liquid. Good for gravies, mulled wine, potted meats, &c. &c. BISQUE.—A bisque is a soup in ragout, which is made either of quails, capons, pullets, or pigeons, &c. Bisque.*—Take fifty crayfish and wash them in eight or ten waters; and put them into a stewpan with some salt, pepper, a little grated nutmeg, and a quarter of a pound of butter; over a quick fire; and keep constantly stirring them with a spoon for a quarter of an hour. When your crayfish are done, let them drain, then take out the meat and pound it in a mortar ; then put some rice into boiling water, and let it boil for a quarter of an hour, after which let it drain, and then pound it in the mortar with the meat of the crayfish; when the whole is well pounded, put it in a stewpan with a little stock previously strained through a sieve; when this purde is done add to it a little more stock, taking care that it is neither too thick nor too clear. After you have prepared your cray- fish pound the shells, and when they are well pounded, add to them some gravy or the butter in which the crayfish were boiled, pass this purde through a.tammy, and after you have strained it, put it into a stewpan over a moderate fire; you must be careful not to let either of your purees boil. When the second puree is finished, and you are ready to serve, put some croutons in a tureen and pour over them some boiling stock, then pour in your first puree, then upon this pour your puree made of the pounded shells, which being of a red colour will give a nice tinge to the whole. Bisque.—Take fifty crayfish, well wash them and pick out the meat; pound it and then put it in a stewpan with six ounces of butter, some salt, pepper, nutmeg, and a piece of the crumb of new bread three times the size of an egg; put the whole on a quick fire, and let them cook for half an hour; then strain the whole through a sieve, and when strained put it again into a stewpan over a gentle fire, taking care not to let it boil and. that your puree is not too thick ; then serve with bread, the same as in the preceding receipt. Bisque.—Take what fish you please, wash and clean it, then marinate it for an hour in white wine vinegar, a handful of salt, whole spice, a bunch of sweet herbs, some whole onions, and the peel of a lemon grated. Nearly cover the whole of your fish with these ingredients, and when it has marinated in them for an hour, put it with the ingredients into a saucepan, and when it is about half boiled, add some boiling water to it, this will make the fish very firm. Then fry the remainder of your fish, make a rich sauce with oysters, shrimps, mushrooms, capers, a bunch of