178 CLA CLA three citrons into an earthen vessel, and strain on them the juice ; to this put a little water ; pour the mixture into a basin in which are four pounds of clarified sugar, boiled to fort houlet. Place this basin in a large saucepan, half filled with water, over the fire; stir the contents of the basin frequently ; and when the sugar is entirely dissolved, and the syrup quite clear, take the saucepan from the fire, and let it cool. As soon as it is cold it may be bottled. Citron Water.—Bruise eighteen ounces of good citron peel, nine ounces of orange peel, a quarter of a pound of nutmegs; put them into three gallons of proof spirits, and distil it; then add two pounds of double refined sugar, and bottle it. Another way.—Steep the rind, cut thin, of a dozen citrons, and half an ounce of bruised cardamom seed, in good brandy (about a quart) ; stop it close, and let it stand some days ; then boil a pound and a half of sugar in a pint and a half of water, until it becomes a syrup; skim it well, and when cold, add it, with the juice of three lemons, to the infusion; run it through a jelly-bag several times, and when perfectly clear, it may be bottled. CITRONNELLE Ratafia.—¥ or two quarts of the best brandy, take the zests or rinds of a dozen fine sound lemons, two drachms of bruised cinnamon, an ounce of coriander, and two pounds of sugar, dis- solved in a pint and a half of water ; infuse the whole for a month, then strain and bottle it. CLARET (Artificial).—Distil in a cold still, one part of clary water, half a part of jedstreak cider; and put them, with six pounds of Malaga raisins, beaten in a mor- tar, and one pound of the fat mother of claret, in a close vessel, to ferment; when it has stood a fortnight, draw it off, and for every gallon put half a pint ot mul- berry, blackberry, or gooseberry juice, and a pint of spirit of clary; to the whole put three spoonsful of flour, the whites ol two eggs, a drachm of isinglass, and two pounds of syrup of clary ; mix the whole well to- gether, and let it stand ; when quite clear, bottle it. CLARY Fritters,—Bent up three eggs with a spoonful and a half of cream, then add a little ratafia, three spoonsful of flour, nutmeg and sugar to the taste. Wash and dry thoroughly somo clary leaves, dip them in the batter, and fry them. Gar- nish with Seville orange, and serve with melted butter. Clary Pancakes.—Make a batter with three eggs, three spoonsful of flour, a pint of milk, and a little salt. Pour this batter in a thin layer on boiling lard; and on that a few well washed and dried clary leaves, oyer which pour some more batter, and fry them. Clary (Spirit of). — Take a quart of the juice of clary, clary flowers, clove, gillyflowers, archangel flowers, flowers of lily of the valley, and comfrey flowers, of each two pounds ; put these into two gal- lons of sack, and let them steep all night j then distil it in a glass still, with a very gentle fire; let the still be very well pasted, to keep in the spirits; put sifted sugarcandy into the bottle you draw it in, and let it drop through a bag of ambergris. Clary Water.—Put two quarts of fresh clary flowers, with a quart of burraget water, into an earthen jar, which place in a large vessel of water over the fire; when it has stood an hour take out the flowers, and put in the same quantity of fresh flow- ers ; in another hour take these out, and throw in fresh, and so on for seven hours; then add a gallon of fresh flowers, two quarts of sack, and sweeten it with two pounds of white sugarcandy pounded, dis- til it, and if necessary add more sugarcandy. Clary Wine.—Boil six gallons of water, a dozen pounds of sugar, the juice of six lemons, and four well beaten whites of eggs, for half an hour, skimming it care- fully ; then pour this whilst boiling hot on a peck of fresh clary flowers, with the peels of the lemons used above, and stir it well; add a very thin and dry toast, co- vered with yeast. When it has worked two or three days, add to it six ounces of syrup of lemons, and a quart of Rhenish wine. Squeeze the clary through a cloth, strain the liquor through a flannel bag in a cask, lay the bung on loosely, and if in the course of a few days it does not work, bung it quite close. The wine may be bottled in three months. Another way.—To fifteen gallons of water, put forty-five pounds of sugar, and having boiled and skimmed it, put a small quantity of it to a quarter of a pint of yeast, add a little more bv degrees, and let it stand an hour. Then put both together, and pour it on twelve quarts of clary flow- ers, and let it work ; as soon as it has done, bung it up for four months. Draw it off, and add a gallon of. brandy ; stop it close for six or seven weeks, and then bottle it. CLOVE (Essence of).—Infuse a drachm of oil of cloves iu two ounces of the