275 GEE GEN flowers, &c. &.C., in proper quantities, into the above preparation. Gateau de Pithiviers Anglo-Fran- cais..*—Take eight ounces of pounded sweet almonds; four of beef marrow shred very fine, two of powder sugar, two of hitter macaroons, two of diy currants, two of the best raisinss, stoned, half an ounce of crisped orange flowers, a grain of salt, the yolks of four eggs, half a glass of Spanish wine, and half a nutmeg grated; put these ingredients into a saucepan, and stir them well. Prepare the puff paste as above directed (Gateau de pithiviers'), adding to this a narrow raised edge; pour in the preparation, which, being rather liquid, would run out but for this precaution; cover, and bake it in the usual manner. To this may also be added other ingredients to vary its flavour. J Gateau Royal*—Three pounds of flour, twelve drachms of yeast, an ounce of salt, sis ounces of sugar, six drachms of vanilla, a glass of maraschino, three quar- ters of a pound of muscadel raisins, two pounds of butter, twelve yolks, and twelve whole eggs, and some spoonsful of whipped cream. Stone the raisins, put them into a basin with the maraschino and vanilla pounded with thesugar and strained, cover the basin very closely, and set it aside. Make the leaven as before directed (Gateau de Compiegne). 'Then put three parts of the butter into a pan, melt the fourth part and add to it, heat them to a cream, and, at intervals of two minutes put in two whole eggs and two yolks’ until all are used ; to this add the other ingredients, and finish the gdteau in the same manner as Gateau de Compiegne. GEESE (to choose). — Be careful in choosing a goose, that the bill and feet are yellow, as it will be young : when old the feet and bill are red. When they are fresh the feet are pliable ; if stale, they are dry and stiff. Green geese are in season from May to .Tune, till they are three months old; they should be scalded. A stubble goose is good till it is five or six months old, and should be picked dry. , Geese (Legs of) a la R&noulade Take the legs of one or more geese, and dress mem a la braise; then dip them into the fat m Which they were cooked; then bread mem ; sprinkle them over with a little ' 8°°d 0ll> and broil them of a fine brown : servo dry, with a separate sauce a la r&mou- me made in the followingmanner: Mix a itlle mustard in a saucepan, with salt and pepper, also capers, anchovies, parsley, eeks, and a clove of garlic, chopped up together very fine, and diluted with oil and vinegar. Geese (to Preserve) *—Take any num- ber of geese, and roast till they are about tw JlTtS fone' being careful to preserve the fat that drops from them ; let them cool, and when cool cut each goose into four parts, taking off the legs, and keeping the reasts and wings together; place them very close, one upon the other, in an earthen pot, putting between each layer iree or four bay leaves and some salt : then melt the goose grease which has been preserved, with a good quantity of ho°-’s lard, and pour it into the pot; there must be a sufficient quantity to cover the birds - twenty-four hours afterwards close up the pot with parchment, and when the whole fo^use C°W,PUt * “ * ^ Placeto beep f°LUT When y°u want to use them, ™d w6 P16-eS °f S°ose out of fat, watei 016 USm8’’ Wash them welIin "'arm firs? wen (f°,r7Ss)i-Tbe S°ose must be first well picked and stubbed, then cut off alsoP Maf ^ &SVcint’ and the feet also. Make a slit m the back of the neck and take out the throat, cut off the neck- close to the back and the skin but Ipt, a enough to turn over the back fmak a Bt cl.™ «„ ‘aS PTt’ .“Ht other side; put another skewer through e small of the leg, which keep close t! the sidesmen; run it through, and do the same on the other side. Cut’throth the end of the vent, through which nut ti, rump, to prevent the stuffing from eggs (as if for biscuits) a Quarter / Wlole of flour, the same of sweet alninn!“pou:'\d ed, a little ornn^-flo^i, f ds pound“ quantity of salt and iL (? 9r’ a smalZ butter: MiTLSfl ^.f°ur 0unces of ■well; butter a baking f'edle™s together preparation over it °to ' he ”?dsPread the When you have proceeded thus far, you