CAU 130 CAR spoon; when the butter begins to fry and the carrots well mushed, put in a small Jadleful of good consomme, a very little su- gar and salt; continue to stir them until nearly reduced to tho thickness they were at first; add three table-spoonsful of .sauce tournee, stir it on the fire for three minutes, and rub it through the tammy in a large dish ; if too thick, add a little more consomme, put it in a stewpan, and before it is wanted, stir it over the fire to boil for four or five minutes ; if not strong enough, mix in a bit of glaze. Carrots (Ragout of).*—Cut some car- rots about two fingers in length, shaping .them round; boil them a quarter of an hour in water, and then put them in a stewpan with some good stock, a glass of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a little salt; when done, add a little cullis to thicken the sauce, and serve the ragout with any dish you please. Carrots with White Sauce.-—Parboil and slice the carrots ; boil them in a pint of water, a small piece of butter, and some salt; when done, and the sauce thick, make it into a sauce, blanch with butter and flour, and serve. Carrots (Souffles of).—Make a thick •puree of carrots, but instead of broth use water, in which put a great deal of sugar, half a spoonful of flour, a little salt, and a good bit of butter ; let all this boil till verv tender; then put the yolks of six eggs, and mix all well together. The moment you are ready to send, beat the whites of the eggs, which throw in with the rest, and put it into the oven. Carrot Soup.—Take twelve large red carrots, scrape and wash them clean ; slice the red part thin, with four onions and four heads of celery; put a quarter of a pound of butter into a stewpan and a pound of lean ham, minced (raw); add the roots, and let fry and draw down till of a glaze, then fill up with three quarts of good stock and let it boil gently till the roots are quite soft; add the crust of a roll, strain the roots from the stock, pound them well in a mortar; add the stock agnin, and rub it through a tammy-cloth with wooden spoons ; make it hot again, skim, and season it with salt, pepper, and ■sugar. Serve with fried bread cut in dice on a plate. Carrots (Stewed).—Scrape and wash the carrots, then blanch and cut them in slices, next turn them a few times over the fire, with butter, salt, pepper, and shred par- sley ■ moisten with some milk, and when done thicken the sauce with the yolks of eggs and serve. Another way.—Put the carrots into a stewpan with a few slices of bacon, some parsley, green onions, salt, and pepper, moistened with stock, or gravy. Let it stew till thick and reduced; serve alto-, gether. Cassia (Candied). — Pound a little musk and ambergris with as much of the powder of cassia as will lie on two shil- lings. Having pounded them well to- gether, take a quarter of a pound of fine sugar, and as much water as will wet it, and boil it to a candy height, then put in your powder and mix well together. But- ter some pewter saucers, and when it is cold turn it out. Cassia (Ratafia of).*—Take a pound of cassia, half a pound of bitter cherries, a quarter of a pound of cassia leaves, and half a drachm of cinnamon; bruise the two first, cut up the leaves, and pound the cinnamon, infuse these ingredients in three quarts of brandy for three weeks. Dissolve two pounds of sugar in a quart of water, and mix with the liqueur, and let it stand some time longer, then strain aud bottle it. Cork it up close. Caudle.—Boil up half a pint of fine gruel, with a bit of butter the size of a large nutmeg, a large spoonful of brandy, the same of white wine, one of capillaire, a piece of lemon peel, and nutmeg. Caudle.—Make a fine smooth gruel of half groats ; when boiled, strain it, stir it at times till cold. When wanted for use, add sugar, wine, and lemon peel, with some nutmeg. According to taste, you may add, if you please, besides the wine, a spoonful of brandy or lemon juice. Caudle (Brown).—Boil the gruel the same as for white caudle, with six spoons- ful of oatmeal, and strain it; then add a quart of good ale, not bitter; boil it, then sweeten it according to your taste, and add half a pint of white wine. When you do not put in the white wine, let it be half ale. Caudle (n Flour).—Rub smooth one dessert-spoonful of fine flour into five large spoonsful of the very purest water. Put over the fire fivo spoonsful of new milk, add to it two bits of sugar; the in- stant it boils, pour into it the flour and water, and stir it over a slow fire for twenty minutes. Caudle (Cold).—Boil a quart of spring water; when cold, add the yolk of an egg, the juice of a small lemon, six spoonsful