42 BAR BAR wooden or silver spoon, to a fine paste. Lay a sheet of wafer paper on a baking-plate, and spread your paste over it very thin with a knife; cut it into twelve pieces, and put them round a stick (the paste up- wards), in allot stove, to curl; when half curled, take them off carefully, and set them up endwise in a sieve ; let them stand for a whole day in a hot stove. Baiieemiy Water. — Put two large spoonsful of barberry jam, the juice of two lemons and a gill of syrup in a basin, and dilute it with water; add a little co- chineal, and if not rich enough, more syrup; strain it through a fine sieve. BARLEY Broth.—Chop a leg of beef in pieces, boil it in three gallons of water, with a carrot and a crust of bread, till re- duced to half; then strain it off and put it into the pot again with half a pound of bar- ley, four or five heads of celery cut small, a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion, a little chopped parsley, and a few marigolds. Let it boil an hour. Take an old cock, or large fowl, and put it into the pot, boil till the broth is quite good. Season with salt, take out the onion and herbs, and serve it. The fowl may be omitted. Barley Cream.—Boil a small quantity of pearl barley in milk and water, till tender, strain off the liquor, and put the barley into a quart of cream, to boil a little. Then take the whites of five eggs and the yolk of one, beat them with one spoonful of flour, and two of orange-flower water. Take the cream from the fire, mix the eggs in by degrees, and set it over the fire again to thicken. Sweeten it, and pour into cups or glasses for use. Barley Gruel.—Take three ounces of pearl barley, of which make a quart of bar- ley water; if it be not white, shift it once or twice; put in two ounces of currants clean picked and washed, and when they are plumped, pour out the gruel and let it cool a little; then put in the yolks of three eggs well beaten, half a pint of white wine, and of new thick cream half a pint, and lemon peel; then sweeten with fine sugar to your taste; stir it gently over the fire, until it is thick as cream. Barley Posset.—Boil a pound of French barley in three quarts of milk; when boiled enough, put in three quarts of crenm, some cinnamon and mace, sweeten it with sugar; let it stand until it is but just warm, then put in a quart of white wine, froth it up; to be eaten either with a spoon, or press out the liquor to drink. Barley Pudding.*—Take a pound of pearl harley well washed, three quarts of new milk, one quart of cream, and half a pound of double-refined sugar, a grated nutmeg, and some salt; mix them well together, then put them into a deep pan, and bake it; then take it out of the oven, and put into it six eggs well beaten, six ounces of beef marrow, and a quarter of a pound of grated bread; mix all well toge- ther, then put it into another pan, bake it again, and it will be excellent. Barley (French) Pudding.—Put to a quart of cream, six eggs well beaten, half the whites, sweeten to your palate, a little orange-flower water, or rose water, and a pound of melted butter; then put in six handsful of French barley that has previ- ously been boiled tender in milk, butter a dish, and put it in. It will take as long baking as a venison pasty. Barley' (Pearl) Pudding.—Get a pound of pearl barley, wash it clean, put to it three quarts of new milk, and half a pound of double-refined sugar, a nutmeg grated; then put it into a deep pan, and bake it. Take it out of the oven, beat up six eggs, mix all well together, butter a dish, pour it in, bake it again an hour, and it will be excellent. Barley Soup.—Wash your barley well in warm water, then boil it in good broth slowly, adding a little butter; give it sub- stance with either crayfish cullis a la Peine, or any other, or without any, if you like it better plain. Barley Sugar *—Clarify two pounds of sugar, and boil it to caramel height, with rather more lemon in it, in a deep copper vessel with a lip; pour it in straight lines about an inch thick, on a marble slab pre- viously rubbed with butter. Whilst hot, take each end of the strips of sugar and twist them; when cold, cut them into proper lengths and put them by in glasses. They must be kept in a dry place. Barley Sugar Drops.—Proceed as for barley sugar. Have ready a large sheet of white paper, covered with a smooth layer of sifted sugar. Pour out the boiled sugar in drops the size of a shilling; when cold, fold them separately in paper, a few drops of the essence of ginger or lemon will improve the flavour. Barley Syrup.—Make of a pound of barley three quarts of barley water; strain out the barley, and put to the water 3 handful of scabious, tormeutil, hyssop, agrimony, horehound, maiden hair, sanicle, betony, borage, bugloss, rosemary, mari- golds, sage, violets, and cowslips, of each