247 FAU FEN the panada or bread. When you have proceeded so far, weigh six ounces of panada, ten of the chicken, and eight of the udder, pound the two former together for a quarter of an hour; then add the panada, and having pounded fifteen or twenty minutes longer, put five drachms of spiced salt, grated nutmeg, and the yolks of two eggs, at first, and in five minutes, two more yolks, a table-spoonful of tedoult, pounding continually, at least five minutes after all the ingredients are put in. Take a small piece of this farce, and form it into a ball or quenelle, and throw it into some broth ; when it has boiled a minute, take it out, and if it be tolerably firm and smooth, it is properly done; but if too firm, add more veloutZ ; if not sufficiently so, the yolk of another egg. Farce of Veal (hot) for Pies, §c.—Chop an equal quantity of veal and fat bacon, and season with pepper, salt, and fine pounded spice, add savoury herbs, if not intended to keep long, and slialots, with chopped truffles if possible, and some- times chopped ham; sweat these ingre- dients in a close covered stewpan till quite tender, pound it well, till very fine, and taste if it is properly seasoned. Fat livers just scalded and well pounded amongst it, is a great impr'ovement, FAUN.—Faun should be dressed al- most as soon as it is killed. When very young they should be trussed, stuffed, and spitted in the same manner as a hare. But they are better eating when of the size of house lamb, and are then roasted in quarters; the hind quarter is considered the best. They must be done by a very quick fire, and either basted all the time they are roasting, or be covered with slices of fat bacon; when done, baste it with butter, and dredge it with a little salt and flour, till you get a nice froth upon it. FAUBONNE.*—This soup is com- posed of carrots, turnips, leeks, onions, celery, lettuce, sorrel, and chervil, all cut in dice, except the lettuce and sorrel, which must be bruised; do up the roots in a little butter; then put in the lettuce, herbs, and chervil, moisten them with broth, and let it boil over a gentle fire for an hour or more, if necessary ; then soak your bread in the usual way, and pour thefuubonne over it. Faun (Saddle of).—Well lard it, and put it into a very large vessel with salt, pepper, and onions cut into slices, parsley, vinegar, spices, &c.; leave it to pickle for two or three days, taking great care to turn it frequently on every side; then roast it, and serve with a poivrade under it. Mind that the fillets and both legs must be larded. FENNEL (Pickled). — Take some ■spring water, and when it boils put in the fennel tied in bunches, with some salt; do not let it boil, but when it is of a fine green, dry it on a cloth; when it is cold, put it in a glass, with some nut- meg and mace, fill it with cold vinegar, and put a bit of green fennel at the top; cover it the same as all other pickles, with a bladder and leather. Fennel Sauce.—Boil a bunch of fennel and parsley; chop it small, and stir it into melted butter. Fennel Sauce.—Slice four or five onions, and soak them in two spoonsful of oil, two of cullis, and two of white wine, with two cloves of garlic ; sim- mer it for an hour, skim off the fat, and sift the sauce in a sieve; then add chopped parsley and fennel, coarse pepper, and salt; boil a moment before using it. Fennel Sauce.—Pick green fennel, mint, and parsley, a little of each ; wash them clean, and boil them till tender, drain and press them, chop them fine, add melted butter, and serve up the sauce immediately, for if the herbs are mixed any length of time before it is served up to table they will be discoloured. Parsley becomes equally discoloured from the same cause. If approved, there may be added the pulp of green gooseberries rubbed through a hair sieve, and a little sifted sugar. Fennel Sauce*—Take as many branches of green fennel as you may require; pick and wash it in the same manner as parsley, chop it very small, scald, and then lay it on a sieve to cool. Put two spoonsful of veloutd, and the same of butter sauce, into a saucepan; make them quite hot, take care to stir it well, that they may be properly mixed; rub the fennel in a little butter, and then throw it into the sauce; mix it in thoroughly, and season it with salt, pep- per, and nutmeg. Fennel (Cooling Water of).—This is done simply by steeping some fennel in hot water, till it has the taste of the herb sufficiently; add what sugar you think proper, and keep it in a cool place a good while before using; the same is done with any other kind of herb, and