MUT 358 MUT Konst it, and baste it with half a pint of red wine ; when you have used up all the wine, finish basting with hutter. Have a little good gravy in readiness, and when the mutton is done, set it upright in a dish, pour in the gravy, prepare sweet sauce, the same as for venison, and send it up to table without any garnish. Mutton Broth.—'Take two pounds of scrag of mutton, take out the blood by putting it into a stewpan, and cover it with cold water ; and when the water is lukewarm, pour it off, skim it well; then put it in again with four or five pints of water, a teaspoonful of salt, a tablespoonful of grits, and an onion; set it on a slow fire, and when you have taken all the scum off, put in a few turnips, let it simmer very slowly for two hours, and strain it through a clean sieve. Mutton Broth.—Cut a neck of mutton into pieces, preserving a handsome piece to be served up in the tureen; cleanse it as directed above ; put all into a stewpan with three quarts of cold beef-stock, or water, with a little oatmeal mixed in it; some turnips, onions, leeks, celery cut in pieces, and a small bunch of thyme and parsley. When it boils, skim it clean, and when nearly done, take out the piece you intend to serve in the tureen, and let the other pieces stew till tender; then have ready turnips cut into dice, some leeks, celery, half a cabbage, some parsley, all cut small, and some marigolds ; wash them, sfrain the liquor off the meat, skim it free from the fat, add it to the ingre- dients with the piece of mutton intended for tire tureen, adding a little pearl barley, ready boiled. Season with salt, simmer all together till done, and serve with toasted bread on a plate. Mutton (Currie) Cabob.—Cut tire lean of a loin of mutton in neat square pieces, free from skiir and fat, and put them on silver attlet-skewers ; slice a dozen large onions, blanch them in boiling water, strain them off, put them into a stewpan, with some chopped mushrooms, three large tablespoonsful of curry-powder, and a quar- ter of an ounce of pounded nrace, a little salt, and a spoonful of stock ; simmer this for two hours, and then rub it through a hair sieve; lay the skewers of mutton in a stewpan and pour the purie of onions on them, coverthem close, tmd simmer slowlv for three hours, taking care it does not burn; put the skewers of mutton on the dish, and pour the sauce over them. This, if well made, is an excellent dish for those fond of Indian cookery. A little garlic may be added sometimes. Mutton Cabob (Winchester).—Bone a loin of mutton that has the whole flap on, cut off nearly all the fat, and brush it over with eggs ; take four handsful of bread- crumbs, and mix with them the grated rind of two lemons, a nutmeg grated, pep- per, salt, pounded mace, parsley, thyme, and shalot chopped fine ; strew this thickly over the mutton, roll it up, crumb it like- wise outside, skewer it, and tie on the spit; roast it gently an hour and a half. If it gets too brown, put paper over it. For sauce, reduce half a pint of port wine, with some chopped shalot, to half the quantity, add three spoonsful of espugnole, or cullis, a knob of sugar, Cayenne, and salt, and serve under the cabob. Mutton (Capilotade of.)*—Cut the re- mains of a quarter of mutton into pieces, put them into a pan with salt, pepper, nutmeg, white wine, stock, and a dessert- spoonful of olive oil; when about half done, add to it two ounces of raspings, cover the saucepan close, and let it boil slowly for three or four hours; then pour it on a dish with its liquor and the juice of a Seville orange. Mutton Chops in disguise.—Take as many chops as you choose, and rub them with pepper, salt, and a little parsley; roll each chop in half a sheet of white paper, well buttered on the inside, and rolled on each end close; have some hog’s lard or beef-dripping boiling in a frying- pan ; put in the steaks, fry them of a nice brown, lay them in your dish, and garnish with, fried parsley, throw some all over them, and have a little good gravy in a sauceboat; but take great care that you do not break the paper, nor have any fat 'j in the dish, but let them be well drained. Mutton (to collar a Breast of.)*—Take j off the skin, bone, and gristle, from a ■ i breast of mutton ; then grate white bread, g cloves, mace (a small quantity), pepper, I and salt, the yolks of three eggs bruised 1 small, and a little lemon-peel shred fine; J make the meat flat, strew the seasoning I over it with four or five anchovies, washed I and boned ; roll the meat up as a collar, ■ bind it with a coarse tape, and broil or I roast it, cut it in three or four pieces, and §j serve it up witli a good thick gravy ; fried a oysters, or forcemeat balls, are an im- n provement. It is very good cold, cut in slices, like collared beef. Mutton Gallops.—’lake all the lean front i a leg of mutton that has hung some time ; i