VEA 515 YEA well-shaped noix, lard the upper part with fine lardons, and the under part with larger ones, all well seasoned with salt and pepper; line a braising-pan with rashers of bacon and slices of veal; add two carrots, four onions, one stuck with cloves, a bay leaf, salt, a bunch of parsley and scallions ; lay in your veal, cover the udder only with slices of bacon, put a round piece of buttered paper over the whole, and braise the noix as usual, and then let it cool. When cold, cut out a piece of the meat of an oval shape, through which take out great part of the meat, leaving it at the bottom a sufficient thick- ness that it will contain a ragout securely. Cut a slice from the piece first taken out, cut the rest into dice, and do the same with some champignons, and put both into bechamelle. Make the noix hot again, then drain and glaze it; put the mince into the hole, lay the slice over it, glaze that also, and serve it; pour some espitgnole travaillee into the dish. Veal (Small Noix of).*—Take from the shoulder of veal fifteen small noix; take off all the skin and trim them; run these on three skewers, marinate them in some oil, with a sliced onion, parsley, pepper, and salt, for half an hour; then fasten them to a spit, and roast them before a large fire; glaze and serve with a clear aspic, or a puree of any kind you like. Veal (Shoulder of) Galantine.*—Take a handsomely-cut shoulder of veal and bone it; cut about a pound of meat from the thickest parts, mince it together with an equal quantity of bacon, mix them well with the yolks of four eggs, shred parsley, salt, and spices, and spread the farce, about an inch thick, over the whole joint; lay on it some lardons, truffles, tongue a Vicariate, carrots, and an omelet, coloured green with spinach essence, all cut in lardons ; cover these with another layer of farce, place more of the lardons, &c., and then a third layer of farce; roll up the shoulder, carefully securing the ends ; lay rashers of bacon round it, wrap it in a cloth and tie it tight. Line a braising-pan with slices of bacon, put in the galantine, with two calf’s feet, the bone of the shoul- der, six carrots, eight or ten onions, one stuck with four cloves, four bay leaves, a little thyme, a large bunch of parsley and scallions ; pour in some stock, and cover the pan ; set it on the fire, and leave it for three hours, by which time the shoulder will be sufficiently done; take it out, pressing it gently that all tho gravy may run from it, and then let it cool. 'Break two eggs into a stewpan, beat them well, strain the liquor, and pour it to them, stirring all the time, that they may be thoroughly blended ; add a bay leaf, a little thyme, and parsley, salt, pepper, and spices; set it on the fire, and when it begins to boil, remore it to the side ; cover the stewpan, and put hot ashes on the top, and leave it to boil slowly for half an hour, when strain it gently through a fine cloth, but do not press it; when cold it will be quite a jelly. Place the galan- tine on a dish, trim and glaze it, and sur- round it with the jelly. Veal (Shoulder of) aux Petites Racines* —The shoulder is boned, and larded in- side with bacon, seasoned with shred parsley, thyme, bay leaf, pepper, salt, and spices ; it is then rolled, and tied up like the galantine, dressed in the same way. It is served hot, with petites racines round it. (See Hoors.) Veal (Shoulder of) roasted.—Cut off the knuckle for a stew or gravy, stuff the shoulder with the following ingredients : Some suet chopped fine, parsley and sweet herbs shred fine, bread crumbs, and grated lemon peel, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and yolk of egg ; whilst roasting, flour and baste it; veal requires being more done than beef. Veal Sweetbreads.—They are of them- selves generally considered very insipid, and are, therefore, usually served with a sharp relishing sauce, in whatever manner they are dressed, and commonly take their name from the sauce with which they are served. Particular care should be taken to braise them tender and white. Veal Sweetbreads a I’Anglaise.*—Take six veal sweetbreads (three of each sort), scald, and then dress them in a half glaze, in which ldt them cool; have ready the yolks of four eggs, beaten with a quarter of a pound of butter, to the consistence of a thick cream ; drain the sweetbreads, soak them in it, and then roll them in grated bread; repeat this operation, and either broil or bake them. Veal Sweetbreads (Attelets of).*—When the sweetbreads are scalded, cut them into oblong pieces, all the same size, and put them into an attelet sauce ; cut also a calf’s udder in the same manner, but very thin ; put these, alternately, on skewers; dip them in heaten egg, and broil them. Serve with a tomata, or Italienne sauce. Veal Sweetbreads a. la Bechamelle.— Blanch two throat sweetbreads, and then let them stew for fifteen minutes in some 2l 2