ns 431 PIS to the other, six ounces of sugar dissolved in a glass of warm, water, and half an ounce of isinglass, and finish it according to the directions for Violet Jelly. Pistachio Biscottes*—Mix together in a pan a quarter of a pound of powder- sugar, the same of flour, well dried and sifted, and the yolks of five eggs ; beat them for ten minutes, add two ounces of whole pistachios, and then spread it on a buttered baking-tin, ten inches long and five wide; lay it of an equal thickness, strew over two ounces of pistachios, cut crosswise ; put this in a gentle oven for forty or fifty minutes; then take it out, and cut it into pieces two inches and three-eighths long, and half an inch wide ; replace them in the oven to dry. Almonds or filberts may be used instead. Pistachio Biscuits .*—Take a pound of pistachio nuts, two ounces of sweet al- monds, the whites of sixteen, and yolks of eight eggs, two ounces of flour, and a pound of powder-sugar. Blanch and pound the pistachios and almonds, moistening occasionally with white of egg; beat the whites and yolks separately, with the latter half the sugar, and some grated lemon-peel; when both are thoroughly beaten join them together, beating con- stantly, and as you do so, sift over them the flour and remainder of the sugar, then the almonds and pistachios. Have some paper cases ready, into which pour your preparation ; glaze, and bake the biscuits in a moderately heated oven. Pistachio Biscuits Sonjflees.*—Blanch a quarter of a pound of pistachios, half of which cut in slices, and the other half mince small. Whip the whites of three eggs very firm, and then mix with them the sliced pistachios and half a pound of sifted sugar. Have ready a number of small paper cases, about an inch square; put your preparation into them, tailing care they are not more than half full; sprinkle powder-sugar over, and as soon as that is dissolved, strew the minced pistachios, and put them into a gentle oven, and colour them of a reddish yellow. Pistachio Cannellons*—Peel six ounces of pistachios, and six bitter almonds, and pound them with an ounce of preserved cedrat, and a little white of egg, to a fine paste, to which add a quarter of a pound of powder-sugar, to make it tolerably firm. Roll this paste on a sheet of paper to about the size of your finger, cut it into pieces two inches long, dip them into hatter, and fry your cannellons to a nice colour, drain and sprinkle them with powder-sugar, and serve them. Pistachio Cream an Bain-marie.* — Peel a quarter of a pound of pistachios, pound them with an ounce of preserved cedrat, and eight bitter almonds; when reduced to a fine paste, put it into six glasses of boiling milk; cover the infusion, but before it is quite cold squeeze the milk through a cloth. Mix in a pan ten ounces of powder-sugar with a spoonful of spinach essence strained; then add a whole egg, ten yolks, and a grain of salt; pour the infusion to this, a little at a time, stir it well, run it through a sieve, and finish according to rule. (See Cream au. Bain-marie.) Pistachio Cream Ice* — Blanch and wash half a pound of pistachios, and when perfectly dry, pound them to a fine paste, with a little cream and lemon-peel; put this paste into a skillet, with the yolks of nine eggs, and three quarters of a pound of powder-sugar ; stir it in well, and add, by degrees, a quart of cream, and set it on a slow fire to simmer gently, and when sufficiently done, colour it with a little spinach-green; then strain it, and when cold, ice it in the usual way. Pistachio Cream Pdtissiere* — Peel a quarter of a pound of pistachios, wash, and then pound them with an ounce of preserved cedrat, and ten bitter almonds ; with this paste mix two spoonsful of spi- nach essence strained, six ounces of pow- der-sugar, four of filbert, or other maca- roons, and the cream properly prepared (see Cream Pdtissiere) ; beat it all up together, and finish as directed. Pistachio Whipped Cream* — Your cream being whipped as usual (see Whip- ped Cream), mix with it six ounces of powder-sugar, two spoonsful of double rose or orange-flower water, dress your cream in a pyramidal form, and having peeled a quarter of a pound of pistachios, cut them in pieces, lengthwise, and stick them lightly on the surface of your pyra- mid. Pistachios (Frontage Bavarois of)*, Peel a quarter of a pound of pistachios, and being well washed and drained, pound them with an ounce of preserved cedrat, or the rind of a lemon rasped on sugar, and eight bitter almonds blanched; when these are reduced to a fine paste, add to it two glasses of hot milk, and half a pound of powder-sugar ; lot this stand for about half an hour, then strain and add to it six drachms of isinglass, and a suffi-