432 PIS ns cient quantity of spinach essence to make it of a delicate green colour ; put your preparation into a vessel set on ice, and when it begins to thicken, mix a whipped cream with it and finish it. (See Fromage Ba varois). Pistachios Glares a la Royale.*—Peel three ounces of pistachios, dry them a little at the mouth of the oven ; when cold, glaze and finish them in the same manner as filberts, and almonds. (See the recipes.) These, however, should be grouped in sixes and eights. Pistachios (Gateau of).*—Set half a pint of milk on the fire, and mix with it a sufficient quantity of flour to make it the consistence of thick cream; when done, add to it a quarter of a pound of pistachios, the same of sweet almonds, both blanched and pounded to a fine paste, a pinch of dried orange flowers, three quarters of a pound of powder- sugar, four whole eggs, put in one at a time, the yolks of six, and a quarter of a pound of melted butter ; stir all these ingredients well, and having whipped the six whites, add them lightly, colour it with a little spinach green, and pour the whole preparation into a well buttered mould ; put it into a hot oven, and bake for three quarters of an hour, then draw it out, turn it on a dish, and serve. Pistachio, small Gateaux.*—Make three quarters of a pound of puff paste, to which give ten turns, and roll it into two layers, each thirteen inches long, and eight wide, put one of these on a baking-tin (previously wetted), spread over it, of an equal thickness, a cold pis- tachio cream to within three quarters of an inch of the edges, moisten them, and cover the cream with the other layer; press the two layers together, dnrez the top lightly, and with the point of a knife mark on it seven lines, each two and a quarter inches apart; across these, mark five lines, three inches apart, «hicli will make twenty-four cakes; put it into a brisk oven, but do not glaze till the under side of the paste is of a clear yellow. When cold, divide the cakes according to the lines, and trim them neatly. If you wish to have these gateaux still more delicate, strew over them, before they are baked, either almonds or filberts, blanched and chopped small, and mixed with sugar and white of egg. Pistachio Ice*—Take three pints of milk and one pint of cream, half a pound of pistachios, which blanch and pound to a fine paste, adding milk to them occa- sionally to prevent their oiling; when well pounded, dilute the paste with half the remaining portion of the milk, and squeeze it through a cloth, wringing as tight as possible. P ut a saucepan on the fire, in which is the cream and the rest of the milk, a pound of sugar and the rind of a lemon grated ; stir these ingredients over the fire till tolerably thick; then add the pistachio milk, give the whole one boil, and strain it. When quite cold, colour it with spinach essence, and freeze it as directed. (See Ice.) Pistachio Marchpane.*—Put a pound and a half of pistachios into a mortar, pound them, moistening with white of egg, to a very fine paste; in the mean- time clarify the same quantity of sugar, boil it to petit bottle; then take the pan from the fire, put in the pistachios, stir them together well, replace the pan on hot ashes, continually stirring, till the paste is of a proper consistence, then pour it on a slab well sprinkled with sugar ; as soon as it is cold, cut it into whatever forms your fancy may dictate. Pistachio Meringues*—Take a quarter of a pound of pistachio nuts, three ounces of powder-sugar, and the whites of six eggs; blanch the pistachios, and having dried them thoroughly in a stove or oven, pound them with white of egg to a very smooth paste. Beat up the whites of eggs, add the sugar, and set them on hot ashes for a short time, removing the pan occasionally, and stirring constantly; then add the pounded pistachios, and when the whole is thoroughly incorporated, put some sheets of paper on tin plates, and lay the meringues with a spoon half an inch apart; sprinkle very finely sifted sugar over, and bake them in a cool oven : when done, raise them from the paper with a knife, place them on sieves in a stove, to preserve them dry. Pistachio Petits Fours.*—Put into a pan half a pound of powder-sugar, half the white of a large egg, and a sufficient quantity of spinach essence strained, to tinge the glaze of a delicate green ; add a few drops of essence of lemon, and beat up the whole for a few minutes, when the glaze will be tolerably firm, but smooth ; roll it in slips about the thickness of a little finger; cut these into dice, which roll in the hollow of your hand, taking care to moisten them sufficiently to make their surface clear and shining; place them on a sheet of thick paper, three