TRO TRO ‘1 9j Trout (Collared).—The}- are done in the same manner as eels are collared. Trout (Fried).—After they are well scaled, gutted, and washed, dry them, rub them with yolk of egg, flour or strew fine crumbs of bread over, and fry them of a fine colour; serve with crisped parsley, and plain butter, or anchovy sauce. Trout a la Genoise.*■—Lay trout in a fish-kettle, and put on them two carrots, and four onions, all sliced, parsley, scal- lions, two bay leaves, a little thyme, two cloves, salt, pepper, and red wine; set it on the fire, and stew it gently hall an hour; strain the liquor, and put it into another saucepan, with a quarter of a pound of butter, and three dessert- spoonsful of flour; set it on the fire, and stir till it is all well united; re- duce it over a large fire, and when it will adhere to the spoon, serve it over the trout, previously drained. Trout (Marinated).—Fry some trout in a sufficient quantity of oil to cover them, put them in when the oil is boiling; as soon as they are crisp take them out, and lay them to drain till they are cold ; then make a marinade of equal quantities of white wine and vinegar, with some salt, whole pepper, nutmeg, cloves, mace, sliced gin- ger, savory, sweet marjoram, thyme, a bay leaf, and two onions; let ail these boil together for a quarter of an hour ; put the fish into a pan, pour the marinade to them hot, put in as much oil as vinegar and white wine, which must be according to the quantity of fish, as there must be a sufficient quantity of liquor to cover them ; they will then keep for a month. Serve with oil and vinegar. Trout a la Mariniere*—Scale, and cleanse your fish as usual; put inside each a little butter mixed with sweet herbs, pepper, and salt; put them into a ,stewpan, with as much white wine as will rise about an inch above them, add salt, pepper, nut- meg, onions, set the whole on a fierce fire ; if the wine does not catch, set it alight with a piece of lighted paper. When thickened, put into the sauce a bit of but- ter ; this, if well stirred in, will make the liquor smooth and rich ; pour it over the fish and serve. Trout Pie.—Nicely lard a couple of trout with eels; Taise a crust, and put a layer of fresh butter at the bottom ; make a forcemeat of trout, mushrooms, truffles, morels, and fresh better; season with salt, ■pepper, and spice, and bind it with the yolks of two raw eggs ; stuff the trout with this forcemeat, then lay them in the pio upon the butter, and cover them with but- ter ; put on the lid, and send it to the oven; when done, pour in some good fish gravy. Trout d la Saint Florentin.*—Cut some fillets of trout the length and thickness of a finger.; put these pieces into a pan, with the juice of two lemons, four onions sliced, parsley, two bay leaves, a little thyme, salt, and pepper; move them about fre- quently. When they have lain in it suffi- ciently long, drain them thoroughly; flour and fry them in a very hot pan; serve them with sauce piquante. Trout (Soused).—Well wash a couple of middling-sized trout; then take three pints of white-wine vinegar, a quart of water, an onion stuck with cloves, a little lemon peel, a bunch of sweet herbs, some pepper, salt, mace, and a grated nutmeg; boil all these together in a stewpan suffi- ciently large to hold the trout; when it has boiled some time, put in the fish,; as soon as they are done, lay them in a dish till they are cold ; pour off the liquor, take out the onion and herbs, and let it stand till cold ; then take off all the fat, and pour the liquor over the fish; they will be ready for use the next day. If sent to table hot, serve with shrimp or lobster sauce, made with the pickle, and garnish the dish with fried smelts. They are very good .served cold. Trout (Stewed).—Take a large one, stuff it with grated bread, a bit of butter, parsleychopped, lemon peel grated, pepper, salt, nutmeg, savory herbs, bind with yolk of egg; put it into a stewpan, with a quart of good boiled gravy, some Madeira wine, an onion, a little whole pepper, a fewcloves, and a piece of lemou peel, let all stew gently till done, then thicken with a little flour mixed in some cream, a little ketchup ; boil it up ; squeeze in a little lemon juice. Trout with Truffles.*—When .scaled and cleansed, lard them with truffles, and fill each with some fine truffle Farce; then braise them in wine, with truffles, white onions, artichoke bottoms, salt, and pep- per. Serve them with a rugoiu of sliced truffles. 1 rout d la Vcnitienne*—Slit the fish along the back, and put in a little butter and sweet herbs ; soak -them for half an hour in olive oil, then cover them with bread crumbs and sweet herbs ; boil them over a slow fire ; serve with a .sauce, in which put two slices of orange.