2% IIAR IIAR glaze them. Serve them on cucumbers a la creme, a poivrade, or any thing else you choose. Hare (Fillets of), Marines Sautds.*— Take off the fillets, trim and lard them as the fillets sautes; then put them into a pan with salt, pepper, two bay-leaves, thyme, parsley, whole scallions, and a large glass of vinegar; leave the fillets in this for a day. When wanted, take them out, drain and put them into the tossing-pan ; pour in a sufficient quantity of melted butter to make the fillets float; set your pan over a brisk fire ; turn them when done on one side ; as soon as they are firm to the touch, take them out, drain, and dish them on a poivrade. Hare (Fillets of), Sautes*—Take ten fillets of hare, cut them into slices, flatten them with a knife, trim them to as round a shape as jmu can, and as each piece is done, put it into a tossing-pan; season them with salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; add a little melted butter to it: put your pan over a fierce fire, moving it about to prevent the pieces from sticking ; as soon as one side is done, turn and do the other ; then put them in a dish, take out the butter, hut not the gravy, from the pan, and to it put a glass of white wine, and four ladiesful of espagnole; reduce them to half, and then strain them over the fillets. Take care to drain the fillets from their gravy, that the sauce be not too thin ; it ought, properly, to adhere to them. Hare to Fry.—When the hare is skin- ned, lay it on a gridiron till hot through ; then quarter and fry it to a nice colour in lard; soak some toasted bread in beef stock and white wine, with pounded ginger and cloves; strain it, add a little verjuice, and serve up the hare with butter, sugar, mustard, and lemon-juice. Garnish the dish with greens and sliced lemon. Hare, Haricot.*—Prepare a hare as for roasting, cut it in pieces, which put into a saucepan lined with streaked bacon ; add turnips, salt, pepper, sweet herbs, half a pint of good stock or boiling water only. Let it stand, closely covered, over a small fire, and when nearly done, throw in about thirty pieces of fried bread; skim off the fat, put it in a hot dish, and squeeze lemon-juice over it. Hare, Hashed.*—Skin and stuff a hare, tie some thin slices of bacon over, and spit it; set it before the fire, and half roast it; then tako it up, cut it in pieces, and having made some good beef grnvy, put in the hare simmer it for two hours, then add a glass and a half of port wine ; let it stand a little while longer over the fire, and then serve it with currant jelly. Another way.—Half roast a hare or use the remains of one ready dressed; cut it in neat pieces ; take the trimmings, add to them three chopped shallots, a bay leaf, blade of mace, and a few pepper corns; fry them in butter, add a sufficient quan- tity of flour to thicken it; add a half a pint of port wine, a knob of sugar, pepper, salt, and squeeze of a lemon; boil these for half an hour with a pint or more of good gravy; strain it to the pieces of hare, and simmer till very tender. Hare (Jugged).*—Having skinned a hare, cut off the shoulders and legs, and divide the back into three pieces; rub them well with fat bacon, and put them into a stewpan with the trimmings, all- spice, mace, whole pepper, a small clove of garlic, two bay leaves, three onions, parsley, thyme, sweet maijoram, a quart of veal stock, and three gills of port wine; simmer the whole till three parts done ; then take out the shoulders, legs, and back, put them into another stewpan, strain the liquor to them, add a little flour and butter, stew them till quite done; take off the fat, season with cayenne, salt, and lemon juice, and serve the whole in a deep dish. Hare Loaf.*—Make a farce in the same manner as for the Boudins of hare, with the addition of the liver pounded and rubbed through a quenelle sieve. Take a mould of the size you wish to have the loaf, line this completely with thin slices of bacon ; then put in the farce ; have a saucepan with boiling water, put the mould into it, but do not let the water come within an inch of the top of it, lay thin slices of bacon over the hare, cover the saucepan and put fire on the lid; let the water simmer; in about an hour see if it be sufficiently done ; if so, take it from the mould. Glaze and serve it with n fumet of game sauce ; if you think proper, make a hole in the top, into which put the kidneys of the hare, pre- viously •dressed in a little champagne. Hare with Olives.*—Your hare being skinned, cut it in pieces, lard the legs and fillets with small lardons; braise the jiieces, but when about three parts done, take them out and put them into a saucepan ; then take the gravy of the hare, mix it with the blood of a chicken, soak liver in it, pound, and then add it with the gravy and half a hundred olives (previously soaked and scalded), to the hare; set it on a slow fire until the olives are tender; put the