PIG PIG 419 the shape; add four calf’s feet, cut in pieces, a knuckle of veal, some slices of beef and ham, a bunch of parsley, shalots, cloves, garlic, bay-leaf, thyme, nutmeg, whole pepper and salt; cover the pig with slices of bacon, pour in a bottle of white wine, and double the quantity of good stock, cover the pan quite close, and set it on the fire for an hour, taking care that it does not boil too fast. When done, take out the pig gently, put the braise in ano- ther saucepan, clean the braising-pan, then put a layer of fresh parsley and some cray- fish at the bottom of it, on which place the pig, back downwards, and keep it hot. In the mean time, the braise having simmered, skim and strain it; add some slices of peeled lemon, die whites and shells of eight eggs, well beaten (the latter should be pounded first), and boil the whole till perfectly clear, and of a proper consistence; then strain it through a napkin over the pig, so as to cover it completely; when the jelly is set, dip the pan into boiling water, and turn it out on a napkin folded to receive it. Pig Olives.—Bone, and cut off the head and feet of a fine pig; take a part of the flesh, and mince it with some beef suet, then pound these with some bread crumbs, parsley, shalots, mushrooms (all shred), and add some cream, a spoonful of brandy, the yolks of six eggs, pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Cut die skin of the pig into pieces, in each of which roll some of the farce, tie up the olives, and cook them in some stock; add a glass of white wine, and a few slices of peeled lemon. Serve the olives with any sauce you may think proper. Pig’s Pettitoes a la Ste. Menihould.— Well clean and wash the pettitoes, then line the bottom of a stewpan with an onion and a carrot, cut in slices, a few pepper- corns, parsley, one clove of garlic, and a bay-leaf; over these lay bards of fat bacon, dien place the pettitoes regularly over, tiien a fresh layer of bacon, then pettitoes again, and bacon over them ; add some good beef stock, lay a round paper close on the top, cover it, put them to stew be- tween two fires very gently, till thoroughly done ; then take them off, and when they are cool, toss them in eggs with pepper and salt; take them, and do them over with bread crumbs, lay them on paper ; then dip them in clarified butter, and do them over with bread crumbs a second time; lay them on the gridiron, and grill them a fine light brown; dish them up, and serve under them a good remolade sauce. Pig (Rouladesof).—Scald a fine sucking pig, and having cut off the head and feet, bone and cut it into quarters ; make a forcemeat with grated bacon, bread crumbs, parsley, shalots, mushrooms (shred small), three yolks of eggs, pepper and salt; put some of this upon each quarter, roll them up, and tie and braise them in stock and white wine, When done, take them out, skim and strain the sauce, add to it a little cullis and lemon juice, and pour it over the roulades. Pic (Stuffed).—After having scalded your pig, and. prepared it in the usual man- ner, make a stuffing with its liver minced, some blanched bacon, a few truffles, mush- rooms, shalots, fine capers, anchovies, fine herbs, pepper and salt, all warmed toge- ther in a saucepan. Fill the stomach of the pig with this stuffing, roast it, basting it with sweet oil. It is generally served, with a sauce a, i’orange de Seville, seasoned with salt and white pepper. Pig (Timbale of).*—Bone and take all the flesh from a nice pig, without injuring the sldn; mince the meat with truffles, ham, bacon, parsley, and shalots; when minced, soak them in oil, pepper and salt. Lay the skin open in a small stewpan, place the farce on it, close the skin, round it and cover it with slices of bacon; fill the sauce- pan with good stock, and a pint of white wine ; add sliced carrots, onions, parsley, garlic, shalots, cloves, bay-leaf and thyme. Let it be thoroughly stewed, and serve it either hot or cold; if the latter, it must be more highly seasoned, left to cool in the braise, and then turned out on a folded napkin. When sent to table hot, serve a sauce espagnole with it. Pig’s Cheek (to prepare for boiling).— Take off the snout, and thoroughly clean the head ; divide it, and take out the eyes and brains; sprinkle the head with salt, and let it strain for four-and-twentyhours. Well salt it with common salt and salt- petre, and if it is to be dressed without stewing with peas, it must lay in salt for eight or ten days, but if to be dressed with peas, it need not lay in salt for so Ion0-; and it must be washed first, and then sim- mer it till tender. Pig s Lars*—Braise your pig’s ears in the same manner as boar’s head (see that article) : when cold, mince, and put them into a stewpan; take a dozen large onions, cut them in semicircles, put them also into a stewpan, with a dessert-spoon-