APP APP 22 lightly all over the surface of your tartlets, strew powder sugar over, and bake them in a moderate oven till of a clear reddish tinge. Apples d la None.—Prepare a dozen and a half of apples as for a la Turque; let them be cold; roll out a thin tart paste, cut it in lengths of a foot and a half with a jigging-iron, and twine it round the apples ; fill them with preserved cher- ries and powder sugar, close and egg them over, and hake in a moderate oven. Serve them hot. Apple Paste.*—Pare and core whatever number of apples you may require, and having boiled them with a little cinnamon and lemon peel to a pulp, pass them through a sieve; dry the marmalade. Weigh it and boil an equal weigbtof sugar to petit bouIt; then mix the fruit with it, and boil the whole to a proper consistence ; when done put it into moulds, which place in a stove to dry the paste. ArrLE Pie with Mnscadel Plums *—Peel twenty renneting apples, cut them in quaiters, and then cut each quarter into five or six pieces ; toss them in a pan with four ounces of sugar in powder (over which should be grated the peel of a lemon), four ounces of butter lukewarm, and four ounces of fine Muscadel plums. Line the edge of a deep dish -with a good puff paste, then put in your fruit, and cover your dish with a good puff paste a quarter of an inch in thickness, glaze with the white of an egg, and strew sugar over it. Let it hake an hour in a moderate oven, and serve it hot. Apple (Poupeton of).—Pare some good baking-apples, take out the cores, and put them into a skillet; to a pound and a half of apples, put a quarter of a pound of sugar, and a wine-glass of water. Do them over a slow fire, add a little cinnamon, and keep them stirring. When of the consistence of a marmalade, let it stand till cool; beat up the yolks of four eggs, and stir in four table-spoonsful of grated bread, and a quarter of a pound of fresh butter; then form it into shape, bake it in a slow oven, turn it upside down on a plate, and serve it as an entremet. Apple Pudding (Baked). — Pare and uarter four large apples; boil them ten- er, with the rind of a lemon, in so little water that, when done, none may remain ; beat them quite line in a mortar; add the crumb of a small roll, four ounces of butter melted, the yolks of five and whites of three eggs, juice of half a lemon, and sugar to taste; beat altogether and lay in a dish with paste to turn out. Apple Pudding a la Campagve.*— Make a batter with two eggs, a pint of milk, and three or four spoonsful of flour; pour it into a deep dish, and having pared six or eight small apples, place them whole in the batter and bake it. Apple Pudding with Cherries*—Peel thirty renneting apples, cut them in quar- ters, and then cut each quarter into four or five pieces, put them in a stewpan with four ounces of fine sugar, four ounces of butter lukewrarm, and a pot of fine pre- served cherries. W hen they are warmed through, pour them out upon a dish. Prepare your paste, line your mould with it, put in your apples, and finish the same as in the receipt of Apple Pudding a la Franfaise. Apple Pudding d la Creme*—Peel and cut into quarters fifteen renneting apples ; stew them with three ounces of fine sugar in powder, and two ounces of lukewarm butter, when they are just warmed through, pour them into a dish. Prepare your paste, line your mould with it, and put in your apples, arranging them in such a way that you leave a space in the middle of your mould, which must be filled up with cream patissiere (cold), what sort you please; then finish your pudding ac- cording to the receipt of Apple Pudding a la Fratifaise. When ready to serve, mask it with apricot marmalade, and strew crushed macaroons all over. Apple Pudding a la Fianfaise.—Tomake this pudding, it is necessary to have a dome-shaped mould, four inches deep, and six in diameter, and a cover to fit the top completely, both full of holes like a cul- lender. This mould should be buttered, and completely lined with a moderate layer of paste, into which put the following pre- paration : Teel and core about three dozen rennets, cut them into quarters, toss them in a stewpan over the tire, with four ounces of oiled butter, four ounces of fine sugar, and the rind of an orange grated; and when quite cold, fill into the mould, cover it well in, put on the lid, tie it in a cloth, and boil it for two hours; strew fine sugar over it when dished up, and serve quite hot. Apple Fritters raised.—Cut a dozen good baking-apples as for fritters, peel them and take out the core with a cutter; let them soak for two hours in brandy, sugar, lemon peel, grated nutmeg, and orange-flower water: drain and dip them in a batter