PEA PEA 40-1 have boiled up three or four times, take the whole off the fire and put it into glass or China jars. During the six days that the fruit lays in the syrup, take care to place a piece of paper the size of the pan on the surface of the syrup, to prevent the fruit from rising above the syrup, and keep it all equally moist. Plums are done exactly in the same way. Peaches with Pistachios (Gimblettes of).*—Take some puff paste, give it four turns, and roll it out into two thin layers, each thirteen inches square, one of which place on a baking tin (previously moist- ened), spread over this a pot of peach marmalade, cover itwith the other layer, and then cut it with a circular paste cutter of two inches diameter, take out the middle with a cutter of one inch diameter. Beat up half the white of an egg, and a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, and wash the gimblettes over with it; in the remaining glaze add the other half white of egg, and throw into it a quarter of a pound of pis- tachios ; when these are completely covered with the glaze, stick them on the gimblettes, en couronne; when baked, re- place them in the oven to dry a minute or two, and serve either hot or cold. Peaches in a Timbale.—These are done the same as peaches in a compote, only that a small quantity of isinglass should be mixed in to turn them into a gentle jelly; serve them in a timbale. Peach Tourte.*—Put a layer of tart paste on a flat dish, moisten the edge, round which put a band of paste about an inch and a half wide; put a piece of buttered paper and a cover of common paste on, which prick in several places, dorez the band, bake and glaze it; when done, take out the paper and paste, and put in their place a compote of peaches; reduce the syrup, and the moment be- fore it is sent to table, glaze the fruit with it. Peaches (Vol-au-vent of).*—Take three quarters of a pound of puff paste (of six turns), roll it out into a round piece of seven inches in diameter, put this on a very thin layer of fine paste; dares the top, and with the point of a knife mark it within a proper distance from the edge, about a quarter of an inch deep. Put it in a brisk oven, and when sufficiently baked, take out the middle, dry it a minute or two, sprinkle it all over with powder sugar, and glaze it. Take twelve ripe peaches, as near of a size ns possible, cut them in halves, and boil them in a syrup made with six ounces of sugar; when done, drain, pare, and place those which are least coloured, en couronne, at the bottom of the voTuu-vent, arrange the re- mainder over, witli the kernels introduced here and there ; reduce the syrup, and just before the dish is sent to table, pour it over the fruit. PEARS (Baked).—Take half a dozen fine pears, peel, cut them in halves, and take out the cores; put them into a pan with a little red wane, a few cloves, half a pound of sugar, and some water. Set them in a moderate oven till tender, then put them on a slow fire to stew gently ; add grated lemon peel, and more sugar if necessary. They will be sufficiently red. Pears in Brandy.*—Take some beurrd pears not too ripe, put them into a sauce- pan with a sufficient quantity of water to cover them, set them on the fire, and let them simmer, but not boil, until the pears will yield to the pressure of your finger ; then change them into cold water; pare them with the greatest care, so that not a single spot may remain; prick, and put them again on the fire in fresh water and the juice of a lemon; let them boil very fast. As soon as the pears are soft enough for the head of a pin to penetrate them easily, take them out carefully with a skimmer, and lay them in cold water. In the mean time, having boiled your sugar to lisst, pour the boiling syrup on the pears, (previously drained from the water), and leave them. The next day drain off the syrup, boil it to la nappe, then put in the pears, give them a boil also; proceed in the same manner on the third day, after which, drain the fruit, and put it into bottles. Boil up the syrup a few more times, let it cool, and then pour on it some brandy (three-fourths of the quantity of the syrup) ; run the mixture through a bag, put it to the pears, and cork tbo bottles well. Beaus Candied—are done like apricots. Peaks (Compote oj).*—Take some good sized pears, cut them in halves, and put them into boiling water; when soft, change them into cold water, in which squeeze a little lemon juice. Boil some clarified sugar, drain the fruit well from the water, and then put them into the syrup; boil together until the pears are sufficiently done ; skim, and place them in the compotier. A little Burgundy wine and prepared cochineal will give the com- pote a red colour.