BIS BIS longer, and then mix them with the butter; Spoon Biscuits; thon boat four ounces of stir in six ounces of currants, and the same dissolved chocolate in an earthen pan, of dried flour. When all is well mixed, and add to it a third of the paste ; when it drop it, the size of a shilling, on paper, is well mixed, divide it in half, and to ona and bake in a quick oven. Take them off half mix a quarter of the biscuit paste, while hot. which will tinge that portion a light Biscuits (large) to cut in Pieces.*— chocolate colour. After this, mix together i Break ten eggs, put the wliites in one, some vegetable red and infusion of saffron and the yolks in another vessel; add to to colour half the remaining paste orange ; the latter, a pound of powder sugar, a little then divide that again, and mix the last lemon peel, orange flowers, and salt; mix quarter with half the orange colour, thus these together well; whip the whites quite your paste will be coloured with two firm, and then put to them the yolks, shades of chocolate and two of orange, lightly; sift over them three ^quarters of a Make two paper cases, each eight inches pound of dried flour, stirring all together ' square and three high, pour into one of carefully. Put this preparation into paper these a large spoonful of the chocolate cases, glaze and bake them in a slow oven paste, and when it has spread over the for an hour. When cold, cut them into bottom of the case, pour in one of the' such forms as you may think proper, and orange-coloured, on which another of the I ice them. You may vary the flavour and chocolate, and so on, alternately, until the j colour of these biscuits as you please, by case is half full; then sprinkle it with flour, i mixing any colouring material with the and put it into a slow oven for three : icing, and by rubbing the fruit which they quarters of an hour. Put the remainder of ! should be flavoured with, on the sugar, your biscuit paste (both colours) into a pan I before it is crushed and mix with the egg. and stir them together with a spoon till Biscuits (light).*—Take ten eggs, put the whole is veined, or clouded with the i the yolks of five in a pan with a few two colours; pour it into the other case, i crisped orange flowers, the peel of a green sprinkle it with flour, and bake like the lemon, both shred fine, and three quarters former; when quite cold, cut them into- of a pound of fine sugar; beat the whole slices about two inches thick, half of which . together till the sugar is dissolved and should be broken, and the other half cut well mixed with the eggs. Beat the ten in pieces of an equal,size, lay them on a whites to a froth, and add to the sugar; baking-plate, and dry them in the oven, stir in lightly, and by degrees, six ounces These are generally used to make the rocks of flour, put them into buttered moulds, in ornamental pastry, and may be coloured powdering them with fine sugar, and bake with the usual materials, according to your them in a moderate oven. fancy. Biscuits, Munquh*—Put into an Biscuits, Marchpane.—Beat a pound of earthen pan half a pound of powder sugar, sweet almonds to a very fine paste, moisten three quarters of a pound of flour, a quarter them with water, then put them and a of a pound of butter, the same of pounded pound of powder sugar, into a saucepan,' almonds, a little salt, and some orange- over a clear but not fierce charcoal fire, flower water, six yolks, and two whole stirring constantly, till the paste leaves’ ’ eggs; beat up these ingredients well; whip adhere together ; put it on a floured slab the six whites, and mix them gradually and work it well with your hands for with the above preparation; make a paper some time, then roll small pieces of it case, butter and pour in it your biscuit about three inches long and half the paste and bake it. Meanwhile cut some thickness of your little finger, join the ends almonds into either dice or slips, mix them of each and make them into ‘round rin<ra with some powder sugar and white of egg-; lay them on a sieve in a Hrv w*™