492 TOM TON vinegar, into the oil, toss them up in it, and then strain it over the toast. Toasts (Pounded.').—Pound together a piece of puff paste, a cold roasted veal kidney, some of the fat, a few bitter al- monds, orange flowers, lemon peel, pre- served citron, a pinch of salt, and a little sugar; bind these together, with the whites of four eggs, beaten well; spread this preparation over slices of bread, cut as for toast, and bake them. Toasts (Puffed).—Pound together the breast of a roast fowl, some beef marrow, and Parmesan cheese, mix with this paste five eggs, the yolks well beaten, and the whites whipped to a froth, spread it over slices of fried bread, egg them, and strew grated bread and Parmesan cheese over, bake them a little while, and serve them with a good relishing sauce. Toasts (Spanish).—Roll out some almond paste, nearly an inch thick, cut it into pieces about two inches square, press them down with a square piece of wood, a little smaller than the paste, which will leave the edges higher than the rest; bake them, and when cold, pour in any prepared cream you please, as high as the borders; ice, and colour them with a salamander. TOMATAS( Garnitureof) .*—T ake thirty tomatas, all as near of a size as possible, and of a good form ; cut them in halves, press out the juice, seeds, and pieces by the side of the stalk, but do it with great care, lest the skins should be injured; make a farce as follows : Take a little ham, garlic, parsley, shalots, champignons (shred), the yolks of two hard eggs, crumb of bread, an anchovy, butter, salt, nutmeg, and allspice; give all these a boil, and then pound them well, adding at times a little oil; strain it through a quenelle sieve; fill the tomatas with this farce, place them on a baking-tin, cover them with grated breai), and Parmesan cheese, moisten them with a little oil, and bake them in a hot oven. Serve the to- matas as a garnish to a rump of beef, or any other joint you may think proper. Tomata Ketchup.*—Take tomatas when fully ripe, bake them in a jar till tender, strain them, and rub them through a sieve. To every pound of juice, add a pint of Chili vinegar, an ounce of shalots, half an Ounce of garlic, both sliced, a quarter of an ounce of salt, and a quarter of an ounce of whito pepper, finely powdered ; boil the whole till every ingredient is soft, rub it ngain through the sieve. To every pound add tho juico of throe lemons; boil it again to the consistence of cream ; when cold, bottle it, put a small quantity of sweet oil on each, tie bladders over, and keep it in a dry place. Tomatas (Preserved).*—Gather some very ripe tomatas; having washed and drained them, cut them into pieces, which put into a well-tinned copper saucepan; set it on the fire, and when the tomatas are quite dissolved, and reduced one third in quantity, press it through a coarse sieve, but sufficiently so to retain the seeds ; re- place the pulp on the fire, let it boil till reduced to one third of the original quan- tity; then put it into a pan, and when cold bottle it; close them hermetically, wrap each bottle in cloth and put them into a large saucepan filled with water; cover the saucepan, and put a wet cloth over the lid to prevent the least evapora- tion ; set the saucepan on the fire to boil for an hour and a half or two hours. After that time take it from the fire, draw off the water; in half an hour remove the cloth, and in another hour take out the bottles; the next day resin the corks. Tomata Sauce Franfaise.* — Cut ten or a dozen tomatas into quarters, and put them into a saucepan, with four onions sliced, a little parsley, thyme, one clove, and a quarter of a pound of butter; set the saucepan on the fire, stirring occasion- ally for three quarters of an hour; strain the sauce through a horsehair sieve, and serve with the directed articles. Tomata Sauce d Vltalienne* — Take five or six onions, slice, and put them into a saucepan, with a little thyme, bay leaf, twelve or fifteen tomatas, a bit of butter, salt, half a dozen allspice, a little India saffron, and a glass of stock; set them on the fire, taking care to stir it frequently, as it is apt to stick : when you perceive the sauce is tolerably thick, strain it like a purde. TONGUE.—A tongue which has not been dried will require very little soaking, but if dried, it should be soaked in water for three or four hours; then put it into cold water, and let it boil gentlv till tender. Tongues (Pickle for).*—Half a pound of saltpetre, a quarter of a pound of bay salt, the same of moist sugar, three pounds of common salt, and two gallons of soft water ; boil the whole together, and skim it well. When cold, pour it over the tongue. This pickle will not require boiling again for six weeks. Tongue (to pickle).*—Take a fine neat’s tongue, and put it into the follow-