PER 409 PER into which put three quarters of a pound of brown sugar, half a pound of fresh but- ter, the rind of two lemons grated, and ten eggs; knead all these ingredients together well, until you have a pretty firm paste ; if it should he too thin, add a handful more flour. Then cut the paste into small pieces, each of which roll in the palms of your hands, till they are the length and thickness of your finger ; take a round stick (about half the diameter of your paste), press this down on each of the pieces, so • that they may be their original thickness on one side, and thin on the other; when all are thus pressed, form them into little crowns (the flat side inwards, and the thin end uppermost^), lay them on white paper, and bake them in a moderate oven; in the meanwhile, make some white sugar var- nish or icing, and when the perlingos are sufficiently done, dip them carefully in the varnish, one by one ; then replace them in the oven, a minute or two, to dry. PEROGEE Padogees*—Take a piece of beef, mutton or lamb, that is tender, the same quantity of heef-suet, shred sepa- rately very fine, then mix them altogether, seasoning them with pepper, salt, and a little shalot; when seasoned, mix it with a little good broth or gravy ; make a paste as follows : Melt two ounces of fresh butter in half a pint of warm milk; then put in one egg, well beaten, adding flour to it by degrees, till it is very stiff, and no eyes in it; mould it well, roll it out very thin, cut it out with a very small basin, lay the meat on one side, turn the other over as a puff, close it with some egg, yolk and white beaten together, and fry in good beef-dripping. PERRY.— Perry is a pleasant and wholesome liquor, made from the juice of pears, by means of fermentation, somewhat in the same manner as cyder is made from apples. (See Cyder.) The best pears for perry, or at least the sorts which have been hitherto thought the fittest for making this liquor, are so exces- sively tart and harsh, as to be totally unfit for any other purpose. The Bosbury pear, the Bearland or Barland pear, are the most esteemed in Worcestershire, and the squash pear, as it is called, in Gloucester- shire ; the liquor made from this fruit is pale, sweet, yet remarkably fine, and of a strong body, and held in very great esti- mation. In making of perry, the pears should be ground and pressed, exactly in the same manner as those of apples in the making of cyder (see Cyder); hut the reduced pulp should not be allowed to remain any length of time without being pressed. In Here- fordshire, or the counties in its vicinity, it has never been the practice to blend the juices of the different varieties of the pear, in order to correct the defects of one kind by the opposite properties of another. It is, however, thought more easy to find the required portion of sugar and astringency, as well as flavour, in three or four varities than in one ; therefore, it is supposed, a judicious mixture of fruits affords a pros- pect of great benefit. In grinding, the pulp and rind of the pear, as in the apple, should be perfectly reduced, and though no benefit is said to be derived from the reduced pulp remain- ing some hours unpressed, yet there is no doubt but, where all other circumstances are the same, that portion of liquor will, for the most part, be found the best, which has remained the longest under the power of the mill-stone. The juices of the pear and the apple are constituted of the same component parts, but the proportions are different. In the juice of the pear, the tanning principle is predominant, with a less portion of sugar, mucilage, and tinging matter. Perry requires nearly the same sort of management, during the process of fermen- tation, as cyder; but it does not afford the same indications by which the proper period of racking it off may be ascertained. The thick scum that collects on the sur- face of cyder, seldom appears on the juice of the pear; and, during the time of the suspension of its fermentation, the exces- sive brightness of the former liquor is rarely seen in the latter; but, where the fruit has been regularly ripe, its produce will generally become moderately clear and quiet in a few days after it is made, and it should then be drawn off from its grosser lees. To prevent an excess of fermentation, the same means are used as in making cyder, and the liquor is rendered perfectly bright by isinglass. For this purpose the isinglass should be reduced to small fragments, by pounding in a mortar, and afterwards being steeped twelve or fourteen hours in a quantity of liquor, sufficient to produce its greatest degree of expansion. In this state it must be mixed with a few gallons of the liquor, and stirred till it is diffused and suspended in it; and it is then poured into the cask, and incor- porated with the whole by continued agi- tation for two or three hours. This process