ALM ALM 8 tlio size of a walnut, and bake them in a close, gentle oven. Almond (sweet) Macaroons.* — Are done in the same way. But two pounds of sugar are sufficient for a pound of al- monds. Almond Milk.*—Take six ounces of sweet almonds, and a pint of milk, four drachms of orange-flower water, and five ounces of sugar. Blanch and pound the almonds to a very smooth paste, moisten- ing them occasionally with a few drops of milk; when your paste crumbles, put it in the milk and mix them well, and boil it till reduced to half, then let it boil up once more; let it cool, and serve. Almond Milk, as prepared ut Mexico.* —Pound blanched almonds as fine as pos- sible, with a small quantity of loaf sugar; keep adding a little water whilst pound- ing. About twelve almonds carefully beaten will produce a pint of milk. A marble mortar must be used. Almond Rice Milk. (Spanish.')*—To half a pound of rice boiled to a pulp, when the water is drained, add five pints of almond milk ; put it in by degrees, stir- ring it with a wooden spoon whilst boiling slowly, till it is of the consistence of clotted cream. In the last boiling', which should be an hour and a half, at least, from the commencement, add powdered sugar. Almond Mirlitons.*—Blanch an ounce of sweet, and the same of bitter almonds, and dry them in an oven; when cold, pound them with a little white of egg to prevent their oiling; then put them into an earthen pan with two ounces of bitter macaroons, five ounces of powder sugar, four whole eggs, and a grain of salt; when these are well mixed together, add two ounces of butter, lukewarm. Make a proper quantity of puff paste, roll it out thin, and cut it into thirty round pieces about two inches and three quarters in diameter, and put each of these into a tartlet mould buttered ; put the mirlitons on this, and when all are equally full, co- ver them with powder sugar sifted over them through a tammy ; as soon as that is dissolved strew more (but not such fine) powder sugar over, and bake them in a moderate oven. Serve either hot or cold. Almond Monceaux.* — Take half a pound of sweet almonds, cut them into thin slips (lengthwise) and roast them on an iron until they are of a deep yellow colour, inclining to brown; beat up the whites of six or eight eggs with a spoon in an earthen pan. Pour over the almonds a pound of sugar finely powdered, four ounces of candied orange peel, the same of candied lemon peel, also cut into thin slips, half a spoonful of powdered cinna- mon, and six or eight cloves pounded; mix these ingredients well in the pan, and place it on paper in little heaps of a pyra- midal form, and bake them in a well-heat- oven. Almonds (bitter) Mosaic Tartlets.*— Pound three ounces of sweet, and one of bitter almonds, to a fine paste, and put it within the tartlets made as directed under that article. Almond Paste.*—Blanch two pounds of sweet almonds, and soak them in cold water for twelve hours, then dry them in a napkin, and pound a quarter of them to a very fine paste with a little water and lemon juice, pass them through a sieve, and then pound the remainder (half a pound at a time). When all are done, mix them with a pound of sifted sugar; place them over a gentle fire, stirring it continually, until the paste will flow from the spoon ; then pour it into a mortar, and when it becomes lukewarm, pound it again with an ounce of gumdragon previously dissolved in a glass of water and strained, the juice of two lemons, and a pound of sifted sugar. As soon as your paste is of the proper consistence, take it out and lay it on the slab, sprinkled first with sugar; divide your paste into three parts, and colour each part according to your fancy. The colouring of dyes are made of the same materials as are used for almonds. Almond Paste (to keep six, or even twelve months').* — Blanch and pound a pound of sweet almonds, moistened occa- sionally with water, to prevent their oil- ing ; when well beaten, add half a pound of fine powdered sugar, and mix the whole into a paste to use when you have occa- sion. When wanted, mix a piece about the size of an egg with three gills of wa- ter, and strain it through a napkin. Almonds a la Praline (dried, preserved, or burnt).*—A pound of the best almonds must be washed in cold water; when thoroughly dr}', put them into a preserv- ing-pan with a pound of sugar and a pint and a half of water, keep them on the fire, stirring them continually, until they crackle and fly about, and the sugar begins to colour, stir them about gently to gather the sugar, and leave them in the pan to dry- about two hours, in a stove or any moderate heat.