GRA 236 G11A G if apes (Compote of) Sour or Verjuice*— Tate the seeds from four pounds of sour grapes, throw them into cold water. Put some water on the fire, and as soon as it boils put in the grapes; when they rise, take them from the fire, and cover them with a clofh till cold, tlion let them sim- mer over a slow fire, taking care that they do not boil; when they are green, drain them from the water. In the meantime clarify and boil two pounds of sugar to lissc ; then put in the grapes, and having boiled them together a little while, take it off and skim it; when cold, drain away the sugar, and put the fruit into a compotier; boil the sugar once or twice more, skim and pour it over the verjuice. Grapes (Conserve of Sour).—It is pre- served in the same manner as muscadine grapes, only it requires that a little more sugar is added to the same proportion of juices. Grapes (Sour) Jelly.*—The jelly of sour grapes requires a pound of sugar to each pound of fruit; it is made the same as ripe grape jelly; but a little sweet grape juice must be added, besides the sugar, to take off the great acidity. Grape Marmalade of (Sour or Verjuice).* •—Take the seeds from six pounds of un- ripe grapes, put them into a saucepan of water, over the fire; as soon as they rise and swell take them from the fire, put in a little lemon juice, cover, and let them stand on hot ashes till quite green ; put them into a pan and let them cool; then rub them through a sieve, and put them again on the fire to dry ; that done, put the fruit into a paD, add to it five pounds of sugar, clarified and boiled to casse; stir it in well, and then set it again on the fire, stirring constantly till it is of the proper consistence; then put it into pots. Observe, in making this and barberry marmalade, that it should be put into an earthen pan when left to cool. Grapes (Sour or Verjuice) Paste.*—Take the proposed quantity of grapes (take out the seeds), and swell them over the fire. Stirring them constantly, add a few apples, pared and cut in pieces, till thoroughly dis- solved, then pass it through a fine sieve into a preserving-pan, set it on the fire; when dry, weigh it; take an equal weight of sugar; boil it to fort souffle; put the mar- malade to it, stir it incessantly till it quits the bottom of the pan easily, when it may be put in moulds or paper cases, and dried in the stove or oven, sprinkling it with fine sugar. Grapes (Paste of Sour).—Grain the grapes, and thoroughly bruise them ; then boil them a moment in a little water, the kettle being covered ; sift them, and put the juice upon the fire again, to bring it to a strong'marmalade ; weigh as much sugar as the weight of the fruit, and refine it to the ninth degree (a la grande plume) mix the sugar and marmalade well together over a very slow, fire; give the paste what form you please, and dry it immediately. This paste is often made by mixing about half the quantity of apples with the grapes, being peeled, cut into pieces, and reduced to marmalade; sift it as usual, and dry it to a paste consistence; then add as much weight of sugar (a. la grande plume) as the paste, and finish the same as the other. Grapes (Clear Paste of Sour).—Mix a spoonful of apple marmalade with a glass of water, and a glass of verjuice grape juice, which is almost ripe; boil a pound of sugar to the twelfth degree (au casse) ; add the mixture to it slowly, stirring without boiling it, and put it into moulds to cool to a jelly or jam. Grapes (Sour) or Verjuice preserved*— Take out all the seeds, and weigh the same number of pounds of sugar as you have pounds of grapes; put part of the grapes into a saucepan, and put part of the sugar powdered over them, continuing to put the sugar and grapes in layers till you have used the whole quantity; then put the grapes over a slow fire, letting them boil gently till they become green ; then put them into pots. Grapes (Sour) or Verjuice preserved Li- quid.*—Take the seeds from two pounds of the sour grapes, make some water boil in a preserving-pan, and then put in the grapes; give them one boil, keeping the fire moderate; cover, and let it stand five or six hours; then drain them. Boil two pounds of sugar to la petite plume, put in the grapes, let them boil up twice (covered), skim, and put them into pots. Grapes (Sour) or Verjuice preserved Dry*—Prepare two pounds of grapes as directed for the liquid preserved. Boil your sugar to perle ; put in die fruit, and boil them up several times. The next day drain off die sugar, boil it to grand perle, put the fruit, in boil them together (the pan covered), skim, and set it by the day following; drain the grapes, lay them on slates, sprinkle them with sugar, and set them to dry in a stove or oven.