VIO VIO means of a 'screw, every drop of wine is gradually squeezed from the lees; this operation cannot be performed in less time than a week. The wine thus extracted is put into casks ; in the headings a hole is made, as above, which holes are left con- stantly open ; in summer time the casks so filled are placed in the sun, and, gene- rally speaking, the vinegar is fit for use in a fortnight. In the winter, the fermenta- tion will last double the time, and must he assisted by artificial warmth. It some- times happens that the liquor heats to so great a degree that the hand cannot be borne in it; in this case, the progress of fermentation must be checked by adding more wine, until it proceeds more regu- larly. When the vinegar is made, put it into casks which have the beech twigs at the bottom, as above mentioned ; let it remain a fortnight, by which time it will be sufficiently fermented to draw oft' into the casks for keeping it. Another very simple method is also practised in France: a few quarts are drawn from a barrel of excellent vinegar, and an equal quantity of very clear white wine is put into the barrel, close the bung lightly, and keep it in a place where the heat is moderate and regular. In a month's time draw off the same quantity as above, and pour in an equal portion of white wine. A barrel of good vinegar will thus afford a constant supply for a length of time, without leaving the slightest deposit. Vinegar in Balts.—Gather bramble ber- ries when half ripe, dry them, and then beat them to a powder; make it up into balls with strong white vinegar, about the size of nuts; dry them very dry, and keep them in boxes; when wanted, take some wine, or a little stale beer, dissolve a ball in it, and then make use of it. Vinegar Printannier*—Take tarragon, savory, civet, shalot, and garlic, of each three ounces, a handful of mint and balm tops; dry them all well, and put them into a jar with two gallons of the best vi- negar; cover the jar, and place it where it will be exposed to the sun for a fortnight; then draw it off, press the dregs well, filter, and bottle it. Cork the bottles tight. VIOLETS (Candied).— Pick oft' the green stalks from some double violets ; boil some sugar to snuffle; put in the violets, and keep them in till the sugar again boils to souffle; then rub the sugar against the sides of the pan until it is white ; stir all together till the sugar leaves the violets and then sift and dry them. Violets [to Back Candy).—Pick the leaves oft" the violets; then boil some of the best and finest sugar to souffle, pour it into a candying-pan made of tin, in the form of a drippingpan, about three inches deep ; then strew the violet leaves as thick as possible on the top, and put it into a hot stove, in which let it remain for ten days ; when it is hard candied, break a hole in one corner of it, and drain off all the syrup; break it out, and place it in heaps upon a tin to dry in a stove. Violets (Conserve of).*—Take a quarter of a pound of early violets, picked ; bruise them in a mortar; boil two pounds of sugar to cassd, take it oft', put in the pulp, and mix them together over the fire, and when the sugar bubbles up, pour the con- serve into the moulds. Violet Drops*—Take a certain quan- tity of syrup of violets, which mix with an equal portion of water ; use this mix- ture, and make your drops precisely as directed. You may, if you please, per- fume it with oil of violets, but that is not necessary, as the syrup imparts sufficient odour. (See Orange-fower Drops.) Violet Drops.—lake the juice of six lemons, mix with it some finely-sifted powdered sugar, and two spoonsful of essence of violets, and colour it of a fine blue colour ; mix the whole well together, and dry it over the fire, the same as all others, and drop them off a knife on paper, the usual size of drops; let them stand till cold, be careful that your mixture is not too thin; when the drops are cold, put them into papered boxes. Violets (Marmalade of).*—Take three pounds of violets, and four pounds of su- gar, put the former into a mortar and bruise them to a pulp : in the mean time boil the augar to souffle, then add the flowers; stir them together, add two pounds of apple marmalade, and when it has boiled up a few times, put the marma- lade into pots. Violets (Syrup of).* — Pound very lightly in a marble mortar, and with a wooden pestle, one pound of picked vio- lets ; warm gradually a glass or earthen- ware vessel with a small opening, info which put the pounded flowers, and pour over them two pounds of boiling water ; close the vessel hermetically, and place it on hot ashes, renewing them when neces- sary, to keep up an equal temperature for twelve hours ; after that time, pass the whole through a close cloth, squeezing it well: let it stand for half an liou^ ; then