316 LAM LAM very small quantity of pepper and salt. Strew these over the head, and baste it with a little butter; then throw on a little flour, and just as it is done, baste and dredge it. Take half the liver, the lights, the heart and tongue, and chop them very small, with six or eight spoonsful of gravy, first shake some flour over the meat, and stir it together ; then put into the gravy, a large piece of butter rolled in flour, a little pepper and salt, and the gravy that runs from the head into the dish. Simmer them all together a few minutes, and add half a spoonful of vinegar. Put it into your dish, and place the head in the middle of the mincemeat. Have ready the other half of the liver cut thin, with some slices of broiled bacon, and lay them round the head. Garnish with lemon. Lamb’s Head, Comte Fashion.—Stew it in a white braise, and serve it with a sauce made of verjuice, the yolks of three eggs, pepper, salt, a bit of butter, chopped pars- ley, scalded, and a little nutmeg. Lamb's Head Minced.—Split the head in half, and blanch it with the liver, lights, and heart; then chop the heart, &c. and add to them a little parsley, chopped very line, a small quantity of shredded lemou peel, and some cullis ; stew it gently till done, and season it. Wash the head over, and bake it gently till very tender. When it is to be served up, colour it with a sala- mander. Clean the brains in warm water, wipe them dry, dip them in yolks of egg and bread crumbs, and fry them in boiling lard. Put the mince under the head, and the fried brains round it, with rashers of bacon. Lamb’s Head (Slewed).—Take out the brains, and make a farce of them ; boil it, and when cold cut it into pieces; then mince some lamb and beef suet together with the brains ; add some grated bread, season with salt, pepper, and sweet herbs minced small, add four or five raw eggs. Fill the lamb's bend with these ; then put it in a stewpan, and let it stew with some good stock; make the remainder of the mincemeat into balls, and serve with the stewed head. Lamb's Head Stuffed*—Soak the head well in boiling water, and then put it on the fire till half done ; take out all the bones, and the brains, make a farce with streaked bacon, fat livers, the tongue, brains, and morels, all minced very small, and united with veal; put this farce into the head, bread it all over, and put it into the oven ; when it is of a nice colour, take it out, and serve it quite hot, with veal gravy. Lamb (House) Hind Quarter of, to Force. —Cut oft' the shank, and with the knife, raise the thick part of the meat from the bone ; make a forcemeat with some suet, a few scalded oysters cut small, some grated bread, a little pounded mace, pepper, and salt, mixed up with the yolks of two eggs; put this forcemeat under the part where the meat has been raised up, and under the kidney ; let it be half roasted, then put it into a stewpan, with a quart of mutton gravy : cover it, and let it stew very gently ; when it is sufficiently done, take it up and keep it hot; skim off the fat, and strain off the gravy; add to it a glass of Madeira, one spoonful of walnut ketchup, half a lemon, a little Cayenne, half a pint of stewed oysters, with a bit of butter rolled in flour, and serve it over the lamb. Lamb (House) Sleahs Brown.—Dip them into egg, then season them with pepper, salt, nutmeg, grated lemon peel, and chopped parsley; fry them quick. Thicken some good gravy, with butter and flour; add a little red wine, some ketchup, and some oysters ; boil it up, and then put in the steaks warm; let them heat up, and serve. You may add, if you please, palates stewed, forcemeat balls, and bard eSSa- Lamb (House) Steaks White.—Let them stew in milk and water till they are quite tender, with a small bunch of sweet herbs, a bit of lemon peel, a little salt, some white pepper, and some mace ; have ready some veal gravy, some mushroom powder, salt, a little cream mixed up with a small quantity of flour; shake the steaks round in this sauce, and just before they are taken up, put in a few pickled mushrooms. Lamb, (Leg of) Boiled.—It should be boiled in a cloth, that it may look as white as possible. Cut the loin in steaks, dip them in egg, strew them over with bread crumbs, and fry them a nice brown, serve them round the dish, and garnish with dried or fried parsley ; serve with spinach to eat with it. Lamb (Leg of) to Force.— 1 ake a leg of lamb, and with a sharp knife cut out all the meat, but leave the skin whole, and the fat upon it. Make the meat you cut out into the following forcemeat: lo two pounds of meat, put two pounds of beef suet, tineh chopped ; take away all the skin and suet from the meat, and mix it with four spoonsful of grated bread, eight or ten