5 7 BEE BEE (i i I I small, lay over them a little pepper and salt, and stew them in butter for about ten minutes, then drain out the butter, and shake some flour over them; toss them up, pour in half a pint of gravy, let them stew till they are thick, and then serve neatly round the dish one piece over another, and so on till all is served. Beef Ragout.—Take a rump of beef, cut the meat from the bone, flour and fry it, pour over it a little boiling water, about a pint of small beer; add a carrot or two, an onion stuck with cloves, some whole pepper, salt, a piece of lemon peel, a bunch of sweet herbs ; let it stew an hour, then add some good gravy; when the meat is tender take it out, strain the sauce, thicken it with a little flour; add a little celery ready boiled, a little catsup, put in the meat, just simmer it up. Or the celery may be omitted, and the ragout enriched by adding mushrooms pickled, artichoke bottoms boiled and quar- tered, and hard yolks of eggs. A piece of flank, or any piece that can be cut free from bone, will do instead of the rump. Beef, Red for Slices.—Take a piece of thin flank of beef, and cut off the skin; then rub it well with a mixture made with two pounds of common salt, two ounces of bay salt, two ounces of saltpetre, and a pound of moist sugar, pounded in a marble mortar. Put it into an earthen pan, and turn and rub it daily for a week; then take it out of the brine, wipe it, and strew all over it some pounded mace, cloves, pep- per, a little allspice, and a good quantity of chopped parsley, and a few shalots. Then roll it up, bind it round with tape, bruise it till it is tender, press it in the same way as you press a collared pig, and when it is cold cut it in slices and garnish with pickled barberries. Beef (Rib of) a la bonne Femme*— Trim a rib of beef, lard it with pieces of spiced bacon; melt a piece of butter about the size of two eggs, in a stewpan, then put in your beef, season it with salt and pepper; and place your stewpan over a quick fire, turn your beef two or three times, add some broth when it is very hot, place your stewpan over a more gentle fire, put fire on the top of the stewpan, then let it simmer for an hour and a half; serve it with its own liquor as a sauce. , B.eef (Mb »f) braised.—Trim a rib of beef, take out the bone, and lard it with pieces of bacon seasoned with nutmeg cinnamon, allspice, cloves, salt and pep- per ; line the bottom of a stewpan with slices of bacon, slices of veal and beef. Have ready four carrots, five large onions, three of which must be stuck with cloves, 'two bay leaves, a little thyme, a bunch of parsley. Tie your beef into a neat form, and put it into the stewpan ; cover it with bacon, then put in the vegetables with two large spoonsful of stock; let the whole boil; after which let it simmer gently for three hours over a moderate fire; then let it drain, and untie your beef; pass a little of the liquor through a silk sieve, clear it from the fat, reduce it, and serve it over the beef. The beef must be glazed. Beef, (Ribs) with Spinach or Endive*— Take out the bones from some fine ribs of beef, then roast your meat, and serve with spinach or endive all over the beef. Beef (Rib of) with Onions, glazed.*— Trim and braise a rib of beef; when done, untie it, let it drain, and put it on a dish, surrounded with onions glazed : moisten a Spanish sauce with a little of the liquor the beef was dressed in, clear it well from fat, pass it through a sieve, then serve it with beef. Beef (Rib of) with Malaga Wine*—• Prepare your beef the same as for braising (only rather more spicing the pieces of ba- con with which you lard your beef), add- ing half a bottle of Malaga wine and half as much of stock; when your beef is done, strain the liquor through a sieve (having been careful to clear it from fat), and re- duce it to a single glassful, which you should pour over the beef. Be careful that the reduced sauce is not. too sharp, and that you do not season your beef with too much salt. Beef (Rib of) a la Rocambole*—Pre- pare the beef the same as Rib of Beef braised, only add a little garlic, and half a bottle of white wine; when the beef is done, drain it, and serve with rocamboles (see Rocamboles). The beef must bo glazed. Beef, Round of, stewed. — Lard your round with gammon and other bacon, well seasoned with salt, pepper, cloves, cinna- mon, coriander seed, and grated nutmeg, onions, parsley, shalots, all well mixed to- gether ; let as much of these as you can bo stuffed into the bacon, and lard the buttock both on the top and underneath; then season it again with all your ingredients, and put it into a stewpan to be marinated a little while with onions, garlic, shalots, parsley, sweet basil, thyme, slices of lemons, verjuice, and a little broth ; let it lie in these two hours, then put it in a nap*-