JEL JAC 30 7 i cover it with the same, and let it stand over a slow fire for half an hour, then Ipour over it a bottle ol white wine, and a pint of good stock or consomme ; close the stewpan tight, place it in the oven ; when ■ done, serve it with the braise and its own gravy. Jack or Pike (Grenadins of).*—Having scaled and otherwise prepared the fish, cut it into pieces, lard them with streaky bacon, and put them into a stewpan; add a hunch of sweet herbs, and fillet of veal cut into dice, white wine and broth; stew it, and when done, strain the liquor; lay the pieces of jack in a dish, glaze, them, and serve with any sauce you please. Jack or Pike a V Italienne*—Put some : small jack into a stewpan with some olive • oil, sliced onions, a clove of garlic, car- : rots, a bay leaf, white wine, stock, salt, and pepper ; stew them over a slow fire, take off the fat, and serve them in the sauce. Jack or Pike a la Maitre d’Hotel.*—• Having cleaned, scalded, and emptied some small pike, wrap them in a sheet of buttered paper, and broil them. When done, open them, and take out the spawn ! (if there be any), and put in its place a i piece of butter, worked up with some shred parsley, salt, and pepper. Jack or Pike en Matelote.*—Cut the pike in pieces, put them into a stewpan, with bay leaf, a clove of garlic, parsley, scallions, scalded onions, salt, pepper, and a bottle of red wine; boil it up, and add some butter, mixed with flour, and browned with whatever garniture you may have by you ; boil the whole together half an hour, and then serve all the articles together in a large dish. Any other fish may be added to the matelote; but they should not be put in till the pieces of jack are partly done. Jack or Pike (Potted).—Scale it, and cut off the head : split it, and take out the backbone ; strew it all over with bay salt and pepper; cover it, and bake it; then take it out, and lay it on a coarse cloth to drain ; when it is cold, lay it in a pot just large enough to hold it, and cover it with i clarified butter. It must be thoroughly drained from the gravy, otherwise it will not keep. Jack or Pike Salad*—Cut the remains of a cold pike into pieces, and mix with it capers, gherkins, anchovies, and some i herbs, shred : serve the jack, garnishing the dish with lettuces and hard eggs. Mix oil and vinegar attable. Jack or Pike stuffed and roasted.*—Let the fish lay for some days, then empty and scale it: if it be for a maitre dish, lard it with anchovies and gherkins, or truffles ; if not, with bacon rolled in salt, spices, shred parsley and scallions; stuff it: wrap the fish in a buttered paper, on which spread sweet herbs, spices, and salt; fasten it on the spit, and baste with white wine and melted butter. When done, take off the paper, and serve with a pretty thick sauce piquante. JARDINIERE* — The jardiniere is composed of the same articles, and in a similar manner to the Macedoine; the only difference consists in the sauce, the ve- getables for this being put into a reduced espagnole, or the demi-glace of roots : it is used on the same occasions as the Mace- doine. JAUNE Mange. — Boil an ounce of isinglass in three quarters of ' a pint of water till melted; strain it, then add the juice of two Seville oranges, a quarter of a pint of white wine, the yolks of four eggs, beaten and strained ; sugar accord- ing to taste; stir it over a gentle fire till it j ust boils up : when cold, put it into a mould, taking care, if there should happen to be any sediment, not to pour it in. JELLY to cover cold Fish. — Take a maid, clean it, and put it into three quarts of water, with a calf’s foot or cowheel, a stick of horseradish, an onion, three blades of mace, some white pepper, a bit of lemonpeel, and a slice of lean gammon of bacon. Let it stew till it will jelly, then strain it off; when cold, remove every bit of fat; take it up from the sedi- ment, and boil it with a glass of sherry, the whites of five eggs, and a bit of lemon. Boil without stirring it, and after a few minutes, set it by to stand for half an hour, and strain it through a bag or sieve with a napkin in it. When cold, cover the fish with it. Jellies for Entremets*— Hartshorn calfs feet, and isinglass, are the usual materials used to coagulate sweet jellies' - of these three, the latter is the best as’ when properly clarified (for which’ see’ Isinolass), it is the clearest, and has no unpleasant flavour. Jellies are made of all sorts of fruit, and somotimes of flowers and liqueurs. Eor directions to prepare them, see the various articles of which they are composod. Jelly of Fomage Bavarois*—Put the yolks ot nine eggs into a stewpan, with a little salt, half a pound of sugar, a pinch x 2