CUL CUL 210 -of veal and ham will he necessary, with all the fat, skin, and outside cut oft'. Cut the leg of veal in pieces of about three or four inches thick, each way, place them in a Stewpan, and then the slices of ham, two carrots, and an onion cut in two ; cover it close, let it stew softly at first, and as it begins to brown, take off the cover and turn it, to colour on all sides the same; but take care not to bum the meat. When it Las a pretty brown colour, moisten your .cullis with broth made of beef, or other meat; season the cullis with a little sweet basil, some cloves, and a little garlic; pare n lemon, cut it in slices, and put it into the cullis with some mushrooms. Put into a . stewpan a good lump of butter, and set it over a slow fire ; put into it two or three handsful of flour, stir it with a wooden ladle, and let it take a colour. The flour being brown with the cullis, pour it gently into the cullis, keeping it stirring with a wooden ladle, then let the cullis stew softly, and skim off all the fat; put in two glasses of Champagne, or other white wine; but take care to keep the cullis very thin, so that you may take the fat well off, and cla- .rify it. When the cullis is done, take out the meat and strain the cullis through a silk strainer. This cullis is for all sorts of ra- gouts, fowls, pies, and tureens. Cullis (a Family').—Roll a piece of butter in flour, and stir it in a stewpan till the flour is of a fine yellow colour. Then put in some thin broth, a little gravy, a glass of white wine, a bundle of sweet herbs, two cloves, a little nutmeg or mace, a few mushrooms, pepper, and salt. Let it stew an hour over a slow fire, then skim all the fat clean off, and strain it through a sieve. Cullis of Fish.—Broil a jack or pike till it is properly done, then take off the skin, and separate the flesh from the bones. Boil six eggs hard, and take out the yolks. Blanch a few almonds, beat them to a paste, in a mortar, and then add the yolks of eggs. Mix these well with the butter, then put in the fish, and pound all together. Take half a dozen onions, and cut them in slices, two parsnips, and three carrots. Set on a stewpan, and put into it a piece of butter to brown, and put in the roots to boil. Turn them till they are brown, and then pour in a little broth to moisten them. "When it has boiled a few minutes, strain it into another saucepan, and then put in a leek, some parsley, sweet basil, half a dozen cloves, some mushrooms, and truffles, and a few bread crumbs. When it has stewed gently a quarter of an hour, put in the fish, &c. from the mortar. Let the whole stew some time longer, but be careful that it does not boil. When it is sufficiently done, strain it through a coarse sieve. Cullis the Italian Way.—Put into a stewpan half a ladleful of cullis as much essence of ham, half a ladleful of gravy, as much of broth, three or four onions cut into slices, four or five cloves of garlic, a little beaten coriander seed with a lemon pared and cut into slices, a little sweet basil, mushrooms, and good oil; put all over the fire, let it stew a quarter of an hour, take the fat well off; let it be of a good taste, and it may be used with all sorts of meat and fish, particularly with glazed fish. This sauce will also serve for chickens, pigeons, quails, or ducklings, and all sorts of tame and wild fowl. Cullis for all sorts of Ragouts.—Having cut three pounds of lean veal, and half a pound of ham into slices, lay it in the bot- tom of a stewpan, put in carrots, and par- snips, and an onion sliced ; cover it, and set it stewring over a stove; when it has a good colour, and begins to stick, put to it a little melted butter, and shake in a little flour, keep it moving a little while, until the flour is fried ; then moisten it with gravy or broth, of each a like quantity; then put iu some parsley and basil, a whole leek, a bay leaf, some mushrooms and truffles minced small, three or four cloves, and the crust of two French rolls; let all these simmer together for three quar- ters of an hour; then take out the slices of veal, strain it, and keep it for all sorts of ragouts. Cullis of Roots. — Cut some carrots, parsnips, parsley roots, and onions, into slices, and put them into a stewpan over the fire, and shape them round. Take two dozen of blanched almonds, and the crumb of two French rolls, soaked first in good fish broth. Pound them with the roots in a mortar, and then boil all together. Sea- son it with pepper and salt, strain it off, and use it for herb or fish soups. Cullis (White).—Take a piece of veal, cut it into small bits, with some thin slices of ham, and two onions, each cut into four; moisten it with broth, seasoned with mush- rooms, a bunch of parsley, green onions, three cloves, and so let it stew. Being stewed, take out the meat and roots with a skimmer, put in a few crumbs of bread, and let it stew softly ; take the white of a fowl, or two chickens, and put it iuto a mortar; being well pounded, mix it in the