360 MUT MUT Mutton Cutlets and Lettuces.*—Having prepared and dressed the cutlets in the same manner as with cucumbers ; when done, glaze and dish them en couronne, al- ternately, with lettuces, glazed. Serve with a reduced espagnole. Mutton Cutlets a la Soubise*—Prepare and dress your cutlets, as directed, with cucumbers done white; dish them en cou- ronnes, with a puree of white onions in the centre. Mutton (Curry of.)*—Take a fine loin of mutton, take off all the fat, cut the meat into dice, cut some onions also into dice, and fry them ; when nearly done, add the meat and curry powder (in the proportion of a table-spoonful to each pound of meat); fry them all lightly, add salt when almost brown, pour in two cupsful of water or stock, put the whole into a stewpan, cover and let it simmer for an hour or more, ac- cording to the quantity. Have some rice, boiled very dry, in a separate dish. Some persons add a little pickle. Mutton (Fillets of) a la Gelee.—Take the fillets from two loins of mutton, lard them with bacon, rolled in sweet herbs ; put them into a stewpan, lined with slices of bacon ; add the trimmings of the meat, two carrots cut in pieces, two onions, each with a clove in it, a good bunch of parsley, seasoned, a little salt and whole pepper, a glass of M adeira, and two ladiesful of con- somme, cover the whole with bacon, and a piece of buttered paper the size of the pan. Set it on the fire ; as soon as it boils, put it aside, with fire under and over, to sim- mer slowly for two hours; then take it from the fire, and let the fillets cool in their sauce. When nearly cold, drain and press them lightly between two dishes, and when quite cold, cut each fillet in half, glaze them all over, dish them, and garnish over and round with jelly, disposed according to your fancy. Mutton Cutlets a la Gelee are done in the same manner, except that they are larded both with bacon and ham. Mutton Cutlets d la Soubise may be dressed without larding them, only braise and glaze them, and servo with the puree of onions in the middle, to which may be added a liason of two yolks of eggs, as a great improvement. Mutton Hams.—Cut a hind-quarter of mutton like a ham, and tako one ounce of saltpetre, n pound of coarso sugar, and the same quantity of common salt, mix them together, und rub them well into the mut- ton then lav it in a hollow tray, with the skin downwards, and baste it every day with the pickle for a fortnight, lloll it in sawdust, and hang it in wood-smoke for a fortnight. Then boil it, hang it in a dry place, and cut rashers off as you want them; they eat much better broiled than any other way. Mutton (Harico of).—Cut some mutton chops rather thicker than for broiling ; trim them nicely, then fry the chops in a little butter, of a nice brown colour; drain off the butter, and make a roui, by putting to- gether in a stewpan, a small piece of fresh butter, and a spoonful of fine flour, placing them over a moderate fire, and stirring them with awooden spoon till the flour be- comes of a good brown colour ; moisten with veal gravy of a good colour, and well seasoned. When your sauce boils, put in the chops and the trimmings of your tur- nips, and let them stew gently on the cor- ner of the stove. Skim frequently: when the chops are nearly done, drain them into a clean stewpan; have ready some turnips, cut in neat shapes, but rather large pieces, add them to the chops; drain the sauce through a sieve, over the turnips and chops, then stew them in this sauce with a little sugar, and continue to skim frequently. Add a little oat soup, mus- tard, and tarragon vinegar, pepper and salt. When the turnips are done, keep them hot by the bain-marie till you serve. Mutton (Harrico).*—Take a scrag of mutton, make some good gravy with pars- ley, thyme, and winter savory, sliced car- rots, onions, and shalots and celery, some turnips, well boiled and mashed, and a crust of white bread, stew altogether; then put in some steaks of a neck or loin (broiled first), and stew them in some thyme; season to your taste ; strain it off-, and put in some carrots,broiled separately for that purpose. Mutton (Hashed) d la Bourgcoise.—Take what meat remains from a roast leg of mutton, which has been served the dav before; cut off the skin, take away die coarse fibres, and cut the meat into small and thin pieces, put diem into a saucepan ; then reduce a few spoonsful of cullis, and put it to the hash, with two ounces of butter; warm up the whole, taking care that it does not boil, and serve with soft poached eggs round; season to taste. Mutton (Hashed) n idi Cucumbers.— Pare some cucumbers, and take out the seeds, then cut them into very thin slices ; and let them steep for two hours in vinegar and salt; drain them well nut them into