94 CAB CAB Cabbages (to keep).—Small close cab- bages, laid on a stone floor before the frost sets in, will blanch, and be very fine after many weeks keeping. Cabbage aiul Milk Soup.—Boil a large white-hearted cabbage in water; when half done, put to it a quarter of a pound of butter, seasoning to your taste; when it is well boiled, take out three parts of the water, substituting the same quantity of boiling milk; pour it into the tureen after it has once boiled up, putting the cabbage also into the tureen whole ; serve quick. Cabbage (White') pickled.*—Slice your cabbage thin; then lay it in salt for twenty-four hours; strain it very dry, then put it in a stone jar, with allspice, mace and ginger; boil your vinegar, and pour it on boiling hot; tie it very close, repeat the vinegar three times, and it will be fit for use. Cabbace Soup d la Proven$ale.—Boil different sorts of vegetables together, in- cluding half a peck of peas, and a cabbage blanched, cut in quarters, and tied with packthread. Add a wine-glass full of the best oil. When the vegetables are boiled, and your broth properly salted, strain it, then leave it on to stew, serving it up gar- nished with cabbages. Cabbage and Cheese Soup a la Provengale. —Cut a large cabbage into quarters, and, after blanching, boil it in water; when three parts done add a quarter of a pound of butter and the requisite seasoning. Grate half a pound of gruyere, or Parme- san cheese. Prepare, also, some very thin slices of bread, and, two hours before din- ner, make the soup in the following man- ner : Take a metal or earthenware tureen that will stand the fire, and that can be used at table ; first, put into it a layer of grated cheese, then one of cabbage leaves, previously boiled and dried on a cloth ; next, some of the slices of bread, then those of cheese, commencing again with cabbage, &c. alternately, the upper layer of all being of sliced cheese. Having thus filled the tureen within two fingers’ width of the top, pour on its contents about half a pint of the water in which the cabbages (after being blanched) were boiled, making the cabbage broth penetrate to the bottom of the tureen, by piercing its contents in several places with a knife ; then place the tureen on a stove of moderate hent, letting the soup simmer, without stirring, for more than an hour. When the soup is ready for table, the cabbage broth will have been all absorbed ; some persons, conse- quently add more hot broth to it at the mo- ment of serving; but the true method of serving it a la Provenz-ale, is to send it up dry, using with it, at table, only the finest oil. Cabbage Pudding.—Take two pounds of beef suet, as much of the lean part of a leg of veal; take a little cabbage and 6cald it, then bnrise the suet, veal, and cabbage together in a marble mortar; season them with mace, nutmeg, ginger, a little pepper and salt: some green gooseberries, grapes, or barberries;—in winter, some verjuice ; mix them all well together, with the yolks of four or five eggs, well beat; wrap up all together in a green cabbage leaf, tie it in a cloth ; an hour will boil it. Purple Cabbage to pickle.—Take two cauliflowers, two red cabbages, half a peck of kidney beans, six sticks with six cloves of garlic on each stick; wash all well, give them one boil up, then strain them in a sieve, and lay them leaf by leaf upon a large table, and salt them with bay salt ; then lay them to dry in the sun, or in a slow oven, until as dry as cork. Cabbage Ragout.*—Take the half of a middling-sized cabbage, boil it for half an hour, and then change it in cold water; squeeze it well, and take out the heart; cut the cabbage in small pieces, and put it into a stewpan with a slice of good butter; turn it a few times over the fire, and shake in some flour; put in sufficient gravy to give colour to the ragout; let it boil over a slow fire till the cabbage is done, and re- duced to a thick sauce; season it with salt, coarse pepper, and a little grated nutmeg : serve under any meat you think proper. Cabbage Ragout.—Scald one cabbage cut into quarters (savoys are best), drain the water quite out, tie them with pack- thread, and braise in a good braise; serve with a fine thick cullis sauce, pretty high of pepper. ■Cabbage Ragout.—Divide a cabbage in the middle, blanch it in hot water, squeeze it, tie it with packthread, and put it into a stewpan, and stew it a la braise ; when it is stewed, druin it., untie it, cut it in little slices into a saucepan, and let it simmer with some cullis of veal, and ham: after- wards putin some cullis of veal and ham to thicken it, and servo it with roasted, boiled, or stewed meat. Cabbaoe Red.*—Boil your cabbage for a short time, then take out the heart, and cut it into pieces; then put it into a stew- pan with a piece of butter, some salt and pepper, and let it stew over a moderate fire,