cm CHI 158 in the chickens, over which lay a pound of gravy beef cut in thin slices, another piece of beef also cut thin, some mace, cloves, pepper, an onion, a carrot, and a bunch of sweet herbs : pour a quart of boiling water over the whole, cover it quite close, and let it stew ; in a quarter of an hour take out the chickens, but let the gravy continue boiling, and when very rich strain it; then put it again into the pan with a little red wine and a few mushrooms; then put in the chickens, and when they are hot, dish them up, and pour the sauce over them ; garnish with slices of lemon and broiled ham. Chickens a la Conde.—Take the breast- bones from a couple of fat chickens, bind them to a proper shape, and slit them equally with a penknife, and insert be- tween each slit slices of truffles and tongue a I’ecarlate ; place them in an oval stewpan, place bacon all round, but none on the top ; put fire on the top of the pan, until the ba- con has taken colour : then remove the fire, and let the,cliickens boil gently for half an hour ; take them out, drain and glaze them; serve with a ragout a I’Allemande. Chickens a la Creme.*—Parboil a couple of young chickens, cut them in pieces, and throw into warm water for half an hour; then do them over the fire in a little fresh butter, with salt, parsley, pepper, morels, &c.; sprinkle with flour, and dilute with a glass of boiling water; cover the stewpan close, and let it stand on hot ashes until the water has soaked into tlie chicken, then add half a pint of cream and a little butter. The yolks of three eggs may be put in also, but in that case, a small quantity of verjuice should be put in before the cream. Second way.*—Stuff and roast your chickens, and when you take them from the spit, rub them with butter, cover them with bread crumbs, wrap them in slices of bacon, and bake them a short time; serve with well-thickened cream sauce. Chickens (Croquettes of).*—Reduce two spoonsful of veloute or sauce tournee, and add to it the yolks of four eggs ; put to this the white meat of a chicken minced very small, and well mixed with the sauce; take it out, and roll it into balls about the size of a walnut; roll them in bread crumbs, giving them an elongated form; then dip them in some well-beaten egg, bread them again, and fry them of a light brown. Chicken (Croquettes of) a la Royale. —Mix well into some very thick b£lla- mella and some glaze, the breast of a chicken, some tongue, truffles, and mush- rooms, all minced very small; when quite cold roll them into little balls, and having beaten up three eggs, throw the balls into them. Take them out quickly and roll them in bread crumbs ; dip them a second time into the eggs, and cover them again with bread crumbs; fry them as other cro- quettes. Lay fried parsley on a napkin in a dish, place the croquettes on, and round it, and serve. Chickens aux Croutons.*—Stuff a couple of chickens with the livers, wrap them in bacon and paper, and roast them. Fry pieces of bread in some oil, then put them to drain, and in the same oil fry two onions cut in small pieces; when three parts done, add parsley, scallion, shalot, and a fowl’s liver, all minced, a glass of white wine, a spoonful of cullis ; take off the fat, and season it with salt and bruised pepper; stew it gently for a quarter of an hour. Dish the chickens, and place the croutons by the side of them, with the sauce. Chicken Currie.—Cut up a chicken that has been properly prepared, fry it in but- ter of a light brown, then slice about six onions, fry them, add a moderate spoon- ful of currie-powder, a clove of garlic, a squeeze of lemon, some salt, a little roux, or flour and butter, and half a pint or more of good gravy ; let it boil, and skim it well for an hour; then mb it all through a fine sieve, put it to the chicken, simmer it till very tender, and just before serving add a little good cream ; it should be ra- ther thick. Serve with plain boiled rice in another dish. Chickens d VEcarlate.*—Prepare your chickens as usual, and introduce between the skin and flesh some crayfish butter; season them lightly, wrap them in bacon, and roast them or boil them; on serving, pour more crayfish butter on them. If you wish to have the chickens red, and the sauce white, put cream sauce under them. Chickens aux Ecrevisses.—Having boned two or three middle-sized chickens, roll them up, making them rather pointed at the neck, and braise them with the same number of crayfish for an hour. Iben wipe off the fat, and put them on a dish in the following manner : Put the pointed or neck part into the tail of a crayfish, place tlie body on the chicken, and the claws at the side. Prepare tlie sauce as usual, and pour it over the whole.