MAC 339 MAC perfectly fresli, divide tlie yolk and white with great care. 3. The oven must be no more than moderately heated, nothing- being more liable to burn, than almonds aud sugar; by the least negligence in this re- spect, the surface would be burned, whilst the inside would remain unbaked. The best method to obviate any mischief of this sort: Put two or three macaroons into the oven to try it; leave them in the usual time; and if, when you take them out, they are of a clear yellow, the oven is pro- perly heated, and the whole of the maca- roons may then be put in. Macaroons (Spiced).*—Take a pound of sweet almonds, and two pounds of sifted sugar ; make vour paste as usual, to which add a spoonful of powddred cinnamon, six or eight cloves, also pounded, some pre- served lemon and orange peel (of each a spoonful), chopped small, and the grated rind of two lemons ; mix them all together in the mortar, and then lay your macaroons as usual, and bake them with equal care. Macaroons (Spiced) Tart of *—Join to- gether as many sheets of wafer paper with water as you may judge necessary, cut it to the size of a dish ; lay it on a sheet of whitepaper, cover it with the spiced maca- roon paste, about an inch thick; put it in the oven, and bake it of a clear brown. In the mean while, boil a quarter of a pound or six ounces of sugar with some orange- flower water, until, on dipping the skimmer into, and shaking it in the air, the sugar flies off in small bottle-shaped pieces; as soon as the tart is baked, pour the sugar over it pretty thickly; replace it in the oven to dry the sugar, which should re- semble icing; in a few minutes take it out and lay it in a large dish. MACEDOINE.*—Take as many car- rots and turnips as you think necessary, turn them neatly, blanch and boil them in a little consomme; reduce them to a jelly. Take the following vegetables : young peas and beans, French beans, cut into lozen- ges, cauliflowers, artichoke bottoms, cu- cumbers, asparagus heads, small onions, and white mushrooms; blanch all these separately, and a quarter of an hour before dinner, make them quite hot, and then drain them on a cloth ; in the mean time, reduce some allemande, add to it the jelly of roots, keep them boiling, put in the roots and vegetables, with a little sugar and fresli butter ; stir them together until the sauce adheres to the vegetables. The maaidoine is generally used to garnish the removes of soups. Macedoine a la Bdchamelle *—Prepare carrots, turnips, small onions, peas, aspa- ragus, bread, and French beans, artichoke bottoms, cauliflowers, &c. &c.,inthe same manner as the macedoine; when they are all done in their appropriate seasoning, drain them very dry, and put them into a saucepan, and pour on them a reduced bechamel; shake them all up together, that the sauce may be thoroughly incorporated with the vegetables; keep it hot, but do not let it boil. Macedoine of Fruit.—The macedoine is an ornamental dish, composed of trans- parent jelly, with various fruits enclosed in. it; for this purpose it should be done as follows : Have a dome-shaped mould, six inches and a half in diameter, and four in height, the sides fluted; the smaller mould must be of a similar form, but only fourinches and a half in diameter, and two and three quarters high; to this latter have four handles, bent at the end, to hang it exactly in the centre of the larger mould. Prepare a strawberry transparent jelly, place the larger mould as straight as pos- sible in pounded ice, hang the small one in it, and pour the jelly into the former; whilst it is congealing, pick about twenty fine white strawberries, the same number of very red ones, the same of white rasp- berries, a dozen bunches of red, and the same of white currants ; wash all these well, buttoucli them as little as possible, that they may not lose their freshness : when the jelly is perfectly set," pour some hot water into the small mould which will en- able you to remove it with ease; raise it with great care, so that the space may be found without the slightest flaw; then place on the jelly (in the centre of this space) two bunches of white currants, sur- round these with a ring of white straw- berries, and the latter with a crown or rino- of white raspberries ; pour over very care^ fully two or three spoonsful of the jelly, and when that is congealed, procoed in the same way with the red currants, straw- berries, and raspberries, then the jelly, and soon alternately, until all the fruit is used ; All the mould with jelly ; as soon as the whole is congealed, dip your mould into a largo saucepan of hot water, and then turn it into a dish instantly. The macedoine may be garnished in this manner with any Jvind of fruit you think proper. It may also be filled with two jellies ns follows : VV bite lemon jelly in the lnrge mould, and finished with the same jelly, tinged with either rose colour or yellow; indeed tho z 2