END 245 ESP small, as far as they are tender; lay them also in salt and water; take three or four heads of celery, washed and scraped clean, and cut in pieces two or three inches long; put them into a saucepan, with three or four blades of mace, and some whole pep- per tied in a rag, with a pint ot water; stew it till it is quite tender, then put in the asparagus, shake the saucepan and let it simmer till the asparagus is done; take the endive out of the water, drain it well; leave one head whole, and pull the others leaf from leaf;' put them into a stewpan with a pint of white wine; cover the pan very close, and let it boil till it is suffi- ciently done, then put in a quarter of a pound of butter, rolled in flour; cover it closely, but shake the pan; then take up the endive; put the whole head in the centre of a dish; arrange the celery and asparagus round it with a spoon, and the leaves of the endive over that, and keep it hot; pour the liquor into the stewpan, stir it all together; have ready the yolks of a couple of eggs, beat, up with some cream ; put in a little salt, some grated nutmeg; mix this well with the sauce; keep it stirring one way till it is thick; pour it over the endive, and send it to table. Endive Soup.—This is a clear soup, made in the same manner as lettuce soup. Be careful to wash the endive well, and pick out the bitter parts. Endive (Steircd).—Take a dozen heads of the very best endive; pick off what you think bitter; wash it well, and blanch it whole in plenty of water, with a good handful of salt; when done, lay them on a sieve to drain, and tie each separate with packthread, and lay them between lards of fat bacon, and stew them gently in good strong consomm£; take them out of the con- somme, and lay them in a line upon a clean cloth; take off the packthread, and roll the endive tight up in the cloth for a mi- nute or two, then open the cloth, and cut the endive in pieces, about six inches in length; lay them on a dish ; have ready a sauce a. I’Espagnole with a bit of butter mixed in it, and a squeeze of lemon; when this sauce is very hot, pour it over the en- dive, and serve it to table. Endive au Velout£*—Take off all the outer leaves of your endive, and having opened the hearts, put them into cold water to wash them. In the mean while heat a kettle of water, put in it a handful of salt, then throw in the endive; keep it constantly under the water, to prevent their turning black. As soon ns the en- dive is tender, drain, and then put it into cold water, and when quite cold, drain it again; press the water out with your hands ; then chop it small, and put it into a sauce- pan, with some butter, salt, and pepper, stir it well, and then add five spoonstul of veloute, the same of consomme; reduce it till pretty thick, and then put it in a dish, with fried bread round it. Endive may also be dressed with cream, in which case, put two spoonsful of flour into it, and moisten it with cream. Entree*—There is no word precisely equivalent to this in English. Any dish of butcher’s meat, fowl, game, or fish, dressed for the first course, is called an CTltVtC, ENTREMET.*—There is no word equivalent to this in English. All dishes of vegetables, jellies, pastries, salad, prawns, lobsters, and, in general, every thing that appears in the second course, except the roast, is called an entremet. ESPAGNOLE.—Take an old fowl, and about fourteen pounds of leg or shoulder of veal; chop the latter into pieces, and put it, with very little water, into a large saucepan, with two carrots, three onions, a pound of ham, a few peppercorns, a small quantity of spice, and a clove of garlic; let this stew over a moderate fire, shaking it frequently, till it becomes of a brown, colour, when you may add to it a sufficient quantity of hot water to come about four inches above the meat. Set it by the side of the stove to boil gently, skimming when necessary, till the meat comes from the bones; then strain it through a silk sieve, and set it by for use. EsrAGNOLE (Grande').*—Take two noix of veal, a pheasant, or four partridges, half a noix of ham, four or five large carrots, five onions (one of them stuck with five cloves) ; put all these into a saucepan, and pour over them a bottle of Madeira wine, and a ladleful of stock; set it over a large fire, to reduce it, then place it on a slow fire, until slightly coloured; take it off, and let it stand about ten minutes. Prepare some sous-noiv as directed for Grande Sauce, and add the liquor to the espagnole; skim it well, and put in some roux, two or three bay leaves, a little thyme, mushrooms, parsley, scallions, and shalots. As soon as the sauce boils, set the sauce- pan by the side of the stove, to let it do more gently, for two hours. Be very care- ful that your saucepan be perfectly clean before you use it, otherwise the espagnole will be thick and muddy.