308 JEL JEL of crisped orange flowers, and half a pint of cream (previously boiled) : set these over a gentle fire, and stir till it thickens, taking particular care that it does not boil; then strain it through a silk sieve; have ready an ounce of clarified isinglass, mix it with the cream and a Chantilly cheese; when well incorporated, pour it into a mould, and finish with ice as jelly printannicre. Jelly (Fruit).*—Clarify half a pound of sugar, hut the instant before it is quite clear, put in a small quantity of cochineal; then strain, and mix with it an ounce of clarified isinglass, and the juice of two lemons; add to this the fruit of which your jelly is to he composed; stir them together lightly, pour the jelly into a moxtld quickly, and put the mould on ice. Observe that the sugar and isinglass should he no more than lukewarm when mixed together. These jellies may he made of any kind of fruit, or the grated rinds of lemon, orange, or cedrats. Jelly (Gloucester).—Take an ounce of rice, the same of sago, pearl barley, harts- horn shavings, and eringo root; simmer with three piuts of water, till reduced to one pint, strain it. When cold it will be a jelly ; when you use it, serve dissolved in wine, milk, or broth. Jelly (Italian).—Make a wine or calf’s foot jelly, with which half fill your mould; when thoroughly set, take some Italian cream that has been turned out of a plain mould, cut this into slices, and afterwards cut it with a middling-sized plain round cutter ; these pieces of cream lay in a cir- cle round your jelly ; when all are arranged, -very gently put in jelly enough to cover •them ; when that is set, fill up your mould, and when wanted, turn it out the same as any other jelly. Jelly (Ivory Dust).*—Boil one pound of ivory dust in five pints of water till reduced to a quart, strain it, and add to it one quart more water, boil till reduced to a pint, then strain it; when strained, squeeze in some orange and lemon juice, and sweeten according to taste. Jelly Gravy to keep.—Take a leg of beef, and two shins, cut in pieces, a knuc- kle of veal; chop it all to pieces; one or two old cocks or hens, skinned, and two calf s feet; put all these into ten quarts of ■water, and boil them down to a strong jelly; skim it well, add some salt, and run it through a jelly-bag till it is clear. Jelly (Mosaic).—Boil half a pint of cream: when it boils, infuso the peel, either of an orange or a lemon, according ns you wish to decorate the jelly with either. When the cream has imbibed the flavour of the fruit, sweeten it with a little ’ sugar. Beat up with the cream the yolks of four eggs, lay it on the fire to thicken, and then put in some isinglass that has been previously melted. Strain the whole through a hair sieve, and put it, well co- vered, on some ice, that it may get quite j firm. Take the mould which you intend to use, brush it lightly all over with oil, and then cut the white cream jelly with a knife in the first place, and next with small tin cutters. Decorate the mould without putting it on ice, for the damp would prevent , the decoration from sticking on. Decorate i the bottom first, then the sides ; then only put the mould over ice. Next pour a little orange jelly lightly,not to injure the decora- tion, and letit getthick. When the orange | jelly is frozen, thrust the mould deeper into the ice, then put a little more jelly to the height of the lower decoration on the J sides; let the preparation be made firm again ; mind the jelly is never to come higher than the flowerets, till the bottom has been first made firm ; then gradually ascend to the top. Cover and surround the 1 mould with ice. When you wish to serve, dip a towel into some hot water, and rub the mould all round. Be careful that none of the jelly sticks to the sides before you touch the bottom of the mould. Then rub the bottom with the hot towel, and turn the jelly neatly into a dish. Were not all these precautions attended to, the two co- | lours would melt and mix together. This . jell v looks beautiful when it is well made. This jelly can only be well made in win- ter time; for during the summer season it would melt, except made hard; then it would not be so good. But if you should be particularly desirous of making it during the summer season, you must work it in a very cold place. Jelly (Printamiiere).* — Clarify three quarters of a pound of sugar, and an ounce of isinglass, as directed for each; and having prepared your fruits or flowers according to the recipes (see the various articles), mix them with the sugar when no more than lukewarm; strain the mix- ture through a silk sieve, add the isinglass, stir lightly with a silver spoon, and put it into a mould ; take about ten pounds of ice, break it up, put it into a tub or pail, in which immerse the mould for three hours: then take out the mould, dip it in hot water as quick as possible, and then turn the jelly into a dish for tablo.