260 FOW FOW tails tlie size of walnuts, which (when cold), roll in bread crumbs, give them rather a long than round form, dip them in egg, bread them a second time, and fry them in hot J'riture. Fowls Davenport Fashion.—Take the livers, hearts, and most tender parts of the gizzards, shred very small, with half a handful of young clary; an anchovy to each fowl, an onion, and the yolks of four eggs boiled hard, with pepper, ' salt, and mace, according to taste. Stuff the fowls with this, and sew up the vents and necks quite close, to prevent the water from getting in; boil them in salt and water till almost done; then drain them, and put them into a stewpan, with a sufficient quantity of butter to brown them. Serve them with melted butter, and a spoonful of any ketchup you please in the dish. Fowl a la Dreux.—The fowl being trussed, if you wish to give additional firmness to the skin and flesh, have some boiling water ready, then lay hold of the fowl by the saddle, dip the breast in the water, and then dip it in cold water; when the fowl is quite cold, cut some ham into long squares ; lard the breast of the fowl in imitation of a draft-board, put it into a stewpan, trimmed all round with fat bacon, and moisten with poele, there must be a brisk fire over it, and a slow one under it, as it will be sufficiently done in three quarters of an hour at the most. Dry the bacon with a salamander, glaze of a good colour, and serve with a sauce u. VAllemande. Fowl (Fillets of ) en Chemise *—Take as many fillets of fowl as you may require, and cut them into thin slices; make a good farce, in which roll each of the slices, so that they may be completely wrapped in; enclose these little fillets each in a piece of caul, place them on a skewer, and roast them. Serve them with veal gravy, or fowl consomme. Fowl (Fillets of) larcled.*—Take the fillets from three fine fowls, leaving on the ends of the pinions, trim, and lard them ; stick the end of the pinion under- neath each, to give them a better form; line the bottom of your stewpan with roots, spice, and bacon, put into it three ladiesful of stock, on which place your fillets, with a piece of buttered paper; set the stewpan on the fire, and let it boil, but not too fast: cover the lid with fire, and if in three quarters of an hour your stock be not sufficiently reduced, mnke a better fire, and let it stand u quarter of an hour longer. Dip the larded 6ide of your fillets into the glaze, and serve them with an espagnole travaillc underneath: to which may be added the jelly your fillets were cooked in. Fowl (Forced.)—Take a large fowl, pick it clean, cut it down the back, draw it, then take off the skin whole, cut the flesh from the bone, and chop it up with half a pint of oysters, an ounce of beef maiTOw, and a little pepper and salt; mix it up with cream, lay the meat on the bones, draw the skin over it and sew up the back, cut large thin slices of bacon, lay them over the breast of the fowl, and tie the bacon on with packthread. It will take an hour to roast before a moderate fire. Make a good brown gravy sauce, pour it into the dish, take the bacon off, lay the fowl in the gravy, and serve. Garnish with oysters, mushrooms, or pickles. Fowl en Fricandeau.—Cut a fowl in two, and bone it thoroughly, make a forcemeat of sweetbread, cut into large dice, a few fat livers, truffles, or mush- rooms, or both, chopped parsley, shalots, and scraped bacon, mixed with the yolks of three eggs, pepper, and salt; fill the fowl with this farce, sew it up, and give it a fry in butter for a moment; then lard it like a fricandeau ; braise it in broth, with a few slices of veal and bacon : when done, sift and skim the sauce, re- duce it to a glaze, and glaze the fowl with, it. Serve with whatever sauce you think proper. Fowl (Fried), a I’Indiennc.—Slice some onions and fry them in lard till they become of a nice brown colour, adding a pinch of flour; when the onions are suf- ficiently done, take them out with the skimmer, and keep them hot. Have ready a fowl cut up as for fricassee, and the pieces blanched in boiling water. Put the pieces of fowl in the lard in which the onions were fried, till they also become of a nice colour; then pour upon them some stock, adding salt, allspice, Cayenne pepper, and a little turmeric or Indian saffron ; when the fowl is done enough, put in the fried onions; boil the whole for two or three minutes, and serve, send- ing up, separately, a dish of rice. Fowl with the Flavour of Game.—Take a rabbit that has been kept a long time, and cut the meat of it into thin slices; lay them on a dish, and season them with pepper and salt, chopped parsley, chibbol, shalots, and a litdo sweet oil; split a fowl