314 LAM LAM lay it on a table in little heaps ; when all thin slices of bacon; spread the farce on the meat is thus disposed, form them into them, lay a cutlet on each slice, roll it up, whatever shape you please (either round, and tie it; bread these carefully, and roast oval, pear-shaped, &o.); roll them in them before a moderate fire, basting them, bread crumbs; beat up three yolks and with their own fat. two whole eggs, with a little salt and pep- Lamb’s Cutlets a, la Constance *—Cut and per; dip the croquettes in this, and bread trim eighteen cutlets, season them with them a second time ; take care that they pepper only, put them into a pan, with a are well covered; fry them in a hot pan : piece of glaze about the size of an egg, a when done, drain and place them in a ladleful of espagnoie, two ladiesful of con- pyramid on your dish, with fried parsley sommi; half an hour before they are sent over them. Make a sauce as follows : cut to table, set the cutlets over a brisk fire, some mushrooms into dice, and put them move them about to prevent their sticking; into a saucepan, with an ounce of butter; when the liquor is reduced to a jelly, take give them a few turns over the fire, and out the cutlets, and lay them on a dish en then add a few scallions shred small; couronne, taking care they are covered with when they have had a turn or two, putin a jelly. Make a ragout of livers, cocks’- a spoonful of flour, a ladleful of stock, and combs, and kidneys, put them into some a bay-leaf; reduce the sauce, and then bechamelle, with some mushrooms ; fry the take out the bay leaf, and put in the yolks whole lightly, and pour them into the of four eg gs, and another ounce of butter ; centre of the couronne of cutlets, and serve stir the whole till of the proper consistence, instantly. serve with the croquettes. A little shred Lamb Cutlets Fricasseed.—Take a leg of pai'sley may be added if you like. lamb, and cut it into thin cutlets, across Lamb Cutlets—For various ways, be- the grain, and put them into a stewpan. sides the following. (See Mutton Cutlets) Make a sufficient quantity of good stock as they may be dressed alike. with the bones, shank, &c. to cover the Lamb Cutlets aux Epinards.—Saute and cutlets; put it into the stewpan, and cover glaze them, and serve them upon spinach it with a bundle of sweet herbs, an onion, a la Crime. some clove and mace tied in a muslin bag. Lamb Cutlets in Aspic*—Take sixteen and let them stew gently for ten minutes, lamb cutlets, and lard them with moderate Take out the cutlets, skim off the fat, and sized lardons of calf’s udder, truffles, and take out the sweet herbs and mace, tongue a Vicariate ; line a saucepan with Thicken it with butter rolled in flour, sea- slices of bacon, lay your cutlets on them, son it with salt, and a little cayenne pepper; cover them with bacon, moisten 'with add a few mushrooms, truffles, and morels; skimmings of consomme, add a carrot, two some forcemeat balls, the yolks of three onions stuck with cloves, and a bunch of eggs, beat up in a half-pint of cream, and sweet herbs; braise them, and when done, some grated nutmeg; keep stirring the put them between two dishes, and let same way till it is thick and smooth, and them cool: then trim them so that the then put in the cutlets. Give them a toss whole of the lardons may be seen; have up, take them out with a fork, and lav them ready an aspic mould, in which is some of on a dish. Pour the sauce over them; the jelly, set; lay the cutlets and a piece ‘ garnish with beet-root and lemon, of tongue a Vicariate alternately on it, en Lamb’s Ears Stuffed.*—lake a dozen couronne, put two or three spoonsful of lamb’s ears, soak, and scald tliem; when jelly on it carefully, not to displace the cold, dry, singe, and cook them in a blanc cutlets ; when you find the jelly is set, fill for an hour and a half, drain and fill them the mould ; set it on ice; turn tire aspic with a farce cuite, put the ears into melted out only the minute before it goes to table, butter, then roll them in bread-crumbs; pour into the well or hollow part a cold break four eggs into the butter, with salt blanquetle of lamb, with some cold truffles and poppet, beat all up together, dip t le sliced. ears into this, then roll them again in bread Lamb Cutlets en Chemises*—Having cut crumbs, and fry them of a nice colour: tarn and trimmed your cutlets, cover them with care your pan is not too hot. Dram a farce composed of fat livers, breasts of a ears well, and serve them on fried parsley, fowl or game, streaked bacon, all chopped Lamb’s Ears with Sorrel.—lake about a very small, and mixed with the crumb of dozen of lamb’s ears (this quantity wi bread soaked in cream ; season it with make a small dish), and braise them i pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Take some tender. Take a large handlu ot so »