win WHI 527 Water (Soucliy).—Thoroughly cleanse some perch, or flounders; put them into a stewpan with some cold water (suffi- cient for broth), a .very little white-wine vinegar, and some salt; let them boil till done, carefully skimming, serve them with the liquor they were boiled in ; add to it some parsley roots, neatly cut, trimmed, and ready boiled, and strew over parsley, boiled of a nice green, and serve bread and butter on a plate, to be eaten with the souchy. WELSH Rabbit.—Take a slice of bread, and toast it on both sides ; toast a slice of Gloucester cheese on one side, lay it on the toast, brown it nicely with the salamander, rub some mustard over it, and serve as hot as possible. Welsh Rabbit.*—Toast as many slices of bread as you may require; cut some Gloucester cheese into dree, and put it into a saucepan with a very small quan- tity of water, a little black or Cayenne pep- per ; when the cheese is melted, spread, it over the toasts, and colour it with the salamander. WHEATEARS.—Pick them, cut oft the pinions at the first joint, draw out the inside ; turn the feet close to the legs, and entwine one in the other; then run a long skewer through the middle of the bodies of as many as you intend serving, and fasten them on the spit. WHEY.*—Put a very small portion of rennet into a quart of milk, and let it stand by the side of the fire until turned; then serve it in a dish, with sugar and a little nutmeg grated and strewed over, or strain the liquor carefully from the curd, and serve quite clear. Whey (Vinegar).—Put into some boil- ing milk as much vinegar as will make a small quantity quite clear; dilute it with hot water to an agreeable acid, and add a few lumps of sugar. You may, if you like it better, use lemon juice, instead of vinegar. Whey (White Wine).—Pour as much good raisin wine into a pint of boiling new milk, as will completely turn it, and make it look clear; let it boil up, then set the saucepan on one side till the curd sub- sides ; it must not be stirred. Pour the whey off, and add to it half a pint of boil- ing water, and a bit of loaf sugar. WHITE Pot.—Add to a pint of cream, four eggs, beat up with a little salt, some sliced nutmeg, and plenty of sugar ; slice very thin the crumb of a small roll; put it into a dish, and pour the cream, See. over it; add a few sun raisins, previously boiled, and a little sweet butter, and put it into a moderate oven to bake. White Pot*—Beat up the yolks of eight, and the whites of four eggs, with two quarts of new milk, a little rose water, a nutmeg grated, and a quarter of a pound of sugar; cut a small roll into very thin slices, lay them in a dish, and pour the milk, &c. over them ; put a bit of butter on the top, and set it in the oven; it will take half an hour baking. WHITINGS.—In choosing whitings, be careful that the skin has a silvery ap- pearance, that the body is firm, and the fins stiff, these are sure proofs of its fresh- ness. Whitings a VAnglaise*—Put into a saucepan two spoonsful of oil, half a lemon sliced (the pips and rind taken off), salt, and pepper, two glasses of white wine, the same of water, and let them boil nearly a quarter of an hour; then put the whitings, properly cleaned, cook them in the above, and serve with a sauce made as follows : Blanch a clove of garlic, and beat it with the back of a knife, put it with parsley, shalots, and two glasses of Champagne, into a stewpan; let it boil five minutes, then add some butter rolled in flour, salt, and pepper; stir it over the fire till smooth, then serve. Whitings (Boiled). — Whitings should be boiled iu the same manner as cod, had- dock, or any other fish; serve with an- chovy sauce, or ketchup, and butter. Whitings( Broiled).—Wash the whitings in salt and water; dry them well with a cloth, flour them, lay them on the gridiron, and broil them over a very clear fire; serve with shrimp or oyster sauce. Whitings (Dried).—To dry whitings, you must choose the largest; take out the gills, eyes, and entrails, and cleanse the blood from the backbone. Wipe them very dry, and put salt into them, and into the sockets of the eyes ; let them lay for a night on a hoard; then hang them up in a dry place; they will be fit for eating in three or four days ; when wanted to be served, skin and rub them over with egg, and strew them with bread crumbs. Lay them before the fire, and baste them with butter until sufficiently brown; serve with egg sauce. Y\ niTiNGs, Forcemeat Balls.—Bone as neatly as possible either large or small whitings ; scrape the flesh, and pound it in a mortar; boil some bread crumbs in cream, until the liquor is quite soaked dry;