ONI ORA S 76 them in milk and water, put a turnip with them into the pot (it draws out the strength); change the water twice ; pulp them through a cullender, or chop them; then put them into a saucepan with some cream, a piece of butter, a little flour, some pepper and salt. they must be served very smooth. Onion Sauce. — The onions must he peeled, and then boiled till they are ten- der ; then squeeze the water from them ; chop them, and add to them butter that has been melted rich and smooth, with a little good milk instead of water; give it one boil, and serve it for boiled rabbits, partridges, scrag, or knuckle of veal, or roast mutton. A turnip boiled with the onions draws out their strength. Onion Sauce (Brown).—Peel and slice the onions (some put in an equal quantity of cucumber or celery) into a quart stew- pan, with an ounce of butter; set it over a slow fire, and turn the onion about till it is very lightly browned; then gradually stir in half an ounce of flour; add a little broth, and a little pepper and salt, boil up fora few minutes ; add a table-spoonful of claret, or port wine, and some mush- room ketchup (you may add, if you think proper, a little lemon juice or vinegar), and rub it through a tammy, or fine sieve. Onion Soup.— Put into the water in which a leg or neck of mutton has been boiled, some carrots, turnips, and a shank bone, and let it simmer for a couple of hours. Strain it on half a dozen onions, first sliced and fried of a light brown; simmer the whole for three hours, skim it carefully, and serve. Put in a little roll, or fried bread. Onions (Stewed).—Peel half a dozen onions, fry them gently of a nice brown, taking care not to blacken them ; then put them into a small stewpan, with a little weak gravy, pepper, and salt; cover them, and let them gently stew for two hours. Lightly flour them at first. Onions (Stuffed).* — Peel four-and- twenty large onions, very carefully blanch, cool, and then having drained them, scoop out the inner part of the onions, and fill them with a quenelle farce, put them into a stewpan, let them all lay flat, cover them with slices of bacon, acid some water, a little salt, and a small quantity of sugar, set them on n large fire at first, but lessen the fire afterwards; let them stand till done, then reduce the liquor, and make use of the ouions as garnish for large dishes. ORANGE Biscuits.*—Take the grated rind of an orange, six fresh eggs, a quarter of a pound of flour, and three quarters of a pound of powder sugar; put these into a mortar, beat them to a paste, which put into cases, and bake like other biscuits. Orange Biscuits, or Little Cakes.—Boil some Seville oranges whole in several waters, till all the bitterness is taken from them ; cut them, and take out the pulp and juice ; then put the outsides into a mortar, and beat them very fine ; add to it an equal weight of double refined sugar, beaten and sifted. When thoroughly well mixed to a paste, spread it thin on china dishes, and set them in the sun, or before the fire; when they are about half dry, cut them into whatever form you please, turn the other side up, and dry that. Keep them in a box with layers of paper. Oranges in Brandy.* — Choose the oranges very round and smooth, pare, prick them in the middle, and put them into cold water ; then blanch them in boil- ing water; when they are. tender, throw them again into cold water; in a short time give them seven or eight boils in sugar, a la petite nappe, skim, and let them stand till next day, when the same process must be gone through; skim them again, then put them into bottles, pour over them equal quantities of syrup and water; take care to cork them well. Oranges in Brandy. — Choose your oranges as near of a size as you can, and boil them till a pin will penetrate the skins with ease ; do not take out the pulp, but make a small hole through the stalk end ; give them a boil in some clarified sugar, and set them aside ; the next day, drain off the syrup, boil and pour it on the fruit whilst hot; on the third day re- peat this operation, put the oranges into it, and boil them together; take out’ the fruit, add as much brandy as syrup, make it hot, but it must not boil; when cold, pour it over the oranges, which ought to float in the liquid. Orange Butter.—Take half a dozen eggs, and boil them hard, beat them in a mortar, with two ounces of fine sugar, three ounces of butter, and two ounces of almonds, bleached and beaten to a fine paste. Moisten with orange-flower water, and when all is mixed, nib it through a cullender on a dish, and serve with sweet biscuits between. Oranges Buttered Hot.—Take four Se- ville oranges, grate off a little of the out- sido rind, and cut a round hole at the blunt