ALM ALM clarified sugar, with powdered cinnamon stirred in it, put in the almonds, and when well covered with the sugar and cinnamon, lay them separately on tins, and dry in a slow oven. Almonds (To Colour).* — Almonds (rose coloured.)—Blanch and cut sweet almonds in small pieces, put them on a baking-plate, and pour on them a little of any vegetable liquid, of an infusion of cochineal, or carmine ; then rub them in your hands, to mix them well with the colour ; when all are so done, dry them in a stove or in the oven. Almonds (violet).—Are done in the same way, the colouring ingredients are cochineal, and a little indigo dissolved in water, put hut a small quantity of the latter at a time, as it is very powerful. Almonds (green).—The same proceed- ing : the colour is made with two handsful of fresh spinach, well washed, drained, and then pounded; when very fine, press it through a napkin ; let the juice drop on a dish, which place on a hot stove; as soon as it begins to boil, take it olf, stir- ring it constantly, till the green curdles, then pour it through a horsehair sieve, and when well drained rub it through a silk sieve or tammy ; the juice thus ob- tained, will give the almonds (which must be put in a few at a time) a clear and even green colour. Almonds (blue).—Dissolve a little in- digo in water, strain it through a cloth and use it as above mentioned. Almonds (orange coloured).—Mix alittle liquid red, and a little infusion of saffron together, and proceed with the almonds as usual. Almonds (lemon coloured).—Infuse a small quantity of saffron in nearly boiling water for a few minutes ; strain and follow the above direction. Almonds (chocolate coloured).—Are dyed with chocolate dissolved in water and strained. The almonds may be cut in slips, dice, See. according to fancy. Observe that the colour of youralmonds should be light and delicate; when done, place them, either separately or mixed together, in paper cases. Almonds (burnt) Conserve of.*—Blanch and cut six ounces of sweet almonds into small strips, lay them on paper and put them into an oven ; when they are brown, take them out, and throw them into two pounds of sugar boiled to petit casse ; stir the mixture well until it begins to blow, and then pour it into paper cases or moulds. Almond Coupeaux.*—Blanch and pound half a pound of sweet almonds, with the whites of three eggs, into a very fine paste, add to it six ounces of powdered sugar and the rind of a lemon grated ; when tho- roughly mixed together, pour over it about four spoonsful of orange-flower water: stir up the paste (which ought to be rather thin) once more, and then lay it with a spoon on a plate of bright copper, in an oval form, about three or four inches in length. The plate being quite full, take it up by both hands, and strike it steadily upon a table, so that the paste may be ex- tended, but not much ; then bake them until they become of a deep yellow. Take them from the copper with a knife, and whilst hot put them on a wooden roller^ about the thickness of an arm, and press them with your hand, that they may ac- quire the form of the wood, and when cool place in a box, and keep them dry. These coupeaux are very brittle. Almond Cream.*—Blanch six ounces of sweet almonds and pound them very fine ; whip up the whites of two eggs with a pint of milk and four ounces of powder sugar; boil the milk over a gentle fire till reduced to a quarter, then add the almonds, let it boil a minute or two; pour in a spoonful of orange-flower water. When cold, garnish it with almonds au caramel. Almond Cream.—Put a pint of milk and a pint of cream, with a small bit of lemon peel, into a stewpan, to boil very gently for twenty minutes ; in the mean while, blanch and pound very fine, three ounces of sweet almonds and half an ounce of bitter almonds ; then take the milk and cream from the fire, into which (while hot) stir the pounded almonds with the yolks of two or three eggs and clarified sugar (boiled to caramel height) enough to sweeten it; then put the whole into a tammy, and, with a wooden spoon, well rub and squeeze it through; do this a second time, then squeeze into the cream two ounces of well-clarified isinglass, the whole being together in a basin, have your mould ready in ice, into which put Jhe cream ; when set, turn it out as any other jelly. Almond Cream.Take six ounces of sweet almonds, a pint of good milk, and five ounces of sugar; blanch the almonds and throw them into cold water; when well drained, pound them with a little water. Beat up in the milk the whites