TUR 502 TUR ■» * stnfl'tlie turkey with them, nnd wrap the turkey in slices of bacon, over which put paper, and roast it: make a sauce with a bit of butter, a slice of ham, two shalots, and a few mushrooms; soak these for a time, then add two spoonsful of stock, the same quantity of cullis, let it simmer for about half an hour, skim and strain it; when ready, add a small spoonful of mustard, a little pepper and salt; serve this sauce with the turkey. Tun key stuffed, with Sausages and Chest- nuts.—Roast what quantity of chestnuts J'ou think necessary, peel them, and pound a part of them to make a farce, with the liver, chopped parsley, shalots, a little salt and pepper, a bit of butter, and the yolks of three raw eggs ; put this farce into the crop, and stuff the body with the whole chestnuts, and small sausages, first fried in butter till about half done; cover the turkey with slices of bacon, and put paper over that, then roast it, and serve with a chestnut cullis. Turkey stuffed with Truffles.—Peel about a pound, or a pound and a half of truffles, mix with them a little salt, pepper, and grated bacon, and stuff your turkey with it; sew it up close, wrap it in two or three sheets of paper, and keep it in this state for three or four days, that it may take the flavour of the truffles, then roast it, well covered all round with slices of bacon, and paper over that ; serve with a Spanish sauce. Turkey en Surprise*—Take a large turkey, prepare it for the spit, and roast it; when done, let it cool, raise the skin of the breast carefully, take off all the meat from under it, and make a hole, which fill with a salpicon; cover this with a quenelle farce; give a good shape to the breast; strew grated bread and Parmesan cheese over the whole, and place it in the oven a short time to heat and colour it. Serve with a reduced espagnole, as a remove. Turkey (Tegs of) broiled.— Braise some undressed legs of turkeys until tender, then dip them in oil or melted butter, and broil them of a fine brown colour, serve with a rdmoulade sauce. Turkey Legs en Populates.* — Fry the legs lightly in a little butter until'both sides are coloured, then lard them quite through ; make some farce with a slice of veal, breast of fowl, strenked baron, nnd truffles, all minced small, nnd seasoned with salt, pepper, nnd spices ; cut as many large rashers of bacon as you have turkey logs, spread some of tho farce over every rasher, roll a leg up in each, tie them that the farce may not escape; bread them thoroughly, and wrap them in pieces of white paper; put them into a deep dish, and bake them in a moderate oven. When done, take off the paper and thread and serve with any sauce you please. Turkey {Legs of) Provence Fashion.— Take the legs of a roasted turkey, put them into a stewpan with a glass of wine, the same quantity of stock, pepper, and salt; a bundle of sweet herbs, two cloves, and a clove of garlic ; simmer about an hour, to reduce the sauce ; make a ragout with a sweetbread, chopped mushrooms, parsley, shalots, and a bit of butter; soak this a little while, then add a little stock and cullis, and boil it some time : when ready, add a pounded anchovy, chopped capers, and a handful of olives stoned; warm to- gether without boiling; you must add pepper and salt, according to taste: the sauce should be sharp and relishing. Serve it upon the legs. Turkey (Legs cf) en Surprise.—Bone a couple of undressed legs of turkeys quite to the end, and fill the inside with a farce made of livers, sweetbreads, mushrooms, parsley, shalots, pepper, and salt, the yolks of two eggs, grated bacon, and a little nut- meg : sew them up, and braise them with slices of bacon and lemon. Serve with a Spanish sauce. Turkey Wings in Chiploata. — Bone nnd trim some turkev wings, and put them into a stewpan with a little butter: set them on a fierce fire, nnd in a few minutes add a dessert-spoonful of flour, two ladiesful ot stock, a bay leaf, and some whole pepper; blanch a little streaked bacon, cut it into small square pieces, put them to the ragout, with some champignons, parsley, and scal- lions ; when about three parts done, skim it and throw in four-and-twentv small onions (all the same size) peeled, some blanched chestnuts, and a few sausages. When the ragoiit is sufficiently done, take out the parsley, scallions, and bay leaf; place the wings on a dish, and pour the gravy, thickened with the yolks of two eggs, over it, and serve. Turkey (TFingsanrf Legs o f) glazed.—- Cut off the wings and legs of a turkey (if a large one the wings alone will be suffi- cient for a dish) ; cut them pretty large from the breast, lard them all over, or lard only one to please different palates ; braise them on a slow fire, with slices of veal and ham, a bundle of sweet herbs, some cloves, whole pepper, salt, and stock ; when done,