IRI IND 304 Tceing for Calces.—For a large cake, beat and sift eight ounces of fine sugar, put it into a mortar, with four spoonsful of rose water, and the whites of two eggs, beaten and strained, whisk it well, and when the cake is almost cold, dip a feather in the ice- ing, and cover the cake well; set in the oven to harden, but do not let it remain long enough to discolour. Keep the cake in a dry place. Ice a very large Calce.—Beat the whites of twenty fresh eggs : then, by degrees, beat a pound of double refined sugar, sifted through a lawn sieve ; mix these well in a deep earthen pan: add orange-flower water, and a piece of fresh lemon peel; do not use more of the orange-flower water than is just sufficient to flavour it. Whisk it for three hours till the mixture is thick and white ; then, with a thin broad bit of hoard spread it all over the top and sides, and set in a cool oven, and an hour will harden it. Iceing for Tarts.—Beat the yolk of an egg and some melted butter well together; wash the tarts with a feather, and sift su- gar over as you put them into the oven ; or beat white of egg, wash the paste, and sift white sugar. Ice Water.—Rub some fine sugar on lemon or orange, to give it the colour and flavour, then squeeze the juice of either on its respective peel; add water and sugar to make a fine sherbet, and strain it before it is put into the ice pot. If orange, the greater proportion should be of the China juice, and only a little Seville used, and a small bit of the peel grated by the sugar. IMPERIAL.—Put two ounces of cream of tartar, and the juice and peel of two le- mons, into a stone jar; pour on them seven quarts of boiling water ; stir, and cover close. When cold, sweeten it with loaf sugar, strain it, bottle and cork it tight. Add in bottling, half a pint to the whole quantity. INDIA Piclcle.—Prepare the following as directed in eacli article,viz: Gherkins,cau- liflowers, button onions, drum cabbages, sliced cucumbers, French beans, carrots cut fancifully & half boiled, rock samphire, rad- dish pods nasturtiums, Cayenne pods green and red. To every gallon of best white wine vinegar, put a quarter of a pound of bruised ginger, two ounces of allspice, three of white pepper, two of turmeric, an ounce of Chillies, ono pound of flour of mustard, six ounces of bay salt, and a little common salt, and boil for twenty minutes ; blanch some shallots, and garlic, and mustard seed in some of the liquor separately, and add to it the other liquor when cold, and the spice strained. When all is ready mix your pickles and liquor all together in a large pan ; let it stand two days, stirring it now and then with a wooden spoon ; fill your jars, tie them over with bladders and leather, and keep them some months before using. Fill them up at times with the overplus of the liquor, which put carefully away. India Piclcle.—Take one pound of gin- ger, put into it a pan with salt and water, and let it lay all night, then scrape it, and cut it into thin slices ; put it into a pan with half a pound of bay salt, and let it lay till all the following ingredients are pre- pared ; a pound of garlic peeled, and laid in salt for three days, then take it out, wash it, then let it lay in salt for another three days, then take it out and let it lay in the sun for another, till half dry; an ounce of long pepper, an ounce of capsi- cum, salted and laid in the sun for three days, a pint of black mustard-seed bruised, half an ounce of turmeric, beat very small ■ put all these ingredients together in a jar, then put in as much vinegar, as when the cabbage, or whatever you intend to pickle, is put into it, the vinegar will rise to the top of the jar. Then take cabbage, cauli- flower, or whatever you choose to pickle, and cut them into small pieces, throw a good handful of salt over them, and set them in the sun (when it is very hot) for three days; drain the water from them every day, and fresh salt them again, turning the leaves till they are dry, then put them into the pickle, being particular that they are completely covered with the the vinegar ; tie it up close, let it stand a fortnight, fill it again with more vinegar, carefully watch it from time to time, to fill it up with vinegar, as it will waste very fast. India Pickle*—One gallon of vinegar, one pound of garlic, a quarter of a pound of long pepper split, half a pound of flour of mustard, one pound of ginger scraped, and split, and two ounces of tur- meric. When you have prepared the spice, and put it into the jar, pour the vinegar boiling hot over it, and stir it every day for a week. Then put in your cabbage, cauliflower, or whatever you in- tend to pickle. Imsii Stew.—Take the best end of a neck of mutton, take off the under bone, and cut it into chops ; season them with pepper, 6alt, a little mushroom powder, and be3ten