37 BAC BAB AUSTRIAN Soup.—Cut a large cliioken in pieces; fry it in butter with sweet herbs ; boil it in good broth, and then roll it in crumbs of bread and Parmesan cheese; colour it with a salamander. Lay thin slices of bread with grated Parmesan cheese on them, then a layer of cabbages with more slices of bread ; add the broth, and stew till it catches a little at bottom ; grate on a little more cheese; brown it, add a little more broth, and serve the chicken at the top. B. BABA.—Take three pounds of flour, one quarter of which put apart and mix into dough, with a gill of good yeast and a little warm water; cover it close in a 6tewpan and set it by the fire to rise; when you see the dough rise and nearly ready, form the other parts of the flour in a circle on the table, in the centre of which put half an ounce of salt, one ounce of sugar, a pound and a half of butter, and twelve eggs, with a table-spoonful of saffron (mix the butter and eggs well together before you put it to the flour) ; when all is mixed spread it out, and put the dough upon it, and knead it in well. When the yeast is nearly mixed in, add two pounds of raisins stoned, a few at a time, have ready two copper moulds buttered, and put in the dough ; they must be only three parts full, and set in a warm place to rise very gently ; when raised to the top of the mould, bake in a tolerably hot oven, a brick oven is the best. Baba.*—Take the fourth part of two pounds of flour, lay it on your paste board or slab, and having made a hole in the middle of it, put in half an ounce of yeast, work it up with one hand, whilst with the other you pour in warm water ; make it into a rather soft paste, put it into a wooden bowl, first pricking it in a few places, cover it with a cloth and let it stand. When it has risen well, take the remainder of the flour, and spread it on the first-made paste ; mix them well together, adding to them half an ounce of salt, six eggs, a pound of fresh butter, half a pound of stoned raisins, two ounces of currants, half a glass of Malaga wine, and a little saffron in powder. Work them up together thoroughly, roll it out two or three times, and then let it stand for six hours ; then, having buttered a mould, pour in your preparation and bake it. BACCHIC Cream*—Put a pint and a half of white wine, with some lemon peel, coriander seed, a bit of cinnamon, and three ounces of sugar, into a stewpan, and let them boil a quarter of an hour ; then mix half a tea-spoonful of flour with the yolks of six eggs in another stewpan, and stir in by degrees the other previously boiled ingredients. When about half cold, strain the whole through a sieve, and put it in a dish or mould in hot water, over the fire, till the cream is set; lastly, take it out, and put it in a cool place till ready to serve. Bacchic Sauce.*—Put a spoonful of fine oil into a saucepan, with half a pint of good stock, and a pint of white wine, boil them together till reduced to nearly half; then put in some shalots, garden cress, tarra- gon, chervil, parsley, leeks, &c. all shred very fine, season with whole pepper and salt. Boil up the whole together once ; serve with a little cullis. This sauce is good with any meat. BACON to broil.— Make up a sheet of paper into the form of a drippingpan ; cut your bacon into thin slices, cut off the rind, lay the bacon on the paper, put it on the gridiron, set over a slow fire, and it will broil cleanly. Bacon and Cabbages *—Boil some fine streaked bacon with a little stock, and the ends of eight or ten sausages ; boil in the same stock some white cabbages for about two hours, add salt and spices, and serve very hot. Place your cabbages and sausages alternately round the dish, and the bacon in the middle. The cabbages should be blanched first in water. Bacon and Eggs*—Cut a quarter of a pound of streaked bacon into thin slices, and put them into a stewpan over a slow fire, taking care to turn them frequently ; when sufficiently done, pour the melted l'at of the bacon into a dish, break over it seven or eight eggs, add two spoonsful of gravy, a little salt and pepper, and stew the whole over a slow fire ; pass a salamander over it, and serve. Bacon Froze.—Beat eight eggs into a batter, a little cream and flour, fry some thin slices of bacon, and dip them in it; lay the bacon in a fryingpan, pour a little hatter over them ; when one side is fried, turn, and pour more batter over them. When both sides are of a good colour, lay them on a dish and serve hot.. Bacon, Gammon, to bake.—Lay it to steep all night in water, scrape it clean, and stuff it with all manner ot sweet