FOW 262 row Fowl (Moor) with Bed Cabbage.—Truss the moor game as for boiling; put them on •with a little soup ; stew them for half an hour; cut a stock of red cabbage in four quarters, put it to the moor fowl; season "with white pepper and salt, a small bit of butter rolled in flour, and a glass of red wine. Lift out the cabbage, and arrange it neatly in the dish, the moor fowl on it. Tour the sauce over them, and garnish with small slices of fried bacon. Fowl (Moor), or Moor Game, to Pot.— Pick, singe, and wash the birds nicely ; then dry them, and well season them in- side and out, pretty high, with pepper, mace, nutmeg, allspice, and salt. Put them in as small a pot as will hold them ; cover them with butter, and bake them in a very slow oven. When they are cold, take off the butter; dry them from the gravy, and put one bird into each pot; they should just fit. Addas much more butter as will cover them, being very careful that it does not oil. The best method of warming it is by putting it in a basin, and setting the basin in hot water. Or rather the better way is, when boned and well seasoned, to £11 them with a rich farce, line the pot with slices of fat bacon, then surround that with farce or forcemeat; then put in your birds, cover them with farce, then with fat bacon, and bake; adding some fresh butter. Fowl with Olives.—Truss and dress a fowl the same as Fowl a la Dreux. Then take some olives, which should be blanched till they are no longer briny. Next boil them in a thin espagnole. Skim the sauce, and add a little lemon juice, and pour it under the fowl. Serve with some stuffed olives, without stones. Turn the olives with a knife, so as to take out the stones, and leave the olives whole. Fowl (Panada of).—Boil abitof crumb of bread in some good brotb, add to it the breast of a couple of fowls, roasted, and very finely pounded; sift all together in a cloth, with strong pressing, and add broth accord- ing to the consistence you would have it. Fowl with Rice.—Boil a pint of rice in as much water as will cover it, with black pepper, a few blades of mace, and half a dozen cloves, 'tied up in a bit of cloth; when the rice is tender, take out the spice ; Stir in a piece of butter ; boil a fowl and a piece of bacon ; lay them in the dish, cover them with the rice : lay round the dish, and upon the rice, hard eggs, cut iu halves, quarters, and lengthwise, with onions, first boiled, and then fried. Fowl with Rice, another way.—Take a fowl trussed for boiling, soak in water, drain it, and put it to some good veal broth, or water sufficient to cover it; a handful of rice washed, a blade of mace, some whole pepper in a bag, a bunch of parsley, and some salt, boil and skim it, when very tender, serve in a deep dish, with the rice and broth round it. Fowl (Pudding of) a la Reine.—This dish is made of cold fowls. Take the breast and fleshy parts of several fowls, and cut them into small dice, all of an equal size. Throw these dice into a reduction of ve- Lout£, and season them well; then put them into a dish that they may ccol. \V hen this preparation is quite cold, cut it into two equal parts, which you must make into puddings of a long shape, the size of the dish ; roll them in crumbs of bread ; then dip them into egg, and roll them again in bread. You must be careful that the ex- tremities are well covered with the crumbs, otherwise they will break in the frying- pan. When they are fried to a good co- lour, drain them, wipe off the grease with a clean towel, and serve with a thin ve- loute, or green parsley fried between. Fowl (Puree of).*-—Take all the white part of three cold roast fowls, and pound it; then add about an ounce of calfs udder, a little salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; pound them all together uutil well mixed. Dis- solve two spoonsful of white jelly or con- somme, and three of bechumelle or ieloute ; and when liquid, add to it the pounded meat; stir them together over the fire, but do not let it boil; strain it into another vessel, and keep it hot in the bain-marie: serve it with bread in the usual manner. Fowls (Quenelles oj ).*—Take the breasts of four fowls, and scrape the meat off with a knife ; pound it well, and pass it through a quenelle sieve into a plate : soak the crumb of a French roll in milk till quite soft, then put it into a cloth to press out all the moisture, and pound as much of that as you have meat; then take an equal quantity of veal udder or butter, and beat it up with the bread, until the butter can- not be distinguished, when the fowl should bo added, and all three ingredients pounded together ; to this put four yolks of eggs, or more if necessary, salt, pepper, and nutmeg; when the whole is well pounded, whip the whites of two eggs, and mix them in lightly ; poach a little of it to try if it bo sufficiently seasoned, and then set it aside for use. Fowl (Quenelles of).*—Take a dessert-