GIN 277 GIB proper thickness ; let it boil, put the gher- kins into it, and let them boil gently for a quarter of an hour ; then put them into a flat brown pan, and cover them; let them stand two days, then drain the syrup from them; boil the syrup one minute, and pour it over them ; the next day boil them and the syrup together three or four minutes, and repeat the same for five days ; then put them into pots, and cover them up. GIBLET Pie.—Well scald and wash your giblets, put them to stew like mutton cutlets, but longer, till they are very ten- der. You may either make a puff paste or short paste to bake them in; when you lay them in the dish, add the yolks of two eggs boiled hard, pepper, salt, and the gravy of the giblets ; form a star of leaves on the top of the pie, egg it, and bake it. If you wish it to be particularly good, re- duce some consomme with a little Madeira wine, and pour it into the pie. The giblets proper to make the pie with, are the head, neck, pinions, heart, gizzard, feet, and liver. Giblet Pie.—Very nicely clean a goose or duck’s giblets; stew them with a small quantity of water, onion, black pepper, and a bundle of sweet herbs, till nearly done ; let them grow cold ; then, if there is not a sufficient quantity to fill the dish, lay a beef, veal, or mutton steak, at the bottom. Put the liquor of the giblets also into the dish, and bake it; when the pie is baked, pour in a large tea-cupful of cream. You mar add, if you please, sliced pota- toes, and bake them with the pie. Giblet Soup.—Take three or four sets of goose or duck’s giblets ; and stew them with a pound or two of gravy beef, scrag of mutton, or the bone of a knuckle of veal, an ox tail, or some shanks of mutton ; with three onions, a large bundle of sweet herbs, a tea-spoonful of white pepper, and a large spoonful of salt. Put five pints of water, and simmer till the gizzards (which must each be in four pieces) are quite tender; skim nicely, and add a quarter of a pint of cream, two tea-spoonsful of mushroom powder, and an ounce of buttermixed with a dessert-spoonful of flour. Let it boil a few minutes and servo with the giblets. It may be seasoned, instead of cream, with two glasses of sherry or Madeira, a large spoonful of ketchup, and some Cayenne. When in the tureen, add salt. Another way.—Make your liquor for the soup the same as for mock turtle, add the giblets and the liquor they have been Stewed in; season and finish the same ns mock turtle, excepting the balls and calf s head. Giblet Soup (Clear).—Having properly seasoned your giblets, stew them till tender, draw them down to a glaze, then add a sufficient quantity of good ennsommd ; simmer them, add salt and a little sugar; skim very clean and serve. Giblets (Stewed).—Do them as directed for giblet pie ; season them with salt and pepper, and a very small piece of mace. Before serving, give them one boil, with a cup of cream, and a bit ol butter rubbed in a tea-spoonful of flour. Giblets (Stewed). — Well scald and clean them, cut off the bill, divide the head, skin the feet, stew them with water (a sufficient quantity for sauce), a sprig of thyme, some whole black pepper, and an. onion ; let them stew till very tender : strain the sauce ; add a little ketchup, and flour, provided the sauce is not too thick. Serve with sippets, toasted and laid round the dish. GIMBLETTES Printanieres* —Blanch a pound of sweet almonds, cut them into very thin slips, and rub them with sugar and spinach juice to colour them green, then dry them. Take some choux paste, and lay it on a tin in portions about half the size of an egg ; dorez them, and having dipped the end of your finger in the dorez, make a hole in the middle of each choux ; bake them, and when done, dip them, one by one, first in sugar boiled to casse, and then in the almonds, which will adhere to them by means of the sugar. Arrange the gimbleltes on a dish according to your taste, and serve them. GINGERBREAD.—Rub one pound of butter well into three pounds of flour ; then add one pound of powder sugar, one pound of treacle, and two ounces of ginger pounded and sifted very fine ; one nutmeg grated very fine ; then warm a quarter of a pint of cream, and mix altogether ; you may add carraways and sweetmeats if you choose ; make it into a stiff paste, and bake it in a slow oven. If cake or biscuits are kept in paper or a drawer, they will acquire a disagreeable taste. A pan and cover, or tureen, will preserve them long and moist; or if to be crisp, laying them before the tire will make them so. Gingerbread without Butter.—Mix two pounds of treacle ; of orange, lemon, citron, and candied ginger, each four ounces, all thinly sliced ; one ounce of coriander seeds, one ounce of carraways, and an ouuce of