165 CIII CHI fillet of veal, make a hole at one end large enough to contain a small stuffed chicken, sew it up, and put it into a stew- pan, with a few slices of veal and ham, some parsley, shalots, two cloves, basil, stock, and a little pepper; simmer it over a slow fire; when done, skim and strain the sauce, reduce it to a glaze, and spread it over the fillet of veal with a brush. Then put some cullis to the remains of the glaze, and strain it over the meat, and serve. Chickens au domestic.—Cut as great a number of small slices of fillets of meat from a tender rabbit as you possibly can, and soak in oil, or melted butter, with chopped shalots, truffles, mushrooms, and parsley; season them with pepper, nut- meg, and salt; take the breastbones from two chickens, so as not to break the skins, and fill them with the above, and sew it in ; then having given them a turn in but- ter over the fire, wrap them in bacon and paper, and roast them. Chop up the bones and remains of the rabbit, and set them to simmer with some poultry legs and pinions, half a glass of white wine, and three spoonsful of cullis; skim this sauce well, and strain it over the chickens. Chicken Salad..*—Cut cold roast fowl into small long pieces, taking off the skin. Lay some lettuce, cut small, at the bottom of a salad-bowl, put the chicken on it with all sorts of saladiug, gherkins, hard eggs cut in quarters, anchovies cut in slips; season with the usual salad dressing. Chicken Salud a. la Magnonntiise.*— Trim the fillets of six fat chickens, toss them in a little butter; then drain them in a napkin, press them lightly between two saucepan-lids, and let them cool; in the mean time, dress the twelve fillets mignons a la Conti, with truffles or tongue u, 1’dear late, place them in a dish, cutting them in the form of a horseshoe, then let them cool. Cut six lettuces small, Season them in the usual way, and lay the salad on a table-dish, form it into a sort of crown, upon which arrange your fillets alternately, first a large one, then one a la Conti. Surround the whole with a bor- der of aspic jelly. Pour into the centre of your crown a mugnonnaise ruvigotte. Chickens Salud d la Heine.*—Roast two fine plump chickens, and when cold cut them in pieces ; toss them up in an earthen pan with salt, a mignonnette, oil, vinegar, parsley, an onion or shalot cut small, cover them with paper, and leave them in this for some hours. Boil eight eggs (as nearly the same size as possible) hard, and cool them in taking off the shells. Wash six lettuces, take off the leaves, keeping the hearts quite small; cut the leaves as fine as you can, seasoa them as for common salad, and lay them on a table-dish; then having drained the chickens, and separated them from the parsley, &c., lay the legs on the lettuce leaves en couronne, in the centre of which place the wings: on the legs put the rumps and two of the breasts; on these the fillets as close ns possible, laying them alternately flat and upright; and on the top of the fillets the two breasts which re- main : be careful in keeping this dish as high and upright as possible. Cut the hard eggs each into eight pieces, put them round the dish as a border, and between every piece set upright a lettuce heart; and on the top of all lay the half of an egg, with a lettuce heart in the middle. Then mix together a good pinch of chervil, some tarragon and pimpernel leaves, scalded, and shred small, salt, pepper, oil, ravi~ gotte vinegar, and a spoonful of aspic jelly. Amalgamate the whole well, and pour it over the salad. Chicken Sausages.—Make two farces, one of bread crumbs, roasted breast of fowl, calf’s udder, marrow, baked onions, parsley, shalots, mushrooms, all chopped very fine, mixed together with a spoonful of brandy, a little cream, and the yolks of five eggs ; make the other of scalded sweet- bread, livers, mushrooms, season both with spices, salt, and pepper. Split a couple of chickens through the backbone, and lay in each half, some of the first men- tioned farce, and on that some of the se- cond, roll them up, tie, and braise them with a glass of white wine, the same of stock and some bacon. When done, let them cool; then put the rest of the farce round them, wrap them in caul, dip them in whites of eggs, strew bread crumbs over, and bake them. Strain, and mix some cullis and lemon juice with the liquor in which the chickens were braised, and serve it with them. Chicken (Scalloped).—Mince some cold chicken, and heat it up with a little cream pepper, salt, mace, and nutmeg ; put this into scallop shells, and cover them with bread crumbs ; put some butter over, and brown them. Chickens in the Scotch Maimer.—Cut your chickens into quarters, put them into a saucepan, with only just water enough to cover them, a bunch of parsley,