327 LEM LEM iu a glass of water, with half an ounce of gum dragon; when the latter is completely dissolved, press it through a cloth, put it into a mortar, and work it up with sugar to the proper consistence ; then form it according to your fancy, and dry them in the oven. Lemon Pastils.—Take half a pound of pounded loaf sugar, sifted as fine as pos- sible ; put it in a plate, take tliree or four lemons, and squeeze their juice over the sugar ; mix it well with a spoou, till you make it rather a.tliickish paste, so that you can take it upon a knife ; then take half a sheet of paper, and cover it with little round and flat drops, about the size of a sixpence, place them in a stove with a slow fire till they are quite dry, then take them off from the paper; you may use, if you please, some of the peel grated, but not chipped ; for as it is a melting pastil, some of the bits would remain in the mouth. Lemon Peel (Candied).*—Take some thick-rinded lemons, pare off the yellow peel, and throw it into boiling water till soft, when it must be put into cold water. Clarify some fine sugar, and boil it an petit lissd, and having drained the lemon peel, pour on it the syrup (whilst hot) ; the next day boil the syrup again, and re- turn it to the peel; the third and fourth days proceed in the same manner, adding a small quantity of clarified sugar; the last time the syrup is boiled, as soon as it rises to perle, put in the peel, cover and boil the whole together once, and when cold, drain and dry them in a stove. Lemon Peels (Candied or Dried).—Take some preserved lemon peels, wash them in warm water, and put them on a sieve to . drain ; boil some syrup on the fire till it comes to a blow, and put your peels in; as soon as they are covered with sugar take them out again, put them on wires for all the sugar to drop through, then let them Stand till cold, and put them into boxes. Lemon Peel (to candy). — Take some lemon peels, and clean them well from the pulp, and let them lay two days in salt and water; then scald and drain them dry, then boil them in a thin symp till they look quite clear. After which, take them out, and have ready a thick syrup made with fine loaf sugar; put them into it, and simmer them till the sugar candies about the pan and peels. Then lay them sepa- rately on a hair sieve to drain, strew sifted sugar over them, and set them to dry in a m slow oven. Lemon Peel au Caramel.*—Take some very dry preserved lemon peel, and cut it into several small square pieces; putthese pieces each on the point of little sticks for this purpose, and dip them into caramel sugar as directed. See Chestnuts an caramel. Lemon Peel Petit Souffles*—Put into a saucepan two ounces of potatoe flour, which mix with a little milk, and then add to it three glasses of cream, two ounces of fresh butter, and a grain of salt; set these over a moderate stove, stirring con- stantly ; in about eight minutes pour it into another sacepan, and mix with it a quarter of a pound of powder sugar (having previously grated on it the rinds of two lemons), and two eggs ; stir them together a minute, and then add the yolks of eggs; take two dozen flat custard moulds, line them with puff paste, pour the preparation into them, and bake them in a moderate oven; when done, glaze them with fine sugar, and serve them hot. Lemon Peel (Ratafia of).—Grate the yellow rind only of seven or eight lemons ; infuse it in three quarts of the best brandy for three weeks, at the end of which time, add three quarters of a pound of fine cla- rified sugar to eaeh quart, let it stand a fortnight longer, tlieu filter and bottle it. Lemon Peel (Syrup of).*—Take five ounces of fresh lemon peel, put it into a glass cucurbite, which has been gradually heated; pour on them two pounds of nearly boiling water; close the vessel very tight, and place it on hot ashes for twelve hours ; after which, let the infusion tun out gently without pressing the peel; add two pounds of powder sugar, and then boil tlie whole to grand per It, when about half cold, put in a few drops of spirit of lemon. Lemon Petits (Souffles of ).*—Puthalfa pound of sifted sugar into a pan, and mix it with the white of an egg ; rasp the rind of a fine sound lemon on a piece of sugar, scrape off the surface, and add it to the above ; when it has become a pretty firm paste, roll it out, sprinkle fine sugar over, and cut into bands about an inch wide; cut these again into squares, which roll in the hollow of your hands, wettingthem slightly for that purpose ; thesmffles being formed, put each into a small round case, rather more than an inch in diameter, and about four in height; when all is done, dip the end of your fore finger in water, and press it lightly on the top of each soiffle; put them into a gentle oven, for about a quarter of an hour by which time they will have