CAB CAB 96 into a saucepan, set it over the fire, and keep it stirring ; add two onions minced, and stir it again ; then add a quart of veal gravy, boil it a little, and pour it all over the cabbage. If you choose, you may force pigeons,’with good forced meat made of veal, fry them, and then stew them with the cabbage, putting in with them a little bacon, stuck with cloves. When it has stewed enough, take off the fat, soak bread in your dish with gravy or stock, place your fowl in the middle, and the cabbage all round. Garnish the dish with slices of bacon, and a little cabbage between each slice. Cabbage Soup.—Boil some rashers of streaked bacon about two hours, in the quantity of water you require for soup ; then add some cabbages previously blanch- ed, and if you like, some sausages ; pep- per and salt the soup, but take care to put very little salt, on account of the bacon. Skim well before you put in the cabbages. Cabbage Soup, with Carrots and Onions* —Line a stewpan with lards of bacon, then blanch a cabbage in boiling water, let it drain, then cut it into quarters, and put it into the stewpan, with some carrots and onions cut in slices, moisten with soup meagre ; when sufficiently done, dress it on a dish, and serve. Cabbage (German) Soup.—Cut in small pieces and wash the heart of a fine cab- bage, and set it over a slow fire in a little butter. When the pieces begin to feel tender, and the butter is a little reduced, add some stock and veal gravy, in equal quantities; skim carefully, and when the soup has become of a brown colour, throw in little round and thin pieces of crust of rolls; season to your taste, and serve. Cabbage (Stewed).—Cut a cabbage into slips, blanch and drain them dry, and stew them in a stewpan, with a bit of fresh but- ter, pepper, salt, an onion, some vinegar, half a pint of veal broth, and a little all- spice, tied in a cloth, till done, and the liquor nearly reduced, and then take the spice and onion out, and serve it. Cabbage (Stewed).*—Blanch two mid- dling-sized cabbages in water with a little salt; when they hnve been twenty mi- nutes in tho boiling vrater, take them out and put them into cold water, then let them drain ; after this take out their hearts; then cut very small half a pound of veal, and half a pound of bacon : some salt, whole pepper, cinnamon, nutmeg, mace, and allspice, all well pounded ; then add the yolks of seven or eight eggs, aud mix the whole well together, with the veal and bacon ; put some of this stuffing into each of your cabbages (in the place of the hearts), and tie them up with packthread. Line a stewpan with slices of bacon and slices of veal, a little ham, three carrots, four onions, a little thyme, a bay leaf, and two cloves ; then put in the cabbages, cover them with bacon, and moisten with stock, adding a little salt and pepper ; let the whole simmer for an hour and a half, then let them drain on a napkin, and ex- tract the gravy from them by gently press- ing them ; then untie and arrange them on a dish; glaze them, and serve a Spanish sauce all over them. If you do not hap- pen to have any Spanish sauce ready, make a light roux, and moisten it with the liquor in which your cabbages were dressed, and strain it through a silk sieve, and then pour it over the cabbages. Cabbace steioed a I’Espagnole.—Take six cabbages and boil them well; when done, drain them on a sieve, tie each separately with packthread, and lay them between lards of fat bacon with some good braise, to stew very' gently : take them out of the braise, and lay them in a line upon a clean cloth; cut off'the packthread, and roll the cabbages tight up in the cloth for a minute or two; then open the cloth and cut the cabbages in pieces, about six inches in length, and lay them on the dish ; have a sauce a I’Espagnole ready, with a bit of but- ter mixed in it, and one squeeze of lemon ; j this sauce when very hot pour over the cabbages, and serve it to table. Cabbage stewed in this way is very good, and proper to garnish stewed beef of any kind, sometimes with other vegetables inter- mixed. Cabbage (Stuffed).—Blanch a large Sa- voy cabbage, and then put between its leaves some forcemeat, made of any cold meat you have in the house, adding an equal quantity of sausage, some pepper, salt, chopped parsley, and a small hand- ful of boiled rice. When you have put Next, make a roux with some butter, flour, and stock, properly seasoned; heat up tho cabbage in this, being careful that it “ does not break. Keep adding stock from time to time, so that the cabbage may be always covered. When it is perfectly done, serve it in a deep dish in its soup. Cabbage en Surprise.*—Take a good whole cabbage, and, having boiled it a quarter of an hour, put it into cold water,