RUS 463 ROT pounds of rose leaves into a pan with three quarts of river water, and leave it four-and-twenty hours ; then put it into a metal alembic, and distil from it as much odoriferous water as you can, being sure to stop the moment you observe the phlegm. Take off the alembic, throw away its contents, and rinse it out well; after this, fill it to two-thirds with fresh- gathered rose leaves, on which pour the above drawn rose water; distil this, and when you have procured as much good rose water as it null yield, let the fire go out gradually. Rose Vinegar.*—-Infuse rose leaves in the best white vinegar, leave it where it will be exposed to the sun for ten days ; then draw it off, press all the liquor from the dregs, filter and bottle it. Keep the bottles well corked. ROSEMARY Vinegar.*—This is made in the same manner as Lavender Vinegar. ROSSO LIS.*—Take three quarters of a pound of picked orange flowers, a pound of musk roses, six drachms of cinnamon, and two cloves (both bruised) ; put them into acurcurbite with three gallons of pure water; on distilling this, it will yield a gallon and a half, in which dissolve twelve pounds of fine sugar broken up ; add to it an equal quantity of spirit of jessamine, colour it crimson with cochineal, filter and bottle it. ROTI, Sans Panel*—Fill a good- sized olive with chopped capers and an- chovies, soak it in oil, and put it into a becca-fica, or any other equally delicately flavoured small bird; enclose this in a larger one, such as an ortolan; then take a lark, cut off the head and feet, put the or- tolan in it, cover it with a thin slice of bacon, the lark into a thrush, the thrush into a quail, the quail into a lapwing, this into a plover, then a partridge, enclose the partridge in a woodcock, then a teal, a turkey poult, a wild duck, a pullet, and a pheasant, cover this latter with a goose, after which a turkey, and enclose the whole in a bustard. If in proceeding as above, any spaces are left, fill them up with a farce made of truffles, chesnuts, and sausage meat; put it into a large saucepan with small onions stuck with cloves, car- rots, ham, cut in small pieces, celery, a bouquet garni, a mignonette, slices of bacon, a clove or two of garlic, pepper, salt, spices, and coriander; set your saucepan on a gentle fire or in a moderate oven for twenty-four hours; skim, and serve itverv hot. ROUX for thickening various things.— Put what quantity of butter you like into a stewpan that has a thick bottom, melt the butter and stir in as much fine dry flour as it will absorb without making it too stiff; set it for at least two hours on a very slow stove, keeping it constantly well stirred with a wooden spoon, to prevent its burning ; when very smooth and of a clear light brown colour, put it by to use as oc- casion may require. It will keep good a long time. If in a hurry, place it on a quicker fire, and a few minutes will be- sufficient to do it. Roux White*—Prepare your butter and flour as above, place it on a moderately heated stove, stirring it constantly till very hot; be careful that it does not take colour at all, for the whiter it is the more de- sirable. RUFFS and Rees.—These are particu- larly delicate birds, and should therefore be handled very lightly in the picking ; they must be run, side by side, upon a long skewer, and roasted for twelve or fourteen minutes at a good distance from the fire, and basted with butter; serve with good gravy in the dish, and bread sauce in a boat. RUM Jelly.-—-To a quart bottle of com- mon white wine, add a pound of lump sugar reduced to a syrup and clarified; then take an ounce of isinglass, dissolve it thoroughly, strain it through a sieve, and mix it with the syrup milk warm; when this mixture is nearly cold, pour it into the white wine, stir it well so as to mix it completely; then add a spoon- ful (or rather more, according to the strength you desire) of old Jamaica rum; stir it and pour it into a mould ; or glasses, if intended to hand round for even- ing parties, or after having made clear calves foot jelly add rum sufficient to flavour it;- this is sometimes called punch jelly. RUSKS.—Melt four ounces of hutter in half a pint of new milk; then add to this seven eggs well beaten, a quarter of a pint of yeast, and three ounces of sugar, put this mixture, by degrees, into as much flour as will make an extremely light paste, more like butter, and set it to rise before the fire for half an hour; then add more flour to make it rather stiffer, but not too stiff. W ork it well, and divide it into small loaves or cakes, about five or six inches wide, and flatten them. When baked and cold, slice them the thickness of rusks, and brown them a little in the oven.