LAM 317 LAM cloves, five or six large blades of mace, dried and finely beaten, half a large nutmeg- grated, a little pepper and salt, some lemon peel cut fine, a very little thyme, some parsley, and four eggs; mix all these to- gether, and put it into the skin ; make it as near as you can into the same shape it was before; sew it up, roast it, basting it well with butter. Cut the loin into steaks, and nicely fry them. Lay the leg on the dish, and the steaks cut from the loin, round it, with stewed cauliflowers all round, upon the steaks. Pour a pint of good gravy into the dish, and then serve. Lamb (Leg of) en Saucissons.—Bone a leg of lamb, and take about half the meat; simmer it in butter a minute or two ; then mince it with a calf’s udder, grated bacon, bread soaked in cream, parsley, scallions, truffles, season it with salt and spices; put this into the remainder of the leg, draw the skin over, roll it up into the form of a sausage ; wrap it in a cloth, tie it tight, and boil it in stock, with half a pint of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, a few carrots and onions sliced. When done, serve it with any sauce you please. Lamb (Leg of) Stewed with Peas.—Take a leg of house lamb, and stew it in some stock or beef braise. When nicely done, take it out, put it in a slow oven, and glaze it three or four times; then have some good young peas, well stewed, with some good bechamelle sauce; pour them on the dish, and lay the leg on the top, and cut the loin into cutlets, and do them on the fire with some good butter and some strong gravy ; when nearly done, shake them well in their glaze, dish round the lamb over the peas, and serve them hot to table. Lamb’s Livers* — Have two lambs’ plucks, cut the lights into dice, and the liver into thin slices ; fry them lightly over a small fire in butter; they should be scarcely more than browned; drain away half the butter; add a little parsley andi few mushrooms, shred small; season them with salt, pepper, and lemon juice, and serve them very hot. Lamb (Loin of) a. hi Perigord.—Neatly trim a loin of lamb ; warm it over the fire in a stewpan, with a little oil, mixed with some green onions and mushrooms chopped, salt, and pepper; then change the lamb into another stewpan, well lined with slices of veal, seasoned, and seven or eight truffles sliced, covered with thin rashers of bacon, and half a lemon, cut in pieces; let the whole stew over a slow fire, moistening it with stock 3 and when done, skim the fat from the sauce, pass it through a sieve, place the loin on a dish with the truffles, and pour the sauce over. Lamb ( Paso aline of).* — Scald four lambs’ heads, bone the jaws, and cut off the ends of the noses. Scalrl also the feet, singe them, and then cook them altogether in a blanc; when done, drain them, lay the heads in a dish ; fry your feet lightly in a little butter, with the yolks of four eggs, a little parsley, and a few mushrooms. Have ready a lamb’s pluck, dressed as di- rected (see Lambs' Livers) ; and having- laid the feet, with their sauce, in the dish with the heads, place the rest round them and serve them. Lamb Pasty.—Bone the lamb, cut it into four pieces ; lay beef suet at the bottom of the pasty ; season the lamb with pepper, salt, thyme chopped, nutmeg, cloves, and mace ; lay it upon the suet, making a high border about it; then turn over your sheet of paste, close it up, and bake it; when it is baked, put in vinegar, the yolks of eggs well beaten, and some good gravy. Lamb Pie, (the German Way).—Cut a quarter of lamb into pieces, and lard them with small lardons of bacon, seasoned with salt, pepper, cloves, nutmeg, and a bay leaf: add fat bacon pounded, small onions, nutmeg, and sweet herbs ; put these into the pie, and let it bake for three hours; when baked, cut it open, skim off all tbe fat, pour in a ragout of oysters, and serve hot. Lamb Pie (a Savoury one).—Cut the lamb into pieces, and season it with pep- per, salt, mace, cloves, and nutmeg, fin ly beaten. Make a good puff paste crust, put the meat into it, with a few lambs’ stones and sweetbreads, seasoned the same as the meat. Then put in some oysters and forcemeat balls, the yolks of hard eggs, and the tops of asparagus, about two inches long, first boiled green. Put butter all over the pie, put on the lid, and let it bake for an hour and a half in a quick oven. In the mean time, take a pint of gravy, the oyster liquor, a gill of red wine and a little grated nutmeg. Mix all to- gether with the yolks of two or three eggs finely beaten, and keep stirring it the same way all the time. When it boils, pour if: into the pie, put on the lid again, and serve it to table. Lamb Pie (Sweet).—Cut your lamb into pieces, and season with pepper, salt, cloves, mace, and nutmeg, all well beaten : make a good puff paste crust, line a disli with if, then lay in your meat; strew on it some