345; MAR MAH night, then boil them in n good quantity of spring water till they are tender; cut them in extremely thin slices and add them to the pulps. To every pound of the marmalade, put a pound and a half of double-refined sugar finely sifted, and boil them together gently for twenty minutes. If it is not sufficiently clear, boil or sim- mer it for five or six minutes longer, keep Stirring it gently all the time, and take great care you do not break the slices. When cold, put it into jelly or sweetmeat glasses, and tie them down closely with brandy paper. MARROW Bones.—Chop the bones at each end so as to stand steady, then wash them clean, saw them in halves, cover the top with a floured cloth : boil them, and serve with dry toast. Marrow Cream*—Pound an ounce of sweet almonds with a little milk, press out the milk from the almonds, which use whilst pounding two ounces of beef-marrow and some lemon peel; beat up the yolks of six eggs in warm milk, and add them to the marrow; mix the whole with a quart of good milk, strain it into a sauce- pan, set it on the fire, stirring constantly till it thickens, then pour it into small cups or moulds, and put them in a cool place, and turn them out when to be sent to table. Marrow with Eggs.—Take some beef- marrow, pound it well with eggs boiled hard, season them with pepper, salt, nut- meg, and sweet herbs ; when well mixed roll it up into little balls, wrap each in thin paste, dip them in batter, and fry them. Marrow Fritters.*— Boil some beef- marrow with a glass of stock till reduced to a thin paste, which pour into flat saucers to about the thickness of a crown piece ; when cool turn them out, dip each into a batter made of cream-cheese, pounded with a little milk, two handsful of flour and an egg ; fry these fritters, either in oil, lard, or butter; whichever you use, however, should be boiling. Marrow Pasties. —Take the marrow from three marrow-bones, a little thyme, winter savory, and sweet maijoram, the yolks of three eggs, a quarter of a pound of sugar, a quarter of a pound of currants, a little rose water and some nutmeg; work all these together, and put them into a pasty of puff paste, and fry them in lard. Marrow Pasties.—Shred some apples with some marrow, add a little sugar to them, make them up in puff paste, and fry them in clarified butter; when fried strew some sugar over them, and serve. Marrow (Patties of).* — Blanch and pound four ounces of sweet almonds, moistening them with orange-flour water; when reduced to a paste, mix it with a handful of flour, a drop of warm water, and the yolks of three eggs; with this line a number of shallow moulds, dorez and bake them in a slow oven. When done, take them out and put in each a little cream made with beef marrow, le- mon peel, and cream, not laid on thicker than a crown piece ; cover it with a spoon- ful of white of egg whipped to a snow; strew sifted sugar over, and serve them veiy hot. Marrow Pudding.—Grate the crumb of a French roll, put to it a pint of cream, a pound of marrow sliced, four eggs, sugar and nutmeg, according to taste, two ounces of citron sliced ; three quarters of an hour will be sufficient to bake it; you may add currants, if you think proper. Marrow Pudding.—Boil with a quart of new milk, cinnamon and lemon peel, and strain it to half a pound of beef mar- row finely chopped, a few currants washed and picked, some slices of citron and orange peel candied, a little grated nut- meg, brandy, syrup of cloves, a table- spoonful of each, and half a pound of Naples biscuits. Wben the mixture is cold, add eight eggs beat up, omitting five of the whites, and bake it in a dish with puff paste round it. Marrow Pudding.*—Soak beef marrow in cold water for twelve hours, then clear away all the pellicles, and beat it with a wooden spoon in a little orange-flower water till of the consistence of thick cream. Take some double cream, mix the marrow with it, add a little mace, nutmeg, and cinnamon, and boil it. Blanch and pound eight ounces of sweet almonds, moistening them with cream, press the milk from them, and mix with it the whites of three eggs, well whipped, the yolks of ten; beat the whole well, and then put to it the marrow cream, half a pound of powder sugar, a little salt, and a sufficient quantity of sifted flour to make it of the proper consistence; tie it in a buttered cloth, and put it into boiling water. When done, serve it with melted butter, orange-flour water, and white wine. Marrow Sausages* — Mince equal quantities of beef marrow, fresh pork, and noix of veal; season the mixture well; add