460 RIG RIC only, cut them out of the cold prepared rice with cutters, so that your fritters may be flat instead of in balls. Rice (G&teau of).*—Boil a quart of eream, add to it half a pound of powder sugar, and three quarters of a pound of rice; when the latter is quite soft, dis- solve in it a quarter of a pound of butter, and nutmeg, and then put in the grated rind of a lemon, let it cool. When quite cold, stir in four yolks, and four whole eggs, more if the rice he very thick; butter a mould and sprinkle it well with bread crumbs, put the rice into it, place the mould in hot ashes, so that it may be completely enveloped in and covered with them ■ in an hour the g&teau will be done enough; then turn it out, and serve. If you wish, you can make a souffle, by whipping the whites of six eggs; like other souffles, in this case it should be served in a silver dish. In putting the preparation into the mould, be careful not to fill it, as the rice would swell and run over the edge : it may be baked in a mo- derate hot oven, and currants may he added. Rice Milk.*—Allow an ounce of rice for each person, wash it thoroughly in warm water; set some milk on the fire, and when it boils, put in the rice ; con- tinue to boil it over a slow fire, stirring often for two or three hours ; add salt or sugar according to taste, and cinnamon. Rice Pancakes*—Boil half a pound of lice in a small quantity of water, until quite a jelly; as soon as it is cold, mix it with a pint of cream, eight eggs, a little salt and nutmeg; make eight ounces of butter just warm, and stir in with the rest, adding to the whole as much butter as will make the batter thick enough. They must be fried in as small a quantity of lard as possible. Rice Paste.* — Rub three ounces of butter well into half a pound of ground rice, moisten it with water, and roll it out with a little flour. Rice Pudding (Boiled).* — Take six ounces of whole rice, and when sufficiently boiled, stir in a table-spoonful and a half of suet, shred fine; when that is melted, take it up, add one egg, and two ounces of moist sugar. Boil these together three quarters of an hour. Rice Pudding, with Currants.*—Tie five ounces of whole rice in a- cloth, leav- ing it room to swell, boil it hall an hour, then take it up, add three table-spoonsful of suet, shred fine, live ounces of currants. and two eggs, well beaten ; tie it up again, and boil it an hour and a half. Rice Pudding (Boiled).* — Well wash and pick some rice, tie it in a cloth, leaving plenty of room for it to swell. Boil it in a quantity of water for an hour or so. When done, eat it with butter and sugar, or milk. Rice (Dutch) Pudding. — Soak four ounces of rice for half an hour, in warm water ; then drain the water from it, and put it into a stewpan, with half a pint of milk, half a stick of cinnamon, and let it simmer until tender. When cold, add four whole eggs, well beaten, three ounces of sugar, a quarter of a nutmeg, a good- sized piece of lemon peel, and two ounces of butter melted in cream. Line a dish or mould, with light puff paste, put in the above, and bake in a quick oven. Rice Pudding with Fruit. — Swell the rice in a little milk over the fire ; then, mix with it either currants or gooseber- ries scalded, or apples pared and quar- tered, raisins, or black currants, add one egg to the rice, to bind it; boil it well, and serve with sugar. Rice (Ground) Pudding.—Boil a very large spoonful of ground rice in a pint of new milk, with lemon peel and cinnamon. When cold, add sugar, nutmeg, and two eggs well beaten ; put a puff paste round your dish, put in the above, and bake: put currants if you like. Rice Pudding (Small).—Simmer two large spoonsful of rice in half a pint of milk until it is thick, then add to it a bit of butter the size of an egg, and about half a pint of thick cream, and give it one boil. When cold, mix the yolks of four eggs, and the whites of two, well beaten, sugar and nutmeg according to taste, add grated lemon, and a little cinnamon. Butter some little cups, lay some orange or citron at the bottom, and fill them about three parts full with the above. Bake three quarters of an hour in a slow oven. Serve the moment before they are to be eaten, with sweet sauce in a boat. Rice Savoury.—Carefully wash and pick some rice; set it to stew very gently in a little veal or rich mutton broth, add an onion, a blade of mace, pepper, and salt. When it is swelled, it should not he boiled to mash, put it to dry on the shallow end of a sieve before the fire. You mnv serve it dry, or put it in the mid- dle of a dish, and "pour the gravy round, having first heated it. Ricb Soup.—Carefully blanch some