525 WAL WAL them into cold water; then boil them in some water, with a small quantity ot alum, and the juice of a lemon to prevent their turning black. When they are enough done, put them again into cold water. Boil some clarified sugar to petit lisse, and (having previously drained) pour this syrup over the walnuts ; repeat this opera- tion three succeeding days ; the last time, however, boil the sugar to la nappe ; the following day draw the fruit well, and then put it carefully into bottles : add to the syrup two thirds more brand)'-, strain the liqueur, and pour it to the walnuts. Cork the bottles tightly. Walnut Ketchup.* — Thoroughly well braise one hundred and twenty young- walnuts ; put to them three quarters of a pound of salt, and a quart of good wine vinegar ; stir them every day for a fort- night; then strain and squeeze the liquor from them through a cloth, and set it aside; put to the husks half a pint of vinegar, and let it stand all night; then strain and squeeze them as before, adding the liquor which is obtained from them to what was put aside the preceding day, and add to it one ounce and a quarter of whole black pepper, forty cloves, half an ounce of nut- megs braised or sliced, half an ounce of ginger, and five drachms of mace, and boil it for half an hour ; then strain it off from the spices, and bottle it for use. Walnut Ketchup fur Fish Sauce.—Take a quart of walnut pickle, add to it a quarter of a pound of anchovies, and three quarters of a pint of red port, and let it boil till re- duced to one third; then strain it, and when cold, put it into small bottles, and keep them closely corked. Walnuts of Marchpane.*—Take a piece of marchpane paste, into which work a little cinnamon, and bole urmenicum (both in powder), but of the latter only a small quantity, as there should be but a very slight red tinge ; when equally coloured, roll out the paste to the thickness of half an inch. Have ready two moulds of pear-tree wood of two halves of a walnut shell, into which put small pieces of the paste ; press them down with the finger that the marks may be conveyed to the paste ; cut oft' all which comes above the edges of the mould, and then turn them out (the paste must be well sprinkled with flour, to prevent its sticking to the moulds); when you have as many walnut shells as you wish, place them the hollow side downwards on paper; leave them thus for three or four days, and then put them into a cool oven for a quarter of an hour; if put into too warm an oven the shells will burst, and be too deep coloured. In the mean time boil some sugar to a syrup, with a little water; when the sweetmeats are done, wash the outer part of them with this syrup, by means of a hair pencil; replace them in the oven a minute to dry; then fill each shell with compote of apples, raspberries, or any other fruit; moisten the edges with gum, and stick them together. These imitative walnuts, if carefully done, bear a close resemblance to the real ones, are of a delicious flavour, and will keep a long time in a dry place. Walnut Pickle.—Put a hundred of large double walnuts into a stonejar ; take four ounces of black pepper, one ounce of Jamaica pepper, two ounces of ginger, one ounce of cloves, a pint of mustard seed, two cloves of garlic, and four handsful of salt; bruise the spice and mustard seed, and boil them in as much vinegar as is sufficient to cover the walnuts ; when cold, pour it over the walnuts; in two days boil the pickle again, pour it to the walnuts immediately, cover them close, and repeat this for three days. Walnut Pickle *—Lay your walnuts in water, and change it every day for the space of three weeks to extract all the bitterness from them ; make a pickle with spice, salt, and vinegar ; let it boil a quarter of an hour, and pour over the walnuts. Walnuts preserved with Sugctr.*—Ga- ther the walnuts when they have attained their full size, but before they have become hard, they should be in that state that a pin will penetrate them. Prick each wal- nut all over with a large pin, putthem into cold water, and leave them for two hours ; then pour that water away, and fill the pan with fresh ; let the walnuts remain thus for four days, changing the water every twenty-four hours, to take out all the bit- terness. At the end of the time change the water, and set them on the fire; ns soon as they are soft, take them out carefully with a skimmer, put them again into cold water, and leave them four or five days, changing the water as before everv twenty- four hours. At the expiration of that time place the walnuts in a large glazed pan. 1 hen take the common sugar, even the refuse ol what has been clarified will be good enough; boil this with some water, and run the syrup through a jelly-bag ; wash the pan that it was boiled in well, then put in the filtered syrup, and boil it to lisse; let it stand, and when about half