CUE 149 CIIE dry. Make a light batter, in which put a little brandy, Madeira, and melted butter; dip the cherries in this, drain, and fry them to a nice colour in a moderately hot pan ; then drain them again ; sprinkle fine sugar over, and serve them. Cherry Fritters a la Dauphine* Pick three quarters of a pound of fine cherries, and boil them five or six times with a quarter of a pound of powder sugar; take out the cherries, drain them, and boil the sugar to la nappe ; then put in the cherries again, and leave them to cool. In the mean while roll out a pound of brioche paste; make your fritters as directed (see Fritters a la Daupliine'), and put five or six cherries in each. Fry them of a nice colour ; glaze, and serve them quickly. Cherry Gateau a la Parisienne.*—Take the stones and stalks from a pound and a half of sweet cherries, and having mixed them with a quarter of a pound of butter, and the same of powder sugar, finish the Gateau as directed (see Gateau Parisienne ■cf Apples'). To make this Gateau of currants, the game quantity of fruit is necessary; the geeds of the latter must be removed. Cherry Ice.*—Take the stones and stalks from two pounds of ripe cherries, bruise, and set them on the fire with a little water, and half a pound of sugar. When they have boiled, pass them through a hair sieve into an earthen pan. Pound a handful of the kernels, put them in a basin with the juice of two lemons. Add to the cherries a pound of sugar au petit lissc, and strain on them the lemon juice .and kernels ; mix the whole together, and put it in a sabolitre, with pounded ice. Work the cherries up with it well, until it has set, then place it in glasses. Cherry Ice Cream.—Take half a pound of preserved cherries, pound them, stones and all ; put them into a basin, with one .gill of syrup, the juice of a lemon, and a pint of cream, pass it through a sieve, and freeze it according to custom. Cherry Jam.—Having stoned andboiled three pounds of fine cherries, bruise them, and let the juice run from them ; then boil together half a pound of red currant juice, and half a pound of loaf sugar, put the cherries into those whilst they are boiling, -and strew on them three quarters of a pound of sifted sugar. Boil all together very fast for half an hour, and then put it into pots. When cold put on brandy papers. Cherry Jelly.*—Take the stones and stalks from two pounds of fine clear ripe cherries; mix them with a quarter ot a pound of red currants, from which the seeds have been extracted; express the juice from these fruits, filter and mix it with three quarters of a pound of clarified sugar, and one ounce of isinglass. Finish the same as Barberry jelly. Cherry Jelly.—Having taken the stalks and stones from two pounds of dark red fleshy cherries, put them in a basin; pound the kernels, and squeeze the juice of four lemons through a tammy. Mash the cherries with a wooden spoon, putting in first half a pot of currant jell}7, then the kernels, and lastly, the lemon juice; mix these together well; then having boiled and skimmed a pint of thick clarified sugar and isinglass, put the cherries into a jelly bag, pour the sugar, See. over them ; run it through till quite clear. If not sufficiently sweet, add more sugar, if the contrary, add more lemon juice. Wet the mould, set it in ice, and fill it with the jelly; do not turn it out till the last minute. Cherries in Jelly.—Slit half a pound of green gooseberries in the side, that part of their juice may run out; put them into pots with a little water in each ; cover the pots very close, and put them in a sauce-* pan of water over the fire till the goose- berries are quite clear; stone a pound of cherries, and beat a pound of double-re- fined sugar, strew some of it in a basin, and put on it a layer of cherries, cover them wit'n sugar ; add five or six spoons- ful of the gooseberry liquor, put them on the fire, and let them boil gently, till the sugar is mqlted, then they may boil fast; skim it well. As soon as it jellies in the spoon it is done enough. Cherries (to Iceep).—Cut the stalks carefully from sound and perfectly dry cherries, and put them into clean and dry bottles; when full, cork them tight, and resin or seal them. Bury them in the ground with the corks downwards. Cherry Marmalade.* — Choose the ripest, largest, best red-coloured cherries, you can meet with, and take double the weight of cherries to the sugar ; stone and tail; and then put them on a gentle fire, and keep stirring them till reduced to half. Clarify and boil your sugar to petit casse, then add the fruit to it, and stir it until you can see the bottom of the pan ; the marmalade is then sufficiently done, and may be put into pots. Cherry Marmalade*—Boil two pounds of sugar, with two glasses of water, skim