VEA 608 VEA mixed: take a veal caul, have a layer of bacon, and a layer of the ingredients, roll it in the veal caul, and either roast or bake it; when done, cut it into slices, lay them in a dish, and serve a good gravy over them. Veal Olive Pie.—Line your pie-dish with a good crust, put in the olives (see receipt for veal olives), fill up the dish with stock, and put in the oven to bake ; when done, pour in some gravy, thickened with a little cream and flour boiled toge- ther, and serve. . Veal Putties.—Mince some veal that is underdone with a little parsley, lemon peel, a little grated nutmeg, and a little salt; add btchametle sauce, just suflicient to moisten the meat; a little scraped ham is a great improvement: the above should not be warmed until the patties are baked, then fill them. Veal Pie.—Take a neck, or nut, cut out of the fillet, cut it into collops, stir it over a quick fire with a bit of butter till it becomes brown ; then set it to stew with a little pepper, and in just suflicient water to cover it, until done enough ; then take it off the fire and let it cool. Line a dish with puff paste, and lay in the veal, with thin slices of ham between ; add the yolks of hard-boiled eggs, a little pepper and salt, and half of the gravy the veal has been stewed in ; put on the lid, trim it neatly, form a star of leaves upon the top, egg, and bake it, then pour in the re- mainder of the gravy. Veal Pie.—Cut steaks from a loin of veal, season them with pepper, salt, nut- meg, a few pounded cloves, slice two sweetbreads, season them in the same manner ; line a dish with puff paste, put in the veal and sweetbreads; add the yolks of hard-boiled eggs, and oysters at the top ; fill up the dish with stock, put on the cover, and bake ; when done, pour in some good gravy. Veal (Potted).—Take a pound of the lean of white veal, put it into a stewpan with two ounces of fresh butter, the juice of a lemon, pepper, salt, sifted mnce, a bay leaf, allspice, cloves, nutmeg, cinnamon, and mushroom powder, a small quantity of each ; a little parsley, thyme, savory, and a couple of shalots chopped lino; stew thorn ten minutes, then pound them ; add a pound of the mellow part of a boiled pickled tongue, beaten to a paste, half a pound of cold fresh butter, mix all well together with two eggs beaten ; then press the mixture down tight into small pots, cover them with paper, and put them into a moderate oven; twenty minutes will be suflicient for them to bake ; when cold, pour over them clarified butter. Veal (Potted).—Take part of a knuckle or fillet of veal that has been stewed ; beat it to a paste with butter, salt, white pep- per, and mace pounded; pot it, and pour clarified butter over. Veal Quenelles.*—They are made the same as all others. Veal Ragout.*—Take a breast of veal, cut it into pieces, put it in a stewpan over the fire to brown, then pour in as much stock as will cover it; add an onion stuck with cloves, some salt, black pepper whole, and a bundle of sweet herbs, and let it stew till done : then thicken some gravy, add a little ketchup, and serve over the veal. This may be served also with stewed mushrooms, stewed peas, or a harricot sauce. Veal Ragout u la Bourgeoise* — Dis- solve some butter in a stewpan, brown in it two spoonsful of flour, then put in your veal, and keep stirring it till the meat is firm ; pour in some hot water or broth, and continue to stir until it boils, then put in a little thyme, a couple of bay leaves, pepper, and salt, let it boil slowly; in an hour’s time add peas, onions, champig- nons, carrots, or morels, according to your taste. If the ragout is thin, make a liaison with die yolks of four eggs, and serve. Veal (Rolled).—Bone the thin end of a breast of veal, strew over it a good deal of parsley, pepper, and salt, to make it sa- voury, a little nutmeg, grated lemon peel, and some sweet herbs and farce ; roll it tight, sew it up, put it into a small stew- pan, with the bones, and just suflicient water to cover it, some whole pepper, a bit oflemon peel, an onion, and a little salt, and let it boil until tender; in cold weather it will keep good for a week. It may be served cold, but is best cut in slices, dipped in egg, then in bread crumbs, and fried; thicken some of the liquor with a little rotor; add pickled mushrooms, a little cream, ketchup, a few morels, pepper, and salt; pour the sauce in a dish, then lay in the veal. Veal Sausages.—Take equal quantities of lean veal and fat bacon, a handful of sage, and a few anchovies. Beat all in a mortar, and season well with pepper and salt; when wanted for use, roll and fry it and serve either with fried sippets, or on stewed vegetables, or white collops. Veal SemeUcs*—Cut part of a fillet of