516 VEA VEA good braise ; take them out, and let them cool; then trim them neatly round, and cut them in rather thin slices, put them into some good bdcliamelle sauce ; a few mushrooms is a very great improvement; make the whole very hot, and serve. Veal Sweetbread Boudin.*—The sweet- breads being scalded, cut them into pieces as big as nuts, and mix with them pork and beef chopped small, shred tarragon, and scallions, godiveau, bread, boiled in milk, and beaten with yolks of eggs, sea- son the whole with salt, pepper, and spices. Soak some pieces of caul in warm water to soften them, spread them open on the table, and till them with the above- mentioned mixture; roll them up in what- ever shape and size you please, cook them in a Dutch oven, and serve them crisp. Veal Sweetbreadsen Caisse*—Make three paper cases, each sufficiently large to con- tain a sweetbread ; take three sweetbreads, scald, and then dress them in an attelet sauce ; when done, and cold, put them into the cases, previously rubbed with oil; add a spoonful of espagnole to the sauce; mix them well together, and then pour it into the cases ; cover the sweetbreads with a few finely-grated dry crumbs, add a few drops of melted butter, and bake for half an hour; let them be nicely browned, and serve. Veal Sweetbreads with Cheese.*— Fry some small onions in a little butter, and then put in the sweetbreads, and half a glass of good stock. Cut some Gruyere cheese into thin slices, lay them on a dish, and pour on them a little veal gravy, pre- viously mixed with the yolks of two eggs ; place die dish over a moderate fire, that the cheese may dissolve gradually, and when the gratin is formed, pour on it the sweetbreads with their sauce, brown it with the salamander, and serve very hot. Veal Sweetbreads (Coquilles of)*—Cut a throat sweetbread and some champignons into bits like farthings; put two large ladiesful of allemande, and a bit of glaze into a saucepan ; when it boils, put in the sweetbreads, and champignons, some but- ter, parsley, and lemon juice ; give diem a boil, and then put the preparation into scallop shells, cover them with grated bread, and Parmesan cheese, and brown them in a Dutch oven. Veal Sweetbreads with Cullis. — Well scald the sweetbreads, and trim them, put them into a stewpan, with a small quantity of good consommi, a bunch of parsley, a clove of garlic, two spoonsful of spices, a glass of white wine, a slice of ham, pep- per, and salt; when diey are done, skim the sauce, sift it through a sieve, and re- duce it to a moderate consistence, adding a small quantity of parsley, chopped fine, a squeeze of lemon juice, and serve it over the sweetbreads. The lemon juice must be omitted if the wine makes it suf- ficiently sharp or relishing, which is the case for some palates. Veal Sweetbread a la Duchesse.—Scald it, then lard it; put into the middle a little farce called salpicon, made with mush- rooms, truffles, or fat liver; sew it up, and boil it in good veal stock; reduce the sauce to a glaze, and serve with a wine sauce, orange, or any other. It is also served with any sort of stewed greens, glazed like a veal Jricandeau. Veal Sweetbreads fried.—Cut them in long slices, and with a feather do them all over with yolk of egg; make a seasoning of pepper, salt, and grated bread ; do them over with this, and fry them in butter; serve with butter sauce, with a little ketchup mixed in, or with gravy, or le- mon sauce. Veal Sweetbreads (Garniture of).*—Scald the sweetbreads, and put them into a stew- pan on two rashers of bacon, lay another over them, add a little clarified butter, carrots, onions, bay leaf, two cloves, and a sufficient quantity of stock to cover the whole; put in some salt, and stew the sweetbreads for three quarters of an hour. When done, cut them in pieces to use when directed. Veal Sweetbreads braised.*—Take the whitest, roundest, and most fleshy sweet- breads, soak them well in warm water, then blanch them in nearly boiling water; take them out, drain, and lard them. Lay in a stewpan some rashers of hacon, slices of veal, carrots, onions, two cloves, and two bay leaves; put in the sweetbreads, with half a spoonful of stock only; cover them with a round of buttered paper, and braise them for three quarters of an hour. Take care they do not take colour. Serve with a puree of endive, or any other article of the same kind. Veai, Sweetbread like Hedgehogs.—Scald the sweetbreads, and lard them with ham and truffles, cut in small lardons, and fried for n short time in butter (lard them so that the lardons may stick out a little to give the appearance of bristles): simmer the sweetbread thus larded in the same butter the lardons were fried in, with