MUT 363 MUT Mutton (Loin of) forced.—Bone a loin of mutton that Las the whole flap on, flatten it, and cut nearly all the fat off, brush it over with beaten egg, sprinkle it over with pounded spices and chopped herbs ; put a layer of forcemeat on it, roll it up, and secure it with string, and braise it the same as you would larded things; glaze it, and serve under it a reduced espagnole sauce, added to a few shallots chopped fine, and boiled in a gill of port wine, and sea- soned. Mutton (Neele of).—This joint is par- ticularly useful, as so many dishes may be made of it. The bone ought to be cut short. The best end of the neck may be boiled, and served with turnips ; or if you think proper, it may be roasted, or dressed in steaks, or made into pies, or used for harrico. You may stew the scrags in broth; or in a little water, with small onions, some pep- percorns, and a small quantity of rice, all served together. When you wish that a neck which is to be boiled should look particularly well, saw down the chine bone, strip the ribs half way down, and chop off the ends of the bones about four inches. To make the fat look particularly white, the skin should not be taken off till it is boiled. Mutton (Neele of) larded with Ham and Anchovies.—Take the fillet of a neck of mutton, and lard it quite through with ham and anchovies, first rolled in chopped parsley, shalots, sweet herbs, pepper and salt. Then let it braise or stew in a little stock, with a glass of white wine. When done, skim and strain the sauce, add a little cullis to give it the proper consistence. Squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and pour this sauce over the meat, and serve. Mutton (Keck of) ala Ste. Menehould.*— Take two necks of mutton, cut off the scrags; tie them up, and braise them in bacon, with three carrots four onions, a bunch of parsley and two bay leaves, a little thyme, two cloves, and some mutton or veal trimmings; moisten them either with stock or water, add salt, and set them on the fire to simmer for four hours ; then take them out, season with salt and pepper. Dip them in melted butter, cover them completely' with breadcrumbs, and about an hour before dinner, broil three sides of them, and colour the fourth with the salamander. Serve them with a clear gravy. Mutton (Neck of) with Parsley*—Take either a neck, loin, or saddle of mutton, trim it, and lift up the skin underneath, larding the whole with sprigs of fresh parsley; put it on the spit to roast, and when the parsley is thoroughly well dried, baste it very frequently with hogs’ lard, until the meat is done; then toss up a little gravy, with some shalots cut small, salt and pepper, and serve it with the meat. Mutton (Neck of) with Roots. * — Having prepared your mutton by cutting off the scrag end, and tying it up, put some slices of bacon, any meat trimmings, four carrots, five onions (one of them stuck with three cloves), two bay leaves, a little thyme, a bunch of parsley, and scallions, into a stewpan; put in the mut- ton, cover it with bacon, moisten them with stock or water, add salt to your taste, and set the stewpan on a brisk fire; as soon as it boils, lessen the fire, and let the meat stew four hours. When quite done, drain tire mutton, dish, and pour the Carrots, dressed en petits racines, over it. Mutton (Neck or Scrag of).*—Stew a neck or scrag of mutton in a braising-pan, with some stock, a bunch of herbs, pepper and salt: yon may serve it with a ragout of turnips, cucumbers, or celery, or with any sauce you think proper, or you may broil it like the breast of mutton. Mutton Pasty, to eat as nice as Venison. —Take a fat loin of mutton, and let it hang for several days, then bone it. Beat it well with a rolling pin ; then rub ten pounds of meat with a quarter of a pound of sugar, and pour over it one glass of port and one glass of vinegar. Let it lie for five days, after which, wash and wipe the meat very dry, and season it highly with Jamaica pepper, nutmeg, and salt. Lay it in your dish, and to ten pounds put one pound of butter, spreading it over the meat. Put a crust round the edge of the dish, and cover with a thick crust, other- wise it will he overdone before the meat is soaked ; it must be baked in a slow oven. Put the hones in a pan in the oven, with just sufficient water to cover them, and one glass of port, n small quantity of pepper and salt; by this means you will have a little rich gravy to add to the pasty when drawn. Sugar gives a greater shortness to meat, and a bettor flavour than salt, too great a quantity of which hardens the meat. Sugar is a great preservative. Mutton Putties.— Sheet some patty-