173 CHO CHO form the paste into any shape, and colour it with different colours. Chocolate Puffs.—Beat and sift half a pound of double-refined sugar, scrape into it an ounce of chocolate very fine, and mix them together. Beat the white of an egg to a high froth, and strew in the sugar and chocolate. Keep beating it till as stiff as a paste. Then sugar the paper, drop them on, the size of a sixpence, and bake them in a slow oven. Chocolate Soiiffl6.—Take a quarter of n pound of chocolate, which cut as small as you can, and melt it on the fire in a little water. When it is entirely melted, throw it into souffl6 preparation. Chocolate ( Petit Souffle of).*—Having grated a quarter of a pound of chocolate, put it on a sheet of paper, and lay it at the opening of the oven for five minutes; in the meanwhile, dilute six ounces of sifted sugar with the white of an egg; then add to it the chocolate ; when the mixture is very firm add a little more white of egg, and conclude your operation in the usual way. See Petits Souffles. Chocolate Sweetmeats.* — Take two ounces of chocolate, and break it into a little warm water, put it on the fire, and when quite dissolved, mix it with a pound of marchpane paste, to which may be add- ed vanilla or cinnamon; stir it up well, and then spread it on wafer paper in what forms you please, and bake them in a mo- derate oven. If the sweetmeats be not sufficiently dark coloured, add a little bole ammoniac. Chocolate Tart.—Put two spoonsful of fine flour in a stewpan, with the yolks of six eggs, reserve their whites, mix these with some milk, add a quarter of a pound of rasped chocolate, with a stick of cinna- mon, some sugar, a little salt, and some rasped green lemon peel; let them be a little time over the fire, after which put in a little preserved lemon peel cut small, and having tasted whether it has a fine fla- vour, let it cool; when cold, mix this with the reserved whites of eggs beat up to a froth, wrhen you use it, put it into pattypans, and put either puff or tart paste over them ; ice, and bake them in a mo- derate oven. Chocolate Tart. — Mix a little flour and cream, with a proportionate quantity of chocolate, a bit of sugar, and three eggs ; boil it about half an hour, stirring continually for fear it should catch at bot- tom ; put it into the paste, and whites of eggs beat and frothed upon it; glaze it with sugar. Chocolate Wine.—Take a pint of sher- ry, or a pint and a half of port, four ounces and a half of chocolate, six ounces of fine sugar, and half an ounce of white starch, or fine flour; mix, dissolve, and boil all these together for about ten or twelve mi- nutes. But if your chocolate is made with sugar, take double the quantity of chocolate, and half the quantity of sugar. CHOUDER.—Lay some slices cut from the fat part of a belly-piece of pork, in a deep stewpan, mix sliced onions with a variety of sweet herbs, and lay them on the pork. Bone and cut a fresh cod into thin slices, and place them on the pork; then put a layer of pork, on that a layer of biscuit, then alternately the other ma- terials until the pan is nearly full, season with pepper and salt, put in about a pint and a half of water, lay a paste over the whole, cover the stewpan very close, and let it stand, with fire above as well as be- low, for four hours; then skim it well, and put it in a dish, pour a glass of Ma- deira made hot over it, also some Jamaica pepper, stewed mushrooms, truffles, and oysters ; brown the paste slightly, and lay it over the whole. CHOUX.*—Put a pint of water into a stewpan, with half a pound of fresh butter, the rinds of two lemons grated, a quarter of a pound of sugar, and a very little salt; as soon as the water begins to boil, add as much flour as the liquor will imbibe; when the paste becomes very thick, keep stirring with a spoon until quite done. After that, break into it a sufficient num- ber of eggs to make the paste soft; taking care that it be firm enough to allow you to work it up with the hand; when it may be formed according to fancy. This paste may be glazed and garnished either with almonds or pistachio nuts ; when baking the chain, be careful to keep the oven tightly closed. Ibid.—Put into a large stewpan a quar- ter of a pound of fresh butter, half a pint of water, two ounces of sugar, the peel of a lemon, and a little salt; when the but- ter is quite melted, take out the lemon peel, and add, a little at a time, some very dry sifted flour. Stir these well over the fire, until a paste is formed that may be easily removed from the sides of the pan. Then take it from the fire, and break in half a dozen eggs, one by one ; when the eggs are well mixed in, form your