CHI CHI 162 roasted chicken, and fry it in olive oil, with salt, mushrooms, and sweet herbs; when of a proper colour, take out the chicken ] place it in a dish, and pour over some well reduced sauce Italienne; garnish with eggs or crusts fried in oil. Chickens u la Marine.—Take the bones from two small chickens, and fill them with a farce made of fat livers, parsley, shalots, basil (all chopped small), grated bacon, pepper, and salt. Soak them for some time in oil, then wrap them in thin slices of bacon, veal, and ham, over that, double-buttered paper. Stew them on a slow fire till done. Take off all wrappers, and serve with nnnpureil sauce. Chickens a la Marmotte.—Boil some carrots and parsnips, cut into shapes, with some small onions, in a little broth; in the mean time cut some mushrooms and pickled cucumbers into dice, and stew them in a bit of butter, garlic, parsley, cloves, stock, salt, and pepper ; when they have boiled slowly for a little time, add a spoonful of cullis, and the carrots, &c.; boil them up together, and serve over roasted chickens. Chickens Marines*—Cut your chickens, and soak them in stock, vinegar, or ver- juice, salt, and pepper ; placethem on hot ashes for half an hour. Beat three whites of eggs to a strong' froth, and then dip in each piece of chicken; flour it, and fry them of a nice colour. Chickens Maroquin*—Choose two fine fat chickens, and give them a few turns over the fire in a little oil; let them cool, and dry them thoroughly. Make a stuff- ing with the livers, truffles, streaked ba- con, butter, salt, pepper, herbs, &c., all chopped small, unite them with the yolks of two eggs ; fill the chickens with this, and put some under the thighs and wings; place slices of bacon over it, so that the stuffing may remain in its proper place. Put two large slices of bacon over that, wrap them in buttered paper, and roast them. You may serve them either with crayfish butter, or blond. Chickens Matelote*—Blanch about a dozen small white onions, and then throw them into cold water to take off the skin. Cut two carrots and a parsnip into pieces, three inches long, pare them to an equal size; prepare the following: A small piece of butter, two pinches of flour, a glass of white wine, the some of stock, and brown them; put the carrots, parsnip, and onions into it, with the addition of of parsley, scallions, two cloves, a bay leaf, thyme, basil, half a clove of garlic, pepper, and salt; boil these gently for half an hour. Take one large, or two small chickens, set them on the fire a mi- nute or two, and then cut each in four; put them into the above ragout and boil for an hour. When very little sauce remains, take off the fat, and add a chopped an- chovy, and a few capers. Second way*—Cut a couple of chickens into quarters, and put them into a stewpan lined with bacon and small onions; after they have been in a short time, add to them an eel cut in pieces, a small fish, and a dozen crayfish, with salt, pepper, bay leaves, and morels; moisten the whole with equal quantities of stock and white wine ; cover the stewpan, and let it stand over a moderate fire for three hours. Place all the pieces on a dish, and gar- nish it with crayfish and fried crusts, put alternately, and pour the sauce over it. Chickens a la St. Menelmult*—Put two chickens into a stewpan with some butter, a glass of white wine, salt, pepper, par- sley, scallion, a clove of garlic, thyme, bay leaf, and basil; stew it gently, and let the sauce adhere to the chickens; then soak them in eggs beaten, cover them with breadcrumbs, dip them into butter, bread crumbs again, and broil them. Chicken Milk.*—Beat up the yolks of two eggs with an ounce of powder sugar, a little orange-flower water, and salt; mix these well up until the egg begins to whiten, then add half a pint of boiling chicken broth, stirring it very quick, and drink it as hot as possible. Chickens in a Minute*—Cut a chicken in pieces, and put it in a stewpan with a little butter ; add to it some mushrooms, parsley, scallions, sprinkle flour over, and shake them ; moisten it with stock or wa- ter, and white wine; when it has boiled, take it from the fire nnd put in the yolks of one or two eggs, and a little vinegar or lemon juice, Chickens a la Napolitaine.*—Take a cold fricassee of cliickens, which must be pretty thick, and mix it with some ma- caroni, boiled in a little stock, aud drain- ed; put to it a little butter, a ladle- ful of sauce tournte, some grated Parmesan and Gruycre cheeses, mid coarse pepper; stir it well, and then place a thick layer in a mould that has been previously lined with paste, and garnished with vermicelli; put the pieces of chicken on it, cover them with the sauce and macaroni, strew bread crumbs very thickly over the whole, wash