ALM ALM 2 drop them on paper, about the size of al- monds, and dry them in a stove or gentle oven. Almonds (blown) a la Royale.*—Choose four ounces of small thick almonds, and put them into an oven until they are slightly coloured. Whilst they are cool- ing, mix four ounces of sugar with an egg; beat them up for ten minutes; add a little carmine to make it a line rose colour; dip the almonds into this; take them out; dis- engage them from tire egg, so that they may be only just covered with it; lay them two and two on a sheet of strong paper ; three quarters of an inch between each pair; they may also be placed in threes to form the trefoil, on which may be added a fourth. Bake them in a cool oven. Almond Bread.—Take a pound of the best almonds, slice them the round way, beat and sift a pound of double-refined su- gar, and strew it over the almonds as you cut them, stirring them frequently to pre- vent their sticking together ; when all the sugar is used, put them into an earthen ba- sin, with a few caraway seeds, a little gum dragon (dissolved in rose water and strain- ed) , three grains of musk and ambergris dis- solved in fine sugar, and the whites of two eggs beaten to a very light froth, and two spoonsful of fine flour: when well mixed, lay them on wafers the size of macaroons ; open them with a knife or bodkin, lest two or three pieces stick together; the quicker you lay them, the better they will look ; put them into a well-heated oven, taking care they do not scorch ; when half baked, take them out, wash them with the white of an egg beaten to a froth, grate a little fine sugar over them, and bake them about half an hour longer. Almond Butter.—To a quarterof a pound of blanched almonds, well beat, put some new milk and rose water; take a quart of thick cream, and the yolks of twelve eggs, beat well, witlialittle of thecream; then add the rest of the cream ; put a quarter of a pint of new milk to the almonds, and strain them into the cream till there is no strength left; strain altogether into a skillet, set it over a charcoal fire, and stir it till it becomes a tendercurd ; put it into a strainer, and hang it up till the whey is drained out; then take six ounces of fine-sifted sugar and a little rose water, and beat it all into butter with a spoon. Almond Cake.*—Blanch a quarter of a pound of sweet, and two largo bitter al- monds, pound them very fine, with a little white of egg ; add to them about a quarter of a pound of fine powdered sugar, two ounces of butter, a macaroon, the yolks of two eggs, two spoonsful of whipped cream : mix these ingredients well together with a little salt. Make an under crust of puff paste, and after having rolled it seven or eight times, cut it round, and put it in a cake-tin ; moisten the edges slightly, and pour on it the almond paste, and cover it with the puff paste, and join them closely. Wash it over with a very clear dorure, and with the point of your knife mark what or- nament you please on the surface. Let it bake in a moderately hot oven for about an hour; take it out and sprinkle it with sugar. Almond Cake.—Take eight ounces of Jordan, and one ounce of bitter almonds, blanch and pound them very fine; then beat in with the almonds the yolks of eight eggs, and whisk up the whites to a solid froth. Then take eight table-spoonsful of sifted sugar, five spoonsful of fine flour, a small quantity of grated lemon peel and pounded cinnamon, and mix all the ingredients. Rub the inside of a mould with fresh but- ter, fill it with the mixture and bake it of a light colour. Almond Cake.*—Put a quartern of flour upon a pie-board, and make a hole in the middle to receive a piece of butter the size of an egg, a little salt, a quarter of a pound pf fine sugar, and six ounces of sweet al- monds pounded very fine; knead the whole, and form it into a cake; bake, and glaze it with sugar and a hot salamander. Another way.—Weigh three eggs in their shells, take the same weight of flour, of the finest fresh butter, and of grated loaf sugar. Pound with these ingredients three ounces of sweet almonds blanched; add a little grated lemon peel, or orange-flower water, and the whites and yolks of three eggs. Continue pounding till the whole forms a smooth paste. Butter the bottom of a baking-pan, and put in the cake with fire above and below. This cake may be served either hot or cold, with grated sugar over it. Almond (bitter) Cake.*—Pound three ounces (half bitter and half sweet; of al- monds, put them into an earthen pan with 6ix ounces of powder sugar; the same of sifted flour, two whole eggs, and six yolks, a spoonful of brandy, and a grain or two of salt; work these up together for five mi- nutes, and then add six ounces of fresh butter which is slightly warmed, work that in for four minutes longer. Then, having whipped the whites of two eggs, mix them into the paste. Butter a well-tinned cop- per mould or paper case, ten inches long.