RAM 455 RAS what is thick should be run through a flannel bag. N. B. The time for steeping depends on the warmth of the weather ; when the fruit is swelled ready to break, it is in a fit state to press. Raisin Wine Vinegar.*—After pressing off the wine, lay the fruit in a heap to heat two or three days; then, to every hundred of fruit, put fifteen gallons of water; let it stand in the tub, stirring it every day till it becomes sour ; then strain it off, put it into the cask, and ferment it with a toast covered with yeast; lay a piece of slate over the bung-hole; set it in the sun during the summer, and in winter in a warm place. Raisin Vinegar.—To every two pounds of Malaga raisins, put four quarts of spring water; lay a tile over the bung, and set it in the sun till fit for use. A stone bottle will do as well as a cask. Placing it in the chimney-corner, and keeping it there a proper time, will do as well as placing it in the sun. RAMEQUINS.—Take a quarter of a pound of Cheshire cheese (grated), the same quantity of Gloucester cheese, and beat them in a mortar, with a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, the yolks of four eggs, and the inside of a French roll, boiled in cream till soft; when all is beaten to a paste, mix it with the whites of the eggs, previously beaten, and put the paste into small paper cases, made rather long than square, and put them to bake till of a fine brown. They should be served quite hot. You may, if you think proper, add a glass of white wine. Ramequins.*—Take half a pint of water, three ounces of Gruyere cheese, a little Parmesan, an equal quantity of butter, salt, and pepper; put them into a stew- pan, set it on the fire ; when the water boils, take it off, mix sifted flour and eggs with it, as directed for clwux; pour your preparation into buttered tins, dorez them, and lay on each a thin slice of Gruyere i cheese; bake them in a moderate oven. Ramequins d la Creme.*—Put into a saucepan two ounces of fresh butter, and two glasses of good milk ; when it begins to boil, take it from the fire, and add five ounces of sifted flour, mix this well; then replace it on the fire, stirring constantly for three minutes ; pour the paste into an- other saucepan, to mix it with two ounces more of butter, two of Parmesan cheese, grated, and two eggs; these being tho- roughly amalgamated, add a pinch of mignonette, a spoonful of powder sugar, an egg, and three ounces ot Gruyere cheese, cut into dice ; work this mixture well, and put to it three spoonsful of whipped cream; your paste ought to be the con- sistence of clwux; lay the ramequins rather smaller than the clwux, dorez them in the same manner, and put them in a brisk oven for twenty minutes. Serve very hot. RASPBERRY Cakes.*—Gather some raspberries before they are quite ripe, pick and lay them in a stove to dry ; then beat them in a mortar. Take a pound and a quarter of fine sugar, clarify and boil it to cassc; then weigh half a pound of rasp- berries, dried as above; throw them into the syrup, with half a spoonful of white of egg, beaten in cream ; stir it carefully, give it a boil, and pour it in moulds or paper cases. Raspberries (Compote of).* — Choose your fruit when quite dry and perfectly sound ; pick them carefully, and put them into cold water; boil some clarified sugar to la flume; drain the raspberries, put them into the syrup, take the pan from the fire, and leave it. A little time after stir the fruit gently, give them one boil, and then put them into a compotier. Raspberries (Conserve of).*—Beat up a pound of raspberries to a syrup, to which add the juice of a quarter of a pound of red currants, strained; put the pan on a moderate fire till the fruit is reduced to half. In the meantime boil a pound and a quarter of sugar to la plume, then stir it continually till it whitens; when a little cooled, mix the fruit with it thoroughly, and then pour it into your moulds to dry. Raspberry Cream *—-Whip some good cream to a fine froth ; beat up powder- sugar with ripe raspberries, rub this through a sieve, and mix it as lightly as possible with the whipped cream ; lay it carefully in a china bowl, or in glasses; if the former, garnish it with a string of ripe raspberries. Raspberry Cream.*—Boil an ounce and half of isinglass in as little water as pos- sible, strain it, and add raspberry syrup sufficient to give it a pleasing colour; then add half a pint of white wine and two ounces of pounded sugar; all this to be put to a pint of thick cream, and to be well beaten before it is put into tha moulds. Raspberries, Creme of (Liqueur).* — Take four pounds of fresh-gathered rasp- berries, pick, and infuse them for four-i