CHE CHE 154 Chestnuts a VEspagnole.*—Take about fifty good chestnuts, and blanch them in hot water, in the same way as almonds.; when they are thoroughly cleared of botli skins, put them into a saucepan, with two ounces of butter, four large spoonsful of espagnole, two glasses of consommd, a bay leaf, and a little nutmeg; boil the chest- nuts in this for half an hour, then take them out, and having strained, keep them hot in the bain-marie, whilst the sauce is reduced ; then pour the latter into a dish, lay the chestnuts on it, and serve. Chestnuts glacees.*—Having taken the outer skin from some fine chestnuts, blanch them in some boiling water with two .spoonsful of flour, until they are sufficiently tender to allow a pin to pass through them easily; then take them, one by one, from the saucepan, clear away the inner skin and throw them into cold water : when all are done, drain them and simmer them a minute or two in some clarified sugar ; then add a little lemon juice and put them into a stove till the next day. Drain them again and boil the sugar about ten or twelve times, and set it by; when luke- warm, put in the chestnuts, and place the whole in the stove again. When ready to finish, drain the chestnuts a third time, sprinkle them with sugar, and dry them on slates. Chestnuts a Vltalienne.*—Peel some broiled chestnuts, lay them on a napkin, two at a time, and press them together, so that of the two, you make one ; put them successively into clarified sugar, boil them gently for a short time, and place them in a baking-pan; sprinkle them with sugar, and brown them, either with a salamander, or in the oven. Squeeze orange or lemon juice over them. Chestnuts (to keep).1*—Pierce the skins of the chestnuts as if for roasting, and then put them into bottles, and boil them up in a bain-mane. When you wish to use them, throw them, one by one, into cold water; then sprinkle salt over, and broil them. Chestnut Paste.—Make a marmalade by boiling chestnuts in water, and nibbing them through a sieve, then pound them, and to three quarters of a pound of this, add a quarter of a pound of any other fruit marmalade; mix them well up with an equal weight of sugar boiled to grand plume; put it into your moulds and bake it as cherry, or any other paste. Chestnut Paste (Compoteof).*—Prepare a hundred chestnuts in the same way ns for Compote of Chestnuts, and put them into a skillet with a pound and a half of clarified sugar ; reduce them over the fire to a paste with a little orange-flower water; dry it like almond paste, pass it through a sieve into a coinpotier; make a syrup like the Compote a. Vltalienne, which pour on them and serve. Chestnut Pudding.•—Put a dozen and a half of chestnuts into a skillet or saucepan of water, boil them a quarter of an hour, then blanch and peel them, and beat them in a marble mortar, with a little orange- flower or rose water and white wine, until they are a fine thin paste; then beat up twelve eggs, with half the whites, and mix them well; grate half a nutmeg, a little salt, mix them with three pints of cream and half a pound of melted butter; sweeten to your palate, and mix all together, put it over the fire, and keep stirring it until it is thick. Lay a puff paste all over the dish, pour in the mixture, and bake it. When you cannot procure cream, take three pints of milk, beat up the yolks of four eggs, and stir into the milk, set it over the fire, stirring it all the time until it is scalding hot, then mix it in the room of the cream. Chestnut and Plum Pudding, Anglo- Franfais* — Having roasted thirty-six chestnuts, choose from among them ten, which are perfectly white, and cut them in halves; take from the remainder a quarter of a pound, and beat them with an equal weight of fresh butter to a paste ; rub them through a horsehair sieve, and add to them three ounces of rice flour, six yolks, and two whole eggs, fourteen ounces of veal suet shred, a quarter of a pound of sugar, the same of bitter macaroons, ditto of stoned raisins, the twenty half chest- nuts, each cut into four pieces, half a glass of cream, a pinch of salt, grated nutmeg, and half a glass of rum or arrack. Make your pudding like marrow pudding Anglo- Franfais. Chestnut Puree.—Slit the peel of some fine new chestnuts, and fry them in a little butter till the peel comes oft'; then let them boil in some consomm6 and sugar; add half a dozen spoonsful of espagnole when nearly done, and then rub the whole through a tammy. This sauce being apt to get too thick, must be kept rather liquid. Chestnut (Glazed) Pie.— Glaze the quantity of chestnuts you may require, with orange flowers, and place them in layers in a crust made of almond paste; cut lemon peel into fillets, and stick them into the interstices ; cover the whole with very clear apple jelly.