54 BEE bee: Beef Kidneys with Wine Sauce *—Cut the kidneys into tliin slices, sprinkle them with flour, and fry them in hutter, with salt, pepper, parsley, and green onions, shred fine. When fried, moisten them with white wine, then add a little stock, and serve. Beef (Minced).*—Take an onion, chop it very fine, and put it into a stewpun, with a piece of butter and a little flour; stir it Over the fire till nearly done and well browned; then moisten them with a little stock and half a glass of wine, adding some salt and coarse pepper; let them stew till they are thoroughly done, and very little sauce remains; then put in the cold beef, minced small, and let the whole simmer till it has taken the flavour of the onion. When you serve, add a spoonful of catsup, and a little vinegar. „ Beef (Minced).—Shred the underdone part fine; with some of the fat; put it into a small stewpan, with some onion or slialot (a very little will do), a little stock, pepper, and salt; boil it till the onion is quite soft, then put some of the gravy of the meat to it, and the mince. Do not let it boil. Have a small hot dish with sip- pets of bread ready, and pour the mince into it, hut first mix a large spoonful of vinegar with it; if shalot vinegar is used, there will be no need of the onion nor the raw shalot. Beef, Minced *—Take some cold roasted fillet of beef, cut out all the fat and suet, then chop the meat as fine as possible, and put it into a reduced Spanish sauce made boiling hot; when ready to serve, add a bit of butter to it. Serve your mince with soft boiled eggs round it, or with pieces of toasted bread. Beef, Minced, ii la Vinaigrette*—Mix up some salt, pepper, and a little mustard with a spoonful of vinegar; add some sweet herbs, shalots, See., pickled cucum- bers, cut very small; then mix the whole together, with two or three spoonsful of oil of olives; put. this preparation into a dish, and serve your minced beef over it. Beef ii la Mode.*—Take a rump or piece of beef, bone it, and lard it with fat bacon, then put it into a stewpan with a calf’s foot, an onion, carrot, a bunch of sweet herbs, a bay leaf, thyme, a clove of garlic, some cloves, salt, and pepper; pour over the whole a little water, let it stew over a slow fire for six hours at least. A clean cloth should bo placed over the stew- jwin before the lid is put on, which must bo carefully closed. When it is done, strain the gravy through a sieve, clear off the fat, and serve. Beef a la Mode*—Well laTd and spice a piece of beef; put it into a stewpan, with some carrots, onions, a calf’s foot, boned, and seasoned according to taste; moisten with stock or white wine (put a cloth round the lid of the stewpan), and let it cook over a gentle fire. It may be served either hot or cold. The gravy should be strained through a sieve. Beef a la Mode*—Take some of the round of beef, the veiny piece, or small round (what is generally called the mouse buttock), cut it five or six inches thick, cut some pieces of fat bacon into long bits; take an equal quantity of beaten mace, pepper, and nutmeg, with double the quantity of salt, if wanted; mix them together; dip the bacon into some vinegar (garlic vinegar, if agreeable), then into the spice; lard the beef with a larding- pin, very thick and even, put the meat into a pot just big enough to hold it, with a a gill of vinegar, two large onions, a bunch ot' sweet herbs, half a pint of red wine, some lemon peel; cover it down very close, and put a wet cloth round the edge of the pot, to prevent the steam evapo- rating ; when it is half done turn it, and cover it up again; do it over a stove, or a very slow fire: it will take five hours and a half before it is done. Truffles and mo- rels may be added. Beef Olives*—Take some thin rump steaks, cut them what size you please, make forcemeat as for veal, put some of it into each piece of steak, roll them up and skewer them, fry them brown until tliey- are half done, then stew them in gravy an hour, with truffles, morels, and mushrooms. Beef Pasty.—Take a small rump or sirloin of beef, bone it, and beat it well with a rollingpin; to five pounds of your beef take two ounces of sugar, rub it well into the meat, and let it lie for twenty-four hours; then either wipe it clean or wash it oft'with a little claret, and season it high with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, put it into your pasty, and lay over it a pound of butter; close it up and bake it. Put the bones in a pan with just as much water as will cover them, and bake them to make gravy, and when the pasty is drawn, if it wants liquor, put in some of this gravy. ' Beef a la Pavsanne*—Take a slice of beef, cut it into little pieces, with some streaked bacon, parsley, scallion chopped small, fine spices, and a laurel leaf; take1