EEL 233 EEL quarter of an hour in vinegar, with salt, pepper, and small onions ; after that time rub the pieces with butter, wrap them in paper, and roast them. Lay as many pieces of buttered toast as you may require on a dish, and on each a slice of broiled ham, a piece of eel on that, and serve with any sauce you may think proper. Eels (Broiled).—Skin and cleanse your eels, rub them with the yolk of an egg, strew bread crumbs over them, chopped parsley, sage, pepper, and salt. Baste them well with butter, and put them in a drippingpan. Roast or broil them, and serve them up with parsley and butter. Eels (Broiled) a Vltalienne.—If for an entree, choose two moderate-sized eels, take off the skin, wash, bone, and dry them thoroughly; toss them in an egg beaten up with pepper and salt, then fry them of a good brown colour. Serve with a good Italian sauce under them. Eel Broth.—Boil some small eels in a small quantity of water, with some parsley, an onion, and some peppercorns, salt ac- cording to taste; let them boil for two hours. Eel en Canape.—Cut an eel into pieces about two or three inches long, and take out the backbone for use ; make a farce with some of the meat cut into small dice, with mushrooms and carp roes (if any), a little butter, chopped parsley, shalots,pep- per, and salt. Make, likewise, a fine farce, with some of the meat and bread crumbs soaked in cream, parsley, mushrooms chop- ped fine, pepper, and salt, mixed with the yolks of two or three eggs ; cut pieces of crumb of bread to the same length as the pieces of bone, and about two inches wide; lay some of the last farce upon each piece, then the backbone and some of the force- meat upon it: then some of the fine farce again, laid smoothly over with a knife dip- ped in egg ; strew it with crumbs and small bits of butter ; bake it in a moderate oven or under a braising-pan cover, and serve with any sauce you may like best. Eels (to choose).—The Thames silver cel is generally esteemed the best, and the worst are brought by the Dutch, and sold at Billingsgate; thero is a greater differ- ence in the goodness of eels than in any other fish. They should be dressed as fresh as possible, and are in season all the year, excepting during the very hot sum- mer months. Eels (Collared).*—Take an eel, and cut it open ; take out the bones ; cut off the head and tail; lay the, eel flat, and shred sage as fine as possible ; mix with black pepper pounded, nutmeg grated, and salt; lay it all over the eel; roll it up hard in a cloth ; tie it up tight at each end; then set over the fire some water, with pepper and salt, five or six cloves, three or four blades of mace, a hay leaf, and vinegar; boil these with the bones, head, and tail, well ; then put in an eel, and boil it till it is tender; then take it out, and boil the liquor, and when it is cool, put it to the eel; do not take off the cloth till you use them. Eels (Entree of). — Take some good- sized eels, bone them, and cut them into pieces about a finger in length; pass them over a slow fire, in a small quantity of sweet herbs, shalots, pepper, salt, butter, and lemon juice. When they are three parts done, put all on a dish; dip each piece in the liquor; bread crumb, and broil them over a clear fire. Serve with anchovy sauce. Eels (Entree of).—Take two large eels, hone, and lay them flat; put some light forcemeat, well seasoned, upon each ; roll them up separately ; bind them round with tape ; put them into a stewpan, with a gill of Madeira, one clove, garlic, half a bay leaf, four peeled shalots, a little thyme, and a pint of veal broth. Let them stew till done, then strain the liquor; skim it free from fat; season to the palate; thicken with flour and butter; reduce it to half a pint: put the eels into a deep dish, glaze the tops, and serve them up with the sauce under, and pieces of fried bread round the dish. Eels (Forcemeat of). — Take two fine eels, boil them till they are nearly done enough, then put them into cold water: broil a perch ; when it is nearly done, lay it to cool; take the meat from the bones of both fish, and mince it, and add to them the liver of a cod, minced also; then season them with pepper and salt; add sweet herbs, picked from the stalks, some small onions minced, some scraped bacon, a little veal suet, a few bread crumbs, and a piece of butter; put the whole into a mortar, and beat it to a paste; it is used for fish pies, and adds a fino relish to all made dishes of fish. It may also be rolled up into balls, and fried or stewed. Eel il la Flour.*—Having skinned and cleaned an eel, cut off the head ; fasten the two ends together with a skewer, so as to form a hoop, and lay it in a baking-dish; put a piece of butter into a saucepan, wity carrots and onions sliced, parsley, bad. leaf, and thyme ; do these up together, and