386 ox OX that aro large. If not pretty quick, the hatter will not rise. Should you fear its catching by being too quick, put paper over the cake to prevent its being burnt. If not long enough lighted to have a body of heat, or if it has become slack, the cake will be heavy. To know when it is soaked, take a broad bladed knife that is very bright, and plunge it into the centre; draw it instantly out, and if the least stickiness adheres, put the cake imme- diately in,, and shut up the oven. If the heat was sufficient to raise, but not to soak, fresh fuel must be quickly put in, and the cakes kept hot until the oven is fit to finish the soaking, but this must only be done in a case of great emergency; for those who are employed ought to be parti- cularly careful that no mistake occur from negligence. Ox Cheek (Boiled) to be eaten cold.— Bone and thoroughly cleanse an ox cheek, then let it steep in white wine for twelve hours ; then season it with salt, pepper, nutmeg, cloves, and mace; roll it up, tie it tight with tape, boil it in water, salt, and vinegar, till it is very tender; press it hard, and when quite cold, cut it into slices, and serve with oil and vi- negar. Ox Cheek Pie.—Bone them, and soak them thoroughly in water, boil them ten- der, cleanse them very well, take out the balls of the eyes, season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, then mince some beef and some beef suet; lay this at the bot- tom of the dish, then put in the cheeks with a few whole cloves, close up the pie or pasty, and put it in the oven to bake. For paste, as follows: half a peck of flour, the whites of half a dozen eggs, two pounds and a half of butter, work the but- ter and eggs up dry in the flour, then add a little water to make it a stiff paste, and work up all cold. Ox Cheek (Potted).—Take an ox cheek and thoroughly wash it, then bone it, rub it over with the same ingredients that are used for potted beef, and set it in the oven until it is tender; then take out the fat, the skin, and the palate; add to a pound of the meat two ounces of the fat which swims on the top of the liquor, bent it together in a mortar, and finish the same as for potted beef. Ox Cheek (Stewed).—Take half a head, let it soak for three hours, and thoroughly clean it with plenty of water. Take the meat off the bones, and put it into a pan with a large onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, some bruised allspice, pepper, and salt. Place the bones on the top, pour on two or three quarts of water, and cover the pan very closely with brown paper; let it stand eight or ten hours in a slow oven, or let it simmer by the side of the fire. When tender, put the meat into a clean pan, and let it get quite cold. Take off the cake of fat, and warm the head in pieces in the soup : put in what vegetable you think best. Ox Cheek (Stewed).—Soak and well wash, the day before it is to be eaten, a fine ox cheek, put it into a stew pot that will cover close, with three quarts of water, and after it has boiled up once and been well skimmed, let it simmer; in two hours, add plenty of carrots, leeks, two or three turnips, a bunch of sweet herbs, some whole pepper, and four ounces of allspice; skim it often; when the meat is tender, take it out; let the soup get cold, take off the fat, and serve the soup either sepa- rate or with the meat. It ought to be of a nice brown colour, which may be done by burnt sugar, or by frying some onions quite brown with flour, and simmering them with it. This last method extremely improves the flavour of all soups and gravies of the brown kind. If vegetables are not liked in the soup, they can be taken out, and a small roll toasted, or fried bread, may be added. Celery is a very great improvement, and should al- ways be served. When celery cannot be procured, tbe seed is a most excellent sub- stitute, boiled in, and strained off. Ox Cheek (Stewed).— Put it to stew with just sufficient water to cover it, let it simmer for two hours; peel it, and put it into the liquor again, with some pepper, salt, mace, cloves, and whole pepper, tied up in a bit of muslin ; a few capers, tur- nips cut -into very small pieces, and carrots sliced, half a pint of beef gravy, a little white wine, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; let it stew very gently- till it is tender, then take out the spice and sweet herbs, and thicken it with a bit of butter rolled in flour. Ox Feet (Fried).—Boil them till they are tender, skin and split them, take out the bones and fry them in butter; when they have fried for a short time, put in some mint and parsley, shred small, a little salt, some beaten pepper ; beat up the volks of eggs with some mutton gravy and vinegar, the juice of either a lemon or an orange, and a little nutmeg; lay your fry in the dish, and j>our the sauce