OVE 385 ORG Orange Peel (Ratafa of'). — Put the peels of a dozen thick-skinned oranges into a gallon of brandy; dissolve two pounds of sugar in the juice of the oranges, add to it tire brandy, and having stirred them together well, close the vessel tightly, and leave it for a month; then strain it off, and bottle it. ORGEAT.*—Blanch a pound of sweet, and twenty-four bitter almonds; pound them to an exceedingly fine paste, adding water occasionally to prevent their oiling; mix a gallon of water, two pounds of sugar and orange-flower water, with this paste ; beat them together for some time; then strain it two or three times through a jelly-bag, stirring it with a spatula, and serve it in decanters. Orgeat Paste. — Pound tire almonds with a little orange-flower water to a fine paste, and then work up with it an equal weight of powder sugar. This paste will keep a long while, and by dissolving a small portion of it in water, and straining it,f orgeat maybe prepared very quickly. An ounce of the paste is sufficient for half a pint of water. Orgeat (Syrup of).*—Take a pound and a half of sweet, and half a pound of bitter alffionds, throw them into boiling- water, and leave them till the skins can be removed with ease; then throw them into cold water for a minute before you blanch them, after which, they must again be put into cold water; then pound them, a few at a time, in a marble mortar, adding occasionally some water to prevent their oiling; when all are beaten to a very fine paste, dilute this with the greater part of a quart of water (of which reserve six ounces) ; put the paste into a strong cloth ; squeeze and wring out all the milk from tile almonds, put the latter into the mor- tar, and pound them again, adding by de- grees the remainder of the water, and then squeeze these also in a cloth; pour the whole of this milk into a matrass, large enough to contain, at least, one third more liquid, add to it two pounds of lump sugar, and a pint of orange-flower water; cork the matrass tight, and set it on a bain-marie; when the sugar is com- pletely dissolved (which should be acce- lerated by shaking the matrass occasion- ally), lessen the fire by degrees, and as soon as the vessel is quite cold, put the | syrup into bottles. If you should have no matrass, you may make your syrup in the following manner: 0 boil the abovementioned quantity of sugar to forte plume, then add the milk of al- monds, and as soon as it has boiled up twice, take it from the fire; when cold, flavour it with a pint of orange-flower water. Or this syrup may be made in a still more simple way, as thus: put the milk of almonds into some pounded sugar, with- out being clarified or boiled previously; when the syrup begins to boil, add about a coffee-cupful of orange-flower water, and after it has boiled up two or three times, take it from the fire; let it get quite cold before you bottle it. Keep it well corked. Orgeat Water.—Pound a quarter of a pound of sweet, and two or three bitter almonds (blanched), and two ounces of the four cold seeds; add a little water occasionally to prevent the almonds from oiling; put this paste into a bowl, and mix with it a quart of water and two ounces of powder sugar, in about an hour’s time, strain it into a decanter. A little milk may be added, if required particu- larly white. ORTOLANS (to roast).—They should be pickled and singed, but not drawn; put them on skewers, with bacon round them, tie them to the spit; when they are done, strew them over with grated bread; or they may be spitted sideways, with a bay leaf between, and the dish should be gar- nished all round with fried bread crumbs. OVEN (Directions for the).—Be very careful to keep your oven clean, and that there are no remains of sugar or fat that may have run over from any thing that has been baking. Puff pastes require a moderately hot oven, but not too hot, or it will spoil the shape and turn it over; tart paste, or short crust, requires a slower oven; petits-choux, one still slower; but for raised pies, let it be as hot as for puff paste at first, and well closed, so that the pies may not fall. Therefore, when you give a dinner where paste is necessary, endeavour to make it in the mornino-; heat your oven first for the puff paste,° which must be baked the first; then let the oven go gradually down, and balco your pastes in rotation, as the heat falls. Savoy bis- cuits require a cool oven, and, by degrees, raise the heat as tho biscuits are baking. Tor souffles or light puddings, have a gentle oven, and contrive so as to have them ready by the time they are wanted, or they will fall. Tho greatest attention should also be paid in heating the oven for baking cakes, particularly for those