289 GUR GUD over them; then let them stand till the next day, then drain all the syrup from them; boil it again, and put it over them; repeat so for seven or eight days, then take another flat earthen pan, drain the syrup from them, place the greengages in this pan ; boil some fresh syrup for half an hour, and pour it over them, cover them up until they are wanted for use ; or you may put them into pots. Green Sauce.—Mix together a quarter of a pint of sorrel juice, a glass of white wine, and some scalded gooseberries ; add sugar, and a bit of butter. Stir them well till they come nearly to a boil. GROUSE Roasted. — Grouse should have their heads twisted under the wing. They must be roasted like fowls, but not be over done. Serve with a rich gravy in the dish, and bread sauce. The sauce for wild fowl may be used instead of com- mon gravy. GRUEL.—Wash two ounces of fresh grits in warm water several times, and boil it in a quart of water, till the liquid is reduced to about a pint; then strain it through a cloth, and add a spoonful of white wine, and a little sugar; boil it a moment before using. Gruel (Water).—Rub smooth a large spoonful of oatmeal, with two spoonsful of water, and put it into a pint of water boiling on the fire : stir it well, and boil it quick ; taking care that it does not boil over ; in a quarter of an hour strain it off; and, if you choose, add salt and a bit of butter when eaten. Another way.—Put a large spoonful of oatmeal, by degrees, into one pint of water, and when it is stirred quite smooth, boil it. GUDGEONS (to choose).—Gudgeons are chosen by the same rules as other fish ; they are caught in running streams, and come in about Midsummer, and remain in season five or six months ; you may dress diem in the same manner as smelts. GunoEONS.*—This fish is most com- monly fried ; scale, empty, and wipe them clean, widiout washing them, flour them, and put them into a good boiling friture of lard or butter. Gudgeons an Court-bouillon*—Empty, and wash your fish, then boil them in a court-bouillon, of equal quantities of wine, and maigre broth ; add salt, pepper, and a few artichoke bottoms ; when done, reduce the liquor, and serve them hot. Gudgeons Stewed*—Scale, empty, and wipe the gudgeons clean, without washing them; then take the dish upon which you serve, and put into it some butter, with parsley, green onions, mushrooms, a couple of slialots, thyme, a bay leaf, and basil, all cut fine; add salt and pepper; place the gudgeons on this, seasoning them over and under, and moistening die whole with a glass of red wine; cover the dish, and set it over a brisk fire, till the sauce is almost consumed ; they will not require more than a quarter of au hour to cook. You may dress smelts in the same manner, but they must neither be scaled or emptied, but only wiped clean. GUM Paste.—Put a pound of gum- dragon in a basin, with warm water enough to cover one inch above the gum ; set this in a warm closet for four-and- twenty hours ; have a new tammy ready laid over a dish; spread it on it, and squeeze through as much as you can at first, then open the tammy, spread the gum out again, and then squeeze it; re- peat this till the whole is through ; then lay it on the slab, work it well with your hand, put in nearly all the juice of one lemon, and a pound of the best double refined powder sugar, by degrees, as you work it; but before you have put in the whole of the sugar, begin to add some of the best starch powder; blend them thoroughly together, till the paste begins to take an impression; then roll it in a cloth, and let it stand in a damp place for a week or ten days (it is the better for keeping), work it with powder, and it will cut and mould to any shape you please, and when you want it to harden, set it in a dry place ; if you wish to colour it, to make it red, use cochineal or carmine; for blue or violet colour, use indigo ; for yel- low, saffron ; for green,the juice of beet leaves, scalded over the fire ; the thick part mix with the paste. When you put in colours, be careful to blend them well, and be particular that the colour is good. GURNETS (to Broil).—Having cut off their heads, dip them in melted butter, with salt, and broil them, but not over too fierce a fire. Serve them either with plain anchovy sauce, or a sauce made as fol- lows : put some fresh butter, a little flour, and a leek, into a saucepan, with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, moisten with vinegar and water ; add a couple of anchovies ; keep it on the fire, shaking constantly till tlie fish are done ; dish them, and pour the Bauce over. u