HAM 290 hag H. HACIJEE Sauce.—Chop, veiy small, some pickled cucumbers, capers, parsley, skalots, the breast of a boiled fowl, some lean bam, carrots, whites and yolks of eggs; add a good seasoned cullis, and a little mushroom ketchup ; simmer all to- gether for a quarter of an hour. HADDOCKS—Are chosen by the same rules as cod, and are in season during July, August, and September. Haddocks are plain boiled in the same manner as cod, or broiled like whitings; both are served with anchovy sauce; either way they are good with a stuffing inside. The dried haddock should be soaked a short time in warm water, then laid on a gridiron, over a very clear fire, and slightly broiled ; send them to table in a napkin, and eat them with cold butter. Haddocks (Boiled).—Fill a fish kettle with cold spring water, to which add plenty of salt; put the haddocks into this, over the fire; as soon as they begin to boil, salt them well, and set them by the fire to simmer; when done, drain them thoroughly from the water, dish them, and serve with Dutch sauce. Haddocks (Broiled).*—Take the skins from the number of haddocks you intend to dress ; and toss up the fish in some egg, beaten, with pepper and salt; take them out, and bread them ; then, having dipped them in a clarified butter, bread them a second time ; broil the haddocks to a nice colour, over a moderate fire; be sure both sides are done equally. Serve them over a good Italienne sauce. Haddock (Dried).—Take the eyes, gills, and entrails, from the fish, also any blood which may settle in them. Wipe them perfectly dry, and salt them ; let them lay twenty-four hours, and then run a string through the eyes, and hang them in a dry placo. HAGGIS.—Take the heart and lights of a sheep, blanch and mince them ; then a pound of beef suet (chopped fine), the crumb of a French roll soaked in cream, a little mace, nutmeg, cinnamon, and cloves (all pounded), half a pint of sweet wine, a pound of raisins, stoned and chopped, a sufficient quantity of flour to make it of a proper consistence, a little salt, tho yolks of three eggs, and some sheep's chitter- lings, well cleaned and cut into slips, hlix these together; have ready cleaned a sheep’s bag, put in the above, tie it tight, and boil it three hours. Haggis (Scotch).—Take the liver and lights of a sheep, boil them, the latter partly only, but the former till it is firm; grate half of it, and mince the lights, a piece of beef, some suet, and onions ; mix these ingredients with dried flour, or meal, salt, and pounded spice; make some broth, and pounded spice; make somebroth, with a little beef and the water in which the liver, &c. were boiled, and put it with the rest of the materials into a well cleaned sheep’s bag ; tie it up tight, and boil it. HAM (Directions for choosing).—In choosing a ham, run the knife or a skewer into it at the knuckle, and at the cushion and centre part of the ham by the bone ; if it comes out clean and smells sweet, the ham is good ; but if, on the contrary, the blade of the knife is smeared and smells rank, it is not good. Hams (how to dress).—If the ham has hung for a length of time, put into water for a night; and let it lie either in a hole dug in the earth, or damp stones sprinkled with water, two or three days, to mellow, covering it with a heavy tub, to keep any vermin from it; wash well, and put it into a boiler with plenty of water ; let it sim- mer, four, five, or six hours, according to its size; when done enough, if before the time of serving, cover it with a clean cloth doubled, and keep the dish hot over boiling water; take off the skin, and strew it all over with bread raspings; garnish with carrot; preseive the skin as whole as pos- sible, to keep over the ham when cold, which will prevent its drying. Ham (to boil).—Soak the ham, according to its age, for twelve or twenty-four hours. Put it into a large saucepan full of cold water, and, if a small one, let it simmer for two hours, and then boil an hour and a half; when done, pull off the skin, rub it over with yolk of egg, strew bread crumbs over, and brown it before the fire, or with a salamander ; or, after having sopped the fat off with a clean cloth, glaze it. Ham a la Braise.—Having taken the rind from a well flavoured ham, soak it in cold water, tie it into a proper shape; take ham and beef, and season them with spice and sweet herbs, sbred small, lay them in a saucepan, with onions, carrots, and pars- nips, sliced, parsley and scallions; put. the ham on this, the fat side uppermost, cover it with slices of bacon, beef, roots, and herbs, as under, with a moderate por-