CIII 157 CIII Chicken Broth, pectoral.*—Prepare a chicken in the usual way, and put it into a saucepan with two pints and a half of water, two ounces ol pearl barley, the same of rice, and two ounces of the best honey; boil all together, skimming well for three hours, until it be reduced to two- thirds. Chickens en Caissons.*—Cut the white parts of two chickens into fillets, and ma- rinade them in oil, with salt, pepper, sweet herbs chopped &c. Make some little cases of white paper, and put a thin slice of bacon at the bottom of each, lay in the fillets, strew in some truffles sliced, and moisten them with consomm(, or stock ; put the cases in a baking-pan, and bake them. When done, put them on a dish with the other parts of the chickens (which must be trussed with the head under the skin of the breast) and pour over the whole some veal gravy and some lemon juice. Chicken en Capilotade.*—Put into a stewpan a little butter and flour; add mushrooms, parsley, and shalots cut small; dilute these with equal quantities of stock, and red or white wine. When the sauce is well boiled, skim it; cut a roasted fowl in pieces, and put it into this sauce; stew it gently for a quarter of an hour. Add some gherkins cut in thin slices. Chickens and Cauliflowers .*—Chop up the livers of two middling-sized chickens, and mix with them parsley, scallions, a bit of butter, salt, and pepper; put this into the bodies of the chickens, which must be trussed like turkey poults; parboil them with a little butter or lard, then wrap in bacon or buttered paper, and roast them. When done, serve them with sauce made of cullis, butter, salt, and pepper, boiled up. Garnish with plain boiled cau- liflowers. Chickens a la Cendre *—Stuff a couple of chickens with a rich farce, lard, and prepare them as for roasting. Line a stew- pan with slices of veal and bacon, onions, •carrots, &c.; place the chickens in it, and let them stew in their own gravy for two hours over hot ashes : keep the stewpan closely covered. When done, serve them in their own liquor ; but if that should be too thick, put in a little stock or veal gravy; boil it up two or three times. Well skim it. Chickens and Cheese*—When the chickens are drawn and trussed, cut them along the back and flatten them ; toss them up in a stewpan with a bit of butter, half a glass of white wine, and the same of red, parsley, scallion, two cloves, half a clove of garlic, half a bay leaf, thyme, basil, veiy little salt and pepper. Stew them gently for about an hour, then take out the chickens and put in a bit of butter the size of a wal- nut, worked into some flour, thicken this over the fire. Pour part of this sauce on the dish, and upon the sauce a handful of Gruyere cheese grated ; then the chickens ; pour the remainder of the sauce on them, and about as much Gruyere cheese grated on the top, as there is underneath. Put the dish in a baking-pan, with fire above and below; when of a good colour, and the sauce is consumed, serve it quite hot. If the cheese be very salt, the chickens must be dressed previously without salt. Chickens en Chervil.—Make a ragout of two carrots, a parsnip, two or three sliced onions, garlic, two cloves, a bay leaf, thyme, basil, and a little butter ; when a little coloured add a glass of white wine, an equal quantity of stock, and reduce it to half. Strain, and put in butter (about the size of an egg) worked up with some flour, some chopped chervil; thicken it, and serve it with roast chickens. Chickens a la Chevaliere.*—Choose two fat chickens, raise the white part, lard it and heat it; then cut it up, and having warmed some butter in a stewpan, put the pieces into it, and leave them on the fire a minute or two, and toss them (still over the fire) until they are hard ; sprinkle them, with flour well mixed with butter, add some hot stock, four spoonsful of well- skimmed veloutd, parsley, scallions, and pepper; let it boil. When nearly done, put in some equal-sized onions peeled, and skim it. On serving take out the parsley,: place the pieces of chicken on a dish, and strain the sauce overtliem, having thickened it with the yolks of three eggs. Another way.—Proceed in the same way as above, only the wings must be laid aside> the skin taken off, and the meat cut from the bones, larded as before mentioned. Lard two of the wings with truffles, and having melted some butter in a baking-pan', put in all four wings, sprinkle them with salt, and cover them with buttered paper. The fricassee being ready, garnish it with the wings, and four fine crayfish, and place a large truffle in the middle and serve. Chickens Chiringate.—Having taken off the feet, beat the breastbones of your chickens flat without breaking theskin, flour and fry them in butter; when of a nice brown take all the fat from the pan, leaving