I’AR 399 PAR carefully; beat up three quarters of a pound of butter, a little salt, the juice of a lemon, pepper, and pounded aromatics; fill your partridges with this, and truss them like a fowl; then put them in a stew- pan on slices of bacon, coyer them with the same and sliced lemon; pour a poeld over, and simmer for half an hour; then take them out, drain and serve with a crayfish between each; make your sauce with espagnole and fumet as usual. Partridge (Potted). — Let your par- tridges be thoroughly cleaned, then season them with mace, allspice, white pepper, and salt in fine powder. Rub every part well; then lay them in a pan with the breast downwards, packing the birds as close as possible. Put plenty of butter over them; then cover the pan with a coarse flour-paste, and a paper over that, closely down, and then bake. When cold, put the birds into pots, and cover them with butter. Partridges, (Puree of).—This puree is made in the same manner as that of fowls, substituting an espagnole traivaille, and fumet of game for the bdchamelle and ve- loutd. Partridges (Quenelles of).— Take the skin and sinews from three young par- tridges ; mince and pound them well; rub it through a sieve, and mix it with equal quantities of panada and calf’s udder; pound all three together till thoroughly in- corporated, then add one yolk and two whole eggs; season to your taste, and poach them as usual. (See Queneeles.) Partridges (Quenelles of) a, la Sefton.— Make some quenelles with the meat of three very young partridges as above directed, and set the preparation on ice. When per- fectly cold, form the bondin', poach and serve them with the following sauce ; mix four spoonsful of btichamelle with three of double cream, two of a glaze made of game, add a little salt, and a small quan- tity of Cayenne pepper; work these up till quite clear, and then pour it over the quenelles. Partridges (to roast).— Proceed in the same manner as in the directions for roast- ing pheasants. Partridges (Salmis of).*—Take four roasted partridges, cut them in pieces as neatly as possible, and put them into a stewpan; bruise the remnants, put them into another saucepan, with six ladiesful of es]jugnole, six shalots, a glass of white wine, a little parsley, a bay leaf, a glass of stock, pepper and salt; set this on a brisk fire, and when reduced to half, strain it over the partridges ; make the whole hot, but do not let it boil; dish your salmis, dip some fried or toasted bread in the sauce, and lay them on the top. Partridges (Sabnis of) de Chasseur.*— Cut up two or three roasted partridges, and put the pieces into a stewpan, with three dessert-spoonsful of olive oil, half a glass of red wine, a little salt, pepper, the juice of a lemon, and some of the peel; toss the joints up in this sauce, and when suf- ficiently done, serve them. Partridges (Salmis of) cold*—Make your salmis as usual, but instead of strain- ing the sauce over the pieces, put it into another saucepan, add to it three spoonsful of jelly, reduce, and strain it again, and let it cool; when quite cold, dip your pieces into it, one at a time, and arrange them on a dish, the breasts at the top; decorate your dish with jelly, and serve. Partridges, Salmis of (Table).*—If you wish to make a salmis at table, cut up your birds, and lay the pieces in a silver chafing dish, add to them, salt, pepper, a glass of white wine, the juice of two lemons, a little of the peel grated, a few shalots minced (pounded garlic, if desired), and some raspings strewed over the top ; let it simmer about ten minutes, and then serve. Partridges in a Salmis or Hash.—Take a brace of partridges that have been roasted, and very neatly cut off the wings, legs, and breasts; put them into a stew- pan, and put the backbone into another stewpan, with a bit of lean ham, a small onion, a few stalks of parsley, a few pep- percorns, one clove of garlic, a glass of sherry, a ladleful of good stock, and a ladleful of plain sauce ; let the whole boil over a gentle fire to the consistence of sauce in general: this done, squeeze it through a tammy to the legs and wings which were put into the other stewpan; put it to the fire to be very hoi, then add the juice of half a lemon, a liaison of the yolk of one egg, and a table-spoonful of cream; shake the whole well together, lay the partridges on the dish, and serve them to table. Partridge Satitd*—Having prepared n partridge as for la Tar/are, put a g-ood piece of butter into a frying-pan, lay in the bird, breast downwards ; set it on a brisk fire, strew salt and pepper over, and when it is firm to the touch, turn and do the other side. Serve with a reduced espagnole, and half the juice of a lemon. Partridge (Scallops of).*—Cut the