EGG EGG 237 cut them into shreds, and lay them on a plate ; poach five eggs in vinegar and water, and as you poach them put them into cold water ; then take a plain mould, and into the bottom of the mould put a little savoury jelly, and as soon as it is set, take the anchovies and neatly cross them on the jelly, trim your eggs very nicely, and with care lay them on the an- chovies, then gently pour in a little jelly nearly cold ; when the eggs and anchovies are well set, fill up the mould, and keep it in ice till it is wanted, then turn it out like any other jelly. Egg for Balls.—Boil six eggs, take the yolks, pound them, and add a little flour and salt, and the yolks of two raw eggs. Mix all well together, and roll into halls. They must be boiled before added to any made dish or soup. Eggs {Beaten').*—Take fifteen eggs leaving the whites of five, strain them into a saucepan, and add to them a quarter of a pound of butter (which should be cut in small pieces), a spoonful of veloute, salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Set these on the fire, and stir them with a stick till they are done, then place them on your dish, and lay fried bread round them. To this dish may he added the heads of asparagus, young peas, cucumbers, &c. Thesemusthe placed round the eggs. Ham, cut into dice, is also dressed with them in this mauner. Eggs {Beaten') in the Shell.—Cut as many pieces of bread as you have eggs ; take off the crusts, and shape them round ; make a hole in the middle of each, big enough to contain an egg laid lengthwise in it. Then take your eggs, break one end carefully, and take out the contents, which put into a stewpan, with a small piece of butter, two spoonsful of cream, shred par- sley and scallions, salt, and pepper. Keep it stirring over the fire until properly done; then, having washed and drained the shells, fill them with the cooked eggs ; lay them on the bread, and serve. Eggs dressed with Beet.—Pound a piece of red beet with some beaten cinnamon, sugar, macaroons, and a slice of lemon ; then take half a dozen eggs (leave out the whites), a little salt and milk; mix the whole well together, and strain them through a sieve ; put it into a dish, set it over the fire, and brown with a redhot shovel. Egos {to boil) for a Salad.—Boil two eggs for twelve minutes, and then put them into a basin of cold water for a few minutes, the yolks must be quite hard and cold, otherwise they will not properly incorpo- rate with the other ingredients. Rub them through a sieve with a wooden spoon, and mix 'them with a table-spoonful of water, or fine double cream, then add two table-spoonsful of oil or melted butter; when these are well mixed together, by degrees add a tea-spoonful of salt or pow- dered lump sugar, and a tea-spoonful of made mustard ; when these are smoothly united, add very gradually three tea- spoonsful of vinegar, rub it with the other ingredients till thoroughly incorporated with them; cut up the white of the egg, and garnish the top of the salad with it. Let the sauce remain at the bottom of the bowl, and do not stir up the salad till it is to be eaten. Eggs au Bouillon.*—Put the yolks of four and two whole eggs into a saucepan, with five ladiesful of consomme, let them stand till well mixed, and then strain them ; butter your moulds lightly, fill them with the preparation, and leave them to set. Serve witlx good consomme reduced. You may prepare this dish with any other sauce you please. Eggs a, la Bourgeoises—Spread some butter over the bottom of a dish, cover it entirely with thin slices of crumb of bread, on that lay thin slices of Gruyere cheese, then eight or ten eggs, season them with salt, pepper, and nutmeg : set the dish over a stove to cook gently till done. Eggs and Bread.*■—Put half a handful of bread crumbs into a saucepan, with a small quantity of cream, salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and let it stand till the bread has imbibed all the cream ; then break ten eggs into it, and, having beaten them up togethei-, fry it like an omelet. Eggs {Broiled).*—Make a small paper case, in which put a piece of butter, the size of a walnut, a little parsley and scal- lion, set the case on a gridiron, and when the butter begins to melt, break an egg into it, add salt, pepper, and bread crumbs; do this over a gentle clear fire, and pass a salamander over it to colour it on the top. Eggs {Buttered). — Take yolks and whites, set them over the fire with a bit of butter, a little pepper and salt, stir them a minute or two, when they grow thickish, and a little turned in small lumps, pour them on a buttered toast. Eggs {Buttered).—Beat together the yolks and whites of four or five eggs, put a quarter of a pound of butter into a basin, and then put that in boiling water, keep