470 SAU SAU add salt, popper, nutmeg, and lemon juice; let it simmer till of a good consist- ence. Sauce a la Maddaine. — Put a few bread crumbs, two sbred slialots, a bit of butter, half a spoonful of vinegar, and two spoonsful of consommd into a stewpnn ; set them on the fire, and give them a boil up together: season with pepper and salt. This sauce should not be too thick. Sauce (Minced).*—Put into a saucepan parsley, slialots, and champignons, of each a spoonful shred, half a glass of vinegar, and a little pepper; set these on the fire till there remains scarcely any vinegar, when add four ladiesful of espagnole, and the same of stock ; reduce, and take the fat from the sauce: when done, put in a spoonful of capers, and two or three gherkins, both shred ; pour it into another saucepan, and set it in the bain-marie; just before it is sent to table, pound an anchovy or two with a little butter, which beat up with the sauce. Sauce d’ Orleans.*-—Put into a saucepan three or four tea-spoonsful of vinegar, a little pepper, some shalot, and an ounce of butter; reduce this, and add four or five ladiesful of hrown sauce. When ready for table, put into your sauce four or five gherkins, the whites of three hard eggs, four or five anchovies, a carrot (all cut into dice), and a spoonful of whole capers; make it quite hot, but not boiling, and serve. Sauce Piquante.*—Put into a saucepan a quarter of a pint of vinegar, some all- spice, a pinch of pepper, a bay leaf, and a little thyme; let this remain on the fire till reduced to half, then add two ladiesful of espagnole, and two of stock; set it on the fire again; when about the consistence of clear bouillie, it is sufficiently done. Put salt according to taste. Sauce (Pluche).*■—Put into a saucepan four or five ladiesful of veloute, half a glass of white wine, a parsley root cut into small pieces, and season with pep- per ; set it on the fire, and when suffici- ently reduced, add some parsley leaves bruised and blanched in salt and water; serve almost immediately. Sauce d la Portugaise.* — Put into a saucepan a quarter of a pound of butter, the yolks of two raw eggs, a dessert- spoonful of lemon juice, salt, and pepper, according to taste ; set it on a moderate fire, stirring constantly till hot; then vannez or mill it rapidly to unite the butter and eggs. Should it be too thick, put a very little water to it. This sauce ought not to be made till just as it is wanted. Sauce au lltcerend.—Chop up some lemon peel, and two or three pickled cucumbers ; put them into a stewpan with two spoonsful of cullis, a little butter rolled in flour, season with salt and pep- per, put it on the fire, and make it quite hot without boiling, stirring all the time, make a liaison with yolks of eggs, and serve. Sauce Robert*—Cut a few onions into dice, which put into a fryiugpan with a bit of butter, and fry them lightly ; when nicely browned, add a dessert-spoonful of flour, a ladleful of stock, the same of vinegar, some salt and pepper; reduce it to a proper thickness, and when ready for table, stir in two dessert-spoonsful of mustard. Sauce Romaine *—Cut a pound of veal, and half a pound of ham into dice, and put them into a saucepan with two legs of fowl, three or four carrots, four onions, two bay leaves, three cloves, a little basil, half a pound of butter, and some salt; set these on a rather brisk fire ; in the mean while pound the yolks of twelve hard eggs to a paste, which put to the above, and stir them in till the butter is entirely melted, then pour in by degrees a quart of cream; set the saucepan again on the fire for half an hour, stirring all the time, if it be too thick, add more cream, or milk; when sufficiently done, strain it through a tammy. Sauce (Sicilian).—Put into a stewpan nearly a pint of good gravy, a quarter of a pint of essence of ,ham, half a lemon peeled and sliced thin, a few coriander seeds and four cloves (tire two latter bruised); set these on the fire, give one boil, and add three cloves of garlic, a head of celery, sliced, two bay leaves, and a little basil; let it stand till reduced to half, pour in a glass of white wine, and strain it. If not sufficientlj’ thick, add a bit of butter rolled in flour. Sauce (Spanish).—Take the meat from a cold roasted partridge, put it into a mortar, with partridge livers, and truffles, pound them to a rather liquid paste, moistening with some good gravy. Tut two glasses of red wine, two or three slices"of onions, a clove or two of garlic, and two glasses of the paste ; make it quite hot, and then strain it into another stewpan; add the partridge to it, and a little essence of bam, season it well, and let it boil slowly for some time.