TRU TRUFFLES*—The truffle, like the mushroom, is a species of fungus common in France and Italy; it generally grows about eight or ten inches below the surface of the ground; as it imparts a most deli- cious flavour, it is much used in cookery. Being dug out of the earth, it requires a great deal of washing and brushing, before it can be applied to culinary purposes; when washed, the water should be warm, and changed frequently. It loses much of its flavour when dried. Truffles a la Cendre.*—Take a dozen truffles dressed with Champagne, have as many small slices of bacon as you have truffles ; cut a quantity of square pieces of paper, on some of these put a bit of bacon, and a truffle seasoned with pepper, salt, and pounded spice ; wrap them in the bacon first, and then in the paper. When all are done, dip each paper into cold water, and then put them into hot ashes, like chestnuts. In an hour’s time they will be sufficiently done. Take off- the two outer coverings, and serve. Truffles with Champagne *—Take ten or twelve well-cleaned truffles; put them into a stewpan on rashers of bacon, add a bay leaf, a seasoned bouquet, a little grated bacon, some stock, a slice or two of ham, and a bottle of Champagne ; cover them with a piece of buttered paper, put on the lid, and set the stewpan on hot ashes ; put fire on the top, and let them stew for an hour. When done, drain them on a clean cloth, and serve on a folded napkin. Truffles a l’Italienne*—Cut about a handful of truffles either into slices or dice ; put them into a stewpan with a little butter ; sweat them over a slow fire ; then moisten with half a glass of Champagne, and two spoonsful of reduced espaguole; add some shred parsley, and shalots, salt, and pepper ; give the whole a boil, take off all the fat, put in a few drops of oil, and serve. Truffles (to keep).*-—Make a choice of the blackest truffles; let them be fresh gathered; when thoroughly washed and brushed, peel them carefully with a sharp knife, reject all which are not perfectly sound; put them into bottles as close as they will lay; cork them tight, and boil them for an hour in the bain-marie. Truffles a la Minute.*—Take as many well washed truffles as you may require ; slice them into a dish that will bear the fire ; add to them, shred parsley, scnllions, and shalots, salt, pepper, and a little oil; cover your dish and set it on the fire. 496 TRU When done, serve with a little lemon juice. 1 ruffle Omelet*—Fry your omelet as usual, and when nearly done, with a spoon take out the thick part of the mid- dle, and put in its place some truffles, lightly fried in a little espaguole; as soon as the omelet is finished, lay it on a dish ; mince two truffles very small, give them a few turns over the fire in a little butter, add four ladiesful of espaguole, and pour this sauce over the omelet. 'Truffles a la Piedmontaise.*—Mince your truffles as small as possible, pour some oil on a silver dish, on which put a layer of the truffles, seasoned with salt and pepper, then a layer of grated Parmesan cheese, and so on alternately, until you have as much in your dish as you think proper, and set it in the oven for a quarter of an hour, which will be sufficient to cook them. Truffles a la Provenfale*—Cut some truffles into slices, put them into a sauce- pan with oil, parsley, two cloves of garlic, salt, and pepper. Set them on hot ashes for an hour. In the mean time dissolve a good bit of butter, rolled in flour, in some good stock ; then add half a glass of white wine, and let it boil for half an hour, take off all the fat; and when the truffles are done, and drained, serve with the sauce poured over them. 'Truffles (Ragout of).—Peel, and slice a dozen truffles, put them into a saucepan, with a little butter, parsley, scallions, half a clove of garlic, and two cloves ; let them simmer a minute or two, add a spoonful of flour, a glass of white wine, and another of stock ; let it stew half an hour ; clear off the fat, and serve it seasoned with salt and pepper. Truffles (Ragout of).*—Choose your truffles as round as you can, wash them in several waters, until the last water is quite clear; pick and cut them into slices or dice; give them a few turns in a little butter, with grated nutmeg, parsley, scal- lions, half a clove of garlic, and two cloves; boil them with some consomme and espag- vole; take off’ the fat, reduce and finish the ragout with a glass of Champagne and a little butter. Truffle Sauce.*—Mince two or three truffles very small, and toss them up lightly, in either oil or butter, according to your taste ; then put to them four or five ladiesful of reloute, and a spoonful of consomme; let it boil for about a quarter of an hour over a gentle fire, skim off all