BRA BRA 73 mixed, add a quart of thin cream; set it over the fire, but do not let it boil; stir one way till it thickens, then pour into glasses. When cold it will be ready; if you wish it to keep, scald the cream pre- viously. A ratafia drop may be added. Brandy Pudding.—Butter a mould and line it with jar-raisins stoned, or dried cherries, then lay tliin slices of French roll; next put a layer of ratafias or maca- roons, then the fruit, rolls, and cakes, in succession, until the mould be full, pouring in at times two glasses of brandy. Beat four eggs, yolks and whites separately, put to them a pint of milk or cream, lightly sweetened, half a nutmeg, and the rind of half a lemon, grated. Pour it into the mould, and when the solid has imbibed it all, place it in a stewpan with water sufficient to come halfway up the mould, cover it with white paper before putting the lid on, and steam it for an hour at least, then serve with brandy sauce. BRAWN ( Mock).—Take four cowheels, clean and wash them thoroughly, and boil in plenty of water till very tender; then take them out and cut them in long pieces, which put in a stewpan, just cover them with stock and let them stew a little ; have ready chopped a handful of capers, half as many gherkins, and one glass of vinegar, stir them in with the heels; put all this into a mould, and when cold, take it out. Brawn (Block).—Boil two pair of neat’s feet very tender, and pick the flesh en- tirely from the bones ; take the belly-piece of pork, bone and roll up the meat of the feet in the pork very tight; then wrap a coarse cloth tightly round it, and tie it with tape. Boil it very tender, and hang it in a cloth till cold ; then put it in some sousing-liquor, and keep it for use. Brawn (Mock).—See Collared Veal; and proceed in the same manner, with a lean salt belly of pork, cut rather broad, instead of a breast of veal, leaving out the fat of bacon. Brawn, to souse.—Take a brawn about three years old, cut oil' the head close to the roots of the ears, and cut a fine collar off the side bone and hinder legs, an inch deeper in the belly than on the back, bone them ; bind them up equally at both ends, let them lie in water to soak a night and a day, put them into boiling water, keeping them continually skimmed, and after the first quick boiling, lessen the firo by de- grees ; let them stand over it a whole night, then take them off, put them into deep hoops, and bind them with tape; and when they are cold, put them into a marinade of oatmeal and bran boiled in water; when it is cold, strain it through a sieve ; put in vinegar and salt; and close up the vessel tight, and keep it for use. Brawn (Souse for).—Boil a quarter of a peck of wheat bran, a sprig of bay, a sprig of rosemary, in two gallons of water, with four ounces of salt in it, for half an hour, strain, and let it get cold. BRLAD.—Ovens should be constructed of a circular form, and not lower from the roof than twenty inches, nor higher than two feet. The mouth should not be even an inch wider than is requisite, with an iron door to shut close ; one so formed wall require less fuel, and retain the heat much better than an oven of a longer form and higher roof, and, consequently, will bake every thing more completely. Those families who reside in the country, where wood is more easily procured, have the advantage over the London bakers, for al- though necessity has introduced the cus- tom of using sea-coal for baking n great cities, ovens wherein wood alone is used, bake to the greatest perfection, and with more purity. " Bread.—Put a quartern of flour into a large basin with two tea-spoonsful of salt, make a hole in the middle, then put in a basin four table-spoonsful of good yeast. Stir in it a pint of milk lukewarm, put it in the hole of the flour, stir it just to make it a thin batter, then strew a little flour over the top, then set it on one side of the fire, and cover it over; let it stand till next morning, then make it into a dough; add half a pint more of warm milk, knead it for ten minutes, and then set it in a warm place bp the fire for one hour and a half; then knead it again, and it is ready either for loaves or bricks; bake them from one hour and a half to two hours, ac- cording to the size. Bread (brown) Ice.—Grate stale brown bread as fine as possible, soak a small pro- portion in cream, for two or three hours, sweeten, and ice it. Bread (browti) Pudding.—Half a pound of stale brown bread grated, the same of currants, and of shred suet, a little nut- meg and sugar, mix with four eggs a spoonful of brandy, and two spoonsful of cream, boil in a cloth or basin three or four hours. Bread and Butter Pudding.'—Cut a penny loaf in thin slices of bread and butter, as for tea, butter a dish, lay slices