MEL 348 MER so deep ; lay puff paste at the bottom, put in forcemeat, and cover it with puff paste; bake them a light brown, turn them out; five or seven make a side dish, add relish- ing sauce to them. MELON Fritters.—Cut a melon into small pieces (remove the seeds and rind), soak them in brandy and sugar for half an hour; then drain them well, dip each piece in good batter, and fry them. Serve them with sugar sifted over. Melon Frontage Bavarois.*—Cut a mo- derate sized melon into slices, from which take the rind and seeds; cut the fruit small, and reduce it to a marmalade with half a pound of clarified sugar; rub it through a fine sieve, add to it six drachms of clarified isinglass, stir it well, and place it on ice; as soon as it begins to thicken, mix a plate of whipped cream with it, and finish as usual. Melon Mangoes.—There is a particular sort for this purpose, which the gardeners know. Cut a square small piece out of one side, and through that take out all the seeds, mix them with mustard seeds and shred garlic, stuff the melon with them, as full as the space will allow, and replace the square piece. Bind it up with small pack thread. Boil a suificient quantity of vinegar to allow for wasting, with pepper, salt, and ginger, and fpour it boiling hot over the mangoes, for four successive days; the last day you pour it over, add flour of mustard, ancl scraped horse radish, into the vinegar, just as it boils up. Stop close. Be careful there is plenty of vine- gar. All pickles are spoiled if not kept well covered with vinegar, and the greater number of times the boiling vinegar is poured over the mangoes, the sooner it will be ready for use. Large cucumbers called green Turley, prepared in the same manner as above, are very good, and come sooner into eating. Melons (to Preserve for Cookery).—Boil two parts of water, and one of vinegar, with salt, cloves (and other spice if you like), in proportion; in the meanwhile take some small melons, wipe them with a cloth, and put them into a saucepan; pour the above mixture, whilst boiling, over them, and set them on ashes till the next day; then re- new the fire, and keep them for several days, until the melons become quite green ; then put them into pots, and when cold, cover them close ; they should be kept in a cool place. Melons (to Preserve like Ginger).*— Haifa pound of ginger to one pound of melon; scrape the ginger, and save the scrapings ; pour a quart of boiling water on the ginger, let it stand two days : scald the melon (with the scrapings of the gin- ger in the water), taking care not to make it too soft: cut it into small pieces resem- bling ginger; then prepare a syrup, half a pound of sugar to a pint of water; boil the ginger in it; when cold, put in the melon, and set it over the fire for a short time, but not to boil; let the syrup, with the gin- ger, be boiled every day for a fortnight, but not poured upon the melon till nearly cold; then boil a rich syrup to keep it in. N.B. — Carrot is equally good with melon. MERINGUES.—Whisk the whites of nine eggs to a solid froth; then add the rind of six lemons, grated extremely fine, and a spoonful of sifted sugar; after which, lay a sheet of wet paper on a tin, and with a spoon drop the mixture in little lumps separately upon it, sift sugar over, and put them to bake in a moderately heated oven, taking care that they are done of a nice colour. Then put raspberry, apricot, or any other kind of jam between two of these bottoms, add them together, and lay them in a warm place, or before the fire to dry. Meringues.*—T ake the whites of twelve eggs, six ounces of the best lump sugar, pounded and sifted, and half a pound of pistachios ; blanch and beat the latter in a mortar, with a little white of egg, to a very fine paste. Whisk the whites of eggs to a snow, then add the sugar, and pistachio paste, mix them well, but very lightly, and when they are thoroughly incorporated put some sheets of paper on tin plates, lay your preparation on the paper, with a spoon, lay the meringues at least an inch apart; sprinkle sifted sugar over them, and put them into a moderate oven or stove; when done, detach them gently from the paper with a knife, and place them on a sieve in a dry place. Just before they are sent to table, fill each with a little whipped cream, to which add a small quantity of either orange flower, rose, or vanilla water. Meringues. — Beat up the whites of four very fresh eggs till quite a firm froth, then mix in gently four large spoonfuls of fine sifted sugar; be as quick as possible to prevent the sugar melting. Have ready some slips of paper large enough to hold a meringue on thick boards; then with a spoon form as many half eggs lengthways as you can, sift sugar over them, blow off