CUR CUIt 211. oft' the seeds; then dry them over the fire till you bring your sugar to the fifth degree of boiling, allowing as much sugar as the fruit weighs; mix all well together, sim- mer it over the fire some time; then put the marmalade into pots. CunnANT Marmalade.—Take some ripe red currants, pick them, and squeeze out the juice from some of them; put to it some juice of raspberries; then put to this the whole currants ; boil them gently, and when they begin to break, put in an equal weight of sugar boiled to candy height; boil them together, mash them as they boil; skim them, put in some rose water, and when it becomes as thick as marmalade, put it into pots. , Currant Paste.—Well wash some cur- rants,. put them into a preserving-pan, bruise them, and with a little water boil them to a pulp ; then press out the juice, and to every pound take twenty ounces of loaf sugar; boil it to a crack, take it from the fire, and put in the paste; then heat it over the fire, take off the scum; put it into your paste pots, or glasses ; then dry and finish them the same as other pastes. Currant Paste*—Pick and take the seeds from ten pounds of fine red currants, crush them, and having pressed out the juice, strain it through a silk sieve. Clarify and boil to casst an equal quantity of sugar, pour the currant juice on it, set the whole over a gentle fire, stirring constantly until it becomes of a proper consistence, which may be known by observing when the bottom of the pan can be seen clearly; take it off from the fire as soon as that is the case, and pour the paste into tin moulds, which must be placed on slates, or copper plates : smooth the tops with the blade of a knife, sprinkle sifted sugar- over, and place them in a stove, where they must remain till next day, wheu the paste should be turned in the moulds; sprinkle sifted sugar over them again, and set them in tiro stove a second night; on the following day remove them from the moulds, lay them in boxes, with white pa- per between each layer, and keep them in a dry place. A sixth part of the quantity of raspberrios ndded to the currants, would greatly improve the flavour of this paste. Currant Pastils.—Take half a pound of pounded loaf sugar on a plate, then a quantity of currants, which squeeze through a sieve ; when that is done, add the juice to the sugar, till it makes a paste us clear and thick as you think proper. Currants (Preserved).*—Takothe seeds and stalks from whatever quantity of cur- rants you intend to use (of which a fourth part must be white currants) ; put them into a preserving-pan, with a glass of water; let them boil up until the fruit bursts ; then strain the juice twice. Cla- rify and hoil to cassd some sugar (an equal weight to the fruit) ; pour the juice on it, boil them together a quarter of an hour, and having skimmed it well, pour it into pots. Currants (Red) preserved in Bunches. —Having stoned your currants, tie six or seven bunches together with a thread, to a piece of split deal about the length of a finger ; put double-refined sugar, equal in weight to your currants, into a preserving- pan, with a little water, and boil it till the sugar flies; then put the currants in, and give them a boil up, and cover them till the next day; when, take them out, and either dry them, or put them into glasses, with the syrup boiled up with a little of the juice of red currants ; put brandy- paper over them, and tie them close down with another paper, and set them in a dry place. Currants preserved liquid in Bunches* —For this purpose, either red or white currants may be used, only be careful not to mix them, and choose those bunches which have the largest currants ; take out the seeds very carefully with the nib of a pen. Boil clarified sugar (a pound to each pound of fruit) to boule, take the pan from the fire, put in the currants, stir them with a skimmer, taking care that the fruit does not burst, cover the pan, and give the whole one boil; skim the preserve lightly, and put it into glasses; do not cover them till the next day. Currants (to preserve them dry).—Stone your currants, and tie them up in bunches ; to every pound of currants boil two pounds of sugar, till it blows very strong; dip in the currants, let them hoil very fast till the sugar flies all over them; when settled a quarter of an hour, boil them again till the sugar rises almost to the top of the pan; let them settle ; skim them, and set them by till the next day; then drain them, and lay them out, taking care to spread the sprigs, that they may not dry elogged together ; dust them very much, and dry them in a hot stove. Currants preserved in Jelly.—Stone your currants, clip ofl the black tops, and clip them from the stalks; to every pound boil two pounds of sugar, till it blows very strong ; slip in the currants, give them a