CAL 109 CAL them well with flour, ancl fry them. Serve with fried parsley. Calf’s Feet and Chaudron a Vltalienne. —Make a stuffing with the crumb of a small loaf, a pound of suet, an onion, parsley, pepper, salt, garlic, and eight or ten eggs ; put this into the chaudron, and tie it up. Put the feet into a deep stew- pan, over a slow fire, till the bones are loose, then put in two quarts of green peas, and add the yolks of two eggs, and the juice of a lemon, and season it with pepper, salt, mace, onion, parsley, and garlic. Put the chaudron in the middle of your dish, and the calf’s feet round. Garnish with fried suckers, and sliced onions. Calf’s Feet Jelly.—Take the fat and bones from eight calves’ feet, and soak them in water for three or four hours; then boil them in six quarts of water, skimming often; when reduced to a third, strain and set it by to cool; when cold, take every particle of fat from the top, and remove whatever may have settled at the bottom. Dissolve it in an earthen pan, adding to it two quarts of white wine, mace, cinnamon, and ginger, or not, as you please. Beat up the whites of twelve eggs with three pounds of fine sugar, mix these with the jelly, boil it gently, adding the juice of two lemons, and then strain it for use. Another way.—Boil four quarts of water with tlrree calf’s feet, till half wasted; take the jelly from the fat and sediment, and mix with it the juice of a Seville orange and twelve lemons, the peels of three, the whites and shells of twelve eggs, sugar to taste, about a pint of raisin wine, one ounce of coriander seeds, and a bit of cinnamon. Boil it a quarter of an hour without stirring; then clear it through a flannel bag. While running, take a little of the jelly, and mix with a tea-cupful of water, in which beet root has been boiled, run this through the bag when all the rest is done, this forms a garnish for the other. Calf’s Feet Jelly.—Wash and set on the fire in cold water, four calf’s feet, observ- ing, when they begin to boil, to skim it well; set them by the side of a hot stove to boil gently for several hours ; when all the bones are separated, pass the liquor through a silk sieve, into a large basin or pan; when cold, and a jelly, take all the fat from the top, wipe it well olf with paper, that not the least particle remain, then set it on the fire again to boil; skim it well, take it off, and let it stand while you beat up the whitos of six eggs in a large stewpan, to which put a very small bit of lemon peel, and the juice of four lemons, clarified sugar to sweeten to your taste, and a bottle of bucellas wine ; mix them well together, and examine the jelly that no fat may remain : if there should, take it off the fire, and pour it in the stewpan, with the wine and other things; set it on the fire and continue stirring it till it boils, and let it boil very gently for half an hour. Have your jelly-bag washed very clean, place it in the stand over a large basin, and when the jelly is ready, run it through several times, till it looks clear and bright; when all is through, set it over the fire once more till you see a white scum rise, skim that off, and when the jelly begins to boil it is ready to put into mould. You may garnish your jelly as you fill it up, with different kinds of fruit, &c. placed in the mould. Calf’s Feet Pie.—Boil the feet in three quarts of water, with three or four blades of mace, gently, till reduced to half, then take out the feet and drain them. Lay a good crust in a dish, and when you have boned the feet, put half the meat in it, strew over half a pound of currants, and half a pound of raisins stoned ; lay on the rest of the meat, skim the liquor they are boiled in, sweeten and add to it half a pint of white wine. Pour all into a dish, cover it with crust, and bake it an hour and a half. Calf’s Feet a la Paulette.*—Bone the feet, and when boiled, cut them into small pieces, and put them into a saucepan with a bit of butter, mushrooms, parsley, green onions, garlic, shalots, laurel leaf, thyme, basil, and cloves. Warm them over the fire; put in a little flour, a glass of white wine, the same of stock, season with salt and pepper. Boil it for half an hour over a gentle fire, when reduced to half, take out the herbs and add the yolks of three eggs diluted with a spoonful of vinegar, and one of stock. Thicken without boiling it, and serve quick. Calf’s Feet ii la Proven$ale*— Soak some boiled calf’s feet in a little olive oil, lemon juice, and a glass of good stock, stew them over a slow fire until quite tender. Then work up a little butter and flour, and do it over the fire to colour, then put in the feet, add a pounded anchovy1, and some more lemon juice, boil all to- gether a quarter of an hour, and serve very hot.