BRE BRE 84 have ready to put into the copper ("for every hogshead) one pound of bruised liquorice root, cut short, a quarter of a pound of Spanish liquorice, and six pounds of coarse, brown, moist sugar, or the same quantity of treacle, and so in proportion for every cask. Be careful to put in these ingredients when the wort and hops are boiling, and let them gently boil for two hours, keeping the liquor well stirred from the sides and bottom the whole time : and then strain the hops off, and put it into the coolers the same as the other beers. Put into some of the warm wort, half a pound of moist sugar, boil this in an iron pot till it becomes a black, thick liquid, and then add, before it is cold, a pint of the warm porter, with a spoonful of salt of steel, and mix them well together; this is what tire porter brewers call colour, and is in quality be- tween a bitter and sweet, which gives to the liquor that fine mellow taste and colour usually admired in good porter. In six months it will he fit for use, and will have, when drawn, a fine cauliflower head. As no table beer is requii'ed from this, eight bushels of malt, and eight pounds of hops will be sufficient. BnowN Stout.—To brew brown stout, porter, or strong beer, to go abroad, allow fen bushels to the hogshead, and if in- tended for a hot climate, fourteen pounds of hops, good, strong, perfectly sweet, and full of seed. All malt liquor that is brewed for long voyages at sea should de perfectly ripe and fine, before it is put on board, and should be sent in the same cask it is tunned in. A thirty-six gallon cask or barrel, is the most convenient size for ship-board. For sea voyages too, in lieu of vent-pegs, vent-nails should be procured from the ironmongers, for they shift up and down of themselves, as the beer requires. After the porter is fined in the manner of the other beers, with good hops, to make it carry a fine head, lower the hand in dniwing it, some distance from the cock, and let it run down the side of the tankard, leaving lip-room on the top. If private families would have good casks, and of a uniform size, none are more durable, perhaps, than the ironbound rum-puncheons, which generally hold about one hundred and twenty gallons, which is nearly two hogsheads, beer measure, and may. be purchased of any of the great dealers in Jamaica rum, and at a reason- able price. These with care, and particu- larly if painted in oil colours, will last many years. If new casks be purchased, those of the bell shape are preferred. All new casks must be filled with fresh cold water, and left to stand three or four days, and then well scalded before beer is put into them. In cleaning casks, they must be washed with cold water: and nothing is more efficacious and searching in getting the dirt out of all coolers, casks, Ac. than a lump of unslacked lime flung into the water; when well soaked, the}' must be carefully scrubbed and cleaned with a birch broom. If the casks should happen to become musty, employ a cooper to unhead them and burn them out. As soon as a cask becomes empty, take care to stop up the bung, and vent and cork hole tight, which will be the means of keeping them sweet. The cocks should be taken from empty casks, and immediately clean scalded with boiling water, and put away in a dry place. The following suggestions and notices cannot fail to be useful: Hops of every quality should be kept in a dry chamber. The hops that are intended to be used when brewing, should be wetted thus; let the tub stand under the cock of the copper, which, half turned, enables vou to moisten them gradually. They should be rubbed between the hands to separate them, and break the lumps. To cleanse musty casks, dissolve a pound of bay salt, and half a pound of alum in water, then add as much dung from a milking cow as will render it thick, but not more so than will allow it to pass through a funnel; place it on a fire, and stir it with a stick until it nearly hoils, then put it into the cask; bung it close, shake it about for a few minutes, and let it remain two hours— then take out the bung, and let the vapour escape; fasten it down again, give it another shaking, mid let it remain two hours more. After this, cleanse the cask thoroughly with cold water, not ceasing until it comes out perfectly clean and untainted. This done, have ready a liquor, made with half a pound of bay salt, and two ounces of alum boiled in water; wash the cask well with this, and cleanse the cask as before with water, after which the cask will bo fit for use.