305 CHURCHMEN AND SCIENCE authors in philosophy and theology. In a document pub- lished by Denifle (the distinguished authority on medie- val universities), and by him referred to the year 1252, we find the following works among those prescribed for the Faculty of Arts: Logica Vetus (the old Boethian text of a portion of the Organon, probably accompanied by Porphyry’s Isagoge); Logica Nova (the new trans- lation of the Organon); Gilbert’s Liber Sex Principi- orum ; and Donatus’s Barbarismus. A few years later (1255), the following works are prescribed : Aristotle’s Physics, Metaphysics, De Anima, De Animalibus, De Casio et Mundo, Meteorica, the minor psychological trea- tises and some Arabian or Jewish works, such as the Liber de Causis and De Differentia Spiritus et Animas.” As time went on in the thirteenth and fourteenth cen- turies, the attention to physical sciences was increased rather than diminished. Much of Albertus Magnus’s work, and practically all of that of Aquinas and Roger Bacon, was done after the date here given (1255). The medieval workers at the universities were under the obligation of having to lay the foundations for modern thought, instead of being able to build up the magnifi- cent superstructure which has risen in the seven cen- turies since the universities were founded. Without the foundation, however, the building would indeed not be worthy of admiration. Their work is concealed beneath the surfaces of things, but is not the less important for that, and is in most ways more significant than many portions of the structure that have risen above it. Un- less one digs down to see how broad and deep and firm they laid the foundations, the modern critic will not be able to appreciate their work at its true value. Very few men are able to do this; still fewer have the time or the inclination. The consequence is a sad lack of sympathy with these old-time workers, who neverthe- less did their work so well, and whose accomplishment meant so much for the modern time. It is not hard to