97 THE GOLDEN AGE OF ANATOMY erer of the duct of the parotid gland, which has been named after him, and of many other anatomical details, especially of the fact that the heart is a muscle, which stamp him as an original investigator of the highest or- der, after having made extensive studies in the Nether- lands and in France to complete the medical education which he had begun in his native city of Copenhagen, went down into Italy to secure freer opportunities for original research than he could obtain anywhere else in Europe.1 We have mentioned that it was while he was pursuing his special investigations in various Italian universities that Stensen was honored with the invitation to become professor of anatomy at the University of Copenhagen. This was not a chance event, but a type of the point of view in university education at the time. Just as at the present time the prestige of research in a German uni- versity counts for much as a recommendation for pro- fessorships in our American universities, so in the six- teenth and seventeenth centuries was it with regard to study in Italy. It was felt that men who had spent sev- 1 It may perhaps be of interest to say that while doing investigation in anatomy and certain other sciences allied to medicine. Steno became a convert to the Catholic Church and after some years became a priest. Before his ordination, however, though after his conversion, he received the call to the chair of anatomy at Copen- hagen. He accepted this and worked for several years at the Danish University, but was dissatisfied with the state of affairs around him as regards religion and went back to Italy. Eventually he was made a bishop-hence the curious picture of him in a Roman Catholic Bishop's robes in the collection of pictures of professors of anat- omy at the University of Copenhagen. Not long after, at his own request he was sent up to the Northern part of Germany in order to try to bring back to the Church as many of the Germans as might be won by his gentleness of disposition, his saintly character, his wonderful scientific knowledge, and his winning ways. He is the Father of Modern Geology as well as a great anatomist, and his little book on geology was published after he became a priest, yet did not hamper in any way his ecclesias- tical preferment nor alienate him from his friends in the hierarchy. He was honored specially by the Popes. In a word, his career is the best possible disproof of any Papal or ecolesiastical opposition to science in his time.