APPENDIX 411 It is still clergymen, however, who are the most promi- nent among the anti-vaccinationists, though now they usually find biological and pathological, instead of theo- logical reasons. They proclaim it a crime against nature, from the biological standpoint, that the disease of an animal should be conveyed to man, even for protective purposes.. At the present time one can find just as bitter objections to vaccination in anti-vaccination jour- nals as when the subject was first brought under dis- cussion. Men must find some reason for their oppo- sition, and they take the weapon that is handiest and that they are able to use with best effect. In an era when theological ideas were dominant, theology was ready at hand for this purpose, but any other ology will do just as well, and the history of science, even in the present day, will show that always some ology, regard- less of human feelings, is used quite as ruthlessly and as cruelly as in the olden days. There are tortures of spirit that are worse than prison or even fire. When we recall how few examples there are of oppo- sition to science on the part of ecclesiastics, and how most of these prove on careful examination to be due to misunderstandings rather than to actual desire to prevent the development of science, the stories of the way in which discoveries in science were received in more modern times become a striking lesson that makes us appreciate the broad-mindedness and liberal policy of ecclesiastical educators in the olden time. They were evidently much more ready to accept novel ideas, and much less prone to set themselves up in opposition to them, than the educational authorities of more modern times. This is the phase of the history of education m the thirteenth, fourteenth and fifteenth CuntVIies iReserves the most careful study, and that should make modern educators feel proud of their kinship with these old founders and patrons in educa- tion, who at the same time furnish an example of liberality of mind that it would be very beneficial to have m our modern supposedly free universities. frefLnii aiLe ?rone t0, be proud of our academic freedom, we have had more than one example in recent times of how dangerous it is for a man, even though he may be recognized as an authority in his department.