SUPPOSED PROHIBITION OF DISSECTION 59 city (Rome). Its professors are known for their su- preme talents to the remotest parts of the earth. There is no doubt that they have greatly benefitted by the dili- gent labor which they have devoted to dissection. From this practice beyond doubt they have gained a profound knowledge of their art and a proficiency that has en- abled them to give advice for the benefit of the ailing as well as a skill in the curing of disease. Now such dis- section of bodies is in no way contrary to the bull of Pope Boniface. He indeed imposed the penalty of excommu- nication, to be remitted only by the Sovereign Pontiff himself, upon all those who would dare to disembowel the body of any dead person and either dismember it or horribly cut it up, separating the flesh from the bones. From the rest of his bull, however, it is clear that this penalty was only to be inflicted upon those who took bodies already buried out of their graves and by an act horrible in itself, cut them in pieces in order that they might carry them elsewhere and place them in another tomb. It is very clear, however, that by this, the dis- section of bodies, which has proved so necessary for those exercising the profession of medicine, is by no means forbidden. ”1 This whole subject of the Supposed Papal Prohibition of Anatomy is typical of a certain form of controversial writing against the Church. A document of some time or other from the Middle Ages is taken, twisted from its 1 The original Latin taken from Puschmann runs thus: “De cadaverum sectione facienda in publicis Academiis, utrum constitutio Bonifacii Vm. sectioni humanorum cadaverum adversetur. Singulari dei beneficio medicina studium in hac civitate (Roma) magnopere floret cujus etiam professores ob eximiam virtutem in remotissi- mis terra partibus commendantur. Ipsis sane maxime profuit, quod incidendis mor- tuis corporibus diligentem operam contulerint, ex qua procul dubio praclaram artis scientiam, in consultationibus obeundis proagrotorum salute prastantiam, morbisque curandis peritiam consecuti sunt Porro hac membrorum incisio nullo