APPENDIX 391 and a few words of explanation will serve to show that there was opposition to science, but that this was not due to religious intolerance in any proper sense of the term. Those who give the religious element a prominent place in this, forget how much natural opposition to the introduction of new ideas there is in men’s minds, quite apart from their religious convictions. Nearly two centuries ago Dean Swift said, in his own bitter frame of mind of course, but still with an approach to truth that has made the expression one of the oft-quoted pas- sages from his works : ‘ ‘ When a true genius appears in the world, you may know him by this sign—that all the asses are in confederacy against him.” I suppose the Dean himself would have been the first to insist that some of his colleagues in the ministry emi- nently deserved the opprobrious substantive epithet he employed. It would be too much to expect that there should not be as many foolish ones among the clergy of the olden times as in any other of the professions. Oc- casionally one of these foolish clergymen rose up in opposition to science. Whenever he did, especially if he belonged to the class mentioned by Dean Swift, then he surely made his religion the principal reason for his op- position. That gave an added prestige in his mind and in the minds of those who accepted his teachings, to whatever he had to say on the subject. This no more involved the Church itself, nor ecclesiastics generally, in the condemnation of the particular scientific doctrine, than does the frequent opposition of peculiar members of medical societies to real progress in medicine, involve the organization to which they belong in the old-fogyism which would prevent advance. It must not be forgotten that small minds are always prone to find very respectable reasons for their opposi- tion to something that has been hitherto unknown to them. _ While novelty is supposed to attract, and does when it comes in a form not too unfamiliar, and when men are not asked to give up old convictions for its sake, real newness always evokes opposition. Washington Allston once said very well with regard to this, that An original mind is rarely understood until it has been reflected from some half-dozen congenial with it so