393 APPENDIX significance of this supposed opposition of science and theology in some striking paragraphs. To my mind, he places the whole subject on its proper foundation, and properly disposes of the supposed conflict between religion or theology and science. He says But as I have said before, the real essence of con- servatism lies not in theology. The whole conflict is a struggle in the mind of man. It exists in human psy- chology before it is wrought out in human history. It is the struggle of realities against tradition and suggestion. The progress of civilization would still have been just such a struggle had religion or theology or churches or worship never existed. But such a conception is im- possible, because the need for all these is part of the actual development of man. Intolerance and prejudice is, moreover, not confined to religious organizations. The same spirit that burned Michael Servetus and Giordano Bruno for the heresies of science, led the atheist “liberal” mob of Paris to send to the scaffold the great chemist Lavoisier, with the sneer that the republic has no need of savants.” The same spirit that leads the orthodox Gladstone to reject natural selection because it “relieves God of the labor 9X 9'ieution, causes the heterodox Haeckel to condemn Weismann s theories of heredity, not because they are a^4-.na!biance facts> but because such questions are settled once for all by the great philosophic dictum (his own) of monism.” v . This very natural ultra-conservative mood of scientists hJ a Passa^e from Galileo’s life, in which he himself describes in a letter to Kepler, the great mathematician and astronomer of his time, the re- ception that his new invention, the telescope, met with from distinguished men of science, their colleagues of the moment The Italian astronomer encountered the well-known tendency of men to reason from what they already know, that certain advances in knowledge are impossible or absurd. The favorite expression § that ^^0UMhtS suggested by some new discovery are il- logical. Men have always reasoned thus, and apparently they always will. Knowledge that they learn before they are forty constitutes, consciously or unconsciously lor them the possible sum of human knowledge, and