MAKERS OF ELECTRICITY—By Brother Potamian, F. S. C., Sc. D. (London), Professor of Physics in Man- hattan College, and James J. Walsh, M. D., Ph. D., Litt. D., Dean and Professor of the History of Medicine and of Nervous Diseases at Fordham Uni- versity School of Medicine, New York. Fordham University Press, 110 West 74th Street. Illustrated Price, $2.00 net. Postage, 15 Cents Extra. The Scientific American: “One will find in this book very good sketches of the lives of the great pioneers in Electricity, with a clear presentation of how it was that these men came to make their fundamental experiments, and how we now reach conclusions in Science that would have been impossible until their work of reveal- ing was done. The biographies are those of Peregrinus, Colum- bus, Norman and Gilbert, Franklin and some contemporaries, Gal- vini, Volta, Coulomb, Oersted, Ampere, Ohm, Faraday, Clerk Max- well, and Kelvin.” The Boston Globe: “The book is of surpassing interest.” The New York Sun: “The researches of Brother Potamian among the pioneers in antiquity and the Middle Ages are perhaps more interesting than Dr. Walsh’s admirable summaries of the accomplishment of the heroes of modern science. The book testifies to the excellence of Catholic scholarship.” The Evening Post: It is a matter of importance that the work and lives of men like Gilbert, Franklin, Galvini, Volta, Ampere and others should be made known to the students of Electricity, and this office has been well fulfilled by the present authors. The book is no mere compilation, but brings out many interesting and obscure facts especially about the earlier men.” The Philadelphia Record: “ It is a glance at the whole field of Electricity by men who are noted for the thoroughness of their research, and it should be made accessible to every reader capable of taking a serious interest in the wonderful phenomena of nature.” Electrical World: “Aside from the intrinsic interest of its matter, the book is delightful to read owing to the graceful literary style common to both authors. One not having the slightest acquaintance with electrical science will find the book of absorbing interest as treating in a human way and with literary art the life work of some of the greatest men of modern times; and, moreover m the course of his reading he will incidentally obtain a sound knowledge of the main principles upon which almost all present-dav electrical development is based. It is a shining example of how science can be popularized without the slightest twisting of facts or distortion of perspective. Electrical readers will find the book also a scholarly treatise on the evolution of electrical science and a most refreshing change from the “Engineering English”’ of the typical technical writer.”