409 APPENDIX before he found this wonderful clue to the maze of electrical science, which meant so much for the elucida- tion of difficulties hitherto insoluble. Always men find some excuse other than their own unwillingness to confess that they were wrong. It is to this that they object, and not the acceptance of the new truth. In the course of writing the biographies of the Makers of Modern Medicine, published last year, and the Makers of Electricity, which is now preparing for the press, one fact proved to be very striking. It is that discoverers of really great truths are practically always what we would call young men, and what older men are apt to think of as scarcely more than mere boys. Such men as Morgagni, the Father of Pathology; Laennec, the Father of Pulmonary Diagnosis ; Stokes, who taught us so much about the lungs ; and Corrigan, who laid the foundation of exact knowledge in heart diseases,—were under twenty-five when they made their primal dis- covery, and some of them scarcely more than twenty. Vesalius published his great work on anatomy when he was not yet thirty, and Stensen did his best work under twenty-five. When such men attempt to teach their elders, of course they are properly put in their places by their elders, and this often includes a good deal of bitter satire and discouragement. It is the eternal con- flict between youth and age that constitutes the main reason for opposition to progress in any form of knowl- edge, for youth will be progressive and age will be con- servative. Unfortunately age often dissembles the reasons for its opposition even to itself, and religion and common sense and supposedly established principles of science are all appealed to as contradicted by the new doctrine introduced by young men, the truth of which their elders cannot see. .Nor must it be thought that the second half of the nineteenth century was free from this tendency to per- secute those who made advances in medicine. There is probably no form of treatment which, in the minds of those who know most about the disease, that has done more to save awful suffering in mankind than the Pasteur treatment for rabies. Anyone who knows any- thing about the history of the introduction of that treatment will not be likely to forget how much of pain