THE POPES AND SCIENCE 394 they can only think that apparent progress that contra- dicts their previous convictions must be founded on false premises or faulty observation. We cannot help sym- pathizing with Galileo, though it must be a consolation for others who are struggling to have ideas of theirs adopted, to read the words addressed to his great con- temporary and sympathetic fellow worker by the Italian astronomer. “What wilt thou say,” he writes, “of the first teachers at the University at Padua, who when I offered to them the opportunity, would look neither at the planets nor the moon through the telescope ? This sort of men look on philosophy as a book like the iEneid or Odyssey, and believe the truth is to be sought not in the world of nature, but only in comparison of texts. How wouldst thou have laughed, when at Pisa the leading Professor of the University there endeavored, in the presence of the Grand Duke, to tear away the new planets from Heaven with logical arguments, like magical exor- cisms ! ” “ This gives the key to the real explanation of the Galileo incident better than would a whole volume of explanation of it. It is now realized that very few of those who have been most ready to quote the example of Galileo’s condemnation as an argument for Church intolerance in the matter of science, know anything at all about the details of his case. The bitter intolerance of many men of science of his time, including even that supposed apostle of the experimental method —Bacon—to the Copernican system, is an important but ignored phase of the case of Galileo, as it came before the Roman inquisition. The peculiar position occupied by Galileo caused Prof. Huxley, writing to Prof. St. George Mivart, November 12th, 1885, to say that, after looking into the case of Galileo when he was m Italy, he had arrived at the conclusion that the Pope and the Co - lege of Cardinals had rather the best of it. In our own time, M. Bertrand, the Perpetual Secretary of the French Academy of Sciences, declared that the great lesson for those who would wish to oppose reason with violence was clearly to be read in Galileo s story, an the scandal of his condemnation was learned. without any 'profound sorrow to Galileo himself; and his long life,