124 THE POPES AND SCIENCE John learned how much imposition was being practiced on the people by certain so-called alchemists who claimed to be able to make silver and gold out of baser metals. In order to prevent this, within a year after his eleva- tion to the pontificate he issued not a bull, but a very different form of document—a decretal—forbidding any “alchemies” of this kind. The punishment to be in- flicted, however, instead of being the penalty of death, as Dr. Cruikshank, Dr. White and many others have de- clared, or at least let it be understood from their mode of expression, was that the person convicted of pretend- ing to make gold and silver and selling it to other people, should pay into the public treasury an amount equal to the supposed amount of gold and silver that he had made. The money thus paid into the public treasury was to be given to the poor. The best way to show exactly what Pope John in- tended by his decree is to quote the decree. It does not occur in the ordinary collection of the bulls of John XXII., for it was not, as we have said, a bull in the canonical sense of the term, but a Papal document of minor importance. There is an important distinction between a decree and a bull, the former being but of lesser significance, usually referring only to passing matters of discipline. The decretal may be found in the Corpus Juris Canonica, Tome II., which was published at Lyons in 1779. It is among the decrees or constitu- tions known as Extravagantes.1 1 The meaning of this term we discussed in the previous chapter on Anatomy in relation to the bull of Boniface and Liber VI. The motto of the publisher of the volume in which it occurs deserves quotation because of its apt application in the present circumstance. It is in Latin: “Quod tibi fieri non vis, alteri ne feceris”— “What you would not have done to yourself, don’t do to another.” If writers about the Popes were as careful to substantiate accusations against them as fully as they would like any accusations against themselves to be corroborated before being —