THE POPES AND SCIENCE X PAPAL PHYSICIANS. Belief in miracles and progress in medicine. Prayer and healing The men the Popes chose as their medical advisers. Names greater than those of the medical faculty of any university. Guy of Mont- pelier, Richard the Englishman, Pope John XXI., Simon Januensis and the first medical dictionary. Arnold of Villanova. Guy de Chauliac. Cecco di Ascolo. Joannes de Tornamira. Francis of Siena. Baverius of Imola. John de Vigo. Columbus. Fustachius. Varolius.. Piccolomini. Csesalpinus. Malpighi. Tozzi. Rancisi. Morgagni. Contributions to the biological sciences from Papal Physicians 199 THF FOUNDATION OF CITY HOSPITALS. Pope Innocent III., the Father of City Hospitals. Santo Spirito at Rome. Virchow on the effect of this in Germany. French hos- pitals and the Hotel Dieu. English hospitals. The five royal hos- pitals. Virchow’s tribute to Pope Innocent III. Hospital regulation Care for the poor. Longings of patients. Religious nurses and modern nursing. Virchow’s opinion. Contemporaries on hospital accomplishment. Magnificent hospital building. Models for all future time. A modern achitect’s opinion. Hospital decoration. Siena Hospital. * Hospital abuses. Problem of malingerers. Leper hospitals. The eradication of leprosy. Lesson for our generation as to tuberculosis. Special hospitals for erysipelas. Benefit of segre- gation. The religious dress and its anticipation of aseptic needs. Hospitals ruined when taken from the Church and the religious. .248 THE CHURCH AND THE EXPERIMENTAL METHOD. The doubting mood so important for science supposed to preclude faith. Most great scientists Catholics. Francis Bacon, the supposed Father of Inductive Science. Only the popularizer of the ex- perimental method. Bacon and Copernicus. Gilbert of Colchester before Bacon. Friar Bacon on the experimental method. Peregrinus and the value of experiments. Bacon’s four grounds of human ignorance Bacon’s great teacher, Albertus Magnus, and the ex- perimental method. Christian tradition as to scientific inquiry as begun by Augustine. Albert’s place in the history of inductive sci- ence. Interest of the Middle Ages in physical science 281 s