<<The greatest Catholic Book of recent years.” Father Lambert. THE THIRTEENTH GREATEST OF CENTURIES By THEJa™ J. Walsh, M. D Ph. D.f Lttt D Deanand Professor of Nervous Diseases and oi the Medicine at Fordham University School of Medicine , Professor of Physiological Psychology at Cathedral College, New York; Georgetown University Edition. Over 100 additional illustrations and twenty-six chapters that might have been, nearly 600 pages. Catholic Summer School Press, 110 W. 74th Street, N. Y. Price, $3.50; post free. Prof. William Osler, of Oxford, delivering the Linacre Lec- ture before the University of Cambridge, said: “That good son of the Church and of the profession, Dr. James J. Walsh, has recently published a charming book on The Thirteenth as the Greatest of Centuries. He makes a very good case for what is called the hirst Renaissance.” The Saturday Review1 (of London) : The volume contains a mass of interesting facts that will start a train of profitable thought in many readers’ minds.” The Educational Review said: “ The title of Dr. Walsh’s book, The Thirteenth Greatest of Centuries, will startle many readers, but we respectfully commend to the open-minded his presentation of that great epoch. A century that witnessed such extraordinary achievements in architecture, in arts and crafts, in education, and in literature and law, as did the Thirteenth, is not to be lightly dis- missed or unfavorably compared with periods nearer our own.” The Pittsburg Post said: “Dr. Walsh writes infused with all the learning of the past, enthusiastic in modern research, and sympathetic in true scholarly style, with investigation in every line. One need only run over a few of the topical headings to feel how plausible the thesis is. The assemblage of the facts and the elucida- tion of their mutual relations by Dr. Walsh shows the master’s skill. The work bristles on every page with facts that may be familiar to many, but which were never before so arranged in just perspective, with their convincing forces so clearly shown.” Literary Digest said: “As an interesting and accurate account of medievalism with its intensity, its enthusiasm, its devotion as well as its narrowness and its exclusiveness, this volume may be read with pleasure and profit.” New York Sun: “We are glad to see Dr. Janies J. Walsh’s admirable book in a second edition.” Boston Globe: “Whatever may be the verdict of historians on Dr. Walsh’s monumental work it is certain that no student of medieval history can afford to neglect it.”