CHURCHMEN AND SCIENCE 328 When we recall that the very latest thing m transporta- tion are motor-boats and automobiles driven by gasoline, a high explosive, Roger Bacon’s prophecy becomes one o± those weird anticipations of human progress which seem almost more than human. < * It was not with regard to explosives alone, however, that Roger Bacon was to make great advances and still more marvelous anticipations in physical science. He was not, as is sometimes claimed for him, either the in- ventor of the telescope or of the theory of lenses. He did more, however, than perhaps anyone else to make the principles of lenses clear and to establish them on a mathematical basis. His traditional connection with the telescope can probably be traced to the fact that he was very much interested in astronomy and the relations of the heavens to the earth. He pointed out very clearly the errors which had crept into the Julian calendar, cal- culated exactly how much of a correction was needed in order to restore the year to its proper place, and sug- gested the method by which future errors of this kind could be avoided. His ideas were too far beyond his century to be applied practically, but they were not to be without their effect, and it is said that they formed the basis of the subsequent correction of the calendar in the time of Pope Gregory XIII., about three cen- turies later. It is rather surprising to find how much besides the theory of lenses Friar Bacon had succeeded in finding out in the department of optics. He taught, for in- stance, the principle of the aberration of light, and, still more marvelous to consider, taught that light did not travel instantaneously, but had a definite rate of motion, though this was extremely rapid. It is rather difficult to understand how he reached this conclusion, since light travels so fast that, as far as regards any observa- tion that can be made upon earth, the diffusion is prac- tically instantaneous. It was not for over three cen- turies later that Romer, the German astronomer, de- monstrated the motion of light and its rate by his ob- servations upon the moons of Jupiter at different phases of the earth’s orbit, which showed that the light of these moons took a definite and quite appreciable time to reach the earth after their eclipse hy the planet was over.