SUPPOSED PROHIBITION OF DISSECTION 55 ity, to which we shall see presently it has absolutely no right, vanishes. A word about M. Daunou will serve to show how carefully any declaration of his with regard to the Popes must be weighed. He belonged to that French school of Catholics who try to minimize in every way the influence of the Papacy in the Church, and who, as students of history know very well, do not hesitate even to twist historical events to suit their prejudices and give them a significance detrimental to the Popes. This was the principal purpose of Daunou’s historical writing. There is a little volume called Outlines of a History of the Court of Rome and of the Temporal Power of the Popes, declared by the translator to be by Daunou, which was published in Philadelphia in 1837. The Amer- ican edition was issued as a Protestant tract, and the translator states frankly that M. Daunou’s purpose in composing it was to prove that ‘ ‘ the temporal power of the Roman Pontiffs originated in fraud and usurpation ; that its influence upon their pastoral ministry has been to mar and degrade it, and its continuation is dangerous to the peace and the liberties of Europe; and that its constant influence to these effects is to retard the ad- vancement of civilization and knowledge. ’ ’ M. Daunou’s title for the work as issued originally in French was An Historical Essay on the Temporal Power of the Popes and on the Abuses which they have made of their Spir- itual Ministry.1 Everything that M. Daunou has to say with regard to the Popes is tinged by his political and Gallican preju- 1 The time at which this little hook was published furnishes the best possible com- mentary on its purpose. It was originally issued in 1810, the year after Pope Pius VII. had been carried off from Rome, and when Napoleon was using every effort to discredit the Pope and bring about a state of affairs in which the Pontiff would be compelled to accept a Concordat that would deprive the Church of many of