395 APPENDIX considered as a whole, must be looked upon as the most serene and enviable in the history of science.” Certain historical incidents in which Church author- ities and ecclesiastics assumed an attitude distinctly opposed to true scientific advance can be found. They are, however, ever so much rarer than is thought. Let those who accept unquestioningly the supposed opposi- tion of Church to science, count over for themselves the definite cases of this in history which they know for certain, and they will be surprised, as a rule, on what slight grounds their persuasion in this matter is founded. We have detailed the policy of the Church with regard to education and science. Such incidents of opposition as can be gathered were breaks away from that policy. They were not due so much to faith or theology, though these were often made excuses for them, as to the nat- ural opposition to novelty, so common in man. With regard to this matter, as with regard to opposi- tion in general to science, President Jordan has once more set forth the realities of the situation so as to make it clear that, even when it was the dogmatic spirit that was behind the refusal to accept certain scientific truths, not only was there the best of inten- tions in this in all cases, but in nearly all, the results were such as to benefit mankind, and even to help rather than hinder science. He says : The desire of dogmatism to control action is in its essence the desire to save men from their own folly. The great historic churches have existed ‘ for the benefit of the weak and the poor. ’ By their observances they have stimulated the spirit of devotion. By their com- mands they have protected men from unwise action. By their condemnations they have saved men from the grasp of vice and crime.” The ultra-conservatism which is the real factor at fault in these cases exists in all men beyond middle life. It is a wise provision of nature very probably to prevent the young and headstrong from running away with the race. We would be plunged into all sorts of curious experimental conditions only for the fact that those beyond middle life act as a brake on the initiative of their juniors. While it does some harm, there is no doubt of its supremely beneficial effects in the long run.