Books by Dr. Wa 1 sh Dear Dr. Walsh : r thfnk y°u for your interesting letter enclosing syllabus of Advent Lectures and circular of your latest work. The highest value attaches to historical research on the lines you so ably indi- cate, especially at the present time, when the enemies of Holy Church are making renewed efforts to show her antagonism to science and human progress generally. I shall have much pleasure in perusing your work entitled “ The Thirteenth Greatest of Cen- turies. Wishing you every blessing, I am, Yours sincerely in Xt Rome, January i8//j, 1908. R. Card. MERRY DEL VAL. Fordham University Press Series MAKERS OF MODERN MEDICINE—A series of Biogra- phies of the men to whom we owe the important ad- vances in the development of modern medicine. By- James J. Walsh, M. D., Ph. D., LL.D., Dean and Pro- fessor of the History of Medicine at Fordham Uni- versity School of Medicine, N. Y. Second Edition 1909, 362 pp. Price, $2.00 net. The London Lancet said: “ The list is well chosen, and we have to express gratitude for so convenient and agreeable a collec- tion of biographies, for which we might otherwise have to search through many scattered books. The sketches are pleasantly writ- ten, interesting, and well adapted to convey the thoughtful mem- bers of our profession just the amount of historical knowledge that they would wish to obtain. We hope that the book will find many readers.” The New York Times: “The book is intended primarily for students of medicine, but laymen will find it not a little interesting.” II Morgagni (Italy) : “ Professor Walsh narrates important lives in modern medicine with an easy style that makes his book delightful, reading. It certainly will give the young physician an excellent idea of who made our modern medicine.” The Church Standard (Protestant Episcopal): “There is perhaps no profession in which the lives of its leaders would make more fascinating reading than that of medicine, and Dr. Walsh by his clever style and sympathetic treatment by no means mars the interest which we might thus expect.” The New York Medical Journal: “We welcome works of this kind; they are evidence of the growth of culture within the medical profession, which betokens that the time has come when our teachers have the leisure to look backward to what has been accomplished.” Science: “The sketches are extremely entertaining and use- ful. Perhaps the most striking thing is that everyone of the men described was of the Catholic faith, and the dominant idea is that great scientific work is not incompatible with devout adherence to the tenets of the Catholic religion.”