IX CONTENTS of Perugia. Perugia and the history of culture. Standards in edu- cation. Seven years for the doctorate in medicine. Foundation of the University of Cahors. Modern requirements. Why the Pope favored education 13S THE CHURCH AND SURGERY DURING THE MIDDEE AGES. Mistaken notions as to medieval surgery. Supposed Church dis- couragement of surgery. Misinterpreted ecclesiastical documents once more. Gurlt on surgery during the Middle Ages. Wonderful developments of surgery, when ignorantly said not to exist. Allbutt and Pagel on the great surgeons of the Middle Ages. Salicet. Lan- franc. Surprising anticipations of modern surgery. Mondeville. Surgical common sense. Yperman. Illustrations of surgical instru- ments. Hydrophobia. Chauliac the Father of Modern Surgery. Place in surgery. Chamberlain of the Pope. Technics of surgery. Chauliac’s career. Ardern, the English surgeon. His works. False impressions with regard to surgical history. Professional jealousy not ecclesiastical persecution. The college of St. Come and its lessons. False traditions as to the Church and surgery and their meaning..., 167 THE POPES AND MEDICAE EDUCATION AND THE PAPAL MEDICAL SCHOOL. Papal Medical School at Rome since 1300. Supported by revenues from Popes at Avignon. Previous Papal relations to medicine. Monte Cassino and Salerno. Pope Sylvester II. and medicine. Medical schools and the ecclesiastical authorities. A great physician made Pope. The Renaissance and the re-established Papal Medical School. Columbus original discoverer and practical teacher. At- tendance at his lessons. His book dedicated to Pope. Other medical dedications to Popes. Eustachius’s work. Piccolomini as a great teacher. Csesalpinus the probable discoverer of the circulation of the blood. Father Kircher’s work at Rome. Malpighi the Father of Comparative Anatomy. Tozzi the best teacher of his time. Lancisi as a founder in clinical medicine. On Sudden Death. Mor- gagni’s place as an adviser. Bologna in the Papal dominions. Medical schools at Ferrara and Perugia. Protestant traditions with regard to the Popes and medicine 222