SUPPOSED PROHIBITION OF CHEMISTRY 125 We quote the decree as it is found in Canon Law: “ The Crime of Falsification. “ Alchemies are here prohibited and those who. prac- tise them or procure their being done are punished. ‘ ‘ They must forfeit to the public treasury for the bene- “fit of the poor as much genuine gold and silver as “they have manufactured of the false or adulterate ‘ ‘ metal. If they have not sufficient means for this, the “penalty may be changed to another at the discretion “of the judge, and they shall be considered criminals. “ If they are clerics, they shall be deprived of any bene- ‘ * fices that they hold and be declared incapable of hold- “ing others. (See also the Extravagant of the same “John which begins with the word ‘Providens’ and ‘ ‘ is placed under the same title.)1 “ Poor themselves, the alchemists promise riches ‘ ‘ which are not forthcoming; wise also in their own “ conceit they fall into the ditch which they themselves ‘ ‘ have digged. For there is no doubt that the profes- sors of this art of alchemy make fun of each other “because, conscious of their own ignorance, they are ‘ ‘ surprised at those who say anything of this kind about themselves ; when the truth sought does not come to them they fix on a day [for their experiment] and exhaust all their arts; then they dissimulate [their failure] so that finally, though there is no such thing ‘ ‘ in nature, they pretend to make genuine gold and sil- ver by a sophistic transmutation; to such an extent “does their damned and damnable temerity go that “they stamp upon the base metal the characters of accepted and circulated, we should hear much less of Papal intolerance and of Church opposition to science. Even a dead Pope must be considered as a man whose reputa- tion one should not malign without good reason and substantial proof. I must add that, as with regard to the other Papal documents mentioned, I owe the copy of this decree to Father Corbett, of St. Charles Borromeo Seminary, Overbrook, Pennsyl- vania, and am indebted to him besides for many helpful suggestions. 1 The decree referred to here was issued by John XXII. against the counterfeiting of the money of France. The fact that the two decrees should be considered by canonists as connected in subject shows just what was thought to be the purport of the first, namely, to prevent the debasement of the currency by the admixture of adulterate gold as well as to protect the ignorant from imposition. -