404 THE POPES AND SCIENCE ger’s work, and deprecates the fact that a man who had done so much for mankind should have met with such neglect and lack of appreciation, and even the contempt of his colleagues in medicine, who could not bring them- selves to think that his method of “drumming on the chest,” as they called it, could ever mean much for the recognition of disease.1 In the preface of his book Laennec, like Auenbrugger, prophesies that his work will not receive the attention that it deserves, and attempts to lessen the effect of the derision that will be meted out to it by calmly stating his expectation of it. It is curious that both of these men, one of them a German and the other a Frenchman, one of them a rather stolid Styrian, the other of the lively Celtic nature of the Bretons, should in turn have realized, at a distance of a thousand miles and more than half a century from one another, just what the attitude of the men of science was to be toward their discoveries, even though those are of a kind that were eventually to be hailed as among the most important steps in medical progress ever made. Certain words of Laennec’s preface are an echo of Auenbrugger’s ex- pressions. He said: ‘ ‘ For our generation is not inquisitive as to what is being accomplished by its sons. Claims of new discov- eries made by contemporaries are likely, for the most part, to be met by smiles and mocking remarks. It is always easier to condemn than to test by actual experi- ence. ’ ’ Many, people are accustomed to think that, after the spirit that came into the world with the French Revolu- tion, men were less prone to listen to authority or cling to old-fashioned notions, and that liberalism of mind is to be found written large on many pages of nineteenth century scientific history. One of the great scientists of the first part of the last century was Dr. Thomas Young, to whom we owe so much with regard to the theory of light waves and the existence of the ether to carry them. Men absolutely refused to listen to this idea at all at the beginning, though now it is the 1 Makers of Modem Medicine, by James J. Walsh, M. D„ Ph. D„ LL.D. Fordham University Press, New York, 1907.