CONTENTS XI CHURCHMEN AND PHYSICAL SCIENCE IN THE MEDIEVAL UNIVERSITIES. The Popes and the medieval universities. What the scholastic philosophers did for science. Scientific teaching at the early uni- versities. “Foundations of knowledge for Galileo, Harvey, New- ton and Darwin.’’ (Allbutt.) Magnetics. Philosopher’s stone and the transmutation of metals. Constitution of matter. Matter and form. Indestructibility of matter. Conservation of energy. Albertus Magnus on the antipodes. Humboldt’s appreciation of Albert. Al- bert’s scientific accomplishments. Astronomy, botany, geography and biological sciences. Roger Bacon and explosives ; achievements in optics and astronomy. Aquinas and chemistry. The relations of these men to the Popes. Bacon’s difficulties. Medieval accom- plishments in applied science. Scientific applications in medieval cities (Kropotkin). Decadence in science after Middle Ages. The place of the reformation so-called. The first encyclopedia. Vincent of Beauvais and interest in his work. Thomas of Cantimprato and Bartholomaeus Anglicus. Craving for information in natural science 302 THE MEDIEVAL UNIVERSITY MAN AND SCIENCE. Dante a type of the medieval university student. His knowledge a proof of how he was taught. Dante as a student of nature. Rus- kin’s opinion. Trobridge’s suggestions. Dante’s early education. Azarias and Kropotkin on the public schools of Florence and Nurem- berg. Kuhns on Dante’s science. Optics. Astronomy. Humboldt’s praise of Dante’s scientific knowledge. Dante the observer, phos- phorescence, flies, bees and ants. Dante knew more science than any modern poet. His contribution to the science of education..340 TPIE CPIURCH AND THE MENTALLY AFFLICTED. Disease and supernatural agency. Denial of disease. Scientists and spiritualism. Reaction in recen£ years. Anticipations in psychiatry. Supposed evolution of treatment of the mentally dis- eased. Medieval care of the insane. Psychopathic wards in hos- pitals. The open door treatment. After-care of the insane. The colony system. Religious suggestion and cure—ancient and modern. Prayer and mental disease. Care of the insane at Gheel. Neglect