THE POPES AND SCIENCE 402 opinions and to realize that the assertions of an authority- in science are only to be considered as worth the reasons he advances for them. Most people will be quite ready to congratulate themselves on the fact that our modern time has outlived this unfortunate state of mind, which served to hamper scientific investigation. They will probably even be quite self-complacent over the sup- posed fact that, ever since the study of natural science was taken up seriously at the end of the eighteenth and the beginning of the nineteenth century, this unfortun- ate temper has disappeared. Those who think so, how- ever, know nothing of the history of nineteenth century science, and especially not of nineteenth century medi- cine. Jenner’s great discovery of the value of vaccina- tion against small-pox came just before the nineteenth century opened. It met with the bitterest kind of opposition. This was especially the case in England. There is a doubt whether Germany did not eventually do more to bring about the recognition of the immense value of Jenner’s discovery than his native England. Anyone who has read Jenner’s life knows how much he was made to suffer from the bitterness of opponents’ expressions with regard to.him.1 It is true that he was eventually rewarded quite liberally, and that honors were showered upon him, but only after a preliminary series of trials that must have made him regret, if possible, that he had ever devoted himself to the propaganda oi a great truth. Nor did th.6 duwn of the vaunted nine- teenth century bring in a better state oi affairs m this regard. It might perhaps be thought that this aimost constant tendency to oppose new developments in science was not recognized for what it really is, the ultra- conservatism of human nature as men grow older, unti comparatively modern times. Anyone who knows some of the intimate details of the history of medicine is sure to be better informed in this matter, and to be well aware that, like Harvey, most discoverers m medicine antici- pated this opposition. Usually they have had no exper- ience of it before, but they realize from the way men 1 See my sketch of his life in Makers of Modem Medicine. Press, N. Y.( 1907. Fordham University