398 THE POPES AND SCIENCE subject, though he dared not publish it as yet, Lord Bacon published his Novum Organum, in which he ad- vocated the use in science of the very principles of induction on which Harvey’s great discovery was founded. What happened is interesting for our purpose. Har- vey was so well acquainted with the intolerant temper of men as regards new discoveries, that he hesitated to publish his book on the subject until men had been prepared for it, by his ideas gradually filtering out among the medical profession through the members of his class. He waited nearly fifteen years after his first formal lesson on the subject, before he dared to commit it to print. Shakespeare had made Brutus say to Portia: “ You are my true and honorable wife, As dear to me as are the ruddy drops That visit my sad heart but men were not yet ready to accept the great princi- ple of the blood movement. There seems to be good authority for saying that Harvey had more than suspected his great truth for twenty-five years before he dared print it. He realized that it would surely meet with opposition and would make serious unpleasantness be- tween him and his friends. He was not deceived in anticipation. Many of his friends fell away from him, and according to tradition, he lost more than half oi his consulting practice, because physicians could not and would not believe that a man who evolved such a strange idea as the constant movement of the blood all over the body, from heart to surface and back, could possibly be in his right mind, and, above all, be a suit- able person to consult with in difficult cases. Harvey’s case is a lively picture of what happened to Vesalius the century before in Italy, which we have already discussed at length in the chapter on the Golden Age of Anatomy. President White insists that this persecution was due to ecclesiastical opposition to dis- section but of this there is not a trace to be found Dissection was carried on with perfect freedom at all of the Italian universities, though they were all unde ecclesiastical influence and m none was there more freedom than in the Papal University of Rome, at the