401 APPENDIX men who have had the independence of mind to make discoveries, and so no very bitter opposition was aroused against him. He was considered too harmless to be taken very seriously, but at least when the announce- ment first came, most of those who knew anything about medicine, or thought they did, and this is much more serious in these cases, recognized that young Sten- sen had somehow allowed himself to be led astray into a very foolish notion, and one that could only emanate from a mind not quite capable of realizing truth as it was ; and they did not hesitate to say so. After this Stensen found the Netherlands quite an un- sympathetic place for his studies, and so moved down into Italy, where he could find more freedom of thought for research and more appreciation, and continue his original investigations with less scorn for his new discoveries. Here he continued to hit upon original ideas that were likely to make things quite uncomfortable for him, not because of religious intolerance, but because of the more or less hide-bound conservatism that always character- izes mediocre minds. Far from coming into disrespect here, however, he acquired many and very close friends. He laid the foundation of modern geology and wrote a little book that is a very wonderful anticipation of sup- posedly nineteenth century ideas in that science. He had come down into Italy a Protestant, having been raised m that religion in his native Denmark. He found so much of sympathy with every phase of intellectual activity among the ecclesiastics in Italy, that he not only became a convert to Catholicity, but after a time a Catholic priest. His reputation spread to Rome, and the Pope not only sent for and received this innovator in anatomy and the founder of geology very courteously, but treated him with every mark of appreciation, and this within a half a century after Galileo’s condemnation. btensen> eventually went back to Northern Europe as a m the bope of being able to convert to Catholic- ity those among the Teutonic nations who had been led away during the religious revolt. It might be thought that such examples of persecution were of course rather frequent in the distant centuries, not be take.n too seriously, since they come in times before men had learned to respect one another’s