APPENDIX III. (419) MEDIEVAL, DAW FOR THE REGULATION OF THE PRACTICE OF MEDICINE. It is usually presumed that the practice of medicine was on a very low plane during the Middle Ages, and that while only little was known about medical science, the methods of practicing the medical art were crude, as befitted an earlier time in evolution before modern advances had come. Any such impression is founded entirely on ignorance of the conditions which actually existed. In his studies in the history of anatomy in the Middle Ages, Von Toply1 quotes the law for the regulation of the practice of medicine issued by the Emperor Frederick II. in 1240 or 1241. The Daw was binding on the two Sicilies, and shows exactly the state of medical practice in the southern part of Italy at this time. Everything that we think we have gained by magnificent advances in modern times is to be found in this law. A physician must have a diploma from a university and a license from the government; he must have studied three years before taking up medicine—then three years in a medical school, and then must have practiced with a physician for a year before he will be allowed to take up the practice of medicine on his own ac- count. If he is to take up surgery, he must have made special studies in anatomy. The law is especially interesting because of its regula- tion of the purity of drugs, in which it anticipates by nearly seven centuries our Pure Drug Law of last year. (This law was published in the form here given in the “Journal of the American Medical Association,” January, 1908.) “While we are bent upon making regulations for the common- weal of our loyal subjects, we keep ever under our observation the health of the individual. In consideration of the serious damage and the irreparable suffering which may occur as a consequence of the inexperience of physicians, we decree that in future no one who claims the title of physician shall exercise the art of healing or dare 1 Studien zur Geschichte der Anatomie Toply. Leipzig’, 1898. im Mittelalter von Robert Ritter Von «