Vlll THE POPES AND SCIENCE Mondino in the history of anatomy. Roth’s story of dissection. Guy de Chauliac’s experience at Bologna. The story of dissection during the fourteenth century without a break. Continued in next century. The work of Berengar of Carpi, Achillini, Matthew of Gradi. Path- ological anatomy born with Benivieni. Pres. White’s attitude to the evidence for dissection at this time gj THE GOLDEN AGE OF ANATOMY.—VESALIUS. The golden age of anatomy as of letters and art in Italy. Not origin, but wonderful development. Great predecessors of Raphael and Michel Angelo, as of Vesalius and Columbus. Legitimate culmi- nation of anatomical development. The pre-Vesalians, Mondino, Bertrucci, Chauliac, Achillini, Berengar and Benivieni. The English students, Linacre, Caius, Phreas. Italy the Mecca of anatomical in- vestigators. Harvey and Steno. Graduate work in Italy then as in Germany now. Vesalius’s career. The University of Louvain. Vesalius in Paris, in Italy. The Father of Modern Anatomy. Royal Physician to Charles V. Some historical misconstructions. What the Popes did for anatomy in the sixteenth century 90 THE SUPPOSED PAPAL PROHIBITION OF CHEMISTRY. False impression prevalent just as in anatomy. Striking similar- ity of history-lie. American writers. The Papal decree. Its pur- pose. The gold-brick industry. Fines to be distributed to the poor. Pope John’s bull, Super Illius specula. Appeal to historians of chemistry. Chemistry in later Middle Ages. Albertus Magnus, Thomas Aquinas, Roger Bacon, Raymond Lully, Arnold of Villanova, the two Hollanduses, Basil Valentine, Paracelsus and his ecclesias- tical teachers. Pope John XXII. a 'patron of science and of education ' 120 A PAPAL PATRON OF EDUCATION AND OF SCIENCE. Pope John XXII. distinguished for his administrative abilities, his learning and his abstemiousness. Avarice and the Papal revenues. Educational foundations from Papal revenues. Modern educators and this old-time patron of education. All great Popes subject of slander. The personality of Pope John XXII. Pres. White’s astonish- ing declarations as to the bull Super Illius specula. Pope John XXII. “ a kindly and rational scholar.” His bull for the University