407 APPENDIX effect in Europe met with even more determined opposi- tion than did our own Dr. Holmes. I refer, of course, to Semmelweiss, who, while teaching obstetrics in Vienna, realized that it was the students and doctors en- gaged in pathological work at the same time that they were taking out their courses in obstetrics, who caused the havoc among the patients in his (obstetrical) depart- ment in the hospital. The death-rate in the hands of these obstetrical attendants, who came directly to the lying-in department frorn their work in pathology, was sometimes as high as one in five. Semmelweiss insisted that this state of affairs must cease, and that while the students were doing the pathological work they must not be allowed to attend obstetrical cases. This at once raised a storm of opposition in the university. Poor Semmelweiss lost his position as a consequence of it. In the midst of the rancorous discussion that followed, Semmelweiss lost his reason also for a time, and had to be cared for in an insane asylum. It is well recognized that his beneficent discovery was for him the cause of many years of unhappiness. Nor must it be thought that it is only with regard to medical discoveries that such opposition—bitter, personal, rancorous and persecutory-can be aroused. While it might be thought that the great minds in the ordinary natural sciences would have no reason for the personal ele- ment which more or less necessarily enters into medical discussion because men had been applying for gain the notions that now are proved to be incorrect, and their reputations have been made on such applications, to think that all was placid and quiet in the physical sciences would be a serious mistake. Long ago Virgil asked in a famous line,. ‘ ‘ Is it possible that there can be such great wrath in divine minds ? ” — ‘ ‘ tantaene animae cdestibus irae ’’—.and we might be tempted to ask, can there be such foolish intolerance on the part of scientific teachers ? but the answer would be the same in each case. Virgil found that the gods were very human in this respect, and anyone who knows the history of sci- ence knows the scientists are like the pagan dieties when their conservative spirit is aroused, and when they- are up m arms, as they fondly think, to protect their be- loved science from foolish innovators