THE POPES AND SCIENCE 196 % leges of the Faculty of Medicine, on a liberal education in arts and medicine, on a place in the university, on the suppression of unqualified surgical practice, and less, honourably, on relief from handicraft and urgent calls, the Faculty had to coquette with the barbers. Medicine, proclaimed the Faculty when it suited its purpose, con- tains the theoretical and the practical side of surgery; a surgeon is therefore but the servant of a physician. If St. Come sought to provide lectures in surgery, the Fac- ulty, which kept possession of teaching licenses and de- sired in the surgeon a docile assistant, took the teaching from the college and invited the barbers to lectures of its own. In their duplicity and conceit of caste, physicians of the Faculty condescended even to publish books on surgery, books as arid and as insincere as their lectures. On the other hand, in the person of the King’s Barber, the barbers had a secret and potent influence at Court. The Faculty persisted in denying to St. Come all ‘ eso- teric ’ teaching, all diagnosis, and all use of medical thera- peutics. Aristotle was pronounced to be unfavorable to the ‘vulgarizing of science.’ Joubert was attacked for editing Guy, but replied with dignity (in the notes of his edition). While the Faculty thus tried to prevent the access to letters of a presumptuous body of artisans, St. Come in mimic arrogance disdained the barbers, sought to deny them the name of surgeon, and was jealous of the diffusion of technical knowledge among them in the vernacular tongue.”1 1 As showing how professional jealously may exist in such ways in the modem time* as to hinder progress, the following paragraph, which is the opening portion of Pro- fessor Allbutt’s address, has seemed to me to deserve quotation here. It will illustrate a phase of the subject that is probably utterly unexpected by those unfamiliar with the inner history of medicine in our time, but which is not so surprising to physicians who know the jealousy with which men guard their specialties from what they con-