319 CHURCHMEN AND SCIENCE consider most important in our modern science. The story of Albert’s botanical knowledge has been told in a single very full paragraph by his biographer.- Sighart also quotes an appreciative opinion from a modern German botanist, which will serve to dispel any doubts with re- gard to Albert’s position in botany that modern students might perhaps continue to harbor, unless they had good authority to support their opinion, though, of course, it will be remembered that the main difference between the medieval and the modern mind is only too often said to be that the medieval required an authority, while the modern makes its opinion for itself. Even the most skeptical of modern minds, however, will probably be satisfied by the following paragraph : “He was acquainted with the sleep of plants, with the periodical opening and closing of blossoms, with the diminution of sap through evaporation from the cuticle of the leaves, and with the influence of the dis- tribution of the bundles of vessels on the folial indenta- tions. His minute observations on the forms and variety of plants intimate an exquisite sense of floral beauty. He distinguished the star from the bell-floral, tells us that a red rose will turn white when submitted to the vapor of sulphur, and makes some very sagacious ob- servations on the subject of germination. . . . The extraordinary erudition and originality of this treatise (his tenth book) has drawn from M. Meyer the follow- ing comment: ‘No botanist who lived before Albert can be compared to him, unless Theophrastus, with whom he was not acquainted ; and after him none has painted nature in such living colors or studied it so profoundly until the time of Conrad Gesner and Caesalpino.’ All honor, then, to the man who made such astonishing pro- gress in the science of nature as to find no one, I will not say to surpass, but even to equal him for the space of three centuries.” Pagel in Puschmann’s History of Medicine gives a list