422 THE POPES AND SCIENCE quire him to go out of the village or beyond the walls of the city, not more than one-half tarrene in gold for each day’s service.” (A tarrene in gold was equal to about thirty cents of our money. Money had at least twenty times the purchasing power at that time that it has now. At the end of the thirteenth century, according to an Act of the English Parliament, a workman received 4d [eight cents] a day for his labor, and according to the same Act of Parliament the lol- lowing prices were charged for commodities : A pair of shoes cost eight cents, that is, a day’s wages. A fat goose cost seven cents, less than a day’s wages. A fat sheep unshorn cost thirty-five cents; shorn, about twenty-five cents. For four days pay a man could get enough meat for himself and family to live on for a week, besides material out of which his wife could make excellent garments for the family. A fat hog cost twice as much as a fat sheep, and a bullock about six times as much.— J. J. W.) “ From a patient whom he visits outside of the village or the wall of the town, the physician has a right to demand for a day’s service not more than three tar- renes, to which maybe added, however, his expenses, provided that he does not demand more than four tarrenes altogether. ‘‘He (the regularly licensed physician) must not enter into any business relations with the apothecary, nor must he take any of them under his protection nor incur any money obligations in their regard.” (Apparently many different ways of getting round this regulation had already been invented, and the idea of these expres- sions seemed to be to make it very clear in the law that any such business relationship, no matter what the excuse or method of it, is forbidden.—J. J. W.) ‘‘Nor must any licensed physician keep an apothecary’s shop himself. Apothecaries must conduct their business with a certificate from a physician, according to the regulations and upon their own credit and responsibility, and they shall not be per- mitted to sell their products without having taken an oath that all their drugs have been prepared in the prescribed form, without any fraud. The apothecary may derive the following profits from his sales : Such extracts and simples as he need not keep in stock for more than a year before they may be employed may be charged for at the rate of three tarrenes an ounce.” (90 cents an ounce seems very dear, but this is the maximum.) ‘‘Other medicines, however, which in consequence of the special conditions required for their preparation or for any other reason the apothecary has to have in