THE POPES AND SCIENCE 406 reduced to five per cent, the hospital authorities felt quite self-complacent about it. Shortly after the be- ginning of the second quarter of the nineteenth cen- tury, there began to come glimmerings of the real cause of the affection. It was not due to something from within the patient, but was caused by a materies morbi intro- duced from without. Usually the physician in attend- ance was responsible for the introduction of it. He came to these patients after contact with septic cases of various kinds improperly cleansed. The consequence was that he infected them, and puerperal fever was contracted. It would seem as though the medical profession would be very ready and willing to test any such simple ex- planation of the origin of a serious disease, and if possible secure its diminution. On the contrary, the old men proved to be so wedded to the notion that the physician could not possibly be the cause of this serious condition, that they were very bitter in their denuncia- tion of those who tried to introduce the new idea. One distinguished old professor of midwifery declared very superciliously that, of course, it was a very charming thing for a young poet to insist on the notion that these serious diseases were not associated necessarily with the beautiful function of maternity. itself, but were extraneous factors quite apart from it; but there was no doubt, he declared, that the affection came from within, all the same, and that the youthful poet’s idea was only a pleasant fiction. The poet in the case was Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes, and, needless to say now,, though he was laboring under the heinous crime of being a young man, and did indulge in occasional poetry, he was entirely in the right, and the distin- guished old professor entirely in the wrong. No little denunciation was heaped upon the devoted head of Holmes, however, for his strenuous humanitarian work with regard to this subject. It cost Holmes some of his medical friends and not a little practice for some time. Even in America, then the land of the free, there was a strong conservatism that made the introduction of new ideas a very difficult and almost a dangerous thing. The man who worked out the same idea to a practical