THE POPES AND SCIENCE 410 and suffering the discovery and introduction of it cost its author. Nothing too bitter could be said by the medical profession of Germany for many years after the treatment was first broached. One of the most distin- guished of German medical discoverers in the nine- teenth century said, in a very climax of satire, “that the distinguished Frenchman deserved to be well known as one who treated diseases of which he knew nothing by remedies of which he knew less.” His good faith was impugned, his statistics scorned, his results laughed at, even his friends hesitated to say anything on the subject. Those who were close to Pasteur know that he suffered, for his nature was of the most sensi- tive, veritable torment because of this bitter opposition, which at one time, because his French colleagues also were sceptical of his treatment,. threatened to impair the usefulness of our greatest discoverer in nineteenth century medicine and leave him without that support which would enable him to go on with his precious in- vestigation. The more recent furore against antitoxin is still in many persons’ minds. Physicians who used it, and in whose cases serious results took place, not the conse- quence of the antitoxin, but the consequence of factors of the disease over which they had no control, sometimes suffered seriously in their practice. All forms of oppo- sition were aroused against it. Even at the present time one still hears of the crime, as some do not hesitate to call it, of injecting the serum of a diseased animal into the veins of the human being, and above all a little child. There are men (intelligent men!) who do not stop short of tracing all sorts of disease incidents that happen after such an injection, even many years later, to the evil effects of the horse serum employed. Such people are exercising that superstitious fanatic faculty which at all times has caused the obstinately conserva- tive to seek and find the most serious objections to any new doctrine, careless of the consequences that they might bring on the discoverer or the benefit they might prevent for the mass of humanity. Originally vaccination was opposed by certain clergy- men on the grounds of theological objection to its use. At the present time most of such objection has ceased.