448 Ossification of the pulmonary artery. It has been shown that sometimes when there is disease in the mitral valves, palpitation of the calcarious matter appears to be completely on the surface of the valves. When this change has taken place in the valves, they seldom remain applied to the surface of the artery, but most frequently, according to Corvisart, there is a curling or retraction in them, so that they appear somewhat irregularly fallen down. The principal effect, of course, is to occasion a contraction of the mouth of the aorta, so that sometimes it leaves merely a fissure for the passage of blood ; and occasionally the orifice is nearly obliterated. Corvisart has related an instance in which the valves were not only indurated and ossified, but thickened by the deposition of calcarious matter between the folds, and their free edges approached so as to touch each other. Had not the base of one of these valves preserved sufficient pliability to per- form a kind of seesaw motion, which augmented, by a line or two, the opening for the passage of blood, it would have had to pass out of the ventricle by an exceedingly narrow slit. The degree and nature of the induration of the valves present considerable diversity, and in the greater number of instances the internal membrane of the aorta, contiguous to the valves, parti- cipates more or less in the disease. We may often wonder how life has been preserved for some years under the degree of obstacle to the circulation which had existed; and we are reminded of what has already been referred to, namely, the principle of adaptation to diseases of slow formation. So frequently do the coats of the aorta become the seat of these calcarious depositions, that Bichat estimates their existence in seven out of ten subjects above the age of sixty; and Dr. Baillie believes that they are more frequently found at that age, than that the arterial system should possess a healthy structure. When the orifice of the aorta is obstructed by disease in the valves, strong and frequent palpitations usually take place, because the heart fills with ease, but empties itself with difficulty, so that blood is delayed in the left cavities. “ The pulse,” says Corvisart, “ may preserve a certain degree of hardness or stiff- ness, but never much fulness or regularity.” Sometimes, however.