138 SECTION X. Hydrophobia. The symptoms in this disease are so greatly diversified, that there cannot but be considerable air. In a few instances it was the seat of evident inflammation. Fluid is said to have been deposited “ between the membranes,” indefinitely, in five or six cases, but it had taken place betwixt the tunica arachnoides and pia mater in at least a moiety of the whole of the cases, and in some of them the quantity was very con- siderable. When this fluid was subjected to chemical analysis it was incoagulable by heat and acids, but a cloudiness was pro- duced, and when the liquor had stood for some time, there was a slight decidium of animal matter. Some crystals of nitrate of soda resulted from evaporation. In one instance, in which an abun- dance of serous fluid pervaded the membranes, there was a depo- sition of a milky fluid between the tunica arachnoides and pia mater on the left posterior lobe, which presented the appearance of a vesication. The convolutions in this case wer# so large and distinct as to resemble the intestines of a child. The ventricles in nearly an equal number of cases were occupied by fluid from the smallest excess to the quantity of eight ounces. In one of these instances the fluid did not exceed two tea spoonfuls, but was of a deep yellow colour; and it is worthy of remark that the gall-bladder contained one calculus like a mulberry, and another had fallen into the duodenum: the coats of this cyst were thickened. In two or three cases there were hydatids or vesicles on the choroid plexuses; and in a very few others extravasation of blood between the membranes or into the ventricles. The texture of the cerebral substance presented no uniformity of appearance. In several it afforded examples of unnatural firmness, and, in nearly an equal number, of unusual flaccidity. The author states that he but once saw it elastic as well as firm; but he sometimes reports it to have been doughy. Its vessels were often so charged with blood that it might have been pressed out as if from a sponge. Once the middle lobe of the cerebrum had become gangrenous and was beset with foetid pus. The glandulae Pacchioni in some of