449 heart and intermission of the pulse do not imme- diately follow. When other obstacles nearer to very extensive depositions of calcareous matter take place without irregularity of the pulse. I have before me the heart of an octogenarian who died under symptoms of hydrothorax, and whose toes had sphacelated; but though the pulse had been quick and vibrating, it had not been intermittent or irregular. Two of the aortic valves are nearly covered with a thick and horribly rugged deposition of bony substance, and more than half the third is in a similar state. The aortic fold of the valves is destroyed. The root of the aorta is rather wide, and pervaded by osseous substance, some of which lay open to the current of blood, but patches, in other parts, were still between the coats of the vessel. The coronary arteries are a complete bony canal. Those extremities of the chordae tendineae of the mitral valves which are united with the carneae columnae, are in a state of incipient ossification; and behind the mitral valves, in the auriculo-ventricular aperture, there is a very considerable accu- mulation of phosphate of lime. The parietes of the left ventricle were thickened, and the capacity of the cavities on this side was augmented. Angina pectoris has been ascribed to a degeneracy of the muscular structure of the heart, in consequence of ossification of its nutrient arteries. I have met with a few cases, however, in which a large portion of calcareous matter had been deposited between the coats of the coronary arteries, so that in two cases they were nearly obliterated, yet the muscular substance of the heart was firm and healthy. These, however, should only be regarded, perhaps, as exceptions to what many eminent men have regarded as the pathology of the disease. The arteries are not only liable to obstruction from calcareous and other depositions within their coats ; and they are sometimes obliterated by lymph. During the sloughing of contiguous parts of a limb, coagula have so effectually plugged the arteries that no blood has flowed on amputation. A remarkable case is related in the fifth vol. of the Phil. Trans, abridged, in which very little bleeding ensued after amputation of the thigh, “ because the arteries and veins, which were eaten asunder by the mortifying G g