IOC came to the hospital of St. Mary cle Vita for the Mound to be dressed. The wound appearing “ mischief is most certainly impending, and that most probably “ under the skull.” When matter or serum is deposited remote from the contused part, it probably arises from the concussion. xt If the symptoms of pressure, such as stupidity, loss of sense, “ voluntary motion, &c. appear some days after the head has “ suffered mischief, they most probably imply effusion of fluid somewhere: this effusion maybe in the substance of the brain, “ in its ventricles, between its membranes, or on the surface of “ the dura mater; and which of these is the real situation of such “ extravasation, is a matter of great uncertainty, none of them “ being attended with any peculiar mark or sign that can be ** depended upon as pointing it out precisely; but the inflam- “ mation of the dura mater, and the formation of matter between “ it and the skull in consequence of contusion is generally indi- “ cated and preceded by one which I scarcely ever knew to fail; “ a puffy, circumscribed, indolent tumour of the scalp, and a <f spontaneous separation of the pericranium from the skull “ under such tumour. These appearances, therefore, following a “ smart blow upon the head, and attended with langour, pain, “ restlessness, watching, quick pulse, headach, and slight irre- “ gular shiverings do almost infallibly indicate an inflamed dura “ mater, and pus either forming or formed between it and the “ cranium.” In some of the following cases, especially those of fracture, it will be evident that the practice had been inefficient; but even these cases are instructive, inasmuch as they tend to show the progress of such injuries when left to themselves. Morgagni indeed was aware, on one or two occasions, that some apology was needful for Valsalva’s not having trephined ; and he ascribes it to a pre- dominant aversion to the operation on the part of the patient’s friends. He relates that the division of the dura mater, to remove matter from beneath it, had been proposed by eminent surgeons; but he does not record any instance of its having been performed. He was fully sensible of the difficulty which would usually arise in determining the seat of pus or of extravasated blood.—Ed.