291 Pcripneumonyy with inflammation and other affections of the pleura. In several of the preceding* cases the pleura had been implicated in the disease, but in the following* the pleura and peritoneum ; also upon fibrous membranes, as the dura mater, the periosteum, external membranes of the eye, ear, and capsules of the joints; and upon mucous surfaces, as the mem- brane of the air tubes, of the alimentary canal, the genital and urinary organs, &c. Some of these concretions wherever found, soften in boiling water; others, however, will harden, from which circumstance Portal inferred that some were gelatinous and others albuminous. He attributed them chiefly to a concretion of coa- gulable lymph secreted from the membranes; often from being irritated by foreign bodies, or by some acrimony, but most frequently from inflammation. There is not so great a tendency to the effusion of coagulable lymph in the mucous membranes as in the others. It is often thrown out by the latter during slight inflam- matory action, though but seldom by the former, except from violent inflammation. It is not only effused upon the surface of membranes, often uniting the contiguous parts by adhesive inflam- mation, but it is also effused into the substance of the different organs of the body, and particularly into their cellular texture, where it occasions morbid adhesions and obliterates the natural organization of the part. The density and consolidation of the lungs in cases of peripneumony, arise from its being deposited in the parenchymatous structure of these viscera, in combination, perhaps, with some blood extravasated from the injected vessels. In general, wherever lymph is effused, vessels speedily shoot into it, and impart to it the nature of organized substances. In this way many tumours and polypi originate and grow, where circumstances are, in other respects, favourable to these processes. The chemical properties of coagulable lymph are these of albumen; and occa- sionally there exists so much of it in the serous fluids effused into the cavities, that they not only coagulate by exposure to heat, but, whilst they merely stand at rest, a portion of them congeals. Valsalva and Morgagni found the blood in a state of fluidity, and also a redundance of serous fluid in the head, in cases which it did not appear requisite to adduce.—Ed. u 2