129 greatly desired to enter, her intellects became somewhat impaired. She began to talk incohe- rently, and frequently rejected food. For some was connected with intestinal and hepatic derangement; and in no disease is it of greater moment to observe the condition of these functions, for perhaps to this cause and to the irritation of teething, most of these occurrences in children are ascribable. The former of these is also a fruitful source of spasm in adults. Whether in the following instance of its invasion of the heart and diaphragm, as well as other muscles, the disease should be traced to an intestinal or uterine origin, perhaps combined with excitement from premature exertion, I leave undetermined. Mrs. Wood, a young and healthy lady, was delivered of her fourth child on Monday, Feb. 12, 1821. She had a favorable labour, but the after-pains were unusually severe. On Thursday she was so well as to be sitting up with her friends at tea, when I called upon her. On Friday the bowels being confined she took a little castor oil, but it had not operated when in the night she was seized with violent pains in the wrists and arms; and the fol- lowing morning I found the muscles rigid. Over the w'hole body, she felt a tingling sensation in the skin. The pulse was eighty, the head w'as entirely free from pain, and the tongue moderately clean. She had no evident internal disease. By this time there had been alvine evacuation; and the excrement did not exhibit any peculiarly unnatural appearance. At half past five in the afternoon she was seized with tightness across the chest, accom- panied with acute pain. Before seven o’clock I attended and found her in the most excruciating agony, and the most imminent danger. She could scarcely breathe and pointed to the region of the heart and diaphragm as the seat of pain ; though she had repeatedly endured laborious parturition without a groan, from the agony now experienced she screamed violently. One mo- ment she sought relief by begging to be raised up—the next, by requesting to be laid down—every posture was solicitously tried but without any mitigation of suffering. The pulse generally was imperceptible, and when it could be felt it beat in the most hurried and irregular manner. Whilst there w as this painful affec- tion of the involuntary muscles, her torment was aggravated by an K