247 larger quantity was on the left side, and this coin- cided with the more diseased tonsil, and the vas- cular plenitude of the pia mater. The pericardium contained a little reddish fluid, the heart was large, the surface of the aorta was of a brownish red colour, and was somewhat un- even from small white excrescences. The parietes of this vessel were hardened. *—Morgagni, xliv. 3. * Whenever the mucous membrane of the larynx or of the trachea is the seat of inflammation the most dangerous conse- quences ensue. But the larynx is occasionally the seat of a spas- modic affection, during which a train of symptoms arises, similar to those that characterize the inflammatory disease, and which may lead to a most injurious plan of treatment. The discrimi- nation of these cases is sometimes exceedingly difficult; but nervous and susceptible persons, and particularly hysterical females, are most liable to the spasmodic affection: and, as far as my own observation has extended, there are remissions in the paroxysms, which in suddenness and degree have no parallel when the symptoms arise from inflammation. In a fine boy eleven months old, that recently died suddenly from a spasmodic affection of the larynx, I found the membrane covering the epiglottis in a state of slight ulceration. He had repeatedly undergone similar attacks, but had been free from them for a fortnight, and appeared quite well on the day of his death, till in the act of struggling to get from the mother’s lap, and beginning to cry, the fatal event occurred. The mesenteric glands were exceedingly enlarged; the vessels in the pia mater were turgid, especially in that process of it which lines the ventricles; the tunica arachnoides was elevated by a subjacent fluid; and the substance of the brain was very soft. Though I have often seen the disease, this is the only instance in which I have known it fatal. One of my own children was severely affected with it; for during a period of twelve months, whenever his bowels were in an unnatural state, the irritability of the larynx was so ex- cessive that either laughter or crying produced a spasmodic con- striction of that organ, threatening suffocation ; and leaving him in a most feeble state for some hours.—Ed.