160 # fiftieth day from the commencement of this plan the affection was entirely removed.*—Morgagni, xiv. 37. * One of the most affecting species of congenital imperfection is deafness with its consequent speechlessness. The vocal powers may be impaired or destroyed by lesions in the organ of voice itself, or in those organs which are tributary to it; but some- times the impediment originates from a distant source. Of the former description are inflammation and thickening in the mem- brane of the larynx, effusions of lymph, deposition of fluid in the cellular tissues, ulceration, excrescencies, enlargement of the glands, and foreign bodies, as well as the different diseases to which the cartilages are liable. The same effect may be occa- sioned by the trachea being compressed by tumours or other affections of the adjacent parts. Of the remote causes of injury to these organs, perhaps the most frequent are those lesions of the brain by which the influence of the nerves is usually destroyed, so that aphonia, or an inability to control the motion of the tongue, has been a frequent precursor of apoplexy, para- lysis, epilepsy and similar affections: but at other times there has been aphonia from paralysis of the tongue exclusively. An unnatural performance of the digestive functions induces a state of the nervous system well known as a fruitful source of local disease, and local irregularity of action. A suppression of habitual haemorrhages has given rise to derangement and even extinction of voice. Over-exertion has a tendency to circum- scribe the range of this faculty. M. Portal has related the case of a celebrated Italian singer who after two months severe exertion of the voice found it become somewhat more bass; when she was required to sound all the notes distinctly, beginning from below, an obstacle to the full ascent was clearly distinguished. She had become plethoric. Bleeding and blistering were resorted to, but six months elapsed before she was able to resume her engage- ments at the theatre. He has also reported an instance in which the voice of a thin, lively, and irritable woman was so peculiarly irregular that it was ascribed to witchcraft. Loss of voice has also resulted from overwhelming passions, but when this has been the cause the effect has seldom been permanent. Dr. Serres has related a case of aphonia with injury of all the senses which was produced by the wind of a cannon-ball.—Ed.