84 sometimes preceded by slight convulsions, or by opisthotonos. The heart was generally found dis- tended with air, and death seemed to have arisen from the functions of this organ being obstructed. Had I found the heart of the fisherman distended, I should have believed that he died from a similar cause: but as the vessels in no part of the body were equally turgid with those of the cerebrum and cerebellum, it does not seem unreasonable to attribute the apoplexy and death to obstruction of the circulation through the brain, and the compres- sion arising from it.*—Morgagni, v. 24. * The connection between active aneurism of the left ventricle of the heart and apoplexy, has been adverted to in a former note; but perhaps I have not administered justice to the researches of M. Bricheteau of Paris, who within two years collected a large body of evidence on this subject at the Hotel Dieu, and of which he has detailed thirteen cases; nor have I perhaps been equitable to Dr. Johnson, one of our own distinguished medical writers, whose own observation has tended to sanction the opinions of Dr. B. respecting the frequency of this correspondence. Other states of cardiac aneurism, and other forms of disease in this organ, by which its functions or pulmonary circulation may be impeded, will conduce to a loaded state of vessels in the head. Persons have sometimes been reported to die under the symp- toms of apoplexy, in whose brain after death no morbid appear- ances could be detected; nevertheless the cause of death has been referred to some inappreciable lesion of the encephalon. This opinion has been adopted by some pathologists whose accu- racy of investigation cannot be questioned; but it must be a very rare occurrence, and perhaps in some of these cases the fatal instrument existed in the medulla spinalis, the heart, or some part of the vascular system. It is impossible to adduce all the sources of this disease. I shall only add to those which have been stated, insolation, ungoverned passion, and narcotic drugs. We may infer, from a large proportion of the preceding cases.