330 It was at night, and especially after supper, that he was chiefly molested with cough. His respiration paraphonia, which is sometimes very remarkable in phthisical persons, he ascribes to an injury of the recurrent nerves, from those parts of the lungs which receive branches from these nerves being diseased. In the phthisie de rtaissance, or hereditary phthisis, he main- tains that the lymphatic glands are the seat of the disease, and the bronchial either sound or only secondarily affected. In three infants of M. B which died phthisical. Portal found the lungs full of concretions, some were red, and, as it were, fungoid; others appeared to possess the nature of wens; others were as hard as scirrhi, and some were suppurated. Most of the bron- chial glands were healthy, but some which were contiguous to the lymphatic glands, had undergone a change in their appear- ance. He was confirmed in the opinion of the lymphatic nature of this disease from the circumstance, that the glands of the mesentery, those along the neck, the oesophagus, &c. were swollen and full of a gypseous matter. Portal sur Plusieurs Maladies. Morgagni avouched the hydatid origin of tubercles on the pleura and peritoneum, and in the texture of the viscera; and this subject has been ably dilated upon by Drs. Baron and Jenner. Whatever opinion is entertained as to the precise texture of tubercles, all agree that their formation is connected with a morbid state of the lymphatic system. M. Broussais maintains that, as it is the superior developement of the nervous and san- guiferous systems which disposes certain persons to the neuroses, to acute inflammations, and to haemorrhages; an analogous con- stitutional disposition, in which the lymphatic system enjoys a remarkable predominance of action, is the organic condition which renders other persons so liable to morbid enlargement of the lymphatic glands. The scrofulous diathesis, he considers to be merely the lymphatic constitution carried to the highest degree; and which may be transmitted from parents to their children, just as the sanguineous and nervous temperaments may be transferred. It may be doubted whether the suppuration which existed in