137 It must, however, be admitted, that the indurated state of the brain has been observed when there had been no manifestation of a disordered mind; and aberration of intellect has existed without a morbidly resisting quality in the texture of that organ.*—18. * Mental alienation has awakened a degree of interest amongst men of science and humanity in some degree commensurate with its peculiarly distressing and humiliating consequences. Exa- minations after death, however, have not developed any uniformity in the parts affected, or in the nature of the deviation from a healthy state, though some of the encephalic structures are more frequently diseased than others. I shall give an abstract of thirty seven cases from Haslam’s observations on melancholy and mad- ness, a work which is well known. In the greater number no men- tion is made of the pericranium; in about four instances, however, it was firmly, and in seven very slightly adherent to the skull; in one of the latter cases the bone appeared as if it had been inflamed in patches, aiqj in another, as soon as the pericranium was removed from the cranium, to which indeed it scarcely adhered, blood oozed from the parietal bones. The skull sometimes was thicker, at others thinner than usual. It is worthy of remark that the dura mater is not once mentioned as having been particularly diseased, though in about three or four cases it was more closely or more loosely attached to the calvarium than natural. There are a few instances in which it is said that there was determination of blood to the head, and probably the vessels of this membrane partook of the general plethora. The tunica arachnoides almost invari- ably indicated the consequence of inflammation in the opacity and thickening of its texture. This was variable in degree: in some cases there were only opaque spots—in others there was a diminution of transparency—or slight opacity—or a milky whiteness. In some it was obviously thickened, and in one case to such a degree as to exceed the thickness of the dura mater: in a solitary instance it was blood-shot. The pia mater, in the larger proportion of the cases was suffused; in some of the cases the vessels were dilated, and in three or four the veins contained