97 SECTION VII. Epilepsy. In the following cases Epilepsy will be found to have resulted from primary disease in the brain* to the form of paralysis which constitutes hemiplegia; and that he always found an injury done to the brain in consequence of extravasation of blood. “ I have examined them/’ says he, “ at all stages; when it was recent,—some of weeks standing,— “ others of months,—and a few of years,—in which I saw the “ progress of reparation.” In a case alluded to by Morgagni (vide page 38) this process of recovery had been completed. Drs. Bricheteau, Rochoux, and Riob6 have elucidated this restorative process by describing the formation of a peculiar membrane in the substance of the brain surrounding the coagu- lum. From this membrane it is supposed that a serous fluid is secreted which dissolves the clotted blood, and that paralyses occasioned by sanguineous effusions, gradually disappear in pro- portion as the fluid is absorbed. Dr. Serres has recently published three cases in which the progress of restoration from extravasation into the substance of the brain by cicatrization was strongly marked. In the first the man died six weeks after the attack of apoplexy* The blood had been effused into the cerebral substance near the optic thalamus and corpus striatum, and the cavity formed by it was nearly obliterated. Complete reunion had taken place to the extent of an inch and a half; cellular meshes proceeded from side to side ; and its internal parietes exhibited numerous granulations resem- bling those commonly designated fleshy vegetations: and from these circumstances he inferred that nature had proceeded as in the solution of continuity of bone or muscle. In the second case the patient died a month after the apoplectic seizure. He had suffered hemiplegia in the side opposite to that on which the cerebral lesion had occurred; but in this part, at the time of death, nothing except an undulating and firm cicatrix was discovered. The limbs regained their mobility in proportion as cicatrization H