494 SECTION XVI. Rupture of other vessels in the thorax. Sadden death may be produced from the rup- ture of the pulmonary vein and vena cava, and of degree as to completely fill the cyst, and the communication between it and the artery becomes obliterated. Whenever this fortunate event has occurred, another process commences, namely, the absorption of the lamellated coagulum, and the progressive contraction of the sac; and by this means a perma- nent cure is effected, without inevitably diminishing the caliber of the artery. This, however, is not always the case, for the aorta has been found obliterated under circumstances which led to a belief that it originated in the spontaneous cure of aneurism. In a case which recently fell under my notice, the congealed fibrous substance possessed incompressible solidity ; it was of a globular figure, and about as large as a fist. The blood continued to traverse it only in one very narrow channel, the smallest deposition in which would have rendered the sac com- pletely impervious. When an aneurism is situated in a part beyond the access of a ligature, the principal aim in the plan of treatment, should be to subdue the force of circulation, and to promote the formation of coagula in the sac. To Albertini and Valsalva the merit is due of having first adopted the most efficient measures to answer these indications, not only in arterial aneurisms but also in aneurisms of the heart, though in the latter it can only be appropriate to the active form. Albertini first announced his method of curing aneurisms in “ The Memoirs of the Academy “ of Bologna,*’ and the result of this debilitating treatment was found by Valsalva and other physicians at Bologna, commensu- rate with the expectation excited. Morgagni has given an adequate exposition of this plan of treatment, and I shall only add that conjointly with depletive measures, and perfect quietude of body, it is of great importance to maintain an equal degree of mental tranquillity, and to direct due attention to the condition of