154 trachea, the lungs, or other organs. After pro- tracted hoarseness Spigelius found the whole as well as of the pharynx and oesophagus present more constant appearances of augmented vascularity. This appearance has varied in degree; sometimes representing a slight blush of inflam- mation, at others the inflammatory action has been more con- spicuous, but with equal if not greater frequency it has borne the aspect of congestion of blood, appearing, from the lividness of colour, as if the affected parts were verging to gangrene. The oesophagus has been found in a contracted state, and this tube as well as the trachea, has been observed to be destitute of its natural moisture. An unusual prominence has been noticed in the papillae of the tongue. The lungs are often the seat of exces- sive congestion of blood, and the pleura is occasionally inflamed. The heart is sometimes enlarged, and its vessels appear in a state of turgidity. The inner coat of the stomach frequently exhibits a plethoric condition of vessels with numerous spots which seem to be owing to extravasation of blood; the rugae being large and prominent. In this state of increased vascularity the diaphragm has not unfrequently participated. The liver and other viscera have occasionally presented indications of similar disorder, which might indeed be expected under such exquisite nervous susceptibility, such mental perturbation, and such vas- cular excitement as are associated in this disease. The inequality in the distribution of blood is often denoted by the comparative state of the larger vessels after death, some of them being loaded with blood when others are empty. It is a circumstance worthy of notice that in many of these bodies, putrescence occurs soon after death. The infection is usually imparted by the bite of a dog or cat; in India the jackal is also an agent of its propagation. M. Breschet is reported to have communicated the disease to a dog by inoculating him in the neck with the frothy saliva of a man under hydrophobia. Morgagni believed that the disease had even arisen from the virus having only fallen on the human skin, but this is scarcely credible. Symptoms which greatly resemble those of rabies contagiosa have arisen from moral impressions. Au anecdote is related by