871 grew more distressing, and he died on the sixth day. the bowels relaxed. The urine at intervals is scanty, and serous effusion shows itself in the extremities; and approaching ascites and anasarca are announced. Third stage. The face is more bloated, more cedematous, and especially more suffused than before. The lips and cheeks, as well as the nose, are bluish, violet, and livid. The extremities are cold, and the integuments of the body anasarcous. There is con- stant anxiety of mind, so as frequently to produce furious despair; and sometimes the patient is delirious. The pulsations of the heart are on some occasions scarcely perceptible; but a deep in- describable tumult, or a diffused rustling, is felt on applying the hand. The pulse, in almost all cases, is small, frequent, unequal, intermittent, scarcely perceptible, and often vermicular. The sense of suffocation is every moment more threatening. There is a convulsive-like cough; and often bloody sputum is expec- torated, or a mucus, which from the state of the mucous mem- brane of the bronchia, resembles pus. The digestive powers seem to be nearly annihilated. The urine is thick and scanty, and deposites a sediment; and the serous diathesis is often at the highest pitch. When the disease goes through all its stages, death [is some- times slow, and the patient expires insensibly; on the contrary, when the patient dies in the second stage, death is almost uniformly sudden and unexpected. The distinguishing marks of the active species are, a san- guineous temperament, a robust constitution, vigour of life, a red countenance, suffused eyes, a strong, hard, and vibrating pulse ; and it is often the consequence of an acute lesion, or one excited by immoderate and long continued exertion. The passive species is indicated by a lymphatic temperament, a feeble con- stitution, a countenance pale and wan, though sometimes bloated and violent. The palpitations are weak and sometimes slower and duller, the pulse is weak, more or less frequent, and often not very perceptible. The serous diathesis usually prevails ; and the disease frequently arises at the close of chronic affections.—Ed. Corvisart on the Heart. b b 2