305 below the left mamma, and was aggravated by pressure, so that she was unable to lie on that side. dissolution was approaching, but it was preceded by an acces- sion of disease in the region of the heart His extremities were cold, and his pulse imperceptible; but his intellects were un- clouded : and when interrogated on points relating to the disease, he said with energy, “ I feel just as I ought to feel after a constipated state of bowels—comfortable but weak.” The pain which resulted from the attack upon the heart in- creased progressively through the day, and in the evening it was almost beyond endurance; but it was somewhat mitigated by an opiate. He died on the 15th, at eight o’clock A. M.—eight days from the primary invasion, and six from the recurrence of disease. During the whole illness he had no cough nor any lividness of countenance. The dulness of pain in the abdomen, and, finally, the diarrhoea, denoted erythema of the mucous coat of the intestines, in contradistinction to the very acute pain, and the constipation, which usually arise from the adhesive inflammation of the peritoneal. Dissection. The external aspect of all the abdominal viscera I found perfectly natural, but the intestines, especially the colon, were inflated with gas. The mucous coat of the stomach was extremely red and appeared as if blood-shot; and this appearance extended through the duodenum: it became more slight in the other small intestines, but was again considerable in the caecum. The villi were exceedingly turgid with blood. In the colon there was a remarkable cohesiveness of the faecal contents to the mucous surface, which I found to arise from their adhesion to that kind of extraneous membrane so often formed upon inflamed surfaces, and which pervaded nearly the whole of this intestine. On attempting to open the thorax I found the cartilages had ossified, and in some places the intervening ligaments were almost in the same state—circumstances unusual at so early a period of life. As soon as the thorax was penetrated by dividing the fourth rib, serum and lymph began to issue; and when the sternum was reflected, I found the pleura pulmonalis on the right side strongly adherent, in several parts, to the costal pleura, and to the dia- phragm. At the upper part of the chest, between the adhesions, X