193 Dissection. The cranium was uninjured. The dura mater corresponding' with the wound both in situation and extent, was thickened and unnatu- rally flaccid; and its surface was unequal and inclining to a yellow colour. Between this mem- brane and the pia mater a purulent fluid was depo- sited, and which had diffused itself over the upper and anterior part of the cerebrum, and betwixt the cerebrum and falciform process. There was no perceptible injury done to the cerebrum itself. * ** Valsalva, li. 2. * Mr. Pott’s admirable work on injuries of the head has com- manded almost universal deference; for even where the work itself has not been read, his principles have been so widely promulgated as to influence the general practice in these casualties. As the subjects of this section need some illustration, and as it is not possible for me to elucidate them with equal perspicuity and advantage from any other source, I shall prefix a citation from his writings. When elucidating the effects on the dura mater and parts within the skull, produced by a contusion on the head, he says— “ In order to understand rightly, and to have a clear idea of this ** kind of injury, it is necessary to recollect that the vessels of “ the pericranium, those of the diploe or medullary substance " between the two tables of some parts of the cranium, and “ those of the dura mater within it, do all constantly and freely “ communicate with each other, and that this communication is <i carried on by means of innumerable foramina, found in all parts “ of both surfaces of the skull, as well as at the sutures ; that “ upon the freedom of this communication depends the healthy “ and sound state of all the parts concerned in it; and that from ** the interruption or destruction of this, proceed most of the ** symptoms, attending violent contusions of the head, extrava- “ sation of fluid between the cranium and dura mater, inflamma- “ tions of the said membrane, and simple undepressed fracture “ of the skull.” When a severe blow has been inflicted upon the O