506 dalness of the senses; but in other cases the powers of mind and body are in vigorous exercise. Ramazzini related the case of a young man in was labouring under extreme distress from pain in the region of the heart. The history given me was, that, for some months, the patient had been annoyed with flatulence and acidity in the stomach, and occasional dejection of mind; and within the last fortnight, especially after a little exertion, he had experienced oppression at the chest, and pain in the heart; but these attacks generally soon passed oft'. The paroxysm, however, had con- tinued throughout the night preceding my visit. The pain was diffused through nearly the whole of the left region of the chest, it extended to the shoulder, and down the arm to the ends of the fingers. He could make a deep inspiration without any material increase of suffering. His countenance did not evince a degree of disease equivalent to the distress he appeared to suffer. He said the agony was inconceivably violent, and peculiar in its nature: but though it had been constant during the night, the degree was occasionally heightened; and whilst these accessions lasted he felt as if instant death were inevitable. The left arm had been almost cold, but when I saw him it was nearly as warm as the right. The pulse, in this wrist, was scarcely perceptible, and occasionally it was intermittent; but the action of the opposite radial artery was strong, rather full, regular, and about a hundred and thirty in a minute. He had no pain in the head, nor any tendency to syncope. I regarded it, at this time, as a case of angina pectoris. About eight ounces of blood were withdrawn, and he took some hydr. submurias, with sulphate and carbonate of magnesia; and adopted an abstemious plan of diet. In the course of the day he had one or two severe attacks, but in the evening his circumstances were decidedly improved. On the twenty-fifth the pulsations were more equal; he experienced but little pain, though he distinguished a sense of weight in the region of the stomach, and some fulness in the fauces. On the twenty-sixth the pulsations were equal, about a hundred in the minute, and moderately soft. He now took an alkaline bitter, and an occa- sional dose of mercury, and recovered in a few days.—Ed.