380 It sometimes happens that a dilatation takes place in cavities on opposite sides of the heart, is affected. The circumstance of the pulsations of the heart being most evident on the right side, he says, may be considered as a sign of the dilatation of the right ventricle; and though the state of the pulse is exceedingly equivocal, yet he appears to suppose that it will be found more frequently regular when the right side of the heart is the seat of aneurismal expansion, than when it exists in the left. But “ it is in the organs w hich are dependent upon the <( two circulations,’* says Corvisart, “ that those phenomena are “ observed which are best calculated to point out the particular “ cavities of the heart which are affected. The lesser circulation, “ the pulmonary organ itself, seems to be more particularly “ affected in the aneurism of the right ventricle, the breathless- ” ness is in general greater, and the fainting also more frequent. “ The countenance is violet and almost black, in consequence of “ the prolonged stay of the blood in the vena cava superior, the “jugular and the facial veins, which cannot easily disgorge “ themselves into the right auricle.” “ On the contrary, in aneurisms of the left cavities the disease “ appears better marked in those phenomena which are under the “ influence of the greater circulation. In these affections the face “ is suffused, of a very lively and deep red, particularly the cheeks, “ while in aneurisms of the right cavities, it appears as though “ ecchymosed.” At the close of the second stage, when, in both species, the general bloatedness comes on, it is more slow where the left cavities are affected, because the pulmonary fulness which always exists, does not allow the blood in the lungs to be properly and fully submitted to the repairing influence of respiration. Dr. Pearson has published an interesting case of dilatation of the right auricle and ventricle, in which also some of the carneae column* attached to the tricusped valves were thickened and shortened, by which the passage of blood into the pulmonary artery must have been considerably obstructed. On the left side too, the valves were greatly diseased; the mitral were partly cartilaginous, or, at least, thickened; and there was a still greater obstruction to the transmission of blood into the aorta, from the indurated state of the semilunar valves. The liver was large and pale.