191 SECTION XV. Injuries of the Head. The following cases were divided by Morgagni into injuries of the brain without fracture of the cranium, and injuries in which there was either The relationship which is maintained betwixt the pituitary mem- brane of the nose and the mucous surface of the alimentary canal may not only be explained by reference to the communication of nerves, but also to continuity and identity of structure. The coeval formation of polypi in different cavities is not an unfrequent circumstance. When a nasal polypus is suffered to extend and elongate it constitutes a most loathsome and troublesome disease; and by irritating and compressing the adjacent soft and bony parts, the most serious constitutional, as well as local consequences are liable to ensue. From the peculiarity of the conformation of the nose, epistaxis is sometimes a most uncontrollable form of hemorrhage. I have recently seen two cases in which if it were not absolutely the occasion of death, it certainly accelerated that event. The first was in a gentleman who laboured under hydrocephalus. He was a susceptible man, and would not endure a plug in the nostril. The hemorrhage frequently recurred; and when he had become exces- sively pallid from loss of blood, it was curious to observe to what an extent the irritative hemorrhagic action was propagated. At first he only distinguished pulsation in and about the nose, but as his strength decreased, and his anxiety and susceptibility were heightened, the carotids could be seen throbbing vehemently, and a corresponding action was perceptible to the patient through their ramifications. The second case was in an old arthritic sufferer, who had been seized with cynanche parotidaea. The more acute inflammatory action had subsided, but the gland was much enlarged and indurated, and the jaw nearly rigid; In this state he was attacked with bleeding from the nose. It occurred sometimes when he was asleep, on which occasions he was threatened with suffocation from the formation of coagula in the fauces, which he removed with the utmost difficulty in consequence