828 with bloody expectoration, experienced a return of the haemoptysis, which was followed by a copious surrounding the tubercle sometimes appears continuous with the mucous membrane of the bronchiae. In the second species the lungs are stuffed with miliary granu- lations—transparent—shining—sometimes speckled—and of a cartilaginous nature and consistence. At length they occasion ulceration of the parenchyma; an albuminous membraniform stratum lines the ulcer; and often, a distinct membrane, which lines the walls of the ulcer, secretes the pus. The third species exclusively affects adults. The ulcers are of various sizes, as black as coal, and very hard; sometimes they are a few lines thick, and at others a few inches. If the disease affects an entire lung, it is hard, compact, black as ebony or charcoal, and sometimes it resembles half-burnt leather. The fourth species is very rare. The tissue ulcerates, and the ulcer is never covered by an albuminous membraniform layer, nor by any distinct membrane. It exhales a fetid and gangrenous odour. Its surface is unequal and irregular, covered with brown decayed parts, and generally exhibits traces of recent or remote haemorrhage. The ulcer is sometimes large enough to contain three pullet’s eggs. The fifth and sixth species are much more unfrequent than the fourth, which will be shown by the following table of relative frequency in nine hundred dissections:— First Species, 624—Second, 183—Third, 72—Fourth, 14— Fifth, 4—Sixth, 3=900. The larynx and trachea, the intestines and, perhaps, the whole alimentary canal, and the mesenteric and cervical glands, are often diseased in phthisis. The nature of tubercles seems not yet to have been decided. I believe they have never been injected; but the cyst, unquestion- ably, is vascular. Portal considered them of a glandular nature, but Dr. Baillie, and other anatomists, deny the existence of glan- dular structure in the cellular connecting membrane of the lungs; and Dr. B. affirms that “ on the inside of the branches of the “ trachea, where there are follicles, tubercles have never been seen.” Morgagni entertained the opinion that there were no