306 After having been bled she was brought into the hospital of St. Mary de Morte at Bologna. She lay upon her back; and her pulse was quick and small, and but slightly resisted the pressure of the finger. Respiration was attended with a sound in the trachea like ebullition ; she had a dry sonorous cough, and her tongue was parched, but the bowels were moderately open. At intervals she betrayed a slight degree of delirium. Blood, which had been drawn from the arm six hours before, exhibited a small quantity of serum of a golden colour, and somewhat turbid; and there was a yellow crust, about a pint and half of serum containing numerous flakes of coagulable lymph, was deposited: and below that fluid, nearly an equal quantity of pus, or, at least, a puriform fluid, was accu- mulated. This fluid was separated from the serous by parietes of coagulable lymph in the form of a dense but ragged cyst, resting upon the diaphragm, the pulmonary surface of which was highly inflamed throughout. The pericardium was occupied by about a pint of turbid fluid, like whey; the superfice of the heart was coated with lymph; and the inner surface of the pericardium was highly inflamed and like- wise covered with this kind of concretion. The heart itself was small and empty; and the parenchymatous tissue of the lungs did not appear to be involved in the disease. It appeared that this was an instance of inflammation affecting the pleura which invests the right cavity of the chest, especially its lower part; and also the pleuritic covering of the diaphragm, and of the heart and the pericardium; and it is remarkable that such extensive disease should exist in these organs with so little impediment to the function of respiration. The exten- sive effusion of lymph on the mucous surface of the intestines, indicates that a high degree of inflammatory action had existed in that canal. Although this evidently arose spontaneously, it is possible that the means which it appeared necessary to employ, had tended to heighten it without counteracting the morbid pro- cess in other parts.—Ed.