THE SHOULDER-JOINT. 407" by a fibro-cartilaginous band of considerable tliickness, called th& glenoid lujameni. This not only enlarges, but deepens the cavity. Superiorly, it is continuous on either side with the tendon of the biceps; inferiorly, with the tendon of the triceps : in the rest of its circumference it is attached to the edge of the cavity. The cartilage covering the head of the humerus is thicker at the centre than at the circumference. The reverse is the case in the glenoid cavity. The synovial membrane lining the under surface of the capsule is reflected around the tendon of the biceps, and passes with it in the form of a cul-de-sac down the bicipital groove. On the inner side of the joint it always communicates with the bursa beneath the tendon of the subscapularis. There is also a large bursa situated between the capsule and the deltoid muscle, which does not communicate with the joint. The muscles in relation with the joint are: above, the supra- spinatus; behind, the infraspinatus and teres minor; below, the long head of the triceps ; internally, the subscapularis ; and, inside the joint, the long head of the biceps. The shoulder-joint is an enarthrodial joint, and has a more ex- tensive range of motion than any other joint in the body; it is what mechanics call a universal joint. It is capable of motion forwards and backwards, of adduction, abduction, circumduction, and rotation. The various movements are limited chiefly by the surrounding muscles and by atmospheric pressure, for the capsule is so lax as to ofier no obstacle to the freedom of movement in any direction. The amount; of rotation which the head of the humerus is capable of, is to the extent of a quarter of a circle. The movements of which the shoulder-joint is capable are effected by the following muscles : thus— Extension is effected by the posterior fibres of the deltoid, latis- simus dorsi, teres major, and (when the arm is raised) by the infra- spinatus and teres minor. Flexion, by the anterior fibres of the deltoid, coraco-brachialis, and the pectoralis major (slightly). Ahdudion, by the deltoid and the supraspinatus. Adduction, by the pectoralis major, latissiipus dorsi, teres major,