806 STRUCTURE OF THE RETINA. membrane—"pars ciliaris retince—destitute of nerve fibres, is con- tinued forwards to the tips of the ciliary processes, and thence to the posterior surface of the iris. In passing through the coats of the eye, the optic nerve becoraes gradually constricted and reduced to one-half of its diameter ; here it presents a round disc, called the porus opticus, in the centre of which may be seen the arteria centralis retinas. At this point, too the nerve-substance projects slightly into the interior of the globe, forming a little prominence, to which the term colliculus nerd optici has been applied. This prominence is remarkable, in that it is insensible to the rays of light, and is hence called the ' blind spot.' The retina when fresh is nearly ti'ansparent, but soon it becomes of a pink milky tint. Precisely opposite the pupil, in the centre of the axis of vision, there is an oval yellow spot, macula lutea, in the retina, about -^th. of an inch in diameter, having a depression, fovea centralis, in the centre, and fading off gradually at the edges. Here vision is most perfect, so that it might be called the ' spot of light.' This central spot was believed by its discoverer, Sommering, to be a perforation; but it is now ascertained to be due to the pigmentary layer of the retina showing through it. These appearances are lost soon after death, and are replaced by a minute fold, into which the retina gathers itself, reaching from the centre of the spot to the prominence of the oj)tic nerve.' Although to the naked eye the retina appears a simple, soft, semi-transparent membrane, yet when examined under the microscope it is found to be most minutely and elaborately organised. It varies in thickness from the gig-th to the y^th of an inch, being thickest behind, and gradually diminishes towards the front. It consists of eight layers, through which may be traced a considerable amount of extremely delicate connective tissue (fibres of Miiller), which con- stitutes a sustentacular tissue for the various strata, and is said to form for them two more or less continuous boundary layers, termed membrance Umitantes, interna and externa, and which are classed by " In birds the retina has throughout the yellowish colour seen only at one part in the human eye.