77 STERNO-HYOID MUSCLE. middle line. The muscles forming its floor are tlie sterno-liyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, and lying on them is the anterior jugular vein; in the middle line is the thyroid body covering the trachea.^ The superior carotid triangle has for its boundaries the sterno- mastoid, the omo-hyoid, and the posterior belly of the digastricus. Its muscular floor is formed by the hyo-glossus, the middle and inferior pharyngeal constrictors, and the thyro-hyoid. In this space are found the bifurcation of the common carotid into its external and internal divisions, and the following branches of the external carotid—the superior thyroid, lingual, facial, the occipital, and the ascending pharyngeal arteries—their accompanying veins and the internal jugular vein. The nerves seen are the hypoglossal, crossing over the external carotid, the infra-maxillary branch of the facial, the spinal accessory, the superior and external laryngeal nerves, and in front of the carotid sheath is the descendens noni. The digastric triangle will be described subsequently (p. 91). Now examine the flat muscles in front of the neck, which pull down the larynx and os hyoides—namely, the sterno-hyoid, sterno- thyroid, omo-hyoid, and thyro-hyoid.^ Eemove the fascia which covers them, disturbing them as little as possible, and take care of the nerves (branches of the descendens noni), which enter their outer borders. ^ The sterno-hyoid arises from the back part of the sternum and posterior sterno-clavicular liga- ment, from the clavicle and occasionally from the cartilage of the first rib, and is inserted into the lower border of the body of the os hyoides. This is the most superficial of the muscles in front of the neck. We cut in the mesial line between these muscles in laryngotomy. Stebno- The sterno-thyroid arises from the back part of THYEoii). the sternum, below and internal to the origin of ' The vessels and nerves lying within and upon the carotid sheath are not seen, as they are situated beneath the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid. The sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles often present slight transverse tendinous lines. These tendinous intersections are quite rudimentary in man ; but in some animals with long necks, e.g. the giraffe, they are so developed that each depressor muscle is composed of alternations of muscle and tendon.