CARPAL ARTICULATIONS. •4.14 The pisiform hone is articulated to the palmar surface of the cuneiform bone, to which it is united by a fibrous capsule. In- feriorly, it is attached by two strong ligaments, the one to the unciform bone, the other to the carpal end of the fifth metacarpal bone. This articulation has a distinct synovial membrane. h. The second row of carpal hones is connected by three dorsal, three palmar, and two interosseous ligaments. The dorsal and ixdmar ligaments pass transversely from one to the other. There are usually two interosseous ligaments, one on either side of the os magnum ; sometimes there is a third, between the trapezium and trapezoid bones ; they are thicker and stronger than those of the upper row, and unite the bones more firmly together, c. The first row of carpal bones is arranged in the form of an arch, so as to receive the corresponding surfaces of the os magnum and unciforme. External to the os magnum, the trapezium and trapezoid bones present a slightly concave surface, which articulates with the scaphoid. In this way a joint, admitting of flexion and extension only, is formed between the upper and lower row. The two rows of carpal hones are connected together by palmar and dorsal ligaments, and by an external and an internal lateral ligament. The palma,r ligaments consist of strong ligamentous fibres, which pass obliquely from the bones of the first to those .of the second row. The dorsal ligaments consist of oblique and transverse fibres which connect the dorsal surfaces of the bones of the u^jper with the lower row. The external lateral ligament, very distinct, j^asses from the scaphoid to the trapezium; the internal lateral ligament from the cuneiform to the unciform. Divide the ligaments to see the manner in which the carpal bones articulate with one another. Their surfaces are crusted with cartilage, and have a common synovial membrane which is very ex- tensive and lines the distal surfaces of the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform bones ; it then passes forwards between the trapezium and trapezoid, the trapezoid and os magnum, the os magnum and