PARTS CONCERNED IN FEMORAL HERNIA. 619 surgical importance is derived from the fact tliat it forms one of the coverings of a femoral hernia. The cribriform fascia must now be removed on one side so as to display the saphenous opening, whicli will appear as represented in fig. 145, ANATOMY OF THE PAETS CONCEENED IN FEMOEAL HEENIA. The anatomy of the parts concerned in femoral hernia cannot be thoroughly understood without the assistance of special dissec- tions. The following demonstration therefore takes for granted that the student has the opportunity of seeing the parts, not only on their femoral, but also on their abdominal side. The different parts of the subject should be examined in the following order:— a. The formation of the crural arch. h. The arrangement of the parts as they pass under the ai-ch, c. The sheath of the femoral vessels. d. The crural canal and ring. e. The practical application of the subject. PoupAKi's The lower border of the aponeurosis of the Ligament or external oblique muscle extends from the anterior CituKAL Arch. superior spine of the ilium to the spine of the os pubis, and forms over the bony excavation beneath the crural arch or Poupart's ligament. (It is marked by the dark line in fig. 145.) The direction of the arch is at first somewhat oblique, but towards its inner half becomes nearly horizontal. In consequence of its intimate connection with the fascia lata of the thigh, the line of the arch describes a gentle curve with the convexity downwards. The arch is attached to the spine of the os pubis, and also for some distance along the linea ilio-pectinea (fig. 145). This additional attachment, called Gimbernat's ligament,^ is of importance, for it is frequently the seat of stricture in femoral hernia. GurBKRNAT's The best view of Gimbernat's ligament is ob- LiGAMENT. tained from within the abdomen ; it being only ' Don Antonio de Gimbernat was a Spanish surgeon, who published, in 1793, A New Method of Operating for the Femoral Hernia. Madrid.