G62 SCIATIC NERVES AND ARTERY. external popliteal). It is accompanied by a branch of the sciatic artery, called the comes nevvi ischiatici.^ The nerve distributes branches to the hamstring muscles and the adductor magnus, and sends two or more small branches to the hip-joint which pierce the posterior part of the capsular ligament. Small Sciatic This comes from the lower part of the sacral Nekvk. plexus. It leaves the pelns below the pyriformis, with the great sciatic nerve, but on the inner side of it, and in company with the sciatic artery. It descends behind the gluteus maximus, and becomes cutaneous at its lower border. The mus- cular branches which it gives off are one or more—inferior' gluteal —which enter the under surface of the gluteus maximus near its lower border. All its other branches are cutaneous, and ai'e divided into an ascending and internal group : the ascending branches turn round the lower border of the gluteus maximus, and supply the skin of the buttock ; the internal branches supply the skin on the inner and posterior aspect of the thigh in its upper part, and one branch, larger tluin the rest, called the inferior padendal, turns inwards to- ■wards the perineum to supply the skin of that region and the scro- tum, communicating with the inferior hsemorrhoidal and superficial perineal nerves. The continued trunk runs down the back of the thigh beneath the muscular fascia, as low as the upper part of the calf with the external saphenous vein, supplying the skin all. the way down, and communicates with the short saphenous nerve. This, one of the terminal branches of the internal Sciatic Artery. .,. i . n • . c •^ i iliac, courses along the inner aspect oi the sacral plexus and' pyriformis, behind the pudic artery, while this vessel is still within the pelvis. It emerges from the pelvis between the pyriformis and coccygeus, and is then seen in the gluteal region coming out between the pyriformis and superior gemellus. It then descends between the tuber ischii and the great trochanter, along the inner side of the great sciatic nerve. It gives off:—(1) within ' The arteria comes nervi ischiatici runs generally by the side of the nerve, but sometimes in the centre of it. This artery becomes one of the chief channels by which the l)lood reaches the lower limb after ligature of the femoral. See in the Museum of the Eoyal College of Surgeons a preparation in which the femoral was tied by John Hunter fifty years before the man's death.