366 MUSCLES OF THE BACK CONNECTED WITH THE ARM. of the radial artery; It enters tlie palm between the inner head of the flexor brevis and the adductor pollicis, and, running upon the bases of the metacarpal bones, inosculates with the deep branch of the ulnar artery, thus completing the deep palmar arch. From the concavity of the arch small recurrent branches ascend to sujjply the bones and joints of the carpus, inosculating with the other carpal arteries. From the convexity of the arch three or four small branches, called palmar interosseous (fig. 83, p. 356), descend to supply the interosseous muscles, and near the clefts of the fingers communicate with the digital ai'teries. These palmar interosseous branches are sometimes of consider- able size, and take the place of one or more of the digital arteries, ordi- narily derived from the superficial palmar arch. Three branches, called perforating, pass between the upper ends of the metacarpal bones to the back of the hand, and communicate with the carpal branches of the radial and ulnar. Deep Branch This nerve sinks into the palm with the uluaris OF THE Ulnar profunda artery, between the abductor and flexor Nerve. brevis minimi digiti. It then runs with the deep palmar arch towards the radial side of the palm, and terminates in the adductor pollicis, in the inner or deep head of the flexor brevis pollicis, and in the first dorsal interosseous. Between the pisiform and unciform bones, the nerve gives a branch to each of the muscles of the little finger. Subsequently it sends branches to each inter- osseous muscle and to the two inner lumbricales. The tendon of the flexor carpi radialis in the palm must now be followed to its insertion into the base of the second metacarpal bone. The dissection of the remaining muscles of the palm, called, from their position, interossei, must be, for the present, postponed. MUSCLES OF THE BACK CONNECTED WITH THE AEM. Make an incision down the middle of the spme Dissection. ^^^^ occiput to the sacrum ; another, from the last dorsal vertebra upwards and outwards to the acromion; and a