151 SYMPATHETIC NERVE IN THE NECK. grey and white nerve-fibres ,• tliey are also connected witli tlie spinal nerves by two filaments—one, of white nerve-fibres which passes from the spinal nerve to the ganglion; the other, of grey, from the ganglion to the spinal nerve. Branches of distribution are also given off by the ganglia, some to the various blood-vessels and viscera, forming intricate plexuses upon them ; others to the various ganglia of the viscera—the cardiac and semilunar ganglia. The different portions of the sympathetic gangliated cord re- ceive, respectively, the distinguishing names of the cervical, dorsal, lumbar, sacral, and coccygeal. At present we have only to consider the cervical portion of it. To expose the cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, the internal carotid artery, the pneumogastric, glosso-pharyngeal and hypo- glossal nerves should be cut through, near the base of the skull; then by careful dissection the superior cervical ganglion can be traced out. CERvicAii Gan- cervical portion of the sympathetic are GLL\ OF Sympa- three ganglia, named from their position," superior, ^^^^'^^ middle, and inferior. The superior cervical ganglion, the largest of the three, is situated near the base of the skull, opposite the second and third cervical vertebrae, upon the rectus capitis anticus major, and lies behind, and on the inner side of the internal carotid .artery. It is of a reddish-grey colour like the other ganglia, of an elongated oval shape, varying in length from one to two inches. To facilitate the description of its several branches-, we divide them into an upper, a lower, an external, an internal, and an anterior set— a. Its up2)er or cranial branch runs with the internal carotid a. into the carotid canal of the temporal bone, and there divides into two branches, an outer and an inner. The oiUer and larger branch accom- panies the artery through its bony canal, ramifies upon it by the side of the body of the sphenoid, and so constitutes the ' Carotid Plexus.' * From this outer branch a filament proceeds to the Gasserian ganglion ; another to the sixth cranial nerve ; a third joins the great petrosal ' A small ganglion, the carotid ganglion, is sometimes met with in this plexus on the under aspect of the artery.