SEMICIRCULAR CANALS. 826 SEMiciKotrLAB The somicircular ccmals, three bony canals, are CiNAis. situated above and rather behind the vestibule. Each canal forms about two-thirds of a circle, is compressed laterally, and is about u'-ot^ of an inch in diameter. The canals are not of equal diameter throughout; each presents at one end a dilatation termed the ampulla, about -^th of an inch in diameter. This dilatation corresponds to a similar dilatation of the mem- branous sac, upon which the auditory nerve expands. The canals open at each extremity into the vestibule by five openings, since one of the apertures is common to the extremities of two canals. Each canal differs in its direction; they are named accordingly superior, posterior, and external. The superior semicircular canal (fig. 203, l) is the most anterior of the three ; its direction is vertical, and runs across the petrous bone. It rises up higher than any other portion of the labyrinth, and its ampulla is at the outer and anterior extremity, and opens into the upper part of the vestibule ; its non-ampuUated extremity opens by a common orifice with the posterior semicircular canal into the back part of the vestibule. The posterior semicircular canal (fig. 203, 2) is also vertical, and runs parallel to the posterior surface of the petrous bone, conse- quently at right angles to the preceding. It is the longest of the three canals, and its ampuUated extremity is at the lower end, opening into the lower and back part of the vestibule. Its upper non-dilated end joins with that of the superior semicircular canal. The external semicircular canal (fig. 203, 3), the shortest of the three, is horizontal in position, vsdth the convexity of the arch diverted backwards ; it opens by its extremities directly into the back of the vestibule; the ampulla is at the outer end and opens into the vestibule just above the fenestra ovalis. The cocldea is the most anterior part of the Cochlea. , , . , . . , ,, osseous labyrinth; it very closely resembles a common snail's shell, and is placed nearly horizontally, so that its first coil is directed forwards and outwards, and corresponds with the promontory; while its base corresponds to the bottom of the meatus auditorius internus, and is perforated by apertures for the transmission of the cochlear branches of the auditory nerve. The