MEDULLA OBLONGATA. 726 restiform body there is easily recognisable an eminence interposed between the restiform body and the groove which separates it from the lateral tract; this eminence, narrow at first, is known as the funiculus of Rolando, but it soon enlarges to form a considerable prominence, called the tubercle of Rolando. The restiform body on a transverse section is wedge-shaped, and hence it is sometimes called the funiculus cuneatus; near the level where the two bodies diverge, each presents an enlargement, known as the cuneate tuber- cle. The restiform bodies consist, as before said, of white fibres derived from the posterior and lateral columns of the cord; in its interior is some grey matter continuous with that in the posterior part of the cord. The posterior pyramids (Junicidi graciles) are two slender white columns on each side of the posterior median fissure, and are the continuations upwards of the posterior median columns of the spinal cord. Ascending, they diverge and thus form the apex of the fourth ventricle. At their point of separation the posterior pyramids enlarge, and form the clava; after which they rapidly taper off, and run up on the inner side of the restiform bodies, which however they soon leave, and are continued upwards into the cerebrum, along the floor of the fourth ventricle. Emerging from the anterior median fissure may be noticed some superficial transverse white fibres, which cross over the anterior pyramids and the lower extremity of the olivary bodies; these are known as the arciform fibres of Kolando (fig. 171), and they pass upwards to join the restiform body. They are probably connected with white fibres which run horizontally, constituting an imperfect septum between the two halves of the medulla, and may be seen when a longitudinal section is carefuUy made through its middle. The majority of these septal fibres enter the olivary bodies, and then emerging through the grey matter of the corpus dentatum, become continuous with the fibres of the restiform bodies and lateral tracts ; others pass out from the posterior fissure and wind round the restiform bodies. These latter fibres are the trans- verse strive, seen on the floor of the fourth ventricle, some of which form the roots of the auditory nerves. The lower portion of the fourth ventricle can now be seen,