348 ULNAR ARTERY. between the supinator radii longus and bracliialis anticus; it descends on the outer side of the radial artery, covered by the supinator radii longus. In the upi^r third of the forearm, the nerve is at some distance from the artery ; in the middle third, it approaches nearer to it, lying to its outer side; but in the hiwer third, the nerve leaves the artery, passes underneath the tendon of the supinator longus, perforates the deep fascia on the outer side of the forearm, and becomes subcutaneous. It then divides into two branches: an outer, the smaller, which supplies the skin of the ball of the thumb, and communicates with the anterior branch of the musculo-cutaneous nerve; and an inner, which generally supplies both sides of the dorsal aspects of the thumb, of the index and middle fingers, and of the radial side of the ring finger. ^ ^ This artery, tlie larger of the two divisions of the brachial, comes ofi" below the elbow, runs obliquely inwards along the ulnar side of the forearm to the wrist, passes over the annular ligament near the pisiform bone, and, enter- ing the palm, forms the superficial palmar ai'ch, by inosculating with the superficialis vola3. In the upper half of its course the artery describes a gentle curve with the concavity towards the radius, and lies deep beneath the superficial layer of muscles, namely, the pronator teres, flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus, and flexor sublimis digitorum. It is also crossed in its upper part by the median nerve. In the lower part of its course it conies nearer the surface, and descends between the flexor sublimis and flexor cai'pi ulnaris, of which the tendon partially overlaps it at the wrist. The artery lies for a short distance on the bracliialis anticus ; in the remainder of its course it lies on the flexor profundus digitorum. The ulnar nerve is at first separated from the artery by a con- siderable interval: about the middle of the forearm it joins the artery, and accompanies it in the rest of its course, lying close to its inner side. Both pass over the anterior annular ligament of the carpus, lying close to the pisiform bone,—the nerve being nearer to the ulnar side and a little behind the artery. A strong expansion from the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris protects them in this exposed situation.