324 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER ARM. scapula; the third and fourth digitations along nearly the whole length of the posterior border ; the remainder are inserted into the inferior angle. Its action is to draw the scapula forwards ; but of this more hereafter. It is supplied by the following nerve, which is seen on its outer surface. PosTEEioE Tho- ^^^^ nerve supplies the serratus magnus only. KAcic OB ExTER- It comes from the fifth and sixth cervical nerves; NAL Eespieator-x aud, after passing through the scalenus medius, Nerve op Bell. ^^^^^^ behind the axillary vessels, along the outer surface of the serratus magnus, each digitation receiving a sepa- rate filament.' DISSECTION OF THE UPPEK ARM. Surface In front of the upper arm may be distinguished Marking. the long prominence of the biceps muscle, and lower down at the bend of the elbow its tendon may be easily felt. The bend of the elbow, in muscular subjects, presents a triangular depression, with its boundaries formed on the inner side by the pronator teres, and on the outer side by the supinator longus. Superficially in this space the subcutaneous veins can be recog- nised, of which a fuller description will be entered into later on. On the inner side of the elbow, the internal condyle of the humerus is very prominent, and behind this, is the olecranon; between these is a hollow in which may be felt the ulnar nerve. The olecranon is situated nearer the internal than the external condyle, which is visible on the outer side; below this, is a dimple which corresponds with the head of the radius. Continue the incision down the inner side of Dis&ECTioN. ^j^^ inches below the elbow, and then make a transverse incision from the inner to the outer side of the forearm. Reflect the skin, and trace out the cutaneous nerves, and the numerous veins in front of the elbow. > It may be asked why this nerve is called the external respiratory. It was so named by Sir C. Bell, who considered the serratus magnus as the external respira- tory muscle, co-operating with the diaphragm or internal respiratory muscle.