186 PNEUMOGASTRIC NERVES. plexus of nerves formed by the pneumogastric nerves, the left being in front of, the right behind it. The oesophagus is supplied with blood by the inferior thyroid, the oesophageal branches of the aorta, the ooronaria ventriculi, and the left phrenic artery. It is supplied with nerves by the pneumo- gastric and the sympathetic, which ramify between the two mus- cular layers. The resophagus is composed of three coatsj an extei'nal or muscular, a middle or areolar, and an internal or mucous. The muscular coat consists of an outer longitudinal, and an inner cir- cular layer of fibres. The longitudinal layer is particularly strong, and arranged in the upper part mainly in three fasciculi, an ante- rior attached to the vertical ridge on the cricoid cartilage, and two lateral, which are continuous with the inferior constrictor; these, lower down, spread out and form a continuous layer round the oesophagus and support the circular fibres. Under the microscope the muscular fibres composing the upper part are seen to consist entirely of the striped variety; at the lower part, almost exclu- sively of the non-striped variety. The middle coat is composed of areolar tissue, and connects very loosely the muscular aiid mucous coats. The mucous membrane is of a pale colour and considerable thickness, and in the contracted state of the oesophagus is arranged in longitudinal folds "svithin the. tube which lies flattened in front of the spine. On the surface of the mucous membrane there are numerous minute papillte placed obliquely. It is lined by a very thick layer of scaly epithelium. In the submucous tissue are many small compound racemose glands—vesopliageal glands—especially towards the lower end of the oesophagus. CouKSB AND 1'^® course of the pneumogastric nerves in Bkanches of the the chest is not the same on both sides. The Pneumooasteic right pneumogastric nerve enters the chest between Nerves. ^-^^ subclavian artery and vein, descends behind the right innominate vein by the side of the trachea to the back of the root of the lung, where it breaks up into a plexus forming the posterior pulmonary plexus. From this plexus two cords descend to the posterior surface of the oesophagus, upon which they divide into numerous branches : forming, with corresponding branches of the left pneumogastric nerve, the oesophageal plexus (plexus gul^).