600 STRUCTURE OF THE STOMACH. duct, which itself opens into the bottom of an alveolus. They are lined with columnar epithelium continuous with that lining the mucous membrane. The peptia glands are also found over the entire surface of the mucous membrane, and consist of tubules with branched caecal extremities opening into a common duct, which is, however, shorter than that of a mucous gland. They are lined with columnar epithelial cells, called the central cells, and are supposed to be concerned in the secretion of the gastric juice; these cells become, at the neck of the gland, much shorter and more granular. The lumen of the gland is very small, but is somewhat larger at the free and the csecal ends than in the middle. Towards the lower part or fundus of the gland there are found spheroidal and granular cells between the epithelium and the basement membrane, called parietal cells. In the stomachs of young children there is a large amount of lymphoid tissue found between the gastric glands. It is aggre- gated into small masses in the mucous membrane, and resembles in many respects the solitary glands of the intestine, although not so well defined. The mucous membrane of the stomach is lined by columnar epithelium, which also extends into the glands. A thin layer of unstriped muscular tissue (muscularis mucosee) is found between the mucous membrane and its submucous tissue, varying in amount and in the number of its layers. The glands of the stomach are richly supplied with blood, which is derived from the gastric, the vasa brevia, the right and left gastro- epiploica, and the pyloric arteries. The arteries form a stratum of minute inosculations in the submucous tissue, in which the closed ends of the tubes are set; from this stratum, the capillary plexuses run up between the tubes to the surface of the stomach, where they again form a larger capillary plexus and form the hexagonal spaces before alluded to. The veins, corresponding to the pyloric and gastric arteries, end in the vena portae; those corresponding with the vasa brevia and the epiploic arteries open into the splenic vein. The lymphatics enter the glands along the lesser and greater curvatures of the stomach, and may be divided into a superficial and a deep set.