STRUCTURE OF THE UTERUS. 567 The vaginal artery ramifies along tlie side of tlie vagina, and distributes branches to the lower part of the bladder and the rectum. The veins, of large size, corresponding with the arteries, form the uterine sinuses and the vaginal plexuses, which empty them- -elves into the internal iliac vein. Nerves of the The nerves of the uterus are derived from the Uterus. third and fourth sacral nerves, from the hypogastric and ovarian plexuses (p. 495). They accompany the blood-vessels in the broad ligament to the neck of the uterus, and ascend with them along its sides. Some small filaments continiie with the vessels, and form around them plexuses, upon which minute ganglia are found.^ But most of the nerves soon leave the vessels, and, subdividing, sink into the substance of the uterus, chiefly about its neck and the lower part of its body. A branch may be traced passing up to the fundus of the uterus, and another to the Fallopian tube. The nerves of the uterus enlarge during pregnancy like the arteries. Surgically speaking, the os uteri may be said to have no nerves; for it is insensible to the cautery and to the knife. The lymphatics of the uterus are small in its unimpregnated state, but greatly increase in size when it is gravid. Those from the fundus and the ovaries proceed with the ovarian vessels to the lumbar glands; thus explaining the affection of these glands in ovarian diseases. Those from the body and the lower part of the uterus accompany the uterine arteries, and join the glands in the pelvis ; some, however, run with the round ligament to the groin ; hence, in certain conditions of the uterus the inguinal glands may be affected. The uterus, vagina. Fallopian tubes, and the ovaries should now be collectively removed from the pelvis for the purpose of examining their internal structure. The structure of the vagina has been already described (p. 5G4), Stkuctcre op Before the uterus is laid open, examine the THE Uterus. shape of that portion of the neck which projects into the vagina. The back part of the cervix appears to project ' Beck, Pliilosoiihical Transactions for 1846.