391 EXTENSOR COMMUNIS DIGITORUM. covering the muscle. Tlie muscular fibres terminate near the lower third of the forearm, upon the under surface of a flat tendon, which descends, covered by that of the extensor carpi radialis lono'ior, beneath the three extensors of the thumb. The tendon traverses a gi'oove on the back of the radius, on the same plane with that of the long radial extensor, but lined by a separate -ynovial membrane, and is inserted into the radial side of the base of the metacarpal bone of the middle finger. A bursa is generally found between the tendon and the bone. Its nerve comes from the posterior interosseous. Extensor This muscle arises from the common tendon DiGiTORUM attached to the external condyle, from the septa CojiMUNis. between it and the contiguous muscles, and from its strong- fascial covering. A little below the middle of the fore- arm, the muscle divides into three tendons, which pass, together with the extensor indicis, beneath the posterior annular ligament, through a groove on the back of the radius lined by synovial membrane. On the back of the hand the tendons become broader and flatter, and diverge from each other towards the metacarpal joints of the fingers, where they become thicker and narrower, and give ofi", on each side, a fibrous expansion, which covers the sides of the joint. Over the first phalanx of the finger, each tendon again spreads out, receives the expanded tendons of the lumbricales and interossei muscles, and divides at the second phalanx into three portions, of which the middle is inserted into the upper end of the second phalanx; the two lateral, reuniting over the lower end of the second phalanx, are inserted into the upper end of the third.^ Its nerve comes from the posterior interosseous. The oblique aponeurotic slips which connect the tendons on the back of the hand are subject to great variety. The tendon of the index finger is commonly free; it is situated on the radial ' The extensor tendons are inserted into the periosteum; but the flexor tendons are inserted into the substance of the bone. This accounts for the facility with wliich the former will tear off the bones in cases of necrosis, while the latter will adhere so tightly as to require cutting before the jphalanx can be removed. It pro- bably also explains thq great liability to necrosis which is so frequently observed in cases of thecal abscess.