MUCOUS MEMBRANE OF THE NOSE. 276 The great vascularity of the mucous membrane raises the tem- perature of the inspired air, and pours out a copious secretion which prevents the membrane from becoming too dry. The mucous membrane of the nasal cavities is not lined through- out by the same kind of epithelium. Near the nostrils the mucous membrane is furnished with papillae, with a squamous epithelium like the skin, and a few small hairs (yihrissce). In the lower part of the nose—namely, along the respiratory tract and in the sinuses —the epithelium is columnar and ciliated ; but in the true olfactory region—that is, upon the superior and middle turbinated bones and the upper half of the septum—the epithelium is columnar, but not ciliated. In this region the mucous membrane is extremely vascular, thick, and studded with branched mucous glands. The columnar epithelial cells taper off at their deep ends into fine pro- cesses. Lying between these processes are fusiform cells, with central well-defined nuclei, to which the name of olfactory cells ' has been given ; and it is probable that the attenuated processes which pass inwards from these cells are in direct connection with the terminal fibrils of the olfactory nerves. The arteries of the nasal cavities are derived from the anterior and posterior ethmoidal branches of the ophthalmic, which supply the roof of the nose, the anterior and posterior ethmoidal cells, and the frontal sinuses ; from the nasal artery of the internal maxillary, which supplies the septum, the meatuses, and the turbinated bones; from the posterior dental branch of the internal maxillary which supplies the antrum. The external nose is supplied by the nasal branch of the ophthalmic (p. 59), the arteria lateralis nasi, the angular, and the artery of the septum. The veins of the nose correspond with the arteries, and, like them, form close plexuses beneath the mucous membrane. They communicate with the veins within the cranium, through the fora- mina in the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone ; also through the ophthalmic vein and the cavernous sinus. These communications man this cartilage is very narrow, and is situated below the rudimentary organ. For further information, see Klein, Quart. Journ. of Micros. Science, 1881 and 1882. ' Max Schultze, Med. Centralblatt, 1864.