hunter's canal. 637 ends reflected. Tliis purfc of its course corresponds to the middle third of the thigh, and is contained in Hunter's canal. Femoral f'''^'^^^ of the artery are the skin, superficial Artery in and deep fascise, the long saphena vein, the sarto- Huxter's Canai. rius, the long saphenous nerve, and the ajDoneurotic laver forming the anterior boundary of Hunter's canal: to its outer side, ai'e the femoral vein and the vastus internus; to its inner sidoy are the adductor longus, the adductor magnus and the sartorius; hekind it, are the adductor longus, the femoral vein, and the ad- ductor magnus. The artery and vein lie close together, and are enclosed in a common sheath. Hunter's In the middle third of the thigh, the femoral Canal. artery is contained in a tendinous canal ^ beneath the sartorius, called Hunter's canal. This canal at its upper part is rather indistinct; but it gradually becomes stronger towards the opening in the tendon F^g. 150. of the adductor magnus. Its boimdaries are formed by the tendons of the muscles be- tween which the artery runs. On-the inner side are the tendons of the adductor longus and magnus ; on the outer side is the tendon of the vastus internus; in front the canal section through is completed by an aponeurotic expansion hunter's can.al. thrown obliquely across from the adductors 1. Vastus internus. to the vastus internus, as shown in fig. 150. 3; IJoL^uro^sXown across. In a horizontal section the canal appears trian- gular. The adaptation of this shape to the exigencies of the case is manifest when we reflect that the muscles keep the sides of the triangle always tight, and thereby prevent any compression of the vessels. Hunter's canal contains not only the femoral artery and vein, ' lut the internal saphenous nerve. The vein lies behind and to the liter side ; the nerve crosses over the artery from the outer to the ■ nner side. ' Called Hunter's canal, because it was in this part of its course that John Hunter first tied the femoVal artery for aneurism of the popliteal, in St. George's Hospital, A.D. 178.5. The particulars of this interesting case are published in the Trans, for the Improvement of Med. cmd Chir. Knowledge.