EXTENSOR MUSCLES. 633 called the ilio-tihiaL hand (p. 616).' Its cliief use is to fix tlie pelvis steadily on the thigh, and to rotate the thigh inwards ; in this last -action it co-operates with the anterior fibres of the gluteus medius, with which,it is almost inseparably connected. Anyone may con- vince himself pf this by placing his hand on the hip, and rotating the thigh inwards. Both these muscles are supplied by the same nerve—the superior gluteal. To form an adequate idea of the strength, extent, and connec- tions of the aponeurosis on the outer side of the thigh, it should be ..separated from the vastus externus muscle upon which it lies. There is no difficulty in doing so, for it is united to the muscle by an abundance of loose connective tissue.^ With a little persever- ance the aponeurosis can be traced to the linea aspera, the head of the tibia, and the fibula, completely protecting the outer side of the knee-joint. Extensor -^^^ powerful fleshy muscles occupying the front Muscles ob of the thigh, and situated between the tensor Quadriceps fasci^ on the outer side, and the adductors on the Extensor. inner, are the extensors of the leg. One of them —the rectus—arises from the pelvis ; the other—the triceps—arises from the shaft of the thigh-bone by three portions, called, re- spectively, the crureus, the vastus interims, and externus. All are .supplied by the anterior crural nerve. To see the origins of the rectus femoris, dissect between the •origin of the sartorius and the tensor fasciee; in doing so, avoid injuring the branches of the external circumflex artery. Eectus This bipenniform muscle arises from the pelvis Femoris. by two strong tendons, which soon unite at an •acute angle : one—the straight tendon—is round, and arises from the anterior inferior spine of the ilium; the other—the reflected tendon—is flat, and comes from the rough surface of the ilium, just above the acetabulum. The muscle descends along the front of the ' The deeper of these two layers runs up to be strongly connected with the tendon of the rectus and the front of the capsule of the hip-joint. ^ When this tissue becomes the seat of suppuration, the pus is apt to extend all down the outside of the thigh, not being able to make its way to the surface by reason of the dense fascia.