228 CONSTRICTOR MUSCLES OF THE PHARYNX. in the mesial line, the insertion being marked by a white longitu- dinal line, called the raphe. The inferior constrictor, the most superficial and thickest of the thin constrictors, arises from the side of the cricoid cartilaore behind the crico-thyroid muscle, from the surface behind the oblique ridge and the lower cornu of the thyroid cartilage. Its fibres expand over the lower part of the pharynx. The superior fibres ascend ; the middle run transversely; the inferior descend slightly, and are inserted into the posterior median raphe. The lower fibres are continuous with those of the ossophagus. Beneath its lower border the recurrent larjmgeal nerve enters the larynx. Its nerve-supply is from the pharyngeal plexus, the external laryngeal and the recurrent laryngeal nerves. In order to completely expose the next muscle, the right half of the inferior constrictor should be reflected from the middle line. The middle constrictor arises from the upper edge of the greater cornu of the os hyoides, from its lesser cornu, and part of the stylo- hyoid ligament, and is inserted into the posterior median raphe. Its fibres take different directions, so that, with those of the opposite muscle, they form a lozenge. The lower angle of the lozenge is covered by the inferior constrictor; the upper angle ascends nearly to the basUar process of the occipital bone, and terminates upon the pharyngeal aponeurosis. The external surface of the muscle is covered at its origin by the hyo-glossus, from which it is separated by the lingual artery; while beneath it are the superior constrictor, the stylo-pharyngeus, and palato-pharyn- geus muscles and the pharyngeal aponeurosis. Its nerve comes from the pharyngeal plexus. Between the middle and inferior constrictors, the superior laryngeal artery and nerve perforate the thyro-hyoid membrane to supply the larynx. The superior constrictor consists of pale muscular fibres, and arises from the hamular process of the sphenoid bone, and from the lower part of its internal pterygoid plate; from the tuberosity of the palate bone and the reflected tendon of the tensor palati; from the pterygo-maxiUary ligament (which connects it with the buccinator) ; from the back part of the mylo-hyoid ridge of the lower jaw, and from the side of the tongue. The fibres pass back-