24G THE GLOTTIS. Fig. 55. Thyroid cartilage. True vocal cord. Arytenoid cartilage. Elastic ligament. Infebioe or These two cords, called also tlae inferior thyro^ True Voc-vl arytenoid ligaments, are composed of yellow elastic tissue, and extend horizontally from the angle of the thyroid cartilage to the anterior angles of the base of the arytenoid cartilages. Their inner or free edges are thin and sharp, and look upwards; their outer borders are continuous with the crico-thyroid membrane, and are in contact with the thyro- arytenoidei muscles. They diverge as they pass backwards, and are covered with very thin and closely adherent mucous mem-. brane, having columnar ciliated epithelium. We shall presently see that, by the muscles which act upon the arytenoid cartilages, these cords can be approximated or separated from each other; in other words, the rima glottidis can be closed or dilated. When suffi- .ciently tightened, and brought, parallel by means of certain muscles, the cords are made to vibrate by the current of the expired air, and thus is produced the voice. In the adult male the true vocal cords measure about seven lines; in the female, about five lines. In boys they are shorter; hence their peculiar voice. At puberty, the cords lengthen, and the voice breaks. The glottis admits of being dilated, contracted, and even com- pletely closed, by its appropriate muscles. When at rest, its shape is triangular, as shown in fig. 55, where the arytenoid cartilages are cut through on a level with the vocal cords. During every inspiration, the glottis is dilated by the crico-arytenoidei postici; it then becomes pear-shaped (fig. 57). During expiration, it re- sumes its triangular shape: and this return to a state of rest is eflFected, not by muscular agency, but by two elastic ligaments shown in fig. 55, which draw the arytenoid cartilages together. Thus then the glottis, like the chest, is dilated by muscular tissue; like the chest, also, it is contracted by elastic tissue. In speaking SHAPE OP THE GLOTTIS WHEN AT REST.