218 THE TRACHEA. one end; the last cartilage is placed at the bifurcation of the trachea, and is shaped like the letter V ; its angle projects into the centre of the main tube, and its sides belong one to each bronchus. Muscular This thin stratum of unstriped muscular fibres Fibres. consists of two layers, and is brought into view- when the fibrous membrane and tracheal glands have been removed. The longitudinal fibres are the more external, and are attached by minute tendons to the extremities of the cartilages; the trans- verse fibres (trachealis muscle) extend transversely between the posterior free ends of the cartilages. By their contraction they approximate the ends of the cartilages and diminish the calibre of the trachea. ^ ^ This lines the whole tube, but is most abundant at the posterior or membranous part of the trachea, and its fibres run in a longitudinal direction. It is this layer which raises the mucous membrane into folds, and its elasticity admits of the elongation and the recoil of the tube. Tracheal Upon the outer surface of the fibrous layer of Glands, the trachea are a number of small mucous glands, most numerous on the posterior part of the tube. They are com- pound racemose glands lined with columnar epithelium, and their excretory ducts pierce the fibrous and muscular layers, and termi- nate on the free surface of the mucous membrane. In health their secretion is clear, and just sufiicient to lubricate the air-passages. In bronchitis they are the sources of the abundant viscid expectoration. Mucous Mem- The mucous membrane lining the air-passages BBANE. is a continuation of that of the larynx. Its colour in the natural state is nearly white, but in catarrhal affections it becomes bright red, in consequence of the accumulation of blood in the capillaiy vessels. It is continued into the ultimate air-cells, where it becomes thinner and more transparent. In its deeper layer is found a considerable amount of elastic tissue; in its super- ficial layer a quantity of lymphoid tissue. Its surface is lined with a layer of columnar ciliated epithelial cells. The vibratile movement of the cilia is directed in such a way as to favour the