103 HYPOGLOSSAL NERVE. lingual gland, Wharton's duct, the hypoglossal and gustatory nerves; infenorly, by its lower border it is in contact with the genio-hyoid; above, by its anterior border with the mucous mem- brane of the mouth ; and internally, it is in contact with its fellow and the fibrous septum of the tongue. It derives its nerves from the hypoglossal, and its blood from the lingual artery. Its action is various. The posterior fibres, by raising the os hyoides and dra\ving forwards the base of the tongue, protrude the tongue out of the mouth ; the anterior draw the tongue back again. When every part of the muscle acts, it draws down the whole tongue, and is therefore one of the chief muscles concerned in suction. The stylo-glossus, a long and slender muscle, St-SLO-GLOSSUS. . p , -J n ,1 , l -l arises from the outer side oi the styloid process near its apex and from the stylo-maxillary ligament; its fibres pass downwards and forwards, and then nearly horizontal, and are inserted along the side of the tongue. It runs outside the hyo- glossus nearly to the tip of the tongue, and blends with the fibres of this muscle, as well as with the palato-glossus. Its nerve comes from the hypoglossal. Its action is to retract the tongue. Hypoglossal The hypoglossal, or twelfth cranial nerve, is the ^ERVE. motor nerve of the muscles of the tongue. It arises by several filaments, twelve to fifteen, from the front of the medulla oblongata between the anterior pyramid and the olivary body. It pierces the dura mater in two fasciculi which leave the skull through the anterior condylar foramen; these subsequently blend to form a single nerve trunk. It lies deeply beneath the internal jugular vein and internal carotid artery, where it. is intimately connected with the lower ganglion of the pneumo- gastric nerve; it then comes up between the artery and vein, and, immediately below the posterior belly of the digastricus, curves forwards over the occipital, the internal and external carotid and facial, arteries. Next it crosses the hyo-glossus muscle, and pass- ing beneath the mylo-hyoid, divides into branches which supply the following muscles; namely, the stylo-glossus, hyo-glossus, genio-hyo-glossus, lingualis, and the genio-hyoideus. As it curves round the occipital artery, the hypoglossal nerve sends the descendens noni to the depressors of the os hyoides (p. 102).