THE EYELIDS. 30 frontalis. It lies concealed beneath these two muscles, and is the proper muscle of frowning. Its nerve is derived from the facial. The present being a good opportunity to examine the append- ages (tutamina oculi) of the eyes, postpone for the present the dissection of the remaining muscles of the face. ^ ^ The eyelids are two moveable elliptical folds consisting of strata of different tissues. The upiyer lid is large and more moveable than the lower, so that when the eye is closed, it is mainly by this fold. The interval between the two lids is called the Jissura p'^lpebrarnm, which terminates on the inner and outer sides in two angles, the canthi. The lids are thickest at their borders, are somewhat curved, and near the inner canthus each presents a slight elevation, the impilla lacliry- mcdis, at the top of which is a small opening, the pimctum lachry- male; this is the commencement of a small canal, canaUcidus, which receives the tears and conveys them to the lachrymal sac, and thence through the nasal duct to the nose. At the inner canthus the two lids are separated by an oval space, the lacus laclmpnalis, where the mucous membrane is raised into a rounded eminence, the caruncida. Caeuncula The carimada ladirymalis is the red rounded Lachb^sialib. eminence situated at the inner canthus and formed by the conjunctiva. It is composed of an aggregation of sebaceous and sweat glands covered by mucous membrane; on the surface of it are minute hairs. Eesting upon the eyeball external to the caruncle is a slight vertical triangular fold of conjunctiva, flica semilunaris, which is the rudimentary membrana nictitans (the third eyelid found in birds). Both in the caruncle and plica semilunaris nnstriped muscular tissue has been demonstrated. The conjunctiva is the mucous membrane which covers the inner surface of the lids and the front of the eyeball. The portion lining the lids is termed the palpehral; that portion covering the front of the eye, the ocidar. The angle of its reflection from the lids to eyeball is called \he fornix conjunctiva}, where are situated a number of racemose glands; there is also some lymphoid tissue found in other parts of the conjunctiva. The palpebral conjunctiva is more