THiE HEART. 199 size and condition of the body generally. As a rnle, the heart gradually increases in length, breadth, and thickness from child- hood to old age.' Notice two longitudinal grooves (sulci) on the front and back surfaces of the heart, which extend from the base of the ventricles to the apex, and which indicate the septum between the two ven- tricles ; the anterior groove lies nearer to the left side, the posterior to the right side of the heart. A circular groove, nearer the base, marks the separation be- tween the auricles and ventricles. In the circular and longitu- dinal furrows, surrounded by more or less fat, run the coronary vessels, the nerves, and the lymphatics. The heart is a double hollow muscular organ; that is, it is composed of two hearts, a right and a left, separated by a septum, and not communicating with each other except during uterine, and rarely in adult, life. Each half consists of two cavities, an auricle and a ventricle, which communicate by a wide orifice, the auriculo-ventricular opening. The right half of the heart propels venous blood to the lungs, and is called the imlmonary; the left propels arterial blood from the lungs throughout the body, and is called the systemic. These two hearts are not placed apart, be- cause important advantages result from their union. By being enclosed in a single bag they occupy less room in the chest; and the action of their corresponding cavities being precisely synchro- nous, their fibres, mutually intermixing, contribute to their mutual support. The cavities of the heart should now be examined in the order in which the blood circulates through them. This is situated at the rig-ht side of the base of Eight Aubicle. ,, , , „ , . , tne Jieart, and lorms a quadrangular cavity, the atrixim or sinus venosus, between the two ven^ cavte, from which it receives the blood. From its front, a small pouch projects towards the left, and overlaps the root of the aorta; this part is termed the appendix auriculce, and resembles a dog's ear in shape. ' T. B. Pe&cock, Londo7ia7id Edinb. Monthly Journal of Medical Science, 1846 and 1854; Clendinning, Med. Chir. Trans., 1838 ; Beneke, Marburger Schriften, xi., 1879.