486 INFERIOR VENA CAVA. arteries ; in front, with the internal mammary and epigastric arte- ries ; and above, with the intercostals. The limibar veins empty themselves into the vena cava inferior, the left passing behind the aorta. The arteria sacra media, a diminutive continuation of the aorta, proceeds from its bifurcation, and runs down, behind the left common iliac vein and in front of the sacrum, to the coccyx. It sends off the fifth lumbar artery, and lateral branches, which ana- stomose with the lateral sacral arteries; it also supplies small vessels to the posterior part of the rectum, which run forwards between the layers of the meso-rectum. In close connection with the ter- minal branch of this artery at the tip of the coccyx is a small roundish body called the coccygeal or Luschlca's gland} It is about the size of a pea, and is placed between the levatores ani and the sphincter ani. It is probably composed of a plexus of small arteries, which are surrounded by one or more layers of granular polygonal' cells. The body itself is invested by connective tissue, in which also some branches from the ganglion impar have been traced. This gland should be considered as an arterial gland, of which the intercarotic ganglion is another example. The vena sacra media empties itself into the left common ihac vein. Vena Cava The vena cava inferior is formed by the junction Infeeior. of the two common iliac veins, a little to the right side of the intervertebral cartilage between the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebree. It ascends in front of the spine, in the greater part of its course lying to the right of the aorta. As it approaches the diaphragm, the vena cava inclines a little to the right, sepa- rated from the aorta by the right crus of the diaphragm. It is then received into a deep groove on the posterior border of the liver, and afterwards passes through the tendinous opening in the diaphragm to reach the right auricle of the heart. Its relations, beginning from below, are—in front, the mesentery, the third part of the duodenum, the pancreas, the right spermatic artery, the portal vein, and the liver; heliind it are the right renal artery, the • Lusdaka, Anaiomie des Menschen, 1864, vol. ii. pt. 2, p. 187; Arnold, Virclww ArcMv, 1864, 1865, and 1866; Callender, British Medical Journal, June 13,1874.