PROSTATE GLAND. 552 upper and lower surfaces a median longitudinal furrow, the lower groove terminating behind in a deep cleft; and a third or middle lobe} The middle one is pyriform in shape, unites the lateral lobes, and is situated between them and the urethra. In health, it does not appear like a separate lobe; but when abnormally enlarged, it projects toward the cavity of the bladder, and acts like a bar at the mouth of the urethra. Make' a longitudinal incision through the upper surface of the prostate to expose the urethra. This canal runs rather nearer to its upper than its lower surface, and is not of the same calibre throughout. This part of the urethra is about an inch and a quarter long, and about four lines in diameter. It forms a sinus in the interior of the prostate, described by anatomists as the simis of the prostate, into which the ducts of the prostate open. Along the floor of the sinus is a longitudinal ridge, about three-quarters of an inch in length, broad and elevated behind, but gradually fading in front. This is called the crest of the urethra, and the most prominent part of it is named the veru montanum, or ccqnit gallinaginis, from its supposed resemblance to the head of a wood- cock. On each side of this prominence the common ejaculatory ducts open (p. 549). Immediately in front of the caput gallinaginis, in the middle line, is a small opening which wiU admit a probe. It leads back- wards into a little cul-de-sac or pouch in the substance of the prostate. This pouch is described as the analogue of the uterus, and called the utrictilus or sinus fomlaris. It is also called the uterus masculinus. It is of a pyriform shape, running backwards and upwards with the narrowest part at the orifice, and its length is about three lines. It ascends between the lateral lobes of the ' Attention was first attracted to this middle lobe, in England, by Sir Bverard Home, whose account of it is published in the Philos. Trans, for 1806. The pre- paration made by Sir Everard in illustration is preserved in the Museum of the Eoyal College of Surgeons in London, Physiol. Series, No. 2583 A. But the anatomy and effect of the enlargement of this part of the prostate gland is not a discovery of modern times. It was accurately described by Santorini in 1739, and subse- quently by Camper, and is alluded to by Morgagni in the third book of his Epistles. Dr. Messer in the 43rd vol. of the Med. Chir. Travis, has shown that, in subjects over sixty, the middle lobe is enlarged in 20 per cent. •It