517 PUDIC ARTERY AND ITS BRANCHES. of the constrictor will be exposed; to see the lower, it is only- necessary to raise the bnlb. The most perfect view, however, of the muscle is obtained by making a transverse section through the rami of the ossa pubis, so as to get at the muscle from above, as shown in fig. 123. CojiPEEssoR OR This muscle consists of transverse fibres which CoNSTKicTOB surround and support the whole length of the Ubethe-e. membranous portion of the urethra in its passage between the two layers of the triangular ligament. It arises from the ramus of the os pubis on either side for about half an inch; from thence its fibres pass, some above, some below the virethra, along the whole length of its membranous part. It forms a com- plete muscular covering for the urethra between the prostate and the bulb. It is chiefly throtigh its agency that we retain the urine. This muscle is the chief cause of spasmodic stricture of the urethra.' Besides this muscle, the membranous portion of the urethra is surrounded by involuntary circular muscular fibres, placed beneath the compressor urethra, and continuous with the muscular fibres of the bladder. Cowpeb's These small glands are situated, one on either Glaxds. side, immediately behind the bulb between the two layers of the triangular ligament, in the substance of the compressor urethr^e. Their size is about that of a pea, but it varies in different individuals. They are compound racemose glands, consisting of several lobules firmly connected together by cellular and some muscular tissue. From each a slender duct runs forwards, and, after a course of about one inch, opens obliquely into the floor of the bulbous part of the urethra (fig. 120). They furnish a secretion accessory to generation. PuDic Abteby The internal imdic artery is a branch of the ^'^'^ "s anterior division of the internal iliac. It leaves Branches. pelvis through the great sciatic foramen be- tween the pyriformis and coccygeus muscles, above the sciatic artery, winds round the spine of the ischium, re-enters the pelvis ' The compressor urethrfB was first accurately described and delineated by Santorini (septemdec. tabulea), and afterwards by Miiller in his monograph (Ueber die organ. Nerv. der miinnlich. Geschlechtsorgane).