812 AQUEOUS HUMOUR. there are no rods, and the cones are longer than in the macula; and all the other layers are much thinned. At the margin of the fovea most of the layers are thicker than elsewhere. The structure of the ora serrata is much less complex than the other parts of the retina j the layer of rods and cones dis- appear, the former first of all; the ganglionic and nerve-fibre layers become thin and then cease ; the inner molecular layer loses much of its granular appearance, and is largely formed of sustentacular tissue, and then abruptly ceases; the inner and outer nuclear layers become thinner, and then gradually merge into a single layer, which is continued on to the pars ciliaris as a single stratum of columnar epithelial cells. The arteria centralis retince, after emerging through the porus opticus, divides into two branches—an upper and a loiver—which then form a delicate network of blood-vessels throughout the nerve- fibre layer, penetrating as far as the inner nuclear layer, beyond which no capillaries can be traced. After maceration in water, the nervous substance can be removed with a camel's-hair brush, and then in an injected eye the network formed by the vessels can be distinctly seen. The arteries of the retina do not communicate directly with the choroidal vessels. Aqueous The aqueous humour consists of a few drops of HuMouB. an alkaline clear watery fluid, which fills the space between the cornea and the lens.' The iris lies in it, and divides the space into two chambers of unequal size—an anterior and a posterior. The posterior is much the smaller of the two; indeed, the iris rests on the capsule of the lens, so that, strictly speaking, there is no interval between the opposed surfaces, except a triangular interval bounded by the attachment of the iris, the ciliary processes, and the zone of Zinn. This accounts for the frequent adhesions which take place during inflammation of the iris, between the iris and the capsule of the crystalline lens.^ A delicate layer of epithe- lium covers the posterior surface of the cornea, but nothing like a continuous membrane can be demonstrated on the iris or the capsule ' The solid constituent is mainly composed of chloride of sodium. ^ Some anatomists describe the anterior chamber as Uned by a serous mem- brane called the membrane of the aqueous humour.