761 FORNIX. reflected also, since these two arches of nerve-substance are here so closely connected. The fornix is a layer of white matter, extending FoENix. ^-^^ form of ah arch (whence its name) from before backwards, beneath the corpus callosum. It is the great longitudinal white commissure, and lies over the velum interposi- tum (fig. 187, p. 760). Viewed from above, it is triangular with the base backwards, and is called the hodij; from its anterior narrow part are given off the two anterior crura, and from its posterior and outer part the two posterior crura. The hody is the broad triangular part with the narrow portion in front. The posterior broad part is connected with the corpus callosum; in front of this it arches downwards, so as to leave the corpus callosum, to which, however, it is still connected by the septum lucidum. Its lateral free edges rest on the choroid plexuses, and are seen on the floor of the lateral ventricles. The anterior pillars or crura proceed from the front narrow part of the body, one on each side of the mesial line. As they pass forwards the crura diverge slightly, and descend through a mass of grey matter in the sides of the third venti'icle towards the base of the brain, where, making a sudden bend upon themselves, they form the corpora mammillaria, from which they may be traced backwards and upwards, each to the anterior nucleus of the optic thalamus of its own side. As they descend, the anterior crura are joined by the pedtmcles of the pineal body, by the tsenia semi- circularis, and by fibres from the septum lucidum. Immediately behind and below the anterior crura is a triangular passage, through which the choroid plexuses of opposite sides are continuous with each other. This aperture is called the/oramsTi o/iJfo?iro. Strictly speaking, it is not a foramen, but -only an interval caused by the anterior crus arching over the groove between the corpus striatum and optic thalamus on each side ; it establishes a communication between the two lateral and third ventricles, and is in shape like the letter Y, the passage from each lateral ventricle passing down- wards and inwards, and meeting below, to be continued as a single passage for a short distance before opening into the third ventricle.