STRUCTURE OF THE GALL-BLADDER. 583 depression on the under surface of the right lobe of the liver (p. 455). It is about four inches long, an inch in its broadest part, and is capable of holding about H oz. of fluid. Its broadest part projects beyond the anterior margin of the liver, and it is maintained in its position by the peritoneum, which usually is con- tinued over it from the liver, but which may occasionally com- pletely invest it, so as to form a kind of mesentery. It is divided into a fundus, a body, and a neck. The fundus is its broadest part, and usually projects a little beyond the front border of the liver ; from this it gradually narrows, forming the body ; and this ao-ain still further contracts to form the nech, which makes a bend downwards, curving upon itself like the letter S. The neck ter- minates in a duct caUed the cystic dtict, which, after a course of about an inch, joins the common hepatic duct at an acute angle (fig. 109, p. 467). The common duct thus formed, called the ductus communis choledockus, is about three inches long, and of the size of a crow-quill; it opens into the inner side of the back of the descending part of the duodenum, after running very obliquely through the coats of the bowel. The gall-bladder consists of two coats, and of a partial peri- toneal covering which only completely surrounds the fundus. The middle coat consists of strong connective tissue, whose fibres interlace in all directions, and in which involuntary muscular fibres can be traced, running mainly in the long axis of the gall-bladder. The mucous coat can only be seen when the gall-bladder has been opened, which should now be done, by laying it open from the fundus to the neck. It is loosely connected to the middle coat, and it is gathered into ridges, which give it a honeycombed appearance, more or less tinged yellowish-brown by the bile. This appearance is most marked in the middle of the gall-bladder, where the surface is covered with polygonal ridges enclosing de- pressions, in which may be seen with a lens numerous openings leading down to mucous follicles. It is covered with columnar epithelium, which secretes an abundance of viscid mucus. At the bend of the neck of the gall-bladder, both its coats project very much into the interior, making the opening considerably narrower than it appears to be outside. In the cystic duct the mucous