THE TENIS. 561 middle of tlie fibrous trabecule, and end, some in capillaries wliicli convey tlieir blood at once into the intertrabecular spaces ; others in tendril-like prolongations with dilated extremities which project into the spaces, called lielicine arteries by Midler, and which open directly into the cavities of the veins by funnel-shaped orifices. The helicine arteries are absent near the glans, and are best marked at the root of the penis. The peculiar appearance which they present when distended with injection is due to the fact that they are bound down to the trabecular tissue by fibrous bands. The blood from the intertrabecular spaces of the penis returns, partly through veins which pass out on the upper surface of the penis into the dorsal vein (which joins the prostatic plexus), partly throuo-h the deep veins which leave the inner side of each cms, and the bulb, to join the internal iliac. Corpus The corims spongiosum is the erectile tissue ■ Spongiosum. which surrounds the urethra as it runs along the penis. It commences in the middle of the perineum, anterior to 1 the triangillar ligament, in a bulb-like form—the hull—and at the . end of the penis it expands to form the glans penis. It receives posteriorly an expansion from the triangular ligament, and presents a median groove, marking its development from two lateral halves. ' The urethra does not pass through the middle of the spongy body, 1 but runs nearer to its upper surface. The bulb hangs more or less pendulous from the urethra, and is surrounded by the accelerator urinae muscle (p. 512). In old j)ersons it extends lower down 1 than in children, and is, consequently, more exposed to injury in ] lithotomy. The corpus spongiosum has a fibrous coat resembling very much ■ the external fibrous investment of the corpus cavernosum, but it is ' thinner, whiter, and composed of more elastic tissue. The reticular ' structure is also finer, and the cavernous meshes smaller, and < arranged in a longitudinal direction. Plain muscular fibres sur- 1 round the urethra, and they are also found in considerable amount 1 in the external fibrous coat. Its interior consists of erectile tissue, composed of a plexus of ; minute tortuous veins, lined by a single layer of flattened endo- O 0