833 MEMBRANOUS LABYRINTH. The utricle or common sinus, the larger of the two, is oval and compressed laterally, and communicates with the five openings of the membranous semicircular canals. It is lodged in the fovea hemi-elliptica, and its wall is thickest (macula acustica) close to the crista vestibuli, where the branches from the auditory nerve enter it. The saccule, the smaller, is globular and flattened, and lies in the fovea hemispherica, in front of the utricle. It is connected with the membranous canal of the cochlea by a small short duct, termed the canalis 7'euniens. From the saccule there passes down- wards, along the aquaeductus vestibuli, a narrow prolongation, which terminates in a pyriform dilatation, saccus endolym'phaiicus; this canal is joined, at an acute angle, by a short narrow canal from the front of the utricle, so that there is a communica- tion, existing throughout the entire length of the membranous labyrinth. The utricle and the saccule contain on their inner wall a minute mass of calcareous matter in connection with nerve-ends, called by Breschet the otoliths or otoconia. They are crystals of carbonate of lime, and are present in the labyrinth of all mammalia. From their greater hardness and size in aquatic animals, there is reason to believe that they perform the office of rendering the vibrations of sound sharper and more distinct.' Meitbeanous The membranous semicircular canals present SKsncrRcuLAB the same dilatations or ampuUee as the bony ones Canals. a,t one end, and at this part they nearly fill their bony cases; but in the rest of their extent the diameter of the membranous canal is not more than one-third to one-fifth that of the bony. At the ampiiUated extremity the sac is connected on its outer aspect by blood-vessels and nerves to the periosteum, forming on section a transverse projection, called the septum transversum or C7'ista acustica, which forms a partial septum. The membranous semicircular canals consist of three layers, an ' For a detailed description of the relation of the otoliths with the hair-like iprocesses of the nerve-filaments, the student is referred to an article by Dr. Urban IPritchard in the Qtiarterly Journal of Microscopic Science, October 1876, entitled ' The Termination of the Nerves in the Vestibule, and Semicircular Canals of IMammals.' 3 H