712 SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES OF THE TARSUS. passing between the contiguous borders of the respective bones on their dorsal and plantar aspects. The interosseous ligaments, four in number, are composed of transverse fibres (fig. 168) connecting the rough non-articular surfaces of the contiguous bones : the first one is between the scaphoid and the cuboid; the second connects the internal and •middle cuneiform bones; the third is between the middle and external cuneiform bones; and the fourth between the external cuneiform and the cuboid bones. Though there is very little motion between any two bones, the Fig 168 collective amount is such that the foot is en- abled to adapt itself accurately to the ground: pressure is more equally distributed, and con- sequently there is a firmer basis for the support of the body. Being composed, moreover, of Interosseous ligaments of several piccos, each of which possesses a certain the wedge-bones. t ■ • j_ r ^ • t • • elasticity, tne lOot gams a general springiness and strength which could not have resulted from a single bone. TABso-iffiTA- The tarsus articulates with the metatarsus in TARSAL Joints. an oblique line which inclines backwards on its outer side. This line is interrupted at the joint of the middle cuneiform bone and the second metatarsal bone. Here there is a deep recess, so that the base of this metatarsal bone is wedged in between the internal and external cuneiform bones. These joints are maintained in position, above, by the dorsal tarso-metatarsal ligaments, and, below, by the plantar ligaments. Interosseous ligaments also pass between the wedge-bones, main- taining them in their normal positions. Synovial Mem- Exclusive of the ankle-joint and the phalanges BRANEs OF THE of the toBS, tho boues of the foot are provided with Tarsus. g£j- distinct synovial membranes; namely— 1. Between the posterior articular surface of the os calcis and that of the astragalus. 2. Between the head of the astragalus and the scaphoid, and between the anterior articular surface of the astragalus and os calcis. 3. Between the os calcis and the os cuboides.