338 MUSCULO-SPIRAL NERVE. The distribution of the nerve is to the elbow-joint, to the flexor carpi ulnaris, to half the flexor profundus digitorum, to all the in- terosseous muscles of the hand, to both sides of the little finger, to the ulnar side of the ring finger, on their dorsal and palmar aspects, to the muscles of the ball of the little finger, to the wrist-joint, to the two ulnar lumbricales, and, lastly, to the adductor poUicis, and the inner head of the flexor brevis poUicis. Previous to the examination of the musculo-spiral nerve, we should examine the great muscle which occupies the whole of the posterior part of the humerus—viz. the triceps extensor cubiti. Triceps Exten- This muscle has three distinct origins, named, soR Cdbiti. from their position, the external, the internal, and the middle or long heads (p. 318). The middle or long head arises by a flat tendon from the inferior border of the scapula, close to the glenoid cavity, and in connection with the glenoid and capsular ligaments. The external head arises from the humerus, beginning in a pointed form immediately below the insertion of the teres minor, from the posterior surface between this and the musculo- spiral groove, and from the external intermuscular septum. The internal head arises from the humerus below the insertion of the teres major, from the posterior surface of the bone below the mus- culo-spiral groove, and from the internal intermuscular septum. The three heads unite, near the middle of the arm, to form a single fleshy mass, which covers the posterior part of the elbow-joint, and is inserted by a thick tendon into the summit and sides of the ole- cranon. There is a bursa between the tendon and the olecranon, which is sometimes midtilocular. Each head is supplied by a separate branch from the musculo-spiral nerve.^ MuscDLo-spiRAL Tlils, the largcst of the brachial nerves, arises. Nerve. in common with the circumflex, from the posterior cord of the axillary plexus (p. 320). It descends at first behind the axillary artery, and then behind the brachial artery; it subsequently winds obliquely round the posterior part of the humerus, between the external and internal heads of the triceps, in company with the superior profunda artery. About the lower third of the outer side ' The subanconeus, a small muscle situated beneath the triceps, will be described later on.