430 TRANSVERSALIS MUSCLE. ^ The student should not now further dissect the Dissection. ^ , i ■, n • -, ■, ■, structures on the left side, so that they may be left till a future period for the complete demonstration of the parts con- cerned in inguinal hernia. On the right side, the internal oblique should be detached from the ribs and the crest of the ilium, and turned forwards, without disturbing that portion of it connected with the crural arch. To avoid cutting away any part of the trans- versalis in reflecting the internal oblique, dissect near the crest of the ilium, and search for an artery which runs between these muscles, and may be followed as a guide. This artery, called the dee23 circumflexa ilii, is a branch of the external iliac, and supplies the abdominal muscles. Beneath the internal oblique the continu- ations of the intercostal nerves and vessels are brought into view, as are also the last dorsal, the ilio-hypogastric, and ilio-inguinal nerves near the crest of the ilium. These should be preserved. The internal oblique is in relation, on its deeper surface with the transversalis abdominis, the fascia transversalis, and with the spermatic cord near Poupart's ligament; on its inner side, at the division of its aponeurosis, with the outer border of the rectus; below, it forms the upper arched boundary of the inguinal canal. TisANsvEitsiiLis This muscle arises by fleshy fibres from the Abdominis. outer third of Poupart's ligament, from the ante- rior two-thirds of the inner lip of the crest of the ilium, flfom a strong fascia attached to the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae, and, lastly, from the inner surfaces of the six or seven lower costal cartilages, by digitations which correspond with those of the diaphragm. From this origin the fibres pass horizontally forwards, and terminate anteriorly in a broad aponeurosis attached to its fellow at the linea alba. Some of its lower fibres arch down- wards, and are inserted with some fibres of the internal oblique by means of a conjoined tendon into the crest of the os pubis and the linea ilio-pectinea. The aponeurosis into which the fibres are inserted is broader below than above, and forms part of the posterior sheath of the rectus, excepting in the lower fourth, where it passes entirely in front. In the dissection of the back we have fully described the lumbar