642 ANTERIOR CRURAL NERVE. tliircl and fourth lumbar nerves, also by a small fasciculus from the second. It passes beneath the crural arch, lying in the groove between the iliacus and psoas, about a quarter of an inch to the outer side of the artery, and soon divides into branches, some of which are cutaneous, but the greater number supply the extensor muscles of the thigh. The cutaneous branches, already described (p. 614), and the long saphenous nerve, are given oflf from the suj)erficial part of the trunk ; the muscular from the cZeep part. The long saphenous nerve, the largest of the cutaneous branches, descends close to the outer side of the femoral artery, and enters the tendinous canal with it in the middle third of the thigh. In the canal it crosses over the artery to its inner side. The nerve leaves the artery- just before it becomes popliteal, and then runs in company with the anastomotica magna to the inner side of the knee, where it becomes supei-ficial, between the gracilis and the sartorius. In the middle tliird of the thigh it gives ofl' a small bi'anch which communicates beneath the fascia lata with the internal cutaneous and obturator nerves ; and lower down another branch is distributed to the skin over the patella.. Its further relations will be seen in the dissection of the leg and foot. The muscular branches are to be traced to the sartorius, rectus,, crureus, and subcrureus ; the branch to the vastus externus accompanies the descending branch of the external circumflex artery, and sends a filament to the knee-joint; that to the vastus internus runs parallel with, but external to, the long saphenous nerve, and supplies filaments to the knee-joint. One branch, often two, passes under the femoral artery and vein to enter the anterior surface of the pectineus. The obturator nerve, also a branch of the lumbar plexus, arising from the second, third, and fourth lumbar nerves (p. 498), supphes the adductor muscles. It enters the thigh through the upper part of the obturator foramen above the corresponding artery, and im- mediately divides into two branches, of which one passes in front of, the other behind, the adductor brevis. The anterior branch subdivides for the supply of the gracilis, the adductor longus, and sometimes the adductor brevis and pectineus ; it, moreover, sends a filament to the hip-joint; another to the femoral artery; and a third forms a plexiform communication at the lower border of the adductor longus with the internal cutaneous and long saphenous nerves. The posterior branch supplies the obturator externus, the