89 DEEP CERVICAL GLANDS, concatenatce), from the base of tlie skull, along tlie side of the neck, to the clavicle, beneath which they are continuous with the thoracic and the axillary glands. Some of these glands lie anterior to the common carotid artery; others, between it and the spine. This disposition explains the well-known fact, that, when these glands are enlarged, the great vessels and nerves of the neck are liable to become imbedded in their substance. The glands are particularly numerous near the division of the common carotid, by the side of the pharynx, and the posterior belly of the digastricus. The lymphatics connected with them come from all parts of the head and neck. These vessels unite, to form, on both sides of the neck, one or more absorbent trunks, called the jugular. Oa the left side this jugular trunk joins the thoracic duct, or opens by a separate orifice into the junction of the left internal jugular and subclavian veins: on the right side it opens into the right lymjohatic duct, a short trunk about half an inch in length, which terminates at the angle of the junction of the right internal jugular and subclavian veins. The terminations of the thoracic duct and the right lymphatic duct are guarded by two small semilunar valves, in order to prevent regurgitation of blood back from the veins. The contiguity of the glands to the great vessels and nerves of the neck explains the symptoms produced by their enlargement. The tumour may be so situated as to be raised and depressed by the pulsation of the carotid, and thus simiilate an aneurism. A careful examination, however, will distinguish between an inher- ent and a communicated pulsation. By grasping the tumour we become sensible that the pulsation does not depend upon any variation of its magnitude, but upon the impulse derived from the artery; consequently, if the tumour be lifted from the vessel, all feeling of pulsation ceases. Survey of the "^^^ parts in the central line of the neck should Centr,u, Line OF now be well studied (fig. 2G, p. 78). Beginning THE Neck. ^.j^g chin, we observe the insertions of the di- gastric muscles. Below these is the junction, or raphe, of the mylo-hyoid muscles. Then comes the os hyoides. Below the OS hyoides is the thyro-hyoid membrane, attached above to the