ARTERIES OF THE BRAIN. 720 e. The posterior inferior cerehellwr cm-tery, sometimes a branch of the basilar, but more frequently of the vertebral, passes backwards between the spiiial-accessory and the pneumogastric nerves, to the under surface of the cerebellum. It divides into two branches : an outer, wliich ramifies on the lower surface of the cerebellum as far as its outer border ; and an iiuier, which passes to the vallecula between the two hemispheres, and supplies branches to the fourth ventricle. The basilar artery, formed by the junction of the two vertebral, in its course along the pons, gives off on each side :— a. Transverse branches which pass outwards on the pons : one, the internal auditory, enters the meatus auditorius internus with the audi- tory nerve, to be distributed to the internal ear on each side. b. The anterior inferior cerebellar, which supplies the front part of the lower surface of the cerebellum, and anastomoses with the other cerebellar arteries. c. The superior cerebellar arteries, given off near the bifurcation of the basilar, are distributed to the upper surface of the cerebellum, and anastomose Avith the inferior cerebellar ; branches are supplied to the pineal body, the valve of Vieussens, and the velum interpositum. d. The 2^osterior cerebral arteries are the two terminal branches into which the basilar artery divides. They run outwards and backwards, in front of the third cranial nerve, and wind round the crura cerebri to the under surface of the posterior cerebral lobes, where they di^dde into numerous branches for the supply of the brain, anastomosing with the anterior and middle cerebral arteries. Shortly after tlieir origins they receive the two posterior communicating arteries from the internal carotids. Each gives off small branches to the posterior perforated space, and also the small 2^osterior choroid artery, which, passing beneath the posterior border of the corpus callosum and fornix, is distributed to the velum interpositum and choroid plexus. CmcLE OF This important arterial inosculation (fig. 170) Willis. takes place between the branches of the two in- ternal carotid and the two vertebral arteries. It is formed, laterally, by the two anterior cerebral, the two internal carotid, and the two posterior communicating arteries; in front, it is completed by the anterior communicating artery; behind, by the two posterior cere- bral. The tortuosity of the large arteries before they enter the