438 THE INGUINAL CANAL. Deep Cirodm- The deep circumflexa ilii artery is a branch of PLEXA Ilii, the external iliac, just above the crural arch ; it runs upwards and outwards, behind and parallel with Poupart's ligament, and at the middle of the crest of the ilium pierces the transversalis muscle, and, running in the same direction, lies be- tween the transversalis and internal oblique. It anastomoses with the Uio-lumbar artery, and sends small muscular branches, which run upwards, and communicate with the epigastric and the lumbar arteries. The circumflex iliac veins join to form a single vein, which crosses the external iliac artery, and opens into the external Uiac vein. _ To see that part of the peritoneum concerned in Dissection. . ■ ^ ^ . , „ . inguinal hernia, the fascia transversalis must be removed by incisions similar to those recommended before. The fascia is easily separable from the peritoneum which is situated immediately behind it, owing to the presence of more or less fat— suhjjeritoneal fed. The peritoneum at the inner ring presents a well-marked depression, which varies, however, considerably: in some being scarcely visible ; in others, being continued downwards into the inguinal canal, in the form of a pouch. In some instances, a communication is found between the general cavity of the peri- toneum and the tunica vaginalis testis. Inguinal Having examined the several strata through Canal. which the spermatic cord passes, replace them in their natural position, and examine the inguinal canal as a whole. Its direction is obliquely downwards and inwards. Its length in a well-formed adult male is from one and a half to two inches. It commences at the inner ring, and terminates at the external abdominal ring. It is bounded in front by skin, superficial and deep fascia, by the aponeurosis of the external oblique, and ex- ternally by a small portion of the internal oblique; behind, by the fascia transversalis, by the conjoined tendon of the internal oblique and transversalis, and by the triangular ligament; above, by the lower fleshy fibres of the internal oblique and transversalis; below, by the junction of the fascia transversalis with the crural arch.