INFRA-CLAVICULAR REGION. 811 interval between the pectoralis major and deltoid, and ramifies in both ; and, lastly, the acromial branch, which passes over the coracoid process to the under surface of the deltoid, which it supplies, and communicates with the posterior circumflex, a branch of the axillary, and the supra- scapular, a branch of the subclavian. A constant though small branch, the clavicular, runs along the anterior aspect of the subclavius. All these arteries are accompanied by veins, which most frequently empty themselves into the cephalic, but occasionally into the axillary vein. The cephalic vein is one of the principal cuta- Cephalic Vein. • p ,t ri • ,^ neons veins oi the arm. Oommencmg on the back of the thumb and forefinger, it runs up the radial side of the forearm, in front of the elbow-joint; thence ascending along the outer edge of the biceps, it runs up the interval between the pec- toralis major and deltoid, pierces the costo-coracoid membrane, crosses over the axillary artery, and finally empties itself into the asillaiy vein.' Antekior Tho- These nerves come from the brachial plexus EAcic Nektos. below the clavicle to supply the pectoral muscles. There are generally two—an external and an internal—one for each pectoral muscle. The external, the more superficial, arises from the outer cord of the brachial plexus, passes over the axillary artery and vein, pierces the costo-coracoid membrane, and supplies the pectoralis major on its under aspect: it communicates with the next nerve by a filament which forms a loop on the inner side of the artery; the internal, and smaller branch, comes from the internal cord, and descends between the axillary artery and vein (occasionally through the vein) to supply the pectoralis minor on its under surface. Difficulty of From this view of the relations of the axillary TYING THE FIRST artery in the first part of its course, some idea PART OF THE AxiL- jQay be formed of the difficulty of passing a ligature round it in this situation. In addition to its great depth from the surface, varieties sometimes occur in the position of the nerves and veins, which render the operation still ' The cephalic vein, in some cases, runs over the clavicle to join the external jugular ; or there may be a communication (termed jugulo-cephalic) between these veins.