LATISSIMUS DORSr. brancli of the subscapular artery to the lower border and innet surface of the muscle. The nerce to the teres major is either a branch of the precedingr, or comes separately from the posterior cord. It lies nearer to the humerus than the long subscapular. It gives off also a small branch to the anterior border of the subscapular is. The nerve to th.e subscajndai'is arises from the posterior cord, higher than the others, and enters the muscle not far from its upper border in company with a small artery. CiKcnMFLEx The circumflex nerve accompanies the posterior Nerve. circumflex artery. This large nerve comes from the posterior co^rd, and, after giving a small filament to the shoulder- joint, passes, with its companion artery, through the quadrilateral space (p. 318) to the under surface of the deltoid. Here the nerve divides into an upper and a lower branch. The upper supplies the anterior part of the deltoid and the skin over it; the lovjer supplies the bach part of the deltoid, and gives the nerve to the teres minor,' upon which nerve sometimes a little gangiiform swelling can be seen: it enters the under aspect of the middle of this muscle. After furnishing these muscular branches, the nerve turns round the posterior border of the deltoid, and diverges in filaments which supply the skin over the back of this muscle and over the long head of the triceps. Latissimus This broad, flat muscle forms the posterior mar- DoKsi. gin of the axilla. It arises from the external lip of the crest of the ilium, from an aponeurosis attached to the spinous processes of the six lower dorsal, of all the lumbar, and of the sacral vertebrae and their supraspinous ligament, and by fleshy digitations from the three or four lower ribs, interdigitating with those of the external oblique ; in some cases, as it passes over the inferior angle of the scapula, it has an additional origin from the angle. Its fibres converge from this large origin, and the muscle is inserted into the bottom of the bicipital groove of the humerus by a broad flat tendon, which curves round the lower border of the teres major. The axillary vessels and nerves lie upon the tendon close to its in- ' This branch to the teres minor is said to be constant in all inammaHa that have been examined in reference to this point.