658 EXTERNAL ROTATORS OF THE THIGH. medius and minimus, and tlie tensor fasciae femoris. In some sub- jects it sends a brancli to the gluteus maxim us ; but this muscle is chiefly supplied by the lesser sciatic nerve. A surgeon ought to be able to cut down and tie the gluteal artery as it emerges from the pelvis. The following is the best rule ' for finding it :■— Draw a line from the posterior superior spine of the ilium to the trochanter major, rotated inwards. The junction of the upper with the middle third of this line lies over the artery as it emerges from the upper border of the great sciatic notch. Now examine the series of muscles which rotate the thigh out- wards—namely, the pyriformis, the obturator internus, the gemelli, the quadratus femoris, and the obturator externus. Pyriformis '^^^^ muscle lies immediately below and parallel with the lower fibres of the gluteus medius. It arises within the pelvis by three fleshy fasciculi from the second, third, and fourth segments of the front surface of the sacrum between the foramina for the sacral nerves, from the margin of the great sacro- sciatic notch, and from the great sacro-sciatic ligament. The fibres, passing horizontally outwards, converge to a tendon, which is inserted into the upper border of the great trochanter. Its nerve comes from the sacral plexus. Its action is that of an abductor and an external rotator of the femur ; and, if the femur be the fixed point, it steadies the pelvis on the femur, and when the pelvis has been drawn backwards it will bring it forwards. Obturator This muscle, of which little more than the ten- Internus. clon can be seen at present, arises within the cavity of the pelvis, from the inner surface of the ischium, bounded pos- teriorly by the margin of the great sacro-sciatic notch and the articular surface for the sacrum, and superiorly by the brim of the true pelvis; from the obturator membrane, and the obturator fascia; in front, from the inner surface of the descending ramus of the OS pubis and the ascending ramus of the ischium. The fibres are directed backwards and outwards, and terminate on four tendons which converge towards the lesser sacro-sciatic notch; pass through ' The operation of tying the gluteal artery was first performed by John Bell. See his Principles of Surgery, vol. i. p. 421.