62 INSERTION OF TIIK KECTI MUSCLES. INSEKTION OP THE BECTI KIUSCLES WITH THE ANTEHIOK CILIARY AETERIES. been already mentioned that the tendons are invested by a fascia, which passes from one to the other, forming a loose tunic—capsule Fio. 23. (^f Tenon—over the back of the eye. This tunic consists of two layers with an intermediate space, lined with flat cells, thus allow- ing free mobility of the globe. It is this fascia which resists the passage of the hook in the ope- ration for the cure of squinting. Even after the complete division of the tendon, the eye may still be held in its faulty position, if this tissue, instead of possessing its proper softness and pliancy, happen to have become contracted and un- yielding. Under such circumstances it is necessary to divide it freely with the scissors. By removing the conjunctival coat of the eye, the tendons of the recti are soon exposed. The breadth and the precise situation of their insertion deserve attention in reference to the operation for strabismus. The breadth of their insertion is about three- eighths of an inch, but the line of this insertion is not, at all points, equidistant from the cornea. The centre of the insertion is nearer to the coi'nea by about'one line than either end. Taking the internal rectus, which has most frequently to be divided in strabis- mus, we find that the centre of its tendon is, upon an average, three lines only from the cornea, the lower part nearly five lines, and the upper four. It is, therefore, very possible that the lower part may be left undivided in the operation, being more in the background than the rest. The tendon of the internal rectus is nearer to the cornea than either of the others. Infeeiob This muscle arises by a flat tendon from the Oblique. orbital plate of the superior maxilla on the outer side of the lachrymal groove. It runs outwards and backwards between the orbit and the inferior rectus, then curves upwards be- tween the globe and the external rectus, and is inserted by a broad