230 OPENINGS INTO THE rHARYNX. pharynx just here. Tlie fibres of the stylo-pharyngeus pass in between the superior and middle constrictors, and expand upon the side of the pharynx ; some of them mingle with those of the con- strictors, so as to be able to lift up the pharynx in deglutition; but most of them are inserted into the superior and posterior margins of the thyroid cartilage. Phaeyngeal The loliaryngeal aponeurosis intervenes between Aponexikosis. the muscles and the mucous membrane of the pharynx. It is attached to the basilar process of the occipital bone, and to the points of the petrous portions of the temporal bones. It maintains the strength and integrity of the pharynx at its upper part, where the muscular fibres are deficient; but it gradually diminishes in thickness as it descends, and is finally lost on the oesophagus. Notice the number of mucous glands upon this aponeurosis, especially near the base of the skull and the Eustachian tube. These glands sometimes enlarge and occasion deafness from the pressure on the tube. Openings into Lay open the pharynx by a longitudinal incision THE Phaeynx. in the middle line, up to the pharyngeal tubercle; then divide transversely, for a short distance, that part of the pharyngeal aponeurosis which is attached to the basilar process, so as the better to view the cavity of the pharynx. Observe the seven openings leading into it (fig. 54) :—1. The two posterior nares: below the nares is the soft palate, with the uvula. 2. On either side of them, near the lower turbinated bones, are the openings of the Eustachian tubes. 3. Below the soft palate is the communication with the mouth, called the isthmus faucium. On either side of this are two folds of mucous membrane, constituting the anterior and posterior half-arches of the palate; between them are the tonsils. Below the isthmus faucium is the epiglottis, which is connected to the base of the tongue by three folds of mucous membrane. 4. Below the epiglottis is the aperture of the larynx. 5. Lastly, is the opening into the oesophagus.^ ' On reflecting the mucous membrane at the pharyngeal termination of the Eustachian tube, a thin pale muscle, the salpingo-pliaryngeus, can be made out. It arises by a thin tendon from the Eustachian tube, and joins the palato-pharyn- geus. It is lost among the fibres of the constrictor muscles.