INFRA-CLAVIC;ULAR REGION. 310 cl. Two arteries, the superior or short thoracic and the thoracica acromialis. e. The termination of the cephalic vein in the axillary. /. Two nerves, the anterior thoracic, which descend from the brachial plexus Below the clavicle, and cross in front of the axillary vessels to supply the pectoral muscles. g This muscle lies between the clavicle and the first rib. It arises from the first rib by a short round tendon at the junction of the bone and cartilage in front of the costo-clavicular ligament, and is inserted into the groove on the under surface of the clavicle as far outwards as the coraco- clavicular ligament. Its nerve comes from the fifth and sixth cervical nerves. Its action is to depress the clavicle, and prevent its too great elevation. EELATrv'E posi- -"-^ infra-clavicular space before us are the TioN OF THE AxiL- great vessels and nerves of the axilla in the first LABY Vessels ani> part of their course. They lie at a great depth Nebveb. from the surface. They are surrounded by a sheath of fascia, which descends with them beneath the clavicle. Their relations with regard to each other are as follows: The axillary vein lies in front of the artery, and rather to its thoracic side. The brachial plexus of nerves is situated above the arter}^, and on a posterior plane. The plexus consists of two, or some- times three, large cords, which result from the union of the anterior branches of the four lower cervical, and the first dorsal, nerves. The course and relations of the axillary artery will be examined subsequently. Superior These are two branches which arise from the Thobaoio and axillary artery in the first part of its course, above AcROMio-THORACic the pectoralis mmor. The suj)erior thoracic fre- Arteeies. quently arises in common with the acromio-thoracic, and passing along the upper box-der of the pectoralis minor, descends between this muscle and the pectoralis major, supplymg both and ana- stomosmg with the intercostal and niternal mammary arteries. The thoracica acromialis is given off just above the pectoralis minor, and shortly divides into three sets of branches: viz. two or three small thoracic branches to the serratus magnus and pectoral muscles; the thoracica Mtmeraria, which descends with the cephalic vein, m the