79 DEPRESSOR MUSCLES OF THE LARYNX. Tlie sterno-tlijroid, however, diverge to their insertions, but are in contact below, the result of which is that the trachea is completely covered in front by muscular fibres. The omo-hyoid consists of two fleshy portions connected by a tendon. It arises from the upper border of the scapula, and sometimes from the ligament over the notch, and is inserted into the lower border of the body of the os hyoides just external to the sterno-hyoid. From the scapula it comes nearly horizontally forwards across the lower part of the neck, and passes beneath the sterno-mastoid, over the sheath of the great vessels of the neck on a level with the cricoid cartilage; then, changing its direction, it ascends nea,rly vertically close to the outer border of the sterno-hyoid. Thus the muscle does not proceed straight from origin to insertion, but forms an obtuse angle beneath the sterno-mastoid muscle. The intermediate tendon is situated at the angle and is bound down to the first rib and the sternum by a process of the deep cervical fascia. The object of this peculiar direction of the omo-hyoid appears to be to keep tense that part of the cervical fascia which covers the apex of the pleura, and thus to resist atmospheric pressure. Selations of At its origin the omo-hyoid is covered by the THE Omo-hyoid. trapezius, then by the clavicle and subclavius, and lastly, by the sterno-mastoid and platysma myoides. It lies on the scalenus medius and anticus, the brachial plexus, the phrenic nerve, then on the internal jugular vein, pneumogastric nerve and common carotid artery enclosed within their common sheath, on the descen- dens noni, the sterno-thyroid, and thyro-hyoid muscles. These depressor muscles are all supplied with nerves (fig. 26, p. 78) by the descendens noni (a branch of the twelfth or hypo- glossal), and by the communicantes noni (branches of the second and third cervical nerves). The descendens noni sends a separate branch to each belly of the omo-hyoid. They are supplied with blood by the superior and inferior thyroid arteries. ^ The thyro-hyoid arises from the oblique line on •no-iiYoiD. ^j^^ thyroid cartilage, and runs up to be inserted into the lower border of the body and the inner half of the great cornu of the hyoid bone. This muscle is a continuation of