235 THE TONSILS. fellow of the opposite side. It gives strength to the soft palate. A synovial membrane facilitates the play of the tendon round the hamular process. Its action is to draw down and tighten the soft palate, and, owing to its insertion into the palate bone, also to keep the Eustachian tube open. Its nerve is derived from the otic ganglion, and enters the muscle on its inner aspect. AzYGos OB This consists of two thin bundles of parallel Levator Uvul/e. muscular fibres situated one on each side of the middle line. It arises from the aponeurosis of the palate and de- scends along the uvula nearly down to its extremity. It receives its nerve from the descending palatine branch of the spheno- palatine ganglion. Paiato-glosscs These muscles are contained within the arches AND PAiiATo- of the soft palate, and the mucous membrane must PHAEYNGEos. ]jq rcmoved in order to expose them. The palato- glossus, within the anterior arch, proceeds from the anterior surface of the soft palate to the side of the tongue, and is lost in the stylo- glossus muscle. The palato-ijJiaryngeus, within the posterior arch, arises from the posterior border of the soft palate by two origins, separated by the levator palati. As it descends its fibres spread out and, passing along the side of the pharynx, blend with the fibres of the inferior constrictor and the stylo-j)haryngeus. Both these muscles are supplied by the descending palatine branches of the spheno-palatine ganglion. The tonsils are two glandular bodies, situated at the entrance of the fauces, between the arches of the soft palate. They are rounded in shape, and their use is to lubricate the fauces during the passage of the food. On their inner surface are visible from twelve to fifteen orifices leading into crypts, which make the tonsil appear like the shell of an almond. Hence, as well as from their oval figure, they are called the amygdalce. These openings lead into small follicles in the substance of the tonsil, lined by mucous membrane. Their walls are thick, and around them is a layer of closed cells (like Peyer's glands) situated in the submucous tissue. The fluid secreted by these cells is viscid and transparent, in the healthy state : but it is apt to become