193 INTERCOSTAL NERVES. the spine and the sternum, they give off lateral cutaneous h'anclies, which supply the skin over the scapula and the thorax. The intercostal nerves tex'minate in front in the anterior cutaneous nerres. In the anterior part of the intercostal space the nerves lie in the substance of the internal intercostal muscles, and at the costal cartilages get to the inner side of the muscles, passing between them and the"pleura. The intercostal nerves are divided into two sets: the six upper are called the pectoral intercostals, because they supply the struc- tures of the pectoral region; the six lower, the abdominal inter- costals, because they supply the chest and abdominal walls. The upper or pectoral intercostal nerves pass between the external and internal intercostal muscles, run forwards in the substance of the latter muscle, and at the sternal end of the in- tercostal spaces pierce the internal intercostal muscles and the pectoralis major, to be ultimately distributed to the skin of the chest.' The upper intercostal nerves supply the levatores costarum, serratus posticus superior, the intercostals, and the triangularis sterni. The lower or abdominal intercostal nerves pass like the upper nerves between the intercostal muscles as far forwards as the costal cartilages. They pass behind these, and then run between the transversalis and internal oblique, as far as the outer border of the rectus. Piercing the sheath of the muscle, they supply it, and subsequently end as the anterior cutaneous nerves of the abdomen. They supply the intercostal muscles, the serratiis posticus inferior, and the abdominal parietal muscles. Notice that the first dorsal nerve ascends nearly perpendicu- larly over the neck of the. first rib to form part of the brachial plexus. This nerve, however, gives off a small branch, the first intercostal nerve, to supply the first intercostal space. This, as a rule, has no lateral cutaneous branch. Intercostal himpliatic glands—These are situated near the heads of the ribs; there are some between the layers of the intercostal muscles. They are of small size, and their efferent vessels go into the thoracic duct. Some of the upper ones on the right side pass into the right lymphatic duct. We have seen these intercostal glands enlarged and diseased in phthisis.