RELATIONS OF THE RECTUM. 531 Rectum and The rectmn is about eight inches long. It is a ITS Relations. continuation of the sigmoid flexure of the colon, enters the pelvis at the left sacro-iliac articulation, describes a curve corresponding to the sacrum and coccyx, and terminates at the anus. The rectum also inclines from the left side to the middle line, and before its termination, the bowel turns downwards so that the anal aperture is dependent. Although it loses the sacculated appearance, it is not throughout of equal calibre and its capacity becomes greater as it descends into the pelvis ; immedi- ately above the sphincter, it presents a considerable dilatation, the ampulla (fig. 125). This dilatation is not material in early life, but it increases as age advances. Under such circumstances the rectum loses altogether its cylindrical form, and bulges up on either side of the prostate and the base of the bladder. For this reason the rectum should always be emptied before the operation of lithotomy. The rectum is conveniently divided into three portions, the upper, the middle, and the lower. The upper portion is about three inches and a half in length, and extends as low as the third bone of the sacrum, to which bone it is connected by a fold of peritoneum, termed the mesa-rectum. In this fold, the terminal branch of the inferior mesenteric artery with its vein runs down to supply the bowel. This portion of the rectum has behind it, the sacral plexus of nerves, the pyriformis, and some branches of the left internal iliac artery; in front, it has the bladder and the recto-vesical pouch. The middle portion comprises three inches in length, and is continuous with the lower portion at the tip of the coccyx. It is connected posteriorly to the sacrum and coccyx by loose connective tissue, and is covered by peritoneum only in front in the upper part, which forms the recto-vesical pouch. It has in front, the fundus of the bladder, the vesiculge seminales, the vasa deferentia and the prostate ; while in the female it is closely connected to the posterior wall of the vagina. The loiverportion comprises the lowest inch and a half of the rec- tum. It is entirely destitute of peritoneum, and is supported by the levatores ani, the larger portions of which are inserted into its side ; it has also surrounding it, the internal, and lastly the external sphincters. M M 2