312 DISSECTION OF THE AXILLA. more embarrassing. For instance, the anterior thoracic nerves may be more numerous than usual, and form by their mutual communication a plexus around the artery. A large nerve is often seen crossing obliqnely over the artery, immediately below the clavicle, to form one of the roots of the median nerve. The cephalic vein may ascend higher than usual, and open into the subclavian; and as it receives large veins corresponding to the thoracic axis, a concourse of veins would be met with in front of the artery. Again, it is by no means uncommon to find a deep- seated vein, the supra-scapular, crossing over the artery to join the axillary vein. DISSECTION OF THE AXILLA. Sebaceous On the under surface of the skin of the axilla, Glands. near the roots of the hairs, are numerous sebaceous glands. They are of a reddish-brown colour, and rather larger than a pin's head, AxiLLABY This dense fascia, which lies immediately be- I'ascia. neath the skin of the axilla, is a continuation of the general fascial investment of the muscles. It closes in and forms the floor of the cavity of the axilla. Externally, it is strengthened by fibres from the tendons of the pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi, and is continuous with the fascia of the arm ; internally, it is prolonged on the side of the chest, over the serratus magnus muscle; in front and behind, it divides, so as to enclose between its layers the muscles which form the boundaries of the axilla. Thus the anterior layer encloses the two pectoral muscles, and is connected with the coracoid process, the costo-coracoid ligament, and the clavicle; the posterior layer encloses the latis- simus dorsi, and passes backwards to the spine. A subcutaneous artery, sometimes of considerable size, is often found in the substance of the axillary fascia. It generally arises from the brachial, or from the lower part of the axillary artery, and runs across the floor of the axilla towards the lower edge of the pecto- ralis major. It is not a named branch, but should be remembered,