THE FACIAL NERVE. 45 lying upon tlie auditory nerve, traverses a tortuous bony canal (aqueductus Fallojyii) in the petrous portion of tlie temporal bone,, and leaves the skull at the stylo-mastoid foramen. Its course and connections in the temporal bone will be studied Hereafter: at present we must trace tlie facial part of the nerve. Having emerged from the stylo-mastoid foramen, the nerve enters the parotid gland, and divides behind the ramus of the jaw into two primary branches, named, from their distribution, temporo- facial and cervico-facial. These primary branches cross over the external carotid artery and the external jugular vein, and form, by their communications within the substance of the parotid, the plexus called pes anserinus, from its fancied resemblance to the skeleton of a goose's foot. (Diagram, p. 46.) Close to the stylo-mastoid foramen, the facial nerve gives off its postenor aiiricular branch (p. 6), which ascends behind the ear and divides into two, an auricular and an occipital; the former supplies the retrahens and attoUens aurem, the latter the posterior belly of the occipito-frontalis. This branch communicates with the deep branch of the great auricular n., with the small occipital, and with the auricular branch of the pneumogastric. Its two next hranclies supply the stylo-hyoideus and the posterior belly of the digastricus. The digastric nerve enters the muscle by many fila- ments ; the nerve to the stylo-hyoid is long and enters the muscle about the middle. The stylo-hyoid branch communicates with the sympathetic on the external carotid a.; the digastric branch \vith the glosso-pharyngeal near the base of the skull. These two muscular nerves are frequently given off from a common branch. The temporo-facial division, the larger of the two, in passing through the parotid gland, crosses the external carotid and the neck of the jaw, receives two or more communications from the auriculo-temporal (branch of the fifth) and subdivides into temjDoral, malar, and infra-orbital branches. The temporal branches ascend over the zygoma, supply the frontalis, the attrahens aurem, the orbicularis palpebrarum, the corrugator super- cilii, and tensor tarsi, and communicate with filaments of the supra- orbital nerve, with the temporal branch of tlie superior maxillary n., with the auriculo-temporal n., and with the lachrymal n.