STRUCTURE OF THE SMALL INTESTINE. 601 The n&rves are derived from the pneumogastric nerves and from the solar plexus. Small The small intestine, consisting of the duodenum, Intestine. • jejunum, and ileum, forms a tube averaging twenty feet in length, which gradually lessens in calibre until it opens into the CEecum. The duodenum is about twelve fingers' breadth in length (whence its name) ; the jejunum ' comprises two-fifths, the ileum ^ three-fifths, of the remaining part of the small intestine. As regards their external characters, the duodenum and jejunum ; are more vascular than the ileum, and feel thicker in consequence of the peculiar arrangement of their mucous membrane ; but there are no defined limits between the different portions of the intestinal canal. Its coats are four in number : serous, muscular, submucous, and mucous. The serous coat consists of peritoneum, and forms a complete investment, except in the case of the descending and transverse portions of the duodenum, which are only covered in front. The muscular coat consists of an outer longitudinal layer and i an inner circular thicker layer, which, however, becomes thinner t towards the end of the ileum. The submucous coat connects the muscular and mucous coats; . immediately beneath the mucous membrane there is a very thin \ layer of non-striped muscular fibres, termed muscularis mucosce. The mtLcous coat can only be seen when the intestine is cut < open from the upper end, and is composed of the following strata: t the muscularis mucosEe, a layer of retiform tissue with lymph () corpuscles, with blood-vessels and nerves; and, lastly, a layer of I'columnar epithelium. When the intestine is laid open we see that the mucous mem- hbrane is arranged in close transverse folds, called valvuloi conni- fventes or valves of Kerlcring. These difier from other folds in the »alimentary canal—e.g. in the oesophagus and stomach—in that they are not obliterated when the tube is distended. Each fold extends about one-half or two-thirds round the intestine, but they are not all of equal size, and are about one-third of an inch in depth. They i ' From jejunus, empty. " From e^Aeiv, to roll or twist.