450 RELATIVE POSITION OF THE SMALL INTESTINES. DnoDENUii ^^^^ ^^^^ intestinal canal is termed intestinum duodenum, because it is about the breadth of twelve fingers. Commencing at the pyloric end of the stomach, the duodenum ascends as high as the neck of the gall- bladder ; then turning downwards it passes in front of the right kidney; lastly, making another bend, it crosses the spine obliquely towards the left side of the second lumbar vertebra. Here the intestinum jejunum begins, and this part of the canal may be seen by raising the transverse colon. Thus the duodenum describes a kind of horse-shoe curve, of which the concavity is towards the left, and embraces the large end or head of the pancreas. For convenience of description the duodenum is divided into an ascend- ing, a descending, and a transverse portion. The first is com- pletely surrounded by a peritoneal covering; the second and third are only covered by peritoneum in front, and are fixed to the back of the abdomen. The relative ^anatomy of the duodenum will be more fully seen hereafter (p. 474). Jejunum and Pursuing its course from the left side of the Ileum. second lumbar vertebra, the intestinal canal forms a number of convolutions, occupying the lower regions of the abdomen, and which are loosely connected to the spine by a broad peritoneal fold termed the mescnterij. Of these convolutions, the upper two-fifths constitute the intestinum jejunwn; the lower three-fifths, the intestinum ileum. This is an arbitrary division. There is no definite limit: the character of the bowel gradually changes—that is, it becomes less vascular, has fewer folds of the lining membrane, and its coats are therefore less substantial to the feel. Commencement -"-^ right iliac fossa, the small intestine opens . OF Laege In- into the left side of the ca3cum, which is easily TESTiNE. recognised^by its sacculated appearance ; here the large intestine begins, and it is guarded by the Heo-ctecal valve (fig. 103). Immediately below the junction the large intestine is expanded into a blind pouch, about two and a half inches in length and breadth, called the ccecum or caimt coli. Into the back part of tions. {Lancet, March 11, 1882.) Tliis opinion is not, however, generally enter- tained by anatomists.