BACK OF THE THIGH. 669 the back of the calf, and joins the popliteal vein after perforating the strong fascia covering the space. Muscular Respecting this, remark that its fibres run Fascia. chiefly in a transverse directioa^ that it becomes stronger as it passes over the popliteal space, and that here it is connected with the tendons on either side. Remove it, to examine the powerful muscles which bend the leg, called the hamstrings. Hamstrikg There are three of these, and all arise by strong Muscles. tendons from the tuber ischii. One, the biceps, passes downwards and outwards to be inserted into the head of the fibula; the other.two—namely, the semitendinosus and semi- membranosus—descend inwards and are inserted into the tibia. The divergence of these muscles towards their respective inser- tions occasions the space termed the popliteal, which is occupied by soft fat, the popliteal vessels, nerves, and lymphatic glands. This muscle has two origins, a long- and a short. The loncj head arises, by a strong tendon, from the back part of the tuber ischii in common with the semitendino- sus ; the short head, by fleshy fibres, from the outer lip of the linea aspera of the femur between the vastus externus and the adductor magnus, and from the external intermuscular septum : this origin begins at the linea aspera, just below the insertion of the gluteus maximus, and continues nearly down to the external condyle. It joins the long head of the muscle, and both terminate on a common tendon, which is inserted into the outer side of the head of the fibula, by two portions separated by the external lateral ligament of the knee-joint. It also gives off" a strong expansion to the fascia of the leg. The tendon covers part of the external lateral ligament of the knee-joint, and a small bursa intervenes. The biceps is not only a flexor of the leg, but rotates the leg, when bent, outwards. It is the muscle which in chronic disease of the knee dislocates the leg outwards and backwards, and at the same time rotates it outwards. Each head of the biceps is supplied by the great sciatic nerve. The short head is sometimes supplied by the peroneal. Semiten- This arises, in common with the biceps, from DiNosus. the back part of the tuber ischii by muscular