689 PLANTAR NERVES. At tlie jjoint of division the digital arteries send upwards tlirough the front part of the three outer interosseous spaces, small branches, anterior perforating, which anastomose on the dorsum of the foot with the interosseous arteries. The posterior ijerforating are three branches which perforate the back part of the three outer interosseous spaces, and inosculate with the dorsal interosseous arteries at each end of the spaces. The digital artery, supplying the inner side of the great toe and the adjacent sides of the great and second toes, comes from the communicating branch of the dorsal artery of the foot which pierces the back of the first interosseous space to get to the sole of the foot. It is joined here by a branch from, the external plantar artery. Plantar The posterior tibial nerve divides, like the artery, Neeves. {xAo an external and internal plantar. The internal plantar nerve is the larger, and runs with its corre- sponding artery along the inner side of the foot between the ab- ductor hallucis and the flexor brevis digitorum; in this part of its course it distributes cutaneous branches to supply the skin of the sole, muscular branches to the two above-named muscles, and articu- lar branches to the joints of the tarsus and metatarsus. It then . gives ofi" four digital branches which supply the three inner toes I and a half, like the median in the palm: the first digital branch I runs along the inner side of the great toe to its tip, and in its j passage gives off a branch to the flexor brevis hallucis ; the second I divides into two branches, one which supplies the inner lumbricalis, I and the other, the contiguous borders of the great and second toes ; t the third sends a filament to the second lumbrical, and then bifur- c Gates for the supply of the adjacent sides of the second and third ktoes ; t\Q fourth, after receiving a communicating filament from the 8 external plantar nerve, is distributed to the contiguous sides of the (third and fourth toes. These digital nerves send off small branches lite supply the dorsum of the toes at the last phalanges. The external plantar nerve passes obliquelj'' forwards and out- iwards with the artery of the same name, passing between the fexor accessorius and the flexor brevis digitorum, to the former of ■•hich it sends a muscular branch; it then runs along the inner Y Y