224 DISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX, returns through the puhnonary veins. These, at first extremely^ minute, gradually coalesce into larger and larger branches which anastomose very freely, and accompany the arteries. They finally emerge from the root of the lung by two large trunks which carry the oxygenated blood to the left auricle of the heart. The pul- monary veins are not provided with valves. Bronchial These small arteries, two or more in number, Arteries. are the nutrient vessels of the lungs. The right arises either from the first aortic intercostal, or, conjointly with the left bronchial, from the thoracic aorta. The left, usually two in number, come from the thoracic aorta. They enter the lung behind the divisions of the bronchi, which they accompany. The bronchial vessels are distributed in various ways : some of their branches supply the coats of the air-passages, the large blood- vessels and the lymphatic glands; others the interlobular tissue : a few reach the surface of the lung, and ramify beneath the pleura. The right hronchial veins terminate in the vena azygos; the left, in the superior intercostal vein. The nerves of the lung are derived from the pneumogastric and the sympathetic. They enter with the bronchial tubes, forming a plexus in front and behind them, anterior and imsterior imhnonary 2')lexns, in which are found minute ganglia. The li/mpha,tics of the lungs consist of a superficial and deep set: some commence in the lymphatic capillaries in the inter- lobular tissue, and thence pass to the surface, forming a network which communicates with the subpleural lymphatic plexus; others take their origin in the mucous membrane of the bronchial tubes ; and all eventually enter the bronchial glands. Of these, the larger are situated about the bronchi near the root of the lung, parti- cularly under the bifurcation of the trachea. DISSECTION OF THE PHAEYNX. To obtain a view of the pharynx, cut through Dissection. ^-^^ trachea, the oesophagus, the large vessels and nerves of the neck, a short distance above the first rib, and then