THYROID BODY. 8G particularly on the right side; and there are instances in which the lobe is deeply grooved by the vessel. The isthmus lies over the second and third rings of the trachea. This portion of the organ varies much in its dimensions. In some instances there is no transverse portion. This corresponds with the normal disposition in most of the lower orders of mammalia; but in man, it is a failure in the union of the two halves bj^ which the organ is originally developed.' Generally, the vertical measurement is about half an inch. Between its upjDer border and the cricoid cartilage is a space about one-third of an inch in extent, where the trachea is free ; this space, therefore, is the more preferable situation for tracheotomy. But the vertical measure- ment of this isthmus is sometimes of very considerable length, so that it has been seen covering the trachea almost down to the sternum.^ The thyroid body is closely connected, hj areolar tissue, to the sides of the trachea, to the cricoid and thyroid cartilages. Hence it rises and falls with the larynx in deglutition. The thyroid varies in size in different individuals and at dif- ferent periods of life. It is relatively larger in the child than the adult, in the female than the male. In old age it diminishes in size, becomes firmer, and occasionally contains earthy matter.^ By far the most notable considerations in respect to the thyroid ' Concerning the development of the lateral halves and central portion of the thyroid body, see a paper by Callender in the Proceedings of the Royal Society, 18G7. - From the upper part of the isthmus, or from the adjacent border of either lobe, most commonly the left, a conical prolongation of the thjToid body, called the injramid, frequently ascends in front of the crico-thyroid membrane, as high as the pomum Adami, and is attached to the body of the os hyoides by fibrous tissue. In some subjects we may observe a few muscular fibres passing from the OS hyoides to the pyramid. This constitutes the levator glaiidnlcB thyroidem (see preparation in Museum of St. Earth. Hosp., Patholog. Series, No. 14) of some anatomists. There are instances in which the jDyramid is double; and, lastly, we have seen a considerable portion of this thyi'oid substance lying over the crico- thyroid membrane, completely isolated fi'om the rest of the organ. These varieties deserve notice, because any one portion of this structure may become enlarged independently of the rest, and occasion a bronchocele. •■' The thyroid body is, primarily, developed as a pouch from the anterior wall of the pharynx; the lateral lobes are first formed, and are subsequently united by the isthmus. W. Miiller, Jenaisch. Zeitsch. 1871.