128 AURICULO-TEMPORAL NERVE. b. Tlie transversalis faciei (p. 41). c. The anterior auricular branches, two in number, superior and inferior, ramify on the front of the pinna of the ear, inosculating witli branches of the posterior auricular. d. The middle temporal, a small vessel given off while the artery is still in the parotid gland, pierces the temporal fascia above the zygoma, and rumiing in the substance of the temporal muscle, anastomoses with the temporal branches of the internal maxillary. Of the two branches into which the temporal divides, the anterior runs toi-tuously towards the external angle of the frontal bone, distant from it about an inch. Its ramifications extend over the forehead, supplying the orbicularis and occipito-frontalis m., and inosculate with the supra-orbital and frontal arteries. The posterior runs towards the back of the head, and inosculates freely with the occipital and posterior auricular. The anterior branch, although the smaller, is usually selected for arteriotomy, the posterior being covered by a strong and unyielding fascia. The temjporal vein is formed by the junction of the veins accom- panying the terminal branches of the temporal artery, which are situated superficial to the arteries; just above the zygoma it is joined by the middle temporal vein which takes its origin from a plexus in the temporal fossa. The common temporal vein, formed by the union of these three veins, passes over the zygoma, enters the parotid gland, and joins the internal maxillary vein to form the temporo-maxillary vein. AuBiccLo-TEM- This nerve supplies the temple and side of the poHAL Nerve. head with common sensation. It arises, close to the foramen ovale, from the third division of the fifth pair by two roots (between which the middle meningeal artery runs). From its origin it proceeds outwards beneath the external pterygoid, between the neck of the jaw and the internal lateral ligament. It then ascends beneath the parotid, over the root of the zygoma, where it accompanies the temporal artery, and divides, like it, into an anterior and a ijosterior branch. The posterior branch is the smaller of the two ; tlie anterior forms communications with the temporal branches of the facial, and the orbital branch of the superior maxillary. The ramifications of the nerve correspond with those of the artery.