95 EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. Course and course and relations of the external carotid Eelations of the artery, and its brandies in the neck, should now External C.uiotid made out as far as the parotid gland. In pre- Artery. paring a view of them, observe that nearly all the veins lie in front of their corresponding arteries. In removing the connective tissue, fat and lymphatic glands, the student must take care of the nerves and other structures which are liable to be injured. The external carotid arises from the common carotid about the level of the upper border of the thyroid cartilage. It ascends to the interval between the ear and the jaw in a slightly curved direction, at first forwards and then backwards. The external and the internal carotids are in the adult nearly of equal size; but the external rapidly diminishes in size, owing to the large branches it gives off within a short distance. At first it lies heneatli the skin, superficial fascia, platysma myoides, deep cervical fascia, some of the superficial cer- vical nerves, and the sterno-mastoid muscle. It is next crossed by the hypoglossal nerve, the facial and lingual veins, the posterior belly of the digastricus and stylo-hyoideus ; it then enters the parotid gland, where it lies beneath the facial nerve and the external jugular vein, and terminates between the external audi- tory meatus and the neck of the jaw, by dividing into the temporal and internal maxillary arteries. Internally the artery is in relation with the hyoid bone, the pharynx, the parotid gland, and the jDosterior border of the ascending ramus of the lower jaw. Behind the external carotid, and separating it from the in- ternal, are the stylo-glossus, the stylo-pharyngeus, the glosso- pharyngeal nerve, and the stylo-hyoid ligament. The superior laryngeal nerve and part of the parotid gland are also placed behind the artery. Notice the relative position which the external and internal carotids bear to each other. The external lies at first on the same plane with, but nearer to the side of the pharynx than the internal. It soon, however, changes its position, and crosses obliquely in front of the internal to reach the space between the angle of the jaw and the mastoid process. The internal carotid