ADDUCTOR MUSCLES. G29 standing on one leg; and (if the fixed point be reversed) to draw together or adduct the thighs, at the same time rotating the thigh externally. They are five in number, and are supplied, with one exception—the pectineus—by the same nerve, namely, the obtu- rator. They are termed,' respectively, the gracilis, adductor longus, pectineus, adductor brevis, and adductor magnus. The innermost is the gracilis ; to clean it properly, it should be stretched by separating one thigh from the other. This long-, flat muscle arises by a broad, ribbon- Gracilis . like tendon, two to three inches in breadth, from the OS pubis close to the symphysis, and from the inner margin of the rami of the os pubis and ischium. It descends almost perpen- dicularly on the inner side of the thigh, and terminates in a thin round tendon which subsequently spreads out, and is inserted into the inner side of the upper part of the tibia below the tubercle, immediately behind the sartorius and above the semi-tendinosus. The tendon plays over the internal lateral ligament of the knee- joint, and there is a bursa common to it and the semi-tendinosus to diminish friction. This muscle assists in fi:s:ing the pelvis, and in adducting the thigh ; it further helps to bend the knee. Its nerve comes from the anterior division of the obturator. Adductor This triangular muscle lies between^the gracilis LoxGDs. and the pectineus, and arises by a round tendon from the front of the body of the os pubis below the crest. As it descends, the muscle becomes broader, and passing downwards, •outwards, and backwards, is inserted by a broad aponeurosis into the middle third of the inner margin of the linea aspera of the femur. It forms with the sartorius the triangular space called Scarija's triangle, above described. It rests upon the adductor brevis and magnus, the profunda vessels, and the anterior branches ■of the obturator vessels and nerve. It is supplied by the anterior <iivision of the obturator nerve. This muscle lies on the same plane, but external Pectineus. . ^ ^ , „ i • i -1 • x i to the adductor longus, irom which it is separated by a slight interval, in which may be seen the adductor brevis and the anterior division of the obturator nerve. It aoises from the linea ilio-pectinea, from the triangular surface of the os pubis in