546 SACRAL PLEXUS AND ITS BRANCHES. passes down, beneath the gemelli and obturator internus, to enter the anterior or deep aspect of the quadratus femoris, lying between this muscle and the capsule of the hip-joint: it sends off a small twig to the inferior gemellus, and another to the hip-joint. b. The superior gluteal nerve proceeds from the lumbo-sacral cord and the first sacral nerve, leaves the pelvis through the great sacro-sciatic foramen with the gluteal artery, above the pyriformis, and there divides into two branches : the dipper passes along the iliac attachment of the gluteus minimus, supplying it and the gluteus mediu's; the lower accompanies the lower branch of the gluteal artery, and supplies the glutei medius and minimus and the tensor fascige femoris. c. The puclic nerve runs with the pudic artery, and is contained in the same sheath of the obturator fascia; it divides into two branches—the perineal nerve, and the dorsal nerve of the penis; the former accompanies the superficial perineal artery, and supplies cutaneous branches and muscular branches to the external sphincter, the accelerator urinee, the transversus perinei, the erector penis, and the compressor urethree ; the dorsal nerve accompanies the last part of the pudic artery, and, after piercing the anterior layer of the triangular ligament and the suspensory ligament, runs along the dorsum of the penis external to the dorsal artery, and is dis- tributed to the glans and the prepuce. cl. The small sciatic nerve is formed by the junction of two branches from the sacral plexus, and passes through the great sacro-sciatic foramen below the pyriformis, and then divides into two branches : one, a motor—the inferior gluteal—supplies the gluteus maximus ; the other, a sensory, supplies cutaneous branches to the back of the thigh and leg, to the skin over the gluteus maximus, and to the perineum and scrotum. These will be dis- sected later on with the lower extremity. e. The great sciatic nerve is the large nerve-cord which passes along the back of the thigh beneath the gluteus maximus and the hamstring muscles, and wdl be dissected at a later stage. Pelvic Sym- From the lumbar region the sympathetic nerve PATHETIC Plexus, descends into the pelvis along the inner side of the anterior sacral foramina. In this part of its course its gangha