432 PYIUMIDALIS. of the abdomen.^ Their number varies from three to five, but there are always more above than below the umbilicus. These tendinous intersections adhere closely to the sheath in front, but not behind; consequently, pus formed between the front of the rectus and its sheath would be confined by two. intersections; not so on the back of the muscle, where pus might travel down the entire length of it. There is one intersection on a level with the umbilicus, one on a level with the ensiform cartilage, and an intermediate one between these two. The sheath of the rectus consists in front of the aponeurosis of the external oblique, and half the thickness of that of the internal oblique; while the back of the sheath comprises the aponeurosis of the transversalis, and half that of the internal oblique (fig. 100). This, however, applies only "to the upper three-fourths of the muscle; the lower fourth has no sheath behind, since all the aponeuroses pass in front of it; the only structure in contact with the muscle in this part is the fascia transversalis. This small triangular muscle is situated near the Ptbamidalis. pubis, close to the linea alba, and has a sheath of its own. It arises by tendinous fibres from the front part of the OS pubis and the anterior pubic ligament in front of the rectus, and terminates in the linea alba about midway between the os pubis and the umbilicus. It is often absent on one or even both sides. Linea alba.—The aponeuroses of the abdominal muscles decus- sate along the middle line and form a white fibrous band, extending from the ensiform cartilage to the os pubis. This is the linea alba: it is the fibrous continuation of the sternum, and is broader above than below. A little lower than the middle is a large aperture in tlie umbilicus—through which a hernial protrusion not infre- quently takes place. It is in relation behind with the fascia trans- versalis, the urachus, and the bladder when distended. The linea alba, being the thinnest part of the abdomen, and free from large blood-vessels, is chosen as a safe line for tapping in dropsy, for puncturing the bladder in retention of urine, and for ovariotomy. Lineal semiimares.—These are the two slightly curved lines, 1 Some animals, e.g. the crocodile, have bony abdominal ribs.