INTERNAL PUDIC ARTERY. 519 margin of the ramus of the os pubis, and lastly, piercing the anterior layer of the triangular ligament, it divides into the artery of the corpus cavernosum and the dorsal artery of the penis. In the present dissection we find the artery between the two layers of the triangular ligament, where it gives off the artery of the bulb of the urethra, and then pierces the triangular ligament (fig. 121). Taken in order, the branches of the pudic artery as seen in this dissection are:— a. The external hcemorrhoidal the siqjerjtcial jjerineal, and the transverse 2'>6i'ineal branches have already been described (pp. .508, 510). h. The artery of the bulb is of considerable size, and passes trans- versely inwards between the two layers of the triangular ligament; it runs inwards through the substance of the compressor urethrse, and before it enters the bulb divides into two or three branches. It also sends downwards a small branch to Cowper's gland. From the cbrection of this artery it will at once strike the attention that there is great risk of dividing it in lithotomy. If the artery run along its usual level, and the incision be not made too high in the perineum, then indeed it is out of the way of harm. But, supposing the reverse, the vessel must be divided. This deviation from the normal distribution is met ■with about once in twenty subjects, and there is no possibility of ascertaining this anomaly beforehand. c. The artery of the corpus cavernosum, one of the terminal branches, ascends for a short distance near the pubic arch, and soon enters the crus, running forwards in its cavernous structure by the side of the septum pectiniforme. d. To see the dorsal artery of the penis, the crus should be dissected from its attachment to the symphysis pubis. The artery pierces the suspensory ligament, and can be traced upon the dorsum of the penis down to the glans. It forms a complete arterial circle with its fellow round the corona glandis, and gives numerous ramifications to the papillse on the surface. The veins corresponding with the branches of the pudic artery terminate in the pudic vein, with the exception of the dorsal vein of the penis. This vein is of large size and results from the union of two small veins in front of the dorsum of the penis which receive the blood from the glans, the corpus spongiosum, and the prepuce.