THE URETHRA. , 555 inferior vesical find middle hgemorrhoidal; its veins pass to the internal iliac vein, and its nerves are derived from the hypo- gastric plexus. The function of these bodies is twofold—they act as reservoirs for the semen, and secrete a fluid accessory to generation. Cowpeh's The glands of Covs^per have been examined in Glands. situ in the dissection of the perineum (p. 517). They are placed close to the urethra, one on either side, imme- diately behind the bulb and between the two layers of the tri- angular ligament. They consist of a number of lobules united by firm connective tissue, and their collective size is somewhat larger than a pea. Each pours its secretion by a minute duct, about an inch long, into the bulbous part of the urethra. The use of these glands is analogous to that of the vesiculfe seminales and the prostate—namely, to pour into the iirethra a fluid accessory in some way to generation. They are found in all mammalia, and in some, e.g. the mole, they increase in size periodically with the testicle. The urethra is the canal which extends from the bladder to the end of the penis, and serves not only as the outlet for the urine, but to transmit the secretion of the testicles and the several glands accessory to generation. It varies in length from eight to nine inches, and is divided into three portions, according to the different structures by which it is surrounded in different parts of its course. The first inch and a quarter is surrounded by the prostate gland, and is called the prostatic portion (p. 530); the next three-quarters of an inch which passes under the pubic arch, is surrounded by the com- pressor urethrse, and is termed the memhranous jyortion (p. 530) ; the remainder of its course, about six inches in length, is contained in the corpus spongiosum, and is called the spongy portion. The length of the urethra will vary much in different subjects, and according to the condition of the penis. The direction of the urethra, when the penis hangs flaccid, is like the letter S reversed; but if the penis be held straight, the canal forms only one curve through the pubic arch, with the con- cavity upwards. The degree of this curvature varies at different