THE TESTIS. 843 Tlie tunica vasculosa (jna mater testis) consists of a multitude of minute blood-vessels, formed by the ramifications of the spermatic artery, and held together by delicate areolar tissue. It covers the inner surface of the tunica albuginea, and gives ofi" branches, which run with the fibrous septa into the interior of the gland. Minute structure.—When the testis is cut into, its surfaces become convex, and present a dirty fawn colour. The section is soft and pulpy, and is seen to consist of numerous lobules, between two hundred and fifty and four hundred in number,' of various : sizes, the central being the larger, and contained in the compart- ments formed by the fibrous septa proceeding from the mediastinum ■ testis. A few only of these lobules are shown in the diagram. ' These lobules are conical in shape, their bases being anterior and their apices at the mediastinum, and are bounded by the septa which pass from the mediastinum. They contain two or more minute con- voluted tubes, tubuli seminiferi, which may be easily unravelled, in i consequence of their tough walls. Their number has been estimated ■ to be between 800 and 900, and each has a length of about two feet and a diameter averaging Yi^^-l^ of iiicli- They commence either by communications with other tubes or by csecal extremities, ; and they frequently exhibit small bulgings in their course back- ■ wards. The walls of the tubuli consist of a membrana propria, I composed of several layers of flattened cells, and the walls are 'lined with several irregular layers of cells, between which may, under the microscope, be distinguished seminal filaments in various ■stages of development. The tubuli seminiferi are connected to- gether by a delicate interstitial tissue, the laminse of which are surrounded by flattened epithelioid cells, and between them are lymph-spaces in direct communication with the lymphatics of the ■ testicle. In this intertubular tissue ramify the minute branches of the spermatic artery which surround the tubules. After pursuing a convoluted course, the tubules unite in front ' of the mediastinum into from thirty to fifty straight vessels, vasa recta, which penetrate the mediastinum testis, and these form an anastomosing plexus of seminal tubes, called the rete testis (fig. 207). This lies along the back of the gland. From the upper part of the ' The larger estimate is that by Krause ; the sraaller, that by Berres.