307 CUTANEOUS NERVES OF THE CHEST. fourtli cervical nerves, descend over tlie clavicle, and are subdivided, according to tbeir direction, into sternal, daincidar, and acromial branches (diagram, p. 66). The inner or sternal cross the inner end of the clavicle to supply the skin over the upper part of the sternum. The middle or clavicidar pass over the middle of the cla- vicle, and supply the integument over the front of the chest and the mammary gland. The outer or acromial branches cross over the outer end of the clavicle, and distribute their filaments to the skin of the shoulder. Near the sternum are found the anterior cutaneous branches or terminal filaments of the intercostal nerves. After piercing the in- ternal intercostal and pectoralis major muscles, each nerve sends an inner filament to the skin over the sternum, and an outer larger one, which supplies the skin over the pectoral muscle. Those of the third and fourth intercostal supply also the mammary gland. Branches of the internal mammary artery, for the supply of the mammary gland, accompany these nerves. During lactation they increase in size, ramifying tortuously over the surface of the gland. They are occasionally as large as the radial at the wrist. The lateral cutaneous branches of the intercostal nerves come out between the digitations of the serratus magnus on the side of the chest, and divide into anterior and posterior branches. The anterior branches curve round the free border of the pectoralis major, and then supply the skin over that muscle and the mamma. The pos- tefiHor branches supply the skin of the back of the chest. ^ Dissect off the superficial fascia and fat with the Dissection. i -i mi -n i mammary gland, ihus you. will expose the strong rfeej3 fascia which is closely attached to the pectoralis major and deltoid muscles. It is continuous, above, with the fascia of the neck; below, with that of the arm. At the axilla it becomes denser, where it passes from the pectoral to the latissimus dorsi muscles. Reflect this fascia from the pectoralis major by dissecting parallel with the course of its fibres. The muscle having been fully exposed, observe its shape, the course of its fibres, their origin and insertion.' ' Sometimes we find a thin little muscle running perpendicularly in front of the inner part of the pectoralis major. This is the recites sternalis or stcrnalis