576 THE LIVER. The iwsterior border is thick and round, having attached to it the coronary ligament. The anterior horder is thin and sharp, and presents a notcli indicating the division into a right and left lobe ; the notch lodges the round ligament, which is the remains of a foetal structure, the umbUical vein. There is also to the right side of the notch, a slight groove corresponding to the base of the gall-bladder. The right horder is thick and round, the left is flat and thin. The under surface is irregular, and is marked by five fissures which map out the five lobes (fig. 136). They are, the longitudinal fissure, the fissure for the ductus venosus, the fissure for the gall-bladder, the fissure for the inferior vena cava, and the transverse fissure. The relative position of these fissures (the liver being in situ) may be best impressed on the memory by comparing them collectively to the letter H. The transverse fissure represents the cross-bar of the letter ; the longi- tudinal fissure and the fissure for the ductus venosus represent the left bar; the fissures for the gall-bladder and the vena cava make the right bar. The longitudinal fissure divides the right from the left lohe, and contains the round ligament, which is the remains of the um- bilical vein in the foetus. It is deeper in front than behind, and is not infrequently bridged over by liver tissue, constituting the 2)ons liepatis. The fissure for the ductus venosus is the continuation backwards of the longitudinal fissure to the posterior border of the liver, and contains a fibrous cord, which is the obliterated remains of what was in the foetus the ductus venosus. The fissure for tlie gall-bladder is a shallow depression to the right of the longitudinal fissure, and lodges the gall-bladder. The fissure for the inferior vena cava runs obliquely backwards and joins at an acute angle the fissure for the ductus venosus at the posterior border of the liver. It begins close to the right extremity of the transverse fissure, and is not uncommonly surrounded by hepatic tissue. The transverse or portal fissure, about two inches in length, unites the other fissures, and transmits the large vessels which enter the