3G8 • NERVES OF THE HACK. of the scapula; the six lower do not become cutaneous, but ter- minate in the multificlus spinee. Posterior l^he external branches from the first, second, and Branches of the third lumbar nerves perforate the ilio-costalis and Lumbar Nerves. latissimus dorsi, and then descend over the crest of the ilium, supplying cutaneous branches to the gluteal region; the fourth supplies the erector spinae without becoming cutaneous ; the fifth sends down a branch to communicate with the first sacral nerve. The internal branches are small, and end in the multifidus spinae. Posterior The external hranches of the upper three sacral Branches or the nerves form a series of loops with themselves, and Sacrai Nerves. a,lso with the last lumbar above and the fourth sacral below ; they pass to the superficial surface of the great sacro- sciatic ligament, where they form another series of loops, from which filaments are distributed to the skin after piercing the gluteus maximus. The internal hranches of the three upper sacral nerves are distributed to the multifidus spinge. The posterior branches of the fourth and fifth sacral nerves do not divide into external and internal branches, but form a loop, the lower one being joined with the coccygeal nerve. Cocctgeal The posterior division of this nerve, after being Nerve. joined by a branch from the last sacral, is distri- buted to the posterior aspect of the coccyx. The trapezius and latissimus dorsi, which form the first layer of muscles, must now be cleaned by putting them on the stretch, and reflecting the connective tissue which covers them ; they should then be dissected in the course of their fibres. Alone, this muscle is triangular; with its fel- Trapezius. j^^^ presents a trapezoid form. It arises from the inner fourth, more or less, of the superior curved line of the occiput, from the ligamentum nuchte,' from the spinous processes > The ligamentum nnclifE is, in man, only a rudiment of the great elastic liga- ment which supports the weight of the head in quadrupeds. It extends from the spine of the occiput to the spines of all the cervical vertebroj, except the atlas; otherwise it would impede the free rotation of the head. In the giraffe this liga-