■508 CUTANEOUS VESSELS AND NERVES OF THE PERINEUM. SO. It may, indeed, be divided into as many layers as we please, according to our skill in dissection; but this only complicates what is, in itself, simple. ^ The external sphincter ani must now be cleaned, care being taken not to remove any of its fibres, which are intimately connected with the skin. Posteriorly, the lower border of the gluteus raaximus must be displayed, and the vessels and nerves crossing the perineum, towards the anus, care- fully dissected.' ExTERNAii The external sjphinder of the anus is elliptical, Sphincteii Ani. and is composed of a thin layer of striped mus- cular tissue about an inch in breadth. It arises from the tip of the coccyx and the ano-coccygeal ligament. The muscular fibres surround the anus, and are inserted in a pointed manner in the tendinous centre of the perineum, in conjunction with the traus- versus perinei, the accelerator urinte, and the levator ani (p. 510). It is called the external sphincter, to distinguish it from a deeper and more powerful band of muscular fibres which surrounds the last inch or more of the rectum, and is situated next to the mucous membrane. Cutaneous The cutaneous vessels and nerves of the peri- Vessels and neum come from the internal pudic artery and Nehves. nerve, and chiefly from that branch of it called the .superficialis perinei. This will be traced presently. The external or inferior hcemorrhoidal arteries cross transversely through the ischio-rectal fossa, from the ramus of the ischium to- wards the anus. They come from the pudic (which can be felt on the inner side of the ischium), and, running inwards, divide into numerous branches, which supply the rectum, levator ani, and .sphincter ani. The nerves which accompany the arteries come from the pudic nerve, and supply the sphincter ani and the skin of the perineum. The fourth sacral nerve emerges through the coccygeus close to the tip of the coccyx, and, through its haimorrhoidal or penined ' Eadiating outwards from the margin of the anus is a thin stratum of involuntary muscular fibres, called the corrugator cutis ani, which by its action produces the radiating ridges of skin from the anus.