32 TARSAL CAETILAGES. Tlie shin of the eyelids is remarkably smooth and delicate, and destitute of fat. It is abundantly supplied with sensory nerves by branches of the fifth pair—namely, by the supra- orbital, supra-trochlear, infra-trochlear, lachrymal, and infra-orbital nerves. The orUcularis palpehxirum has been already described (p. 28). It is supplied by the facial nerve. The levator ixdpehrce arises from the lesser wing of the sphenoid above the optic foramen, gradually becomes broader, and termi- nates in a thin aponeurosis, which unites with the broad tarsal ligament, and is lost on the upper surface of the superior tarsal cartilage. Taesal Cak- These are plates of dense connective tissue, TiLAGEs AND whlcli support and give shape to the eyelids. LiGAJiENTs. There is one for each lid, and they are connected at the angles (commissiires or cantld) of the lids through the medium of fibrous tissue. They can best be examined by everting the lids. Each cartilage resembles its lid in form. The ujjper is the larger, is broad in the middle, and gradually becomes narrower at either end. The lower is neai-ly of uniform breadth throughout. Both are thicker on the nasal than on the temporal side. They are connected to the margin of the orbit, and maintained in position by the hroad ta/i'sal or palpebral ligament; this is a continuation from the periosteum of the orbit to the tarsal cartilage, and is denser at the outer part of the orbit. There are two of them— upper and lower—and they pass to each cartilage respectively. When an abscess forms in the connective tissue of the lids, these ligaments prevent the matter from making its way into the orbit. Each tarsal cartilage is attached on its outer side to the malar bone by the external tarsal ligament, and on its side to the nasal process of the superior maxillary by the tendo palpebrarum or the internal tarsal ligament. The free or ciliary margin is straight, and is the thickest part of the tarsal cartilages. It is generally stated that the inner edge of each is sloped or bevelled off; and that, when the lids are closed, there is formed, with the globe of the eye, a triangular