684 SOLE OF THE FOOT. tlie ball of the great and the little toes; these being the points which form the tripod supporting the arch of the foot. In removing the subcutaneous tissue from the ball of the gre;it and the little toes, we often meet with bursas, simple or multilocular. They are generally placed between the skin and the sesamoid bones, and have remarkably thick walls. Frequently an artery and nerve can be traced running directly through one of these sacs, which explains the acute pain produced by their inflammation. CuTANKous 111 the fat the student must make out the Nekves. cutaneous branch of the posterior tibial nerve, which supplies the skin of the sole of the foot and the heel; tln' remainder of the sole is supplied by small branches of the plantar nerves which come through the fascia, as in the palm of the hand. Plajjtas This is a remarkably dense white and glistening Fascia. fascia. It extends from the under and back part of the OS calcis to the distal extremities of the metatarsal bones. It is divided into a strong central and two lateral less dense por- tions ; from which prolongations pass deeplj' inwards, sepai-atiug the lateral from the central muscles. The middle pwiion, cover- ing the flexor brevis digitorum, is narrow behind, and, as it passt- forwards towards the toes, is spread out, and strengthened by trans- verse fibrous bands. The inner 2>ortion is comparatively thin, and surrounds the abductor hallucis, becoming continuous posteriorly with the intei'nal annular ligament. The outer imiion is thicker than the inner, especially as it passes forwards to be attached to the proximal end of the fifth metatarsal bone. It covers the abductor minimi digiti. Both the inner and the outer portions are continuous with the fascia of the dorsum of the foot round the inner and outer borders of the foot, and with the central portion of the plantar fascia towards the centre of the sole. Near the distal ends of the metatarsal bones, the central part divides into five portions: each of these subdivides into two slips, which embrace the corresponding flexor tendons, and are attached to the metatarsal bones and their connecting ligaments. Between the primary divisions of the fascia—that is, in a line between the toes—are seen the digital vessels and nerves. This arrangement is in all respects like that in the palm.