STRUCTURE OF THE RETINA. 807 some anatomists as two additional layers. The layers of the retina are as follows, beginning from within :— 1. The layer of nerve-fibres. 2. The ganglionic layer. 3. The inner molecular layer. 4. The inner nuclear layer. 5. The outer molecular layer. 6. The outer nuclear layer. 7. The layer of rods and cones. 8. The pigmentary layer. The membranEe limitantes are situated as follows: the internal stratum lies on the inner surface of the layer of nerve-fibres ; the external, between the outer nuclear layer and the layer of rods and cones. 1. The layer of nerve-fih-es (fig. 200, l) is composed of the spread- ing out of the optic nerve-fibres, and of connective tissue cells. The nerve-fibres, consisting only of the axis-cylinders, run for- wards as a continuous layer to the ora serrata, partly arranged in bundles and partly in plexuses, and become connected with the nerve-cells of the next layer. The fibres are almost absent on the yellow spot. 2. The ganglionic layer (fig. 200, 2) is a stratum of spheroidal nerve-cells; from the deeper part of each cell there is given off'a single elongated process, which passes obliquely into the nerve-fibre layer, with which it becomes continuous ; from the outer side of the cell two or more processes are given ofi", which branch dichotomously and become at first embedded and then lost in the inner molecular layer. The ganglionic cells, which in the greater part of the stratum form a single layer, are at the yellow spot arranged eight or ten deep, and in its neighbourhood two or three deep. 3. The inner molecular layer (fig. 200, 3) is a granular stratum of considerable thickness which exhibits, under high powers, a reticu- lar structure, having small interstices filled probably with lymph. In it are found, the processes of the nerve-cells of the preceding layer, which pass outwards for a considerable distance; some vari- cose filaments which pass inwards from the next layer ; and some Miillerian fibres which pass through this layer. Other cells, like