SPERMATIC COIID. 439 Spermatic This round cord extends from the testis to the CoBD. internal abdominal ring, and consists of numerous structures, connected together by delicate areolar tissue, and is sur- rounded by the different strata from the a,bdominal muscles, which are pushed down in the descent of the testis into the scrotum in foetal life. The cord lies in the inguinal canal; at the outer ring it rests on the outer pillar, and at the inner ring the different constituents of the cord separate from each other. The arteries of the cord are derived from the spermatic artery from the abdominal aorta, the deferential artery from the superior vesical, and the cremasteric branch from the deep epigastric. The veins of the cord are chiefly the spermatic: they form on the cord a plexus of veins—the pampiniform plexus—and, passing up in front of the cord, open on the right side into the inferior vena cava; and on the left side, into the left renal vein. The lymphatics pass into the lumbar glands. The nerves are derived from the renal, aortic, and hypogastric plexuses. In front of the cord is the ilio-inguinal nerve, and behind it, is the genital branch of the genito-crural nerve. The cord, as will presently be described, receives coverings from the external oblique, from the internal oblique and transversalis, and from the fascia transversalis. The vas deferens, the excretory duct of the testis, passes through the inguinal canal, being placed behind the other constituents of the cord, and, after passing through the inner ring, curves round the epigastric artery in its descent into the pelvis. EouND LiGA- In the female there is a round cord occupying MENT. the inguinal canal—the round ligament—which is lost, external to the outer ring, in the subcutaneous tissues of the labium majus. Its coverings are the same as those of the male, excepting the cremasteric fascia. > Deep Cp.uhal This structure, which is apparently a thickening ■^cH. of the fascia transversaKs, has more to do with femoral hernia, and its description will, therefore, be deferred until this form of hernia is considered in the dissection of the thigh.