rNEUMOGASTRIC NERVE. 147 Lave not similar relations. The rijlit nerve lies beneath the subcla- vian vein, and then descending behind the right brachio-cephalic vein by the side of the trachea, is continued behind the right bronchus to the posterior part of the oesophagus. The left nerve passes behind the left brachio-cephalic vein, then crosses in front of the arch of the aorta, and behind the left bronchus to the anterior part of the oesophagus. Both nerves subdivide on the oesophagus into a plexus; the right nerve forming the posterior cesopliarjecd plexus, the left the anterior. Each plexus again collects its fibres together to form a single trunk: thus two main nerves are formed which pass with the oesophagus through the diaphragm: of these the right is distributed over the posterior, the left over the anterior surface of the stomach.' In their long course from the medulla oblongata to the abdo- men, the pneumogastric nerves supply branches to most important organs: namely, to the pharynx, the larynx, the heart, the lungs, the oesophagus, the stomach, and the liver. The branches of the pneumogastric are those of communication and those of distribution :— 1. The hranches of communication are those in connection with the ganglion of the root and the ganglion of the trunk. a. The (janglion of the root has connecting filaments with the accessory portion of the spinal accessory, the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, and with the petrous ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal. h. The (langlion of the triinJc has communicating filaments with the hypoglossal, the loop between the first two cervical nerves, and the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. 2. The hranches of distrihution are— a. The auricular (Arnold), which cannot at present be seen, will be made out in the dissection of the nerve at the base of the skull. h. The pharynrjeal arises from the upper part of the ganglion of the trunk, and, receiving a filament from the accessory part of ' The differences in the course and destination of the right and the left pneumogastric nerves may be explained in the process of development. The student is therefore referred to works which treat of this subject. L 2