795 SCLEROTIC COAT. sclerotic, and a small anterior one with the cornea. The antero- posterior and vertical diameters of the globe are equal, the trans- verse exceeding these by less than half a line. The convexity of the cornea varies in different persons and at different periods of life ; this is one cause of the varying degrees of near and far sight. Coats and The globe is composed of three concentric coats, HcMouBs OF arranged one within the other, which enclose cer- THE E-TE. -tain transparent structures for the transmission of light. The external coat, consisting of the sclerotic and cornea, is fibrous, thick, and strong. The second coat, consisting of the chm-oid, the iris, and the ciliary ])rocesses, is composed of blood- vessels, muscular tissue, and pigment cells, and is very dark in colour. The third coat, called the retina, consists of the expansion of the optic nerve for the reception of the impression of the waves of light. The bulk of the interior is filled with a transparent humour, called the vitreous body. Embedded in the front of this, and just behind the pupil, is the crystalline lens, for the purpose of concentrating the rays of light. In front of the lens is placed a moveable curtain, called the iris, to regulate the amount of light which shall be admitted throiigh a central aperture, the piqnl, to the fundus of the eye. The space in which the iris is suspended is filled with a fluid, termed the aqxieous humour. ^ The sclerotic coat is the white tough protecting coat of the eye which serves to maintain the form of the globe.^ It covers the posterior five-sixths of the globe, the- remaining anterior one-sixth being completed by the cornea. It is of dense white colour, except in front, where the tendons of the recti and obliqui are inserted into it. The thickest part of the sclerotic coat is at the back of the globe (fig. 198) ; the thinnest is a short distance behind the cornea.^ The back of the sclerotic ; is perforated by the optic nerve, which enters it about one-tenth ' The sclerotic coat of the eye in fishes is of extraordinary thickness and «density; and in birds this coat is further strengthened by a circle of bony plates^ 1 fourteen or fifteen in number, arranged in a series round the margin of the cornea. J Similar plates are found in some of the reptiles, and particularly in the fossil i ichthyosauri and plesiosauri. - The greatest thickness posteriorly is about the ^^th. of an inch ; its thinnest iin front is about the ^^th of an inch.