SUBCLAVIAN VEIN. 123 vein terminates on the right side in the vena azygos major; on the left in the brachio-cephalic. Deep CERvicAii This artery arises from the superior intercostal, Artert. seldom direct from the subclavian. It goes to the back of the neck between the first rib and the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra, and ascends between the com- plexus and the semi-spinalis colli, both of which it supplies. It sometimes inosculates with the princeps cervicis, a branch of the occipital (p. 107). To test your knowledge of the branches of the subclavian artery, reflect upon the answer to the following question : ' If the artery were tied in the first part of its course before it gives off any branches, how would the arm be supplied with blood ? ' The answer is, by six collateral channels, as follow; 1. By the communi- cations between the superior and inferior thyroid; 2. Between the two vertebral; 3. Between the internal mammary and the inter- costals and the epigastric; 4. Between the thoracic branches of the axillary, and the intercostal branches of the aorta ; 5. Between the superior intercostal and the aortic intercostals; 6. Between the princeps cervicis and the deep cervical. Most of these inoscu- lations are shown in the diagram (p. 122). Again, if the subclavian were tied in the third part of its course, the circulation would be carried on by the communications : 1. Be- tween the supra-scapular and the dorsalis scaj)ulae, a branch of the subscapular ; 2. Between the supra-acromial branch of the supra- scapular and the acromio-thoracic; 3. Between the posterior scapular and the subscapular and dorsalis scapula ; 4. Between the internal mammary, the aortic intercostals and superior intercostal on the one hand, and the long and short thoracic branches of the axillary, on the other. Subclavian The subclavian vein does not form an arch like the artery, but proceeds in a nearly straight line over the first rib to join the internal jugular. It extends from the outer margin of the first rib to midway between the inner border of the scalenus anticus and the sterno-clavicular articulation, where it joins the internal jugular to form the brachio-cephalic vein. Throughout its whole course the vein is situated on a plane