572 THE OVARIES. terminates in a wide, funnel-shaped moutli, the ostium aldominalc surrounded by fringe-like processes called tlie fimhrice. This ter- mination of the Fallopian tube is called its fimbriated extremity,^ and its canal opens into the peritoneal cavity, so that thus the cavity of the peritoneum in the female communicates through the uterus and the vagina indirectly with the exterior. The fim- briated extremity extends about an inch beyond the ovary, and, by floating it in water, one or two of the fimbrias may be seen con- nected with the outer end of the ovary. If the Fallopian tube be opened from the dilated end, and a probe introduced into it, you will find that the tube runs very tortuously at first, then straight into the uterus, gradually contracting in size, so that the uterine orifice scarcely admits a bristle. The free end of the tube com- municates with the cavity of the peritoneum. This is the only instance where a mucous membrane is directly continuous with a. serous one. It explains how the embryo may escape into the peritoneal cavity; though this is an extremely rare occurrence. It also explains what is said to have occurred: namely, the escape of the fluid in dropsy through the Falloxaian tubes. In a well- injected subject, the Fallopian tubes are seen to be well supplied with blood from the ovarian arteries. The coats of the Fallopian tube are three—an external serous coat derived from the perito- neum ; a middle muscular coat, consisting of plain muscular fibres; an external layer, longitudinal, and an internal layer, circular, both being continuous with those of the uterus; and an internal omicous coat arranged in longitudinal folds, especially at the ovarian end, and covered with a columnar ciliated epithelium. The ovaries (called by Galen, testes muliehres, being the analogues of the testes in the male) are two oval bodies situated between the two layers of the broad liga- ment of the uterus, in its posterior part. They are connected on their inner side to the uterus by a thin cord, called the ligament of the ovary, and at their outer end they are usually attached to one of the fimbria of the Fallopian tube by fibrous tissue. The ovaries are of whitish colour, with the long axis transverse, flattened from 1 The fimbriated extremity is sometimes called the viorsus diaboli, since it embraces in a peculiar way the ovary during sexual excitement.