632 ADDUCTOR MUSCLES. Adductor This muscle arises from tlie lower part of the Magnus. descending ramus of the OS pubis between the adductor brevis and obturator externus, from the margin of the ascending ramus of the ischium, and from the lower and anterior part of the tuberosity of the ischium. Its fibres spread out, and are inserted, behind the other adductors, into the lower part of the linea quadrati, into the ridge leading from the great trochanter to the linea aspera, also into the whole length of the linea aspera, and the ridge leading from it to the inner condyle ; while those fibres which arise from the tuberosity of the ischium pass vertically down- wards, and are inserted by a rounded tendon into the adductor tubercle on the inner condyle of the femur. Between the muscular fibres of the middle and lower thirds of the insertion of this muscle, the femoral artery passes to the back of the thigh. The upper fibres pass transversely outwards to their insertion, while the lower fibres descend nearly vertically. In front of the muscle are, the adductor longus and brevis, the vastus internus, the obturator nerve a,nd artery, and the profunda artery; above it, are the internal cir- cumflex artery, the obturator externus, and the quadratus femoris; behind it, the biceps, semi-tendinosus and semi-membranosus, the great sciatic nerve, and the gluteus maximus. Its nerve comes from the posterior division of the obturator and the great sciatic. Observe that all the adductor muscles are inserted into the femur by flat tendons more or less connected. About the junction of the ujDper two-thirds with the lower third of the thigh, the femoral artery passes through an oval opening in the tendon of the adductor magnus. Psoas Magktjs These muscles have been fully described in the AND Iliaous. dissection of the abdomen (p. 488). Teksor FAsciiE This muscle is situated at the upper and outer Femoris. p^rt of the thigh. It arises from the anterior part of the external lip of the crest of the ilium, and from the surface below the anterior superior spine. It descends with a .slight inclination backwards, and is inserted, at the junction of the upper with the middle third of the thigh, between two layers of the strong aponeurosis, generally described as part of the fascia lata, whiqh is continued downwards to the head of the tibia, and is