DEEP MUSCLES OF THE BACK OF THE LEG. C79 the external semilunar cartilage, and has an investment from the synovial membrane of the knee. Reflect the soleus from its origin, and remove it from the deep- seated muscles, observing at the same time the numerous arteries which enter its under surface. This done, notice the deep fascia which separates the superficial and the deep layers of muscles and which binds down the deep muscles. It is attached to the margins of the tibia and the fibula on either side, increases in strength towards the ankle, and forms an internal annular ligament which confines the tendons and the vessels and nerves in their passage into the sole of the foot. The deep fascia should now be removed from the deep muscles, which must be cleaned in the course of their muscular fibres. Deep Muscles There are three :—the flexor longus digitorum ON THE Back of on the tibial side ; the flexor longus hallucis on the THE Leg. fibular; the tibialis posticus upon the interosseous membrane, between and beneath them both. Flexor This arises from the posterior surface of the LoxGcs DiGi- tibia, commencing below the popliteus, and ex- tending to within four inches of the lower end of the bone, also from the fascial septum between it and the tibialis posticus. The fibres terminate on a tendon which is placed on the tibial side of the muscle, and it runs through a groove behind the inner ankle, lined by a special synovial sheath. It enters the sole and divides into four tendons, which are inserted into the ungual phalanges of the four outer toes. It is supplied by the posterior tibial nerve. Flexor This powerful muscle arises from the lower two- Lo-Gus Hallucis. thirds of the posterior surface of the fibula, from the septum between it and the peronei, from the lower part of the interosseous membrane, and from the aponeurosis over the tibialis posticus. The fibres terminate on a tendon which runs through a groove on the back of the lower extremity of the tibia, then through the groove on the back of the astragalus thence it passes through another groove on the under aspect of tbe sastentaculum tali, and is insert eel into the ungual phalanx of the great toe. The chief action of this muscle is to raise the body on the tip of the great