597 THE STOMACH. in consequence of the discovery, made by Dr. Addison, of tlie close relation whicli exists between certain diseases in these bodies and a brown discoloration of the skin. Their precise function is still unknown. Stomach akd The alimentary canal is composed of four coats: Ijjtestines. a serous, a muscular, a submucous, and a mucous. Pirst, is the serous ov]jeritoneal coat, described at p. 459. Secondly, under the serous is a muscular coat, upon which the chief strength of the canal depends. It consists of two distinct strata of plain muscular fibres; the outer stratum is longitudinal, the inner cir- cular. This arrangement not only makes the bowel stronger, but regulates its peristaltic action, for the longitudinal fibres, by their contraction, tend to shorten and straighten the tube, while the circular fibres contract upon and propel its contents to greater advantage. Connecting this coat and the mucous, is a layer of areolar tissue called the submucous coat, in which the arteries break up before entering the mucous membrane. The mucous is the most comj)licated of all the coats, for it presents different characters in different parts, according to the functions which it has to perform. ■ ^ The stomach should be moderately distended to see its size, which varies in different subjects according to the habits of the individual. When distended, an average stomach would be about ten or twelve inches in length, and four in depth and width; its weight is stated to be about four and a half ounces. It is conical in shape; the left part forms a large bulge called the cardiac or splenic end; and on the right side where the food passes out, it becomes small and contracted, and is called the pyloric end. The stomach presents for examination two surfaces, two borders, two ends, and two orifices. The anterior surface convex, and looks upwards and forwards; the posterior surface looks downwards and backwards. The upper border or the lesser curvature is concave and short, and extends from the oesophagus to the pylorus; it is connected to the liver by the gastro-hepatic omentum. The lower border or the fjreater curvature is convex, and affords attachment to the great omentum.