377 SERRATUS MAGNUS. Serbattjs This broad, tliin, flat muscle intervenes between ■ Magnus. the scapula and tlie ribs. It arises by nine fleshy digitations from the eight upper ribs, each rib giving origin to one, and the second to two, and from the fascia covering the correspond- ing intercostal spaces. The four lower digitations correspond with ; those of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. The fibres i pass backwards and outwards and are arranged in three fasciculi; •the upper portion a/rises from the first and second ribs and the ■ fascia between them, and is inserted into the triangular surface in front of the upper angle of the scapula; the middle portion arises ! from the second, third, and fourth ribs, and is inserted into the i inner lip of the vertebral border between the first and third por- t tions; the third portion arises from the fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth ribs, and is inserted into the smooth surface in front of the . inferior angle; this last portion consists of four serrations, and are those which interdigitate with the external oblique. This is the most important of the muscles which regulate the • movements of the scapula. It draws the scapula forwards, and thus . gives additional reach to the arm ; it counteracts all forces which tend to push the scapula backwards ; for instance, when a man falls ' forwards upon his hands, the serratus magnus sustains the shock, £ and prevents the scapula from being driven back to the spine. > Supposing the fixed point to be at the scapula, some anatomists :. ascribe to it the power of raising the ribs; hence Sir Charles Bell called it the external respiratory muscle, the internal respiratory ! muscle being the diaphragm. The nerve which supplies it is a branch of the fifth and sixth cervical nerve: it descends along its outer surface, distributing a ' filament to each digitation of the muscle (p. 126). ^ Divide the serratus magnus near the scapula, and remove the arm by sawing through the middle of the clavicle, cutting through the axillary vessels and nerves. These should be tied to the coracoid process. After the removal of the arm, examine the precise insertions of the preceding • muscles.