GREAT OMENTUM. 463 gut. It forms an imperfect partition dividing the abdomen into an upper compartment, containing tlie stomacli, liver, and spleen; and a lower, containing the convolutions of the small intestines. AscEXDiNG AKD Tegards the cgecum, and the ascending and Descending descending portions of the colon, they are, as a Meso-colon. general rule, bound down by the peritoneum in their respective situations (fig. 107). The peritoneum covers only two-thirds or thereabouts of their anterior surface ; their posterior surface is connected by loose cellular tissue to the back of the abdomen. The colon, ascending or descending, can therefore be opened in the lumbar region, below the kidney, without injury to the peritoneum: a fact upon which is founded the operation of colotomy for the relief of stricture of the rectum. In some cases, the ascending and descending colon (more commonly the latter) are completely surrounded by peritoneum and connected to the lumbar regions, respectively, by a right and a left lumbar meso- colon. Sigmoid Meso- The sigmoid flexure is, as a rule, completely in- coLON. vested by peritoneum, which passes as a thin fold to the iliac fossa, allowing a considerable amount of movement of this part of the intestine. The upper third of the rectum is also surrounded MeSO-EECTUM. 1 •, 1 ■ 1 , ,1 T by peritoneum, which passes to the sacrum and thus retains it in position. The hemorrhoidal vessels pass between its layers. This broad peritoneal fold, known also as the Great Omentum. , 7 • , • -\ n n ^ gastro-coLic omentum, is composed 01 lour layers, and proceeds as a double layer from the lower border of the stomach, as far as the pelvis, where these two layers ascend to enclose the transverse colon. It lies like a curtain over the con- volutions of the small intestines, and we find it in some bodies extending low into the pelvis; in others, small and crumpled up usually in the left hypochondrium. Its thickness varies consider- ably : in thin subjects it is often translucent; in corpulent persons, on the other hand, it is loaded with fat, and contributes in great measure to the size of the abdomen.