POSITION OF THE A15D0MINAL VISCERA. 449 part of it in tlie left, are not visible unless clistended : tliey lie contracted at the back of the abdomen. Such are the viscera usually seen on opening the abdomen ; but a certain latitude is to be allowed, as sometimes more of one organ is seen and less of a,nother, according as this or that is distended or hypertrophied. Much also depends upon the amount of pressure which the ribs have undergone during life. P\ETicuLAB The position of each viscus shoiild now be ex- PosiTioN OF amined separately, and first that of the stomach. EACH Viscus. stomach is irregularly conical in shape. It The Stomach. ig placed obliquely, the smaller or pyloric end being the lower; its great end is situated in the left hypochon- drium; its narrow or pyloric end extends obliquely across the epigastrium into the right hypochondrium, where it is overlapped by the liver. The left or cardiac end is situated behind the ribs, and in con- tact with the concavity of the spleen, to which it is connected by a, fold of peritoneum. In front it has the abdominal wall, above it has the liver .and the diaphragm, and below it, is the transverse colon; the right or pyloric end extends to the gall-bladder, and is in contact with the under aspect of the liver, where it is con- tinuous with the duodenum; posteriorly, it rests on the pancreas^ the aorta, and the two crura of the diaphragm. The stomach is connected with other viscera by the following peritoneal folds: (1) the great omentum, attached to its lower convex border, forms a curtain of fat, more or less thick, in front of the transverse colon and small intestines; (2) the gastro-hepatic or lesser omentum, which connects the lesser curve of the stomach with the trans- verse fissure of the liver; and (3) the gastro-splenic omentum, which connects the cardiac end of the stomach with the hikim of the spleen. The relative position and size of the stomach vary according to the amount of distension: when much distended, the anterior surface, owing to the greater mobility of the great curve and the pyloric end of the stomach, is turned upwards, and the lower border forwards.^ ' Lesshaft states that the position of the stomach is vertical, and that when <listendecl it does not alter its position, but that it is affected equally in all direc-