TRIANGLES OF THE NECK. 72 clavicular by a slight interval; subsequently the sternal fibres gradually overlap the clavicular. The muscle is confined by its strong sheath of fascia, in such a manner that it forms a slight curve, with the convexity forwards. Observe especially that its front border overlaps the common carotid artery; along this border we make the incision in the operation of tying the vessel. Action op When both sterno-mastoids act simultaneously Stehno-sustoid. they draw the head and neck forwards and down- wards, and are therefore especially concerned in raising the head from the recumbent position. When one sterno-mastoid acts singly, it turns the head obliquely towards the opposite shoulder ; in this action it co-operates with the splenius of the other side.' Oa emergency, the sterno-mastoid acts as a muscle of inspiration, by raising the sternum ; its fixed point being, in this case, at the head. The sterno-mastoid is supplied by three nutrient arteries—an upper, a middle, and a lower. The upper sterno-mastoid artery, a branch of the occipital, enters the muscle with the n. accessorius, close to the mastoid process of the temporal bone; the middle mastoid is a branch of the superior thyroid, and enters the under surface of the muscle, crossing over the common carotid on a level with the thyroid cartilage ; the lower mastoid is a branch of the supra-scapular, and supplies the clavicular portion of the muscle, close to its origin. The sterno-mastoid is supplied with nerves by the n. accessorius, and by branches from the deep cervical plexus: these branches come from the second and sometimes the third cervical nerves. Triangles op Anatomists avail themselves of the oblique THE Neck. direction of the sterno-rdastoid muscle to divide the neck on each side into two great triangles, an anterior and a posterior (fig. 25). The base of the anterior triangle is formed by the jaw, its sides by the mesial line and the front border of the sterno-mastoid. The posterior has the clavicle for the base, while ' The single action of the muscle is well seen when it becomes rigid and causes a wTy-neck. Other means of relief failing, the division of the muscle near its origin is sometimes beneficial in curing the distortion. ■ In deciding as to the pro- priety of this operation, we should be careful to examine the condition of the other muscles, lest, after having divided the sterno-mastoid, we should be disappointed in removing the deformity.