110 DEEP CERVICAL PLEXUS. branch, with the exception of the first. The plexus rests on the levator anguli scapula3 and scalenus mecTius, and is situated behind the sterno-mastoid ni. and the internal jugular vein. The plexus gives off superficial and cZeep branches: the super- ficial coming from the second, third and fourth nerves, the deep from the third and fourth n. The superficial branches have been already described (p. 68). The deep branches may be divided into an internal and an ex- ternal series. Internal Series.—1. The phrenic arises from the third, fourth, and fifth cervical nerves, descends obliquely inwards over the scalenus anticus, and then ci'osses over the first part of the subclavian artery. Near the thorax it is joined by the symjDathetic, and frequently by a looped branch from the nerve to the subclavius muscle. Its course through the thorax to its destination in the diapliragm will be described p. 112. 2. The comvmnicantes noni come from the second and third cervical nerves, wind round the internal jug'ular vein, and join the descendens noni in front of the carotid sheath, forming the ' ansa hypoglossi.' They supply the depressor muscles of the os hyoides and larynx. 3. Muscidar branches which proceed from the first cervical and the loop between it and the second cervical, to the recti antici, the rectus latei'ahs, and longus colli muscles. 4. Branches which communicate with the pneumogastric, hypo- glossal, and sympathetic nerves, and one to join tlie fifth cervical. External Series.—1. One or more communicating brandies to the nervus accessorius : firstly in the sterno-mastoid, then in the occipital triangle, and lastly beneath the trapezius. 2. Mitscular branches to supply the trapezius, levator anguli scapulte, scalenus medius and stei-no-mastoid. The branches to the trapezius, levator anguli scapulte, and scalenus medius, come from the third and fourth ; the branch to the sterno-mastoid from the second cervical nerve. The clavicle should now be sawn through the Dissection. middle, and the sternal half raised with the sterno-mastoid attached, so that the bone can be replaced, to study its relation to the subjacent parts. The scalene muscles and the subclavian artery throughout its whole course must next be care- fully dissected. While this is being done, the student must be