^78 STRUCTURE OF THE LIVER. ^ venosus and vena cava; beliind the transverse fissure it is con- nected to the right by a ridge, the lobulus caudatus. The loJmlus caudatus, which passes obliquely forwards and to the right, separating the fissure for the vena cava from the transverse fissure. The lohnlus quaclratus is a square lobe situated between the gall- bladder, the longitudinal and the transverse fissures. This lobe is occasionally connected to the left lobe by a bridge of hepatic sub- stance arching over the longitudinal fissure, and alluded to before as the pons hepatis. The liver has five ligaments, of which the coronary, the right and left lateral, and the falci- form are reflections of the peritoneum; the fifth is the round lifja- ment, placed in the anterior free border of the falciform ligament in the longitudinal fissure; it consists of the remains of the umbilical vein of the foetus. The ligaments have been already described (p. 455). _ The vessels which pass to and from the liver are VESSELS. PI- T 1 five also m number : the hepatic artery, the vena portae, the hepatic veins, the hepatic duct, and the lymphatics. The consideration of these is deferred till we have examined the capsule of the liver. fibrous coat surrounds the liver, and is best seen on those parts of it not covered with peritoneum. This coat is connected on the surface of the gland to the areolar tissue which surrounds the lobules, but does not send down partitions to form a framework for the interior. It is continuous, at the transverse fissure, with the sheath of loose areolar tissue, called Glisson's capside, which surrounds the vessels as they enter that fissure, and encloses them in a common sheath in their ramifications through the liver. The interlobular connective tissue is exceedingly delicate: hence the great liability of the liver to be lacerated by external violence, and consequent haemorrhage into the peritoneal cavity. ^ The liver consists of an aggregation of small polyhedral masses, called lohnles, about the size of a millet seed, which range from ^th to ^^th of an inch (1 to 2 millimetres) in diameter. These lobules are more or less distinctly