12 REMOVAL OF THE BRAIN. current of blood in the sinus, and that they pass through the wall of the sinus very obliquely, like the ureter into the bladder. The probable object of this oblique entrance is to prevent regurgitation of blood from the sinus into the veins of the brain. Cut open the superior longitudinal sinus: observe that it is triangular with its base upwards, and that its cavity is intersected in many places by slender fibrous cords, termed chordce Williiii^ Their precise use is not understood. The brain should now be removed, and preserved in spirit for future examination. Its anatomy, with that of its remaining membranes, will be described in a subsequent part of this work. ^ The brain is to be removed in the following X)ISS£jCTION manner :—The dura mater should be cut through with a pair of scissors on a level corresponding with the sawn cal- varium, care being taken to cut completely through the falx cerebri in the front part of the longitudinal fissure. When this has been done the dura mater can be easily turned back over the brain, leaving its smooth, convex surface exposed. Now lift up gently, with the fingers of the left hand, the frontal lobes from the anterior fossa3, taking care to raise with the brain the soft olfactory lobes from the cribriform plate of the ethmoid. Two white flat nerves— the optic—come into view prior to their leaving the skull through the optic foramina these must be divided with a sharp knife together with the ophthalmic arteries which lie beneath the corre- sponding nerves.^ In the middle line, fixed firmly in the sella turcica, lies the pituitary body, attached to the brain by a process— the infundibulum. It is not easy to remove this body from the fossa in which it rests, owing to its being retained in its position by dura mater. When this is removed, two round white nerves— the third—are observed, one on each side, lying on the inner free border of the tentorium cerebelli, immediately behind the anterior clinoid process of the sphenoid. Divide these and then proceed to cut through the tentorium cerebelli close to its attachment to ' So called after Willis, who first described tliem in his work De Cerebri Anatomc, 16G4. - It is well that each pair of nerves should be cut through first on one side and then on the other, before passing on to the nerve next in numerical order.