INFERIOR MAXILLARY NKKVE. 140 The auriculo-temporal communicates at its origin with the otic ganglion, and then ascends behind the jaw with the temporal branches of the facial n.; it also gives off an cm'ticular branch to the temporo-maxillary joint; tivo hranclies to the meatus auditorius and the membrana tympani; parotid hnmch.es to the gland; avrl- eular branches, two in number—an inferior, which is distributed to the ear below the auditory meatus, and a swpenor to the tragus and auricle. Its branches have been described (p. 6). The inferior dental branch emerges beneath the external ptery- goid, and descends between the ramus and the internal lateral ligament of the jaw to the dental foramen, which it enters with the dental artery. It then runs in the canal in the diploe of the jaw and furnishes filaments which ascend through the canals in the fangs of the teeth to the pulp in their interior. Opposite the foramen mentale it divides into two branches, the mental and incism'. Observe that the same nerve which supplies the teeth supplies the gums ; hence the sympathy between them. a. The mylo-hyoid Lranch, apparently arising from the dental, is derived from the motor root of the tifth, and may, with careful dissec- tion, be traced to it. It leaves the sheatli of the inferior dental nerve near the foramen in the jaw, and runs in a groove on the mner side of the ramus to the lower surface of the mylo-hyoid, which muscle it supplies together with the anterior portion of the digastricus. b. The dental branches pass upwards to the fangs of the molar and bicuspid teeth. c. The incisor branch is the continuation of the nei've, and passes to the symphysis, supplying the caiiine and incisor teeth. d. The mental branch (sometimes called labial) emerges through the foramen mentale, and soon divides into numerous branches ; some ascend to the lower lip beneath the depi'essor labii inferioris, and com- municate with the facial ner\-e ; others pass inwards to the skin of the chin. The gustatorij or lingual nerve lies at first behind the external pterygoid m., then descends obliquely forwards between the ramus of the jaw and the internal pterygoid m., and subsequently for a short distance between the jaw and the superior constrictor of the pharynx. Here it lies close under the mucous membrane of the