540 BRANCHES OF THE INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. circumflexa ilii, the epigastric, tlie gluteal, and the external cir- cumflex arteries; the lumbar branch supplies the psoas and the quadratus lumborum, and anastomoses with the last lumbar artery; it distributes a small branch to the cauda equina, through the foramen between the last lumbar and first sacral vertebra3. b. The lateral sacral, usually two in number, an upper and a lower, descend in front of the sacral foramina, and inosculate on the coccyx with the middle sacral artery; the upper enters one of the upper sacral foramina, and, after supplying the structures in the sacral canal, emerges on the back through one of the posterior foramina and supplies the muscles in the neighbourhood, anasto- mosing with the gluteal arteiy; the lower descends in front of the pjTiformis, supplying branches to this muscle, the bladder, and rectum, and others which enter the anterior sacral foramina for the supply of the cauda equina, and finally emerge through the posterior sacral foramina to end in the muscles and skin of the back: this branch inosculates with the middle and lateral sacral arteries and the gluteal. c. The gluteal is the largest branch. It passes immediately out of the pelvis through the great sciatic notch, above the pyriformis muscle, and then divides into a superficial and deep branch; the former passes beneath the gluteus maximus; the latter passes between the gluteus medius and minimus, and then divides into two branches, one running along the upper attached border of the gluteus minimus, the other passing obliquely across the same muscle as far as the great trochanter, to anastomose with the external circumflex artery. These will be dissected with the gluteal region. The anterior division gives off— a. The superior vesical artery which comes off" from the unohlite- rated portion of the hypogastric, and supplies the upper part of the bladder. It gives off" the middle vesical artery, which supphes the base of the bladder and the vesicula seminalis; a small branch, the- deferential, which accompanies the vas deferens to the testis and inosculates with the spermatic artery; and smaller branches to the ureter. h. The inferior vesical artery which, ramifies on the under surface oi