THE TRACHEA. 216 STEUCTUEE OF THE LUNGS. The lungs are very vascular spongy organs in wliich the blood is oxygenated by exposure to atmospheric air. Their situation and shape have been described (p. 16G). We must now examine the trachea, the common air-passage to both lungs, and then trace this tube downwards to its bifurcation into the two bronchi, which, with their minute subdivisions, form the main structure of the lungs. ^ This is a partly cartilaginous, partly mem- branous tube, and is situated in the middle line. It extends from the cricoid cartilage, i.e. opposite the upper border of the sixth cervical vertebra, to the third dorsal vertebra, where it divides into two tubes, the right and left bi'onchus : one for each lung. Its length is from four to four and a half inches, and its width from eight to ten lines ; but these measurements vary according to the age and sex of the patient and the capacity ■ of the lungs. The trachea is surrounded by a quantity of loose connective tissue, so as to allow of its free mobility. It is kept permanently open by a series of incomplete cartilaginous rings, from sixteen to twenty in number, which extend round the anterior two-thirds of its circumference. These rings are deficient at the posterior part of the tube, where it is completed by a fibro-muscular membrane. This deficiency allows the trachea to enlarge or diminish its calibre; and for this purpose the membranous part of the tube is provided with unstriped muscular fibres which can approximate the ends of the rings. The relations of the trachea to the surrounding parts should be considered, first, in the neck, and then within the thorax. In the neck, it^has, m front of it, the isthmus of the thyroid body, the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, the inferior thyroid veins, two layers of the deep cervical fascia, the arteria thyroidea ima, if present, and (at the root of the neck) the innominate and left common carotid arteries. Laterally, it is in relation with the lobes of the thyroid body, the common carotid arteries, the recur- rent laryngeal nerves, and the inferior thyroid arteries. Behind it, is the oesophagus, inclining slightly to the left.