400 rALMAR INTEROSSEI. passes into the- palm. Its fibres converge on either side to a tendon, which is iriserted into the radial side of the first phalanx of the index finger and its extensor tendon. The second dorsal interosseous muscle occupies the second meta- carpal space. It is inserted into the radial side of the first phalanx of the middle finger and its extensor tendon. The third and fourth, occupying the corresponding metacarpal spaces, are inserted, the one into the ulnar side of the middle, the other into the ulnar side of the ring finger. If a line be drawn longitudinally through the middle finger, as represented by the dotted line in fig. 90, we find that aU the dorsal interosseous muscles are abductors from that line; conse- quently, they separate the fingers from each other. Palmak Inter- It requires a careful examination to distinguish OSSEOUS. this set of muscles, because the dorsal muscles protrude with them into the palm. They are smaller than the dorsal, and each arises from the lateral surface of only one meta- carpal bone—that, namely, connected with the finger into which the muscle is inserted (fig. 91). They terminate in small tendons, which pass between the metacarpal joints of the fingers, and are inserted, like those of the dorsal muscles, into the sides of the first phalanges and the extensor tendons on tlie back of the fingers. The first ])ahnar interosseous muscle arises from the ulnar side of the second metacarpal bone, and is inserted into the ulnar side of the index finger. The second and third arise, the one from the radial side of the fourth, the other from the radial side of the fifth metacarpal bone, and are inserted into the same sides of the ring and little fingers. The palmar interosseous muscles are all adductors to a fine drawn through the middle finger (fig. 91). They are, therefore, the opponents of the dorsal interosseous, and move the fingers towards each other.' t » The interossei, probably, also assist the flexors of the fingers when the latter are slightly flexed at their metacarpo-phalangeal joints. M. Ducheime believes that, in addition to their usually ascribed function of abduction, adduction, and supplemental flexion at the metaearpo-phalangeal articulation, the interossei act