PAEOTID GLAND. 41 straight course from the inner angle of the eye to the anterior border of the masseter. In this course it descends upon the levator labii superioris, then passes beneath the zygomatic muscles, over the termination of the parotid duct, and at the anterior border of the masseter passes over the jaw, behind the facial artery, and joins the internal jugular. The facial vein is a continuation of the frontal, which descends over the forehead, and, after receiving the supra-orbital, takes the name of anr/ular at the corner of the eye. It communicates with the ophthalmic vein, receives the veins of the eyelids, the external part of the nose, the coronary veins, and others from the muscles of the face. Near the angle of the mouth it is increased in size by a communicating branch from the infra-orbital vein, and by a large vein which comes from the temporo-maxillary vein. The other veins which empty themselves into the facial correspond with the branches given off from the facial artery. ^TEKiA This artery arises from the temporal, or occa- Tbausveesalis sionallyfrom the external carotid in the substance Faciei. ^j^g parotid gland. It runs forwards across the masseter between the parotid duct and the zygoma, and is dis-- tributed to the glandula socia parotidis, and the masseter. It anastomoses with the infra-orbital, buccal and facial. It is seldom of large size, except when it supplies those parts which usually receive blood from the facial. We have seen it as large as a goose- quill, furnishing the coronary and the nasal arteries ; the facial itself not being larger than a sewing thread. The parotid gland is now to be examined. Its boundaries, its deep relations, the course of its duct, and the objects contained within the gland, must be carefully observed. Parotid The parotid,' the largest of the salivary glands, ^^^i"- occupies the space between the ramus of the jaw and the mastoid process, and weighs between five and eight drachms. It is bounded above by the zygoma; below, by the sterno-mastoid and digastric muscles; behind, by the meatus auditorius externus and the mastoid process; in front, it lies over the ascending ramus of the jaw, and is prolonged for some distance over the masseter. ' From irapd, near ; oSy, the ear.