213 FCETAL CIRCULATION. 3. The right and loft lyiilmonary arteries are very small and ill developed, so as to admit very little blood to the lungs. 4. The ductus arteriosus, from the commencement of the left pulmonary artery to the aorta, is widely open. 5. The hypogastric or timhilical arteries, branches of the anterior division of the internal Uiac, emerge through the umbilicus and pass to the placenta, so that the impure blood may be oxygenated. 6. The umhilical vein returns the pure blood partly to the liver, and partly through the 7. Ductus venosus into the inferior vena cava. 8. The right and left ventricles are of equal thickness, because they have equal work to perform. FOETAL CIRCULATION. Circulation of Arterial blood is brought from the placenta by THE Blood in the the umbilical vein (fig. 50), and enters a,t the um- bilious, whence it passes to the under surface of the liver. Here it gives off some branches to the left lobe, and others to the lobulus Spigelii and lobulus quadratus, which eventu- ally return their blood into the inferior vena cava. At the trans- verse fissure it divides into two branches—one, the smaller, termed the ductus venosus, passes straight to enter into the inferior vena cava, having previously joined the left hepatic vein ; the other, or right division, joins the vena portae, and, after ramifying in the right lobe of the liver, returns its blood through the hepatic veins into the inferior vena cava. From the inferior vena cava, which thus receives its blood from three sources, the blood enters the right auricle, and the stream (directed by the Eustachian valve) flows through the fora- men ovale into the left auricle, where it becomes mingled with a little blood, which is returned from the pulmonary veins. From the left auricle it runs through the left auriculo-ventricular open- ing into the left ventricle, and thence through the aorta into the great vessels of the head and upper exti-emities (only a small quantity passing into the descending thoracic aorta), which are