759 SEPTUM LUCIDUM. lobe, descends towards the base of the brain, making a curve, at first backwards and outwards, then downwards and forwards, and histly inwards: the initial letters of which make the memorial word ' hodfi.' Its roof is formed by the fibres of the corpus callosum, partly by the posterior narrow extremity of the corpus striatum, with the tasnia semicircularis, and the rounded extremity of the optic thalamus. On its floor are the liippoccumpiis major, a large rounded white eminence which follows the curve of the cornu ; the pes hippocampi, the expanded paw-like extremity of the former; the eminentia collateralis on the outer side of the hippo- campus major, and part of which is seen in the posterior horn; the corpus fimhriatum of the fornix, attached to the anterior concave border of the hippocampus major; the fascia dentata, a crimped edge of grey matter under the corpus fimbriatum; the choroid plexus; and the outer part of the transverse fissure. The various structures seen in the body and horns of the lateral ventricle will be described later on, when they are full}^ exposed. Appeahance If ^ vertical transverse section is made across ON Pehpendiculab the middle of the brain, the lateral ventricles Section. would appear as represented in fig. 186. Observe that the roof and the floor are almost in actual contact, unless separated by ventricular fluid. Together with the third or middle ventricle, their shape slightly resembles the letter T. Such a section shows well the radiating fibres of the corpus callosum, the fornix, and the velum interpositum beneath it; also the beginning of the transverse fissure at the base of the brain, between the crus cerebri and the temporo-sphenoidal lobe. If the corpus callosum be slightly raised, a thin vertical median septum, septum lucidum, will be seen, extending from the under aspect of this body to the upper surface of the fornix. Septum This is a thin and almost translucent partition LcciDCM. which descends vertically in the middle line from the under surface of the corpus callosum, and separates the anterior part of the lateral ventricles from each other. It is attached above to the corpus callosum, below to the reflected part of the corpus callosum and fornix (fig. 184). It is not of equal depth through- out. Its broadest part is in front and corresponds with the knee