98 FACIAL ARTERY. tlie other takes place along tHe back part of the lateral lobe between the superior and inferior thyroid arteries of the same side. The superior thyroid vein leaves the upper part of the thyroid body, crosses over the common carotid artery, and joins the internal jugular or the facial vein. SupERion Laeyn- The superior laryngeal nerve, mentioned as ac- GEAL Nerve. companying the superior laryngeal artery, is given off from the inferior ganglion of the pneumogastric nerve. It descends by the side of the pharynx, behind both carotid arteries, and divides into two branches—the internal and external laryngeal nerves. The i7iternal branch enters the larynx through the thyro- hyoid membrane accompanied by the superior laryngeal artery, and supplies the mucous membrane of the larynx with its exquisite sensibility. Some of its branches may be traced upwards in the ary-epiglottidean fold to supply the epiglottis and the base of the tongue ; others descend to the rima glottidis; a large branch passes down behind the ala of the thyroid cartilage to join the recurrent laryngeal nerve; and a small branch pierces the arytenoideus to supply the mucous membrane beneath it. The external hrancli, descending beneath the depressors of the larynx, accompanies the crico-thyroid artery, and after distributing filaments to the pharyn- geal plexus, supplies the thyroid body, the inferior constrictor, and the crico-thyroid muscles. It receives a branch from the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, and sends off a cardiac fila- ment to join the superior cardiac branch of the sympathetic behind the common carotid artery. Lingual The lingual artery and its branches wiU be de- Arteky. scribed in the dissection of the submaxillary region. The facial arterij is the third branch of the external carotid. It runs tortuously una&>- the hypoglossal nerve, the posterior belly of the digastricus and stylo- hyoideus, and beneath or through the substance of the submaxillary gland to the face, where it appears at the anterior border of the masseter. Below the jaw the facial rests on the mylo-hyoideus, and gives off the four following branches:— 1. The ascending or inferior palatine artery runs up between the stylo-glossus and the stylo-pharyngeus ra., and behind the internal