374 KH0M130IDEI. with tlie accessory portion, througli the foramen jugulare. These portions communicate external to the skull; but while the acces- sory root joins the vagus, the spinal portion, in the main, runs behind the internal jugular vein, traverses obliquely the upper third of the sterno-mastoid muscle, and crosses the posterior triangle of the neck to the trapezius, which it supplies (p. 74). In front of the trapezius it is joined by branches from the third, fourth, and fifth cervical nerves, together with which it communicates with the posterior branches of the spinal nerves. The trapezius should now be cut through the middle, and the inner half turned inwards towards the spine, the outer half over the clavicle and the spine of the scapula. Beneath the trapezius we have to examine the second layer, consisting of three muscles connected with the scapula; namely, the levator anguli scapulae, the rhomboideus major and minor. The scapula should be adjusted so as to stretch their fibres. Levator This muscle is situated at the back and side of Anguli Sca.pul.'e. the neck. It arises by four tendons from the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the four upper cervical vertebrae. The muscular slips to which the tendons give rise form a single muscle, which descends outwards along the side of the neck, and is inserted into the posterior border of the scapula between its spine and superior angle. Its action is to raise the posterior angle of the scapula; as, for instance, in shrugging the shoulders. Its nerve comes from the fifth cervical, and by fila- ments from the external series of the deep cervical plexus, which come from the third and fourth cervical nerves. Ehouboideus These flat muscles extend from the spinous Major and processes of the vertebra3 to the base of the scapula. MiNOE. They often appear like a single muscle. The rhomboideus minor, the higher of the two, arises by a thin apo- neurosis from the spinous processes of the last cervical and the first dorsal vertebrte, and is inserted into the base of the scapula oppo- site its spine. The rhomboideus major arises by tendinous fibres from the spinous processes of the four or five upper dorsal vertebrae and the supraspinous ligament, and is inserted by fleshy fibres^ into the base of the scapula between its spine and inferior angle