PARTS CONCERNED IN INGUINAL HERNIA. 441 of this muscle exposes the tranversalis, which in its turn will be reflected inwards in the same manner. The inner parts of both these muscles are intimately connected by a common tendon, called the conjoined tendon^ inserted in front of the rectus into the crest of the OS pubis and the pectineal line. Observe that this tendon lies immediately behind the external abdominal ring, and that it varies in thickness in different subjects. The arching over of the lower fibres of the internal oblique and transversalis, so as to form the upper boundary of the inguinal canal, are now well seen. Reflect the transversalis exactly in the same way as the internal oblique, when the fascia transversalis comes into view, presenting the funnel-shaped prolongation of fascia—infiindihdiform—which is continued over the cord and testis. The transversalis fascia should now be detached from the sub- jacent peritoneiTm, in front of which is more or less fat (sidj- peritoneal), and turned down, when the internal abdominal ring becomes apparent, with its well-defined inner margin. During the reflection of these successive muscles, the student will have been enabled to recognise the strata which are prolonged from them : viz., from the external oblique is derived the spermatic fascia; from the internal oblique and transversalis is derived the cremasteric fascia; and from the fascia transversalis is prolonged the transversalis fascia, which here takes the name of the infundi- hdifo'im fascia. The extent and boundaries of the inguinal canal and the rela- tion of the epigastric artery to the inner ring can now be clearly defined; and if the dissector passes his little finger into the internal abdominal ring, down the canal and out through the external ring, he will easily see that it carries before it the three strata previously described, which constitute not only the coverings of the cord, but likewise the coverings ^ of an oblique inguinal hernia, when this exists. PiucncAL The testis, originally formed in the loins, passes. Application. about the eighth month of foetal life, from the abdomen into the scrotum, through an oblique canal in the wall ' In the case of a hernia there is necessarily in addition a covering of sub- peritoneal fat, and of peritoneum which forms the sac.