354 PALMAR FASCIA. padding protects the palmar surfaces of the fingers. These cushions on the ends of the fingers defend them in the powerful actions of the hand; they are also useful in subservience to the nerves of touch. The palm is supplied with nerves by three small branches- the palrru^r branch of the median passes in front of the anterior' annular ligament to the centre of the palm ; the palmar branch of the ulnar supplies the inner aspect of the hand; and the ante- rior branch of the musculo-cutaneous nerve is distributed to the skin over the thenar eminence. The terminal branches of these cutaneous nerves communicate with each other. Palmabis This small cutaneous muscle is situated on the Bbevis. inner side of the palm. It arises from the inner edge of the central palmar fascia and the annular ligament, and is inserted into the skin on the ulnar border of the palm. Its use is to support the pad on the inner edge of the palm : it acts power- fully as we grasp; it raises the inner edge of the palm, and deepens the hollow of it, forming the so-called ' cup of Diogenes.' It is supplied by the ulnar nerve. This fascia has a silvery lustre, and, in the Palmar Fascia. ^j^g palm, is remarkably dense and strong. It is divided into three portions: a central, by far the strongest; an external, covering the muscles of the thumb; and an internal, covering the muscles of the little finger. From the deep surface of the fascia two septa dip down, and divide the palm into three separate compartments; one for the ball of the thumb, a second for that of the little finger, and a third for the centre of the palm. The fascia is formed by a prolongation from the anterior an- nular ligament. It is also strengthened by the expanded tendon of the palmaris longus. The central portion of the fascia is triangular, with the apex at the wrist. About the middle of the palm it splits into four portions, which are connected by transverse tendinous fibres, extending completely across the palm, and corresponding pretty nearly to the transverse furrow of the skin in this situation. Examine any one of these four portions of the fascia, and you will find that it splits into two strips which embrace the corre-