THYROID AXIS. 121 and its membranes. It anastomoses with the vertebral and ascendinff o pharyngeal arteries. 2. The mipra-scaimlar artery (transversalis humeri) runs outwards over the scalenus anticus, covered by the sterno-mastoid m., then directly beneath and parallel with the clavicle : crossing over the third part of the subclavian artery, it passes beneath the posterior belly of the omo- hyoid to the superior border of the scapula. Here it is covered by the trapezius, passes above the transverse ligament which bridges over the notch ; it gives off some branches which ramify in the supra-spinous fossa, and a large communicating branch which passes behind the neck of the scapula to reach the infra-spinous fossa, and inosculates freely in the infra-spinous fossa with the dorsaUs scapulse, a branch of the sub- scapular, and with the posterior scapular artery. Near the notch, it is joined by the supra-scapular nerve, which runs through it. The branches of this artery are numerous but small, and are as follow : the inferior sterno-mastoid (p. 72) ; the siqna-acromial, which anastomoses with the acromio-thoracic artery ; articular branches to the shoulder-joint; the infra-spinous, which ramifies in the infra-spinous fossa ; and the sub- scajmlar, which ramifies in the substance of the subscapularis muscle. 3. The transversalis colli artery, of which the normal origin is said to be from the thyroid axis, very frequently arises from the subclavian in the last part of its course. It is larger than the preceding artery, and runs tortuously across the side of the neck (higher than the supra- scapular), over the scalene muscles and the great nerves of the brachial plexus (sometimes between them), and divides into two branches, the superficial ceiwical and the posterior scapular. The j)OSte7-ior sca2mlar disappears beneath the trapezius and the levator anguli scapulae to reach the superior angle of the scapula. It then runs beneath the rhomboid muscles, which it supplies, down to the inferior angle of the scapula, anastomosing freely with the terminations of the supra- and sub-scapular arteries, and with the posterior branches of some of the intercostal arteries. The superficial cervical is given off in the space between the sterno-mastoid and trapezius. This vessel proceeds tor- tuously across the posterior triangle of the neck to the under surface of the trapezius, to which, with the levator anguli scapulae, it is princi- pally distributed. The superficialis colli often comes direct from the thyroid axis. The veins corresponding to the supra-scapular and posterior scapular arteries terminate in the external jugular, sometimes in