178 INNOMINATE ARTERY. are the right and left coronary arteries, which pass, one in front of, and the other behind, the heart to supply its muscular tissue. The rifjM coronary artery arises from the anterior sinus of Val- salva, and passes to the right between the pulmonary artery and the right auricular appendix, running in the auriculo-ventricular groove. The left coronary artery, larger than the preceding, is given off from the left posterior sinus of Valsalva, and passes between the pulmonary artery and left auricular appendix; it runs down in the anterior interventricular sulcus towards the apex of the heart. The further description of these vessels will be considered in the dissection of the heart. From the highest part of the arch arise three large arteries for the head, neck, and upper limbs ; namely, the brachio-cephalic or innominate artery, the left carotid, and the left subclavian. Brachio-oepha- This, the largest of the three, arises from the Lie OB Innominate commencement of the transverse part of the arch. Abtery. ascends obliquely towards the right, and, after a course of about one inch and a half to two inches, divides behind the right sterno-clavicular joint into two arteries of nearly equal size—the right subclavian and the right common carotid. The relations of the innominate artery are as follow :—In front, it has the manubrium sterni, the right sterno-clavicular joint, the origins of the sterno-hyoid and thyroid muscles, the remains of the thymus gland, the left brachio-cephalic vein, the right inferior thyroid vein, and the right inferior cervical cardiac branch of the pneumogastric nerve. Beliincl, it rests upon the trachea. On its left side, are the left common carotid and the remains of the thymus. On its rigid side, are the lung and pleura, the right brachio-cejDhalic vein, and the pneumogastric nerve.' With the anatomy of the parts before you, you can understand that an aneurism of the innominate artery might be distinguished ■ In some cases the innominate artery ascends for a short distance above the clavicle before it divides, lying close to the right of the trachea. We have already alluded to the fact that it occasio^jally gives off a middle thyroid artery (p. 90), which ascends in front of the trachea to the thyroid body, and is therefore directly in the way in tracheotomy.