POSITION OF THE HEART. 170 uuricles, chiefly the left, the serous layer extends upwards in the form of a pouch, rising above their upper border, so as to be loosely connected to the left bronchus. The object of these serous reflec- tions is to facilitate the free action of the heart and the great vessels at its base. In the healthy state, the capacity of the pericardium nearly corresponds to the size of the heart when distended to its iitmost. The healthy pericardium, with the heart in situ, may be made to hold, in the adult, about ten ounces of fluid. The pericardium is not extensile. When an aneurism bursts into it, death is caused, not by loss of blood, but by compression of the heart in consequence of the inextensibility of the pericardium. The pericardium derives its blood from the internal mammary, bronchial, and oesophageal arteries; its nerve-supply from the phrenic nerves. On separating the left pulmonary artery and pulmonary vein,, you will notice a fold of serous membrane about three-quarters of an inch long and about one inch in depth: this is the vestujial fold of thepericdrdimn, described by Marshall.' It passes from the side of the left auricle, curving round the lower left pulmonary vein, to the left superior intercostal vein. It is a vestige of the left V. c. superior (duct of Cuvier) which exists in foetal life. Open the pericardium, and observe that the heart is conical in form, and convex everywhere except upon its lower surface, which is flat, and rests upon the tendinous centre of the diaphragm. When the pericardium is thus laid open, the following objects are exposed: viz. 1. Part of the right ventricle; 2. Part of the left ventricle; 3. Part of the right auricle with its appendix over- lapping the root of the aorta; 4. The appendix of the left auricle overlapping the root of the pulmonary artery; 5. The aorta; 6. The pulmonary artery; 7. The vena cava superior; 8. Tlie right and left coronary arteries. Position or The heart, then, placed behind the lower half THE HEiRT— of the sternum, occupies more of the left than the CONTINUED. right half of the chest, and rests upon the ten- ' ' On tlie Development of the Great Anterior Veins in Man and Mammalia, JPhilosoph. Transactions, 1850.