616 FASCIA LATA. Fig. 144. Poupart's ligament to the body of the os pubis and the linea ilio- pectinea, and along the rami of the os pubis and ischium. Pro- ceeding down the thigh, it penetrates on each side of the limb to the linea aspera, forming what are called the external and internal intermiiscular septa; the external one, the stronger, separates the vastus externus anteriorly from the short head of the biceps, both of which have origin from the fascia; the internal one separates the vastus in- ternus in front from the adductor muscles behind. Below, it can be traced round the knee-joint, and is particularly strong, especially on the outer side, where it is attached to the head of the tibia and fibula, and forms the insertion of the tensor fascia3 femoris. The fascia lata is very strong over the gluteus medius—the gluteal aponeurosis, and at the upper border of the gluteus maximus divides into two layers, one superficial to the muscle, the other deep which separates this muscle from the deeper muscles, and becomes connected with the great sacro-sciatic ligament. The fascia lata also furnishes thinner sheaths for the separate muscles. There are numerous small apertures in the fascia, through which the cutaneous nerves and vessels are transmitted; but the most important one is the large opening—the saplieno^is opening —through which the saphena vein passes to join the femoral. The part of the fascia situated ex- ternal to the saphenous opening is termed the iliac portion of the fascia lata; that internal to it, the pubic portion. The iliac portion is attached to the crest of the ilium, to the whole length of Poupart's ligament, and, in conjunction with Gimbernat's ligament, to the linea iho- pectinea; from this attachment it arches downwards and outwards, its inner margin forming the outer falciform edge of the saphenous opening; this border passes over the anterior sheath (formed by the transversalis fascia) of the femoral artery, and is seen to be FASCIA OK THE OUT- SIDE OP THE THIGH. 1. Tensor fascife femoris. 2. Gluteus maximus. 3. Lower fibres of ditto. 4. Fascia lata.