3G2 FLEXOR TENDONS AND TPIEIR SHEATHS. ungual brancli is distributed to tlie skia around and beneath the matrix of the nail. Each digital nerve terminates in the cushion at the end of the finger in a brush of filaments, with their points directed into the papillas of the skin. Flexor Ten- Immediately below the annular ligament the DONS AND THEiB teudons separate from each other : near the meta- Sheaths. carpal joints they pass in pairs, through strong fibrous rings (p. 355) formed by the divisions of the palmar fascia. Below the metacarpal joint, the two tendons for each finger enter the sheath, theca, which confines them in their course along the phalanges. It is formed by a strong fibrous membrane, which is attached to the ridges on the phalanges, and converts the groove in front of these bones into a complete canal, exactly large enough to contain the tendons, The density of the sheath varies in par- ticular situations, otherwise there would be an obstacle to the easy flexion of the fingers. To ascertain this, cut open one of the sheaths along its entire length; you will then see that it is much stronger between the joints than over the joints themselves. Through these sheaths inflammation, commencing in the integu- ments of the finger, may readily extend to the synovial membrane of the tendon. In cases of whitlow, when pus forms in. the theca, the incision should be made deep enough to lay open this fibro-osseous canal, without which the incision will be of no use. It is obvious that the incision should be made down the centre of the finger, to avoid the digital nerves and arteries. If this opening be not timely their discoverer, corpuscles of Pacini. Some of them will be found, by carefully examining the trunk of a nerve, or one of its smaller branches, in the subcutaneous tissue at. the root of a fuiger. Each corpuscle is about ^th of an inch long, and is attached by a slender fibro-cellular pedicle to tlie nerve upon which it is situated; through the. pedicle, a single primitive nerve-fibril passes into the corpuscle. The corpuscle itself is composed of a series of concenti'ic capsules, varying from twenty to fifty in number, and separated by intervals containing fluid: and the nerve- fibril terminates by a dilated extremity in a central cavity, which exists in the axis of the corpuscle. Their function is unknown. These bodies are found in many other situations, viz., in the solar plexus, the pudic nerves, the intercostal nerves, the cutaneous nerves of the arm and neck, the infra-orbital nerve, the sacral plexus, and in nerves supplying the periosteum. They can be best exammed in the mesentery of the cat.