503 CONTENTS OF THE FEMALE PELVIS. rectum. Which of the two be more appropriate, must be decided by the circumstances of the case. False Ligaments The reflections of the peritoneum from the OF THE Bladder. . pelvic walls to the bladder constitute the false ligaments of the hladder, and they can be best examined before the viscera are disturbed, although they will be described when the bladder itself is dissected. The two posterior pass forwards from the sides of the rectum to the back of the bladder, forming the lateral boundaries of the deep recto-vesical pouch. Each contains within its duplicature the ob- literated hypogastric artery, the ureter, together with some vessels and nerves. The tiuo lateral pass inwards from the sides of the pelvis to the sides of the bladder. The superior passes upwards from the summit of the bladder to the back of the anterior abdominal wall, covering the urachus and the obliterated hypogastric arteries. Contents of The relative positions of the pelvic viscera in THE FEiLUiE the female should now be examined, leaving the Pelvis. special description till a later stage. General uterus is interposed between the bladder in Position of the front, and the rectum behind. From each side of Uterus and its it a broad fold of peritoneum extends transversely Appendages. ^-^1^ ^-^q pelvis, dividing that cavity into an anterior and a posterior part. These folds are called the hroad ligaments of the uterus (fig. 135, p. 571). On the posterior surface of the ligament are the ovaries, one on each side. They are com- pletely covered by peritoneum, and suspended to the ligament by a small peritoneal fold. Each ovary is attached to the uterus by a cord termed the ligament of the ovary. Along the upper part of the broad ligament we find between its layers a tube about four inches long, called the Falloinan tube, which conveys the ovum from the ovary into the uterus. For this purpose, one end of it terminates in the uterus, wliile that nearer to the ovary expands into a wide mouth, furnished with prehensile fringes—fimhrice—which, like so many tentacles, grasp the ovum as soon as it escapes from the ovary. One of these fimbriae is attached to the ovary. Lastly, there