STRUCTURE OF THE SMALL INTESTINE. 602 commence immediately below the- opening of the biliary and pan- creatic dncts, and are most developed in tlie duodemiin and the upper part of the jejunum. Below this part of the tube they gradually decrease in size, and become wider apart, till they finally disappear near the middle of the ileum. The use of the valvulse conniventes is to increase the extent of surface for the absorption of chyle; to prevent the food passing too rapidly through the intestine, and for secretion. If a portion of small intestine be washed and placed in water, the surface of the mucous membrane appears like the soft fur or pile upon velvet. This appearance is produced by small processes called villi. These are extremely vascular projections of the mucous membrane, about a fourth of a line in length, and are so numerous that a square line contains from forty to ninety of them.^ Their size, however, and their number, bear a direct ratio to those of the valvulee conniventes. Under the microscope a villus is seen to consist of an outstanding process of the mucous mem- brane, covered by a layer of columnar epithelium, which rests upon a basement membrane. Each villus is furnished with an artery which forms a network of inosculations in it, and then returns its blood by a single vein. Down its middle runs a lacteal or absorb- ing vessel, which commences in a closed end near the summit of the villus, where it is surrounded by a layer of pale non-striped muscular fibres proceeding from the muscularis mucosa. This is surrounded by a plexus of capillaries, external to which is the basement membrane supporting columnar epithelium. Formmop the matrix of the villus is a fine network enclosing large flattened cells with oval nuclei and lymph cells. Intestinal There are four kinds of glands ^ in the small in- Qlands. testine, called the glands of Lieberkiihn, Brunner, Peyer, and the solitary glands. The first and last are distributed over the whole tract of the intestinal mucous membrane; the other two over particular parts. ' Krause estimates the total number of villi at four millions. A satisfactory examination of the intestinal glands can be made only m specimens quite recent, taken from young persons who have died suddenly, or from a rapidly fatal disease.