SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. 113 COURSE AND RELATIONS OF THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERIES. The left subclavian artery differs from tlie riglit, not only in its origin, but in the relations of the first part of its course. The right should, therefore, be examined first, and then the differences between it and the left. Eight Subcla- The right subclavian artery is one of the two viAN Abtery. great branches into which the arteria innominata divides behind the sterno-clavicular joint. It runs outwards behind the scalenus anticus, then inclines downwards over the first rib, at the outer border of which it takes the name of axillary. The artery describes a curve, of which the greatest convexity is between the scalene muscles. The height to which the arch ascends varies. Generally, it rises higher in women than in men, on the right side than on the left. To study its relations more precisely, the course of the sub- clavian is divided into three parts : 1. The part which intervenes between its origin and the inner border of the scalenus anticus. 2. That which lies behind the scalenus. 3. That which intervenes between the outer border of the scalenus and the outer border of the first rib. The^i's^ portion of the artery lies deeply in the neck and passes upwards and outwards to the inner border of the scalenus anticus. It is covered by the skin, platysma, superficial and deep fasciee, the sternal end of the clavicle, the sterno-mastoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles, and a layer of deep fascia, continued from the inner border of the scalenus anticus. It is crossed by the internal jugular and vertebral veins, by the pneumogastric and phrenic nerves, and by some cardiac filaments of the sympathetic. Inferiorly it rests upon the pleura. Behind the artery are the recurrent branch of the pneumogastric, the sympathetic nerve, the longus colli, the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra and the apex of the lung covered with the pleura. The subclavian vein lies below the artery. Three branches arise from this portion of the subclavian—viz. the vertebral, internal mammary, and thyroid axis. I