THE LIVER. 675 the testicle. Its nerves are derived from tlie ovarian plexus, which comes from the renal. The ovarian veins form, like the spermatic veins, near the ovary, the pampiniform plexus, and then terminate, the right in the inferior vena cava, the left in the renal vein. The ixirovarium, or the organ of Bose^imiiller, is P.ujovAKrcii. ^j^^ remains of a foetal structure situated in the broad ligament, between the Fallopian tube and the ovary. It consists of a series of convoluted closed tubules, lined with epi- thelium, converging from beneath the Fallopian tube to the ovary. At their ovarian end the tubules are separate, but at their broader end they are joined by a longitudinal tube running parallel to the lower border of the FaUopian tube. It is the vestige of a foetal structure, and is the analogue of the epididymis in the male, and is connected at its uterine end with the remains of the Wolffian duct. DISSECTION OP THE ABDOMINAL VISCEEA. The liver is the largest glandular organ in the HE IYER. body, and in the adult weighs from fifty to sixty ounces. It serves for the secretion of the bile, and moreover alters some of the constituents of the blood in its passage through the organ. Its diameter in the transverse direction is from ten to twelve inches; from before backwards it measures from six to seven inches, and its greatest thickness, which is at its back, is about three inches. Its surface is entirely covered with peritoneum, except a small part behind, which is connected to the diaphragm and the upper part of the right kidney by cellular tissue, and again in the hollow which lodges the gall-bladder. The upper surface is smooth and convex in adaptation to the diaphragm, and is marked by a fold of peritoneum running from behind forwards, dividing this surface into two unequal lobes, a right and a left, the right being the larger. The fold of peri- toneum is the suspensory or hroacl ligament. The ^mder surface is concave and irregular, and is divided into a right and left lobe by the longitudinal fissure.