SUrERFICIAL MUSCLES OF THE SOLE OF THE FOOT. G85 111 tlie iiitercligital folds of the skin, there are also ligainentous fibres, wliich run from one side of the foot to the other, and answer the same purpose as those in the hand (p. 355). The plantar fascia must be partially removed to examine the muscles. Towards the os calcis its removal is not accomplished without some difficulty, since the muscles arise from it. SupERFicLu:, After the removal of the fascia three muscles Muscles. are exposed. All arise from the os calcis and the fascia, and proceed forwards to the toes.' The central one is the flexor brevis digitorum, the one on the inner side is the abductor hallucis, and the outer one is the abductor minimi digiti. Abdcctor This muscle arises from the internal tubercle of RtLLucis. the OS calcis, from the plantar fascia, from the internal annular ligament, and from the intermuscular septum between it and the flexor brevis digitorum. Its origin arches over ■ the plantar vessels and nerves in their passage to the sole. The fibres run along the inner side of the sole, and terminate on a : tendon, which is inserted, Avith the inner tendon of the flexor brevis ; hallucis, into the inner side of the base of the first phalanx of the i great toe, through the medium of the internal sesamoid bone. Its 1 nerve comes from the internal plantar. Abductor This muscle lies on the outer border of the foot, ?. Minimi Digiti. and has a very strong origin from the under surface ' of the OS calcis, from its external tubercle, from the plantar fascia, and from the external intermuscular septum between it and the t flexor brevis digitorum. Some of its fibres terminate on a tendon V which is inserted into the proximal end of the metatarsal bone of t the little toe; but the greater part run on to a tendon which is ' Inserted, with the flexor brevis minimi digiti, into the outer side of f the first phalanx of the little toe. It is supplied by the external ilantar nerve. Flkxor Brevis This muscle ar ises from the under surface of the HiGiTORUM. OS calcis, between the two preceding, from the 'leep surface of the plantar fascia and the intermuscular septa, ft passes forwards and divides into four tendons, which run super- ' They are separated from each other by strong perpendicular partitions— intermuscular septa—which pass in from the plantar fascia.