306 CUTANEOUS NERVES OF THE'CHEST. common forms of dislocations of the humerus, this roundness is lost, and a depression takes its place. Between the thorax and the arm there is a deep hollow—the axilla—which varies according to the position of the arm to the side. Its front border is formed by the pectoralis major, and its hinder border by the latissimus dorsi ; and if the fingers be pushed up into this space, the head of the humerus can be easUy felt. The free border of the pectoralis major muscle corresponds with the fifth rib, and below this can be distinguished the lower digitations of the serratus magnus with the external oblique. ^ The student must now make three incisions JJIRSPCTION through the skin: the first, along the middle of the whole length of the sternum ; the second, along the lower border of the clavicle, and down along the front of the upper arm for four inches ; the third, from the ensiform cartilage, backwards to the posterior border of the axilla. The skin should now be taken up with the forceps at the upper and inner angle, and when the skin has been so far reflected as to enable the fingers to take it up, lay aside the forceps and use the fingers in their place. The skin should be carefully dissected from the subjacent layer of subcutaneous fascia and fat. In doing so, notice the thin, pale fibres of the broad subcutaneous muscle of the neck—platysma myoides (fig. 18). Beneath this subcutaneous fascia and fat there is the strong deep fascia which closely invests the muscles, and in the axiUa it forms a dense fascia which passes from the pectoralis major to the latissimus dorsi. Cutaneous The numerous nerves which run through the Nerves. subcutaneous tissue to the skin and mammary gland must be carefully dissected out. They are derived from various sources : some, branches of the superficial cervical plexus, descend over the clavicle ; others, branches of the intercostal nerves, come through the intercostal spaces close to the sternum, each with a small artery; a third series, also branches of the intercostal nerves, come out on the side of the chest, and run forwards over the outer border of the pectoralis major. The sufra-clavicular nerves, which arise from the third and