543 BRANCHES OF THE INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. obturator muscle it is enclosed in a strong tube of fascia, formed by the obturator fascia, and is situated about one inch and a quarter above the tuberosity of the ischium. It now ascends under cover of the ascending- ramus of the ischium, where it pierces that part of the pelvic fascia which forms the posterior layer of the triangular licrament, and continues its course close to the ramus of the os pubis, between the two layers of the ligament, the anterior layer of which it pierces, and then divides into the artery of the corpus cavernosum and the dorsal artery of the penis. Throughout its course it is accompanied by the pudic nerve and veins. The branches of the pudic artery were described in the dissection of the perineum (p. 517). The pudic artery, however, sometimes takes a very different course. Instead of passing out of the pelvis, it may run by the side of the prostate gland to its destination; or, one of the large branches of the pudic may take this unusual course, while the pudic itself is regular, but proportionably small. ■ Anatomists are familiar with these varieties, and a winter session rarely passes without meeting with several examples of them. It need hardly be said that lithotomy, under such conditions, might be followed by a large haemorrhage. The middle sacral artery is a small branch of the abdominal aorta at its point of bifurcation. It descends in front of the body of the fifth lumbar vertebra, the sacrum, and the coccyx. In its course it gives ofi" small branches to the rectum, to the anterior sacral foramina, and it finally inosculates on the sacrum and the coccyx with the lateral sacral arteries. It gradually becomes smaller as it passes down and terminates near the tip of the coccyx in a small body about the size of a pea, called the coccygeal or LuschJca's glavd, which has been previously described (p. 486). Respecting the veins in the pelvis, they correspond with the arteries, and empty themselves into the internal iliac vein. The remarkable plexus of veins about the prostate, neck of the bladder, and rectum, has been described (p. 529). Nerves of Those which proceed from the spinal cord should THE Pelvis. l3e examined first, afterwards those derived from the sympathetic system.