485 BKANCHES OF THE ABDOMINAL AORTA. ' terminate in two tortuous veins, wliicli unite before tliey empty themselveSj on the right side, obliquely, into the vena cava; on tlie left side, at right angles, into the left renal vein, after j)assing behind the sigmoid flexure of the colon. In the female, the ovarian arteries descend towards the pelvis, and lie between the two layers of the broad ligament to be distributed to the ovaries, some branches also going to the Fallopian tubes, and one to the side of the uterus to anastomose with the uterine artery of the internal iliac. They likewise send small ofisets to the round ligament, and thence to the skin of the pubes and groin. LuMB.ui There are usually five of these arteries on each Aktekies and side : four arise from the back of the aorta, the Braxches. £ff;}i comes from the arteria sacra media. They are analogous to the intercostal arteries on a small scale. They proceed outwards over the bodies of the vertebrte beneath the sym- pathetic nerve and the- arches formed by the psoas muscle; the two upper pass beneath the crura of the diaphragm; those on the right side being also behind the vena cava inferior. Passing towards the intervertebral foramina, they, like the intercostals, divide into dorsal and abdominal branches. The dorsal h-anches pass between the transverse jjrocesses of the vertebrse, accompanied by the posterior branches of the cor- responding nerves, and are of a size proportionate to the large development of the muscles of the back which they supply. They also send sjnnal branches, which enter the spinal canal through the intervertebral foramina; some of these are distributed to the anterior part of the cauda equina, and others to the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae, forming a series of arches behind them. The abdominal branches all run outwards behind the quadra- tus lumborum, except the last, which usually runs in front. After ^^Pplyi^g 'fcte quadratus and psoas, they pass forwards between the abdominal muscles and supply the walls of the abdomen.^ They anastomose, laterally, with the ilio-lumbar and circumflex iliac ' Just as the thoracic intercostals, by communicating with the internal mam- mary, form an arterial ring round the chest, so do the lumbar, by communicating with the epigastric, form a similar, though less perfect, ring round the walls of the abdomen.