358 MUSCLES OF THE BALL OF THE THUMB. accompanies the ulnaris profunda artery into the palm, to supply all the interosseous muscles, the two ulnar lumbricales, and it ends in branches which are distributed to the first dorsal interosseous, the adductor pollicis, and the inner head of the flexor brevis pollicis: it moreover sends filaments which ascend to supply the wrist-joint, and others which descend to the metacarpo-phalangeal joints. The sivperfidal branch sends filaments to the palmaris brevis, to the skin on the inner side of the palm, and then divides into two digi- tal nerves, one for the supply of the ulnar side of the little finger, the other for the contiguous sides of the little and ring fingers. This branch also communicates with the median nerve behind the superficial palmar arch. All the digital branches run along the sides of the fingers to their extremities superficial to their corre- sponding arteries. Anterior An- This exceedingly strong and thick ligament con-. NHLAR Ligament fines the flexor tendons of the fingers and thumb, OF THE Carpus. ^^^^ fastens together the bones of the carpus. It is attached, externally, to the tuberosity of the scaphoid and the ridge on the trapezium; internally, to the pisiform and unciform. Its upper border is continuous with the aponeurosis in front of the wrist; its lower is connected with the palmar fascia ; its anterior surface receives the expanded tendon of the palmaris longus, and gives origin to most of the muscles of the ball of the thumb and little finger. Now proceed to the muscles composing the ball of the thumb and the little finger. The dissection of them requires considerable care. Mdscles of The great strength of the muscles of the ball of THE Ball of the thumb is one of the distinguishing features of THE Thumb. ^^j^q liuman hand. This strength is necessary in order to oppose that of all the fingers. In addition to its strength, the thumb enjoys perfect mobility. It has no less than eight mugcles—namely, an abductor, an opponens, two flexors, three extensors, and an adductor. Abductor This is the most superficial. It is a thin, flat Pollicis. muscle, and arises from the ridge of the os trape- zium and the annular ligament. It passes forwards and outwards,