42 PAROTID GLAND. It is separated from the submaxillary gland by tlie stylo-maxillary ligament; sometimes tbe two glands are directly continuous. The superficial surface of the gland is flat, and covered by a strong layer of fascia, a continuation of the cervical, and has one or two lymphatic glands lying on it. It not only surrounds the gland, but sends down numerous j)artitions which form a frame- work for its lobes. The density of this sheath explains the pain caused by inflammation of the gland, the tardiness with which abscesses within it make their way to the surface, and the propriety of an early opening. The deep surface of the gland is irregular, and moulded upon the subjacent parts. Thus it sends a prolongation which passes inwards between the neck of the jaw and the internal lateral liga- ment ; another process which passes in front of the styloid process, and extends upwards and occupies the posterior part of the glenoid cavity; a third process passes behind the styloid process, below the mastoid process and behind the sterno-mastoid muscle, and sometimes penetrates deep enough to be in contact with the internal jugular vein. The internal carotid artery and internal jugular vein are in contact with the gland behind. On carefully removing the substance of the parotid gland, the following structures are seen in its interior, proceeding in the order of their depth from the surface : 1. Two or more small lymphatic glands. 2. The pes anserinus, or primary branches of the facial nerve^ which emerge at its anterior border. 3. Branches from the great auricular and auriculo-temporal nerves which communicate in its substance with the facial nerve. 4. The external jugular vein formed by the junction of the internal maxillary and temporal veins. 5. The external carotid artery, which, after distributing many branches to the gland, divides, opposite the neck of the jaw, into the internal maxillary and temporal; the latter giving ofi" in the gland the posterior auricular and transverse facial arteries.^ ■ Eeviewing the intimate and deep connections of the parotid gland, one cannot but conclude that it is almost impracticable to remove it entirely during life. If