215 FCETAL CIRCULATION. ing aorta, only a very small quantity of it being distributed to the lungs; the lungs are in the foetus almost solid organs, and the blood distributed to them is returned by the pulmonary veins into the left auricle. The blood which passes into the descending aorta, through the ductus arteriosus, is mingled with the small amount coming through the arch, and is then conveyed through the ab- dominal aorta into the iliac arteries ; part is transmitted through the umbilical arteries (branches of the internal iliac arteries) to the placenta to become re-oxygenated; part passes into the lower extremities through the external iliac and femoral arteries. Changes m thh The following changes take place in the circu- CiEcuLATioN AT latlou after birth : ^— 1. The umbilical vein becomes obliterated from the second to the fifth day after birth, and subsequently forms the round ligament of the liver. 2. The ductus venosus also becomes closed about the same period, and may be traced as a thickened cord in the fissure of the ductus venosus. 3. The foramen ovale becomes closed from the sixth to the tenth day; but not infrequently a small indirect valvular com-' munication may be found forming a communication between the two auricles. 4. The ductus arteriosus contracts immediately after birth, and becomes closed from the sixth to the tenth day. It eventually forms a fibrous cord connecting the left pulmonary artery with the aorta, the left recurrent laryngeal nerve winding round its left border. 5. The pulmonary arteries enlarge and convey venous blood to the lungs. These organs during foetal life receive only a small quantity of blood from these arteries. 6. The hi/]pofjastric arteries become obliterated on the fourth or fifth day after birth. ' It is well to bear in mind that these important vasculai' changes do not take place suddenly at birth, but that they are the result of a gradual development which is completed at, or soon after, birth, mainly by the act of inspiration, whereby the blood passes through the lungs, the placental circulation at the same time being interrupted.