591 STRUCTURE OF THE KIDNEY. like excavations, called calicos. Into each of these calices one, sometimes two or more papillaa project. Between the calices the branches of the renal artery ascend to ramify in the kidney, lying imbedded in fat; The pelvis and the calices are composed of three layers—an external fibrous layer continuous with the reflected part of the capsule into the sinus ; a middle or muscular, consisting of longitudinal and circular fibres, the former extending nearly as far as the calices, the latter encircling the calyx round the papillae; and an internal or mucous coat reflected over the papillee. Stkuctuke of With a lens, each papilla may be seen to be THE Kidney. studded with minute apertures, which are the termi- ■ nations of the tuhidi uriniferi. These apertures open into the bottom of about twenty shallow depressions on a papilla, called foveolce. The orifices are from•rj-oo'th toxoT^-'^ °f ^^'^■'^^ diameter. These tubes as they pass out into the pyramidal structure run straight, bifurcate repeatedly at very acute angles, their subdivisions running parallel, and reach the bases and sides of the pyramids, from which • they pass into the cortical substancs, greatly increased in number. These, termed the straight or collecting tuhes, pass into the cor- ; tical substance still as straight tabes, the central ones passing ' nearly to the surface, the outer ones being very short, and only run a short distance into the cortex, so that they are arranged as a series of cones, with their apices to the surface of the organ. These bundles are called the pyramids of Ferrein, or the medidlary rays, and receive on each side the curved extremities of the con- voluted tubes. We find the cortical substance is arranged between and around these medullary rays, which, from the intricate arrange- ment of its tubes, receives the name of the labyrinth of the cortex. Each uriniferous tubule commences in a dilated extremity, termed the Malpighian capside, in which is enclosed an arterial vascular tuft, the Malpighian tift, of about j-^th of an inch in f diameter, and is visible to the naked eye as a minute red point. At ' the point of union of the tubule with the capsule, it presents a narrow ! portion, called the neclc, beyond which the tubule becomes convoluted t for a considerable distance, forming the fi,rst or 'proximal convoluted ■ tid)e (fig. 140, 2). As it descends towards the medullary ray, the ■ tubule becomes nearly straight, but having a slight spiral tendency :