CUTANEOUS NERVES OF THE BACK.* 367 third, from the sacrum along the crest of the ilium ; then reflect the skin outwards from the dense subcutaneous tissue, in which will be found the following cutaneous nerves. CcTiXEous These are derived from the posterior divisions of Nerves of the the spinal nerves, and correspond, generally, to the JBack. • nuxviber of the vertebrte. The posterior primary- branches, much smaller than the anterior, divide, between the transverse processes, into external and internal branches, with the exception of the suboccipital, the fourth and fifth sacral, and the coccygeal nerves. Posterior The posterior primary branches of the cervical Branches of the nerves (except the first') divide into external and Cervical Nerves, internal branches: the external are distributed solely to some of the muscles of the neck, and which will be dis- sected later on; the internal, larger than the external, are distri- buted in the following manner : the second, or the great occipital nerve, perforates the complexus, and ramifies on the back of the scalp with the occipital artery; the tliird, fourth, and fifth nerves, after sending branches to the multifidus spinas, semi-spinalis, and the complexus, emerge through the trapezius close to the spinoiis processes, and there pass transversely across that muscle to supply the skin over it; the branch of the third cervical nerve sometimes sends a branch to the back of the scalp ; ^ the branches of the sixtli , seventh, and eighth are small, and are situated beneath the semi- spinalis, to which they are distributed. Posterior The external branches become superficial between Branches of the the longissimus dorsi and the ilio-costalis, and sup-' Dorsal Nerves. p|y. these muscles and the other divisions of the erector spinte; the six lower supply cutaneous nerves in the line of the angles of the ribs. The internal branches, as to the upper six dorsal, emerge between the multifidus spinas and semi-spinalis, and passing horizontally outwards, end in branches to the skin close to the spinous processes ; that from the second ramifies over the spine ' This nerve has already been described in the dissection of the suboccipital triangle (p. 290). The internal branches of the first, second and third cervical nerves form a communication beneath the complexus, which is called by Cruveilhier the posterior cervical plexus.