THE PERITONEUM. 4C0 tliis is seen, passing as a distinct fold—the costo-coUc lirjament— from the diaphragm to the splenic flexure of the colon. The lower layer is reflected from the spine over the small intes- tine, back again to the spine, to form the mesentery. From the root of the mesentery it descends into the pelvis, and invests the vipper two-thirds of the rectum. From the rectum, in the male, it is reflected to the posterior part of the bladder, forming the o-edo- vesical poxicli, and thence to the wall of the abdomen, along which it can be traced up to the diaphragm. In the female, it is reflected from the rectum on to the posterior wall of the vagina half an inch from the uterine extremity, constituting the recto-vaginal pouch (^Douglas' poucli), and thence over all the back, but only about half- way down the front of the uterus, to the posterior wall of the bladder; after which its reflections are the same as in the male.' Such is the course of the peritoneum as seen in a longitudinal section, but there are lateral reflections which cannot be seen except in a transverse section: thus, from the great end of the stomach, two layers proceed to the spleen, forming the gastro-sjdenic omen- hem I from the transverse meso-colon it is reflected on either side over the ascending and descending colon. The structures completelij invested with peritoneum are, the stomach, liver, first part of the duodenum, the jejunum and deum, the transverse colon, sigmoid flexure, ujpper part of rectum, spleen, viterus, and ovaries. The following parts of the alimentary canal are only iMrtialhj covered by peritoneum : namely, the descending and transverse portions of the duodenum, the ceecum, the ascending and descend- ing colon (with exceptional cases), the middle part of the rectum^ the upper part of the vagina, and the hinder wall of the bladder. The viscera uncovered by peritoneum are, the lower part of the rectum, the anterior and the lower part of the posterior wall of the vagina, the anterior and part of the posterior wall of the bladder. Anatomists speak of the lesser cavity of the peritoneum, as dis- tinguished from the greater. This lesser cavity, or cavity of the ' For a detailed description of the development of the great omentum and the transverse meso-colon, see a paper by C. B. Lockwood, Journal of Anatomy aiid Physiology, vol. xviii.