158 TRIANGULARIS STERNI. azygos minor. In front there are the narrow intervals for the passage of the internal mammary arteries. ^ An opening must be made into the chest, by carefully removing the upper four-fifths of the sternum, and the cartilages of all the true ribs.^ In doing this, care must be taken not to wound the pleura, which is closely con- nected with the cartilages. On one side the internal mammarj^ artery should be dissected; on the other, removed. In the dissection of the chest let us take the parts in the following order:— 1. Triangularis sterni, with, the internal mammary artery. 2. MecliastLna, anterior, middle, and posterior. 3. Pleura. 4. Position and form of the lungs. 5. Pericardium. 6. Position and relations of the heart. 7. Posterior mediastinum and its contents ; namely, the aorta, the thoracic duct, the vena azygos, the oesophagus, and pneumogastric nerves. 8. Right and left brachio-cephalic veins and superior vena cava. 9. Course of the phrenic nerves. 10. Course and relations of the arch of the aorta. 11. The three great branches of the arch, 12. Sympathetic nerve. 13. Intercostal muscles, vessels and nerves. 14. Nerves of the heart; cardiac plexuses. Trunqdiahis On the under surface of the sternum and carti- Sterni. lages of the ribs is a thin flat muscle, named the trianf/alaris sterni. It arises from the ensiform cartilage, the lower part of the side of the sternum, and the cartilages of two or three lower true ribs. Its fibres ascend obliquely outwards, and are inserted by fleshy digitations into the lower borders of the car- tilages of the true ribs—from the sixth to the second. Its lowest digitation runs transversely outwards, each successive one, how- ever, becomes more oblique, so that the highest one is nearly ver- tical in direction. The muscle is evidently a continuation upwards ' Those who are more proficient in dissection should not remove the whole of the sternum, but leave a quarter of an inch of its upper part with the first rib attached to it. This portion serves as a valuable landmark, although it obstructs, to a certain extent, the view of the subjacent vessels.