RELATIONS OF THE PANCllEAS. 475 the body of the third lumbar vertebra. It lies behind the trans- verse colon, in front of the right kidney and the ductus communis choledochus ; on the left side it is in relation with the head of the : pancreas, its duct, and the superior and inferior pancreatico-duo- , denal arteries. The third or transverse portion, about four inches ■. long, is situated behind the transverse meso-colon, just above the mesentery and the superior mesenteric vessels. Above it, are the ■ pancreas, and the superior mesenteric artery and vein which pass between the pancreas and the duodenum: behind, it rests upon ; the crura of the diaphragm, the inferior vena" cava, and the aorta. This portion, like the second, is only covered in front by peri- : toneum. Notice how firmly the duodenum is braced up on the left - side of the second lumbar vertebra ; and how the jejunum begins ' here by an abrupt downward bend. Pancreas, The pancreas is a large compound racemose : Eelations of. gland, situated immediately behind the stomach (p. 470). It is of an elongated form, and of pinkish-white colour. . It is placed transversely across the spine ; its larger end, or head, i is embraced by the duodenum ; its lesser end, or tail, is in contact p with the spleen. It is about six to eight inches in length, its ? average breadth is one inch and a half, and its thickness from half an inch to an inch. Its weight is from 2^ oz. to 3^ oz., although it : frequently exceeds the latter weight. In front, the gland has the ascending layer of the transverse I meso-colon and the stomach : its right extremity, or head, is em- braced by the duodenum, separated from it by the pancreatico- duodenal arteries; behind the head is the ductus communis choledochus, whilst the body is in relation posteriorly with the in- ferior vena cava, the superior mesenteric vein and artery, the aorta, the beginning of the vena portse, the crura of the diaphragm, the left kidney, the supra-renal capsule, and the inferior mesenteric vein; its left extremity, or tail, touches the concavity of the lower surface of the spleen, and is in front of the left supra-renal capsule ; the ujrper hoi'der is in relation with the ca3liac axis, the splenic artery and vein lying in a groove in the gland, and on the right side with the ascending portion of the duodenum and the hepatic artery ; the lower border is in relation with the transverse portion