651 DORSAL ARTERY OF THE FOOT. •deep plantar arch. On the dorsum of the foot the artery lies upon the astragalus, the scaphoid, and the internal cuneiform bones, .separated however from them by their dorsal ligaments ; in front, the artery has the skin, superficial and deep fasciee, the venous arch across the dorsum, and the innermost tendon of the short ■extensor of the toes; on its outer side, it has the extensor longus digi- torum and the anterior tibial nerve ; on its inner side, the extensor proprius hallucis. The dorsal artery gives off the following branches:— a. The tarsal branch arises near the scaphoid bone, passes outwards in an arched direction beneath the extensor brevis digitorum towards the outside of the foot, supplies the bones and joints of the tarsus, and inosculates Avith the external malleolar, the peroneal, the metatarsal, and the external plantar arteries. b. The metatarsal branch generally runs towards the outside of the foot, in front of and parallel with the tarsal artery, beneath the short extensor tendons, near the bases of the metatarsal bones, and gives off the three outer dorsal interosseous arteries. These pass forwards over the corresponding interosseous muscles, supply them, and then sub- divide to supply the contiguous sides of the upper surfaces of the toes. The outer interosseous branch, in addition to giving off a branch to the fourth interosseous space, gives off a small branch to the outer side of the httle toe. They receive, at the back of each mterosseous space, the posterior perforating branches of the plantar arch, and at the front of each interosseous space they receive the anterior perforating branches from the plantar digital arteries. c. The dorsalis hallucis is, strictly speaking, the artery of the first interosseous space. It is the continuation of the dorsal artery of the foot, after it has given off the communicating branch to the sole, and nans forwards to supply digital branches to the sides of the great toe, and the inner side of the second toe. Peronei These muscles are situated on the outer side of Muscles. )Ji^q fi^^ula, and are named, respectively, peroneus longus and brevis. Pebonecs This a/rises from the head and the outer surface Longus. of the fibula along its ujoper two-thirds, from the deep fascia which covers it, and the intermuscular septa. The fibres terminate in a penniform manner upon a tendon, which runs