445 CONGENITAL INGUINAL HERNIA. either no closure, or only a partial closure, takes place in the vaginal portion of the tunica vaginalis. Under these conditions, ■when a protrusion takes place, the intestine does not push forwards a sac derived from the parietal layer of the peritoneum, but it lies in a sac formed by the tunica vaginalis, which stUl communicates with the peritoneal cavity. These hernige are always oblique, and are termed congenital} There are four varieties, all of which are the result of, or associated with, some congenital defect. They are as foUows :— 1. Hernia in the tunica vaginalis testis.—This occurs when a protru- sion of intestine takes place through the narrow canal which persists between the general cavity of the peritoneum and the tunica vaginalis testis, in consequence of the non-obliteration of the original communica- tion between them. In this case, the intestine surrounds the testis, and the sac is formed by the tunica vaginalis testis (fig. 102, 1).^ 2. Hernia in the funicular portion of the titnica vaginalis occurs when an incomplete closure of the tunica vaginalis takes place imme- diately above the testis ; the canal above it being still unclosed and communicating with the peritoneal cavity. The sac is formed by the original pouch of the peritoneum in the descent of the testis, although shut off from the tunica vaginalis testis by a thin septum (fig. 102, 2). 3. Infantile hernia is rare, and occurs when the original peritoneal canal is occluded at the inner ring, so that the tunica vagmaUs testis reaches up as high as the canal, or even as far as the internal ring. The intestine in this variety protrudes a sac through the inner ring, but behind this abnormal extension of the tunica vaginalis ; so that in front of the hernia there are three layers of peritoneum : two formed by the tunica vaginalis, the third by the sac (fig. 102, 3). 4. Encysted hernia is stUl rarer than the preceding, and may occur in those cases in which the closing septum at the internal ring is so thin that an advancing hernia pushes before it this thin stratum (which forms its sac) as a diverticulum into an unclosed tunica vaginalis (fig. 102, 4). ' The term congenital applied to this form of hernia is apt to suggest the idea that it occurs at birth. But this is not of necessity so. Although the state of parts favourable to its occurrence exists at birth, the hernia itself may not take place till many years afterwards—in fact, at any period of life. ' A good specimen of this variety, prepared by Percival Pott, is in the Museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital.