THE CEREBllUM. 7B4 increased; tlie grey matter here is called the cortical svhstance. The interior of the convolutions consists of white nerve substance. The convolutions are not symmetrical on both sides, although they follow a somewhat similar arrangement. The number, arrange- ment, and depth of the convolutions vary somewhat in different individuals, and, to a certain extent, may be considered an index of the degree of intelligence.' The depth of the sulci between the convolutions varies in different brains, from an inch to half an inch ; hence it follows that two brains of equal size may be very unequal in point of extent of surface for the grey matter, and therefore in amount of intellectual capacity. Under the microscope the cortical layer is seen to con- sist of four layers—two of grey alternating with two of white—the external layer being always white. These layers are not equally thick in all situations, and in some parts six layers may be demon- strated, owing to the interpolation of a layer of white substance in the outer stratum : these are chiefly seen near the corpus caUosuni and in the occipital lobe.^ Some of the sulci, from their depth, regularity, and early period of development, are termed the primary or interlobar fissures, and map out the surface of the cerebrum into five lobes. Of these sulci there are three: the fissure of Sylimis, the fissure of Rolando or central fissure, &viA th.& ■parieto-occvpital fissure (fig. 175). The fissure of Sylvius is seen on the base of the cerebrum, where it receives the lesser wing of the sphenoid bone. It begins, outside the locus perforatus anticus, as a deep triangular depression—valle- cula Sylvii—and then curves outwards as a deep cleft to the external surface of the cerebrum; it divides into two rami—an ascending or ' Those who wish to investigate the cerebral convolutions in their simplest form in the lower classes of mammalia, and to trace them through their successive development and arrangement into groups as we ascend to the higher classes, should consult Leuret, A'>iatoviie convparie du Systiine Nerveux considirie dans ses Rapports avec VIntelligence, Paris, 1839; also Foville, Traii4 de VAimt. du Systime Nerveux, &c., Paris, 1844. The convolutions of the human brain have been described by Ecker, On the Convolutions of the Human Brain, 1873; and by Turner, The Convolutions of the Human Brain topographically considered, Edin. 1866. 2 For an account of these laminas, see Lockhart Clarke, Proceedings of the Boyal- Society, 1863.