767 COMMISSURES OF THE THIRD VENTRICLE. substance connects tlie external one with the nates, and a similar band connects the internal one with the testes.' Third The third ventricle is the long narrow fissnre Ventricle. between the optic thalami, and reaches down to the base of the brain. Its roof is formed by the fornix and the velum interpositum, the under aspect of which is lined by the epithelium covering the general ventricularr. cavities, and is re- flected from the velum and choroid plexuses on to the optic thalami; the floor, which increases in depth in front, is formed by certain parts at the base of the brain, found within the inter- peduncular space—viz. the locus perforatus posticus, corpora mam- millaria, tuber cinereum, infundibulum, and lamina cinerea, all of which are best seen in a vertical section, as shown on pa,ge 755. In front, it is. bounded by the anterior crura of the fornix and the anterior commissure; laterally, by the optic thalami and the peduncles of the pineal body ; behind, by the posterior commissure and the iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum, which is a long canal beneath the corpora quadrigemina, connecting the third with the fourth ventricle. Passing across the third ventricle are seen three commissures, the anterior, middle, and posterior. The middle commissure may be seen by gently separating the optic thalami, and is about half an inch in breadth. This is composed entirely of grey substance, and in most brains, owing to its softness, is generally torn before it can be examined.^ The anterior commissure is a round white cord, which lies immediately in front of the anterior crura of the fornix, and connects the corpora striata. This commissure may be traced on each side, through the corpora striata, below the nuclei lenticulares, extending backwards far into the temporo-sphenoidal lobes. Situated immediately in ■ These bands are faintly marked in man, but are more apparent in the lower animals. The soft commissure does not appear to be a very essential constituent part of the brain. It is not found before the ninth month of foetal life, and in some instances, according to our observations, is never developed. Wenzel states that it is absent in about one out of seven subjects (De ]poniliori Struct. Cerebri Horn, et Brut. Tiibingen, 1812).