762 courrs stkiatum. The posterior pillant or crura are continued downwards and out- wards fixMu the thickened five borders of the body of the fornix, and aiv at tirst connected to the under surface of the corpus callosuni. Each Uwes the body at the posterior and outer anule as a thin Hat white band resting on the choroid plexus and the pulvinar of the optic tlialanuis, and, curving downwards and out- wards, becomes intimately connected with tlie concave border of the hippocampus major as far down as the pes hippocampi, gradually tapering to a point at its termination. The free border of the posterior cms is known as the ia^nia hippocampi or the corpus jimlti-iatinn ; and on i*aisii\g tliis up we expose an indented layer of grey matter, the fascia dentaia, which is the free border of (he cortical substjuice of the cerebrum.' The fornix should now be cut through transvei*sely, and its two portions reHected backwards and forwards respectively. On the under surface of the posterior portion are seen tibres, ]iassing transversely, belonging to the corpus callosum, and forming what is termed the li/ra. Between the fornix and the upper surface of the cerebellum is the tramrerse fissure, or jissurc of through which the pia nuiter enters the ventricles. The fissure extends fiv>m the middle downwards on each side to the base of the brain, as far as the end of the descending horn. It is of a horse-shoe shape, with the concavity directed forwards. The upper boundary of that part of the transverse fissure which extends into the middle horn is some- times called the ^jw mariiin of the hemispliere. The contents of the lateral ventricles should now be examined more in detail. Corpus The corpus striatum is so called because, when Stmatcm. cut into, it presents alternate layers of a white and grey substance. It is a large ovoid mass of gfoy substance, part of which forms an eminence in the body of the lateral ventricle (the intraventricular portion), but the larger part (extraventricnlar portion) is embedded in the white substance of the cerebrum. The ' The fornix and septum lucidum are absent in fish; they are merely rudi- mentary in reptiles and birds; but all mammalia have them in greater or less perfection, according to the degree of development of the cerebnil hemispheres.'