84 INTERNAL JUGULAR VEIN. At its bifurcation it usually presents a slight bulbous enlargement, whicb is sometimes so marked tbat it might be mistaken for an incipient aneurism. It is necessary to know that the carotid sometimes divides as low as the level of the cricoid cartilage, and that not infrequently the division takes place as high as the hyoid bone. INTEHN.VL The internal jugular vein is the continuation of JuauLAB Vein. the lateral sinus, and returns the blood from the brain. Leaving the skull through the foramen jugulare, it receives the inferior petrosal sinus, and at the junction it presents a slight enlargement, the sinus. The vein descends on the outer side of the internal carotid, and subsequently the common carotid arteries, in the same sheath, and joins the subclavian vein at a right angle to form the brachio-cephalic or innominate vein. In its course down the neck it receives the pharyngeal, occipital, facial, lingual, superior, and middle thyroid veins. Previous to their terminations the internal jugular veins incline somewhat to the right side to meet the corresponding subclavian veins; thus, on the right side, there is a triangular interval between the artery and vein in which is seen the pneumogastric nerve and vertebral artery; on the left side the vein slightly overlaps the artery, thus rendering ligature of the left carotid more difficult than of the right. The internal jugular veins moreover advance slightly to meet the subclavian veins, so that they lie on a plane a little anterior to their accomjDanying arteries. A little before their termination the internal jugulars have a double valve. „ The descenclens noni (p. 92), a branch of the NoNi AND Com- hypoglossal, runs down obliquely over the sheath MUNicAKTEs NoNi of the carotid to supply the depressor muscles of Nebves. iiyoides. Trace the nerve upwards to see that it leaves the hy[ooglossal where this nerve curves round the occipital artery. For a short distance the descendens noni lies within the carotid sheath ; but, about the level of the os hyoides, it comes through the sheath, and crosses obliquely over the carotid, from the outer to the inner side. The descendens noni is reinforced by one or more nerves termed communicantes noni, derived from the second and third cervical nerves. These com-