130 TEMrOKAL MUSCLE. Temporal Tkis strong shining aponeurotic membrane I'ascia. covers tlie temporal muscle; its chief use being to give additional origin to its fibres. It is attached above to the temporal ridge, and increasing in thickness as it descends, divides near the zygoma into two layers, which are attached to the outer and inner borders of the z^g-omatic arch. These layers are separated by fat, in which is found a filament from the orbital branch of the superior maxillary nerve, and the orbital branch of the temporal artery. The density of this aponeurosis explains why abscesses in the temporal fossa rarely point outwards; the pus generally makes its way, beneath the zygoma, into the mouth. Reflect the aponeurosis, and notice that it is separated from the temporal muscle, near the zygoma, by fat. The absorption of this fat, and the wasting of the muscle, occasion the sinking of the temple in emaciation and old age. Divide the zygomatic arch on each side of the- masseter, and turn it downwards, taking care of the masseteric nerve and artery which enter its under aspect. Observe the direction of the superficial and deep fibres, and the tendinous partitions which augment the power of the muscle by increasing its extent of origin. The masseteric nerve and artery enter the under surface of the muscle near to its posterior border, through the sigmoid notch of the jaw; the artery comes from the internal maxillary, the nerve from the motor division of the inferior maxillary. TEMPOBAii This broad fan-shaped muscle arises from the- Muscle. whole of the temporal fossa (except the malar sur- face) and the deep surface of the temporal fascia. Its fibres converge to a strong tendon, which is inserted into the inner sur- face, the apex, and anterior border of the coronoid process, as far- forwards as the last molar tooth. The fibres of the muscle, converging from their wide origin, pass under the zygomatic arch, and terminate upon their tendon, the- outer surface of which is partially concealed by the insertion of those fibres which come from the temporal aponeurosis : remove them, and see how this tendon radiates into the muscle like the ribs of a fan.