390 SUPERFICIAL MUSCLES ON THE BACK OF THE FOKEARM. Superficial (already described, p. 345). 2. The extensor carpi Muscles on the radialis longior. 3. The extensor carpi radialis Back OF THE brevior. 4. The extensor communis digitorum. FoBEABM., rpj^^ extensor minimi digiti. 6. The extensor carpi ulnaris. 7. The anconeus. A little below the middle of the forearm, the extensors of the wrist and fingers diverge from each other, leaving an interval, in which are seen the three extensors of the thumb—namely, the ex- tensor ossis metacarpi poUicis, the extensor primi internodii pollicis, and the extensor secundi internodii pollicis. The two former cross obliquely over the radial extensors of the wrist, and pass over the lower third of the radius; the latter emerges from under the radial border of the extensor communis digitorum, and then passes over the insertions of the tendons of the radial extensors of the wi-ist. Between the second and third extensors of the thumb, we observe a part of the lower end of the radius, which is not covered either by muscle or tendon. This subcutaneous poiiiion of the bone is immediately above the prominent tubercle in the middle of its lower extremity, and, since it can be easily felt through the skin, it presents a convenient place for examination in doubtful cases of fracture. Extensor This muscle is partly covered by the supinator C^utpi llADiALis radii longus. It arises from the lower third of Longior. ^j^q ridge leading to the external condyle of the humerus, and from the intermuscular septum. It descends along the outer side of the forearm, and terminates about the middle, in a flat tendon, which passes beneath the extensor ossis metacarpi and primi internodii pollicis, traverses a groove on the outer and back part of the radius, lined by a synovial membrane, and is inserted into the radial side of the carpal end of the metacarpal bone of the index finger. Previous to its insertion, the tendon is crossed by the extensor secundi internodii pollicis. It is supplied by a branch from the musculo-spiral nerve. Extensor "^his muscle arises from the external condyle Carpi Eadialis by the tendon common to it and the other es- Brevior. tensors, from the intermuscular septa, from the external lateral ligament of the elbow-joint and the aponeurosis