872 LATISSIMUS DORSI. of the ilium, from the spinous processes of the two upper sacral, all the lumbar and the six lower dorsal vertebrae, and their supra- spinous ligament, by a strong aponeurosis; and, lastly, from the three or four lower ribs by fleshy slips, which interdigitate with those of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. All the fibres converge towards the axilla, where they form a thick muscle, which curves over the inferior angle of the scapula, and is inserted by a broad, flat tendon into the bottom of the bicipital groove of the humerus. The upper fibres are inserted into the lowest of the groove, the lower fibres into the upper part. The tendon is about two inches broad, and lies in front of, and higher than that of the pectoralis major and of the teres major, from which it is separated by a large hursa} It is supplied mainly by the long subscapular nerve, also by the posterior branches of the dorsal and lumbar nerves. The latissimus dorsi draws the humerus inwards and back- wards ; rotating it also inwards. It co-operates with the pectoralis major in pulling any object towards the body: if the humerus be the fixed point, it raises the body, as in climbing. The object of the muscle arising so high up the back is, that the transverse fibres of the muscle may strap down the inferior angle of the scapula. It sometimes happens that the scapula slips above the muscle : this displacement is readily recognised by the unnatural projection of the lower angle of the bone, and the impaired move- ments of the arm.^ The muscle covering the latissimus dorsi is the trapezius above; those lying beneath it are, a small part of the rhomboideus major, of the infraspinatus, and of the teres major, the serratus posticus inferior, the spinalis dorsi, the longissimus dorsi, the ilio-costahs, and the external intercostals. Between the base of the scapula, ' The latissimus dorsi frequently receives a distinct accessory slip from the inferior angle of the scapula. 2 We have seen several instances of this displacement. There is great pro- jection of the inferior angle of the scapula, especially when the patient attempts to raise the arm. He cannot raise the arm beyond a right angle, unless firm pres- sure is made on the lower angle of the scapula, so as to supply the place of the muscular strap. Whether the scapula can be replaced or not, a tirm bandage should be applied round the chest.