STRUCTURE OF THE RETINA. 809 the nerve-fibres; from the outer extremities of the cells pass pro- cesses, thicker than the ones just described and not varicose, which pass to the next layer and there break up into numerous filamentous processes. The second kind of cells are small, granular, proto- plasmic cells, which are confined to the deeper part of this layer ; and the third kind, similar in their appearance, are disposed here and there in the most external stratum of the inner nuclear layer. The course which the Miillerian fibres take through this layer will be described later on. 0. The outer molecular or internuclear layer (fig. 200, 5) resembles in most respects the inner molecular layer, but is much thinner. It contains, however, numerous fiattened, branched cells, having well-marked nuclei and nucleoli, and whose fine branching pro- cesses exhibit varicosities in their course, resembling nerve-fibrils. Whether these are nerve-fibres or only the fibres of the sustentacular tissue is at present not determined; but this layer, as well as those already described, is developed in the same manner as those of the brain, so that probably these fibres are nerve-fibrils. 6. The Older nuclear layer (fig. 200, 6) consists of a thick stratum of nucleated cells, having outward and inward prolonga- tions, which may be recognised as connected respectively with the rods and cones of the next layer. The rod-granules are the most numerous, and each presents an oval cell, which has a well-marked transverse striation, due to the highly refracting substance being crossed by discs of a less refracting medium. There are usually two, one on each side of the middle of the cell. From this enlargement one varicose filament passes inwards and becomes connected with the outer molecular layer by a dilatation, from which numerous fila- ments pass inwards ; the other extremity is thicker, not varicose, and passes outwards towards the membrana limitans externa, where it becomes somewhat expanded, and then becomes continuous with a rod. The cone-granules are fewer, and each has an oval nucleated ■ cell, which presents no transverse striation characteristic of the ! rod-granule. The cell is situated close to the membrana limitans •externa, and rests upon a thick cone-fibre, much thicker than a ! rod-fibre, which enlarges as it approaches the outer molecular layer, upon whic|i it rests by a pyramidal base. From this base numerous