POSITION OF THE LUNGS. 166 pericardium, will not only raise the point where the lungs diverge above the ordinary level, but also increase their divergence; hence the greater dulness on percussion. Position and The two lungs are situated in the chest: each FORM OF THE Lungs, in its own half of the thorax, with the heart, enclosed in its pericardium, between them. Each fits accurately into the cavity which contains it. Each, therefore, is conical in form; the apex projects into the root of the neck, a little more than an inch above the sternal end of the clavicle; .the base is broad and rests on the diaphragm, the posterior part being thin and extending as far as the eleventh rib. Its outav surface is con- vex and adapted to the ribs; its inner surface is excavated, to make room for the heart in front; and behind presents a deep fissure—Idlwn pulmonis—for the attachment of the root of the lung. Its posterior surface is convex, and fits into the concavity of the thorax, on each side of the spinal column. The best way to see the shape of the lungs is to inject them through the trachea with wax, which is tantamount to taking a cast of each thoracic cavity. In such a preparation, besides the general convexities and concavities alluded to, you would find in the right lung a little indentation for the right brachio-cephalic vein; in the left an indentation for the arch of the aorta and the left subclavian artery. Each lung is divided into an upper and a lower lohe by a deep fissure, which commences, behind, about three inches from the apex, and proceeds obliquely downwards and forwards to the junc- tion of the sixth rib with its cartilage (fig. 40). Speaking broadly, nearly the whole of the anterior portion of the kmg is formed by the upper lobe; nearly the whole of the posterior portion by the lower lobe. It should be noticed, however, that the upper lobe of the right lung is divided by a second fissure which marks off, from its lower part, a triangular portion called its middle lohe. The dimensions of the right lung are greater than those of the left in all directions except the vertical; the reason of this excep- tion, is the greater elevation of the diaphragm on the right side by the liver. On an average the right lung weighs 24 ounces, the left 21 ounces.