THE SHOULDER-JOINT. 406 of the subscapularis and the long head of the triceps : through this part of the capsule the head of the bone is first protruded in dislo- cations into the axilla. At the upper and inner side of the joint, a small opening is observable in the capsular ligament, through which the tendon of the subscapularis passes, so that the synovial membrane of the joint communicates with the bursa under the tendon of this muscle. A second opening exists in the lower part of the front of the capsular ligament, where the tendon of the biceps emerges from the joint. A third opening occasionally exists between the joint, and a bursa under the tendon of the infraspinatus muscle. The upper and inner surface of the capsule is strengthened by a strong band of ligamentous fibres, called the coraco-humeral or accessorij ligament. It is attached to the root of the coracoid pro- cess, expands over the upper surface of the capsule, with which it is inseparably united, and, passing downwards and outwards, is attached to the greater tuberosity of the humerus. Open the capsule to see the tendon of the long head of the hicex^s. It arises by a rounded tendon from the upper margin of the glenoid cavity, and is continuous with the glenoid ligament; becoming slightly flattened, it passes over the head of the humerus, descends through the groove between the two tuberosities, and, after piercing the capsular ligament of the shoulder-joint, it passes along the bicipital groove, being retained in situ by an aponeurotic prolon- gation from the tendon of the pectoralis major. It is loose and moveable within the joint. It acts like a strap, keeping down the head of the bone when the arm is raised by the deltoid, and then might be considered as taking the part of a ligament of the joint. The tendon of the biceps, strictly speaking, does not perforate the synovial membrane of the joint. It is enclosed in a tubular sheath, which is reflected over it at its attachment to the glenoid cavity, and accompanies it for two inches down the groove of the humerus. During the earlier part of foetal life, it is connected to the capsule by a fold of synovial membrane, which subsequently disappears. The margin of the glenoid cavity of the scapula is surrounded