582 FUNCTIONS OF THE LIVER. anterior mediastinal glands, and thence to the right lymphatic duct; (2) those which pass forwards over its anterior margin to the under aspect, to enter the glands in the gastro-hepatic omen- tum ; (3) those which run to the right lateral ligament, and then either pierce the diaphragm to join the anterior mediastinal glands, or pass inwards to open into the thoracic duct at its commence- ment ; and (4) those which run to the left lateral ligament, which, after piercing the diaphragm, open into the anterior mediastinal glands. The lymphatics on the under aspect are arranged as follows:—(1) those on the right side of the gall-bladder open into the lumbar glands ; (2) those surrounding the gall-bladder accom- pany the hepatic artery to join the glands in the gastro-hepatic omentum; (8) those on the left side enter the glands on the lesser curve of the stomach and the oesophagus. The deej) himphatics originate partly in the connective tissue between the lobules, and there accompany the hepatic artery and portal vein and duct to the transverse fissure, to join the lymphatic glands on the lesser curve of the stomach and behind the pancreas; some lymphatics also accompany the branches of the hepatic veins. The nerves of the liver are derived from the pneumogastric, chiefly the left, and from the hepatic plexus which comes from the cocliac plexus. These plexuses enter the liver at the transverse fissure, surround the hepatic artery and the portal vein, and accompany these vessels in their ramifications through it. The ultimate termination of these nerves is not known. The functions of the liver may be thus briefly expressed:— 1. It renders the albuminous matter (albuminose), brought to it by the portal vein, capable of being assimilated. 2. It forms a substance, glycogen, easily converted into sugar, which passes into the hepatic veins, and, being consumed, helps to maintain animal heat. 3. It secretes the bile, which assists in converting the chyme into chyle, and reducing it into a state fit to be absorbed by the lacteals. 4. The bile acts as a natural aperient. 5. The bile is an antiseptic, and probably prevents the decomposition of the food during its passage through the intestine. The gall-bladder, or reservoir for the bile, is Gall-bladder. p^-f^^.^^ ^ gi^ape, and is confined in a slight