23 CAROTID ARTERY IN THE CAVERNOUS SINUS. At the hack of the orbit the relation of these nerves is further altered. The fourth, frontal and lachrymal, are still on the same level : the upper division of the third is below the superior rectus, and above the optic nerve is the nasal n.; the sixth is on the inner side of the external rectus, while the lower division of the third is below and to the outer side of the optic nerve, close to which is the lenticular ganglion (fig. 11). The dissector Avill better remember the varying relations of these nerves, when he has learnt their respective destinations. cueves of the Caeotid Abtekt. Fig. 12. After the removal of the cavernous sinus, a good view is obtained of the curves, like the letter S, made by the internal carotid artery on the side of the pituitary fossa. The vessel enters the cranium at the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, makes its sigmoid curves within the cavernous sinus, and then passes through the dura mater, between the anterior clinoid process and the optic nerve, where it gives off the ophthalmic artery. Within the cavernous sinus, small branches, arterice receptaculi, arise from the carotid and supply the pituitary body, and the walls of the sinus. A careful dissection would show a plexus of sympathetic nerves on the outer side of the internal carotid artery, as it lies by the side of the body of the sphenoid. This is the CAROTID PLEXUS. It is connected by numerous filaments with the sixth nerve and the Gasserian ganglion. It further furnishes the large deep petrosal nerve which unites with the large superficial petrosal nerve of the facial to form the Vidian; and also the small deep petrosal nerve which joins probably the tympanic plexus. Those filaments of the sympathetic seen on the THE GENICULATE GANGLION OF THE FACIAL NEBVE. 1. The chorda tympaiii. 2. The geniculate ganglion of the facial nerve. 3. The great petrosal nerve. 4. The lesser petrosal nerve lying oyer tho tensor tynipani. 5. The external petrosal nerve communi- cating with tho sympatliotic plexus ou the arteria meningea media (C). 7. The Gasserian ganglion.