176 ARCH OF THE AORTA. For convenience of description, the arch of the aorta is divided into an ascending, a transverse, and a descending portion. Ascending 'portion.—To see this portion of the aorta, the peri- cardium must be opened. You then observe that this part of the artery is enclosed all round by the serous layer of the pericardium, except where it is in contact with the pulmonary artery. It is about two inches in length, and ascends with a slight curve, the convexity looking forwards and to the right side, as far as the upper border of the second costal cartilage of the right side, where it lies almost in contact with the sternum. Its commencement is covered by the pulmonary artery, and is overlapped by the appendix of the right auricle, and higher up by the remains of the thymus gland. On its right side, but on a posterior plane, is the superior vena cava and the right auricle ; on its left side, is the pulmonary artery ; behind it, are part of the right auricle, the right pulmonary artery and vein, and the root of the right lung. This part of the arch gives off the right and left coronary arteries for the supply of the heart. The right border of the ascending portion of the arch bulges to the right of the sternum to the extent of a quarter of an inch, and may be seen at the sternal end of the second right intercostal space. The arch of the aorta presents partial dilatations in certain situations. One of these, called the great sinus of the aorta,, is observed on the right side of the arch, about the junction of the ascending with the transverse portion : it is little marked in the infant, but increases with age. Three other dilatations (the shmses of Valsalva), one corresponding to each of the valves at the com- mencement of the aorta, will be examined hereafter. Transverse portion.—This portion of the aorta arches from the front to the back of the thorax, and extends from the upper border of the second right costal cartilage to the left side of the third dorsal vertebra. Its highest convex portion ascends usually to about an inch below the upper border of the sternum, and its con- cavity corresponds with the articulation of the first and second bones of the sternum. In front, it is covered by the left pleura and lung, and is crossed by the left phrenic, the left pneumogastric, the superficial cardiac nerves, the j)ericardiac and the left superior intercostal veins. Near its summit runs the left brachio-cephalic