482 THE ABDOMINAL AORTA. fourth lumbar vertebra, where it divides into the two common iliac arteries. It follows the curve of the lumbar convexity, attaining its greatest curve on a level with the third lumbar vertebra. It rapidly lessens in size, owing to the large branches it gives off in its course. The division of the aorta into the two common iliac arteries is about the level of the highest point of the crest of the ilium, and just below the left side of the umbilicus. The artery has in front of it, the stomach and the lesser omentum, the solar plexus surroundino- o the coeliac axis, the splenic vein, the pancreas, the transverse por- tion of the duodenum, the left renal vein, the mesentery, the aortic sympathetic plexus, and a chain of lymphatic glands. To the right side of it, lie the right crus of the diaphragm, the inferior vena cava, the thoracic duct, the vena azygos, and the right semilunar gan- glion. To the left side of it, are the left crus, the left semilunar ganglion, and the sympathetic nerves. Behind, it rests on the receptaculum chyli, the thoracic duct, the left lumbar veins, and the anterior common ligament. The branches of the aorta still to be examined arise from it in pairs—namely, the phrenic, capsular, renal, spermatic, and lumbar (see diagram, p. 483). Phbenic These arteries supply the under surface of the Abteries. diaphragm, and occasionally arise separately, usually by a common trunk, from the aorta, after its passage under the crura of the diaphragm (fig. 114). The rirjht jphrenio passes out- wards, behind the liver and the inferior vena cava, and then gets to the right side of the caval opening in the diaphragm; the left])hrenie ascends behind the oesophagus, and gets to the left side of the oeso- phageal opening. Each ascends, lying on its corresponding crus, as far as the central tendon, where it divides into two branches: one, the external, passes transversely across the tendon to the side of the diaphragm; the other, the internal branch, which seems to be the continuation of the artery, runs forward to the anterior part of the muscle. Their first branches are to the supra-renal capsules; then, the internal branch of the right gives off a small branch to the vena cava, the corresponding branch of the left sends one to the oesophagus. Moreover small branches are distributed respec- tively to the liver and to the spleen. They inosculate with each