237 MECHANISM OF DEGLUTITION. circumference ; the integrity of the canal below is maintained by- tough fibrous membrane. The Eustachian tube is lined by a continuation of the mucous membrane of the pharynx, and covered by cUiated epithelium. That which lines the cartilaginous portion of the tube is thick and vascular, and gradually becomes thinner towards the tympanum. Hence, inflammatory affections of the throat or tonsils are liable to be attended with deafness, from temporary obstruction of the tube. Mucous glands surround the orifice of the tube, and are similar in nature and function to the glands beneath the mucous membrane of the mouth, the palate, and the pharynx. The hard palate, formed by the superior maxil- lary and palate bones, is a resisting surface for the tongue in tasting, in mastication, in deglutition, and in the articu- lation of sounds. The tissue covering the bones is thick and close in texture, and firmly united to the asperities on the bones. But it is not everywhere of equal thickness. Along the raphe in the mesial line, it is much thinner than at the sides; for this reason, the hard palate is in this situation more prone to be perforated in syphilitic disease. A thick layer of glands (glandtdce palatince) is arranged in. rows on either side of the hard palate. These glands become more numerous and larger towards the soft palate. Their orifices are visible to the naked eye. The mucous membrane has a very thick epithelial coat, which gives the white colour to the palate. The descending palatine branch of the internal maxillary artery, and the palatine nerves from the superior maxillary, may be traced along each side of the roof of the mouth. The ramifications of these arteries and nerves supply the soft as well as the hard palate. Mechanism of With the anatomy of the j)arts fresh in your Deglutition. mind, consider for a moment the mechanism of deglutition. The food, duly masticated, is collected into a mass upon the back of the tongue ; the lower jaw is then closed to give a fixed point for the action of the muscles which raise the os hyoides and larynx, and the food is carried back into the pharynx by the pressure of the tongue against the palate, at the same time that the pharynx is elevated and expanded to receive it (by