805 RETINA. The veins follow the same arrangement as the arteries, and 1 communicate as stated (p. 799) with the canal of Schlemm. The nerves of the iris come from the nasal branch of the ophthal- imic nerve, and by twelve to fifteen branches from the lenticular : ganglion. They pierce-the sclerotic around the entrance of the i optic nerve, and run forwards between the sclerotic and the choroid . as far as the ciliary muscle. On the choroid they form a gangliated ; plexus which lies in connection with and among the blood-vessels, lln the ciliary muscle the nerves form another plexus, from which : numerous non-medullated fibrils are given off to terminate in the 1 muscular tissue of the iris. The sphincter iridis is supplied through I the motor root of the lenticular ganglion which is derived from the t third nerve; the dilatator iridis is supplied by the sympathetic ssystem. Mesibiuna Until the seventh or eighth month of foetal rPupiLLAEis. life, the pupil is closed by a transparent, vascular '.membrane, the memhrana pitpillaris, so that the anterior and iposterior chambers are divided from each other by this membrane. Ilts vessels, derived from those of the iris and capsule of the lens, aare arranged in loops which converge towards the centre of the imembrane without joining each other. About the eighth month tbhis membrane becomes gradually absorbed, so that at birth it is ecompletely lost. To obtain a view of the retina, the choroid coat must be carefully removed while the eye is under ^.vater; this should be done with the forceps and scissors on a fresh oye. When the choroid is thus removed, there will be seen on its nner surface a layer of pigmented cells, which has been already ■ -eferred to as really the external layer of the retina, and not in any ^vay part of the choroid coat. The optic nerve, having entered the interior of the globe through the sclerotic and the choroid, expands into the delicate nerve layer, called the retina, which forms the hird tunic of the globe. The retina is in contact, externally, with he choroid; internally, with the hyaloid membrane, which sepa- ;ites it from the vitreous ; and it extends forwards nearly to the I isterior margin of the ciliary j)rocesses, where it terminates in a hin serrated border—the ora serrata ; from this border a thin