STRUCTURE OF THE CORNEA. 798 are, from without inwards, the conjunctiva, the substantia propria or cornea proper, the posterior elastic lamina, and the epithelial lining. The co7ijunotiva is the most superficial layer, and consists of several strata of epithelial cells; the deeper ones are columnar and placed vertically, the next consist of several layers of polygonal cells, and the most superficial ones are fiattened scaly epithelium cells, with well-marked nuclei. The cornea proper or substantia i^'^'opria consists of translucent connective tissue, upon which the thickness and strength of the cornea mainly depend. The fibres are arranged in laminas, about sixty in number. Those composing a lamina are arranged in a parallel direction, but the fibres of each layer cross at right angles those of each succeeding layer. The lamellte are connected to- gether by filaments passing from one to another, so that they are not perfectly separate from each other. The cornea proper in the recent subject presents no trace of structure, but it is only after death by means of lenses and reagents that these lamellas can be satisfac- torily demonstrated. Between the lamellas are irregularly branched spaces, called the cell-spaces of the cornea, in which are lodged the corneal corpuscles, having outstanding processes, which communicate freely with each other in their own plane, and also with those of the planes on either side. These corpuscles correspond in shape to the spaces within which they lie.' In inflammation of the cornea they undergo considerable changes. Immediately below the conjunctiva, the cornea proper presents a different appearance to that of the main thickness of this layer, so that this has been described by some anatomists under the name of the anterior elastic lamina of Bowman. It presents, however, a definite fibrillar struc- ture, similar to that of the cornea proper, but is destitute of the corneal corpuscles and cells. The greatest thickness of the cornea proper is about -j'gth of an inch, and that of the anterior elastic lamina about ygVoth of an inch. ' If fluid be injected very gently into the cornea proper, there may be demon- strated a system of canals, called Recklinghausen's canals, which are the commu- nications between the corneal corpuscles ; but if the fluid be injected more forcibly, it passes in the course of the fibres composing the various laminas of the cornea, which gives the appearance of a number of varicose and enlarged tubes crossing each other at right angles : these are termed Bowman's corneal tubes.