BRACHIAL PLEXUS OF NERVES. 321 the clavicle into the axilla, and on a level with the coracoid process distributes its large branches to the upper limb. The arrangement of the cervical nerves in the formation of the plexus is vaiiable, often not alike on both sides.' The most fre- quent disposition is this—the fifth and sixth cervical unite at the outer border of the scalenus medius to foi'm an upper cord; the eiffhth and the first dorsal form between the scaleni muscles a lower cord ; the seventh cervical runs alone, as a middle cord, for a short distance. Each of these neiwes divides, just external to the outer border of the scalenus medius, into an anterior and a posterior branch ; the anterior branches given off from the fifth, sixth, and seventh cervical form the outer cord of the plexus ; the anterior branches given ofi" from the eighth cervical and the first dorsal form the inner cord; while the posterior branches of all the nerves—viz., the fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth cervical, and the first dorsal—unite to form the posterior cord. At first these cords are placed on the outer side of the axillary artery, but behind' the pectoralis minor they are sitiiated one on the outer side of, one on the inner side of, and one behind, the axillary artery. The brachial plexus gives off some branches above the clavicle, which were dissected with the neck (p. 125). Below the clavicle, it gives off the following :— From the outer cord proceed an anterior thoracic branch, the musculo-cutaneous, and the outer head of the median; from the iwier cord proceed the inner anterior thoracic nerve, the inner head of the median, the ulnar, the internal cutaneous, and the lesser internal cutaneous ; from the posterior cord proceed the three subscapular nerves, the circumflex, and the musculo-spiral. The anterior thoracic nervea have been described (p. 311), Subscapular The three subscapular nerves are found on the Nerves. surface of the subscapularis. They come from the posterior cord of the brachial plexus, and supply, respectively, the latissimus dorsi, teres major, and subscapularis. The nerve to the latissimua dorsi (long subscapular nerve) runs with the anterior ' Frequently the second dorsal nerve sends upwards a communicating filament to the first dorsal nerve, (Journal of AvMtomy, vol. xi. p. 539.) Y