654 CUTANEOUS NERVES OF THE GLUTEAL REGION. from the coccyx to the base of the great trochanter, which does not, as it might be thought, correspond with the lower border of the gluteus maximus, which is much lower. This fact is im- portant to bear in mind in operations for stretching the great sciatic nerve, for the relief of sciatica or other affections of the nerve or its branches. The buttock is convex towards its inner part, and in health presents on its outer side a hollow behind the great trochanter, which usually becomes lost in hip-joint disease. The back of the thigh is conAfex, and, towards its lower part, it presents a flattening, corresponding to the lozenge-shaped hollow of the popliteal space, so that the tendons and muscles form- ing its boundaries can be easily distinguished. The incision through the skin should commence at the coccvx, and be continued in a semicircular direction along the crest of the ilium. Another incision should be made from the coccyx down- wards and outwards for about six inches below the great trochanter. In reflecting the skin, notice the thick cushion which the sub- cutaneous adipose tissue forms over the tuberosity of the ischium, and the peculiar manner in which the fat is enclosed in meshes formed by dense connective tissue. A large bursa is often formed between this cushion and the bone. Cdtaneods These are derived from the following sources:— Neeveb. Branches from the posterior divisions of the firsi and second luviha^' nerves descend over the crest of the ilium, near the origin of the erector spinse, to supply the skin over the gluteus maximus as far as the great trochanter (fig. 84, p. 369). Branches from the posterior branches of the three upper sacral nerves pass downwards and outwards to supjily for a short dis- tance the integument over the sacrum and coccyx. The lateral branch of the twelfth dorsal nerve descends vertically over the crest of the ilium, near to its anterior part, and supplies the integument of the front of the gluteal region. The iliac branch of the ilio-hypogastric nerve passes over the crest of the ilium, between the posterior branches of the lumbar nerves and the preceding nerve, and supplies for a short distance the skin of the buttock. The external cutaneous nerve distributes cutaneous branches