MUSCLES OF THE CALF. 675 of the femur, and from the posterior ligament of the knee-joint. It descends close to the inner side of the outer head of the gastro- cnemius, ha\dng a fleshy belly for about two inches, and terminates, a little below the knee, in a long thin tendon, which can be traced down the inner border of the tendo Achillis to the calcaneum. This muscle is occaisionally absent. Its nerve comes from the internal popliteal. This muscle arises by tendinous fibres from the head and from the upper third of the posterior surface of the fibula, from the oblique ridge on the back of the tibia,' from about the middle third of the inner border of this bone, and from an aponeurotic arch thrown over the posterior tibial vessels. The muscular fibres bulge out beyond the gastrocnemius, and terminate on a broad tendon, which, gradually contracting, forms a constituent part of the tendo Achillis. The muscle lies upon the flexor longus digitorum, the tibialis posticus, the flexor longus hallucis, and the posterior tibial vessels and nerve. The soleus is supplied with blood by several branches from the pos- terior tibial; also by a large branch from the peroneal. Its nerve comes from the internal popliteal and enters the top of the muscle. This is an important muscle in a surgical point of view, for two reasons—(1) by reflecting its tibial origin, we can reach the pos- terior tibial artery ; (2) by reflecting its fibular origin we can reach the peroneal. The tendo AcJiilUs, the common tendon of the gastrocnemius and soleus, begins about the middle of the leg, and is at first of considerable breadth, but it gradually contracts and becomes thicker as it descends. The narrowest part of it is about one inch and a half above the heel; here, therefore, it can be most con- veniently and safely divided for the relief of club-foot. There is no risk of injuring the deeper-seated parts, because they are separated from the tendon by a quantity of fat. Its insertion proper tensor muscle of the plantar fascia. It is remarkably strong in bears and plantigrade mammals. ' The tibial and fibular origins of the soleus constitute what some anatomists describe as the two heads of the muscle. Between them descend the poj)liteal vessels, protected by a tendinous arch. X X 2