PONS VAROLII. 731 PONS VAEOLII. The pons Varolii, or tuher annulare, is tlie convex eminence of transverse white fibres (fig. 171), which is situated at the base of the brain immediately above the medulla oblongata. It rests upon the basUar gTOOve of the occipital and the sphenoid bones, and ip. its antero-posterior diameter measures rather more than an inch. Its upper margin is convex and well defined, and arches over the crura cerebri; the loiver, also well defined, is nearly straight, being separated from the medulla by a transverse groove. Laterally, the pons becomes narrower, in consequence of its transverse fibres being more 'closely aggregated; these enter the anterior and under part of the cerebellum, constituting its middle peduncle. Along the middle runs a shallow groove, broader in front than behind, which lodges the basilar artery. If the pia mater be removed, we observe how the superficial fibres pass transversely, to connect the two hemispheres of the cerebellum. Throughout the mammalia the ■ size of the pons bears a direct ratio to the degree of development ■ of the lateral lobes of the cerebellum ; therefore it is larger in man ; than in any other animal.^ The pons consists of four layers of alternating transverse 1 and longitudinal white fibres, intermingled with more or less grey 1 matter, which is chiefly found on its upper surface, where it forms I part of the floor of the fourth ventricle. The superficial layer of white fibres is transverse, connecting " the cerebellar hemispheres; the middle fibres pass transversely lacross, the inferior ascend slightly, while the superior pass back- «wards and outwards to enter the cerebellum. The second layer consists of longitudinal fibres which are the ^continuation of the fibres of the medulla oblongata in their passage mto the cerebrum. It is mainly composed of fibres derived from the Btmterior pyramids which pass up to form the superficial fibres, crusta, mbf the crura cerebri. I ' Birds, reptiles, and fishes have no jjons, as there are no lateral lobes to the Haserebellum.