SINUSES OF THE DURA MATEK. 14 sinus. It receives blood also from tlie inferior cerebral and cere- bellar veins, from the diploe, and the superior petrosal sinus. It communicates with the veins of the scalp through emissary veins, which pass through the mastoid and posterior condylar foramina. Ineehioe LoN- This is of small size. It runs in the inferior GiTUDiNAL Sinus. free border of the falx cerebri, and terminates in the straight sinus at the anterior margin of the tentorium (fig. 5). This may be considered as the continuation of HTEAiaHT Sinus. ,. , , tJie preceding, it runs along the hne of junction of the falx cerebri with the tentorium cerebeUi, and terminates in the torcular Herophili at the divergence of the two lateral sinuses. It receives the inferior cerebral and the superior cerebellar veins, and also the two vence Oaleni (fig. 5), which return the blood from the lateral and third ventricles of the brain. Cavernous This is so called because its interior is inter- SiNus. sected by numerous cords. It extends along the side of the body of the sphenoid bone, outside the internal carotid artery. It receives the ophthalmic vein which leaves the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure and the anterior inferior cerebral veins; it communicates with the circular sinus which surrounds the pituitary body (fig. 6). At the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone it divides into the su^Derior and inferior petrosal sinuses. This surrounds the pituitary body (p in the dia- CiKCULAR Sinus. /n r\ i • j. i • j -i-i gram (ng. o), and communicates on each side witn the cavernous sinus. The posterior branch is sometimes absent. Petrosal These lead from the cavernous to the lateral Sinuses. sinuses. There are two on each side. The sitj^e- rior runs along the upper portion of the pars petrosa, in the attached border of the tentorium eerebelli; the inferior, the larger of the two, runs along the suture between the pars petrosa and the occi- pital bone, and ends in the lateral sinus just before this terminates in the internal jugular vein. The superior sinus receives the in- ferior cerebral, the superior cerebellar veins, and a small branch from the tympanum; the inferior sinus is joined by the inferior cerebellar and auditory veins.