206 LEFT VENTRICLE. its upper and left side, tlie auricular appendix projects towards the riglit, cui'ling over the root of the pulmonary artery. The auricle should be opened by a horizontal incision along the ventricular border of the am-icle, and another should be made upwards from the centre of the first incision. The interior of the atrium is smooth and flat, but in the appendix there are numerous raised muscular bands, tlie musculi pectinati. The interior presents the following objects for exam- ination :— The orifices of the four pulmonary veins. The auriculo-ventricular opening. The musculi pectinati. The openings of the pulmonary veins are seen in the posterior wall, two on the right side (sometimes three), and two on the left side. They are not guarded by valves. Upon the septum between the auricles is a semilunar depression, indicating the remains of the foramen ovale. The auriculo-ventrictdar opening, situated at the lower and front part of the auricle, is smaller than that of the right side, and somewhat oval. Its long axis is nearly transverse, and, in the adult, will admit the passage of two fingers. The muscnli pectinati are also smaller and fewer than in the right auricle. Left Yen- This occupies the left border, and forms the TEicLE. apex of the heart. One-third of it only is seen on the anterior surface, the rest being on the posterior. To examine the interior, raise a triangular flap, with the apex below, from its front wall. Observe that its wall is about three times as thick as that of the right ventricle, and that this thickness gradually diminishes towards the apex. The interior of the left ventricle presents the following objects for examination :— Auriculo-ventricular opening. Auriculo-ventricular or mitral valves. Aortic opening. Semilunar valves. Columnffi carnefe. These parts so closely resemble that of the right that there is no necessity to describe them in detail. The auriculo-ventricular valve consists of two flaps: hence its name mitral or hicuspid. The larger of these flaps is placed between the aortic and auriculo-