DEEP CERVICAL FASCIA. 70 border of the steruo-mastoid, where it splits into two layers, super- ficial and deep, which invest that muscle and reunite at its an- terior border. The superficial layer passes towards the mesial line, where it becomes continuous with the corresponding fascia of the opposite side. The layer which lies in front of the sterno-mastoid is attached above to the base of the inferior maxilla, and passes over the parotid gland to the zygoma, to the mastoid process, and the superior curved line of the occipital bone. Traced downwards, we find it attached to the clavicle and to the upper border of the sternum. In the middle line it is closely connected to the hyoid bone, and below the thyroid body divides into two layers, one being attached to the front of the upper border of the sternum, the other to the back of the upper border of the same bone. Between these layers there is a well-marked interval, containing more or less fat, and one or two small lymphatic glands. This layer forms investing sheaths for the depressor muscles of the os hyoides and larynx. The deep layer—viz., that which passes beneath the sterno- mastoid—forms the common sheath for the carotid artery, internal jugular vein, and the pneumogastric nerve, which lie behind this muscle ; the structures contained in the carotid sheath are separated from each other by delicate septa. The fascia is continued behind the phaiynx (constituting the prcevertehral fascia) to join the fascia of the opposite side, while another prolongation passes in front of the trachea beneath the sterno-thyroid muscle. Below, it is attached to the first rib, to which it binds down the intermediate tendon of the omo-hyoid; and still further down it is continuous in the chest with the pericardium. It may also be traced under the clavicle along the axilla,ry vessels and nerves into the axilla. Above, it is attached to the angle of the lower jaw, from which it extends backwards to the styloid process, and forms the sti/lo- maxillary ligament. Thence it is attached to the base of the skull, the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and the basilar process of the occipital bone. A correct knowledge of the attachments of the principal layers of the cervical fascia is essential to a right understanding of the course which pus takes when it forms in the neck. For instance,