363 FLEXOK TENDONS IN TPIE PALM. made, the flexor tendons are likely to slougli, and the finger Ibecomes stiff.' But what protects the joints of the fingers where the flexor tendons play over them ? Look into an open sheath, and you will -^ee that in front of the joints the tendons glide over a smooth tibro-cartilaginous structure called the padmar ligament, i To facilitate the play of the tendons, the interior of the sheath, s well as the tendons, is lined by a synovial membrane, of the Nztent of which it is important to have a correct knowledge. With I probe you may ascertain that the synovial membrane is reflected t'rom the sheath upon the tendons, a little above the metacarpal joints of the fingers—that is, nearly in a line with the transverse told in the skin in the lower third of the palm. Towards the distal .'lid of the finger, the synovial sheath stops short of the last joint, that it is not injured in amputation of the ungual phalanx. And now notice how the tendons are adapted to each other in their course along the finger. The superficial flexor, near the root I of the finger, becomes slightly grooved to receive the deep flexor; jmabout the middle of the first phalanx it splits into two portions, Kthrough which the deep flexor passes. The two portions reunite Ibbelow the deep tendon so as to embrace it, and then divide a wsecond time into two slips, which interlace with each other, and liare inserted into the sides of the second phalanx. The cZeep flexor, phaving passed through the opening of the superficial one, is liinserted into the base of the last phalanx.^ I ' On closer inspection it will be observed that the sheath is composed of bands itof fibres, which take different directions, and have received distinct names. The strongest are called the ligamenta vagmalia. They constitute the sheath over the itbody of the phalanx, and extend transversely from one side of the bone to the other. [■The ligavienta cruciata are two slips, which cross obliquely over the tendons. The iUgamenta annularia are situated immediately in front of the joints, and may be nconsideredas thin continuations of the ligamenta vaginalia. They consist of fibres, rwhich are attached on either side to the lateral ligaments of the joints, and pass Jtransversely over the tendons. In the Museum of the College of Surgeons, a preparation is put up which bhows a beautiful piece of animal mechanics concerning the flexor tendons ; namely, lithat in its passage along the phalanges, the deep fl,exor forms, at the first phalanx, a kind of little patella for the superficial one; but, at the second phalanx, the Buperficial flexor lies deeper than the other, and forms a little patella for it. This lincreases the leverage in each case.