433 FUNCTIONS OF THE ABDOMINAL MUSCLES. on the front of the abdomen, corresponding with the outer margins of the two recti muscles. They are formed by the junction of the aponeuroses of the lateral muscles. The abdominal muscles serve many important purposes :— Functions OF ' l^t. In tranquil expiration they push the dia- THE Abdominai phragm upwards by gentle pressure on the abdo- MuscLEs. minal viscera. In forcible expiration the same process takes place, but with greater energy. This is variously exemplified in coughing, sneezing, and laughing. 2nd. In vomiting, the diaphrag-m being fixed ^ by the closure of the glottis, the abdominal muscles contract, and assist the stomach to expel its contents. 8rd. In conjunction with the contracted diaphragm, they assist the muscular walls of the bladder and rectum in the expulsion of urine and feeces, and the action of the uterus in parturition. They exercise a gentle pressure and support on the abdominal viscera, and shield them from injury by strongly contracting when a blow is anticipated. 4th. They are movers of the trunk in various ways. For ex- ample, the right external oblique acting with the left internal oblique will rotate the chest towards the left side, as in mowing, and vice versa. The rectus is chiefly concerned in raising the body from the horizontal position, as anyone may ascertain by placing his hand on the abdomen while rising from the ground. The pyramidalis makes the linea alba tense. Bv dividing the rectus transversely near the ^^IS SEC XI02^ " umbilicus, and raising it from its position, we have a complete view of the manner in which the sheath is formed: we observe, tob, that this is absent behind the lower fourth of the muscle. Ramifying in the substance of the muscle is a large artery, called the deep epigastric, a branch of the external iliac; ' also the continuation of the internal mammary, which descends from the subclavian. ' By the term ' fixed,' it is meant that the diaphragm forms a resisting surface. F F