SUPERIOR MESENTERIC ARTERY. 472 the glands, are too thin and transparent to be seen under ordinary circumstances. But in cases where sudden death has taken place during digestion, they are found distended with chyle, and can be traced into the glands from all parts of the small intestine.' After traversing the glands, they all eventually empty their contents into the receptaculum chyli (p. 184). Superior. "^^^^ large artery arises from the front of the Mksentekic aorta just below the coeliac axis, descends beneath Abteky and the pancreas, in front of the transverse part of Bkanohes. duodenum (p. 467), and then runs between the layers of the mesentery towards the right iliac fossa, where it terminates in branches for the supply of the ceecum. Thus it describes a gentle curve from left to right. It is crossed by the pancreas and splenic vein, and will be seen to supply the descend- ing and transverse duodenum, the jejunum, ileum, and the ascend- ing and transverse colon. It is accompanied by its corresponding vein, and is surrounded by the superior mesenteric sympathetic plexus. It gives off the following branches:— 1. The inferior jmncreatico-duodenal branch, which runs up behind the pancreas, within the concavity of the duodenum, to inosculate with the siqyerior pancreatico-duodenal branch of the hepatic. 2. Vasa intestini tenuis of the small intestine, from ten to sixteen in number, are given ofi' from the left or convex side of the cur\^e, and are distributed to the jejunum and ileum ; while from the concave side come— 3. The ileo-colic ; 4. The right colic, for the supply of the ileum, caecum, and ascend- ing colon; and 5. The middle colic, for the supply of the transverse colon. The student should now trace the branches to the small intes- tine, in order to see the series of arches which they form by their mutual inosculations. There are three or four tiers of them, each tier composed of smaller and more numerous branches than the preceding. The ultimate branches ramify in circles round the intestine. This circular arrangement of the vessels in the coats ' The arrangement of the chyliferous vessels is well displayed in the plates of Mascagni.