446 UMBILICAL HERNIA. Position op The spermatic cord is generally situated behind Spermatic Cord. and to the outer side of a hernial sac. In some cases, however, the hernia separates the constituents of the cord, so that one or other of these comes to lie in front of the protrusion. Seat of The stricture may be seated either at the ex- Steictuee. ternal ring, the internal ring, at any intermediate part between these, or at the neck of the sac. Sometimes there is a double stricture, one at the external ring, the other at the internal. As stated, the stricture may be caused by the neck of the sac, independently of the parts outside it; for the peritoneum may become thickened and indurated, and sufficiently unyielding to strangulate the protruded intestine. The strangulation in a con- genital hernia is nearly always caused by the neck of the sac itself. In dividing the stricture, the surgeon should, in all cases, adhere to the golden rule laid down by Sir Astley Cooper—namely, to divide it directly upwards. In this direction, there is the least likelihood of wounding the deep epigastric artery. Changes pro- Whoever has the opportunity of dissecting an DTJOED Bv AN Old old hernia of some size, will observe that the AND Large obliquity of the inguinal canal is destroyed. The Hernia. constant dragging of the protruded viscera upon the inner margin of the internal ring gradually approximates the internal ring to the external, so that at last the one gets quite behind the other, and there is a direct opening into the abdomen. But the position of the deep epigastric artery with regard to the sac remains unaltered. It is still on the inner side of the neck of the sac. In hernise of long standing, all its coverings undergo a change. They become thickened and hypertrophied, and so altered from what they once were that they scarcely look like the same parts. Umbilicai, This is a hernia which protrudes through the Hernia. umbilical opening in the middle line at the um- bilicus, and is most commonly met with in infant life, and in the female sex in advanced life, especially in obese subjects. The hernia is frequently large, and, in its enlargement, it increases in an upward direction, so that the aperture, through which it comes, is not in the centre of the hernia.