476 RELATIONS OF THE KIDNEYS. of the duodenum, from which it is separated by the superior mesenteric vessels, and to the left side with the inferior mesenteric vein. Its duct (canal of Wirsung) runs from left to right, near the lower border and anterior surface of the gland, and empties itself into the back part of the descending portion of the duodenum, conjointly with, or close to, the opening of the common bile-duct. It receives numerous branches from the splenic artery, which runs along its upper border ; some from the superior mesenteric, which lies immediately beneath it, and others from the gastro-duodenalis. The liver, stomach, duodenum, pancreas, and', spleen should now be collectively removed. For this purpose it is necessary to cut through the ligaments of the liver, the venae cavte hepaticse, and the branches of the coeliac axis, lliese viscera, with the remainder of the intestinal canal, should he macerated in water, while you examine all that is to be seen at the back of the abdomen: namely, the deep-seated muscles, the aorta, the inferior vena cava, the kidneys, the lumbar plexus of nerves, and the sympathetic nerve. KtDNEYs AND Iddueys, two large glands which excrete Uketee, Bela- the urine, are situated in the lumbar region,. TioNs OF. behind the peritoneum, one on each side of the spine. They extend from the eleventh rib nearly as far as the crest of the ilium, and lie embedded in more or less fat, on the quadratus lumborum, the jDSoas, and the crura of the diaphragm. The weight of the kidney is from 4^ oz. to 8 oz., the left weighing a little more than the right, and the right is somewhat the lower of the two. Surmounting each is a small body, called the supra- renal capsule. The anterior surface is convex, and the right kidney has in front, the liver, the ascending colon, the descending portion of the duodenum, and the colica dextra artery; the left kidney has in front, the lower part of the spleen, the cardiac end of the stomach, the descending colon, the tail of the pancreas, and the colica sinistra artery. This explains how it is that a renal abscess or calculus is sometimes evacuated by the rectum. Above, the right kidney is in contact with the under surface of the liver, and its upper end