METACAEPO-PHALANGEAL ARTICULATIONS. 417 unciform and two inner metacarpal bones from the large intercarpal sac; thns making tlie sixth distinct synovial membrane. First Joint of The first phalanx of the finger presents a shallow THE FixGEKs. oval cavity, crusted with cartilage, with the broad diameter in the transverse direction, to articulate with the round cartilaginous head of the metacarpal bone, of which the articular surface is elongated in the antero-posterior direction, and of greater extent on its palmar than its dorsal aspect. This formation of parts permits flexion of the finger to a greater degree than exten- , sion ; and also a slight lateral movement. Each joint is provided with two strong lateral ligaments, and an anterior or palmar ligament. The lateral ligaments arise from the tubercles on either side of each metacarpal bone, and, inclining slightly forward, are inserted into the sides of the base of the first phalanx of the finger. The anterior (glenoid) ligament is a thick, compact, fibrous structure, which extends over the palmar surface of the joint be- tween the lateral ligaments. Its distal end is firmly attached to the base of the first phalanx of the finger; its proximal end is loosely adherent to the rough surface above the head of the metacarpal bone. On either side it is inseparably connected with the lateral ligaments, so that with them it forms a strong capsule over the front and sides of the joint. Its superficial surface, firmly con- nected wirth the transverse ligament, is slightly grooved for the play of the flexor tendons; its deep surface is adapted to cover the head of the metacarpal bone. Two sesamoid bones are found in the palmar ligament belonging to the joint between the metacarpal bone and the first phalanx of the thumb. The palmar ligaments have a surgical importance for the follow- ing reason :—In dislocation of the fingers, the facility of reduction, mainly depends upon the extent to which the glenoid ligament is injured. If it be much torn, there is but little difficulty : if entire, the reduction may require much manipulation. These joints are secured on their dorsal aspect by the extensor tendon, and the expansion proceeding from it on either side. Their synovial membranes are loose, especially beneath the extensor tendons. E E