THE SPINAL CORD. 786 SPINAL COED. The spinal cord (medulla spinalis) is that part of the cerebro- spinal axis contained in the vertebral canal, and is enclosed within a sheath of dura mater (tlieca vertebralis), which is separated from the canal by a plexus of veins and connective tissue. It is the con- tinuation of the medulla oblongata, and extends from the foramen magnum down to the lower border of the first lumbar vertebra, where it terminates in a conical point, comis medulla/i-is, after having given off a large bundle of nerves, termed the cauda equina, for the supply of the lower limbs. It is from fifteen to eighteen inches in length, and is about an ounce and a half in weight. Its lower extremity from the conus meduUaris is continued downwards as thin silvery cord, the filum terminale, which descends along the posterior aspect of the cauda equina. It passes down within the sheath as far as the second sacral vertebra, and then, piercing the dura mater, becomes attached to the periosteum of the canal at the back of the coccyx.^ In its upper part, the filum terminale contains some grey nerve-substance. It is a prolongation of the pia mater of the cord, and in many subjects there is a continuation of the central canal of the cord in its upper half. The cord is not of uniform dimensions throughout. It presents a considerable enlargement in the lower part of the cervical region; another in the lower part of the dorsal, from which proceed the large nerves to the upper and lower limbs, respectively. The upper or cervical enlargement, which is the larger, extends from the third cervical to the first dorsal vertebra, and is largest at the sixth cervical vertebra; the lower, or lumbar, extends from the ' The explanation of this is, that, at an early period of fcetal lite, the length of the cord corresponds with that of the vertebral canal; but after the third month, the lumbar and sacral vertebrse grow away from the cord, in accordance with the more active development of the lower limbs. See Tiedemann, Anatomic und Bildungsgeschichte des Oehirns im Fcstus des Menschen, &o.; Niiremberg, 1816.