COURSE AND RELATIONS OF THE ABDOMINAL AORTA. 481 and so form a resisting surface, against wliicli the viscera may be compressed by tbe abdominal muscles. Moreover, by its rapid or spasmodic contractions it is one of the cliief agents concerned in laughing, sneezing, coughing, hiccough. The student should now dissect the large vessels and the muscles of the back part of the abdomen. To do so, the mesentery which lies in front of the aorta and vena cava is to be removed, as well as the fat and connective tissue. The dissection should include the parietal branches of the abdo- minal aorta; afterwards, its great primary divisions—the common and external iliac arteries—should be cleaned as far as Poupart's ligament. The quadratus lumborum, the psoas, and iliacus muscles should be carefully cleaned, care being taken not to injure the nerves and arteries lying in front of them; thus, in front of the quadratus lumborum are the last dorsal, the ilio-hypogastric, and ilio-inguinal nerves, which cross the muscle obliquely ; in front of the iliacus are the external cutaneous and anterior crural nerves ; and coming through, and then lying in front of the psoas, is the genito- crural nerve, while to the inner side of the muscle is the obturator nerve. The gangliated cord of the sympathetic nerves, situated on each side of the bodies of the vertebrse, must also be made out; and, lastly, the sheath which invests the psoas should be examined, and the branches of the lumbar plexus preserved as they emerge from beneath the outer border of the muscle. Before examining the course of the aorta, notice that a chain of lymphatic glands extends along the brim of the pelvis and the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae, following the course of the great blood-vessels^ Generally speaking, they are small; only one here and there attracts observation. They transmit the lymphatics from the lower limbs, the abdominal wall, and the testicle; and all eventually lead to the receptaculum chyli, or beginning of the thoracic duct (p. 184). This is usually found on the right of the aorta, close to the second lumbar vertebra. Course and The abdominal aorta enters the abdomen between Eelations of the the crura of the diaphragm in front of the body of Abdominal Aobta. the last dorsal vertebra, and descends a little to the left side of the front of the spine, as low as the middle of the