770 VALVE OF VIEUSSENS. corpus geniculatnm internum. They are situated above the iter a tertio ad quartum ventricuhim. The anterior pair are called the nates, and are larger and darker than the posterior pair, which take the name of testes. A more appropriate term for these bodies would be the optic lobes.' The corpora quadrigemina are developed very early in fcetal life, and are at first only two in number, one on each side of the mesial line; but about the seventh month a transverse groove is apparent, thus mapping out the four bodies.^ Processus a By gently drawing back the overlapping cere- Ceeebello ad bellum, two broad white cords are seen, which Cebebeum. pagg backwards, diverging from each other, from the optic thalami and the corpora quadrigemina to the cerebellum (fig. 189). These are the processus a cerehello ad cerebrum, or siqje- rior peduncles of the cerebellum. They connect the cerebrum and cerebellum, and rest upon the crura cerebri. Below they pass to the inferior vermiform process and to the white matter within the corpus dentatum. Valve op The triangular space between the superior pe- ViEussENs. duncles is occupied by a thin layer of grey matter, which covers over the anterior part of the fourth ventricle. This layer is called the valve of Vieussens, or the anterior or superior medidlarij velum; it is narrow in front and broad posteriorly, where it is connected with the central portion of the cerebellum. Along the mesial line of its upper surface there is an irregular ridge, the frcemdum, which becomes lost towards its lower part; the lower ' Eminences homologous to the corpora quadrigemina are found in all verte- brate animals; they are the mesocephalic lobes; they always give origin to the optic nerves, and their size bears a direct relation to the power of sight. They are relatively smaller in man than in any other animal. In birds there are only two eminences, and these are very large, especially in those far-seeing birds which fly high, as the eagle, falcon, vulture, &c., who require acute sight to discern their prey at a distance. ' On making a transverse vertical section through the nates, we find that there is a superficial thin layer of white fibres (stratum zonale) ; beneath this is a crescentic layer of grey matter (stratum cinereum); deeper than this is a thick biconvex mass of grey matter, with nerve filaments and nerve cells (stratum opticum); and lowest of all is an arched layer of white nerve fibres derived from the fillet (stratum lemnisci).